[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alston & Bird

U.S. Department of Justice Civil Division from 2018 to 2020, and chief of staff to the United States attorney general from 2017 to 2018
B.J. Pak, former United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia from 2017 to 2021 and member of the Georgia House of Representatives from 2011 to 2017

Notable alumni
Philip H. Alston, Jr., U.S. Ambassador to Australia and to Nauru, confidant of former U.S. President Jimmy Carter, and founder of Alston & Bird  
Chaz Beasley, member of the North Carolina House of Representatives
Sean Bedford,  former American football center for the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets
 Lonnie T. Brown, Jr., Dean of University of Tennessee law school.
Michael Lawrence Brown, United States district judge of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia
Craig Carpenito, current United States Attorney for the District of New Jersey
Christopher M. Carr, Attorney General of Georgia
Tom Daschle, United States senator from South Dakota from 1987 to 2005.
Bob Dole, former member of the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate from Kansas
Daisy Hurst Floyd, former dean of Walter F. George School of Law of Mercer University
Keith Gottfried, 19th General Counsel for the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
Bobby Jones, winner of the 1930 Grand Slam, founder of the Masters Tournament and Augusta National Golf Club, former Alston & Bird partner, as well as founding partner of one of Alston & Bird's predecessor firms (Jones, Bird, and Howell); the firm continues to represent the Bobby Jones brand and monitors trademark issues for the family
Blanche Lincoln, former U.S. Senator from Arkansas
Karol Mason, Assistant Attorney General under the Obama administration
Robert McCallum Jr., former Associate Attorney General of the United States and former United States Deputy Attorney General
Earl Pomeroy, former U.S. Representative for North Dakota's at-large congressional district
Tom Scully, former senior official in the administrations of Presidents George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush
Leah Ward Sears, former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Georgia
Francis Shackelford, former General Counsel of the Army
Frank E. Sheeder III, former President of the Health Care Compliance Association (HCCA)
Peter Swire, Professor of Law at Scheller College of Business at the Georgia Institute of Technology
Anne Tompkins, former United States Attorney for the United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina
Thomas Walker, former United States Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina
Joe Whitley, the first General Counsel for the United States Department of Homeland Security
Todd Zywicki, Professor of Law at George Mason University School of Law

See also
Timeline of investigations into Trump and Russia (2019)
White shoe firms
The Magic Circle
List of law firms

References

External links
Official website

Law firms established in 1893
Law firms based in Atlanta
1893 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)