[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Human rights in Cyprus

of the Republic of Cyprus were violating the rights of Turkish Cypriots on the freedom of press. It added that the change in Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation's broadcasting frequency prevented many Turkish Cypriot TV channels broadcasting in Northern Cyprus, thus violating the freedom of the speech.

The World Press Freedom Index ranked Cyprus 45 in 2007, 31 in 2008, 25 in 2009, and ranked it back down to 45 in 2010. In 2016 it was ranked 27th.

Human trafficking and rights of asylum seekers 

Prostitution is rife in Cyprus, and the island has been criticized for its role in the sex trade as one of the main routes of human trafficking from Eastern Europe.

In May 2011, the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights said that rejected asylum-seekers were kept for too long in detention and inconvenient conditions. In May 2005, the KISA accused the police of violating the law and the human rights of asylum seekers by carrying out illegal arrests, detentions, and deportations. Another non-governmental organization (NGO) reported in 2005 that the police deported long term residents, as long as 11 years.

A large number of Romanian nationals were subjected to forced labor in the country in 2009. In August 2009 the UNHCR complained through the media that a Kurdish child suffering from a terminal congenital condition was denied government funding to travel abroad for medical treatment because of his refugee status, in contravention of the country's refugee law, which provides refugees access to the same medical treatment as Cypriots and other EU citizens.  detention by occupying the water-tank tower of the prison in Nicosia and a hunger strike in Limassol.

In September 2020, a Human Rights Watch report alleged that Cyprus was not allowing incoming refugees to claim asylum as required under international law. Authorities were reported to have instead abandoned hundreds refugees and migrants at sea without fuel and food, and in some cases beaten by police.

In December 2020, a decree was passed by interior minister Nicos Nouris that forebode any asylum seekers from establishing permanent residency in the village of Chloraka. A series of brawls that took place in the village in January 2022, one of which involved two police officers firing warning shots, has caused concern among local residents over shifting demographics. A protest attended by members of parliament supported the deportation of the asylum seekers, with community leader Nicos Liasides asserting that "the situation has reached the point of no return".

LGBT rights 

Homosexuality was decriminalized in 1998 after the case of Modinos v. Cyprus of the European Court of Human Rights, but the Cyprus military still bars homosexuals from serving on the grounds that homosexuality is a mental illness; gay sexual conduct remains a crime under military law; the term is 6 months in a military jail although this is rarely, if ever, enforced.

Human rights violations due to Cyprus dispute

Violations in Northern Cyprus 

In a number of cases, the European Court of Human Rights has found Turkey responsible for continuous violations of the European Convention on Human Rights in the Republic of Cyprus as a result of the Turkish Invasion in 1974 and continuous occupation of 37% of its territory. In particular, in the 2011 landmark case of Cyprus v. Turkey the court ruled that there had been 14 violations of the European Convention on Human Rights by Turkey:

Violations of Articles 2, 3 and 5 concerning Greek-Cypriot missing persons and their relatives;
Violations of Articles 8, 13 and P1-1 concerning home and property of displaced Greek-Cypriots;
Violations of Articles 3, 8, 9, 10, 13, P1-1 and P1-2 concerning living conditions of Greek Cypriots in Karpas region of northern Cyprus;
Violation of Article 6, concerning rights of Turkish Cypriots living in northern Cyprus;

In 2011, in its annual report, the UN Commission on Human Rights has reiterated is calls for the full restoration of all human rights to the population of Cyprus, in particular to refugees,  called for the tracing of and accounting for missing persons in Cyprus without any further delay,  and called for the restoration and respect of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all Cypriots, including freedom of movement, the freedom of settlement and the right to property.

Other issues
The constant focus on the division of the island sometimes masks other human rights issues. In 2005, Bulgarian citizens living in Northern Cyprus were not allowed to pass the Green Line and vote in Bulgarian elections.

See also

Freedom of religion in Cyprus
Human rights in Northern Cyprus
Internet censorship and surveillance in Cyprus
LGBT rights in Cyprus

References

External links
 US State Report on Cyprus Human Rights

 
Cyprus