[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# German occupation of Byelorussia during World War II

liary Police
Byelorussian Auxiliary Police

Notable Nazi personnel
Erich von dem Bach-Zelewski
Gustavs Celmiņš
Oskar Dirlewanger
Curt von Gottberg
Konrāds Kalējs
Bronislav Kaminski
Wilhelm Kube
Anthony Sawoniuk
Karl Schäfer
Jakob Sporrenberg

Other units and participants
Army Group Centre

Holocaust

The largest Jewish ghetto in Soviet Belarus before the conclusion of World War II was the Minsk Ghetto, created by the Germans shortly after the invasion began. Almost the whole, previously numerous Jewish population of Belarus which did not evacuate east ahead of the German advance was killed during the Holocaust by bullet. The list of eradicated Jewish ghettos in Nazi-Soviet occupied Poland extending eastward toward the border with the Soviet Belarus can be found at the Jewish ghettos in German-occupied Poland article.

Post-occupation

Later in 1944, 30 German-trained Belarusians were airdropped behind the Soviet front line to spark disarray. These were known as "Čorny Kot" ("Black Cat") led by Michał Vituška. They had some initial success due to disorganization in the rear guard of Red Army. Other Belarusian units slipped through Białowieża Forest and full scale guerilla war erupted in 1945. But the NKVD infiltrated these units and neutralized them by the end of 1946.

In total, Belarus lost a quarter of its pre-war population in the Second World War, including practically all its intellectual elite. About 9,200 villages and 1,200,000 houses were destroyed. The major towns of Minsk and Vitebsk lost over 80% of their buildings and city infrastructure. For the defense against the Germans, and the tenacity during the German occupation, the capital Minsk was awarded the title Hero City after the war. The fortress of Brest was awarded the title Hero-Fortress.

See also
Eastern Front (World War II)
Khatyn massacre: slaughter of Belarus civilians
Maly Trostenets extermination camp
Military history of Belarus during World War II
Operation Tempest
Narodowe Siły Zbrojne
Slutsk Affair
Soviet partisan
Territories of Poland annexed by the Soviet Union
Come and See
Fortress of War

People
Radasłaŭ Astroŭski
Pyotr Masherov
Michał Vituška

Notes

Further reading

 Exeler, Franziska. "What Did You Do during the War?" Kritika: Explorations in Russian & Eurasian History (Fall 2016) 17#4 pp 805–835; examines popular behaviour in  Byelorussia under the Germans, using oral history, letters of complaint, memoirs and secret police and party reports.

External links
Belarus at European Holocaust Research Infrastructure (EHRI)

1941 establishments in Belarus
1944 disestablishments in Belarus
Belarus in World War II
Belarus
Military history of Belarus during World War II
Belarus
Jewish Belarusian history
Belarus–Germany relations

it:Resistenza bielorussa