[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Domestic policy of the Surayud Chulanont government

ing "colossal" profits.  Under World Trade Organization rules, a government is allowed to break patents under after declaring a "national emergency." Breaking the patents of Abbott's HIV treatment Kaletra and Sanofi-Aventis' blood clot drug Plavix was estimated to save Thailand US$24 million a year.

Energy
 The indefinite delay of the previous government's policy of converting all octane 95 gasoline sales to gasohol.
 The cancellation of state electricity company EGAT's guaranteed 50% share in all new power plant construction.
 The prevention of EGAT from participating in bidding for new electricity plants under the Independent Power Producer (IPP) program.
 The cancellation of plans to import hydroelectric power and natural gas from Myanmar.

Security and the southern insurrection

 An increase in military spending.  Since 1999, military spending had remained stagnant at approximately $2 billion in 2000 dollars.
 Issuing a formal apology regarding the Tak Bai incident.
 Revealing for the first time to the public that the insurgency was being finance by a network of restaurants and stalls selling Tom Yam Kung in Malaysia.  Surayud claimed that the Tom Yam Kung network collected money from local businessmen through blackmail and demands for protection fees and channelled the sum to the separatists. Malaysian Deputy Security Minister Fu Ah Kiow described the revelation as "absolutely baseless," and "very imaginative."
 Appointing Seripisut Temiyavet as Police Commissioner General, replacing Kowit Watana

Education
 The cancellation of Thailand's participation in the One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) program. The project has been criticized as unrealistic.
 The cancellation of plans to install personal computers and broadband internet connections in every public and secondary school in Thailand.
 Forcing 430 prestigious schools across the country to accept half of their students from the local neighborhood.  All other schools would be required to accept all applicants; if applicants exceeded seats, a random draw would choose which applicants would be accepted.
 The continuation of the Thaksin Shinawatra government's "One District, One Scholarship" program under the name "Scholarships for Community Development".  The maximum annual income for eligible recipients' families was raised from 100,000 baht to 150,000 baht.

Economy and agriculture
 A budget deficit of 147 billion Baht for fiscal year 2007.  This was the first budget deficit since 2003.
 Elimination of subsidies for rice farmers.  The price of rice, set at 30% above market prices during the deposed Thaksin Shinawatra government, was dramatically lowered.  It was claimed that the high price of rice seriously affected farmers and caused social burdens.
 The cancellation of the Million Cows project.  Under the project, the government lent five million cows to one million farming families.  The families were allowed to sell milk and calves for profit.  The program was highly popular among politicians.
 Capital controls in an attempt to reverse a massive appreciation of the Thai Baht.  The moves caused a crash in the Thai stock market, with a one-day loss of 820 billion baht (approx. US$22 billion) in market value.  The move resulted in harsh criticism both within Thailand and abroad.  "My definition of what's going on is 'Welcome to amateur hour,'" said Donald Gimbel, fund manager for Carret & Co.  Korn Chatikavanij of the Democrat party noted of a policy reversal, "That can't repair the damage that was caused in one historic day."
 Amid pressure from the junta to find wrongdoing in Thaksin Shinawatra's sale of Shin Corp to a Singaporean company, the Commerce Ministry altered regulations concerning foreign ownership companies.  This impacted the legality of thousands of local subsidiaries of foreign companies operating in Thailand.
 Amendments to the Foreign Business Act that would limit foreign companies investing in List I and II businesses (including media, telecoms, and aviation) from holding more than 50% of shares.  List III businesses (including retailers and hotels) were exempted from the new restrictions.  Investors holding more than 50% would be forced to lower their stakes within a year.  Investors holding more than 50% of voting rights would be forced to lower their voting stakes within a year.  Finance Minister Pridiyathorn noted, "If they (foreign investors) had seen the details (of the foreign investment law), I am sure that they would be happy." Brokers and analysts criticized the move (widely seen as necessary in order to punishment Temasek Holdings for its acquisition of deposed Premier Thaksin Shinawatra's Shin Corporation) as politics intervening to hurt the economy. The governments of the United States, Canada, Switzerland, Japan, and European Union protested the move.
 The approval of debt-relief measures for farmers.  This prompted Northeastern farmer leaders from cancelling a planned protests in Bangkok.
 Reopening Don Muang Airport for