[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marquand Manuel

olina Panthers

The Green Bay Packers released Manuel on September 1, 2007 during the final preseason roster cuts, and he was signed by the Carolina Panthers on September 3.  He played for the Panthers for a single season during , playing in sixteen games and starting in two of them.

Denver Broncos

The Denver Broncos signed Manuel as an unrestricted free agent on March 8, 2008, and he played for the Broncos for a single season in .  He played in all sixteen regular season games for the Broncos, starting in fourteen of them, and tallying eighty-three tackles and four blocked passes.

Detroit Lions

Manuel was signed by the Lions as a free agent on June 2, 2009,  and he played his final season in  for the Lions.  He played in nine games for the Lions, starting in six of them, and compiling thirty-six tackles.  The Lions released him on August 4, 2010, during the 2010 preseason.

During his eight seasons in the NFL, Manuel played in 116 games, starting in fifty-seven of them, and compiled 366 tackles; he also had fifteen blocked passes, two interceptions and four forced fumbles.

Coaching career

Seattle Seahawks
On February 14, 2012, the Seattle Seahawks announced that the team had hired Manuel to serve as Seahawks' assistant special teams coach.  A year later he was named defensive assistant. where he helped the Seahawks with Super Bowl XLVIII. In 2014 he was promoted to assistant secondaries coach, helping the Seahawks reach Super Bowl XLIX, where they lost to the New England Patriots.

Atlanta Falcons
Manuel was hired by the Atlanta Falcons in 2015 as the defensive backs coach, following Dan Quinn from Seattle to Atlanta. After coming under fire for it, 
During the 2016 offseason, Manuel interviewed for the Jacksonville Jaguars defensive coordinator position, though he did not get the job. In the 2016 season, Manuel and the Falcons reached Super Bowl LI, where they lost to the New England Patriots on February 5, 2017.

On February 10, 2017, Manuel was promoted to defensive coordinator of the Falcons.

Manuel let his contract expire with the Atlanta Falcons after the 2018 season in which the team finished with a 7–9 record.

Philadelphia Eagles
Manuel was hired by the Philadelphia Eagles as their defensive backs coach on February 5, 2020.

Personal life

He established the Marquand Manuel Foundation to help kids in his hometown of Miami.  His oldest brother, John, was a Parade magazine All-American and played football at University of Florida.  Marquand is the ninth of nineteen children and has a family of siblings whose ages differ by 25 years from oldest to youngest.  Manuel has a daughter, Madison age 15 and son Marquand Manuel II age 11.

See also 

 Florida Gators football, 1990–99
 List of Carolina Panthers players
 List of Detroit Lions players
 List of Florida Gators in the NFL Draft
 List of Green Bay Packers players
 List of University of Florida alumni

References

Bibliography 

 Carlson, Norm, University of Florida Football Vault: The History of the Florida Gators, Whitman Publishing, LLC, Atlanta, Georgia (2007).  .
 Golenbock, Peter, Go Gators!  An Oral History of Florida's Pursuit of Gridiron Glory, Legends Publishing, LLC, St. Petersburg, Florida (2002).  .
 Hairston, Jack, Tales from the Gator Swamp: A Collection of the Greatest Gator Stories Ever Told, Sports Publishing, LLC, Champaign, Illinois (2002).  .
 McCarthy, Kevin M.,  Fightin' Gators: A History of University of Florida Football, Arcadia Publishing, Mount Pleasant, South Carolina (2000).  .

1979 births
Living people
American football safeties
Carolina Panthers players
Cincinnati Bengals players
Denver Broncos players
Detroit Lions players
Florida Gators football players
Florida Gators men's track and field athletes
Green Bay Packers players
Players of American football from Miami
Seattle Seahawks coaches
Seattle Seahawks players
Miami Senior High School alumni
National Football League defensive coordinators
Atlanta Falcons coaches
Philadelphia Eagles coaches
Sports coaches from Miami
New York Jets coaches