[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 12]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

and you will see them as soon as the warm weather returns.'"

"Very well, Harry," said Mr Barlow, "we will now take a walk." They
accordingly rambled out into the fields, where Mr Barlow made Harry take
notice of several kinds of plants, and told him the names and nature of
them. At last Harry, who had observed some very pretty purple berries
upon a plant that bore a purple flower, and grew in the hedges, brought
them to Mr Barlow, and asked whether they were good to eat. "It is very
lucky," said Mr Barlow, "young man, that you asked the question before
you put them into your mouth; for, had you tasted them, they would have
given you violent pains in your head and stomach, and perhaps have
killed you, as they grow upon a plant called night-shade, which is a
rank poison." "Sir," said Harry, "I take care never to eat anything
without knowing what it is, and I hope, if you will be so good as to
continue to teach me, I shall very soon know the names and qualities of
all the herbs which grow."

As they were returning home, Harry saw a very large bird called a kite,
upon the ground, who seemed to have something in its claws, which he was
tearing to pieces. Harry, who knew him to be one of those ravenous
creatures which prey upon others, ran up to him, shouting as loud as he
could; and the bird, being frightened, flew away, and left a chicken
behind him, very much hurt indeed, but still alive. "Look, sir," said
Harry, "if that cruel creature has not almost killed this poor chicken;
see how he bleeds, and hangs his wings! I will put him into my bosom to
recover him, and carry him home; and he shall have part of my dinner
every day till he is well, and able to shift for himself."

As soon as they came home, the first care of little Harry was to put his
wounded chicken into a basket with some fresh straw, some water and some
bread. After that Mr Barlow and he went to dinner.

In the meantime, Tommy, who had been skulking about all day, very much
mortified and uneasy, came in, and, being very hungry, was going to sit
down to the table with the rest; but Mr Barlow stopped him, and said,
"No, sir, as you are too much of a gentleman to work, we, who are not
so, do not choose to work for the idle." Upon this Tommy retired into a
corner, crying as if his heart would break, but more from grief than
passion, as he began to perceive that nobody minded his ill-temper.

But little Harry, who could not bear to see his friend so unhappy,
looked up half crying into Mr Barlow's face, and said, "Pray, sir, may I
do as I please with my share of the dinner?" "Yes, to be sure, child."
"Why, then," said he, getting up, "I will give it all to poor Tommy who
wants it more than I do." Saying this, he gave it to him as he sat in
the corner; and Tommy took it, and thanked him without ever turning his
eyes from off the ground. "I see," said Mr Barlow, "that though
gentlemen are above being of any use themselves, they are not above
taking the bread that other people have been working hard for." At this
Tommy cried still more bitterly than before.

The next day Mr Barlow and Harry went to work as before; but they had
scarcely begun before Tommy came to them, and desired that he might have
a hoe too, which Mr Barlow gave him; but, as he had never before learned
to handle one, he was very awkward in the use of it, and hit himself
several strokes upon his legs. Mr Barlow then laid down his own spade,
and showed him how to hold and use it, by which means, in a short time,
he became very expert, and worked with the greatest pleasure. When their
work was over they retired all three to the summer-house; and Tommy felt
the greatest joy imaginable when the fruit was produced, and he was
invited to take his share, which seemed to him the most delicious he had
ever tasted, because working in the air had given him an appetite.

As soon as they had done eating, Mr Barlow took up a book, and asked
Tommy whether he would read them a story out of it? but he, looking a
little ashamed, said he had never learned to read. "I am very sorry for
it," said Mr Barlow, "because you lose a very great pleasure; then Harry
shall read to you." Harry accordingly took up the book and read the
following story:--


"THE GENTLEMAN AND THE BASKET-MAKER."

"There was, in a distant part of the world, a rich man, who lived in a
fine house, and spent his whole time in eating, drinking, sleeping, and
amusing himself. As he had a great many servants to wait upon him, who
treated him with the greatest respect, and did whatever they were
ordered, and, as he had never been taught the truth, nor accustomed to
hear it, he grew very proud, insolent, and capricious, imagining that he
had a right to command all the world, and that the poor were only born
to serve and obey him.

"Near this rich man's house there lived an honest and industrious poor
man, who gained his livelihood by making little baskets out of d