[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National Committee on American Foreign Policy

The National Committee on American Foreign Policy (NCAFP) is an American nonprofit, nonpartisan activist organization dedicated to the resolution of conflicts that threaten United States interests.

Founded in 1974 by Hans Morgenthau, NCAFP works to identify, articulate, and advance U.S. foreign-policy interests within the framework of political realism.

Mission
NCAFP's topics of interest include:
 Preserving and strengthening national security
 Supporting countries committed to the values and practice of political, religious, and cultural pluralism
 Improving U.S. relations with the developed and developing worlds
 Advancing human rights
 Encouraging realistic arms-control agreements
 Curbing the proliferation of nuclear and other unconventional weapons
 Promoting an open and global economy

The organization believes that an informed public is vital to a democratic society. To promote this, it offers educational programs to its members and general audiences that address security challenges facing the U.S. and publishes a variety of publications, including the bimonthly journal, American Foreign Policy Interests.

History
The National Committee was founded in 1974 by Hans J. Morgenthau along with others dedicated to the resolution of conflicts that threaten U.S. interests.

The National Committee grew quickly in size and influence. It held public seminars regularly, assembled task forces in order to analyze areas of critical concern to the United States, and published journals and pamphlets containing summaries and policy recommendations derived from high-level conferences and briefings featuring American and foreign policymakers. In 1981, the first Hans J. Morgenthau Award was presented to NCAFP president Angier Biddle Duke. Subsequent recipients have included Henry Kissinger, George Shultz, James Baker III, Margaret Thatcher, and Colin Powell. A second award, the George F. Kennan Award for Distinguished Public Service, was established in 1994. Recipients include George F. Kennan, Cyrus R. Vance, Paul A. Volcker, Richard C. Holbrooke, John D. Negroponte, and General David H. Petraeus.

In 1993 William J. Flynn, chairman and chief executive officer of Mutual of America, became the chairman of the National Committee. When the British and Irish governments issued the Downing Street Declaration at the end of that year, the National Committee under his leadership placed a full-page ad in The New York Times challenging every party involved in the conflict to attend an NCAFP-sponsored conference to air the arguments of all sides. The National Committee was instrumental in convincing President Bill Clinton to issue a visa to Gerry Adams, the leader of Sinn Féin. Adams's first appearance in the United States enabled him to begin to develop ties with key leaders in New York and Washington that gave him and his party the assurance necessary to enter into peace negotiations, sign the Belfast Agreement, and contend for and win political office in the North. In recognition of William Flynn's achievements, the National Committee established the William J. Flynn Initiative for Peace Award in 1997. Among the recipients are George J. Mitchell, Marjorie Mowlam, Viola Drath, Hugh Carey, and Gerry Adams, M.P.

Shortly after establishing its Northern Ireland project, the NCAFP launched its track I- and track II project on U.S.-China relations and the question of Taiwan. The project gradually grew into the Forum on Asia-Pacific Security. The NCAFP, under this thematic umbrella, sponsored security talks with North Korea on nuclear issues and, more recently, security issues affecting U.S.-Japan and U.S.-South Korea relations. The entire Forum on Asia-Pacific Security is largely conducted at track I- and track II levels.

Since its founding, the National Committee has focused its attention on significant geopolitical regions such as the Middle East and strategic partnerships such as Transatlantic Relations. More recently, as an outgrowth of those studies, the NCAFP established projects on the Caspian Sea Basin and U.S.-UN relations, as well as on Africa. While the committee's scope has broadened, it remains anchored to its values: the preservation and strengthening of national security; supporting political, religious, and cultural pluralism; improving U.S. relations with its allies; advancing human rights; curbing nuclear proliferation, encouraging realistic arms-control agreements; and promoting an open global economy.

Task forces
Its long-term task forces bring together U.S. and foreign scholars, foreign-policy practitioners, and others to off-the-record and sometimes closed-door forums where adversaries can, over a period of years, air their views unencumbered by official rhetoric.

Shorter-term task forces deal with immediate foreign policy challenges facing the U.S.