[Source: PubMed]

74. Eur J Public Health. 2025 Dec 1;35(6):1156-1161. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckaf158.

Inclusion of climate change and planetary health in masters of public health 
curricula in the UK.

Pinho-Gomes AC(1)(2), Sorensen C(3)(4), de Paiva Magalhães D(3)(4), Hajat S(5), 
Rutter H(6).

Author information:
(1)The George Institute for Global Health, Imperial College London, London, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Institute for Global Health, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(3)Global Consortium on Climate and Health Education, Global Consortium on 
Climate and Health Education, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia 
University, New York, NY, United States.
(4)Emergency Medicine, Columbia Irving Medical Center, Columbia University, New 
York, NY, United States.
(5)Centre on Climate Change and Planetary Health, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.
(6)Department of Social and Policy Sciences, University of Bath, Bath, United 
Kingdom.

Due to the many health impacts of climate change, it is imperative to equip 
public health professionals with the skills and knowledge to work on climate 
mitigation and adaptation. However, it is unclear to what extent Masters of 
Public Health (MPH) include climate change and related subjects in their 
curricula. A survey was sent to MPH directors in the UK with questions about 
inclusion of climate change and related subjects in the curriculum. Russell 
group universities and those commissioned by NHS England Workforce, Training and 
Education were invited to take part. A total of 27 MPH courses were included 
(100% response rate). Climate change and related subjects were included in 
optional or core modules on other subjects, with health protection and health 
improvement being the most common. Two MPHs had only one lecture/seminar on 
climate change and one MPH did not cover these topics in the syllabus. The most 
common subject included in curricula was climate change (24, 89%). Most MPH 
directors wanted to increase the inclusion of climate change and planetary 
health in the curriculum (12, 55%) but could not do so due to lack of space 
within an already overloaded curriculum (10, 37%). Despite the recognition of 
the importance of climate change and health education by MPH course directors, 
the inclusion of those subjects in curricula remains variable and not as 
thorough as required given the importance of the topic. Addressing barriers is 
warranted to enable public health professionals to gain the required skills in 
climate mitigation and adaptation.

© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckaf158
PMCID: PMC12707511
PMID: 40971633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]