[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Georgios Tsolakoglou

ld turn into vampire-like creatures known as vrykolakas, leading to complaints that the Hellenic State have failed the living by allowing them to starve to death had now also failed them in death, as many feared the corpses dumped into the mass graves would return as vrykolakas to haunt the living. 

As the famine processed, for many Greeks it seemed that society was breaking down as hundreds of emaciated corpses of those who starved to death lay rotting on the streets while for most ordinary people life became reduced down to desperate, almost primeval struggle to find enough food to keep themselves and their loved ones alive for one more day. According to a study done by the Hellenic State's Ministry of Health in late 1942, during the Great Famine years 1941-42  for the first time in modern history, the population of Athens declined. In Athens, the daily death rate rose from 12 deaths per 1, 000 people in 1940 to 39 deaths per 1, 000 people in 1942 while the daily birth rate declined from 15 births per 1, 000 people in 1940 to 9 births per 1, 000 people in 1942. During World War II, about 555,000 Greeks making up 8% of the population perished, with the Great Famine being the largest cause of death. The inability of Tsolakoglou's government, which had promised to protect the Greek people from the occupation by giving Greece a role in the "New Order in Europe", to do anything to change German policies completely discredited the Hellenic State.

Downfall
By the fall of 1942, both the Italians and Germans had felt that Tsolakoglou had become "untrustworthy", complaining that he kept demanding that the Bulgarians be forced to return the parts of Greece they had occupied. His prickly sense of Greek nationalism led Tsolakoglou to demand that the Hellenic State be treated as an equal in the "New Order in Europe" instead of the subordinate role that the Germans and Italians saw it as playing. 

Tsolakoglou remained as head of the government until 2 December 1942, when he was dismissed and replaced by Konstantinos Logothetopoulos.  Altenburg had long wanted to replace Tsolakoglou with the veteran politician Ioannis Rallis, but he demurred for the moment following the Allied victory at the Second Battle of El Alamein, which ended the Axis hopes of conquering Egypt, leading to Logothetopoulos to be appointed instead. Altenburg considered Tsolakoglou to be a stupid and clumsy leader, and wanted a mainstream Greek politician to assume the leadership of the Hellenic State to give it more legitimacy and competent leadership.

Trial and imprisonment

After Greece regained independence, Tsolakoglou was arrested, tried by a Special Collaborators Court in 1945 and sentenced to death. His sentence was ultimately commuted to life imprisonment, and he died in prison of leukaemia in 1948.

Notes

References

1886 births
1948 deaths
20th-century prime ministers of Greece
People from Karditsa (regional unit)
Greek people of Aromanian descent
Aromanian politicians
Prime Ministers of Greece
Greek collaborators with Nazi Germany
Aromanian military personnel
Greek military personnel of World War I
Greek people of World War II
World War II political leaders
People of the Greco-Italian War
Hellenic Army generals of World War II
People convicted of treason against Greece
Prisoners sentenced to death by Greece
Prisoners who died in Greek detention
Greek people who died in prison custody
Greek prisoners sentenced to death
Deaths from cancer in Greece
Deaths from leukemia
1941 in Greece
1942 in Greece
Fascism in Greece
Heads of government who were later imprisoned