[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 30]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ir meeting
at all."

"What a revolutionary sentiment!" cried Temperley, laughing. "Where
would society be, on that principle?"

Hadria was called away, at that moment, and the group politely wavered
between duty and inclination. Temperley and Miss Du Prel strolled off
together, his vast height bent deferentially towards her. This air of
deference proved somewhat superficial. Miss Du Prel found that his
opinions were of an immovable order, with very defined edges. In some
indescribable fashion, those opinions partook of the general elegance of
his being. Not for worlds would he have harboured an exaggerated or
immoderate idea. In politics he was conservative, but he did not abuse
his opponents. He smiled at them; he saw no reason for supposing that
they did not mean quite as well as he did, possibly better. What he
_did_ see reason to doubt, was their judgment. His tolerance was urbane
and superior. On all questions, however, whether he knew much about them
or little, his judgment was final and absolute. He swept away whole
systems of thought that had shaken the world, with a confident phrase.
Miss Du Prel looked at him with increasing amazement. He seemed
unaccustomed to opposition.

"A vast deal of nonsense is talked in the name of philosophy," he
observed, in a tone of gay self-confidence peculiar to him, and more
indicative of character than even what he said. "People seem to think
that they have only to quote Spencer or Huxley, or take an interest in
heredity, to justify themselves in throwing off all the trammels, as
they would regard them, of duty and common sense."

"I have not observed that tendency," said Miss Du Prel.

"Really. I regret to say that I notice everywhere a disposition to evade
responsibilities which, in former days, would have been honestly and
contentedly accepted."

"Our standards are all changing," said Miss Du Prel. "It does not follow
that they are changing for the worse."

"It seems to me that they are not so much changing, as disappearing
altogether," said Temperley cheerfully, "especially among women. We hear
a great deal about rights, but we hear nothing about duties."

"We are perhaps, a little tired of hearing about duties," said Miss Du
Prel.

"You admit then what I say," he returned placidly. "Every woman wants to
be Mary, and no one will be Martha."

"I make just the opposite complaint," cried Miss Du Prel.

"Dear me, quite a different way of looking at it. I confess I have scant
patience with these interfering women, who want to turn everything
upside down, instead of quietly minding their duties at home."

"I know it is difficult to make people understand," said Miss Du Prel,
with malice.

"I should esteem it a favour to be enlightened," returned Temperley.

"You were just now condemning socialism, Mr. Temperley, because you say
that it attempts to ignore the principle of the division of labour. Now,
when you lose patience with the few women who are refusing to be
Marthas, you ignore that principle yourself. You want all women to do
exactly the same sort of work, irrespective of their ability or their
bent of mind. May I ask why?"

"Because I consider that is the kind of work for which they are best
fitted," replied Temperley serenely.

"Then _you_ are to be judge and jury in the case; _your_ opinion,
not theirs, is to decide the matter. Supposing _I_ were to take upon
myself to judge what _you_ were best fitted for, and were to claim,
therefore, to decide for you what sort of life you should live, and what
sort of work you should undertake----?"

"I should feel every confidence in resigning myself to your able judgment,"
said Temperley, with a low bow. Miss Du Prel laughed.

"Ah," she said, "you are at present, on the conquering side, and can afford
to jest on the subject."

"It is no joke to jest with an able woman," he returned. "Seriously, I
have considerable sympathy with your view, and no wish to treat it
flippantly. But if I am to treat it seriously, I must admit frankly that
I think you forget that, after all, _Nature_ has something to say in
this matter."

Engrossed in their conversation, they had, without thinking what they
were doing, passed through the open gate at the end of the avenue, and
walked on along the high road.

Swarms of small birds flew out of the hedges, with a whirring sound, to
settle further on, while an incessant chatter was kept up on each side.

"I often think that modern women might take example from these little
creatures," said Temperley, who, in common with many self-sufficient
persons, was fond of recommending humility to others. "_They_ never
attempt to shirk their lowly tasks on the plea of higher vocations. Not
one turns from the path marked out by our great Mother, who also teaches
her human children the same lesson of patient duty; but, alas! by them
is less faithfully obeyed."

"If our great Mother wanted instinct she should