[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Horace Capron

Capron led a brigade in the Battle of Bean's Station on December 14. His brigade was driven off a hill on the left flank by Confederate infantry under James Longstreet. Capron's brigade consisted of the 14th Illinois, 5th Indiana, and 9th Ohio Cavalry Regiments and the 65th Indiana Mounted Infantry.

Capron's 3rd Brigade joined George Stoneman's XXIII Corps cavalry division on June 28, 1864 during the Atlanta campaign. The brigade included the 14th Illinois and 8th Michigan Cavalry Regiments and McLaughlin's Ohio Squadron. After Stoneman was captured, Capron assumed command of the cavalry division. Capron also served in the Franklin-Nashville campaign in late 1864. In early November, Capron's 800-man brigade was assigned to watch the area near Waynesboro, Tennessee. Rearmed with infantry rifles, the 14th Illinois was unable to cope with Nathan B. Forrest's hard-fighting Confederate horsemen. On November 24, Forrest's soldiers drove Capron's brigade back, though one of Capron's troopers managed to miss Forrest himself with a pistol shot from point-blank range before being captured. Two new regiments were added to Capron's brigade, bringing its strength up to 1,800 men, and it successfully defended its position at Hardison's Mill on the Duck River on November 28. Capron reported to John Schofield that the Confederates were "crossing in force". Capron's brigade was involved in a scuffle with Sul Ross' Confederate brigade that afternoon in the lead up to the Battle of Spring Hill. By the time the Battle of Nashville was fought on December 15–16, Capron was no longer leading a cavalry brigade.

His earlier experiences led to an appointment in 1867 as a Commissioner in the Department of Agriculture for the United States Government.

Japan
Capron was asked by Kiyotaka Kuroda, a vice-chairman of the  visiting the United States, to be a special advisor to the commission in Hokkaidō, Japan. Capron agreed and travelled to Hokkaidō 1870–71 as a foreign advisor. The Japanese government paid him $10,000 plus expenses to undertake this mission, which was a tremendous sum for the time. Capron needed the money, as his son Osmond had been blinded in a hotel fire, and now depended on Capron for support.

Capron spent four years in Hokkaidō, suggesting numerous ways that the frontier island could be developed. He introduced large-scale farming with American methods and farming implements, imported seeds for western fruits, vegetables and crops, and introduced livestock, including his favorite Devon and Durham cattle. He established experimental farms, had the land surveyed for mineral deposits and farming opportunities, and recommended water, mill, and road improvements. His recommendation that wheat and rye be planted in Hokkaidō due to similarities in climate with parts of the United States also led to the establishment of Sapporo Beer, one of Japan's first breweries. He contributed to the urban planning for Sapporo city with an American-style grid plan with streets at right-angles to form city blocks.

Capron's tenure in Japan was not without controversy. Articles appeared in both Japan and the United States by former associates attacking his work and his personal competency. He was often frustrated with delays in the implementation of his suggestions, or on occasion the rejection of his suggestions by more conservative members of the government. However, Kuroda Kiyotaka, future Prime Minister of Japan, was a close and trusted friend. Capron admired the Ainu of Hokkaidō, whom he compared favorably to his experiences with Native Americans. From his journals, it appears that he also admired the Japanese, although he regarded them as semi-barbaric, and firmly believed that rapid adoption of Western culture would be in Japan's best interest.

During his stay in Japan, Capron was honored with three audiences with Emperor Meiji, who took a close personal interest in his work in the development of Hokkaidō. In 1884, nine years after he departed Japan, Horace Capron was awarded the Order of the Rising Sun (2nd class) for his services in transforming Hokkaidō.

Final period

After his time in Japan, Capron continued his contacts with the country, including acting as a purchasing agent for livestock and military equipment, and selling his house on N Street in Washington, D.C. to be the site of Japan's first Embassy. He was also engaged in writing his memoirs during this period.

Capron attended the dedication of the Washington Monument on February 21, 1885. The extreme cold of the day, recorded at 12° Fahrenheit (−11° Celsius), was too much for the 80-year-old Horace Capron; he suffered a stroke, and died the following day. He is buried in Oak Hill Cemetery in Georgetown, Washington, D.C.

During his period in Japan, Capron amassed a large collection of Japanese art and antiques. After his death, his widow Margaret sold the collection to the Smithsonian, where it became one of the foundations of the Smithsonian's Asian collection.