[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Year of Africa

ial powers abstained; Zelma George, an African American in the U.S. delegation, stood to signify her support of the Declaration.

Related events
The Second All-African Peoples' Conference, held from 25 to 31 January, called for Africa's complete independence and the establishment of an African bank.

In the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, Ethiopian runner Abebe Bikila won the marathon and became the first Black African to receive an Olympic gold medal. His achievement intensified African pride and global focus on the continent.

Implications and legacy

The Year of Africa altered the symbolic status of Africans worldwide, by having the world recognize the existence of African nations as a force to be reckoned with on the international arena. It marked the beginning of a new, more Afrocentric era in African studies, marked by the founding of the Cahiers d'Études africaines and the Journal of African History.

The Year of Africa was a major boost for African Americans, themselves engaged in the Civil Rights Movement within the United States. The Baltimore Afro-American, confident that sit-ins would defeat segregation in the Southern United States, editorialized: "The 'winds of change' which are sweeping over Africa, are blowing in the benighted areas of the United States, too." Professor James H. Meriwether, looking back on the Year of Africa, writes: "The events of 1960 strengthened links between African Americans and the worldwide struggle against white supremacy, while doing so on a more Africa-centered basis." More concretely, resisters to segregation in the Southern United States may have begun to look to South Africa for inspiration—and vice versa.

The phrase "Year of Africa" was used again in 2005, mostly in conjunction with Western attention to the continent surrounding the 31st G8 summit.

In 2010, several African nations celebrated 50 years of independence on the "Year of Africa" semicentennial.

See also
 Scramble for Africa
 Indépendance Cha Cha
 Year of Return

References

Bibliography
De Lusignan G. French-Speaking Africa Since Independence. New York: Praeger, 1969.
Foderaro S. Independent Africa. Toronto: Macmillan, 1976. .

Houser G. M. No One Can Stop the Rain: Glimpses of Africa's Liberation Struggle. New York: Pilgrim Press, 1989. .

Lodge T. Sharpeville: an apartheid massacre and its consequences. New York: Oxford University Press, 2011. .

Meriwether J. H. Proudly We Can Be Africans: Black Americans and Africa, 1935–1961. University of North Carolina Press, 2002. .

Phyllis T. African Freedom: How Africa Responded to Independence. Cambridge University Press, 2018.

Smith A. W. M., Jeppesen C. Britain, France and the Decolonization of Africa: Future Imperfect. UCL Press, 2017.

External links
 Special Links Independence of African Countries. In: Internet Library Sub-Saharan Africa (ilissAfrica).
 1960: The year of independence  on France24

1960 in international relations
1960 in Africa
Pan-Africanism
History of colonialism
Apartheid in South Africa
Independence movements