[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bill Bates

to receive that honor. He was named All-Pro and NFL special teams player of the year.

In 1985, he was used as a punt returner out of necessity, registering 22 returns for 152 yards (6.9-yard avg.). He also had 51 defensive tackles, 4 interceptions and one sack. He started 2 games at strong safety.

In 1986, he became a starter at strong safety and remained there until 1988, after which he was used only in the Nickel defense packages. At the end of the 1989 season, Jimmy Johnson informed Bates that he was going to be left unprotected on the team’s Plan B free agency list. Although the Minnesota Vikings were interested in him, just before the deadline, the Cowboys decided to protect him.

In 1989, he was the leader in special teams tackles with 19. The next year, he led the team again with 23 tackles, becoming the first player in franchise history to do it in consecutive years.

Bates received the team’s Bob Lilly Award four consecutive seasons from 1990 to 1994. This award is selected by a vote of the fans and annually goes to the Cowboy player who displays leadership and character on and off the field. In 1992, he suffered a season-ending knee injury.  After the 1993 season, he was selected by his teammates to receive the Ed Block Courage Award for successfully overcoming his injury and leading the team in special teams tackles (25).

Upon his retirement after the 1997 season, he was considered one of the most beloved Cowboys of all time. Over his 15-year career, he had 14 interceptions and 122 return yards.

Bates earned three Super Bowl rings with the Cowboys, playing in Super Bowl XXVIII and Super Bowl XXX. He was on injured reserve during the 1992 season, when the Cowboys played in Super Bowl XXVII, due to a knee injury.

Tom Landry once said, “If we had 11 players on the field who played as hard as Bill Bates does and did their homework like he does, we’d be almost impossible to beat”. He described Bates (Real Kill) and Cliff Harris (Captain Crash) as "the hardest hitters I ever saw."  Referring to Bates' reputation as a hard hitter, John Madden stated, "Every game starts with a kick. With Bill Bates on the field, every game begins with a bang!"

Personal life
After his retirement as a player following the 1997 season, Bill was an assistant coach for the Cowboys for five years under head coaches Chan Gailey and Dave Campo.  In 2003, Bill spent a year as special teams coach under head coach and former Cowboy linebacker Jack Del Rio.  Beginning in 2004, he coached football at his sons' high schools, Nease High School and Ponte Vedra High School in Ponte Vedra Beach, FL.

In 2005, Bates was inducted into the Greater Knoxville Sports Hall of Fame. He was also named to the 100 Year All Tennessee Team. In 2011, Bates was awarded the Tom Landry Legend Award.

Autobiography
Shoot for the Star (1994), co-authored with Bill Butterworth.

References

External links
A Special Teamer Big Hits Have Made Bill Bates a Big Hit With The Cowboy Faithful
Ranking Best Cowboys Safeties In Franchise History
Bill Bates was the ultimate free agent for Cowboys
Dallas Cowboys' Draft Dodgers: Team's All-Time Top 10 Undrafted Players

1961 births
Living people
People from Farragut, Tennessee
Players of American football from Knoxville, Tennessee
American members of the Churches of Christ
American football safeties
Dallas Cowboys players
National Conference Pro Bowl players
Tennessee Volunteers football players
Jacksonville Jaguars coaches
High school football coaches in Florida
American motivational speakers
Farragut High School alumni