[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Terrorism in Australia

020 his sentence was increased to sixteen years, with a non-parole period of twelve years. Ali's brother was 30-year-old Hassan Khalif Shire Ali, who committed a stabbing attack in Melbourne in November 2018. Hassan killed one person, and was then shot and killed by police.

Counterterrorism efforts

Australians joining external conflicts 
The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), proscribed by the government as a terrorist organisation, has targeted Australian Muslims for recruitment. Making use of social media, recruiters target those vulnerable to radicalisation, and encourage local jihad activities. Some of those targeted have been minors, including a 17-year-old who was arrested in Melbourne in May 2015 for plotting to detonate home-made bombs, and sentenced to 7 years' jail. In June 2014, the government claimed that roughly 150 Australians had been recruited to fight in the conflicts in Syria and Iraq. A list released in April 2015 showed that most were young males who have come from a range of occupations, including students. It was also reported at the time that 249 suspected jihadists had been prevented from leaving Australia. The Australian Border Force Counter-Terrorism Unit, tasked with stopping jihadists from leaving the country, had cancelled more than 100 passports by the end of March 2015. Several jihadists have expressed the desire to return to Australia, but Prime Minister Tony Abbott has said that any who do would be prosecuted on their arrival.

In May 2016, in what became known as the 'Tinnie terror plot’, five men were arrested as they towed a boat in the Northern Territory. A sixth was arrested in Melbourne. The group was charged with "making preparations for incursions into foreign countries to engage in hostile activities." They had intended to go by sea to help Islamic insurgents in the Philippines overthrow their government. All six men were jailed. As of April 2020 two of them had been released. The leader, Musa Cerantonio was sentenced to seven years.

On 1 September 2016 Hamdi Alquidsi was sentenced to 8 years' jail (6 years minimum) by Justice Christine Adamson. In July he was found guilty of seven counts of "supporting engagement in armed hostilities" in Syria. Two men who he helped travel to Syria were killed there, two others have returned to Australia. The fate of another two is unknown, while the last never left. Alqudsi will be eligible for release in July 2022.

September 2014 AFP raids

Sydney and Brisbane 
In the early hours of 18 September 2014, large teams of Australian Federal Police (AFP) and other security agencies conducted search operations in both Sydney and Brisbane. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott has alluded to an alleged plot aimed at conducting a random act of terrorism as the reason for the police action. This action is described as the largest in Australian history to date. One man arrested, from Guildford, allegedly conspired to commit a "horrifying" terrorist act with a man believed to be the most senior Australian Islamic State leader.

Melbourne 
On 30 September 2014 there were more raids in Melbourne. The AFP executed seven search warrants in Broadmeadows, Flemington, Kealba, Meadow Heights and Seabrook. Over 100 officers from Federal and State police forces took part.
A man from Seabrook will be charged with "intentionally making funds available to a terrorist organisation knowing that organisation was a terrorist organisation", AFP Assistant Commissioner Gaughan said. The man is alleged to have provided money to a United States citizen who was fighting in Syria.

February 2015 Sydney raid 
On 10 February 2015 two men were arrested in Fairfield, New South Wales, and charged with "Acts done in preparation, for, or planning terrorists acts". On the morning of 10 February police were informed the two were planning a terrorist attack. They were quickly placed under surveillance and tracked. When they purchased a hunting knife from a store about 3:00 pm, NSW Joint Counter Terrorism Team (JCTT) forces decided to intervene and soon after 4:00 pm the men were arrested.

The men were a 24-year-old student from Iraq, and a 25-year-old nurse who moved from Kuwait in 2012. The two were unknown to police until the tip-off. The men's residence, a vehicle and places of work were searched. They were found with a machete, a hunting knife, a homemade Islamic State flag and "a video which depicted a man talking about carrying out an attack", according to NSW Police Deputy Commissioner (Specialist Operations) Catherine Burn. One of the men arrested appeared in the video.

Burn also said: "We will allege that both of these men were preparing to do this act yesterday" and "We believe that the men were potentially going to harm somebody, maybe even kill somebody ...".

The JCTT investigation has been given the code name Operation Castrum.