[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Old Patent Office Building

sign approval process for being exclusionary.  The 6-to-5 vote forced work to come to a halt on the courtyard and canopy, and required that the Smithsonian restore the courtyard to its original appearance (including reinstallation of two iron fountains). The decision cost the Smithsonian $8 million.

Unwilling to lose the canopy, the Smithsonian brought five alternatives to the NCPC on August 4. Two included a glass canopy with flat roofs. Three others lowered the canopy by an additional  and redirected the lighting to avoid creating a beacon-like effect for the canopy at night.  All the alternatives changed the proposed landscaping of the new courtyard and added water features.  At least one retained the iron fountains. Washington Post architectural critic Benjamin Forgey described the changes as "relatively minor adjustments" and "pretty much the very same design". On September 8, 2005, the NCPC reversed itself yet again. It voted 9-to-2 to accept an alternative which retained the waving glass canopy, eight steel columns (unchanged from the previous design), and nighttime illumination of the previous design. The NCPC also approved the preliminary courtyard landscape design, which was created by noted landscape architect Kathryn Gustafson. Almost none of the complaints raised by historic preservationists were addressed. The delay cost the Smithsonian $10 million.

In October 2005, the Donald W. Reynolds Foundation made another major gift, donating $45 million to finish both the building renovation and the canopy manufacture and installation (now scheduled to be complete in July 2007 or later). The Smithsonian agreed to call the two museums, the conservation center, courtyard, storage facility, and other operations within the Old Patent Office complex the "Donald W. Reynolds Center for American Art and Portraiture" in appreciation for the gift. In addition, the Smithsonian said it would call its conservation laboratory the Lunder Conservation Center after receiving a $5.7 million grant from the Harold Alfond Foundation, name the new 356-seat underground auditorium after Nan Tucker McEvoy; designate the courtyard the Robert and Arlene Kogod Courtyard; and name its "open storage" facility the Luce Foundation Center. The two museums would retain their names, however. The Reynolds Foundation donation left just $20 million to be raised.

The National Portrait Gallery and Smithsonian American Art Museum reopened on July 1, 2006. The total cost of the building's renovation was $283 million. The $63 million courtyard won rave reviews.  Washington Post critic Philip Kennicott called the courtyard a "compelling and peaceful public space". Historic preservationists, he observed, were wrong in assuming the glass canopy would turn attention away from the building. To the contrary, he said, "the glass canopy enhances it, drawing out the sandy color and texture of the south wing...and the greenish-gray granite hues of the north wing" and allowing the details and lines of the building to come into higher relief. He called the courtyard's landscaping "resplendent" and the four floor-level water scrims "captivating". He concluded, "Now that it's finished, it's unfortunate that the canopy isn't more visible from the outside (you need to be above street level, in an adjacent building, to see it clearly, and it can be glimpsed peeking above the roofline if seen from a few blocks away). Opponents of the canopy helped ensure that it would be all but invisible from the street. They were wrong. It deserves to be seen." It was named one of the "new seven wonders of the architecture world" by Condé Nast Traveler magazine.

See also
Patent Office 1836 fire
Patent Office 1877 fire
 Architecture of Washington, D.C.

References

Bibliography

Charles J. Robertson, Temple of Invention. A history of the Patent Office.
"Visitor's Guide and Map", Smithsonian Donald W. Reynolds Center for American Art and Portraiture, 2006

Further reading

External links

Reynolds Center
Listing at the National Park Service
Old Patent Office Building video

Buildings of the United States government in Washington, D.C.
Chinatown (Washington, D.C.)
Greek Revival architecture in Washington, D.C.
National Historic Landmarks in Washington, D.C.
1867 establishments in Washington, D.C.
Smithsonian Institution museums
Robert Mills buildings
Foster and Partners buildings