[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Carnton

re buried as nearly as possible by states, close to where they fell, and wooden headboards were placed at each grave with the name, company and regiment painted or written on them."  Many of the Union soldiers were re-interred in 1865 at the Stones River National Cemetery in Murfreesboro, Tennessee.

Over the next eighteen months many of the markers were either rotting or used for firewood, and the writing on the boards was disappearing. To preserve the graves, John and Carrie McGavock donated  of their property to be designated as an area for the Confederate dead to be re-interred.  The citizens of Franklin raised the funding and the soldiers were exhumed and reburied in the McGavock Confederate Cemetery for the sum of $5.00 per soldier.  
A team of individuals led by George Cuppett took responsibility for the reburial operation of 1,481 soldiers, and one civilian, Marcellus Cuppett, George's brother who had died during the process of the reburials, in the spring of 1866. The original names and identities of the soldiers were recorded in a cemetery record book by Cuppett, and the book fell into the watchful hands of Carrie McGavock after the reinterments.

After the war, McGavock continued to farm Carnton under sharecropping arrangements with former slaves until his death in 1893.

20th century
Carrie McGavock managed the maintenance of the cemetery with African-American workers for 41 years until her death in 1905. A prayer in the Confederate Veteran magazine mentioned Carrie McGavock in 1905:

The McGavock's son, Winder, inherited the home on the death of his mother, however he died only two years later in 1907. His widow and children then left Carnton and moved into Franklin. In 1909, the eastern kitchen wing of the house was destroyed by a tornado, and the roofline can still be clearly seen where it abutted the mansion. Winder's widow sold the house in 1911 ending a century of family ownership. Carnton then passed through the hands of several owners, and by the late 1960s and 1970s, the property was in disrepair.  In 1977, the Carnton Association was formed to raise money to buy, restore and maintain the mansion. The following year, the house and ten acres were given to the association by Dr. and Mrs. W.D. Sugg who had owned the property since the 1950s. Subsequently, the Association acquired an additional , and began a restoration of the house and grounds that were completed by the late 1990s.

21st century
Listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1973, Carnton has never received any funding or support from local, state or the Federal government.  The site is maintained and managed by The Battle of Franklin Trust, a non-profit organization which also manages another historic Battle of Franklin historic home, the Carter House. Today, Carnton receives visitors from all over the world as many people visit to learn the true story of the Widow of the South, Carrie McGavock.

In popular culture
 The Widow of the South (2005) Carnton is the setting for the novel by author Robert Hicks.

See also
Winstead Hill, also NRHP-listed within the Franklin Battlefield area
Fountain Carter House, also NRHP-listed in the battlefield
Fort Granger, also NRHP-listed in the battlefield
Claiborne Kinnard House NRHP listed in the battlefield

References

Further reading
 The McGavock Confederate Cemetery: A Revised and Updated Compilation. Eric A. Jacobson.
 The Battle of Franklin Trust

External links

Battle of Franklin Trust website
McGavock Confederate Cemetery
The Battle of Franklin, November 30, 1864
The Widow of the South, novel by Robert Hicks
The Heritage Foundation of Franklin and Williamson County, Tennessee

Antebellum architecture
Tennessee in the American Civil War
American Civil War hospitals
Historic house museums in Tennessee
Museums in Williamson County, Tennessee
Plantation houses in Tennessee
Houses on the National Register of Historic Places in Tennessee
Houses in Franklin, Tennessee
McGavock family residences
Federal architecture in Tennessee
Greek Revival houses in Tennessee
National Register of Historic Places in Williamson County, Tennessee
Slave cabins and quarters in the United States