[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Musa Alami

Musa Alami (3 May 1897 – 8 June 1984) (, ) was a prominent Palestinian nationalist and politician. Due to Alami having represented Palestine at various Arab conferences, in the 1940s, he was viewed by many as the leader of the Palestinian Arabs.

Biography

Early life and political career
Alami was born in the Musrara neighborhood of Jerusalem, Palestine, into a prominent family. His father was Mayor of Jerusalem Faidi al-Alami, his sister was married to Jamal al-Hussayni, and he was the uncle of Serene Husseini Shahid.

Alami was first taught at the school of the American Colony and at the French Ecole des Freres in Jaffa. During World War I, he worked at the censorship office in Damascus. Alami retained a positive view of the Ottoman empire, recalling that the Arabs regarded the Turks as partners rather than oppressors, and above all, that Palestine was largely ruled by Palestinian officials. Alami claimed that "a greater degree of freedom and self-government existed in Palestine than in many Turkish provinces".

Later, he studied law at Cambridge University and was admitted to the Inner Temple and graduated with honors.

Upon his return to Jerusalem, Alami worked for the legal department of the government of the British Mandate of Palestine and eventually became the private secretary of the High Commissioner General Arthur Grenfell Wauchope. In 1934, Alami participated in talks with the leaders of the Jewish community in Palestine David Ben-Gurion and Moshe Sharett. Alami told Ben-Gurion that the most the Jews could expect would be a Jewish enclave around Tel Aviv in a Muslim Palestine. According to Ben-Gurion, he told Alami that Zionist efforts could provide significant help developing Palestine for all its inhabitants, but Alami replied that he would prefer to leave the land poor and desolate for another hundred years until the Arabs could develop it themselves.

Alami was ousted from his government position as legal adviser by the British authorities and went into exile in Beirut, and later Baghdad. He played an important role in the St. James Conference, negotiations with the British government in London in 1938–1939. He was a major contributor to the White Paper of 1939.

Former British diplomat G. Furlonge, who was the author of Alami's biography, described the political scene in Jerusalem after the establishment of Israel in 1948: "The new [Palestinian] leaders were a set of young men of some education, all of them in the traumatic condition induced by the consciousness of having suffered a resounding defeat at the hand of an enemy whom they had heartily despised."

In an opinion article published in 1949, Alami gave his assessment of the "great national disaster" suffered by the Arabs of Palestine:
 "[T]he British were the prime causers of the disaster, and on them lies its responsibility. They were assisted by the Americans and the Russians. So much is clear. At all events, we found ourselves face to face with the Jews, and entered into battle with them to decide the future; and in spite of what the British, the Americans, and the Russians had done, it was still within our power to win the fight."
 "There were two phases to the battle of Palestine. ... In the first phase the fundamental source of our weakness was that we were unprepared even though not taken by surprise, while the Jews were fully prepared. ... These same weaknesses were the source of weakness in our defense in the second phase, that of the Arab armies: disunity, lack of a unified command, improvisation, diversity of plans, and on top of all a slackness and lack of seriousness in winning the war."
 "The evacuation and homelessness of the Arabs was planned and intended by the Jews."
 "In the social sphere, the incompetence of the Arab governments has revealed itself in the matter of the refugees. ... It is shameful that the Arab governments should prevent the Arab refugees from working in their countries and shut the doors in their faces and imprison them in camps."
 "With the establishment of a Jewish foothold and base, the Arabs are faced with a new danger. The ambitions of the Jews are not limited to Palestine alone, but embrace other parts of the Arab world. ... The next step will be an attempt to take all of Palestine, and then they will proceed according to circumstances - circumstances which they themselves will attempt to create."

Arab Development Society
After the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, Alami lost most of his property in Jerusalem and the Galilee and went to live near Jericho, where he acquired a concession of  of desert from the Jordanian government. In 1952, he founded the Arab Development Society (ADS) to help Jericho's refugees. After discovering water in the desert, he founded a large farm and school for refugee children. Alami raised funds in order to build villages for the refugees and launched an agricultural farm whose produce was exported.