[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Transmorphers

and takes the tower out, buying enough time for the rest of his team to escape. Once the tower is destroyed, the robots all over the world shut down. With the battle won, Karina and Van Ryberg are reunited and the surviving humans see the sun shine through the clouds for the first time in centuries.

Cast
 Matthew Wolf as Warren Mitchell
 Amy Weber as Karina Nadir
 Shaley Scott as Xandria Lux
 Eliza Swenson as General Van Ryberg
 Griff Furst as Itchy
 Michael Tower as Dr. Voloslov Alextzavich
 Sarah Hall as Blair
 Erin Evans as Suzy
 Noel Thurman as The Chairman
 Troy Thomas as Clinton
 Dennis Kinard as Jackson
 Jason S. Gray as Otto
 Elissa Dowling as Dr. Taddish
 Jessica Bork as Bowers
 Thomas Downey as Blackthorn
 Monique La Barr as Reitcha
 Jeff Denton as McGuire
 Leigh Scott as General Sabir
 Jessica Bork as Bowers

Release 
Initial copies of the DVD released in the United States contained out of sync audio in the 5.1 surround track and missing special effects and sound effects.  Subsequent reissues of the North American and British DVD were corrected.

Reception

David Cornelius of Efilmcritic.com stated that "even the most dedicated Bad Movie fans will have difficulty slogging through this one". Felix Vasquez Jr. from Cinema Crazed gave a positive review and said, "it looks damn good for a cheap rip-off, and is rather entertaining to sit through, “Transmorphers” is worth your time. And no, Asylum didn't pay me to say that."

According to Keith Phipps of The A.V. Club: "While my curiosity was definitely satisfied, and while it warms the heart that The Asylum is out there finding ways to exploit the public's desire to see cheap versions of what they've seen elsewhere, Transmorphers was actually pretty dull."

Prequel and sequel
In 2009, a prequel was released titled Transmorphers: Fall of Man. In 2023, a sequel named Transmorphers: Mech Beasts was made.

See also
 Transmorphers: Fall of Man, the 2009 prequel starring Shane Van Dyke
 Transformers, the 2007 blockbuster of which Transmorphers is a mockbuster

References

External links 
 Transmorphers at The Asylum
 
 
 
 Audio Interview With Director on the Your Video Store Shelf Podcast

2007 independent films
2007 science fiction films
2007 direct-to-video films
2007 LGBT-related films
2007 films
American robot films
American science fiction films
American LGBT-related films
2000s English-language films
Alien invasions in films
Mockbuster films
American post-apocalyptic films
LGBT-related science fiction films
Lesbian-related films
Bisexuality-related films
Female bisexuality in film
Films set in the 24th century
The Asylum films
Films directed by Leigh Scott
2000s American films