[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Jonny Quinn

Jonathan Graham Quinn (born 26 February 1972) is a Northern Irish musician, best known as the former drummer for alternative rock band Snow Patrol, and was previously a member of bands like The Mighty Fall, The New Brontes and Disraeli Gears. As drummer for Snow Patrol, he has played on all releases up until his departure from the band in 2023. He is married to industrial designer Mariane Quinn (née Røkke).

Biography
He attended Rockport School near Holywood and Campbell College Belfast both of which singer Gary Lightbody attended. He once used to work in the music store for Good Vibrations, the record label that first signed The Undertones. In the early 1990s, he was a member of Mighty Fall, in which he had a bandmate in Iain Archer. He was also a member of The New Brontes. In the summer of 1992, he became a member of Disraeli Gears, which was formed by Iain's brother Paul. In 1995, he completed a BTEC Diploma in Performing Arts. In October 1996, he started a live music venue with Brendan McCauley, called The Crescent Arts Centre. Disraeli Gears played regular shows at the venue throughout the rest of the year. In 1997, they recorded their first studio album, Pure Groove.

He has been with Snow Patrol since their first full-length release, Songs for Polarbears. During Snow Patrol's Eyes Open Tour, on 15 January 2007, Quinn broke a bone in his elbow in a snowboarding accident and was unable to play several shows of the tour. He asked Ex-Therapy? drummer and long-time friend of the band Graham Hopkins to fill in for him. Hopkins toured Europe, Australia, New Zealand and the United States for 3 months until Quinn had fully recovered. In the meantime, Snow Patrol were to play at the 2007 BRIT Awards. U2's Larry Mullen, Jr. volunteered to take on the duty but the band already had Hopkins. Quinn said he felt "honored" at the offer. He names Ginger Baker, Louie Bellson and Stewart Copeland among his influences.

In 2009, Quinn set up and launched the publishing company Polar Patrol Publishing.  His first signing was Johnny McDaid who then went onto write with many artists including Ed Sheeran, Birdy and Robbie Williams.  Jonny was also responsible for signing Belle & Sebastian to Polar Patrol in 2014.

Lightbody announced on Instagram that He and Paul Wilson decided to leave Snow Patrol.

Personal life
He is the nephew of actress Patricia Quinn and the brother of Bradley Quinn, Snow Patrol's longtime photographer. His cousin is Debbie Armstrong, wife of former Northern Ireland national football team, assistant manager Gerry Armstrong. Quinn had a habit of stage-diving, which resulted in many fractured limbs. After the band signed to Fiction/Interscope, he was asked to curb it, lest he break his arm.

He proposed to his longtime girlfriend, industrial designer Mariane Røkke at Snow Patrol's homecoming show at Ward Park in 2007. He wrote "Marry me Mariane" on his drum kit, which was shown on the screens beside the stage. They married in Mariane's hometown Oslo on 16 August 2008. Quinn's brother Bradley Quinn was the best man. Guests included the band, past Snow Patrol collaborator and bandmate Iain Archer and singer Declan O'Rourke. The couple went to Zanzibar for their honeymoon. He lives in Crouch End, London with his wife and son, near former bandmate Nathan Connolly.

Equipment
He is known to use DW drums, Zildjian cymbals and Pro-Mark sticks.  He used Pearl drums in the past.

Discography

with The Mighty Fall
1991 – "Kick It in the Head"; 
with Disraeli Gears
1995 – Sense EP
1997 – Pure Groove

with Snow Patrol
1998 – Songs for Polarbears
2001 – When It's All Over We Still Have to Clear Up
2003 – Final Straw
2006 – Eyes Open
2008 – A Hundred Million Suns
2009 – Up to Now
2011 – Fallen Empires
2013 – Greatest Hits
2018 – Wildness

References

1972 births
Ivor Novello Award winners
Male drummers from Northern Ireland
Living people
People educated at Rockport School
People from Bangor, County Down
Snow Patrol members
Fiction Records artists
Interscope Records artists
Musicians from County Down
20th-century drummers from Northern Ireland
21st-century drummers from Northern Ireland
20th-century male musicians from Northern Ireland
21st-century male musicians from Northern Ireland