[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Nonpartisan blanket primary

iation opens the door for candidates to misrepresent their leanings or otherwise confuse voters. In 2008, a Washington gubernatorial candidate indicated party preference as "G.O.P." instead of Republican. A public poll found that 25% of the public did not know that the two terms mean the same thing.

Further research on California's 2012 jungle primaries suggests that a jungle primary does not tend to lead to large amounts of crossover votes. Most voters who crossed over did so for strategic reasons. Furthermore, there is evidence that having the top two candidates from the same party could lead to a drop in voter participation in the second round. With regards to reducing political polarization, this does not seem to hold true. Due to lack of crossover votes, an extreme candidate from the majority party can still win over a moderate from the other party. Though the intention of the system is to get a moderate from the majority party, this will not happen if there is no moderate, if the moderate lacks name recognition, or if voters are unsure of which candidate is more moderate.

See also
 Instant-runoff voting
 Two-round system
 Two-party-preferred vote

References

Notes

External links
 Land of a Thousand Liebermans analysis by Nate Silver of FiveThirtyEight.com
 Will California's 'Top Two' Primary Work? The New York Times provides six views on new California primary
 Washington's top-two primary gets voters the better choice The Seattle Times editorial praising Top Two primary in Washington state 2010 elections
 Top Two primary worth considering advocating Top Two primary for Arizona
 Pros and cons of a top-two primary The Los Angeles Times presents two views on the Top Two primary
 Stop Top Two Free and Equal Elections Foundation, a coalition of independent and minority party activists opposing the Top Two primary
 Washington State Grange v. Washington State Republican Party upholding top-two primary

California elections
Washington (state) elections
Electoral systems
Primary elections
Elections in the United States