[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Santino Marella

ugust 27. Marella had announced that he would be teaming up with Alberto El Patrón against RJ City and Stone Rockwell. In light of El Patron's legal troubles, he was announced to be replaced in the match by Chavo Guerrero Jr. After the match, Marella formally announced the end of his in-ring career.

In July 2019, Marella returned to the ring at a Battle Arts Academy show, wrestling in an MMA inspired gimmick. On September 14, 2019, he appeared live in Josh Barnett's Bloodsport II as himself, Anthony Carelli.

Other endeavors
Early in his professional wrestling career, Carelli trained and wrestled at the original Battlarts in Japan. He, along with kung fu practitioner Steven J. Wong and fitness magazine publisher Terry Frendo, opened a 15,000 square foot multi-use facility and gym in Mississauga, Ontario called ‘Battle Arts Academy‘ in September 2013. It is for general strength and conditioning, as well as for training in mixed martial arts and professional wrestling taught by the original Battlarts founder, Yuki Ishikawa. In 2015, Carelli trained athletes from Venezuela for the Panamerican Games 2015.

In 2014, Carelli and his partner Dan Garneau founded and sponsored Canadian junior ice hockey team, Milton Battle Arts Cobras. The team was part of World United Hockey League.

In November 2016, Carelli joined the Sportsnet 360 Aftermath panel as an analyst. On May 2, 2018, Carelli debuted the weekly show Behind the Lights, alongside co-host, Destiny World Wrestling owner George Iceman on the official Impact Wrestling Twitch channel.

Being a Shodan for more than 30 years, Carelli is the judo instructor in Battle Arts Academy. Aside from being a commentator for the International Judo Federation, he was named Judo Canada's first official ambassador in November 2019.

 Personal life 
Carelli and his former wife Petrina have a daughter, Bianca Carelli, who won the Miss Teen Ontario-World pageant in 2013. Carelli married bikini fitness competitor Anna Babij, in November 2015. His daughter Bianca previously wrestled for the NWA and is currently signed to WWE, where she performs on the NXT brand under the ring name "Arianna Grace".

Carelli is a member of the Métis Nation of Ontario.

 Championships and accomplishments 

Judo
Ashai Annual Tournament (2017) - Bronze

Professional wrestling
 The Baltimore Sun Newcomer of the Year (2007)
 DDT Pro-Wrestling Ironman Heavymetalweight Championship (1 time)
 Ohio Valley Wrestling OVW Television Championship (2 times)
 Pro Wrestling Illustrated PWI ranked him No. 60 of the top 500 singles wrestlers in the PWI 500 in 2012
 World Wrestling Entertainment / WWE WWE Intercontinental Championship (2 times)
 WWE United States Championship (1 time)
 WWE Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Vladimir Kozlov
 Miss WrestleMania Battle Royal (2009)
 Wrestling Observer Newsletter'''''
 Best Gimmick (2007, 2008)

Mixed martial arts record 

|-
| Loss
|align=center|0–1
|Takashi Ishino
|KO (punch)
|GCM CanD
|
|align=center|1
|align=center|0:26
|Tokyo, Japan
|

Filmography

References

External links 

 
 
 
 Anthony Carelli at TV.com 
 

1974 births
Canadian male judoka
Canadian male mixed martial artists
Mixed martial artists utilizing wrestling
Mixed martial artists utilizing judo
Canadian male professional wrestlers
Canadian male voice actors
Canadian sportspeople of Italian descent
Living people
NWA/WCW/WWE United States Heavyweight Champions
Canadian expatriate professional wrestlers in the United States
Professional wrestlers from Ontario
Sportspeople from Mississauga
WWF/WWE Intercontinental Champions
Concordia University alumni
Métis sportspeople
Martial artists from Ontario
21st-century professional wrestlers
Ironman Heavymetalweight Champions