[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Bletchley Park

his first meeting with his new companion Constance Clarke.
 The Bletchley Park Podcast began in August 2012, with new episodes being released approximately monthly. It features stories told by the codebreakers, staff and volunteers, audio from events and reports on the development of Bletchley Park.

Television
 The 1979 ITV television serial Danger UXB featured the character Steven Mount, who was a codebreaker at Bletchley and was driven to a nervous breakdown (and eventual suicide) by the stressful and repetitive nature of the work.
 In Foyle's War, Adam Wainwright (Samantha Stewart's fiancé, then husband), is a former Bletchley Park codebreaker.
 The Second World War code-breaking sitcom pilot "Satsuma & Pumpkin" was recorded at Bletchley Park in 2003 and featured Bob Monkhouse, OBE in his last ever screen role. The BBC declined to produce the show and develop it further before creating effectively the same show on Radio 4 several years later, featuring some of the same cast, entitled Hut 33.
 Bletchley came to wider public attention with the documentary series Station X (1999).
 The 2012 ITV programme, The Bletchley Circle, is a set of murder mysteries set in 1952 and 1953. The protagonists are four female former Bletchley codebreakers, who use their skills to solve crimes. The pilot episode's opening scene was filmed on-site, and the set was asked to remain there for its close adaptation of historiography.
The 2018 programme, The Bletchley Circle: San Francisco, is a spin-off of The Bletchley Circle. It takes place in San Francisco and features two characters from the original series. 
 Ian McEwan's television play The Imitation Game (1980) concludes at Bletchley Park.
 Bletchley Park was featured in the sixth and final episode of the BBC TV documentary The Secret War (1977), presented and narrated by William Woodard. This episode featured interviews with Gordon Welchman, Harry Golombek, Peter Calvocoressi, F. W. Winterbotham, Max Newman, Jack Good, and Tommy Flowers.
 The Agent Carter season 2 episode "Smoke & Mirrors" reveals that Agent Peggy Carter worked at Bletchley Park early in the war before joining the Strategic Scientific Reserve.

Theatre
 The play Breaking the Code (1986) is set at Bletchley Park.

Location

Bletchley Park is opposite Bletchley railway station. It is close to junctions 13 and 14 of the M1, about  northwest of London.

See also
 Arlington Hall
 Beeston Hill Y Station
 Danesfield House
 Far East Combined Bureau in Hong Kong prewar, then Singapore, Colombo (Ceylon) and Kilindini (Kenya)
 List of people associated with Bletchley Park
 List of women in Bletchley Park
 National Cryptologic Museum
 Newmanry
 OP-20-G, the US Navy's cryptanalysis office in Washington, D.C.
 Testery
 Wireless Experimental Centre operated by the Intelligence Corps outside Delhi
 Y-stations

Notes and references

Notes

References

Bibliography
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  in 
 
  Updated and extended version of Action This Day: From Breaking of the Enigma Code to the Birth of the Modern Computer Bantam Press 2001
  in 
 
 
  That version is a facsimile copy, but there is a transcript of much of this document in '.pdf' format at: , and a web transcript of Part 1 at: 
 
 
 
  (CAPTCHA) (10-page preview from A Century of mathematics in America, Volume 1 By Peter L. Duren, Richard Askey, Uta C. Merzbach, see A Century of Mathematics in America: Part 1 ; ).
  Transcript of a lecture given on Tuesday 19 October 1993 at Cambridge University
 
 
 
 
 
  in 
 
 
 
 
  in 
  in 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  in 
 
  in 
 
 
  in 
 
  in 
  New edition with addendum by Welchman correcting his misapprehensions in the 1982 edition.

External links

 Bletchley Park Trust 
 
 Bletchley Park—Virtual Tour by Tony Sale
 The National Museum of Computing (based at Bletchley Park)
 The RSGB National Radio Centre (based at Bletchley Park)
  (The Daily Telegraph 3 March 1997)
 Boffoonery! Comedy Benefit For Bletchley Park  Comedians and computing professionals stage comedy show in aid of Bletchley Park
 Bletchley Park: It's No Secret, Just an Enigma, The Telegraph, 29 August 2009
 Bletchley Park is official charity of Shed Week 2010—in recognition of the work done in the Huts
 Saving Bletchley Park blog by Sue Black
  with Sue Black by Robert Llewellyn about Bletchley Park
 
 C4 Station X 1999 on DVD here
 How Alan Turing Cracked The Enigma Code Imperial War Museums
 The Bletchley Park Podcast on Audioboom
 Bletchley Park Paperwork at The ICL Computer Museum