[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Urby Emanuelson

rters that he wanted to stay at the club following reports of him being linked to PSV Eindhoven. Despite being absent on two more occasions later in the 2009–10 season, Emanuelson went on to make forty–eight appearances and scoring eight times in all competitions, a target he successfully predicted.

Emanuelson made his first appearance of the 2010–11 season, starting the whole game, as Ajax lost 1–0 against Twente in the Johan Cruyff Shield. He then helped the club reach the Group-Stage of the Champions League after beating PAOK Salonika and Dynamo Kiev. Shortly after, Emanuelson scored his first goal of the season, in a 5–0 win against De Graafschap. His second goal of the season came on 22 September 2010, in a 5–0 win against MVV Maastricht. Since the start of the 2010–11 season, he continued to regain his first team place, rotating in the left–back position and different midfield positions. As a result, the club began a contract negotiation with Emanuelson over a new contract, though he later stated his guarantee of not staying at the club. However, it was announced on 3 November 2010 that Emanuelson would leave Ajax at the end of the 2010–11 season. He later confirmed the news two days later. Despite announcing his departure and facing his own injury concern along the way, he remain involved in the club's first team until his departure in January. Emanuelson made thirty–two appearances and scoring two times in all competitions.

AC Milan

On 23 January 2011, Italian Serie A club AC Milan announced the signing of Emanuelson on a three-and-a-half-year contract for a transfer fee of around €1.7 million. After the 2010–11 season, the fee increased by €750,000, making a total fee of around €2.5 million.

Emanuelson made his debut for the club on 26 January 2011 in a Coppa Italia match against Sampdoria, providing an assist for Alexandre Pato. Milan won the match 2–1. He played his first game in Serie A after entering as a substitute against Catania. However, Emanuelson found himself in and out of the starting line–up, as his mostly playing time came from the substitute bench. Emanuelson scored his first goal for Milan in a Coppa Italia match against Palermo, the equaliser in a 2–2 draw. He helped Milan win their first Scudetto in seven years at the end of the season, acting mostly as a substitute. Emanuelson went on to make eleven appearances and scoring once in all competitions.

At the start of the 2011–12 season, Emanuelson played eight minutes after coming on as a substitute, against Inter Milan and helped AC Milan win the 2011 Supercoppa Italiana by beating them 2–1. Since then, he continued to become a first team regular for the club, playing in different midfield positions. Emanuelson then set up AC Milan's only goal of the game, in a 1–0 win against Cesena on 24 September 2011. He then helped AC Milan qualify for the UEFA Champions League knockout stage after drawing 2–2 against Viktoria Plzeň. Emanuelson then played in both legs against Arsenal and helped the club qualify for the next round by winning 4–3 on aggragate. He then scored his first Serie A goal for Milan in an away match against Cesena on 19 February 2012. He scored his second Serie A goal for Milan in an away game against Parma on 17 March 2012. Emanuelson started in every match until he suffered an injury that saw him sidelined for the rest of the 2011–12 season. In his first season at the club, Emanuelson made forty–two appearances and scoring two times in all competitions.

At the start of the 2012–13 season, Emanuelson continued to be involved in the first team for AC Milan, alternating between a starting and substitute role. On 3 October 2012 he scored his first goal of the season, in a 2–1 win against Zenit Saint Petersburg in the UEFA Champions League match. A month later on 3 November 2012, Emanuelson scored his second goal of the season, as well as, setting up two goals, in a 5–1 win against Chievo. In the Round of 16 of Coppa Italia, he set up two goals for the side, as the club won 3–0 against Reggina. By November, however, Emanuelson began to find himself placed on the substitute bench. By the time he was loaned out, Emanuelson made twenty appearances and scoring two times in all competitions.