[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 36]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

n a wrong manner. The animal
did not know your intentions, and therefore, when you seized him in so
violent a manner, he naturally attempted to escape, and his mother
hearing his cries, very naturally came to his assistance. All that
happened was owing to your inexperience. Before you meddle with any
animal, you should make yourself acquainted with his nature and
disposition, otherwise you may fare like the little boy that, in
attempting to catch flies, was stung by a wasp; or like another that,
seeing an adder sleeping upon a bank, took it for an eel, and was bitten
by it, which had nearly cost him his life. _T._--But, sir, I thought
Harry had mentioned a little boy that used to feed a snake without
receiving any hurt from it. _Mr B._--That might very well happen; there
is scarcely any creature that will do hurt, unless it is attacked or
wants food; and some of these reptiles are entirely harmless, others
not; therefore the best way is not to meddle with any till you are
perfectly acquainted with its nature. Had you observed this rule, you
never would have attempted to catch the pig by the hinder leg, in order
to tame it; and it is very lucky that you did not make the experiment
upon a larger animal, otherwise you might have been as badly treated as
the tailor was by the elephant. _T._--Pray, sir, what is this curious
story? But first tell me, if you please, what an elephant is?

"An elephant," said Mr Barlow, "is the largest land animal that we are
acquainted with. It is many times thicker than an ox, and grows to the
height of eleven or twelve feet. Its strength, as may be easily
imagined, is prodigious; but it is at the same time so very gentle, that
it rarely does hurt to anything, even in woods where it resides. It does
not eat flesh, but lives upon the fruits and branches of trees. But what
is most singular about its make is, that, instead of a nose, it has a
long hollow piece of flesh, which grows over its mouth to the length of
three or four feet; this is called the trunk of the elephant; and he is
capable of bending it in every direction. When he wants to break off the
branch of a tree, he twists his trunk round it, and snaps it off
directly; when he wants to drink, he lets it down into the water, sucks
up several gallons at a time, and then, doubling the end of it back,
discharges it all into his mouth."

"But if he is so large and strong," said Tommy, "I should suppose it
must be impossible ever to tame him." "So perhaps it would," replied Mr
Barlow, "did they not instruct those that have been already tamed to
assist in catching others." _T._--How is that, sir? _Mr B._--When they
have discovered a forest where these animals resort, they make a large
enclosure with strong pales and a deep ditch, leaving only one entrance
to it, which has a strong gate left purposely open. They then let one or
two of their tame elephants loose, who join the wild ones, and gradually
entice them into the enclosure. As soon as one of these has entered, a
man, who stands ready, shuts the gate, and takes him prisoner. The
animal, finding himself thus entrapped, begins to grow furious, and
attempts to escape; but immediately two tame ones, of the largest size
and greatest strength, who have been placed there on purpose, come up to
him, one on each side, and beat him with their trunks till he becomes
more quiet. A man then comes behind, ties a very large cord to each of
his hind-legs, and fastens the other end of it to two great trees. He is
then left without food for some hours, and in that time generally
becomes so docile as to suffer himself to be conducted to the stable
that is prepared for him, where he lives the rest of his life like a
horse, or any other sort of domestic animal. _T._--And pray, sir, what
did the elephant do to the tailor? "There was," said Mr Barlow, "at
Surat, a city where many of these tame elephants are kept, a tailor, who
used to sit and work in his shed, close to the place to which these
elephants were led every day to drink. This man contracted a kind of
acquaintance with one of the largest of these beasts, and used to
present him with fruits and other vegetables whenever the elephant
passed by his door. The elephant was accustomed to put his long trunk in
at the window, and to receive in that manner whatever his friend chose
to give. But one day the tailor happened to be in a more than ordinary
ill-humour, and not considering how dangerous it might prove to provoke
an animal of that size and strength, when the elephant put his trunk in
at the window as usual, instead of giving him anything to eat, he
pricked him with his needle. The elephant instantly withdrew his trunk,
and, without showing any marks of resentment, went on with the rest to
drink; but, after he had quenched his thirst, he collected a large
quantity of the dirtiest water he could find in his trunk--which I have
already told you is capable of holding man