[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Obito Uchiha

ht Kaguya. Obito dies while shielding Naruto and Kakashi from Kaguya's attack; however, he thanks Naruto for reminding him of his true self. His spirit remains among the living long enough to help Kakashi by momentarily giving him his chakra and , passing into the next life after Kaguya is defeated.

In other media
In addition to the main series, Obito appears in a number of video games. The game Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Revolution describes the origin of the Akatsuki organization. The sixth Part II film, Road to Ninja: Naruto the Movie (2012), features Obito in his Madara persona. He traps Naruto and Sakura in an alternate world and manipulates Naruto's opposite persona, Menma. When Naruto defeats Menma, Obito releases Naruto and Sakura and considers the mission a failure. He appears in the Naruto light novel Naruto Jinraiden: The Day the Wolf Howled (2012), which explores Sasuke's reflections after Itachi's death. In Akatsuki Hiden (2015), Obito's first meeting with Nagato is shown.

Reception
The exploration of Obito's childhood in the Naruto Shippuden anime series was well-received. Sci Fi Online enjoyed the handling of his, Rin and Kakashi's past, which had a major impact on the series' main storyline. IGN ranked Obito and Konan's fight the 11th-best battle in Naruto, and ranked Obito's fight against Minato Namikaze the fourth-best in the series. CyberConnect2 CEO Hiroshi Matsuyama said was Obito became his favorite character in the Naruto series; Matsuyama's previous favorites were Shikamaru Nara and Itachi Uchiha. In a manga popularity poll, Obito was voted the 19th-most-popular Naruto character. Takagi's portrayal of the character in the final war was the subject of praise within viewers of the series due to how dark he is in contrast to his younger persona.

Regarding the character, before his identity reveals, Jason Thompson of Anime News Network was shocked to learn that Tobi was the real leader of Akatsuki (instead of Pain), and when Tobi refers to himself as Madara Uchiha. Thompson enjoyed Kishimoto's depiction of Tobi's teleportation technique and was surprised when Tobi told Sasuke Uchiha the truth about Itachi. He later called Tobi an "insane idealist" (similar to Nagato) after learning of his desire to create a peaceful world with the powerful Ten-Tails. A UK Anime Network reviewer enjoyed Obito's action scenes with Naruto, Killer Bee, Kakashi, and Guy because of his ability to reanimate the six-tailed beasts.

Bryce Coulter of the Fandom Post enjoyed the revelation of Tobi's true identity and liked its impact on Kakashi, praising the story's treatment of his inner turmoil, as he "confronts the demons of his past". UK Anime Network found Tobi's true identity predictable, but highly enjoyed the backstory reveal, calling it "probably the most interesting flashback sequence of the series to date". Jason Thompson was shocked at the revelation that Tobi was Obito, finding the "most compassionate person in the manga" holding a grudge against the world to be out of character. Amy McNulty of Anime News Network praised the animation of Kakashi's fight against Obito and the references to the fighters' childhoods. McNulty found the character's death predictable, and criticized the development of Obito briefly giving Kakashi his eyes' techniques after dying, finding it counter to the prevailing theme of "hard work". Chris Beveridge had mixed feelings about the treatment of Obito's death in the anime version; the narrative begins focusing on flashbacks and his childhood dreams (which had already been shown), neglecting the present fight against Kaguya.

References

Anime and manga characters who can teleport
Anime and manga supervillains
Comics characters introduced in 2004
Fictional amputees
Fictional characters incorrectly presumed dead
Fictional characters with fire or heat abilities
Fictional characters who can turn intangible
Fictional genocide perpetrators
Fictional impostors
Fictional mass murderers
Fictional ninja
Fictional special forces personnel
Male characters in anime and manga
Naruto characters
Fictional child soldiers
Fictional characters with disfigurements
Fictional characters with plant abilities
Fictional terrorists
Fictional characters with superhuman senses