[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peter Jukes

m and city development, Jukes also co-authored, along with Anna Whyatt, Stephen O'Brien and the sociologist Manuel Castells, the monograph Creative Capital: 21st Century Regions.

Jukes is the author of The Fall of the House of Murdoch, published by Unbound, a crowd-funded publisher, in August 2012.

Since 2016, Jukes collaborates with Deeivya Meir on the podcast series Untold - The Daniel Morgan Murder. He also co-hosted the podcast Dial M for Mueller with journalist Carole Cadwalladr.

Theatre
Jukes's early theatre work debuted at Edinburgh's Traverse Theatre: Abel Barebone and the Humble Company (1987) and Shadowing the Conqueror (1988). Shadowing the Conqueror, which transferred to Washington, D.C., was described in The Washington Post as "a depiction of the travels of Alexander the Great (Grimmette) and a contemporary photographer named Mary Ellis (Laura Giannarelli) – based very loosely on the relationship between Alexander and Pyrrho of Elis, a painter who accompanied the warrior on his expedition to the Orient – is most of all a lofty debate between two intensely committed, opposing forces." Jukes wrote the book of the London stage musical Matador, with lyrics by Edward Seago and music by Mike Leander, starring John Barrowman and Stefanie Powers, which premiered at the Queen's Theatre, Shaftesbury Avenue in April 1991.

Journalism and politics
Jukes has been a book reviewer and feature writer for both The Independent and the New Statesman on themes including nationalism, art in the computer age, and apocalyptic religion.

During the 1980s and 90s, Jukes was an active member of the Labour Party and was involved in the investigations around the cash for questions scandal. Jukes became an active Barack Obama supporter during the 2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries in the US, writing for Daily Kos and then MyDD when it became a pro-Hillary Clinton site. Later, he recorded his online experiences of the Primary 'Flame Wars' for Prospect. Following the primaries, he was one of 25 regular bloggers who began writing for a new political blog, The Motley Moose.

During the News International phone hacking scandal trial of Rebekah Brooks, Andy Coulson and others, Jukes used the crowdfunding tool Indiegogo to raise donations to allow him to livetweet the trial from start to finish. 
In May 2016, Jukes presented and co-produced with Deeivya Meier a 20-part podcast about the Murder of Daniel Morgan, Untold: The Daniel Morgan Murder, which topped the UK iTunes podcast chart. The following year, Jukes co-wrote a book with Alastair Morgan titled Untold: the Daniel Morgan Murder Exposed, which featured new revelations about the case.

According to Eliott Higgins, founder of the open source investigative site Bellingcat, Jukes came up with the name of the new organisation in 2014, inspired by the medieval folk tale of 'Belling the Cat'.

In 2018, Jukes and Stephen Colegrave founded Byline Times.

References

External links

1960 births
Living people
Alumni of Queens' College, Cambridge
British people of Armenian descent
English people of Armenian descent
English radio writers
English essayists
English television writers
English dramatists and playwrights
English literary critics
English bloggers
People educated at Aylesbury Grammar School
British male essayists
English male dramatists and playwrights
English male non-fiction writers
British magazine writers
British male television writers
British male bloggers
Writers from Wiltshire
The Independent people
People from Swindon
21st-century English writers
21st-century British dramatists and playwrights
20th-century British dramatists and playwrights
English male screenwriters
21st-century British screenwriters
21st-century English male writers