[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of S.H.I.E.L.D. members

— Field agent who uncovers the Skrulls' invasion. Deceased.
 Hank Pym / Ant-Man – Scientist and field operative.
 Quan Chen – Field agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. Deceased.
 Jack Rollins – Member of S.T.R.I.K.E.; Hydra double agent. Whereabouts unknown; presumed deceased.
 Natasha Romanoff / Black Widow – Assassin and undercover spy; founding member of the Avengers; one of the few agents with known Level 10 Security Clearance. Deceased.
 Steve Rogers / Captain America – Field operative; leader and founding member of the Avengers. Level 8 Security Clearance. Whereabouts unknown; likely deceased.
 Brock Rumlow – Leader of S.T.R.I.K.E.; Hydra double agent. Deceased.
 Lewis Seaver – Test subject for GH-325. Deceased.
 Erik Selvig – Astrophysicist; originally recruited for Project P.E.G.A.S.U.S. to study the Tesseract.
 Jemma Simmons – Life scientist; Xenobiologist (both human and alien), Level 5 Clearance, Bio–chemist.
 Jasper Sitwell – Espionage agent; Hydra double agent. Deceased.
 Daniel Sousa – Chief of S.H.I.E.L.D. West Coast in the 1950s. Originally deceased but was saved by Phil Coulson. Joined Daisy Johnson.
 Tony Stark / Iron Man – S.H.I.E.L.D. Advisor; founding member of the Avengers. Deceased.
 Ava Starr / Ghost – Former field agent. Whereabouts unknown.
 Elihas Starr – Scientist; fired by Hank Pym. Deceased.
 Rebecca Stevens / Janice Robbins – Stationed at the Triskelion; test subject for GH-325. Deceased.
 Antoine "Trip" Triplett – Field operative. Deceased.
 Janet van Dyne / Wasp – Scientist and field operative.
 Grant Ward – Black ops specialist; Level 7 Security Clearance; Hydra double agent. Deceased.
 Noelle Walters – Team leader in Europe. Deceased.
 Claire Wise – Accomplice of Benny Pollack; became apprentice of Agent Felix Blake. Whereabouts unknown.
 Arnim Zola – Hydra scientist recruited during Operation Paperclip following World War II; restarted Hydra within S.H.I.E.L.D. Deceased.

References

External links
 Marvel.com: S.H.I.E.L.D. and Nick Fury
 Appendix to the Handbook of the Marvel Universe: S.H.I.E.L.D. and The Deltite
 Marvel Directory: Nick Fury
 Amazing Heroes #26 (July 1, 1983): "Fury of the Past: A Nick Fury Hero History", by Lou Mougin
 Current blog on S.H.I.E.L.D.

Lists of Marvel Comics characters by organization