[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 174]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

atched one with an imperious message, requiring all the
inhabitants of Lebanon to submit to his victorious arms, or threatening
them with the worst extremities of war.

"When the ambassador returned, and reported the fixed determination of
Sophron and his countrymen, he was inflamed with rage, and ordered his
army to advance to the attack. They marched without opposition till they
entered the mountainous districts, where all the bravest inhabitants
were ranged in arms to meet the invader. Then arose the noise of arms;
then man encountered man, and wounds and death were seen on every side.
The troops of Tigranes advanced in close array with long protended
spears; the inhabitants of Lebanon were more lightly armed, and, with
invincible courage, endeavoured to break the formidable battalion of
their enemies. They rushed with fury upon the dreadful range of weapons,
and, even wounded and dying, endeavoured to beat down their points, and
open a way to their companions.

"Sophron was seen conspicuous in every part of the field, encouraging
his companions with his voice, and more by his actions. Wherever he
turned his steps he was followed by the bravest youth of his party, and
there the efforts and the slaughter were always greatest. Five times,
covered with blood and dust, he made a desperate charge upon the troops
of Tigranes, and five times did he force his bravest soldiers to give
ground. At length the superiority of discipline and experience began to
prevail over the generous but more unequal efforts of the defenders.
The veterans of Tigranes perceived their advantage, and pressed the
enemy with redoubled vigour.

"This was the decisive moment which Chares had foreseen and provided
for; in an instant the bands of Lebanon retreated, by the orders of
Sophron, with a precipitation bordering upon flight. Tigranes, supposing
himself certain of victory, orders his troops to advance, and decide the
fortune of the battle; but while they are rashly preparing to obey, a
sudden noise is heard that equals the loudest thunders; the earth itself
trembles with a convulsive motion under their feet, then bursts asunder
with a violence that nothing can resist! Hundreds are in an instant
swallowed up, or dashed against rocks, and miserably destroyed!
Meanwhile all nature seems to be convulsed around; the rocks themselves
are torn from their solid base, and, with their enormous fragments,
crush whole bands of miserable wretches beneath! Clouds of smoke obscure
the field of battle, and veil the combatants in a dreadful shade, which
is from time to time dispelled by flashes of destructive fire! Such a
succession of horrors daunted even the most brave; scarcely could the
troops of Lebanon, who had been prepared to expect some extraordinary
interposition, maintain their post, or behold the spectacle of their
enemy's ruin; but the bands of Tigranes were struck with the wildest
consternation, and fled with trembling steps over the field. And now
these prodigies were succeeded by an awful interval of quiet; the peals
of bursting thunder were no longer heard, the lightnings ceased to
flash, the mists that darkened the scene were rolled away, and
discovered the various fortunes of the fight, when the voice of Sophron
was heard, exhorting his companions to pursue the fugitives and complete
their victory. They rushed forward like angry lions to the chase, but
all resistance was at an end; and Sophron, who now perceived that the
enemy was irretrievably broken, checked the ardour of his men, and
entreated them to spare the vanquished. They obeyed his voice; and,
after having chased them beyond the utmost boundaries of Lebanon,
returned in triumph amid the praises and acclamations of their joyful
families, whom they had preserved from slavery by their valour. They
then examined the field of battle, and collecting all who had any
remains of life, they treated them with the greatest humanity, binding
up their wounds, and administering to all their necessities.

"Among the thickest dead was found the breathless body of Tigranes,
miserably shattered and disfigured, but still exhibiting evident marks
of passion and ferocity. Sophron could not behold, without compassion,
the friend of his early years, and the companion of his youthful sports.
'Unhappy man,' said he, 'thou hast at length paid the price of thy
ungovernable ambition! How much better would it have been to have tended
thy flocks upon the mountains, than to have blazed an angry meteor, and
set for ever amid the curses of thy country.' He then covered the body
with a military vest, and ordered it to be honourably burned upon a
mighty funeral-pile which was prepared for all the dead.

"The next day an immense quantity of spoil was collected, that had been
abandoned by the troops of Tigranes in their flight. The simple
inhabitants of Lebanon, the greater part of whom had never been beyond
the limits of their mount