[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Operational transformation

ence results in reduced time/space complexities in the algorithm.

OT system structure
OT is a system of multiple components. One established strategy of designing OT systems is to separate the high-level transformation control (or integration) algorithms from the low-level transformation functions.

The transformation control algorithm is concerned with determining:
 Which operation should be transformed against a causally ready new operation
 The order of the transformations
The control algorithm invokes a corresponding set of transformation functions, which determine how to transform one operation against another according to the operation types, positions, and other parameters. The correctness responsibilities of these two layers are formally specified by a set of transformation properties and conditions. Different OT systems with different control algorithms, functions, and communication topologies require maintaining different sets of transformation properties. The separation of an OT system into these two layers allows for the design of generic control algorithms that are applicable to different kinds of application with different data and operation models.

The other alternative approach was proposed in. In their approach, an OT algorithm is correct if it satisfies two formalized correctness criteria:
 Causality preservation
 Admissibility preservation
As long as these two criteria are satisfied, the data replicas converge (with additional constraints) after all operations are executed at all sites. There is no need to enforce a total order of execution for the sake of achieving convergence. Their approach is generally to first identify and prove sufficient conditions for a few transformation functions, and then design a control procedure to ensure those sufficient conditions. This way the control procedure and transformation functions work synergistically to achieve correctness, i.e., causality and admissibility preservation. In their approach, there is no need to satisfy transformation properties such as TP2 because it does not require that the (inclusive) transformation functions work in all possible cases.

OT data and operation models

There exist two underlying models in each OT system: the data model that defines the way data objects in a document are addressed by operations, and the operation model that defines the set of operations that can be directly transformed by OT functions. Different OT systems may have different data and operation models. For example, the data model of the first OT system is a single linear address space; and its operation model consists of two primitive operations: character-wise insert and delete. The basic operation model has been extended to include a third primitive operation update to support collaborative Word document processing and 3D model editing. The basic OT data model has been extended into a hierarchy of multiple linear addressing domains, which is capable of modeling a broad range of documents. A data adaptation process is often required to map application-specific data models to an OT-compliant data model.

There exist two approaches to supporting application level operations in an OT system:
 Generic operation model approach: which is to devise transformation functions for three primitive operations: insert, delete, and update. This approach needs an operation adaptation process to map application operations to these primitive operations. In this approach, the OT operation model is generic, so transformation functions can be reused for different applications.
 Application-specific operation model approach: which is to devise transformation functions for each pair of application operations. For an application with m different operations, m x m transformation functions are needed for supporting this application. In this approach, transformation functions are application-specific and cannot be reused in different applications.

OT functions
Various OT functions have been designed for OT systems with different capabilities and used for different applications. OT functions used in different OT systems may be named differently, but they can be classified into two categories:
 Inclusion transformation (or forward transformation): IT(Oa, Ob) or , which transforms operation Oa against another operation Ob in such a way that the impact of Ob is effectively included. This is, for example, the case of two insertions at different nodes.
 Exclusion transformation (or backward transformation): ET (Oa, Ob) or , which transforms operation Oa against another operation Ob in such a way that the impact of Ob is effectively excluded. This is, for example, the case of an insertion and a deletion at different nodes