[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Evelyn Barker

ome resentment with other officers who had been passed over.

Second World War

France and Belgium
In October 1939, one month after the start of the Second World War, Barker took his brigade to France as part of the British Expeditionary Force (BEF). The 10th Brigade formed part of the 4th Division.

After many months of relative inactivity, called the Phoney War, Germany on 10 May launched its assault on the Western Front. Barker was on leave in England and immediately returned to France. The division advanced to Brussels but, after a strategic reverse in the campaign, was forced to retreat soon afterwards. On 27 May, Barker's brigade was briefly transferred to the 5th Division and fought to hold the Ypres-Comines canal against an assault by three German divisions. The day after, Barker and his brigade were ordered to retreat to Dunkirk. His brigade sustained heavy losses during the campaign, and was evacuated to England on 31 May. The historian Peter Young, then a platoon commander in Barker's brigade, was impressed by Barker during this period and wrote he was "the coolest man you could wish to see under fire. He seemed to like it; indeed I feel sure that he did. He liked to observe his officers and men in times of stress, because it helped to weigh them up. After so many years I am not ashamed to confess that I always felt braver when he was present".

Home front
In England, he retained command of the brigade until 5 October 1940. He then spent the next two months as member of a Transportation Committee, which saw him temporarily reduced to the rank of colonel. He was mentioned in despatches on 26 July, and made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire on 20 August for his services in France and Belgium.

On 11 February 1941, Barker was promoted to the acting rank of major-general and made General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 54th (East Anglian) Infantry Division. During his tenure, Barker trained the division to prepare them to repel a potential German invasion. On 30 April 1943, Barker became GOC of the 49th (West Riding) Infantry Division.

The 49th Division had previously garrisoned Iceland and adopted a polar bear as its insignia. Barker believed the original design looked too timid and had the polar bear redesigned into a more aggressive-looking animal. When Barker became GOC, the division had been selected to join the British Second Army to take part in the Allies' invasion of Normandy. It was initially assigned to be an assault division in the opening of the invasion and as a result Barker had his men undertake amphibious warfare training. On 1 January 1944, Barker was made a Companion of the Order of the Bath. In early 1944, the invasion plan was updated and the 49th Division assigned to a follow-up role rather than being an assault division.

Northwestern Europe
The 49th Division landed in Normandy, as part of Operation Overlord, on 12 June 1944. Barker was confident about the ability of his troops and wrote in his diary on 2 June "I have a first class party to go with − I am satisfied that my chaps are in as good, if not better shape, than any others.... It will be a grim business but what fun when we see the Boche start to crack. After all these years of waiting I wouldn't miss this for anything".

The division's first contact with German forces came near Tilly-sur-Seulles on 16 June. Barker"s division led Operation Martlet, an attack to support a larger offensive codenamed Operation Epsom. The division eventually secured its objective and fended off repeated German counterattacks over four days and inflicted heavy tank losses. Barker's direction of the division during the action impressed his superiors.

The division played a minor role in the rest of the campaign and helped capture Le Havre during Operation Astonia.By the month's end, the division was at Willemstad.

In November, Barker's division was assigned to clear the west bank of the River Maas on the Dutch-German frontier. On 28 November, Barker met Montgomery and Lieutenant-General Miles Dempsey, GOC Second Army. Both had been impressed with Barker's handling of the 49th Division and assigned him to command of the VIII Corps. As part of taking his new command, Barker was promoted to the acting rank of lieutenant-general on 2 December. His first action as Corps GOC was to oversee the Corps role in the final stages of Operation Nutcracker.

VIII Corps saw further action during the final push into Germany between March and May 1945. Barker's corps captured Osnabrück, Minden, Celle, and Lüneburg. It also liberated the survivors of the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp.

After the German capitulation and the end of World War II in Europe, Montgomery appointed Barker to head the Schleswig-Holstein Corps District of the British occupation zone. Barker was knighted as a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire on 5 July 1945. During the entire campaign, Barker was twice mentioned in despatches.