[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Fukushima Daini Nuclear Power Plant

The  is a nuclear power plant located on a  site in the town of Naraha and Tomioka in the Futaba District of Fukushima Prefecture, Japan. The Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) runs the plant.

After the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, the four reactors at Fukushima Daini automatically shut down. While the sister plant Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant, approximately  to the north, suffered extensive damage, the Daini Plant was back under control within two days, reaching cold shutdown. 
The plant has not been operating since, and in July 2019 a decision to decommission the plant was made.

Description
All reactors in the Fukushima II Nuclear Power Plant are BWR-5 type with electric power of 1,100 MW each (net output: 1,067 MW each).

The reactors for units 1 and 3 were supplied by Toshiba, and for units 2 and 4 by Hitachi.  Units 1–3 were built by Kajima while the unit 4 was built by Shimizu and Takenaka.

Electrical connections
The Fukushima Daini plant is connected to the rest of the power grid by the Tomioka Line () to the Shin-Fukushima (New Fukushima)
substation.

Events

1989 incident
In January 1989, an impeller blade on one of the reactor coolant pumps in Unit 3 broke at a weld, causing a large amount of metal debris to flow throughout the primary loop. As a result, the reactor was shut down for a considerable length of time.

2011 earthquake and tsunami

The March 11, 2011 Tōhoku earthquake resulted in maximum horizontal ground accelerations of 0.21 g (2.10 m/s2) to 0.28 (2.77 m/s2) at the plant site, which is well below the design basis. 
The design basis accident for an earthquake was between 0.42 g (4.15 m/s2) and 0.52 g (5.12 m/s2) and for a tsunami was 5.2 m.
All four units were automatically shut down immediately after the earthquake, and the diesel engines were started to power the reactor cooling. 
A worker died of injuries from the earthquake when he was trapped in the crane operating console of the exhaust stack.

The tsunami that followed the earthquake and inundated the plant was initially estimated by TEPCO to be 14 meters high, which would have been more than twice the designed height.
Other sources give the tsunami height at Fukushima Daini plant at 9-meter-high, while the Fukushima Daiichi plant was hit by a 13-meter-high tsunami.
The tsunami caused the plant's seawater pumps, used to cool reactors, to fail. 
Of the plant's four reactors, three were in danger of meltdown. 
One external high-voltage power line still functioned, allowing plant staff in the central control room to monitor data on internal reactor temperatures and water levels. 
2,000 employees of the plant worked to stabilize the reactors. 
Some employees connected over 9 kilometers of cabling using 200-meter sections of cable, each weighing more than a ton, from their Rad Waste Building to other locations onsite.

The steam-powered reactor core isolation cooling system (RCIC) in all 4 units was activated and ran as needed to maintain water level. 
At the same time, operators utilized the safety relief valve systems to keep the reactor pressures from getting too high by dumping the heat to the suppression pools. 
In unit 3, one seawater pump remained operational and the residual heat removal system (RHR) was started to cool the suppression pool and later brought the reactor to cold shutdown on March 12. 
In units 1, 2, and 4 heat removal was unavailable, so the suppression pools began heating up and on March 12, the water temperature in the pools of units 1, 2, and 4 reached 100 °C between 05:30 and 06:10 JST, removing the ability to remove pressure from the reactor and drywell.

Operators had to also prepare an alternate injection line for each unit, as the RCIC can run indefinitely only while there is sufficient pressure and steam in the reactor to drive its turbine. 
Once the reactor pressure drops below a certain level, the RCIC shuts down automatically. 
The normal electrically driven Emergency Core Cooling Systems (ECCS) were for the most part unavailable due to the loss of the ultimate heat sink and damage to some of the electrical infrastructure. 
Operators prepared for this and set up an alternate injection line using a non-emergency system known as the Makeup Water Condensate (MUWC) system to maintain water level which was an accident mitigation method TEPCO put in place at all its nuclear plants.
The system was started and stopped in all 4 units, including unit 3, as needed to maintain the water level. 
The RCICs in each unit later shut down due to low reactor pressure. 
The MUWC and the makeup water purification and filtering (MUPF) systems were also used to try to cool the suppression pool and drywell in addition to the reactor to prevent the drywell pressure from getting too high. 
Operators were later able to restore the High Pressure Core Spray portion of the ECCS in unit 4 and switched emergency water injection for unit 4 from the MUWC system to the HPCS.