[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Levinia Brown

ergency medical evacuation were considerably expensive. She stated that she would like to see proportional Inuit representation in government in the future (85% vs. the current 50%).

In 2020, Brown was appointed a member of the National Centre for Truth and Reconciliation's (NCTR) Governing Circle.

Personal life 
Brown was delivered by her father in 1947 at Dawson Inlet, south of Whale Cove, Nunavut, since "there were no nurses, doctors, or government services in that area." As a child, she celebrated Christmas with gifts from relatives, southern made or Inuit clothing (often kamiks from Inuit relatives), and would attend mass at the local mission church, joined by others who traveled there by dog sled from local camps. After the church's dinner, they participated in "games and races outdoors, with coveted prizes including big 10-pound bags of flour and sugar, packaged in white-and-red or burlap bags" that would be repurposed as household items such as tea towels after they were emptied.

Brown attended the Sir Joseph Bernier federal school Chesterfield Inlet as a day student and was not allowed to speak Inuktitut. She also attended school in Churchill, Manitoba, before working as Rankin Inlet's first teaching aid and then graduating from The Pas's St. Anthony Hospital in as a Certified Nursing Assistant and working as one in several territories.

In 1978, Brown became certified as a Northwest Territories Classroom Assistant and played an important role in creating an Eastern Arctic Teacher Education Program in Iqaluit. Two years later, she became the first chair of the Keewatin Regional Education Authority. At some point before she became the first female mayor of Rankin Inlet, she also chaired the local housing authority, worked as an information officer, and served as deputy mayor.

Brown is married to Ron Brown and has 10 children, 3 of whom are custom adopted.

External links
Levinia Brown at the Legislative Assembly of Nunavut

References 

1947 births
Living people
Inuit politicians
Members of the Legislative Assembly of Nunavut
21st-century Canadian politicians
Mayors of places in Nunavut
Women mayors of places in Nunavut
Women MLAs in Nunavut
21st-century Canadian women politicians
Deputy premiers of Nunavut
People from Rankin Inlet
Canadian Inuit women
Women government ministers of Canada
Members of the Executive Council of Nunavut
Inuit from the Northwest Territories
Inuit from Nunavut