[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Spy Who Came In from the Cold (film)

o testify at the tribunal and unwittingly reveals that she has been receiving payments from a British intelligence officer as Leamas had arranged. Faced with this testimony, Leamas reluctantly admits that he is indeed a British agent. Mundt is vindicated, and Fiedler is arrested as a complicit dupe.

Leamas initially believes he has failed in his mission and fears severe retribution from Mundt. However, in the middle of the night, Mundt releases Leamas and Nan from their cells and provides an escape plan for them both. Mundt explains that Leamas' real mission has succeeded; Mundt actually is a British agent, and Fiedler had been the target of the operation all along, as he had grown too suspicious of his supervisor. This comes as a shock to Leamas, and the complex web he has been drawn into and the risk he has been placed in by his own superiors become painfully clear. He explains the entire plot to still-idealistic Nan as they drive their borrowed car toward the border. She berates him for being involved in what amounts to the murder of Fiedler, who was only doing his job. Leamas, agitated by her naiveté, erupts in an angry, self-loathing confession:
What the hell do you think spies are? Moral philosophers measuring everything they do against the word of God or Karl Marx? They're not. They're just a bunch of seedy squalid bastards like me, little men, drunkards, queers, henpecked husbands, civil servants playing "Cowboys and Indians" to brighten their rotten little lives. Do you think they sit like monks in a cell, balancing right against wrong? Yesterday I would have killed Mundt because I thought him evil and an enemy. But not today. Today he is evil and my friend.

Leamas and Nan arrive at the Berlin Wall and are given instructions to climb over to West Germany on an emergency ladder while a searchlight is intentionally turned away. Leamas is at the top of the wall pulling Nan up behind him when the searchlight suddenly shines directly on them, alarms sound, and Nan is shot dead by Mundt's operatives, silencing the only civilian witness to the operation. Leamas freezes in shock and horror, and is urged by agents on both sides to return to the West. Instead, he begins to climb down towards Nan's body on the eastern side of the wall, where he is also shot and killed.

Cast

Production
The film closely follows the plot of the original source text. One exception is that the name of the principal female character in the novel, Liz Gold, is changed to Nan Perry in the film, reputedly because the producers were worried about the potential confusion in the media with Burton's wife, Elizabeth Taylor.

Le Carré favored Trevor Howard for the role of Leamas, but he was rejected for not being enough of a box office draw; Burt Lancaster was also considered, but was rejected for not being able to put on a convincing British accent. Richard Burton, the eventual choice of the producers, butted heads with director Martin Ritt during the course of the production. The atmosphere on set was also tense from both the presence of Burton's wife, Elizabeth Taylor, as well as the romantic history between co-stars Burton and Bloom. 

The script was written by Paul Dehn, who had worked with le Carré in the Special Operations Executive as an assassin during World War II. Burton demanded that le Carré rewrite his dialogue on the set, though the effect of his changes were limited.

Ardmore Studios in Ireland and England's Shepperton Studios were used for the shooting of interior scenes, though Dublin was predominantly used for external German scenes. Smithfield, Dublin was used as the location for the Berlin checkpoint.

Reception
The Spy Who Came In from the Cold took in $7,600,000 at the box office.