[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Family in the Soviet Union

rural household to a modern, urban family of two adults and two children attests to the great changes that Soviet society had undergone since 1917. That transformation did not produce the originally envisioned egalitarianism, but it has forever changed the nature of what was once the Russian Empire.

Diet and nutrition of the Soviet family 
The history of the Soviet Union diet prior to World War II encompasses different periods that have varying influences on food production and availability. Periods of low crop yields, and restrictive distribution of food in the early 1920s, and again in the early 1930s brought about great famine and suffering in the Soviet Union. Farming was one of the main efforts for food production, and was at the center of development in support of Soviet communism. When crops failed or suffered from low yields, Soviet peasants suffered greatly from malnutrition.
The traditional types of food found in the Soviet Union were made up of various grains for breads and pastries, dairy products such as cheese and yogurt, and various meats such as pork, fish, beef and chicken. By 1940, certain products, such as vegetables, meat and grains, were less abundant than other forms of food due to the strain on resources and poor crop yields. Bread and potatoes were very important staples for Soviet families, both in cities and in the countryside. Potatoes were easily grown and harvested in many different environments, and were usually reliable as a food source. Malnutrition was a prominent factor in poor health conditions and individual growth during this period in the Soviet Union. 
Much like the Western tradition of three main meals a day, the Soviet meals consisted of breakfast (zavtrak), lunch (obed), and dinner (uzhin). Soups and broths made of meats and vegetables when available, were common meals for the Soviet peasant family.

See also 
 Demographics of the Soviet Union
 New Economic Policy
 New Soviet man
 Order of Maternal Glory
 Orphans in the Soviet Union
 Tax on childlessness

References

Citations

Notes

Bibliography

 Clements, B., & Lanning, R. (1999). Bolshevik women. Science and Society, 63(1), 127–129.
 Wieczynski, J. (1998). Bolshevik Women. History: Reviews of New Books, 26(4), 191–192.
 Marx K, Engels F, Isaac J, Lukes S. The Communist Manifesto. New Haven: Yale University Press; 2012.
 Goldman W. Women, The State, And Revolution. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press; 2004.
 Quigley J. The 1926 Soviet Family Code: Retreat from Free Love. The Soviet and Post-Soviet Review. 1979;6(1):166–174. doi:10.1163/187633279x00103.
 Mccauley, Martin. Stalin and Stalinism: Revised 3rd Edition (Seminar Studies) (Kindle Locations 2475–2479). Taylor and Francis. Kindle Edition.
 Nakachi, Mie. (2021). Replacing the Dead: The Politics of Reproduction in the Postwar Soviet Union. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Natalism
Soviet Union
Society of the Soviet Union
Demographics of the Soviet Union