[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# German occupation of the Channel Islands

which appears on her album The Sea Cabinet, singer-songwriter Gwyneth Herbert tells the story of the sudden evacuation of the inhabitants of Alderney when the war broke out. She sings about the irrevocable changes introduced during the Nazi occupation of the island and their effect on the islanders.

Video games
 Occupied Guernsey appears in Mission 5 of Sniper Elite 5. Aptly named Festung Guernsey. Where the protagonist Karl Fairburne is tasked with infiltrating the Island to destroy the fictional Project Kraken Prototype: a Stealth equipped U-boat. At some point in the mission, Fairburne is also tasked with destroying Batterie Mirus after he hears it firing in the distance.

Television and film 
 Several documentaries have been made about the occupation, mixing interviews with participants, both islanders and soldiers, archive footage, photos and manuscripts and modern day filming around the extensive fortifications still in place. These films include:
 In Toni's Footsteps: The Channel Island Occupation Remembered (2002) – 52min documentary tracing the history of the Occupation following the discovery of a notebook in an attic in Guernsey belonging to a German soldier named Toni Kumpel.
 Lover Other, a 2006 documentary about artist Claude Cahun, directed by Barbara Hammer, features the occupation prominently, as Cahun lived in Jersey at the time.
 There have also been television and film dramas set in the occupied islands:
 Appointment with Venus, a 1951 film set on the fictional island of Armorel (based on the island of Sark).
 Triple Cross (1966) has a passage set in Jersey in the period shortly after the German occupation commences.
 The Blockhouse, a film starring Peter Sellers and Charles Aznavour, set in occupied France, was filmed in a German bunker and on L'Ancresse common in Guernsey in 1973.
 The Eagle Has Landed (1976), directed by John Sturges, had a passage set in Alderney where Radl (Robert Duvall) meets Steiner (Michael Caine).
 ITV's Enemy at the Door, set in Guernsey and shown between 1978 and 1980
 A&E's Night of the Fox (1990), set in Jersey shortly before D-Day in 1944.
 The 2001 film The Others starring Nicole Kidman was set in Jersey in 1945 just after the end of the occupation.
 ITV's Island at War (2004), a drama set in the fictional Channel Island of St Gregory. It was shown by US TV network PBS as part of its Masterpiece Theatre series in 2005.
 Another Mother's Son, a 2017 film about Louisa Gould, hiding a Russian war prisoner, starring Jenny Seagrove as Louisa Gould and Ronan Keating as Harold Le Druillenec.
 The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society (2018) film of the novel set in 1946, composed of letters written from one character to another.

Plays 
 A stage play, Dame of Sark, by William Douglas-Home, is set in Sark during the German occupation, and is based on the Dame's diaries of this period. It was televised by Anglia Television in 1976, and starred Celia Johnson. It was directed by Alvin Rakoff and adapted for the small screen by David Butler.
 Another stage play, Lotty's War by Giuliano Crispini, is set in the islands during the occupation, with the story based on "unpublished diaries".

Novels

The following novels have been set in the German-occupied islands:
 Tickell, Jerrard (1951), Appointment with Venus, London: Hodder & Stoughton, set on the fictitious island of Armorel, based on Alderney
 Higgins, Jack (1970), A Game for Heroes, New York: Berkley, 
 Robinson, Derek (1977), Kramer's War, London: Hamilton, 
 Trease, Geoffrey (1987), Tomorrow Is a Stranger (London: Mammoth, ) set during the occupation of Guernsey.
 Edwards, G. B. (1981), The Book of Ebenezer Le Page (London: Hamish Hamilton, ) includes the occupation of Guernsey.
 Parkin, Lance (1996), Just War, New Doctor Who adventures series, Doctor Who Books, 
 Binding, Tim (1999), Island Madness, London: Picador, 
 Link, Charlotte (2000), Die Rosenzüchterin [The Rose Breeder], condensed ed., Köln: BMG-Wort, 
 Walters, Guy (2005), The Occupation, London: Headline, 
 Shaffer, Mary Ann and Barrows, Annie (2008), The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society, New York: The Dial Press, 
 Cone, Libby (2009), War on the Margins, London: Duckworth, 
 Andrews, Dina (2011), Tears in the Sand, Trafford, 
 Horlock, Mary (2011), The Book of Lies, Canongate, 
 Lea, Caroline (2016), When The Sky Fell Apart, Text Publishing Company, 
 Hanley, John F (2012), Against The Tide, Matador, 
 Hanley, John F (2013), The Last Boat, Matador, 
 Hanley, John F (2015), Diamonds For The Wolf, Amazon,

Journal
 Bachmann, K M (1972), The Prey of an Eagle, Guernsey: Burbridge. A personal record of family life during the German Occupation of Guernsey, 1940–1945.

See also