[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# NetKar Pro

Improved collision handling and sturdier cars.
Many usability improvements, minor bug fixes, and some optimizations.

Version 1.3
On December 10, 2010, it was revealed that some of the announced planned developments would be released as netKar Pro v.1.3 on Christmas 2010. This update would contain:

 A hill climb track (Trento-Bondone) and a new specific car, the Osella PA-21, which have been the object of much speculation since early 2007, was finally released to the public. Preview versions of this content have been around for a long time in the form of the Marangoni Simulator (which has been recently pulled off the tire manufacturer's site). This update was slated for release after 1.0.3 and subsequently delayed when 1.1 was announced.
 A new car, the Shelby Daytona that was initially spotted on Marco Massarutto's YouTube channel and subsequently announced in the same way.
 Support for rain, with puddles forming on the road

However, it was only on February 12, 2011, that a new Beta 1.3 release saw the light of the day. As of February 2011, v1.3 still hasn't been released.

Planned developments
Kunos has been quiet about further developments. Stefano Casillo, the game's main developer, confirmed the team was committed to continuing development of the 1.x branch to avoid disappointing existing customers, while at the same time pointing out the shortcomings of the technology in the current netKar Pro, which would make it very hard to add new features.

References

External links
  Official site

2006 video games
Racing simulators
Racing video games
Windows games
Video games developed in Italy
Video games set in Australia
Video games set in Brazil
Video games set in Canada
Video games set in the Czech Republic
Video games set in Finland
Video games set in France
Video games set in Germany
Video games set in Italy
Video games set in Japan
Video games set in Monaco
Video games set in Singapore
Video games set in Spain
Video games set in Sweden
Video games set in the United Kingdom
Video games set in the United States
Kunos Simulazioni games