[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John Miller Srodes

John Miller Srodes (July 17, 1809 – September 30, 1882) was a Union Army officer during the American Civil War. Serving in the Mississippi Marine Brigade, he captained the  of the Mississippi Marine Brigade from April 28, 1862 to July 16, 1862 and played an important role in the Battle of Memphis.

Early life
John Miller Srodes was born on Grant's Hill in Pittsburgh, Allegheny County, Pennsylvania on July 17, 1809. A story from his childhood says that he got angry at his brothers one day and ran away. He was captured by Indians, and his brothers could not find him. He pretended to like the Indians in order to escape. In reality, it seems that he enjoyed living with the Indians since he stayed with them for two or three years. He did finally return home, however, when an opportunity arose to do so. His granddaughter Lida Olive Bickerstaff remembers him telling her stories about when he lived with the Indians and teaching her their language, life, and customs.

Srodes experience living with the Indians probably shaped his life in the following two areas. First, it probably shaped his attitude towards those of other races. Many years later, when his granddaughter Lida saw a "colored" person for the first time, she ran away into the house. But Srodes went inside, picked her up, took her outside, and had her talk with the man. His long journey overland from the Indians to his home also may have set the stage for future journeys he would take. Three times Srodes walked from New Orleans to Pittsburgh after having arrived in New Orleans on a flatboat.

Military career

Srodes was a ship captain who piloted boats from Pittsburgh to Cairo, Illinois and Memphis, Tennessee. He served his country as a captain in the Mexican War under General Zachary Taylor and fought in several battles on Taylor's drive to Mexico City. In the Civil War, John served as captain of the Ram Lioness of the Mississippi Marine Brigade from April 28 to July 16, 1862, when he was discharged.

The Lioness was part of the Ram Fleet under the command of Colonel Charles Ellet, Jr. The Ram Fleet was a fleet of nine steam-powered rams that played a role in winning domination of the Mississippi River by the Union. Ellet's nine rams were converted steam ships fitted with a reinforced prow. Unarmed, the ships were designed simply to ram into the side of enemy ships and sink them. Rams were an old idea that was revived after the development of steam propulsion. Ellet initially tried to convince the Navy to let him develop a ram fleet, but he was rejected. So he took his idea directly to Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton, who gave Ellet permission to build and command the fleet.

Ellet personally led the fleet in the Battle of Memphis on June 6, 1862. After handily defeating the Confederate flotilla, Ellet noticed a white flag flying over Memphis. Having been wounded, Ellet sent his son, Medical Cadet Charles Rivers Ellet, to attend to the surrender of the city. Charles Rivers Ellet was escorted to shore by Srodes aboard the Lioness, which was the last ram to arrive on the scene because it was hauling coal for the fleet. Charles Rivers Ellet, who had joined the fleet just five days earlier on his nineteenth birthday, took a rowboat ashore along with three other Union soldiers and demanded the surrender of the city from Mayor John Park. Since the Confederate army had already left, the mayor was powerless to surrender and the Union army was not ready to occupy Memphis. Ellet, however, demanded that they be permitted to hoist the American flag over the post office as a symbol of the fall of Memphis. The mayor advised them against doing so, saying that he could not ensure their safety. Ellet, however, did not listen to the mayor and convinced the mayor to escort his party of four to the post office. When they arrived at the post office, several civilians escorted Ellet and one other to the fourth floor, and they created a makeshift flag stand to fly the Union flag. As they admired their work, someone closed the trapdoor and stranded them on the roof. The people of the city, noticing the Union flag, began to yell and fire shots at the men of the roof.