[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# Human rights in Israel

arfur region.

In 2006, the UN General Assembly voted to replace UNCHR with the UN Human Rights Council. In 2011, Richard Goldstone publicly regretted appointing the UN Human Rights Council to investigate for the Goldstone Report, saying that their "history of bias against Israel cannot be doubted."

In December 2006, Kofi Annan, former UN Secretary-General, accused the members of the Human Rights Council at that time of "double standard", and of holding Israel to a standard of behaviour that they are unwilling to apply to other states, to Israel's adversaries, or to themselves. He said that the repeated resolutions and conferences of the General Assembly that condemn Israel's behaviour just strengthen the belief in Israel, and among many of its supporters, that the UN is too one-sided.

In April 2012, the UN released an official statement in which Israel was listed as a country that is restricting the activities of human rights organisations. Israel, the only democratic country to be named on the list, was included because of a bill approved by the Ministerial Committee on Legislation that would restrict foreign governmental funding of Israeli non-profit groups. The bill was frozen by the Prime Minister and never reached the Knesset, but the statement said: "In Israel, the recently adopted Foreign Funding Law could have a major impact on human rights organizations".

During his visit in Jerusalem in 2013, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon confirmed that there was a biased attitude towards the Israeli people and Israeli government, stressing that it was "an unfortunate situation". He added that Israel has been criticized and sometimes discriminated against because of the Mideast conflict.

Richard Falk, who was the UNHRC's special investigator of "Israel's violations of the bases and principles of international law", has been criticised by UN Watch for "pro-Hamas appeasement", anti-Western invective, support for 9/11 conspiracy theorists and demonization of Israel.

William Schabas, a Canadian international law expert, was the head of a UN committee investigating the Israeli role in the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict. Schabas was often accused of anti-Israeli positions. In February 2015, Schabas acknowledged that he was paid for previous work for the Palestine Liberation Organization in 2012, and that he had not declared this when he applied for the role. This behavior has been seen by Israelis as "clear and documented bias" against Israel. In 2015, Schabas resigned his post, saying he didn't want the issue to overshadow the work of the inquiry.

Ron Prosor, Israel's representative to the United Nations, claimed in General Assembly debate on the Question of Palestine, November 2014, that the UN is illogical and tends to lack of sense of justice when it comes to the case of Israel. He claimed that the UN's focus was solely on Israel, ignoring the thousands murdered and expelled in the Middle East under the tyranny of Radical Islam, and that the Arab–Israeli conflict was never about the establishment of a Palestinian state but the existence of the Jewish state. He also claimed that the UN is not for peace or the Palestinian people but simply against Israel, and pointed out that if the UN really cared about the situation of the Palestinians, they would have taken at least one decision regarding the situation of the Palestinians in Syria and Lebanon, where Palestinians are being persecuted and systematically discriminated against.

Amnesty International 

Amnesty International (AI) has been accused by the American Jewish Congress and NGO Monitor of having a double standard with its assessment of Israel. Professor Alan Dershowitz, an American legal scholar and columnist for the Huffington Post, has attacked Amnesty International's perceived bias against Israel, claiming that AI absolves Palestinian men of responsibility for domestic violence and places the blame on Israel instead and that it illegitimately characterises legal acts of Israeli self-defence as war-crimes. Dershowitz has joined NGO Monitor's calls for an independent evaluation of anti-Israeli bias within the organisation.