[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# E-participation

e unable to afford access to these technologies. Consequently, the digital divide impedes and restricts the ability of certain groups to express their views, excluding them from participation, and ultimately contradicting the intended purpose of e-participation.

European E-participation Initiatives

European E-participation Preparatory Actions 
The E-participation Preparatory Actions were implemented from 2006 to 2008 to enhance citizens' participation in the legislative process through online tools. Initiated by the EU on January 1, 2007, these actions consisted of interconnected projects designed to boost citizens' awareness and engagement in the legislative process, from the initial drafting to regional and local implementation.

Each project was targeted at enhancing the transparency, understandability, and accessibility of legislative language and procedures for citizens. Additionally, they focused on improving the communication of legislation to augment citizens' participation and contribution in formulating and implementing laws.

To date, 21 projects have been initiated and financially supported. These projects actively involve the European Parliament, national parliaments, and local and regional authorities. Cutting-edge ICT tools are utilized to streamline the creation of legal texts, including translation into various languages and drafting of amendments, while making these texts more accessible and comprehensible to non-experts. Innovative digital technologies are also employed to provide citizens with easier access to information and greater opportunities to impact decisions that shape their lives. A MOMENTUM white paper report by  presents important data and results from these projects, offering preliminary policy suggestions for future application.

European eParticipation Initiatives 
The European Commission has initiated several actions aimed at enhancing the support for eParticipation.

These include:

 FP7 : ICT Challenge 7 : Objective ICT-2009.7.3 ICT for Governance and Policy Modelling. The Commission has issued calls in this area to fund research. Currently, the Integrated Program Future Policy Modelling (FUPOL) is the most extensive project in this field. FUPOL
 The ICT Policy Support Programme (or ICT PSP) under the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework (CIP). The European project has announced a call in the CIP program on Theme 3: ICT for government and governance.

See also

Collaborative e-democracy
Direct democracy
E-democracy
eGovernment
Electronic civil disobedience
eRulemaking
Emergent democracy
Hacktivism
Internet activism
Online consultation
Online deliberation
Online participation
Online petition
Open politics
Open source governance
Parliamentary informatics
Participatory democracy
Radical transparency
Second Superpower
Smart mob
Spatial Citizenship
Social translucence
Virtual volunteering

YoDono

Notes

References

Huffman, B. (2017). "E-Participation in the Philippines: A Capabilities Approach to Socially Inclusive Governance". JeDEM - eJournal of EDemocracy and Open Government. 9 (2): 24–46. doi:10.29379/jedem.v9i2.461. ISSN 2075-9517.

External links
Democracies Online Newswire

Organizations

International
World e-Gov Forum
Detailed list of participatory governance projects
E-participation Country Index - Provides an index on E-participation
ICEGOV - International Conference on Electronic Governance
Internet Society - Organization home for the groups responsible for Internet infrastructure standards, including the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and the Internet Architecture Board (IAB).
International Teledemocracy Centre, Napier University, Edinburgh

Europe
FUPOL: Future Policy Modelling project
MOMENTUM: The European Commission Support Action in eParticipation
PEP-NET: Pan European eParticipation Network
European eParticipation Portal
TID+: The software suite developed for the Estonian public participation portal, also used by the Slovenian government

E-democracy
Democracy
Collective intelligence
Active citizenship