[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of retronyms

lly available, the term "computer", in use from the mid-17th century, meant "one who computes": a person performing mathematical calculations. Teams of people were frequently used to undertake long and often tedious calculations; the work was sometimes divided so that this could be done in parallel.

I–L
 Indoor volleyball : Used to differentiate from beach volleyball after the latter gained prominence.
 Independent bookstore : All bookstores were independent until the advent of bookstore chains.
 Inground pool : A swimming pool where the filled high water level is flush with the ground; compared to above an "above ground pool" where the entire pool is above ground level
 id Tech 1 engine : A name applied to the Doom engine. Later game engines by id Software used the "id Tech" nomenclature, beginning with id Tech 4.
 iBook G3 : Originally sold as the iBook, these machines were renamed the iBook G3 after the release of the iBook G4.
 iBook Clamshell : Originally sold as the iBook, the machine was nicknamed the Clamshell after Apple released the iBook G3 Snow.
 iBook G3 Snow : Just like its predecessor, the machine was originally sold as the iBook before being nicknamed the iMac G3 Snow by Apple so the name could be used on the iBook G4.
 iMac iMac G3 : Originally sold as the iMac, the machine was renamed the iMac G3 by Apple so the name could be used on the iMac G4.
 iMac G4 : Just like its predecessor, the machine was originally sold as the iMac before being renamed the iMac G4 by Apple so the name could be used on the iMac G5.
 iMac G5 : Just like its predecessors, the machine was originally sold as the iMac before being renamed the iMac G5 by Apple so the name could be used on the Intel-based iMac.
 iPhone 2G : Used to differentiate the original 2007 model of the iPhone from its later models.
 King's Quest: Quest for the Crown : The 1983 game was originally titled King's Quest until the fifth rerelease in 1987 when the subtitle was added to the box art, instructions, and all other materials. This was done to prevent confusion with the sequels which were already on the market.
 Landline phone service : With the advent of cellular or mobile phone services, traditional hard-wired phone service became popularly known as landline phones.  Previously, this term was generally only used by military personnel and amateur radio operators. (In the movie The Matrix a landline phone was also referred to as a "hardline".) Even though a considerable amount of landline phone traffic is transmitted via airwaves, this term comes from the physical cabling that provides the "last mile" connection between the customer premises and local phone distribution centers.  Because of the communications industry's love for acronyms, landline phone service has also been called POTS—Plain Old Telephone Service. The logical complement of this acronym, "PANS" became a backronym for "Pretty Amazing New Services".  In the telecommunications industry the term wireline is used for landline phone services, to distinguish them from wireless or mobile phone services. Wireline is clearly another retronym.
 Lead-acid car battery : Before other battery chemical substances such as Ni-MH and Li-Ion were employed in hybrid and electric vehicles (although some current hybrid cars used lead-acid and some high-end conventional gasoline vehicles use Li-ion), lead-acid batteries were the only batteries for automobiles on the market; and they were also the only rechargeable ones on the market.
 LED mouse : Before laser mice came along, all optical mice employed LEDs.
 Led Zeppelin I : Led Zeppelin's first album was the self-titled Led Zeppelin; it is sometimes called Led Zeppelin I because their subsequent albums were called Led Zeppelin II and Led Zeppelin III.
 Linear momentum : Before the concept of angular momentum was developed, the only type of momentum known was linear.
 Linear television : Before the rise of video on demand, video hosting services, streaming media, and digital video recorders, the only way to consume television was through watching television channels, on broadcast, cable or satellite, which showed a combination of both live and recorded programming at designated times. Lithium primary battery : Batteries involving lithium were all primary cells (disposable) before rechargeable lithium-based batteries such as lithium ion batteries (later lithium polymer battery) hit the market.Live action : A form of a film that consists of images consisting of predominantly actual actors and objects that exist in the actual world, as opposed to an animated film, which predominantly consists of artificial static images or objects that take advantage of the persistence of vision principle of film to give an illusion of life.
 Live poker : What casinos call the kind of poker played with cards by people sitting at a table; what many others still just call "poker"; also called a "ring game" or "cash game". The term became necessary to distinguish it fro