[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Glenn Greenwald

city generally recognizes". On April 14, the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service was awarded jointly to The Guardian and The Washington Post for revelation of widespread secret surveillance by the NSA. Greenwald, along with Laura Poitras and Ewen MacAskill, had contributed to The Guardian′s reporting.

In 2014, Sean Wilentz wrote in The New Republic, that some of Greenwald's opinions were where the far-left and far-right meet, characterizing his views as falling "often, but not always under the rubric of libertarianism." In a 2017 article in The Independent, Brian Dean wrote: "Greenwald has been critical of Trump, but is perceived by many as someone who spends far more time criticising 'Dems' and 'liberals' (analysis of his Twitter account tends to give this impression)." Simon van Zuylen-Wood in a 2018 piece for New York magazine entitled "Does Glenn Greenwald Know More Than Robert Mueller?" described "a new-seeming category of Russia-skeptic firebrands sometimes called the alt-left." In February 2019, Max Boot wrote in The Washington Post: "Indeed, it's often hard to tell the extremists apart. Anti-vaccine activists come from both the far left and the far right — and while most of those who defend President Trump's dealings with Russia are on the right, some, such as Glenn Greenwald and Stephen F. Cohen, are on the left." In a May 2019 Haaretz article, Alexander Reid Ross described Tucker Carlson's and Glenn Greenwald's positions as being a "crossover between leftists and the far-right in defense of Syria's Bashar Assad, to dismiss charges of Russian interference in U.S. elections and to boost Russian geopolitics".

Personal life 
In 2005, the then 38-year-old Greenwald took a long vacation to Rio de Janeiro where he met David Miranda, a then 19-year-old who had spent his childhood in the Jacarezinho Favela. Days after they met, the couple decided to move in together; the two would later marry. Miranda later served as a Congressman with the left-wing PDT party, having formerly represented the PSOL party. The couple lived in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. In 2017, Greenwald and Miranda announced that they had gained legal guardianship of two brothers, who are from Maceió, a city in Northeastern Brazil. They formally adopted the two boys in Brazil in 2018.

Greenwald and Miranda were close personal friends of Brazilian human rights advocate and politician Marielle Franco, known for criticism of police tactics and corruption, who was fatally shot by unknown assailants. A New York Times profile described how Greenwald's reporting on high-level Bolsonaro officials and Miranda's outspoken opposition in Congress turned them into primary targets of Bolsonaro's administration.

While Greenwald does not participate in any organized religion, he has said he believes in "the spiritual and mystical part of the world" and that yoga is "like a bridge into that, like a window into it." Greenwald has been critical of the New Atheist movement, in particular, Sam Harris and other critics of Islam.

On May 9, 2023, Greenwald announced via Twitter that Miranda had died in a Rio de Janeiro hospital. Miranda had been treated for nine months in the hospital's ICU for a gastrointestinal infection.

Recognition 

Greenwald received, together with Amy Goodman, the first Izzy Award for special achievement in independent media, in 2009, and the 2010 Online Journalism Award for Best Commentary for his investigative work on the conditions of Chelsea Manning.

His reporting on the National Security Agency (NSA) won numerous other awards around the world, including top investigative journalism prizes from the George Polk Award for National Security Reporting, the 2013 Online Journalism Awards, the Esso Award for Excellence in Reporting in Brazil for his articles in O Globo on NSA mass surveillance of Brazilians (becoming the first foreigner to win the award), the 2013 Libertad de Expresion Internacional award from Argentinian magazine Perfil, and the 2013 Pioneer Award from the Electronic Frontier Foundation. The team that Greenwald led at The Guardian was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service for their reporting on the NSA. Foreign Policy Magazine then named him one of the top 100 Global Thinkers of 2013.

In 2014, Greenwald received the Geschwister-Scholl-Preis, an annual German literary award, for the German edition of No Place to Hide. Greenwald was also named the 2014 recipient of the McGill Medal for Journalistic Courage from the Grady College of Journalism and Mass Communication of the University of Georgia.