[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Mount Meager massif

en again?" Was the explosive eruption of Meager Mountain the last gasp of the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt or only the most recent event in its on-going life? The short answer is nobody really knows for sure. So just in case I sometimes do a quick check of the old hot-spots when I get off the Peak Chair.

Because of concerns about potential eruptions and danger to communities in the area, the  plans to create hazard maps and emergency plans for the Mount Meager massif as well as Mount Cayley to the south. Although very few eruptions in Canada have been witnessed by people, it remains nonetheless an area of intense volcanic activity. According to the Geologic Hazards '91 Workshop, "priority should be given to eruption impact studies of the two recently active volcanic centres closest to urban areas, Mount Baker and Mount Meager. The former case will require a combined US-Canada-Washington State-B.C. effort".

The Mount Meager massif is not monitored closely enough by the  to ascertain how active its magma system is. The Canadian National Seismograph Network has been established to monitor earthquakes throughout Canada, but it is too far away to provide an accurate indication of activity under the mountain. It may sense an increase in seismic activity if the massif becomes highly restless, but this may only provide a warning for a large eruption; the system might detect activity only once the volcano has started erupting. If the Mount Meager massif were to erupt, mechanisms exist to orchestrate relief efforts. The Interagency Volcanic Event Notification Plan (IVENP) was created to outline the notification procedure of some of the main agencies that would respond to an erupting volcano in Canada, an eruption close to the Canada–United States border or any eruption that would affect Canada.

Although the Mount Meager massif is a potentially active volcano, as of 2016 there was no evidence of an imminent eruption. Many shallow earthquakes normally occur before a volcano erupts. As magma rises to the surface over time, it will probably create much more vigour and heat at the regional hot springs, as well as the formation of new springs or fumaroles. These signs generally occur for weeks, months or years before a potential eruption, although the possibility of an eruption occurring in the near future remains low. A significant structural collapse associated with loss of glacial buttressing might affect the magma plumbing system and lead to an eruption.

Landslides
Scientists have argued that the Mount Meager massif, made of altered volcanic rock which breaks apart easily, is the most unstable mountain massif in Canada and may also be its most active landslide area. More than 25 landslides have occurred there in the last 8,000 years, and debris flows, mainly from the massif, have also filled Meager Creek valley to a depth of .

Large volcano-associated debris flows known as lahars pose a threat to populated areas downstream from glaciated volcanoes. Although lahars are typically associated with the effects of volcanic eruptions, they can occur whenever conditions allow collapse and movement of mud originating from existing volcanic ash deposits. Melting snow and ice, intense rainfall or the breakout of a summit crater lake can all generate lahars. Landslides at the Mount Meager massif may also be indirectly related to climate change. Several tension cracks extend up to the summit, and as global warming causes glaciers to melt, the meltwater reaches deep into the massif. It then flows along the ruptured surfaces creating landslide zones.

Because the Mount Meager massif is capable of producing large landslides, Meager Creek valley is probably the most dangerous valley in the . Rapidly growing communities down the Lillooet River valley, such as Pemberton, are vulnerable despite their distance from the massif. As Pemberton continues to grow it will eventually extend into the surrounding mountains, creating a major hazard for people living there.

The landslide risk is somewhat mitigated by the Lillooet River Early Warning System which  was established in 2014 to alert the Pemberton Valley of landslides. Monitoring is done by measuring the Lillooet River water level using two sensors: one on the Hurley River Forestry Bridge and the other in the river. Damming of the Lillooet River by a landslide would be indicated by the lowering of the water level while the release of a landslide dam would be followed by water level rise.

Prehistoric

Historic

1975 landslide