[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Haseo

figures based on their popularity.

An AR contest was also held in Japan involving Haseo in 2022. The company Namco Bandai has inserted an AR model of Haseo into the Styly Mobile app. Bandai Namco has been holding contests in Japan to promote the new Nintendo Switch port of .hack//G.U. Last Recode.

Critical response
Critical reception to the character has been mixed. IGN compared his character with multiple anime heroes distinguishiable from darker tone, which led to earnly negative response. However, his growth into a more caring character led to positive response. GamesRadar disliked how Haseo loses most of his powers but still retains his manners when the game begins. The design Haseo uses was generally praised for his unlockable weapons and Avatar. RPGFan and Push Square felt that Haseo's character arc was one of the strongest parts of the narrative because he changes from an antisocial teenager to a friendly heroic PC instead. Yuri Lowenthal's a performance as Haseo was also well received by the media. Francis' and Takahiro Sakurai's performances were viewed positively by Anime News Network.

Writers commented on Haseo's role in other media. For the anime series .hack//roots DVDTalk found Haseo to be an enjoyable protagonist, especially for viewers who have watched previous series. However, the relationship with Shino was criticized as "melodrama" by the same by the same writer, though the scenario might not come off as unrealistic. Because of Haseo's constant quest for power, his screen time during the anime was criticized as weak to the point the reviewer stopped liking it. Following Shino's coma, the media was divided whether Haseo's darker persona was interesting or not. Mania Entertainment found Haseo's skills useless in combat but liked his relationship with the Twilight Brigade as the cast's personalities are explored as the premise focuses on players interacting with each other. 

Critics have also commented on media related to the games. IGNs take on the manga earned it a positive response because Haseo's quest is compelling thanks to player killers being something that does not discourage online gamers. Despite calling him a "ruthless fighter", Carlo Santos of Anime News Network commented that Haseo's wish to save Shino makes him an appealing character.  Manga News felt that Haseo was a more striking character in the manga than in other versions because  his cold personality contrasts with other shonen manga protagonists. However, the reviewer criticized his change into a more traditional hero finding that Haseo loses most of his charisma following Ovan's defeat and that his love triangle with Atoli and Shino is poorly handled. Ben Leary from Mania Entertainment felt the novel version of Haseo more enjoyable due to focus on his mind. Critics have also mentioned Haseo's role in Trilogy. Though finding Haseo unlikable in the CGI film, The Fandom Post and Anime News Network felt Haseo's interactions with Atoli allowed him to mature and become a stronger character in the process.

National Chiao Tung University noted that despite the character's negative mentality, he becomes a tragic hero when Shino falls into a coma and spends nearly his entire appearances working to save her. As he tries to solve anything through brute force, the writer noticed this changes when meeting Atoli and starts maturing as a person which is limited in the Trilogy movie. Nevertheless, Haseo's interactions with Atoli were compared with the idea of society insistes really on playing online video games. While Trilogy revolves mostly around Haseo's anger when dealing with Tri-Edge and achieving revenge, the film makes heavy emphasis on developing a romance between Haseo and an infected Atoli; songs by Tomoyo Mitani that detail the couple when Haseo saves Atoli not by brute force but instead by comforting her.

In a feature article, RPGamer praised the development involving the duo of Haseo and Atoli in the trilogy, noticing their mutual interest is well handled as they are portrayed as realistic teenagers falling in love with each other despite meeting initial out of pure little interest. Capsule Monster also praised Haseo's design for its continuous evolutions in the .hack games as he keeps becoming capable of wielding new types of weapons. The same site positively compared with Kirito from Sword Art Online for coming across as more appealing as a result of his own skills while dealing with guilds as well as coming across with different type of quests related to damsels in distress. In the book The Anime Ecology: A Genealogy of Television, Animation, and Game Media, Haseo and Tsukasa are regarded as negative stereotypes of gamers as both are sometimes featured trapped in the game for several cycles of violence. Famitsu enjoyed Haseo's 5th Form due to his multiple abilities despite losing his original weapons and looked forward to his journey to find the missing Ovan.

References