[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Moshe Sanbar

f term in 1995, the bank had a stable leadership and had seen renewed growth in its organizational structure and in its net profit. This was enhanced by Sanbar's approach in favor of the bank's involvement in venture capital in forming “Teuza” fund, as well as the Israel Growth Fund for investments.

Sanbar also chaired the bank's subsidiaries in London and Switzerland, as well as the bank-owned development company Africa-Israel Group. Throughout, the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the bank reopened its branches in Germany and in 1990 a subsidiary credit company was created in Budapest. At the time Sanbar was involved in deliberations between the Israeli and Soviet chambers of commerce in forming an economic and industrial cooperation agreement. In 1993, Bank Leumi collaborated with Arab Israel Bank and numerous European banking firms in establishing the First International Palestinian Bank, but the effort did not come to fruition after the Cave of the Patriarchs massacre.

Bank Leumi embraced during these years a policy of corporate social responsibility and, among other things, funded the restoration of Bialik House. Sanbar also collaborated with Sigmund Sternberg and Salim Joubran in creating a special fund by the Arab Israel Bank for development and funding of community projects and entrepreneurship targeted at Arab Christians in Israel. Sanbar also joined the board of a non-governmental organization aimed at joining together economic and industrial corporations in promotion of environmental issues.

For numerous years, Sanbar was chairman of the executive of the Association of Banks in Israel. In 1989, he was appointed as a member of the Bank of Israel's Advisory Council.

In 1995, Sanbar did not seek reelection to the bank's board of directors. For another year he continued as chairman of bank's subsidiary in Switzerland and the subsidiary focused on investments. In 1996 he left his duties at the bank, becoming a member of the board at Fairchild Corporation and a financial consultant.

President of ICC in Israel
Between 1992 and 2003, Sanbar served as president of the International Chamber of Commerce in Israel. He was also elected on two occasions, in the years 1997-1999 and 2002-2003, to serve on the international executive board ICC. When first elected in 1996, he was the first person from Israel to sit on the international board.

Locally, Sanbar was involved with the Chamber of Commerce for many years. In 1987 he was made an honorary member of the board of directors of the Tel Aviv Chamber of Commerce. Until 2003 he was also a member of the presidium of the Chambers of Commerce Association in Israel.

Public work
Throughout the years Sanbar was active in voluntary work in cultural, educational and social organizations. On multiple occasions, wages guaranteed to him in his capacity as an arbitator would be given directly to various public causes and towards charity. 

As an arbitrator, Sanbar was also involved in various cases of public interest: in 1978 he resolved the wage disputes in the merchant navy, in 1986 he was a mediator in conflicts raised by the printed press outlets towards possible legislation enabling commercial broadcasting on television. He also chaired numerous public committees on various subjects, such as the reorganization of Clalit Health Services in 1986 and the committee for the organizational structure of the World Zionist Organization and the Jewish Agency in 1988.

At the same time, Sanbar was also involved in Uriel Reichman's attempt of formulating a proposed Constitution of Israel, a final draft of which was presented in 1988.

Sanbar's main roles (as head of organizations) in his volunteer work for non-governmental social and cultural organizations included the following:

Israeli-Palestinian conflict resolution
In 1969, Prime Minister Golda Meir appointed Sanbar to draft an alternative plan to that made by the United Nations on dealing with settlement of Palestinian refugees and compensations on abandoned properties. He had drafted an economic-political development plan, which was initially shelved due to the negotiations started by UN Special Representative Gunnar Jarring, but was reintroduced three years later, when prime minister Meir had asked Sanbar, then in his position of governor of the central bank, to update the proposal and introduce it before the World Bank and in his work sessions with Robert McNamara. He was also tasked with reviewing proposals concerning the construction of the Mediterranean–Dead Sea Canal. Later, he presented prime minister Rabin with an economic plan for negotiating the issue of Palestinian refugees with neighboring Arab countries, but it was not put forward for discussion.

In 1969, Sanbar was among the founding members of the “Rehovot Group” led by Amos de-Shalit, a non-governmental think tank focused on articulating economic and social policies for Israel, while taking under consideration the needs of its Arab population.