[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Radislav Krstić

indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in The Hague for genocide, complicity to commit genocide, extermination, two counts of murder, and persecution. On 27 October 1999 the indictment was amended to include one count of deportation and one count of inhumane acts.

Arrest 
On Wednesday, 2 December 1998, Krstić was driving through the village of Vršani on the Bijeljina-Brčko road while en route to Banja Luka on business when his car was disabled by road spikes and he was pulled through his car window and taken into custody in a joint SAS-Navy SEAL operation launched by SFOR.  He was immediately transported to the Hague for trial. The Republika Srpska and Yugoslav governments expressed outrage, and even Russia protested against the manner in which Krstić was detained, in that it took place in an area of Bosnia patrolled by the Russian SFOR contingent, which was not apprised of the operation.

Trial and sentence 
Krstić's trial began five days after his arrest on 7 December 1998. Krstić did not deny that war crimes had been committed by the VRS, but he denied that he had issued orders for these actions.  He pleaded ignorance and placed the likely responsibility on General Mladić's shoulders.  He claimed that he did not participate in either the planning, organizing or ordering of killings and deportations, claiming instead that he concentrated on his attack on Žepa while the bulk of the killings were taking place. He claimed to have known and heard nothing about any atrocities until the event of his own trial.  On 2 August 2001 Krstić was convicted on all counts and sentenced to 46 years in prison.

On 15 August 2001, Counsel for Krstić filed a notice of appeal against the Trial Chamber judgement, arguing that the Trial Chamber both misconstrued the legal definition of genocide and erred in applying the definition to several circumstances of the case.  The Appeal's Chamber dismissed the appeal with regard to the legal definition of genocide. With regard to factual errors, the Appeal's Chamber on 19 April 2004 dismissed the appeal on some issues, but granted it with regard to other issues.  They pronounced him not guilty of genocide, but affirmed his guilt as an aider and abbetor to genocide, thus redefining Krstić's involvement and cutting 11 years from his sentence.

Prison attack
On 20 December 2004, Krstić was transferred to the United Kingdom to serve his sentence. On 7 May 2010 in Wakefield Prison where he was serving the sentence, three Muslim inmates attacked Krstić, wounding him seriously. The three men – Indrit Krasniqi, Iliyas Khalid and Quam Ogumbiyi – were sent for trial at Leeds Crown Court. On 18 February 2011, the trio were found guilty of "wounding with intent to commit grievous bodily harm", but were acquitted of attempted murder. The judge sentenced Krasniqi to life with a specified term of 12 years, Khalid to life with a 10-year term and Ogumbiyi, who had played a smaller part in the attack, to life with a six-year term.

Afterwards, Krstić was transferred back to the Netherlands, and he was later transferred to a prison in Piotrków Trybunalski, Poland on 20 March 2014.

References

External links 
 ICTY official site: The Cases: Krstić (IT-98-33) "Srebrenica-Drina Corps"
 ICTY official site: Case Information Sheet: Radislav Krstić
 TRIAL: Krstić before ICTY

1948 births
Army of Republika Srpska soldiers
Bosnia and Herzegovina people imprisoned abroad
Bosnian genocide perpetrators
Landmine victims
Living people
Officers of the Yugoslav People's Army
People convicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
People from Vlasenica
Prisoners and detainees of the United Kingdom
Serbian generals
Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina convicted of genocide
Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina convicted of crimes against humanity