[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# McGovern–Fraser Commission

ly, are characterized by modified-open procedures.

Critiques
A number of authorities criticize the reforms as having created too much democracy, or a badly conceived democracy, leaving too much of the nominations decision up to an allegedly uninformed, unrepresented, and/or uninterested electorate.

Even before the introduction of the McGovern-Fraser presidential nominating reforms, academics and political practitioners alike wrestled with the questions of nominating procedures, the representativeness of primary electorates, and their implications for democracy. Strong party proponents worried that primaries dilute party influence over nominations and thus impeded party discipline and effectiveness in governing. Others have contended that the biases inherent in the primary electorates (the over-representation of some groups and the under-representation of others) deprive minority groups of their democratic voice.

Beyond the scholarly debates surrounding the direct primary, political parties and their operatives have voiced pragmatic concerns regarding the types of candidates that primaries tend to favor, suggesting that they often produce ideologically extreme candidates who are not always attractive to more moderate, general election voters. The question of representation and the extent to which primary voters reflect the demographic and attitudinal characteristics of nonvoters and rank-and-file partisans generally has been a long-standing concern to students of primary politics. Some scholars conclude that primary voters are demographically unrepresentative of the larger partisan electorate, while others find fewer differences.

Fred Dutton, one of the commission members, has been accused of diminishing the influence of unions.

As McGovern later said, "I opened up the doors of the Democratic Party, and 20 million people walked out."

See also
Hunt Commission

References

Works cited

Bibliography
 Edwards, George C., III; Robert L. Lineberry; and Martin P. Wattenberg (2006). Government in America. Pearson Education. .
 Maisel, Louis Sandy. Parties and Elections in America. .
 Truman, David B. "Party reform, party atrophy, and constitutional change: Some reflections". Political Science Quarterly 99.4 (Winter 1984–1985): 637–655. .

1968 Democratic National Convention
Democratic Party (United States) presidential campaigns
United States presidential nominating process
George McGovern