[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Grey's Anatomy (season 3)

reston Burke
 Patrick Dempsey as Dr. Derek Shepherd

Recurring 
 Chyler Leigh as Dr. Lexie Grey
 Brooke Smith as Dr. Erica Hahn
 Kate Burton as Ellis Grey
 Chris O'Donnell as Finn Dandridge
 Steven W. Bailey as Joe, the Bartender 
 Kyle Chandler as Dylan Young 
 Jeffrey Dean Morgan as Denny Duquette

Notable guests 
 Elizabeth Reaser as Rebecca "Ava" Pope
 Loretta Devine as Adele Webber
 Sarah Utterback as Olivia Harper
 Héctor Elizondo as Carlos Torres
 Kali Rocha as Sydney Heron
 Mitch Pileggi as Lawrence Jennings 
 Roger Rees as Colin Marlowe
 Jeff Perry as Thatcher Grey
 Mare Winningham as Susan Grey
 Debra Monk as Louise O'Malley
 George Dzundza as Harold O'Malley
 Tim Griffin as Ronny O'Malley
 Greg Pitts as Jerry O'Malley
 Robin Pearson Rose as Patricia Murphy
 Elisabeth Moss as Nina Rogerson
 Embeth Davidtz as Nancy Shepherd
 Monica Keena as Bonnie Crasnoff
 Nicole Cummins as Paramedic Nicole 
 Anna Maria Horsford as Elizabeth Fallon
 Abigail Breslin as Megan Clover
 Mae Whitman as Heather Douglas
 Tsai Chin as Helen Yang
 Diahann Carroll as Jane Burke
 Amy Brenneman as Violet Turner
 Paul Adelstein as Cooper Freedman
 Tim Daly as Pete Wilder
 Chris Lowell as Dell Parker
 Taye Diggs as Sam Bennett
 Merrin Dungey as Naomi Bennett

Production

Crew 
This season is the last to be produced by ABC Studios under title of Touchstone Television, as the company's decision to change its name occurred after the conclusion of the season. Shonda Rhimes returned as the series' showrunner and executive producer. She also continued her position from the first 2 seasons as one of the most prominent members of the writing staff. Betsy Beers, Mark Gordon and Rob Corn also returned as executive producers, along with Mark Wilding, Peter Horton and Krista Vernoff, who have been in this position since the inception of the series. Allan Heinberg, however, joins the production team at the beginning of the third season as a co-executive producer, before his promotion to an executive. Kent Hodder, Nancy Bordson and Steve Mulholland served as executive producers for 4 episodes during the season. Horton left the series at the conclusion of the season, whereas James D. Parriott, who previously served a writer and executive producer for the first 2 seasons, did not continue his work on the show during this season. Joan Rater and Tony Phelan continued to serve as co-executive producers, with Rater being a supervising producer as well. Stacy McKee, who previously served as a producer and writer for the series, was promoted to co-executive producer. 

After having written 3 episodes for the first season and 5 for the second, Rhimes returned as a writer for 6 episodes, out of which one was written along with Marti Noxon. Krista Vernoff, Tony Phelan, Stacy McKee and Mark Wilding returned to the series as members of the writing staff, with Vernoff and Phelan writing 3 episodes and McKee and Wilding producing the script of 2 episodes. Gabrielle Stanton and Harry Werksman, Jr. worked together for the writing of 1 episode, after 3 episodes they have written for the series in the past. The season includes the first episode to be written by Debora Cahn, who would become one of the series' main writers, as well as a consulting and supervisor producer. Other writers include Kip Koenig, Carolina Paiz, Eric Buchman, Joan Rater and Chris Van Dusen. Rob Corn returned to the series to direct 3 episodes for the season, after writing 2 episodes in the second season. Greg Yaitanes is credited for directing 2 episodes during the season, the only ones to have been directed by him in the series. Other prominent directors were Jeff Melman, Michael Grossman, Julie Anne Robinson and Adam Arkin, each directing 2 or more episodes during the season. Danny Lux continued his position as the main music composer for the series, while Herbert Davis and Walt Fraser served as the season's cinematography directors. Susan Vaill and Edward Ornelas resumed their positions as editors, seeing David Greenspan, Matthew Ramsey and Avi Fisher being added to the team. Fisher, however, left the series at the conclusion of the season.

Writing and filming