[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 10th Infantry Regiment (United States)

lict that the 10th Infantry Regiment served in direct support of.

Breckinridge's father was a captain in the 10th Infantry Regiment at the time of his birth. After being promoted to the rank of Major, he was assigned as Executive Officer of the 2nd Battalion and finally as its Regimental Commander.

A graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, he was a likely candidate for transfer to other jobs during WWII, with the likelihood of promotion. He feared that might happen and was open in letting it be known that he wanted to remain with his regiment. It was his regiment more than others could possess it or fully appreciate its deep significance to him. Breckinridge was assigned to the 10th Infantry Regiment at Fort Thomas, in Kentucky. He recalled that his father had 14 years with the 10th. As he said later: "...that suited me all right... after all, I had a soft spot in my heart for the 10th Infantry. I'd already spent nine years with it as a child".

The pride, selfless service, camaraderie, esprit de corps, and recognized high performance of the 10th Infantry through WWII and beyond is unequivocally linked to the servant leadership of Breckinridge. 1,500 bloody miles, across 20 European rivers, and through the harsh winter of 1944–1945, it had been a long hard journey, fraught with the hazards of bitter front line combat and the remarkable challenges of human resiliency. The 10th Infantry, under the command of MG Breckinridge, saw heavy action across Western Europe during World War II including:

 Invasion of Normandy
 Northern France
 Rhineland
 Battle of the Bulge/Ardennes-Alsace
 Central Europe
Roy Arthur Crumrine (1917-2001)

Captain Crumrine served with distinction first as an enlisted soldier in the Pacific theater, and later becoming a commissioned officer in 2nd Battalion, 10th Infantry Regiment. Captain Crumrine was Commander of F company during the Battle of Metz. For his actions during World War II he was awarded, the Combat Infantryman's Badge, two Purple Hearts, and a total of five Bronze Stars.

Medal of Honor recipients 
Theodore Schwan

Rank and organization:

 First Lieutenant, 10th U.S. Infantry. Place and date: At Peebles Farm, Va., 1 October 1864. Entered service at: New York. Born: 9 July 1841, Germany. Date of issue: 12 December 1898.

Citation:

 At the imminent risk of his own life, while his regiment was falling back before a superior force of the enemy, he dragged a wounded and helpless officer to the rear, thus saving him from death or capture.

Charles Patterson Cantrell
Rank and organization:

 Private, Company F, 10th U.S. Infantry. Place and date: At Santiago, Cuba, 1 July 1898. Entered service at: Nashville, Tenn. Born: 13 February 1874, Smithville, Tenn. Date of issue: 22 June 1899.

Citation:

 Gallantly assisted in the rescue of the wounded from in front of the lines and under heavy fire from the enemy.

Alfred Polond

Rank and organization:

 Private, Company F, 10th U.S. Infantry. Place and date: At Santiago, Cuba, 1 July 1898. Entered service at: Lapeer, Mich. Birth: Lapeer, Mich. Date of issue: 22 June 1899.

Citation:

 Gallantly assisted in the rescue of the wounded from in front of the lines and while under heavy fire of the enemy.

Andrew Jonson Cummins:
Rank and organization:
 Sergeant, Company F, 10th U.S. Infantry. Place and date: At Santiago, Cuba, 1 July 1898. Entered service at: Columbus, Ohio Birth: Alexandria, Ind. Date of issue: 22 June 1899.  Citation:
 Gallantly assisted in the rescue of the wounded from in front of the lines and under heavy fire of the enemy.
William G. Keller:
Rank and organization:
 Private, Company F, 10th U.S. Infantry. Place and date: At Santiago de Cuba, 1 July 1898. Entered service at: Buffalo, N.Y. Birth: Buffalo, N.Y. Date of issue: 22 June 1899.

Citation:

 Gallantly assisted in the rescue of the wounded from in front of the lines and under heavy fire of the enemy.

James Joseph Nash:

Rank and organization:

 Private, Company F, 10th U.S. Infantry. Place and date: At Santiago, Cuba, 1 July 1898. Entered service at: Louisville, Ky. Birth: Louisville, Ky. Date of issue: 22 June 1899.

Citation:

 Gallantly assisted in the rescue of the wounded from in front of the lines and under heavy fire of the enemy.

Image gallery

See also
List of United States Regular Army Civil War units

Notes

 
 https://history.army.mil/books/R&H/R&H-10IN.htm

External links 

 Website of 2nd Battalion 10th Infantry Regiment - United States Army website

0010
Military units and formations established in 1855
United States Regular Army Civil War units and formations
Military units and formations of the United States in the Indian Wars
10th Infantry Regiment
1855 establishments in Pennsylvania