[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1993 ethnic violence in Burundi

rated by Hutus against Tutsis, and the second being by the army against Hutus. He also wrote that there was no evidence that plans to kill Tutsis were formulated on a national scale but that "the speed of the mobilisation suggests that some people feared [a coup] might happen and made preparations."

Legacy 
The killings have received little coverage in international media or academia. Des Forges wrote that, "The lack of international response to the killing in Burundi led to the cataclysm in Rwanda". Burundian Tutsis attach more significance to the 1993 massacres relative to the 1972 Ikiza, which Hutus emphasise. Some Burundians perceive both events as genocides worthy of remembrance, but generally factions have formed to claim the precedence of one event over the other and commemorate them accordingly. Radical Tutsi ideologues, while stressing that the 1993 events were a genocide targeting Tutsis, often neglect to mention the thousands of Hutus killed by the army during the same period and the flight of thousands more as refugees to Rwanda. Tutsi academics tend to give Ndadaye's assassination only cursory attention in their histories of the violence. In contrast, Hutu writers usually emphasise the killing of Ndadaye and the massacres of Hutus inflicted by the army and ignore the killings of Tutsis. The Tutsi extremist group AC Genocide-Crimoso later established several monuments to commemorate Tutsis killed in 1993. The Burundian government erected a monument in 2010 to commemorate victims of all post-colonial violence in the country.

See also

 Rwandan genocide
 Burundian Civil War

References

Works cited
 
 
 
 
 
Lemarchand, René (1996). Burundi: Ethnic Conflict and Genocide, Cambridge University Press,

Further reading
United Nations Committee on the elimination of racial discrimination, Fifty-first session, Summary record of the 1239th meeting. Held at the Palais des Nations, Geneva, 20 August 1997, Seventh to tenth periodic reports of Burundi (continued) (CERD/C/295/Add.1)
Concluding Observations of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination : Burundi. 18 September 1997.
René Lemarchand. "The Burundi Genocide". Century of Genocide. Ed. Samuel Totten et al. New York: Routledge, 2004. 321–337.
"Burundi Genocide", News about Burundi crimes since 1962, by Agnews (2000)

1993 in Burundi
1993 murders in Africa
Massacres in 1993
Ethnic cleansing in Africa
Genocides in Africa
Massacres in Burundi
Human rights abuses in Burundi
Racially motivated violence
Ethnic conflicts