[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Co-operative economics

debate as Bakunin and the collectivists favored market distribution using currency, collectivizing production, not consumption. Left libertarians collectivize neither but define their leftness as inalienable rights to the commons, not collective ownership of it, thus rejecting Lockean homesteading.

Utopian socialists feel socialism can be achieved without class struggle and that cooperatives should only include those who voluntarily choose to participate in them. Some participants in the kibbutz movement and other intentional communities fall into this category.

Co-operative commonwealth
In some co-operative economics literature, the aim is the achievement of a co-operative commonwealth, a society based on cooperative and socialist principles. Co-operative economists – federalist, individualist, and otherwise – have presented the extension of their economic model to its natural limits as a goal.

This ideal was widely supported in early-twentieth century U.S. and Canadian leftist circles.  This ideal, and the language behind it, were central to the formation of the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation party in 1932, which became Canada's largest left-wing political party, and continues to this day as the New Democratic Party. They were also important to the economic principles of the Farmer-Labor Party of the United States, particularly in the FLP's Minnesota affiliate, where advocacy for a co-operative commonwealth formed the central theme of the party's platform from 1934, until the Minnesota FLP merged with the state Democratic Party to form the Democratic–Farmer–Labor Party in 1944.

Co-operative commonwealth ideas were also developed in Great Britain and Ireland from the 1880s by William Morris, which also inspired the guild socialist movement for associative democracy from 1906 right through the 1920s. Guild socialist thinkers included Bertrand Russell, R. H. Tawney and G. D. H. Cole.

Employee ownership 

Some economists have argued that economic democracy could be achieved by combining employee ownership on a national scale (including worker cooperatives) within a free market apparatus. Tom Winters argues that "as with the free market more generally, it is not free trade itself that creates inequality, it’s how free trade is used, who benefits from it and who does not."

Cooperative microeconomics 
According to Hervé Moulin, cooperation from a game-theoretic point of view ("in the economic tradition") is the mutual assistance between egoists. He distinguishes three modes of such cooperation:

 decentralised behaviour, where the collective outcome results from the strategic decisions of selfish agents;
 arbitration (by a mechanical formula or benevolent dictator) about actions on the basis of normative principles;
 direct agreement between agents after face-to-face bargaining.

These modes are present in every cooperative institution but their virtues are often logically incompatible.

See also
 Economic democracy
 History of the cooperative movement
 Market socialism
 Rochdale Principles
 Syndicalism

References

Further reading
 Consumers' Co-operative Societies, by Charles Gide, 1922
 Co-operation 1921–1947, published monthly by The Co-operative League of America
 The History of Co-operation, by George Jacob Holyoake, 1908
 Cooperative Peace, by James Peter Warbasse, 1950
 Problems Of Cooperation, by James Peter Warbasse, 1941
 Why Co-ops? What Are They? How Do They Work? A pamphlet from the G.I. Roundtable series by Joseph G. Knapp, 1944
 Law of Cooperatives, by Legal Firm Stoel Rives, Seattle
 For All The People: Uncovering the Hidden History of Cooperation, Cooperative Movements, and Communalism in America, PM Press, by John Curl, 2009
 Humanizing The Economy: Cooperatives in an Age of Capital, New Society Publishers, 2010
 The Cooperative Solution, by E. G. Nadeau, 2012. A popular and contemporary introduction to cooperative economics.
 The Commons and Co-operative Commonwealth, Pat Conaty 2013
 The Cooperative State: The Case for Employee Ownership on a National Scale, by Tom Winters, 2018
 Commons Sense: Co-operative place making and the capturing of land value for 21st century Garden Cities, edited by Pat Conaty and Martin Large, 2013
 Everything for Everyone: The Radical Tradition That is Shaping the Next Economy, Nathan Schneider, Bold Type Books, 2018
 The Economics of Financial Cooperatives: Income Distribution, Political Economy and Regulation, by Amr Khafagy, 2019

Cooperatives
Business models
Cooperative economics