[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Verónica Ruiz de Velasco

Veronica Ruiz de Velasco (born 1968) is a Mexican neo-figurative painter living in the United States and one of the youngest female artist to exhibit solo at the Museo de Arte Moderno (National Museum of Modern Art) in Mexico.  Her talent attracted the attention of masters such as Teodulo Romulo, Rufino Tamayo, Jean Dubuffet, and Gilberto Aceves Navarro who all took Veronica under their wings as a student and protégé. She was commissioned to paint a mural at the ABC Hospital that was unveiled by the U.S. Ambassador in Mexico, Charles J. Pilliod Jr. and attended by Prince Charles, Prince of Wales, and later a mural for the Hamon Science Building at the Southwest Medical Center in Dallas for Nancy Hamon. In addition, Veronica has held several solo exhibitions including the Museo de Arte Moderno in Mexico, Mexico Loteria, the Mexico City International Airport, Nordstrom in the Galleria of Dallas and the Irving Art Center.  Over the last decade, Veronica Ruiz de Velasco has been recognized as one of the world's greatest abstract artist.  Her works have been quoted as Jackson Pollock on steroids.

Biography

Veronica Ruiz de Velasco was born in México D.F. to Pedro Ruiz de Velasco (1915-1996) and Susana Zenteno Ruiz de Velasco and was the 15th child out of 18 siblings. In 1983, Ruiz de Velasco was accepted to take art courses at La Escuela Nacional de Bellas Artes La Esmeralda in Mexico City.  In 1984, the curator of the Gallery of Lourdes Chumacero in Mexico exhibited her work. This was a springboard into the Mexican Art community, as it was attended by many leading painters such as Teodulo Romulo, Thomas Parra, and Gilberto Aceves Navarro. Romulo offered Ruiz de Velasco lessons on his technique.

In 1984, Ruiz de Velasco went to Paris, France, to discuss art technique with Jean Dubuffet.
In 1985, Rufino Tamayo asked Ruiz de Velasco to come to his studio to take some private lessons with him.  Tamayo commented that Ruiz de Velasco's art had "an excellent Color". In 1985–88, Ruiz de Velasco took several courses at the Academia de San Carlos (Old San Carlos Academy) in Mexico City while taking private lessons from Gilberto Aceves Navarro. She considers him as her most important teacher.

Exhibitions in Mexico
In 1985, Ruiz de Velasco held an exhibition at the Gallery of the Loteria National of Mexico. In 1986 she held an individual exhibition in the terminal of the Benito Juarez International Airport in Mexico City.  In 1987, she was the youngest female artist to exhibit at the Museo de Arte Moderno (national Museum of Modern Art) in Mexico.
The exhibition was an homage to Andrew Lloyd Webber and had reference pieces such as Cats, Jesus Christ Superstar, Evita, Starlight Express, and the Phantom of the Opera. The Museo de Arte Moderno published their twenty five year celebration book and included Ruiz de Velasco as one of Mexico's leading artists.

In 1989, Ruiz de Velasco painted a mural in the American British Cowdray Medical Center in Mexico D.F. This mural took almost a year to complete. The inauguration of the mural was a national event in Mexico, unveiled by the U.S. Ambassador in Mexico, Charles J. Pilliod Jr. Charles, Prince of Wales was also present and congratulated Ruiz de Velasco on the donation of her time and effort.

In 1991, Ruiz de Velasco created a painting for the Playboy Collection in Chicago, Illinois. She was then asked by the curator, Jack Bolton, of the Rockefeller Collection in New York City to create a piece for their collection. In 1994, Goodyear Corporation in Akron, Ohio held an exhibition of Ruiz de Velasco's artwork in their private executive gallery. In 1995, Coronado S.A. de C.V. held an exhibition of Ruiz de Velasco's artwork in their gallery in México, D.F.

In 1996, Ruiz de Velasco created a portrait for President Bill Clinton.  President Clinton and Hillary Clinton sent a letter of appreciation for this portrait.

Career in the United States

In the summer of 1995, Ruiz de Velasco was vacationing for two weeks with her father in Cozumel and met her future husband. In July, 1996, she married him at the Igelsias San Miguel on the Isla de Cozumel. In August, her father Pedro Ruiz de Velasco died at the age of 81. In September she returned to Dallas with her husband.