[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 15]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

put me into the same
situation I was in before, and to learn more humanity.'

"The rich man could not help being astonished at this generosity, and,
having acquired wisdom by his misfortunes, not only treated the
basket-maker as a friend during the rest of his life, but employed his
riches in relieving the poor, and benefiting his fellow-creatures."

The story being ended, Tommy said it was very pretty; but that, had he
been the good basket-maker, he would have taken the naughty rich man's
fortune and kept it. "So would not I," said Harry, "for fear of growing
as proud, and wicked, and idle as the other."

From this time forward, Mr Barlow and his two pupils used constantly to
work in their garden every morning; and, when they were fatigued, they
retired to the summer-house, where little Harry, who improved every day
in reading, used to entertain them with some pleasant story or other,
which Tommy always listened to with the greatest pleasure. But little
Harry going home for a week, Tommy and Mr Barlow were left alone.

The next day, after they had done work, and retired to the summer-house
as usual, Tommy expected Mr Barlow would read to him; but, to his great
disappointment, found that he was busy, and could not. The next day the
same accident was renewed, and the day after that. At this Tommy lost
all patience, and said to himself, "Now, if I could but read like little
Harry Sandford, I should not need to ask anybody to do it for me, and
then I could divert myself; and why (thinks he) may not I do what
another has done? To be sure, little Harry is clever; but he could not
have read if he had not been taught; and if I am taught, I dare say I
shall learn to read as well as he. Well, as soon as ever he comes home,
I am determined to ask him about it."

The next day little Harry returned, and as soon as Tommy had an
opportunity of being alone with him, "Pray, Harry," said Tommy, "how
came you to be able to read?"

_Harry._--Why, Mr Barlow taught me my letters, and then spelling; and
then, by putting syllables together, I learnt to read. _Tommy._--And
could not you show me my letters? _Harry._--Yes, very willingly.

Harry then took up a book, and Tommy was so eager and attentive, that at
the very first lesson, he learned the whole alphabet. He was infinitely
pleased with this first experiment, and could scarcely forbear running
to Mr Barlow, to let him know the improvement he had made; but he
thought he should surprise him more, if he said nothing about the matter
till he was able to read a whole story. He therefore applied himself
with such diligence, and little Harry, who spared no pains to assist his
friend, was so good a master, that in about two months he determined to
surprise Mr Barlow with a display of his talents. Accordingly, one day,
when they were all assembled in the summer-house, and the book was given
to Harry, Tommy stood up and said, that, if Mr Barlow pleased, he would
try to read. "Oh, very willingly," said Mr Barlow; "but I should as soon
expect you to fly as to read." Tommy smiled with a consciousness of his
own proficiency, and, taking up the book, read with great fluency,--


"THE HISTORY OF THE TWO DOGS."

"In a part of the world, where there are many strong and fierce wild
beasts, a poor man happened to bring up two puppies of that kind which
is most valued for size and courage. As they appeared to possess more
than common strength and agility, he thought that he should make an
acceptable present to his landlord, who was a rich man, living in a
great city, by giving him one of them, which was called Jowler; while he
brought up the other, named Keeper, to guard his own flocks.

"From this time the manner of living was entirely altered between the
brother whelps. Jowler was sent into a plentiful kitchen, where he
quickly became the favourite of the servants, who diverted themselves
with his little tricks and wanton gambols, and rewarded him with great
quantities of pot-liquor and broken victuals; by which means, as he was
stuffing from morning to night, he increased considerably in size, and
grew sleek and comely; he was, indeed, rather unwieldy, and so cowardly
that he would run away from a dog only half as big as himself; he was
much addicted to gluttony, and was often beaten for the thefts he
committed in the pantry; but, as he had learned to fawn upon the
footmen, and would stand upon his hind legs to beg, when he was ordered,
and, besides this, would fetch and carry, he was mightily caressed by
all the neighbourhood.

"Keeper, in the meantime, who lived at a cottage in the country, neither
fared so well, looked so plump, nor had learned all these little tricks
to recommend him; but, as his master was too poor to maintain anything
but what was useful, and was obliged to be continually in the air,
subject to all kinds of weather, and labouring hard for a livelihood,
Keeper grew hardy, active, and dil