[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Čelebići camp

nst a wall where they were searched or forced to hand over valuables. Several said that they were severely beaten by soldiers or guards. Other detainees were housed in Building 22 which was tightly packed with people and later moved to Hangar 6. Some spent a substantial amount of time in the tunnel.

A Military Investigating Commission was formed with its purpose being to establish the responsibility of these persons for any military involvement or crimes. However, it was made evident during the trial that the commission had been created as a façade to give the Čelebići camp some semblance of legality. It only lasted for a month. Members of the commission were so horrified by the conditions the detainees were living in, the injuries they suffered, and the state of terror prevailing in the camp, that they resigned en masse. Nevertheless, the commission interviewed many of the Čelebići inmates and took their statements, as well as analyzing other documents which had been collected to determine if they had a role in the combat against the Konjic authorities. As a result, prisoners were placed in various categories and the commission compiled a report recommending that certain persons be released. Some of the individuals who had been placed in the lower categories were subsequently transferred to the Musala sports hall. Others were exchanged, some under the auspices of the International Red Cross who visited the camp in August.

Conditions and treatment

From the camp's establishment to its closure, detainees were subjected to murder, beatings, torture, sexual assaults and otherwise cruel and inhumane treatment.

Tunnel 9 was utilised for the incarceration of many detainees, containing at least 80 individuals at one point and, given its small size, was extremely crowded. Prisoners rarely bathed, slept on concrete floors without blankets, and many were forced to defecate on the floor. A former prisoner at the camp, described his and others' ordeal inside the tunnel to the Belgrade-based independent news agency Vreme News Digest:

A large number of prisoners were confined to Hangar 6, at least 240 at one point. They had assigned places on the floor where they had to remain seated, arranged in rows. Given that the building was made out of metal, it became hot during the daytime and prisoners were not allowed to leave their places, except in small groups upon request to use the toilet facilities which consisted of an outside ditch.

Soldiers and guards beat prisoners with clubs, rifle butts, wooden planks, shovels and pieces of cable. Prisoners were called out of the hangar daily for beatings. Some of the prisoners testified to having their body parts doused in gasoline before being set alight as a form of torture. Pliers, acid, electric shocks and hot pincers were also used to torture prisoners.

Investigators say that between May and August, about 30 prisoners died from the severity of the "bestial" beatings and a few others were killed, either by being shot or stabbed to death. Several of these victims were elderly. Meanwhile, the few women in the camp, who were kept separate from the men, were frequently raped.

ICTY trial

Indictment

On 21 March 1996, The ICTY indicted Hazim Delić, Esad Landžo, Zdravko Mucić and Zejnil Delalić for their roles in the crimes committed against Serbs at the camp. Delić was the deputy commander of the Čelebići camp from May 1992 to November 1992. Afterwards, he was the commander until its closure in December 1992, following the departure of Zdravko Mucić. Landžo, also known as "Zenga", was a guard at the camp from May 1992 to December 1992. Mucić was the camp's commander from May 1992 to December 1992. Delalić coordinated the Bosnian Muslim and Bosnian Croat forces in the Konjic area from approximately April 1992 to September 1992 and then commanded the First Tactical Group of the Bosnian Army until November 1992. This was the ICTY's first indictment for perpetrators of crimes against Bosnian Serbs during the war.

Delić, Mucić and Delalić were accused of failing to take the necessary and reasonable measures to prevent or to punish those who mistreated the detainees from their superior positions of authority. The ICTY noted the murders of at least 14 detainees and seven specific acts of torture. Additionally, in the case of Delić, he was also charged with direct involvement in four murders, five specific acts of torture, including two rapes and one case of causing great suffering or serious injury. Landžo was charged with individual responsibility for his direct participation in five murders, four specific acts of torture and one case of causing great suffering and serious injury. All four were charged with grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions and Violations of the Laws and Customs of War.