[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jaws: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack

The Jaws Soundtrack (Officially Jaws: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) is the music composed and conducted by John Williams for Steven Spielberg's 1975 film Jaws. The soundtrack is particularly notable for the 2-note ostinato which represents the shark, a theme so simple that Spielberg initially thought it was a joke by the composer.

The film score was recorded in March 1975 at 20th Century Fox Studios and Universal, with expanded tracks recorded in April 1975 for the commercial release of the soundtrack album. The soundtrack album was released on LP by MCA in 1975, and as a CD in 1992. In 2000, two new versions of the score were released to coincide with the film's 25th anniversary: one in a re-recording of the entire Jaws score by Royal Scottish National Orchestra conducted by Joel McNeely, and another by Decca/Universal featuring the entire 51 minutes of the original score. The score was reissued again in 2015 through Intrada Records containing the full film score along with alternate takes, source music and a remaster of the 1975 album.

The soundtrack was critically well received, winning the Academy Award for Best Original Score, the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Score and Grammy Award for Best Score Soundtrack for Visual Media, In addition was ranked the sixth greatest score by the American Film Institute. The score has been the subject of scholarly discussion in relation to its tradition in classical Hollywood scoring, and its role in creating space in the film.

Development

John Williams had previously scored Steven Spielberg's debut feature, The Sugarland Express, and he would go on to collaborate with the director on almost all of his subsequent films. Spielberg had used  Williams' title theme from Robert Altman's 1972 psychological horror film Images as a temp track during the editing of Jaws. When Williams first demonstrated his idea to Spielberg, playing just the two notes on a piano, Spielberg was said to have laughed, thinking that it was a joke as he was expecting a more "melodic" tune. Williams responded, explaining "the sophisticated approach you would like me to take isn't the approach you took with the film I just experienced." After hearing the notes played again and at different speeds, Spielberg agreed, saying that "sometimes the best ideas are the most simple ones" and that the composer "had found a signature for the entire score."

The main "shark" theme, a simple alternating pattern of two notes—variously identified as "E and F" or "F and F sharp"—became a classic piece of suspense music, synonymous with approaching danger (see leading-tone). Williams described the theme as "grinding away at you, just as a shark would do, instinctual, relentless, unstoppable." Elaborating on the simplicity, Williams said that he felt that the motif should be "brainless... like the shark."

As Williams saw similarities between Jaws and pirate movies, at other points in the score he evoked "pirate music", which he called "primal, but fun and entertaining". The primal opening notes are developed from the opening foreboding tone of Ravel's La valse.  Calling for rapid, percussive string playing, the score also contains echoes of Debussy's La mer, Stravinsky's The Rite of Spring, and the opening of the 4th movement of Dvořák's New World Symphony.

Recording

Recording the soundtrack for Jaws started on March 3, 1975. A large stage was required to accommodate a full orchestra; as Universal's stages were unavailable, the first two days were recorded at the Fox Scoring Stage at Culver City, California. The film's producer, Richard D. Zanuck secretly watched the recording from the sidelines. Grammy-award winning Theodore Keep was the sound engineer, and musicians included guitarist Tommy Tedesco, trumpet player Malcolm McNab and percussionists Shelly Manne and Emil Richards. The piece was performed by tuba player Tommy Johnson. When asked by Johnson why the melody was written in such a high register and not played by the more appropriate French horn, Williams responded that he wanted it to sound "a little more threatening".

On March 5, recording moved to Stage 10 at Universal Studios because it was more appropriate for "stringless" (percussion, tuba, and brass, etc.) recording for the diegetic music played by the Amity marching band early in the film; this included tunes by Scott Joplin, Johann Strauss II and original compositions by Williams. Because the town band was meant to sound like amateur musicians, Spielberg himself played clarinet, slightly out of tune. These diegetic tracks were included on the Intrada release.