[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 109]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

h, who happened once to be present, told him that he was a _monstrous
bore_.

It happened that, while Harry was at Mr Merton's, there was a troop of
strolling players at a neighbouring town. In order to divert the young
gentry, Mr Merton contrived that they should make a party to see a play.
They went accordingly, and Harry with the rest. Tommy, who now no longer
condescended to take any notice of his friend Harry, was seated between
his two new acquaintances, who had become his inseparable companions.
These young gentlemen first began to give specimens of their
_politeness_ by throwing nuts and orange-peel upon the stage; and Tommy,
who was resolved to profit by such an _excellent_ example, threw nuts
and orange-peel with infinite satisfaction.

As soon as the curtain drew up, and the actors appeared, all the rest of
the audience observed a decent silence; but Mash and Compton, who were
now determined to prove the _superiority_ of their manners, began to
talk so loud, and make so much noise, that it was impossible for any one
near them to hear a word of the play. This also seemed amazingly _fine_
to Tommy; and he too talked and laughed as loud as the rest.

The subject of their conversation was, the audience and the performers;
neither of whom these polite young gentlemen found bearable. The
_company_ was chiefly composed of the tradesmen of the town, and the
inhabitants of the neighbouring country; this was a sufficient reason
for these refined young gentlemen to speak of them with the most
insufferable contempt. Every circumstance of their dress and appearance
was criticised with such a minuteness of attention, that Harry, who sat
near, and very much against his inclination was witness to all that
passed, began to imagine that his companions, instead of being brought
up like the sons of gentlemen, had only studied under barbers and
tailors; such amazing knowledge did they display in the history of
buckles, buttons, and dressing of hair. As to the poor _performers_,
they found them totally undeserving of mercy; they were so shockingly
awkward, so ill-dressed, so low-lived, and such detestable creatures,
that it was impossible to bear them with any patience.

Master Mash, who prided himself upon being a young gentleman of great
spirit, was of opinion that they should _kick up a riot_, and demolish
all the scenery. Tommy, indeed, did not very well understand what the
expression meant; but he was so intimately persuaded of the merit and
genius of his companions, that he agreed that it would be the most
proper thing in the world; and the proposal was accordingly made to the
rest of the young gentlemen.

But Harry, who had been silent all the time, could not help
remonstrating at what appeared to him the greatest injustice and
cruelty. "These poor people," said he, "are doing all they can to
entertain us; is it not very unkind to treat them in return with scorn
and contempt? If they could act better, even as well as those fine
people you talk of in London, would they not willingly do it? and
therefore, why should we be angry with them for what they cannot help?
And, as to cutting the scenes to pieces, or doing the house any damage,
have we any more right to attempt it, than they would have to come into
your father's dining-room, and break the dishes to pieces, because they
did not like the dinner? While we are here, let us behave with good
manners, and, if we do not like their acting, it is our own faults if
ever we come to see them again."

This method of reasoning was not much relished by those to whom it was
addressed; and it is uncertain how far they might have proceeded, had
not a decent, plain-looking man, who had been long disturbed with the
noise of these young gentry, at length taken the liberty of
expostulating with them upon the subject. This freedom, or
_impertinence_, as it was termed by Master Mash, was answered by him
with so much rudeness, that the man, who was a neighbouring farmer, was
obliged to reply in a higher strain. Thus did the altercation increase
every minute, till Master Mash, who thought it an unpardonable affront
that any one in an inferior station should presume to think or feel for
himself, so far lost all command of his temper as to call the man a
_blackguard_, and strike him upon the face. But the farmer, who
possessed great strength, and equal resolution, very deliberately laid
hold of the young gentleman who had offered him the insult, and, without
the smallest exertion, laid him sprawling upon the ground, at his full
length under the benches, and setting his feet upon his body, told him
that, "since he did not know how to _sit_ quiet at a play, he would have
the honour of teaching him to _lie_; and that if he offered to stir, he
would trample him to pieces;" a threat which was very evident he could
find no difficulty in executing.

This unexpected incident struck a universal damp over the spirit