[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paranoia 1.0

e and consistency of a metal and dirt futuristic aesthetic. The parts of Derrick and Trish were written with Udo Kier and Deborah Kara Unger in mind. Adrien Brody was set to play Simon, but this fell through and Jeremy Sisto was cast. Bruce Payne joined the cast after filming had begun in Bucharest.

Awards and honors 
 2004
 Sundance Film Festival (Park City, Utah, USA)
 Grand Jury Prize, Dramatic Category; Nominated: Jeff Renfroe, Marteinn Thorsson.
 Sitges - Catalan International Film Festival (Sitges, Spain)
 Nominated Best Film; Recipients: Marteinn Thorsson, Jeff Renfroe.
 Fant-Asia Film Festival (Montreal, Canada)
 AQCC Award-Mention: Jeff Renfroe, Marteinn Thorsson; Best International Film (Jury Prize): Jeff Renfroe, Marteinn Thorsson; Most Ground-Breaking Film (Jury Prize): Jeff Renfroe, Marteinn Thorsson.
 2005
 Edda Awards (Iceland)
 Edda Award Category: Best Picture (nominated); Best Production Design: Eggert Ketilsson (nominated); Best Sound or Music: Bradley L. North, Byron Wilson, Ann Scibelli (nominated); Director of the Year: Marteinn Thorsson, Jeff Renfroe (nominated).
 Málaga International Week of Fantastic Cinema (Spain)
 Best Actress: Deborah Kara Unger; Best Film: Jeff Renfroe, Marteinn Thorsson; Youth Jury Award (Best Feature Film): Jeff Renfroe, Marteinn Thorsson.

Reception

One reviewer stated that 'If Philip K. Dick was reading Kafka, got freaked out and wrote The Matrix, which was then directed by Stanley Kubrick, you might end up with something like this'. Phil Davies-Brown stated that the 'film is such an accomplished piece of work with rich texture, amazing use of location, lighting and camera and fine performances from some of the genre’s most respected talents'. Commenting on the performances of individual cast members, Davies-Brown stated that Jeremy Sisto 'was his usual weird self but it worked a treat', that 'Bruce Payne was intimidating', that Udo Kier was 'hilarious', that Deborah Kara Unger was 'mysterious' and that Lance Henriksen 'turned in his best performance in a long while'. Neil Karassik stated that the film was 'enjoyable and visually admirable'. Ryan Cracknell commented that 'while the story is very original combining the techno-edge of The Matrix with Orson Welles’ The Trial, it’s the mood and atmosphere where the filmmakers really shine'. Ultimo Franco gave the film a score of 3 out of 5, commented that 'the film looks beautiful' and stated that 'fans of Guillermo del Toro and David Fincher should find a lot to appreciate here'. The film was given a score of 9 out of 10 on the website Cyberpunkreview.com, which stated that the film 'has perhaps the most biting commentary on advertising and software development you will find anywhere'. Andrea Ballerini stated that 'the movie has all the classic ingredients of the cyberpunk genre: a dystopian environment, powerful corporations trying to rule the citizens, the role of technology in the development of society, the pros and cons of progress'.

Hildur Loftsdóttir gave the film three stars out of five, noted the influence of David Cronenberg and David Lynch and stated that the story was 'both original and well thought out'. Rainer Heinz described the film as a 'Kafkaesk-morbid thriller with effectively interwoven set pieces from films like Blade Runner, Matrix, Cube and Delicatessen and a fascinating colour and image aesthetic'. He also stated that the film was 'a gripping and dark science fiction thriller, which achieves its effect not least from brilliant image design'. Hal Astell stated that the film 'is a real triumph, an intelligent science fiction story that deliberately removes itself from time and place yet remains utterly timely'. Simon Hyslop described the film as 'a treat for anyone with an appreciation for the quieter, artier manifestations of the sci-fi genre'. A reviewer for TV Guide stated that 'sci-fi drama and paranoid thrills drive this smart and highly original chiller'. A Hungarian reviewer stated that the film contained a 'large dose of social criticism disguised as a thriller'.