[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Orion (manga)

im further and he destroys the Fuze mountain temple as Hebine escapes. Susano resurrects Maître Fuzen and has him witness what happens when a god is angered. He then goes on a rage destroying a good chunk of the capital city. Dr. Hebime summons Hanuman (the monkey god) who also fails to stop Susano.

Susano and Maître investigate the palace and discover that Princesse Kushinata is to be sacrificed to the Nāga Generator. They go and fight off the palace's defenses. Meanwhile, Seska is revived by the power of the negative karma and dedicates herself to avenging her father's death and saving her clan by gaining an audience with the Emperor. By becoming a royal adviser to Emperor she begins to activate the Nāga Generator and uses the secret scroll which can banish Susano. Ultimately, the Nāga Generator is activated and both Susano and Seska clash. The Nāga Generator creates a monstrous nine-headed Nāga which becomes so bloated with Galactic Empire's negative Karma it becomes a planet-sized Octopus-type Nāga. Seska, after beating up Susano, banishes him. As Nāga grows, she becomes fascinated in ruling the Galactic Empire itself.

However, Susano returns, summoning himself, rendering Seska's ability to stop him useless. He enters the Nāga and finds the Princess at the center of the generator holding the Nāga force together. He breaks her control of the Nāga and disrupts it. The giant Nāga splatters over the world like water, flooding it. The Great Yamato Empire (what is left of it), sinks under the waves with few survivors. Susano and the princess leave the mortal survivors of the Empire behind wishing them luck. Seska is restored back to normal and is reunited with Commander Ronnel. What remains of Yamato Empire appears to become Japan and the world is, in fact, Earth. However, the story alludes that the Nāga will return.

The fictional Yamata Empire is based on an expanded continent of what would become the Pacific Ocean, drawing from the ancient mythology of the continent of Mu.

Characters 
 Susano Orbatos: God of Destruction, a powerful, wild, arrogant, homicidal divinity.
 Seska: Bratty, beloved, egotistical, bumbling, a 1st Class Navigator sorceress aboard magical-powered starships. She has a crush on Commander Ronnel.
 Maître Fuzen: Clan leader of Fuze Clan who opposes the Naga Generator and summons Susano Orbatos to stop the project. He becomes Susano's aide in his crusade to stop the Nāga Generator.
 Dr. Hebime: Leading doctor and creator of Psycoscience and Maître Fuzen's rival. Creator of the Nāga Generator. He is dedicated to stopping the Fuze Clan from interfering with his dream of the Nāga Generator.
 Commander Ronnel: Noble handsome officer of the Greater Yamata Empire, and secretly attracted to Seska.
 Sokoku Emperor: Idle, lazy leader of the Great Yamata Empire, who approves the creation of the Naga Generator and is nearly killed by it.
Princesse Kushinata: The half-divinity princess who agreed to be sacrificed to the Nāga Generator to stop negative karma from destroying the Galactic Empire. She has some links to Susano Orbatos.

References

External links 
 
  

1991 manga
Buddhist comics
Cyborg comics
Dark Horse Comics titles
Fantasy anime and manga
Masamune Shirow
Religion in science fiction
Science fiction anime and manga
Shōnen manga