[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Georgy Aleksandrov

in March 1953, he made Aleksandrov his minister of culture on 9 March 1954. After Malenkov lost his position in a power struggle with the Soviet Communist Party leader Nikita Khrushchev in February 1955, Aleksandrov was fired on 10 March 1955. Nikolai Mikhailov succeeded him as minister of culture.

Aleksandrov, whom the Montenegrin communist Milovan Djilas described as "a short, pudgy, bald man whose pallor and corpulence proclaimed that he never set foot outside his office" was once again demoted for being involved in a sexual scandal. After his dismissal, the Soviet press reported on his immorality, though the historian Robert Conquest reckoned: "It seems hard to imagine that such conduct could have gone unnoticed for years, and suddenly come to the horrified attention of the authorities just at the moment when the sinner's faction suffers political defeat."

Aleksandrov was sent to Minsk where he was put in charge of the section of dialectical and historical materialism of the Institute of Philosophy and Law at Belarus Academy of Sciences. He spent the rest of his life working on sociology and its history. He died in Moscow in 1961 at age 53.

References

Further reading 
 K.A. Zalessky. Imperiya Stalina: Biograficheskij entsiklopedicheskij slovar, Moscow, Veche, 2000.

1908 births
1961 deaths
Politicians from Saint Petersburg
People from Sankt-Peterburgsky Uyezd
Members of the Orgburo of the 18th Congress of the All-Union Communist Party (Bolsheviks)
Candidates of the Central Committee of the 18th Congress of the All-Union Communist Party (Bolsheviks)
Candidates of the Central Committee of the 19th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union
Culture ministers of the Soviet Union
Second convocation members of the Soviet of the Union
Fourth convocation members of the Soviet of Nationalities
Head of Propaganda Department of CPSU CC
Moscow State University alumni
Institute of Red Professors alumni
Full Members of the USSR Academy of Sciences
Recipients of the Stalin Prize
Recipients of the Order of Lenin
Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner of Labour
Burials at Novodevichy Cemetery