[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Daimler Conquest

The Daimler Conquest is an automobile which was produced by The Daimler Company Limited in the United Kingdom from 1953 to 1958. Based on the Lanchester Fourteen, the Conquest replaced the Daimler Consort. Sales were affected by increasing prices and by the fuel shortage caused by the Suez Crisis, and production ended by January 1958, before a replacement model was in production.

Engine

The standard 1953 Conquest used a straight-six engine developed from the inline-four engine used in Lanchester's Fourteen and Leda models. The engine was made from cast iron and had a single Zenith carburettor and a compression ratio of 6.6:1. With a bore of  and a stroke of , the engine displaced  and delivered .

The 1954 Conquest Century model had an alloy head with larger valves, higher compression, high lift cams, and twin SU carburettors.  These modifications raised the power to  at 4400 rpm.

Body, chassis, and running gear

Origins

The body was a slightly modified version of that used on the earlier Lanchester Fourteen. Apart from the grille and fog lamps, the Conquest was identical to the Lanchester Fourteen and Leda.  While the Fourteen had been coachbuilt of steel on a timber frame, the Leda had an all-steel body, on which the Conquest's was based. The whole car appeared to have been developed within four months of Bernard Docker, then managing director of BSA, taking on the additional responsibility of managing director of Daimler in January 1953.

Presented as a new car, the  Conquest originated in the 1950 Fourteen or Leda, produced by Daimler's subsidiary, Lanchester. The chassis was suitably modified to accommodate its new 2.4-litre 6-cylinder engine.

Specifications
The usual Daimler large cruciform chassis had a double wishbone front suspension, with laminated torsion bars, telescopic dampers, and an anti-roll bar, while the rear suspension used leaf springs with telescopic dampers.

All cars featured automatic chassis lubrication to 21 points, using a pump controlled by exhaust heat at startup.

Cam and peg steering was used, and Girling hydro-mechanical brakes:  hydraulic front, mechanical rear. The cars had an  wheelbase.

The Century specification included a stronger four-pinion differential, replacing the Conquest's two-pinion differential.  The Century's brakes were also upgraded with increased lining area.

In January 1955, a number of upgrades were announced. There was four inches more leg-space for rear seat passengers. In addition, doors now opened wider and there were "further interior embellishments".

In October 1955, the Mark II models were announced for the Earls Court Motor Show, available as before in Conquest (75 bhp) and Conquest Century (100 bhp) form.  However, the Daimler Conquest Century was now called the Daimler Century in marketing literature. The built-in fog lamps were now replaced by independent valance-mounted fog and driving lamps and their former location became ducts for the heater and air vent.

Body styles
Conquest was offered in the following models:

Standard production models

Models produced in limited numbers

Performance

The Conquest's engine produced  at 4000 rpm, and  of torque at 2000 rpm. In Century form the dry liner, pushrod engine with its balanced crank and large water jacket, delivered  at 4000 rpm, and  of torque at 2400 rpm. A Daimler four-speed preselector gearbox with "fluid flywheel" was used.

The Saloon had steel bodies weighing  (Conquest: , 0-60 mph: 20.4 seconds. Conquest Century: ).

The open two-seater Roadster had an aluminium body, except for the bonnet, and aluminium castings were used instead of a traditional timber frame. The Roadster pioneered the Century specification of the Conquest engine, though when it debuted in the Roadster, it was said to produce just 90 bhp. (100 mph, 0-60 mph: 14.5 seconds, 25.5 cwt (1300 kg))

The 4-seater drophead coupé had a powered roof folding mechanism and shared few body parts with the Roadster. (), 0-60 mph: 16.3 seconds)

The New Drophead had steel to the B-pillars, and alloy from there back, apart from steel inner rear guards. (), 0-60 mph: 19.7 seconds)

The lighter Roadster was slightly taller geared; while the heavier New Drophead also was slightly lower geared. Other differences to the Conquest saloon (1) include  brakes, and steering that was 2½ turns lock-to-lock instead of 3¼.

A saloon tested by The Motor magazine in 1953 had a top speed of  and could accelerate from 0- in 24.3 seconds. A fuel consumption of  was recorded. The test car cost £1511 including taxes.

Production history