[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lincolnville Historic District

and activists from other parts of the country came to join local activists in non-violent protests. Hundreds were arrested and filled the jails; their struggle brought national attention to the issues and aided Congressional passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.

Recognition and redevelopment
After the end of legal segregation, some African Americans began to move to other areas of newer, suburban housing, joining the major postwar trend in the United States. Employment and population in this area have declined, but the city wanted to recognize the rich history and architectural resources. In 1991 the Lincolnville Historic District was documented and listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Bounded by Cedar, Riberia, Cerro and Washington streets and DeSoto Place, it contained 548 historic buildings.

At the same time, migration to Florida from other parts of the country increased. The city of St. Augustine supported demolition of deteriorating buildings in order to redevelop some of the Lincolnville area for new housing and uses, and numerous historic buildings were taken down. In the 21st century, redevelopment pressure has continued, as new development is yielding higher rates of profit. In 2014, there were plans to build an aquarium, the St. Augustine Aquarium, in an empty landfill in the neighborhood, but the project was blocked due to concerns about traffic.

See also
St. Benedict the Moor School

References

External links

 Historic City News, Lincolnville's source for local news and information. Located in the Solla-Carcaba Cigar Factory
 St. Johns County, FL listings, National Register of Historic Places
 Civil Rights: "We Shall Overcome—Lincolnville Historic District", National Park Service
 Freedom Trail of Historic Sites of the Civil Rights Movement

National Register of Historic Places in St. Johns County, Florida
St. Augustine, Florida
Historic districts on the National Register of Historic Places in Florida
1991 establishments in Florida