[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Don't Torture a Duckling

d incantations have alone brought about the deaths of the three interfering boys, and she professes to have no interest in or awareness of the physical methods used. An alibi provided by a policeman sighting Magiara miles away from the latest murder scene clinches her innocence, and she is released.

Nonetheless, the hostile and superstitious villagers are not convinced: Magiara is shunned by the local women and then attacked in a local graveyard by a small group of men who savagely beat her with heavy chains and then leave her for dead. She manages to crawl to the highway but dies. The following day, another young boy is found drowned in a local stream, which further increases police frustration about the case.

During further meetings with Don Alberto, Martelli learns that Don Alberto's mother has a young child, a six-year-old deaf and mute girl with an intellectual disability. Martelli becomes convinced that the little girl is a witness to the killings after seeing that she compulsively pulls the heads off her dolls as if imitating the strangulations. One doll's head, that of Donald Duck, is found near the latest crime scene. When Aurelia disappears with her daughter, Martelli and Patrizia track her down hiding out at a remote shack on a hill overlooking the town. When they arrive, Aurelia is found barely conscious, begging them to help her stop her crazy son. It turns out that Don Alberto strangled those young boys, not for their sins but to prevent them from sinning when they grow up. In his twisted mind, Don Alberto believes that as a man of God, he has the right to kill young boys to send them to Heaven with clean souls.

Don Alberto now attempts to throw his little sister, a witness to the crimes, off a remote cliff. Martelli arrives in the nick of time, and after a climactic fistfight between Martelli and Don Alberto, the insane priest loses his balance and falls off the cliff to his gruesome death.

Cast 
 Florinda Bolkan as La Maciara
 Barbara Bouchet as Patrizia
 Tomas Milian as Andrea Martelli
 Irene Papas as Aurelia Avallone
 Marc Porel as Don Alberto Avallone
 Georges Wilson as "Uncle" Francesco
 Antonello Campodifiori as Police Lieutenant
 Ugo D'Alessio as Captain Modesti
 Virgilio Gazzolo as Police Commissioner
 Vito Passeri as Giuseppe Barra
 Rosalia Maggio as Mrs. Spriano, Michele's mother
 Andrea Aureli as Mr. Lo Cascio, Bruno's father
 Linda Sini as Mrs. Lo Cascio, Bruno's mother
 Franco Balducci as Mr. Spriano, Michele's father
 Fausta Avelli as Malvina Avallone (uncredited)

Release 
Don't Torture a Duckling was released theatrically in Italy on September 29, 1972.

When the film was first released in 1972, it received only a limited release in Europe, due to the film's themes, among which was criticism of the Roman Catholic Church. It was released in France as La longue nuit de l'exorcisme/ The Long Night of Exorcism. Though an English language audio track was created for the movie in 1972, it was never theatrically released in the United States and remained unreleased until 1999 when Anchor Bay Entertainment released the film on DVD and VHS. Adrian Luther Smith's reference work lists the translation of the original Italian title as Don't Torture Donald Duck, since in Italy, the cartoon character is referred to as Paperino.

Home media 
The film was made available for the first time ever in the United States on both VHS and DVD through Anchor Bay Entertainment as part of the "Lucio Fulci Collection", uncut and remastered, containing its original aspect ratio of 2.35:1 for the DVD release. American distribution company Blue Underground released the same version of the film on DVD on 27 February 2007.

In the United Kingdom, Shameless Screen Entertainment made the film available on DVD on 29 August 2011 in a "Shameless Fan Edition", which contains, for the first time, optional English and Italian audio and subtitles, the Italian theatrical trailer and a booklet adapted by Stephen Thrower from Beyond Terror, his definitive book.