[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

d ability to use quantum brainwaves and directly interface with Veda, as well as their agelessness and androgyny. Tieria Erde is also an Innovade, but has sided with Celestial Being, and a number of other Innovades were shown participating in ordinary life worldwide in the final episode of season 2.

 
 Ribbons Almark is the main antagonist of the series, acting through Alejandro Corner in the first season before abandoning him. Seeing himself to be godlike, Ribbons' main goal throughout the series has been to twist Aeolia's plan to suit his own agenda of ruling humanity. He's extremely arrogant, considers himself superior to both humans and Innovators. Using the A-Laws from behind the scenes, Ribbons watches the battles unfold from the comfort of his lair. The novels and Gundam 00 S2 Ep 14 had revealed that Ribbons is the pilot of 0 Gundam. During an intervention mission in the Kurdish Republic, he was supposed to kill all the combatants in there; however, upon seeing the awed young Soran Ibrahim, Ribbons perceives the boy's look to be one of utter admiration and worship, and lets him live. Afterwards, he went and tampered with Veda's files in order to make Soran into Setsuna. He would later comment that this was a "momentary impulse... but also a sort of mercy." During a face-to-face meeting with Setsuna, Ribbons reveals his part in his entry into Celestial Being by tampering Veda's files while attempting to take the 00 Raiser from him. After having Regene killed, Ribbons then proceeds to begin the final phase of his plan. However, after killing Tieria, Ribbons learns too late that Tieria merged his mind with Veda and as a result, loses control of Veda. Refusing to let his plan die, Ribbons reveals himself in the Reborns Gundam to fight Setsuna's 00 Gundam before taking one of its GN drives to re-power his 0 Gundam to battle Setsuna in the rebuilt Exia R2 in a heated battle until the 0 Gundam is destroyed. 

 
 Regene Regetta is an Innovator who is the genetic twin of Tieria Erde. Although he works closely with Ribbons Almark, the two do not always see eye to eye (in part because of Ribbons' ego). As a result, Regene often acts of his own will to complete the plan Aeolia intended, from meeting with Tieria to leaking Veda's location to Wang Liu Mei. However, Ribbons was a step ahead of Regene and had Ali Al-Saachez kill him when he attempted to kill Ribbons. However, Regene's consciousness lived long enough to see Tieria use the codes he gave him in their meeting to lock Ribbons out of Veda. 

 
 Revive Revival is an Innovator and the genetic twin of Anew Returner. Revive joins the A-Laws to combat the Gundams and pilots the Gadessa. Like Mr. Bushido, Revive holds a special license that allows him to act independently. However he agrees to follow Kati Mannequin's battle strategies. Later Revive allows himself to be captured by Celestial Being in order to steal the 00 Gundam and 0 Raiser with Anew's aid, but the attempt is thwarted. Revive is killed by Lyle Dylandy during the climactic battle at the end of the second series when the Cherudim Gundam targets the Gadessa's cockpit after Lockon used the last remaining second of Cherudim's Trans-Am to move at the back of Gadessa, Cherudim was badly damage at that time having lost an arm and a leg and most of his weapons after Lockon battled Ali Al-Saachez in a close combat, also he lost the two main firing fingers of the remaining hand in the battle against Revive, as Allelujah/Hallelujah stated in his own match, Lockon states that the innovators are weak without Veda's link support. 

 
 Hiling Care is an Innovator and the genetic twin of Ribbons Almark, expressing a fondness for him and bearing a grudge against anyone else he has a fancy for. Hiling also frequently teases her comrades. Joining Revive Revival with the A-Laws, also with a special license that allows her to act independently, Hiling is eager to battle with the Celestial Being and the Gundams. Hiling pilots a Gadessa and later a Garazzo in several operations against the Ptolemaios II. She is later ordered by Ribbons to retreat from A-Laws to help in defending Veda. In the final battles, she is brutally killed by the returned Hallelujah/Allelujah super-soldier, crying out to Ribbons to save her as she dies, while the reborn "True Super-Soldier" muses that the Innovators are unworthy and weak opponents when their support link with Veda is cut off.