[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George Leonard Andrews

ronghold on the Mississippi River, ultimately surrendered on July 9, 1863, after hearing of the surrender of Vicksburg, Mississippi.  Andrews personally accepted the sword of the Confederate commander of Port Hudson during the formal surrender and returned it to him as a compliment to their bravery.

District of Baton Rouge and Port Hudson
The day after the fall of Port Hudson, Andrews was assigned to organize the African-American troops in the Army of the Gulf, forming the Corps d'Afrique.  Andrews was also placed in command of the Army District of Baton Rouge and Port Hudson.  He retained command of the district and the Corps d'Afrique until February 1865.  To recruit African-Americans, Andrews dispatched soldiers to plantations throughout his district to enlist freed slaves.

On February 27, Andrews was relieved from command of the District of Baton Rouge and Port Hudson and reported to New Orleans where he was appointed provost marshal general for the Department of the Gulf.  He served as an aide to Maj. Gen. Edward Canby during the Siege of Mobile Campaign which forced the surrender of the last Confederate stronghold on the Gulf coast.  For his service during this campaign, Andrews was given a commendation by Canby.

After the Confederacy's surrender in April 1865, Andrews spent a portion of the summer as Maj. Gen. Canby's chief of staff, then resigned his commission on August 24, 1865. On January 13, 1866, President Andrew Johnson nominated Andrews to the honorary grade of brevet major general, United States Volunteers, to rank from March 26, 1865, and the United States Senate confirmed the award on March 12, 1866.

Post-war career
After the Civil War, Andrews spent two years as a planter in Mississippi.  He then moved back to Massachusetts and was a United States marshal from 1867 to 1871. He was a professor of French at West Point from 1871 to 1882, and of modern languages from 1882 until his retirement in 1892.

Fort Andrews, a fortification on Peddocks Island in Boston Harbor, was named after him.  Constructed in 1897, the fort held the largest garrison of any fortification in Boston Harbor in the early 20th century (two thousand troops).  It was abandoned by the U.S. Army in 1946 and is currently in ruins.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Union)
List of Massachusetts generals in the American Civil War
Massachusetts in the American Civil War

Notes

References

External links

George Leonard Andrews in The National Cyclopædia of American Biography

People of Massachusetts in the American Civil War
United States Military Academy alumni
United States Army officers
Union Army generals
United States Marshals
People from Bridgewater, Massachusetts
1828 births
1899 deaths
Burials at Mount Auburn Cemetery
United States Military Academy faculty