[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Ștefan Voitec

ing to researcher Victor Frunză, they coordinated their push with agents of the Siguranța, who served communist and Soviet interests. They also obtained support from a Transylvanian faction formed around trade unionist István Lakatos, though the latter had earned the reputation of an anti-communist.

In 1946–1947, Voitec was also a member of the Tătărescu-led Romanian delegation to the Paris Peace Conference, and, as such, one of the signatories of the Peace Treaty with Romania. A rumor recorded by diarist Traian Chelariu had him negotiating with Constantin Vișoianu, a leader of the anti-communist exiles in France. Other accounts have it that Tătărescu and Voitec, being entirely absorbed by economic issues, as well as "subservient to the Russians", ignored another exiled politician, Grigore Gafencu. The latter was trying to obtain their signatures for a note of protest against the Soviet takeover in Bessarabia and northern Bukovina. During Voitec's leave of absence, PSDR activist Poldi Filderman organized meetings between Rădăceanu, Solomon, and other party leaders. An informant for the Siguranța claimed that such talks converged on the need to eventually merge the PSDR and the PCR into a "Singular Workers' Party". Their alleged motivation was "panic" at the realization that they would otherwise be physically destroyed, since the conference would leave Romania inside the Eastern bloc. According to this report: "their only hope is for an international intervention that may yet ease their situation." With Voitec absent, and against his instructions, the party's anti-communist caucus obtained an unusual victory, in that it selected Lakatos for an eligible position on the PSDR list. Voitec accepted this personal humiliation without intervening.

In that context, Voitec also participated in the PSDR's recruitment drive, often with questionable methods. Communist cadres noted that Minister Voitec had coaxed schoolteachers into joining his party, and agreed that "such opportunism must be curbed". A well-known case was that of Ioachim Crăciun, who became Dean of the Cluj Faculty of History after befriending the minister and applying for membership. New arrivals included a former Iron Guard poet, David Portase, whom Voitec allegedly regarded as his personal friend. Voitec was nevertheless also supportive of people with anti-fascist credentials, including geologist Benone Constantin, a survivor of the Iași pogrom—who, on his intervention, became the youngest member of the PSDR Central Committee.

Communist merger
 
Rădăceanu and Voitec reintroduced their proposal as a motion during the PSDR's Conference of February–March 1946, where it won the majority endorsement. His conversion notwithstanding, Voitec was chided by Pauker for not being fully committed to the "democratization" of educational institutions, and even called "reactionary". The People's Tribunal noted in mid-1945 that Voitec had failed to verify Vasile Țepordei, a PSDR Bessarabian whom he had appointed to a teacher's position; also then, Voitec and Titel Petrescu performed a discreet favor for the nationalist doctrinaire Nichifor Crainic, who had been sentenced for his activities under Antonescu and was hiding out in the country. In June 1945, as rector of Iași University, Alexander Myller argued that the Minister was too forgiving, and not fully committed to the educational purges. His leniency is also highlighted by historian Șerban Rădulescu-Zoner: Voitec criticized teaching staff at the Central School for Girls for failing to prevent students from attending a monarchist rally in November 1945; however, he refrained from persecuting Elena Malaxa, the headmistress (and sister of industrialist Nicolae Malaxa).

In parallel, Voitec had to deal with rioting students of various political hues. There was Hungarian irredentist agitation in places such as Târgu Mureș; after students held an anti-Romanian rally in February 1946, he dismissed the leadership of the Hungarian Industrial High School. The following month, Sergiu Iacovlov, a National Peasantist enrolled at the Iași Faculty of Medicine, was killed in mysterious circumstances, prompting his party to allege a communist conspiracy "to exterminate the opposition". Voitec and Rector Andrei Oțetea intervened to prevent the students and workers from going into battle with each other over the issue, informing them that the university would be shut down over any additional violence. During the establishment of Bolyai University in Cluj (June 1946), Voitec found himself challenged by a Romanian students' strike. His PSDR colleagues intervened in an attempt to curb it, before Voitec himself ordered a wave of expulsions—including that of Valeriu Anania, depicted as an Iron Guard sympathizer.