[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Global Harmonization Task Force

or harmonization as well as those that pose a threat to harmonization. The Group also deals with the standardization of pre-market submissions and product labeling.

Examples of documents put out by Study Group 1 include Principles of Medical Devices Classification, and Labeling for Medical Devices.

Study Group 2
Study Group 2 is concerned with medical device vigilance such as medical device reporting and post market surveillance. The Group is designed to harmonize the data collection and reporting systems of the industry.
Examples of documents put out by Study Group 2 include Medical Devices Post Market Surveillance: Content of Field Safety Notices, Manufacturer's Trend Reporting of Adverse Events and National Competent Authority Report Exchange Criteria including reference to the use of the GMDN.

Study Group 3
Study Group 3 is concerned with examining and harmonizing current quality systems requirements.
Examples of documents put out by Study Group 3 include Implementation of Risk Management Principles and Activities Within a Quality Management System and Quality Management Systems - Process Validation Guidance.

Study Group 4
Study Group 4 is concerned with examining current quality systems auditing practices and the harmonization of the auditing process.
Examples of documents put out by Study Group 4 include Training Requirements for Auditors and Guidelines for Regulatory Auditing of Quality Management.

Study Group 5
Study Group 5 is concerned with the convergence of clinical practices. This includes the harmonization of clinical terms, reports and evaluations.
Study Group 5 has yet to produce any final documents, but areas of proposed topics include Clinical Evaluation and Clinical Evidence.

Study Group Chair

The Study Group Chair member is appointed for a three-year term by the Steering Committee. Upon completion of the term, the Chair is re-evaluated by the Steering Committee based on the needs of the Study Group. The support of a Vice Chair member usually consists of a member from the industry in a different region from the Chair.

See also
U.S. Food and Drug Administration

External links
Global Harmonization Task Force, supersede by International Medical Device Regulators Forum
Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency
Health Canada
Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare 
Device Harmonization

Notes

Medical equipment