[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of 2006 human rights incidents in Egypt

ans began legal proceedings to sue Bishop Maximus I for setting up an alternative orthodox church in Egypt.

July 5:  	112 MPs called for the censorship of the film The Yacoubian Building.

July 8: 	Twenty-six Egyptian newspapers did not print in a show of protest against the proposed new press law.

July 8:	Police arrested 27 MB members.
 
July 9:  	Authorities referred 18 MB leaders for trial, among them leading politburo member Essam al-Eryan, along with hundreds of other MB members arrested during recent protests in support of judicial reform.
July 9:	Three hundred opposition journalists and supporters gathered in front of the Cairo Parliament Building to protest the proposed new press law.

July 10:  	Parliament passed the new press law, which includes huge fines for journalists who insult the president.  Under the legislation, journalists found to be critical of government officials are liable to receive up to five years in prison or a fine of up to US$5220, while editors can be fined up to US$3480.

July 14:  	One thousand Egyptians demonstrated at al-Azhar Mosque against Israel and in solidarity with the Lebanese and Palestinian peoples.

July 21:	Three thousand Egyptians at various Alexandria mosques demonstrated against Israel and in support of Lebanon and Palestine.

August 2006 

August 13:  	Al Ahram reversed a previous move and unblocked employees' access to several blogs and independent political websites. The Labour Party website and several others remained blocked.

August 14:  	An Egyptian court released MB politburo members Essam al-Eryan and Mohammed Morsi, both of whom had been detained since April.
 
August 16:  	State prosecution has the order to release MB members Essam al-Eryan and Mohammed Morsi overturned.  An Egyptian court then ordered Essam and Morsi to be detained for another 15 days.
August 18:  	Police arrested 17 MB members in the Nile Delta town Menoufia on charges of holding a meeting aimed at reviving the banned group's activities.

August 25:  	Police arrested 17 MB members, including MB secretary-general Mahmoud Ezzat and senior member Lasheen Abu Shanab.

August 26:	Police arrested four MB in the Upper Egyptian governorate of Beni Suef.

September 2006 

September 7:	70 detainees at a Damanhur prison held a hunger strike in protest of their 2004 imprisonment.

September 17: 	Egypt's public prosecutor charged 14 employees of the state's railway authority with negligence.  One month previous, on August 21, a rail accident in Qalyub led to the deaths of 56 Egyptians.

September 24:	Authorities banned editions of French newspaper Le Figaro and German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung because of articles deemed insulting to Islam.

September 25: 	An Egyptian court released prominent MB member Mohamed Al-Hayawan, who had been detained since December 2005.

October 2006 

October 13:	Police arrested eight MB in the Nile Delta governorate of Monufia on charges of belonging to an illegal organization and possessing anti-government pamphlets.

October 23:  	An Egyptian court ordered MB members Essam Al-Eriyan and Mohamed Morsi to be detained for another 15 days.

November 2006 

November 9:  	One hundred protesters outside downtown Cairo's Journalists' Syndicate demonstrated against the failure of authorities to stop the October 23 and 24 sexual harassment gangs in Tahrir Square.
November 19:  Police arrested blogger Rami Siyam in downtown Cairo.  Siyam had been running his blog since May 2005 and usually posted material critical of the government.

December 2006

Notes

Politics of Egypt
2006 in Egypt
Human rights
Human rights abuses in Egypt
Human rights-related lists
International Republican Institute