[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Second Great Migration (African American)

using and both the California and United States Supreme Court declared Prop 14 unconstitutional. It was officially repealed by California Proposition 7 in 1974, but while it was in practice it contributed to the segregation of black migrants and is cited as a direct cause of the Watts riots in 1965.

The effect of racially homogeneous communities composed largely of migrant blacks that formed because of spatial segregation in destination cities was that they were largely influenced by the Southern culture they brought with them. The food, music and even the discriminatory white police presence in these neighborhoods were all imported to a certain extent from the collective experiences of the highly concentrated African American migrants.  Writers have often assumed that Southern migrants contributed disproportionately to changes in the African-American family in the inner city. However, census data  for 1940 through 1990 show that these families actually exhibited more traditional family patterns - more children living with two parents, more ever-married women living with their spouses, and fewer never-married mothers.

Statistics

See also

 Black Belt in the American South
 Great Migration (African American)
 Urban culture
 New Great Migration
Hillbilly Highway

References

Further reading

 Arnesen, Eric. Black Protest and the Great Migration: A Brief History with Documents (2002).
 Gregory, James.  The Southern Diaspora: How the Great Migrations of Black and White Southerners Transformed America.  (University of North Carolina Press, 2005).
 Grossman, James R.  Land of Hope: Chicago, Black Southerners, and the Great Migration (1991).
 Lemann, Nicholas. The Promised Land: The Great Black Migration and How It Changed America (1991)
 Reich, Steven A. ed. The Great Black Migration: A Historical Encyclopedia of the American Mosaic  (2014), one-volume abridged version of 2006 three volume set; Topical entries plus primary sources
 Sernett, Milton.  Bound for the Promised Land: African Americans' Religion and the Great Migration (1997).
  Wilkerson, Isabel. The Warmth of Other Suns: The Epic Story of America's Great Migration (Random House, 2010) 640pp; based on over 1000 interviews; 

African-American history between emancipation and the civil rights movement
Demographic history of the United States
Internal migrations in the United States
African-American demographics
History of the Southern United States
Midwestern United States
Northeastern United States
Western United States
Historical migrations
20th century in the United States