[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Eamonn Bannon

tional career in 1978, making his début for the Scotland under-21 team on 17 September at Pittodrie Stadium in a friendly against the USA. He went on to play a total of seven games at Under 21 level between 1978 and 1980, scoring once in a European Championship tie away against Norway in a 2–2 draw.

Bannon made his full international début for Scotland on 19 December 1979 in a European Championship qualifier against Belgium at Hampden Park.  Bannon played in the first half, but was replaced at half-time by Davie Provan as Belgium eased to a comfortable 3–1 win. He didn't feature again for Scotland until getting a recall for the 1983 British Home Championship tie against Northern Ireland at Hampden on 24 May 1983. Although the match finished 0–0, Bannon impressed with his pace and crossing of the ball, and was considered one of Scotland's best players on the night. He kept his place in the side for the next British Championship match four days later in Cardiff against Wales, helping Scotland win 2–0. Scotland travelled to Wembley for the last tie against England on 1 June. However, Scotland were outplayed and Bannon failed to match the form he had shown in the previous two games.  England ran out comfortable 2–0 winners to clinch the British Championship title. Bannon faded from the international scene after that, but scored what proved to be his only Scotland goal in November 1983 away against East Germany.

In January 1986, with Scotland making preparations for the World Cup in Mexico, Bannon's form at club level saw him selected by Alex Ferguson for his 21-man squad travelling to play Israel for a friendly in Tel Aviv. Bannon was accompanied by four of his Dundee United teammates; Richard Gough, Maurice Malpas, David Narey and Paul Sturrock.

Bannon played in the match for Scotland, his first cap in over two years, which Scotland won 1–0. Back in the Scotland set-up, Bannon was part of the 22-man squad that travelled to Mexico for the World Cup.  What transpired to be his final two games for Scotland came as a substitute in the defeat to Denmark and started the next match against West Germany. It was in this game he had an outstanding shot from the edge of the box, forcing an excellent save by German goalkeeper Harald Schumacher. Scotland went on to lose the match 2–1, and Bannon was not included in the squad for the final group match against Uruguay.

His nephew, Paul Telfer, also played for Scotland.

Career statistics

See also
 List of footballers in Scotland by number of league appearances (500+)

References

External links

1958 births
Living people
Footballers from Edinburgh
Scottish men's footballers
Scotland men's under-21 international footballers
Scotland men's international footballers
1986 FIFA World Cup players
English Football League players
Scottish Football League players
Heart of Midlothian F.C. players
Chelsea F.C. players
Dundee United F.C. players
Hibernian F.C. players
Stenhousemuir F.C. players
The Spartans F.C. players
Scottish football managers
Heart of Midlothian F.C. non-playing staff
Falkirk F.C. managers
People educated at Liberton High School
Scottish Football League representative players
Scottish Football League managers
Men's association football midfielders