[Source: PubMed]

4. Environ Health Perspect. 2014 Nov;122(11):1177-86. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1307396. 
Epub 2014 Jul 8.

An evidence-based public health approach to climate change adaptation.

Hess JJ(1), Eidson M, Tlumak JE, Raab KK, Luber G.

Author information:
(1)Climate and Health Program, Division of Environmental Hazards and Health 
Effects, National Center for Environmental Health, Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

BACKGROUND: Public health is committed to evidence-based practice, yet there has 
been minimal discussion of how to apply an evidence-based practice framework to 
climate change adaptation.
OBJECTIVES: Our goal was to review the literature on evidence-based public 
health (EBPH), to determine whether it can be applied to climate change 
adaptation, and to consider how emphasizing evidence-based practice may 
influence research and practice decisions related to public health adaptation to 
climate change.
METHODS: We conducted a substantive review of EBPH, identified a consensus EBPH 
framework, and modified it to support an EBPH approach to climate change 
adaptation. We applied the framework to an example and considered implications 
for stakeholders.
DISCUSSION: A modified EBPH framework can accommodate the wide range of 
exposures, outcomes, and modes of inquiry associated with climate change 
adaptation and the variety of settings in which adaptation activities will be 
pursued. Several factors currently limit application of the framework, including 
a lack of higher-level evidence of intervention efficacy and a lack of 
guidelines for reporting climate change health impact projections. To enhance 
the evidence base, there must be increased attention to designing, evaluating, 
and reporting adaptation interventions; standardized health impact projection 
reporting; and increased attention to knowledge translation. This approach has 
implications for funders, researchers, journal editors, practitioners, and 
policy makers.
CONCLUSIONS: The current approach to EBPH can, with modifications, support 
climate change adaptation activities, but there is little evidence regarding 
interventions and knowledge translation, and guidelines for projecting health 
impacts are lacking. Realizing the goal of an evidence-based approach will 
require systematic, coordinated efforts among various stakeholders.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1307396
PMCID: PMC4216160
PMID: 25003495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.J.H. currently serves as a consultant for the 
CDC and has served as a consultant to Lumenetec LLC and to the Natural Resources 
Defense Council within the last 3 years. The other authors declare they have no 
actual or potential competing financial interests.