[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kevin Gilbert (author)

Kevin John Gilbert (10 July 1933 – 1 April 1993) was an Aboriginal Australian author, activist, artist, poet, playwright and printmaker. A Wiradjuri man, Gilbert was born on the banks of the Lachlan River in New South Wales. Gilbert was the first Aboriginal playwright and printmaker. He was an active human rights defender and was involved in the establishment of the Aboriginal Tent Embassy in 1972 as well as various protests to advocate for Aboriginal Australian sovereignty.

Gilbert won the 1978 National Book Council prize for writers, for Living Black: Blacks Talk to Kevin Gilbert (1977).

Early life 
Gilbert was the youngest of eight children, born on 10 July 1933 to a Wiradjuri mother and an Irish/English father. He was born  on the bank of the Kalara/ Lachlan River just outside Condobolin in New South Wales and at age seven he and his siblings were orphaned. He was raised by his eldest sisters and extended family on an Aboriginal reserve. He left school at the age of thirteen and picked up various seasonal and short-term itinerant jobs.

His book Me and Mary Kangaroo reflect a childhood of intimate connection to his mother's Wiradjuri country. and Child’s Dreaming

His extended family would annually travel on the fruit-picking circuit within Wiradjuri territory as "…a temporary release from near starvation … and above all, it meant some independence, some freedom, from under the crucifying heels of the local police and the white station managers; an escape from refugee camps called 'Aboriginal reserves'".

On 12 June 1954, he married Goma Scott. In 1957, Gilbert murdered Goma, apparently because of her infidelity. He received a life sentence. In prison, he educated himself and developed his artistic talents. He was released on parole after 14 years.

In his own words:

Art
In prison, Gilbert produced the first lino prints ever made by an Aboriginal artist, and were his first efforts at creative expression. He fashioned his own tools "from a spoon, fork, gem blades and nails",  and carved "old brittle lino off the prison floor", creating images by rubbing the paper over the lino cuts with the back of a spoon.

After his release (around 1971), Gilbert established the Kalari Aboriginal Art Gallery near Taree, NSW. 

His works have been extensively exhibited nationally and internationally in Havana, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Boston, Massachusetts, Portland, Oregon, Durban, London, and Athens. His unique artistic style is part of the Australian National Gallery collection and is housed in other major Australian art institutions.

Writing career

The Cherry Pickers
While in prison Gilbert also took up writing. In 1968 he started to pen the play The Cherry Pickers, which was smuggled out of gaol on toilet paper. It was first workshopped and presented in a reading at the small Mews Theatre in Sydney 'in the open air' with Bob Maza and other Aboriginal actors reading the parts. The play is significant that it was the first play written in English by an Aboriginal and also the first play to be performed entirely by an Aboriginal cast. The critic and publisher Katharine Brisbane, described her response after viewing an early performed reading of "The Cherry Pickers as  'I was overawed with a sense of privilege at being allowed into the domestic life of a people whose privacy had, for so long and for such good reason, been guarded from white eyes'. A more complete moved reading was held in 1970 and 1971 in Sydney and the play was subsequently nominated in 1970 for the Captain Cook Memorial Award.

The play was performed in its full form by Melbourne's Nindethana Theatre Group in 1971 and in , Sydney in 1972 but the play was not published until 1988 when, in the wake of protests against the Bicentennial celebrations of European colonisation of Australia, it became a symbol of Aboriginal protest. Gilbert's play is based on the stories and experiences of itinerant workers and it deals with, as Gilbert puts it in an introduction to the play written in 1969:  ... spiritual searching and loss, my people pushed into refugee situations, desocialised if you like. The play's narrative mixes traditional creation myths, rituals, political diatribes, clever dialogue and humour. It is through this humour that Gilbert explores alcoholism, violence and spiritual and cultural issues. Gilbert also exhibited his artwork at the Arts Council Gallery in Sydney in 1970, in an exhibition organised by the Australia Council.

Particularly in his early verse, Gilbert uses the poetry as an apologia in respect to his own life whilst challenging the morality of the wider society.

Other writing
He authored Because a White Man'll Never Do It in 1973.