[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David Galula

t be done area by area, using a pacified territory as a basis of operation to conquer a neighbouring area.

Galula's laws thus take at face value and recognize the importance of the aphorism, based on the ideas of Mao, that "The people are the sea in which the revolutionary swims." He contends that:

A victory [in a counterinsurgency] is not the destruction in a given area of the insurgent's forces and his political organization.  ... A victory is that plus the permanent isolation of the insurgent from the population, isolation not enforced upon the population, but maintained by and with the population. ... In conventional warfare, strength is assessed according to military or other tangible criteria, such as the number of divisions, the position they hold, the industrial resources, etc.  In revolutionary warfare, strength must be assessed by the extent of support from the population as measured in terms of political organization at the grassroots. The counterinsurgent reaches a position of strength when his power is embedded in a political organization issuing from, and firmly supported by, the population.

With his four principles in mind, Galula goes on to describe a general military and political strategy to put them into operation in an area that is under full insurgent control:

In a Selected Area
1. Concentrate enough armed forces to destroy or to expel the main body of armed insurgents.
2. Detach for the area sufficient troops to oppose an insurgent's comeback in strength, install these troops in the hamlets, villages, and towns where the population lives.
3. Establish contact with the population, control its movements in order to cut off its links with the guerillas.
4. Destroy the local insurgent political organization.
5. Set up, by means of elections, new provisional local authorities.
6. Test those authorities by assigning them various concrete tasks. Replace the softs and the incompetents, give full support to the active leaders.  Organize self-defense units.
7. Group and educate the leaders in a national political movement.
8. Win over or suppress the last insurgent remnants.

Some of these steps can be skipped in areas that are only partially under insurgent control, and most of them are unnecessary in areas already controlled by the government. Thus the essence of counterinsurgency warfare is summed up by Galula as "Build (or rebuild) a political machine from the population upward."

Galula has been considered an important theorist by contemporary defence experts.  Notably, the United States military used his experiences as examples in the context of the Iraq War  and he is often quoted in the US Army's Counterinsurgency Manual. Galula's Counterinsurgency Warfare: Theory and Practice is highly suggested reading for students of the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College.

Galula's work on counter-insurgency is in large part based on the experiences and lesson of 130 years of French colonial warfare, most notably the work of Joseph-Simon Gallieni and Hubert Lyautey. He was also influenced by Jacques Guillermaz, with whom he disagreed on the handling of counter-revolutionary warfare, but who gave Galula intellectual mentorship during the years following 1945 when they served in China. The older soldier imparted an intellectual approach to military and geopolitical analysis.

Works 
 Counterinsurgency Warfare: Theory and Practice. Wesport, Connecticut: Praeger Security International, 1964,  
 Les Moustaches du tigre. Flammarion, 1965 (under the pseudonym of Jean Caran), 
 Pacification in Algeria, 1956–1958. RAND Corporation, 2006,

References
Notes

Bibliography
 

Further reading
Gagliano, Giuseppe La guerra rivoluzionaria nella riflessione strategica francese, Fuoco Edizioni, 2015

External links 
Marlow, Ann "David Galula: His Life and Intellectual Context" (Sep 2010) open-source analysis from the U.S. Army War College Strategic Studies Institute

1919 births
1967 deaths
Alumni of Lycée Lyautey (Casablanca)
Counterinsurgency theorists
Deaths from lung cancer
École Spéciale Militaire de Saint-Cyr alumni
French anti-communists
French Army officers
French male non-fiction writers
French military attachés
French military personnel of World War II
French military personnel of the Algerian War
French military writers
Tunisian emigrants to France
French prisoners of war in the 20th century
Guerrilla warfare theorists
Harvard University people
Military theorists
People from Sfax
People of the Chinese Civil War
People of the Greek Civil War
20th-century Tunisian Jews
Tunisian military personnel
20th-century French male writers
Tunisian expatriates in Morocco