[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Maging Sino Ka Man (2006 TV series)

Maging Sino Ka Man (International title: More Than Love / ) is a 2006 Philippine melodrama romantic television series directed by FM Reyes Romilla Balmaceda and Mae Czarina Cruz-Alviar. The series stars John Lloyd Cruz, Bea Alonzo, Anne Curtis, and Sam Milby, with an ensemble cast consisting of Christopher de Leon, Chin Chin Gutierrez, Irma Adlawan, Bing Pimentel, Glenda Garcia, Dick Israel, and Smokey Manaloto in their supporting roles. The series premiered on ABS-CBN's Primetime Bida nighttime block from October 9, 2006 to May 25, 2007, replacing Bituing Walang Ningning and was replaced by Which Star Are You From.

A sequel to the series, Maging Sino Ka Man: Ang Pagbabalik, premiered on December 10, 2007, and ended on March 28, 2008.

Overview
The soap opera is noted for having two rather than one romantic team. It tackles intricate filial relationships among the elite and the poor and how the social economic classes respond to each other, longing for love and justice, Maging Sino Ka Man revolves around the lives of four main characters (Eli, Jackie, Celine, and JB) who each are searching for purpose, freedom, and happiness. The soap has been praised both by audiences and critics for its excellent storyline and powerhouse acting. It was tagged as phenomenal and was widely talked about online.
Recurring subplots include a father's masochistic attitude as a result of his hatred toward his deceased mother, an unfaithful wife who redeems herself as a mother, a business tycoon who gives heavy importance to power and creating the "perfect son," a son's submission to his overpowering mother, a young woman's struggles to move beyond her pain, a brother's guilt over a crime and a man's vengeful transformation due to the death of his foster father.
A second book of Maging Sino Ka Man has been announced to be aired after the first season, which features a further plot concerning other lives who have left mysteries and questions in Book 1.

Cast and characters

Main cast

Secondary cast 

Eli's adoptive mother, Eloisa (Marissa Delgado) only appeared in flashbacks and dream sequences.
While most of the characters were named after known politicians, the soap was also directly affected by the 2007 National and Local Elections. Christopher de Leon's character (Fidel Madrigal) was sent to the United States because the actor was running for vice-governor of the province of Batangas. The Commission on Elections Omnibus Code states a maximum for airtime minutes of candidates to ensure fair exposure of electoral bets.

Plot

Part 1: Bucolic Place
The first six weeks of the series spans a period of roughly three months.
Jackie has lost her memory and can only rely on Eli, whom she only knows as her husband, and whom she grows to eventually love. Eli is constantly plagued by the lies he has told Jackie. They lead a quiet and simple life, hidden away in a small provincial town, with many nosy but caring neighbors to help them adjust to their new life.
While in the province, Eli gets a job working at a quarry, where he meets the foreman, a man named Oca. Mang Oca recognizes the jade pendant that Eli wears around his neck and takes an immediate interest in Eli, but does not reveal the reason why. 
With Jackie now believed to be dead, the Madrigal, Berenguer, and Magsaysay families mourn their loss. Celine, who for many years has concealed a secret love for JB, spends time with him and in the process the two eventually develop a budding romance. Their relationship is complicated by the arrival of Kevin Romero (Baron Geisler), a client who makes no secret of his interest in Celine. With JB's support, Celine stands up to Kevin's blackmail attempt and gains confidence in herself. But before Celine and JB's relationship can grow further, Jackie hits her head in a fall and wakes up remembering who she is.