[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Le Fort fracture of skull

ure is classically shaped like a pyramid. It extends from the nasal bridge at or below the nasofrontal suture through the superior medial wall of the maxilla, inferolaterally through the lacrimal bones which contain the tear ducts, and inferior orbital floor through or near the infraorbital foramen.

 Le Fort III fracture (transverse), otherwise known as craniofacial dissociation, may follow impact to the nasal bridge or upper maxilla. The salient feature of these fractures, beyond pterygoid plate involvement, is that they invariably involve the zygomatic arch, or cheek bone.  These fractures begin at the nasofrontal and frontomaxillary sutures and extend posteriorly along the medial wall of the orbit, through the nasolacrimal groove and ethmoid air cells. The sphenoid is thickened posteriorly, limiting fracture extension into the optic canal. Instead, the fracture continues along the orbital floor and infraorbital fissure, continuing through the lateral orbital wall to the zygomaticofrontal junction and zygomatic arch. Within the nose, the fracture extends through the base of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid air cells, the vomer, which are both part of the nasal septum. As with the other fractures, it also involves the junction of the pterygoids with the maxillary sinuses. CSF rhinorrhea, or leakage of the nutrient laden fluid that bathes the brain, is more commonly seen with these injuries due to ethmoid air cell disruption, as the air cells are located immediately beneath the skull base.

Treatment
Treatment is surgical, and usually is able to be performed once life-threatening injuries are stabilized, to allow the patient to survive the general anesthesia needed for maxillofacial surgery. First a frontal bar is used, which refers to the thickened frontal bone above the frontonasal sutures and the superior orbital rim. The facial bones are suspended from the bar by open reduction and internal fixation with titanium plates and screws, and each fracture is fixed, first at its superior attachment to the bar, then at the inferior attachment to the displaced bone. For stability, the zygomaticofrontal suture is usually replaced first, and the palate and alveolar ridge are usually fixed last. Finally, after the horizontal and vertical maxillary buttresses are stabilized, the orbital fractures are fixed last.

See also
 Oral and maxillofacial surgery
 Le Fort osteotomy

References

External links 
 eMedicine - Facial Trauma, Maxillary and Le Fort Fractures
 - LeFort Fractures

Bone fractures
Injuries of head
Oral and maxillofacial surgery
Orthopedic classifications