[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Monarchy in New Brunswick

New Brunswick, the arrangements were informal and the couple's Royal Canadian Mounted Police security detail overzealously confiscated the camera of a forestry student who happned to end up close to the Princess; the Duke eased the situation and suggested the officers return the camera to its owner.

Only a few months later, Princess Elizabeth acceded as Queen of Canada. Services of thanksgiving were held across the province for her coronation  on 2 June 1953 and denizens rose early to catch radio broadcasts of the ceremony from London, marched in Co ronation Day parades, danced at coronation balls, and watched fireworks displays. New Brunswickers also formed part of the Canadian Coronation Contingent that travelled to the United Kingdom and took part in the coronation procession. Elizabeth made her first tour of New Brunswick as queen in 1959, arriving at Fredericton airport on 29 July; she and the Duke of Edinburgh (who, by then, also held the title of prince) were welcomed by Lieutenant Governor Joseph Leonard O'Brien and a 100-man guard of honour assembled by The Black Watch (Royal Highland Regiment) of Canada. In the capital, the couple took in harness racing and a Queen's Scout recognition ceremony and, in Moncton, visited Victoria Park. At Pointe-du-Chêne, the Queen and Duke met with the families of fishermenlost in the Escuminac hurricane. Fredericton artist Howard Berry painted a 2.44 by 1.22 metre (eight by four foot) portrait of the Queen that was hung on the porch of the Legislative Building; it contained three significant allegories: a granite boulder, symbolizing New Brunswickers' loyalty; a body of water, indicating the St. Lawrence Seaway (which Elizabeth opened that year); and a glimpse of New Brunswick scenery, which was meant as an invitation.

The 1970s
Fredericton was again the starting point of a provincial tour by the Queen and Prince Philip, on 15 July 1976. Lieutenant Governor Hédard Robichaud (the first Acadian to act as the Queen's representative in New Brunswick) was there for the royal couple's arrival, after which they visited the Legislative Building and City Hall. At the parliament, Chief Anthony Francis, President of the Union of New Brunswick Indians, presented a petition to the Queen, demonstrating the connection between the Canadian Crown and the Indigenous peoples of Canada.

Elizabeth and Philip stopped at the Boy Scout and Girl Guide jamboree at Woolastook Provincial Park, where they had a picnic with the approximately 3,500 scouts and guides in attendance and watched performances by the Madawaska Dancers, Les jeunes chanteurs d’Acadie, the Kiwanis Steel Band, and the St. Andrew's Pipe Band, before moving on to Kings Landing Historical Settlement, there opening Morehouse House and launching the reproduction of the historical sailing ship, Brunswick Lion, which greatly interested Prince Philip, given his naval background. In the evening, the Queen hosted a dinner at McConnell Hall, at the University of New Brunswick, followed by a fireworks show.

In Miramichi, the following day, the Queen and Duke watched an armed forces program at CFB Chatham and attended a lunch put on by the provincial Crown-in-Council. There, Premier Richard B. Hatfield presented Elizabeth with a gift from New Brunswickers: a quilt hand-sewn by the Havelock United Baptist Church Ladies’ Auxiliary. The royal party moved on to Newcastle, where the Queen, as Sovereign of the Order of Saint John, met members of the Saint John Ambulance Brigade, and visited with employees and their families at the Burchill Laminating Plant.

The 1980s
The Queen and Prince Philip journeyed to New Brunswick to celebrate the province's bicentennial in 1984, arriving at Moncton on 24 September. The royal couple visited St. Joseph's Parish Church in Shediac to unveil a plaque marking the parish's 100th anniversary, The next day, Elizabeth and Philip attended service at Christ Church Cathedral in Fredericton and were at the Legislative Building, where the Queen issued a royal warrant augmenting the province's coat of arms with its present crest, supporters, compartment, and motto. The couple visited the University of New Brunswick for a lunch hosted by the provincial Crown, as well as Wilmot Park, where the Queen unveiled the plaque honouring Edward Wilmot for gifting the park to the city and recounting the park's official opening by Prince Albert Edward in 1860, and the Beaverbrook Art Gallery.