[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Peter Welch

s
 Climate Solutions Caucus
 Congressional Arts Caucus
 Congressional Biomass Caucus (co-chair)
 Congressional Dairy Farmers Caucus (co-chair and founder)
 Congressional NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus
 Congressional Progressive Caucus
Medicare for All Caucus
 Safe Climate Caucus

U.S. Senate

Elections

2022 

On November 15, 2021, incumbent Patrick Leahy announced that he would not seek reelection in the 2022 U.S. Senate election. Welch was considered a possible contender for the seat. On November 22, Welch announced his candidacy to succeed Leahy. He won the Democratic primary by a large margin, and defeated Republican nominee Gerald Malloy in the general election.

Political positions

Gun control
Welch participated in the 2016 United States House of Representatives sit-in to support gun control.

Welch supports a national assault weapons ban.

LGBTQIA+ rights
Welch supports transgender rights and gender-affirming care for transgender youth.

Personal life
Welch is married to Margaret Cheney, a former member of the Vermont House of Representatives who was appointed to the Vermont Public Service Board in 2013. His first wife, Joan Smith, died of cancer in 2004. Welch has five stepchildren from his first marriage and three from his second.

References

External links

 Senator Peter Welch official U.S. Senate website
 Peter Welch for Vermont campaign website
 
 

1947 births
20th-century American politicians
21st-century American politicians
American Roman Catholics
Candidates in the 1990 United States elections
Catholic politicians from Vermont
Catholics from Massachusetts
College of the Holy Cross alumni
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Vermont
Living people
Politicians from Springfield, Massachusetts
Presidents pro tempore of the Vermont Senate
Progressivism in the United States
Public defenders
UC Berkeley School of Law alumni
Vermont lawyers
Vermont state senators
Democratic Party United States senators from Vermont