[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# LGBT rights in Mexico

ederation (Diario Oficial de la Federación) on 11 June. The Council is the leading institution for promoting policies and measures contributing to cultural development and social progress in social inclusion and the right to equality, which is the first fundamental right in the Federal Constitution.

CONAPRED is also responsible for receiving and resolving grievances and complaints of alleged discriminatory acts committed by private individuals or federal authorities in carrying out their duties. CONAPRED also protects citizens with any distinction (or exclusion), based on any aspect mentioned in Article 4 of the federal law. The Council has legal personality, owns property, and is part of the Interior Ministry. Technical and management decisions are independent for its resolutions on claims and complaints.

2011 constitutional amendment
In 2011, the Mexican Constitution was amended to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. An amendment to the Constitution requires ratification by at least 16 states. The states of Aguascalientes, Baja California Sur, Campeche, Chiapas, Chihuahua, Coahuila, Colima, Durango, Guerrero, México, Michoacán, Nayarit, Querétaro, Quintana Roo, San Luis Potosí, Sonora, Tabasco, Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Yucatán and Zacatecas subsequently ratified the amendment. Article 1 of the Constitution reads:

State-level laws 

Most of Mexico's states have enacted laws that ban discrimination based on sexual orientation or sexual preference, as well as gender. Many states also explicitly ban discrimination based on gender identity in local laws.

Bans discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity: 
Aguascalientes, Baja California, Baja California Sur, Campeche, Coahuila, Durango, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Mexico City, Michoacan, Morelos, Nayarit, Nuevo León, Oaxaca, Puebla, Quintana Roo, Sinaloa, Sonora, Tlaxcala, and Yucatán.

Bans discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender, but not gender identity: 
Chiapas, Chihuahua, Colima, Guanajuato, Queretaro, San Luis Potosi, Tabasco, Tamaulipas, Veracruz, and Zacatecas.

Does not explicitly ban sexual orientation or gender identity discrimination in local law: 
State of Mexico

Hate crime laws 
Hate crimes laws that recognize motivation by gender and sexual preferences have been passed in Mexico City and in the states of Aguascalientes, Baja California Sur, Colima, Coahuila, Guerrero, Jalisco, Michoacán, Nayarit, Puebla, Querétaro, San Luis Potosí, Sinaloa, Sonora, Tlaxcala, Veracruz and Zacatecas.

LGBT speech laws 
Mexico's Supreme Court ruled in 2013 that two anti-gay slurs, "puñal" and "maricones," are not protected as freedom of expression under the Constitution, allowing people offended by the terms to sue for moral damages.

Military service
The Mexican Armed Forces' policy on sexual orientation is ambiguous, leaving homosexual and bisexual soldiers in a "legal limbo". Officially, there is no law or policy preventing homosexuals from serving, and applicants are not questioned on the subject. In practice, however, outed homosexual and bisexual soldiers are subject to severe harassment and are often discharged. One directive, issued in 2003, described actions "contrary to morality or good manners on- and off-duty" () as serious misconduct warranting disciplinary action. Other references to morality are found throughout military documents, leaving room for interpretation with regards to sexual orientation. Although there is no clear position from current military leadership, several retired generals have agreed that homosexual soldiers were usually removed from service either through an encouraged withdrawal or dishonorable discharge. By 2018, homosexuals were allowed to serve openly in the military. People whose homosexuality is discovered face harassment from other soldiers.

In 2007, the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation ruled that it is unconstitutional to discharge soldiers for being HIV-positive. Previously, a 2003 law required that HIV-soldiers be discharged from service.

Gender identity and expression

On 13 March 2004, amendments to the Mexico City Civil Code to allow transgender people to change their gender and name on their birth certificates took effect. In September 2008, the PRD-controlled Mexico City Legislative Assembly approved a further law, in a 37-17 vote, making gender changes easier for transgender people.