[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Glenn Greenwald

ies". Speaking via a video link, Greenwald said that, "It is the UK through their interception of underwater fibre optic cables, that is a primary threat to the privacy of European citizens when it comes to their telephone and emails". In a statement given to the European Parliament, Greenwald said:

On October 15, 2013, Greenwald left The Guardian, to pursue a "once-in-a-career dream journalistic opportunity that no journalist could possibly decline".

First Look Media and The Intercept
Financial backing for The Intercept was provided by eBay founder Pierre Omidyar. Omidyar told media critic Jay Rosen that the decision was fueled by his "rising concern about press freedoms in the United States and around the world". Greenwald, along with his colleagues Laura Poitras and Jeremy Scahill, initially were working on creating a platform online to support independent journalism, when they were approached by Omidyar, who was hoping to establish his own media organization. That news organization, First Look Media, launched its first online publication, The Intercept, on February 10, 2014. Greenwald initially served as editor, alongside Poitras and Scahill. The organization is incorporated as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt charitable entity.

The Intercept was in contact during the 2016 presidential campaign with Guccifer 2.0, who relayed some of the material about Hillary Clinton, gathered via a data breach, to Greenwald. The Grugq, a counterintelligence specialist, reported in October 2016: "The Intercept was both aware that the e-mails were from Guccifer 2.0, that Guccifer 2.0 has been attributed to Russian intelligence services, and that there is significant public evidence supporting this attribution."

By 2019, he was serving as an Intercept columnist without any control over the site's news reporting. On October 29, 2020, Greenwald resigned from The Intercept, giving his reasons as political censorship and contractual breaches by the editors, who he said had prevented him from reporting on allegations concerning Joe Biden's conduct with regard to China and Ukraine and had demanded that he not publish the article in any other publication. Betsy Reed, the editor-in-chief, disputed Greenwald's accusations and claims of censorship, and accused him of presenting dubious claims by the Trump campaign as journalism. Greenwald said he would begin publishing his work on Substack, and had begun "exploring the possibility of creating a new media outlet." After resigning from The Intercept, Greenwald published his article about Biden and his correspondence with the editors of The Intercept on his Substack page.

Substack, Locals, and Rumble 
After his resignation from The Intercept, Greenwald began publishing reporting and commentary on Substack, an online, subscriber-based newsletter platform, where (as of June 2023), he amassed over 295,000 subscribers. In 2023, Greenwald announced that he would begin hosting System Update, a nightly, one-hour live program on Rumble, an alternative to video-hosting platform YouTube. System Update consists of a monologue concerning topical political issues, often related to media criticism and developments within the American security state, as well as interviews with guests. Such guests have included academics, political figures, and journalists Jeffrey Sachs, John Mearsheimer, Edward Snowden, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., Lee Fang, and Matt Taibbi, among others. After moving to Rumble, Greenwald republished his Substack work to Locals, Rumble's Substack alternative.

Appearances on conservative media
According to Simon van Zuylen-Wood writing for New York magazine in early 2018, Greenwald has "repositioned himself as a bomb-throwing media critic" since the Snowden revelations. Greenwald has become a frequent guest on Fox News, particularly on Tucker Carlson Tonight. He claims that MSNBC has banned him from appearing on the network because of his criticisms of Rachel Maddow.

2019 Operation Car Wash Telegram chat leaks in Brazil

On June 9, 2019, Greenwald and journalists from investigative journalism magazine The Intercept Brasil where he was an editor, released several messages exchanged via Telegram between members of the investigation team of Operation Car Wash – called Car Leaks. The messages implicated members of Brazil's judiciary system and of the Operação Lava-Jato taskforce, including former judge and Minister of Justice Sérgio Moro, and lead prosecutor Deltan Dallagnol, in the violation of legal and ethical procedures during the investigation, trial and arrest of former president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, with the alleged objective of preventing him from running for a third term in the 2018 Brazilian general election, among other crimes. The FBI was also involved. Following the leak, Folha de São Paulo and Veja confirmed the authenticity of the messages and worked in partnership with The Intercept Brasil to sort the remaining material in their possession before releasing it.