[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Superstar (Jesus Christ Superstar song)

"Superstar" is the title song from the 1970 album and 1971 rock opera Jesus Christ Superstar written by Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice.

Content
The song is sung by the spirit of Judas Iscariot, who had died by suicide earlier in the show. The song consists of a series of questions addressed to Jesus, such as why Jesus chose to come to Israel in 4 BC when it had no "mass communication" as opposed to modern times, whether Jesus had planned his own death, whether Jesus knew beforehand that his death would become famous, and whether religious figures such as Gautama Buddha and Muhammad are his equals. It is dominated by repeated apologies for asking these questions ("Don't you get me wrong", "I only want to know"). Typically, Judas is accompanied by a choir of angels, and the song is performed during the crucifixion scene, if not immediately before it.

Versions

Original Murray Head version

"Superstar" was released as a single in 1969, before the album was completed. Sung by Murray Head with the Trinidad Singers, it initially debuted on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 singles chart for the week ending 31 January 1970, eventually peaking at No. 74 in late February 1970. Nearly one year later, the single re-entered the Hot 100 chart for the week ending 2 January 1971, eventually peaking at No. 60 on the chart in early March 1971. The single then fell off the chart three weeks later, but then almost immediately re-entered the Hot 100 chart a third and final time for the week ending 10 April 1971. It then rapidly climbed the Hot 100 chart during its third chart run, eventually spending two consecutive weeks at its peak position of No. 14 in late May and early June 1971. It performed even better in Canada, where it peaked on the RPM Top Singles chart at No. 6, and in New Zealand, where it reached No. 2 on Listener magazine. A video of the song was released to promote the album, with Murray Head and the Trinidad Singers appearing.

Recording
In order to get the concept album of Jesus Christ Superstar off the ground, Decca/MCA first gave Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice money to make the single and begin the album. They wanted to release the single first, which caused uproar within the MCA board at the time.

The single was recorded on 8-track equipment at the Olympic Studios in Barnes, London, with Irish 22-year-old Alan O'Duffy as the chief engineer. Lloyd Webber and Rice were backed by MCA and spent a small fortune on the recording, including using a full orchestra and the backing vocals of the Trinidad Singers. The Grease Band, one of the best rhythm sections in the world at that time, were brought in as the foundation of the ensemble.

Charts

Carl Anderson version

When the 1973 film version and its accompanying soundtrack was released, Carl Anderson played Judas.  During the scene in the film when the song "Superstar" is played, Anderson was lowered onto the stage by a crane made to look like a star during the song's intro.  Ted Neeley as Jesus is shown during the song being lowered onto a cross.

Other versions
Laura Osnes, female winner of Grease: You're the One That I Want!, performed the song during the showtunes week.
Carly Smithson sang the song during the seventh season of American Idol, the week the theme was the music of Andrew Lloyd Webber. Although judge Simon Cowell called it one of his favorite performances of the night, Smithson was eliminated the following results night.
Lee Mead and Keith Jack performed it as their final duet on the BBC talent series Any Dream Will Do.  Mead went on to win the competition, with Jack as runner-up.
Jodie Prenger and Samantha Barks performed a duet of the song on I'd Do Anything which was highly acclaimed. Prenger went on to win the BBC competition and become Nancy in the West End revival of the musical Oliver!.
Anastacia performed the song at Concert for Diana on 1 July 2007.
In 1992, Jon Stevens released a version a single in Australia.
Slovenian industrial/electronic band Laibach included a reinterpreted version of the song on their 1996 album Jesus Christ Superstars.