[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# They Died with Their Boots On

battle with his trademark long hair when, in reality, he had cut it short just prior to the Little Bighorn campaign. Several members of Custer's family (his brothers Thomas and Boston, his brother-in-law James Calhoun and nephew Henry Reed) also died in the battle, but aren't depicted in the drama.

Crazy Horse, played by Anthony Quinn, is the only individualized Native American appearing in scenes and represents the "Red Man", whose lifestyle is rapidly coming to an end. Quinn is one of the few actors of indigenous American descent in the film. Only 16 of the extras used were Sioux. The rest of the Native American warriors were mostly portrayed by Filipino extras.

Soundtrack
The film score was composed by Max Steiner. He adapted George Armstrong Custer's favorite song, "Garryowen", for use in the score. Custer knew the song while he was at West Point, where he is said to have performed it in a talent show. In the film, however, Custer hears the song for the first time being played on a piano by former English soldier, now a U.S. Army officer, Lt. "Queen's Own" Butler. This connection is apocryphal. It is actually a traditional Irish drinking song, much beloved by the cavalry for its galloping rhythm. Warner Brothers recycled some of the film's music, and variations of it can be heard in Silver River and Rocky Mountain, both starring Errol Flynn, and The Searchers starring John Wayne.

Reception and box-office
According to Alex von Tunzelmann, writing for The Guardian in 2009, "More errors riddle this biopic of General Custer than bullets flew at the Battle of Little Big Horn".

Box office
They Died with Their Boots On grossed $1,871,000 in the United States and $2,143,000 overseas. Its total receipts of $4,014,000 was the studio's third largest of the season. It made the studio a profit of $1.5 million.

Critical
Filmink magazine argued that "Flynn gives one of his finest performances, taking Custer on a genuine emotional journey from silly boy to grown man".

Home media
Like Errol Flynn's earlier film Sea Hawk, They Died With Their Boots On was colorized in the late 1980s. This version was released on VHS tape in 1998 by Turner Entertainment and Warner Bros. Entertainment. The original black-and-white film was released on DVD in 2005 by Turner Entertainment and Warner Bros. Entertainment.

See also
 The Scarlet West (1925)
 General Custer at the Little Big Horn (1926)
 Little Big Man (1970)

References

External links
 
 
 
 

1941 films
1941 Western (genre) films
1940s biographical films
American Civil War films
American Indian Wars films
American Western (genre) films
American biographical films
American black-and-white films
Battle of the Little Bighorn
Cultural depictions of Crazy Horse
Cultural depictions of George Armstrong Custer
Cultural depictions of Ulysses S. Grant
1940s English-language films
Films about Native Americans
Films directed by Raoul Walsh
Films produced by Hal B. Wallis
Films scored by Max Steiner
Warner Bros. films
Western (genre) cavalry films
1940s American films