[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nuclear emulsion

sensation in the world of nuclear and cosmic ray physics, which brought the nuclear emulsion method to the attention of a wider audience.  But the onset of political unrest in Austria and Germany, leading to World War II, brought a sudden halt to progress in that field of research for Marietta Blau.

In 1938 the German physicist Walter Heitler, who had escaped Germany as a scientific refugee to live and work in England, was at Bristol University researching a number of theoretical topics, including the formation of cosmic ray showers. He mentioned to Cecil Powell, at that time considering the use of cloud chambers for cosmic ray detection, that in 1937 the two Viennese physicists, Blau and Wambacher, had exposed photographic emulsions in the Austrian Alps and had seen the tracks of low energy protons as well as 'stars' or nuclear disintegrations caused by cosmic rays. 

This intrigued Powell, who convinced Heitler to travel to Switzerland with a batch of llford half-tone emulsions and expose them on the Jungfraujoch at 3,500 m. In a letter to 'Nature' in August 1939, they were able to confirm the observations of Blau and Wambacher.

Following on from those developments, after World War II, Powell and his research group at Bristol University collaborated with Ilford (now Ilford Photo), to further optimise emulsions for the detection of cosmic ray particles. Ilford produced a concentrated ‘nuclear-research’ emulsion containing eight times the normal amount of silver bromide per unit volume (see External Link to 'Nuclear emulsions by Ilford').  Powell's group first calibrated the new ‘nuclear-research’ emulsions using the University of Cambridge Cockcroft-Walton generator/accelerator, which provided artificial disintegration particles as probes to measure the required range-energy relations for charged particles in the new emulsion.

They subsequently used these emulsions to make two of the most significant discoveries in physics of the 20th century. First, in 1947 Cecil Powell, César Lattes, Giuseppe Occhialini and Hugh Muirhead (University of Bristol), using plates exposed to cosmic rays at the Pic du Midi Observatory in the Pyrenees and scanned by Irene Roberts and Marietta Kurz, discovered the charged Pi-meson. 

Second, two years later In 1949, analysing plates exposed at the Sphinx Observatory on the Jungfraujoch in Switzerland, first precise observations of the positive K-meson and its ‘strange’ decays were made by Rosemary Brown, a research student in Cecil Powell’s group at Bristol. Then known as the ‘Tau meson’ in the Tau-theta puzzle, precise measurement of these K-meson decay modes led to the introduction of the quantum concept of Strangeness and to the discovery of Parity violation in the weak interaction. Rosemary Brown called the striking four-track emulsion image, of one 'Tau' decaying to three charged pions, her "K track", thus effectively naming the newly discovered ‘strange’ K-meson.  Cecil Powell was awarded the 1950 Nobel Prize in Physics "for his development of the photographic method of studying nuclear processes and his discoveries regarding mesons made with this method".

The emergence of new particle detector and particle accelerator technologies, coupled with the disadvantages noted in the introduction, led to a decline in use of Nuclear Emulsion plates in Particle Physics towards the end of the 20th century.  However there remained a continuing use of the method in the study of rare interactions and decay processes. 

More recently, searches for "Physics beyond the Standard Model", in particular the study of neutrinos and dark matter in their exceedingly rare interactions with normal matter, have led to a revival of the technique. Examples are the OPERA experiment, studying neutrino oscillations at the Gran Sasso Laboratory in Italy, and the FASER experiment at the CERN LHC, which will search for new, light and weakly interacting particles including dark photons.

Other applications 

There exist a number of scientific and technical fields where the ability of nuclear emulsion to accurately record the position, direction and energy of electrically charged particles, or to integrate their effect, has found application. These applications in most cases involve the tracing of implanted radioactive markers by Autoradiography.  Examples are:

Medical research

Biological research

Metallurgy

Reactive surface chemistry

Radiation protection

Muon tomography (Muography) 

Archaeology.

References

External links 
 Nuclear emulsions by Ilford

Particle detectors
Nuclear physics