[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of PlayStation games incompatible with PlayStation 2

The PlayStation 2 was designed to be backward compatible with PlayStation games. However, not all PlayStation games work on the PlayStation 2. In addition, later models of the PlayStation 2 console could not play all of the games that were released for prior versions of the PlayStation 2. This article provides a list of some of the PlayStation and PlayStation 2 games that are not compatible with some models of the PlayStation 2.

All models 
These PlayStation games have compatibility issues with all models of PlayStation 2:

PlayStation games
Alice in Cyberland (The boss battle may end on the first stage, and the progress may stop after the movie is played. There are other places where the same phenomenon occurs.)
Arcade Party Pak
Arcade's Greatest Hits: The Atari Collection 2
Armored Core - Master of Arena (In "SHOP", some parts may not be displayed. In addition, not limited to this screen, a symptom that the image stops may occur.)
Densha Daisuki (After selecting "NEW GAME" and displaying the operation timetable, the image stops when loading from the disc.)
Digimon Rumble Arena (Massive slowdown during certain stages, making it unplayable.)
Dokapon! Ikari no Tetsuken (After the battle is over, the screen may not be displayed normally.)
Dragon Beat (The picture stops when a player tries to start the game.)
Fighter Maker
Final Fantasy Anthology
Formula One 99 (Sound effects do not sound properly during the game.)
Fun! Fun! Pingu (If the analog controller is set to analog mode, the progress will stop when loading from the disc. There is no problem in the digital mode.)
Gallop Racer (Information such as horse name and record is not displayed on the race result display screen after the race is over.)
Gradius Deluxe Pack (In "GRADIUS II", the speed during the game is slow.)
Harvest Moon - Back to Nature (The progress of the game may stop without the next screen appearing when switching screens.)
Hello Kitty's Cube Frenzy (The progress of the game stops without the next screen appearing when switching screens.)
Idol Promotion - Yumie Suzuki (On disc 2 (bonus disc), when the start button is pressed on the title screen, noise continues to sound after that.)
Judge Dredd
Konya mo Dorubako!! 2000 (When switching screens or loading from a disc, the symptom that the image stops frequently occurs.)
Marionette Company 2 Chu!
Monkey Hero (After leaving Main Menu, screen stays black)
Monster Rancher / Monster Farm (The symptom that the image stops on the screen displaying the match result of the league match frequently occurs.)
Mortal Kombat Trilogy (Works mostly, but if either the timer on the continue screen runs out or the game is beaten, the game will freeze.)
Namco Anthology Vol.02 (Arranged version of "King of Kings" may stop progress.)
Namco Museum Encore (Of the 7 titles recorded, 2 titles, "Wonder Momo" and "Rolling Thunder," are slow in the game.)
Namco Museum Vol.2 (In "Xevious", the speed during the game is slow.)
Not Treasure Hunter (When loading game data on a memory card and when switching screens after the game is over, the symptom that the image stops frequently occurs.)
Ongaku Tsukuru - Kanade-Ru 2 (The song data on the memory card cannot be loaded in the "jukebox".)
Oukyuu No Hihou Tension (The map display is not displayed properly in the dungeon.)
Shisha no Yobu Yakata - Pandora Max Series Vol.2 (The game progress may stop when the screen is switched.)
Shuukan Gallop - Blood Master (During the game, when switching screens, the game may stop progressing without the next screen appearing.)
Spec Ops: Stealth Patrol (Game may not allow players to save.)
Street Fighter Alpha 2 / Street Fighter Zero 2 (The picture may stop when the match begins.)
Susume! Kaizoku - Be Pirates! (When a player win the attacked ship in the game and check the loot they have acquired, the picture stops on the loot explanation screen.)
Konya mo Dorubako!! 2000 (When switching screens or loading from a disc, the symptom that the image stops frequently occurs.)
The X-Files
Toaplan Shooting Battle 1 (In "Ultimate TIGER" and "TWIN COBRA", the speed during the game is slow.)
Tomba! (The NTSC version freezes when loading a save file)
Tsuridou - Keiryuu Mizuumihen (When a player try to display the screen by selecting "Option", it is not displayed.)
Twins Story - Kimi ni Tsutaetakute (After setting items on the schedule screen, the image stops when the execution starts.)
Virtua Pachi-Slot EX (BGM and sound effects do not sound normally.)
Virtua Pachi-Slot V - Yamasa, Kitadenshi, Olympia  (BGM and sound effects do not sound normally.)
Virtua Pachi-Slot VI (BGM and sound effects do not sound normally.)
Wing Commander III - Heart of the Tiger (During video playback, the screen blacks out, an error message is displayed at the top of the screen, and the image stops.)

SCPH-500XX 
The SCPH-500XX models may have issues running the following games:

PlayStation games
Army Men 3D (Game does not read on SCPH-500XX PAL v10 consoles.)