[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Margot Käßmann

or divorce, in 2007, and on 6 August 2007 it was communicated to the church senate that her divorce was legally valid. The church senate and the leadership of the Church of Hanover supported Käßmann and endorsed her continued tenure of the bishop's office, as did the leader of a conservative center.

Chair of the Council of the Protestant Church in Germany
She was a member of the Council of the Protestant Church in Germany, and on 28 October 2009 she was elected Chair of the Council, the first woman in that position. She received 132 of the 142 votes cast, and said she wanted the church to be more contemporary and hoped to attract more people to it.

Her election provoked negative reactions from the leadership of the Russian Orthodox Church which declared that it was ready to suspend its dialogue with German Lutherans because of Käßmann's non-traditional views and her unusual status as a female Protestant bishop.

On 20 February 2010, Käßmann was pulled over for driving through a red light on the streets of Hanover. It was determined through a blood test that her blood alcohol level was at 1.54 per mil. The legal limit is 0.3 per mil in Germany. Her license was immediately confiscated. She could face the loss of her driver's license for one year and pay a fine of one month's salary. Despite receiving a vote of confidence from the council of the Protestant Church in Germany, she stepped down from her office as leader of the Evangelical Church and as bishop on 24 February 2010.

An attack on the right-wing AfD in the course of a Bible workshop during the Evangelical Church Convention in 2017 in which she stated that the AfD "all German" policy was implicitly "nazi" caused widespread comment and controversy. Her words.  "Keine Frage mehr, jetzt ist es klar. Frauen sollen Kinder bekommen, wenn sie ,biodeutsch‘ sind. Das ist eine neue rechte Definition von einheimisch gemäß dem sogenannten kleinen Arierparagrafen der Nationalsozialisten: zwei deutsche Eltern, vier deutsche Großeltern. Da weiß man, woher der braune Wind wirklich weht.“ "No question, it's clear. Women should have children when they are "bioGerman". That is a new right position of 'indigenous' in accordance with the so-called Aryan paragraphs of the National Socialists: two German parents, four German grandparents. You can see from that where the brown wind is blowing from."

Honours
 2001: Käßmann received the preaching prize (Predigtpreis) for exemplary achievements in the area of the proclamation of the Gospel.
 2002: She received an honorary doctorate from the faculty of pedagogy at Hannover University.

Russia's war against Ukraine
After the start of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, Käßmann repeatedly criticized the delivery of weapons to Ukraine, calling for a diplomatic solution to the conflict instead. In February 2023, Käßmann was one of the initial signers of a petition calling for an end to military support to Ukraine.