[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Patient safety

ith these errors not only is there a likelihood of a prescription being wrong but there is a $3.5 billion price-tag that goes with that covering the amount that people pay each year for litigation costs and extra days that patients need to stay in hospital beds because of mistakes from the hospital.

Burnout has been going on for years amongst nurses and other physicians, affecting nearly half of healthcare workers. Burnout has been going on for decades and the term was originally coined by Herbert Freudenberger who was working at a free clinic and overtime he mentioned some of the effects that he had seen, "emotional depletion and accompanying psychosomatic symptoms...excessive demands on energy, strength, or resources". These symptoms are commonly seen today in hospital settings as nurses feel like they are pushed to the edge. This situation is not ideal for people to feel, especially not people who have to look after patients and take care of others who can be in very severe states. Using what Freudenberger described, there was a scale created to measure the amount of burnout in the healthcare field. Known as Maslach's scale, this measures 1) Workload 2) Control 3) Reward 4) Community 5) Fairness and 6) Values. All of these core points work together and the less you have of them the more likely that burnout will occur and cause a major decrease in patient safety. Similarly to Maslach's scale, there is the Conservation of Resources Theory which essentially states that if one of the four pillars are lost, so is safety and control, "Healthcare organizations and nursing administration should develop strategies to protect nurses from the threat of resource loss to decrease nurse burnout, which may improve nurse and patient safety." The amount of nursing professionals that have experienced burnout is said to be around 50%, this number leads to an increased risk of adverse events that shouldn't happen, anywhere from 26% to 70% higher risk that something bad will happen to the patient.

Safety programs in industry

Aviation safety
In the United States, two organizations contribute to one of the world's lowest aviation accident rates. Mandatory accident investigation is carried out by the National Transportation Safety Board, while the Aviation Safety Reporting System receives voluntary reports to identify deficiencies and provide data for planning improvements. The latter system is confidential and provides reports back to stakeholders without regulatory action. Similarities and contrasts have been noted between the "cultures of safety" in medicine and aviation. Pilots and medical personnel operate in complex environments, interact with technology, and are subject to fatigue, stress, danger, and loss of life and prestige as a consequence of error. Given the enviable record of aviation in accident prevention, a similar medical adverse event system would include both mandatory (for severe incidents) and voluntary non-punitive reporting, teamwork training, feedback on performance and an institutional commitment to data collection and analysis. The Patient Safety Reporting System (PSRS) is a program modeled upon the Aviation Safety Reporting System and developed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to monitor patient safety through voluntary, confidential reports.  Required training in crew resource management (CRM), which focused on team dynamics both inside the cockpit and outside was introduced in the early 1980s after the tragic mishap of United Airlines 173.  CRM is considered an effective means of improving safety in aviation and is utilized by the DoD, NASA, and almost all commercial airlines.  Many of the tenets of this training have been incorporated into medicine under the guise of Team Stepps, which was introduced by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ).  The AHRQ calls this program "an evidence-based teamwork system to improve communication and teamwork skills among health care professionals."

Near-miss reporting
A near miss is an unplanned event that did not result in injury, illness, or damage - but had the potential to do so. Reporting of near misses by observers is an established error reduction technique in aviation, and has been extended to private industry, traffic safety and fire-rescue services with reductions in accidents and injury. AORN, a US-based professional organization of perioperative registered nurses, has put in effect a voluntary near miss reporting system (SafetyNet), covering medication or transfusion reactions, communication or consent issues, wrong patient or procedures, communication breakdown or technology malfunctions. An analysis of incidents allows safety alerts to be issued to AORN members.  AlmostME is another commercially offered solution for near-miss reporting in healthcare.