[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kalpana Chakma

f the Shanti Bahini and threatened him. He returned home frustrated. Kalicharan on the other hand, went to the local Baghaichari Police Station to register a First Information Report (FIR). But neither the police station nor the army camp took any action to release Kalpana Chakma from the abductors.

Government's role
The Superintendent of Police (SP) of Rangamati under severe criticism of various national and international organisations visited Kalpana's home and informed that there were as many as 180 Bangladesh Army barracks in Rangamati district alone and so it was not possible for him to search all of them. On 14 July 1996 several women organisations jointly submitted a memo to the Home Minister of Bangladesh who advised the team to meet the Prime Minister as the Home Ministry is not concerned with law and order in the CHT. The minister also told that the CHT being an Operational Zone, was an affair of the General Officer in Command (GOC) of the Chittagong Division of Bangladesh Army and he had nothing to do with the issue. The Police investigations does not take into account indigenous eyewitness and did not question the main accused.

Bangladesh Army's role
On 18 July 1996 the Bangladesh Army circulated leaflets from a helicopter declaring Taka 50,000 for information about the whereabouts of Kalpana Chakma. The Hill Watch Human Rights Forum (HWHRF), a human rights organisation blamed the Bangladesh Army authorities for deliberately trying to cover up the truth. Bangladesh Army strongly denied the accusation that Lieutenant Ferdous or any other member of the army was involved in the abduction of Kalpana Chakma. Later in the face of strong protest and condemnation, the Bangladesh Army made another attempt to cover up the issue by terming the whole incident as a "love affair". The army again changed its statement and on 23 July 1996 released a statement which runs like this - "Kalpana Chakma had a passport and went abroad secretly". But the claim of the army had been refuted by the indigenous activists and it was found that Kalpana Chakma had no passport. Women's right group have claimed that the accused security personals are still in service.

See also
List of kidnappings
List of people who disappeared

References

External links
Remembering Kalpana Chakma 

Abduction of Kalpana Chakma

1990s missing person cases
Bangladeshi women's rights activists
Indigenous activists of Asia
Kidnapped Bangladeshi people
Kidnappings in Bangladesh
Missing person cases in Bangladesh
Year of birth missing (living people)