[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Richard Butcher (footballer)

Richard Tony Butcher (22 January 1981 – 9 January 2011) was an English professional footballer who played as a midfielder.

In a career that lasted from 1999 until his death in 2011, he notably spent three separate spells with Lincoln City, for whom he appeared in two play-off final defeats at the Millennium Stadium. He also played for Northampton Town, Rushden & Diamonds, Kettering Town, Oldham Athletic, Peterborough United and Notts County. At the time of his death he was playing for Football League Two side Macclesfield Town.

Career

Northampton Town
Born in Northampton, Butcher came through the youth ranks at his home town club Northampton Town. He was promoted to the club's first team during the summer of 1999 when the club was under the management tenure of Ian Atkins, however Atkins departed early on into Butcher's first senior season and was replaced by Kevin Wilson. In March 2000, 8 months after becoming a pro he was released by Northampton Town having failed to make an appearance.

Rushden & Diamonds
After his release from Northampton, Butcher was signed by Brian Talbot's Conference National side Rushden & Diamonds. He was part of the squad for the final months of the 1999–2000 season and the 2000–2001 campaign, but failed to make an appearance for the Diamonds, and was released in the summer of 2001.

Kettering Town
In October 2001 he signed for Southern League side Kettering Town who had suffered relegation in the previous season from the Conference National. After helping the club back to an instant promotion, Butcher went on to depart the club in November 2002.

Lincoln City
Butcher joined Football League Third Division Lincoln City which had recently recovered from a financial struggle that had nearly seen the club go out of business. The club was now under the stewardship of Keith Alexander who had begun to bring in a new influx of players to the team. He made his City debut on 23 November 2002 in a 2–1 home defeat against his former club Rushden. He scored his first Imps goal on 14 December in a 2–2 draw with Cambridge United. By the end of the 2002–2003 season Lincoln had gained entry into the Play-offs following a dramatic Simon Yeo equaliser against Torquay United on the final day of the season. City progressed to the final at Cardiff's Millennium Stadium following a 6–3 aggregate victory over Scunthorpe United in the semi-finals. Butcher played the full ninety minutes of the final but could not help Lincoln from losing to AFC Bournemouth 5–2. During the 2003–2004 season Lincoln reached the Play-offs yet again but were defeated by Huddersfield Town in the semi-final. The 2004–2005 campaign saw The Imps qualify for a third successive Play-off spot and after dumping Macclesfield Town out in the semi-final, City were beaten 2–0 by Southend United.

Oldham Athletic
August 2005 rang in a new era for Butcher when he joined Football League One side Oldham Athletic who were managed by Ronnie Moore. He made his debut for The Latics on the opening day of the 2005–2006 season in a 2–0 victory over Yeovil Town. However, despite figuring in nearly every game up until October he was loaned back to Lincoln City for a month in which he played 4 games, scoring once. Butcher returned to Oldham and completed the rest of the season making 39 appearances in all competitions, scoring 4 goals.

Peterborough United
Butcher was reunited with Keith Alexander when he signed a contract with Peterborough United where he was one of a number of former Lincoln players brought to London Road by United's recently appointed manager. Alexander and Butcher both left United after one season.

Notts County
Football League Two side Notts County came in for Butcher when his Peterborough contract had run its course and he signed a deal with the Meadow Lane side. Butcher played two seasons with County and worked under Ian McParland. During his time at Notts County, Butcher contributed 18 league goals which played a major role in the team's fight against relegation.

Return to Lincoln City
On 27 May 2009 Butcher signed a two-year deal at Lincoln City for a third spell, he was Peter Jackson's first signing of the summer. However the club soon after parted company with manager Peter Jackson and his replacement Chris Sutton rarely used him in the first team. Butcher was made available for loan in the new year and departed Sincil Bank in February.