[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Garrison Starr

Joplin called Among The Oak & Ash. Their self-titled debut album was released on June 16, 2009, on Verve Records.

In 2009, Starr formed a new band with Glen Phillips, former singer for '90s alt-rock band Toad the Wet Sprocket. They called themselves Plover and released a self-titled album in 2009.

In 2010, Starr released ReLive, a critically acclaimed live album featuring fan favorites as well as some new tracks. The album was recorded at Nashville's 12th and Porter during one take and released via Brite Revolution.

In 2012, Starr embarked on her first attempt at a self-release. Amateur, featuring all original songs with a guest appearances including Mary Chapin Carpenter and a co-write with Kevin Devine was entirely fan funded via the crowd funding site PledgeMusic, and released May 1, 2012.

In September 2013, Starr formed a new project called This, the Silent War. The first single "Setting Sun" was released on October 1, 2013.

In 2017, Starr released What If There Is No Destination, led off by the single "Put Your Weapon Down", with the profits from this single going to the National Center for Victims of Crime for the victims of the Orlando tragedy.

In 2019, Starr provided original music for Margaret Cho's podcast, The Margaret Cho.

She is currently based in Los Angeles.

Other media appearances
Starr's song "Superhero" has appeared on several compilations, including Live at World Cafe and CMJ magazine's sampler. It was featured during ABC-TV's coverage of the Women's World Cup Soccer in 1999.

Her cover of Steve Forbert's song "It Isn't Going to Be That Way" appeared on the compilation The I-10 Chronicles, Vol. 2: One More for the Road.

Starr's "Beautiful in Los Angeles" was the featured song on the season one finale of MTV's original program The Hills.

Starr has performed back-up vocals for artists including Michelle Malone and Mary Chapin Carpenter.

Starr appeared on CBS News' Saturday Early Show, performing in the "Second Cup Cafe" on June 22, 2007.

Her songs have been featured in Life Unexpected, Pretty Little Liars, The Fosters and Grey's Anatomy.

Discography

References

External links
 
 The Girl That Killed September Music Tour Dates News
 Bandweblogs Interview with Garrison
 Garrison using Mobile Technology to Market Record
 The Girl That Killed September

1975 births
American folk singers
American lesbian musicians
American LGBT singers
American LGBT songwriters
LGBT people from Mississippi
Living people
Musicians from Memphis, Tennessee
People from Hernando, Mississippi
University of Mississippi alumni
Singer-songwriters from Tennessee
Singer-songwriters from Mississippi
Guitarists from Mississippi
Guitarists from Tennessee
Lesbian singers
Lesbian songwriters
21st-century American women singers
21st-century American women guitarists
20th-century American LGBT people
21st-century American LGBT people