[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gano Dunn

miralty to pass Gibraltar. Challenged there by an English torpedo boat destroyer, the Principe di Undine was allowed to proceed into the Atlantic. 700 miles from New York, the ship was commanded to stop by an English warship. After verifying her cargo and passengers, the ship was allowed to proceed.

During the voyage, a series of lectures on various topics were organized, with Mr Gano Dunn speaking on wireless telegraphy. Each morning, Dunn posted the bulletins from the wireless on the progress of the war.

Concerned about their compatriots still stranded in Europe, the passengers voted to appoint a committee to inform public opinion and the United States Government of the conditions abroad. Arriving in New York on August 23, 1914, Gano Dunn and the rest of the committee met with an assistant to the Secretary of State on Tuesday, August 25 and officially expressed to him their satisfaction with the steps the Government had taken at that time.

Marriage

Among his fellow refugees aboard ship were Mrs. Julia Gardiner Gayley and her daughter Miss Florence Gayley of New York City. 

In 1920, upon the death of her first husband, James Gayley, Julia Thurston Gardiner Gayley married Gano Dunn. The couple moved to her home at 20 Washington Square North.

Inventions
Gano Dunn invented and patented many electronic and mechanical devices.
  A Drum Sequencer Controller

Honors and awards
Dunn was an elected member of the United States National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the American Philosophical Society.

Legacy
In 1955, James A. Healy and Harris A. Dunn, in memory of Harris' late brother Gano, presented Colby College Library with a rare copy of the 1491 Nuremberg Chronicle.

References

External links
  IEEE Global History Network ; Gano Dunn Biography 
 The Gano Dunn Award Cooper Union Alumni Association
National Academy of Sciences Biographical Memoir
 SS Principe di Udine Passenger List 12 August 1914 (Refugee Ship) GG Archives

American engineers
Columbia School of Engineering and Applied Science alumni
Presidents of Cooper Union
IEEE Edison Medal recipients
1870 births
1953 deaths
American chief executives
People from Greenwich Village
People from Yorkville, Manhattan
Members of the American Philosophical Society