[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 107]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

m," answered Mrs Compton (for that was the name of the
lady), "I think it would be infinitely better to remove Master Merton,
and place him in some polite seminary, where he might acquire a
knowledge of the world, and make genteel connections. This will always
be the greatest advantage to a young gentleman, and will prove of the
most essential service to him in life; for, though a person has all the
merit in the world, without such acquaintance it will never push him
forward, or enable him to make a figure. This is the plan which I have
always pursued with Augustus and Matilda; I think I may say not entirely
without success, for they have both the good fortune to have formed the
most brilliant acquaintances. As to Augustus, he is so intimate with
young Lord Squander, who you know is possessed of the greatest
parliamentary interest, that I think that his fortune is as good as
made."

Miss Simmons, who was present at this refined and wise conversation,
could not help looking with so much significance at this mention of Lord
Squander, that Mrs Compton coloured a little, and asked with some
warmth, whether she knew anything of that young nobleman.

"Why, madam," answered the young lady, "what I know is very little; but
if you desire me to inform you, it is my duty to speak the truth." "Oh,
to be sure, miss," replied Mrs Compton, a little angrily, "we all know
that your _judgment_ and _knowledge_ of the world are superior to what
anybody else can boast; and therefore I shall be infinitely obliged to
you for any _information_ you may be pleased to give." "Indeed, madam,"
answered the young lady, "I have very little of either to boast, nor am
I personally acquainted with the nobleman you are talking of; but I have
a cousin, a very good boy, who is at the same public school with his
lordship, and he has given me such a character of him as does not much
prepossess me in his favour." "And what may this wise cousin of yours
have said of his lordship?" "_Only_, madam, that he is one of the worst
boys in the whole school; that he has neither genius nor application for
anything that becomes his rank and situation; that he has no taste for
anything but gaming, horse-racing, and the most contemptible amusements;
that, though his allowance is large, he is continually running in debt
with everybody that will trust him; and that he has broken his word so
often that nobody has the least confidence in what he says. Added to
this, I have heard that he is so haughty, tyrannical, and overbearing,
that nobody can long preserve his friendship without the meanest
flattery and subservience to all his vicious inclinations; and, to
finish all, that he is of so ungrateful a temper, that he was never
known to do an act of kindness to any one, or to care about anything but
himself."

Here Miss Matilda could not help interposing with warmth. She said,
"that his lordship had nothing in his character or manners that did not
perfectly become a nobleman of the most elevated soul. Little grovelling
minds, indeed, which are always envious of their superiors, might give a
disagreeable turn to the generous openness of this young nobleman's
temper. That, as to gaming and running in debt, they were so essential
to a man of fashion, that nobody who was not born in the city, and
oppressed by city prejudices, would think of making the least objection
to them." She then made a panegyric upon his lordship's person, his
elegant taste and dress, his new phaeton, his entertaining conversation,
his extraordinary performance upon the violin; and concluded that, with
such abilities and accomplishments, she did not doubt of one day seeing
him at the head of the nation.

Miss Simmons had no desire of pushing the conversation any farther; and
the rest of the company coming in to tea, the disquisition about Lord
Squander finished.

After tea, several of the young ladies were desired to amuse the company
with music and singing; among the rest Miss Simmons sang a little Scotch
song, called Lochaber, in so artless, but sweet and pathetic a manner,
that little Harry listened almost with tears in his eyes, though several
of the young ladies, by their significant looks and gestures, treated it
with ineffable contempt.

After this, Miss Matilda, who was allowed to be a perfect mistress of
music, played and sang several celebrated Italian airs; but as these
were in a language totally unintelligible to Harry, he received very
little pleasure, though all the rest of the company were in raptures.
She then proceeded to play several pieces of music, which were allowed
by all connoisseurs to require infinite skill to execute. The audience
seemed all delighted, and either felt or pretended to feel inexpressible
pleasure; even Tommy himself, who did not know one note from another,
had caught so much of the general enthusiasm, that he applauded as loud
as the rest of the company. But Harry, whose temper