[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 155]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

unexpected! I saw
it was in vain to fly, the flaming line extended for several miles on
every side, and advanced with such velocity that I considered my fate as
inevitable. I looked round me with a kind of mute despair, and began to
envy the fate of my comrades who had fallen by honourable wounds in
battle. Already did the conflagration scorch me in its approach,
accompanied by clouds of smoke that almost suffocated me with their
baneful vapour. In this extremity Providence presented to my mind an
instantaneous thought, which perhaps was the only possible method of
escape. I considered that nothing could stop the conflagration but an
actual want of matter to continue it, and therefore by setting fire to
the vegetables before me, I might follow my own path in safety. (I hope,
gentlemen, that during the course of a long life, you will never have
occasion to experience the pleasure which the first glance of this
expedient afforded to my mind.) I saw myself snatched, beyond
expectation, from a strange and painful death, and instantly pulled out,
with a trembling hand, the flint and steel upon which my preservation
was to depend. I struck a light, and presently kindled the driest grass
before me; the conflagration spread along the country, the wind drove it
on with inconceivable fury, and I saw the path of my deliverance open
before my eyes. In a few seconds a considerable vacancy was burnt before
me, which I traversed with the speed of a man that flies from instant
death. My feet were scorched with the glowing soil, and several times
had I been nearly suffocated with the drift of the pursuing smoke, but
every step I made convinced me of the certainty of my escape, and in a
little time I stopped to consider at leisure the conflagration I had
avoided, which, after proceeding to the point whence I set out, was
extinguished as I had foreseen, and delivered me from all
apprehension."

"I declare," said Tommy, "this is the most extraordinary thing I ever
heard, and yet I can easily conceive it, for once I saw some men set
fire to the heath and furzes upon the common, and they burnt so
furiously that I was quite afraid to come near the flame."

"I pursued my way," continued the Highlander, "over the smoking soil,
which I had rendered bare to a considerable extent, and lodged at night,
as usual, under some boughs which I stuck up to defend me. In the
morning I set out again, and soon arrived at a spacious lake, upon whose
banks I could plainly discern the signs of an American encampment. I
hesitated some time whether I should again conceal myself in the woods
or deliver myself up to their mercy. But I considered that it was
impossible long to continue this wandering life, and that in the end I
must have recourse to some of these savage tribes for assistance. What,
therefore, must be done at last, it was fruitless to delay. I had every
reason to imagine that the people before me must either be favourable to
Great Britain, or at least indifferent to the war; and in either case,
from the experience I possessed of the manners of the natives, I did not
think I had much to fear. I therefore determined to hazard everything
upon the probability of a favourable reception, and, collecting all my
resolution, I marched boldly forward, and soon arrived at the
encampment.

"As soon as I entered the village the women and children gathered round
me, with the curiosity natural to mankind at the sight of an
unaccustomed object. I formed a favourable conjecture from this apparent
ignorance of Europeans, and walking on with a composed step and steady
countenance, I at length entered into one of the largest cabins I could
find. When I was within, I saw a venerable old man whom I took to be a
chief from his appearance, sitting at his ease upon the ground, and
smoking. I saluted him with all the courtesy I was able, and placed
myself upon the ground, at some little distance, waiting with inward
anxiety, but external composure, for him to begin the conversation.
After he had eyed me for some time with fixed attention, but without
either sternness or anger, he took the pipe from his mouth and presented
it to me. I received it with infinite satisfaction; for, as I have
before remarked, this is always with the American tribes the firmest
pledge of peace and a friendly reception.

"When we had thus been seated for some time in mutual contemplation of
each other, he asked me in a dialect which I understood tolerably well,
to eat. I did not think it prudent to refuse any offered civility, and
therefore accepted the offer; and in a little time, a young woman who
was in the back part of the hut, set before me some broiled fish and
parched maize. After I had eaten, my friendly host inquired into my
country and the reasons of my visit. I was just enough acquainted with
the language he spoke to be able to understand him, and to give an
intelligible though imperfect answer. I th