[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Pallisers

The Pallisers is a 1974 BBC television adaptation of Anthony Trollope's Palliser novels. Set in Victorian era England with a backdrop of parliamentary life, Simon Raven's dramatisation covers six novels and follows the events and characters over two decades.

The series featured a large cast of both prominent and rising actors.

Plot
The series begins with the story of Lady Glencora, fiancée of the dry, aristocratic Plantagenet Palliser, who will inherit the title of the Duke of Omnium and Gatherum from his uncle. Although they marry, Lady Glencora still pines for her unsuitable but handsome admirer Burgo Fitzgerald.

Palliser becomes aware of this situation and takes his wife on a long tour of Europe, even though he had recently been offered the position of Chancellor of the Exchequer, the one political position he craves. While on their tour, the newlyweds come to a better understanding, and upon their return to London Glencora becomes an ambitious society hostess.

Whilst Plantagenet succeeds in his political aspirations, Irish barrister Phineas Finn is elected to Parliament for the family seat of Loughshane. In London, Finn rises quickly in society and falls in love with Lady Laura Standish, who is struggling to maintain her lifestyle after paying off the debts of her brother, Lord Chiltern.

Lady Laura marries Robert Kennedy, a wealthy Scottish MP, and Finn is forced to resign after a defeat on the Irish Tenant Right issue. Lady Laura's marriage collapses and she moves to Germany. Finn spends Christmas with Lady Laura only to be accused of adultery by Kennedy. Finn is later arrested for murder, but the Pallisers finance his defence. Later Finn's life takes a turn for the better.

Palliser succeeds to the dukedom and becomes Prime Minister but finds the social demands of office difficult. His wife seeks to influence a by-election involving Ferdinand Lopez, who has married for money Emily Wharton, daughter of a wealthy lawyer, and the fall-out affects all involved. The Palliser children start to have romantic involvements.

In the final episodes the marriages of the Palliser children are settled, though not without difficulties.

Episode synopsis'The Pallisers' at trollopesociety.org, retrieved 5 February 2018

1 to 6
Alice Vavasor cannot decide which man she loves - the upright but boring John Grey, or the dashing but unreliable cousin George, whom she has turned down once already. Glencora loves Burgo Fitzgerald and marries Plantagenet Palliser. These episodes cover more or less the ground of Trollope's first Palliser novel, Can You Forgive Her?.

7 to 11
The start of Phineas Finn's political career and love for Lady Laura Kennedy, then Violet Effingham. Just as Phineas screws up courage to ask Lady Laura to marry him, she forestalls him by telling him she has accepted a proposal of marriage from Finn's wealthy fellow parliamentarian Robert Kennedy. Finn turns to the beautiful Violet Effingham who is also pursued by her childhood sweetheart and Lady Laura's brother, Lord Chiltern. The Duke of Omnium courts Madame Max Goesler. Covers the events in the second of Trollope's Palliser novels, Phineas Finn.

12 to 19
The Eustace Diamonds disappear and Lizzie Eustace is embroiled in a society scandal. The Duke of Omnium dies and Plantagenet and Lady Glencora inherit the title. Phineas Finn is accused of the murder of a fellow MP and Madame Max arrives in Prague to find evidence to prove his innocence. Squeezes into eight episodes the main events of Trollope's Palliser novels The Eustace Diamonds and Phineas Redux.

20 to 26
Plantagenet Palliser becomes Prime Minister. Lady Glencora intensifies her activity as a society hostess. The episodes conclude with the death of Glencora, and the story of the marriages of the children. These episodes cover the events of the last two of Trollope's Palliser novels, The Prime Minister and The Duke's Children.

Cast (partial)