[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Scott Brown (politician)

gnized by the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB) for his work in creating an environment that encourages job growth and expansion in Massachusetts. The Boston Globe selected Brown as the 2010 Bostonian of the Year, citing his "profound impact on national politics in the last year".

Personal life
Brown is married to former NH1 News reporter Gail Huff, whom he met through modeling. They have two daughters, Ayla, an American Idol semi-finalist and 2010 graduate of Boston College, and Arianna, a competitive equestrian and 2012 graduate of Syracuse University. Arianna earned a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree from Cornell University in 2018 and is a practicing vet. Gail announced in September 2021 her candidacy in a run for New Hampshire's 1st congressional district in the 2022 election.

Besides their primary home in Rye, New Hampshire, the couple owns three rental condos in Boston, and a timeshare on the Caribbean island of Aruba.

Brown and his family are members of the Christian Reformed Church in North America. They also have a relationship with a Trappist community of Trappist nuns at Mount St. Mary's Abbey in Wrentham, Massachusetts. The Brown family has "assisted efforts to raise $5.5 million" to replace the abbey's candy factory with a new greener facility with solar panels and a wind turbine.

Brown plays guitar in his spare time, and as of February 2014 had appeared on stage multiple times with American power pop band Cheap Trick as a guest musician. Brown is currently playing guitar with his band "Scott Brown and the Diplomats."

Brown coached his local Rye, New Hampshire, junior high school boys basketball team in the 2015–16 and 2016–17 seasons before returning to the coaching in 2021.

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 2010 Campaign Website, archived October 16, 2014
  – Biographic profile of current activities in New Zealand

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1959 births
Living people
20th-century American politicians
21st-century American politicians
21st-century American diplomats
Ambassadors of the United States to New Zealand
Ambassadors of the United States to Samoa
American military lawyers
American members of the Christian Reformed Church in North America
American people of English descent
Boston College Law School alumni
United States Army Judge Advocate General's Corps
Male models from Massachusetts
Massachusetts lawyers
Massachusetts National Guard personnel
Republican Party Massachusetts state senators
Republican Party members of the Massachusetts House of Representatives
National Guard (United States) colonels
New Hampshire Republicans
People from Kittery, Maine
People from Portsmouth, New Hampshire
People from Rye, New Hampshire
People from Wakefield, Massachusetts
People from Wrentham, Massachusetts
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
Republican Party United States senators from Massachusetts
Trump administration personnel
Tufts University School of Arts and Sciences alumni
Members of Congress who became lobbyists