[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Constructive set theory

heory, and so this is a subtle question concerning term construction and the theories strength. While many theories discussed tend have all the various numerical properties, the existence property can easily be spoiled, as will be discussed. Weaker forms of existence properties have been formulated.

Some classical theories can in fact also be constrained so as to exhibit the strong existence property. Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory  with the constructible universe postulate, , or  with sets all taken to be ordinal-definable, , do have the existence property. For contrast, consider the theory  given by  plus the full axiom of choice existence postulate. Recall that this collection of axioms proves the well-ordering theorem, implying well-orderings exists for any set. In particular, this means that relations  formally exist that establish the well-ordering of  (i.e. the theory claims the existence of a least element for all subsets of  with respect to those relations). This is despite the fact that definability of such an ordering is known to be independent of . The latter implies that for no particular formula  in the language of the theory does the theory prove that the corresponding set is a well-ordering relation of the reals. So  formally proves the existence of a subset  with the property of being a well-ordering relation, but at the same time no particular set  for which the property could be validated can possibly be defined.

Anti-classical principles 
As mentioned above, a constructive theory  may exhibit the numerical existence property, , for some number  and where  denotes the corresponding numeral in the formal theory. Here one must carefully distinguish between provable implications between two propositions, , and metalogical properties of the form . When adopting an established proof theoretical schema of the latter type as an inference rule and nothing new can be proven, one says the theory  is closed under that rule.

One may instead consider adjoining the rule corresponding to the meta-theoretical property as an implication (in the sense of "") to , as a schema or in quantified form. A situation commonly studied is that of a fixed  exhibiting the meta-theoretical property of the following type: For an instance from some collection of formulas of a particular form, here captured via  and , one established the existence of a number  so that . Here one may then postulate , where the bound  is a number variable in language of the theory. For example, Church's rule is an admissible rule in first-order Heyting arithmetic  and, furthermore, the corresponding Church's thesis principle  may consistently be adopted as an axiom. The new theory with the principle added is anti-classical, in that it may not be consistent anymore to also adopt . Similarly, adjoining the excluded middle principle  to some theory , the theory thus obtained may prove new, strictly classical statements, and this may spoil some of the meta-theoretical properties that were previously established for . In such a fashion,  may not be adopted in , also known as Peano arithmetic .

The focus in this subsection shall be on set theories with quantification over a fully formal notion of an infinite sequences space, i.e. function space, as it will be introduced further below.
A translation of Church's rule into the language of the theory itself may here read

Kleene's T predicate together with the result extraction expresses that any input number  being mapped to the number  is, through , witnessed to be a computable mapping. Here  now denotes a set theory model of the standard natural numbers and  is an index with respect to a fixed program enumeration. Stronger variants have been used, which extend this principle to functions  defined on domains  of low complexity. The principle rejects decidability for the predicate  defined as , expressing that  is the index of a computable function halting on its own index. Weaker, double negated forms of the principle may be considered too, which do not require the existence of a recursive implementation for every , but which still make principles inconsistent that claim the existence of functions which provenly have no recursive realization. Some forms of a Church's thesis as principle are even consistent with the classical, weak so called second-order arithmetic theory , a subsystem of the two-sorted first-order theory .