[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1986 in organized crime

Events
According to the government reports, it is estimated there are 2,500 members of the "La Cosa Nostra" and thousands of associate members. Reports also are said to include the Italian-American Mafia as the largest organized crime group in the United States and continues to hold dominance over the National Crime Syndicate, despite the increasing numbers of street gangs and other organizations of non-Italian or Sicilian ethnicity.
Robert "DiB" DiBernardo, Gambino crime family caporegime involved in pornography operations, is murdered.
Frank DeCicco, capo and associate of Gambino crime family leader Paul Castellano, who eventually betrayed Castellano to John Gotti, is murdered (carbomb).
Peter "Little Pete" Tambone, a drug trafficker and former member of the Gambino crime family, is reinstated by John Gotti. Tambone had been previously banished from the crime family by former leader Paul Castellano after his participation in the (Angelo)Ruggerio-(Gene)Gotti heroin operation.
January 21 – Resulting in an extensive five-year Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigation, Chicago Outfit members, boss Joseph "Joey Doves" Aiuppa, underboss John "Jackie the Lackey" Cerone, and capos Angelo J. "The Hook" LaPietra and Joseph "Joey The Clown" Lombardo are convicted by a U.S. District Court in Kansas City, Missouri for conspiring along with the Cleveland, Milwaukee, and Kansas City crime families to embezzle loans from the International Brotherhood of Teamsters' Central States Pension Fund.
February 10 – Diamond merchant Israel Greenwald disappears. His body is later discovered in April 2005 by the FBI in a makeshift grave with two bullets lodged in his skull. He was killed by Louis Eppolito and Stephen Caracappa, on the orders of Lucchese crime family underboss Anthony "Gaspipe" Casso. 
February 10 – Start of the Maxi Trial against Cosa Nostra in Palermo. The trial took place next to the Ucciardone (the Palermo prison) in a bunker specially built to try the defendants. A total of 474 defendants were facing charges, although 119 of them were to be tried in absentia as they were fugitives. (Salvatore Riina and Michele Greco were among these absent defendants.) Amongst those present were Luciano Leggio, Riina's predecessor, who acted as his own lawyer, and also Giuseppe "Pippo" Calò. Most of the crucial evidence came from Tommaso Buscetta a mafioso captured in 1982 in Brazil. He had lost many relatives during the Mafia war, including two sons, as well as many allies such as Stefano Bontade and Salvatore Inzerillo. He decided to cooperate with the Sicilian magistrates. The Corleonesi continued its vendetta against Buscetta by killing several more of his relatives. Testifying against the Corleonesi was the only way to avenge his murdered family and friends. The information that Buscetta had given the investigative judges Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino allowed a new understanding to how the Mafia functioned and how the clandestine groups of hierarchy in the Sicilian Cupola (the Sicilian Mafia Commission) actually agreed on policy and business. For the first time the Mafia had been prosecuted as an entity rather than a collection of individual crimes. Known as the Buscetta theorem it showed that Cosa Nostra was a single hierarchical organisation ruled by a commission and that its leaders could be held responsible for criminal acts that were committed to benefit the organisation.
February 20 – Michele Greco, the boss of the Ciaculli Mafia family and "chairman" of the Sicilian Mafia Commission, arrested and charged in the 1986 Maxi Trial for the murder of Italian anti-Mafia magistrate Rocco Chinnici.
March 19 – Michele Sindona is convicted of murder. The following day he dies in his prison cell after drinking a cup of poisoned coffee.
March 20 – Anthony "Fat Tony" Salerno, "front boss" of the Genovese crime family, along with 14 other Genovese members, are indicted on several charges including conspiracy, racketeering and extortion.  Former Salerno soldier Vincent Cafaro would turn informant and explained that after Salerno suffered a stroke in 1981, he was delegated to functioning as a figurehead boss to keep the pressure off the official boss Vincent Gigante.  Cafaro also explained that caporegimes Vincent DiNapoli and Liborio Bellomo removed caporegime Peter DeFeo and soldier Alexander Morelli from the District Council of Carpenters rackets, and DiNapoli and Bellomo went on to control hiring at the Jacob Javits Center as well as the drywall cartel.  Cafaro would go on to testify at the trials of Gambino boss John Gotti.
April 2 – Tommaso Buscetta and Salvatore Contorno arrive from the United States to testify in the Maxi Trial in Palermo
June 13 – The entire leadership of the Colombo crime family, boss Carmine "Junior" Persico, underboss Gennaro "Jerry Lang" Langella, former acting boss/capo Anthony "Scappy" Scarpati, capos Alphonse "Little Allie Boy" Persico, Andrew "Andy Mush" Russo, Dominic "Little Dom"