[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sustainable landscape architecture

due to an unplanned influx of population coupled with disorganization following the Korean War. To avoid the environmental downfalls of urbanization, methods such as planned spacing, sustainable transport systems and purposeful vegetation implementation (on roofs, roads, riversides) is recommended. 

Due to a strong human presence and impact, sustainable landscape architecture is more important now than it has ever been. Tools within the built environment, such as natural filters, climate control tactics and reconciliation ecology are recommended to sustain the planet. This requires a combination of both Eastern and Western cultural drivers. In Southern Europe, domestic species are being re-introduced to urbanized areas to help with cultural identity, food production, and a lack of vegetation in the city. Athens is an example of this tactic. In the 1980s, Athens, Greece was a compact city. It slowly began to spread out into periphery farming land, consuming the landscapes bordering the urban space. The government has begun to plant olive trees in such areas, therefore benefitting from small green urban spaces in several categories. Olive trees offer cultural and traditional sustainability, due to their importance in Greek culture and history. They offer local food production and a source of income. Furthermore, the trees increase shade in heat island, and decrease the risk of fire. They are a low-maintenance crop which emphasizes sustainable landscape design within multiple realms, making their implementation a favorable way to design challenging urban landscapes in a sustainable fashion. The emphasis on the cultural identity of the olive trees ensures cultural sustainability, the suggested fourth pillar in sustainable development.

With urbanization and industrialization discouraging the participation in rural landscapes and communities, the United Nations has sought ways to restore culture sustainability with these spaces through touristic potential. In 1990, UNESCO emphasized the creation of GeoParks to instill geotourism and restore historical and cultural integrity to a site. By rooting these projects in cultural incentives, landscape designs can focus on rural community ideals, rather than metropolitan restrictions. Ţara Haţegului in Romania is an ideal example of such a project which achieves sustainable landscape architecture by using cultural emphasis. Combining landscape architecture with cultural identity ensures that the land becomes a part of a community's heritage. The Council of Europe has created a framework convention on the value of cultural heritage, and they have concluded that cultural integrity correlates with social responsibility of a landscape. They emphasize approaching landscape architecture in a conscious matter that protects people’s surrounding. By connecting people to their environment, it becomes part of their identity, and it gives motive to protect the ecosystem. The council concludes that such multidisciplinary policies are essential to cultivate sustainable landscape architecture.

Certifications 
Green Business Certification Inc. has partnered with the U.S. Green Building Council to create the Sustainable SITES Initiative certification program. This program has adopted LEED strategies in promoting the sustainability of landscapes within the built environment.

See also

 Built environment
 Carbon cycle re-balancing
 Climate-friendly gardening
 Context theory
 Cultural sustainability
 Energy-efficient landscaping
 Feng shui
 Frederick Law Olmsted
 Green roof
 Green transport
 GeoParks
 Ian McHarg
 Landscape planning
 Sustainable agriculture
 Sustainable gardening
 Sustainable landscaping
 Sustainable planting
 Sustainable urban drainage
 Urban agriculture
 Urban forestry
 Urbanization
 Taoism

References

 Landscape and sustainability John F. Benson, Maggie H. Roe (2007)
 Sustainable Site Design: Criteria, Process, and Case Studies Claudia Dinep, Kristin Schwab (2009)
 Sustainable urban design: perspectives and examples Work Group for Sustainable Urban Development (2005)

External links
 The Sustainable Landscapes Conference at Utah State University
 Information on designing a sustainable urban landscape
 Resource guides from the American society of landscape artists.

Sustainable design
Sustainable gardening
Garden design
Landscape architecture
Sustainable architecture