[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Quincy Adams Gillmore

mpting to seize Fort Wagner in 1863 during the American Civil War. Also called the Fort Sumter Medal, the Gillmore Medal commemorates the men who served in the fighting around Charleston, South Carolina, in 1863 and was presented to all Union soldiers who had served under General Gillmore's command.

Gillmore Orders His Command Integrated
Among the troops who assaulted Ft. Wagner was the 54th Massachusetts, a regiment of African-Americans led (as required by regulation) by white commissioned officers. Gillmore had ordered that his forces be integrated and that African-Americans were not to be assigned menial tasks only, such as KP or latrine duty, but instead they were to carry arms into battle. They and their assault on Ft. Wagner were the subject of the 1989 Civil War movie Glory.

The Swamp Angel
Gillmore decided on siege operations to capture Fort Wagner using innovative technology such as the 25-barreled Requa Gun and calcium flood light to blind opponents during trenching efforts. He also implanted a massive Parrott rifle, nicknamed the "Swamp Angel", which fired 200-pound shots into the city of Charleston itself. Despite the swampy ground Union troops were able to work their way toward Fort Wagner. Meanwhile, Gillmore's artillery pounded Fort Sumter into rubble. On September 7, 1863, Gillmore's forces captured Fort Wagner.

In February 1864, Gillmore sent troops to Florida under the command of General Truman Seymour. Despite orders from Gillmore not to advance into the interior of the state, General Seymour advanced toward Tallahassee, the capitol, and fought the largest battle in Florida, the Battle of Olustee, which resulted in a Union defeat.

Virginia and Washington DC
In early May, Gillmore and the X Corps were transferred to the Army of the James and shipped to Virginia. They took part in the Bermuda Hundred operations and played a principal role in the disastrous Drewry's Bluff action. Gillmore openly feuded with his superior, Benjamin F. Butler over the blame for the defeat. Gillmore asked for reassignment and left for Washington, D.C. In July 1864, Gillmore helped organized new recruits and invalids into a 20,000-man force to help protect the city from a threat by 10,000 Confederates under Jubal A. Early, who had reached the outer defenses of the Union capital. Federal reinforcements from the Gulf coast were being transferred East at the time and Gillmore was put in command of a detachment of the XIX Corps which had been quickly diverted to the defense of the capital at the battle of Fort Stevens.

Close of the War
With the threat to Washington over the XIX Corps was transferred to the Army of the Shenandoah and Gillmore was reassigned to the Western Theater as inspector of military fortifications. As the war was drawing to an end he was reassigned to command of the Department of the South one final time and was in command when Charleston and Fort Sumter were finally turned over to Union forces. He received brevet promotions to Brigadier General and Major General in the U.S. Army for the campaign against Battery Wagner, Morris Island and Fort Sumter dated March 13, 1865.

With the war over, he resigned from the volunteer army on December 5, 1865, and returned to being a major in the Corps of Engineers.

Postbellum career
Gillmore returned to New York City after the war. There he became a prominent civil engineer, authoring several books and articles on structural materials, including cement. Gillmore served on the city's Rapid Transit Commission that planned elevated trains and mass public transportation, and led efforts to improve the harbor and coastal defenses. Socially, he was a prominent member of the University Club of New York.

Gillmore performed engineering work in other areas as well. He was involved in the reconstruction of fortifications along the Atlantic coast (including some that he had participated in destroying during the war). He was promoted to lieutenant colonel on June 13, 1874, and then to colonel on February 20, 1883. Gillmore was conferred an honorary Ph.D. degree by Rutgers College in 1878. He became a member of the newly created Mississippi River Commission on June 30, 1879, and served as its president from 1879 to 1882 and again from 1884 until his death.

General Gillmore died at Brooklyn, New York, at the age of 63. His son and grandson, both also named Quincy Gillmore, were West Point graduates, officers in the U.S. Army and generals in the New Jersey National Guard. All three Gillmores were buried in Section XXI of the West Point Cemetery.

In memoriam
Some African Americans in the 19th century took the surname "Gillmore" or "Gilmore" as a tribute to the general. The traveling secretary of the Negro League's Kansas City Monarchs from 1920 to 1925 was named Quincy J. Jordan Gilmore. The first name "Quincy" may have originated in the same fashion.