[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mountain Park (Holyoke, Massachusetts)

ins decided to sell Mountain Park. Many hoped a new buyer could be found. Collins advertised the entire property (with all the rides and equipment) in trade magazines for $4 million, but with the recession, there were no interested parties. The rides were sold and dismantled over the next two years.

The Holyoke community, led by then head of Holyoke's Water Power Company John Hickey, did manage to rally and purchase the carousel, now the Holyoke Merry-Go-Round located at Holyoke Heritage State Park in downtown Holyoke. Many of the park's other rides are now in operation elsewhere. In 1990, the roller coaster's structure was demolished after Collins exhausted all avenues searching for someone to move it. The roller coaster trains, lift motor and other mechanical parts were sold to Arnold's Park in Iowa in order to repair their own coaster. Beginning in 1994, a series of fires destroyed most of the remaining buildings and all of the structures were bulldozed in 2003.

Rebirth
Within a few years, nature reclaimed the park grounds. Collins sold off much of his remaining  to the state as a nature preserve but he held on to the  where the park and picnic grove were, hoping for a buyer. In 2005, the city entertained an idea to create a senior citizen housing complex there. But in 2006, local entrepreneur Eric Suher purchased the  of property from Collins for $1.6 million. By the end of that year, the parking lots and midway were cleaned up of all debris, and a new sign was placed on a new gate at the park entrance: "See you in the summer of '07 -- Mountain Park." However the sign disappeared in the spring of 2007 and the property sat idle throughout that summer. Suher then purchased the nearby Castle Hill Apartment complex.  Few reminders of the park remained: the entrance to the Mountain Flyer, the decaying mini-golf course, the large blue picnic pavilion and one of the original stone water fountains. By December 2008, the entire park property had been graded and much of the picnic grove had been cleared.  The picnic pavilion that Araserv constructed in 1971 remained as the lone reminder that the property once was home to a popular attraction.  Suher relocated the pavilion to where the center of the Mountain Park midway used to be, but it collapsed during a winter's snowfall and was never rebuilt.  After that, there were no remaining traces of the amusement park.

In July 2009, Suher gave a series of interviews stating in one that he wanted to return Mountain Park to the way people remembered it.  Then it was revealed that he was planning a series of concerts there in August.  With the entire area cleared of debris and food concessions placed under the steel picnic pavilion, Mountain Park re-opened as a concert venue on Saturday, August 15, 2009. It was an open house, with continuous free music and parking from afternoon through the evening. Entertainers included Sonny Landreth, Johnny A, Naomi Shelton and the Gospel Queens, Rubblebucket Orchestra and Frank Manzi Band.  Iron Horse Entertainment Group ran the concerts; it had previously held concerts at nearby Look Park.

The following evening saw the first paid event at the park in 22 years.  Indie rock group the Decemberists (with special guest Heartless Bastards) performed before a crowd of about 1500.

In 2010 the park continued to offer paid concerts in the summer, by acts like The Flaming Lips, Counting Crows, My Morning Jacket, Willie Nelson, MGMT and The Disco Biscuits.

In 2012, Suher proposed turning the area into a resort.  He briefly had the support of then mayor Alex Morse, but the mayor soon pulled his support.
   At the current time, the property has remained dormant.

References

Mountain Park by Jay Ducharme, Arcadia Publishers, 2008,

External links

DefunctParks.com - Mountain Park
Karen and Jay's Mountain Park page
The Holyoke Merry-Go-Round
Mountain Park, Tunnel of Laffs
Current concert schedule

Defunct amusement parks in Massachusetts
Buildings and structures in Holyoke, Massachusetts
Buildings and structures in Hampden County, Massachusetts
1897 establishments in Massachusetts
2009 establishments in Massachusetts
Amusement parks opened in 1897
Amusement parks closed in 1987
Mount Tom Range