[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Abdulhadi al-Khawaja

s to resolve his case."

On 1 May 2012, al-Khawaja told BBC correspondent Frank Gardner that he would continue the hunger strike. He said that the medical treatment which he was undergoing was good except the Bahraini officials trying to force-feed him, an accusation the government instantly denied.

In March 2021, different human rights organizations across the globe have been calling for the immediate release of al-Khawaja. A recent report by the Bahrain Center for Human Rights and Gulf Centre for Human Rights shows that al-Khawaja has been systematically tortured, physically, sexually abused and subjected to lengthy solitary confinement.

The European Parliament passed a resolution on case of Abdulhadi al-Khawaja and urged the authorities of Bahrain to ensure that the rights of detainees are upheld at all times. The resolution called for the authorities to comply with international laws on fair trial. The European Parliament also expressed concerns citing the reports of ill-treatment and torture of prisoners. It also demanded the Bahraini government to immediately and unconditionally release al-Khawaja and other prisoners of conscience. The resolution also condemned the Jaw prison administration over the continuous human rights violations of al-Khawaja.  

A senior Czech MEP, Tomáš Zdechovský was leading negotiations on behalf of his European People’s Party, over the European Parliament’s resolution concerning al-Khawaja. However, a report by The Guardian revealed that the MEP made an undeclared visit to Bahrain in April 2022. In an alternate resolution, Zdechovský’s EPP didn’t call for al-Khawaja’s release, and rather called him a “political opponent”. The centre-right group was accused of repeating what the “Bahraini government would say”.

See also

 Bahrain Centre for Human Rights
 Torture in Bahrain
 Islamic Action Society
 Bahrain Thirteen
 Nabeel Rajab
 Bobby Sands, of the 1981 Irish hunger strike
 Hana Shalabi
 Khader Adnan
 Maikel Nabil Sanad

References

External links
BBC News Profile of al-Khawaja

1961 births
Living people
People of the Bahraini uprising of 2011
Bahraini democracy activists
Bahraini dissidents
Bahraini emigrants to Denmark
Bahraini human rights activists
Bahraini torture victims
Recipients of Bahraini royal pardons
al-Khawaja
Amnesty International prisoners of conscience held by Bahrain
Bahraini prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment
Prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment by Bahrain
Danish prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment
Danish people imprisoned abroad
Political prisoners in Bahrain