[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Sarath Fonseka

ccording to the Sri Lankan Constitution. However, he requested the Court of Appeal to issue writs against the cashiering, prison sentence and removal from parliament. The petition on the prison sentence was rejected in December 2011 and he appealed to the Supreme Court in January 2012.

Post release

A midst local and international pressure president Mahinda Rajapaksa signed the order documents for the release of Fonseka during May 2012.

In September 2012, DNA MP Tiran Alles resigned from the post of Secretary of the Democratic National Party headed by Sarath Fonseka. Alles was in the media spotlight as he held several rounds of discussions with President Mahinda Rajapaksa to secure the release of Sarath Fonseka.
In October 2012, National Bhikku Front and DNA called for a movement for abolition of the executive presidency under the joint leadership of UNP MP Karu Jayasuriya and Fonseka. Despite the fact that Jayasuriya requested the permission, United National Party leadership ordered its members to boycott the rally which was scheduled to be held at Hyde Park Colombo.
Also in the same month, party deputy leader Arjuna Ranatunga resigned from the party.

Presidential Election 2015

In November 2012, party chairman Jayantha Ketagoda resigned from the position. Fonseka extended his support to Maithripala Sirisena in the 2015 Sri Lankan presidential election. Following his victory, President Sirisena gave Fonseka a complete presidential pardon and acquitted of all charges on 22 January 2015, restoring his civic rights. The pardon restored his military rank and decorations as well as his pension. He also requested reinstatement of his parliamentary seat which was taken by a member of his party after he lost it due to his conviction.
Fonseka joined the United National Party on 30 June 2016 and was appointed the chief organizer of Kalaniya seat of the party.

Promotion to Field Marshal

On 22 March 2015, Fonseka was promoted to the newly created rank of Field Marshal by President Maithripala Sirisena. He is currently ranked 5th in the table of precedence in Sri Lanka.

General Election 2015

Field Marshal Fonseka, contested the 2015 General Election from his Democratic Party from Colombo district, however he was not elected neither was his party able to secure a seat during the election.

Joining the UNP

In February 2016, Sarath Fonseka signed a collective agreement between the Democratic Party (DP) and the ruling United National Party (UNP). The MoU was signed by Fonseka as the leader of the Democratic Party and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe as the UNP leader. The two leaders exchanged agreements for the Democratic Party to join the United National Front (UNF), the coalition led by the UNP.

Cabinet Minister (2016-2018)

On 9 February 2016, he took the oath as a Member of Parliament for the seat vacated by the death of M. K. A. D. S. Gunawardana, and on 25 February, he was appointed as Cabinet Minister of Regional Development by President Sirisena which he led till May 2018, when he was appointed Cabinet Minister of Wildlife and Sustainable Development.

During the 2018 Sri Lankan constitutional crisis, he lost his ministerial post and was not reappointed by President Sirisena at the end of the crisis. During the crisis, Sirisena had claimed that the name of Fonseka had come up in the investigation of the CID but was suppressed.

Proposed Minister of Law and Order

Following the 2019 Sri Lanka Easter bombings, the UNP led by Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe requested President Sirisena to appoint Fonseka as Minister of Law and Order. President Sirisena turned down the request.

Personal life

Sarath Fonseka is married to Anoma Indumathi Munasinghe, daughter of D. J. and Eugine Munasinghe of Dematagoda, and has two daughters Aparna and Apsara.

Awards and decorations

During his military career, Fonseka received the gallantry medals Rana Wickrama Padakkama with two bars and Rana Sura Padakkama with four bars; the service medals Vishista Seva Vibhushanaya, Uttama Seva Padakkama and the Sri Lanka Armed Services Long Service Medal with a clasp; wound medal Desha Putra Sammanaya with bar; the campaign medals Eastern Humanitarian Operations Medal, Northern Humanitarian Operations Medal, Purna Bhumi Padakkama, North and East Operations Medal with two clasps, Vadamarachchi Operation Medal, and the Riviresa Campaign Services Medal with clasp; and the commemorative medals Republic of Sri Lanka Armed Services Medal, 50th Independence Anniversary Commemoration Medal, Sri Lanka Army 50th Anniversary Medal, President's Inauguration Medal.

See also

 Eelam War IV
 Sri Lankan civil war
 Commander of the Army (Sri Lanka)
 Chief of Defence Staff
 White Flag case
 Wasantha Karannagoda
 Roshan Goonetileke

Notes

References

External links

Lieutenant General Sarath Fonseka appointed new Army Commander

Official sites
 General Fonseka's Official Website
 New Democratic Front Official Website