[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dagestan Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic

The Dagestan Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic (1921–1991), abbreviated as Dagestan ASSR or DASSR and also unofficially known as Soviet Dagestan or just simply Dagestan, was an autonomous republic of the Russian SFSR within the Soviet Union. This "Land of Mountains" was known also for having a "mountain of peoples," with more than thirty ethnic groups indigenous to the territory. This region was absorbed in to the Russian empire in 1813 after the signing of the Gulistan Peace Treaty, and subsequently became a breeding ground for early revolutionary fervor in the Russian Revolution due its people's discontent with being part of the empire.

Although as part of its strategy to promote local languages and to discourage pan-Turkic and pan-Islamic movements, a half-dozen of these ethnicities were provided with schooling in their native language. At some point in Soviet history, Russian became the most widespread second language and gradually the lingua franca, especially in urban areas.

The minor planet 2297 Daghestan, discovered in 1978 by Soviet astronomer Nikolai Chernykh, is named after the Dagestan ASSR.

Geographical Characteristics 
Dagestan is divided in to five different topographical regions of varying natural features. The furthest south is the region dominated by the Caucasus mountains. This region contains Dagestan's highest point, Mount Bazardüzü, at 14,652 ft or 4,466 m. This region is somewhat arid and rainfall is scarce. However, it is home to many rivers which cut through the Caucasus mountains such as the Sulak river or the Samur river. The second region is north of the mountains, and largely consists of forested hills rising to around 2000-3000 ft or 600-900 m. This region receives around 25 in or 63 cm of rain annually, this allows for a more useful soil than in the arid mountainous region. The third region is the coastal plain found in between the Caucasus Mountains and the Caspian Sea. This region contains rich deposits of Oil and Natural gas. The fourth region is made up of the swampy plain around the Terek river and its delta on the coast of the Caspian sea. The fifth region of Dagestan is the semi arid plain north of the Terek river. This region receives around 8-10 in or 20-25cm of rain per year, so vegetation as a whole is more scarce in this region when compared to other parts of Dagestan. This northern dry region of Dagestan is part of the greater Nogai Steppe region of Russia.

Pre Soviet History 
Due to the harsh nature of Dagestan's climate, any available fertile soil was used for agriculture. Cattle herding was also common. Only 15% of Dagestan's land is usable for agriculture, so Dagestan's own agricultural output was often not enough to sustain its population. The region became reliant on trade with Chechnya and Georgia to prevent starvation. Changes in agricultural practices during the 18th and early 19th century caused a migratory crisis within Dagestan due to shifting norms of where different people resided within Dagestan.

Before the Soviet era, identity in the region of Dagestan largely centered around clans and religion, rather than ethnicity or “nationhood” in the Soviet context. However, due to the diverse nature of Dagestan, social structures varied widely between people groups.

Dagestani society was divided up in to socio-organizational units known as Jama'ats before Russian conquest. Jama'ats first originated in Dagestan between the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, and they consisted of a well protected villages surrounded by agricultural fields. A Jama'at was divided further in to clans which were known as Tukkhums. Explusion from one's Jama'at or Tukkhum was seen as a fate equivalent to death. The existence of Jama'ats as the main socio-organizational structure in Dagestan began to fade due to pressure both from rising Russian colonial presence in the region as well as internal economic and environmental causes.

Dagestan's entry to the Russian Empire was finalized in 1813 with the signing of the Gulistan Peace Treaty. However, Russia's interests in Dagestan began in 1722 with the Russo-Persian War led by Peter the Great. Imam Shamil was one of Dagestan's first resistance leaders against Russian imperialism. Shamil was born in 1797 to a prominent Avar warlord, and he came of age during the first years of full Russian control of Dagestan. Shamil acted as a charismatic political leader as well as a religious one in his efforts to unite the diverse peoples of Dagestan who did not have a history of working together before the Russian conquest. Through his ability to create unity among the various peoples of Dagestan, he was able to successfully conduct over two decades of Guerilla warfare against the Tsarist Russian army.

Tsarist Russia spent decades in its conquest of the Caucasus region and the Caucasian war would not come to a full end until 1859.