[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Lascar (volcano)

f over  triggered a remelting. Andesite-rhyodacite intrusions occurred beneath the volcano, some of which were still hot when the Soncor eruption tore them out of the ground. An ice cap formed over Lascar at that time, feeding two glaciers that extended northeast and southeast away from the volcano.

Piedras Grandes unit
The stage II activity was accompanied by the eruption of block and ash flows consisting of andesite, and an eruption whose deposits include blocks with sizes of . This unit, formed during stage II, is known as Piedras Grandes,and is exposed on the western slopes below about  altitude. The unit is about  wide and consists of large blocks encased in ash. The composition of the Piedras Grandes unit is andesite containing amphibole, basaltic andesite and hornblende. The Piedras Grandes unit is over 26,500 years old, possibly between 63,000 and 100,000 years old. Temperatures have been estimated to be  for the andesite and  for the basaltic andesite. The magmas were formed from a remelted proto-pluton that had been heated and resupplied with volatiles by mafic magmas.

The lava domes interacted with glaciers, resulting in the formation of a glacier run whose deposits are found as far as  from the volcano. Blocks with sizes of up to  were transported by this flow. An alternative theory posits that the Piedras Grandes unit formed when an ice cap on Lascar interacted with a block and ash flow erupted by Aguas Calientes.

Soncor eruption
A major Plinian eruption occurred 26,450 ± 500 years ago, releasing  of ejecta, both volcanic ash and pyroclastic flows. The deposits left contain both andesite and dacite, with phenocrysts consisting of apatite, augite, biotite, iron-titanium oxides, orthopyroxene and plagioclase in a rhyolite matrix. The Plinian deposit has a colour ranging from white to creamy. Like the Piedras Grandes rocks, they tend towards high potassium quantities, and resemble other volcanic rocks of Lascar and the Central Andes in composition. The deposits are formed by a Plinian fallout deposit and an ignimbrite rich in lithics. This Plinian deposit reaches thicknesses of  and fell from a  eruption column.

The Soncor ignimbrite extended as much as  west from the volcano,  north and  south. It is white, heterogeneous and mostly featureless with only weak sorting, but features a noticeable compositional zonation. The ignimbrite features three facies, one rich in breccia, another rich in pumice, and a normal ignimbrite.

Ignimbrite was channeled to the Salar de Atacama by the Quebrada de Chaile, Quebrada de Soncor and Quebrada de Talabre canyons and some smaller valleys, northeastwards by the Quebrada de Morro Blanco and as far as  southeastwards over the Pampa Leija area. In these valleys, the ignimbrite can be as much as  thick. Pumices are encased in the ignimbrite as lenses and levees and are also found in the terrain above the canyons. Estimated temperatures decreased from  at the vent to  farther down the flows. At the time of emplacement, the ignimbrite was still . Magma temperatures have been estimated at . The Soncor fallout deposit contains a basal gravelly layer and several layers of andesitic and dacitic pumice which also contain lithics. The total volume of the Soncor eruption products has been estimated to be either  dense rock equivalent or  net volume, both minimum estimates. Lithic rocks derived both from the pre-Soncor volcano and the basement are also represented.

The magma erupted was generated in a magma chamber starting from andesite, which underwent complex petrogenetic processes. This magma chamber was located at a floor depth of  (older estimate ) and probably had a complex shape, given certain chemical properties of the Soncor rocks. At the time preceding the eruption, the magma chamber had a thermal stratification; injections of mafic magmas had heated the magma chamber and induced convection.

A volatile phase containing chlorine formed inside the magma chamber and quickly removed most sulfur from the magma. This sulfur extraction was facilitated by the high oxygen content of the magma, which allowed the formation of sulfur dioxide. Water is a principal volatile involved in the processes of Plinian eruptions; the water content of the Soncor and Piedras Grandes magmas was about 4–5%. The Soncor magmas were associated with a volatile phase that underwent extensive interaction with the future eruption products.

The previous volcanic edifice was destroyed by this eruption, which may have formed a caldera. The vent was no wider than , as it is completely hidden beneath the western cone. Such a vent or caldera is substantially smaller than the volume of rocks erupted, a discrepancy that is also evident in the 1932 eruption of Quizapu. The Soncor magma chamber may have been too deep to collapse when it was emptied, explaining why no significant caldera was formed.