[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hamilton Police Service

nd Staff Sergeant, respectively.

Unlike other Ontario police services, all Hamilton Police officers wear shields on their chest. Members at the rank of Sergeant and above have their rank listed on the badge in a blue oval, and members at the rank of Inspector and above have gold shields.

Divisions

The Hamilton Police Service operates out of three police stations: Central, which covers the northwestern portion of the old City of Hamilton; East End, which covers the southeastern portion of the old City of Hamilton and the entirety of the old Town of Stoney Creek; and Mountain, which covers the remainder of the amalgamated City of Hamilton.

Specialized units

ACTION Team
The ACTION Team (Assessing Crime Trends In Our Neighbourhoods) was launched in 2010, in response to crime and safety concerns in downtown Hamilton. The Team was later expanded to include five teams of seven officers, and by 2016, had made 5 000 arrests and issued 23 000 tickets. As of 2023, the Team is deployed across the City of Hamilton in response to safety concerns or crime spikes, and conducts patrols on foot or by bicycle.

It has faced criticism for using a quota-based model for its policing strategy, and in 2015, five members of the team were charged criminally for making, counting, but never issuing bogus tickets to inflate their ticket statistics. The Team's use of random street checks (popularly referred to as "carding") attracted particular criticism from community advocates and City councillors, who cited statistics that showed that racialized Hamiltonians were disproportionately carded by the Team. The practice was banned by the provincial government in 2017.

Auxiliary police unit

The auxiliary police were established in the early 1960s as a response to societal changes. Civil unrest throughout the world had the police service question its ability to deal with large-scale chaos.  The principal goal was to create an auxiliary force made up of volunteer, unpaid officers who could be called upon to assist the regular force if problems were ever to arise.  The auxiliary police are required to go through various training seminars, as well as maintain a high degree of physical fitness.  Although in uniform, they function under very strict guidelines and do not substitute for regular officers.  Instead, they assist in the processes when constables required a large, organized support.

The auxiliary police work at parades or during long weekends, at rallies, or large events where police presence is required on a larger scale than usual.  They are identified with a shoulder flash that says 'auxiliary'.  They also wear a traditional light-blue shirt whereas sworn officers wear navy blue uniforms.

Canine
The first known record of dogs being used in policing the Hamilton community was in 1878, when an old stray dog the officers named "Bob" was taken in and routinely brought on night patrol to accompany an officer named Constable Ferris on his beat.  Bob was not trained for special tasks, but often acted as a deterrent to those who had the potential to create trouble.

In 1960 the Hamilton Police Department acquired two dogs with the intent of training them for special circumstances. Hamilton Police had the second municipal canine unit in Canada.  Their names were Sandy and King.  The dogs were used for many functions which made the officers’ jobs safer and easier.  Due to their keen senses, dogs were trained to track suspects or missing persons, search buildings, and to locate weapons and bombs. They were also trained to disarm criminals threatening the life of an officer.  The dogs used as police dogs were for the most part German Shepherds. They are used because of their fierce loyalty, relatively even temperament, imposing physical presence and easy trainability.

The dogs train with a constable who is responsible for the dog both on and off the job. They live with officers' families which allows a constant relationship between the dogs and their handlers to develop.  Much of the time, the dogs are in training to maintain the skills they have acquired.  Today Hamilton Police deploy four police service dogs (PSD).  Each dog is trained in human scent detection and tracking.   PSDs are also used for drug detection, firearms and currency.  Hamilton Police also deploy a PSD for explosives detection.

Hamilton has had one PSD killed in the line of duty - PSD Troy killed February 25, 1992 (shot by a suspect during an apprehension).

Crisis response
The Crisis Response Unit consists of three specialized units that respond to different niches of social disorder: the Crisis Support & Outreach Team; the Mobile Crisis Rapid Response Team; and the Social Navigation Program.