[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# U.S. Route 97 Alternate

tern outskirts of the city, with US 97A continuing northeast into the hills overlooking the Columbia River. The highway crosses part of the Gallagher Flat State Wildlife Recreation Area and travels just south of the Lake Chelan Airport before terminating at a junction with US 97 southwest of Azwell.

US 97A uses mileposts derived from US 97, beginning at 200 and ending at 240. In addition to carrying agricultural freight, the highway is a tourist route and is signed as part of the Cascade Loop Scenic Byway. The highway is maintained by the Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT), which conducts an annual survey on state routes to measure traffic volume in terms of average annual daily traffic. Average traffic volumes on US 97A range from a minimum of 2,800 vehicles at its eastern terminus northeast of Chelan to a maximum of 12,000 in downtown Chelan. A short section between US 2 and the Ohme Garden Road roundabout is designated as part of the National Highway System, a network of roads identified as important to the national economy, defense, and mobility. Link Transit operates daily bus service on the corridor, connecting Wenatchee to Entiat, Chelan, and Manson.

History

The first wagon roads along the Columbia River were built by American settlers in the 1880s and followed earlier routes plotted by indigenous peoples and explorers like George McClellan in the mid-19th century. The west side of the river was once used as an overland route by fur traders in the 1850s and constituted part of the Okanagan Trail and the Cariboo Trail. A wagon road on the west side of the river was added to the state highway system in 1897, connecting Wenatchee to Twisp, and a sum of $15,000 ( dollars) was appropriated to Kittitas and Okanogan counties for construction.

The Wenatchee–Pateros section of the wagon road was assigned in 1905 as part of State Road 10, which continued north along the Okanogan River to the Canadian border. Within the next three years, State Road 10 was improved using state funds, including $20,000 ( dollars) allocated to Chelan County for the Wenatchee–Pateros section, particularly the southern stretch through Entiat. By 1915, Chelan County had improved the road surface between Wenatchee and Maple Creek, southwest of the city of Chelan, and the Great Northern Railway had begun negotiations to purchase the highway's right-of-way for a new railroad connecting Wenatchee to Okanogan. The railway company rebuilt the highway, relocating it inland to make way for its railroad, at a cost of $150,000 (equivalent to $ in  dollars) per an agreement it reached with the state highway commission. State Road 10 was renamed to the Lake Chelan and Okanogan Highway by a legislative act in 1917 and moved to the east side of the river in 1923, ending a decade-long debate on where the highway should run.

US 97 was created as part of the initial system of numbered national highways in 1926, running from Ashland, Oregon, to the Canadian border near Oroville. The highway was co-signed with State Road 10 from Wenatchee to the border. State Road 10 was relocated to its original alignment on the west side of the Columbia River, which had been improved with oiled macadam surfacing, and was later signed as Primary State Highway 10 (PSH 10) in the 1937 reformation of the state highway system. By the end of the 1930s, the entirety of US 97 and PSH 10 had been paved in concrete and asphalt. A notoriously hilly section of the highway at Maple Creek was replaced by the Knapp's Hill Tunnel, which opened in 1936.

The development of hydroelectric dams on the Columbia River began in the 1930s and expanded after the end of World War II. The planned reservoir created by the Rocky Reach Dam, located near Orondo, would inundate  of shoreline, including the city of Entiat and sections of PSH 10 and the adjacent Great Northern Railway. Construction of the dam began in 1956 and several contracts were awarded two years later for the uphill relocation of the highway, which began shortly afterward. The new,  section of the highway between the dam and Knapp's Hill was constructed in one year, opening in November 1959 at a cost of $8 million (equivalent to $ in  dollars), and involved several large cuts in the nearby hills. During the 1964 state highway renumbering, PSH 10 was fully replaced by US 97, while the unfinished highway on the east side of the river between Wenatchee and Chelan Falls became US 2 and SR 151.