[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Operation Magic Carpet (Yemen)

Operation Magic Carpet is a widely known nickname for Operation On Wings of Eagles (, Kanfei Nesharim lit. Wings of Vultures), an operation between June 1949 and September 1950 that brought 49,000 Yemenite Jews to the new state of Israel. During its course, the overwhelming majority of Yemenite Jews – some 47,000 from Yemen, 1,500 from Aden, as well as 500 from Djibouti and Eritrea and some 2,000 Jews from Saudi Arabia – were airlifted to Israel. British and American transport planes made some 380 flights from Aden.

Background 
Various groups of Yemenite Jews have been immigrating to Palestine since 1881. In 1924 the ruler of (northern) Yemen, Imam Yahya, officially forbade Jewish immigration to Mandatory Palestine, but Yemenite Jews were able to immigrate to Palestine by traveling to the British colony of Aden and then to Palestine. By the start of World War II, there were some 28,000 Jews of Yemenite descent in Palestine. A group of roughly 5,000 was stuck in Aden since 1945 and was only allowed into Israel in 1948.

The operation 
The operation's official name originated from two biblical passages:
 Book of Exodus 19:4 – Ye have seen what I did unto the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagles' wings, and brought you unto myself.
 Book of Isaiah 40:31 – But they that wait upon the LORD shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.

The Operation Magic Carpet was the first in a series of operations. Israel sees the rescue operation as a successful rescue of Yemen's community from oppression toward redemption. 49,000 Jews were brought to Israel under the program.

A street in Jerusalem, one in Herzliya, one in Ramat Gan, and another in Kerem HaTeimanim, Tel Aviv, were named "Kanfei Nesharim" ("Wings of Eagles") in honor of this operation.

In 1948, there were 55,000 Jews living in Yemen, and another 8,000 in the British Colony of Aden.

Anti-Jewish violence
Following the 1947 UN Partition Plan, Muslim rioters attacked the Jewish community in Aden and killed at least 82 Jews (1947 Aden riots) and destroyed a number of Jewish homes. Early in 1948, accusations of the murder of two Muslim Yemeni girls led to looting of Jewish property.

Reasons for the exodus 
Jewish Agency's emissary, Rabbi Yaakov Shraibom was sent in 1949 to Yemen and discovered that there were around 50,000 Jews living in Yemen, which was unknown at the time to Israel. He sent multiple letters to convey the community's strong religious and messianic desire to come to Israel. David Ben-Gurion was reluctant at first, but he came through eventually.

Esther Meir-Glitzenstein showed evidence how the community's sentiment for Aliyah played a part in the exodus, the extent of which surprised even the Jewish state and the agency in charge of the operation, who were not prepared for the mass of Jews who were fleeing Yemen. Once he realized that, Shraibom tried to prevent the coming crisis and urged the community to stay in Yemen, but the sentiment of the community for Aliyah was stronger and they came nonetheless.

Meir-Glitzenstein also claims that collusion between Israel and the Imam of Yemen who "profited hugely from confiscatory taxes levied on the Jewish community" led to a botched operation in which the Jewish community suffered terribly. Reuven Ahroni and Tudor Parfitt argue that economic motivations also had a role in the massive emigration of Yemeni Jews, which began prior to 1948.

Tudor Parfitt described the reasons for the exodus as multi-faceted, some aspects due to Zionism and others more historically based: