[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# William David Rudland

ined minister, wrote articles for China's Millions, and lectured on the progress of mission work in China. Friends introduced him to Elizabeth Ellen Brealey, the daughter of George Brealey founder of the Blackdown Hills Mission in Somerset, England. William and Elizabeth married on 22 November 1875.

William returned to China with Elizabeth; without his three children. On board, Elizabeth gave birth to Wallace George on 26 October 1876.  Taylor asked William to become a part of his management team, but William declined. He wanted to continue his work in Taizhou. Elizabeth had difficulty adjusting. Soon after arriving in Taizhou she became ill. Taylor ordered her return to England. After a ruckus in town, William took her to the home of his friends Josiah and Franny (nee Wilson) Jackson in Wenzhou where she died on 22 June 1878.

Alone again, William returned to Taizhou to continue his work. Taylor tried to talk him into going to another station further west to start over. Once again William declined. His friend James Williamson and family traveled down to help him for as long as he needed support. His friend Josiah Jackson lost his wife Franny in July 1878 soon after the birth of their daughter Emily. Jackson traveled north to help William whenever he could.  Taking matters into her hands, Jennie Taylor (Mrs. Hudson Taylor) introduced William to her friend and fellow missionary Annie Knight.  William and Annie married on 16 December 1879.  Annie gave birth to Adeline Rose on 26 September 1880 in Shanghai.

Together William and Annie were a strong team. They dusted off the printing press from storage and set it up to run in Taizhou. Annie, a respected theological scholar, helped William run the station and supervise printing for the mission.  In his off time, William taught himself Latin and Greek.

In 1885 William, Annie, and Rose returned to England. His oldest son, E. William, decided at 17 that he no longer wished to pursue an education or join his Father. William's friend Annie MacPherson arranged for E. William to migrate to Canada on "the Orphan Train" in March 1886. A year later Charles decided to make the same trip. William, upset, wanted his sons to have a full formal education then join him in China. William, along with Annie and Rose, returned to China in 1887 to continue his work.

By the close of 1894, the number of books translated and printed in the Taizhou Romanized dialect surpassed all goals. The Ningbo dialect primer William rewrote was now in its second edition. Booklets introducing the New Testament with questions and Bible helps flew off the shelves.  They printed hymnals with over one hundred hymns. And, in 1893 William completed translating and printing the book of Psalms.

William's daughter Grace returned to China in 1893 to help her father. She became a missionary with the China Inland Mission in 1895.  With Annie's health failing William decided to return to England on furlough, leaving Grace in China. They arrived on 15 May 1898.

Annie received medical treatment in England. Now healthy, refreshed, and ready to return to their beloved Taizhou, word came of the Boxer Rebellion.  Unable to return, William gave lectures, wrote articles, and craved information about the rebellion.  Just to the north of Taizhou several missionaries were brutally massacred. His daughter Grace and her friend Mary Williamson (James Williamsons' daughter) were among the last group to leave Shanghai. After recovering from her injuries, Grace remained in England helping the home office, refusing her father's offers to return to China.  Grace married fellow missionary and Baptist minister Dennis Mills in 1919; Mary Williamson stood alongside her friend.

Receiving the all clear, William, Annie, and Rose departed for China on 18 November 1891. In his absence, C.I.M. decided the Taizhou district was too large for one person to supervise. They broke the district into four, each with its own supervisor. William was upset with the changes, but readily adapted. He set about visiting each station and working on the Old Testament translation.

Major life changes swept through William's life. Annie Rudland, his companion for twenty-five years, died on 22 September 1904. His mentor and friend Annie MacPherson died on 27 November 1904 in London.  Hudson Taylor died on 3 June 1905 in Changsha, Hunan, China. William walked with hundreds of others at his funeral in Zhenjiang, where he was laid to rest next to Maria. ---- A few years later word came that his mother died on 2 April 1907. His daughter Rose, ill for some time, died 15 January 1909 from malignant malaria. Soon after, his close friend Josiah Jackson died on 19 April 1909 in Shanghai.