[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Talton v. Mayes

on who dissented was Justice Harlan. The case had numerous precedents, particularly Barron v. Baltimore. Since that case was adjudicated in 1833, it had been a settled fact that the Fifth Amendment was a limitation on the powers of the federal government only, which were created by the Constitution.

Since the Court had determined several times previously that the powers of local government the Native American tribes exercised were in existence before the Constitution and therefore were not derived from it, they held in the Talton case that the Fifth Amendment held no sway over the operations of the Cherokee's local justice system, as Talton involved only Cherokee persons and laws. The Court stated that "as the powers of local self-government enjoyed by the Cherokee Nation existed prior to the constitution, they are not operated upon by the Fifth Amendment."

Talton was hanged by the Cherokee Nation in Tahlequah on July 31, 1896.

However, since the early 20th century, the Supreme Court has used the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment (interpreted, however, to have the same meaning as the 5th amendment) to apply most of the Bill of Rights to the states through the process and doctrine of selective incorporation.  Therefore, as to most, but not all, provisions of the Bill of Rights, Barron and its progeny have been circumvented, if not actually overruled.

Effects

United States v. Andrew Red Bird
Andrew Red Bird was arraigned on the charge of rape by the Rosebud Sioux Tribe Court. He was then sent on the District Court in South Dakota, and federal authorities were finally notified nearly a month after his arrest. One of the first things that the Court set out to determine was whether the tribe had the power to act in this situation.  Even though this appeals court case took place in 2001 and 2002, Talton v. Mayes was referenced as one of the main prerequisites showing that the tribe had indeed had the power to act as they had, because their power was not derived from the Constitution, but rather was in existence before that. Red Bird ended up winning his case to suppress one of his statements made under unconstitutional circumstances, but the power of local government exercised by the Rosebud Sioux tribe was upheld based on Talton v. Mayes.

United States v. Wheeler
United States v. Wheeler included much the same storyline as United States v. Andrew Red Bird, with Talton v. Mayes playing the same role. Wheeler was also arraigned for rape, and Talton v. Mayes was again mentioned as the Justices tried to determine what the power of the local tribal government was.

Talton v. Mayes was also mentioned briefly either in the arguing or the decision making for several different cases, including United States v. Lara,  
Plains Commerce Bank v. Long Family Land & 
Cattle Co., Inc, and more....

Legislation
Talton v. Mayes also had an effect on legislation, most notably the Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968. While Talton v. Mayes did uphold the fact that the tribes were sovereign in their purely local affairs, it also said that while they were "possessed of . . . attributes of local self government, when exercising their 
tribal functions, all such rights are subject to the supreme legislative authority of the United States.” and that "Congress has plenary authority to limit, modify or 
eliminate the powers of local self-government which the tribes otherwise possess." Congress used that power to create the Indian Civil Rights Act, which forced Indian tribes to mimic the procedures of US courts in their judicial actions. While the Indian Civil Rights Act did not force the entire Constitution upon the Indians, it did include quite a few and forced the issue of plenary power, Congress using its abilities to control the way Indian justice is served.

See also

 List of United States Supreme Court cases, volume 163

Footnotes

Additional References
Washburn, Wilcomb E. Red man's land/white man's law the past and present status of the American Indian. Norman: University of Oklahoma, 1995.
Canby, William C. American Indian Law in a Nutshell. (Nutshell Series) (3rd ed) (Nutshell Series) New York: West Group, 1996.
Duthu, N. Bruce. American Indians and the Law. The Penguin Library of American Indian History (Penguin's Library of American Indian History) New York: Viking Adult, 2008.

External links

 

1896 in United States case law
United States Native American case law
United States Supreme Court cases
United States Supreme Court cases of the Fuller Court