[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sakiko Fukuda-Parr

da-Parr remains positive about social and economic change.  Her role in the Millennium Development Goals, among other initiatives, is making a difference in the wars on poverty and inequality.  Toward this end, she will continue to fight for an outcome that embodies true human rights on every level.

In The Adventure of Peace, Fukuda-Parr’s chapter, "Poverty and Inequality – Challenges in the Era of Globalisation," describes the central challenge intrinsically dividing society: the direction of globalization.  As a synopsis of her works and her beliefs, Fukuda-Parr urges nations to redirect globalization so that it benefits all countries and all peoples, to promote democratization as a force for greater social justice and to address poverty as part of the agenda for collective security.  Critical issues (such as HIV/AIDS, migration, links between development and conflict, cultural diversity, and global governance) can be more appropriately tackled with global solidarity and an “inclusive form” of globalization.

Personal life
Fukuda-Parr was born in Tokyo, Japan.  She moved from Tokyo to London to Washington, D.C. and, finally, to Manila because of her father’s position with the Japanese Treasury. She is married to Francis Parr and is the mother of two children, Nicholas and Henry. She currently resides in the upper west side of Manhattan.

Recognition 
She is a joint winner of the 2019 Grawemeyer Award alongside Terra Lawson-Remer and Susan Randolph for Ideas for Improving World Order. She is also the winner of the American Political Science Association’s 2016 Best Book in Human Rights Scholarship.

Selected bibliography

Books

Chapters in books

Journals

Human Development Reports 
 Human Development Reports 1995-2004 – lead author, with Sir Richard Jolly (1996–99); lead author (2000-04) 
 Human Development Report 2004: Cultural Liberty in Today’s Diverse World. 
 Human Development Report 2003: The Millennium Development Goals, a Compact among Nations to end Human Poverty. 
 Human Development Report 2002: Deepening Democracy in a Fragmented World. 
 Human Development Report 2001: Making New Technologies Work for Human Development. 
 Human Development Report 2000: Human Rights and Human Development. 
 Human Development Report 1999: Globalization with a Human Face. 
 Human Development Report 1998: Consumption and Human Development. 
 Human Development Report 1997: Human Development to Eradicate Poverty. 
 Human Development Report 1996: Human Development and Economic Growth.

See also 
 International Association for Feminist Economics
 Feminist economics
 Feminist Economics - journal
 List of feminist economists

References

External links 
 Official website
 2007.  “Sakiko Fukuda-Parr.” Harvard (accessed 8 June 2014).
 2006.  “Sakiko Fukuda-Parr.” New School (accessed 8 June 2014).
 

1950 births
Living people
Alumni of the University of Sussex
Non-fiction environmental writers
Japanese economists
Japanese women economists
Feminist economists
The New School faculty
Japanese expatriates in the United States