[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National Association for Community College Entrepreneurship

The National Association for Community College Entrepreneurship (NACCE) is a non-profit membership organization founded in 2002 on the campus of Springfield Technical Community College in Springfield, Massachusetts. It is an organization of educators, presidents, and entrepreneurs.

Through an annual conference and regional summits, symposiums, freely available resources, biweekly e-newsletter, webinars, a quarterly journal, podcasts, and other services, NACCE helps its members share information about entrepreneurship education. NACCE also provides curriculum and other tools that can be used in the classroom and in communities to facilitate entrepreneurship projects and progress.
 
In 2019, NACCE published Community Colleges as Incubators of Innovation, a book by expert contributors whose essays were edited by NACCE CEO and President Rebecca Corbin and Ron Thomas, a former NACCE board president and retired president of Dakota County Technical College. Also in 2019, NACCE's annual conference drew a record attendance of 514. In 2020, NACCE published its second book, Impact ED: How Community College Entrepreneurship Creates Equity and Prosperity, by Rebecca Corbin and former entrepreneurship faculty members from Hillsborough Community College, Andrew Gold and Mary Beth Kerly. Also in 2020, NACCE moved its national headquarters to a campus of Wake Technical Community College in Cary, North Carolina, while still maintaining an administrative office in Springfield, Massachusetts.

In 2021, NACCE expanded its leadership in entrepreneurship education through its ability to attract grant and partnership support. Over $8 million was awarded to NACCE member colleges to host STEM camps for more than 12,000 students. NACCE also provided support for entrepreneurship education in all 13 Appalachian states, impacting more than 50,000 people. Through its work with the Everyday Entrepreneur Venture Fund (EEVF), NACCE awarded funds in nine states, creating more than 150 new main street businesses. In 2022, NACCE expanded the EEVF footprint, making funds accessible to an increased number of participants.

In 2022, NACCE celebrated its 20th anniversary and increased its support of entrepreneurial initiatives that positively impact local communities and people.

During its Annual Conference in Boston, NACCE launched the inaugural "Pitch for the Foundation" competition in partnership with the Philip E. and Carole R. Ratcliffe Foundation. Combined with the annual "Pitch for the Trades" competition, the two events awarded  community college teams with a total of $300,000 to support entrepreneurial initiatives.

A major initiative of the year was the launch of the "Entrepreneurial College of the Future," which led to the creation of a comprehensive, free database of innovative practices that can be shared nationwide.

NACCE hosted the "make/SHIFT Makerspace Summit," attracting attendees interested in learning more about making and makerspaces.

In partnership with Verizon, NACCE launched "Verizon Small Business Digital Ready." The program offers businesses free support to enable digital readiness through customized curriculum, helping to offset the negative impact of the pandemic, which had a disproportionate impact on minority-owned small businesses.

NACCE's 2022 Annual Conference attracted 400 in-person and remote attendees from 46 states.

History
The first entrepreneurship education courses at community colleges started in the early 1970s.  
In 2001, Springfield Technical Community College and the Entrepreneurial Institute at the Springfield Enterprise Center at STCC in Massachusetts began to research and investigate entrepreneurship education practices at community colleges across the country. At that time, only about 10% of 1,200-plus community colleges had any type of entrepreneurship education as part of their curriculum. At the same time, both the American Association of Community Colleges (AACC) and the National Commission on Entrepreneurship recognized that community colleges were ideally positioned to be catalysts for fostering economic vitality through entrepreneurship education at the community college level.

In response to these findings, NACCE was created to establish entrepreneurship education as a core offering to foster economic development through community colleges. An inaugural conference  in 2003 with 150 attendees was held with the support of a $100,000 grant from S. Prestley Blake, the co-founder of Friendly Ice Cream Corporation. NACCE went on to receive a $50,000 grant from the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation of Kansas City and a $20,000 grant from the Coleman Foundation of Chicago.