[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Haris Medunjanin

for change of footballing citizenship was submitted to FIFA and, on 31 October 2009, national coach Miroslav Blažević invited the player for the 2010 FIFA World Cup playoff games against Portugal. He made his debut – as a starter – in the decisive second leg, a 0–1 loss in Zenica (0–2 on aggregate).

Medunjanin scored his first international goal on 17 November 2010, in a friendly with Slovakia. In the UEFA Euro 2012 qualifying campaign, he contributed three goals against Albania (2–0, home), Belarus (2–0, away) and Luxembourg (5–0 at home), helping Bosnia to the second place in their group and to qualify for play-offs.

On 2 June 2014, Medunjanin was named in the squad for 2014 FIFA World Cup. He made his debut in the tournament 14 days later, playing the last 16 minutes of a 2–1 group stage loss to Argentina.

On 13 October 2015, Medunjanin scored a crucial brace against Cyprus to help Bosnia and Herzegovina reach the Euro 2016 play-offs after the 3–2 away win. In 2016, he captained the nation during the Kirin Cup winning campaign, the first match being against Denmark on 3 June.

Medunjanin announced his retirement from international football on 27 March 2018, after playing in a friendly with Senegal which marked his 60th cap.

Personal life
Medunjanin was born in Sarajevo, Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. After the outbreak of Bosnian War in 1992, he moved to the Netherlands at the age of seven with his mother and sister, whilst his father was unable to leave, later losing his life. Due to living in the latter country he possessed dual citizenship, Bosnian and Dutch.

In July 2019, Medunjanin married Israeli model Moran Rahimi.

Career statistics

Club

International

Scores and results list Bosnia and Herzegovina's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Medunjanin goal.

Honours
Netherlands U21
UEFA European Under-21 Championship: 2006, 2007

References

External links

Stats at Voetbal International 

1985 births
Living people
Dutch people of Bosnia and Herzegovina descent
Bosnia and Herzegovina emigrants to the Netherlands
Bosnia and Herzegovina refugees
Bosnia and Herzegovina men's footballers
Dutch men's footballers
Footballers from Sarajevo
Men's association football midfielders
Eredivisie players
Eerste Divisie players
AZ Alkmaar players
Sparta Rotterdam players
PEC Zwolle players
La Liga players
Primera Federación players
Real Valladolid players
Deportivo de La Coruña players
CD Castellón footballers
Israeli Premier League players
Maccabi Tel Aviv F.C. players
Süper Lig players
Gaziantepspor footballers
Major League Soccer players
Philadelphia Union players
FC Cincinnati players
Netherlands men's under-21 international footballers
Bosnia and Herzegovina men's international footballers
2014 FIFA World Cup players
Dutch expatriate men's footballers
Bosnia and Herzegovina expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in the Netherlands
Expatriate men's footballers in Spain
Expatriate men's footballers in Israel
Expatriate men's footballers in Turkey
Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Spain
Bosnia and Herzegovina expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands
Bosnia and Herzegovina expatriate sportspeople in Spain
Bosnia and Herzegovina expatriate sportspeople in Israel
Bosnia and Herzegovina expatriate sportspeople in Turkey
Bosnia and Herzegovina expatriate sportspeople in the United States