[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cornish Assembly

ment and heritage (planning, monuments, national records)
Education and skills
Culture (sport, language, the arts, broadcasting)
Local government
Justice and administration (courts, charities, electoral review)
Economic development (enterprise, industry, energy, technology, science)
Transport
Health

In September 2014, the then St Ives MP Andrew George called on Cornwall to use the Scottish independence referendum as an opportunity to mount a campaign for devolution, saying "If Scotland and Wales can be offered further powers then Cornwall must be next in line. After all, Cornwall is already recognised as a distinct region for economic development purposes, as a separate people and for its distinct language." Earlier in the year, the Liberal Democrats voted to make a Cornish Assembly party policy at their annual conference in York, although their ideas have been criticised by Mebyon Kernow as "nothing more than local government reform".

The Liberal Democrats announced that a Cornish Assembly would be in their manifesto for the 2015 general election, proposing a "Devolution Enabling Act" that would give Cornwall the chance to take law-making powers from Westminster. Prospective MP Julia Goldsworthy said "we need real devolution in Cornwall too. Not just more power for local government, but a proper legislative assembly for Cornwall like Wales has." In March 2015, visiting Cornwall on St Piran's Day, Liberal Democrat leader and Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg elaborated on his party's plans, saying "Cornwall could choose to have different rules to England on a whole range of policy areas like academy schools, health service spending, right-to-buy, second home ownership and bus services."

The leader of the Conservative group in Cornwall Council, Fiona Ferguson, called the plans to ask government for more powers for Cornwall to govern itself "very attractive". In January 2015 Labour's Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls pledged greater "flexibility" in local decision making during a visit to Cornwall.

In March 2015, Cornwall Council published The Case for Cornwall, a booklet containing its proposals for devolution in areas of transport, energy, health, social care, housing, economy and heritage. Council leader John Pollard stated that following initial discussions, a "more detailed document" would be submitted to the government following the 2015 election.

In July 2015 the UK government devolved control over bus services in Cornwall to the unitary council. According to the council's transport portfolio holder, Bert Biscoe, the deal gives him far more control over buses, strengthening his ability to ensure that routes run in rural areas - which private bus companies might find uncommercial. The integration of health and social services in Cornwall was also announced. The implementation of the changes required the passing of the Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016.

Support 
Popular support for devolved power in Cornwall was shown when a 50,000 petition for a Cornish Assembly was handed to the government in 2001. The petition had the support of all five Cornish Liberal Democrat MPs, Cornwall Council and most independent councillors. The same year, the leader of the unionist Liberal Democrats in the Scottish Parliament, Jim Wallace, expressed his support for an Assembly. In 2003, a Cornwall County Council-commissioned MORI poll showed a result of 55% of Cornish people in favour of a fully devolved Cornish Assembly. Lord Whitty, as Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State at the Department of Environment, Transport and the Regions, in the House of Lords, recognised that Cornwall had a "special case" for devolution and on a visit to Cornwall, Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott said "Cornwall has the strongest regional identity in the UK."

In December 2011, Welsh MP Jonathan Edwards submitted an Early Day Motion requesting a Cornish Assembly. The bid was sponsored by Cornish MPs Dan Rogerson and Andrew George, as well as Welsh MPs Elfyn Llwyd and Hywel Williams and English MP John McDonnell. The Motion was also signed by Labour, Liberal Democrats, Scottish National Party and Plaid Cymru MPs.  In February 2012, Eden Project founder Tim Smit added his support for a Cornish Assembly in an interview with BBC Spotlight. He hoped that greater devolution of powers and control of finances to Cornwall would aid in the development of green and other innovative technologies by Cornish companies.  In May 2014, leader of the Green Party of England and Wales, Natalie Bennett, expressed her party's support for a Cornish Assembly and signed a declaration to support Mebyon Kernow's proposals. In September 2014, a Pirate FM poll on a Cornish Assembly ended with 64% in favour of greater powers for Cornwall.