[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Yom Huledet

"Yom Huledet (Happy Birthday)" (; meaning "Birthday") was the  entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1999, performed in Hebrew and English by Eden. The song was written by Yitzhak Baranes, Moshe Datz, , and Jacky Oved, and composed by Baranes, Lamai, Oved, and ; Datz previously produced the , as well as represented Israel in Eurovision in  as part of Duo Datz with "Kan".

Composition
The song is a lively and fast-paced tune, showcasing the Contest's growing emphasis on dance-friendly music. In the song, the band sings about the simple happiness of having a birthday and enjoying it with a party. The song's sound is somewhat reminiscent of American music, influenced by two of the singers, Eddie and Gabriel Butler, who are Black Israelites. Notably, their inclusion marked the first instance of black participants representing Israel at Eurovision.

According to Ya'akov Lamai, the song started out as a lower tempo song entirely in English. The song was then rearranged by its four composers, together with producer , into an up-tempo number with a mix of mostly Hebrew lyrics with some English lyrics sprinkled in the chorus and throughout.

At the Eurovision Song Contest

The song was performed nineteenth on the night, following 's Bobbie Singer with "Reflection" and preceding 's Times Three with "Believe 'n Peace". At the close of voting, it had received 93 points, placing 5th in a field of 23.

It was succeeded as Israeli representative at the 2000 contest by PingPong with "Sameyakh".

Reception
The song, and the album of the same name, did well commercially. Mako's Roie Hacohen named the song as the most iconic Israeli one-hit wonder, citing the fact the song is played in "almost every Israeli birthday party".  Aya Hayut of ynet also described the song as "one of the most listened to in every house in Israel" due to its popularity in birthdays.

Charts

Weekly charts

Year-end charts

References

External links
 Detailed info & lyrics, The Diggiloo Thrush, "Happy birthday (Yom huledet)".

Eurovision songs of Israel
Eurovision songs of 1999
1999 songs