[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Andrew Moravcsik

cial interdependence and globalization as the dominant force in world politics, past and present. Liberal theory, Moravcsik maintains, is not empirically sufficient to explain all of international relations, but it is analytically more fundamental than other types of international relations theory. 

Moravcsik advocates greater transparency and replicability of textual, qualitative and historical research in international relations, political science, and the social sciences more generally. To this end, he has proposed the use of "active citation" the use of precise footnotes hyperlinked to source material contained in an appendix or on a permanent qualitative data repository. He has worked with other scholars to extend this approach through the "Annotation for Transparent Inquiry" (ATI) initiative. Moravcsik's book The Choice for Europe was criticized for imprecise and misleading use of historical sources.

Policy career

Policy positions
Prior to the start of his academic career, Moravcsik served in policy positions for governments on three continents. He was international trade negotiator at the US Department of Commerce, special assistant to South Korean Deputy Prime Minister Lee Hahn-Been, and press assistant at the Commission of the European Communities, as well as an editor of a Washington-based foreign policy journal. He has subsequently served as a member and in leadership positions on policy commissions organized by the Council on Foreign Relations, the Brookings Institution, the Carnegie Endowment, the Commission of the European Communities, Princeton University and other organizations.

Public commentary
Since 2002, he has written over 150 pieces of public commentary. These include dozens of articles and commentaries, including cover stories in Newsweek, Foreign Affairs and Prospect. He has also written for the Financial Times, New York Times, and many other publications. He has lectured about the European Union at The Pentagon, was a guest on NPR's Talk of the Nation, and has been quoted in multiple news sources, including
Deutsche Welle,
International Herald Tribune,
and USA Today. Since 2009, he has served as book review editor (Europe) for Foreign Affairs magazine. He continues to engage in regular policy analysis and advising, currently focusing on EU–US burden-sharing, the democratic deficit in Europe, transatlantic relations, the future of the European Union, and Asian regionalism. He is known for his argument that Europe is the world's "second superpower" and for a soberly optimistic assessments of the European Union. He has also written and spoken for The Atlantic and other media outlets on the desirability of men serving as the "lead parent" for children and playing an equal or more active role in caring work.

Education
Moravcsik received a BA in history from Stanford University in 1980 and, after a period working in the US and Asia, spent the next year and a half as a Fulbright fellow at the universities of Bielefeld, Hamburg, and Marburg in West Germany. In 1982 he enrolled at the Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) in Washington, DC, from which he received a Master of Arts degree in international relations in 1984. In 1992 he obtained an MA and PhD in political science from Harvard University.

Personal life
Moravcsik is married to the political scientist and think-tank director Anne-Marie Slaughter, with whom he has two sons. 

His father, Michael Moravcsik (1928–1989), was a Hungarian immigrant to the United States active as a professor of theoretical particle physics, an expert on science development, and a pioneer in the field of citation studies. Andrew Moravcsik's mother, Francesca de Gogorza, comes from a New England family of Basque, Hispanic, Dutch, German, Scottish, English and Native American ancestry. She worked for decades as a landscape architect and urban planner, and now lives in South Burlington, Vermont. Francesca is the daughter of Ernesto Maitland de Gogorza (1896–1941), a graphic artist and painter who taught art at Smith College, and a descendant of the British-Quebecois-American painter Henry Daniel Thielcke.