[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Armed Forces of Montenegro

divisional area
By 1912, the Montenegrin Army had 11 brigade areas, 52 districts and 322 battalion troop areas. Divisions were composed of 2–3 Infantry Brigade.

Each divisional command had three artillery batteries. On the eve of the First Balkan War Kingdom of Montenegro lined up 55,000 soldiers.

After the establishment of the Kingdom of Montenegro in 1910, Montenegro was involved in three wars with the first one being the First Balkan War, in alliance with Serbia, Greece, Romania, and Bulgaria against the Ottoman Empire. The Second Balkan War was fought between Montenegro, Serbia, Greece, Romania and the Ottoman Empire against Bulgaria, with Bulgaria consequently losing significant territory in the north, Thrace, and Macedonia.

The Military of Montenegro before 1918, was much larger than today's military. During World War I, Montenegro mobilised 50,000 troops. The Commander-in-Chief was King Nikola I of Montenegro, while the General of Staff was Božidar Janković. Units included:
Pljevlja Division
The Pljevlja Division was commanded by Brigadier Luka Gojnić. The division was made up of 10 battalions. It had around 6,000 soldiers and patrolled the area east from Pljevlja.
Herzegovina Detachment
The Herzegovina Detachment was commanded by Serdar (Count) Janko Vukotić. The detachment was made up of 15 battalions. It had around 15,000 soldiers, and patrolled the border with Herzegovina.
Lovćen Detachment
The Lovćen Detachment was commanded by divizijar Mitar Martinović. The detachment was made up of 18 battalions. It had around 8,000 soldiers, and patrolled the areas of Lovćen and Sutorman.
Old Serbia' Detachment
The 'Old Serbia' Detachment was commanded by Brigadier Radomir Vešović. The detachment was made up of 13 battalions. It had around 6,000 soldiers and secured the Albanian border.

Uniforms
Most soldiers of the Montenegrin army had no uniforms. At mobilization, the soldiers were issued with a rifle and a badge to put on the cap. Both soldiers and officers in the reserve wore national costume. The badges in the caps had different designs depending on the rank of the wearer.

Ranks and Badges
All Montenegrins between 18 and 62 years were conscripts. Recruitment was done three times a year, and the recruits are in peacetime had to have at least 25 years.
Officer ranks were: potporučnik, poručnik, kapetan, komandir, brigadir, divizijar
NCO ranks were: desečar, donarednik, narednik
Ceremonial ranks were: serdar, vojvoda

Peacekeeping operations
Montenegro participates in peace operations under the NATO and UN auspices as military troops and observers. Minister of Defense said that 85 soldiers are trained for international missions. Montenegrin soldiers are trained by the German Bundeswehr.

Montenegro sent 45 troops and medical personnel to the ISAF mission in Afghanistan and later took part in the Resolute Support Mission.

Montenegro also participates in UN peacekeeping missions in Liberia, UNMIL, Cyprus, UNFICYP as military observers and Somalia, EU-NAVFOR.

Equipment

Ground Army

Navy

Air Force

Gallery

See also
Law enforcement in Montenegro
List of wars involving Montenegro

References

External links

Official Website (Montenegrin)
Montenegro in NATO (Montenegrin)
"Europe’s Newest State Trims the Army" (DefenseNews.com)
"Appointment of the Acting Chief of the General Staff of the Army of Montenegro" (Website of the President of Montenegro)
 Montenegrin Armed Forces / Vojska Crne Gore – VCG
 Perspective of the Military of Montenegro, in English
 Montenegrin Armed Forces before 1918 / Vojska Crne Gore prije 1918
 Debate on NATO in Montenegro
 Milo Đukanović appoints himself as Minister of Defense
 / Forum article about Montenegrin military