[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Colombia–Peru War

nies of Colombian infantry to Calderón. Colombian forces under the command of General José Dolores Solano responded to the attack and the following dawn made a landing, putting the Peruvian forces in retreat. In the end, Colombian forces reported one Colombian soldier wounded and two Peruvians dead.

Battle of Puca Urco/Saravia
In the early morning of May 7, 1933, the Colombian fleet made up of the Cordoba, Pichincha and Barranquilla gunboats moved through the Putumayo with two boats transporting 300 soldiers, the Peruvian garrison of Puca Urco under the command of Captain Raguz and Lieutenant Butron was composed by 52 soldiers and a single 75 mm cannon, they faced the Colombian forces that had seven 37 mm cannons and 12 machine guns. The close confrontation did not allow the Colombian troops to land in the sector after being rejected, hours later Major Alfredo Collazos sent a radiogram to General Rojas: "In Saravia strong Peruvian resistance with artillery; three localized pieces and machine guns; in addition, a mine exploded near the right bank; fought for half an hour; lack of support from other ships prevented a longer combat time; place me a kilometer below, I ordered reconnaissance by boat." Hours later, the Peruvian forces began the orderly withdrawal of their troops as ordered days ago by Commander Granadino in the following order "that once the ambush has been carried out, in their retreat they will imperatively save the Schneider piece, since, in addition to preventing it from falling into the hands of the enemy, it represents 50 percent of the artillery fire that I give off." Colombian forces disembarked at 11 AM to reconnoitre, finding no trace of the enemy.

Battle of Algodón River

On May 1, 1933, the Colombian fleet regrouped and headed for the Algodón River, where Peru had an air base for seaplanes, but when night fell they could not detect it; Taking advantage of this, the Peruvians evacuated their aircraft fleet from that base.

On May 8, 1933, the Colombian flotilla tried again, but this time during the day, to attack the Peruvian air base, being received by Peruvian planes that proceeded to bomb the Colombian fleet (Vought Corsair and O-38P planes, the only operational fighter in the area that the Peruvians had was a Curtiss Hawk that, short of range, could not escort the Peruvian attack planes), at that precise moment the Colombian planes were heading towards the fleet to support the ground attack, therefore, the Peruvian aircraft did not have enough time to bomb and went on the defensive, attacked by the anti-aircraft artillery of the Colombian flotilla and by the Colombian fighter-bombers: in this action, the plane of the Peruvian pilot Américo Vargas was shot down; then the Peruvian planes withdrew to another base. Immediately afterwards, the Colombian flotilla landed the troops of the Amazonas Detachment at the base of the Cotton River without encountering resistance; Even so, four Peruvian soldiers who remained behind were captured, seizing military supplies and an aircraft workshop.

Battle of La Zoila
On May 26, Colombian troops made up of 10 Colombian soldiers under the command of Second Lieutenant Guillermo Aldana, who were still unaware of what had been agreed in Geneva the day before on the suspension of hostilities, surprised and captured four Peruvian officers, 77 Peruvian soldiers commanded by Captain Manuel Badárrago, taking several rifles and three machine guns from them. The action was carried out by means of a night coup by these Colombian soldiers against a Peruvian camp in a place called La Zoila (La Rebeca), 35 km away from Güepí.

End of the conflict

The Peruvian forces in Leticia could not be forced to withdraw, but the events in Lima and the assassination of the Peruvian president changed the situation. The new Peruvian president ordered the undefeated Peruvian troops to leave Leticia. Part of Peru's Pacific fleet came through the Amazon River to engage in combat.

Aftermath

On the same day, Colombian President Enrique Olaya broke off all relations with Peru because of the aerial attack. He ordered an attack on Leticia, but it was repelled by Peruvian troops.

On 30 April 1933, Peruvian President Sánchez was shot dead; 15 days later, his successor, Óscar Benavides, met with the head of the Colombian Liberal Party, Alfonso López Pumarejo, to secure an agreement to turn Leticia over to a League of Nations commission.

Colombia and Peru met in Rio de Janeiro to sign the Rio de Janeiro Protocol in 1934. In the treaty, Peru stated, "We sincerely deplore the events that occurred starting September, 1932. Specifically those that damaged our relationship with Colombia." The Salomón-Lozano Treaty was also reaffirmed by the treaty.

See also
 Gran Colombia–Peru War
 Salomón–Lozano Treaty

References