[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Hélio Roque

Hélio José Lopes Roque (born 20 July 1985) is a Portuguese former professional footballer who played as a midfielder.

Club career
Born in Huambo, Angola to Portuguese settlers, Roque returned to his parents' country and started his football career at Atlético Clube Arrentela and Amora FC, moving at age 17 to S.L. Benfica. He appeared with the main squad in the 2005 Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira, a 1–0 win against Vitória de Setúbal on 13 August in which he came on as a 68th-minute substitute for Geovanni; also from the bench, he took the field in three Primeira Liga matches.

Roque went on loan twice in the following months: in January 2006 he signed for top-flight Vitória Setúbal, and spent the entire 2006–07 season with Lisbon neighbours C.D. Olivais e Moscavide of the Segunda Liga, being released on 30 June 2007.

Subsequently, Roque joined Cypriot club AEL Limassol. After a rather poor debut campaign, his form improved and he began appearing regularly in the starting XI; in spite of being naturally right-footed, he featured mainly on the left wing.

In 2009–10, an injury meant Roque only resumed training in late January 2010. In the 2011 off-season, due to the fact AEL had too many foreign players, he was loaned to fellow First Division side Nea Salamis Famagusta FC, and the move was made permanent for the 2012–13 season.

From 2015, Roque played in the Girabola of his birth country, with S.L. Benfica (Luanda) and C.R.D. Libolo. Afterwards, he had a brief second stint at Nea Salamina.

In August 2018, Roque returned to Portugal after 11 years away, signing for third-tier team Clube Olímpico do Montijo. He then joined Clube Oriental de Lisboa in the same league.

Honours
Benfica
Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira: 2005

References

External links

1985 births
Living people
People from Huambo
Portuguese sportspeople of Angolan descent
Portuguese men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Primeira Liga players
Liga Portugal 2 players
Segunda Divisão players
S.L. Benfica B players
S.L. Benfica footballers
Vitória F.C. players
C.D. Olivais e Moscavide players
Clube Olímpico do Montijo players
Clube Oriental de Lisboa players
Cypriot First Division players
AEL Limassol players
Nea Salamis Famagusta FC players
Girabola players
S.L. Benfica (Luanda) players
C.R.D. Libolo players
Portugal men's youth international footballers
Portuguese expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Cyprus
Portuguese expatriate sportspeople in Cyprus