[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mati Shemoelof

anslations of his works were published in major journals, such as Zeek, Fusion, and Arspolitica. An Arabic translation of his works was recently published in several leading literary papers, including ones in Egypt and in Lebanon. Besides that, his works have been translated to Japanese and Italian.

Shemoelof was awarded several notable prizes for his works. Some notable ones are the prize for "Best Debut Poetry Book of the Year", awarded by the National Art Trust of the National Lottery, in 2001; the prize for "Best Poetry Book of the Year", awarded by the Haifa Cultural Foundation, in 2006; an Honorable Mention, awarded by the Israeli Haaretz magazine during its annual short story contest, in 2011; Best poetry book of the year (Haifa Cultural Foundation 2006); and the highly appreciated Acum Prize for advocating literature in Israel, in 2013. Additionally, his play "What Has the Memorial Day Service Become" appeared in the Small-Bama festival at the University of Tel Aviv.

In addition, he co-edited several poetry anthologies: "Aduma" (Red: An Anthology of Class Poetry), which had been sold in three editions since its first release in 2007; "Tehudot Zehut" (Echoing Identities) (2007), an anthology addressing the issues of third generation Mizrahi Jews in Israel, in which Shemoelof's shory autobiographical story "The Icebergs of the Memory" was published; "La-Tzet!" (To Get Out!), is a 2009 collection of visual art pieces and poems against the war in Gaza. "La-Tzet!" represents the ideological unification of the artistic and literary society in Israel, in revolt towards the complex political situation, and it was translated and published in both English and Arabic; "Al Tagidu BaGat", which was published in 2010 and explored the influence of the 1948 Palestinian expulsion and flight on the Hebrew Poetry. 
Shemoelof was also the editor of the Israeli literary journal HaKivun Mizrah (Eastward) between 2006 and 2008.

He also was publishes regularly in Israel's leading media channels. He wrote a weekly column in the daily Israel HaYom (Israel Today), where he also posted literature reviews, and at Mako, the Internet news site of Keshet. Previously, he was a columnist at an Israeli news website, Ynet, (Israel's most popular news site), NRG -(Israel's #3 news site) at Ma’ariv., and at Walla!, Israel's most popular portal. He also appeared on TV, including as a panel member on Popolitika (public channel TV);  The Owls (culture channel TV); Channel 10 News, and others.

In 2017 he published the first chapter from his coming novel "The German Hebrew Dialogue: Studies of encounter and exchange" edited by Amir Eshel and Rachel Seelig. De Gruyter publishers. Also he published an article about Mizrahim in Berlin on Jalta magazine, volume 2.
On 2018 His first booklet was published in Germany: "...reißt die Mauern die zwischen 'uns' und 'inhen'", AphorismA Verlag, 2018.
 In 2018, he also wrote his first radio sketch for WDR channel.
Shemoelof claims that he belongs not only to the Israeli Jewish culture but also to the German culture and he writes: "For an Israeli entering a trilingual space (Hebrew, English, German), culture is no longer bounded by national borders."

In 2020 he published a long article about his belonging to the German culture. He asked: "Who owns German culture in this day and age? Can a Jewish or Israeli poet, writing in broken Hebrew, broken English, and broken German and living in a German-speaking region be considered a German, or a European, poet? Can Leah Goldberg's and Amir Eshel's works be incorporated into the local (German) curriculum as native works?".

In an interview to the German newspaper, Tagesspiegel (2021), he thanked the city of Berlin that gave him a freedom to write.

Activism 

Shemoelof is a political and social activist, and his writing depicts subjects which he promotes.

The political nature of Shemoelof's literary work is closely tied to his activist endeavors. One representation of that is his contribution, as a co-editor, to the "Ruh Jedida - A New Spirit" project, an open letter from Israeli descendants of the Arab Jews of the Middle East and North Africa, to their Muslim peers living in those very countries. The letter embodies the idea of promoting change through ״intra-regional and inter-religious dialog.״.