[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Aaron Ramsey

4–1 at Emirates Stadium and then set up Andrey Arshavin in a 3–1 home win over Celtic in the Champions League play-offs. In the League Cup fourth round win against Liverpool, on 28 October, he produced an impressive performance and set up Nicklas Bendtner earning himself the man of the match award.

Ramsey made his first Premier League start of the season on 7 November 2009 as Arsenal beat Wolverhampton Wanderers 4–1 at Molineux with Ramsey completing 90-minutes for the first time in the top-flight. Four days after the game, he was awarded the Welsh Young Player of the Year award. On 5 December 2009, Ramsey scored his second league goal of the season in a comfortable 2–0 victory over Stoke City. On 30 December, Ramsey went on to score his third goal of the season, along with an assist in the 4–1 victory against Portsmouth. On 3 January 2010, Ramsey scored a 78th-minute equaliser in the FA Cup third round tie against West Ham United at Upton Park. Arsenal went on to win the tie 2–1, with Eduardo scoring an 83rd-minute header. Ramsey went on to be named man of the match. Ramsey has been described by manager Arsène Wenger as: "An offence-minded Roy Keane" and "an all-round player, with a fantastic ability to cover distances."

On 27 February 2010, Arsenal played Stoke City at the Britannia Stadium, where a tackle by Stoke defender Ryan Shawcross caused a double fracture in Ramsey's lower right leg. Ramsey was hospitalised, and it was later confirmed that he had broken his tibia and fibula. No return date was initially given, but it was announced on 20 March that he started walking without his crutches. Ramsey signed a new long-term contract with Arsenal on 1 June 2010. He returned to training in October 2010. On 23 November 2010, Ramsey made his return to football for the Arsenal reserve team against the Wolverhampton Wanderers reserve team at Arsenal's London Colney training ground.

2010–11: Loan to Nottingham Forest
Ramsey was loaned out to Nottingham Forest on 25 November 2010 until 3 January 2011. The move was to allow him to gain match fitness. Ramsey made his Forest debut on 29 November 2010 as a 61st-minute substitute against Leicester City. He made his first start against Derby County in the East Midlands derby, where he played 60 minutes. The match ended 5–2 to Nottingham Forest. Due to adverse weather conditions, Ramsey was limited to just five appearances for Forest before returning to Arsenal in January 2011. Ramsey returned to Arsenal on 5 January 2011 before the club's FA Cup tie against Leeds United, in which he was an unused substitute. Ramsey was also an unused substitute at Portman Road on 12 January for the League Cup semi-final against Ipswich Town.

2011: Loan return to Cardiff City

Ramsey returned to Cardiff City in a one-month loan move in order to gain match fitness, joining former Arsenal youngster Jay Emmanuel-Thomas who also joined the club on loan in January 2011. Ramsey was handed his first start for Cardiff against Reading. Ramsey again started for Cardiff in the South Wales derby against Swansea City where he provided an assist for Craig Bellamy in the game ending 1–0. Ramsey again completed 90 minutes for Cardiff in the game against Scunthorpe United and Burnley. A minor thigh strain ruled Ramsey out of the match against Nottingham Forest. He made his comeback against Leicester City, scoring in a 2–0 victory.

On 25 February, Cardiff asked for a loan extension until the end of the season with a 24-hour call back option; however, Arsenal turned this offer down and Ramsey returned to Arsenal.

2011–2013: Injury return and development

Ramsey ended the season with seven league appearances. He made his Arsenal return as a 72nd-minute substitute against Manchester United in the FA Cup which Arsenal lost 2–0. He made his first start since his injury for Arsenal on 19 March against West Bromwich Albion. On 1 May, Ramsey scored his first goal of the season in a 1–0 home Premier League victory over Manchester United.

On 16 August, Ramsey made his first Champions League appearance of the season at home against Udinese. In the fourth minute of the match, he assisted Theo Walcott's goal that gave Arsenal the 1–0 advantage in the first leg of the match. Four days later, he played a league game at the Emirates Stadium against Liverpool where on the 78th minute of play, Ignasi Miquel's attempted clearance hit Ramsey and looped into the back of the net past Wojciech Szczęsny for an own goal. The game finished 2–0 to Liverpool.