[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Naruto: Ultimate Ninja

e. The graphical style of the game has also been toned down, retaining the anime look. The RPG mode (now called Master Mode) is heavily expanded, now featuring a more action-oriented gameplay and explore the massive world of Naruto (unlike the previous games which had a more sandbox-style gameplay).

The game only covers halfway through the Kazekage Rescue arc in the Shippuden storyline (roughly at episode 15 in the anime), though to make up for the lack of story, a filler arc is made up for the game that takes place before the Shippuden storyline called the "Black Shadow". Hero's History mode from Ultimate Ninja 3 is also retained, now retelling the events of the original series more faithfully and includes completely redone and improved scenes from Naruto Ultimate Ninja 3 as well as redone CGI scenes.

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja 5Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja 5, known in Japan as, , is the fifth installment in the Ultimate Ninja series and the second installment of the Accel series in Japan, and was released in Japan on December 20, 2007. It was released in Europe on November 27, 2009, and in Australia on December 3, 2009. The game features 62 characters and continues the Naruto Shippuden storyline, starting over to Kazekage Rescue arc, and going up to the end of Sasuke arc, following the manga covers the events up to episode 53 in the anime (the anime had not finished working on the arc at the time). One of the new gameplay additions is the introduction of assist characters. Assist characters are chosen during character selection, and can be called in during a match to deal extra damage. Certain combinations of characters create unique jutsu in a match; these combinations reflect the associations of those characters in the anime and manga. Many of the character's jutsu from the previous game were updated. There are many updated ultimate jutsu, including the aforementioned assist-specific ones. Summons have been removed from the game. The assist characters cannot be turned off. The game retains the RPG mode from previous game, now allowing the player to control characters other than Naruto (such as Sakura Haruno and Kakashi Hatake). However, the Hero's History mode that retells the events of the original series have been discarded, though the characters itself remain in the game. It was also the last of the Ultimate Ninja Series for the PlayStation 2, therefore being the final installment of the Ultimate Ninja Series under the series' original name in the west.

Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Heroes series

Naruto: Ultimate Ninja HeroesNaruto: Ultimate Ninja Heroes, known in Japan as Naruto: Narutimate Portable Zero is a North American and European-exclusive fighting game and the first installment of the Heroes series in the west. It was released in North America on August 28, 2007 and in Europe on September 14, 2007. It is essentially an edited version of Naruto: Narutimate Portable, serving as a prequel to the next game, as well the Japanese dub are not included in this game, essentially turning the game into a scaled down version of Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 2.

Story Mode, Kabuto, Shizune, The Third Hokage, and two stages were removed in this release, while Naruto & Sasuke's secret techniques were modified to prevent spoilers (as the English dub had not reached the Sasuke Retrieval arc yet). To compensate for these removals, the game now has a 3-on-3 battle system, similar to The King of Fighters; where the first team to defeat all three members of the other team wins.  The game features 20 characters, eight Stages, and several new features, such as a three-on-three fighting system, wireless two-player battles, and "Hidden Team Skills", which grant special abilities to a certain combination of characters.

Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Heroes 2: The Phantom FortressNaruto: Ultimate Ninja Heroes 2: Phantom Fortress, known as in Japan as , was released in Japan on March 30, 2006, and in North America on June 24, 2008, and in Europe on July 11, 2008. It is the second installment of the Heroes series in the west. In this Naruto game, the player chooses four characters and equips them with skills and items. This release is the full non-modified version of Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Heroes, and contains the three characters that were removed: The Third Hokage, Shizune and Kabuto. Both removed stages and the game's Story Mode are now present as well. Additionally, movesets have been updated. Players can also select whether the characters use Japanese or English voices. Jiraiya and Naruto can use Rasengan, Kakashi can use Lightning Blade and Sasuke can use Chidori without the use of a secret technique.