[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Culture during the Cold War

m
Historians debate whether the spread of American-style consumerism to Western Europe (and Japan) was part of the Cold War. Steigerwald reviews the debate by looking at the book Trams or Tailfins? Public and Private Prosperity in Postwar West Germany and the United States (2012) by Jan L. Logemann:

In arguing that West Germany was not "Americanized" after the war, Logemann joins a long debate about American consumer capitalism's power, sweep, and depth of influence in the developed world through the second half of the twentieth century. In pointed contrast to Reinhold Wagnleitner's Coca-colonization and the Cold War (1994) and Victoria de Grazia's Irresistible Empire (2005), Logemann argues that, for all the noisy commentary, pro and con, about postwar Americanization, West Germans shaped their version of the affluent society according to deeply held and distinctly un-American values. Rather than a sweeping homogenization of the developed world, postwar affluence ran along "different paths to consumer modernity" ... Instead of the "consumer-as-citizen" (whom Lizabeth Cohen, in The Consumer's Republic [2003], defined as the main social type in postwar America), West Germans promoted the social consumer who practiced "public consumption," which Logemann defines as "the provision of publicly funded alternatives to private consumer goods and services in areas ranging from housing to transportation or entertainment" (p. 5).

The Freakonomics Radio podcast episode "How the Supermarket Helped America Win the Cold War (Ep. 386)" explores the impact that the supermarket had and has on American culture, including the depth of policy decisions by the US Government that impacted agriculture, as well as serving a propaganda weapon against the Soviet Union. The role of makeup and the consumption of makeup played a role in society and propaganda, and in the conflict between capitalism and communism.

Sports
Cold war tensions between the US and the USSR were the backdrop of sports competitions, especially in hockey and in the Olympics of 1980 and 1984.
1956: 1956 Summer Olympics – USSR-Hungary Blood in the Water match following the Hungarian Revolution
1969: 1969 World Ice Hockey Championships – USSR-Czechoslovakia following the 1968 events in Czechoslovakia
1972: 1972 Summer Olympics – The USSR defeats the United States in men's basketball in a controversial gold medal game
1972: Canada–USSR Summit Series – Canada defeats the Soviets in this eight-game series.
1972: 1972 World Chess Championship Fischer (USA)- Spaasky (USSR)- Bobby Fischer beat Spaasky in this championship held in Reykjavik, Iceland.
1980: The Miracle on Ice – The United States defeats the USSR in the 1980 Winter Olympics. The first time the USSR hockey team did not win gold since 1960, and the last time they would not until the USSR fell apart. Also the first and only time the United States would beat them in hockey until 1991.
1980: 1980 Summer Olympics boycott – by the United States
1984: 1984 Summer Olympics boycott – by the Soviet Union

Playground equipment

Playground equipment constructed during the Cold War was intended to foster children's curiosity and excitement about the Space Race. It was installed in both Communist and non-Communist countries throughout the Cold War.

Video games
Games created during this time period often used a motif of nuclear war, as was the threat at that time. Some of the games listed have been made after the conclusion of the Cold War, but feature a central plot point around the Cold War.
 Firefox
 Missile Command
 Raid over Moscow
 SDI
 Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater
 DEFCON
 World in Conflict
 Crisis in the Kremlin
 Call of Duty: Black Ops
 Call of Duty: Black Ops: Declassified
 Call of Duty: Black Ops II
 Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War
 Fallout (series)

Protest culture

Anti-nuclear protests first emerged in the late 1950s and early 1960s. In the United Kingdom, the first Aldermaston March, organised by the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, took place in 1958. In 1961, at the height of the Cold War, about 50,000 women brought together by Women Strike for Peace marched in 60 cities in the United States to demonstrate against nuclear weapons. In 1964, Peace Marches in several Australian capital cities featured "Ban the bomb" placards.