[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jawad Jabbar Sadkhan Al-Sahlani

uthorized to consider whether a detainee should continue to be detained by the United States, because they continued to pose a threat—or whether they could safely be repatriated to the custody of their home country, or whether they could be set free.

First annual Administrative Review Board hearing

A Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for his first annual Administrative Review Board.

Transcript

Sadkhan chose to participate in his Administrative Review Board hearing.

Second annual Administrative Review Board hearing

A Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for his second annual Administrative Review Board, on 5 September 2006.

Letter of testimonial for Abbas Habid Rumi Al Naely

Sackhan wrote a letter for Abbas Habid Rumi Al Naely, an Iraqi refugee.  Sadkhan's letter confirmed Al Naely's account that he had to rely on charity during his time in Afghanistan.  

I know this man from Afghanistan when he visited me in my own home begging me for some help.  I did not have anything to offer [him].  But when I looked at his overall look and his dirty clothing he had on, he looked so miserable.  So I went to another friend of mine and asked him for money.  That person gave me about $3 and I gave it to ISN 758.  I have invited him to stay at my house for that particular night, but he refused.  This person came back to me again (meaning ISN 758) asking me for more money that I didn't have to give him.  I also learned from other people that this person was addicted to Hash, he smokes grass.  This was a reason that made me decide not to help him because every time I would help him he would spend it on Hash.  To me he was not a political person, a religious person, or a military person.  I have never heard once that he hated America or  allies.  I never heard that he really served with the Taliban.  He received some help from the Taliban like other Iraqi refugees, and I am one of them.  I am one of them and I have received help from the Taliban.  They only gave me food for my family and me.  They gave me a house to stay with my family.  In regards to 758, they did not give him a house because he was not married.  They only gave [one] to me.  He is a peaceful man and he does not pose a threat on nobody and he has parents that need him.  Anything that happened between him and me, like some kind of animosity was a result of the investigators here on this facility.  So they can create animosity between the two of use .  I was exposed to a lot of abuse, psychological abuse from the investigators and God only knows what happened.  This person ISN 758 is innocent from any allegations and God knows everything.  This is what I have and peace be upon [you].

Military Commissions Act

The Military Commissions Act of 2006 mandated that Guantanamo captives were no longer entitled to access the US civil justice system, so all outstanding habeas corpus petitions were stayed.

Boumediene v. Bush

On June 12, 2008, the United States Supreme Court ruled, in Boumediene v. Bush, that the Military Commissions Act could not remove the right for Guantanamo captives to access the US Federal Court system.  And all previous Guantanamo captives' habeas petitions were eligible to be re-instated.
The judges considering the captives' habeas petitions would be considering whether the evidence used to compile the allegations the men and boys were enemy combatants justified a classification of "enemy combatant".

On July 9, 2008, Jeffrey D. Colman of JENNER & BLOCK LLP submitted a "RESPONSE OF PETITIONER JAWAD JABBAR SADKHAN AL-SAHLANI, ISN NO. 433, TO ISSUES RAISED AT JULY 8, 2008 HEARING" in Civil Action No. 05-CV-1497 (RCL) on behalf of Jawad Jabbar Sadkhan Al-Sahlani (ISN 433).

On July 18, 2008, Jeffrey D. Colman renewed Jawad's petition, noting that he is an Iraqi Shiite Muslim.
Colman noted he is a Shiite Muslim from Iraq and that he is married and the father of four children, approximately ages 11, 9, 8, and 6.

On October 31, 2008, Jeffrey D. Colman filed a Petitioner's Opposition to Respondent's Motion for Leave to File Amended Factual Return on behalf of Jawad Jabbar Sadkhan Al-Sahlani (ISN 433) in Civil Action No. 05-CV-2384 (RWR). Colman described the Department of Justice's attorneys were acting in bad faith.

Repatriation

On June 11, 2009, Sadkhan was transferred from Guantanmo Bay to Iraq.

Following his repatriation to Iraqi custody, in a profile of his lawyer, Jeffrey Colman, AM Law provided more details of Jawad's repatriation.  
According to the article, Jawad was first cleared for release in 2003.  According to the article Colman was informed that the Obama review team cleared him for release on May 15, 2009.

References

External links
 Refuting Cheney’s Lies: The Stories of Six Prisoners Released from Guantánamo Andy Worthington
 The Last Iraqi In Guantánamo, Cleared Six Years Ago, Returns Home Andy Worthington

Living people
Year of birth missing (living people)
Guantanamo detainees known to have been released