[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Alfred Gibbs

ig. Gen. Thomas Devin. Gibbs led the brigade on Sheridan's raid against the Virginia Central Railroad, the Richmond and Danville Railroad and the James River Canal between February 27, 1865, and March 20, 1865, including the actions against the North Anna and South Anna bridges on March 14–15, 1865.

Petersburg; Appomattox
Gibbs commanded the brigade after the division's reassignment to the Cavalry Corps of the Army of the Potomac between March 25, 1865, and May 25, 1865. Gibbs's brigade returned to the Siege of Petersburg with Sheridan on March 26, 1865. The brigade included the First, Fifth and Sixth United States Cavalry Regiments, the Second Massachusetts Volunteer Cavalry Regiment and the 6th Pennsylvania Volunteer Cavalry Regiment (6 companies).

On March 31, 1865, Lt. Gen. Grant placed General Sheridan in command of Gouverneur Warren's V Corps of Army of the Potomac infantry and of all cavalry. The two divisions of cavalry from the Army of the Shenandoah in the cavalry corps were under the command of Brig. Gen. Wesley Merritt. Gibbs headed the 3rd Brigade of the 1st Division under the command of Brig. Gen. Thomas Devin. The 3rd Division of this corps was under the command of Brig. Gen. George Custer. The 2nd Division, from the Army of the Potomac, was under the command of Maj. Gen. George Crook. Two cavalry brigades from the cavalry division of the Army of the James under the command of Brig. Gen. Ranald S. Mackenzie also were under Sheridan's overall command.

Merritt's cavalry, including Devin's division which included Gibbs's brigade, played a significant part in the Union Army's near surrounding of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia and stretching their lines to the breaking point in the last days of the Siege of Petersburg.  The brigade fought in the Battle of Dinwiddie Court House on March 29, 1865, and in the action that forced the Confederates to abandon their Petersburg and Richmond, Virginia, defenses at the Battle of Five Forks on April 1, 1865. At the Battle of Dinwiddie Court House, the brigades of Gibbs and John Irvin Gregg were held in reserve until 4:00 when they fought a two-hour action to hold back Confederate Maj. Gen. George E. Pickett's advance toward Dinwiddie Court House. They then rallied with Custer's brigade about three-quarters of a mile from Dinwiddie. Pickett could not achieve a breakthrough before nightfall halted the battle. Both armies concentrated on defenses on March 31. Early on April 1, Pickett learned that Union infantry reinforcements were coming up, so he withdrew his forces northward to Five Forks, which Lee had ordered him to hold at all costs. Devin's cavalry, including Gibbs's brigade, hit the front of Pickett's defense on April 1, 1864, while Brig. Gen. Romeyn B. Ayres infantry division of V Corps hit the left flank and Brig. Gen. Custer's cavalry brigade attacked the right flank. The attack led to the collapse of Pickett's position and required the Confederates to abandon Petersburg and Richmond.

Additional infantry corps and accompanying cavalry were placed under Sheridan's command during the Appomattox Campaign. Gibbs's brigade fought at the Battle of Sayler's Creek, Virginia, on April 6, 1865, three days before the surrender of the Army of Northern Virginia by General Robert E. Lee at Appomattox Court House, Virginia, on April 9, 1865, where Gibbs was present.

Devin's 1st Cavalry Division was the third division after Maj. Gen. Meade and his headquarters staff and General Merritt and his headquarters staff to march in the grand review in Washington on May 23, 1865. Gibbs's brigade marched first in the division. Only the volunteer regiments marched in the review with Gibbs. The 5th U.S. Cavalry Regiment marched as Maj. Gen. Merritt's headquarters escort. Gibb's old regiment, the 19th New York Cavalry (1st New York Dragoons) marched with the next brigade under their final brigade commander, Col. C. L. Fitzhugh.

Brevet awards; Post-war service; Death
Gibbs commanded the 1st Brigade Cavalry Forces, Military Division of the Gulf, between August 20, 1865, and October 17, 1865, and the 1st Division between October 17, 1865, and December 15, 1865. He was mustered out of the volunteer service on February 1, 1866, and became major of the 7th United States Cavalry Regiment.

On January 13, 1866, President Andrew Johnson nominated Gibbs for the award of the honorary rank of brevet major general, United States Volunteers, to rank from March 13, 1865, and the U.S. Senate confirmed the award on March 12, 1866. On July 17, 1866, President Johnson nominated Gibbs for the award of the honorary rank of brevet major general, United States Army (Regular Army), to rank from March 13, 1865, and the U.S. Senate confirmed the award on July 23, 1866. Gibbs received his brevet awards for service at the Battle of Trevilian Station, the Third Battle of Winchester and the Battle of Five Forks.