[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Raffi (novelist)

eling. Like his predecessor Khachatur Abovian, Raffi desired the unity of the Armenians of Iran, Russia and the Ottoman Empire in a struggle against foreign domination. He never openly called for armed revolution, but he promoted armed self-defense "as the most dignified and legitimate human right."

Raffi viewed a person's behavior and character as the product of their environment and conditions of life. He saw education and enlightenment as the most important tools for progress and the reformation of society. In a dream seen by the protagonist of his novel The Fool, he envisions a future Armenia as a united, peaceful, independent country with a representative government and socialization of key industries, where the Armenians' neighbors, the Kurds, have been "civilized and assimilated."

Raffi disapproved of all religions and saw Christianity in particular as a "passive" religion that had left the Armenian nation weak and defenseless. Through one of the characters of his novella Jalaleddin, he lamented that Armenians had used their resources on monasteries and churches instead of fortresses and weapons. He was extremely critical of the clergy, whom he represents as obscurantist and parasitical in his works. He was also critical of those who stoked inter-confessional divisions between Apostolic and Catholic Armenians. He advocated for a secular conception of Armenian nationhood on the basis of language and common descent rather than religion.

Influence and legacy 
The impact of Raffi's widely read patriotic works was powerful and immediate. The typist for Raffi's novel The Fool is said to have gone to become a partisan in Ottoman Armenia immediately after completing his task. According to Vahé Oshagan, Raffi became the "ideological father of the Armenian revolutionary movements" who applied "the ideas of enlightenment and political awakening" to Armenians, while Louise Nalbandian writes that Raffi's works "served as a guide for organized revolutionary action." Although Raffi called for self-defense rather than armed revolution, his works, like those of Mikayel Nalbandian, Raphael Patkanian and others, served as inspiration for the Armenian revolutionary parties. Simon Vratsian, a prominent leader of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation, recalls in his memoirs that he joined that political party as a teenager partly because he believed that Raffi had been a member of the party (Raffi died a few years before the founding of the party).

A school and a street in Yerevan, Armenia are named after Raffi.

Selected works 
 Salbi (Սալբի) (1855–1874, published 1911)
 Harem (Հարեմ) (Publication of first portions 1874–75, of last portion posthumously by his wife)
 Jalaleddin (Ջալալեդդին) (1878)
 The Fool (Խենթը, Khent’ë) (1880)
 Davit Bek (Դավիթ Բեկ) (1880–82)
 The Golden Rooster (Ոսկի աքաղաղ, Voski ak’aghagh) (1882)
 The Diary of a Cross-Stealer (Խաչագողի հիշատակարանը, Khach’agoghi hishatakaranë) (1882–83)
 Sparks (Կայծեր, Kaytser) (2 vols., 1883–1884)
 Samuel (Սամվել, Samvel) (1886)
 The Five Melikdoms of Karabagh (Խամսայի մելիքություններ, Khamsayi melikut’yunner) (1888) - a non-fiction work about the history of the Melikdoms of Karabakh
 Memoirs (Հուշագրություններ, Hushagrut’yunner)

See also

Grigor Artsruni

References

Citiations

Bibliography

Further reading

External links

Raffi at Armeniapedia
Raffi: A Biographical Sketch, by David Arakelian, Asbarez, April 24, 2023
Jane S. Wingate's full English translation of Raffi's most famous book, Khent
Raffi's biography and works
Raffi's biography
 

1835 births
1888 deaths
19th-century Armenian poets
Iranian emigrants to the Russian Empire
Armenian people from the Russian Empire
Persian Armenians
19th-century Iranian poets
People from Salmas
19th-century poets
Burials at Armenian Pantheon of Tbilisi
19th-century male writers
Armenian male poets