[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sam Pitroda

tal Clean Technology company.

Pitroda founded and served as Chairman of C-SAM. The company maintains its headquarters in Chicago with offices in Singapore, Tokyo, Pune, Mumbai and Vadodara. Pitroda holds around 100 technology patents, has been involved in several start-ups and lectures extensively.

Pitroda has also started several businesses as a serial entrepreneur (Wescom Switching, Ionics, MTI, Market, WorldTel, C-SAM, etc.) in the US and Europe.

He has also served as an advisor to the United Nations and in 1992, his biography Sam Pitroda: A Biography was published and became a bestseller on The Economic Times list for five weeks.

He is living in Chicago, Illinois since 1964 with his wife and two children and also in Delhi.

Philanthropy 
Sam Pitroda currently chairs five major NGOs:

The University of Trans-Disciplinary Health Sciences and Technology 
The first is the Foundation for Revitalization of Local Health Traditions founded in 1990 with Darshan Shankar. It has now turned into the University of Trans-Disciplinary Health Sciences and Technology near Bangalore in India. The foundation promotes Ayurveda, India's traditional medicinal knowledge. Today, FRLHT has over 200 scientists and professionals on a 19-acre campus and has documented over 7,000 herbal medicinal plants. It also has over 100 herbal medicine gardens, approximately 500 acres each. Sam Pitroda is chairman, the board of trustees at the institute.

The Global Knowledge Initiative (GKI) 
In 2009, Sam Pitroda founded The Global Knowledge Initiative (GKI) along with Nina Fedoroff and Sara Farley in Washington, DC as a non-profit organization with a mission to forge, optimize, and sustain knowledge partnerships between the people and institutions of higher education and research around the world. They build and support purpose-driven networks to solve shared challenges in science, technology, and innovation.

India Food Banking Network 
In 2010, Pitroda established the India Food Banking Network (IFBN) to create a network of Food Banks in India to systematically capture and distribute food to empower and support the food security mission in India. Today, IFBN has food banks in Delhi, Gurgaon, and Noida with plans to expand into Mumbai, Bangalore, Calcutta, and others. Sam Pitroda is chairman of the advisory board of the India FoodBanking Network.

People for Global Transformation 
People for Global Transformation were launched in 2012 along with Mr. Hubert Vedrine, France's former Chief of Staff for President Mitterrand. PGT is a global think tank that brings together an interdisciplinary group of 15 leading voices from across the globe to help shape the 21st century's discourse on development and governance and provide innovative policy recommendations. The group particularly endeavors to generate greater transversal thinking on the transformational potential of technology and its consequences for all.

Action For India 
Also in 2012, Pitroda founded Action For India to help social innovators in India overcome barriers to scale and achieve greater impact at the Bottom of the Economic Pyramid.

Others 
In addition to these six NGOs, Sam Pitroda is also:
 Founding commissioner of the UN Broadband Commission
 Chairman of the m-Powering Development Initiative of the ITU in Geneva
 Chairman of the Vikram A. Sarabhai Community Science Centre
 Board Member of the World Wide Web Foundation
 Board Member of the Institute of Design, IIT, Chicago

Books

Books by Pitroda 
 IEEE Transactions on Communications, Special Publication on Telecommunication in Developing Countries, Volume COM-24, Number 7, July 1976 (Part II here)
 Exploding Freedom: Roots in Technology, Allied Publishers Limited, 1993
 Foundation for the Future: Human Resource Development, Commonwealth Secretariat, 1993
 Development of Gujarat: People’s Perceptions, Sardar Patel Institute of Economic and Social Research, Ahmedabad, 1997
 Vision, Values, & Velocity, Silicon India, 2001
 March of Mobile Money: The Future of Lifestyle Management, Harper Collins, 2010
 Dreaming Big: My Journey to Connect India, Penguin India, 2015
 Redesign the World - a Global Call to Action, published by Penguin India, 2021

Pitroda also holds a collection of over 40 years of his personal daily diaries and workbooks.

Books about Pitroda 
 Sam Pitroda: A Biography, by Mayank Chhaya, Konark Publishers Pvt Ltd, 1992
(Part II)
This biography of Sam Pitroda by Mayank Chhaya was on the bestseller list in India.

Contributions 
In 1993, Pitroda helped to establish (with Darshan Shankar) the Foundation for Revitalisation of Local Health Tradition and The University of Trans-Disciplinary Health Sciences and Technology near Bangalore in India. The foundation promotes Ayurveda, India's traditional medicinal knowledge.
The two founders were honored in 2003 by Columbia University.