[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dunsany Castle and Demesne

te sites; the 19th Lord Dunsany is buried on one of them.

In front of the castle is a lawn and a ha-ha protective ditch, beyond which estate farmland begins.  Passing under one of the roads is a sunken path by which staff could discreetly move from the walled farmyard complex to some of the fields.

Lands
The lands contain a mix of farmland, marsh and mature mixed woodland; a flower garden also existed until 1950. As of 2021, parts are in the process of being rewilded by the 21st Lord Dunsany, Randal Plunkett. The lands are home to a range of wildlife, including, as of 2000, owls, pheasants, sparrowhawks, kestrels, herons, moorhens and jays, as well as rabbits and hares, foxes and badgers, squirrels, deer and otters.

Six stretches of woodland and many of the demesne fields have historically established names.

The River Skane runs through the woodland, in a stretch called the Railway Wood, alongside the old Dublin-Navan railway line.  It is a tributary of the River Boyne and did contain fish in the past.  It is joined near the Glane Road by the small River Gansey or Ganzey, from Killeen and Corballis, which crosses through Dunsany lands.

Access
The grounds are private and access normally requires prior arrangement. The castle can be visited on a certain number of days each year, by way of a guided tour, for a fee. Tours around the nature reserve with small groups are possible as of 2021, though places are very limited.

Points of note
The castle and demesne have been used for filming on occasions, for example for Braveheart (the wedding scene was filmed in the Church of St Nicholas, for example) and the remake of The Magnificent Ambersons.

References

External links
 Dunsany Castle
 Meath Tourism
 http://www.britainirelandcastles.com/Ireland/County-Meath/Dunsany-Castle.html

Archaeological sites in County Meath
Buildings and structures completed in the 12th century
Castles in County Meath
Castle, Dunsany
Dunsany
Norman architecture in Ireland
Edward Plunkett, 18th Baron of Dunsany