[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Yamanashi Broadcasting System

, also known as YBS, is a Japanese broadcast network affiliated with Nippon News Network (NNN) and Nippon Television Network System (NNS). Its headquarters is located in Kōfu, Yamanashi.

History
The Yamanashi Sannichi Shimbun News Agency applied for a broadcasting license for commercial radio broadcasting in 1925 and actually launched test radio broadcasts. Following the end of the war, the "Three Radio Laws" were passed in 1950, enabling commercial broadcasters to appear.

In Yamanashi Prefecture, from 1952 to 1953, three factions, centered on local industrialist Tadahiko Natori, the Yamanashi Daily News, and the Yamanashi Jiji News, appeared to apply for commercial broadcasting licenses. After that, the first two factions merged to form Radio Yamanashi, and the Yamanashi Shimbun faction applied to open a commercial broadcast under the name of Yamanashi Broadcasting. Radio Yamanashi was officially registered and established in March 1953, and launched a test radio signal on June 18 of the same year. Under the advice of the Postal Ministry, Radio Yamanashi and Yamanashi Broadcasting jointly applied for a broadcast license on July 26, 1953.

At 11:40 am on July 1, 1954, Radio Yamanashi officially started broadcasting, becoming the first commercial radio station in Yamanashi Prefecture. In May 1956, Yamanashi Radio issued 60,000 new shares and increased its capital to 60 million yen. Also in fiscal year 1956, Yamanashi Radio turned a profit. On December 1, 1956, Radio Yamanashi opened the Fujiyoshida relay station, greatly expanding its coverage. In 1957, Yamanashi Radio realized dividends.

Radio Yamanashi applied to the Ministry of Postal Affairs to establish a television station on July 24, 1956. Similar to the situation when the radio station was launched, the Yamanashi Jiji News Agency also applied for a separate television broadcast license under the name of "Yamanashi Television Broadcasting" (Yamanashi Telecasting). On October 22, 1957, Radio Yamanashi obtained a preliminary television license, with the frequency being channel 5. In May 1959, just before the launch of television, Yamanashi Radio increased its capital again to 120 million yen. On the eve of the broadcast, taking into account the superior advertising business conditions proposed by Nippon Television, RYC decided to join the Nippon Television network. On November 13, 1959, Radio Yamanashi launched a TV test signal and began trial broadcasting on December 13. On December 20, RYC Television officially launched. In the early days of broadcasting, Radio Yamanashi broadcast for 5 hours from Monday to Saturday and 11 hours on Sunday.

As the television division surpassed the radio division as Radio Yamanashi's main source of income, Radio Yamanashi changed its company name to Yamanashi Broadcasting in 1961. In 1962, Yamanashi Broadcasting started broadcasting in the mornings, and in that year it was broadcast at Mount Fuji Television Station. Yamanashi Broadcasting began broadcasting color television on October 1, 1964, and broadcast the 1964 Olympic Games in color.

In 1961, Yamanashi Broadcasting and Yamanashi Nikichi Shimbun decided to build a new headquarters and purchased land at the north exit of Kofu Station for 147.6 million yen as the land for the new headquarters. At the same time, the famous architect Kenzo Tange was invited to serve as the designer of the new headquarters. This building is the Yamanashi Bunka Kaikan. It has 8 floors and was completed in 1966. In the same year, Yamanashi Broadcasting joined NNN.

Network 
 TV: Nippon News Network (NNN)
 RADIO: Japan Radio Network (JRN), National Radio Network (NRN)

Stations

Digital TV(ID:4) 
Kōfu JOJF-DTV 25ch

Radio
Kōfu JOJF 765 kHz; 90.9 MHz FM

Programs

Radio
 YBS Radio news(YBSラジオニュース)
 YBS News up(YBSニュースアップ)
 YBS News halftime(YBSニュースハーフタイム)
 765morning
 765Music Express(765MUX)
 FUN TAME(ふぁん★タメ)
 Shoko Sawada's Saturday Jamboree(沢田聖子のサタデージャンボリー)
 RADIUS(ラヂウス)
 Yukko's POPSAT(ゆっこのポプサタ)
 DIG THE MUSIC
 FREE STYLE
 Hanchingu(はんちんぐ)

TV
 YBS News(YBSニュース)
 YBS Wide News(YBSワイドニュース)
 YBS Midnight News(YBSニュース深夜便)
 Tomo-chan chi no goji(ともちゃん家の5時)
 VENT Spo!(VENTスポ!)
 Kurayami de aimasho(暗闇で逢いましょう)
 Yamanashi genki navi(やまなし元気ナビ)

Rival Stations

Radio
 FM Fuji(エフエム富士) - independent, formerly of JFN

TV
 UHF Television Yamanashi(UTY,テレビ山梨) - JNN

References

External lins
Yamanashi Broadcasting System

Television stations in Japan
Radio in Japan
Nippon News Network
Companies based in Yamanashi Prefecture
Mass media in Kōfu, Yamanashi
Radio stations established in 1954
Television channels and stations established in 1959