[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joel Zumaya

th inning, while pitching against the Minnesota Twins' Delmon Young at Target Field.  He was in obvious pain and needed assistance walking off the field.  The next day an MRI revealed he had a non-displaced fracture of the olecranon. Doctors said it would take four months to heal, ending his season.

Zumaya missed the entire 2011 season after undergoing exploratory surgery on his right elbow on May 10. While the surgery, performed by Dr. James Andrews found no new damage, it was determined that the screw inserted during his previous surgery needed to be replaced. He was unable to recover sufficiently to return to the team that season, his last before being able to enter free agency for the 2012 season.

Minnesota Twins (2012)
On January 15, 2012, Zumaya agreed to a one-year contract with the Minnesota Twins worth $800,000 to $1.7 million.

On February 25, 2012, Zumaya tore an ulnar collateral ligament in his throwing elbow 13 pitches into a live batting practice session, requiring Tommy John surgery and ending his 2012 season, in which he was guaranteed to earn $400,000. He was released  on March 3.

Zumaya retired in February 2014.

Record-setting fastballs
During the 2006 season, Zumaya often threw pitches that were measured at or above the official record reading of . On July 3, 2006, at McAfee Coliseum in Oakland, California, Justin Verlander, Zumaya, and Fernando Rodney each threw multiple fastballs measured in at over , becoming the first time in MLB history that three pitchers on the same team had done so during a game. Just five games into the season, they became the first MLB team to have the same three pitchers throw over  in a season. On July 4, 2006, at McAfee Coliseum in Oakland, California, Zumaya threw a pitch measured at , thus tying the "unofficial" record held by Mark Wohlers. Similarly, on May 20, 2006, Zumaya gave up a grand slam to Ken Griffey Jr. on a pitch that FSN Detroit's radar gun measured at .

Zumaya hit  on the Comerica Park radar gun on August 7 while pitching against Minnesota Twins infielder Nick Punto. Zumaya reached  or higher on five of six pitches during the at-bat.  He also reached  during the Tigers' 4–3 playoff victory at Yankee Stadium on October 5, 2006; and also on October 10, 2006, during Game 1 of the ALCS in Oakland, against the A's.

In an interview for Detroit radio station WRIF, former Tigers pitcher Denny McLain stated that he believed the numbers on stadium and television radar guns were inflated. However, he also claimed that Zumaya had the most consistently fast pitches he had seen in person since former Houston Astros Nolan Ryan and J. R. Richard.

However, there is a new technology on the horizon that reads pitch speeds more accurately and does not inflate those numbers. It uses cameras and software to obtain the data. This new technology comes from Major League Baseball in its Advanced Media section. Part of Enhanced Gameday tracks pitch speed, break, and trajectory. One pitch registered on this was measured at  at release by Joel Zumaya. This was during Game 1 of the ALCS against Frank Thomas of the Oakland Athletics on October 10, 2006, at Oakland's McAfee Coliseum (other readings were at ; the slowest reading was ).

After the 2006 season, The Bill James Handbook published a list of pitchers and the number of their pitches thrown at  or more. Zumaya led the major leagues with 233. Zumaya's average fastball was , with 100+ mph fastballs coming one out of six pitches.

In 2009 and 2010, Zumaya's fastball averaged , according to Pitch f/x.

See also

Best pitching seasons by a Detroit Tiger

References

External links

Major League Baseball pitchers
Detroit Tigers players
Gulf Coast Tigers players
West Michigan Whitecaps players
Lakeland Tigers players
Erie SeaWolves players
Toledo Mud Hens players
Lakeland Flying Tigers players
Baseball players from San Diego
American baseball players of Mexican descent
Baseball players from Chula Vista, California
1984 births
Living people
Bonita Vista High School alumni