[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Poncke Princen

Johannes Cornelis Princen (21 November 1925 – 2 February 2002), also known as Poncke Princen, was a Dutch anti-Nazi fighter and activist. In 1948, he deserted the Dutch military, joining the Indonesian independence guerrillas in what was then the Dutch Indies.

He lived the rest of his life in Indonesia, where he became a prominent human rights activist and political dissident under various dictatorial regimes and consequently spent time in detention.

Early life
Princen and his three siblings were the children of free-thinking parents with anarchist tendencies. His great-grandfather had been a deserter from military service, who had long been chased by the authorities and whose life was described in a book by Anton Coolen.

Despite his upbringing, Princen conceived an interest in Catholicism under the influence grandmother, Theresia Princen-Van der Lee. In 1939, he entered the Holy Ghost Seminary at Weert – where he was followed by his younger brother Kees Princen, with whom he was to maintain correspondence throughout his life. It was while he was at the seminary that Nazi Germany invaded and occupied the Netherlands in 1940.

Princen did not become a priest. In 1942, at age 17, he was accepted as an economic counselor at Teppemaand Vargroup Groothandel voor Chemische Producten, a chemical company in The Hague. He did not keep this position for long, either, being determined to take up arms against the Nazi occupiers of the Netherlands.

Nazi imprisonment and liberation
In 1943, Princen was arrested by the German occupation authorities in Maastricht, while trying to travel to Spain – from where he intended to travel to Britain and enlist in an Allied army fighting the Nazis. He was convicted by the occupation authorities of "attempting to aid the enemy" and in early 1944 was sent to the notorious Vught Camp.

On June 6, 1944, he was transferred to the Kriegswehrmachtgefängnis (Wehrmacht military prison) at Utrecht. While there, he entertained fellow prisoners by reading aloud chapters from a favorite book, Pastoor Poncke ("Pastor Poncke") by Jan Eekhout. This led to his nickname of "Poncke", which he was to keep for the rest of his life.

He was transferred to the prison camp at Amersfoort and from there to Beckum, Germany. Before being liberated by the arrival of Allied forces, he had passed through seven Nazi prisons and camps.

Directly upon being freed from Nazi imprisonment, Princen joined the Stoottroepen Regiment Brabant (Brabant Stormtroop Regiment), based in the southern Dutch province of North Brabant.

In 1945, he worked for the newly founded Bureau voor Nationale Veiligheid (Bureau of National Security :nl:Bureau Nationale Veiligheid), forerunner of the Dutch Security Service – at the time mainly involved in hunting down collaborators and war criminals, but also keeping under surveillance those natives of the Dutch Indies, resident in the Netherlands, who were sympathetic with the rebellion against Dutch rule that was spreading in their homeland.

Colonial service
In March 1946, Princen was called up to join the ranks of the Royal Netherlands Army and take part in what Dutch histories still call "Police Actions" (politionele acties) but which became better known as the Indonesian National Revolution.

Reluctant to take part in the war, Princen fled to France – but upon hearing that his mother was ill, came back and was arrested by the Marechaussee and detained at Schoonhoven. On December 28, 1946, he was put on board the troop ship Sloterdijk. Also aboard the Sloterdijk was the Communist Piet van Staveren, likewise a reluctant conscript who would eventually desert and join the Indonesian rebels. Both of them did meet during the trip and sharing their anti-colonial ideas.

When he arrived in the Indies, Princen was charged with desertion. On 22 October 1947, he was sentenced to twelve months' imprisonment for desertion, but he was returned to active service after four months at the Tjisaroea Prison Camp, the remainder of his sentence being suspended. He was increasingly unhappy with the haughty and contemptuous attitude of fellow soldiers to the local population, and he was present at some violent incidents which greatly increased his disaffection. As he many years later explained, "An adolescence under Nazi rule and two years in German imprisonment has directed my life and made me fight against cruelty. I thought the Indonesians were right. I thought they should be the ones to decide their own future. (...) I was disgusted with the Dutch killing people I admired".