[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Szymon Konarski

ch police and deported to the United Kingdom, possibly due to Czartoryski's intrigue. Konarski then moved back to Brussels, where he came in touch with Joachim Lelewel. On the latter's instructions, in July 1835 Konarski reached the Free City of Kraków under yet another false name, Burhardt Sievers.

There he joined the Association of the Polish People, yet another revolutionary union of all sorts of Polish radicals. Konarski became one of its representatives of the Russian partition of Poland and was to promote revolutionary ideas. He crossed the border under a false name of Janusz Hejbowicz and settled in Ołyka in Volhynia (modern Olyka). Instead of direct agitation, Konarski began to unite all of the secret societies and political parties in Russian-held parts of Poland into the . The organization quickly grew and included Polish secret societies in other parts of Russia as well, most notably the students of the university of St. Petersburg. However, the organization, with its French supporters, were infiltrated by the French and Russian secret police (Ochrana).

Arrest and death 
Louis-Philippe's secret agents passed the information of Konarski's true identity to the Russians and he was arrested on May 27, 1838 near Vilna (modern Vilnius). Imprisoned in the former Basilian monastery, Konarski could do little but to watch most of his comrades arrested in the following months, as Prince Alexey Trubetskoy was able to force some of Konarski's men to inform on the other members of the Union. Tried for high treason, Konarski tried to blame all on himself and portrayed his comrades as either manipulated or insane. He came into contact   with one of the guards, a former Decembrist Lt. Aglay Kuzmin-Karavayev (), who planned Konarski's escape, however Kuzmin-Karavayev was himself arrested (together with other some 30 helpers and sympathizers) after the betrayal of the escape. Finally Konarski was sentenced to death by firing squad and was executed in Vilna on February 27, 1839. His grave was then trampled with horses and was never found.

On the night before his execution he wrote: "I do not want Heaven, I spit into Heaven, so long as my countrymen are enslaved!" [...] "O Lord, save Poland, O Lord, redeem Poland!".

See also
Józef Mianowski
Ludwik Trynkowski

References

Bibliography

External links
 

1808 births
1839 deaths
19th-century Polish nobility
Lithuanian politicians
November Uprising participants
Polish revolutionaries