[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Single Payment Scheme

electronic applications via third party software RPA took the next logical step and in March 2010 began allowing submissions directly through their own Whole Farm Approach website. There is speculation within the agricultural industry that paper forms will be withdrawn in an attempt to reduce costs.

The scheme replaced eleven previous subsidy schemes which were based on the production of crops and/or livestock e.g. dairy premium and arable area payments scheme. Initially the payments had a bias towards paying producers who historically received the highest subsidies. The payment bias works on a sliding scale with a move away from historic payments towards land based payments with payments in 2012 having no historic element.

Implementation of the Single Payment Scheme in Wales was the responsibility of the Welsh Assembly Government. Payments totaling £250m were paid to more than 98% of eligible farmers between 1 December 2005 and 30 June 2006, including £110m to about 75% of Welsh farmers on the first possible day, which made them amongst the first in Europe to receive the new payment.

Scheme details
The Single Payment Scheme (SPS) rewards farmers for managing their land to minimum ("Cross Compliance") standards for crop production, animal welfare and the environment. Farmers can submit a claim annually by declaring (1) all of the agricultural parcels (crops) on their farm and (2) their payment entitlements for activation.  The farmer's declaration of her payment entitlements for activation is the farmer's request for a 'Single Payment'.

The farmer is paid against her declared payment entitlements that are each matched against an eligible hectare of declared land ('activated for payment'). The 'Area Declared' for Single Payment is respective; meaning that it relates to the two factors of (1) declared agricultural parcels and (2) payment entitlements declared for activation.

By way of example:

A farmer holds 102.00 payment entitlements.

The farmer declares all of his agricultural parcels that total exactly 100.00 eligible hectares.

If the farmer declares 102.00 of his payment entitlements for activation, the 'Area Declared' for Single Payment would be 100.00 hectares (the lower of the eligible hectares declared and the payment entitlements declared for activation).

If the farmer declares 98.00 of his payment entitlements for activation, the 'Area Declared' for Single Payment would be 98.00 hectares (the lower of the eligible hectares declared and the payment entitlements declared for activation).

Basic Payment Scheme
Political agreement on CAP reform was reached in 2013. In January 2015, the Single Payment Scheme was replaced by the Basic Payment Scheme (BPS).

See also
Single Farm Payment
English Beef and Lamb Executive (EBLEX)
Meat and Livestock Commission

References

External links
Future Agricultural Support for Scotland The future of the Single Farm Payment from a Scottish perspective
Essential information for farmers applying for their Single Farm Payment Scheme subsidies from Farmers Weekly interactive (FWi)
 UK government DEFRA website
 Government statement on implementation problems
 RPA information bulletins
 Welsh Assembly Government
 European Commission – Agriculture and Rural Development
 Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Ireland) Single Payment Scheme (SPS) Helpsheet 2005

Agriculture in the United Kingdom
Economy of the European Union
European Union and agriculture