[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Champions of the Earth

Mexico - Policy Leadership Category
 Dr. Olga Speranskaya, Russia - Science & Innovation Category
 Zhang Yue, Broad Group, China - Entrepreneurial Vision Category
 Louis Palmer, Switzerland - Inspiration & Action Category [co-winner]
 Angélique Kidjo, Benin - Inspiration & Action Category co-winner

2010
 President Mohamed Nasheed, Maldives - Policy Leadership Category
 Taro Takahashi, Japan - Science & Innovation Category
 Vinod Khosla, India - Entrepreneurial Vision Category
 Prince Mostapha Zaher, Afghanistan - Inspiration & Action Category [co-winner]
 Zhou Xun, China - Inspiration & Action Category co-winner

Special Award
 President Bharrat Jagdeo, Guyana - For Biodiversity Conservation & Ecosystem Management

2009
 Erik Solheim, Norway - Policy Leadership Category (co-winner)
 Kevin Conrad and the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, Papua New Guinea - Policy Leadership Category (co-winner)
 Janine Benyus, United States - Science & Innovation Category
 Ron Gonen, United States - Entrepreneurial Vision Category
 Tulsi Tanti, India - Entrepreneurial Vision  Category
 Yann Arthus-Bertrand, France - Inspiration & Action Category

2008
Balgis Osman-Elasha, Sudan from Africa - For her work on climate change and adaptation in northern and eastern Africa.
Atiq Rahman, Bangladesh from Asia and the Pacific - For his national and international experience in sustainable development, and environment and resource management. He is one of the leading specialists in the field.
Albert II, Prince of Monaco, Monaco from Europe: For his commitment to sustainable development in Monaco. Under his leadership, Monaco is now applying an exemplary policy on CO2 reduction in every sphere of society as well as in the business sector.
Liz Thompson, Barbados, from Latin America and the Caribbean - For her outstanding work at the national and international levels. She is one of the recognized leaders on environmental issues of the Small Island Developing States (SIDS).
Timothy E. Wirth, United States from North America - For his work as the head of the UN Foundation and Better World Fund, he established the environment as a priority and mobilized resources to address it.
Abdul-Qader Ba-Jammal, Yemen from West Asia: For his environmental policies as Minister and then as Prime Minister in Yemen. He established its Ministry of Water and Environment and the Environment Protection Authority.

Special Prize
Helen Clark, New Zealand - For her environmental strategies and her three initiatives - the emissions trading scheme, the energy strategy and the energy efficiency and conservation strategy.

2007
 Cherif Rahmani, Algeria from Africa - For advancing environmental law in Algeria and for addressing the issue of desertification;
 Elisea "Bebet" Gillera Gozun, Philippines from Asia and the Pacific - for pushing forward the environmental agenda in her native Philippines by winning the trust of business leaders, non-governmental organizations and political decision-makers alike;
 Viveka Bohn, Sweden from Europe:  for playing a prominent role in multilateral negotiations and her leadership in global efforts to ensure chemical safety;
 Marina Silva, Brazil from Latin America and the Caribbean - For her tireless fight to protect the Amazon rainforest while taking into account the perspectives of people who use the resources in their daily lives;
 Al Gore, United States from North America - For making environmental protection a pillar of his public service and for educating the world on the dangers posed by rising greenhouse gas emissions;
 His Royal Highness Prince Hassan Bin Talal, Jordan from West Asia - For his belief in transboundary collaboration to protect the environment and for addressing environmental issues in a holistic manner;

Special Prize
 Jacques Rogge and the International Olympic Committee (IOC) - For advancing the sport and environment agenda by providing greater resources to sustainable development and for introducing stringent environmental requirements for cities bidding to host Olympic Games

2006
 Rosa Elena Simeon Negrin, Cuba
 Women's Environment & Development Organization
 Tewolde Berhan Gebre Egziabher, Ethiopia
 Masoumeh Ebtekar, Iran
 Mohamed El-Ashry, Egypt
 Tommy Koh Thong Bee, Singapore
 Mikhail Gorbachev, Russia

2005
 King Jigme Singye Wangchuck and the people of Bhutan, Bhutan
 Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, United Arab Emirates
 Thabo Mbeki, South Africa
 Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, Native Greek
 Sheila Watt-Cloutier, Canada
 Julia Carabias Lillo, Mexico
 Zhou Qiang and the All-China Youth Federation, China

Awardees: Young Champions of the Earth

2020 

 Xiaoyuan Ren, China.
 Vidyut Mohan, India.
 Nzambi Matee, Kenya.
 Niria Alicia Garcia, United States of America.
 Max Hidalgo Quinto, Peru.
 Lefteris Arapakis, Greece.
 Fatemah Alzelzela, Kuwait.

2019