[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Irfan Bachdim

own for starring in many product advertisements including Pocari Sweat, Suzuki, Nike, and many more. He is one of the very select few Indonesian footballers who have appeared in other scopes outside of football. He is massively popular domestically among female fans due to his looks and personality.

Bachdim is married to Jennifer Kurniawan, a model born to a Chinese Indonesian father and a German mother. She is also the older sister of footballer Kim Kurniawan, who joined Bachdim at PSS on 28 February 2021. The couple met when the two Europe-trained footballers explored opportunities to play in Indonesia in 2010. On 8 July 2011, Bachdim and Kurniawan tied the knot in Germany. On 5 February 2012, Bachdim's first child and daughter, Kiyomi Sue Bachdim, was born. Two years later, on 21 March 2014, Bachdim's second child and first son, Kenji Zizou Bachdim, was born. Their third, Kiyoji Bachdim, was born on 1 March 2021, a few days before Bachdim renewed his contract with PSS. The Bachdims reside in Bali, where they also run a clothing line.

References

External links 
 
 
 

 Irfan Bachdim Interview

1988 births
Living people
Footballers from Amsterdam
Indonesian men's footballers
FC Utrecht players
HFC Haarlem players
Eredivisie players
Eerste Divisie players
Persema Malang players
Indonesian Premier League players
Indonesian people of Yemeni descent
Indonesian people of Dutch descent
Indo people
Dutch people of Indonesian descent
Dutch people of Yemeni descent
Dutch people of Javanese descent
Indonesian expatriate sportspeople in Thailand
Indonesian expatriate sportspeople in Japan
Indonesian expatriate men's footballers
Indonesia men's international footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Thailand
Expatriate men's footballers in Japan
Irfan Bachdim
Irfan Bachdim
Irfan Bachdim
J2 League players
Ventforet Kofu players
Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo players
Liga 1 (Indonesia) players
Liga 2 (Indonesia) players
Bali United F.C. players
PSS Sleman players
Persis Solo players
Men's association football forwards
Men's association football wingers
SV Argon players