[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ministry of Unification

he Korean Peninsula.
 Close consultation and cooperation with the international community, we will resolve the security crisis on the Korean Peninsula; seek to establish a virtuous cycle between the resolution of issues on the Korean Peninsula and increased peace and collaboration in Northeast Asia.

Major tasks
 All issues between the two Koreas should be resolved through dialogue. We will engage in productive dialogue with the North to resolve all pending issues with sincerity. The leaders of the two Koreas may meet any time if they do so in good faith with the goal of unification and a better life for all 70 million Koreans.
 It will continue to encourage North Korea to give up its nuclear programs through the Six-party Talks. The Lee administration will call for a peaceful resolution of the North Korean nuclear issue during inter-Korean dialogue.
 It will achieve qualitative development of inter-Korean relations through mutually beneficial economic cooperation between the two Koreas. Existing economic cooperation projects will be promoted by removing obstacles. New projects will be pursued according to the four criteria: progress in North Korea's denuclearization, economic feasibility, our financial capability and national consensus. The Lee administration will implement the Vision 3000: Denuclearization and Openness to create an inter-Korean economic community.
 Social and cultural exchanges will be expanded to develop a sense of national commonality. An institutional foundation will be laid to ensure a substantial and stable development of social and cultural exchanges.
 The former Lee administration will remain strongly committed to the resolution of the humanitarian issues. We will find fundamental solutions to the separate family issue and give a priority to the resolution of the South Korean POW and abductee issues as they are our citizens whom the government should protect. We will deal with human rights in North Korea as a matter of universal value. The ROK government will provide humanitarian aid to North Korea unconditionally from a humanitarian perspective and in the spirit of brotherhood toward fellow North Koreans.

See also

Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland – similar organization in North Korea
Division of Korea
Foreign relations of South Korea
Government of South Korea
Information Center on North Korea
Minister of Intra-German Relations — similar organization in West Germany
National Unification Advisory Council
Taiwan Affairs Office — similar organization in Mainland China
Mainland Affairs Council — similar organization in Taiwan
State Ministry for Reconciliation and Civic Equality of Georgia — similar organization in Georgia
Ministry of Temporarily Occupied Territories and IDPs — similar organization in Ukraine

References

External links

Unification
North Korea–South Korea relations
Korean reunification