[Source: PubMed]

89. Int J Dent Hyg. 2025 Aug;23(3):441-448. doi: 10.1111/idh.12895. Epub 2024 Dec
 17.

A Qualitative Study of Career Motivations and Career Expectations of Malaysian 
Dental Therapist: Post New Dental Regulations.

Musa MFC(1), Ab-Murat N(2), Ming CJ(3), Ramle NSM(4), Sabri SZA(5).

Author information:
(1)Kulliyyah of Dentistry, International Islamic University Malaysia, Department 
of Paediatric Dentistry and Dental Public Health, Pahang, Malaysia.
(2)Faculty of Dentistry, Universiti Malaya, Department of Community Oral Health 
& Clinical Prevention, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)Kulliyyah of Dentistry, International Islamic University Malaysia, Department 
of Orthodontics, Pahang, Malaysia.
(4)Klinik Pergigian Hospital Pasir Mas, Jalan Pasir Mas - Lati, Kelantan, 
Malaysia.
(5)Klinik Pergigian Pekan Nanas Jalan Sawah, Nanas, Pontian Johor, Pekan, 
Malaysia.

OBJECTIVES: To explore the Malaysian dental therapists' perceptions regarding 
the provisions concerning them in the new dental act and potential market 
changes, considering their current career motivations and expectations.
METHODS: Dental therapists from two major public dental organisations in the 
East-Peninsular Malaysia (n = 26) were invited to participate in an audiotaped 
semi-structured interview using a pre-tested topic-guide informed by workforce 
policy and research literature. The qualitative data were transcribed and 
analysed using Framework Analysis.
RESULTS: The research conducted with dental therapists (n = 26) identified four 
motivation domains namely 'altruism', 'personal and academic inspiration', 
'profession characteristics' and 'career advising and social influences' as key 
factors motivating their choice of a professional career as dental therapists, 
influenced by work-life balance and financial stability. They were also aware of 
the new dental act and its potential implications, particularly regarding their 
future career expectations. The majority felt the necessity 'to improve their 
skills and knowledge' within the first 5 years as part of their short-term 
career plans. A few participants expressed a desire to 'pursue a higher level of 
education' and 'wished to join the private sector' in the long-term. They 
perceived the possibility of 'working in the private sector' to increase their 
income and believed that they did not require any additional training for such a 
transition.
CONCLUSION: Malaysian dental therapists welcomed the changes in the new act, 
which allow them to work across sectors. Many perceived themselves as adequately 
motivated and equipped to transition to different work settings without 
requiring additional training.

© 2024 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/idh.12895
PMID: 39686854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]