[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2006 in Iraq

prove" of attacks on U.S.-led forces, while 94% still had an unfavorable opinion of al-Qaeda.

October
 October 20 – The U.S. military announced that Operation Together Forward had failed to stem the tide of violence in Baghdad, and Shiite militants under al-Sadr seized several southern Iraq cities.

November
 November 7 – The United States midterm elections removed the Republican Party from control of both chambers of the United States Congress. U.S. voters' perceptions of failings in the Iraq War were cited as one of the main causes of the Republicans' defeat, even though the Bush administration had attempted to distance itself from its earlier "stay the course" rhetoric.
 November 23 – The deadliest attack since the beginning of the Iraq war occurred. Suspected Sunni-Arab militants used five suicide car bombs and two mortar rounds on the capital's Shiite Sadr City slum to kill at least 215 people and wound 257. Shiite mortar teams quickly retaliated, firing 10 shells at Sunni Islam's most important shrine in Baghdad, badly damaging the Abu Hanifa mosque and killing one person. Eight more rounds slammed down near the offices of the Association of Muslim Scholars, the top Sunni Muslim organisation in Iraq, setting nearby houses on fire. Two other mortar barrages on Sunni neighborhoods in west Baghdad killed nine and wounded 21, police said.
November 26 – EFP(explosively formed penetrator) attack near Sadr City kills 3 US Army soldiers and injures at least 2 others. Among those lost this day are PFC Joshua C Burrows, 20, 1st Cavalry Division, 1st Battalion, 8th Cavalry Regiment, based out of Ft. Hood, TX. Josh was a lifelong resident of Bossier City, LA. 
 November 28 – Another Marine Corps intelligence report was released confirming the previous report on Anbar stating that, "U.S. and Iraqi troops 'are no longer capable of militarily defeating the insurgency in al-Anbar,' and 'nearly all government institutions from the village to provincial levels have disintegrated or have been thoroughly corrupted and infiltrated by Al Qaeda in Iraq.'"

December
 December 12 – Controversy arose when former Secretary of State Colin Powell announced before the surge took place that there would have to be a draw down of troops by mid-2007.
 December 30 – The former president Saddam Hussein, was killed by hanging.

Notable deaths 

 February 22 – Atwar Bahjat, 30, Iraqi journalist for al-Arabiya, abducted and killed in Iraq.
 March 6 – Mubdar Hatim al-Dulaimi, 55, Major General in the Iraqi Army, shot by a sniper.
 March 12 – Hadeel Qasim Hamza, 6, murder victim (born 1999)
 April 21 – Jacob Kovco, 25, first Australian Defence Force serviceperson killed in Iraq.
 May 6 – Wing Commander John Coxen, 46, Royal Air Force, most senior British Officer killed in Iraq to date.
 May 6 – Flt Lt Sarah Mulvihill, 32, first British servicewoman to be killed in action in Iraq.
 May 29 – James Brolan, 42, CBS News sound technician, injuries sustained in car bombing in Iraq.
 May 31 – Ali Jaafar Ali, 39, Iraqi sports anchorman, shot dead by unknown gunmen in Baghdad.
 June 7 – Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, 39, leader of Al-Qaeda in Iraq, US military strike.
 June 7 – Sheik Abd-Al-Rahman, spiritual adviser for Al-Qaeda in Iraq, US military strike.
 October 11 – Raad Mutar Saleh, Iraqi Mandaean leader, shot.
 November 20 – Walid Hassan, 47, Iraqi television comedian, shot.
 December 30 – Saddam Hussein, 69, Iraqi President (1979–2005), execution by hanging.

See also 

 Iraq War

References

External links 

 
Years of the 21st century in Iraq
Iraq
2000s in Iraq
Iraq