[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of S.H.I.E.L.D. members

llowing Operation: Zero Tolerance.
 David Nanjiwarra – Aboriginal agent of A.S.I.O. He was used as a mole and subsequently killed by Scorpio.
 "Network" Nina – Cyber-enhanced ESP agent that fought Algernon Crowe. She was killed in telepathic battle with Psi-Borg.
 Kate Neville – Chief of Ordnance and former lover of Nick Fury, after he was ousted by a compromised S.H.I.E.L.D. by Prtoject Delta-LMDs. She was killed by Baron Strucker.
 Arthur Perry – Unscrupulous killer who made it into a S.H.I.E.L.D.- program for cybernetically enhanced "super agents". Was later killed by Elektra.
 Kitty Pryde – Member of the X-Men as Shadowcat. Recruited as an intern while a member of Excalibur.
 Dave Purcell – Killed with girlfriend and identity taken by HYDRA at academy graduation ceremony.
 Pyle – Surveillance-team leader. He was later assigned inventory duty at Virginia storage center where he was killed.
 Rapture – Leader of the black-ops team the Contingency. Rapture's a low-level telepath.
 Inali Redpath – Cherokee shaman with ability to control weather. He turned rogue and used S.H.I.E.L.D. to attack U.S. to reclaim land for the Native Americans.
 Richard Rennselaer – Field agent (L-6); resigned. He became the mutant terrorist Overrider.
 Frank Rhodes – Quit S.H.I.E.L.D. and eventually became an ally of Cable. Killed by D'Von Kray, a New Canaanite warrior.
 Buck Richlen – Rank L-5; expelled.
 Nathaniel Richards
 Rico Santana – Rank L-3; expelled.
 Heather Sante – Charged by Iron Man to keep an eye on Mar-Vell.
 Simon – Double agent for Tantalus. He was killed by Pandara.
 Shrike – Member of the black-ops team the Contingency. He turned rogue and was captured.
 John "Skul" Skulinowski – Team leader of the Elite Agents.
 Eugene Spandell – Cyborg. He died on mission to El Corazon de la Muerte.
 Howard Stark
 SULTAN – Former weapons designer and computer and code expert.
 Mitchell Tanner – As Warhawk, he was conscripted to serve as a temporary agent in exchange for reducing his sentence.
 Neal Tapper – Formerly involved with Sharon Carter. He was killed in an explosion.
 Kate Waynesboro – Monitored Bruce Banner following Banner's presidential pardon.
 William Wesley – Test pilot who volunteered to test the quantum bands, which overloaded and killed him.

Super-agents
 Blue Streak – Member of the first Super Agents program. He was a double agent for the corporation. Assassinated by Scourge of the Underworld.
 Wendell Vaughn (Marvel Boy) – Member of the first Super Agents program. He later became known as "Quasar".
 Texas Twister – Member of the first Super Agents program. Quit S.H.I.E.L.D. to form his own team, the Rangers.
 Vamp – Member of the first Super Agents program. Professional criminal who is a double agent for the corporation. Became "Animus". Killed by Scourge.
 Ivory – Wakandan native in the second Super Agents program. She was killed by HYDRA double agents.
 Knock-About – HYDRA double agent. Imprisoned by Nick Fury.
 Psi-Borg – Cybernetically enhanced Latverian. She is a charter member of the second Super Agents program. Revealed as a HYDRA double agent and was killed in telepathic battle with "Network" Nina.
 Violence – She was revealed as a HYDRA double agent in the Super Agents program. Granddaughter of ex-Howling Commando Percy Pinkerton. Killed by Nick Fury.

Pre-modern agents

As revealed in the 2010 series S.H.I.E.L.D.:
 Imhotep (ancient founder)
 Zhang Heng
 Leonardo da Vinci
 Galileo Galilei
 Isaac Newton

Ultimate Marvel Universe S.H.I.E.L.D.

Executive directors and secretaries
 General Thaddeus E. "Thunderbolt" Ross – Executive director until his attempted murder by John Wraith. Later became government liaison to the Baxter Building, and then the Fantastic Four.
 General Nick Fury – Executive director after Thunderbolt Ross' attempted murder. Was taken into custody by the Squadron Supreme of Earth-31916 for his role in the events of Ultimate Power, effectively removing him from the position.
 Carol Danvers – Executive director after Nick Fury's involvement in the events of Ultimate Power and subsequent capture. She is a liaison/girlfriend to the alien Captain Mahr Vehl.