[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 129]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

nor admiration. Of all
his comrades, Sophron was the only one whom Tigranes still continued to
respect; for he knew that, with a gentleness of temper which scarcely
anything could exasperate, he possessed the firmest courage and a degree
of bodily strength which rendered that courage invincible. He affected,
indeed, to despise the virtuous moderation of his friend, and ridiculed
it with some of his looser comrades as an abject pusillanimity; but he
felt himself humbled whenever he was in his company as before a superior
being, and therefore gradually estranged himself from his society.

"Sophron, on the contrary, entertained the sincerest regard for his
friend; but he knew his defects, and trembled for the consequences which
the violence and ambition of his character might one day produce.
Whenever Tigranes abandoned his flocks, or left his rustic tasks undone,
Sophron had the goodness to supply whatever he had omitted. Such was the
vigour of his constitution, that he was indefatigable in every labour,
nor did he ever exert his force more willingly than in performing these
voluntary duties to his absent friend. Whenever he met with Tigranes he
accosted him in the gentlest manner, and endeavoured to win him back to
his former habits and manners. He represented to him the injury he did
his parents, and the disquietude he occasioned in their minds by thus
abandoning the duties of his profession. He sometimes, but with the
greatest mildness, hinted at the coldness with which Tigranes treated
him, and reminded his friend of the pleasing intercourse of their
childhood. But all his remonstrances were vain; Tigranes heard him at
first with coolness, then with impatience or contempt, and at last
avoided him altogether.

"Sophron had a lamb which he had formerly saved from the devouring jaws
of a wolf, who had already bitten him in several places, and destroyed
his dam. The tenderness with which this benevolent young man had nursed
and fed him during his infancy, had so attached him to his master, that
he seemed to prefer his society to that of his own species. Wherever
Sophron went, the faithful lamb accompanied him like his dogs, lay down
beside him when he reposed, and followed close behind when he drove the
rest of the flock to pasture. Sophron was equally attached to his dumb
companion: he often diverted himself with his innocent gambols, fed him
with the choicest herbs out of his hands, and when he slept at nights
the lamb was sure to repose beside him.

"It happened about this time that Tigranes, as he was one day exploring
the woods, discovered the den of a she-wolf, in which she had left her
young ones while she went out to search for prey. By a caprice that was
natural to his temper, he chose out the largest of the whelps, carried
it home to his house, and brought it up as if it had been a useful and
harmless animal. While it was yet but young it was incapable of doing
mischief; but as it increased in age and strength, it began to show
signs of a bloody and untameable disposition, and made all the
neighbouring shepherds tremble for the safety of their flocks. But as
the courage and fierceness of Tigranes had now rendered him formidable
to all his associates, and the violence of his temper made him impatient
of all opposition, they did not speak to him on the subject; and as to
his own parents, he had long learned to treat them with indifference and
contempt. Sophron alone, who was not to be awed by fear, observing the
just apprehensions of the neighbourhood, undertook the task of
expostulating with his friend, and endeavoured to prevail upon him to
part with a beast so justly odious, and which might in the end prove
fatal whenever his natural rage should break out into open acts of
slaughter. Tigranes heard him with a sneer of derision, and only
answered, that 'if a parcel of miserable rustics diverted themselves
with keeping sheep, he, who had a more elevated soul, might surely
entertain a nobler animal for his diversion.' 'But should that nobler
animal prove a public mischief,' coolly replied Sophron, 'you must
expect that he will be treated as a public enemy.' 'Woe be to the man,'
answered Tigranes, brandishing his javelin, and sternly frowning, 'that
shall dare to meddle with anything that belongs to me.' Saying this, he
turned his back upon Sophron, and left him with disdain.

"It was not long before the very event took place which had been so long
foreseen. The wolf of Tigranes, either impelled by the accidental taste
of blood, or by the natural fierceness of his own temper, fell one day
upon the sheep, with such an unexpected degree of fury that he
slaughtered thirty of them before it was possible to prevent him.
Sophron happened at that time to be within view; he ran with amazing
swiftness to the place, and found the savage bathed in blood, tearing
the carcass of a lamb he had just slain. At the approach of the daring
youth