[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joshua (Handel)

the orchestra, then a chorus of virgins with flutes, and finally by full chorus with drums. The air in the last act for Achsah "Oh, had I Jubal's lyre", a short expression of joy with virtuoso writing for the soprano, is often heard and recorded outside the context of the full work.

Musical numbers

Part One
Introduction (Orchestra)
Ye sons of Israel (Chorus)
Behold, my friends (Tenor, Bass recitative)
Oh first in wisdom (Bass aria)
Matrons and Virgins (Soprano recitative)
Oh who can tell (Soprano aria)
Caleb, attend to all I now prescribe (Tenor recitative)
To long posterity (Tenor solo with Chorus)
So long the memory (Tenor recitative)
While Kedron's brook (Tenor aria)
But who is He (Alto recitative)
Awful pleasing being, say (Alto aria)
Joshua, I come commission'd (Tenor, Soprano recitative)
Leader of Israel (Tenor, Soprano recitative)
To give command (Tenor recitative)
Haste, Israel, haste (Tenor aria)
The Lord commands (Chorus)
In these blest scenes (Soprano, Alto recitative)
'Tis Achsah's voice (Soprano, Alto recitative)
Hail, lovely virgin (Soprano, Alto aria)
Hark, hark! 'Tis the linnet (Soprano)
Oh Achsah, form'd for ev'ry chaste delight (Alto recitative)
Our limpid streams (Soprano, Alto duet)
The trumpet calls (Alto recitative)
May all the host of heaven (Chorus)

Part Two
'Tis well (Tenor recitative)
March (Orchestra)
Glory to God (Tenor solo and Chorus)
The walls are levell'd (Bass recitative)
See the raging flames arise (Bass aria)
To vanity and earthly pride (Soprano aria)
Let all the seed of Abrah'm (Tenor recitative)
Almighty ruler of the skies (Tenor solo and Chorus)
Joshua, the men (Bass recitative)
How soon our tow'ring hopes are cross'd (Chorus)
Whence this dejection (Tenor recitative)
With redoubled rage return (Tenor aria)
We with redoubled rage (Chorus)
Now give the army breath (Alto recitative)
Heroes, when with glory burning (Alto aria)
Indulgent heaven hath heard (Soprano recitative)
As chears the sun (Soprano aria)
Sure I'm deceived (Bass, Alto recitative)
Nations, who in future story (Alto aria)
Brethren and friends (Tenor recitative)
Sinfonia (Orchestra)
Thus far our cause (Bass recitative)
Trumpet flourish (Orchestra)
Oh! thou bright orb (Tenor solo and Chorus)

Part Three
Hail! Mighty Joshua (Chorus)
Happy, oh, thrice happy we (Soprano aria)
Caleb, for holy Eleazer send (Tenor, Bass recitative)
Shall I in Mamre's fertile plain (Bass aria)
For all these mercies we will sing (Chorus)
Oh Caleb, fear'd by foes (Alto, Bass recitative)
Place danger around me (Alto aria)
Father of mercy (Chorus)
In bloom of youth (Tenor recitative)
See the conqu'ring hero comes (Trio SSA)
See the godlike youth advance (Duet SA)
See the conqu'ring hero comes (Chorus)
Welcome, my son (Bass, alto, soprano recitative)
Oh, had I Jubal's lyre (Soprano aria)
While life shall last (Alto recitative)
Oh peerless maid (Soprano, Alto duet)
While lawless tyrants (Bass recitative)
The great Jehovah (Chorus)

Notable performances
The first staging of Joshua occurred in 1752. Before the performance, Handel cut the first aria, entitled "O first in wisdom." He also expanded the overture by adding the fugue and courante from Solomon. For another performance in 1754, Handel again cut the first aria, but then added five more pieces: four arias and one recitative. Joshua'' was performed in Salisbury in 1754. It was performed again in 1756 during a three-day Handel festival and in London in 1755 and 1759. 
Other noteworthy performances include: 
Three Choirs Festival in 1759, 1769, 1773 and 1781
The Oxford Music Room in 1766, 1768 and 1773
Winchester 1770–1783
Berlin in 1827 and 1832
London Sacred Harmonic Society in 1839
Aberdare in 1953

Recordings
 With John Mark Ainsley, tenor, James Bowman, countertenor, Emma Kirkby, soprano, The King's Consort and New College Choir, Robert King, conductor. Release date 1990. Hyperion CD: CDA66461/2
With James Gilchrist tenor, Myung-Hee Hyun soprano, Alex Potter, counter-tenor, Konstantin Wolff bass, Collegium Cartusianum, Peter Neumann, conductor. Release date 2008. MDG CD:MDG3321532
With Katherine Manley soprano, Alexandra Gibson mezzo-soprano, Allan Clayton tenor, George Humphreys bass, Richard Rowntree tenor, London Handel Orchestra and Chorus, Laurence Cummings, conductor. Release date 2011. Somm Recordings CD: SOMM2402
With Mark Le Brocq tenor, James Rutherford bass, Miriam Allan soprano, David Allsopp countertenor. Hannoversche Hofkapelle, Maulbronner Kammerchor, Jürgen Budday, conductor. Release date 2016. K&K CD:KuK253

References

11. Joshua HWV 64 Vocal Score; Edition Peters Edited by Andreas Schenck; CF Peters, Frankfurt

External links
 Full-text Libretto
 Full Vocal Score 
 IMSLP Scores.

Oratorios by George Frideric Handel
1747 compositions
1748 operas
Oratorios based on the Bible
Cultural depictions of Joshua