[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Klingon culture

e. Its strident tones are considered ear-shattering by most non-Klingons.

Klingons are passionate about opera, which they use to combine battle with art. The opera 'u', retelling the legend of the battles of "Kahless the Unforgettable", is the first (real) Earth production of a Klingon opera.

Food

 bahgol – Beverage best served warm.
 Klingon bloodwine – A red wine of which Worf had programmed the replicators on the Enterprise-D to create a close approximation.Okuda and Okuda (1997), p. 244. It was also available at Quark's on Deep Space Nine. It is best served warm, and is the traditional beverage consumed by warriors being inducted into the Order of the Bat'leth.
 bregit lung – A traditional Klingon dish that William Riker said he enjoyed when he briefly served aboard the Klingon ship Pagh.
 chech'tluth – Alcoholic beverage Worf offered to Danilo Odell, the leader of a Bringloidi colony, when hosting that colony's population.
 fire wine – Alcoholic beverage Worf once unsuccessfully tried to order in a fictional tavern in a holographic Old West simulation.
 gagh – Serpent worms. Klingons prefer to eat them live.Okuda and Okuda (1997), p. 163.
 pipius claw – Traditional dish that William Riker sampled when studying Klingon culture before his brief assignment aboard the Pagh.Okuda and Okuda (1997), p. 362.
 racht – Klingon serpent worms, larger than gagh, but served in a manner similar to them. Like gagh, they are best served live.
 raktajino – Klingon coffee available at Quark's bar on Deep Space Nine, sometimes served iced. Station personnel who were fond of the beverage included Commander Benjamin Sisko, Commander Jadzia Dax and Major Kira Nerys, who liked hers extra hot with Bajoran kava.
 rokeg blood pie – Traditional Klingon dish. The crew of the Pagh served it to William Riker when he briefly served aboard that vessel, as a sort of initiation rite. Riker proved his mettle by stating that he enjoyed it. It is also a favorite food of Worf's, whose adoptive mother mastered the technique of making it when he was a child. In the Star Trek: Voyager episode Day of Honor, Neelix serves it to B'Elanna Torres, revealing that he looked up Klingon traditions and discovered it is served during the Klingon Day of Honor.
 Klingon skull stew – Delicacy sold at the Replimat on Deep Space Nine. The dish's name was not mentioned onscreen, though a photo of it, created by scenic artist Doug Drexler, was seen on a Replimat wall.
 targ – A boar-like beast with sharp tusks, native to Qo'noS. Klingons both hunt the animal for food and keep it as a pet.
 warnog – A Klingon ale that dates back at least as early as the time of Kahless.Okuda and Okuda (1997), p. 555.
 zilm'kach''' – A segmented orange food eaten by Klingons.Okuda and Okuda (1997), p. 576.

Reference books
The main reference book to Klingon culture as depicted in the Klingon language is Klingon for the Galactic Traveler by Marc Okrand (Pocket Books, New York, 1997).
A collection of Klingon proverbs and sayings reflecting and describing Klingon culture is contained in The Klingon Way: A Warrior's Guide, by Marc Okrand (Pocket Books, New York, 1996).

See also
 Klingon language
 The Klingon Hamlet''

References

Further reading

Culture
Religion in science fiction