[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vexille

em together as a Jag devours them. Vexille and Leon are rescued by a SWORD helicopter just as Daiwa headquarters collapses into the bay, along with every Jag in Japan. As Vexille and Leon are flown from a now completely lifeless Japan, Vexille comments that humanity's spirit can never be taken away.

Cast
Japanese
Meisa Kuroki as Lt. Cdr. Vexille Serra
Shosuke Tanihara as Cdr. Leon Fayden
Yasuko Matsuyuki as Maria
Takaya Kuroda as Zack
Akio Ōtsuka as Saito
Romi Park as Takashi
Takahiro Sakurai as Ryo
Toshiyuki Morikawa as Kisaragi
Tetsuya Kakihara as Taro
Takayuki Sugo as Captain Borg
Kenji Takahashi as Saga
Jiro Saito as Chairman Itakura
English
Colleen Clinkenbeard as Lt. Cdr. Vexille Serra
Travis Willingham as Cdr. Leon Fayden
Christine Auten as Maria
Christopher Sabat as Zack
Jason Douglas as Saito
Luci Christian as Takashi
Illich Guardiola as Ryo
J. Michael Tatum as Kisaragi
Todd Haberkorn as Taro
John Swasey as Captain Borg
Phil Parsons as Saga
Kent Williams as Chairman Itakura

Music
The original soundtrack and music to the series features an electronic, techno, urumee melam and trance theme, and features Basement Jaxx, Boom Boom Satellites, Asian Dub Foundation, Dead Can Dance, Carl Craig, The Prodigy, DJ Shadow, M.I.A, with singer Mink providing the theme song Together again and Paul Oakenfold handling the music score production, which was co-written with Ian Green and Michael J McEvoy. McEvoy also orchestrated and programmed the score.

Reception
This movie has been said to have a Resident Evil-like plotline and has drawn many comparisons to the movie. A review of the DVD on website IGN gave this film 6 out of 10, finding it difficult to follow and riddled with plot holes. They also found fault with the soundtrack, particularly Paul Oakenfold's score: "A couple of tracks manage to rise to the occasion, but for the most part, Vexille's tunes feel limp and repetitive." Hyper comments on the film for "retreading of familiar territory already covered effectively by Ghost in the Shell". It commends the visuals for its "cel-shading and rotoscoping, leading to some incredibly impressive looking set pieces". However, it criticises the action scenes which "aren't nearly as exciting as they should be — most of the action scenes boil down to rather mundane gun fights or chases, and while they look great there's no real energy in them." It currently has a 60% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

Releases
For the Region 1 release Vexille was first released in a 1 disc format on May 20, 2008, followed by a 2 Disc special edition on November 4, 2008. Both versions include the original Japanese soundtrack as well as the English dub, with optional subtitles.

A Blu-ray Disc version was released on the same day as the 2 Disc special edition and includes exactly the same features as its DVD counterpart.

Region 2 DVD was released on September 1, 2008, in a limited edition steelbook 2 Disc set, featuring only the original Japanese soundtrack with English subtitles without English Dub. That version has since gone out of print and has been replaced by a standard 1 disc set with no extra features.

A Blu-ray Disc version is yet to be released on Region B.

Live-action film
Universal Studios has acquired the rights to the film to produce a live-action remake. Beau Flynn and Tripp Vinson have signed on as producers, Lisa Zambri as executive producer and Evan Spiliotopoulos as screenwriter.

See also
Appleseed

References

External links

 

Twitch Vexille review
Variety.com Vexille review
The Japan Times Vexille review

2007 anime films
2007 science fiction action films
2007 films
Anime with original screenplays
2007 computer-animated films
Science fiction anime and manga
Films directed by Fumihiko Sori
Funimation
Japanese computer-animated films
Japanese science fiction action films
Films set in 2067
Films set in 2077
Films set in the 2060s
Animated films set in the 2070s
Animated films set in the future
Animated films set in the 21st century