[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mirek Topolánek

mocratic Union – Czechoslovak People's Party and Green Party. His second cabinet was appointed on 9 January 2007. On 19 January 2007, Chamber of Deputies passed the government's confidence vote with 100 MPs voting in favour, while 97 MPs voted against.

Involvement in the Anti-Missile Defence System

Mirek Topolánek is an ardent supporter of the Bush administration's proposed anti-missile defence system, which was vehemently opposed by the Russians, and which the Obama administration has suggested may not need to be built if Russia cooperates in convincing Iran, the country whose nuclear ambitions the defence system is to protect against, to stop the development of its nuclear programme and its support of terrorist organisations across the Middle East.

Five Prime Minister's Priorities
Mirek Topolánek introduced the so-called "Five Prime Minister's Priorities" in October 2007. It was a government statement which includes 10 program areas, which consist of 190 projects of Government's Program Goals Through Electoral Term accepted by the government. To facilitate orientation and communication with citizens Mirek Topolánek had summarised the 10 program areas to Five Prime Minister's Priorities: Healthy Public Finances, Modern and Efficient State, Safe Citizen in a Safe Country, Removing Barriers, Promoting Science and Education.

Czech Presidency of the Council of the European Union 

Topolánek's government led the Czech Republic during Czech Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2009. Czech presidency had to deal with Russia–Ukraine gas dispute. Topolánek and his team was able to negotiate a compromise between Russia and Ukraine. Another important moment was a conflict in Gaza.

Topolánek remained in position of President of European Council until his government was replaced by Jan Fischer's Cabinet.

Fall of Government
On 24 March 2009, after four failed earlier attempts, the opposition ČSSD and communists party succeeded in leading the lower house of the Czech parliament to a no confidence vote in Topolánek's government. The measure passed with 101 votes to 96 as four members of Topolánek's coalition (two of his own party) voting with the opposition. After the vote, Topolánek said that he would resign in accordance with the Constitution. He confidently said: "We believe the president should also follow the custom and appoint me to form a new government." Although surprised by the vote, the European Commission stated that it had confidence in the Czech Republic, and that the nation's EU presidency would remain unaffected.

On 15 September 2009, Topolánek resigned his seat in the Chamber of Deputies after ČSSD announced a delay of proposed snap election in October 2009.

Controversies 
Topolánek has been criticised for his rhetoric, which occasionally invokes memories of the World War II and Nazi atrocities. In August 2003 Topolánek called the programme of the competing Social Democratic Party (ČSSD) to be a "osvětimská lež" (Auschwitz lie), a common expression in Czech which denotes Holocaust denial.

Further in June 2005, one year before the Parliament elections, he said: "From my side, don't expect anything else than a Night of the Long Knives. This night simply comes." This actually meant that after the elections of 2006, which he would win, he would make major personnel changes in the government.

In March 2007, he sent to a journalist an SMS message beginning with: "Es kommt der Tag...", which
means "The day will come...". This was used in the 1930s by the Sudetendeutsche Party representing Germans in the former Czechoslovakia, and meant that the day will come, when the Sudeten Area will become a part of Germany. Also in 2007, Topolánek was criticised when he raised his middle finger in the lower house. In October 2008, Topolánek lashed out at a photographer who was taking photographs of his 15-month-old son. BBC reported that at one stage Topolánek pushed the photographer against a wall and threateningly asked why he was taking photos of him.

On 30 May 2009, the Italian police seized photos under suspicion of a violation of privacy. One photo, according to world media showed Topolánek naked at Villa Certosa (Silvio Berlusconi's summer house) in May 2008. In the end, Topolánek admitted the naked man sunbathing near a topless women in Berlusconi's Villa Certosa was himself.