[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

illiamsport, Maryland. General John D. Imboden led a wagon train carrying wounded men on a northwest route, which was safer and easier to follow. Lee moved with the healthy part of his Army of Northern Virginia on a more southern route to Williamsport that was shorter but had more difficult terrain.

Kilpatrick's division, which was reinforced with cavalry stationed at Emmitsburg, Maryland, pursued Lee's retreating army. Late at night high in the mountains, near Monterey Pass, a dismounted advance guard company from Custer's 2nd Brigade confronted a small group of rebels guarding the pass. The rebels, using only one piece of artillery, prevented Custer's men from entering the pass while a wagon train belonging to Confederate General Richard S. Ewell moved from the north into the pass.

At 3am, the 1st West Virginia Cavalry were ordered to assist Custer. In pouring rain and total darkness, the 1st West Virginia Cavalry charged down the mountain, capturing the Confederate artillery piece and an entire wagon train in hand-to-hand combat. The captured wagon train consisted of 300 wagons and 15 ambulances, and the horses and mules pulling them. A total of 200 officers and 1,100 men were captured. Casualties for the 1st West Virginia were only 2 killed and 2 wounded. For this action, Charles Capehart was later awarded the Medal of Honor. He accomplished this while having a shattered ankle that was the result of being shot while fighting at Gettysburg.

Less than a week after the battle at Monterey Pass, Colonel Othniel De Forest (who had been ill) of the 5th New York Cavalry reported for duty, and Richmond was relieved from command of the 1st Brigade. Richmond and the 1st West Virginia Cavalry reported to Frederick, Maryland, for provost duty. Lee's army crossed the Potomac at Williamsport and Falling Waters on July 14.

Capehart becomes commander
For the last half of July, the regiment fought in some minor skirmishes, and eventually reported to Stafford, Virginia, near Fredericksburg. On September 16, Richmond was injured when his horse was shot and fell on him at Raccoon Ford on the Rapidan River. He resigned in early November after an October promotion to colonel, and was discharged on a Surgeon's Certificate of Disability on November 11.

During November, the regiment (ten companies) was in the Battle of Mine Run as part of Custer's Third Division. Their brigade commander was General Henry Eugene Davies, and the regiment was under the temporary command of Major Harvey Farabee. Henry Capehart, the regiment's surgeon (and brother of Charles Capehart), was familiar with the territory, and provided valuable assistance to Davies in strategy and fighting—in addition to navigating the terrain. Davies was impressed, and along with Kilpatrick and Custer recommended Capehart to replace the injured Colonel Richmond as commander of the 1st West Virginia Cavalry. Henry Capehart was commissioned as colonel on December 23, becoming the regiment’s commander.

Army of West Virginia
Beginning in December, the regiment became part of the Department of West Virginia, but was unassigned. Near the end of January 1864, the regiment returned to Wheeling. They stayed at Camp Willey on Wheeling Island for a few days before going to their homes for a 30 day furlough. About 500 men re-enlisted. A reception to honor the regiment was held in Wheeling on February 3. The local newspaper called them "The Heroes of 70 Engagements". The regiment left Wheeling during mid-March, departing on the B&O Railroad. They became part of the 2nd Brigade, Second Cavalry Division, in the Army of West Virginia. They patrolled West Virginia for the next six weeks, but did not see any significant action.

Beginning in May, the regiment was part of the 3rd Brigade, Second Cavalry Division. They participated in General William W. Averell's Raid on the Virginia & Tennessee Railroad, which was a valuable asset for the Confederacy because it enabled transportation of soldiers and supplies between the two states. On May 10, Averell's division (including the regiment) fought in the Battle of Cove Mountain in northern Wythe County, Virginia. Averell was eventually able to destroy 26 bridges and portions of railroad track near Dublin (Newbern on old maps), Virginia. The division returned to its base in West Virginia on May 18.