[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Hillel Kook

ael constitute the Hebrew nation—there isn't another nation to which they owe their allegiance but the Hebrew nation. We must state it clearly: the Jews in the United States do not belong to the Hebrew nation. These Jews are Americans of Hebrew descent.
– From A Manifesto of the Hebrew Nation, 1944.

Why did we respond the way we did? The question should be, why didn't the others? We responded as a human and as a Jew should.
– On his Holocaust activism, 1973.

I, who was the liaison officer of the Irgun central command with Jabotinsky, and who accompanied him almost daily for four years—remained loyal to his teachings. I also believe that the Land of Israel, on both banks of the Jordan River, is our historic homeland. But I am also certain that had Jabotinsky lived today, he would have argued that now, after we've achieved our independence, our mission is to attain peace in order to establish the Israeli people as the political heir of the Jewish people.
– Interview in 1977.

There is no exile. The exile ended on May 14, 1948.
– Interview in 1982.

See also 
 George Mantello, Holocaust rescuer, publicized the Auschwitz Report
 Gisi Fleischmann, Zionist activist and Holocaust rescuer
 Michael Dov Weissmandl, Holocaust rescuer
 Recha and Yitzchak Sternbuch, Holocaust rescuers
 Solomon Schonfeld, Holocaust rescuer

References

Further reading

Videos
 ALTALENA (VHS video produced in Israel)
 Laurence  Jarvik, Who Shall Live and Who Shall Die (dist. on DVD by KINO International at: kino.com
 Not Idly By: Peter Bergson, America and the Holocaust  (2009 documentary short) by Pierre Sauvage, Varian Fry Institute
 Richard M Trank, Against the Tide, about Hillel Kook and the rescue group he led, as well as about obstruction by the American Jewish establishment leadership (Moriah Films, USA 2008)

External links
Jewish Journal interview with actor Steven Schub on playing Hillel Kook 
Hollywood Reporter review of the Los Angeles production of  "The Accomplices"
American League for a Free Palestine at the American Jewish Historical Society, New York, NY
Wyman Conference 2007 Videos
The Day the Rabbis Marched on Washington , from the American Jewish Historical Society
The Day the Rabbis Marched On-line Exhibit, from the David S. Wyman Institute for Holocaust Studies.
Irgun in Exile
Bergson Bio, from USHMM
The "Bergson Boys", from America and the Holocaust, PBS.

The Bergson Group, America, and the Holocaust: A Previously Unpublished Interview with Hillel Kook, by David S. Wyman, from American Jewish History 89:1 (2001)
A Rebel with a Cause: Hillel Kook, Begin and Jabotinsky's Ideological Legacy, by Eran Kaplan, from Israel Studies 10.3 (2005)
Jewish World Review op-ed

1915 births
2001 deaths
Abraham Isaac Kook
Herut politicians
Irgun members
Members of the 1st Knesset (1949–1951)
Post-Zionists
The Holocaust and the United States
Hillel
Mercaz HaRav alumni
Lithuanian emigrants to Mandatory Palestine
Israeli prisoners and detainees
Prisoners and detainees of Israel