[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Coordination (linguistics)

nstituents. In the example below, the conjuncts each include an indirect object, a direct object, and a quantifier.

-te - coordinator for adjectives 
There are two classes of adjectives in Japanese: i-adjectives and na-adjectives. The -te suffix will change because of the classes of the adjectives.

When i-adjectives are in -te form, the final い -i is dropped and くて -kute is added as a suffix instead. On the contrary, when na-adjectives are in -te form, the final な -na is dropped and で -de is added as a suffix.

As we can see, instead of a particle, a suffix is added to the first adjective to show coordination of adjectives. Below is a simple example of adjectival coordination in Japanese. In (3), both adjectives are i-adjectives, while in (4) both adjectives are na-adjectives.

-te - coordinator for verbs 
There are three classes of verbs in Japanese: ru-verbs, u-verbs and irregular verbs. Similar to Japanese adjectives, the -te suffix will change because of the class of the verbs. The te-form of verbs is a lot more complicated than that of adjectives, for the purpose of this Wikipedia page, we will just discuss the coordinator how it's used in Japanese.

Afroasiatic: Hausa

dà/kóo - coordination for nominals and adjectives 

In Hausa, dà means and in English, while kóo means or. It is used as a coordinator for nominals. Unlike Japanese, articles dà and kóo can be used to coordinate other word categories like adjectives and nominalised verbs. The number of nouns that can be conjoined to dà is unlimited. The tables below shows a simple example of simple nominal coordination in Hausa.

kóo - Coordination for verbs
VP sentences are coordinated asyndetically. The table below show examples of this.

Kóo can also only appear between the first and second, or the second and third conjunct. The tables below show examples of this.

Sinitic: Mandarin

Floating coordinators 
Standard Mandarin Chinese allows floating coordinators. Essentially, these consist of coordinators in the language that cannot appear to the left of or inside the first conjunct. Instead, they may only appear between two conjuncts or inside the second. This is demonstrated in the following table in which the floating coordinator ke(shi) may occur between the two conjuncts in the first example or inside the second conjunct in the second example. However, when ke(shi) appears inside the first conjunct, as in the third example, or to the left of the first conjunct, as in the fourth example, the sentence becomes ungrammatical.

The distribution of the coordinator yu(shi), meaning and thus, bears some similarity to that of ke(shi) but restricts other coordinators from appearing before the conjunct in which it occurs. Yu(shi) may precede or follow the second conjunct but never precedes the first conjunct.

Lexical Integrity Hypothesis in Mandarin Chinese 
Standard Mandarin Chinese also follows the Lexical Integrity Hypothesis, which has an effect on syntactic coordination in the language. The second example shown below (marked with an asterisk) is ungrammatical because, as correctly predicted by the hypothesis, syntactic transformations are not applicable to word-internal structures. Thus, the second example shown below is not allowed and is thus marked with an asterisk.

However, it is important to note that Verb-Object compounds are an exception to this hypothesis. This is demonstrated in the following example in which the V-O forms chi-hun and chi-su permit the coordination of the word-internal elements hun and su, thereby not following the hypothesis.

See also

Constituent
Dependency grammar
Gapping
Phrase structure grammar
Right node raising
Subordination

Notes

References