[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hospital Ships of the Sanitary Commission

rom General McClellan's Army of 100,000 men after a series of battles.

The Sanitary Commission quickly organized large fleets of ships and created a network system of routes to move wounded. Rivers and ocean connecting the Union became highway over which the wounded steadily traveled further North.

When possible, few embarkation points were used. Ships were assigned schedules and maximum patient allowances. If a ship embarked more patients than allowed, even though space permitted, her crew would be required to notify the receiving station.  Several ships were kept in reserve, used only when another ship was unable to continue to make a journey.  Thus a very predictable and organized system grew.  On the Pamunkey River, 19 hospital transports working on a fixed schedule moved 700 wounded a day.  Of particular interest, the ships had far greater capacity, some 600 more wounded could have been crammed onto some of the ships.  But, this was frowned upon by the organizers as such a number would overcrowd the ship, overtask the medical staff, erode the quality of care, and place an unexpected burden on the receiving hospital.  Thus, in theory some 70,000 wounded could be moved from Virginia in 100 days to hospitals in five states as far north as New York.  A second inland force of about 16 hospital ships moved patients along riverways north to Missouri, Ohio, and Kentucky.

Hospital ships and boats of the Peninsula Campaign

Hospital boats of the Sanitary Commission
Fanny Bullitt (Ohio River)
City of Alton
Crescent City		
Ruth 			
Glasgow		
Diana			
Nebraska		
Champion		
Baltic			
J. S. Cairns		
Ben Franklin	
Continental	
Hazel Dell
Bickerdyke
Tycoon (Shiloh - Cincinnati)
Monarch (Shiloh - Cincinnati)

Ships outfitted by Sanitary Commission but transferred to Army

Red Rover (Mississippi River) later transferred to Navy	
City of Memphis (Ohio River)
City of Nashville	
City of Louisiana, Renamed R. C. Wood (Ohio River)	
D. A. January*

Footnotes

References

Bibliography  
 
  
 Maxwell, William Quentin. Lincoln's Fifth Wheel: The Political History of the U.S. Sanitary Commission (1956) online edition
  
 Stillé, Charles J. History of the United States Sanitary Commission, Being the General Report of Its Work during the War of the Rebellion (1866), online
 U.S. Navy (Ship's History Section, Naval History Division). History of U.S. Navy Hospital Ship Red Rover (1961)

American Civil War hospitals
United States Sanitary Commission
Hospital ships