[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Thornton Chase

ighly impressed by Chase's qualities, conferred on him the title thábit, "steadfast." A picture of Chase in Egypt among Baháʼís was published in 1908.

On returning home Chase presented again at Greenacre and Cincinnati, about his 1907 pilgrimage. In 1908 he joined an association to aid to the poor.

During his pilgrimage, he had asked ʻAbdu'l-Bahá about the community building a temple and was directed to work with Corinne True, later appointed as a Hand of the Cause, as "complete directions" had been given to her. This was a step in the process of implementing the Baháʼí teaching of the equality of women and men. A series of articles in the fall of 1908 including Chase among a set of women in several newspapers about the aim of the Baháʼís to build a House of Worship. And a photograph including Chase in 1908 at the home of the Trues was published in 1976 – he's the tallest man in the picture. This interaction led to the next development of a national sense of community: The election of the first national council of the religion, with delegates present from across the US and Canada, in the spring of 1909. Thirty percent of the members elected were women; there was still some confusion over the issue of female membership until 1912.

In February 1909 Chase addressed the University of Chicago International Club students on the imminence of the age outlining a number of expected changes coming: The downfall of nationalism/rise of internationalism, universal peace instead of battleships, and war becoming seen as a "deed of inhumanity", and in March appeared listed as a Baháʼí publicly in Chicago.

Chase then wrote an introductory book on the religion, The Bahai Revelation, in 1909. According to Stockman "this work was one of the most comprehensive and accurate introductions to the Baháʼí Faith written by an early American Baháʼí." The work emphasized the Baháʼí Faith and its teachings as a vehicle for personal spiritual transformation.

Los Angeles 

The Union Mutual Life Insurance Company didn't like the publicity linking their company with Chase's publicity for the religion, and transferred him to Los Angeles. Stockman says "Chase considered resigning from the company, but at the age of sixty-two he found it impossible to obtain another job, and he had to support his wife, his son in college, and his elderly mother-in-law, none of whom had become Baháʼí." Chase still traveled for the religion. Indeed he reached Victoria, British Columbia in 1909. In 1910 a talk entitled as his introductory book was offered in Los Angeles. In 1911 Chase spoke to a public meeting of the religion in Portland, Oregon. He helped to organize the Los Angeles Baháʼís; in 1910 they elected a five-member governing board that included Chase as a member, which then included a majority of women, with a general community of some 30 people. They also established their first monthly meetings. Though he could not attend the national convention of Baháʼís in 1910 he did send a letter. In 1911 he was listed as the contact address for the assembly, participated in attempts by the community to coordinate internationally, and was credited with assisting to organize the Denver Baháʼí Assembly along with Corinne True. That summer Chase received a copy of the proceedings of the First Universal Races Congress to which ʻAbdu'l-Bahá had sent a representative with a message. Chase observed a distinction between ʻAbdu'l-Bahá's message of promoting spiritual unity as a higher calling than that of simply recognizing partisanship among nations vying for priority or advocacy of a race and stressed that the transformation of the time required accepting the influences of the "new heaven". In November he summarized the presence of the religion in California for the first major Baháʼí periodical of the country, Star of the West, noting excitement in San Francisco because of the visit of Dr. Fareed and Lua Getsinger in advance of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá coming west, regular meetings in Los Angeles as well, and the hospitality provided by Mrs. Goodall and Cooper in Oakland. In May 1912 Chase was present at garden party observance of Ridván in San Francisco. The San Francisco Assembly had been founded in 1910. Stockman observed circa 1990 that Chase used to include mention of how many Baháʼí there were in the early days of the religion in his letters to people in a period well before the first accounting done inside the religion.

Death