[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Robert E. Lee: Civil War General

Coleman concluded, "[I]f you must buy only one of these, get Rifles, but real Civil War fans should pick up Lee as well". PC Magazine highlighted the game's visuals, and the reviewer praised Civil War General as a "detailed and accurate" product that, echoing Coleman, combines simplicity with depth.

Robert J. Conrad of the Orlando Sentinel called Civil War General "an excellent CD-ROM program", although he criticized its high system requirements. He found the game easy to learn, called its reenactment footage "a wonderful touch" and summarized the package as one that "anyone can enjoy, but Civil War buffs, in particular, can get lost in." Writing for the Orange County Register, Jeff Guinn found the game to be extremely difficult, but felt that it was "cut from different butternut homespun than the generic refight-the-Civil-War play-alikes that have inundated the market." In the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, Guinn described Civil War General as "the kind of game you'll enjoy playing over and over", despite its difficulty.

In PC Gamer US, William R. Trotter noted that Civil War General was simplified to appeal to a mass-market audience, but he argued that it remained "deep enough to satisfy most hardcore wargamers." In this regard, he compared it to Panzer General. Trotter highly praised the game's reenactment footage, and he summarized Civil War General as "a serious wargame, wrapped in a friendly multimedia package." Conversely, Computer Games Strategy Pluss Robert Mayer considered Civil War General to be a missed opportunity. He called it "another one of the Panzer Generals androgynous offspring", and found it to be shallow and simplistic, although he praised its multimedia features and documentation. He argued that it is "a good introduction to wargaming, but one that barely hints at the joys of [the genre's] complexity and detail".

Aftermath
Impressions Games and Sierra On-Line followed Civil War General with a sequel, entitled Grant, Lee, Sherman: Civil War Generals 2. It was designed by Doug Gonya, a scenario designer for Civil War General, and produced by Civil War Generals quality assurance manager Steve Grammont. Like its predecessor, it was a commercial success. A third game, Civil War Generals 3, was announced in January 1999. However, it was cancelled in April 2000. According to James Fudge of Computer Games Strategy Plus, this decision was made because the game's projected sales were "barely enough to cover [its] development costs". Despite the cancellation, the Impressions team confirmed that they were interested in developing other wargames in the future.

References

External links
Official site (archived)

1996 video games
American Civil War video games
Computer wargames
Cultural depictions of Robert E. Lee
Sierra Entertainment games
Turn-based strategy video games
Video games developed in the United Kingdom
Windows games
Windows-only games
Impressions Games games
Multiplayer and single-player video games