[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ronan Lee

Ronan Oliver Lee (born 4 January 1976) is an Irish Australian former politician and research fellow in the  at 
. He was previously a visiting scholar at Queen Mary University of London's International State Crime Initiative. His research focusses on Myanmar, the Rohingya, genocide, and hate speech.  He was formerly a political advisor and Labor and later Green Party member of the Queensland State Parliament. Lee represented the seat of Indooroopilly since he was first elected as a Labor Party member in 2001.

Lee had a background in environmental activism and joined the Queensland Greens in 2008 citing the Bligh Government's inaction on climate change and environment protection. Since leaving Parliament in 2009 Lee has run his communications and lobbying business and traveled extensively in Myanmar (Burma).

Lee grew up in Ballyjamesduff, County Cavan, Ireland and his family migrated to Brisbane, Australia when he was a teenager. He was educated at St Patrick's College, Cavan, St Columban's College, Caboolture, and the University of Queensland, where he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree. Lee has a Master of International Relations from Monash University, writing a thesis titled A Politician, Not an Icon. Aung San Suu Kyi's silence on Myanmar's Muslim Rohingya. Lee has a PhD from Deakin University. His PhD thesis was titled "Myanmar's Rohingya Genocide: Rohingya Perspectives of History and Identity" and addressed the identity, history, and politics of the Rohingya. Lee is the author of Myanmar's Rohingya Genocide: Identity, History and Hate Speech published by Bloomsbury Publishing's IB Tauris imprint.

Myanmar (Burma)
Lee has traveled extensively in Asia and has a particular interest in the politics of Myanmar. He was one of the few westerners to experience Myanmar's 2010 elections and met Aung San Suu Kyi shortly after her release from house arrest. He is currently researching the situation involving the Muslim Rohingya people in Myanmar's western state of Rakhine and tweeted the cover of his Masters of International Relations thesis 'A Politician, Not an Icon. Aung San Suu Kyi's silence on Myanmar's Muslim Rohingya'.
Lee's PhD involved research with the Rohingya community in Bangladesh, Myanmar and Thailand and he was frequently published academic articles and op-eds about Myanmar's politics, the Rohingya's human rights, hate speech and genocide. Lee is the author of "Myanmar's Rohingya Genocide: Identity, History and Hate Speech" published by Bloomsbury Publishing's IB Tauris imprint.

Environment activism
Lee has been involved with environment causes since his youth and is best known for his involvement with The Wilderness Society who welcomed his decision to join the Greens.

During his time in Parliament Lee campaigned to end broadscale land clearing in Queensland a practice often involving dragging a heavy chain strung between two bull dozers to remove every tree, contributing to Queensland having the sixth highest rate of land clearing in the world. A ban on most clearing in Queensland came into force in January 2007.

Following the success of the tree clearing campaign Lee shifted focus with a campaign to protect Queensland's remaining wild rivers, the environment issue for which he has been most closely associated.

Sponsoring Parliamentary ePetitions and working with peak environment groups again including The Wilderness Society, the Wildlife Preservation Society of Queensland and the Queensland Conservation Council to promote grassroots campaigns and lobbying of MPs and bureaucrats. Queensland's Wild Rivers Act was passed in 2005 with the first "wild river declarations" in 2007 with protection for Gulf of Carpentaria river systems Settlement Creek, Morning Inlet, and the Gregory and Staaten Rivers, and the waterways of Fraser and Hinchinbrook Islands. Since then the Queensland Government protected river systems on Cape York Peninsula – the Archer, Stewart and Lockhart River Basins and the Wenlock River.

Lee is opposed to nuclear power and campaigned against nuclear power and uranium mining in Queensland. As a Green MP Lee introduced two private member's Bills to Parliament aiming to permanently ban uranium mining and uranium exploration. Both bills received their first reading in parliament but lapsed once the 2009 Queensland election was announced and the parliament dissolved.