[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# History of Kentucky

rance. It was the first European claim on North American lands west of the Appalachians and south of the Great lakes.  Two early pass-bys by Robert de la Salle at the Falls of the Ohio in 1669 (speculatively) and Marquette and Jolliet at the mouth of the Ohio on the Mississippi in 1673 are recorded.

On September 1, 1671, Thomas Batts (Thomas Batte), Thomas Wood, and Robert Fallam (Robert Hallom) set out on horse from Appomattox Town acting under a commission granted to Coloner Abraham Wood to explore the trans-Appalachian waterways. There is much ambiguity about the extent of their travels westward, but they are credited with discovering Wood's River (today the New River), a tributary of the Kanawha River. Some historians believe that their journey reached the basin of the Guyandotte River, or even that of the Tug Fork tributary of the Big Sandy River in extreme eastern Kentucky.
On account of Indian impatience, they returned to Fort Henry by Oct. 1. Later, the Kanawha River and by extension, the New River, and their environs would be considered part of south of Ohio lands known by the Native American name Kentucke.

English colonists Gabriel Arthur and James Needham were sent out by Abraham Wood from Fort Henry (present-day Petersburg, Virginia) on May 17, 1673, with four horses and Cherokee and other Native American slaves, to contact the Tomahittan (possibly the Yuchi). They were traveling to the Cherokee capital of Chota (in present-day Tennessee), on the Hiwassee River, to learn their language. The English hoped to develop strong business ties for the beaver-fur trade and bypass the Occaneechi traders who were middlemen on the Cherokee Trading Path.

Needham got into an argument on the return trip with "Indian John", his Occaneechi guide, which became an armed confrontation resulting in his death. Afterward, Indian John tried to have the Tomahittan kill Arthur, but the chief adopted the Englishman.

For about a year, Arthur (dressed as a Tomahittan in Chota) traveled with the chief and his war parties on revenge raids of Spanish settlements in Florida after ten men were killed and ten captured during a peaceful trading mission several years earlier. 
When the Tomahittan attacked the Shawnee in the Ohio River valley, Arthur was wounded by an arrow and captured. He was saved from a ritual burning at the stake by a Shawnee who was sympathetic to him; when he learned that Arthur had married a Tomahittan woman ("Hannah Rebecca" Nikitie), the Shawnee cured his wound, gave him his gun and rokahamoney (hominy) to eat, and put him on a trail leading back to his family in Chota. Most historians agree that this road was the Warriors' Path which crossed the Ohio at the mouth of the Scioto River, went south across the Red River branch of the Kentucky River, then up Station Camp Creek and through Ouasiota Pass into the Ouasiota Mountains. In June 1674 (or 1678), the Tomahittan chief escorted Arthur back to his English settlement in Virginia. Arthur's accounts of the land and its tribes provided the first detailed information about Kentucky. He was among the first Englishmen (preceded by Batts and Fallam) to visit present-day West Virginia and cross the Cumberland Gap.

After Arthur and Needham, 65 years elapsed before the next recorded whiteman set foot in Kentucke. In 1739, Frenchman Charles III Le Moyne, Baron de Longueil, on a military expedition discovered Big Bone Lick a few miles east of the Ohio River in extreme northern Kentucke. A few years later, in 1744, Robert Smith, an English fur trader on the Great Miami River, confirmed le Moyne's find with additional discoveries at the Lick.

In 1750 and 1751, the first surveys of eastern and northern Kentucky were made by English Virginians Dr. Thomas Walker and Christopher Gist. Walker is sometimes credited with being the first whiteman to pass through the Cumberland Gap. An Ohio Company expedition in Oct. 1750 was led by Christopher Gist traveling from what is today West Virginia through the Pound Gap northerly of Walker's route. However, Walker writes in his journal that in 1748, he met Samuel Stalnaker, a Virginia frontiersman living on the Holston River, who traded with the Cherokee in Kentucky through the Cumberland Gap, and from whom he obtained his own knowledge about the gap.

Other known explorers prior to Boone's legendary expeditions in the 1760s were John Findley, trader 1752; James McBride 1754 (historian John Filson's nominee for "Discoverer of Kentucke"); and Elisha Wallen, one of the long hunters in 1762.

Early European settlement