[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sergei Markov

ifficult "than had been expected. It was expected that 30 to 50 percent of the Ukrainian Armed Forces would switch over to Russia’s side. No one is switching over." On Russia's disastrous performance in the war, Markov said "So far the results have been appalling because Russia wasn’t at all ready".

Gay rights in Russia
In an interview with Jason Jones aired in February 2014, Markov stated:
 There is real personal freedom in Russia. Nobody cares with whom you want to have sex. For example, you are absolutely free to make sex  with this table. ... You can many times repeat to me that "it's normal" or "it's absolutely freedom" , that "it's democracy", that "it's human right"  for you to make sex with this table. ... Having sex between man and woman: normal. Having sex between man and man: not normal. Everybody knows this. Including gays.

Russophobia and World War III
In an interview with Svenska Dagbladet, released June 8, 2014, Markov threatened that if Russia felt "backed into a corner" by Sweden and Finland joining NATO, combined with what he perceived as "Russophobia" from certain European countries, it could start World War III. In an interview with BBC Radio Four on September 21, 2022, Markov speculated that Russia would use nuclear weapons 'against the UK'.

Ethnic minorities in Russian Federation 

Markov claimed in Aleksandr Dugin's newspaper Eurasia Daily that there is "a huge ethnic bias" within the State TV's presenter Vladimir Solovyov's propaganda media pool. Markov critized that two ethnic minorities, Jews and Armenians, have had been too influential when discussing about the position of "Great Russia" towards Israel and Armenia. He implied that ethnic minorities could not bee fully loyal to the regime and thus to Russia itself.

Mainly the representatives of [these] two great diasporas are discussing what the policies of Great Russia should be. This is laughable and improper... This isn’t normal. There will be more scandals, because Russia’s relations with Israel and Armenia are getting worse. Many of Solovyov’s experts can’t find balance between Russia and their ethnic identity.”

References

 Public Chamber of Russian Federation

Russian political scientists
Members of the Civic Chamber of the Russian Federation
Fifth convocation members of the State Duma (Russian Federation)
Moscow State University alumni
Living people
1958 births