[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Evans v United Kingdom

ise an arguable point of law of general public importance which ought to be considered by the House at this time, bearing in mind that the cause has already been the subject of judicial determination". Ms Evans still had the right to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in Strasbourg.

European Court of Human Rights
On 26 January 2005 the Bath clinic informed Evans that it was under a legal obligation to destroy the embryos, and intended to do so on 23 February 2005. Although now outside the statutory five year legal limit for the retention before use of embryos, on 27 February 2005 the ECHR, to whom Evans had applied, requested, under Rule 39 (interim measures) of the Rules of Court, that the United Kingdom Government take appropriate measures to prevent the embryos being destroyed by the clinic before the Court had been able to examine the case. The embryos were not destroyed.

On 7 March 2006 a panel of seven judges of the ECHR delivered a majority 5–2 ruling against Ms Evans, which read: "The Court, like the national courts, had great sympathy for the plight of the applicant who, if implantation did not take place, would be deprived of the ability to give birth to her own child." However, the panel majority found that, even in such exceptional circumstances as Ms Evans', the right to a family life – enshrined in article eight of the European Convention of Human Rights – could not override Johnston's withdrawal of consent. The panel also ruled, this time unanimously, that the issue of when the right to life begins "comes within the margin of appreciation which the Court generally considers that States should enjoy in this sphere", and thus rejected the claim that embryo's right to life was being threatened.

Michael Wilks, of the British Medical Association ethics committee, said: "It's the right verdict, but a terrible situation." Dr Wilks called for a change to the five year limit for embryos to be stored after one partner withdraws consent should be extended so there was less of a "ticking clock". Ms Evans decided to appeal to the Grand Chamber of the European Court, but commented that she still wanted her ex-fiancé to change his mind to allow the embryos to be used.

On 10 April 2007 the Grand Chamber of the ECHR ruled against Evans' appeal under three articles of the European Convention of Human Rights, which represented her last chance to save the embryos. The court ruled unanimously that there had been no breach of the right to life; but on the right to respect for private and family life and on the prohibition of discrimination the 17 judges ruled 13 to 4 (Judges Türmen, Tsatsa-Nikolovska, Spielmann and Ziemele dissented the judgment). Dr Allan Pacey, secretary of the British Fertility Society, said: "I think it was the only sensible decision which the Grand Chamber could come to. UK law is clear. It is a principle of shared responsibility."

Timeline
The timeline of the case is as follows:

June 2000 – Natallie Evans and Howard Johnston, who have been together a year, become engaged
October 2001 – Ms Evans, from Trowbridge, Wiltshire, is diagnosed with ovarian cancer, and is offered a cycle of IVF treatment before treatment because her fertility will be affected
November 2001 – Eleven eggs are produced and fertilised, resulting in six embryos which are frozen and placed in storage
Summer 2002 – Mr Johnston, who lives in Cheltenham, writes to the Bath, Somerset clinic storing the embryos asking for them to be destroyed after the couple had split
June 2003 – Ms Evans, and another woman Lorraine Hadley, from Baswich, Staffordshire, go to the High Court seeking permission to use frozen embryos against their exes wishes
October 2003 – the High Court of Justice rules against Ms Evans and Mrs Hadley. Mrs Hadley decides to end her legal battle, but Ms Evans vows to continue
January 2004 – Ms Evans seeks leave to appeal against the High Court judgment
June 2004 – the Court of Appeal also rules that Ms Evans cannot use the embryos without Mr Johnston's consent
November 2004 – the Law Lords refuse her permission to take her case to the House of Lords
February 2005 – Ms Evans lodges an appeal with the European Court of Human Rights
September 2005 – the European Court hears her case
March 2006 – Ms Evans hears the court has ruled against her, and says she will seek leave to appeal to the Grand Chamber of the European Court
10 April 2007 – the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights hears case, and rules against Ms Evans

See also
List of gender equality lawsuits

Notes

External links
Press Release from the Grand Jury of the European Court of Human Rights, on final judgment
Reactions to April 2007 European Court ruling
Press release from Willans, the solicitors representing Howard Johnston