[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas A. Cullinan

litary and railroad construction crews. In 1871, he became the city marshal of Junction City. The mayor, George Martin, stated that "The post was not a sinecure." Various brothels and saloons elicited rabble rousing troops from Fort Riley, as well as travelers coming from intersecting railway lines.

The city's newspaper, the Junction City Union, reported the following on April 25, 1885:

Of the many exploits Tom Allen had while he was the city marshal of Junction City, a recruit from Fort Riley (along with twelve companions) intended to pull back Allen's ears. As a result, the recruit was injured and sent back to Fort Riley in an ambulance. In another incident, Allen entered a saloon while it was being vandalized by eight soldiers. Allen defeated each soldier and dragged seven of them to the jail. The eighth one managed to escape. Allen went to Fort Riley the next morning in order to arrest the eighth soldier. When the captain learned that Allen was present, he stated: "Great Scott, that's the man who licked my sergeant! He can have him."

Allen confronted a drifter that according to newspaper accounts executed "a beastly offense to a little girl." Allen faced the six-foot man and decided to punish him with physical force instead of having him go to court. In another incident, a drunk which Allen imprisoned multiple times started a quarrel in a local pub and according to the Junction City Union, "stood out in the street with a rock in each hand when Tom arrived. 'Looking for a fight, are you? Remarked the peace officer as he gave him a wipe on the jaw, knocking him down and punishing him severely. This individual has never drank a drop since, and has thanked Tom repeatedly for that thrashing."

A tall red-headed stranger entered Junction City in 1884. While in a general store, he created panic when he held his Colt revolver at the patrons. Allen warned the man to take the next train that was leaving in a half-hour. The man ignored Allen and during evening hours, he started a commotion at a hotel. Allen again told the redheaded man to leave town. The next day, the man was causing an uproar at a cheap, dingy drinking establishment. Allen finally intervened and said, "Now I will take you in." On his way to prison, the redheaded man stated to Allen, "You're not man enough to take me in" and slapped him. As a result, Allen was irate, thrashed the man in a bloody fight, disarmed his Colt, and threw him in a prison cell. Afterwards, Allen threw the blood-encrusted man into the next train. Mayor George Martin stated, "I think this was his last experience with amateur prize-fighters who came to test his mettle." For thirty-three years, Tom Allen served as city marshal in Junction City. During his many confrontations, he was not responsible for a single death and was never injured.

Personal life
Allen was married in 1865. In 1885, he had a wife and seven children and a 200-acre farm halfway between Junction City, Kansas and Fort Riley. He died on June 18, 1904, in a Kansas City, Missouri, hospital.

References

1838 births
1904 deaths
People from Junction City, Kansas
United States Marshals
Irish emigrants to the United States
People from Kilrush
Union Army soldiers