[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jack Langrishe

Deadwood May 1879 and built new opera houses in the nearby mining towns of Central City and Lead, two and ten miles up Deadwood Gulch. On Langrishe Theatre opening night May 9, 1878, choice seats sold for $25 and theatre goers were tempted to sample strawberries and ice cream after the performance.

The Langrishe Theatre building would be rented to Impresario Johnny Rogers and The Metropolitan Company where legitimate theatre continued to be a successful choice of entertainment for an evolving Deadwood audience. The Old Langrishe Theatre building would continue to serve as a theatre and as a church for Congregationalist services until its final demise in the Big Deadwood Fire of September 26, 1879.

Return to Colorado
Many Deadwood miners and businessmen relocated to Leadville, Colorado in January 1879 to follow the promise of the new rush and the next big strike. Jack Langrishe and Company would once again take the stage with fellow Deadwood manager Billy Nuttall's Bella Union Theatre Company who opened the new Leadville Grand Central Theatre. Al Swearengen and the Gem Theater troupe visited Leadville February 1879, but chose to return to Deadwood. The Langrishe Troupe continued to perform to audiences in Deadwood, Central, Lead and to the soldiers at Ft. Meade through the summer of 1879. The Jack Langrishe Company's final performance to a Deadwood audience would be "Our American Cousin" August 15, 1879 performed by troupe artists The Gilberts.

Jack and Jeannette Langrishe opened November 23, 1879 at the Tabor Opera House operated by Colorado Silver Baron Horace Austin Warner Tabor and Baby Doe Tabor, Leadville, Colorado. Popular Langrishe actor Jimmy Martin would join with fellow Gem and Bella Union Theatre artists Flora Belle and Fannie Garretson to open at Leadville's McDaniels Theatre May 1880.

Idaho
Langrishe retired from the stage in 1885 and moved to Idaho where he served as a Justice of the Peace and occasional playwright in Coeur d'Alene. In 1890 he was elected to the State Senate as a Republican in the first State Legislature of Idaho and served on committees which chose the state's flag, state seal and two senators for the US Senate. In 1892 he returned to his roots as a newsman publishing The Wardner News in Wardner, Idaho.

After a brief illness he died in Wardner, Idaho on December 12, 1895. His grave is located in Kellogg, Idaho.

In popular culture 
Langrishe was portrayed by Brian Cox in the third season of the HBO television series Deadwood.

Bibliography

Footnotes

1895 deaths
Comedians from Dublin (city)
People of the American Old West
American male stage actors
American theatre managers and producers
Idaho state senators
1825 births
19th-century American politicians
19th-century American businesspeople