[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lamy

ped with a conical and retractable tip and has a texturized grip made of Macrolon resin. Under the top of the push button, there is a replaceable eraser. The interior container holds a thin needle for cleaning graphite jams. The pencil has a rounded clip and comes in two lead sizes – 0.7 and 0.5 mm.

Scribble 
The Lamy Scribble has a plastic matte black barrel that ensures a convenient grip. The body of this pencil is lightweight and well-balanced. It uses 0.7 mm lead. The drawing instrument features a cap which indicates the lead size on its top. Underneath the cap, it has an integrated eraser and a needle for cleaning graphite jams. Its point has a chrome conical shape and contains a retractable tip. The LAMY Scribble has a chrome clip that can be removed if necessary. This writing tool is great for sketching and note-taking and can be used by students, designers and architects.

Ink

Lamy produces fountain pen ink in bottles and proprietary ink cartridges. Lamy provide the widest range of colours in what it designates as T10 cartridges, with black, blue, blue-black, red, green, turquoise and violet. The T10 cartridge has approximately 1.15 ml ink capacity.

For using bottled fountain pen ink Lamy offers several proprietary piston operated converters.
The ABC, AL-star, Joy, Nexx, Nexx M, Safari and Vista fountain pens can be fitted with the proprietary Z 24 or Z 28 converter that has approximately 0.7 ml ink capacity. The converters for the school/young writing line of fountain pens feature two protrusions that form fit into two arresting recesses in the grip sections of these pens.
The Accent, Aion, CP 1, Dialog 3, Imporium, Linea, Logo, ST and Studio fountain pens can be fitted with the proprietary Z 27 converter for the premium line of fountain pens that has approximately 0.7 ml ink capacity.

Ink erasers
Lamy also makes double-ended pens that allow one to edit what they have written in ink before. One end is a white nib with a fluid that makes ink 'disappear', the other end has a nib that writes in blue ink which is not affected by the ink eraser so that one can write on top of what was just erased. However, after this is done, one can not rub it out again.

Earlier designs
Earlier Lamy designs includes the Lady and the Persona; "vintage" designs are varied but have numerical suffixes instead of descriptive names. The Lady was a design intended to appeal to women; the Lady is manufactured out of painted, hardened, porcelain and does not feature a clip as it was thought that women do not normally make use of the clip—a small protrusion prevents the pen from rolling on a flat surface. The Lady was designed by Wolfgang Fabian and Sharon Jodjaja was responsible for the barrel designs.

Gallery

References

External links

 
 Review of the Lamy Studio at Stylophiles Online
 Review of Lamy 2000 4-colour pen at The Gadgeteer
 Review of Accent Brilliant Briarwood at Chiral Software
 Lamy Official India Website 

Manufacturing companies of Germany
German brands
Fountain pen and ink manufacturers
Companies based in Heidelberg
Manufacturing companies established in 1930
Design companies established in 1930