[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Canada-Israel Committee

He penned a letter to Menachem Begin calling for the removal of Israeli forces while issuing support for the Lebanese government. Initially, the CIC stepped into the fold to argue that Israel was justified in its invasion and Canada should, at the very least, take a hands-off approach to the matter.

Lobbying shortfalls 
Even though the CIC was heavily engaged with lobbying, the offensive nature of Israel's actions negated the CIC's capacity to make headway on its agenda. In several interviews post-war, top CIC officials admitted they were effectively left to defend unjustifiable military operations. When it became apparent PM Trudeau would not budge, the CIC implemented a damage control strategy over Canadian policy in the Middle East. This consisted mainly of lobbying at the highest levels of the Department of External Affairs. While its efforts could not turn Canada back against the prevailing tide of separation from Israel, it served to delay stronger Canadian-Arab relations from forming until 1989, when Canada would expand diplomatic ties with the Palestine Liberation Organization. In sum, the CIC was hamstrung by events beyond its control that made operability within Canada's political system difficult.

Overall policy impacts

Effectiveness 
Many politicians and government officials have provided insight on the force of the CIC lobby. These individuals, among them Prime Minister Trudeau, spoke to their high group cohesion and tactical lobbying being of high caliber, as the CIC advocated for fewer than 2 percent of Canada's population. A former civil servant of the Department of External Affairs, when speaking at a seminar on interest groups, considered the CIC to be the standard bearer for all lobbies to emulate. The CIC was acclaimed for its seamless communication with Jews across the nation, sustained contact with DEA officials, and shaped Canada's Middle East Policy with a clear Israeli-bent, even though many DEA officials privately opposed the CIC's positions.

Narrative on CIC's influence 
A noteworthy incident that highlights the power of the CIC occurred in 1988, at the CIC's annual dinner. External Affairs minister Joe Clark spoke to the delegation, articulating a belief that placed Israel in the wrong with regard to Palestine. Clark charged Israel with "human rights violations" and imposing "force and fear" on the Palestinians. Several CIC attendees walked out on the speech. Shortly thereafter, the CIC condemned Clarks' speech in a press release. Clark later retracted his statements by sending a letter to CIC chair Sidney Spivak, and Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney spoke to the press, affirming his government's support for Israel. In just a short amount of time, the CIC exhibited its power as an ethnic lobby.

Limits of power 
Ultimately, the CIC's demands were seldom implemented in national policy. These limits to its power came primarily at the intersection of disinterest in Middle Eastern affairs. Moreover, Israel's invasion into Lebanon eroded the CIC's legitimacy in the public eye and incited the formation of Arab-Canadian interest groups. Increases in both the funding and organizational power of Arab-Canadian interest groups boosted their standings relative to the CIC, which had the effect of crowding out the CIC's lobbying efforts in ensuring decades.

Mission statement 
The Canada-Israel Committee strove to achieve various missions as an advocacy group.

Cultural goals 
1) "To advance a strong and dynamic relationship between the peoples of Canada and Israel."

2) "To make the Canadian public sensitive to Israel's perspective on Arab-Israel relations."

Governmental and media goals 
3) "To help facilitate increased collaboration between Canada and Israel in the pursuit of a just and lasting peace in the Middle East."

4) To articulate to the Canadian government and the media our concern regarding unfair treatment of Israel in all fora and to communicate the Jewish community's perspective on developments affecting Israel."

Policy goals 
5) "To work in concert with all fair-minded and tolerant individuals and groups in Canada and abroad to counter the myths, inaccuracies and oversimplifications concerning Israel and the Arab-Israeli conflict."

6) "To support all efforts within the Jewish community to celebrate Israel, the Jewish people and the realization of their timeless aspirations of Zionism: the return of the Jewish people to their aboriginal homeland as a free and democratic nation.”

Transition to defunct status

From 1967 to early 2000s 
From its inception in 1967, the Canada-Israel Committee was governed by its board of directors, but by the dawn of the new century, a new era of restructuring was emerging. By the early 2000s, notable Jewish individuals, among them Brent Belzberg, Steven Cummings, and Larry Tanenbaum, had begun consolidating power into the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs (CIJA).