[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Permanent establishment

facie PEs. These, however, are not automatically PEs as the requirements set out, namely, for a fixed place of business PE must be met. The list is as follows:
 A branch
 A warehouse (but see excluded places below)
 A factory
 A mine or place of extraction of natural resources
 A place of management

Specifically excluded places
Many treaties explicitly exclude from the definition of PE places if certain activities are conducted. Generally, these exclusions do not apply if non-excluded activities are conducted at the fixed place of business. Among the excluded activities are:
Ancillary or preparatory activities
The use of a storage facility solely for delivery of goods to customers
The maintenance of a stock of goods owned by the enterprise solely for purposes of processing by another enterprise (sometimes referred to as toll processing)
Purchasing or information gathering activities

Other specific provisions

Construction or Project PE 
Many treaties provide specific rules with respect to construction sites.  Under those treaties, a building site or construction or installation project constitutes a PE only if it lasts more than a specified length of time. The amount of time varies by treaty.

Agency PE 
In addition, the activities of a dependent agent may give rise to a PE for the principal. Dependent agents may include employees or others under the control of the principal.  A company is generally not considered an agent solely by reason of ownership of the agent company by the principal. However, activities of an independent agent generally are not attributed to the principal.

Service PE 
Some treaties deem a PE to exist for an enterprise of one country performing services in the other country for more than a specified length of time or for a related enterprise.

BEPS Action 7 and 15 
In October 2015, the OECD released the final reports on the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project. Action 7 was targeted at Preventing the Artificial Avoidance of Permanent Establishment Status and proposes a large number of changes that are set to be included in the next version of the OECD Model Tax Convention. The OECD expects many of these changes to be applied to currently existing tax treaties through the work based on Action 15 on Developing a Multilateral Instrument to Modify Bilateral Tax Treaties. A large number of countries are involved in the negotiations that are expected to be concluded by the end of 2016.

The final report on Action 7 proposes substantial changes to the definition of Agency PE and stricter requirements to the exclusions provision:"These changes will ensure that where the activities that an intermediary exercises in a country are intended to result in the regular conclusion of contracts to be performed by a foreign enterprise, that enterprise will be considered to have a taxable presence in that country unless the intermediary is performing these activities in the course of an independent business. The changes will also restrict the application of a number of exceptions to the definition of permanent establishment to activities that are preparatory or auxiliary nature and will ensure that it is not possible to take advantage of these exceptions by the fragmentation of a cohesive operating business into several small operations; they will also address situations where the exception applicable to construction sites is circumvented through the splitting-up contracts between closely related enterprises."

References

International taxation
Corporate taxation
International law