[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of Roman external wars and battles

hia, commencing in 54 BCE and ending catastrophically at the Battle of Carrhae in 53 BCE, was partially motivated by or justified as supporting Mithridates' claim to the Parthian throne.
 53 BCE – Battle of Carrhae – Roman army commanded by triumvir Crassus is disastrously defeated by the Parthians.

 Roman–Parthian Wars – period  44–34 BC
 44 BC - Julius Caesar's planned invasion of the Parthian Empire - Aborted due to the Assassination of Julius Caesar.
 40–38 BC - Pompeian–Parthian invasion of 40 BC
 36 BC - Antony's Atropatene campaign
 34 BC - Antony's campaign against Armenia
Roman-Kushite Wars (31–22 BC) 
24–25 BC - Kushite Invasions of Roman Egypt - Kingdom of Kush from Meroë launched a series of attacks and incursions on south Roman Egypt, successful in taking Syene, Elephantine, and Philae, sacking them, slaving inhabitants and destroying the bronze statues of Caesar Augustus.
25–22 BC - Gaius Petronius' expeditions against Nubia - Roman forces managed to reach Qasr Ibrim and northern Nubia, capturing several cities, including Pselcis, Primis, Abuncis, Phthuris, Cambusis, Attenia, and Stadissias, then destroyed the city of Napata (kushite capital) and other cities in retaliation while taking captives. Kushites Kandake earns a favorable peace treaty and Romans established a new frontier at Hiere Sycaminos (Maharraqa), halting Rome’s southward expansion in Africa.
  Cantabrian Wars (29–19 BC)
 25 BC - Battle of Vellica - Roman forces under Augustus against the Cantabri people, Roman victory.
 25 BC - Siege of Aracillum - Roman forces under Gaius Antistius Vetus against the Cantabri people, Roman victory.
Roman attempt to Conquest Arabia Felix (26–24 BC)
25 BC Siege of Ma'rib - After Romans easily defeated the Arab army of 10,000 soldiers, conquered a few towns (including Mecca and Medina) and took on supplies from Nejran, Aelius Gallus besieged Ma'rib unsuccessfully for a week, before being forced to withdraw and unnable to secure Incense trade route in land (the Nabateans, apparent allies, wanted the Romans to fail otherwise they would loose their monopoly over the spice trade). Rome is unable to conquest Sabaean kingdom of Ancient Yemen or coercing the incense states (Himyarite Arab kingdoms) of the Arabian Peninsula to become Roman client states.
25 BC Siege of Eudaemon - The supporting Roman fleet, after crossing the Gulf of Aqaba, occupied and sacked the port of Aden, securing the Roman merchant route to India in Red Sea. However, Roman interests wouldn't be served by a second expedition, becoming clear that certain fringes of the empire (like Nubia or Arabia) could not be won except at greater costs, being careful of further military adventures.
Roman expeditions to Lake Chad and the Niger River (19 BC–90 AD): Roman expeditions (two in the western Sahara, two in the central Sahara, and one in the area of Lake Chad) to subdue warring tribes in the area (like the warlike nomadic tribe of the Garamantes who lived in the current region of Fezzan) or to achieve the elimination of taxes on the nomads of the Sahara and plan possible routes of conquest to Sub-Saharan Africa, or at least control the Trans-Saharan caravan routes and penetrate into the kingdoms of the pygmies.
 Roman campaigns in Germania (12 BC – AD 16) (16–11 BC period)
 Clades Lolliana (16 BC) – The troops of Consul Marcus Lollius are defeated by West Germanic warriors in Gaul.
 Battle of Arbalo (11 BC) - Romans under Nero Claudius Drusus defeat the Germans
 Battle of the Lupia River (11 BC) – Roman forces under Augustus's stepson Drusus win a victory in Germany.

1st century