[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mark of the Devil (1970 film)

ted Kingdom and United States. The release featured the High Rising Productions documentary film Mark of the Times and a special featurette over the distributor Hallmark Releasing with the documentary Hallmark of the Devil. The film is rated 18 by the British Board of Film Classification.

Reception

The film was more successful at the box office than Witchfinder General. This success is often attributed to the advertising campaign. The film has been criticized by many reviewers for being too violent to contain any message and far too exploitative whilst dealing with a serious historical subject. Other reviews praise the film for its soundtrack, special effects, and filming locations, consisting of the mountainous Austrian countryside and stately castles.

The University of Vienna's film studies conference "Mark of the Devil: On a Classic Exploitation Film" was held on 3–5 April 2014. In 2017 the Cine-Excess eJournal devoted a special issue to the film and its sequel, Mark of the Devil Part II, which includes a range of extensive articles (about topics such as authorship, marketing and censorship) and an interview with Joyce and Percy Hoven.

Trivia

"Mark of the Devil", a track on Finnish heavy/doom metal band Wolfshead's 2015 EP Caput Lupinum, is based on the film.

A sample of Albino's voice is the intro for "I, the Witchfinder", while a sample of Albino's laughter is the intro for "Dopethrone", both from the same titled album by the stoner/doom metal band Electric Wizard.

Sequel

Producer Hoven delivered the official sequel, Mark of the Devil Part II (German: Hexen geschändet und zu Tode gequält) in 1973. In addition, several VHS companies sought to exploit the title's notoriety by retitling several unrelated European horror films as sequels. This included Mark of the Devil - Part III which was the 1975 Mexican film Sisters of Satan (a.k.a. Alucarda). Mark of the Devil - Part IV and Mark of the Devil - Part V (which featured scream queen Michelle Bauer on the box art even though she did not appear in the movie) were films from the popular Blind Dead series. Two low-budget sequels were the American-made Mark of the Devil 666: The Moralist (1995) released on VHS by Moore Video, and the more comically/horror-spoof toned Mark of the Devil 777: The Moralist, Part 2 (2022). The two later films are directly connected with storyline and characters.

References

External links
 
 
 
 Mark of the Devil: On a Classic Exploitation Film. An International Conference
 Mark of the Devil: International Perspectives on a Cult Classic. Special issue of the Cine-Excess eJournal 

1970 films
1970 horror films
Films about witchcraft
Films directed by Michael Armstrong
Films set in Austria
Films set in the 18th century
Films shot in Austria
1970s German-language films
German horror films
Obscenity controversies in film
German splatter films
Folk horror films
West German films
Video nasties
1970s German films
Films about witch hunting