[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# International Criminal Court and the 2003 invasion of Iraq

tionals of state parties on the basis of complicity in war crimes carried out by non state parties. However, this is not, as such, a finding that war crimes were not carried out by non state parties. The prosecutor did not express a conclusion on that matter since that was not within his competence.

The statement by the prosecutor did not appear to address any accusations of war crimes or complicity by citizens of State Parties during the subsequent occupation and rule by the Coalition Provisional Authority or after the official handover of Iraqi sovereignty. For example, no mention was made of any involvement by citizens of State Parties (e.g., the Scottish Black Watch regiment) in the US attack on Fallujah in 2003, which resulted in accusations of war crimes — though mainly by US and Iraqi government troops and Iraqi insurgents (who are not under ICC jurisdiction), rather than British forces.

2014 reopened examination
ICC Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda reopened the preliminary examination in 2014, with the aim of taking into account questions of jurisdiction, admissibility and "the interests of justice" in order to decide whether or not to open an investigation in relation to war crimes alleged to have been committed by UK forces in Iraq. New evidence justifying the reopening of the preliminary examination was provided by the European Center for Constitutional and Human Rights and Public Interest Lawyers.

One of the grounds for opening an ICC investigation was the argument that British authorities did not properly investigate the war crimes allegations. The ICC studied the question of whether British authorities "engaged in shielding perpetrators from criminal justice".

On 9 November 2020, the ICC published its final report on the preliminary examination. It closed the case on the grounds that although it had concerns, it did not conclude that British authorities were "unwilling genuinely" to carry out investigations and prosecutions.

See also
International Criminal Court and Venezuela
Command responsibility
Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse
American Non-Governmental Organizations Coalition for the International Criminal Court
Benjamin B. Ferencz
War crimes committed by the United States
Wedding party massacre
Donald Payne (British Army soldier)
July 12, 2007, Baghdad airstrike

References

Iraq War
International Criminal Court
Legality of wars