[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Defense Production Act of 1950

apability
On March 27, 2023, President Biden invoked the Defense Production Act to accelerate and assure the production capacity of "printed circuit boards and advanced packaging, their components, and the manufacturing systems that produce such systems and components" as quoted from the memorandum.

Artificial Intelligence
On October 30, 2023, President Biden invoked the Defense Production Act as quoted via the executive order to "require that developers of the most powerful AI systems share their safety test results and other critical information with the U.S. government" when "developing any foundation model that poses a serious risk to national security, national economic security, or national public health."

See also
 Nationalization

References

Bibliography

 Bell, Douglas, "'A Little-known Bill of Great National Significance': The Uses and Evolution of the Defense Production Act, 1950-2020." US Army Heritage and Education Center Historical Services Division. Carlisle, PA. July 2020. https://ahec.armywarcollege.edu/documents/Defense_Production_Act_1950-2020.pdf.
 "The Defense Production Act: Choice as to Allocations." Columbia Law Review. 51:3 (March 1951).
 Lockwood, David E. Defense Production Act: Purpose and Scope. Washington, D.C.: Congressional Research Service. June 22, 2001.
 Mirsky, Rich. "Trekking Through That Valley of Death—The Defense Production Act." Innovation. June/July 2005.
 National Research Council. Defense Manufacturing in 2010 and Beyond: Meeting the Changing Needs of National Defense. Washington, D.C.: National Academy Press, 1999. 
 Nibley, Stuart B. "Defense Production Act: The Government's Old but Powerful Procurement Tool." Legal Times. April 1, 2002.
 Nibley, Stuart. "Defense Production Act Speeds Up Wartime Purchases." National Defense. June 2006.
 Pierpaoli Jr., Paul G. "Truman's Other War: The Battle for the American Homefront." The Organization of American Historians' Magazine of History. Spring 2000.
 Pierpaoli Jr., Paul G. Truman and Korea: The Political Culture of the Early Cold War. Columbia, Mo.: University of Missouri Press, 1999. 
 Pierpaoli Jr., Paul G. "Mobilizing for the Cold War: The Korean Conflict and the Birth of the National Security State." Essays in Economic and Business History. June 1994.

External links
  (text of the law in the current edition of the United States Code)
 Defense Production Act of 1950 (PDF/details) as amended in the GPO Statute Compilations collection

United States federal defense and national security legislation
Military logistics of the United States
United States in the Korean War
United States Department of Commerce
United States Department of Defense
1950 in American law
COVID-19 pandemic in the United States