[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Bethany

as Bethphage is probably to be identified with At-Tur, on the peak of the Mount of Olives with a magnificent view of Jerusalem, Bethany lay below to the southeast, out of view of the Temple Mount, which may have made its location suitable as a place for care of the sick, "out of view" of the Temple.

From this it is possible to deduce that the mention of Simon the Leper at Bethany in Mark's Gospel suggests that the Essenes, or pious patrons from Jerusalem who held to a closely similar view of ideal arrangements, settled lepers at Bethany. Such influence on the planning of Jerusalem and its environs (and even its Temple) may have been possible especially during the reign of Herod the Great (36–4 BC), whose favour towards the Essenes was noted by Josephus (Antiquities 15.10.5 [373–78]).

Reta Halteman Finger approves Capper's judgment that only in the context of an almshouse at Bethany, where the poor were received and assisted, could Jesus remark that "The poor you will always have with you" (Mark 14:7; Matthew 26:11) without sounding callous. Ling follows Capper's thesis concerning the connection between then place-name Bethany and the location there of an almshouse. Capper and Ling note that it is only in Bethany we find mention of the poor on the lips of the disciples, who object that the expensive perfumed oil poured over Jesus there might have been sold and the proceeds given to the poor (Mark 14:5; Matthew 26:8–9; John 12:4–6 [where the objection is made by Judas]); this objection may have been made in embarrassment and may also suggest a special connection between Bethany and care for the poor.

It has also been suggested, based on the names found carved on thousands of ossuaries at the site, that Bethany in the time of Jesus was settled by people from Galilee who had come to live by Jerusalem. This would explain why Jesus and the disciples, as Galileans, would find it convenient to stay here when visiting Jerusalem. As Capper writes,

Galilean pilgrims avoided potential conflict with Samaritans by travelling south on the eastern side of the Jordan. Bethany was the last station on their route to Jerusalem after crossing the river and taking the road through Jericho up into the highlands. A respectful distance from the city and Temple, and on the pilgrim route, Bethany was a most suitable location for a charitable institution. It is not surprising that an Essene hospice had been established at Bethany to intercept and care for pilgrims at the end of the long and potentially arduous journey from Galilee. The house combined this work with care for the sick and destitute of the Jerusalem area. Thus Bethany received its name because it was the Essene poorhouse par excellence, the poorhouse which alleviated poverty closest to the holy city.

Notable residents

 Martha, Mary and Lazarus of Bethany, according to Christian tradition
 Said K. Aburish (1935–2012), author
 Aziz Abu Sarah (born 1980), peace activist

References

Bibliography

 
 

   (see p. 11 )

  (pp. 77 -78 )

 (p. 122  ff.)

 

 
   (pp.  335-338 )

External links

Welcome to Bethany
Al-Eizariya, Welcome to Palestine
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 17: IAA, Wikimedia commons
Border Crossing: Al Azzariyah (2005)
El 'Eizariya (including Al Ka’abina) Town Profile,   Applied Research Institute–Jerusalem (ARIJ)
Aerial photo, ARIJ
Locality Development Priorities and Needs in El 'Eizariya, ARIJ
Bethany in the Catholic Encyclopedia
Bethany in The Jewish Encyclopedia 
Pictures of Lazarus' reputed tomb at Bethany

Ancient Jewish settlements of Judaea
Cities in the West Bank
Crusade places
Establishments in the Ayyubid Sultanate
Jerusalem Governorate
Municipalities of the State of Palestine
New Testament Aramaic words and phrases
New Testament cities
New Testament places
Mary of Bethany