[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 33]
# Anarchism in Brazil

and in Florianópolis, in 2004, and that culminated, in 2005, in the founding of the MPL in a plenary session of the World Social Forum in Porto Alegre. The struggle for free public transport culminated, in 2013, in a series of demonstrations and popular protests in the main capitals of the country.

During the 2013 protests in Brazil, many protesters identified in some way with anarchism. The protests started with a demonstration articulated on June 6 by MPL and student organizations against the increase of twenty cents in bus, subway and train fares in the city of São Paulo. The organization of these demonstrations took place without a hierarchical system of leaders and base, but of horizontal collectives, critical of the traditional form of politics organized in centralizing parties and unions. According to sociologist Maria da Glória Gohn, "it cannot be said that June 2013 had completely anarchic manifestations", but that "several of the nuclei or collectives that organized the demonstrations" through social networks "were more inspired by the ideals of autonomists, anarchists, libertarians, utopian socialists, etc. than those of the traditional left". Both anarchists linked to specificist organizations and those who did not participate in any anarchist political organization played an active role in these protests. The use of black bloc tactics gained notoriety during the demonstrations, carried out by anarchists organized in affinity groups. In the wake of the demonstrations against the fare increase in 2013, more radicalized leftist groups, including anarchists, also played a role in the occupations of Porto Alegre and Belo Horizonte City Councils and the demonstrations against the 2014 World Cup. Also seen as a legatee of the 2013 demonstrations, the 2016 student protests in Brazil presented, according to Pablo Ortellado, elements that can be considered libertarian, although not necessarily anarchist, such as, for example, the criticism of the representative system and direct action without the intermediation of parties, concretized in the practice of the occupations. Although a portion of the students mobilized in the occupations were under influence of the UNE and PCdoB, another portion was under significant influence by more autonomist groups. With the rise of Jair Bolsonaro to power, anarcho-communist and anarcho-syndicalist organizations have been active in organizing unions and organizing anti fascist events against the far right in Brazil, going on to participate in the 2021 Brazilian protests.

Notes

See also 
Landless Workers' Movement
Socialism in Brazil

References

Bibliography

Further reading 

 

On Colonia Cecilia, see the article by Isabelle Felici, in: Cadernos AEL (Campinas 1998).
There exists also a novel by that name by an anarchist author named Smith.

On anarchist newspapers:

Most anarchist newspaper issues can be found in the Arquivo Edgard Leuenroth in Campinas, but there are also examplars in other Brazilian archives, in Milan and in the IISH in Amsterdam.

There are collections of articles published in secondary literature on the Brazilian labour movement: notably:

External links
Cumplicidade - anarchist news portal
 * * 
articles on Anarchism in Brazil at the Kate Sharpley Library
Anarchism in Brazil Interview with the Federação Anarquista do Rio de Janeiro (FARJ)

 
Anarchism by country
Anarchism