[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Immigration and Checkpoints Authority

iest land checkpoint, clearing more than 100 million travellers every year. It consists of Woodlands Checkpoint, WTCP, Old Woodlands Checkpoint and Woodlands Mini-checkpoint.

The Woodlands Mini-checkpoint consists of ten immigration counters used to clear motorcycles during the morning peak period.

The Old Woodlands Checkpoint is open to cars, motorcycles and lorries carrying cargo depending on the traffic situation. It was first re-gazetted as an immigration depot in 2008 to clear departing lorries. in 2009, it was expanded to be able to clear motorcycles and arriving lorries. In 2013, the installation of car booths enabled OWC to clear all forms of arriving traffic.

Air Domain 
Airport Command
Singapore Changi Airport
Seletar Airport
Air Cargo Command
Airport Logistics Park of Singapore
Changi Airfreight Centre
Parcel Post Section

Sea Domain 
Coastal Command
Singapore Cruise Centre
Marina Bay Cruise Centre Singapore
Tanah Merah Ferry Terminal
Changi Ferry Terminal
Changi Point Ferry Terminal
Jurong Fishery Port
Marina South Pier
West Coast Pier

ICA's Coastal Command is the largest command in ICA in terms of the number of checkpoints, stretching from the East to the West of the country.

Ports Command
Port of Singapore
Sembawang Port
Jurong Port
Keppel Distripark
Ports Command HQ

Personnel

Officers 

Immigration officers in ICA are considered public servants by law and are part of the Singapore Civil Service.

Since the implementation of the Home Affairs Services (HAS) (ICA) Unified scheme, new officers join as Direct-Entry Sergeants and Direct-Entry Inspectors. Direct-Entry Sergeants need minimally 5 O'level passes and they can range from ITE graduates to polytechnic diploma holders.  Direct-Entry Inspectors must be graduates from a university accredited by its home country.  Newly trained Sergeants will become Primary Screening Officers, while Inspectors will become Team Leaders in their foundation posting. Regardless, all new officers will be posted to Tuas, Woodlands or Coastal Command.

There is a separate scheme for civilian officers in ICA. These officers, who are known as "Management Executives" are typically deployed to ICA's services centres and do not perform border security functions at the checkpoints. ICA also employs temporary staff and administrative assistants to provide customer service support.

Training 
All ICA direct-entry Sergeants and Inspectors must attend and pass the ICA Basic Course which is held regularly at the Home Team Academy. The Basic Course includes lessons on document examination, basic unarmed combat and basic firearms training. The Basic Course lasts twenty three weeks for Direct-Entry Inspectors and sixteen weeks for Direct-Entry Sergeants. Both courses are non-residential, are fully paid-for the duration of the courses and trainees will receive their substantive rank pay as well. In return, officers have to serve bonds of one to two years after graduation. Direct-Entry Sergeants also receive sign-on bonuses and retention pay-outs. To remain in service, officers will have to pass law examinations and a firearms shooting test.

Advanced courses are also conducted by ICA's Training Command. Direct Entry Sergeants are typically trained into specialists in different fields such as profiling, cargo examination and firearms shooting. Senior officers will first be exposed to ICA's ground operations before being sent to enforcement, service or staff units. Overseas postings at Singapore's consulates are also available. Furthermore, suitable officers at any level below that of Inspector may also secure scholarships and promotion into the rank of senior officers as part of the new unified scheme.

Specialised courses are conducted by different units in ICA, such as the Court Etiquette, Protocol and Procedures course conducted by ICA's Enforcement Division.

Ranks 

Before the merger, both SIR and CED had their own distinct rank progression. However, they were similar in that there was a separate scheme for Senior and Junior officers. This continued to be the case post-merger until 2017.

Since 2017, ICA officer ranks have fallen under the HAS (ICA) Unified scheme. All Immigration Officers are placed under this scheme regardless of education level.

As part of the unified scheme, the ranks of Corporal and Staff Sergeant were collapsed into a single Sergeant rank with numerical increments. The ranks of Senior Checkpoint Inspector were removed and suitable Checkpoint Inspectors would be promoted to Inspectors instead. A new rank, Deputy Assistant Commissioner was added to provide more opportunities for officers at the middle management level.

At present, ranks in the ICA are similar to those in the Singapore Police Force with some changes in insignia and naming (see table below).

Awards and decorations 
The Long Service medals were introduced in 2013 to recognise the dedication and performance of senior ICA officers.

Medals