[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Egba people

o o; l'Ori Olumo; Maa yo, maa yo, maa yo o; l'Ori Olumo

Traditional attire 
 
 Men: 
 Trousers, kembe/sokoto
 Top, Buba and Agbada
 Cap, Fila (abeti aja)
 Women: 
 Wrapper (Iro)
 Blouse(Buba)
 Headgear /Headtie (Gele)
 Other: Ipele - Piece of cloth placed on the shoulder or wrapped around the waist

Notable individuals
 Ladapo Ademola, the Alake of Abeokuta from 1920 to 1962, member of the Egba council. Also, a leading figure in negotiations with the Lagos State colonial government.
 Adegboyega Edun, a clergyman, teacher, principal and government administrator; the Secretary of the Egba United Government
 Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola, a businessman and politician
 Akin Fayomi, Nigerian diplomat, ambassador to France, Monaco, Liberia
 Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, President of Nigeria from 1999 to 2007
 Chief Ebenezer Olasupo Obey-Fabiyi, a musician and evangelist
 Olufela Olusegun Oludotun Ransome-Kuti, a musician and activist
 Chief Olufunmilayo Ransome-Kuti, a human rights activist and the "Mother of the Nation"
 Reverend Oludotun Israel Ransome-Kuti, clergyman, a teacher and principal (April 30, 1891 – April 6, 1955)
 Professor Olikoye Ransome-Kuti, a pediatrician, activist, and health minister (30 December 1927 – 1 June 2003)
 Chief Ernest Shonekan, Interim President of Nigeria, 26 August 1993 – 17 November 1993
 Chief Nollah Olakunle Edun,renowned administrator and company secretary of UAC of Nigeria Plc at the same time with Ernest Shonekan as the MD 
 Prof. Wole Soyinka, an author, activist and Nobel laureate
 Chief F. R. A. Williams S.A.N., a lawyer. 
 Adewale Oke Adekola, civil engineer, academic, author, and administrator
 Pastor Tunde Bakare, a lawyer and renowned pastor
 Mr. Kolawole Banmeke, Former Lagos State Head of Service and Secretary to Government, 1985 - 1988
 Tunde Kelani, a cinematographer
 Segun Odegbami, a retired footballer
 Dimeji Bankole, a former speaker of Nigeria's house of representatives
 Bukola Elemide, alias Asa, a singer
 Olu Jacobs, an actor
 Shina Peters, a musician
 Alhaji Waheed Ayinla Yusuf (Omowura), a musician
 Prince Bola Ajibola, a retired world court judge
 Chief Simeon Adebo, a lawyer and diplomat
 Fela Sowande, a composer
 Chief J.F. Odunjo, Yoruba literary icon, writer of the popular Alawiye series
 Tunde Lemo, a CBN deputy governor
 John Fashanu, a retired footballer
 Femi Kuti, a musician
 Seun Kuti, a musician
Made Kuti, a musician
 Clarence Peters , a music  video director
 Ebun Oloyede, an actor
 Senator Ibikunle Amosun, governor of Ogun state from 2011 to 2019
 Chief Olusegun Osoba, a journalist and politician, governor of Ogun state from 1999 to 2003
Zainab Balogun, an actress and model
 Professor Adeoye Lambo, medical professor, former Vice Chairman of the World Health Organization (WHO) 
 Professor Saburi Biobaku, a former Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos.

References

Further reading 
 S. O. Biobaku: The Egba and their neighbours; 1842 - 1914. Oxford 1957.

 
Yoruba subgroups
Ethnic groups in Nigeria