[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Politics in South India

Politics in South India (except Karnataka and Kerala) is typically dominated by regional parties than by the larger national political parties such as the Indian National Congress (INC), Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI(M)) or Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). However, both the BJP, INC and CPI(M) have had some success in forging alliances with regional parties. Unlike in North India, where religion plays an important role in driving local politics, South India's political issues of contention are mainly language and ethnicity.

Andhra Pradesh

After the formation of Andhra Pradesh in 1953, the Indian National Congress ruled the state for 30 years, winning all elections in the period. This changed in the 1980s due to the establishment of a regional party named Telugu Desam Party (TDP) by Telugu film superstar Nandamuri Taraka Rama Rao. They won the 1983 Assembly election by a landslide, NTR becoming the first non-Congress Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. Since then, both the TDP and the Congress have dominated Andhra politics, with either party coming to power.

The main issue which dominates Andhra politics is the Telangana movement aimed at the formation of a separate Telangana state consisting of the northern districts of Andhra Pradesh. The idea is widely opposed by the members from Rayalaseema and Coastal Andhra regions, who favour a united Andhra Pradesh. Caste also figures prominently with politics dominated by major castes like the Reddys, the Kammas and the Kapus. Naxalism is a political issue in the state, especially Uttarandhra and Telangana regions. Like Tamil Nadu, the film industry in the state has influenced Andhra politics. Besides NTR, film stars like Chiranjeevi, Pawan Kalyan and Dasari Narayana Rao among others have successfully made their mark in the politics of the state.

Andhra Pradesh state leaders have contributed at the national level, with former Chief Ministers Neelam Sanjeeva Reddy and P. V. Narasimha Rao becoming the President of India and Prime Minister of India respectively and NTR involved in the formation of the National Front which ruled India between 1989-91. BJP also ruled Andhra Pradesh as a part of alliance govt with TDP.

Telangana 

The President issued a gazette notification that Telangana state would be carved out of Andhra Pradesh on 2 June 2014.

In the early Telangana movement, Marri Chenna Reddy formed a party call Telangana Praja Samithi to lead the Telangana movement. In November 1969, there was a major split in the party and as result the movement went down. After two years the Telangana Praja Samithi was dissolved and its members rejoined the Congress. On 29 November 2009, KCR started a fast-unto-death, demanding that the Congress party introduce a Telangana bill in Parliament. Student organisations, employee unions, and various organisations joined the movement. As general strikes shut down Telangana, the Telangana Bill was passed in the Lok Sabha on 18 February 2014 and in the Rajya Sabha on 18 February 2014, with support from the BJP. On 4 March 2014 the Government of India declared that 2 June would be Telangana Formation Day.
. BJP now has a significant role in Telangana politics . They won 4 Loksabha seats in the 2019 Indian General Elections.

Karnataka