[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frank Trigg

. Koscheck defeated Trigg via first-round TKO.

After this disappointing loss, Trigg went on to face the former UFC welterweight champion Matt Serra at UFC 109 and lost for a second time since his return via KO (punches) in the first round.

Trigg was released by the UFC following his loss to Serra.

Late career
Trigg returned for the inaugural Israel Fighting Championship on November 9. Trigg easily defeated Roy Neeman by strikes in the first round. After the fight, he said he didn't really know what was next for him.

At BAMMA 6, Trigg defeated British standout John Phillips by TKO (doctor stoppage) in round 1.

Trigg was scheduled to be the main event at BAMMA 7 against Tom Watson for the Middleweight title. However, on August 9, it was announced that Watson had to pull out due to a back injury and would be replaced by Jim Wallhead in a non-title fight. Trigg lost the fight via split decision.

On July 11, 2015 Trigg was inducted into the newly restructured UFC Hall of Fame in the fights wing along with Matt Hughes for their second fight at UFC 52.

Total Nonstop Action Wrestling
In addition to MMA, Frank Trigg was also an analyst and on-screen character in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling in 2008, aligning himself with Kurt Angle, who used his passing resemblance to Trigg as part of a storyline.
At No Surrender (2008) he faced A.J. Styles in an MMA style match, the match going to a draw due to an "unintentional" low blow on Trigg. The crowd was hostile to both combatants, chanting "This is bullshit", "We want wrestling", and "Fire Russo". After the match, Styles beat down Trigg using a kendo stick and declared that "I'm a wrestler, I don't do this crap!".

In 2019, Trigg appeared as the trainer for Moose in the build up for his Bound for Glory match with Ken Shamrock. On 20 October 2019, Trigg was in the corner of Moose and interfered several times in the match, most notably removing a turnbuckle pad which Ken Shamrock was thrown into resulting in a Moose victory.

MMA refereeing 
Long a critic of MMA officiating stemming from his second fight with Hughes, Trigg was approached by veteran referee "Big John" McCarthy in 2011 with the offer to take his official's training course. Trigg spent several sessions with McCarthy learning the ins and outs of being an MMA referee and began controlling amateur fights in 2014. On December 9, 2017, Trigg made his UFC debut as a referee, officiating a match-up between Alexis Davis and Liz Carmouche at UFC Fight Night 123.

Personal life
Frank Trigg has four children; Frankie, Kiara, Stone, and Lavin. Trigg welcomed his son Stone in September 2008. On October 2, 2010, Trigg welcomed his son Lavin.

In 2006, he appeared in the episode "Fight Schlub" on the sitcom The King of Queens. He has mostly worked as a stuntman since retirement from fighting, with credits including extensive work on the re-make of Hawaii Five-0. Frank is also a member of Phi Beta Sigma fraternity, initiated in 1997 at the Xi Delta chapter at the University of Oklahoma

He is the second retired UFC fighter to return as a UFC referee, with the first being Dan Severn.

Championships and accomplishments
Ultimate Fighting Championship
 UFC Hall of Fame (Fight wing) vs. Matt Hughes at UFC 52
World Fighting Alliance
WFA Welterweight Championship (One time)
Icon Sport
Icon Sport Middleweight Championship (One time)

Mixed martial arts record