[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# First Zionist Congress

The First Zionist Congress () was the inaugural congress of the Zionist Organization (ZO) held in Basel on August 29–31, 1897. Two hundred and eight delegates and 26 press correspondents attended the event. It was convened and chaired  by  Theodor Herzl, the founder of the modern Zionism movement.  The Congress formulated a Zionist platform, known as the Basel program, and founded the Zionist Organization. It also adopted the  Hatikvah as its anthem (already the anthem of Hovevei Zion and later to become the national anthem of the State of Israel).

The conference was covered by the international press, making a significant impression; the publicity subsequently inspired the antisemitic forgery The Protocols of the Elders of Zion.

History

The first Zionist Congress was convened by Theodor Herzl as a symbolic parliament for the small minority of Jewry in agreement with the implementation of Zionist goals. While Jewish majority indifference or opposition to Zionism would continue until after revelation of the Holocaust in World War II, some proponents point to several directions and streams of this early Jewish opposition. "Alongside the dynamic development of the Zionist movement, which generated waves of enthusiasm throughout the Jewish public, sharp criticism began to appear about Zionism, claiming that Zionism could not hope to resolve the Jewish problem and would only serve to harm the status of Jewish laborers and sabotage its own recognition as an independent class." As a result of the vocal opposition by both the Orthodox and Reform community leadership, the Congress, which was originally planned in Munich, Germany, was transferred to Basel by Herzl.  The Congress took place in the concert hall of the Stadtcasino Basel on August 29, 1897. Proceedings were conducted in German.

Delegates

Herzl acted as chairperson of the Congress, which was attended by some 200 participants from seventeen countries, 69 of whom were delegates from various Zionist societies, and the remainder were individual invitees. Seventeen women attended the Congress, some of them in their own capacity, others accompanying representatives. While women participated in the First Zionist Congress, they did not have voting rights; they were accorded full membership rights at the Second Zionist Congress, the following year.

Over half the delegates were from Eastern Europe, with nearly a quarter coming from Russia.

Herzl was elected President of the Congress, with Max Nordau, Abraham Salz and Samuel Pineles elected first, second and third Vice Presidents respectively.

Agenda

Following a festive opening in which the representatives arrived in formal dress, tails and white tie, the Congress moved to the agenda. The principal items on the agenda were the presentation of Herzl's plans, the establishment of the Zionist Organization and the declaration of Zionism's goals-the Basel program.

According to the 200-page Official Protocol, the three-day conference included the following events:

Day 1: Sunday 29 August
 Karpel Lippe, Jassy delegate, opening speech
 Theodor Herzl, speech
 Max Nordau, Paris delegate, speech
 Abraham Salz, speech
 Jacob de Haas, speech
 Jacques Bahar, speech
 Samuel Pineles, Galați delegate, speech
 Alexander Mintz, Vienna delegate, speech
 Mayer Ebner, speech
 Dr. Rudolf Schauer, Bingen am Rhein delegate, speech
 Professor Gregor Belkovsky, Sofia delegate, speech
 János Rónai, Blaj delegate, speech
 Adam Rosenberg, New York delegate, speech
 Nathan Birnbaum, Vienna delegate, speech
 David Farbstein, Zurich delegate, speech

Day 2: Monday 30 August
 The President, and moderated discussion
 Dr. Max Bodenheimer, Cologne delegate, speech
 Group discussion
 Jacob Bernstein-Kohan, speech
 M. Moses, speech

Day 3: Tuesday 31 August
 Dr. Kaminka, speech
 Adam Rosenberg, speech
 Mordecai Ehrenpreis, speech
 Group discussion

First Zionist Executive
The "Zionist Executive" elected by the First Congress consisted of:
Vienna (5): Theodor Herzl, Moses Schnirer, Oser Kokesch, Johann Kremenezky and Alexander Mintz (the latter in place of Nathan Birmbaum)
Austria (other than Galicia and Bukovina) (1): Dr. Sigmund Kornfeld
Galicia (2):  Abraham Salz, Abraham Adolf Korkis
Bukovina (1): Mayer Ebner
Russia (4): Rabbi Samuel Mohilever, Prof. Max E. Mandelstamm, Jacob Bernstein-Kohan, Isidor Jasinowski
France (2): Bernard Lazare, Jacques Bahar
Romania (2): Karl Lippe, Samuel Pineles
Bulgaria and Serbia (1): Prof. Gregor Belkovsky 
Germany (2): Rabbi Isaac Rülf, Max Bodenheimer

In addition, it was agreed that one representative was to be appointed for each of Britain, America and Palestine. This was proposed to take place later at publicly convened assemblies.

Basel Program