[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tuvia Tenenbom

Jew! offers one of the more interesting portraits of Palestinian politics to have appeared in English," and concluding that "no reader of Catch the Jew! can come away having failed to learn many new things about Israelis and Palestinians, two peoples we talk about so much but understand so little."

A reviewer for Publishers Weekly writes that Tenenbom's "riveting tale, chock full of unbelievable and hilarious encounters, is highly engaging and emotional, eminently readable, brutally honest, and likely the most uncensored and eye-opening report readers will see."Catch the Jew! was published in Israel in September 2014 by Sela Meir publishers and became an instant best seller in Israel, reaching the  1 spot on Haaretz, Steimatzky and Yedioth Ahronot best-seller lists, winning major praise by Israeli critics. Mida called Tenenbom "the ultimate leftist and humanist who loves all people, is everything the left pretends to be but is not," while Channel 2 TV named it "the most important book in the last five years," and Haaretz advised its readers to "read Tenenbom's book; we don't have the luxury not to know what he's telling us." In Germany, the book came out in November 2014 by the publishing house of Suhrkamp under the title "Allein unter Juden" (Alone Among Jews) and immediately became a Spiegel Best Seller.

The book earned major endorsements by German critics. Spiegel Online said: "You need to have curiosity in you and a fearlessness of thought to view the Middle East story differently, a curiosity and a fearlessness that Tuvia Tenenbom has," and Die Welt called it, "The finest book on the Middle East saga."

 The Lies They Tell 
In October 2016 Tenenbom's third book, Allein unter Amerikanern was published by Suhrkamp Verlag in Berlin, Germany, where it became a Der Spiegel bestseller. In March 2017 it was published in English by Gefen Publishing. Tuvia Tenenbom travels through America to find out who are the Americans, the people who make up America.
A contributor to Publishers Weekly wrote: "Brutal, irreverent, and cutting, Tenenbom’s riveting book aims to disrupt American complacency."

Hello, Refugees!
Tenenbom's fourth book, Hello, Refugees! came out in English in July 2017, following its publication in German by Suhrkamp Verlag in March 2017, under the title Allein unter Flüchtlingen. In Hello, Refugees! Tenenbom chronicles his visits to many refugee camps in Germany, reporting of horrific conditions in most of those camps. Additionally, Hello, Refugees! contains interviews with politicians and activists from the far-right to the far-left, whom he asked to explain to him why has Germany taken in more refugees than other European countries. The Jerusalem Post called the book "a gem," and Asia Times said that "If Kafka had written non-fiction, he could not have bested Tenenbom’s latest book."

 The Taming of the Jew 
Tenenbom's fifth book, The Taming of the Jew, came out in English in February 2021, following its publication in Germany in February 2020, under the title Allein unter Briten. In The Taming of the Jew, Tenenbom chronicles the rise of anti-Semitism in the UK and the Jewish community's reluctance to effectively deal with it. David Herman, reviewing the book for the British The Article, writes: "This is a frightening book and deserves to be read." In his review for the American Algemeiner'', David Goldman writes that the book "is quizzical and tragic at the same time, the sort of comedy sketches that Samuel Beckett might have written if he were Jewish rather than Irish."

External links
 Video interview with Tenenbom

References

1957 births
Living people
Israeli theatre directors
Israeli emigrants to the United States
American theatre directors
People from Bnei Brak
Jewish theatre directors
Jewish dramatists and playwrights
20th-century Israeli dramatists and playwrights
21st-century Israeli dramatists and playwrights
21st-century Israeli male writers
21st-century Israeli non-fiction writers
Jewish Israeli writers
20th-century Israeli Jews
21st-century Israeli Jews
Jewish American non-fiction writers
21st-century travel writers
Writers on antisemitism