[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Corps Series

The Corps is a series of war novels written by W.E.B. Griffin about the United States Marine Corps before and during the years of World War II and the Korean War. The story features a tightly knit cast of characters in various positions within the Marine Corps, Navy, and upper levels of the United States Government.

List of books
Book I, Semper Fi (1986) - Main action takes place between January 2, 1941 and January 17, 1942.
Book II, Call to Arms (1987) - Main action takes place between December 18, 1941 and August 30, 1942.
Book III, Counterattack (1990) - Main action takes place between December 7, 1941 and August 9, 1942.
Book IV, Battleground (1991) - Main action takes place between June 4 and August 25, 1942.
Book V, Line of Fire (1992) - Main action takes place between Spring and October 11, 1942.
Book VI, Close Combat (1993) - Main action takes place between October 11 and November 19, 1942.
Book VII, Behind the Lines (1996) - Main action takes place between April 7, 1942 and February 8, 1943.
Book VIII, In Danger's Path (1999) - Main action takes place between November, 1941 and May 5, 1943.
Book IX, Under Fire (2002) - Main action takes place between June 1 and September 29, 1950.
Book X, Retreat, Hell! (2004) - Main action takes place between September 28 and November 3, 1950.

Primary characters

Major Kenneth R. "Killer" McCoy, USMCR
First Appearance: Semper Fi

His name is Kenneth R. McCoy, the introductory character of the saga, a Marine Corporal stationed in Shanghai, China with the 4th Marines (the primary component of the China Marines) prior to the attack on Pearl Harbor. Ken has a great affinity for languages and in China learns Japanese, Wu, Mandarin, and Cantonese, which leads to his being assigned to intelligence-gathering convoys by Captain Edward Banning, USMC, the Fourth Marine Regiment's intelligence officer.  His fellow Marines call him "Killer" for killing two Italian Marines in self-defense with a baby Fairbairn–Sykes knife (to his great embarrassment), and for having killed 18 Chinese bandits in the employ of the Kempetai with a Thompson submachine gun while on an intelligence mission.

Following the action in which he killed 18 "bandits,"  he is transferred back to the United States and enters Officer Candidate School to earn a commission as a second lieutenant. After graduating from OCS, he is assigned as an officer courier for intelligence in the Pacific while working for the Marine Corps Office of Management Analysis, a special, little known intelligence group run by Lieutenant Colonel (later Brigadier General) Fritz Rickabee.

While on a courier run just after Pearl Harbor, he manages to make it into the Philippines shortly before the Japanese invasion and reunites with Captain Ed Banning while assisting in the defence of a landing beach. Following an artillery barrage, McCoy carries the wounded Banning to a monastery for treatment. He makes it through enemy lines and is returned to the States. He is awarded a Purple Heart for wounds received and a Bronze Star for his performance under fire and his efforts to save Captain Banning.

McCoy is next assigned to evaluate Lieutenant Colonel Evans Carlson whose methods caused concern among his superiors. He trains for six months with the Marine Raiders in San Diego, and participates in the Raid on Makin Island.

He participates in several secret missions under Brigadier General Fleming Pickering, including landing on Japanese-controlled Mindanao; staging the rescue of two Marines manning a Coastwatcher station on the island of Buka; being sent on "Operation Windmill" by General Pickering to evaluate the sanity of General Wendell Fertig and the resistance potential of his U.S. Forces in the Philippines; and setting up a weather station in the Gobi Desert urgently needed by the Navy and the Army Air Force. During the course of the series he receives a Bronze Star, three Silver Stars, the Distinguished Service Medal, the British Victoria Cross, and the Purple Heart with five stars. Following the success of Operation Gobi, McCoy is promoted to the rank of Major and is ordered to attend the U.S. Army Command and General Staff course, a desirable course which usually is reserved for officers destined for great things, by direction of President Roosevelt.

(Note: The Victoria Cross is an error on the part of the author. Only British and Commonwealth subjects serving in the armed forces were eligible for this medal, the highest award in the British honours system for combat valour. It seems more likely McCoy would have been awarded the Military Cross or the British Distinguished Service Cross.)