[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1877 in baseball

y Jones, have already been signed by Chicago.  The Chicagos will return Jones on June 29, but will retain Hallinan.
June 30 – Cincinnati signs Candy Cummings to help bolster their pitching.  Cummings will continue to hold his position as President of the International League while playing in the NL.

July–September
July 3 – Cincinnati loses to Louisville in their first game since re-organization.  The Cincinnatis hope to avoid forfeiture of games played and expulsion by the National League by finishing out the season.
July 11 – Pete Hotaling, of the Syracuse Stars in the International League, wears a catcher's mask in his first game back after missing a month after being struck in the eye by a foul ball.
July 13 – George Bradley of Chicago ends his streak of pitching 88 consecutive games after playing third base in the Chicagos' victory.
July 20 – Will White makes his major league debut.  White is the first professional player to wear glasses.  No other big-leaguer will wear glasses until Lee Meadows in 1915.
August 6 – As per National League rules, Cal McVey of visiting Chicago randomly draws the umpire from 3 slips of paper placed in a hat for their game against first-place Louisville.  When McVey draws an umpire named Dan Devinney, he disgustedly grabs the hat and discovers that all 3 pieces of paper have the same name on them.  The angered Chicagos proceed to pound the Louisvilles 7–2.
August 8 – Catcher Mike Dorgan of St. Louis, after seeing starter John Clapp get his jaw smashed by a foul ball, takes his place wearing a catcher's mask.
August 12 – Johnny Quigley, a catcher for the Harlem Clippers, dies from injuries sustained in a collision with Dan Brouthers at home plate on July 7.
August 20 – Louisville vice-president, Charles Chase, receives a telegram from an unknown source stating that something was going on with the Louisville players and that bettors were placing their money on Hartford in their game to be played that day.  Hartford defeats Louisville 6–1.
August 21 – Louisville loses again to Hartford 7–0.
August 25 – The Louisvilles surrender a run in the 8th and 2 more in the 9th and lose to second-place Boston 3–2 in the opener of a crucial 3 game series.  The loss drops Louisville into a first-place tie with the Bostons.
August 25 – Joe Battin and Joe Blong of St. Louis are named by gamblers in both cities as willing players in a loss to Chicago.  Neither player ever appears in a National League game again.
August 27 – Boston takes the second game of their series with Louisville by a score of 6–0.  The victory gives them sole possession of first place over Louisville.
August 28 – Boston completes the sweep over Louisville by winning 4–3.
September 25 – Jim Devlin and George Hall of the Louisville Club are named by Louisville newspaper writer John Haldeman to have thrown an exhibition game played the previous day against Indianapolis.  Both players will later admit this to club officials.
September 29 – Boston clinches the pennant with an 8–4 victory over Hartford.  Manager Harry Wright appears in his final game as a player.
September 30 – The Lowell Ladies' Men clinch the New England Association pennant posting a 33–7 won-lost record.