[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alan Gow

Alan Gow (born 9 October 1982) is a Scottish former footballer. As a player he played as either a striker or an attacking midfielder. He is currently under-18s manager of Airdrieonians.

Gow started his senior career with his hometown club Clydebank, and continued with Airdrie United after they took over the league place and assets of Clydebank in 2002. He then moved to Scottish Premier League club Falkirk in 2005, and his performances there earned him a transfer to Rangers. Gow failed to break into the Rangers first team, however, and after loan spells with Blackpool and Norwich City, he moved to Football League Championship club Plymouth Argyle. Gow fell out of favour at Plymouth after a managerial change; he was loaned to Hibernian and was then released from his contract during the 2010 close season. He then played for Motherwell and Notts County during the 2010–11 season. In 2011–12, Gow played 5 times for East Bengal. In 2012, he then signed for Exeter City and scored 14 goals in 58 appearances.

Club career

Early career
Born in Clydebank and a pupil at Braidfield High School, Gow started his career at Yoker Boys Club before joining Clydebank, his hometown club. He joined Airdrie United on 30 August 2002, after Airdrie had acquired Clydebank's place in the Scottish Football League. Gow turned out for Clydebank in a special friendly to mark the club's rebirth in 2003. He played for Airdrie for three years, helping them to win the Scottish Second Division championship in 2004. He played in 98 matches and scored 33 goals for Airdrie.

Falkirk
Gow joined Falkirk in June 2005, following their promotion to the Scottish Premier League from the Scottish First Division in the 2004–05 season, on a two-year contract where he became an important member of their squad, helping them retain their SPL status in 2005–06. His performances in the 2006–07 season led to interest from Rangers, Celtic, Hibernian, Aberdeen. English club Wolverhampton Wanderers also had a bid turned down for Gow. On New Year's Day 2007 he scored a hat-trick as Falkirk won 5–1 at Dundee United, which led to the club's manager John Hughes saying of him, "I think he is destined for the Premiership". He also tipped him to earn a full Scotland cap.

Gow marked his 81st and final appearance for the Bairns by scoring in a 3–0 win against relegated Dunfermline Athletic.

Rangers
On 26 January 2007, Falkirk turned down an improved bid from Gow's boyhood heroes Rangers for the striker. While the first offer was £100,000, Falkirk manager John Hughes was said to have been holding out for £500,000 in the hope of selling him before he could leave on a free transfer in the summer. After failed late attempts to sign Gow before the January transfer window closed, Rangers signed him for three years on a pre-contract agreement for him to join the club in the summer.

After being granted special permission by Falkirk, Gow made his Rangers debut in a post-season friendly match against MLS club Los Angeles Galaxy at the Home Depot Center in Los Angeles, United States, coming on as a half time substitute for Nacho Novo. His first competitive match was four months later, on 26 September 2007, when he played in a League Cup match against East Fife.

On 17 June 2008, English Championship club, Burnley accepted a £3 million offer from Rangers for striker Kyle Lafferty, with Gow due to go the other way as part of the deal. However, Gow opted to stay with Rangers, but the deal for Lafferty still went ahead. Later in June, Gow visited Carrow Road to have talks over a possible move to another Championship club, Norwich City. Despite the player and his agent expressing interest in the move, the club did not pursue its interest in Gow.

Blackpool loan move
On 31 August 2008 he was linked with a move to Burnley's Lancashire rivals Blackpool. And on 1 September 2008 he signed for the Seasiders on loan until 1 January 2009, with a set fee already in place to sign him permanently should he impress. Gow said of the move, "Obviously it hasn't worked out the way I thought it should have at Rangers but I need to go out, play some games and get my fitness back." He also confirmed that SPL club Hearts had been interested in signing him. He scored his first goal for the Seasiders on 4 October 2008 against Cardiff City. After coming on as a substitute in the 77th minute he scored the equaliser deep into the fifth minute of injury time as the clubs drew 1–1 at Bloomfield Road.