[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Virtua Quest

e. 

Later in the game Sei became discouraged and came across Hayami again with the girl by the name of Fei and finds out that her brother Fan has been logging in to other servers just to find out he could log out. Later Sei is told in order to get into the server, he had to expand his level to HiA.

After Sei completes his "Advanced Hunter's Test", Sei's able to log into a much higher server, "Thai Phong Ruins".

After the game progresses a little more, Sei rescues Fan's brother Fei just as he is informed by Hayami that more kidnappers have been seen on Dong Qian Jie server. As Sei goes there he spots strong enemies and a specially made Bit. The special Bit kidnapped Bit. As Sei chased him down and rescue Bit and goes down the server stage a little further, Sei came across Toka only to find out she was interrogated by Moon the leader of Judgement Six. Sei tried to stop Moon but was stopped by a special made Schatt. Sei  is punched to the ground. Moon escaped with Toka. Schatt also escaped only to find out Sei is once again surrounded by more enemies. As the game progresses, Sei comes across Schatt once again and notices Schatt also has the power to use Virtua Souls (the one he uses is Lau Chan's). The two had a showdown. He defeated Schatt only to found out the real Schatt was possessed by Moon earlier in the game which he'd lost to Moon. Schatt forcibly logged off (which is supposed to be a Virtua was of death in the Virtua Quest game) just to found out after Sei logged off. He was informed once again that Judgement Six is full-on invading multiple servers leading to the final battle. Sei uses Virtua Soul and fought Lau Chan from the Virtua Soul he gained from Schatt earlier during the fight with Schatt.

Reception

Virtua Quest received mixed reviews upon release. IGN said "The action is mediocre at best, and the platform elements feel sloppy and unrefined. The graphics and sound are equally forgetful." Play said it had "stiff controls, an antiquated camera with no look button". GameSpot said "The action is plagued by loose controls and a bad camera, your scores of brain-dead opponents never put up enough of a fight to make things satisfying, and it's all set in a blandly designed world." 1Up said "The derivative nature of the plot goes hand-in-hand with the completely unimaginative gameplay. Nothing here is original."

References

External links
 Official Japanese site

2004 video games
Action-adventure games
Video games developed in Japan
Virtua Fighter
GameCube games
PlayStation 2 games
Virtua Fighter
Single-player video games