[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Daemon (novel)

at national security will take precedence and their relationship will remain professional. Phillips objects to the murder of Sebeck to protect infected corporate systems from the Daemon's wrath. One of a handful survivors from Loki's attack, Phillips is blamed for the failure and relieved of duties.

Brian Gragg aka "Loki Stormbringer" is a sociopathic loner and avid gamer. He makes a living through identity theft and other cyber crimes. After running afoul of some hackers from the Philippines, he allows his partner in crime, Jason Heider, to be killed in his place. Needing to lie low, Loki is recruited by the Daemon by outthinking a hidden game level in one of Sobol's games. Loki is the first Daemon operative and quickly becomes one of the most powerful operatives. His behavior, though useful to the Daemon, is hated and feared even by other Darknet members. His first major act is to infiltrate the anti-Daemon task force. When found out, he quickly triggers an attack, which leaves most of the people and agents there dead. He is pursued by Roy Merritt, as he escapes and witnesses the Major executing Roy, vowing to kill the Major for betraying his own man.

The Major, unnamed throughout the series, is introduced as a secret DOD liaison assigned to the daemon task force. Soon, everyone who encounters him realizes that his history is checkered, and his loyalty remains with the military-industrial complex now under attack by the Daemon. When Loki massacres the task force, he quickly contains the situation by destroying all evidence (including leveling the building) and personally executing Roy Merritt, fearful that Merritt's pursuit of Loki will attract too much attention. Realizing that they have underestimated the Daemon and its network, the Major retreats and prepares to wage a secret war against the Daemon and its agents.

Anji Anderson is a recently fired reporter, whose good looks have hindered her career for years. Having been relegated to fluff pieces and put on the air to be pretty, she is quickly recruited as a Daemon operative, her job to investigate stories that benefit the Daemon and help push its propaganda. Her main effect in the story is to help frame Sebeck.  She eventually becomes the spokesman for the Daemon.

Charles Mosely is a former drug dealer and convicted killer recruited by the Daemon, which helps him to escape prison by transferring him first to minimum security and then releasing him altogether. With a new identity, he travels to a Daemon-controlled office where he is interrogated by the Daemon's AI and is deemed acceptable to serve. He eventually becomes a security operative, assigned jobs such as executing criminals, participating a massive worldwide assassination of spammers who corrupt the internet. Mosley's only request is for the Daemon to locate his missing son and protect him. Ray is both found and sent to live with Daemon agents, who will raise and educate Ray in a safe family-like setting.

Dutton purchase
On June 25, 2008, the Dutton imprint of the Penguin Group purchased Daemon and the rights to the sequel Freedom™ from Verdugo Press.

Film adaptation
Walter F. Parkes, who produced the 1983 film WarGames, had optioned the film rights to Daemon with Paramount Pictures, but they likely reverted to Suarez on 8 December 2012.

References

External links

 Insightful interview with Daniel Suarez, titled  "Understanding the Daemon"
 Novels' website
 An interview with Daniel Suarez on the BookBanter podcast
 Review of both Daemon and Freedom™ by political theorist Kevin Carson.
 Joi Ito's Review of Daemon
 Daemons: IT Keepsakes; Jim Rapoza, eWeek
 A Book Review: Don Donzal, Editor-in-Chief, The Ethical Hacker Network

2006 American novels
Techno-thriller novels
Novels about computing
2000s science fiction novels
American science fiction novels
Novels about the Internet
Transhumanist books
Postcyberpunk novels
Mixed reality
Fictional software
Malware in fiction
Hive minds in fiction
Massively multiplayer online role-playing games in fiction
Novels about death
Detective novels
Fiction about parasites
Novels about cryptography
Novels about mass surveillance
Utopian fiction
Government by algorithm in fiction
Social reputation in fiction