[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# USS William H. Standley

er time in Caribbean waters, the ship visited San Juan, Puerto Rico.

As the year drew to a close, the ship prepared for her first major overhaul since commissioning. After entering the Charleston Naval Shipyard on 20 November 1973, William H. Standley spent the first half of 1973 in shipyard hands.

Upon completion of that period of repairs and alterations, William H. Standley conducted missile firings on the Atlantic Fleet Weapons Range and trained at Guantanamo Bay for six weeks, breaking those underway evolutions with visits to San Juan and to Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Called away from her training on 5 August, William H. Standley went to the aid of a foundering Panamanian merchantman off the northeastern tip of Hispaniola.

Embarking 25 naval reservists on 20 March, William H. Standley stood out to sea on that day and operated, for the next nine days, off the eastern seaboard between Jacksonville, Florida, and Charleston, South Carolina. During that time, she conducted an anti-submarine warfare (ASW) exercise against the submarine  and conducted LAMPS helicopter work-up, before she returned to her home port and remained there until 30 April.

The ship made one more exercise and spent one more period in port before she headed out from Mayport, bound for the Mediterranean Sea and her second tour with the 6th Fleet. Rendezvousing with TG 27.4, William H. Standley proceeded across the Atlantic. While she was en route, the ship's SH-2D Seasprite helicopter crashed at sea. Of the crew of four men, all but one were rescued. The fourth man went down with the helicopter.

Reaching Rota, Spain, on 22 June, William H. Standley completed turnover procedures with  and then joined Task Force (TF) 60 at sea. During her second deployment with the 6th Fleet, William H. Standley participated in Operations "Good Friendship," "Quick Draw," two "National Weeks," and "Bystander." She visited the ports of Livorno, Italy; Cannes and Golfe-Juan, France; Palma de Mallorca; Athens, Greece and Corfu, Greece; Mersin and Izmir, Turkey; and Barcelona, Málaga, and Naval Station Rota, Spain.

Departing Rota on 9 December, William H. Standley transited the Atlantic and arrived at her new home port, Charleston, South Carolina, a week before Christmas of 1973. In port at Charleston between 18 December 1973 and 17 January 1974, the ship then underwent a seven and one-half month overhaul. Following that period of repairs and alterations, William H. Standley trained locally and prepared for another Mediterranean deployment.

Departing Charleston on 14 June 1974, William H. Standley reached Rota on the 27th and, during the early part of her tour, visited the French ports of Saint-Tropez and Theoule, where the ship joined in celebrations commemorating the 30th anniversary of the Allied landings during World War II. She then visited the Italian port of Civitavecchia.

From July to September, William H. Standley spent many days at sea due to the Greco-Turkish crisis on the island of Cyprus. She underwent a brief tender overhaul at Augusta Bay, Sicily, and followed up the repairs with a full slate of underway activities. Highlighting that period were two events: the tow of the ocean escort  when that ship developed serious boiler trouble on 4 October; and the surveillance of Soviet warships in the eastern Mediterranean. During the latter, William H. Standley discovered a Soviet submarine and maintained sonar contact for over 49 hours, forcing the surfacing of a Zulu-class submarine.

For the remainder of the cruise, the ship continued her schedule of at-sea periods interspersed with visits to Genoa and San Remo, Italy, and to Rota. Departing the last-named port on 24 November, she arrived back in Charleston on 9 December 1974.

Following the ensuing Christmas leave period, the ship underwent repairs at the Norfolk Naval Shipyard, Portsmouth, Virginia, and emerged from the yard late in February 1975. On 1 July 1975, William H. Standley was redesignated as a guided missile cruiser, CG-32. As the summer wore on, the ship operated out of Guantanamo Bay, Roosevelt Roads, and San Juan. She subsequently sailed for the Mediterranean on 2 October 1975, leaving Charleston in her wake on that day, bound, as before, for Rota.

Taking over from , William H. Standley operated in the "middle sea" into the winter, spending Christmas at Naples. The guided missile cruiser remained in the Mediterranean into the spring before turning over her duties to Harry E. Yarnell at Gibraltar on 25 April 1976 and heading for Charleston on that day.