[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Military conquests of Umar's era

Umar was the second Rashidun Caliph and reigned during 634–644. Umar's caliphate is notable for its vast conquests, aided by brilliant field commanders, he was able to incorporate present day Iraq, Iran, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia, Syria, Jordan, Palestine, Lebanon, Egypt, and part of Afghanistan, Turkmenistan and south western Pakistan into the Caliphate. During his reign, the Byzantines lost more than three fourths of their territory and in Persia, and Umar was the king (ruler) of the Sassanid Empire before it ceased to exist.

Historians estimate more than 4,050 cities were conquered during the reign of Umar.

Military conquests of Umar's era are:

Conquest of the Levant & Upper Mesopotamia (634–638) 
 

Muslim forces invaded the neighboring Eastern Roman Empire in 634 soon after Conquest of Iraq in 633 during the reign of Caliph Abu Bakr.
Damascus fell in September 634 and Emesa fell in March 635. In the year 635, Emperor Heraclius allied with Sassanid Persian Emperor Yazdegerd III on Yazdegerd III's request to crush the Muslim power. A plan was agreed to launch a massive counterattack against Muslims in Iraq and Syria at once to force them to retreat back to Arabia where they could be dealt with later, either through invasion or by economic blockade.

The Rashidun caliphate dealt the Byzantines crushing defeats at the battles of Ajnadayn and Fahl These significantly reduced the capacity of Byzantine army to operate in southern Syria, and according to historian Ross Burns the massive losses from these battles practically wiped out the "southern Damascus shield", the Imperial forces which protected the southern Syria.

Caliph Umar successfully confronted the alliance by putting pressure the on Byzantines and using deception against the Persians, while engaging Yazdegerd III in negotiations. This rendered the alliance weak and a would-be decisive plan was aborted. The Byzantine forces were decisively defeated in Battle of Yarmouk in August 636, while in the Iraqi theater the Persian army was defeated in the Battle of Qadisiyyah three months later in November 636.

Defense of Emesa & Conquest of Upper Mesopotamia 

After the defeat in the Battle of Yarmouk, Heraclius mounted a counterattack operation in Syria. Heraclius sought help from the Christian Arab tribes of al-Jazira, which came mostly from two cities along the Euphrates river, Circesium and Hīt. The tribes mustered a large army and marched against Emesa where Abu Ubaydah had set up his military headquarters. As the Christian Arabs contingents besieged Emesa, Khalid appealed to Abu Ubaydah to be allowed to lead a sally outside the wall. However, Abu Ubaidah decided it would be better should to wait for reinforcements The sieges of Circessium and Hit by troops under Iyadh occurred simultaneously as the siege of Emesa. At first the Muslims faced difficulty at Hit as the defenders dug a moat around the city, but eventually the Muslim army was able to penetrate it. Meanwhile, Circesium was captured from the Byzantines without resistance by a Muslim army commanded by Habib. Though many Muslim sources state this occurred in 637, Maximillan Streck stated it is more likely to have happened in 640. As response to the siege of Emesa, Iyad was tasked by caliph Umar through his superior, Abu Ubaydah, to invade Al-Jazira.