[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# History of the Spanish language

mic, words, especially when the words extended into popular usage in the Old Spanish period.  Some of the consonant clusters affected were -ct-, -ct[i]-, -pt-, -gn-, -mn-, -mpt-, and -nct-.  Most of the simplified forms have since reverted to the learned forms or are now considered to be uneducated.

Most of these words have modern forms which more closely resemble Latin than Old Spanish. In Old Spanish, the simplified forms were acceptable forms which were in coexistence (and sometimes competition) with the learned forms.  The Spanish educational system, and later the Real Academia Española, with their demand that all consonants of a word be pronounced, steadily drove most simplified forms from existence.  Many of the simplified forms were used in literary works in the Middle Ages and Renaissance (sometimes intentionally as an archaism), but have since been relegated mostly to popular and uneducated speech. Occasionally, both forms exist in Modern Spanish with different meanings or in idiomatic usage: for example afición is a 'fondness (of)' or 'taste (for)', while afección is 'illness';  Modern Spanish respeto is '(attitude of) respect', while con respecto a means 'with regard to'.

Most words with consonant clusters in syllable-final position are loanwords from Classical Latin, examples are: transporte , transmitir , instalar , constante , obstante , obstruir , perspectiva , istmo . A syllable-final position cannot be more than one consonant (one of n, r, l, s or z) in most (or all) dialects in colloquial speech, reflecting Vulgar Latin background. Realizations like , , , , , , and  are very common, and in many cases, they are considered acceptable even in formal speech.

Another type of consonant cluster simplification involves "double" (geminate) plosives that reduced to single: -pp-, -tt-, -cc-, -bb-, -dd-, -gg-  > -p-, -t-, -c-, -b-, -d-, -g- . The simplified Spanish outcomes of the Latin voiced series -bb-, -dd-, -gg-  remain voiced, inducing phonemic merger with intervocalic /b/, /d/, /g/ that issued from voicing of Latin /p/, /t/, /k/, so that all are subject to the same phonetic realization as voiced fricatives: , , and , respectively.

Vocalization
The term "vocalization" refers to the change from a consonant to the vowel-like sound of a glide.  Some syllable-final consonants, regardless of whether they were already syllable-final in Latin or brought into that position by syncope, became glides.  Labials (b, p, v) yielded the rounded glide  (which was in turn absorbed by a preceding round vowel), while the velar c () produced the palatal glide  (which could palatalize a following  and be absorbed by the resulting palatal affricate).  (The forms debda, cobdo, and dubdar are documented in Old Spanish; but the hypothetical forms *oito and *noite had already given way to ocho and noche by the time Castilian became a written language.)

Betacism

Most Romance languages have maintained the distinction between a phoneme  and a phoneme : a voiced bilabial stop and a voiced, usually labiodental, fricative, respectively. Instances of the  phoneme could be inherited directly from Latin  (unless between vowels), or they could result from the voicing of Latin  between vowels. The  phoneme was generally derived either from an allophone of Latin  between vowels or from the Latin phoneme corresponding to the letter ⟨v⟩ (pronounced  in Classical Latin but later fortified to the status of a fricative consonant in Vulgar Latin). In most Romance-speaking regions,  had labiodental articulation, but in Old Spanish, which still distinguished /b/ and /v/, the latter was probably realized as a bilabial fricative . The contrast between the two phonemes was neutralized in certain environments, as the fricative  also occurred as an allophone of /b/ between vowels, after a vowel, and after certain consonants in Old Spanish. The similarity between the stop  and fricative  resulted in their complete merger by the end of the Old Spanish period (16th century). In Modern Spanish, the letters ⟨b⟩ and ⟨v⟩ represent the same phoneme (usually treated as  in phonemic transcription), which is generally realized as the fricative  except when utterance-initial or after a nasal consonant, when it is realized as the stop . The same situation prevails in northern Portuguese dialects and in Galician, but the other Portuguese dialects maintain the distinction. The merger of  and   also occurs in Standard Catalan in eastern Catalonia, but the distinction is retained in most varieties of Valencian and in some areas in southern Catalonia, in the Balearic dialect, as well as in Algherese.