[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# HMS E18

on her first Baltic patrol on 21 September 1915. The following day she was in an excellent position to torpedo the German cruiser Bremen, but a surfaced Russian submarine caused the Bremen to turn away just as E18 was about to fire and the opportunity was lost; she returned to Reval on 29 September.

On 9 October 1915 E18 departed for her second patrol, by 12 October she was in position to attack the pre-dreadnought SMS Braunschweig whilst off Libau (now Liepāja, Latvia), but her torpedo tube bow caps could not be opened. She then tried her beam tube but was forced to dive by German destroyers. When she did manage to fire a torpedo from her stern tube, the range was too great. She returned to Reval on 16 October.E18 departed Reval on 9 November 1915 to patrol the Swedish trade routes, returning on 15 November having sighted nothing of significance.  During this patrol the crew had missed the visit of the Tzar.

Her fourth and final patrol of 1915 was off Libau and try to find a way through the minefields by following the courses of German traffic. She departed for this patrol on 30 November and returned on 4 December.

 1916 E18 left for her fifth patrol on 6 January 1916, her orders were to patrol the area between the Sound and Bornholm.  Attempts were made to recall her, as the patrol had been cancelled but she did not reply.  On returning, she encountered gale-force winds and icy conditions to the point where she had difficulty closing her conning tower hatch owing to ice. She was unable to return to Reval on her own and had to wait for the Finnish ice breaker Sampo to arrive and guide her in, completely iced over. The British submarines remained iced-in and could not move until April.  Although she did not sail, E18 was made ready for sea by 13 February, and was the first of the British submarines to sail on 29 March after the freeze.E18 resumed patrols on 28 April, her penultimate patrol to the Gulf of Riga with HMS E1, to show their presence to the Germans, this was achieved by diving twice while Russian destroyers shelled beaches.  While returning to Reval via Moon Sound on 1 May, E18 ran aground and had to be towed off.

In late May, E18 sailed on her final patrol; E1, E8, and two Russian submarines left the same day.  Records differ on her exact fate, but it is certain neither she nor any of her crew survived.

The diary of Francis Goodhart, commander of E8, states that E1 and the Russian Bars departed at 1400 hrs, E8, E18 and the Russian Gerpard left port together at 1800 hrs on 25 May; E8s patrol was uneventful, and she returned to Reval on the 31st. However, E18 failed to return; by 5 June Goodhart noted that the crews were "very worried". On the 6th, he noted that he had "Heard from Essen that their W.T. had vaguely indicated presence of a submarine off Redshoff" on Tuesday. Very slender hope..." By the next day, 8 June, he recorded that a meeting had noted she had sailed with only 15 days food; the situation was "very hopeless now, I fear. No news whatsoever" By the 9 June E8's officers began collecting the belongings of E18's Halahan, Landale and Colson from their cabins.

Michael Wilson, a historian, records that E8 and E18 sailed on the 25th and parted the next day. On the 26th, at 4:42 PM, E18 torpedoed the German destroyer V100, blowing off her bow. Had it not been for the calm seas, it is likely she would have sunk from the damage; as it was, she was towed back to port with several of her crew killed, requiring major repairs. Two days later, on the 28th, E18 was sighted by a German aircraft off Memel (now Klaipėda, Lithuania), E18 was last sighted on the 1 June 1916 at 1500 hrs sailing north by the German U-boat UB-30 northwest of Steinort. Wilson further states that it is believed she was lost "most likely by striking a mine" on her return to Reval west of Osel. The logs of the German destroyers with V100 also support the same dates as Goodhart's diary and Wilson's observations.

Various sources record her simply as having been sunk on 24 May by a German decoy ship, though this clashes with the known attack on V100 on the 26th and the observations reported by Wilson and Goodhart in subsequent days. It is quite possible that this is a garbling of an encounter between one of the Russian submarines and a decoy vessel around the same time. The German decoy ship Kronprinz Wilhelm (known as Schiff K) did attack two submarines during E18s patrol in May. K rammed the Russian Gerpard and the following day took the Russian Bars under fire in Hano Bay. The Germans believed they had sunk both submarines; E18 was not in the area of these actions.