[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Steve Brown (yo-yo player)

tes this site and company to creating a unique image for the yo-yo community while maintaining a signature old school style that Brown has been recognized for throughout his career. Along with hand crafted yo-yo's, they also produce a limited clothing line and offer video tutorials on their website.

Competitive Record
Steve Brown has won many awards throughout his career in competitive yo-yoing. He has participated in many different contests and championships, and currently holds various titles and placed in several yo-yo competitions. To current date, Steve Brown's competitive records include:
1996 World Yo-Yo Contest, 4th place 
1997 World Yo-Yo Contest - Single A, 4th place
1997 World Yo-Yo Contest - Single A freestyle, 3rd place
1998 World Yo-Yo Contest - Single A freestyle, 4th place
 The World Yo-Yo Contest is the most prestigious Yo-Yo competition in the world. The competition is run by the International Yo-Yo Federation or (IYYF) and the host nations Yo-Yo organization. As of 2015 there are 33 countries that participate in the competition. There are more than 1000 yo-yo players and fans that come together to battle for the title of champion. There are six different types of categories for the players to compete in to get the gold medal. The rules are that there is a 30-second wild card, then a one-minute preliminary, after that a 90-second semi-final, then finally a 3-minute final to decide the winner.
1999 Bay Area Classic Invitational - Freestyle, 1st place:
During the 1999 Bay Area Classic Invitational, not only did Steve Brown win first place, but also was the first person to use/create the Freehand yo-yo technique. This technique has since caught on as an exciting yo-yo trick that may be hard for some to master. The freehand technique is executed by putting a small weight on the end of the string, near the space where your hand is placed and there is no other physical change added to the yo-yo. Steve Brown, the creator of this technique, has created a now popular style of competitive yo-yoing that is exciting to watch and difficult to master. Freehand easily shows each person's style who executes this move.
2001 Bay Area Classic Invitational - Freestyle, 1st place
During the 2001 Bay Area Classic Invitational, Steve Brown took first place in the competition. What made this win special was that Brown competed in this competition while being blindfolded. After the Invitational was over, Brown was then asked to never enter or participate in this event again.
2001 National Yo-Yo Master Award Recipient. 
This award is only given to a select few that have shown their dedication and contributions to the sport. It is not a yearly award and the recipients are chosen from the masters.
2004 Donald F. Duncan Family Award for Industry Excellence Recipient. 
This award is given annually from the US National Yo-Yo Museum during the National Yo-Yo contest to an individual for quality of innovation, production or promotion that helps advance the sport.
2007 Yo-Yo Contest - Five A - 10th place
2011 Trick Innovator of the Year Award.
 Given annually from the US National Yo-Yo Museum during the US National Yo-Yo contest to an individual that has developed or created influential new Yo-Yo tricks over the year.

Steve Brown has now retired from being a competitive yo-yo player, but has continued on to be a judge in numerous different competitions around the world.

References

External links
Steve Brown is my hero

Steve Brown 365 YOYO Tricks Website

1976 births
Living people
Yo-yo performers