[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 41st Ohio Infantry Regiment

te forces began to waver, these men leaped to their feet, raced into the trenches, and managed to capture several prisoners, two battle flags, and four artillery pieces. The regiment soon arrived on the scene to reinforce this attack. For this effort, two men were awarded the Medal Of Honor in 1865.

Garrett, William 
Rank and organization: Sergeant, Company G, 41st Ohio Infantry. Place and date: At Nashville, Tenn., 16 December 1864. Entered service at:------. Birth: England. Date of issue: 24 February 1865. Citation: With several companions dashed forward, the first to enter the enemy's works, taking possession of 4 pieces of artillery and captured the flag of the 13th Mississippi Infantry (C.S.A.).

Holcomb, Daniel I. 
Rank and organization: Private, Company A, 41st Ohio Infantry. Place and date: At Brentwood Hills, Tenn., 16 December 1864. Entered service at: ------. Birth: Hartford, Ohio. Date of issue. 22 February 1865. Citation. Capture of Confederate guidon.

Outline and timeline of service

1862 - First engagements 
 January - The initial equipping of the regiment concluded. The men were issued primarily older Federal issue muskets, many of which were smoothbores which had been converted to rifles (the so-called "Greenwood Rifle").
 February - advanced to Nashville, Tennessee. Reorganized to 19th Brigade, Army of the Ohio.
 April - first engagement at Pittsburgh Landing (Shiloh) in Tennessee, losing severely.
 May - advance to and siege of Corinth, Mississippi.
 June - pursuit of rebel forces to Booneville, Mississippi then marched on to Athens, Alabama.
 July - rested at Athens, Alabama.
 August through October - pursuit of Gen. Bragg's forces into Kentucky.
 October - Battle of Perryville, Kentucky, the regiment was limited to skirmishing on the picket line.
 November - reorganized to 2nd Brigade, 2nd Division, Left Wing 14th Army Corps, Army of the Cumberland. Remained with the Army of the Cumberland until 1865.
 December - Battle of Murfreesboro (Stone's River) in Tennessee, the Regiment lost about 73 of its force

1863 - The fight for Tennessee 
 January - reorganized to 2nd Brigade, 2nd Division, 21st Army Corps, Army of the Cumberland.
 Spring - Occupation duty in Tennessee. The regiment is issued new Springfield Model 1861 rifles, to replace the older converted smoothbores.
 June - Middle Tennessee (or Tullahoma) Campaign
 August - passage through the Cumberland Mountains and across the Tennessee River; reorganized to 2nd Brigade, 3rd Division, 4th Army Corps, Army of the Cumberland.
 September - Battle of Chickamauga, Georgia, losing heavily.
 October - Battle of Wauhatchie (also known as Brown's Ferry)
 September through November - siege of Chattanooga, Tennessee. Complemented by General Thomas at Battle of Missionary Ridge.
 December - march to relief of Knoxville, Tennessee.

1864 - The push through Georgia 
 January - Regiment reenlists as Veteran Volunteers, and gets 30 days leave in Ohio.
 Spring - Operations in Eastern Tennessee.
 May through September - Atlanta campaign with General Sherman, losing more or less heavily in the various encounters, including Battle of Kennesaw Mountain in June, and the siege of Atlanta in July.
 Fall - pursuit of General Hood in North Georgia into North Alabama.
 December - Battle of Nashville, where two members of the regiment were cited and received the Medal of Honor.

1865 - The war draws to a close 
 January through March - occupation of Huntsville, Alabama.
 April through June - operations in and around Nashville, Tennessee.
 June - the Regiment was ordered to San Antonio, Texas, via New Orleans. At 2 a.m. on June 19, the steamer the regiment was travelling on (Echo Number 2) collided with an anchored ironclad monitor (identified in records as the , but probably the ) near Cairo, Illinois, and sank in just 10 minutes. Everyone on board escaped to the monitor, but all of the company records, stores, and ordnance were lost.
 November - mustered out at San Antonio, Texas

Losses 
 8 Officers and 168 Enlisted men killed and mortally wounded
 1 Officer and 153 Enlisted men by disease
 Total deaths 330

See also
Cleveland in the Civil War

Notes

References 

 
 Daniel, Larry J., Shiloh, the Battle That Changed the Civil War, Simon & Schuster, N.Y., 1997 
 McDonough, James Lee, War in Kentucky, From Shiloh to Perryville, Univ. Of Tennessee Press, Knoxville, 1994 
 Hewitt, Janet B. (editor), Supplement to the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies, Part II (Record of Events), Broadfoot Publishing Co., Wilmington N.C., 1997

External links
41st OVI Page by Larry Stevens
 Transcription of Whitelaw Reid's History of the 41st OVI
Ohio in the Civil War Page by Larry Stevens
 Ohio In The Civil War Archive

Units and formations of the Union Army from Ohio
1861 establishments in Ohio
Military units and formations established in 1861
Military units and formations disestablished in 1864
1864 disestablishments in Ohio