[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Juansher

de with the winter solstice in order to ambush flocks and herds from Ayrarat and Siwnik on the winter pastures of the Araxes and Kura rivers. They gained much loot from the attack, which their king later returned after making peace with Juansher during a summit meeting.

Under the Umayyad Caliphate 

In the same year, Juansher submitted to the Umayyad caliph Mu'awiya I () after being summoned by him. In 667/68, Juansher was amongst the figures summoned by Mu'awiya I to seek counsel on how to assassinate Constans II, who was in Sicily at the time. Juansher reportedly played an important role in the decision (Constans II was assassinated on 15 July 669), being in return rewarded with many gifts, and with Siwnik added to his domain. He was also offered rule of Adurbadagan, but declined and instead received one third of the tribute collected from Albania by the caliphate. This marked the zenith of Juansher's rule. On 14 September 669, while celebrating the Feast of the Cross at Partaw, he was assassinated by a traitor named Varaznoy. The English historian James Howard-Johnston notes that this assassination, like that of Constans II, seemed to be "carefully planned." He also adds that "Perhaps Juanšer had baulked at the thought of sharing responsibility for killing the senior Christian ruler appointed by God to manage earthly affairs. More probably he simply knew too much about the conspiracy against Constans. Whatever the reason, it seems likely that he had forfeited the trust of the caliph and paid for it with his life."

Juansher was succeeded by his nephew Varaz-Tiridates I.

Culture 
Although Christianity was the official religion of Albania and held significant political power, Zoroastrianism—the official religion of the Sasanian Empire—exerted a significant influence, particularly between the 6th and middle of the 7th-century. Despite being a Christian, Juansher continued to take part in the traditional Zoroastrian New Year's Feast of Nawasard with his personal bodyguards, and delight in the pagan performances of the  ("ministrels").

A chapter of Movses' book The History of the Caucasian Albanians includes a poem dedicated to Juansher by the 7th-century Armenian poet Davtak Kertogh, which is considered the first long secular poem in Armenian literature.

Family 
Juansher reportedly married three times. His first wife was the daughter of the prince of Siwnik, who died in . His second wife was a certain Xosrovanush, and his third was a daughter of the North Caucasian Hun king, whom he married in 665.

Notes

References

Sources

Further reading 
 

669 deaths
Year of birth unknown
7th-century monarchs in Asia
7th-century Iranian people
Mihranids
Rebellions against the Sasanian Empire
Patricii
Vassal rulers of the Sasanian Empire
People of the Muslim conquest of Persia
Christians in the Sasanian Empire
Princes of Gardman
Assassinated Iranian people