[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Victor Sikora

Go Ahead Eagles, Sikora joined Australian club Perth Glory on loan during the winter break before the new season. There he was supposed to replace Brazilian midfielder Amaral, who was sidelined due to injury. In his first season, Sikora was utilised in five league games, in which he scored no goals.

Perth Glory
After only two months on loan, Sikora signed a one-year permanent deal in February 2009 with Perth Glory. Before that, he had already been in contact with his former club, Go Ahead Eagles, where he also completed trials, but ultimately failed to secure a contract. After his return to Australia, Sikora quickly became a regular on the club's professional team. He made 17 A-League appearances before December 2009 in which he scored four goals. After that, however, he suffered injury setbacks that prevented him from being used competitively for Perth Glory. A multitude of different injuries caused the setbacks, including strains and thigh injuries, but also hip problems that ruled the midfielder out for several weeks. In addition, there were injuries to the knee, for which Sikora had already had surgery in June 2009.

After he had only made one appearance in the 2010–11 and 2011–12 seasons, Sikora announced his retirement from professional football in mid-2012.

International career
Sikora has earned six caps with the Netherlands, with his first appearance coming in a February 2001 friendly against Turkey, and the last in 2002 against the United States.

Career statistics

Club

International

Honours
Ajax
Eredivisie: 2003–04
Johan Cruyff Shield: 2002

References

External links
Perth Glory profile 
 Career statistics 

1978 births
Living people
Footballers from Deventer
Dutch people of Polish descent
Dutch men's footballers
Netherlands men's international footballers
Netherlands men's under-21 international footballers
Dutch expatriate men's footballers
Go Ahead Eagles players
SBV Vitesse players
AFC Ajax players
SC Heerenveen players
NAC Breda players
FC Dallas players
Perth Glory FC players
Eredivisie players
Eerste Divisie players
Major League Soccer players
A-League Men players
Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States
Expatriate men's soccer players in Australia
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in the United States
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Australia
Men's association football midfielders