[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Conservation and restoration of new media art

rimentation by international, independent artists. Designed as an experimental center of research and creativity, the Goldsen Archive includes materials by individual artists and collaborates on conceptual experimentation and archival strategies with international curatorial and fellowship projects.

Other important initiatives include DOCAM, an international research alliance on the documentation and the conservation of the media arts heritage organized by the Daniel Langlois Foundation, and the International Network for the Conservation of Contemporary Art (INCCA), organized by the Netherlands Institute for Cultural Heritage (ICN).

See also 

 Art conservation
 Digital preservation
 Digital art
 Internet art
 National Digital Library Program (NDLP)
 National Digital Information Infrastructure and Preservation Program (NDIIPP)
 New media art
 Virtual art

References 

 Alain Depocas, Jon Ippolito, and Caitlin Jones, eds., Permanence Through Change: The Variable Media Approach, co-published by the Guggenheim Museum and The Daniel Langlois Foundation for Art, Science & Technology, 2003.
 Jon Ippolito, "Death by Wall Label", 2007.
 Jeff Rothenberg, "Avoiding Technological Quicksand: Finding a Viable Technical Foundation for Digital Preservation", 1998.
 Variable Media Network
Richard Rinehart, The Media Art Notation System: Documenting and Preserving Digital / Media Art, 2007.

Further reading
 
 Steve Dietz. Collecting New Media Art: Just Like Anything Else, Only Different
 Oliver Grau. "For an Expanded Concept of Documentation: The Database of Virtual Art", ICHIM, École du Louvre, Paris 2003, Proceedings, pp. 2–15. Expanded Concept of Documentation
 Jones, Caitlin. "Does Hardware Dictate Meaning? Three Variable Media Conservation Case Studies" Horizon article
 Jones, Caitlin. "Seeing Double: Emulation in Theory and Practice, The Erl King Case Study" Case Study
 Jones, Caitlin. "Understanding Medium: preserving content and context in variable media art" Article from Keep Moving Images
 Christiane Paul. Challenges for a Ubiquitous Museum: Presenting and Preserving New Media
 Quaranta, Domenico. Interview with Jon Ippolito published in "Noemalab" Leaping into the abyss and resurfacing with a pearl

External links
 erpanet The Preservation of Digital-Born Art
 Preserving the Immaterial – A conference on variable media
 DOCAM – Documentation and Conservation of the Media Arts Heritage / Documentation et Conservation du Patrimoine des Arts Médiatiques
 Media Art and Museums: Guidelines and Case Studies
 Variable Media Network – A resource from CHIN (Canadian Heritage Information Network)

Conservation and restoration of cultural heritage
Computer art
Digital art
Digital preservation
Internet culture
Multimedia
New media
Preservation (library and archival science)