[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Saint Clara (film)

t in Vietnam during the war, which ended up with him beating Bobby Fischer in chess; Tissona, for his part, reveals something that a number of people, especially Tikel, long suspected: he had slept with Édith Piaf in early 1961, and the experience resulted in Piaf writing "Non, Je Ne Regrette Rien".

Tikel and the others decide to lay low as a result of not only the stork but also the Golda statue incident. They decide to pay a visit to the Chanov household. Liby calls Clara "solid", and Rozy talks about Clara as a whole; Tikel, however, notes that a glance at her eyes makes people say things that they never would, and that she's fascinating because of that. Clara, meanwhile, also goes to Tikel's house, where she encounters Tikel's dad, a cop, who guesses that she was the one who guessed the numbers of the two quizzes. He asks Clara to help him find a girl that he was in love with since he was a kid; that girl turns out to be none other than Sharon, Tikel's mom. Impressed (though outwardly sceptical), Tikel's father has Clara write down the lottery numbers for that evening's lottery. He wins the lottery, and promises to give half the money to the Chanovs. However, the action was undermined by Igor Chanov, Clara's father, giving the lottery numbers to everyone in Kiryat Gat, as he works in the lottery plant. As they have dinner that evening, Elvis, Clara's uncle, is struck by shell shock after remembering what happened to his girlfriend after she ran into the nuclear zone in Ukraine (implied to be the then-recent Chernobyl zone). Later, as he struggles to remember what happened to Natasha, Clara tells him that she ran off with someone else, though she also tells Tikel that a bear ate her (which would imply that no-one truly knows what happened to Natasha).

The aftermath of the lottery drawing is felt when many people stage mass suicides, while others still stage angry protests, blaming Igor for their ruin. A reporter for the RTL programme Catastrophes in Israel reports the scene, and when she attempts to interview Tikel's dad, who happens onto the scene, he curses her out and quits his job on live TV.

Meanwhile, resentment brews between Rozy, Liby, and Tikel. Frustrated with Tikel's behaviour during the math quiz debacle, after the Golda statue incident, and now the botched lottery drawing, Rozy and Liby begin to mock Tikel, with Tikel being warned by Rozy that he wouldn't survive the Shoah as he "can't handle mental stress". The resentment boils over one evening, as Tikel picks a flower for Clara. Rozy, Liby, and Elinor's desk-mate appear and finally decide to openly betray Tikel. After being insulted by Rozy both over being "friendly" with Tissona and of being a double agent (and, by extension, his father), Tikel and Rozy fight, but Rozy not only punches him, but also hits him with a baseball bat, declaring that Clara would never go out with him. After returning home, Tikel and Sharon talk about what happened, and Sharon talks about how people used to fight over her, except one—Tikel's dad. As they talk, Clara arrives at his home, but while Tikel tries and makes himself look presentable, she leaves and bumps unwittingly into Rozy, his sister Vered, and Liby, who take her with them on a tour around the city. They go to a chocolate shop, which Rozy, armed with his baseball bat, breaks a window of to give Clara a piece of chocolate.

The next day, Clara is hailed by the whole classroom, in spite of Rozy using her as the head of a mini-classroom revolution. That afternoon, Tikel finally calls out Clara's name, much to Tissona's amazement. As Tikel and Clara walk away from the school grounds, they are accosted by Liby and Rozy, who again mock Tikel and say that Tikel is incapable of leading a revolution. Clara then gives back the piece of chocolate to Rozy, and tells him to give it to Liby, who truly loves him. As both Tikel and Clara continue to leave the school grounds, he asks her out to a movie, which Clara is unsure of, as an earthquake is about to hit the town. The news causes most of the town to leave in a panic, save for Tikel and Clara, their respective families, and Liby and Rozy. That evening, Rozy and Liby share their first moment as a couple together, with Rozy expressing admiration for Clara's newfound fame, and admitting that he feels guilty about betraying Tikel like they did. Meanwhile, on the way to the movie, Clara and Tikel wander around town, and encounter Elvis, who tells her not to be afraid of the earthquake, as well as a surprising appearance: Tissona, who also stayed, asks Tikel to forgive him, and expresses admiration at Tikel and Clara together. Then, during Raise the Titanic, Clara and Tikel kiss, and the earthquake occurs. Tikel, however, notes that the earthquake was only 4.0 in the Richter scale, and is passing. The film ends with a freeze frame of Clara and Tikel in the movie theatre.

Cast