[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jericho (2006 TV series)

struggle for power between the Eastern United States, which is led by the legitimate surviving United States government, now governed from Columbus, Ohio, and the Allied States. Texas has not decided which government to back. The Texan ambassador in Cheyenne shelters Jake and Hawkins at his embassy.

The ambassador informs his military forces at the embassy to tell the ASA forces outside the fence that any incursion into the embassy by ASA troops will be considered an act of war against the Republic of Texas. The ambassador manages quickly to smuggle Jake, Hawkins and the bomb to the Cheyenne airport. At the airport he secures a small diplomatic jet plane to carry Jake, Hawkins and the device to Texas. While they are en route, two ASA F-15 fighters intercept Jake and Hawkins and order them to turn around or be shot down. When Jake refuses to be escorted back to Cheyenne, the two jets drop back to open fire. Two Republic of Texas Air National Guard F-16 fighters suddenly appear and shoot down the ASA planes. Jake and Hawkins make it to Texas with the evidence and Hawkins ominously intones that a second American Civil War was always coming and the two of them have made history by giving the United States a fighting chance in the war to come.

Third season

Season 3 is not a television show, but a six-part comic book series "from the minds" of the original Jericho production team and written by the Jericho writing team.

In April 2013, Jericho creator Stephen Chbosky revealed during a chat with Nerdacy that talks about a live-action season 3 remain ongoing. In his statement, Chbosky noted, "you know William Morris Endeavor Agency, who represents me, executive producer Jon Turteltaub and many other people, and they've been talking to Netflix and you never know. I can't say what it will be in season 3, but I'm excited for the new developments."
In 2017, Skeet Ulrich gave a reason why the show didn't move to Netflix: 

Fourth season

Season 4 is a continuation of the comic book series released by IDW Publishing on August 15, 2012. The five issue story picked up after the events of Jericho: Season Three. The comic was written by Kalinda Vazquez, and the process was overseen by the television series' writers.

Characters and setting
CharactersJericho features an ensemble cast of characters, along with a number of minor and recurring roles. The series website listed eleven main cast members. Alicia Coppola moved from a recurring role to a regular character in February 2008. Gerald McRaney did not have a regular role in season 2. Esai Morales was only present in season 2.
 Skeet Ulrich as Jake Green
 Lennie James as Robert Hawkins
 Ashley Scott as Emily Sullivan
 Kenneth Mitchell as Eric Green
 Michael Gaston as Gray Anderson
 Gerald McRaney as Johnston Green (season 1 only)
 Pamela Reed as Gail Green (main season 1, recurring season 2)
 Sprague Grayden as Heather Lisinski
 Shoshannah Stern as Bonnie Richmond
 Brad Beyer as Stanley Richmond
 Alicia Coppola as Mimi Clark (recurring season 1, main season 2)
 Erik Knudsen as Dale Turner
 Esai Morales as Major Edward Beck (season 2 only)
 Emily Rose as Trish Merrick (season 2 only)
 Richard Speight, Jr. as Bill Kohler

Setting
Jericho, Kansas is a fictional town. It is approximately 47 miles east of the Kansas–Colorado border (which would put it near the location of the real Colby, Kansas). However, a map (episode 3: Jericho is Ness City, Kansas on the map) in the series seems to show Jericho near the junctions of I-70 and US 83.  That would place it near the real Oakley. Jericho is 90 miles west of the also fictional Rogue River, Kansas, and around 330 miles from the real Wichita. New Bern, Kansas is a neighboring fictional town which starts a war with Jericho in the wake of the national destruction. Jericho is served by one state highway and the (fictional) Cedar Run Road.

The city's population is mentioned to be almost 5,000 as mentioned in season 1 Ep. 2 "Fallout" (1,000 in 1957). But after the great war between New Bern and Jericho, the population was reduced to 3,000. The city has one grocery store, owned by Gracie Leigh (Beth Grant).

Jericho is run by two mayors throughout the series. Johnston Green (Gerald McRaney) was the mayor at the show opening and for most of season one, but loses the election in the show. Gray Anderson (Michael Gaston), the other electoral candidate, wins the election in the show.