[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Michel Poniatowski

roglie had been treasurer of the Independent Republicans and tied to the Matesa scandal, which allegedly funded the RI. Soon after the afffair and the failure of the right wing at the March 1977 municipal elections, Poniatowski quit the Ministry of Interior and would not be called again as minister.

1980s 
Poniatowski was a founding member in 1978 of the Union for a French Democracy (UDF), the liberal and Christian democrat party that backed Valéry Giscard d'Estaing and tried to rival Chirac's neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic (RPR). Until 1981, Michel Poniatowski was ambassador and personal representative of Giscard. He was an MEP from 1979 to 1989 and presided in the European Parliament over the Commission on Development and Cooperation (1979–1984) and then the Commission on Energy, Research and Technology (1984).

Poniatowski approved in September 1983 the merger of the electoral list RPR-UDF with the far-right National Front (FN), a party headed by Jean-Marie Le Pen, during the partial municipal election of Dreux. Poniatowski stated, "The fascist danger in France does not come from the right. It comes from the left for which that is its vocation of spirit and method. One must therefore vote against the fascists of the left".

Poniatowski was then senator of the Val-d'Oise from 1989 to 1995 and continued to advocate in favour of electoral agreements with the National Front by taking as model the (difficult) relationship between the Socialist Party (PS) and the Communist Party (PCF). An atypical member of the UDF, which he had co-founded, he was first ignored by his colleagues for his support of the far right, and the National Front's ascension is usually dated from the 1983 Dreux elections. After his support for electoral agreements with the FN during the 1992 regional elections and the 1993 legislative elections, he was finally disavowed by his fellow party members at the end of 1991, but he was neither excluded nor deprived of his honorary presidential functions.

Like many members of the right wing, he supported Édouard Balladur against Chirac during the 1995 presidential election. Three years later, he participated to the right-wing party of Charles Millon, who was excluded from the UDF for the same reasons as Poniatowski, and they founded the Droite libérale-chrétienne (Liberal-Christian Right), which continued to ally itself with the National Front.

Poniatowski finally retreated from political life in 1999 and was replaced as mayor of L'Isle-Adam by his son Axel Poniatowski. He then died three years later, on 15 January 2002.

See also
Poniatowski

References and notes

Further reading

1922 births
2002 deaths
Politicians from Paris
École nationale d'administration alumni
French people of Polish descent
French Ministers of Health
Michel
French right-wing politicians
French interior ministers
Mayors of places in Île-de-France
Senators of Val-d'Oise
Union for French Democracy politicians
Members of Parliament for Val-d'Oise