[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 183]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

, he is carried
back in triumph by the hunters, as a trophy of their courage. All the
village rushes out at once; the young, the old, women and children,
uttering joyful shouts, and praising the valour of their champions. The
elders admire his prodigious size, his mighty limbs, his dreadful fangs,
and perhaps repeat tales of their own exploits; the women seem to
tremble at their fierce enemy, even in his death, while the men compel
their children to approach the monster and tinge their little weapons in
his blood. All utter joyful exclamations, and feasts are made in every
house, to which the victors are invited as the principal guests. These
are intended at once to reward those who have performed so gallant an
achievement, and to encourage a spirit of enterprise in the rest of the
nation."

"What a dreadful kind of hunting must this be!" said Tommy; "but I
suppose if any one meets a lion alone, it is impossible to resist him."

"Not always," answered the Black: "I will tell you what I once was
witness to myself. My father was reckoned not only the most skilful
hunter, but one of the bravest of our tribe; innumerable are the wild
beasts which have fallen beneath his arm. One evening, when the
inhabitants of the whole village were assembled at their sports and
dances, a monstrous lion, allured, I suppose, by the smell of human
flesh, burst unexpectedly upon them, without warning them of his
approach by roaring, as he commonly does. As they were unarmed, and
unprepared for defence, all but my father instantly fled, trembling, to
their huts; but he, who had never yet turned his back upon any beast of
the forest, drew from his side a kind of knife or dagger, which he
constantly wore, and, placing one knee and one hand upon the ground,
waited the approach of his terrible foe. The lion instantly rushed upon
him with a fury not to be described; but my father received him upon the
point of his weapon with so steady and so composed an aim, that he
buried it several inches in his belly. The beast attacked him a second
time, and a second time received a dreadful wound, not, however without
laying bare one of my father's sides with a sudden stroke of his claws.
The rest of the village then rushed in, and had soon despatched the lion
with innumerable wounds.

"This exploit appeared so extraordinary that it spread my father's fame
throughout the whole country, and gave him the name of the _undaunted
hunter_, as an honourable distinction from the neighbourhood. Under such
a parent it was not long before I was taught every species of the chase.
At first my father only suffered me to pursue stags and other feeble
animals, or took me in his canoe to fish. Soon, however, I was intrusted
with a bow and arrows, and placed with many other children and young men
to defend our rice-fields from the depredations of the _river-horse_.
Rice (it is necessary to observe) is a plant that requires great
moisture in the soil; all our plantations, therefore, are made by the
side of rivers, in the soft fertile soil which is overflowed in the
rainy season. But when the grain is almost ripe, we are forced to defend
it from a variety of hurtful animals, that would otherwise deprive us of
the fruits of our labours; among these one of the principal is the
animal I have mentioned. His size and bulk are immense, being twice the
bigness of the largest ox which I have seen in this country: he has four
legs, which are short and thick; a head of a monstrous magnitude, and
jaws that are armed with teeth of a prodigious size and strength;
besides two prominent tusks, which threaten destruction to all
assailants.

"But this animal, though so large and strong, is chiefly an inhabitant
of the river, where he lives upon fish and water-roots. It is sometimes
a curious but a dreadful sight, when a boat is gliding over a smooth
part of the stream of unusual depth and clearness, to look down and
behold this monstrous creature travelling along the bottom several yards
below the surface. Whenever this happens, the boatman instantly paddles
another way; for such is the strength of the creature, that he is able
to overset a bark of moderate size by rising under it, or to tear out a
plank with his fangs, and expose those who are in it to the dangers of
an unexpected shipwreck. All the day he chiefly hides himself in the
water, and preys upon fish; but during the gloom of night he issues from
the river, and invades the fields of standing corn, which he would soon
lay desolate, were he not driven back by the shouts and cries of those
who are stationed to defend them.

"At this work I had assisted several successive nights, till we were
almost wearied with watching. At length one of the most enterprising of
our young men proposed that we should no longer content ourselves with
driving back the enemy, but boldly attack him, and punish him for his
temerity. With this purpose we concealed ourselv