[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Camp Sovereignty

eyond the Commonwealth Games events. After many disputes and legal issues the protest concluded on 10 May 2006.

Aftermath 
After refusing to close the camp on 25 March by declaring the site of the fire in kings Domain as sacred, the state government initiated legal action to stop the demonstration.

As the camp continued beyond the Games, it continued to gain attention from levels of Governments. The Victorian government initially chose to delegate responsibility to the City of Melbourne, claiming they would not involve themselves in this contentious debate. Australian Prime Minister at the time, John Howard also commented on the state of Camp Sovereignty throughout April 2006 as the protest continued. Prime Minister John Howard criticised Victorian authorities for their inaction drawing similarities to the issues of the Aboriginal Tent Embassy in Canberra which has remained from 1972.  

As the issues of Camp Sovereignty escalated, an Indigenous heritage inspector established a ‘thirty-day emergency protection order’ for the fire in Kings Domain, close to the Kings Domain Resting place. This meant the fire which had been identified as sacred could not be destroyed until 10 May 2006 to allow all parties to reach an optimal solution. The Black GST group were unable to extend the protection order past the original date of 10 May 2006, following a rejection from the authorities. This meant the fire in Kings Domain was inevitably extinguished and the camp was taken down. This enforcement led to the end of the official events of Camp Sovereignty which began as a temporary protest throughout the 2006 Commonwealth Games.

The work of the Black GST group continues throughout the 15 years after Camp Sovereignty, continuing to protest and build upon the events in 2006. Organisers and participants of the protests have frequently used Camp Sovereignty as a talking point to discuss their motives and work. This event had characterised the work of Indigenous Australian activists and specifically the Black GST group.

Robbie Thorpe's weekly podcast frequently refer back to Camp Sovereignty and how it has led to his future work as Australian Indigenous activists. These events have shaped the work of popular Indigenous activists such as Marg & Robbie Thorpe, Robert Corowa and Gary Foley making them well known to a wider audience and popular amongst Indigenous activist communities. While some within the community have criticised their work including several Elders, the events have been praised by many future activists and Indigenous leaders, referencing Camp Sovereignty as a point of inspiration for their work. Indigenous activist and politician Lidia Thorpe accredits the work of Robbie Thorpe including his contributions to Camp Sovereignty to her work in Indigenous representation claiming "Treaty would not be on the table today, if it wasn’t for my Uncle Rob".

The aftermath of Camp Sovereignty included future protests and sister fires to continue the message of Black GST. These events have had clear impacts on Indigenous Australian activism with similar protests at major sporting events drawing clear similarities. For example, the more recent Camp Freedom protest was a direct connection to the events of Camp Sovereignty, with a large protest at the 2018 Commonwealth Games on the Gold Coast. The protesters used the publicity of the 2018 Commonwealth Games to echo the concerns from Camp Sovereignty and continues to grow as a protest movement despite being shut down in 2006.

Media coverage 
The focus of Camp Sovereignty was to maximise media coverage of Indigenous civil rights issues on a national and international scale to create reform.

The Black GST group made media coverage the focus of the protest. This shaped the plans of Camp Sovereignty using one of the most notable and publicised Australian sporting events in the Commonwealth Games as a mode of protest. This aim extended across domestic and international media outlets with the group believing ‘the world should watch and judge Australia for its treatment of its First Nations people. The events drew headlines across mainstream media outlets including The Age and The Wire which show Camp Sovereignty to be a notable protest. The group attracted frequent headlines specifically from The Age which tracked the growth of Camp Sovereignty. During 2006, the coverage was constant with comments from various governments and the current Prime Minister, it was major at the time when there was uncertainty about when and how the camp would end.