[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Fort Anne

dy, and moved south until they were about one mile (1.6 km) from Fort Anne.  Here they encountered an American reconnaissance party numbering about 170 under Captain James Gray; in the ensuing skirmish one American was killed and three more wounded before the Americans retreated to the fort.

Battle

On the morning of July 8, a supposed American deserter, who was really a spy, informed Hill that the fort was occupied by nearly 1,000 demoralized troops.  Opting not to attack the numerically superior force, Hill sent a message back to Burgoyne outlining the situation.  Burgoyne ordered the 20th and 21st regiments to quick-march toward Fort Anne in support, but poor weather hampered their movement, and they did not arrive until after the battle. The "deserter" returned to Fort Anne and reported on the British position and troop strength.

Long, seeing how few British soldiers were following him, decided to attack their position.  Moving as stealthily as possible, his force tried to surround the British while they were still on the road.  However, Hill's men heard the rebel movements on their flanks and retreated to a higher position, abandoning some wounded men, who were eventually captured by the Americans.  When the Americans opened fire, it was "a heavy and well-directed fire", according to one British officer.  The battle lasted for more than 2 hours, until both sides were nearly out of ammunition, and the British were virtually surrounded by Americans.  The sound of Indian war whoops from the north prompted the Americans to retreat, and they retired to the fort with their wounded, including Van Rensselaer, who had taken a shot in the hip.

As it turned out, there were no Indians, but only a single British officer, John Money of the 9th regiment, Burgoyne's deputy quartermaster. He had been leading a group of Indians, but when they seemed reluctant to fight the Americans, Money became impatient and ran ahead of them; it was his war cries that brought an end to the battle.

Aftermath
Back at the fort the Americans held a brief council. From a woman that the British had freed, they heard that 2,000 or more British troops under the command of General Phillips were rapidly advancing.  Long's men, as they were nearly out of ammunition, withdrew toward Fort Edward, burning the stockaded fort.  Both sides claimed victory in the battle, since the British had successfully stood their ground, and the Americans had very nearly forced them to surrender.  Any American claim for victory was tempered by the fact that the force they had defeated was clearly the vanguard of a much larger British force.

A British officer recovered some regimental banners either during the engagement or after the American retreat from Fort Anne. It is widely claimed that one of the flags captured was a new design of American flag with thirteen red and white stripes and a constellation of stars, which would represent the earliest known use of the stars and stripes motif.  However, the story is likely untrue, as the time needed for news of the flag design approved by Congress to travel, followed by construction of such a flag and then its delivery to such a remote location, renders the story implausible, and the flags that are known to have been recovered bear no resemblance to the US flag.

Battlefield preservation
The American Battlefield Trust and its partners have acquired and preserved  of the battlefield.

Notes

References

1777 in the United States
Fort Anne
Fort Anne
Fort Anne
Fort Anne
Fort Anne
Washington County, New York
1777 in New York (state)