[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Doug Livermore

1999 as joint assistant alongside Peter Shreeves at Premier League strugglers Nottingham Forest, where he worked under Ron Atkinson. The management team were unable to save Forest from relegation to Division One, and were axed in favour of former England captain David Platt for the 1999–2000 season.

Livermore then became assistant manager to Bruce Rioch at Norwich City, and was retained for the 2000–01 season, when Rioch resigned to make way for Bryan Hamilton. Hamilton quit in January to be succeeded by Nigel Worthington, and Livermore was part of the management team which secured Norwich's promotion to the Premier League as Division One champions in 2004. However, Norwich's Premier League comeback lasted just one season before they were relegated. Worthington was sacked in the autumn of 2006 after failing to get Norwich back into the Premier League, but Livermore remained at Carrow Road as assistant to new manager Peter Grant, until finally leaving on 9 February 2007 after nearly eight years on the club's coaching staff.

He then linked up with Nigel Worthington during the final weeks of the 2006–07 season as assistant to Worthington in his role as caretaker manager of Leicester City. The pair steered Leicester to survival in the Football League Championship but were not rewarded with long-term contracts and left the club.

Sources
Canary Citizens by Mark Davage, John Eastwood, Kevin Platt, published by Jarrold Publishing, (2001),

External links
 Official past players at Liverpoolfc.tv
 Player profile at LFChistory.net
 Career information
 Stats at neilbrown.com

1947 births
Liverpool F.C. players
Norwich City F.C. players
AFC Bournemouth players
Chester City F.C. players
Cardiff City F.C. players
Liverpool F.C. non-playing staff
Living people
English men's footballers
English football managers
Tottenham Hotspur F.C. managers
Premier League managers
English Football League players
Swansea City A.F.C. managers
Tottenham Hotspur F.C. non-playing staff
Nottingham Forest F.C. non-playing staff
Norwich City F.C. non-playing staff
Leicester City F.C. non-playing staff
Men's association football midfielders
Footballers from Prescot