[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pavel Batov

roffensive, Operation Uranus, providing key intelligence to Gen. Zhukov regarding the boundaries between German and Romanian forces. His army formed a key strike force in this offensive, and the subsequent Operation Ring, which reduced and defeated the encircled Axis forces. Rokossovski later wrote:

Following this victory 65th Army was moved to the northwest, rejoining Rokossovski as part of his new Central Front. Exploiting success, the Front was pushing hard against the weak German Second Army west of Kursk, when it was brought to a halt by the spring rasputitsa and German successes around Kharkov, to the south. In July 1943, Batov's army formed part of Rokossovski's Front during the giant Battle of Kursk, on a secondary sector, and in the exploitation operations that followed the German defeat. From August through October, the 65th Army forced crossings of the rivers Sev, Desna, Sozh, and finally the Dnieper, earning Batov and his army a formidable reputation in river-crossing operations.

Rokossovski's command was first renamed as Belorussian Front, and later as 1st Belorussian Front. In June 1944, Batov's army took part in major strategic operations in Belorussia. In a well-known confrontation at the planning stage, Rokossovski convinced Stalin that, given the terrain, it was better to strike two strong blows against the German forces than just one. He was counting on Batov's ability to lead his army across swampy regions south of Bobruisk, using corduroy roads, swamp shoes, and other means. The 65th Army did not disappoint, and within a few days the German Ninth Army was encircled and mostly destroyed. For his performance, Batov was promoted to Colonel General.

The 65th Army crossed the Bug River on July 22, and pushed on to cross the Narev River, north of Warsaw, by September 4. Operation Bagration had run out of steam, but Batov's army held off strong German counterattacks against the Narev bridgehead for more than two months. Following this, Rokossovski's command was renamed 2nd Belorussian Front, and forces were built up in the bridgehead for an offensive to be launched in January.

During the new offensive, 65th Army forced a crossing of the Vistula River in early February. Rokossovski later noted:

The winter offensive propelled Batov's army into eastern Germany, finally to the Oder River, near Stettin-an-Oder, where it once again forced a difficult river crossing in April 1945. Officials of the city surrendered to Batov's 193rd Rifle Division on April 26.

Following the War

After the war, Batov held various senior commands. In the summer of 1945, he was appointed to command the 7th Mechanized Army in Poland, and as force levels decreased, the 11th Guards Army, headquartered in Kaliningrad, in 1947. In 1949, he became First Deputy Commander of the Group of Soviet Forces, Germany, for a brief period before attending the Voroshilov General Staff Academy. During this time he also became a prolific writer on military theory. His treatise on river-crossing operations is still consulted to this day.

Batov became the commander of the Carpathian Military District from 1955 to 1958. In this period, he participated in the suppression of the 1956 Hungarian Revolt. He was transferred to command the Baltic Military District (1958-1959), the Southern Group of Forces (1960-1962), and finally Deputy Chief of Staff of Warsaw Pact Forces (1962-1965), replacing the deceased General A. I. Antonov. Batov resigned as an active Soviet Army officer in 1965, but continued to work in the Defense Ministry Inspectorate, and from 1970 to 1981 as Chief of the Soviet Veterans Committee. He wrote his memoirs during this time. He remained a close personal friend of Rokossovski until the latter's death in 1968, and was entrusted with the task of editing and publishing his former commander's memoirs.

Although mostly unknown to the general public, Batov had a well-deserved reputation of competence and takes place among the myriad of the talented generals who, after surviving the first part of the Soviet-Nazi war, greatly contributed to the final victory over the Nazis. He was fond of saying, "One must beat the enemy artfully, and that means with little blood." A post-war Western intelligence assessment summed him up as follows:

Batov died on April 19, 1985, in Moscow and was buried in Novodevichy Cemetery.

Awards and honors
Soviet
 Hero of the Soviet Union (twice)
 Cross of St. George (twice)
 Order of Lenin (7 times)
 Order of the October Revolution
 Order of the Red Banner (3 times)
 Order of Suvorov 1st Class (3 times)
 Order of Kutuzov 1st Class
 Order of Bogdan Khmelnitsky, 1st Class
 Order of the Patriotic War 1st Class
 Order "For Service to the Homeland in the Armed Forces of the USSR" 3rd Class
 Order of the Badge of Honor
 campaign and jubilee medals