[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John Saffin

John Saffin (baptised 22 November 1626 – 29 July 1710) was a colonial New England merchant, politician, judge, and poet.  He is best known for his A Brief and Candid Answer to Samuel Sewall's The Selling of Joseph, and for a small collection of poetry, most of which was not published until the 20th century.  Literary historian Harrison Meserole ranks Saffin as "seventh or eighth" among colonial-era poets.

Early life

There has been much historical confusion about John Saffin's date and place of birth, and of the date of his migration to New England.  Many early histories, often accepted by later writers, have placed his birth and family origin as Somerset, England, while others have claimed Exeter in Devon as his birthplace.  Dates of birth in the early 1630s were commonly cited, and numerous dates have been ascribed to his arrival in the New World.  In 1967 genealogical historian Alyce Sands wrote that Saffin himself claimed in 1658 to the son of Simon Saffin of Exeter, and found in Exeter a baptismal record for John Saffin dated 22 November 1626.  Exeter records also show that his father Simon died in January 1633/4. When exactly, and with whom (for he was not accompanied by his mother), the boy came to North America is unclear; he may have been a ward of Plymouth Colony leader Edward Winslow (who travelled frequently between Plymouth and England), or he may have travelled with relatives of his mother, Grace (Garrett) Saffin.  Garretts settled in the Rehoboth area, to which Saffin moved later in life.

Upon his arrival Saffin is known to have eventually settled in Scituate, in the northeastern part of Plymouth Colony.  There he would have been educated by Charles Chauncy, the future President of Harvard.  In 1654 he moved to Virginia, where he spent three years, establishing a merchant trade and eventually acquiring some property.

In 1658 Saffin married Marie Willett, daughter of Thomas Willett (a leading Plymouth land owner and developer), in Boston.  He made a second trip to Virginia in 1659. By 1660 the couple had settled Boston; before her death by smallpox in 1678 they had eight children, all of whom died young. The loss of these children prompted the writing of some of his elegies, which are among his better known poetic works. Saffin and Willett went on to become frequent business partners. Not long after Marie's death, Saffin married Elizabeth Lidgett, widow of a Boston merchant.  She was frequently bed-ridden with illness, and after her death he married Rebecca Lee in 1687; she was the daughter of the Anglican minister Samuel Lee who had arrived in Boston to establish the Church of England. The last relationship was apparently troubled by religious or personal differences with his in-laws, and the couple was separated for many years.

Business
The trade Saffin engaged in was fairly typical: lumber and fish from New England were shipped to Virginia, and tobacco and hides were sent north.  He is known to have been part owner of a ship involved in the direct shipment (and illegal smuggling) of slaves from Africa directly to Massachusetts, and was active in the direct shipment of African slaves to Virginia.  His merchant activities made him one of the wealthiest men in Massachusetts.  Although he is not known to have owned slaves for personal use, he did have indentured servants in his house.

King Philip's War, fought in the late 1670s, resulted in the conquering of Indian territories on the eastern shore of Narragansett Bay.  In 1680 the area around Mount Hope was awarded to the Plymouth Colony, which promptly sold it to a consortium of Plymouth men, including Saffin, the Indian fighter Benjamin Church.  This tract became what is now Swansea, Massachusetts, Bristol, Rhode Island, and all or part of other nearby communities. Saffin was also a significant investor in the Atherton Trading Company (named after Humphrey Atherton), whose partners included many of the leading merchants and politicians of both Massachusetts and Plymouth.  The company invested principally in lands now in southern Rhode Island, but had interests all over southern New England. Saffin was active in promoting development of these lands, promoting and signing an agreement in 1686 for the establishment of Kingston, Rhode Island by Huguenot refugees. The area was the subject of jurisdictional disputes between Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut, and Saffin, who had a reputation for his litigious tendencies, was involved in court actions central to the dispute.  In 1679 a Rhode Island court convicted him of attempting to uphold a foreign jurisdiction (in this case, that of Connecticut) over the disputed land.  Rhode Island confiscated his titles, and he spent some time in prison. Saffin received revenge when in 1687 Joseph Dudley, also an Atherton Trading Company principal and then president of the Dominion of New England, restored his claim.