[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yeshivat HaHesder Yerucham

Yeshiva Yerucham

Yeshivat Hesder Yerucham () is a hesder yeshiva located in the development town of Yeruham, Israel. It was founded in 1993 and currently there are over 220 students. It is known for its high level of Gemara learning.

History
In the early 1970s, a group of Religious Zionists settled in Yeruham with the goal of improving the south of Israel, and helping to increase the quality of life for the residents of Yerucham.  Over time, the group grew in number and expanded its activities by taking on educational responsibilities as well. After establishing "Midreshet B'Yahad", a Seminar Center of Judaism, Society and Zionism Studies, the group realized the need for a yeshiva as the next step in strengthening the existing projects by bringing youth to Yeruham.

The leader of this group, Shmuel Friedman Ben-Shalom, approached Rabbi Eliyhau Blumenzweig, who at the time taught at Yeshivat Har Etzion, with a proposition to be the Rosh Yeshiva, which he accepted. The yeshiva subsequently opened its doors in 1993.

Today, the yeshiva is considered to be one of the most serious hesder yeshivas in the country.

Curriculum
Daily Schedule:

Shachrit (and halachah seder): 6:30–8:00 am

Breakfast: 8:00–8:30 am

Morning seder: 8:30 am–1:00 pm

Lunch/break: 1:00–3:00 pm

Mincha: 3:00–3:20 pm

Afternoon seder: 3:20–7:30 pm

Supper: 7:30–8:00 pm

Marriv: 8:00–8:30 pm

Night seder: 8:30–11:00 pm (or later)

Yeshivat Hesder Yerucham emphasizes the importance of learning Talmud in depth, specifically through the Brisker Method. A typical day in Yeshiva will include two sessions of intensive Talmud study (iyun) and one of extensive study (bekiut).

In terms of the afternoon seder, students can either learn with a charvuras, go to shiurim, or a combination of both. The yeshiva offers weekly classes in Tanakh, Jewish philosophy, Hasidic philosophy and the works of Jewish scholars such as Maimonides, Rabbi Yehuda Halevi, the Maharal of Prague, Moshe Chaim Luzzatto, Joseph B. Soloveitchik, Abraham Isaac Kook, and many others.

The daily schedule is: shachrit at 6:30 am, followed by a halachah seder until 8:00 am. Breakfast is from 8:00–8:30 am. After breakfast is morning seder, which is typically gemara iyun, and it goes from 8:30 am – 1:00 pm. Following the morning seder is lunch and a break from 1:00–3:00 pm. Mincha is at 3:00 pm, followed by the afternoon seder, from about 3:20–7:30 pm. Afternoon seder consists of more iyun gemara, followed by a couple hours of emmunah. Many of the students use the entire afternoon seder for learning machshava, tanach, mussar, and emmunah. From 7:30–8:00 pm is Maariv, followed by supper from 8:00–8:30 pm. Night seder consists of learning bekiut, and it goes from 8:30 pm until at least 11:00 pm, although there is no given time for night seder to end, and many students learn until later.

The daily schedule goes from Sunday to Thursday, and there is a morning shiurim given on Fridays as well. On motza'ei shabbos there is night seder, and on Thursday night many students do "mishmor" and learn until very late hours of the night.

Educational approach
The gemara shiurim at the yeshiva are given at a very high level, and usually go into great depth on a certain topic in the gemara. The works of the Rishonim and Acharonim are often analyzed in the shiurim. The rosh yeshiva gives a "shiur klali" for the entire yeshiva during Thursday's morning seder.

The yeshiva guides its students to base their perspective upon the teachings of Rabbi Yehuda Halevi and the Maharal of Prague in accordance with the ideology of Abraham Isaac Kook, as is often customary in Religious Zionist yeshivas. With the goal of educating students to deal independently with the challenges they face living as observant Jews in a modern world, the yeshiva encourages a broader study of biblical, rabbinic, and other classical and modern works.

The yeshiva educates its students to be aware of their surroundings and attentive to the needs of society in general. The yeshiva believes that the keys to solving Israel's socioeconomic gaps lie in integration and education. All the students volunteer in the community mainly in the field of education. Many of the yeshiva's alumni settle in Yeruham instead of heading to the country's central cities.