[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Energy in Taiwan

In 2022, 79.6% of Taiwan's electricity generation came from fossil fuels (43.4% natural gas, 34.8% coal, 1.4% oil, 1.4% cogeneration, 1.2%), 9.1% from nuclear, 8.6% from renewables, and 1.2% from hydro.  Taiwan relies on imports for almost 98% of its energy, which leaves the island's energy supply vulnerable to external disruption. In order to reduce this dependence, the Ministry of Economic Affairs' Bureau of Energy has been actively promoting energy research at several universities since the 1990s.

Nuclear energy

Taiwan has one active nuclear reactors, the Maanshan Nuclear Power Plant.

Nuclear energy is controversial, and the privatization of the energy market (with Taipower that is owned by the state), originally planned in 2001, was postponed to 2006.  In 2012, nuclear power accounted for a total 38,890 GWh of electricity generation in Taiwan. In 2015, nuclear energy provided one quarter of base load power generation and 16% of overall generation in Taiwan. 

The 2016 election was won by the Pan-Green Coalition which supported policies that included moving toward a nuclear-free society.  In the 2018 referendums voters repealed a portion of the Electricity Act which required the phase-out of nuclear power by 2025.  However, since then, older nuclear power plants have continued to be decommissioned with no new plants planned.

Liquefied natural gas
The annual output of liquefied natural gas (LNG) from exploration and production within Taiwan is 350-400 million m3. While on the other hand, Taiwan imported 18.4 billion m3 of LNG, the fifth largest LNG importer in the world, primarily from Qatar, Malaysia and Indonesia. LNG-fired power plants in Taiwan produce electricity at a cost of NT$3.91/kWh, more than the electricity cost charged to the customers.

The Democratic Progressive Party Government of the Republic of China under Chen Shui-bian was elected in early 2000 promising to approve only liquefied natural gas power projects in the future, and to increase the share of liquefied natural gas of Taiwan's power generation to roughly one-third by 2010. President Chen's administration tried to stop the 2,600 MW Longmen Nuclear Power Plant, currently under construction, but a court has ruled the construction could not be aborted.

In January 2013, China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) and Shinfox signed an agreement to supply Kinmen with liquefied natural gas (LNG) from Mainland China. The delivery of LNG is expected to be started in early 2015 to industrial companies. At a later stage, the supply will be increased up to 100,000 tonnes per year to include power plants and households. The agreement was witnessed by Minister of Environmental Protection Administration Stephen Shen. Shen said that the cooperation is helpful to help Taiwan in realizing Kinmen to be a tourism-focused low-carbon county. During the third Cross-Strait Entrepreneurs Summit in Nanjing on 2–3 November 2015, executives from CNOOC and Shinfox gave a briefing on the joint venture project. Under the cooperation framework, CNOOC facilities in Fujian will also supply compressed natural gas, along with production technology.

As of 2017, the safety stock of LNG imported to Taiwan is seven days. In 2017 Taiwan was the world's fifth largest importer of LNG accounting for 6% of global market share.

Renewable energy

In June 2009, the Legislative Yuan passed a renewable energy act aimed at promoting the use of renewable energy, boosting energy diversification and helping reduce greenhouse gases. The new law authorizes the government to enhance incentives for the development of renewable energy via a variety of methods, including the acquisition mechanism, incentives for demonstration projects, and the loosening of regulatory restrictions in order to increase Taiwan's renewable energy generation capacity by 6.5 gigawatts to 10 gigawatts within 20 years.