[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Big Apple

under the leadership of its president, Charles Gillett. The campaign was a success, and the nickname has remained popular since then.

Today the name is used exclusively to refer to New York City, and is used with regularity by journalists and news headline writers across the English-speaking world.

In popular culture
The term "big apple" was used by Frank Sinatra in conversation with opera singer Dorothy Kirsten on an episode of the NBC radio program Light Up Time on March 28, 1950.
The Big Apple Circus was founded in Manhattan in 1977.
The New York Mets baseball team have featured a "Home Run Apple" that rises whenever a Mets player hits a home run. It has become a symbol of the Mets baseball team, recognized throughout Major League Baseball as an iconic feature of the Mets' stadiums. It first appeared in Shea Stadium, and the original can still be seen on display at Citi Field, outside the Jackie Robinson Rotunda. Citi Field now uses a new apple, one that is much larger than original.
Uses of the term abound elsewhere in the names of cultural products and events in or concerning New York, including the Big Apple Anime Fest, the Big Apple Circus, the Big Apple Theater Festival, Jess Teong's The Kid from the Big Apple and Kajagoogoo's Big Apple, and playful uses of the nickname have been seen, such as Patrick Downey's 2008 historical study of New York City's criminal underworld, entitled Bad Seeds in the Big Apple.
Following his election as President of the United States in 2016, Donald Trump hosted a party named "The Big Apple Ball",  which featured themed decorations and cut-outs of New York landmarks in honor of his home city.
In his 1982 song "Human Nature", Michael Jackson refers to New York City by singing, "If this town is just an apple, then let me take a bite".
In Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues, when asked why New York is called 'The Big Apple', Ron Burgundy says, "Because, there's an apple tree on every corner!"
In Blue's Big City Adventure, Josh calls New York "The Big Apple"

References

External links 

 The Big Apple Research on the term's history by  Barry Popik
 Straight Dope article

Culture of New York City
Symbols of New York City
Etymologies
Slang
American slang
City fruit nicknames