[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frank Gibney

ct from films and other propaganda" produced during the recent, hard-fought War in the Pacific.

Japan: The Fragile Superpower, his 1975 book, described how traditional Japan survived in the way modern commerce is practiced. Gibney "contrasted American and Japanese cultural and business traditions."

His 1982 book Miracle by Design celebrates the Japanese work ethic and overall team spirit in economic endeavors. One critic, however, notes here the commonplace comparisons between Japanese and American businesses, observing that Gibney knows the field and has "earned the right to be unoriginal."

The Pacific Century on the rise of East Asia was published in 1992. It starts in the mid-19th century, surveys the social and economic history of the region, and highlights Japan. Adapted into a ten-part series of the same name on the Public Broadcasting Service, it received an Emmy Award and featured the author. The Pacific Basin Institute, founded and led by Frank Gibney, was a co-producer of the PBS series.

While at the Encyclopædia Britannica he directed its translation into Chinese, Korean, and Japanese. A Japanese translation of the Encyclopedia appeared in 1975. The 1986 Chinese edition was evidently the "first non-Marxist reference work allowed in China." It was a 6-year effort in 10 volumes. The edition dealt "gingerly" with "sensitive" subjects.

Korea's Quiet Revolution (1992) "draws on his long personal experience in Korea" and provides an analysis of the economic growth and the emerging democracy. A brief survey of Korean history is followed by the Korean War (1950-1953), and the short-lived, democratic April Revolution of 1960 in South Korea (ROK). Ample attention is given to the extraordinary economic growth under the authoritarian rule of Park Chung Hee (1961-1979). Its focus then shifts back to the struggle for democracy, up to ROK President Roh Tae Woo (1988-1993). Two later chapters concern North Korea. An appendix presents three articles by Gibney published in 1950, 1954, and 1977.

Books on communism
Gibney's 1959 book on Poland under communism, The Frozen Revolution, began after he had visited the country as a journalist in 1957. He had come to investigate what was called the "Polish October Revolution" of 1956. It was a half-successful transformation of government, being limited by Soviet insistence on a continuance of communist rule. Gibney shows how the result seriously subverted the "imperial Communist system" in central Europe and also in Russia. He discusses the late 1950s in Poland: the Communist Party and Wladyslaw Gomulka, intellectual life, the Catholic Church, and troubles in the planned economy. Also addressed are the former-German lands, the Jews of Poland, and Poland during World War II.

The Secret World, also published in 1959, described the Soviet secret police. Gibney co-authored it with Peter Deriabin who had defected from the Soviet NKVD in 1954. Deriabin subsequently worked for the CIA and occasionally testified before congressional committees. Apparently, the book had originated as Deriabin's autobiography, Tainy Mir.

Gibney in his 1961 book The Khrushchev Pattern appraiseed the Soviet leader's career since Stalin's death in 1952. "Gibney credits Khrushchev with pulling off a prodigious public relations trick in achieving throughout most of the world a new Madison Avenue-style 'public image' for a country whose very name was anathema before he came to power." Yet his "superficially reasonable tactics" were just a dangerous as Stalin's. An appendix reviewed the status of communist parties in the countries of the world.

Gibney contributed substantial commentary to The Penkovskiy Papers (1965). Oleg Penkovskiy was a colonel in the GRU (Soviet military intelligence). The book was based around English translations of classified Russian texts, which had previously been provided to American intelligence by Penkovskiy. It presents an insider's view of Soviet intelligence agencies and their trade craft. Its Russian author and source, after a publicized trial, had been executed by the Soviet government in 1963. This book and another co-written with Deriabin made use of material requested from the CIA.

Review of works
"The extraordinary thing about Frank is that he wrote a great book in the early 1950s and was still going strong 50 years later. He had a deep perspective that came from studying history and business and politics and was able to communicate it well to the public. I don't know anyone with the same combination of energy, upbeat attitude and humor [that] Frank had," commented Professor Ezra Vogel of Harvard University, his long time friend.

Bibliography