[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Alon Shvut

cause I don't consider the territories to be occupied. You cannot conquer what has belonged to you since the time of the patriarch Abraham."

A third neighbourhood is planned for the Giv'at HaHish (גִּבְעַת הָחִי"שׁ) area northeast of the town, named after the Haganah's HISH unit's operations there.

Educational and religious institutions
Much of Alon Shvut's growth has been tied to the presence of Yeshivat Har Etzion. In addition to the families of faculty, many of its students have made their homes in the town. The yeshiva, housed in a large, white building overlooking the valley, also attracts many English-speaking students from around the world. Its founders are considered of the more moderate educators in the Hesder Yeshiva program and have gained a reputation of tolerance and modernity for the institute. Alon Shvut rabbinical school encouraged the family of a yeshiva student killed in a Tel Aviv Hamas bus bombing incident to donate his organs, and a Palestinian girl was the recipient of his liver. The teachers are respected authorities on biblical commentary, traditional law and Jewish philosophy. Herzog College for Teachers is located in Alon Shvut. Tsomet Institute is a research institute based in Alon Shvut that seeks ways of reconciling Jewish law with modern technology to enable hospitals, police, fire departments, and the military to carry out their duties on Sabbath.

Economy

The Lone Tree microbrewery, established in 2010, is located in Alon Shvut. In 2007, the Gush Etzion winery, a modern facility on the road to Alon Shvut, won a gold medal for its Cabernet Franc in the annual Mediterranean International Wine and Spirit Challenge, also known as Terravino.

Local culture
The annual Bible-learning seminar at Herzog College is a 5-day event that attracts thousands of participants from all over the country. In 2010, over 100 leading scholars delivered 150 lectures. In 2011, the seminar drew 5,000 participants and offered 200 lectures in such subjects as Biblical archaeology, hermeneutics, linguistics, poetry, history, geography, kabbalah, and Jewish law. Use of the Olympic-size swimming pool is gender-segregated.

Alon Shvut and the neighboring community of Neve Daniel are linked by a path called Derech Ha’Avot (Way of the Patriarchs).

See also
2014 Alon Shvut stabbing attack
Israeli wine

References

External links
 Official website
 Tehilla Community Guide for Alon Shvut
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 17:  IAA, Wikimedia commons
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 21:    IAA, Wikimedia commons

Populated places established in 1970
Religious Israeli settlements
Gush Etzion Regional Council
1970 establishments in the Israeli Military Governorate
Community settlements
Israeli settlements in the West Bank