[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Extradition law in the United States

In the United States, extradition law is a collection of federal laws that regulate extradition, the formal process by which a fugitive found in the United States is surrendered to another country or state for trial, punishment, or rehabilitation. 

For foreign countries, the extradition process is regulated by treaty and conducted between the federal government of the United States and the government of a foreign country. International extradition is considerably different from interstate or intrastate extradition. If requested by the charging state, US states and territories must extradite anyone charged with a felony, misdemeanor, or even petty offense in another US state or territory, even if the offense is not a crime in the custodial state.  The federal government of the United States is a separate jurisdiction from the states with limited scope, but has nationwide law enforcement presence.

Interstate extradition
The Extradition Clause in the US Constitution requires states, upon demand of another state, to deliver a fugitive from justice who has committed a "treason, felony or other crime" to the state from which the fugitive has fled.  sets the process by which an executive of a state, district, or territory of the United States must arrest and turn over a fugitive from another state, district, or territory.

For a person to be extradited interstate,  requires:

 An executive authority demand of the jurisdiction to which a person that is a fugitive from justice has fled.
 The requesting executive must also produce a copy of an indictment found or an affidavit made before a magistrate of any state or territory. The document must charge the fugitive demanded with having committed treason, felony, or other crime, and it must be certified as authentic by the governor or chief magistrate of the state or territory from where the person so charged has fled.
 The executive receiving the request must then cause the fugitive to be arrested and secure and to notify the requesting executive authority or agent to receive the fugitive.
 An agent of the executive of the state demanding extradition must appear to receive the prisoner, which must occur within 30 days from time of arrest, or the prisoner may be released. Some states allow longer waiting periods, of up to 90 days.
 Cases of kidnapping by a parent to another state see automatic involvement by the US Marshals Service.

In Kentucky v. Dennison, decided in 1860, the Supreme Court held that, although the governor of the asylum state had a constitutional duty to return a fugitive to the demanding state, the federal courts had no authority to enforce this duty. As a result, for more than 100 years, the governor of one state was deemed to have discretion on whether or not he/she would comply with another state's request for extradition.

In a 1987 case, Puerto Rico v. Branstad, the court overruled Dennison, and held that the governor of the asylum state has no discretion in performing his or her duty to extradite, whether that duty arises under the Extradition Clause of the Constitution or under the Extradition Act (), and that a federal court may enforce the governor's duty to return the fugitive to the demanding state. There are only four grounds upon which the governor of the asylum state may deny another state's request for extradition:
 the extradition documents facially are not in order;
 the person has not been charged with a crime in the demanding state;
 the person is not the person named in the extradition documents; or
 the person is not a fugitive.
There appears to be at least one additional exception: if the fugitive is under sentence in the asylum state, he need not be extradited until his punishment in the asylum state is completed.

, in practice,  Alaska and Hawaii typically do not request extradition if the crime in question is not a felony because of the associated costs of transporting the suspect and the housing fees that must be paid to the jurisdiction in which the accused is held until transported.

South Carolina, Mississippi, and Louisiana have not adopted the Uniform Criminal Extradition Act, but have adopted other extradition laws.

Intrastate extradition

Intrastate extradition may be necessary if a fugitive is arrested by a local police force (such as for a county, city, or college) in the same state or territory as the offense was allegedly committed. The procedure for doing so depends on state and possibly local laws.

International extradition

As of 2022, the United States has extradition treaties with 116 countries. Most of them are dual criminality treaties (extradition for actions considered crimes in both countries), with the remaining being list treaties (extradition for a specific list of crimes).

The United States does not have extradition treaties with the following countries that it recognizes as sovereign states: