[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Sexual conflict

is in the female's best interest if she can monopolize the male's parental care and food providence for her offspring. Therefore, the female will bite and attempt to push the male off his signaling perch and interfere with the male's secondary mating attempts in order to impose monogamy on the male.

In Remiz pendulinus, the Eurasian penduline tit, the male will build an elaborate nest and may or may not be joined by a female at any stage of construction. After eggs are laid, it is strictly uniparental incubation and offspring care; however, either parent may take the role of caregiver. Females will give care 50-70% of initiated breedings while males will give care 5-20% of the time, and approximately 30%-35% of the time, the eggs, which consist of four to five viable eggs, will be left to die, which is a considerable cost to both parents. However, being deserted also represents a large cost for the deserted parent. Therefore, timing of desertion becomes very important. Optimal timing for the males depends on the status of the clutch, and as a result the male frequently enters and remains near the nest during the egg-laying period. For females it is important not to desert too early so that the male does not also desert the eggs, but also not too late else the male deserts before the female does. Females adapt by being very aggressive towards males that try to approach the nest as well as hiding one or more eggs so that males do not have full information on the clutch status.

Breeding success of Eurasian penduline tits suggests conflicting interests between males and females in a wild population:  by deserting the clutch each parent increases her (or his) reproductive success although desertion reduces the reproductive success of their mate. This tug-of-war between males and females over care provisioning has been suggested to drive flexible parenting strategies in this species. In the closely related Cape penduline tit Anthoscopus minutus, however, both parents incubate the eggs and rear the young. A contributing factor to parenting decision is extra-pair paternity since in Cape penduline tit less than 8% of young were extra-pair whereas in Eurasian penduline tit over 24% young resulted from extra-pair paternity.

In other species such as the Guianan cock-of-the-rock, as well as other lekking species, sexual conflict may not even manifest itself in parental care. The females of these species have the tendency to select males to mate with, become fertilized, and the females raise the offspring on their own in their nests.

See also 
 Concealed ovulation
 Extra-pair copulation
 Genomic imprinting
 Intragenomic conflict
 Parent–offspring conflict
 Red Queen hypothesis
 Sexual dimorphism

Notes

References 
 Thierry Lodé, (2006) La guerre des sexes chez les animaux. (The war of the sexes in animal kingdom) Odile Jacob Eds, Paris 
 Dedicated issue of Philosophical Transactions B on Sexual Conflict freely available, Volume 367, Issue 1600, 19 August 2012.
 Dawkins, R. 1989. "Battle of the Sexes", pp. 140–165 in The Selfish Gene. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

External links 
 Intralocus Sexual Conflict Diminishes the Benefits of Sexual Selection

Mating
Evolutionary biology
Sexual selection