[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Siege of Lathom House

take her or any of her friends alive".

The siege was lifted on the night of 27 May as the Royalist general Prince Rupert approached Lathom with thousands of cavalry and infantry. Charlotte and her household departed for the Isle of Man, leaving the care of Lathom House to Colonel Edward Rawstorne.

Second siege
After the Parliamentary victory at the Battle of Marston Moor, which was fought 2 July 
1644, the north of England was largely under Parliamentary control apart from areas close to Royalist garrisons such as Lathom House. The next year (1645), in July, 4,000 Parliamentary troops returned to begin the second siege. Their commander Colonel Peter Egerton made Ormskirk his headquarters while his men encamped on Aughton Moss (or Aughton Moor), near Aughton Mill. Trenchfield House, on the site of this encampment, still retains the name.

The garrison did not capitulate quickly, but when it became clear that no relief could be expected, and supplies were running short, famine forced Colonel Rawstorne's hand and he surrendered at discretion to Colonel Egerton on 2 December 1645.

Aftermath
The fall of Lathom House was regarded as an event of the first importance by the Parliamentary party. Besides the material gain of twelve pieces of cannon and a large store of arms and ammunition, the Republicans had achieved a great moral triumph in the fall of the famous royalist house, and an order was issued by the 
House of Commons "for the ministers about London to give public thanks to God, on the next Lord's Day, for its surrender".

After the Restoration the property was regained by the Derby family, and in the early part of the eighteenth century it was still occasionally inhabited by them, but Knowsley Hall succeeded Lathom House as the principal seat of the Stanley family.

In Literature
 Letitia Elizabeth Landon's poem 'Lord and Lady Derby' and the notes attached reflect on Lady Derby's fortitude during the siege.

Popular culture
The song "They called her Babylon" by Steeleye Span tells the story of the siege. It appears on their 2004 album of the same name.

Citations

References

Further reading

External links

Sieges of the English Civil Wars
Battles involving Lancashire
1644 in England
Conflicts in 1644
17th century in Lancashire
Siege of