[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Canada-Israel Committee

plan, and implement its agenda. Additionally, the CIC was governed by its executive committee, which consisted of nine to twelve members. In times of fast-moving developments or emergencies, the executive committee would take over the helm of the CIC and functioned under a flexible response regime.

In its first decades of existence, the head of the CIC was the national executive director. This person was tasked with administering budgetary priorities and being the chief spokesman on behalf of the committee. In the end, the national executive director remained beholden to the board of directors for implementing prerogatives and reporting process. In the late 1980s, the organization modified its leadership hierarchy to a single chairman, with two Vice Chairs serving directly under the chairman. The position of CEO was also created at the Ottawa office to spearhead media and business relations, though it remained separate from the board of directors. These individuals served on the CIC board of directors in 2006:

Mode of operation 
Functionally, the CIC was a centralized organization, with its focal point being the Ottawa office. This arrangement was naturally advantageous for the CIC because foreign policy itself was, and remains today, consolidated in Ottawa with the Canadian federal government. Yet the need to include all Jewish communities at the table, particularly small, rural localities, was an institutionally binding feature of the CIC. Thus, the committee decentralized some power to better incorporate all Jewish representatives across Canada into the organization.

Structure 
Overall, the CIC's structure was distinctly similar to the corporate model of governance. Much of its membership came from the wealthy and upper-classes of Canadian Jewry, who often had familiarity with corporate procedures, organization, and operation. Uniquely, the CIC had no due-paying membership base. This is in contrast to other Canadian Jewish organizations, such as B’nai Brith, which relied on dues. Without a membership base, the CIC could exercise independence in a manner membership-based organization could not; however, the CIC could not self-sufficiently procure revenue without members. Thus, the CIC was principally reliant on donor organizations for money, and therefore, was answerable to them.

Activity

Lobbying

Parliament 
CIC lobbying efforts directed toward the Canadian federal government came in a variety of arrangements. Most popular among these were standard interest group mailed letters, petitions, and phone calls to members of parliament. The CIC further employed “advertisements, demonstrations, and whisper campaigns…” With the intent to brief government officials, the CIC published a biweekly communiqué entitled The Middle East Digest to members of Parliament and senior staff. Regarded as highly reputable, the brief examined Middle Eastern current events, Israeli actions in the region, and Canadian policy, while providing recommendations moving forward. The brief, tailored for busy members of Parliament (MPs), was professionally designed with analysis presented on the broader Middle East, so as to not appear concerned solely with Israel. The CIC hoped to garner support for Israel amongst MPs with the convenience of these briefs. Moreover, the CIC invited select MPs and members of the media to attend annual trips to Israel. CIC outreach to back-benchers and new MPs was personalized to parallel the values of the Canadian parties with which it interacted. Reaching out to new MPs was seen as a generational investment in support for Israel. Doing this allowed the CIC to build and sustain ties across political persuasions. The CIC firmly believed that the back-benchers of today could become the Prime Ministers of tomorrow. Regardless of which party held power, the CIC sought enduring positive Canada-Israel relations.

To produce a government more receptive to its lobbying, the CIC issued soft warnings to MPs who voted counter to their positions. These warnings included reminding MPs the strength of individual Jewish voters in crucial swing districts and the financial power held by Jewish elites. However, the CIC was a reluctant actor in electoral politics. Local organization was predominantly in charge of informing Jewish voters who were allies to their cause and who were not. The national organization largely avoided political campaigns, leaving donations to private individuals. Instead, the CIC sought positive working relationships whichever party took power. To this end, the CIC invited all Canadian MPs to its annual dinner to nurture its bipartisan political appeal.