[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# HonestReporting

HonestReporting (also Honest Reporting or honestreporting.com) is a non-governmental organization that "monitors the media for bias against Israel" and has been described by several news outlets as a "pro-Israel media watchdog group". The organization is a United States 501(c)3 registered charity headquartered in New York City, with its editorial staff based in Jerusalem.

History
HonestReporting (HR) was founded as an email list by Jewish British university students in 2000, and sponsored by the Aish Hatorah Yeshiva, after a skewed news report in The New York Times showed a bleeding boy near a yelling Israeli soldier waving a club. The caption read "An Israeli Policeman and a Palestinian on Temple Mount." The picture was interpreted as depicting the Israelis as aggressors against Palestinian children and was used in an official Egyptian government website, in the Palestinian information center website www.islam.net and on online calls to boycott Coca-Cola for doing business with Israel. In fact, the picture was of an American Jewish boy, Tuvia Grossman, being saved by Israeli soldiers from a lynch mob in the mostly Arab neighborhood of Wadi Joz in Jerusalem, during Rosh Hashanah, at the onset of the Second Intifada. The boy's father sent a letter to The New York Times, but the caption was at first only partly corrected. The email list called for the readers to personally participate in getting the editors to show the facts, urging the readers to first carefully read the article and decide for themselves, and then to respond factually and correctly in their own words. The readers were also urged to send in similar news coverage that was unfactual or written in a biased way. The list reported about successful cases, the first being the full correction of the first article by The New York Times and the publication of the ordeal the boy actually went through.

By 2003 the list had 150,000 subscribers and began raising funds for it to become an independent organization. In 2003, HonestReporting Canada (HRC) was founded as an "independent, non-profit organization" headquartered in Toronto, Canada. In 2006, HonestReporting was granted "independent Charitable Organization status in Israel to complement its US status."

In March 2006, a dedicated website by HonestReporting for covering the Media in the UK was launched by two expatriate Britons, CEO Joe Hyams, and Managing Editor Simon Plosker. In 2011, the HR UK website was merged into the main site.

Mission

HonestReporting's self-declared mission statement claims that,

"We embrace the principle that a healthy democracy requires a well informed citizenry. Accordingly, the mission of HonestReporting is to ensure truth, integrity and fairness, and to combat ideological prejudice in journalism and the media, as it impacts Israel. We engage the next generation and educate the public to understand and value the above aspirations."

Activities
HonestReporting reviews news articles and op-eds regarding Israel to check for and respond to any bias or fake news. They create and distribute content and tools for readers to understand news about Israel from a fair perspective. They hold in-person and on-line events with experts about how the Jewish people and Israel is portrayed in the media.

Successes 
HonestReporting has prompted many corrections in the media over the years including:

Idris Muktar Ibrahim, a producer at CNN, was found to have written on Twitter praise for Hamas and in a separate tweet posted "#TeamHitler." After HonestReporting contacted CNN about the producer's ability to report impartially, CNN ended their working relationship with him. He later apologized.

Award-winning journalist Shatha Hammad was discovered to have posted on Facebook that she was friends with Adolf Hitler and that they "share the same ideology, such as the extermination of the Jews" Hammad made other posts using the nickname "Hitler" and denying Israel's right to exist. She also termed terrorists who murdered Israeli worshippers in the 2014 Jerusalem synagogue attack as "martyrs." After HonestReporting's exposure of her posts, the Thomson Reuters Foundation and the Kurt Schork Memorial Fund withdrew the awards they had granted her.

News producer Fady Hanona was discovered to have posted Anti-semitic social media posts by HonestReporting, leading news outlets he previously worked for such as The New York Times, The Guardian, and others to cut ties with him.