[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Man Singh II

(10-Goal) polo player, winning among other trophies the World Cup in 1933. The Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur is named in his honour. During the 1950s, Man Singh owned Saint Hill Manor in East Grinstead, West Sussex, which was sold to L. Ron Hubbard, founder of Scientology in 1959.

Personal life

Marriages
Man Singh II was married three times, and his three wives lived in the same household together, in accordance with Rajput custom. His first two marriages were to suitable brides chosen from the royal family of Jodhpur, whose Rajput heritage and social ranking were similar to his own. The senior Maharani, known within the palace as 'First her Highness,' was Marudhar Kunwar, sister of Sumer Singh, Maharaja of Jodhpur. She was about twelve years older than him and bore him two children: first a daughter, Prem Kumari, and then his eldest son and heir, Bhawani Singh. His second wife was Maharani Kishore Kanwar, niece of his first wife and daughter of Maharaja Sumer Singh of Jodhpur. She was five years younger than he and bore him two sons.

He was briefly involved with English socialite Lady Ursula Manners.

In 1940, Man Singh II married for the third and last time. His bride was the legendary beauty Gayatri Devi of Cooch Behar, the daughter of Maharaja Jitendra Narayan of Cooch Behar and Maharani Indira Devi, princess of Baroda. She stands out among the Maharanis of Jaipur for having become a public figure and a celebrity of sorts, initially for being a fashion-conscious beauty and later for becoming a politician and parliamentarian. They had one son. Devi survived him by thirty-nine years, dying in 2009.

Children
Man Singh was the father of four sons and a daughter, borne to him by his three wives. They were:
By his first wife, Maharani Marudhar Kunwar, one son and one daughter
 Prem Kumari (1929–1970). In 1948, she was given in marriage to the Maharawal of Baria. She had one daughter.
 Bhawani Singh (1931–2011), succeeded to his father's title in 1970. In 1967, he married Padmini Devi, daughter of the Raja of Sirmur, and had one daughter;
 Diya Kumari (b. 1970). She has three children, including one son who was adopted by Bhawani Singh and declared his successor, namely:
 Padmanabh Singh (b. 1998). Born a commoner, he was declared royal and adopted by his maternal grandfather in 2002.

By his second wife, Maharani Kishore Kunwar, two sons
 Jai Singh (b. 1933). he was given the title of Raja of Jhalai and the estate of Jhalai in appanage by his father. In 1983, he married Vidya Devi, daughter of the Raja of Jubbal, and has one son. 
 Ajay Singh
 Prithviraj (1935–2020); received the title Raja of Bhagwatgarth. In 1961, he married Devika Devi, a princess of Tripura and a niece (sister's daughter) of his step-mother Gayatri Devi. They had been living separately from each other by the time she died in 2009, a few months before her aunt. Gayatri Devi tended to support her step-son and deprecate her niece in the matter of their marital differences, and Prithviraj Singh remained close to his step-mother all his life. Prithviraj and Devika had one son together:
 Vijit Singh, who in 1991 married Minakshi Devi, daughter of the Maharaja of Lunawada, and has three children; two sons named Vedant Singh (b. 1992) and Siddhant Singh (b. 1996), and a daughter Mokshita (b. 1993).

By his third wife, Gayatri Devi (1919–2009)
 Prince Jagat Singh, (1949–1997) received the title Raja of Isarda was married in 1978 (divorced 1987) to a Thai princess. He had two children by her, namely,
 Lalitya Kumari (b. 1979), daughter
 Devraj Singh, (b. 1981), son

Death

In 1970, Man Singh had an accident while playing polo in Cirencester, England. He died later the same day. He was survived by his four sons. He was succeeded as Maharaja of Jaipur and head of the Kachwaha clan by his eldest son, Maharaja Sawai Bhawani Singh of Jaipur.  Following his death Indira Gandhi was finally able to repress the power of India's former rulers in democratic India as they formed a large bulk of her opposition party, the Swatantra party.

A statue of Sawai Man Singh was installed at the Ram Niwas Bagh in Jaipur, the statue was unveiled at a grand function on 30 March 2005. A Cricket Stadium in Jaipur was named after him. His wife Gayatri Devi also made a school after him and was named Maharaja Sawai Man Singh Vidyalaya.

His successor, Maharaja Sawai Bhawani Singh of Jaipur died on 17 April 2011, aged 79.

See also

Jaipur State
Gayatri Devi
Man Singh I

References

Works cited 
 

Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Star of India
Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire
1912 births
1970 deaths
20th-century Indian monarchs
Indian polo players
Accidental deaths in England
Sport deaths in England
Polo deaths
Ambassadors of India to Spain
People from Jaipur
Maharajas of Jaipur
Indian knights
Indian Hindus
Rajpramukhs
Polo players from Rajasthan
Rajya Sabha members from Rajasthan