[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of critics of Islam

Criticism of Islam has existed since its formative stages. Early written disapproval came from Jews and Christians, before the ninth century, many of whom viewed Islam as a radical Christian heresy, as well as by some former Muslim atheists and agnostics, such as Ibn al-Rawandi. The September 11 attacks and other terrorist attacks in the early 21st century, reignited suspicion and criticism of all of Islam, with calls for moderates to condemn the terrorism of the fundamnatalists and help prevent radicilsation and islamophobia.

Objects of criticism include the morality and authenticity of the Quran and the Hadiths, along with the life of Muhammad, both in his public and personal life. Other criticism concerns many aspects of human rights in the Islamic world (in both historical and present-day societies), including slavery, treatment of women, LGBT groups, and religious and ethnic minorities in Islamic law and practice. The issues when debating and questioning Islam are incredibly complex with each side having a different view on the morality, meaning, interpretation, and authenticity of each topic.

Middle Ages

 John of Damascus, a Syrian monk and presbyter.
 Persian scholar Ibn al-Rawandi (827–911 CE) started out as a Mu'tazilite Muslim, but later he repudiated Islam and revealed religion in general, rejecting the authority of any scriptural or revealed religion, pointing out specific Muslim traditions and trying to show that they are laughable.
 Persian polymath Abu Bakr al-Razi ( 865–925 CE) is said to have been heavily critical of the institution of prophethood, the belief in miracles and the practice of obedience to religious authorities as against reason. However, according to Peter Adamson, Abu Bakr al-Razi may have been "deliberately misdescribed" by his fellow townsman Abu Hatim al-Razi. In this view, Abu Bakr was mainly arguing against the use of miracles to prove Muhammad's prophecy, against anthropomorphism, and against the uncritical acceptance of taqlīd vs naẓar. 
Abu Isa al-Warraq was a ninth-century Arab skeptic scholar and critic of Islam and religion in general. Al-Warraq also doubted claims portraying Muhammad as a prophet.
 Arab skeptic, rationalist philosopher and poet Al-Maʿarri (973-1057 CE) started out as a Sunni Muslim but later he repudiated Islam, became a critic of Abrahamic religions and Islam, and wrote a satire on the Qu'ran. He wrote and taught that religion itself was a "fable invented by the ancients" and that humans were "of two sorts: those with brains, but no religion, and those with religion, but no brains."
Manuel II Palaiologos, Byzantine Emperor, wrote in 1391 "Show me just what Muhammad brought that was new and there you will find things only evil and inhuman, such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he preached".

Early Modern period
Martin Luther, the father of the Protestant Reformation, wrote on Islam.
French polymath and philosopher Voltaire wrote Mahomet, ou Le Fanatisme (1741), a religious satire on the life of Muhammad, described as a self-deceived, perverted religious fanatic and manipulator, and his hunger for political power behind the foundation of Islam. He also wrote letters on the brutality of Muhammad and his followers, affirming that it stemmed from superstition and lack of Enlightenment.

19th century

During the late 19th and early 20th century, the new methods of Higher criticism were applied to the Qu'ran, claiming that it had a non-divine origin. Ignác Goldziher and Henry Corbin wrote about the influence of Zoroastrianism, and others wrote on the influence of Judaism, Christianity and Sabianism.

Alexis de Tocqueville, French political thinker and historian, said about Islam: "I studied the Kuran a great deal ... I came away from that study with the conviction that by and large there have been few religions in the world as deadly to men as that of Muhammed."
John Quincy Adams, sixth President of the United States (1825–1829), wrote: "In the seventh century of the Christian era, a wandering Arab of the lineage of Hagar [i.e., Muhammad], the Egyptian, combining the powers of transcendent genius, with the preternatural energy of a fanatic, and the fraudulent spirit of an impostor, proclaimed himself as a messenger from Heaven, and spread desolation and delusion over an extensive portion of the earth.
Hilaire Belloc, Anglo-French writer and historian.
G.K. Chesterton, English writer.
Dayanand Saraswati, in his book Satyarth Prakash, he criticized Islam.
Pandit Lekh Ram was an Arya Samaj Hindu leader and writer in India who was active in converting Muslims to Hinduism.
Winston Churchill, the British Prime Minister through most of World War II, criticized what he alleged to be of the effects Islam had on its believers. In his 1899 book The River War he attributed to Muslims their fanatical frenzy combined with fatalistic apathy, enslavement of women, and militant prozelityzing.

Contemporary critics

Muslims