[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 34]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

k point."

"Oh, but he is musical, though his technical knowledge is small."

But Temperley smiled dubiously.

The Professor, freed from his customary hard work, was like a schoolboy.
His delight in the open air, in the freshness of the hills, in the
peace of the mellow autumn, was never-ending.

He loved to take a walk before breakfast, so as to enjoy the first
sweetness of the morning; to bathe in some clear pool of the river; to
come into healthy contact with Nature. Never was there a brighter or a
wholesomer spirit. Yet the more Hadria studied this clear, and vigorous,
and tender nature, the more she felt, in him, the absence of that
particular personal hold on life which so few human beings are without,
a grip usually so hard to loosen, that only the severest experience, and
the deepest sorrow have power to destroy it.

Hadria's letters to her sister, at this time, were full of enthusiasm.
"You cannot imagine what it is, or perhaps you _can_ imagine what it
is to have the society of three such people as I now see almost every day.

"You say I represent them as impossible angels, such as earth never
beheld, but you are wrong. I represent them as they are. I suppose the
Professor has faults--though he does not show them to us--they must be
of the generous kind, at any rate. Father says that he never could keep
a farthing; he would always give it away to undeserving people. Miss Du
Prel, I find on closer acquaintance, is not without certain jealousies
and weaknesses, but these things just seem to float about as gossamer on
a mountain-side, and one counts them in relation to herself, in about
the same proportion. Mr. Temperley--I don't know quite what to say about
him. He is a tiny bit too precise and finished perhaps--a little wanting
in _élan_--but he seems very enlightened and full of polite information;
and ah, his music! When he is playing I am completely carried away. If
he said then, 'Miss Fullerton, may I have the pleasure of your society
in the infernal regions?' I should arise and take his arm and reply,
'Delighted,' and off we would march. But what am I saying? Mr. Temperley
would never ask anything so absurd.

"You would have thought that when Miss Du Prel and Professor Fortescue
arrived on the scene, I had about enough privileges; but no, Destiny,
waking up at last to her duties, remembers that I have a maniacal
passion for music, and that this has been starved. So she hastens to
provide for me a fellow maniac, a brother in Beethoven, who comes and
fills my world with music and my soul with----But I must not rave. The
music is still in my veins; I am not in a fit state to write reasonable
letters. Here comes Mr. Temperley for our practice. No more for the
present."

Temperley would often talk to Hadria of his early life, and about his
mother and sister. Of his mother he spoke with great respect and
affection, the respect perhaps somewhat conventional, and allowing one
to see, through its meshes, the simple fact that she was looked up to as
a good and dutiful parent, who had worshipped her son from his birth,
and perfectly fulfilled his ideas of feminine excellency. From her he
had learnt the lesser Catechism and the Lord's Prayer, since discarded,
but useful in their proper season. Although he had ceased to be an
orthodox Christian, he felt that he was the better for having been
trained in that creed. He had a perfect faith in the system which had
produced himself.

"I think you would like my mother," said Temperley.

Hadria could scarcely dispute this.

"And I am sure she would like you."

"On that point I cannot offer an opinion."

"Don't you ever come to town?" he asked.

"We go to Edinburgh occasionally," she replied with malice, knowing that
he meant London.

He set her right.

"No; my father hates London, and mother never goes away without him."

"What a pity! But do you never visit friends in town?"

"Yes; my sister and I have spent one or two seasons in Park Lane, with
some cousins."

"Why don't you come this next season? You ought to hear some good
music."

The _tête-a-tête_ was interrupted by the Professor. Temperley looked
annoyed. It struck Hadria that Professor Fortescue had a very sad
expression when he was not speaking. He seemed to her lonely, and in
need of the sort of comfort that he brought so liberally to others.

Although he had talked to Hadria about a thousand topics in which they
were both interested, there had been nothing personal in their
conversation. He was disposed, at times, to treat her in a spirit of
affectionate banter.

"To think that I should ever have dared to offer this young lady
acidulated drops!" he exclaimed on one occasion, when Hadria was looking
flushed and perturbed.

"Ah! shall I ever forget those acidulated drops!" she cried,
brightening.

"You don't mean to say that you would stoop to them now?"

"It is not one's oldest friends who always kn