[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Erk Russell

tion"---and came up with the idea of rearranging the letters to produce a memorable slogan: "G.A.T.A."---"Get After Their Asses".

Perhaps the most lasting impression was Russell ramming his bald dome into a helmeted player to celebrate a turnover or key play, leaving his forehead drenched in blood.

Coach Russell was a master motivator who did not forget that, as someone who molded young men in a university setting, he was a teacher first and foremost. He passed along life lessons, and not just defensive techniques, to his players and he knew how to get his message across to them.

While Vince Dooley was still contemplating the dismissal of several Bulldogs after the infamous hog incident of 1980, Coach Russell was the one who saw how it could be used to bring the team together. When Len Bias died of an overdose in 1986; as head coach of Georgia Southern, Coach Russell conveyed the dangers of drug use by throwing a rattlesnake on the floor in a team meeting to make sure his analogy would be remembered.

The Miracle Worker
Russell appeared in line to take over as Georgia's head coach when Dooley got a lucrative offer from Auburn, their alma mater. But Dooley decided to stay at Georgia, and Russell was lured to what was then Georgia Southern College to restart a program dormant for 40 years. After three years as a club team, Russell led the program into Division I-AA in 1984.

Russell was forced to build the program with a shoestring budget.  There was not enough money for game and practice pants, so Russell's Eagles were forced to use their white practice pants as their game pants as well.  He bought solid blue helmets and had his players put a stripe of tape down the middle.  With no money for transportation to home games, the Eagles had to make do with surplus school buses bought from Bulloch County for only a dollar apiece.

Despite such hardships, Russell didn't take long to turn the Eagles into a powerhouse.  In only their second year of existence, the Eagles won the national title.  They would add two more under Russell's watch, in 1986 and 1989.  Paul Johnson, future head coach of Georgia Southern, Navy, and Georgia Tech, served as offensive coordinator for the first two championship teams.  Len Gravelson handled the defense, although Russell was arguably the man in charge.  Both men would leave following the 1986 championship.  Russell's bald head, coupled with the fact that he coached the Eagles, gave him the nickname "The Bald Eagle".

After the Eagles moved to Division I-AA in 1984, he fashioned a 70–14 (.825) mark. Russell averaged 10.4 wins per season.  He entered the 1989 season as America's winningest coach, orchestrator of two national championships, 68 wins and 14 All-America selections—all during a seven-year period. In the ensuing 105 days, extended Division I's longest home win streak from 26 to 37 games, en route to winning a third national title and becoming the only 15–0 college team of the 20th century.  Russell retired after that season with a record of 83–22–1 (.788).

Russell briefly cut his ties with Georgia Southern after head coach Mike Sewak fired his son Rusty from the coaching staff in 2004. In 2006, with the hire of new Head Coach Brian VanGorder, he was reunited with the program. Russell died on the morning of September 8, 2006, after suffering a stroke while driving his car near his Statesboro home. Russell had addressed the football team on the night prior to his death.

Posthumously

Georgia Southern University and thousands of friends, family, and fans gathered at Paulson Stadium to mourn the passing of Erk Russell, one of America's most exciting and successful college football coaches. The cause of death was a stroke while pulling out of a gas station (The Country Store) on the west side of Statesboro off of Cypress Lake Road. He frequented the store daily and was commonly seen there daily playing scratch off lotto tickets and smoking a cigar while sitting at a table with friends. He greeted fellow customers with a friendly smile and handshake that some say was much stronger than a man his age should have had. It was told that he frequented the store so much that the owners let him answer the phone.

Victory cigars
Cigars were a staple of Erk Russell's image. Russell claimed that his favorite brand of cigars were "OPs", which he joked stood for "other people's". He made a point to smoke a cigar after every Eagle victory that he was involved in. Eagle fans around the U.S. are known to celebrate in the same manner as a tribute to Russell.

Memorials

In honor of Russell, Georgia Southern University renamed the area encompassing Allen E. Paulson Stadium, the Gene Bishop Field House, Cowart Building and the soccer and track stadium "Erk Russell Athletic Park." Furthermore, a bronze bust and statue of Russell are now displayed at the stadium.