[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nuri Kino

ik Sandberg, Kino made Assyriska - landslag utan land ("Assyriska - national team without a nation") for Sveriges Television. In 2006 it won the Golden Palm Award at the Beverly Hills Film Festival. With Jenny Nordberg he made the documentary The High Price of Ransom  for Dan Rather Reports in 2008.

Books
In 2007, Kino published By God - Sex dagar i Amman (By God – Six Days in Amman), a report on the consequences of the Iraqi war. In 2010 he wrote Still Targeted: Continued Persecution of Iraq's Minorities, a report for Minority Rights Group International.

In 2011, he published Den svenske Gudfadern (The Swedish Godfather), about Milan Ševo, a convicted felon born in Serbia but brought up in Sweden, who claimed that close friends of King Carl XVI Gustaf had given him the task of destroying evidence that linked them and the king to porn clubs. The book was presented as a work of journalism illuminating the attraction that crime has for young people. Journalist Hanne Kjöller of Dagens Nyheter considered the book lacking in both objectivity and criticism of the sources, calling it a "portrait of an idol". However, the Swedish tabloid Aftonbladet reported that Ševo confirmed the information in the book was correct. Writing in Göteborgs-Posten, Mattias Hagberg thought the controversy detracted from Kino's message. According to the book's publisher, Kino's computer was hacked and threats were made to stop a planned TV film. 

Kino has also published novels. In 2008 with Jenny Nordberg he published Välgörarna - Den motvillige journalisten (Benefactors - The Reluctant Journalist), a suspense novel whose main character he has said is based on himself; it has been translated into Finnish, German, and Norwegian.

In 2010, he and David Kushner published Gränsen är dragen, a novel set against the backdrop of the war in Iraq and the situation of Iraqi Christians; it was published in the U.S. in 2013 as The Line in the Sand.

Awards

2000
Awarded Guldspaden with Wolfgang Hansson for work at Aftonbladet on human trafficking.

2002
Awarded Guldspaden for journalism for work on refugee children.

2003
Awarded Guldspaden for a joint effort with Jenny Nordberg and Margita Boström for a Swedish Radio report titled Tolkar och spioner (interpreters and spies).

2004
Ikaros Prize for Best Public Service Radio program by Swedish Radio
Awarded Den gyllene haldan ("The Golden Halda") (also known as Det lite större journalistpriset), for journalist students at Mitt University in Sundsvall, Sweden

2006
Suryoyo (Assyrian) of the Year by Hujådå.
Journalist of the Year by Qenneshrin and Suroyo TV, a Syriac newspaper and satellite television service.
Blatte de Luxe Award for Journalism 
Assyrian of the Year by Zinda Magazine
Assyrian of the Year by the Assyrian Youth Federation of Sweden
Golden Palm Award of the Beverly Hills Film Festival, for Assyriska.

2007
Blatte de Luxe Award for Journalism: first person to win the award two years in a row.

2008
Ikaros Prize for Best Public Service Radio program by Swedish Radio

2009
One of a hundred Swedish inspiring people, awarded by Leva Magazine

2010
Journalist Prize of the European Parliament for radio, with Kajsa Norell.

References

External links
Nuri Kino official website and blog

1965 births
Living people
Assyrian writers
Swedish people of Assyrian/Syriac descent
Turkish people of Assyrian descent
Swedish journalists
Swedish male bloggers
Turkish emigrants to Germany
German emigrants to Sweden
Sommar (radio program) hosts
Assyrian activists