[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vidyasagar College

Bidhannagar Campus at the Salt lake Sector II, which is specialized for post-graduate courses. The three campuses and playground consists total around 3 acres (excluding Vidyasagar Women's college and Vidyasagar Metropolitan college campuses) with total built up area being 8210.13 sq. Mr.

Academics

Departments and courses
The college has following  21 departments in UG level: English, Bengali, Hindi, Sanskrit, Philosophy, History, Political Science, Economics, Geography, Journalism, Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Computer Science, Electronics, Zoology, Botany, Physiology, Bio-Chemistry, Psychology and Food & Nutrition. The college offers 20 honours courses, 4 general courses.

The post graduate courses are offered in Geography (Regional Planning, Urban & Transport Geography, Advanced Geomorphology, Population & Welfare Geography) and Zoology (Fisheries and Aquaculture, Entomology, Environmental Biology and Ecotoxicology, Genetics and Molecular Biology, Parasites and Immunology).

Computer centre and courses
The college has a separate Computer Centre and computer education unit, which is directly accredited by the National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology, Department of Electronics, Government of India. It conducts CCC ,”O” Level and “A” Level Courses which are recognized by the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE). The Directorate of Employment, Govt. of West Bengal has also recognized the courses that are taught at this centre. The Computer Centre is governed by an academic committee, composed of faculty members from the college and from the Institute of Computer Engineers (India). Various educational CDs can be accessed through the CD library of the centre.

NAAC Accreditation
In cycle 2 accreditation of 2016, by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council, the college was re-accredited a "B++" grade on the basis of CGPA 2.80. In cycle 1, the college was accredited a "B" grade on the basis of CGPA 2.63 under a four point scale.

Incidents

Attacks due to political violence 
A scuffle broke out between student activists from the All India Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party. Stone pelting incidents have been reported near a college hostel on Bidhan Sarani Street in Kolkata during Amit Shah's Road show in May 2019. BJP workers and supporters shouted "Jai Shri Ram" and "Narendra Modi Zindabad" during the road show. BJP activists locked the doors of the hostel and set up bicycles and motorbikes parked outside on fire. Local news organisation Anandabazar Patrika’s ground report shows stones being hurled inside the premises by people standing outside on the road, wearing saffron coloured “NaMo Again” t-shirts. The footage does not show anyone throwing stones from inside the campus. In the violence that followed, the BJP workers vandalized the college hostel and destroyed the bust of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar.

Notable alumni

See also 
List of colleges affiliated to the University of Calcutta
Education in India
Education in West Bengal
Vidyasagar College for Women

References

External links

 

Academic institutions associated with the Bengal Renaissance
Vidyasagar College
Educational institutions established in 1872
Schools in Colonial India
University of Calcutta affiliates
1872 establishments in India