[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# TT69

women.  These scenes do not depict Menna's actual funeral, and more likely represent an idealized funeral procession by combining actual ritual with more ancient practices.  On the left hand wall, the funeral procession ends with depictions of the funerary deities Anubis and the Goddess of the West.

The decoration in the long hall also includes one of the earliest depictions of the Weighing of the Heart.  This scene, which derives from vignettes of the Book of the Dead, depicts the tomb owner standing before a scale on which his heart, and therefore his deeds in life, are weighed against the concept of truth and justice, called ma’at in Egyptian.  In Menna's tomb this concept is depicted as the goddess of truth and justice, Ma’at. She is shown as a seated woman with a feather on her head. (Other depictions of this scene may include only the feather, which is the spelling for the word ma’at.) The god Osiris presides over the ceremony, as Horus balances the scales, and Thoth records the results.

Menna's tomb also has a fishing and fowling scene in the long hall, which shows the tomb owner (depicted twice) spearing fish and hunting birds with a throw stick in the marshes.  Menna's family accompanies him, dressed in their finest linen clothing and adorned with jewelry and flowers. The marsh itself is shown with a profusion of life including images of birds, fish, butterflies, a crocodile, and even a small cat who stalks a nest full of eggs.

Just as in the broad hall, there are many images of offering bearers bringing offerings to seated images of Menna and Henuttawy.  On both walls of the long hall these offering bringers are oriented to look as if they are walking into the tomb, and therefore toward the central shrine where living visitors to the tomb would leave their offerings of food, drink, and flowers.

Shrine

At the end of the long hall is a small niche that once contained a gypsum plaster statue of Menna and his wife, Henuttawy.  Only the legs and the feet of the small statue still remains.  The wall around the niche is decorated and includes images of four offering bringers who hold trays of fruit, bread, beer, and bouquets towards the statue niche. When the tomb was in use, an offering table would have been placed before the niche to serve as the central location for ritual offerings made on behalf of the tomb owner and his wife. Since the shrine sits in the westernmost portion of the tomb, it was designed to serve as the place where the living and the dead could interact.

Damage

Images throughout TT 69 were damaged in antiquity with the eyes and faces of Menna and Henuttawy being a particular target.  This suggests that Menna may have had an enemy who wished to destroy his memory after death. However, damage to Menna's name and the systematic removal of images of a type of priest called a sem-priest suggests that TT 69 fell victim to the Amarna period erasure of images related to the god Amun. Menna's name, which contains some of the same signs as the name of the god Amun, was also defaced.

The Tomb Chapel of Menna Project 
From 2007 to 2009 an interdisciplinary team of egyptologists, research scientists, conservators, worked in TT 69 to document and preserve the decoration of the tomb.  This project was co-sponsored by Georgia State University and the Egyptian Antiquities Conservation Project (EAC) of the American Research Center in Egypt (ARCE).  Funding was made available through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).

The project included non-invasive techniques such as X-ray fluorescence (XRF), ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy, near infrared diffuse reflectance spectroscopy and Raman spectroscopy in order to determine what materials were used in the process of preparing, painting, and finishing the walls of the tomb. Conservation work was also carried out on TT 69 as part of the Tomb Chapel of Menna Project.  The decoration of the tomb was cleaned, consolidated to prevent future flaking, and to fix older conservation attempts. The tomb's painted ceiling was also stabilized and barriers to prevent future damage were added to the tomb. Finally, high quality digital photographs were taken of the tomb, and digital line drawings of the painted scenes were created in order to document the well-preserved decoration.

Gallery

See also
 List of Theban tombs
 N. de Garis Davies, Nina and Norman de Garis Davies, Egyptologists

References

External links
 Virtual exploration of TT69 
 
 Scans of Norman and Nina De Garis Davies' tracings from Theban Tomb 69 (external).

Buildings and structures of the Eighteenth Dynasty of Egypt
Theban tombs