[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Joan Roughgarden

or hologenome. However, the hologenome concept has been criticized on the grounds that microbiomes are usually not vertically transmitted from parent to child, thereby violating what is commonly thought to be one of the key principles of natural selection: variation inherited in a Mendelian fashion.

Together with other proponents of the holobiont concept, Roughgarden wrote a 2018 review of the topic in which they examined the evidence for the holobiont as a biological entity. They considered the tight integration of physiological, developmental, reproductive and even immunological components between host and microbial symbionts to provide a foundation for this concept. For example mammalian mothers’ milk contains sugars that appear to be for the benefit of the microbial symbionts, because they cannot be metabolized by the newborn.  They also cite the horizontal acquisition of DNA coding for syncytin, a protein that allows formation of the placenta, as a key step in the evolution of placental mammals, which also demonstrates adaptive evolution in the holobiont. 

In this review, Roughgarden begins to sketch a population genetic model of holobiont evolution, containing a host species, and a single microbial symbiont, and in which selection is based only on the number of copies of the symbiont genome acquired by the host. The model contains three sequential processes per generation: microbes can move between hosts, they can proliferate within hosts and holobionts can survive or perish dependent on the number of symbionts acquired. This model was enough to show that, with vertical transmission, a deleterious symbiont will reduce the number of holobionts (and symbionts), while a beneficial symbiont will tend to increase the sizes of both groups. However, horizontal transmission “binds the collection of microbiomes into a unified system, a meta-community, rather than a collection of independent communities”.

Roughgarden followed this review with two papers that further fleshed out her model of holobiont evolution. The first showed that, when microbes colonize hosts following a Poisson distribution, horizontal transmission can still lead to holobiont evolution when beneficial symbionts increase the success of their hosts and thus flood the microbial source pool (the converse case with parasitic microbes also holds true). She calls this phenomenon “collective inheritance” as opposed to lineal Mendelian inheritance. The second paper adds a second microbial species to the model, as well as a “colonization parameter” d, which partially determines the Poisson rate parameter. The d parameter approximates the density of the symbiont strain around the host, or the host’s selectivity for the symbiont species, depending on context. Because microbial colonization of the host follows a Poisson distribution, there is no Hardy-Weinberg analog, and directional selection tends to be more diffuse than expectated under vertical transmission. She then reasons from this two-microbe model that the host is likely to use antibodies and “probodies” to modulate d for each microbial species, in effect orchestrating things so that only microbes that provide some minimum amount of altruism toward their host are allowed to remain in symbiosis with the host. From the microbe’s standpoint, those species that provide the minimum amount of altruism to clear the host’s threshold will tend to outcompete those that provide more. This paper carefully demonstrates that this host-orchestrated species selection process is conceptually distinct from co-evolution or multi-level selection and can predict and explain the tight integration of hosts and their microbial symbionts found throughout the eukaryotic tree of life.

Awards and honors 
 Stonewall Book Award, 2005
 Center Fellow, National Center for Ecological Synthesis and Analysis, University of California (Santa Barbara), 1998
 Dinkelspiel Award for Undergraduate Teaching, Stanford University, in 1995
 Visiting Research Fellow at the Merton College, University of Oxford, in 1994
 Elected Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1993
 Fellow of Guggenheim Foundation in 1985
 University Fellow, Stanford University in 1978

Roughgarden has served as associate editor of several academic journals, including Philosophy and Theory in Biology (since 2008), American Naturalist (1984–1989), Oecologia (1979–1982), and Theoretical Population Biology (1975–1986). She was the vice-chair and Chair of Theoretical Ecology Section of the Ecological Society of America during 2002–2003. She has served on the Nonprofit Organization Board for the Oceanic Society (San Francisco), the EPA Science Advisory Board Committee on Valuating the Protection of Ecological Systems and Services, and the science advisory boards of the Pacific Ocean Conservation Network (California), and the Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary (Santa Barbara).