[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William J. Colvill

olvill was arrested for allowing the men to cross a three-foot deep river on logs whereas the orders were to wade across. The march from Fredericksburg to Gettysburg would take 14 days, traveling 11 of those, averaging over 14 miles a day. By the time they reached the small town they were exhausted.

Gettysburg and afterwards
On July 2, 1863, the regiment was in reserve on Cemetery Ridge at Gettysburg. In the morning, Colvill had been relieved of arrest and resumed command of the regiment. Late in the afternoon, Confederate General Cadmus Wilcox's Alabama Brigade broke through the III Corps at the Wheatfield. Union II Corps commander General Winfield Scott Hancock, seeing the danger of the Union position being overrun on Cemetery Ridge, rode up to the Minnesota troops and asked Colvill, "My God! Are these all the men we have here? What regiment is this?" Colvill responded, "1st Minnesota, Sir!" Hancock's response was "Advance, Colonel, and take those colors!" Hancock knew that the charge was suicidal but hoped to delay the Confederates long enough to get reinforcements to the ridge. Wilcox had begun the day's fighting with some 1,800 men in his unit, although it is not known exactly how many were left at the time of the action with the 1st Minnesota. Without hesitation, Colvill ordered the charge against a brigade four to five times larger. Of the 262 Minnesotans who made the charge, 215 were killed or wounded. Despite the heavy losses, the Minnesotans were successful in slowing the Confederates until more regiments arrived. A private also took the colors of the 14th Virginia Infantry during the melee. Among the wounded was Colvill who was hit three times and severely wounded, including being shot in the shoulder and the ankle. One bullet entered the top of his right shoulder and tore across his back, clipping off a part of his vertebra and lodging under his left scapula. Both wounds would force Colvill to use a cane the rest of his life.

After the battle, Colvill recovered in a private home in Gettysburg at 303 Baltimore Street, at the corner of Baltimore and Breckenridge Streets. Being a very tall man at 6' 5", it was not easy fitting him into a bed. The surgeons at first wanted to amputate his foot, saying it was necessary in order to save his life, but Colvill would not allow it. From there he was sent to a hospital in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, where he remained until February 1864. He was reunited with his regiment that month as they were being mustered out and sent home.

Back in Red Wing, Minnesota, he edited the Red Wing Republican newspaper. During this time, he was elected to the Minnesota State Legislature. He took his seat in January 1865. Immediately after the adjournment of the legislature, he received an appointment as colonel of the 1st Minnesota Heavy Artillery Regiment, which was stationed in Chattanooga. On May 6, 1865, he received a brevet commission as brigadier general and was mustered out of service in July 1865.

Later life

After the war, he returned to the state legislature until 1866. He was then elected Minnesota Attorney General from 1866 to 1868. Then he returned to his law practice in Red Wing. He also served in the Minnesota House of Representatives in 1878. During the next decade, he served as register of the Duluth Land Office, from 1887 to 1891.

Personal life
Colvill married Elizabeth Morgan (a direct descendant of Elder Brewster, one of the Pilgrim Fathers) of Oneida County, New York, in April, 1867. In 1893, Colvill had a 167-acre homestead in Grand Marais, Minnesota, next to Lake Superior. Others settled there creating a small community. It was named Covill in 1906 after his death.

In 1905, Colvill traveled to the Soldiers Home in Minneapolis to attend a reunion of the veterans of the First Minnesota. While there, he died in his sleep on June 13. He is buried in the Cannon Falls Community Cemetery in Cannon Falls, Minnesota. His original statue sits atop a shady hill where it overlooks the cemetery.  In 1928, President Calvin Coolidge was present for the dedication of a statue that was placed next to his grave.

Legacy
Colvill Park in Red Wing, Minnesota, is named for Colvill, and he is represented by another statue in the Minnesota State Capitol. In addition, a section of Minnesota State Highway 19 from Gaylord to Red Wing is named in his honor.  The now extinct town of Colvill in Cook County was also named in his honor.  A plaque at the wayside on Hwy 61 at the Kudunce River indicates that he had a summer home in the area.

See also
 List of American Civil War brevet generals (Union)

References

External links
 
 William Colvill in MNopedia, the Minnesota Encyclopedia

1830 births
1905 deaths
19th-century American politicians
Members of the Minnesota House of Representatives
Minnesota Attorneys General
People from Forestville, New York
People of Minnesota in the American Civil War
Union Army colonels