[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# A Woman in Amber

ain power by judging Hilda.

When Joe meets Agate at Indiana University, he can tell she is vulnerable and needs his help to register for classes. It can be argued that it was Agate’s vulnerability that attracted Joe. Agate believed that if she stayed with Joe, he would save her if there were a war.

Reviews
From Library Journal: A woman in amber is one trapped and preserved in her past. Nesaule (literature and women's studies, Univ. of Wisconsin) tells a moving story to promote the reader's understanding and her own healing. As a child in Latvia, she endured the terror and dislocation of World War II at the hands of both Soviets and Germans, lived in a postwar refugee camp, and became an immigrant to the American Midwest, establishing a life there shaped by survivor's guilt and a sense of victimization. Integral to her life are family relationships, especially estrangement from her mother, stemming from the war years and the author's own unhappy marriage. In middle age, Nesaule at last comes to terms with her past, builds a new life, and offers her audience a well-written and insightful memoir. For subject collections and general readers., Rena Fowler, Humboldt State Univ., Arcata, Cal.Copyright 1995 Reed Business Information, Inc.

From Latvians Online  This paragraph was taken from an article written by Diana Kiesners: "Above all, no one must know what happened to the women in the basement at Lobethal. When the local Latvian center holds a debate to establish who suffered more in the war, men or women, it is a foregone conclusion that it is the men who suffered most. They have the statistics to prove it. The few women who disagree (Agate’s mother is one of them) are shouted down; what are their losses by comparison? "There are worse things than death,’ they say, but the word ‘rape’ cannot be spoken. Otherwise they will be ostracized, blamed for their own tragedy. Agate puts up her hand to vote "with the winning side"".

Literary Significance and Criticism
Haller, Evelyn. "A Woman in Amber: Healing the Trauma of War and Exile." The History Teacher 33.2 (2000): 276–77.

Awards for A Woman in Amber
Winner of the 1996 American Book Award.

Named Outstanding Academic book by Choice. (Choice provides book reviews for university libraries)

Selected for Outstanding Achievement Recognition by the Wisconsin Library Association Literary Awards Committee.

References
 Nesaule, Agate. A Woman in Amber: Healing the Trauma of War and Exile. New York: Penguin Books, 1995.

External links
 The American Latvian Association 
 The Latvian Institute 

Latvian-American history
American Book Award-winning works
World War II memoirs