[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# March 1973

oviet Union's CSKA Moskva team in the final at Liège in Belgium, 71 to 66. 
Born: 
Beverley Knight, English singer-songwriter, in Wolverhampton
Péter Oszkó, Hungarian politician, in Budapest
Died: 
Binkie Beaumont, 64, British theatre manager and producer
 Hilda Geiringer, Austrian mathematician, 79

March 23, 1973 (Friday)
In a letter to Judge John Sirica, Watergate burglar James W. McCord Jr. admitted that he and other defendants had been pressured to remain silent about the case.  McCord named former U.S. Attorney General John Mitchell as 'overall boss' of the operation.
Born: 
Grzegorz Kaliciak; Polish officer, in Prudnik, Poland
Mori Chack (Chakku Moriki), Japanese designer of "Gloomy Bear" and other Chax products; in Sakai, Osaka

March 24, 1973 (Saturday)
The 1973 Alpine Skiing World Cup concluded at Heavenly Valley in the United States. The men's and women's overall champions were Gustav Thöni of Italy and Annemarie Pröll of Austria, respectively.
The All England Badminton Championships came to an end at Wembley Arena in London. The men's singles was won by Rudy Hartono and the women's singles by Margaret Beck.
The 591st and final episode of the Lassie TV series was aired in syndication, after the beloved collie had gone through multiple owners in over 19 consecutive seasons in various scenarios. On September 12, 1954, the show had premiered on CBS with Tommy Rettig ("Jeff") as his first owner, followed by Jon Provost (Timmy) in 1957, a succession of U.S. Forestry Service rangers from 1964 to 1969, two seasons on her own until 1971, and two seasons at a ranch.
At the age of 26, professional wrestling favorite André the Giant (André Roussimoff) of France made his debut in the United States after being signed by Vincent J. McMahon to the World Wide Wrestling Federation. Billed at 7'4" (224 cm) and 520 pounds (234 kg), André was introduced in Philadelphia against two challengers, Frank Valois & Bull Pometti, and then appeared at Madison Square Garden in New York City two days later.
Pink Floyd's The Dark Side of the Moon was released in the UK.
Born: Jim Parsons, American TV comedian known for portraying Sheldon Cooper on The Big Bang Theory; in Houston

March 25, 1973 (Sunday)
United States Treasury Secretary George Shultz assembled a forum for the representatives of several of the capitalist world's major industrialized countries, convening an informal gathering of the finance ministers from West Germany (Helmut Schmidt), France (Valéry Giscard d'Estaing), and the United Kingdom (Anthony Barber) at the library in the White House in a forerunner of what would become the "Group of Seven" or "G7" with the addition of Japan, Italy and Canada. 
The first capture by terrorists of a nuclear power plant took place in Argentina when members of the Ejército Revolucionario del Pueblo ("People's Revolutionary Army") took over the Atucha Nuclear Power Plant  from Buenos Aires. The guerrillas declined to hold on to the nuclear reactor or its materials, choosing instead to take some weapons from the guards and departing.
Less than two months after the signing of the Paris Peace Accords, the North Vietnamese Army began the Battle of Tong Le Chon against the 92nd Ranger Battalion of South Vietnam, a siege of the Tonle Cham Camp in South Vietnam's Binh Phuoc province. The Rangers would defend the camp for more than a year before abandoning it on April 12, 1974, after which South Vietnam's provinces would gradually fall under Communist control. 
Voting took place in Portugal's overseas colonies for legislative assemblies that would provide limited internal government, with the oversight of the Portuguese government. Elections took place in Angola, Mozambique, Portuguese Guinea, São Tomé e Príncipe, Timor and Macao as part of the government's "evolução sem revolução" ("evolution without revolution") program.
The Republic of Ireland's first tabloid newspaper, Sunday World, began publication as its inaugural issue reached newsstands in and around Dublin. Typifying its format of sensational headlines and provocative news stories, Sunday World had as its lead story a British Army search in Northern Ireland for two women who had lured soldiers to their deaths, with the headline "DRAGNET FOR SPIDER GIRLS".
A group of five Israelis— two Jewish and three Arab— were convicted by an Israeli court in Haifa of organizing and leading a spy ring for Syria with a goal of overthrowing Israel's government. Former paratrooper Ehud Yadiv and school teacher Dan Vered became the first "Sabras" (native-born Israeli Jews) to be convicted of spying against their own country.
The Immaculata University Mighty Macs of West Chester, Pennsylvania repeated as champions of U.S. women's college basketball championship in the second AIAW women's basketball tournament, winning 59 to 52 over the Queens College Lady Knights, hosts of the tournament in the Queens borough of New York City.
The pilot episode of the sitcom Open All Hours (which would later be