[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Quadrant (magazine)

s are allowed to work - within the rule of law (and the framework of property rights) - as sources of information, as ingredients and supporters of  liberty and as facilitators of competitive private enterprise and individual choice...".

In 2007, Quadrant'''s mission was described by its editor as:

{{Quote
|text= To defend the great tradition of free and open debate, to make possible dissent, while at the same time insisting on both civilised discourse and rational argument. This mission is not the same as at Quadrants founding, but it is not dissimilar. For while the communist dictatorship is no more, the love of anti-democratic dictators still survives among many intellectuals, as does their determination to impose their own strange beliefs on the population as a whole.
}}

In March 2008, the magazine was describing itself as sceptical of "unthinking leftism, or political correctness, and its 'smelly little orthodoxies. Regular contributors often support conspiracy theories such as that Covid-19 has a mild impact and that global warming is a hoax, and the 2020 US election was fraudulent.

, the magazine simply describes itself as "Australia's most open minded publication"; while its home page includes articles critical of climate scientists, the ABC and "the Left's triumphal anti-clericalism."

Hoax
In January 2009, Quadrant unknowingly published a hoax article. Its author, writer, editor and activist Katherine Wilson, stated that she aimed to show that the magazine and editor Keith Windschuttle had right-wing bias. Wilson claimed Windschuttle and Quadrant would publish an inaccurate article and not check its footnotes or authenticity if it met his preconceptions. Using the pseudonym "biotechnologist Dr Sharon Gould", Wilson submitted an article claiming that CSIRO had planned to produce food crops engineered with human genes.

Editors

Management structure

Editorial staff
 Editor Quadrant magazine: Keith Windschuttle
 Editor, International, Quadrant magazine: John O'Sullivan
 Editor, Quadrant Online: Roger Franklin
 Literary Editor: Barry Spurr
 Music Editor: Alexander Voltz
 Deputy Editor: George Thomas

See also
 List of literary magazines
 Encounter (UK)
 The Dorchester Review (Canada)

References

External links
 
 CIA as Culture Vultures, an essay by Cassandra Pybus, Jacket Magazine, No. 12, July 2000, as an extract from her non-fictional account of the life of James McAuley
 Quadrant's 50th anniversary (transcript) - interviews with Martin Krygier (former Quadrant Director and son of founder), Dame Leonie Kramer AC DBE (former Quadrant Chair), and Paddy McGuinness, at ABC Radio National Counterpoint, 2006
 Address to the Quadrant Magazine 50th Anniversary Dinner by John Howard, 2006

1956 establishments in Australia
Congress for Cultural Freedom
Conservatism in Australia
Conservative magazines
Literary magazines published in Australia
Magazines established in 1956
Magazines published in Sydney
Monthly magazines published in Australia