[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Igbomina

e protection to defenders.

In northeastern Igbomina, rock piles and boulders were also used for defense, especially near hilltop sites. They slowed down attackers and provided advantageous positions for hurling rocks. Stone embankments and mud walls were combined in some areas for added protection.

Stone piles and boulders arranged to a impressive heights, and could stretch for a distance of up to 1 km(0.6 miles). In many places only stones of various sizes were used as embankments. construction of these began from the 18th century.

Embankments were not the only use of stone architecture however. A circular stone foundation of a collapsed building was found which was later identified by to be a guards house or sentry where armed guards kept watch for enemy soldiers.

Starting in the 1840s, The Fulani Ilorin armies invaded much of Igbomina territory dominating different parts of the region. Several Igbomina rulers were made subordinate to Ilorin and forced to join the war. An example is when the ruler of Ila Orangun was taken captive to Ilorin. The Fulani conquerors established provincial administration in Igbomina, making Igbominaland a part of the greater Sokoto Caliphate.

However, by 1875 Ibadan had reconquered much land Ilorin had conquered in this northern part of Yorubaland. But, the oppressive regime of Ibadan, soon led to a revolt among the subjugated towns. The Igbomina consequently allied into a confederacy, called the Ekitiparapo, to fight for their independence.

Recent history

The Ilorin Provincial Gazetteer (1918) dates the settlement of Igbaja, one of the Igbomina towns, as late 17th or early 18th century, while the Igbaja District Gazetteer (1933–35) puts it about 1750 AD.
By 1800, the Alafin (supreme ruler of Yoruba) had consolidated his power over the Igbomina and placed an Ajele (Governor) in Ilorin to safeguard his interests. 
The Sudan Interior Mission came to Oro Ago in 1911, to Agunjin before 1918, and to Oke Oyan, Igbaja, and Oke Aba in the 1920s. Starting in the 1930s, primary and secondary schools were established, resulting in changes to the traditional ways of life.

References

Yoruba subgroups