[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Dunmanway killings

t, imperialist, Orangeman, Freemason, Free Stater, spy, and informer" and continues, "these blanket categories made the victims' individual identities ... irrelevant." Coogan concurred, writing, "the latent sectarianism of centuries of ballads and landlordism claimed ten Protestant lives" that week.

Ryan claims, by way of justification, that all of those killed were described  as "committed loyalists" and "extremely anti-Republican". She says that they had been in contact with the Essex Regiment based in Bandon during the conflict, supplying information on the local IRA and that it was "firmly established" later that Fitzmaurice and Gray had been informers, and that their information had done a great deal of damage to the IRA. In Gray's case—as a woman  who had been a ten-year-old girl during the Troubles told Ryan—he had allegedly sought out "information from children in their innocence", hence children were warned against talking to him. According to Ryan, Fitzmaurice, Gray, Buttimer, and Harbord were associated with the above-mentioned Loyalist Action Group, based in Murragh and known locally as the Protestant Action Group, and that all four were involved in espionage. Ryan claimed to have seen, during a 1981 interview with a surviving Cork IRA flying column volunteer named Dan Cahalane, all thirteen names of the Dunmanway victims listed as "helpful citizens" in Auxiliaries' documents found by republicans after the departure of the British forces from southern Ireland.

Hart writes that the term informer was used as a form of "generic abuse" and found "no evidence whatsoever" that they had been active in opposing the IRA. Meehan writes that the killings were not "motivated by either land agitation or by sectarian considerations". Rev. Murphy agrees, citing a British document, A Record of the Rebellion in Ireland in 1920–1921. Meehan and Rev. Murphy conclude "the IRA killings in the Bandon area were motivated by political and not sectarian considerations. Possibly, military considerations, rather than political, would have been a more fitting way to describe the reason for the IRA response to those who informed." because:[T]he truth was that, as British intelligence officers recognised in the south, the Protestants and those who supported the [UK] Government rarely gave much information because, except by chance, they had not got it to give. An exception to this was in the Bandon area where there were many Protestant farmers who gave information. Although the Intelligence Officer of the area was exceptionally experienced and although the troops were most active it proved almost impossible to protect those brave men, many of whom were murdered while almost all the remainder suffered grave material loss.

Most recently, historian John Regan, in his paper, The Bandon Valley Massacre Revisited, argued that the killings might be best understood in light of purported IRA fears that the British were planning a reoccupation of the south of Ireland and was a preemptive move against people believed to have been informers. Regan argued that the selective use of evidence by Peter Hart in an attempt to emphasize a sectarian dimension to the killings highlights a wider problem in the politicization of Irish history.

TV programme on RTÉ
Cork's Bloody Secret, shown on RTÉ on 5 October 2009, dealt with the Dunmanway killings. The programme was produced by Sean O Mealoid, and included interviews with two descendants of two of the Protestants executed. It included a dialogue between two local historians, Donald Woods and Colum Cronin, and featured Prof. John A. Murphy and Eoghan Harris (who later debated the issue in the Irish Times), alongside UCC historian Andy Bielenberg.

Notes

Bibliography
 Barry Keane, Massacre in West Cork: The Dunmanway and Ballygroman Killings, Mercier Press, 2014, 288 pp., 
 Tom Barry, Guerrilla Days in Ireland, (Cork 1997) 
 Niall C. Harrington, Kerry Landing, August 1922: An Episode of the Civil War, Anvil Books, 1992:8; 
 Tim Pat Coogan, Michael Collins, Arrow Books (1991); 
 Meda Ryan, Tom Barry, IRA Freedom Fighter, (Mercier, 2005) (paper back edition); 
 Peter Hart, The I.R.A. and Its Enemies: Violence and Community in Cork, 1916–1923, Oxford University Press (1999); 
 Paul McMahon, British Spies and Irish Rebels – British Intelligence and Ireland 1916–1945, (Boydell, 2008); 
 John Borgonovo, Spies, Informers and the 'Anti-Sinn Féin Society', The Intelligence War in Cork City, 1920–21 (Kildare 2007); 
 Rev. Brian Murphy, OSB, The Month, a Review of Christian Thought and World Affairs, September–October 1998 
 Rev. Brian Murphy, OSB, Irish Political Review, Vol 20 No. 7 July 2005; , pages 10–11
 Eoin Neeson, The Civil War 1922–23, (Dublin 1989);  

Mass murder in 1922
Irish War of Independence
1922 in Ireland
History of County Cork
Massacres in Ireland
Massacres of men
April 1922 events
Violence against men in Europe