[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Larry Hennig

Billy Robinson the previous month) as they assaulted the Flyers during an episode of AWA All-Star Wrestling.

During this time, Hennig also appeared in the independent film, The Wrestler, where he faced Verne Gagne at the Cow Palace in the opening match. In 1976, Hennig formed a team with Joe LeDuc.

Return to AWA
When Harley Race returned to the AWA in 1984, he wrestled Hennig's son, Curt - a match that was fueled by Larry going on to confront his former tag team partner at the end of the match. The following year, Curt's first major push came, when he would be pushed alongside his father in a feud with The Road Warriors. The Hennigs eventually went in to win the NWA Pacific Northwest Tag Team Championship before Larry's retirement the next year in 1985.

Hennig also traveled to New York City to unsuccessfully challenge Bruno Sammartino for his WWF World Heavyweight Championship title.

Personal life

Before pursuing a career in professional wrestling, Hennig became the Minnesota State High School Heavyweight Champion from Robbinsdale, Minnesota, in 1954. He was awarded a scholarship from the University of Minnesota to wrestle and play football but had to quit due to the priorities of family and raising children. He had five children, including professional wrestler Curt Hennig. Curt died on February 10, 2003, of an acute cocaine intoxication. After the highly publicized death of Chris Benoit, Hennig shared a few words with USA Today regarding premature deaths in professional wrestling.

Hennig was also known for his completion of the 1966 and 1967 I-500 snowmobile race, from Winnipeg, Manitoba to St. Paul, Minnesota. He is most notably remembered from the 1966 race in which he drove through a chicken coop. However, this did not prevent him from successfully completing the 500 mile race.

Post-retirement
Following Hennig's retirement from professional wrestling, he and his wife became owners of a real estate company in St. Cloud, Minnesota. He had sold real estate since 1957 and also worked as an auctioneer. He also dabbled in commodity futures, specifically CME Dairy.

Death
Hennig died on December 6, 2018, of kidney failure at the age of 82.

Championships and accomplishments
American Wrestling Association
AWA Midwest Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Lars Anderson
AWA World Tag Team Championship (4 times) - with Duke Hoffman (1) and Harley Race (3)
AWA World Tag Team Championship Tournament (1962) - with Duke Hoffman
Cauliflower Alley Club
Iron Mike Mazurki Award (2015)
George Tragos/Lou Thesz Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame
Class of 2006
Lou Thesz Award (2013)
International Wrestling Enterprise
IWA World Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Blackjack Mulligan
Pacific Northwest Wrestling
NWA Pacific Northwest Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Curt Hennig
Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame
Class of 2017 - Inducted as a part of a tag team with Harley Race
Western States Sports
NWA Brass Knuckles Championship (Amarillo version) (1 time)

References

External links
 SLAM! Sports - Larry Hennig one tough guy
 

1936 births
2018 deaths
20th-century professional wrestlers
American businesspeople in retailing
American male professional wrestlers
AWA World Tag Team Champions
Deaths from kidney failure
IWA World Tag Team Champions (Australia)
Professional wrestlers from Minneapolis
Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame and Museum
Sportspeople from Minneapolis
Stampede Wrestling alumni