[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Japanese invasion of Thailand

ft in December 1940.

The Royal Thai Navy was poorly trained and equipped, and had lost a substantial number of vessels in its conflict with French Indochina. However, the Thai Navy had two operating submarines, HTMS Matchanu and HTMS Wirun, which were a cause of concern for the Japanese commanders.

The Royal Thai Army started to set up the new military units in the Kra Peninsula including:
 Chumphon
 the 38th Infantry Battalion stationed at Ban Na Nian, Tambon Wang Mai, Muang District of Chumphon (9 km from Provincial Hall).
 Nakhon Si Thammarat
 the 39th Infantry Battalion stationed at Tambon Pak Phoon, Muang District of Nakhon Si Thammarat.
 the 15th Artillery Battalion stationed at Tambon Pak Phoon, Muang District of Nakhon Si Thammarat.
 Headquarter of the Sixth Division at Tambon Pak Phoon, Muang District of Nakhon Si Thammarat.
 Trang
 the 40th Infantry Battalion.
 Songkla
 the 5th Infantry Battalion stationed at Tambon Khao Kho Hong, Hat Yai District of Songkla, transferred from Bang Sue to Hat Yai by military train on 18 February 1940, the first unit that moved to the south.
 the 41st Infantry Battalion stationed at Suan Tun, Tambon Khao Roob Chang, Muang District of Songkla.
 the 13th Artillery Battalion stationed at Suan Tun, Tambon Khao Roob Chang, Muang District of Songkla.
 Pattani
 the 42nd Infantry Battalion stationed at Tambon Bo Thong, Nong Jik District of Pattani.

Japan

Army units

Japan had units of its 15th Army under Lieutenant General Shōjirō Iida and 25th Army under Lieutenant General Tomoyuki Yamashita stationed in Indochina. Both armies had combat aircraft units. The 15th Army was tasked with the attack on Burma and the 25th with Malaya and Singapore. In order to attack Burma, the 15th Army needed to pass over the Bangkok plain, while the 25th Army needed to attack Malaya via the Kra Peninsula. The attack through Thailand on Malaya and Singapore was planned by Colonel Masanobu Tsuji while he was part of Unit 82. The Japanese had about 100,000 troops who needed to pass through Thailand.

Naval forces
Ships from IJN 2nd Fleet under Admiral Nobutake Kondō provided support and cover for the landings in Thailand and at Kota Baru in Malaya.

The known IJN ships participating, apart from those sent to Kota Baru, were:
 the cruiser IJN Kashii escorted seven transports carrying troops of the 143rd Regiment from Saigon
 Destroyers Asagiri, Amagiri, Sagiri, Yugiri, Shirakumo, and Shinonome supported the 25th Army landings in southern Thailand
 Escort ship IJN Shimushu escorted transports Zenyo Maru, Miike Maru and Toho Maru''' to Nakorn Sri Thammarat, southern Thailand, with more of the 143rd Regiment
 Merchant seaplane carriers Kamikawa Maru, Sagara MaruIn total there were 18 transports involved, which included three landing troops at Kota Baru.

Japanese invasion
Japanese troops invaded Thailand from Indochina and with landings south of Bangkok and at various points along the Kra Peninsula several hours after Thailand had not responded to their ultimatum. While the government debated a response, Phibun could not be located and was unaware of the ultimatum until late morning.

15th Army objectives

Phra Tabong Province
At dawn the Imperial Guards Division under Lieutenant-General Takuma Nishimura and IJA 55th Division under Lieutenant-General Hiroshi Takeuchi of the 15th Army crossed the border from Indo-China into Thailand's recently reclaimed Phra Tabong Province at Tambon Savay Donkeo, Athuek Thewadej District (Russei) of Battambang. The Japanese encountered no resistance, and from Sisophon swung north-westwards into Aranyaprathet (then still a district of Prachinburi Province) along the nearly finished railway link between Aranyaprathet and Monkhol Bourei. (It opened for traffic on 11 April 1942.)

Chumphon

The Japanese 1st Infantry Battalion of the 143rd Infantry Regiment (part of the IJA 55th Division) landed at Chumphon on the morning of 8 December from two troop ships. They managed to form a perimeter around their landing areas, but were pinned down by determined resistance by Thai 'Yuwachon Thahan' ('youth soldier' cadets of the 52nd Yuwachon Thahan Training Unit from Sriyaphai Secondary School), along with the regular army 38th Infantry Battalion and Provincial Police of Chumphon. Fighting ended in the afternoon when the Thais received orders to cease fire. The Thai had lost Captain Thawin Niyomsen (commanding the 52nd Yuwachon Thahan Unit, posthumously promoted to Lt. Col.), some provincial policemen and a few civilians.