[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Comando Vermelho

, violent clashes between the CV and state forces have surged. In 2016, following the collapse of a 20-year truce between the CV and the PCC, violence surged further. In recent months, sources consistently report frequent violent clashes between the CV and the PCC as well as other rival gang groups.

Additionally, an emerging struggle for control of the Amazon region has intensified between rival gangs including the CV. Seeking access to the valuable trafficking routes in the Colombia-Brazil-Peru tri-border region, the CV, the PCC, the Familia do Norte, and Colombian militia groups including the Border Command and the Carolina Ramirez Front have violently fought, contributing to a significant uptick in regional fatalities.

Armed militia groups in Rio represent another growing challenge for the CV. Militia groups, formed by former and current police officers purporting to fight crime, have grown to control substantial territory throughout Rio. In recent years, violence between militias and gangs has intensified; in 2020 and 2021, “clashes between gangs and militias were responsible for 28% of reported fatalities” in Rio. For example, in July and August 2022, the CV clashed frequently with the Campinho police militia for “control of the Morro do Fuba community in the North Zone.”

Structure 
The Comando Vermelho’s structure is loosely hierarchical yet allows significant autonomy throughout the organization. While there is no one single boss, imprisoned senior leaders exercise authority over favela leaders, known as donos, who deliver rents to the prison leaders as a form of “insurance scheme.” Essentially, non-imprisoned members provide financial support and carry out instructions from imprisoned leaders, thus protecting themselves from retribution in the event that they are captured themselves. Beneath the favela donos, there are gerentes de boca (“drug mouth bosses”) who carry out drug trafficking, soldados (“soldiers”) who protect the favela’s turf, and vapors, the lowest-level gang members, who are often young teens.

Within this structure, there is significant freedom for gang members to run operations as they see fit. According to Penglase, the “CV is most accurately described as a loose association of drug traffickers who come together for reciprocal assistance yet who act with great degrees of autonomy.” Members of the CV operate with a shared identity and a common set of norms, but negotiate separately with individual drug suppliers, known as “matutos.” High levels of autonomy have been characteristic of the CV since its inception on Ilha Grande: while prisoners were barred from violence against each other, they were freely allowed to pursue independent business. Another distinct aspect of CV structure is that they allow their leaders to freely step away from gang activity if they choose to do so, in stark contrast with many comparable gangs who require members to remain active until death.

Inside prisons with a strong CV presence, senior leaders practice internal criminal governance. These leaders "rule prison life, settle internal faction disputes that occur outside of prison and make the final decision on any matters of mutual interest for faction affiliates."

Comando Vermelho and state conflict 

A defining characteristic of the CV is their willingness to openly engage the state in armed confrontation. Since the mid-1980s, as state forces steadily increased the severity of their crackdowns, the CV has responded with frequent violent clashes. Lessing writes that “nowhere else in Brazil, or in much of the world for that matter,” have Rio cartels, and primarily the CV, “systematically engaged the state in armed confrontation for so long.” Currently, the CV continues to violently fight with state forces, and the ACLED reports that state violence represents a disproportionate share of reported fatalities in Rio de Janeiro.

One suggested explanation for the CV’s violent conflict with the state is the varying levels of conditionality in state crackdowns––whether the state cracks down harder on violent cartel behavior. In 2008, after the highly-conditional Pacification policy was implemented, cartel-state violence declined, only to see a resurgence after the policy eroded.

Examples of CV-State conflict

On 19 November 2016, a police helicopter of the Rio de Janeiro police was shot down by small arms fire during a clash with gang members of Comando Vermelho and crashed in a ditch. All four police officers on board were killed.
In June 2018, the Red Command launched attacks on a Bolivian Army base in Porvenir and a Brazilian police station in Epitaciolandia, in both instances stealing weapons and ammunition.