[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Return to House on Haunted Hill

ladino as Desmond Niles
 Tom Riley as Paul
 Andrew Lee Potts as Kyle
 Steven Pacey as Dr. Richard Hammer
 Jeffrey Combs as Dr. Richard B. Vannacutt
 Kalita Rainford as Harue
 Gil Kolirin as Norris Boz
 Andrew Pleavin as Samuel
 Chucky Venice as Warren Jackson
 Stilyana Mitkova as Ghost of Sara Wolfe

Production
Dark Castle Entertainment announced it would produce a sequel to House on Haunted Hill (1999) in August 2006, and said it had cast Amanda Righetti in the lead at the same time. In June 2007, Warner Bros. agreed to co-fund the sequel under its Warner Premiere brand, a subdivision of the studio that focuses on direct-to-DVD releases and other digital media. The picture was filmed using high-definition digital media, and the script and shots were designed for use with the Navigational Cinema technology (which permits viewers to manipulate up to seven aspects of the story line to create more than 90 different versions of the film). Actor Jeffrey Combs said that the script did not contain the "navigational branching" scenes, and director Victor Garcia admitted that these script changes did not arrive until the start of principal photography.

Return to House on Haunted Hill was the feature film directorial debut for Victor Garcia, who had previously helmed a single short film. It was also the first screenplay credit for writer William Massa. Filming occurred in Sofia, Bulgaria.

Release
Warner Bros. and Dark Castle released the film for DVD, on October 16, 2007. In the United States, Warner Premiere released an unrated version with the Navigational Cinema technology, as well as an R-rated version that did not.

The unrated U.S. release did not contain any interviews, commentaries, or "making of" featurettes, but did include four deleted scenes; a music video for the Mushroomhead song "Simple Survival" (featured on the film's soundtrack); and about 20 minutes of in-character interviews with the leads, which recapped the film's plot or provided limited backstory. Many of the Navigational Cinema features led to scene choices which included more nudity or gore, but only one choice materially changed the outcome of the story. An additional 60 minutes of video were shot to incorporate these choices.

Reception
The film holds a 43% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on seven reviews. A review in Wired declared the plot and script to be atrocious, saying, "For some reason, the sequel throws in a mysterious idol as the cause of [Vannacutt's] Inherent Evil.  Ugh. It's an impossibly contrived reason to get people back in the house, and the subplots about suicides and gangsters, is particularly out of place. The gore factor is adequate, but you won't actually care about anyone who's dying, making this a horrendous waste of time." The Web site DVD Talk called the story a "retread", the characters "thinly-written", and the plot device of the Baphomet idol "completely arbitrary". However, some reviews felt the viewer ability to select alternative plots was intriguing and fun.

Cancelled sequel
A third installment in the series had been planned, but poor DVD sales for Return to House on Haunted Hill led Dark Castle to cancel these plans in October 2010.

References

External links

2007 films
2007 horror films
2000s ghost films
American haunted house films
American ghost films
American supernatural horror films
American sequel films
Dark Castle Entertainment films
Direct-to-video sequel films
Direct-to-video horror films
Films directed by Víctor Garcia (Spanish director)
Films set in the 1930s
Films set in 2007
Films set in Los Angeles
Films shot in Bulgaria
Films about psychiatry
Warner Bros. direct-to-video films
2007 directorial debut films
Films produced by Jonathan Tzachor
2000s English-language films
2000s American films
Baphomet