[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# City of Greater Taree

The Greater Taree City Council (GTCC) was a local government area on the Mid North Coast of New South Wales, Australia, until 12 May 2016 when it was amalgamated to form part of the Mid-Coast Council.  It was originally formed in 1981 from the Manning Shire, and the Taree and Wingham Municipal Councils.  The council was centred on Taree, located adjacent to the Manning River, the Pacific Highway and the North Coast railway line.

The last serving mayor of GTCC was Cr. Paul Hogan, an unaligned politician.

Towns and localities 

Towns and localities included in the former GTCC were:

 Taree
 Bobin
 Bohnock
 Brinawa
 Burrell Creek
 Cedar Party
 Coopernook
 Coralville
 Croki
 Crowdy Head
 Cundletown
 Diamond Beach
 Dumaresq Island
 Dyers Crossing
 Elands
 Ghinni Ghinni
 Glenwarrin
 Hallidays Point
 Hannam Vale
 Harrington
 Johns River
 Jones Island
 Kippaxs
 Killabakh
 Kolodong
 Koorainghat
 Krambach
 Langley Vale
 Lansdowne
 Manning Point
 Marlee
 Mitchells Island
 Mooral Creek
 Moorland
 Mount George
 Old Bar
 Oxley Island
 Pampoolah
 Possum Brush
 Purfleet
 Rawson River
 Rocks Crossing
 Stewarts River
 Tinonee
 Upper Lansdowne
 Waitui
 Wallabi Point
 Wang Wauk
 Wherrol Flat
 Wingham

Demographics
At the last 2011 Census performed for the local government area, there were  people in the GTCC government area, of these 48.7% were male and 51.3% were female. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people made up 5.4% of the population, double the national average. The median age of people in the City of Greater Taree was 46 years; some nine years higher than the national median. Children aged 0 – 14 years made up 18.6% of the population and people aged 65 years and over made up 22.5% of the population. Of people in the area aged 15 years and over, 50.0% were married and 14.8% were either divorced or separated.

Population growth in the GTCC between the 2001 Census and the 2006 Census has been 5.39%; and in the subsequent five years was 3.09%. When compared with total population growth of Australia for the same periods, being 5.78% and 8.32% respectively, population growth in the GTCC local government area was significantly lower than the national average. The median weekly income for residents within the GTCC was significantly below the national average, being one of the factors that place the GTCC in an area of social disadvantage.

At the 2011 Census, the last to be performed for the former council, the proportion of residents in the local government area who stated their ancestry as Australian or Anglo-Saxon exceeded 83% of all residents (national average was 65.2%). In excess of 62% of all residents in the GTCC had nominated a religious affiliation with Christianity at the 2011 Census, which was higher than the national average of 50.2%. Meanwhile, as at the Census date, compared to the national average, households in the GTCC government area had a significantly lower than average proportion (3.4%) where two or more languages are spoken (national average was 20.4%); and a significantly higher proportion (93.3%) where English only was spoken at home (national average was 76.8%).

Council

Previous composition and election method
GTCC was last formed with nine councillors, including the mayor, for a fixed four-year term of office. The mayor was directly elected while eight other councillors were elected proportionally as one entire ward. The last election was held on 8 September 2012, and the makeup of the council when it was amalgamated into the Mid-Coast Council, including the mayor, was as follows:

The current Council, elected in 2012, in order of election, is:

History 
The first movement to establish the GTCC began in November 1959. The Taree Municipal Council applied to the Department of Local Government to extend its boundaries to the coastal area between Old Bar and Seal Rocks.

At an inquiry of the Boundaries Commission at Taree in 1976, the Dungog Shire proposed that the areas covered by the shires of Dungog, Gloucester, Great Lakes and Manning and the municipalities of Taree and Wingham be combined into two areas "to elevate local government to its proper role". At this stage, Taree Municipal Council proposed only their merger with the Municipality of Wingham. A decision was postponed for five years. Due to the town of Taree not having a town hall, the Taree Municipal Council could not be renamed to The Greater Taree City Council as planned. However, by merging the Municipality of Taree and Municipality of Wingham together so that Taree could claim the town hall in Wingham as they own, only then could the formation of the Greater Taree City Council be formed.

On 1 January 1981, the City of Greater Taree was proclaimed, encompassing the Municipalities of Taree and Wingham and the Manning Valley Shire.