[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# December 1979

rt of the recent ceasefire.  Tongogara was passenger in a car that was driving him from Maputo to his headquarters in Chimoio, where he would have then crossed the border into Umtali.  Near the Mozambican city of Massinga, Tongogara's vehicle crashed into a truck that had been abandoned on the road.

December 27, 1979 (Thursday)
Hafizullah Amin, who had been the Communist leader of Afghanistan's People's Democratic Party, and General Secretary of the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA), since September 14, was overthrown in a coup d'état, put on trial before a revolutionary tribunal for "crimes against the state", and executed. Former Prime Minister Babrak Karmal, who had been in exile in Czechoslovakia, flew into Kabul to become the new Party General Secretary and leader. The coup came with the support of Soviet Red Army combat troops who had been flown in to Afghanistan earlier in the week. Plans to replace Amin had started after the September coup, when Soviet ally Noor Mohammad Taraki had been overthrown and killed. The Soviet press agency TASS broadcast a speech on Radio Kabul declaring that "Today is the breaking of the machine of torture of Amin and his henchmen, wild butchers, usurpers and murderers of tens of thousands of our countrymen, and added that Amin and "his stooges" had been "agents of American imperialism."
Ten inmates died in a fire at the Lancaster County Jail in Lancaster, South Carolina, and eight more were injured before the blaze was extinguished. The fire started at 6:00 in the evening on the second floor of the 150-year-old building that had been designed by famous American architect Robert Mills.
26-year-old Richard Keith Job of Hastings, New York, fell  to his death while standing on the snow-covered edge of the Rim Trail in Grand Canyon National Park.
Maria de Lourdes Pintasilgo, the first female Prime Minister of Portugal, submitted her resignation to President António Ramalho Eanes, clearing the way for a new government to be formed by election victor Francisco de Sá Carneiro.
Sam Rutigliano of the Cleveland Browns who took his team to a winning 9–7 record thanks to their amazing miracle finishes and without their star running back Greg Pruitt was named the United Press International AFC Coach of the Year.

December 28, 1979 (Friday)
A freak accident killed six employees and injured 12 more at the Jones & Laughlin Steel Company, when a ventilation fan suddenly stopped turning and the workers were overcome by carbon monoxide from a blast furnace. Among the dead were people who attempted to close a valve to stop the flow of the deadly gas.
Jack Pardee of the Washington Redskins who took a hodgepodge team of free agents and trade acquisitions to a 10–6 record and within a few seconds of making it to the NFL Playoffs was named the United Press International NFC coach of the year.
Born: Rob Stewart, Canadian documentary filmmaker and conservationist; in Toronto, Ontario, Canada (d. 2017)
Died: Rafael Filiberto Bonnelly, 75, President of the Dominican Republic from 1962 to 1963

December 29, 1979 (Saturday)
The "State Sponsors of Terrorism List" was introduced by the U.S. Department of State and identified four nations in the Middle East— Syria, Libya, Iraq and South Yemen— as countries subject to diplomatic sanctions for their continuing sponsorship of international terrorism.  Syria would remain on the list more than 40 years later; as of 2021, the other nations on the list are Iran, Cuba and North Korea.

December 30, 1979 (Sunday)
Time magazine announced that it had selected the Ayatollah Khomeini as its "Man of the Year" for 1979, to appear on the cover of its issue dated January 7, 1980, describing him as the individual who "has done the most to change the news, for better or worse."  The magazine added that "As the leader of Iran's revolution he gave the 20th century world a frightening lesson in the shattering power of irrationality, of the ease with which terrorism can be adopted as government policy," and that "The revolution that he led to triumph threatens to upset the world balance of power more than any other political event since Hitler's conquest of Europe."  
Born: Flávio Amado, Angolan soccer football striker and national team member; in Luanda

Died: Richard Rodgers, 77 American musical composer and the first person to win the Tony, Oscar, Grammy and Emmy awards, as well as the Pulitzer Prize; as part of the team of Rodgers and Hart and then Rodgers and Hammerstein, he composed the music for the songs in Oklahoma!, South Pacific, The Sound of Music and other successful musicals