[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Álvaro Alsogaray

, behind only major party candidates Carlos Menem and Eduardo Angeloz.

National Deputy
Continuing to enjoy a measure of support in Buenos Aires' affluent northside, he and his daughter María Julia Alsogaray were elected the only two national deputies for the UCeDé in 1983, and he served until 1999.

A vehement anti-Peronist and anti-socialist, Alsogaray forged an alliance with the late Juan Perón's Justicialist Party in 1989, following their nomination of pro-market Governor Carlos Menem, and endorsed Justicialist candidate Eduardo Vaca that year in a tightly-contested seat in the Argentine Senate representing the City of Buenos Aires. Argentine Senators were indirectly elected at the time, and Alsogaray's endorsement in the electoral college gave Vaca the seat, despite the latter's coming in second to centrist UCR candidate Fernando de la Rúa. The Universidad Francisco Marroquín granted Alsogaray an honorary doctorate in 1985.

A vocal supporter of the era's privatizations, he prevailed on President Menem to appoint his daughter, María Julia, Secretary of the Environment, in which post she served from 1991 to 1999, and himself served in numerous consultative posts during the Menem presidency, endorsing the populist-turned-conservative president in his 1995 election. 

Among his most notable roles in this era was as director of a feasibility study in 1995-96 for the replacement of Buenos Aires' two international airports for an island terminal on the Río de la Plata; opposed by de la Rúa, who had been elected Mayor (and would later be President), the project never materialized. 

His UCedé party languished despite his renewed influence as much due to public mistrust of his policies, as because of rivalries in the party itself – notably between his daughter and Adelina D'Alessio de Viola (whom he had Menem appoint as head of the Banco Hipotecario). Commenting on the dispute, he remarked that "would it that one's political party could do without affiliates...or women!"

Final years
In his last public appearances, Alsogaray urged his followers to take up the banners of economic liberalism and the social market economy, while expressing his pessimism about the management of Néstor Kirchner, which he associated with aspects of socialism.

He died on April 1, 2005, at his home in the Recoleta neighborhood of Buenos Aires, after a long illness, at the age of 91.

References

External links

1913 births
2005 deaths
People from Esperanza, Santa Fe
Argentine people of Basque descent
National University of Córdoba alumni
Colegio Militar de la Nación alumni
20th-century Argentine engineers
20th-century Argentine businesspeople
Argentine Ministers of Finance
Ambassadors of Argentina to the United States
Members of the Argentine Chamber of Deputies elected in Buenos Aires
Candidates for President of Argentina
Union of the Democratic Centre (Argentina) politicians
Argentine anti-communists
Burials at La Recoleta Cemetery
Conservatism in Argentina