[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bridget of York

ver, most of the medical bills came from the brief reign of her brother Edward V before the late king's family moved to Westminster Abbey, and was also recorded that for much of 1483 and the early months of 1484, Bridget was with her mother and older sisters in semi-confinement within the sanctuary.

On 22 June 1483 the marriage of Edward IV with Elizabeth Woodville was declared illegal. All the children of the late king were declared illegitimate by the act of parliament Titulus Regius and deprived of the right to the throne and all titles. A few days later, Bridget's previously captured uncle and half-brother, Anthony Woodville and Richard Grey, were executed. On 6 July 1483, Richard of Gloucester was proclaimed king under the name of Richard III, shortly thereafter there was no news of Bridget's brothers locked up in the Tower. On Christmas Day 1483, Henry Tudor, whose mother had been plotting with Elizabeth Woodville against Richard III, took an oath at Rennes Cathedral, that he marries Bridget's older sister, Elizabeth, or the next in seniority Cecily (if marriage with Elizabeth for some reason is impossible) after she takes the English throne. But the uprising of the Tudor party, led by the Duke of Buckingham, failed even before this oath.

After the execution of Buckingham, Richard III decided to negotiate with his brother's widow. On 1 March 1484, the king swore publicly that the daughters of his late brother would not be harmed or molested; in addition, the king promised that they would not be imprisoned in the Tower or any other prison, that they would be placed "in respectable places of good name and reputation", and later be married to "men of noble birth" and given dowry lands with an annual income of 200 marks each. On the same day, the memorandum was delivered to the Queen Dowager, along with provisions. The princesses with great joy agreed to leave their gloomy abode and go under the care of their "gracious uncle", who allocated them chambers in his palace. Tudor historian Edward Hall wrote that Richard III: "made all the daughters of his brother solemnly arrive at his palace; as if with him new – familiar and loving entertainment – they were supposed to forget...the trauma inflicted on them and the tyranny that preceded this". According to the generally accepted version, Bridget and her sisters were transported to the royal palace under the protection of Richard III, but there is a version according to which Bridget and her older sister Catherine remained with their mother after leaving the sanctuary. At the same time, Bridget herself enjoyed her stay in the abbey.

Two years later, in August 1485, Richard III died at the Battle of Bosworth, and Henry Tudor became the new king by right of conquest. This monarch repealed the act of Titulus Regius, which deprived the children of Edward IV of titles and rights to the throne; the act itself and all its copies were removed from the archives, as well as all the documents associated with them. Bridget's eldest sister Elizabeth, in accordance with the oath of Rennes, became Queen consort of England.

Nunnery

Probably, immediately after the birth of Bridget, her parents began to consider sending their daughter to a monastery, where she would devote herself to a religious life. Richard III planned to marry off his niece to one of his supporters as soon as she reached the age of consent. Later, Henry VII began to make matrimonial plans for his wife's relatives, and initially Bridget (although not mentioned by name) was considered as one of the two possible brides of James, Duke of Rothesay and heir to the Scottish throne, the alternative option being her elder sister Anne, similarly unnamed. When Bridget expressed her strong desire to become a nun, Anne was chosen as the bride of the Duke of Rothesay. Along with her other unmarried sisters, she was briefly considered in 1489 as a bride for Gian Galeazzo Sforza, Duke of Milan: although in respect of Bridget, at least, that initiative quickly fizzled out.

The exact date of the departure of the princess to Dartford Priory in Kent is unknown, but it happened already around 1489, when is known that Bridget was under the care of Elizabeth Cressener, prioress in Dartford, but before 1492, when Bridget's mother died. In her desire to enter a monastery, Bridget was supported by the mother of Henry VII, Lady Margaret Beaufort, known for its religiosity, which probably influenced the final decision of the king. In 1492, the princess, who was not yet twelve years old, briefly left the monastery to attend her mother's funeral: Bridget, among other mourners, accompanied her mother's body by water to Windsor, where she attended Mass, after which she returned to Dartford Priory.