[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mitchelville

s (some officials were appointed by the Union military, however), a church, various laws addressing such issues as community behavior and sanitation, collection of taxes, and a compulsory education law for children between the ages of six and fifteen. This was likely the first such law in the South.

By late November 1862, Federal tax commissioners were able to fix taxes on local plantations, with Fish Hall (Tract No. 3) being assessed as being worth $5,200.00, with $156.00 in taxes owed.  When Thomas Drayton failed to pay the taxes due on the property, it was advertised for sale by the Federal government. The government purchased it, holding it until 1875, when white Democrats regained control of the state legislature shortly before the end of Reconstruction.

The town was established by late 1862, and contained about 1,500 residents by November 1865. The residents of Mitchelville supported themselves largely by wage labor for the military, earning mostly between four dollars and twelve dollars a month, depending on their level of skill. Nearly all of the wage jobs for the residents of Mitchelville ceased when the Union military departed the island in 1868, more than two years after the end of the war. The residents switched to a subsistence farming-based economy, with many forming farming collectives, joining together to rent large tracts of land from the government. Documents show that many of the Hilton Head Island freedmen experienced an extreme shortage of food after the military departed the island.

The town or village continued relatively intact into the early 1870s. But sometime in the early 1880s, Mitchelville ceased being a true town. It dissolved to a small, kinship-based community that survived into the 1920s. A 1920 topographic map of Hilton Head Island shows a cluster of buildings centered around a church.  Previous archaeological investigations have concluded that the majority of Mitchelville was abandoned by c. 1890.

Churches/religion
The First Baptist Church was founded in 1862 with 120 members and with the ex-slave Abraham Murchison as its first minister.  By 1866, there were three churches in Mitchelville—the First Baptist Church, a Free Will Baptist church, and a Methodist church.  Several missionary groups were active on Hilton Head Island during the war, but by 1866 all but the American Missionary Association had left the island.  The American Missionary Association was largely funded by the Wesleyan Methodists, Free Presbyterians, and Free Will Baptists during the war years. After 1866, it relied on funds from the United States Tax Commission as northern interest waned in the freedmen on the Sea Islands.

School
In 1866 Hilton Head Island was divided into five school districts: Mitchelville, Marshland, Seabrook, Stoney, and Lawton.  In Mitchelville District, the American Missionary Association supplied most of the teachers, and offered primary, intermediate, and high school classes at the various churches.  There were as many as 238 students being taught in the district at one time, with classes meeting for up to five hours per day.  Attendance varied according to job requirements and travel conditions of the students.  Most teachers were white northerners, but in 1869 there was at least one black assistant teacher, and Sunday school lessons were taught by black teachers around 1870. Descendants of the former-slave town of Mitchelville built the Cherry Hill School in 1937.

Structures
Military sawmills provided free lumber for the houses, which were built by the freedmen.  Each house was on a one-quarter-acre lot.  The typical house measured approximately 12x12ft, was of frame construction, had wood pier foundations, glass-paned windows, wood floors, weatherboard siding, wood shingle roofs, and having either metal stoves or brick and/or "tabby" or wattle and daub ("stick") chimneys.  There were four stores in Mitchelville; several closed down after the military left, perhaps because they had survived by overcharging the residents (supplies sold in Mitchelville were priced nearly 600% higher than those sold by the AMA). (Trinkley/CRC-21 1987).

Post-Civil War
Congress soon passed laws restoring lands confiscated by the U.S. government to the Southern landowners who had owned the land prior to the Civil War.  In April 1875, the Drayton Plantation lands were returned to the Drayton family.  Unfortunately, the U.S. government failed to plan for the protection and preservation of Mitchelville, and its future looked bleak.  However, the Drayton family was no longer interested in farming the property, and sold the land to anyone who was interested and had money – including many freedmen.