[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Canadian Tribute to Human Rights

symbols that can transform people's hearts. They point to the changes needed in the world around us. For example, in 1980 as one of its first actions, the newly formed Polish trade union Solidarność erected a commemorative monument in Gdansk which embodies that society's sacrifices and aspirations.

The Canadian Tribute to Human Rights is both a powerful and empowering symbol. It suggests a new approach to power – one that emphasizes power based on the recognition of rights and on the empowerment of the individual as well as the community.  Human community has its social foundation firmly rooted in the enjoyment of equal rights and freedoms by each citizen, as well as in the protection of specially defined minority rights. The struggle for freedom, justice, and equality is as old as human history itself. In Canada today, we reap the benefits of these generations of struggle, enjoying many freedoms not known even half a century ago.  Nonetheless, there is still significant work to be done.

When the monument was unveiled on September 30, 1990, it was the world's first such structure dedicated to the struggle for fundamental rights and freedoms.  It symbolizes the commitment of Canadians to live in a society based on justice, human dignity, and universal rights.  The hope is that this symbol with inspire and remind our leaders, teach our children, and sensitize our visitors to the idea that human rights are the cornerstone of human community.  Until the rights of all individuals and groups are respected, none are secure.

Events 

In recent years, the Monument has played host to many demonstrations related to human rights.  On September 30, 1990, for example, the Monument was officially unveiled.  This ceremony began with a ceremonial introduction by Algonquin elder William Commanda, a poignant event because the Monument is located on original land of the Algonquin people.  The Canadian Tribute to Human Rights was officially unveiled by the Dalai Lama, who ceremoniously walked through the archway of the Monument.

On September 24, 1998, Nelson Mandela visited the Monument to unveil a commemorative plaque honouring John Peters Humphrey, a Canadian jurist who served for twenty years as the Director of the United Nations Division of Human Rights, drafting and championing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  During his remarks at the unveiling, President Mandela expressed his desire that the Monument "inspire all who see it to join hands in a partnership for world peace, prosperity, and equity."

More recently, on June 21, 2010, the remaining Aboriginal Language Plaques were unveiled in a public ceremony.  Speeches were delivered by The Right Honourable Michaëlle Jean and members of Aboriginal communities including Shawn Atleo, Chief of the Assembly of First Nations; Mary Simon, President of Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami; Clément Chartier, President of the Métis National Federation; and Betty Ann Lavallée, National Chief of the Congress of Aboriginal Peoples.

In addition to these official ceremonies, the Monument is and has been the site of a variety of political and social demonstrations.  These range from solidarity rallies for Bahrain and Palestine to commemorative tributes for victims of Stalin-induced famines in Ukraine during the 1930s.  In November 2010, "Light for Rights" was hosted at the Monument as a means of promoting HIV/AIDS awareness.

Additions to the Monument 

In 1998, a plaque honouring John Peters Humphrey, a Canadian who was the first director of the United Nations Human Rights Division and who wrote the preliminary draft of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, was added to the Monument. The plaque was unveiled by Nelson Mandela on September 24, 1998, commemorating the 50th anniversary of the declaration. During his remarks at the unveiling, President Mandela expressed his desire that the monument "inspire all who see it to join hands in a partnership for world peace, prosperity and equity."

In June 2011, the Board of Directors installed a plaque to inform visitors about the House of Canada and the Aboriginal Language Plaques housed within.

Future Projects 

With the recent dedication of the remaining Aboriginal Language Plaques, the Monument is moving ever closer to completion.  The Board is currently in the planning stages of installing lighting to complete the design of the Monument.  This will highlight the design of the Monument and also allow it to be used in the evenings.

See also
Human Rights in Canada
Canadian Human Rights Act
Human Rights Commission
Canadian Human Rights Tribunal
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms

References

External links

Monuments and memorials in Ottawa