[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Law Enforcement Action Partnership

ornia; executive director Maj. Neill Franklin (Ret.) of the Baltimore and Maryland State Police Departments; Capt. Leigh Maddox (Ret.) of the Maryland State Police; Allison Watson, former Assistant District Attorney in Knoxville, Tennessee; and Det. Sergeant Neil Woods (Ret.) of Derbyshire, England.

Advisory board
The advisory board of Law Enforcement Against Prohibition consists of Romesh Bhattacharji, former drug czar (India); Vince Cain, former Chief Coroner of British Columbia and retired RCMP chief superintendent (Canada); Senator Larry Campbell, former mayor of Vancouver and retired RCMP officer (Canada); retired Supreme Court Justice Kenneth Crispin (Australia), Member of Parliament Libby Davies (Canada); Carel Edwards, former anti-drug coordinator for the European Union; U.S. District Court Judge Warren William Eginton; Gustavo de Greiff, former Attorney General of Colombia; Gary Johnson, former Governor of New Mexico; Judge John L. Kane Jr., United States District Court for the District of Colorado; Justice Ketil Lund, retired Supreme Court Justice from Norway; Sheriff Bill Masters, Colorado; Joseph McNamara, retired police chief of the San Jose Police Department; Norm Stamper, retired police chief of the Seattle Police Department; Eric Sterling, president of the Criminal Justice Policy Foundation; Thomas P. Sullivan, former U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; Robert W. Sweet, Senior Judge of the US District Court Southern District of New York; Hans van Dujin, retired Dutch police union president (the Netherlands); Francis Wilkinson, former Chief Constable of the Gwent Police Force (United Kingdom); and Justice C. Ross (Ret.), former British Columbia Supreme Court judge (Canada).

Speakers bureau
Representatives of the Law Enforcement Action Partnership are trained to speak with audiences and media outlets on behalf of the organization. They include current and former/retired police officers, military police officers, judges, prosecutors, prison wardens and other corrections officials, parole and probation officers, and FBI and DEA agents.

Activities

Media
Each year, speakers conduct hundreds of interviews with outlets across the country, including AP, Newsweek, BBC, The Washington Post, FOX News, CNN, The Atlantic, The Intercept, Reason magazine, The Hill, The Guardian, The Washington Times, The Los Angeles Times, and others. They are regularly featured in documentaries, viral social media content, and local radio and TV segments.

Events 
Representatives are regularly involved in speaking engagements in state legislatures and at press conferences, civic clubs, conferences and universities.

See also
 Drug Policy Alliance
 DrugWarRant
 Freedom of thought
 NORML (National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws)
 Prohibition
 Students for Sensible Drug Policy
 War on Drugs
 Doctors for Cannabis Regulation

References

External links

LEAP's Promotional Video
Documentary film
"Proposed Amendment of United Nations Drug Treaties -- 2014"
2014 Letter To World Leaders

2002 establishments in Massachusetts
Cannabis law reform organizations based in the United States
Drug policy organizations based in the United States
Drug policy reform
Law enforcement non-governmental organizations in the United States
Non-profit organizations based in Massachusetts
Organizations established in 2002
2002 in cannabis
501(c)(3) organizations