[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Goodna, Queensland

Australian median. The unemployment rate was 14.3%, compared to the Australian average of 6.9%.

Heritage listings 

Goodna retains significant elements of its heritage and has a number of heritage-listed sites, including
 Church Street:  St Francis Xavier Church

Amenities, facilities and services

A wide range of established amenities, facilities, and services are to be found close to the Goodna Shopping Centre and the Goodna train station. Amongst these are a range of government services, large range of medical services, large range of financial services, Woolworths, Goodna Neighbourhood House, diverse range of sporting clubs, the Goodna Aquatic Centre, Woogaroo Swim Club, Brisbane River Tce retirement village, Tully Lodge retirement village, Oak Trees retirement village, Goodna Little Athletics, Goodna Rugby League Football Club, Western Spirit Football Club, Goodna Lawn Bowls Club, Goodna Netball Association, Goodna Cultural and Arts Centre, Jacaranda 2000 Toastmasters Club (Goodna), as well as local Goodna Scout Group, which was founded in 1969, celebrating its 40-year anniversary in 2009 and Girl Guide groups amongst others.

Goodna Uniting Church is at 13 William Street (corner of Smith Street, ). It is part of the Bremer Brisbane Presbytery of the Uniting Church in Australia. It was formerly known as St Ives Goodna Uniting Church. The Goodna Samoan congregation also meets at the church.

House of Hope Church conduct their services at 33 Queen Street (); it is part of the Wesleyan Methodist Church.

Oxley Samoan Church meets at Goodna State School at 1 Albert Street (). It is part of the Wesleyan Methodist Church of Australia.

Education
Goodna State School is a government primary (Prep–6) school for boys and girls at 1 Albert Street (). In 2017, the school had an enrolment of 768 students with 54 teachers (51 full-time equivalent) and 51 non-teaching staff (31 full-time equivalent). It includes a special education program.

St Francis Xavier's School is a Catholic primary (Prep–6) school for boys and girls at 6 Church Street (). In 2017, the school had an enrolment of 493 students with 34 teachers (31 full-time equivalent) and 15 non-teaching staff (10 full-time equivalent).

Westside Christian College is a private primary (Prep–6) facility of Westside Christian College at 65 Stuart Street for boys and girls at 110 Stuart Street (). In 2017, the school had an enrolment of 976 students with 89 teachers (71 full-time equivalent) and 117 non-teaching staff (56 full-time equivalent).

Goodna Special School is a special primary and secondary (Prep–12) school for boys and girls at 65 Queen Street (). In 2017, the school had an enrolment of 134 students with 31 teachers (29 full-time equivalent) and 43 non-teaching staff (25 full-time equivalent).

Westside Christian College is a private secondary (7–12) school for boys and girls at 65 Stuart Street (). In 2017, the school had an enrolment of 976 students with 89 teachers (71 full-time equivalent) and 117 non-teaching staff (56 full-time equivalent).

Queensland Pathways State College at 45 Queen Street () is a secondary (10–12) campus of Queensland Pathways State College (headquartered at Coorparoo).

Goodna is also home to a campus of The Bremer Institute of TAFE.

Events

Goodna Jacaranda Festival 

Goodna is renowned for its yearly Jacaranda Festival held towards the end of October. This is held when the Jacaranda trees are flowering. In excess of 10,000 people attend the Jacaranda Festival annually, which has been run since 1968. The festival is held in Evan Marginson Park near Goodna train station.

Mall 2 Mall Bike Ride 
This is an integral part of the annual Ipswich Festival which is held each April. Attracting 1,000 riders it was started in 2002. It was initiated by Bernie Ripoll, the local federal member (Federal Member for Oxley) who has his office in Goodna. Goodna is the major rest point for this event and it is possible to join the event there. This event starts in the Brisbane Mall and finishes in the heart of Ipswich, covering more than  and passing through 27 western Brisbane and Ipswich suburbs.  It raises funds for the Ipswich Hospital Foundation and the Royal Children's Hospital Foundation.

Transport
The Goodna train station was opened in 1875. Feeder bus services are operated by the Westside Bus Company which carry commuters from surrounding suburbs to and from the Goodna train station.

Politics

Goodna is located within the federal electorate of Oxley. Milton Dick represents the electorate of Oxley in the House of Representatives. On a state basis it is in the State Electoral District of Bundamba and is represented by Lance McCallum.

References

External links

 
 Goodna Shopping Centre (Also known as St Ives)
Queensland Places – Goodna

 
Suburbs of Ipswich, Queensland
Populated places established in 1856
1856 establishments in Australia