[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mark Beard (footballer)

home victory against Plymouth Argyle. He made 42 appearances during the season as Southend finished in 16th position in Division Three, scoring what turned out to be his only goal for the club in a 2–1 defeat to Hull City in November 1999. During his first spell at Southend, he made 82 appearances.

Beard then signed for Football Conference club Kingstonian on a free transfer on 12 July 2000. He debuted for Kingtsonian in a 1–0 home victory over Northwich Victoria on 19 August 2000, and made 29 appearances for the club during a season in which Kingstonian were relegated. The club reached the fourth round of the FA Cup that season, losing to Bristol City in a replay after the two teams had drawn at Ashton Gate, with Beard playing in both matches. He left the club at the end of the season, and rejoined Southend United two months into the 2001–02 season, making 17 appearances that season. Another season at Southend followed, during which he made 42 appearances, before leaving the club at the end of the 2002–03 season. He returned to Kingstonian for the following season, with the club playing in the Isthmian League Premier Division, scoring six times in 40 league games. At the end of the season, he travelled to Spain to set up a youth academy at Marbella based club U.D San Pedro in the Spanish Third Division, and ended up as part of the playing squad during his time there.

Stevenage Borough
After spending two years playing and coaching in Spain, Beard signed for Stevenage Borough of the Conference National on 11 September 2006. The move came to fruition after Beard asked his brother, Matt Beard, to call a number of a managers in England. Stevenage manager Mark Stimson stated he was in need of "adding some grit into midfield", and subsequently offered Beard a one-week trial period to prove his fitness. Beard had previously played alongside Stimson at Southend. Beard agreed to play for nothing at the beginning of his time at Stevenage, making his debut in a 6–0 home victory over Stafford Rangers on 9 September 2006, coming on as a 73rd-minute substitute in the club's first win of the season. He scored his first goal in a 1–0 victory against Weymouth at Broadhall Way on 19 September 2006. Beard played regularly during the season, making 49 appearances in all competitions, scoring three goals. This appearance tally included eight appearances in the FA Trophy, with Beard playing every minute as Stevenage became the first team to win a competitive cup final at the new Wembley Stadium, beating Kidderminster Harriers 3–2 in front of a competition record crowd of 53,262. He was released at the end of the season; Beard stated he was "gutted to leave", with Stimson wanting to bring in John Martin as his replacement.

Later career
Following his release from Stevenage, Beard joined Conference South club St Albans City in a player-assistant manager role on 20 June 2007. He was assistant to Ritchie Hanlon, who stated – "Mark has all the relevant coaching badges and I'm looking forward to working with him as he is someone I trust. He will bring experience to the team and is someone the other players can look up to". Hanlon was sacked just ten games into the 2007–08 season, and Beard subsequently departed too. He then signed for AFC Wimbledon of the Isthmian League Premier Division towards the latter stages of 2007, and he helped the team gain promotion to the Conference South, scoring once in 17 league appearances. He left Wimbledon at the end of the season, and then spent two years at Haywards Heath Town in the Sussex County League, making 56 appearances and scoring six times, as well as managing the club during the 2009–10 season. Beard briefly returned to playing during the 2010–11 season after a number of injuries to first team players whilst manager of Tooting and Mitcham United, scoring one goal in three games.

Coaching career

Early coaching career
Beard gained his UEFA coaching badges in 2007, and already had previous experience of coaching in both Spain and Cyprus. He was appointed Director of Youth at Spanish Third Division club UD San Pedro, combining the position alongside his playing duties. With the aid of Vinny Samways, Beard watched over seven academy teams before returning to the England when he signed for Stevenage Borough. He was brought in to set up a youth academy at Sussex County League club Haywards Heath Town in 2008, and ultimately ended up managing the side during the 2009–10 season.