[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Hogle Zoo

ne 23, 2023, after an approximate 132-day pregnancy, the zoo's female red panda Priya gave birth to a cub. Priya arrived at Hogle Zoo in June 2022 on a breeding recommendation. She was paired with the zoo's resident male Mow Mow. This was the first red panda birth in the zoo's history.

Rocky Shores

In 2007, Hogle Zoo officials announced plans to construct an Arctic themed exhibit as part of their newly unveiled master plan. The exhibit would replace the dated Bear Grotto from the 1950's and see the return of polar bears to Utah. The proposed exhibit planned to also see the return of snowy owls and seals as well as new species including arctic fox. This plan eventually evolved into Rocky Shores, an exhibit showcasing the physical, cultural, and social landscape of the western shores of North America. 

Funding for what would be the zoo's largest and most expensive exhibit was secured through a 2008 Salt Lake County bond of $33 million as well as a $3 million grant from the George S. and Dolores Doré Eccles Foundation. Construction for Rocky Shores began in 2010, transforming a three-acre site at the northwest end of the zoo.  After a two-year construction period, the $18 million Rocky Shores exhibit opened in a ribbon cutting ceremony with Salt Lake City Mayor Ralph Becker on June 1, 2012.

Rocky Shores features wildlife from Pacific Northwest stretching from Oregon to Alaska. From the R. Harold Burton Otter Falls habitat, guests can view bald eagles and North American river otters. The George S. and Dolores Doré Eccles Tidewater Cove provides underwater views of California sea lions, harbor seals, and polar bears. A salmon cannery inspired tower overlooks Bear Meadows which is home to the zoo's grizzly bears. Underneath Rocky Shores are dozens of pumps that help filter the exhibit's 350,000 gallons of water.

Polar bears
On May 1, 2012, Rizzo, a female polar bear from the Cincinnati Zoo, arrived in anticipation of the Rocky Shores' opening. Rizzo was the first polar bear to be seen in Utah since 2003. Rizzo delighted guests and was famous for swimming up to the glass and back diving into her habitat's pool. After a week of end-of-life care, zoo officials made the decision to euthanize Rizzo on April 9, 2017. The nineteen-year-old female had been suffering from renal failure. 

On September 16, 2017, the zoo received Nora, a female from the Oregon Zoo in need of relocation. Nora achieved global fame after her mother Aurora abandoned her days after her birth on November 6, 2015, at the Columbus Zoo. In an effort to keep Nora alive, she was hand raised by her keepers and quickly grew popularity on social media as people from around the world watched Nora grow up. Nora was sent to the Oregon Zoo in 2016 in hopes that she would learn natural bear behaviors from the zoo's older female Tasul. When Tasul died that November, Nora was again left alone, and the Oregon Zoo saw an opportunity to relocate Nora while they created an improved polar bear exhibit. Thus, Nora was sent to Hogle Zoo where she could be introduced to a female of a similar age. 

Hope, born a month after Nora at the Toledo Zoo, arrived at Hogle Zoo on September 20, 2017. Introductions between the young bears began shortly after their arrival, and the two became fast friends. They would often be seen rambunctiously playing in their home at Rocky Shores. Their antics got Nora into a bit of trouble when she broke her front leg in February of 2019. A team consisting of specialists from Texas A&M, North Carolina State University, and the University of Utah performed surgery on Nora on February 4, 2019. Nora made a full recovery with the help of heavy-duty orthopedic hardware in her leg. By 2021, it was time for the two girls to embark on a new chapter of their lives. On January 29, 2021, Hope moved to the Brookfield Zoo on a breeding recommendation with the zoo's resident male Hudson. Nora's new habitat at the Oregon Zoo, Polar Passage, was ready for her. She arrived back in Portland on March 9, 2021, where she currently resides with her friend Amelia Gray. 

On February 26, 2021, Nikita, a fourteen-year-old male polar bear, took up residence at Hogle Zoo. Standing at 10½ feet-tall, Nikita was the first male polar bear to call Rocky Shores home. Arriving from the North Carolina Zoo, Nikita's move to Utah was coordinated by the Polar Bear Species Survival Plan. His mate, Neva, a five-year-old from the Maryland Zoo, arrived on November 16, 2021. The two have been introduced to each other, and zoo officials are hopeful the pair will produce offspring continuing Hogle Zoo's long history with polar bear breeding.