[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 71]
# Politics — Aristotle

it; as to establish or abolish a particular magistracy, as some
persons say Lysander endeavoured to abolish the kingly power in Sparta;
and Pausanias that of the ephori. Thus in Epidamnus there was an
alteration in one part of the constitution, for instead of the philarchi
they established a senate. It is also necessary for all the magistrates
at Athens; to attend in the court of the Helisea when any new magistrate
is created: the power of the archon also in that state partakes of the
nature of an oligarchy: inequality is always the occasion of sedition,
but not when those who are unequal are treated in a different manner
correspondent to that inequality. Thus kingly power is unequal when
exercised over equals. Upon the whole, those who aim after an equality
are the cause of seditions. Equality is twofold, either in number or
value. Equality in number is when two things contain the same parts or
the same quantity; equality in value is by proportion as two exceeds
one, and three two by the same number-thus by proportion four exceeds
two, and two one in the same degree, for two is the same part of four
that one is of two; that is to say, half. Now, all agree in what is
absolutely and simply just; but, as we have already said they dispute
concerning proportionate value; for some persons, if they are equal in
one respect, think themselves equal in all; others, if they are superior
in one thing, think they may claim the superiority in all; from whence
chiefly arise two sorts of governments, a democracy and an oligarchy;
for nobility and virtue are to be found only [1302a] amongst a few;
the contrary amongst the many; there being in no place a hundred of
the first to be met with, but enough of the last everywhere. But to
establish a government entirely upon either of these equalities is
wrong, and this the example of those so established makes evident,
for none of them have been stable; and for this reason, that it is
impossible that whatever is wrong at the first and in its principles
should not at last meet with a bad end: for which reason in some things
an equality of numbers ought to take place, in others an equality in
value. However, a democracy is safer and less liable to sedition than an
oligarchy; for in this latter it may arise from two causes, for either
the few in power may conspire against each other or against the
people; but in a democracy only one; namely, against the few who aim
at exclusive power; but there is no instance worth speaking of, of
a sedition of the people against themselves. Moreover, a government
composed of men of moderate fortunes comes much nearer to a democracy
than an oligarchy, and is the safest of all such states.




CHAPTER II


Since we are inquiring into the causes of seditions and revolutions
in governments, we must begin entirely with the first principles from
whence they arise. Now these, so to speak, are nearly three in number;
which we must first distinguish in general from each other, and
endeavour to show in what situation people are who begin a sedition;
and for what causes; and thirdly, what are the beginnings of political
troubles and mutual quarrels with each other. Now that cause which of
all others most universally inclines men to desire to bring about a
change in government is that which I have already mentioned; for those
who aim at equality will be ever ready for sedition, if they see those
whom they esteem their equals possess more than they do, as well as
those also who are not content with equality but aim at superiority, if
they think that while they deserve more than, they have only equal with,
or less than, their inferiors. Now, what they aim at may be either just
or unjust; just, when those who are inferior are seditious, that they
may be equal; unjust, when those who are equal are so, that they may
be superior. These, then, are the situations in which men will be
seditious: the causes for which they will be so are profit and honour;
and their contrary: for, to avoid dishonour or loss of fortune by
mulcts, either on their own account or their friends, they will raise
a commotion in the state. The original causes which dispose men to the
things which I have mentioned are, taken in one manner, seven in number,
in another they are more; two of which are the same with those that
have been already mentioned: but influencing in a different manner;
for profit and honour sharpen men against each other; not to get the
possession of them for themselves (which was what I just now supposed),
but when they see others, some justly, others [1302b] unjustly,
engrossing them. The other causes are haughtiness, fear, eminence,
contempt, disproportionate increase in some part of the state. There are
also other things which in a different manner will occasion revolutions
in governments; as election intrigues, neglect, want of numbers, a too
great dissimilarity of circumstances.




CHAPT