[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# James Crichton-Browne

and vegetarians. He argued that the therapeutic benefits of Freudian psychotherapy had been assessed with insufficient rigour. He advocated the fluoridation of human dietary intake in 1892, and recommended prenatal fluoride. He worried about the consequences of mass transportation by motor vehicles.

Retirement: In his later years, Crichton-Browne enjoyed lengthy interludes at the Dumfries home ("Crindau", on the River Nith) which he had inherited from his father. Here, he worked on a number of projects, including a notable study of Robert Burns' medical problems, and seven volumes of memoirs, drawing on his personal commonplace notebooks, and ranging widely over medical, psychological, biographical and Scottish themes. These notebooks provide a unique psychiatric commentary on later Victorian culture and society.

Crichton-Browne was twice married and, like his mother, cherished a lifelong affection for the traditions of the Anglican liturgy; he was a loyal member of the congregation at the Church of St John the Evangelist, Dumfries. Through his granddaughter Sybil Cookson, he became friendly with the painter Gluck (1895–1978) who created an arresting portrait of Sir James in 1928, now in the National Portrait Gallery. Also in the National Portrait Gallery is a 1917 photographic portrait by Walter Stoneman. Another portrait by Sir Oswald Birley, painted in 1934, is in the Crichton Royal Collection in Dumfries. Crichton-Browne was elected a Fellow of The Royal Society in 1883 with posthumous support from Charles Darwin, and he was knighted in 1886. At his death on 31 January 1938 at the age of 97, Crichton-Browne – like Robert Burns, Thomas Carlyle and James Clerk Maxwell – was acclaimed as one of the greatest sons of South-West Scotland; as one of the last men in Britain to sport Dundreary whiskers – and as one of the last Victorians.

See also
Crichton-Browne sign
Council housing
Gustav Fritsch
Eduard Hitzig
Teleology
Eugenics

References

External links 

 
 American Journal of Public Health Sir James Crichton-Browne: Victorian Psychiatrist and Public Health Reformer (biography)

1840 births
1938 deaths
Alumni of the University of Edinburgh
British memoirists
British neuroscientists
19th-century Scottish photographers
British psychiatrists
Scottish eugenicists
Charles Darwin
Fellows of the Royal Society
People educated at Dumfries Academy
People educated at Glenalmond College
Mental health activists
Scottish medical writers
Knights Bachelor