[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

sh on the road between Nenagh and Limerick.
A civilian is killed in an exchange of fire at Whitefriars, Dublin city.
27 August – In County Tipperary, three Free State soldiers are killed in ambush near Nenagh, when a mine is exploded under their lorry and they were fired on by Republicans. Several more men are injured in the shooting. Another two are killed in a separate mine attack near Bushfield.
Anti-Treaty units mount an ambush of Free State troops at Glenflesk, near Killarney, County Kerry. The Free State troops bring up an 18-pounder artillery piece and eventually drive off their attackers. Press reports say that the bodies of 20 Anti-Treaty fighters are found at the scene.
A Free State soldier is shot dead in an ambush near Macroom, County Cork.
Two Republicans are captured in Tralee and shot by Free State troops. One of them, James Healy, survives and escapes.
28 August – Five civilians are killed in Westport after Anti-Treaty IRA members open fire on a crowd leaving mass, held for the repose of the soul of Michael Collins. Free State troops returned fire.
Free State troops assault an Anti-Treaty position at Convent hill, near Newport, County Mayo. They are repulsed with seven men wounded.
29 August – Six Free State soldiers are killed in three separate ambushes. Two in Tullamore, and one in Macroom, and two in an ambush and firefight between Kilrglin and Tralee in County Kerry. An attack is also made on Clonakilty in which one Free State officer is killed.
Three Republican fighters are reported killed in fighting in Cork.
In Marybourogh Jail, where 600 Anti-Treaty prisoners are being held, the Republicans riot and set fire to their cells.
30 August – Anti-Treaty IRA attack Bantry in western County Cork for several hours. They withdraw after losing four officers and more men killed. Four Free State soldiers are also killed and two wounded in the attack.
In north Cork, near Millstreet, two lorries of Free State troops are ambushed by IRA Cork 1 Brigade members. Two Anti-Treaty fighters are killed and two wounded. Five Free State troops are wounded.
31 August – The Anti-Treaty IRA mounts gun and grenade attacks against Free State soldiers at Stephen's Green, Dublin. In Cork, there is an exchange of fire between Free State troops and Anti-Treaty snipers. One Republican is killed by machine gun fire.
August – Republicans blow up the railway bridge over the river Blackwater at Mallow, County Cork, disabling the rail line between Cork and Dublin.
August – Two Republicans are taken from a car in Drumcondra in Dublin and shot dead. Their bodies are left on the street. A British soldier on the scene reported that the car contained three men in "Provisional Government uniform" and three more in trench coats – presumed to be from the CID intelligence unit.
Three unarmed Free State soldiers are shot at Glasson, near Athlone. One is killed.