[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Central Business District, Saskatoon

econd Avenue was revamped to provide angle parking and created a unique strip mall type of shopping area in the revitalised downtown core. The ceremonies of July 30, 1970 celebrated the opening of Saskatoon's enclosed downtown shopping mall named  Midtown Plaza and developed on the former CNR yards.

The Scotia Centre Mall houses office of the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan and boutiques and restaurant.

Hotels and motels

Saskatoon's tourist industry is expanding. Celebrate Saskatoon, the 100th birthday in 2006 kicked off many projects, developments, and celebrations. Conventions and get-togethers are easily hosted in this provincially central city with many downtown amenities. A variety of historic and contemporary hotels blend together to provide the traveller a home away from home in beautiful downtown Saskatoon.
 Delta Bessborough
 Hilton Garden Inn Hotel
 Holiday Inn
 Hotel Senator
 King George Hotel (previous hotel on 23rd Street East)
 The Parktown Hotel
 Radisson Hotel Saskatoon
 Sheraton Cavalier Hotel

Education
Currently the downtown core hosts private vocational schools, career colleges and trade schools such as CDI College, Academy of Learning, Marca College, Marvel Schools – Saskatoon School of Esthetics and Hairstyling, McKay Career Training, Regency College, Saskatoon Business College and Universal Career College.
 Pioneer School, an early stone elementary one room schoolhouse, was ready for use in 1900. This frame building was moved to the King Edward School site c.1912 to provide more classrooms to the replacement brick building.
 King Edward School opened July 1904. The frame Pioneer school closed at its location, but was soon moved to supplement classes at King Edward School. It was not long before another King Edward school was rebuilt to serve the educational needs of the public school children still residing in this area. It was located in City Park now Kinsmen Park a part of the City Park subdivision. The second King Edward School was on 25th Street until it was demolished in 1980
 The Gathercole Building started out as the Technical Collegiate Institute in 1931. In 1968, the Technical Collegiate Institute housed the administration offices and Riverview Collegiate. In 1972 it was called the Dr. F. J. Gathercole Education Centre. This building has recently been torn down and the area is part of the South Downtown – River Landing Project.
 The T. Eaton Store which later became the Army & Navy Department Store is now the location of the Saskatoon Public School Board.

Governance

The village of Saskatoon, often referred to as West Saskatoon was incorporated in 1901.  When Saskatoon, Riversdale and Nutana amalgamated to form the City of Saskatoon in 1903, James R. Wilson (Russell Wilson) was the first mayor. In 1912, the King Edward School building housed the City of Saskatoon City Hall Chambers in the heart of the Central Business District at Third Avenue and 23rd Street. The first King Edward School building was used as City Hall until 1956, when it was demolished and replaced with modern civic buildings. The municipal government holds weekly meetings Monday evenings at City Hall located at 222 3rd Avenue North located in the Central Business District.

Federally, Saskatoon and Saskatoon City were the electoral districts that represented the central business district in the House of Commons of Canada from 1908–1968. Currently the central business district lies within the Saskatoon West riding and has been represented by Brad Redekopp of the Conservative Party of Canada since 2019.

Provincially, the area is mostly within the boundaries of Saskatoon Centre. It is currently represented by David Forbes of the Saskatchewan New Democratic Party who was first elected in 2001. A small portion of the neighborhood north of 24th Street is within the boundaries of Saskatoon Meewasin.

In Saskatoon's non-partisan municipal politics, the Central Business District lies within ward 6. It is currently represented by Councillor Cynthia Block who was first elected in 2016.

Public services