[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2007 Laotian coup d'état conspiracy allegation

e U.S. Congressional Forum on Laos where Members of the U.S. Congress and other human rights organizations, human rights advocates, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and policy experts testified, including Amnesty International, Kerry and Kay Danes, the Lao Veterans of America, Inc. and others.

Smith, the CPPA, Amnesty International, public policy experts and independent journalists provided important research and information to Members of Congress and U.S. and international policymakers in Washington, D.C., regarding the Lao military's persecution and killing of Hmong and Laotian civilians, political asylum seekers and refugees and political and religious dissident groups, including Hmong resistance groups hiding in the jungles and mountains of Laos.  Religious freedom issues were also researched and discussed, including the Lao and Socialist Republic of Vietnam security forces persecution, arrest and imprisonment of dissident Laotian and Hmong Christians, Buddhist and animists in Laos.  Reports by the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom were discussed regarding religious freedom violations by the Lao and Vietnam-backed Lao military in Laos. Research and information was also provided about the plight of three Hmong-American citizens from St. Paul, Minnesota, including Hakit Yang, who were arrested, and later imprisoned by Lao security forces in Vientiane's notorious Phonthong Prison before they disappeared in Laos.

Philip Smith told the Los Angeles Times, the New York Sun and others that the U.S. Government would be putting itself on trial for betraying the Hmong people, if it proceeded in prosecuting Vang Pao and the other Hmong leaders.

Dropping of charges
On September 18, 2009, the federal government dropped all charges against Vang Pao, saying that "continued prosecution of this defendant is no longer warranted," and announcing in a press release that the federal government was permitted to consider "the probable sentence or other consequences if the person is convicted.”

On January 10, 2011, the federal government dropped all charges against the remaining defendants. "Based on the totality of the circumstances in the case, the government believes, as a discretionary matter, that continued prosecution of defendants is no longer warranted," according to court documents.

Reaction
Vang Pao's arrest and a preliminary decision by a U.S. federal judge to deny bail to Vang Pao and the other defendants sparked huge Hmong protest rallies in California, Minnesota, Wisconsin, and other states.

As of early 2008, pressure built on California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and U.S. President George W. Bush to issue pardons in the case, given the defendants' historical alliance with U.S. interests in Southeast Asia.

See also

 Lao Human Rights Council
 United League for Democracy in Laos
 The Center for Public Policy Analysis
 Air America
 Lao Veterans of America
 Vang Pobzeb
 Wat Tham Krabok
 Hmong people
 Amnesty International
 Human rights
 Genocide
 Refugee
 Conspiracy (political)

References

External links
 "Gen. Vang Pao’s Last War", The New York Times Magazine, May 11, 2008.
 "U.S. Agents Thwart Planned Laos Coup Plot", The Christian Science Monitor, June 6, 2007.

Politics of Laos
Attempted coups d'état in Laos
Laotian coup d'état conspiracy allegation
Entrapment
Coup d'état conspiracy allegation
Laos–United States relations
Laotian coup d'état conspiracy allegation
History of Laos (1945–present)