[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Timeline of the Yugoslav Wars

The Yugoslav Wars were a series of armed conflicts on the territory of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) that took place between 1991 and 2001. This article is a timeline of relevant events preceding, during, and after the wars.

Timeline

Tito-era
1945
The victorious resistance army known as the Yugoslav Partisans form the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, a communist union of several nations.
1948–1952
Tito–Stalin split leads to Yugoslavia breaking away from Moscow's influence.
1966
Yugoslav leader Josip Broz Tito removes Aleksandar Ranković, an intelligence officer and main Serbian cadre, from his position. A purge of Serbian cadres from the establishment follows.
1968
Protests in 1968 are echoed in Yugoslavia. The protests are partially student demonstrations. In Kosovo, demonstrators demand greater rights for the Albanian people. Ailing Tito, in his late seventies, allows some liberalization, but despite his old age, refuses to retire.
Croatian terrorists plant bombs at cinemas; several people die.
1971
Nationalist demonstrations in Croatia, known as the Croatian Spring or MASPOK, occur. Tito and the communist government condemn the demonstrations. Many radical nationalists were later convicted for hate-speech, including Stipe Mesić and Franjo Tudjman. A government crisis follows.
A group of Croatian neo-Ustashas from Australia infiltrates Yugoslavia and begins planning terrorist attacks, but their actions are prevented and the group is destroyed.
1972
Yugoslavian Airways (JAT) Flight 364 is downed by the Ustaše; 23 of the 24 on board are killed. Vesna Vulović, a stewardess, is the only survivor after more than a 10,000-meter freefall.
1974
A new constitution of Yugoslavia is proclaimed, which grants more power to federal units and to the autonomous provinces Kosovo and Vojvodina of Serbia, giving them a vote in all relevant decisions in the federal government. It was aimed at addressing grievances of non-Serb nations within Yugoslavia, under what later became known as the weak Serbia, strong Yugoslavia concept. Bosnian Muslims (after 1993 the name was changed to Muslim-Bosniacs, and finally to Bosniaks) were recognized as a sixth "nation" of Yugoslavia (note: "nations" or officially: "narodi" were Slavic majority peoples, while "nationalities" of officially "narodnosti" were all other national minorities) and one of the three constituent peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
May 1980
Josip Broz Tito dies.

Fall of communism
1981
An economic crisis in Yugoslavia begins. Albanian nationalist demonstrations in Kosovo, demanding the status of a republic and more rights (the slogan "Kosovo republika" which translates to "Republic of Kosovo" or more literally "Kosovo republic"). Demonstrations are suppressed and condemned by all Yugoslav communists, including Albanian communists from Kosovo, calling them counterrevolutionary. Arrests follow.
1983
A group of Bosnian Muslim nationalists are convicted under a Yugoslav law that prohibited spreading international hatred. Among them is Alija Izetbegović who was, among other things, tried for his Islamic Declaration.
1986–1989
A controversial memorandum from the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts protests the status of Serbia in Yugoslavia.
Serb chetnik (archduke) Momčilo Đujić (in emigration), promotes Vojislav Šešelj to Chetnik duke by declaration in the USA on Vidovdan, 28 June 1989, a Serbian religious holiday. In his instructions to Šešelj, Đujić orders him to "expel all Croats, Albanians and other foreign elements from the holy Serb ground".
Perceived prosecution of Serbs by Kosovo Albanians fuels growing Serbian nationalist sentiment. Additional police forces are sent to Kosovo.
Slobodan Milošević, a high government official at the time, gives a speech to a small group of Kosovo Serbs where he promises that "no one will beat them", which is aired in the main television news programme. Milosevic instantly becomes very popular in Serbia.
Milošević rises to power in Serbia.
Antibureaucratic revolution demonstrations bring pro-Milošević governments to Vojvodina, Kosovo and Montenegro.
Kosovo Albanian miners strike in the Stari Trg mine. The Slovenian government holds a large rally in the Cankar Congress Centre, supporting the Albanians of Kosovo. Albanians outside Serbia, mostly in Slovenia and Croatia, request alliance between Kosovo and their respective nations.
Relations between Slovenia and Serbia deteriorate. An unofficial embargo on Slovenian products is introduced in Serbian stores (see Radmila Anđelković). Slovenia's independence movement grows.
The 600th anniversary of the Battle of Kosovo is celebrated by Serbs across Yugoslavia. Slobodan Milošević gives a speech in Kosovo, described by his opponents as nationalist.
1990
The Communist Party dissolves on republic, and partially national, lines at the 14th Congress of Yugoslav Communist Party (SKJ, Savez komunista Jugoslavije), with Slovenian and Croatian communists leavi