[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Rogerian argument

tive for some situations, Young said, but is unlikely to work between two parties in the kind of situation when they need it most, when they are most intractably opposed. Young suggested that third-party mediation, suggested by Rogers himself in 1951, may be most promising in that kind of situation.

Related research on role reversal
Conflict researchers such as Morton Deutsch and David W. Johnson, citing the same publications by Rapoport and Rogers that inspired Rogerian rhetoric, used the term  to refer to the presentation by one person to another person of the other person's position and vice versa. Deutsch, Johnson, and others have done empirical research on this kind of role reversal (mostly in the late 1960s and 1970s), and the results suggested that the effectiveness of role reversal—in achieving desired outcomes such as better understanding of opponents' positions, change in opponents' positions, or negotiated agreement—depends on the issue and situation.

Negotiation expert William Ury said in his 1999 book The Third Side that role reversal as a formal rule of argumentation has been used at least since the Middle Ages in the Western world: "Another rule dates back at least as far as the Middle Ages, when theologians at the University of Paris used it to facilitate mutual understanding: One can speak only  one has repeated what the other side has said to that person's satisfaction." Ury listed such role reversal among a variety of other tools that are useful for conflict mediation, some of which may be more appropriate than role reversal in certain situations. A kind of role reversal also featured among the advice in Getting to Yes, the self-help book on negotiation written by Ury and Roger Fisher, along with that book's Rogerian-like emphasis on identifying common concerns between opposing parties in a conflict.

See also

 
 
 Bohm Dialogue
 Civil discourse
 Cognitive bias modification
 Conflict continuum
 Dialectical thinking
 Dialogue
 Dialogue mapping
 Epistemic humility
 Epistemic virtue
 Group dynamics
 Immunity to change
 Interpersonal communication
 Intergroup dialogue
 Peace psychology
 Perspective-taking
 Philosophy of dialogue
 Reciprocal altruism
 Theories of rhetoric and composition pedagogy
 Thesis, antithesis, synthesis

Notes

References

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  The first page of this article notes that its argument is based on .
 
  This paper was written for the International Conference on General Semantics held from 5–9 August 1968.
 
  This paper was written for Northwestern University's Centennial Conference on Communications held on 11 October 1951. It was later reprinted as a book chapter with a different title:  It was also reprinted in full in the book that popularized Rogerian rhetoric, .
 
 
 
  Originally published with the title Getting to peace: transforming conflict at home, at work, and in the world.

Textbooks
Some rhetoric and composition textbooks that have a section about Rogerian argument, listed by date of first edition:

 
  A later edition was published as: 
 
  Several later editions of this textbook were published.
  Several later editions of this textbook were published.
  Several later editions of this textbook were published.
  Several later editions of this textbook were published.
  Several later editions of this textbook were published.

Further reading

 
 
 
 
  An analysis of how Rogerian argument is portrayed in writing textbooks.
 
 
 
 
  The authors, from the Harvard Negotiation Project, wrote: "Our work on listening and the power of authenticity was influenced by Carl Rogers ..." (p. x)
  Compendium of columns on Rogerian rhetoric, some of which were published in the Minneapolis Star Tribune.

Dispute resolution
Rhetoric