[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 24th Mechanized Brigade (Ukraine)

The 24th Mechanized Brigade (, abbreviated ) is a mechanized brigade of the Ukrainian Ground Forces, based at Yavoriv in the west of Ukraine.

The brigade, the oldest in continuous service within the Ground Forces, was originally formed as the 1st Simbirsk Infantry Division of Soviet Russia in 1918 during the Russian Civil War. The unit was soon renamed the 24th Rifle Division. It fought in the Winter War and World War II, during which it was destroyed during Operation Barbarossa.

Reformed without inheriting the lineage of the first formation, the second formation of the 24th gained the Berdychiv honorific for its actions during the Zhytomyr–Berdychiv offensive in late 1943, and was given the battle flag and traditions of the first formation in early 1944 to preserve historical continuity.

The division became a motor rifle division in 1957. The full name of the division was the 24th Samaro-Ulyanovsk Motor Rifle Berdychivska, Iron, Order of the October Revolution, Thrice Red Banner, Orders of Suvorov and Bohdan Khmelnytsky Division. In 1992, it was taken over by Ukraine and became the 24th Mechanized Division. In 2003, it was downsized to a brigade.

The brigade saw its first combat in almost 70 years during the war in Donbas from 2014. Its Soviet honorifics were progressively removed and replaced with the King Daniel of Galicia honorific following the beginning of the war in Donbas.

History

Formation and early wars
The division was formed on the order of the Revolutionary Military Council of Soviet Russia on July 26, 1918, from voluntary groups under the name 1st Simbirsk Infantry Division. In November 1918 it was renamed as the 24th Simbirsk Rifle Division. It actively participated in the Russian Civil War in the Volga region, in the Southern Urals Mountains, and in Polissya and Volhynia. At this time one of its regimental commanders was a future Army General Maksim Purkayev.

In 1922 it was renamed as the 24th Samaro-Simbirsk Iron Rifle Division. In 1924 it was again renamed as the 24th Samaro-Ulyanovsk Iron Rifle Division. In 1939–1940, during the Russo-Finnish War the division distinguished itself during the breaking of the Mannerheim Line on the Karelian isthmus.

World War II
The division participated in fighting from the first days after the German invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941. The division staff showed mass heroism when the German opponents arrived in the Lidy area. It also took part in the Kyiv defensive operation, and as part of the 21st Rifle Corps and 13th Army, was involved in heavy defensive fighting in Belarus.

Reportedly because the divisional colours were  lost in the Minsk area, it was disbanded on December 27, 1941. It was found out later that the instructor of the political department of the division, Senior Commissar A. V. Barbashev had the colour while the division was trying to break out of the German encirclement. Barbashev died on August 6, 1941, near Anyutino village Cherykaw District Mogilev Oblast. Local farmer D.N. Tyapin later found the stained Colour of the division on the officers corpse. He buried the body and the Colour in the local cemetery.

After the clearing of the village of Anyutino by the Red Army, the Divisional Colour was taken out of the cemetery and restored. On February 20, 1944, it was solemnly handed in a Presentation of Colours ceremony to the 24th Rifle Division (2nd formation). D.N. Tyapin was honoured for having found the division's Colour by being listed on the rolls of the 1st company of one of the division's regiments.

2nd formation
The 24th Rifle Division was re-formed on 7 January 1942 by renumbering the 412th Rifle Division, which had been formed in Kirov Oblast as part of the Arkhangelsk Military District in December 1941 from the 48th Reserve Rifle Brigade. The 412th included the 1355th, 1357th, and 1358th Rifle Regiments in addition to the 1022nd Artillery Regiment and the 910th Separate Communications Battalions, along with smaller units. It was relocated to the southwestern part of Vologda Oblast before being renumbered as the 24th. The new division did not inherit the traditions of the Iron Division, although it reused the regimental numbers of the latter. Personnel from the 29th Reserve Rifle Brigade and the 385th Howitzer Artillery Regiment formed the new 24th along with others from the Arkhangelsk Military District.

During the war this division was part of armies in the Western, Kalinin, Stalingrad, Don, and Southwest fronts, from April until May 1944. In 1945 it was part of the 18th Army of the 4th Ukrainian Front.

The Division participated in the Battle of Stalingrad, the Donbas offensive operation, clearing of Left-bank Ukraine, in Zhytomyr–Berdychiv offensive, Kamianets–Podilskyi pocket, Lviv–Sandomierz offensive, East - Carpathian, Western - Carpathian, Moravia - Ostrava and the Prague offensive operations.