[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Lebanon hostage crisis

the prisoners. Declared abductor: "Islamic Jihad organization."
 1984 August 29 – Abduction of British Journalist Jonathan Wright
 1984 December 3 – Abduction: Peter Kilburn, librarian at AUB.Alleged abductor: "appears to have been perpetrated by Islamic Amal with close Iranian involvement." (p. 93)

1985
 1985 January 3 – Abduction: Eric Wehrli, Swiss charge d'affairs in Lebanon
 1985 January 7 – Release: Eric Wehrli. Suggested motivation: "evidence suggests that Hezbollah deliberately targeted Wehrli in order to obtain the release of Hosein al-Talaat, Hezbollah member arrested at Zurich Airport on December 18, 1984, with explosives in his possession intended for an attack on the American embassy in Rome. and 
 1985 January 8 – Abduction: Lawrence Jenco, Director, Catholic Relief Services charitable organization (American). Declared abductor: "Islamic Jihad Organization".
 1985 March – Abduction: Geoffrey Nash and Brian Lebick (both British). Suggested motivation: retaliation for March 8, 1985 unsuccessful assassination attempt on Sheikh Fadlallah.
 1985 March/April – Release: Geoffrey Nash and Brian Lebick, two weeks after abduction. Suggested motivation: "seems to indicate that their abduction had been made on the mistaken assumption that they were American citizens".
 1985 March 18 – Abduction: Terry A. Anderson, Chief Middle East correspondent, Associated Press (American) Suggested motivation: in retaliation for Fadlallah bombing and UNSC veto by the United States of the resolution condemning Israel's military practices in occupied southern Lebanon. Declared abductor: "Islamic Jihad Organization".
 1985 March 22 – Abduction: three French embassy employees. Suggested motivation: "considerations more aligned with Iran's foreign policy, most notably related to Frances continued arms shipments to Iraq and outstanding financial debt to Iran ... [and] as a response to the presence of the French UNIFIL contingent in southern Lebanon and its perceived practice of failing to provide adequate protection to the local Shi'ite population".
 1985 May 20 – Release: Husayn Farrash, Saudi Arabian consul Husayn Farrash released by captors after over a year in captivity.
 1985 May 22 – Abduction: French journalist Jean-Paul Kaufmann and French sociologist Michel Seurat. Suggested motivation: part of effort to obtain the release of Anis Naccache, imprisoned in France for the attempted assassination of the Shah's former Prime Minister Shapour Bakhtiar in Paris in July 1980. and  Naccache was "head of the Iranian assassination team and...close personal friend ... with both Ahmad Khomeini, son of the Iranian revolutionary" leader "and Mohasen Rafiqust, IRGC commander in Lebanon", and was a "close personal" friend of Imad Mughniya.
 1985 May – Abduction: Americans David Jacobsen, American University of Beirut hospital administrator.
 1985 June – Thomas Sutherland, agronomist  Suggested motivation: "Hezbollah focused its efforts on the release of 766 mainly Lebanese Shi'ites transferred to Israel in conjunction with it withdrawal from Lebanon, through the abduction of mainly American citizens. This was revealed most clearly by the  Declared abductor: "Islamic Jihad Organization".
 1985 June 14 – Hijacking and abduction: TWA flight 847. Done immediately following the completion of Israel's departure from Lebanon. The flight from Athens to Rome was hijacked by "Organization for the Oppressed of the Earth." Passengers underwent a three-day,  ordeal shuttling back and forth between Beirut and Algiers. Groups of passengers were freed over the course of event. One passenger, a U.S. Navy diver, Robert Dean Stethem, was beaten, shot and his body dumped on the runway. Another 39 passengers were held hostage in South Beirut for two weeks, as Lebanese army troops withdrew from the Beirut airport on June 16 leaving Hezbollah and Amal militias to control the area and hold the hostages. On June 30, they were driven to Syria and released. The liberation of the hostages was followed over the next several weeks by the release of 735 Lebanese Shiite militants by Israel. Although this was one of the key demands of the hijackers, Israel maintained the release was unconnected to the hijacking. Suggested motivation: release of 766 mainly Lebanese Shi'ites transferred to Israel in conjunction with its withdrawal from Lebanon 
 1985 August – clandestine policy of providing armaments to Iran via Israel (aka Iran–Contra affair) initiated by U.S. government.
 1985 mid-September – Release: Reverend Benjamin Weir, held hostage since May 1984 is freed by the "Islamic Jihad Organization".
 1985 September 30 – Abduction: four Soviet diplomats. Declared abductor: "Islamic Liberation Organization".