[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nichols Farms Historic District

ols Methodist Church.

The Town of Trumbull purchased it from the church in 1974. This tract was then known as the Woods Estate and is now the home of the Trumbull Historical Society. Recent research has determined that Nichols holdings totaled around  of land, of which  remains as open space today.

According to Walter Nicholls, who wrote the History of the Nichols Family in 1909, Abraham did not accompany his father to Woodbury in 1673, but remained in Trumbull to oversee the plantation. However, since Abraham (born 1662) was only eleven at the time, it is more likely that he did go with his parents and family to Woodbury. He returned to Trumbull between 1696 and 1700.

Walter Nicholls' description of the Nichols homestead follows: 

According to Stratford land records, Abraham Nichols purchased several old farms and large parcels of land in 1696. Nichols exchanged his land for  of Lt. Joseph Judsons old farm which had a barn on it,  or half the land owned by Jeremiah Judson, and  of land from Benjamin Curtiss. These transactions are described in the land records as being located at or near the Old farm, Judson's farm's or Lt. Joseph Judson farm. In 1699, Lt. Ebenezer Curtiss recorded  of land from the three-mile division that was bounded west with Lt. Joseph Judson's farm, now belonging to Abraham Nichols. This deed confirms that Nichols purchased Judson's old farm, established in 1658, and was not the first to settle the area.

In 1704, Nichols purchased Reverend Zachariah Walker's entire farm, which was  in size. In 1708, Nichols bought  known as Mischa Hill Meadow from Joseph Fairchild, and in 1715 he added  from Captain John Hawley. These three large farms when combined with Nichols own division land and other parcels, totaled around  of land. Some of the old farms, about , remain as open space today.

Farm Highway

The highway linking Nichols Farms to Stratford, three miles (5 km) to the south, was first called the Farm Highway, and was laid out or completed to the south side of Mischa Hill in December 1696.  (In the 21st century, it is called Nichols Avenue or (Route 108). The highway was laid out to the south side of Mischa Hill and at Zachariah Curtiss, his land, and at Captain's Farm. Captain's Farm was the first farm encountered as travelers entered the village, at Hawley Lane, and was owned by Captain John Hawley at the time. This portion of Route 108 is considered to be the third-oldest documented highway in Connecticut.

Merritt Parkway
The Merritt Parkway was built directly through the original Nichols Farms center in the late 1930s. It  displaced the old Nichols Store, which was razed, and the Trinity Church, which was moved. A large 5' by 6' natural stepping stone was the only item saved from the Nichols Store; it was relocated to the front of the Ephraim Hawley House.

Nichols Green
The green in Nichols Farms, known as Nichols Green or N.I.A. Green, is owned and maintained by a private trust called the Nichols Improvement Association, established in 1889 to beautify and improve Nichols Farms.

A memorial to those residents who fought in World Wars I and II is located on the south end of the green.
An 80' tall pine flagpole brought through the Panama Canal from Washington was erected on the green in 1932. This pine pole replaced an earlier 115' chestnut flagpole erected on July 4, 1892 that carried a 25' by 15' flag and was believed by some to be the highest flag flown in the state at the time.
Another well-known landmark near the green is the Bunny Fountain. The fountain was a gift from the Peet family to the citizens of Nichols in 1895. The fountain was moved from its original location at the intersection of Huntington Turnpike and Shelton Road to the intersection of Huntington Turnpike and Unity Road in 1931 after being damaged by a car. It was moved to its present location and restored in the spring of 1971; it was restored again in 1992.
An old grinding stone from the 1826 Fairchild (Paper) Mill is placed at the south end of the green. The mill was located at a place commonly called the Falls of the Pequonnock River beginning in 1674. This site is now the town boundary with Bridgeport called Fairchild Park.
A piece of the original 1940 Merritt Parkway bridge, which was built over Route 108, is on the green. The concrete ornament is a likeness of the town of Trumbull official seal. The bridge was demolished in 1979 when the interchange was updated.

Properties excluded
State officials excluded 78 buildings from the initial district that were located on Huntington Turnpike, Nichols Avenue and Shelton Road. These buildings were a part of the original district proposed by the Trumbull Historic District Study Committee for Nichols Farms in May 1976. The Ephraim Hawley House, Zachariah Curtiss House and barn, the summer home of American folklorist Will Geer, and a home of helicopter inventor Igor Sikorsky were excluded.