[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hollingbury

re

In 2008, a purpose-built medical centre (County Oak medical centre) opened on the previously unused space in the southern corner of Carden School grounds. The building is eco-friendly, making use of solar panels for heating and light tubes to transmit natural daylight into the building.

Library

The small branch library in Carden Hill opened on 27 April 1962. The pre-fabricated building which houses the library originally opened in September 1950 as the County Oak public house. When this moved into a newly built brick building in March 1961, the original building was refitted as the library. This library has now permanently closed.

Shopping
There is a retail estate located in Hollingbury which has a selection of large chain shops, including Matalan, Argos, ASDA and a M&S food hall.

Education 

The main primary school for the area is Carden, built in the late 1940s and one of the first schools to be completed in the post-war period. Alderman Morris, then Mayor of Brighton, laid the foundation stone on 22 October 1947 and the first children attended on 3 September 1948. The school is built on a natural west-facing slope and was constructed in a revolutionary design using pre-cast concrete. The exterior remained unpainted grey textured concrete for many years. The classrooms all have doors which open out onto patio areas leading to the belief that the building was originally designed to be used as a hospital in the event of further hostilities. The original Carden Infants and Carden Junior schools merged in September 1999 to become Carden Primary School.

Commerce and industry 
Hollingbury industrial estate, located in the north-east of the estate near the borders with Stanmer, Coldean and Patcham, occupies around  and was developed by the local council from 1950. The factories on the estate employed 8,000 local people at one time but most of the manufacturing companies had closed down or moved out by the 1980s when fewer than 1,000 people were employed. The area saw a revival in 1987 with the building of an Asda superstore. Additional retail units followed in subsequent years and the area was further boosted when the offices and printing presses of the local newspaper The Argus moved from the city centre onto the industrial estate.

Transport 
Brighton & Hove routes 5B, 24, 26, 46, 52, 55, 56 and 88 link the Hollingbury estate to the city centre and other outlying areas of the city.

The A27 provides access to the north of the estate, adjacent to the Asda superstore and the A23 access to the west via Patcham.

The nearest railway stations are Preston Park on the Brighton Main Line and London Road (Brighton) on the East Coastway Line.

Places of interest 
 Hollingbury Camp, an Iron Age hillfort.
 Hollingbury golf course, a council-run course open to all.
Hollingbury woods

References

Further reading 

 Pictures of Hollingbury
 www.carden1983.com
 My Brighton and Hove
 Local community website

Areas of Brighton and Hove