[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Liceo scientifico

r of students enrolled in the liceo scientifico have meant that Italy is still, among Western countries, the one in which Latin is more studied (40 percent of signed in high schools, of which more than half at the liceo scientifico) thing that has caused quite a few controversies.

Timetable outline

Sperimentazioni (1970-2010)
Sperimentazioni were alternative experimental curriculum bands offered in Liceo scientifico.  These specialisms were based on the official curriculum, but enriched by increasing the number of hours dedicated to one or more subjects, or including new subjects.
They started in the 1970s, when more local autonomy was granted. Schools could offer one or more specialism.  When the Gelmini reform (2010) came into force, practically all the high schools were offering these experimental streams.

The most widespread alternative streams were:
 P.N.I. ("National Plan of Computer studies" specialism)
  bilinguismo (Bilinguism specialism)
  scienze naturali (Natural sciences specialism).
  con studi musicali riconosciuti (Alternative with recognised musical studies)
  sportiva (Sports specialism)
  umanistica (Humanistic specialism)
  scientifico-tecnologica (Brocca) (Scientific-technological specialism)
  scientifico-biologica (Brocca) (Scientific-biological specialism)
  P.N.I. con bilinguismo (P.N.I. specialism with bilingualism)

P.N.I.

Bilinguismo

Natural sciences

Brocca scientifica
The Liceo scientifico a indirizzo Brocca included, before the Gelmini reform, in addition of how included in the traditional Liceo scientifico, the law and economy subjects at the biennium, the laboratories of chemistry and physics, the computer technology included in the mathematics subjects for all the five years, and more hours of sciences (chemistry, biology, earth sciences). The various subjects in the five years of course are distributed as follows:

Brocca scientifico-tecnologica
This option was one of the seventeen lyceum courses developed by the Project Brocca. This course was characterized by the absence of Latin, by the addition of information technology, technology and drawing, and by the considerable number of hours for laboratorial work.

Gelmini reform (2010) and the current curriculum
The current course stems from the Gelmini reform and entered into force on 1 September 2010. Compared to the 1947 course of regulation, there is a significant increase in the number of hours devoted to scientific subjects and a lightening of Latin. At the time the reform came into force, all the experimentations activated were banned. However, a school autonomy is provided which allows each lyceum to redistribute up to 20% of the total hours between the various courses or to activate new ones. The reform has created a new curriculum, the applied sciences option, which gathers the experiences of the pre-existent Brocca scientifico-tecnologica and Brocca scientifico-biologica experimentations that, compared to the liceo scientifico basic curriculum, includes a reduction in the number of hours dedicated to humanistic subjects, the elimination of Latin, an increase in the hours of mathematics, physics and natural sciences and the addition of computer technology as a separated subject. For this reason the "liceo scientifico ad opzione delle scienze applicate" is present mainly at school facilities that already housed Technical Institutes, where laboratory practice is already consolidated.

The liceo scientifico mostly follows the liceo classico, adopting the same ministerial programs for teaching Italian, history and geography (for the biennium), and philosophy. For the rest, the course includes a reduction of the hours and programs concerning the Latin language and the history of the triennium to facilitate the in-depth study of scientific disciplines such as mathematics, physics, natural sciences and computing, the last only in the applied sciences option; there is also instruction of geometric and architectural drawing.

Traditional curriculum

Applied sciences option 

 1 with Computer Technology at the biennium
 2 Biology, Chemistry, Earth sciences

It is included the teaching, in a foreign language (the language must be a co-official language of the European Union different from the main language of the curse), of a non-linguistic subject (due to CLIL European project) included in the area of activities and compulsory courses for all students or in the area of the teachings that can be activated by the educational institutions within the limits of the teaching staff annually assigned.

Sports curriculum 
The first phase of changes to the order structure brought about by the Gelmini reform did not touch on some experimentations and addresses already activated, including the lyceums sports curricula. The revision of these guidelines was launched in 2008, and ended with the proposal in 2011 of a sports curriculum that can be activated at lyceum institutes.