[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Daoud Hanania

–7, March 1986).
 D. Hanania, S. Al-Jitawi, B. Akasheh, N. Abu-Aisha, “Cardiac Transplantation: The Initial Jordan Experience”, Saudi Heart Bulletin (Vol. 1 No. 1, pp. 11–15, October 1989). 
 JP Veinot, D. Elstein, D. Hanania, A. Abrahamov, S. Srivatsa, A. Zimran. "Gaucher’s disease with valve calcification: Possible role of Gaucher cells, bone matrix proteins and integrins." Canadian Journal of Cardiology (1999; 15(2): 211-216).
 D. Hanania and B. Akasheh, "Cardiac Surgery in Jordan, 'A Developing Country.'" In Surgery for All: Surgical Cost Consciousness in the Developing World (Ferozons Limited & MacMillan Publishers Ltd.)
 S. Kabbani, M. Izzat, H. Jamil, B. Akasheh, D. Hanania, and H. Raffa. "Left Ventricular Volume Reduction Surgery in the Middle East."  Asian Cardiovasc Thorac Ann (2003 11: 99-101).

Newsweek Profile About Hanania (1982) 
"Among Palestinians in Jordan, Dr. Daoud Hanania personifies Palestinian success. As director of medical services in the Jordanian armed forces and as chief of cardiovascular surgery at the King Hussein Medical Center, Hanania, 48, is one of the pre-eminent specialists in his field in the Middle East. He is one of the first in the region to perform open-heart surgery, a technique he learned under Dr. Michael E. DeBakey in Houston. He is distraught by the fighting in Beirut—partly because his sister lives there and refuses to move. "As a medical man, I am appalled by the suffering the Israelis are inflicting on an innocent population in Beirut," Hanania says. "I am a moderate, but seeing what the Israelis do makes people like me less moderate.

Hanania says that even if a Palestinian state were established on the West Bank, he would remain in Amman. But at heart he remains an exile. On clear nights, from the heart institute on the edge of Amman, he can see the lights of Jerusalem just 40 miles away. A Yemeni Jewish family now lives in the house where Hanania grew up, but like most Palestinians he has almost total recall of his former home. It had 13 rooms, was built of rose-colored stone and had a large garden containing an orchard and a vegetable patch. "Our house was just outside the city, and in 1948 there were skirmishes nearby," he recalls. "Many Palestinians around us left and finally we seemed to be the only ones around, so we left too, thinking we would be back soon." Hanania's two young children were born in Amman [NOTE: three at the time, four today], but like their father they have no doubt about their roots. "If you ask my young son where he is from," says the doctor, "he will tell you, 'From Jerusalem'."

"Where Do they Go From Here," Newsweek, 16 August 1982.

References

1934 births
Living people
Academic staff of Jordan University of Science and Technology
Fellows of the Royal College of Surgeons of England
Recipients of the Legion of Honour
Honorary Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire
Jordanian cardiac surgeons
Jordanian Christians