[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Local service district (New Brunswick)

any others. Regulation 84-168 has not kept up with these changes in administration, updating listed services only when boundary changes or addition of new services have taken place. Fire protection and recreational facilities are often paid for through cost-sharing with municipalities or other LSDs.

Services within LSDs can be grouped into two categories - mandatory and voluntary services. Mandatory services are:
animal control
dangerous or unsightly premises enforcement
emergency measures
fire protection
land use planning
rescue services
police protection
solid waste collection and disposal.
Voluntary services include, but are not limited to:
street lighting
recreational and sports facilities

Local participation 

Local service districts have always had the ability to elect advisory committees; the requirements for establishing such committees have changed since 1966.

Currently 25 or more residents who are qualified to vote under the Elections Act may petition the Minister of Local Government to call a meeting for the purpose of electing a committee; a simple majority vote at such a meeting is sufficient to establish a committee. There is no minimum number of voters required to elect or re-elect an advisory committee. LSD advisory committees are elected for a term of four years according to the government's cycle for general municipal elections. Elections may be held outside municipal election years if replacing a dissolved committee or establishing a committee in an LSD that previously lacked one. LSDAC elections are handled by the Department of Local Government, not Elections New Brunswick; because of this, elections do not require normal polling hours, nor do they require widespread advertising or a centralised website that lists them, often resulting in low voter turnout.

LSDs may establish an advisory committee of three to five members if a public meeting with sufficient eligible voters is held. LSD advisory committees are disbanded if their membership falls below three. The Committees have no legislative or taxing authority, but work with the Local Service District Manager to administer services and set local budgets.

Advisory committee presidents are asked to participate on regional service commission boards. A certain amount of consulting and service contracts are awarded as a result of LSD service activity, which provide economic activities.

Local governance reform 

The provincial government has been encouraging local service districts to participate in reforming government administration in rural areas.<! citation will follow> The rural community, an incorporated but non-municipal body, has been the most common model, although incorporation into existing municipalities has also been pursued. Since 2006 a total of 24 LSDs have become incorporated into rural communities or municipalities:
Cocagne, Hanwell, and Upper Miramichi have become rural communities with the same name, while the parish of Campobello incorporated as the rural community of Campobello Island.
The parish of Saint-André merged with the incorporated village of St. André to form the rural community of Saint-André.
the parish of Grimmer merged with the incorporated village of Kedgwick to form the rural community of Kedgwick.
Eighteen LSDs (and parts of two others) merged with the incorporated town of Tracadie-Sheila to form the regional municipality of Grand Tracadie-Sheila, which has since changed its name to Tracadie.

There have been dozens of other projects that are still in progress or have failed for various reasons, some reaching the plebiscite stage, many simply lacking local support to proceed to asking the government to conduct a feasibility study.

There have been at least two attempts by municipalities in Millville and Norton to devolve to local service districts, both rejected by the provincial government.

Planned reforms to New Brunswick's local governance system would abolish local service districts on 1 January 2023. The reforms include annexation to existing municipalities or incorporation in new local government entities for most populated areas in LSDs. The remaining area, including 9% of the 2016 population, will be organised into 12 rural districts, sometimes noncontiguous entities based on regional service commission boundaries. These

Criticisms 

The term 'Democratic deficit' was used by Jean-Guy Finn (Local Governance Task Force, 2010) to describe an "unbalanced local government", as in: many residents without representation at a local level (35% of population and 90% of the provincial territory) and limited competition for elected offices (1/3 of municipal councils with less than 2000 pop acclaimed)

Boundary issues