[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Progressive Broadcasting Corporation

ame more distinct after a change in the pronunciation of the station's name to you-en-tee-vee or "you-en" television instead of un-tee-vee

Stations
As of December 2021:

UNTV stations

Analog

Digital

Inactive television stations

FM stations
As of December 2021:

Current

Former

Television

UNTV

PBC's flagship television network is UNTV, also known as UNTV News and Rescue). It was launched in July 2001 with various rebranding since then. UNTV is referred to as the “Kasangbahay Network” in reference to a Biblical passage about God's household. Its studios are located at the La Verdad Christian College Building, Bagong Barrio, EDSA Caloocan. Its future headquarters in Quezon City, the UNTV Broadcast Center, is currently under construction. In 2015, UNTV started testing ISDB-T, the approved digital terrestrial television (DTT) standard in the Philippines and is only available in Mega Manila.

UNTV Subchannels

UNTV's Social TV (STV) is a digital television subchannel with contents coming from social media creators and contributors. In 2020, it was replaced by the same video feed from UNTV News and Rescue at 1080p quality. Another UNTV digital television subchannel is Ang Dating Daan Television (ADDTV) which airs religious programs by Members Church of God International. It was later on rebranded as Truth Channel.

Radio

DWNU-FM, also known as Wish 107.5, is the flagship FM radio station of PBC. It airs music and features programs provided by Breakthrough and Milestones Production International, Inc. as its content provider.

See also
Philippine television networks
List of Philippine media companies

References

 
Members Church of God International
Mass media companies of the Philippines
Radio stations in the Philippines
Television networks in the Philippines
Television in Metro Manila
Mass media companies established in 1987
Radio stations established in 1987
Television channels and stations established in 2001
1987 establishments in the Philippines
Privately held companies of the Philippines