[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peter Dale Scott

ons read like government propaganda written for children.' Now Scott has written an even better book. Read it!"

An aspect of Scott's work that combines both his investigating interests and his poetry is illustrated by The Global Drug Meta-Group: Drugs, Managed Violence, and the Russian 9/11.

Books

War Conspiracy
In 1972, Bobbs-Merrill Company published Scott's The War Conspiracy. The book describes Scott's theories of why the United States went to war in Vietnam. Kirkus Reviews said War Conspiracy is "undoubtedly one of the most important overviews to date of the subterranean reaches of the U.S. intelligence machine in Southeast Asia."

Deep Politics and the Death of JFK
Scott's Deep Politics and the Death of JFK was published in 1993 University of California Press. Promotional reviews of the book were provided by Bruce Cumings, Gaeton Fonzi, and Oliver Stone.

Kirkus Reviews called the book a "[s]taggeringly well-researched and intelligent overview not only of the JFK assassination but also of the rise of forces undermining American democracy". The Kirkus review also described the book as a "kind of Rosetta stone for cracking open the deepest darkness in American politics." Publishers Weekly said that Scott's "thoughtful, extremely (and sometimes excessively) detailed book promises more than it actually delivers" and that "the 'facts' on which he relies are often the result of other people's not necessarily accurate reporting". According to PW, "[t]he book's most useful feature is a careful discussion of how U.S. Vietnam policy changed abruptly after Kennedy's death."

In a 2004 review for The Wilson Quarterly, Max Holland, recipient of a Studies in Intelligence Award from the Central Intelligence Agency, wrote that "Deep Politics is an unreadable compendium of 'may haves' and 'might haves,' non-sequiturs, and McCarthy-style innuendo, with enough documentation to satisfy any paranoid." Shortly thereafter, Holland reiterated similar comments in a second piece written for Reviews in American History and criticized the University of California Press' editorial committee for approving the publication of the book: "This peer approval by a major university press illustrates the boundless and utter disbelief in the Warren Report that exists even in the highest reaches of the academy, and it also reveals the gross inattention given to the subject by serious historians." Scott responded with a letter to the editor stating: "I was disappointed to see those who have published me attacked vigorously for doing so by a major historical journal. I continue to believe that it is the job of the academy to open minds, not to close them."

In 2013, former Salon editor-in-chief David Talbot included Deep Politics in his list of top seven "best books on the subject", describing the work as a "masterpiece, a meticulously detailed examination of the deep network of power that underlies the events in Dallas.... filled with provocative insights about how the upper circles of U.S. power actually operate."

Bibliography

Prose books
The war conspiracy; the secret road to the second Indochina war. New York: Bobbs-Merrill (1972). . .
The Assassinations: Dallas and Beyond—A Guide to Cover-Ups and Investigations. New York: Random House (1976). . .
Crime and Cover-Up: The CIA, the Mafia, and the Dallas-Watergate Connection (1977). .
The Iran-Contra Connection: Secret Teams and Covert Operations in Reagan Era. Boston: South End Press (1987). . .
Cocaine Politics: Drugs, Armies, and the CIA in Central America, with Jonathan Marshall. Berkeley, Calif.: University of California Press (1991). .
Deep Politics and the Death of JFK. Berkeley, Calif.: University of California Press (1993). .
Deep Politics II: The New Revelations in U.S. Government Files, 1994-1995: Essays on Oswald, Mexico, and Cuba. JFK Lancer Publications (1995). .
Oswald, Mexico, and Deep Politics: Revelations from CIA Records on the Assassination of JFK. New York: Skyhorse Publishing (1995). .
Drugs, Oil, and War: The United States in Afghanistan, Colombia, and Indochina. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield (2003). .
The Road to 9/11: Wealth, Empire and the Future of America. Berkeley, Calif.: University of California Press (2007). . Glossary.
American War Machine: Deep Politics, the CIA Global Drug Connection, and the Road to Afghanistan. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield (2010). .
The War Conspiracy: JFK, 9/11, and the Deep Politics of War (2013)
The American Deep State: Wall Street, Big Oil, and the Attack on U.S. Democracy. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield (2014). .
Dallas '63: The First Deep State Revolt Against The White House. (Forbidden Bookshelf Series). New York: Open Road Media (2015). 
Poetry and Terror: Politics and Poetics in Coming to Jakarta, with Freeman Ng. Lanham, MD: Lexington Books (Sep. 2018). .
 Ecstatic Pessimist: Czeslaw Milosz, Poet of Catastrophe and Hope. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield (Mar. 2023).