[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# ITV Studios

ich was formed by Granada Media Group in 1997, before eventually took on the Granada America moniker when Granada and Carlton merged in 2003.

In 2006, Granada, in association with FremantleMedia North America, produced Gameshow Marathon, an American version of Ant & Dec's Gameshow Marathon for CBS.

Television movies from Granada and ITV Studios US include: Molly Shannon in 12 Days of Christmas Eve; Jason Priestley in Reality of Love; Farrah Fawcett in Hollywood Lives, based on Jackie Collins' best selling novel; Anne Heche in Dead Will Tell; Melanie Griffith in Lethal Seduction; Jon Voight and Cary Elwes in Pope John Paul II (2005 miniseries), Matthew Perry in The Ron Clark Story (2006), Aidan Quinn and Mary-Louise Parker in Unexpected Journey, Susan Sarandon in Ice Bound. Hamdon Entertainment and Television programmes now owned domestically from its former ITC library include 1978 adaptation of Les Misérables (Richard Jordan, Anthony Perkins), The Scarlet and the Black (1983 Gregory Peck, Christopher Plummer), Not My Kid (1985 George Segal, Stockard Channing) and At Mother's Request (1987).

In 2007, the Chief Executive Officer of the division, then named Granada America, was David Gyngell, son of the late Bruce Gyngell, the former managing director of former ITV breakfast franchisee TV-am and Yorkshire-Tyne Tees Television. By 2008, David Gyngell had left the company and joined Nine Entertainment in Australia. The unit was re-branded under the ITV Studios banner in May 2009.

On 7 May 2014, ITV Studios announced the acquisition of Leftfield Entertainment, which produces reality shows such as Pawn Stars, Counting Cars and American Restoration.  ITV has taken an 80% stake in the company initially, according to ITV this will make them "largest unscripted independent producer in the US" In December 2015, with the purchase of Leftfield, ITV Studios US Group was rebranded as ITV America.

On April 4, 2017, Blumhouse Productions mainly known for their horror movies, announced the launch of an independent television studio with ITV Studios acquiring a 45% stake.

In 2018, ITV announced a relocated of a large part of their operations from California and New York City to Stamford, Connecticut, creating 450 new jobs in the process.

Subsidiaries
Circle of Confusion Television Studios (joint venture with talent management company Circle of Confusion; well known for producing the cult AMC post-apocalyptic horror series The Walking Dead and its companion piece Fear the Walking Dead)
Good Caper Content
High Noon Entertainment (well known for producing Cake Boss for TLC and Fixer Upper for HGTV)
ITV Entertainment
Leftfield Pictures
Sirens Media
Thinkfactory Media (producers of TBS' Rat in the Kitchen show with Natasha Leggero)
Tomorrow Studios (joint venture with Marty Adelstein)
Work Friends (animation label)
ITV Studios America (Los Angeles-based scripted television production division; well known for producing Somewhere Between with Thunderbird Entertainment for ABC and Good Witch for Hallmark Channel)
Bedrock Entertainment (joint venture with Tony To and Daniel Sackheim)

ITV Studios Australia

ITV Studios Australia is the Australian division of ITV Studios, based at Fox Studios Australia in Sydney. The company has its origins in production company Artist Services, a company formed in 1989 by a group of investors including Steve Vizard, producing many classic shows. Half of the company was sold to John Fairfax Holdings in 1995 for 9 million, at a time when the company was generating about $50 million per year. In 1998, the entire company was acquired by Granada for 25 million.

The company rebranded as ITV Studios Australia in January 2013, with the first programme carrying the new branding being the second season of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation comedy news programme Shaun Micallef's Mad as Hell.

ITV Studios Germany

ITV Studios Germany productions include Ich bin ein Star – Holt mich hier raus! (the local version of I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!), Star Duell and Deutschlands Beste Doppelgänger (Stars And Their Doubles) for RTL; and East-West German comedy Ei Verbibbsch for Sat.1. ITV Studios Germany was previously known as Granada Germany.

At the start of October 2008, ITV acquired a 51.2% controlling stake in German television production company Imago TV, founded in 1999 by journalists Andrea Schönhuber-Majewski and Fabian Sabo. This deal gave ITV exclusive international rights to distribute and exploit content, format and series rights retained by Imago.

Bildergarten Entertainment
Bildergarten Entertainment was launched by ITV Studios on 19 May 2021 as the replacement for Talpa Germany, the company originally founded by John de Mol and co-owned by Axel Springer SE until 2015. Bildergarten Entertainment is responsible for Dickes Deutschland and the German version of Lange Leve de Liefde (The Cabins) on RTL Zwei, The Voice of Germany for ProSieben/SAT.1 and Sing Meinen Song on VOX.