[Source: PubMed]

14. PLoS One. 2015 Aug 24;10(8):e0136410. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0136410. 
eCollection 2015.

Trauma and Poor Mental Health in Relation to Economic Status: The Case of 
Cambodia 35 Years Later.

Jarl J(1), Cantor-Graae E(2), Chak T(3), Sunbaunat K(3), Larsson CA(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, Department of Clinical Science, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden; Health Economics & Management, Institute of Economic Research, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(2)Division of Social Medicine and Global Health, Department of Clinical 
Science, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, University of Health Sciences, 
Phnom Penh, Cambodia.

BACKGROUND: Cambodia is one of the poorest countries in south-east Asia and is 
still emerging from the events of the Khmer Rouge reign. It has been suggested 
that the atrocities experienced by the Cambodian population can explain why 
Cambodia continues to lag behind its neighbours in economic outcomes. The 
purpose of this study is to investigate whether there is an association between 
exposure to past trauma and/or current poor mental health and current economic 
status in Cambodia.
METHOD: A newly conducted survey performed in two regions (north-west and 
south-east Cambodia) collected information on trauma exposure, psychiatric 
symptoms, self-rated health outcomes and socio-economic information for 3200 
persons aged 18-60. Economic outcomes were measured as household debt and 
poverty status and whether the respondent was economically inactive. All models 
were analysed using logistic regression.
RESULTS: No association was found between high exposure to conflict-related or 
civilian trauma and any economic outcomes save for a negative association 
between civilian trauma and poverty in the south-east. Current post-traumatic 
stress was related solely to poverty status. All other measures of current 
mental health status, however, were found to be strongly negatively associated 
with all measures of economic status. Thus, mental health interventions could 
potentially be utilised in poverty reduction strategies, but greater efficacy is 
likely to be achieved by targeting current mental health status rather than 
previous trauma exposure.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0136410
PMCID: PMC4547808
PMID: 26301591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.