[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jorge Telerman

aridad y Organización (MUSO), searching and advocating for an internal renewal of the party. There, he started his long political career in Peronism, working as communications director and spokesperson for Cafiero, who was a successful candidate for Governor of the Province of Buenos Aires, in 1987.

Guido di Tella, the newly designated ambassador to Washington, named Telerman his press attaché in 1990. He later took on various diplomatic responsibilities: he was secretary for institutional relations and spokesman to the Foreign Affairs Office between 1991 and 1992; in 1993 he became the press attaché of the Argentine embassy in París, and from 1995 to 1998 a consultant to the General Secretary of the Organization of American States, former Colombian President Dr. César Gaviria, as well as its public information director. In 1998 he was appointed ambassador to Cuba. He returned to Buenos Aires to be an advisor and consultant for the unsuccessful presidential campaign of Peronist candidate Eduardo Duhalde, and in 1999 he was elected to the Argentine Chamber of Deputies, representing Buenos Aires.

Between 2000 and 2003 he held an executive position as Secretary of Culture of the City of Buenos Aires. He had a very prolific administration, mainly because of the multiple activities he undertook in this area, and the national and international attention these activities helped bring to the City of Buenos Aires, in the cultural field. He was sworn as Vice Mayor to Aníbal Ibarra on December 10, 2003. The Vice Mayor oversaw the Secretariat for Social Development and was President of the Buenos Aires City Legislature. At the end of 2005, he resumed his office as Vice Mayor and President of the Buenos Aires City Legislature. The tragic República Cromañón nightclub fire in late 2004 ultimately resulted in Mayor Ibarra's March 13, 2006 impeachment, however, upon which Telerman became Mayor of Buenos Aires. He decided to run for re-election as Mayor but came in third, with 20.7% of the votes. He placed behind a candidate advanced by President Néstor Kirchner (Education Minister Daniel Filmus), with 23.7%, and businessman Mauricio Macri, whose Republican Proposal (PRO) Party won with 45.6% of the total votes. Telerman relinquished his office on December 9, 2007.

Business career
Mr. Telerman has always being associated with artistic and cultural activities. In 1998 he founded, with other partners, La Trastienda, a theatre and concert house, located in the San Telmo neighbourhood in the city of Buenos Aires.

References

External links
 Official Blog of Jorge Telerman
 Official Page in Facebook

Interviews
 Interview to Jorge Telerman: "In 2007 amostall the citywill have containers"
 "Nielsen is an honest man, but we have different convictions"
 Telerman confirms he is a candidate in 2007

Mayors of Buenos Aires
Members of the Argentine Chamber of Deputies elected in Buenos Aires
1956 births
Living people
Argentine diplomats
Argentine journalists
Argentine male journalists
Ambassadors of Argentina to Cuba
Justicialist Party politicians
Politicians from Buenos Aires
Deputy Chiefs of Government of Buenos Aires
Argentine Jews
Jewish Argentine politicians
Jewish mayors
University of Buenos Aires alumni
University of Provence alumni
21st-century Argentine politicians