[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Francesco Moriero

career
In 2006, soon after having successfully ended his studies at the Coverciano football coaching school, Moriero was appointed head coach of Ivorian club Africa Sports. On 27 July 2007, Africa Sports announced that they have sacked Moriero, appointing his assistant Salvatore Nobile as new boss.

On 7 August, Moriero signed for Serie C1's Lanciano, guiding the club under massive financial issues that successively led to bankrupt, an auction-regulated sale and point deductions throughout the season. He successively guided F.C. Crotone to win the Lega Pro Prima Divisione playoffs and achieve promotion to Serie B in the 2008–09 season.

He then served as head coach of Serie B club Frosinone from July 2009 to April 2010.

In September 2010 he was named new head coach of Grosseto in the Italian Serie B, replacing Luigi Apolloni, but was dismissed later in January 2011 due to poor results. In the season 2012–13 he was again named head coach of Grosseto, but on 1 October 2012 he was sacked.

On 30 June 2013, Moriero signed with his former club, Lecce, although he was dismissed 24 September.

On 1 July 2014, he was hired by Catanzaro, although he was later sacked once again by the club on 9 November.

In May 2017 he was appointed coach of Sambenedettese. He was fired in November, but was later called back in April 2018. He left the club again on 30 June 2018.

In June 2019 he joined Cavese, but was fired in September after 4 Serie C matches without wins. 

On 30 December 2020, he was announced as the new head coach of Albanian club Dinamo Tirana, with Fabrizio Miccoli as his assistant. On 2 March 2021, both Moriero and Miccoli resigned from their coaching roles at the club, after having been in charge of only two league games for the Albanian club.

On 21 October 2021, Moriero was unveiled as the new head coach of the Maldives national football team on a two-year deal; his appointment made Moriero the first ever coach from a World Cup winning country to coach the Maldives in the history.

Style of play
Moriero was a right-footed, quick, diminutive, energetic, and highly technical midfielder, who was predominantly used as right winger; although he was primarily an offensive minded player, with a penchant for making attacking runs, and who was even used as an outside forward on occasion, he was also known for his work-rate, tactical intelligence, and defensive contribution off the ball, as well as his ability to track back, which enabled him to cover the flank effectively. Moriero's main attributes were his acceleration, pace, dribbling skills, agility, flair, and creativity; these characteristics enabled him to beat opponents in one on one situations, get up the wing, and provide width to his team by overloading the flanks, giving his team a numerical advantage when attacking. He was also known for his ability to create chances and provide assists for strikers with his crossing ability and long balls from the right flank. He also had good vision and distribution, as well as a penchant for scoring with spectacular strikes from distance, or acrobatic goals from volleys and bicycle kicks. Regarded as one of the best wingers of his generation, during his prime, his world class performances, characteristics, playing style, and position on the pitch earned him comparisons with esteemed former Italian wingers Franco Causio, Bruno Conti, and Roberto Donadoni, as well as Portuguese winger Luís Figo. However, despite his talent, Moriero also garnered a reputation for being inconsistent at times. In addition to his skills and playing ability, Moriero was also known for his trademark celebration, which involved him pretending to polish his team-mates' football boots whenever they scored a goal.

Honours

Player
Inter
 UEFA Cup: 1997–98

References

1969 births
Living people
Sportspeople from Lecce
Footballers from the Province of Lecce
Men's association football wingers
Italian men's footballers
Italian football managers
Italy men's international footballers
Italy men's under-21 international footballers
Serie A players
Serie B players
US Lecce players
Cagliari Calcio players
AS Roma players
Inter Milan players
SSC Napoli players
1998 FIFA World Cup players
Africa Sports d'Abidjan managers
FC Crotone managers
Frosinone Calcio managers
US Grosseto 1912 managers
FC Lugano managers
US Lecce managers
US Catanzaro 1929 managers
FC Dinamo City managers
Maldives national football team managers
Italian expatriate football managers
Expatriate football managers in Ivory Coast
Italian expatriate sportspeople in Ivory Coast
Expatriate football managers in Albania
Italian expatriate sportspeople in Albania
Expatriate football managers in the Maldives
Italian expatriate sportspeople in the Maldives
UEFA Cup winning players