[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John Sheridan (footballer)

2012, it was announced that Sheridan had been relieved of his duties after the team gained two points from the opening three league games of the 2012–13 season. After five weeks on gardening leave, a club statement on 3 October announced that Sheridan had resigned with effect from 18 September 2012.

Plymouth Argyle
Sheridan was appointed manager of Plymouth Argyle on 6 January 2013. "There have been one or two other jobs while I've been out of work that I didn't go for. But as soon as Plymouth came up, a lot of people told me how good it is," said Sheridan, who signed a contract until the end of the 2012–13 season. "I have been in Yorkshire for the majority of my career and it's a change for me. It's a big upheaval for me to come to Plymouth, but I'm really excited." He was named Football League Two Manager of the Month for March after Argyle won four and drew one of their six matches. By the end of the season, the club had won eight and drawn four of Sheridan's 19 games in charge and avoided relegation from the Football League. Sheridan signed a new three-year contract with the club in May. "Obviously, now the hard work starts. I keep saying it – I'm ready to get this club pushed up the league and that's what I am going to try to do," he said.

Sheridan improved the fortunes of Plymouth Argyle in 2013–14, leading the club to a 10th-placed finish in League Two, the first time the club has finished higher than 21st in league competition since 2007–08. However, the season ended on a negative note, as following a 2–1 victory over Sheridan's former club Chesterfield which put the Pilgrims into the play off positions, the team then self capitulated and only won one of the final nine games. This led to Sheridan deciding against renewing the contracts of seven professionals, including former player of the year Maxime Blanchard and Plymouth-born midfielder Luke Young, with promotion the target for 2014–15.

Sheridan's Plymouth finished in seventh place in 2014–15, securing a place in the League Two playoffs following a 2–0 win at Shrewsbury Town on the final day of the regular season. However they were defeated by fourth placed Wycombe Wanderers over the two-legged semi final, with the Pilgrims succumbing to a 5–3 defeat on aggregate.

On 28 May 2015, Plymouth announced that Sheridan had left the club by mutual consent after expressing a desire to return to the north of England for family reasons.

Newport County

On 2 October 2015, Sheridan was confirmed as the new manager of Newport County replacing Terry Butcher who had been sacked the previous day. Sheridan took over the role with Newport bottom of League Two, having gained five points from the first ten matches of the 2015–16 season. Sheridan managed to secure only one point from his first three games, but then took the side on a ten-game unbeaten run and led the side to an FA Cup 3rd round appearance against EFL Championship club Blackburn Rovers in January 2016. He would finish the season with a record of five wins, seven draws, and five defeats, producing 20 of a possible 51 points.

He left the club in January 2016 to join Oldham for a fourth spell. His departure nearly led to a complaint by Newport County, who were unhappy at images which emerged on social media of Sheridan allegedly meeting with Oldham staff prior to Newport being approached. Club director Gavin Foxall wished Sheridan "all the best" but noted that "the manner of his departure has not been right". Oldham officially maintained that they had contacted Newport prior to the meeting.

Return to Oldham Athletic
On 13 January 2016, Sheridan was confirmed to be returning to Oldham Athletic for a second spell as full-time manager having resigned from his position as Newport County manager after just four months. He managed to save Oldham from relegation to League Two.

Notts County
On 27 May 2016, Sheridan was appointed as manager of Notts County on a three-year contract.

On 2 January 2017, equalling a club record of nine successive defeats, Sheridan was sacked for gross misconduct as manager shortly after losing 4–0 to Cambridge United. Sheridan left the club with them just one point above the relegation zone with just 22 points from 24 games.

Third spell at Oldham Athletic
On 12 January 2017, Sheridan became manager of Oldham Athletic for a third time, he replaced Steve Robinson at the League One club. On 25 September 2017 he left Oldham by mutual consent.

Fleetwood Town
On 22 February 2018, Sheridan was appointed manager of League One club Fleetwood Town until the end of the 2017–18 season, replacing Uwe Rosler. He joined with the club 20th in the league having lost their last eight games in all competitions, but successfully guided them to safety finishing in 14th place.

Carlisle United 
In June 2018, Sheridan was appointed manager of Carlisle United replacing Keith Curle. He resigned on 4 January 2019.