[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# January 1973

his wife, Anne Aubrey.
Born: Oren Harman, Israeli science writer; in Jerusalem
Died: 
William J. Staunton, 46, Northern Irish magistrate judge, from gunshot wounds sustained in an October 11 attack by two IRA members.
Ada Mackenzie, 81, Canadian golfer and enshrinee in the Canada Sports Hall of Fame

January 26, 1973 (Friday)
The Battle of Cua Viet began on the morning before the U.S. and North Vietnam signed the Paris Peace Accords, as South Vietnam's Army of the Republic of Viet Nam (ARVN) ground troops, supplemented by air cover from the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Navy, attempted to recapture the port of Cua Viet in the Quảng Trị province and failed.  North Vietnam claimed that 2,330 ARVN troops were killed or wounded, while South Vietnam claimed that the North sustained 1,000 casualties.
The Tokyo Metropolitan Murders, a string of rapes and killings of 10 women, usually with a modus operandi of burning the bodies, began with the strangling, followed by burning, of a 22-year old office worker at her apartment in the Kita section. The death was similar to one that had taken place in Tokyo in 1968.  A 67-year-old woman and a 22-year-old man would be burned to death on February 13, after which the Tokyo murderer stayed away from crime until a streak of killings that ran for more than six weeks from June 25 to August 9, 1974. 
The Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on September 23, 1971, was declared effective after having been ratified by at least 10 nations; before the Ukrainian SSR (considered a separate member of the United Nations) had ratified, 17 nations had already deposited their instruments of ratification. 
A U.S. Marine on guard duty became the first American to die after the signing of the Paris Peace Accords, which were not scheduled to take effect until 8:00 a.m. local time on January 28. Private First Class Mark Miller, USMC, was killed by enemy shelling of the Biên Hòa Air Base near Saigon.
Born: Frankie Biggz (stage name for Francisco Lucio), American record producer; in Monroe, Michigan
Died: Edward G. Robinson (stage name for Emanuel Goldenberg), 79, Romanian-born American film and stage actor known for his "tough guy" roles, died of cancer 12 days after completion of filming of his final role as a supporting actor in Soylent Green.

January 27, 1973 (Saturday)
U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War ended with the signing of the Paris Peace Accords at the Hôtel Majestic. Neither Lê Đức Thọ or Henry Kissinger, who negotiated for North Vietnam and the U.S., respectively, was present for the signing of "Agreement on Ending the War and Restoring Peace in Vietnam"
At Paris, the government of North Vietnam and delegates from the Viet Cong presented U.S. representatives a list of 555 American prisoners of war that it was prepared to release, while the U.S. provided a list of 26,000 North Vietnamese and Viet Cong prisoners that were being held by the South Vietnamese government.  The U.S. Department of Defense was aware of 1,925 missing personnel, and 1,370 servicemen would be listed permanently as "missing in action."  After reviewing the names, the U.S. Department of Defense said through a spokesman, "there are 56 men that we had previously carried on our list of prisoners of war" who were not on the list provided.
The consul general and vice consul of the Turkish consulate in Los Angeles were assassinated by a 77-year-old survivor of the Armenian genocide. Consul General Mehmet Baydar, 48, and Vice Consul Bahadir Demir were shot to death by a 77-year old Armenian-American, Gourgen Yanikian, in retaliation for the Ottoman Turks murder of 26 members of Yanikian's family and at least 600,000 Armenians more than 55 years earlier.  Yanikian lured both men to cottage at the Biltmore Hotel in Santa Barbara, California, wounded them, and then killed each one with a gunshot to the head.
Outgoing U.S. Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird announced that the United States armed forces would become an all-volunteer organization and that no further draft of U.S. citizens would take place.

Died: U.S. Army Lieutenant Colonel William Nolde, 43, of Mount Pleasant, Michigan, was killed by North Vietnamese artillery fire at An Lộc in South Vietnam, at 9:00 in the evening local time, 11 hours before the ceasefire agreed upon in Paris took effect.  Colonel Nolde became the last combat death in the Vietnam War