[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Politics of Chile

deputies and 13 senators. The other groups with parliamentary representation are the Republican Party (15 deputies and 1 senator), the Christian Democratic Party (8 deputies and 5 senators), the Party of the People (8 deputies), and the independents outside of a coalition (5 deputies and 1 senator).

Since 1987, the Congress operates in the port city of Valparaíso, about  northwest of the capital, Santiago. However some commissions are allowed to meet in other places, especially Santiago. Congressional members have repeatedly tried to relocate the Congress back to Santiago, where it operated until the 1973 Chilean coup d'état, but have not been successful. The last attempt was in 2000, when the project was rejected by the Constitutional Court, because it allocated funds from the national budget, which, under the Chilean Constitution, is a privilege of the President.

Legal system

Chile's legal system is civil law based. It is primarily based on the Civil code of 1855, derived from Spanish law and subsequent codes influenced by European law of the last half of the 19th Century. It does not accept compulsory ICJ jurisdiction.

From the year 2000 onwards, Chile completely overhauled its criminal justice system; a new, US-style adversarial system has been gradually implemented throughout the country with the final stage of implementation in the Santiago metropolitan region completed on June 9, 2001.

Political parties and elections

Pressure groups
Pressure groups according to the CIA World Factbook:
 Student federations at all major universities
 Roman Catholic Church
 Workers' United Center of Chile trade unionists from Chile's five largest labor confederations.

International organization participation
Chile or Chilean organizations participate in the following international organizations:

See also

President of Chile
List of presidents of Chile
List of political parties in Chile
Foreign relations of Chile
Law of Chile
Human rights in Chile
Judiciary of Chile
Chilean political scandals
Augusto Pinochet

References

External links
 Presidency 
 Judicial Branch 
 National Congress 
 Ministries 
 Chile Atiende - Government Portal 
 Global Integrity Report: Chile has reporting on anti-corruption in Chile
 Government of Chile - Not Official

 
Government of Chile