[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anishinaabe clan system

any other All Anishinawbeg speaking peoples, the Anishinawbeg clan system served as a system of social weave as well as a means of dividing labour.  The clan groups or phratries are listed below, listing each of the  clans or gentes within their group.  The known Anishinawbeg clans are listed below.

Bimaawidaasi group
The Bimaawidaasi group was charged with scouting, hunting and gathering.
 "Hooves" subdivision:
 Moozwaanowe ("Little" Moose-tail) (
 Moozens or Moozoons or Moozonii (Little Moose)
 Mooz (Moose)
 Adik (Caribou)— The Adik totem is common among the Ojibwa and north of Lake Superior.  A prominent family from this doodem from the Grand Portage area relocated to La Pointe and produced the chiefs Mamongazeda and Waubojeeg.  Later members of this branch became leaders at Sault Ste. Marie.
 Waawaashkeshi (Deer)
 Mishewe (Elk)
 Omashkooz (Stag)
 Eshkan (Antler)
 Bizhiki (Buffalo) 
 "Little Paws" subdivision:
 Waabizheshi (Marten) 
 Amik(waa) (Beaver) 
 Wazhashk (Muskrat) 
 Gaag (Porcupine)
 Esiban (Raccoon)
 Waabooz(oo) (Rabbit) 
 Zhaangweshi (Mink)
 Waagoshiinh (Fox)
 Zhigaag (Skunk) 
 Asanagoo (Squirrel)

Giishkizhigwan group
The Giishkizhigwan group was charged with teaching and healing.
 Giigoonh or Namens (Fish)
 Wawaazisii or Owaazisii (Bullhead)
 Maanameg (Catfish) 
 Adikameg (Whitefish) 
 Namebin(aa) (Sucker) 
 Numaii or Maame (Sturgeon) 
 Ginoozhe (Pike)
 Mikinaak (Snapping turtle) 
 Mishiikenh (Mud turtle) 
 Miskwaadesi (Painted turtle) 
 Ginebig (Snake)
 Omazaandamo (Black snake) 
 Midewewe or Ozhiishiigwe (Rattle snake), or Zhiishiigwaan (Rattle) 
 Omakakii (Frog) 
 Nigig (Otter) 
 Nibiinaabe (Merman)
 Ashaageshiinh (Crab)

Nooke group
The Nooke group was responsible for defense and healing.  Though today the Bear Clan has all merged into a single clan known as Nooke, at one time the Bear was the largest — so large, in fact, that it was sub-divided into body parts such as the head (Makoshtigwaan or 'bear-skull'), the ribs and the feet (Nookezid or 'tender-foot'), as well as different types of bears such as the Waabishki-makwa or 'white black bear' and the Mishimakwa or 'grizzly bear'.
 Makwa (Bear) 
Makoshtigwaan (Bear-skull)
Nookezid (Tender-foot)
 Makokon (Bear's Liver) 
 Miskwaa'aa (Blood) 
 Waabishki-makwa (White black bear)
 Mishimakwa (Grizzly bear)
 Bizhiw (Lynx) 
 Ma'iingan  or Mawii'aa(Wolf)

Baswenaazhi group
The Baswenaazhi group were traditionally charged with outgoing International communications.  Because of this, often members of the Baswenaazhi group are said to be the most vocal.
 Binesi (Thunderbird)
 Ajijaak (Crane or "Thunder") 
 Nesawaakwaad ("Forked tree") 
 Ashagi (Heron)
 Gekek (Hawk) 
 Omigizi(we) (Bald eagle)
 Mitigomizh (White oak)
 Wiigwaas (Birch bark)
 Giniw (Golden eagle)
 Bibiigiwizens (Sparrowhawk)
 Makade-gekek(we) (Black hawk)

Bemaangik group
The Bemaangik are charged with internal/domestic communications.  They were often charged with the community's own council fires and help facilitate dialogue on all internal/domestic issues.
 Bineshiinh (Bird)
 Aan'aawenh, Aa'aawenh or Aa'aawe (Pintail) (Oj)
 Owewe (Wild goose or "Swan")
 Bine (Partridge or "turkey") or Aagask (grouse) (Oj, Po) 
 Nika (Goose) (Ms, Oj)
 Maang (Loon) (Al, Oj, Od, Po)
 (Makade)Zhiishiib ((Black) duck) (Oj)
 Gayaashk (Gull) (Oj, Od)
 Jiwiiskwiiskiwe (Snipe) (Oj)
 Omooshka'oozi (Bittern) (Oj)
 Zhedeg (Pelican)
 Ogiishkimanisii (Kingfisher) (Al, Oj)
 Aandeg (Crow) (Po)
 Gaagaagishiinh (Raven)
 Omiimii (Pigeon) (Ms)
 Apishi-gaagaagi (Magpie) (Ms)

Metaphors
On occasion, instead of referring to the totem by the actual being's name, a clan is identified instead by a metaphor describing the characteristic of the clan's totem.  The metaphors that survive to today include:
 Bimaawidaasi 'Carrier' = Amik(we) 'Beaver'
 Giishkizhigwan 'Cut-tail' = Maanameg 'Catfish'
 Nooke 'Tender' = Makwa 'Bear'
 Baswenaazhi 'Echo-maker' = Ajijaak(we) 'Crane'
 Bemaangik 'Pass-by Sounder' = Owewe 'Wild goose'