[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cuban Democracy Act

United States and Cuba, so that all of you can maintain contact with family members." While originally the bill included the exchange of educational services and news offices in both Havana and Washington, groups against Castro led congress to balk against these additions.

Legacy

Domestic Reaction

Criticism 
From the U.S. perspective, the New York Times argued that sanctions would only amplify Castro's fight against American hegemony in Latin America and put more faith and confidence in the regime. The editorial additionally notes that the collapse of the Soviet Union and economy already had detrimental effects on Cuban trade that relied heavily on the Soviets. In addition, Kam S. Wong from the University of Pennsylvania Law School argued in 1994 that the bill is in violation of international law along with foreign sovereign compulsion and crackdown on trade.

Effects on the Clinton Administration 
The Cuban Democracy Act both fostered and broke apart the relationship between Clinton and the CANF. This was due to Mas Canosa's expectations regarding the position of the assistant secretary of state for Inter-American affairs, which instead was planned to go to Mario L. Baeza, an Afro-Cuban lawyer. However, Baeza's distance from the Cuban-American community ultimately led to the CANF leading a campaign to thwart his appointment, leading to the instatement of Alexander F. Watson. Once in office, Clinton utilized a loophole within the act that allowed him to suspend it under the guise of "national security." This dodging of a law in order to avoid true implementation further frustrated Cuban-American groups.

International Reaction 
Only days after Bush signed the bill into law on October 23, the European Commission protested that the act violated the conventions of international trade. Likewise, the United Kingdom used the Protection of Trading Interests Act 1980 as a means of political protest against the Mack Amendment specifically. Canada and many Latin American nations also expressed concern and condemnation of the bill's implications on international trade with Cuba.

This opposition manifested into a Cuban-sponsored resolution in the United Nations on ending the embargo shortly after the bill was signed. The resolution was carefully written to create content with the international community, as many were still wary of Castro's track record but still wished to block the U.S.'s attempts to control trade between Cuba and other countries.

See also 

 Cuba and democracy
 Cuba–United States relations
 Godfrey–Milliken Bill
 Helms–Burton Act

References

External links 
 Cuban Democracy Act text
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 Full Text and Roll Call from congress.gov
Torricelli: After meeting Castro, I have no regrets choking Cuba, an editorial by Torricelli

1992 in American law
Cuba–United States relations
United States foreign relations legislation
United States federal trade legislation
Opposition to Fidel Castro
1992 in international relations
Boycotts of Cuba
Sanctions legislation
United States sanctions