[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# German Americans in the American Civil War

German-Americans were the largest ethnic contingent to fight for the Union in the American Civil War. More than 200,000 native-born Germans, along with another 250,000 1st-generation German-Americans, served in the Union Army, notably from New York, Wisconsin, and Ohio. Several thousand also fought for the Confederacy. Most German born residents of the Confederacy lived in Louisiana and Texas. Many others were 3rd- and 4th-generation Germans whose ancestors migrated to Virginia and the Carolinas in the 18th and early 19th centuries.

Union Army

German-American army units
Approximately 516,000 Union soldiers, or 23.4% of all Union soldiers, were immigrants; about 216,000 of these were born in Germany. New York supplied the largest number of these native-born Germans with 36,000. Behind the Empire State came Wisconsin with 30,000 and Ohio with 20,000.

Scores of individual regiments, such as the 52nd New York, 9th Ohio, 74th Pennsylvania, 32nd Indiana (1st German), 107th Ohio Volunteer Infantry, and the 9th Wisconsin, consisted entirely of German Americans. Major recruiting efforts aimed at German Americans were conducted in Cincinnati, St. Louis, and Milwaukee, among many other cities.

Commonly referred to as "Dutchmen" by other Union soldiers, and "lop-eared Dutch" by Confederates, German-American units, in general, earned a reputation for discipline. Some of them had previously served in European armies, and they brought valuable experience to the Union Army.

German-American commanders of note

A popular Union commander and native German, Major General Franz Sigel was the highest ranking German-American officer in the Union Army, with many Germans enlisting to "fight mit Sigel." Sigel was a political appointment of President Abraham Lincoln, who hoped that Sigel's immense popularity would help deliver the votes of the increasingly important German segment of the population. He was a member of the Forty-Eighters, a political movement of revolutionaries in German states whose failure led to thousands of Germans emigrating to the United States. These included such future Civil War officers as Maj. Gen. Carl Schurz, Brig. Gen. August Willich, Louis Blenker, Max Weber and Alexander Schimmelfennig.

Schurz was part of the socio-political movement in America known as the Turners, who contributed to getting Lincoln elected as President. The Turners provided the bodyguard at Lincoln's inauguration on March 4, 1861, and also at Lincoln's funeral in April 1865.

Other prominent German generals included Peter Osterhaus, Edward S. Salomon, Frederick Salomon, August Kautz and Felix Salm-Salm. Hundreds of German-born officers led regiments during the war, including Col. Gustav Tafel, Col. Paul A. Frank, Col. Friedrich Hecker, Col. Leopold von Gilsa, and Maj. Jurgen Wilson. Among the very best Union artillerists was German-born Capt. Hubert Dilger, who had been trained at the Karlsruhe Military Academy.

Another famous German American, though not an immigrant, was Maj. Gen. George Armstrong Custer (Küster). He fought against the Confederate cavalry of Maj. Gen. J.E.B. Stuart at Gettysburg and famously died in the Battle of Little Big Horn during the Indian Wars.

Medal of Honor Recipients
Among those German immigrants who received the Medal of Honor for valor during the war include:

Pvt. Frederick Alber
Cpl. William J. Archinal
Pvt. Frederick Ballen
Pvt. Charles Bieger
Sgt. Richard Binder
Cpt. Charles Blucher
Pvt. August F. Bronner
Sgt. Maj. Abraham Cohn
Cpt. Hubert Dilger
Musician Richard Enderlin
Pvt. Frank E. Fesq
Civilian Martin Freeman
1Sgt. Frederick Füger
Cpt. M. R. William Grebe
Cpl. Ignatz Gresser
Pvt. George Grueb
Sgt. Henry A. Hammel
Cpl. Heinrich Hoffman
Cpl. Luther Kaltenbach
Pvt. Peter Kappesser
Cpl. August Kauss
Pvt. Henry Klein
Pvt. J. C. Julius Langbein
Sgt. Andrew Miller
Pvt. John Miller
Sgt. Conrad Noll
Pvt. David Orbansky
Chief Bugler Ferdinand F. Rohm
Sgt. Valentine Rossbach
Pvt. John Schiller
1Sgt. Conrad Schmidt
1Lt. Theodore Schwan
Sgt. Martin Schwenk
Cpl. Charles Shambaugh
Chief Quartermaster Robert Sommers
Seaman Henry Thielberg
Sgt. Ernst Torgler
Sgt. George Uhrl
Pvt. Martin Wambsgan
1Lt. William Westerhold

Confederate States Army
Although the Confederacy had general officers born in Ireland, France, and England, only one German-born soldier reached that rank in the Confederate Army, General John A. Wagener of South Carolina. Colonel Adolphus Heiman, a Prussian-born veteran of the Mexican–American War who commanded the 10th Tennessee Infantry and later a brigade; and Colonel Augustus Buchel, a native of Hesse and commander of the 1st Texas Cavalry, were probably the next highest ranking German-Confederates.