[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Internal Troops of Azerbaijan

leading the internal troops, providing the preparation of mobilization and effective implementation of officers’ duties. Furthermore, according to the article 10, the commander is considered as a decision maker relating to the issues of internal troops.

List of commanders

Educational institutions

Higher Military School of the Internal Troops 
Higher Military School of the Internal Troops of Azerbaijan was created in accordance with the presidential decree dated 25 February 2011 on the base of the Vocational Military School of the Internal Troops. Regulation of the military school was confirmed by the presidential decree in 2012. The Higher Military School of the Internal Troops is situated in Baku and led by Ilqar Mammadov. 

Military School is responsible for preparing special-military educated personnel, improving specialties of military officers and implementing scientific-investigation issues. Educational duration is four years and trainings and subjects are defined relating to the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS) that guarantees academic recognition of studies abroad. The High Military School gives two specialties to the graduates such as, military and civil specialty. "High Special-Military Educated Military Officer" is a military specialty and "Physical Education and Initial Preparation Teacher" is a civil specialty. At the same time graduates gain both bachelor's degree and lieutenant military rank.

Gala Training Regiment 
The training regiment acts on the basis of the training center of internal troops since 2003. NATO standards are applied to the educational system. Three types of training courses are arranged at the regiment such as, half-yearly preparation courses, quarterly improvement courses for officer and Warrant officers and a month academy courses. More than 930 military officers and warrant officers have passed military courses at the Gala Training Regiment respectively, 527 and 406 Servicemen.

Engagements 
First Nagorno-Karabakh War

2003 Azerbaijani protests

Operation Eagle

Guba riots

2020 Nagorno-Karabakh war.

See also 
OPON

References

External links
Internal Troops of the Ministry of Internal Affairs 

Military of Azerbaijan
Law enforcement in Azerbaijan
Gendarmerie
1992 establishments in Azerbaijan
Military units and formations established in 1992