[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Hoodoo Mountain

itic or trachytic composition occurs within the sequence. A  subaerial lava flow travelled down the north–central and northeast flanks of Hoodoo Mountain during the latter stages of this eruptive period. It directly overlies the pyroclastic sequence and contains abundant fresh and devitrified glass.

The fourth eruptive period 54,000 years ago produced a subaerially erupted sequence of up to five stacked lava flows on the north–central and southwestern flanks. Individual flows vary from  thick and are separated by  of lava breccia, giving the sequence a total thickness of around . The lava flows do not appear to have interacted with glacial ice, suggesting that at least the upper flanks of Hoodoo Mountain were ice-free at the time of their eruption. Columnar joints more than  thick characterize these flows.

After a period of eruptions showing no apparent evidence for ice interaction, subglacial eruptions resumed between 54,000–30,000 years ago, signalling the build-up of regional ice levels. This fifth eruptive period occurred in two stages. The first stage took place between 54,000–40,000 years ago when the overriding glacial ice was possibly more than  thick. Isolated vents produced a wide variety of volcanic deposits extensively distributed around the entire summit region. This includes subglacially erupted lava lobes and domes, as well as ice-chilled breccia and hyaloclastite, which form a  volcanic unit. The second stage between 40,000–30,000 years ago was characterized by fissure-fed eruptions beneath relatively thin ice cover. These eruptions produced a roughly  unit of lava flows, lava lobes and breccia on the north–central, northwestern and western flanks of Hoodoo Mountain.

The sixth and final eruptive period began 10,000–9,000 years ago with the eruption of  phonolitic lava flows from vents near the summit. They travelled down the north–central, northwestern, southeastern and southwestern flanks of Hoodoo Mountain without encountering any glacial ice, suggesting that the flows were erupted subaerially after the regional ice had disappeared from lower elevations. Lava flows on the north–central flank display radially-oriented cooling joints. The Northwest Flow travelled about  down slope and partially covers cliffs at the base of Hoodoo Mountain. Lava flows on the southeastern flank drape down  cliffs and extend into the Twin Glacier valley where they spread out into a broad terminal lobe. The Southwest Flow travelled about  down slope to near the Hoodoo River. These lava flows are considered by the Smithsonian Institution's Global Volcanism Program to have been erupted in 7050 BCE. However, the Southwest Flow may be much younger as age estimates of more than 180 years have been obtained from tree-ring dating on living trees. This lava flow has also not undergone erosion and it still attains its original characteristics even though it is very easily broken. These observations have been taken to indicate a very recent origin, possibly not more than a few hundred years old.

Tephra layers

Hoodoo Mountain is a possible source for two  tephra layers in the Dease Lake and Finlay River areas. They both range in composition from phonolitic to trachytic and are high in iron(II) oxide, indicating that the two Finlay tephras were likely extruded from a single volcanic centre. Radiocarbon dating of terrestrial plant macrofossils directly overlying the youngest tephra layer suggest an early Holocene age for this volcanic material. The glass composition of the tephras is similar to the average whole-rock chemistry of the phonolitic lava flows produced during the final eruptive period at Hoodoo Mountain. However, this eruptive period is not known to have produced any pyroclastic deposits or tephras. Therefore other possible sources have been considered, including Level Mountain, Heart Peaks and the Mount Edziza volcanic complex.

A  tephra layer of unknown origin occurs in sediments at Bob Quinn Lake  northeast of Hoodoo Mountain. It is phonolitic in composition, differing from the Finlay tephras in having about 2% less silicon dioxide, 1.5% more aluminum oxide and more titanium dioxide, calcium oxide and magnesium oxide. The areal distribution of this tephra is poorly constrained but it may extend further to the east. Hoodoo Mountain is a possible source of this tephra due to its location along the trajectory of any ash plume from this volcano. The exact age of this early Holocene tephra layer is unknown but its stratigraphic position suggests that it is about 7,000–8,000 calendar years old. No volcanic deposits of this age are known at Hoodoo Mountain but there may be younger deposits that are completely covered by the summit ice cap.

Hazards and monitoring