[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chiropractic education

study, including a 12-month clinical internship. The UQTR and CMCC programs both include courses in anatomy, biochemistry, embryology, immunology, microbiology, neurology, clinical nutrition, pathology, physiology, principles of chiropractic, radiology, and other basic and clinical medical sciences.

Pilot projects involving doctors of chiropractic in hospital emergency rooms in the province of Ontario were underway in 2011, but as of 2020 the website states chiropractors only see patients based on referral. Canadian Chiropractic Examining Board requires all candidates to complete a 12-month clinical internship to obtain licensure, as well as write a total of three exams in their fourth year of study. Candidates must successfully pass Components A and B (Written Cognitive Skills Examination) to be eligible for the Clinical Skills Examination.

Germany 

In December 2009, Jann-Oliver Broschinski and Friso Krüger had founded the Chiropraktik Akademie (Chiropractic Academy) from the Berlin Chiropractic School. The aim of the academy is the training of principled chiropractors who meet the standard of the WHO Guidelines for the Training and Safety for Chiropractors. The academy is located in Bad Oeynhausen, Germany, and received its accreditation from Stiftung Akkreditierungsrat (German Accreditation Council) in Bachelor and Master of Science in Chiropractic. As of now, the Chiropraktik Akademie's programmes are not accredited by the European Council for Chiropractic Education (ECCE), which is the European organization to accredit officially recognized programmes of Chiropractic education. Furthermore, the Chiropraktik Akademie is not listed as one of the NBCE approved colleges to take the American national board exams, which are the oldest chiropractic licensing exams existing.

South Africa 
In South Africa (SA) there are two schools offering chiropractic: the Durban Institute of Technology and the University of Johannesburg. Both offer a 6-year full-time course leading to a Masters of Technology (M.Tech.) in Chiropractic; the course comprises two years of basic sciences followed by four years specialising in chiropractic, and incorporates a research dissertation. In order to practice in SA chiropractors are required to complete an internship, and must be registered with the Allied Health Professions Council of SA (AHPCSA) the relevant governmental statutory body. Membership of the Chiropractic Association of SA (CASA) is voluntary; CASA is the profession's sole national association and aims to promote Chiropractic through publications in newspaper, interviews, internet and other public inquiries.

South Korea 
Hanseo University, located in Seosan, South Korea, has a CCEA accredited chiropractic program, the planning for which started in 1997.

United Kingdom 
In 1993, HRH Princess Diana visited the Anglo-European College of Chiropractic and became its patron. She also appeared at a news conference that launched a report calling for legislation to prevent unqualified individuals from practicing Chiropractic in the UK. In 1994, Parliament passed legislation regulating the practice of Chiropractic, like other health care professions, and created the General Chiropractic Council (GCC) as the regulatory board. Since that time, it is illegal to call oneself a Chiropractor in the UK without being registered with the GCC. There are currently three UK chiropractic colleges with chiropractic courses recognised by the GCC.

The McTimoney College of Chiropractic offers an Integrated Masters in Chiropractic (MChiro) programme and two post-graduate Masters programmes in Animal Manipulation, plus a masters in Paediatric Chiropractic. The Anglo-European College of Chiropractic also offers an Integrated Masters in Chiropractic (MChiro) programme as well as three post-graduate programmes. The Welsh Institute of Chiropractic (WIOC) is a chiropractic training centre integrated within the University of South Wales offering an integrated undergraduate degree course in Chiropractic.

It is a legal requirement that all chiropractors in the UK register with the GCC to practice. A minimum of 30 hours of Continuing Professional Development per year is required to remain a registered practicing chiropractor.