[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# K. T. McFarland

t her answers to questions related to links between Trump associates and Russian officials and spies.

In September 2018, it became known that McFarland had indeed walked back her story to the special prosecutor. The FBI accepted McFarland's contention that she had not intentionally misstated facts.

Awards and honors
In 1985, McFarland received the Department of Defense's highest civilian honor, the Distinguished Civilian Service Award.

Personal life 

Troia married Alan Roberts McFarland on January 12, 1985, at the National Cathedral in Washington, D.C. After getting married, Troia was known as K.T. McFarland. Alan McFarland worked as a general partner in Lazard Frères and went on to become a well-known investment banker. The couple had three children together, and K.T. McFarland became a stepmother to her husband's two children from his first marriage. In 1985, K.T. McFarland became a stay-at-home mother. Her youngest daughter, Fiona McFarland, attended the United States Naval Academy.

References

External links

 Ambassadorial nomination record of stages in Congress
 
 Kathleen Troia “KT” McFarland – Board member biography, Jamestown Foundation. Archived from the original on September 23, 2016.
 IMDb entry
 Website – archived as of October 2016
 On National Security and Islamic Terrorism ( – with Gen. Jerry Boykin)

1951 births
21st-century American women
Alumni of St Anne's College, Oxford
American commentators
American speechwriters
American women civil servants
Candidates in the 2006 United States elections
Elliott School of International Affairs alumni
Ford administration personnel
Fox News people
Living people
Madison West High School alumni
New York (state) Republicans
Nixon administration personnel
Politicians from Madison, Wisconsin
Politicians from Manhattan
People from Southampton (town), New York
Reagan administration personnel
Trump administration personnel
United States Department of Defense officials
United States Deputy National Security Advisors
Women in New York (state) politics