[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

oved to a Richmond prison. While in captivity there, he was fed only bread and water, and slept on the floor. Lieutenant Colonel David Dove, who was recovering from a severe wound suffered earlier in the year, returned to camp in October. During Powell's absence, Dove was in command of the regiment.

Duffié
For the rest of 1863, the regiment spent most of its time drilling and scouting. General Henry Halleck noted in 1863 that the entire Union force in western Virginia/West Virginia was "... too small to attempt any campaign by itself" and "acted merely on the defensive in repelling raids and breaking up guerrilla bands." During August, Brigadier General Alfred N. Duffié, a veteran of European wars, became the commander of all cavalry in the Kanawha Valley. His headquarters, and the regiment, was located in Charleston. The regiment's CompanyH was trained to be Duffié's bodyguards. Duffié was an excellent drillmaster, and his drills helped prepare the regiment for future fighting in the Shenandoah Valley. He was not as good at fighting as he was at training. He was eventually transferred, and later captured.

Lewisburg again
During November and December, the regiment was part of two more expeditions to Lewisburg.  General Duffié led the November expedition, and missed intercepting the retreating Confederates at Lewisburg by seven hours.  The Confederate army had been defeated at the Battle of Droop Mountain on November 6, 1863, by General William W. Averell.  Duffié captured some Confederate supplies, including those of the rebel 22nd Virginia Infantry. On the return trip to Charleston, the soldiers rode through five inches of snow on Sewell Mountain.

General E. P. Scammon led the December expedition, which was a diversion with mixed results. The purpose of the diversion was to draw Confederate forces away from a Union force led by General Averell, which was conducting a raid on the Virginia and Tennessee Railroad near Salem, Virginia. Although Scammon captured Lewisburg, he soon retreated—making the situation for Averell more difficult. Beginning December 1863, the regiment became part of the 3rd Brigade, 3rd Division, Army of West Virginia.

Powell returns
Colonel Powell was released from Libby Prison in Richmond on January 29, 1864. He was exchanged for Colonel Richard H. Lee, a relative of Confederate leader Robert E. Lee. Powell went home to Ironton, Ohio, where he continued to regain his health. Citizens from his home town donated money for a horse, and Powell received a saber and a pair of .44 caliber Colt Navy revolvers. Powell returned to Charleston, and took command of the regiment on March 20, 1864.

Averell and the Virginia raid
During April 1864, the regiment became part of the 1st Brigade, 2nd Cavalry Division, Army of West Virginia. General Crook returned to West Virginia to command the Army's infantry. General Averell became commander of the cavalry. On April 30, Crook and Averell departed Charleston for Virginia, using different routes, as part of a plan to attack the Virginia and Tennessee Railroad. The salt mine and lead mine located along the railroad were also targets.

As the cavalry got closer to the salt mine, Averell discovered that the mine was defended by a large force of infantry and cavalry. He decided to abandon the planned attack on the salt mine, and proceeded toward Wytheville, intending to join with Crook's infantry.

Entering the northern part of Wythe County, Virginia, on May 10, Averell's cavalry fought the Battle of Cove Mountain. In this battle, Confederate forces under the command of General William "Grumble" Jones, assisted by John Hunt Morgan's Raiders, prevented the Union cavalry from moving through Cove Gap. General Averell's forehead was grazed by a bullet, and he temporarily removed himself from command. General Duffié seemed to disappear, so the 2nd West Virginia's Colonel Powell directed all cavalry.  The fighting ended at dusk, and the Confederates held the gap. The 2nd West Virginia Cavalry was nearly surrounded at least three times, but was able to prevent the division from suffering a disaster. The Union force survived this small battle because of the "heroics of the Ohioans of the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry".  Union losses were 114 casualties, including four killed from the 2nd West Virginia. Confederate losses are unknown.

Since they were unable to pass through the gap in the mountains, the Union force moved over the mountains using a different (and more difficult) route with a local slave as their guide. Eventually they were able to destroy 26 bridges and portions of railroad track near Dublin, Virginia. Rainy weather caused the nearby New River to rise, and  several men drowned while crossing—including a corporal from the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry. The rising river prevented pursuing Confederate soldiers from crossing.