[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carnosaur 2

aks into the elevator and kills Rawlins. The elevator's cables snap and it crashes. After they escape the elevator, Monk is injured as he accidentally activates a tripwire while fleeing from a Velociraptor. Too injured to walk, Monk and McQuade blow themselves up to kill the remaining Velociraptors.

Jesse and Reed continue onward, but Reed trips over a wire and dangles from a platform, eventually suffering a long fall. Jesse makes his way to the surface and finds the evacuation team waiting, but they refuse to retrieve Reed due to the facility's imminent explosion. Jesse runs back in himself and helps Reed, and they narrowly avoid a Tyrannosaurus rex on their way to the rescue helicopter.

Jesse runs back and grabs the remote detonator to trigger the remaining dynamite. The T. rex bursts out of the building and kills one of the rescue team members. Jesse gets in a telescopic handler and uses it to battle the dinosaur, eventually pushing it down a large elevator shaft. The helicopter takes off, and Jesse detonates the rest of the dynamite, destroying the facility and preventing a meltdown.

Cast
 John Savage as Jack Reed
 Cliff DeYoung as Tom McQuade
 Don Stroud as Ben Kahane
 Rick Dean as "Monk" Brody
 Ryan Thomas Johnson as Jesse Turner
 Arabella Holzbog as Sarah Rawlins
 Miguel A. Núñez Jr. as Ed Moses
 Neith Hunter as Joanne Galloway
 Guy Boyd as Joe Walker
 Michael James McDonald as Evac Helicopter Pilot

Production and release
Before the completion of Carnosaur (1993), executive producer Roger Corman already wanted a sequel. Carnosaur 2 writer Michael Palmer said that everybody felt the first film would do well, and Roger wanted to be ready with a sequel. Effects artist John Carl Buechler said that because Carnosaur was the most successful film ever made by Corman and his company New Horizons, they had to make a sequel. Palmer's first draft of the script was finished in three weeks, and it underwent two rewrites. The film's ending battle, with a T. rex against a forklift, is a recreation of its predecessor's finale. While Carnosaur is considered a horror film, Palmer wrote the sequel as an action film, although some reviewers consider it a horror film as well. The sequel's plot has many similarities to the 1986 film Aliens, directed by James Cameron.

Carnosaur 2 was directed by Louis Morneau, who originally was going to direct the first film, but had to pass because of commitment to another project. For the cast, John Savage and Don Stroud were Morneau's first choices. The film's budget was similar to its predecessor, which had a reported budget between $800,000 and $1.5 million. Like the original film, shooting lasted 18 days. This included a week of filming at a power plant near Castaic Lake in California. Steadicam was used for a large portion of the filming. Shooting typically lasted 12 to 16 hours a day.

Buechler and Magical Media Industries returned to create the special effects for Carnosaur 2, which re-used the same dinosaur models from the first film, saving the production team money. The dinosaurs had been made with foam latex, which has a limited lifespan. The dinosaurs' mechanical parts also did not move as accurately, as a year had passed since the models were created. The dinosaurs received touch-ups for Carnosaur 2. The Velociraptors were portrayed through puppetry and a creature suit; the latter was altered to make the animals look more like the raptors in Jurassic Park. Miniature effects, created by Anthony Doublin, were also used on the film. Buechler had more freedom on Carnosaur 2 compared to its predecessor. After filming, a week of post-production work was spent working on the dinosaur effects.

Originally, Corman planned to release the film theatrically in autumn 1994, although it eventually was released direct-to-video on February 15, 1995. It was released on DVD on April 18, 2000.

Reception
The Houston Chronicle wrote that the film "takes an exploitation-film approach to Jurassic Park. That is to say, it's cheap and shamelessly derivative. Yet it also sports a fine cast, including two-time Oscar nominee John Savage, and is galvanized by the scrappy resourcefulness and unpretentious spirit that low-budget filmmaking allows". The New York Daily News considered Carnosaur 2 an improvement over the original film, and praised the cast, especially Savage and Stroud. Missoulian criticized the special effects but praised Savage's performance, and wrote that the film was done with "energy and a bit of style and a tiny bit of wit". J.R. Taylor of Entertainment Weekly gave the film a "B+" and called it an "Aliens rip-off".