[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Court of Cassation (Belgium)

s important case law was later codified as such into the "Preliminary title" of the Belgian Code of Criminal Procedure.

Applicable legislation 
Most of the legal provisions that establish the structure, jurisdiction and procedure of the Court of Cassation, can be found in the Belgian Judicial Code:

 Part II, Book I, Title I, Chapter V of the Code defines the structure and subdivisions of the court;
 Part III, Title I, Chapter V of the Code defines the jurisdiction of the court;
 Part IV, Book III, Title IV of the Code defines the procedural rules for cassation proceedings in non-criminal (civil, commercial, ...) cases.
 Part IV, Book III, Title IVbis of the Code defines some specific rules for cassation proceedings in disciplinary cases.
However, the Belgian Code of Criminal Procedure defines the procedural rules for cassation proceedings in criminal cases.

The provisions regarding prejudicial questions to the Court of Cassation on the topic of competition law, are laid down in the Belgian Code of Economic Law.

Statistics

Caseload 
According to its annual report, a total of 2,522 new cases were brought before the Court of Cassation in 2019, of which 1,386 were cases in the Dutch language and 1,136 were in the French language. The number of cases still pending at the end of 2019 stood at 2,008. In 2019, the court also issued 2,420 final decisions in cases pending before it, which were therefore closed (as far as concerns the Court of Cassation at least). When looking at the preceding years, one can observe that the number of new cases in 2019 has risen slightly compared to 2018, but is still significantly lower than in 2011 (3,583 new cases). The number of rulings issued in 2019 however stands at the lowest in recent years. In its report, the court itself attributes this to shortages in support personnel, the resignation of seven magistrates (judges and members of the prosecutor's office) from the court, and the burdensome appointment procedure to replace them.

Nature of the cases 
The court's 2019 annual report also contains statistics about the nature of the cases brought before it. Of the 2,522 new cases brought before the court in 2019, 1,348 were criminal cases, 658 were civil and commercial cases, 170 were fiscal cases, 92 were social cases (involving labour or social protection law), 16 were disciplinary cases (concerning decisions taken by some professional bodies), and 238 cases were requests for judicial assistance in proceedings before the court. Of the aforementioned cases:

 12 concerned requests to disqualify a judge or court in a lower court case, and refer the case to a different judge or court, that were granted by the court;
 2 concerned matters that were heard and ruled upon by a chamber of the court in full bench;
 2 concerned matters that were heard and ruled upon by the court in joint chambers.
In 2019, no prejudicial questions had been asked to the Court of Cassation.

Outcome of the cases 
The court's 2019 annual reports provides (rounded-up) statistics on the outcome of adjudicated cases as well. Of all the cases the court ruled on in 2019, 54% resulted in the rejection of the appeal in cassation and 22% resulted in a cassation (meaning an entire or partial annulment of the contested judgment or ruling). In addition, 11% of the cases resulted in a summary ruling of non-admissibility (only criminal cases), 6% of the cases concerned the rejection of a request for judicial assistance, 3% concerned the granting of judicial assistance, 3% of the cases were abandoned by the claimant before a final decision, and 1% concerned the disqualification of a judge in a lower court case. There exists a non-negligible difference between criminal and non-criminal cases regarding the chances of success of an appeal in cassation: whilst 41% of the non-criminal cases resulted in a cassation, only 14% of the criminal cases resulted in a cassation as well.

Trivia