[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Adrian Forbes

epted a request to let Forbes join league rivals Darlington for 3 days of training with a view to a permanent move. Darlington had also requested to use Forbes in a friendly in which Grimsby boss Neil Woods declined. Forbes had his contract at Grimsby cancelled by mutual consent on 1 September 2010.

Lowestoft Town
On 16 September 2010, Forbes joined Conference National side Hayes & Yeading on trial.
On 30 September 2010 Forbes joined Lowestoft Town, signing a two-year deal. In May 2012 following the conclusion of the 2011–12 season Forbes announced his departure from Lowestoft and his retirement from competitive football.

Coaching career
In October 2011 Forbes re-joined Norwich City as an academy coach on a part-time basis alongside his playing days with Lowestoft, however following his retirement in May 2012 Forbes became a full-time coach with City. After gaining a full-time role at Norwich's Cat 1 academy looking after the U9 and U10 players he was promoted in September 2017 and he is currently the Lead Foundation Phase Coach and responsible for the day-to-day running of the U9 to U12 age groups as well as being the match day announcer at Carrow Road. He is also in year 4 of The Premier Leagues Elite Coaches Apprenticeship Scheme.

He now works as the Head of Coaching & Player Development at Luton Town.

Career statistics

Honours

Swansea City
 Football League Trophy: 2005–06

Blackpool
 League One play-off final winner: 2007

References

External links

Career information at ex-canaries.co.uk
England profile at TheFA

1979 births
Living people
Footballers from the London Borough of Ealing
English men's footballers
Norwich City F.C. players
Luton Town F.C. players
Swansea City A.F.C. players
Blackpool F.C. players
Millwall F.C. players
Grimsby Town F.C. players
Lowestoft Town F.C. players
English Football League players
Men's association football midfielders
Luton Town F.C. non-playing staff
People from Greenford