[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Eugene de Kock

Eugene Alexander de Kock (born 29 January 1949) is a former South African Police colonel, torturer, and assassin, active under the apartheid government. Nicknamed "Prime Evil" by the press, De Kock was the commanding officer of C10, a counterinsurgency unit of the SAP that kidnapped, tortured, and murdered numerous anti-apartheid activists from the 1980s to the early 1990s. C10's victims included members of the African National Congress.

Following South Africa's transition to democracy in 1994, De Kock disclosed the full scope of C10's crimes and apologised to the families of the victims he murdered while testifying before the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. In 1996, he was tried and convicted on eighty-nine charges and sentenced to two concurrent life terms plus 212 years in prison. Since beginning his sentence, De Kock has accused several members of the apartheid government, including former State President F. W. de Klerk, of permitting C10's activities. In 2015, he was granted parole, and is currently released .

Early life and service
Eugene Alexander de Kock was born to Lourens Vosloo de Kock, a magistrate and personal friend to former prime minister John Vorster. Vosloo "Vossie" de Kock, Eugene's brother, later described him as a "quiet" boy who "wasn't a violent person." He also recounted how their father, a member of the Afrikaner Broederbond, indoctrinated the boys in Afrikaner nationalist ideology and taught them "strict Afrikaans" as they grew up.

De Kock developed a long-time ambition of becoming an officer. In 1967, after completing high school, he performed his year-long national service in Pretoria at the Army Gymnasium. During this time, he and the rest of the Gymnasium's six companies were deployed to Rhodesia's border with Botswana to confront militant ANC incursions. De Kock graduated from the Gymnasium as an infantry soldier in the South African Defence Force. However, he decided not to attend the officers college in Saldanha Bay because of a stutter, and declined to pursue a B. Mil degree. He joined the South African Police's uniform branch in the Eastern Cape.

De Kock underwent off-duty training at Pretoria's Baviaanspoort Prison with members of the Security Police under Captain de Swart, in what later was to become the SAP's Special Task Force. In 1976, instead of accepting an invitation to train new Special Task Force members, De Kock reported to the Police College for an officers' course and was promoted from warrant officer to lieutenant.

In May 1978, De Kock was transferred to South West Africa and joined the security branch in Oshakati. In 1979, he co-founded Koevoet, an SAP counterinsurgency unit tasked with combating the People's Liberation Army of Namibia (PLAN) during the South African Border War. Koevoet was regarded as a highly effective unit, but committed atrocities against civilians and other human rights violations. Its successes in tracking and killing PLAN guerrillas prompted the SAP to consider setting up a similar division in South Africa.

While testifying at the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, De Kock recounted one incident during his time serving in the Border War in Angola. He'd captured a group of prisoners and brought them back to the camp. Instead, of being congratulated, however, he was reprimanded, and then watched as the prisoners were beaten by superiors.''Why so many?''

Vlakplaas

In 1983, the SAP transferred De Kock to C10, a counter-insurgency unit headquartered at a farm called Vlakplaas, located  west of Pretoria. De Kock, who had established a reputation for commitment during his tours in Rhodesia and Namibia, was promoted as the unit's commanding officer two years later. Under his leadership, C10—later known as C1—became a death squad which hunted down and killed millitant opponents of the National Party and the apartheid system.

TRC testimony
De Kock first became prominent during his testimony in the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in 1998, during which he made multiple revelations relating to ANC deaths.

De Kock has been interviewed a number of times by psychologist Pumla Gobodo-Madikizela, who ended up releasing a book, A Human Being Died That Night, about her interviews with De Kock, her time on the TRC, and what causes a moral person to become a killer.

Trial, conviction, and sentencing
Upon being convicted on 30 October 1996, De Kock was sentenced to two life sentences plus 212 years in prison for crimes against humanity. The eighty-nine charges included six counts of murder, as well as conspiracy to murder, attempted murder, assault, kidnapping, illegal possession of a firearm, and fraud. De Kock served his sentence in the C Max section of the Pretoria Central Prison.