[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Asian Handball Federation

The Asian Handball Federation (AHF) is the governing body of handball and beach handball in Asia. It has 44 member countries, mostly located on the Asian continent, but excludes the transcontinental countries with territory in both Europe and Asia – Azerbaijan, Georgia, Russian Federation and Turkey – which are instead members of European Handball Federation (EHF). Three other states located along the western fringe of Asia – Cyprus, Armenia and Israel – are also EHF members. Hong Kong China and Macau, although not independent countries (both are Special regions of China), are also members of the AHF.

One of IHF's six continental confederations, the AHF was formed officially on 26 August 1974 in Tehran (Imperial State of Iran), on the sidelines of the 7th Asian Games 1974. The AHF headquarters is located in Kuwait City (Kuwait). Its current President is Sheikh Ahmed Al-Fahad Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah from Kuwait who is a member of House of Al Sabah, the ruling family of Kuwait.

History
The Asian Handball Federation (AHF) is in one way absolutely unique: during its history till date it had two Presidents - and they were father and son.

When in 1976 the federation was officially founded and Sheikh Fahad Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah was elected for president, the committed Sheikh had already put a lot of efforts and preparation work into it. In 1974, during the 7th Asian Games in Tehran (Iran), he applied as head of the Kuwaiti delegation at the executive committee for the inclusion of Handball into the sports programme and the foundation of a continental handball federation. The explanation was easy and convincing: meanwhile handball was widely spread in Asia. The leaders of the Asian Game accepted handball as an official sport and asked the Sheikh to act as interim president and to prepare the statutes of the federation. In this task he was supported by the Secretary General Syed Abul Hassan (Pakistan).

Presidents

 Sheikh Fahad Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah died on 2 August 1990 during the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait while defending Dasman Palace. Mohammed Ali Abul acted as Acting President till the war finished in 1991.
 Sheikh Ahmed step down from AHF Presidency following a guilty verdict against him in a Swiss forgery trial. Therefore, 1st Vice-President Yoshihide Watanabe was appointed as Acting President till further orders.

Secretary generals

Executive committee
Following is the AHF Executive Committee for 2017 – 2021.

Council
Following is the AHF Council for the term 2021 — 2025.

Commissions
Following are the AHF Commission members for the term 2017 — 2021.

Tournaments

AHF
 Asian Men's Handball Championship
 Asian Women's Handball Championship
 Asian Men's Junior Handball Championship
 Asian Women's Junior Handball Championship
 Asian Men's Youth Handball Championship
 Asian Women's Youth Handball Championship
 Asian Games
 Asian Youth Games

Club
 Asian Club League Handball Championship
 Asian Women's Club League Handball Championship

Beach
 Asian Beach Handball Championship
 Asian Youth Beach Handball Championship
 Asian Beach Games

Zones
West Asia
 West Asian Women's Handball Championship
 West Asian Games

South Asia
 South Asian Men's Handball Championship
 South Asian Women's Handball Championship
 South Asian Games

Southeast Asia
 Southeast Asian Games

East Asia
 East Asian Games

Current champions

(Titles)
(*) Record titles

Disputes
A dispute arises between the International Handball Federation (IHF) and the AHF following a controversial decision to replace referees of opening match of Asian Men's Handball Qualification Tournament for the 2008 Summer Olympics between Kuwait and South Korea played on 1 September 2007 in Toyota (Japan). AHF replaced experienced and IHF nominated German referees Lemme and Ulrich with Jordanian referees Al-Shoubaki and Hirzallah, neither of whom stood on the list of IHF-qualified referees having "IHF Status", meaning that they had not completed the Global Referees Training Programme (GRTP), a program established by the IHF for the development of IHF-level referees. The Jordanian referee pair completely destroyed the South Korean team with more than 20 wrong decisions only in first half of the match which favoured the Kuwaiti team. IHF COC Chairman Aleksandr Kozhukhov (Russia) who was appointed by IHF as supervisor for the event and member of AHF Technical Committee Khalaf Al-Enezi (Kuwait) intervened into the matter at half-time of the match and asked the referees to be fair but the South Korean team
nevertheless could not get the result in their own favour losing the match by 28–20.