[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chiropractic education

siness and Professions Code (e.g., in the state of California)—and the Case Law. Further, it has been argued that, at least in some states (in the USA), that this license subsumed the previous "drugless practitioner" license, and includes—within its scope of practice—that of the previous discipline.

In some countries, like the United States, chiropractors earn a professional doctorate where training is entered after obtaining between 90 and 120 credit hours of university level work (see second entry degree) and in most cases after obtaining a bachelor's degree.  The World Health Organization lists three potential educational paths involving full‐time chiropractic education around the globe. This includes: one to four years of pre-requisite training in basic sciences at university level followed by a four-year full‐time doctorate program; DC. A five-year integrated bachelor degree; BSc (Chiro). A two-to-three-year master's degree following the completion of a bachelor's degree leads to the MSc (Chiro). In South Africa the Masters of Technology in Chiropractic (M.Tech. Chiro) is granted following six years of university.

Doctors of Chiropractic who wish to practice in New Mexico can prescribe certain medications. These doctors are required to obtain additional license and credentials from the New Mexico Board of Pharmacy and apply for a "Chiropractic Advanced Practice" Certification from the New Mexico Department of Regulations and Licensing

International degrees in chiropractic

Various degree designations for the chiropractic field exist in different countries. They generally follow the Bachelor's, Master's, Doctorate scheme.

Licensure and regulation 

Regulations for chiropractic practice vary considerably from country to country. In some countries, such as the United States of America, Canada and some European countries, chiropractic has been legally recognized. In these countries, the profession is regulated and the prescribed educational qualifications are generally consistent, satisfying the requirements of the respective accrediting agencies. However, many countries have not yet developed chiropractic education or established laws to regulate the qualified practice of chiropractic. In addition, in some countries, other qualified health professionals and lay practitioners may use techniques of spinal manipulation and claim to provide chiropractic services, although they may not have received chiropractic training in an accredited program.

Chiropractic is governed internationally by the Councils on Chiropractic Education International (CCEI). This body is recognized by the World Federation of Chiropractic and the World Health Organization as the accrediting agency for schools of chiropractic around the world.

The minimum prerequisite for enrollment in a chiropractic college set forth by the CCE is 90 semester hours. Common prerequisite classes include those of the biological, chemical, & physical sciences, including: human anatomy and physiology, embryology, genetics, microbiology, immunology, cellular biology, exercise physiology, kinesiology, general chemistry, organic chemistry, analytical chemistry, biochemistry, toxicology/pharmacology, nutrition, nuclear medicine, physics, biomechanics, and statistics. Chiropractic programs require at least 4,200 hours of combined classroom, laboratory, and clinical experience.

Australia 
The Chiropractors' Association of Australia has provided instructions for students who intend on becoming registered chiropractors in Australia. The profession is regulated by the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA).

Canada 

There are currently two schools of chiropractic in Canada: Canadian Memorial Chiropractic College, in Toronto, Ontario and the Université du Québec à Trois-Rivières, in Trois-Rivieres, Quebec. Both programs are fully accredited by the Canadian Federation of Chiropractic Regulatory and Educational Accrediting Boards. In 2010, the majority of students (87%) entering the CMCC program had completed a baccalaureate university degree, and approximately 3% have a graduate degree. The CMCC program is a privately funded institution and requires four years of full-time study, including a 12-month clinical internship. The UQTR and CMCC programs both include courses in anatomy, biochemistry, embryology, immunology, microbiology, neurology, clinical nutrition, pathology, physiology, principles of chiropractic, radiology, and other basic and clinical medical sciences.