[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Space art

k out published articles or experts in the field. Usually, there is an artistic effort to emphasize the favorable visual elements, just as a photographer composes a picture. The best astronomical art shares with the viewer what it is that catches the artist's imagination about the subject portrayed.

Science fiction magazines such as Fantasy and Science Fiction, Amazing, Astounding (later renamed Analog), and Galaxy served as major outlets for the work of space and particularly astronomical artists in the 1950s. The several picture essay magazines of the time, such as Life, Collier's, and Coronet, were other major outlets for such art. Today, astronomical art can be seen in magazines such as Sky and Telescope, The Planetary Report, and occasionally in Scientific American. The NASA fine arts program has been an ongoing effort to hire artists to create works generally specific to a particular space project. The program documents historical events in recognizable form for professional artists. The NASA Fine Arts Program operated in an era of seemingly unlimited progress at the time of the first head of that program, James Dean, although even then, pictorial realism seemed a subset rather than a dominating visual influence.

The works that document space flight situations, such as those referenced above, are similar in concept to government efforts during World War II to send artists to battle zones to document things as they saw them, much of which appeared in contemporary Life magazines.

Another close parallel to astronomical art is dinosaur art. Both art schools explore unreachable realms with the intent of bringing a sense of reality to them. The 'Grand Masters' of that field, such as Charles R. Knight and Zdeněk Burian, worked with experts in the field, using the best available information to create a realistic vision of something we can never behold with our own eyes. Ideally, as with astronomical art, such a work tries to show what is known about the subject, with some educated guesswork to fill in the unknown and unknowable. We see more recent works by a healthy number of great dinosaur artists that reflect the growth in knowledge in body stances, likely feathers, etc., just as we see alien landscapes now painted that reveal the gathered knowledge instead of the craggy fantasies and the 'blue sky' Mars of yesteryear. Most of today's widely published space and astronomical artists have belonged to the International Association of Astronomical Artists since 1983.

Historic influences