[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eamonn Bannon

te, Bannon scored two penalties in a 5–2 win away against AS Monaco and the fifth goal in Dundee United's 5–0 win at home against Borussia Mönchengladbach, an outstanding solo goal where he ran from wide left on the half-way line towards goal, before cutting in to shoot past the Borussia goalkeeper.

Season 1982–83 saw Dundee United involved in a tight contest with Celtic and Aberdeen for the Scottish Premier Division title.  Bannon proved to be an important player for United, scoring ten league goals. As the season neared its end, Dundee United faced Celtic at Parkhead on 20 April 1983. United took the lead in the first half when Celtic defender Roy Aitken mis-headered a Bannon corner, allowing Paul Hegarty to score. Celtic equalised before half-time but Bannon converted a penalty kick early in the second half to restore United's lead. Celtic again equalised, but on 84 minutes Bannon's cross from the right was volleyed in by Ralph Milne to clinch a 3–2 win. Dundee United went into their final league fixture of the season, against Dundee at Dens Park, still needing a win to guarantee the title.  Bannon had a penalty kick saved in the first half but scored from the rebound to put United 2–0 ahead, and despite Dundee pulling a goal back, United held on to win their first ever Scottish league title.

Dundee United's league success saw them take part in the European Cup in 1983–84. United reached the semi-finals, with Bannon scoring once against Ħamrun Spartans in one of the early rounds with a header. United failed to reach the final, losing 3–2 on aggregate to Roma in an ill-tempered tie. Dundee United also failed to retain their league title, finishing in third place and 10 points behind winners Aberdeen.

Dundee United maintained a regular top five placing in succeeding seasons. Bannon remained a key figure in a United side that went on to reach the 1987 UEFA Cup Final and the Scottish Cup 1985, 1987 and 1988. They lost in all of these finals, and the Scottish Cup was the only domestic trophy Bannon failed to win in his career. The 1988 Scottish Cup Final defeat to Celtic was Bannon's last match for Dundee United, as he then returned to Hearts.

Hearts
Bannon returned to Hearts in June 1988 who bought him for a transfer fee of £225,000, and he spent the next five years there. He didn't win any silverware, but played in the famous 1–0 UEFA Cup win over Bayern Munich at Tynecastle in February 1989 (although they lost the second leg 2–0 in Germany to go out on aggregate). He was also credited with having a positive influence on the younger players breaking through at that time, such as Alan McLaren and Scott Crabbe.

Later career
At the end of his playing career he had a spell as player-coach with Hibs during season 1993–94, making one solitary appearance in the league in April 1994, playing in central defence. Bannon returned to Hearts in the summer of 1994 for a season as assistant manager under Tommy McLean, before a final playing spell with Stenhousemuir. Now playing as a defender, Bannon helped them win the 1995 Scottish Challenge Cup Final at McDiarmid Park, as they defeated his old club Dundee United on a penalty shootout.

Bannon went on to manage Falkirk for a few months in 1996 before buying a guest house in Edinburgh, which he has run since 1997. Bannon played for Spartans for a couple of years before retiring at the age of 40, although he continued to coach the side. Bannon also does matchday work for the Press Association.

In 2009, Bannon was inducted into Dundee United's Hall of Fame, alongside former teammates such as David Narey, Paul Hegarty and Paul Sturrock.

International
Bannon began his international career in 1978, making his début for the Scotland under-21 team on 17 September at Pittodrie Stadium in a friendly against the USA. He went on to play a total of seven games at Under 21 level between 1978 and 1980, scoring once in a European Championship tie away against Norway in a 2–2 draw.