[Source: Gutenberg#2814 | Part 35]
# Utopia — Thomas More

ht they were very nice
people, a little quiet and serious, but still very nice people to live
with. Then she had her plants in the conservatory and she liked looking
after them. She had lovely ferns and wax-plants and, whenever anyone
came to visit her, she always gave the visitor one or two slips from
her conservatory. There was one thing she didn’t like and that was the
tracts on the walks; but the matron was such a nice person to deal
with, so genteel.

When the cook told her everything was ready she went into the women’s
room and began to pull the big bell. In a few minutes the women began
to come in by twos and threes, wiping their steaming hands in their
petticoats and pulling down the sleeves of their blouses over their red
steaming arms. They settled down before their huge mugs which the cook
and the dummy filled up with hot tea, already mixed with milk and sugar
in huge tin cans. Maria superintended the distribution of the barmbrack
and saw that every woman got her four slices. There was a great deal of
laughing and joking during the meal. Lizzie Fleming said Maria was sure
to get the ring and, though Fleming had said that for so many Hallow
Eves, Maria had to laugh and say she didn’t want any ring or man
either; and when she laughed her grey-green eyes sparkled with
disappointed shyness and the tip of her nose nearly met the tip of her
chin. Then Ginger Mooney lifted up her mug of tea and proposed Maria’s
health while all the other women clattered with their mugs on the
table, and said she was sorry she hadn’t a sup of porter to drink it
in. And Maria laughed again till the tip of her nose nearly met the tip
of her chin and till her minute body nearly shook itself asunder
because she knew that Mooney meant well though, of course, she had the
notions of a common woman.

But wasn’t Maria glad when the women had finished their tea and the
cook and the dummy had begun to clear away the tea-things! She went
into her little bedroom and, remembering that the next morning was a
mass morning, changed the hand of the alarm from seven to six. Then she
took off her working skirt and her house-boots and laid her best skirt
out on the bed and her tiny dress-boots beside the foot of the bed. She
changed her blouse too and, as she stood before the mirror, she thought
of how she used to dress for mass on Sunday morning when she was a
young girl; and she looked with quaint affection at the diminutive body
which she had so often adorned. In spite of its years she found it a
nice tidy little body.

When she got outside the streets were shining with rain and she was
glad of her old brown waterproof. The tram was full and she had to sit
on the little stool at the end of the car, facing all the people, with
her toes barely touching the floor. She arranged in her mind all she
was going to do and thought how much better it was to be independent
and to have your own money in your pocket. She hoped they would have a
nice evening. She was sure they would but she could not help thinking
what a pity it was Alphy and Joe were not speaking. They were always
falling out now but when they were boys together they used to be the
best of friends: but such was life.

She got out of her tram at the Pillar and ferreted her way quickly
among the crowds. She went into Downes’s cake-shop but the shop was so
full of people that it was a long time before she could get herself
attended to. She bought a dozen of mixed penny cakes, and at last came
out of the shop laden with a big bag. Then she thought what else would
she buy: she wanted to buy something really nice. They would be sure to
have plenty of apples and nuts. It was hard to know what to buy and all
she could think of was cake. She decided to buy some plumcake but
Downes’s plumcake had not enough almond icing on top of it so she went
over to a shop in Henry Street. Here she was a long time in suiting
herself and the stylish young lady behind the counter, who was
evidently a little annoyed by her, asked her was it wedding-cake she
wanted to buy. That made Maria blush and smile at the young lady; but
the young lady took it all very seriously and finally cut a thick slice
of plumcake, parcelled it up and said:

“Two-and-four, please.”

She thought she would have to stand in the Drumcondra tram because none
of the young men seemed to notice her but an elderly gentleman made
room for her. He was a stout gentleman and he wore a brown hard hat; he
had a square red face and a greyish moustache. Maria thought he was a
colonel-looking gentleman and she reflected how much more polite he was
than the young men who simply stared straight before them. The
gentleman began to chat with her about Hallow Eve and the rainy
weather. He supposed the bag was full of good things for the little
ones and said it was only right that the youngsters should enjoy
themselves while they were young. Maria agreed with him and favoured
hi