[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Catholic Church in Afghanistan

The Catholic Church in Afghanistan is part of the worldwide Catholic Church. Prior to August 2021, there were very few Catholics in this overwhelmingly Muslim country—just over 200 attend Mass in its only chapel—and freedom of religion has been difficult to obtain in recent times, especially under the new Taliban-led Afghan government.

Earlier Christians in Afghanistan were members of the historical Church of the East or the Armenian Apostolic Church, and there had been no sustained Catholic presence in Afghanistan until the 20th century. In 1921, the Italian embassy in Kabul was allowed to build the first and only legal Catholic chapel to serve foreigners working in the capital, but not open to local nationals. On 16 May 2002, Pope John Paul II established a mission sui iuris for Afghanistan with Giuseppe Moretti as its first superior, presently Giovanni M. Scalese. In 2004, the Missionaries of Charity arrived in Kabul to carry out humanitarian work. Following the 2021 Taliban offensive, the Catholic Church ceased to have a functioning presence in Afghanistan.

History

Before Afghan Independence

Legend from the apocryphal Acts of Thomas and other ancient documents suggests that Thomas the Apostle preached in Bactria, which is today northern Afghanistan. The Nestorians planted Christianity in the area, and there were historically nine bishops and dioceses in the region, including Herat (424-1310), Farah (544-1057), Kandahar, and Balkh. This early establishment of Christianity was overcome by the Muslim conquests in the 7th century, though the territory was not substantially controlled by Muslims until the 9th and 10th centuries. In 1581 and 1582 respectively, the Jesuits Antonio de Montserrat of Spain and Bento de Góis of Portugal were warmly welcomed by the Islamic Emperor Akbar, but there was no lasting Jesuit presence in the country.

20th century
The Kingdom of Italy was the first country to recognise the Anglo-Afghan Treaty of 1919. On January 1, 1933, Egidio Caspani inaugurated the provisional chapel.  His appointment was a personal request of Pope Pius XI to the Barnabite Superior General.  Caspani had been the Rector of the Barnabite Seminary in Rome.  To accompany him on this journey one of his students was ordained and sent with him, not publicly as a priest, but as his Diplomatic Courier and assistant Chancellor at the Embassy.  Thus Ernesto Cagnacci also began this new mission in Kabul.  "At the time the Catholic residents numbered in the hundreds, the majority of them in the capital, members of embassies or contractors employed by the Government of Afghanistan; others were dispersed throughout the country and were generally technicians and specialized workers, that lent their skills to the construction of various public works that marked the progress of the country."  In addition to his pastoral work, Caspani kept detailed notes of the politics, culture and geography of the land.  These observations were later published in an Italian volume published in collaboration with Cagnacci entitled, "Afghanistan, crocevie dell'Asia".  Over the years a number of Barnabites have served as chaplains.  After Caspani there was:  Giovanni M. Bernasconi, 1947–1957; Raffaele Nannetti, 1957–1965; and Angelo Panigati, 1965 - 1990.

Soviet invasion period and Taliban insurgency
Pope John Paul II called for a "just solution" to the Soviet–Afghan war in the 1980s. Giuseppe Moretti first came to Afghanistan in 1977, and stayed until he was shot when the Italian embassy was attacked in 1994 and was forced to leave the country. From 1990 to 1994 he was the only Catholic priest in the country.  After 1994, only the Little Sisters of Jesus were allowed to remain in Afghanistan, as they had been there since 1955 and their work was well known. Following the attacks of September 11, 2001, Catholic Relief Services sent clothing, food and bedding to returning refugees and internally displaced persons. They also bought school supplies for children returning to school.