[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# San Francisco in popular culture

aller, The Streets of San Francisco and Nash Bridges were filmed entirely in the San Francisco Bay area. The Nash Bridges Reboot pilot started shooting in 2021, 20 years after the final episode of the original series aired.

Fiction
Television programs that highlight the city and its people include:

 Accidentally on Purpose
 The Adventures of Brisco County, Jr.
 Alcatraz
 All Dogs Go to Heaven: The Series
 ANT Farm
 Big Hero 6: The Series
 The Californians
 Charmed
 Crazy Like a Fox
 Dharma & Greg
 The Division
 The Doris Day Show
 Eli Stone
 The Evidence
 Fairly Legal
 Falcon Crest
 First Years
 Full House
 Fuller House
 Girlboss
 Girls Club
 Half & Half
 Have Gun, Will Travel
 Hell on Wheels 
 Hooperman
 Hotel
 Ironside
 Jackie Chan Adventures
 Journeyman
 Khan!
 Killer Instinct
 Kindred: The Embraced
 The Life and Times of Juniper Lee
 The Lineup (also known as San Francisco Beat)
 Looking
 Love Is a Many Splendored Thing
 Lucy, The Daughter of the Devil
 Mama
 The Man in the High Castle
 McMillan & Wife
 MDs
 Midnight Caller
 The Mighty B!
 Monk
 My Sister Sam
 Nash Bridges
 The Nine Lives of Chloe King
 The OA (part 2)
 Party of Five
 Pelswick
 Phyllis
 Poltergeist: The Legacy
 Presidio Med
 Robotboy
 San Francisco Beat
 Sense8
 Sledge Hammer!
 Sliders
 Star Trek: Deep Space Nine
 Star Trek: Enterprise
 Star Trek: The Next Generation
 Star Trek: Voyager
 The Streets of San Francisco
 Suddenly Susan
 That's So Raven
 Too Close for Comfort
 Touching Evil
 Trapper John, M.D.
 Trauma
 Twins
 We Bare Bears
 Wolf
 Women's Murder Club
 Young & Hungry
 Zoey's Extraordinary Playlist

Reality
 30 Days
 "Straight Man in a Gay World"
 Animal Cops: San Francisco
 Bait Car
 Color Splash
 Dirty Jobs
 The Hills
 Laguna Beach: The Real Orange County
 MythBusters
 Oddities: San Francisco
 Real World: Ex-Plosion
 The Real World: San Francisco
 Top Chef: San Francisco
 What Makes it Tick on Fine Living

Miniseries, specials or individual episodes
 Angels in America
 Doctor Who
 Criminal Minds: "The Fight"
 Family Guy: "Stewie Griffin: The Untold Story"
 Psych: "Who Ya Gonna Call?"
 The Simpsons: "Bart Mangled Banner", "I'm Spelling as Fast as I Can"
 South Park: "Smug Alert!"
 Tales of the City
 Warehouse 13: "Philosopher's Stone"
 Ben 10: "Framed"
 What's New, Scooby-Doo?: "The San Franpsycho"
 Xiaolin Showdown: "The Journey of a Thousand Miles"
 Transformers: The Headmasters: "Head On!! Fortress Maximus", "The Final Showdown on Earth (Part 2)"
 The Amazing Race: "Huger than Huge", "It's Just a Million Dollars, No Pressure"
 Danger Rangers: "Fires and Liars"

Music

Video games
In the Carmen Sandiego computer games, the headquarters of the ACME Detective Agency is always located in San Francisco.

The Rush racing series is largely based in San Francisco, especially San Francisco Rush: Extreme Racing and Rush 2049.

In Sim City, there is a scenario re-creating the 1906 San Francisco earthquake.

San Francisco is the backdrop for all five Tex Murphy games by Access Software.  The eponymous detective makes the POST WWIII city his home and his cases start there even if they don't ultimately come to resolution there.  The games feature prominent S.F. landmarks such as The Golden Gate Bridge, Coit Tower, and Alcatraz.  In The Pandora Directive, there are 3 paths the story takes: Mission Street – The High Moral Path; Boulevard of Broken Dreams – The Low Moral Path; and Lombard Street – The In between (or Back and Forth) Moral Path.

Manhunter 2: San Francisco from Sierra On-Line (1989) was set in San Francisco, and included visits to such local landmarks as Fisherman's Wharf and Alcatraz Island.

San Francisco is one of the key locations in Fallout 2.

San Francisco is a level in both Tony Hawk's Pro Skater and in Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4.

It's one of the four playable cities in Driver and the main setting of Driver: San Francisco.

The City of San Fierro in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is largely based on San Francisco, though significantly smaller and with slightly more of a focus on Rural areas.

San Fierro features Rockstar's interpretations of the Haight-Ashbury district ("Hashbury"), the Castro district ("Queens"), Chinatown, and the Golden Gate Bridge ("Gant Bridge"), as well as the city's prominent cable cars and hilly terrain. Several other familiar landmarks have been recreated, from the Ferry Building and the Transamerica Pyramid ("Big Pointy Building") to Lombard Street ("Windy Windy Windy Windy Windy Street"), and Scottish landmarks such as the Forth Bridge and the Forth Road Bridge. There is a district known as "Garcia", a tribute to Grateful Dead frontman and San Francisco native Jerry Garcia, and San Fierro's City Hall closely resembles San Francisco's ornate City hall.

In Destroy All Humans! 2, the first level is in Bay City, a parody of San Francisco featuring the Coit Tower, Alcatraz (called 'The Rock') and Hashbury Street, as well as the Golden Gate Park.