[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shadow Games (novel)

ers, a group of sorcerers from the south that threaten the city.  After scouting the area for themselves, Croaker is convinced that the only way to Khatovar is through the Shadowlands, and the Black Company is forced to join forces with the Taglians to try to fight their way through the Shadowlands.

After a monumental effort trying to train the Taglians into soldiers, the Black Company wins a couple of dramatic victories over the invading armies of the Shadowmasters, and so the Company presses the attack into the Shadowlands.  After arriving at the city of Stormguard (previously Dejagore), the Company encounters another enemy army and the first of the Shadowmasters.  While the Company prepares to attack, Croaker and Lady, who have been developing a tenuous relationship throughout the journey south, finally consummate their relationship the night before the attack.  The following morning, the Company wins another battle against the enemy armies, and Croaker prepares a trick to enter the city that night.  With the ruse working to perfection, the Company storms the castle at Stormguard, where they find Shifter and one of the enemy Shadowmasters tangled in battle. It turns out the Shadowmaster is in fact the Taken called Stormbringer, who was previously thought to have been dead. She and Shapeshifter fight to near-death, and when they are both weakened One-Eye knocks them both unconscious, and then disposes of them both.

The following day, another Shadowmaster army approaches from the south, and the Black Company prepares for a final battle to break the last of the Shadowmaster forces.  In the ensuing battle, it appears that the Company will eventually win, but the fighting becomes chaotic.  During the melee, the Lady is swarmed by opponents, and Croaker, who is shot in the chest by an arrow, is abducted by the former Taken Soulcatcher.

Characters in Shadow Games

The Black Company
Croaker - the Company's Captain and annalist
Lady - once powerful ruler of the Empire of The North, depowered at the Barrowland.  Becomes the Company's Chief of Staff
Goblin, One-Eye - wizards of modest talent, tend to squabble with one another when given the opportunity
Murgen - Company standard bearer
Otto and Hagop - longtime members of the Black Company
Sparkle, Big Bucket (Cato Dahlia), Red Rudy, Candles - new recruits from Opal
Cletus, Loftus, Longinus - Three brothers, engineering warfare specialists, new recruits from Beryl
Smiley - nephew of Hagop, new recruit from Rebosa 
Shadid and 3 others -  professional caravan guards from a nomad tribe called the roi
Wheezer - wizened little man of One-Eye’s race, guide through the jungle of D’loc Aloc, later new recruit
Geek, Freak (aka Claw-of-the-Lion and Heart-of-the-Lion) - brothers, K’Hlata guides through the savannah, were declared outlaws, became new recruits 
Frogface - an imp acquired by One-Eye in Gea-Xle
Mogaba - an impeccable soldier from Gea-Xle, becomes the Company's Commander of Infantry
Ochiba, Sindawe - recruits from Gea-Xle, become legion commanders

Taglians and Cohorts
Prahbrindrah Drah - crown prince of Taglios
Radisha Drah - sister of the Prahbrindrah Drah
Willow Swan - white man from Roses, travels to Taglios with his friend Cordy Mather.  Becomes a military advisor to the Prahbrindrah Drah
Cordwood "Cordy" Mather - friend of Willow Swans, starts his own bar in Taglios.  Also involved in the Prahbrindrah Drah's military maneuvers
Blade - dangerous man saved from crocodiles by Willow and Cordy, now accompanies them wherever they go

Sorcerers
Shapeshifter - Referred to simply as Shifter, he meets with the Lady in Gea-Xle, travels south with the Company while occasionally giving them aid
The Howler - attacks the company in the swamps south of Gea-Xle, is routed by Shifter
Moonshadow - one of the Shadowmasters, fights at Dejagore and is captured along with Croaker by Soulcatcher who eventually killed him.
Stormbringer - one of the Shadowmasters, fights Shifter to a standstill in Dejagore
The Stump - a mysterious entity observed only by Croaker, is ultimately revealed to be Soulcatcher

External links
 
 

Novels by Glen Cook
1989 American novels
American fantasy novels
Tor Books books