[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chief Kamiakin

and shoulders had been cut off and removed", probably for "public exhibition" as a curiosity." Historian Clifford Trafzer states that friends of Kamiakin were upset and retrieved these relics. In any case, what was left of his remains were interred at Nespelem, Washington, a village he had founded.

Places named after Kamiakin
There are at least five schools in Washington state named for Kamiakin:
Chief Kamiakin Elementary School in Sunnyside
Kamiakin High School in Kennewick
Kamiakin Junior High in Kirkland
Kamiak High School in Mukilteo
Kamiak Elementary in Pullman, Washington

In addition, Kamiak Butte and Kamiakin's Gardens are named for him. The latter is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.

Northeast Kamiaken Street - Pullman, WA 
Kamiakin Trail - Fairchild AFB, WA 
North Kamiakin Trail Lane - Colbert, WA 
East Kamiakin Ave - Liberty Lake, WA 
Kamiakin Road - Wapato, WA 
Kamiakin Road - Ellensburg, WA

See also
 Qualchan, nephew of Kamiakin

Notes

References
 -- Historylink.org essay 5285 "Saint Joseph's Mission at Ahtanum Creek is founded in the Yakima Valley on April 3, 1852", History Link
 -- Historylink.org essay 5288 First irrigation ditch in the Yakima Valley is dug at the Saint Joseph Mission in 1852.
"The Treaty Trail: US-Indian Treaty Councils in the Northwest", Washington History Online
 Dockstader, Frederick J. "Kamaiakin," IN Great North American Indians: Profiles in Life and Leadership. New York : Van Nostrand Reinhold Co., 1977 (OCLC )
 Mooney, James. "Kamaiakan" IN Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico Washington : G.P.O., 1907–1910, vol. 1 (OCLC )
 Ruby, Robert H. "Kamiakin" IN American national biography New York : Oxford University Press, 1999, vol. 12 (OCLC )
 Splawn, A.J. Ka-mi-akin, Last Hero of the Yakimas, Portland, OR: Kilham Stationery & Printing Co., 1917 (OCLC )
 Trafzer, Clifford. "Kamiakin" IN Encyclopedia of North American Indians, New York : Houghton Mifflin Co., 1996 (OCLC )

External links
 
 Chief Kamiakin (ca. 1800-1877) at HistoryLink
 Kamiakin: Head Chief of the Yakamas
 Kamiakin and the Yakima Indian War of 1855
 ; on his interactions with Chief Kamiakin
 Gold in the Northwest -- A Snapshot History

1800 births
1877 deaths
19th-century Native American leaders
Pre-statehood history of Washington (state)
Native American leaders
Native American people of the Indian Wars
People from  Columbia County, Washington
Yakama people