[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Demographics of Houston

through Indianola, Texas and New Orleans, while several people from northern Italy entered through Ellis Island and traveled from there to Texas. Many ethnic Italians, after arrival, began working in groceries. Prior to 1900 Galveston, then more prominent than Houston, attracted Italian immigrants.

In previous eras there were over twenty ethnic Italian clubs in the Houston area, with several associated with particular religious institutions; immigrants founded several of them, and several were defunct by 2018. Federation of Italian-American Organizations of Greater Houston is a collection of Italian American organizations. In 2018 it hosted five to six of the aforementioned clubs. The Italian Cultural and Community Center (ICCC) is located in the Houston Museum District, and is operated by the federation. The ICCC and federation offices are in the John G. Logue House, which the federation obtained in 1988.

In the "Space Age" era, many members of that ethnic group moved to Glenbrook Valley.

La Voce, an ethnic newspaper published by the federation, had a circulation of 3,700 as of 2001.

The ICCC holds the Houston Italian Festival or Festa Italiana every year. It has music, food, and art programs. The city government provides funding and proceeds help fund the ICCC. The festival started in 1979.

The first volume of Houstonians of Italian Descent, a non-fiction non-academic collection with personal testimonies about ethnic Italian communities as well as information about religious and organizational institutions, was released in 2002. Lena Mandola of the Mandola restaurateur family was the principal driver behind the book. The creators of the book deemed the sales of the first volume to be positive, and the second volume was released in 2004.

Bell Park in the Houston Museum District area formerly had a statue of Christopher Columbus, which the Italian American Organizations of Greater Houston Inc. had commissioned. In 1992 the organization donated the statue to the city government. By 2020 Columbus became a target of criticism, with detractors citing his holding slaves. Area Native Americans expressed their desire that the statue no longer be in place. In a single week in June 2020 there were instances where vandals attacked the statue, with two instances involving red paint placed on the statue and one instance of the removal of one of the statue's hands. On Friday June 19, 2020, the statue was taken out of the park.

By 2021 the muffaletta, an Italian American sandwich, was available in Houston.

Norwegians 

In the late 1800s, more Norwegians arrived at the port of Galveston than any other United States port other than Ellis Island in New York City. Many of the Norwegians who were processed through Galveston migrated to join compatriots in farming areas of Minnesota and other areas in the Midwestern United States. Houston and Stavanger, Norway have been sister cities since 1980, furthering this relationship.

Poles 
The city has a Polish American church, Our Lady of Czestochowa Roman Catholic Parish in Spring Branch, established in the 1980s. At the time Polish immigrants who resisted communist rule in that country arrived in Houston. There is a Polish festival, Houston Polish Festival, held twice each year. In 2019 organizer Damian Reichert stated that it was the state's only major Polish festival.

Romanis 
Houston has a significant Romani population.

Ukrainians 
The Ukrainian American Cultural Club of Houston is active in the city. After the 2022 invasion of Ukraine, a former president of the organization Iryna Petrovska Marchiano, arranged to have a mural created to show support for Ukraine.

There is a pan-Slavic shop called the General Store. It was known as the Russian General Store until 2022, and changed its name in response to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Iranians/Persians 

As of 1994, over 50,000 ethnic Iranians live in Houston. As of that year, 12 city blocks along Hillcroft Avenue, from Westheimer Road to a point just south of Westpark, contain a Persian business district including shops and restaurants. Allison Cook of the Houston Press referred to the area as "Little Persia".

As of 1990 most Iranians/Persians in Houston are not religious.

As of 2000, Iranians were one of the two main Zoroastrian groups in Houston. As of that year the total number of Iranians in Houston of all religions is larger than the total Parsi (generally immigrants from India) population by a 10 to 1 ratio.