[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

use of all diplomatic means available to free the captured Israeli soldiers. On 20 July 2006, the US House of Representatives passed resolution 921 supporting Israel’s right to defend itself and condemning attacks against the State of Israel. The final vote was 410 to 8 in favour of the resolution.

Following the House passing Resolution 921 and the previous passage of Senate Resolution 534 the lobbying body American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) issued a press release praising the results and asserted: "Recent polls indicate that U.S. support for Israel is at an all-time high and the resolutions are a reflection of the American people's desire to stand by Israel in this time of crisis."

On 30 July Congress sent a letter to the EU's Head of Foreign Policy Javier Solana, asking that the EU add Hezbollah to its list of illegal terrorist organisations.  The letter, signed by 210 members of Congress.
"We were dismayed to hear your 19 July assertion that the EU lacked 'sufficient data' to add Hizbullah to its terrorist list."

Members of Congress had already called on the EU, via a 2005 resolution, to add Hezbollah to the list. AIPAC issued a statement Friday following the signing of the letter in Congress, saying that:"If the European Union is serious about its support for international measures calling for Hizbullah's disarmament, designating Hizbullah a terrorist organization is a necessary step in that process."

The EU declined the requests.

AIPAC also had a role in defending the Israeli war effort to the American public. A 27 July memo issued by AIPAC titled "Beirut Largely Unscathed as Israel Targets Hezbollah Strongholds," advanced the idea that through "surgical strike" bombing the damage reported in other media was exaggerated.  AIPAC asserted that following IDF bombing of the southern districts of Beirut,"an overwhelming majority of the city remains untouched."

On 2 August AIPAC asserted in a press release titled "The Bekka (sic) Valley: A Terrorist Epicenter", that the Bekaa valley area under bombardment by the IDF at that time was home to a number of anti-Israel factions. AIPACs middle east analyst, Josh Block was quoted in the press release as saying:"[It's] similar to a university setting, terrorists from every corner of the international community have come together in the Bekaa Valley training camps to learn how to conduct lethal operations and utilize various types of weapons." AIPAC then went on to list the groups it believed were operating from the region which included the Red Army Faction, Red Brigade, and the Japanese Red Army. One commentator remarked:"Much of the material cited by AIPAC to back up the press release is of dubious veracity, and the information that links these terrorist groups to the Bekaa Valley region is years or even decades old... AIPAC's goal, it seems to me, is to demonstrate that Israel's campaign in Lebanon is targeting an international, globally-linked terrorist alliance that threatens not only the Jewish state, but the West in general."

Christians United for Israel 

There were also calls of support from a second Zionist focused lobby grouping headed by John Hagee the founder and senior pastor of the 18,000-member evangelical Cornerstone Church in San Antonio, Texas.  Hagee, author of "Jerusalem Countdown: A Warning to the World", had engaged in meetings with various congress members and launched a Christian pro-Israel lobby which he said would rival AIPAC. The five-month-old, 3,000 strong pro-Israel evangelical group Christians United for Israel (CUFI) attended a "Washington/Israel summit" during the week beginning 17 July in an effort to lobby for greater congressional and senate support for Israel, and the Israeli war effort.  Hagee was also reportedly setting up an "Israel Rapid Response" network of e-mails, faxes and phone calls to mobilize voters.  Over the years, Hagee has reportedly donated $8.5 million US to support Israeli hospitals and orphanages and has helped 12,000 Russian Jews move to Israel.

References

2006 Lebanon War
2006 in international relations
International reactions to armed conflicts
Reactions to 2000s events