[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John Seward

John "Jack" Seward, M.D. is a fictional character appearing in Bram Stoker's 1897 novel Dracula.

In the novel 
Seward is the administrator of an insane asylum not far from Count Dracula's first English home, Carfax. Throughout the novel, Seward conducts ambitious interviews with one of his patients, R. M. Renfield, in order to understand better the nature of life-consuming psychosis, or as he calls it, zoophagous. As a psychiatrist, Seward enjoys using the most up-to-date equipment, including using a recording phonograph to record his interviews with his patients and his own notes. Several chapters of the novel consist of transcriptions of Seward's phonograph recordings. One of the main contributions made by Dr. Seward is his recordings of the events depicted from his personal perspective as a doctor; allowing the reader to gain a scientific understanding of the behaviour of vampirism through his behavioural analysis of Renfield.

He is best friends with Quincey Morris and Arthur Holmwood. All three propose to Lucy Westenra on the same day. Although Lucy turns down Seward's marriage proposal, his love for her remains, and he dedicates himself to her care when she is suddenly taken ill.

He calls in his mentor, Abraham Van Helsing, to help him with her illness, and he helps Seward to realise that Lucy has been bitten by a vampire and is doomed to become one herself. After she is officially destroyed and her soul can go to heaven, Seward is determined to destroy Dracula. The novel's epilogue mentions that Seward is now happily married.

In adaptations

On screen 

Seward often appears in different screen adaptations of Dracula but in a wide variety of different roles. He is often referred to as "Jack" Seward. The most common change is to portray him not as Lucy's suitor, but as Mina Harker's father (or sometimes Lucy's father). This was almost certainly based on the Hamilton Deane - John L. Balderston stage adaptation. Sometimes he is portrayed as just a doctor with no familial or romantic connections to other characters. Such portrayals include:

 Gustav Botz (as Dr. Sievers) in Nosferatu (1922)
 Herbert Bunston in Dracula (1931 film) - here he is father of Mina
 José Soriano Viosca in Drácula (Spanish version, 1931) - here he is father of Eva (Mina in this version)
 Münir Ceyhan  (as Dr.Akif) in Drakula İstanbul'da (1953)
 Charles Lloyd-Pack in Dracula (1958)
 Paul Muller in Count Dracula (1970)
 Václav Mareš in Hrabe Drakula (1971)
 Donald Pleasence in Dracula (1979) - here he is father of Lucy.
 Harvey Korman in Dracula: Dead and Loving It (1995) - here he is father of Mina.
 Dani Lennon (as Dr. Joan Seward) in Dracula Reborn (2012) - here she is doctor in modern-day California, who treats Lina Harker after she gets strange blood condition.
Michael Ironside in  Dracula the Original Living Vampire (2022) - here he's coroner, who helps detective Van Helsing in her investigation of abnormal murders.

In recent years, the trend has been to return Seward to his role in the novel, as a suitor for Lucy's hand in marriage, in:

 James Maxwell in Dracula (1968) - here he is Lucy’s fiancé. He and Van Helsing team up and jointly defeat Dracula.
 Mark Burns in Count Dracula (1977) - he is portrayed faithfully to his counterpart in the novel.
 Richard E. Grant in Bram Stoker's Dracula (1992) - he is portrayed faithfully to his counterpart in the novel.
 Matthew Johnson in Dracula: Pages from a Virgin's Diary (2002)
 Ibrahim Kutty in Dracula (2005) - an Indian Malayalam-language television series which aired on Asianet.
 Prasad in Dracula (2008) - an Indian Telugu-language television series which aired on Gemini TV.
 Tom Burke in Dracula (2006)
 Matthew Beard in Dracula (2020) - he is re-imagined as modern-day medical student, who has an unrequited crush on Lucy.

On stage
 John Seward appears in Dracula, the musical by Frank Wildhorn. He was played by Shonn Wiley in Broadway production of the musical.
 Dr. Seward was portrayed by Joseph Taylor in 2019 Northern Ballet's production of Dracula by David Nixon. The production was recorded and showed in UK cinemas on Halloween and then broadcast on BBC4 in 2020.
 John Seward is one of the principal characters in a stage adaptation of Dracula by John Godber and Jane Thornton, first performed by Hull Truck Theatre Company in 1995. He was played by Paul Gilmore.

Radio
In the 1938 Mercury Theatre on the Air radio production of Dracula, Seward's character was combined with Arthur Holmwood's and renamed Arthur Seward. He was voiced by Orson Welles, who also voiced Dracula in the adaptation.

In other media