[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Isaac Osbourne

Leon McKenzie to set up Coventry City's second goal of the game, in a 2–0 win. At the end of the 2006–07 season, Osbourne went on to make twenty–one appearances in all competitions. Following this, he signed a contract extension with Coventry City by signing a four-year deal, keeping him until 2011.

At the start of the 2007–08 season, Osbourne continued to become a regular team starter, playing in the midfield position. He then set up a goal for Dele Adebola to score the club's first goal of the game, in a 3–0 win against Notts County in the first round of the League Cup. However, September saw Osbourne being sidelined on two occasions. He made his return to the starting line–up against Blackpool on 2 October 2007, as Coventry City won 3–1. Three weeks later on 30 October 2007, Osbourne set up the club's only goal of the game, as they lost 1–1 against West Ham United in the last 16 of the League Cup. Since returning from injury, he regained his first team place and later filled in the right-back position, following loanee-Richard Duffy injury. At the end of the 2007–08 season, Osbourne went on to make forty–nine appearances in all competitions. Following this, he was named Coventry City's Players' Player of the Year.

However at the start of the 2008–09 season, Osbourne suffered an injury that saw him miss the first four matches of the season. He made his first appearance of the season against Preston North End on 13 September 2008, starting the whole game, as Coventry City drew 0–0. After the match, Manager Chris Coleman said he was happy that Osbourne made a return from injury and even describing him as a "comeback kid". Following his return, he regained his first team place, starting in either the centre–midfield and right–back positions for the next two months. However, during a 1–1 draw against Swansea City on 25 November 2008, Osbourne suffered ankle injury that saw him substituted in the 13th minute. After the match, he was sidelined for three months with ankle injury. By February, Osbourne was making good progress on his recovery from his ankle injury. He made his first team return after being sidelined for three months on 4 March 2009 against Sheffield United, coming on as a second-half substitute, in a 2–1 loss. Following his return, Osbourne found his playing time from the substitute bench, and manager Chris Coleman revealed that he turned down a loan request for the player, insisting he is in his [Coleman] plan. Osbourne then set up a goal for the club's only goal of the game, in a 1–1 draw against Crystal Palace on 7 April 2009. He regained his first team place in the remaining matches of the 2008–09 season, playing in either the centre–midfield and right–back positions. At the end of the 2008–09 season, Osbourne went on to make twenty–six appearances in all competitions.

At the start of the 2009–10 season, Osbourne started the season well when he set up two goals in the first two league matches against Ipswich Town and Barnsley. Since the start of the 2009–10 season, Osbourne continued to establish himself in the starting eleven, playing in either the centre–midfield and right–back positions. However, he suffered a knee injury that eventually saw him sidelined for the rest of the 2009–10 season. Prior to this, Osbourne suffered a knee injury on two occasions earlier in the 2009–10 season, but made a quick recovery. At the end of the 2009–10 season, he went on to make sixteen appearances in all competitions.

The 2010–11 season saw Osbourne continuing to recover from a knee injury and was eventually sidelined for the rest of the season as well without making an appearance this season. He spoke about his injury, saying: "When you are out for so long you do occasionally wonder if you will ever play again, but you can't allow yourself to think like that. But I'm no sob story. I just want to get fit and play again. But the manager has encouraged me and told me not to rush back and that I will get my opportunity, and you can't ask for more than that. I don't want any favours, just an equal opportunity and then it is up to me to take my chance. I would love to get into the first team again but it won't be the end of the world if I don't because there are a lot of clubs out there and at the moment the most important thing for me is that I get fit and play again." At the end of the 2010–11 season, Osbourne was released by Coventry City after he wasn't offered a new contract by the club.

Crewe Alexandra (loan)
On 22 October 2006, Osbourne was loaned out to League One side Crewe Alexandra,