[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dhaam Dhoom

Dhaam Dhoom is a 2008 Indian Tamil-language action thriller film based on the 1997 American film Red Corner. Written, filmed and directed by Jeeva shortly before his death and produced by Sunanda Murali Manohar, it stars Jayam Ravi, Kangana Ranaut, Lakshmi Rai and Jayaram.The film marked as Kangana Ranaut's debut in the Tamil film industry.

The film revolves around a Tamil Indian doctor who, two weeks prior to his wedding, goes to Russia for a conference pertaining to his occupation, that of a doctor. While in Russia, he struggles to cope with the language because of the Russian reluctance to speak English, and eventually, due to the gruesome murder of a local woman, he gets imprisoned. How the doctor manages to get himself out of jail with the help of an Indian female lawyer, forms the crux of the story.

Dhaam Dhoom was released worldwide, after a long delay, on 29 August 2008. It was the posthumous film that cinematographer Jeeva undertook before his death which occurred halfway through the production. The film, released as a tribute to Jeeva, was completed by his assistant G.K.Manikandan, and his wife Anees, and was overseen by cinematographer P. C. Sriram.

Plot
Gautham Subramaniam (Jayam Ravi) is a doctor from an Indian family who lives in Chennai. Since his father (Nizhagal Ravi) and mother (Janaki Sabesh) are doctors, he wanted to become a doctor. Gautham gets an opportunity from the Government of India to go to Russia to represent India in a week long medical conference, along with five other young doctors. Gautham is delighted to receive this offer and packs his bags to fly to Russia. Meanwhile, his beloved is introduced on the frame, which happens to be Shenba (Kangana Ranaut). She happens to be the same village girl in which Gautham's sister Sarasu (Anu Haasan) resides with her husband (Chetan). So, the two meet and fall in love but keep it a secret. However, Sarasu's husband finds their love when he sees Gautham pinching Shenba's waist so hard that she screams. Despite initial frictions between her father (Mahadevan) and uncle (Bose Venkat) with Gautham, they eventually agree to get the pair married. Gautham's parents agree to the marriage, and as a happy man, Gautham is ready to marry Shenba after his return to India from his Russia trip.

Finally, the journey to Russia happens. Gautham reaches Moscow and completes his immigration procedures. Incidentally, Gautham meets Anna (Maria Kozhevnikova), and unknowingly, Anna drops her jacket, which is seen by Gautham. He has no time to return the jacket and exits from the Moscow airport accompanied by his medical team. Gautham is flabbergasted by the roads and buildings of the city and is surprised to see the city of Moscow from his hotel view. Gautham learns that the only hiccup with Russians is that the people are ignorant about the English language and the whole conversation with them must be made in Russian.

Soon after, Gautham discovers Anna and takes the prospect to return her coat.  get together well and part ways. Meanwhile, Gautham's medical conference takes place successfully, and in order to celebrate its success, the whole team heads to a nightclub. Gautham bumps into Anna in the nightclub, and the two have an enjoyable time in the club. Anna, due to heavy consumption of liquor, intoxicates, and Gautham has no other choice than to accompany her to her room. When the two reach Anna's apartment in, they settle down and sleep. Gautham is brutally dragged onto the floor by a Russian police officer the next day morning, and the reason is that Anna is murdered on her sofa.

Consequently, Gautham's situation changes; he gets abused, accused, and imprisoned by the Russian police. The language, people, and surroundings are totally new and confusing to him. Fortunately, Aarthi Chinnappa (Lakshmi Rai) is appointed as a defendant lawyer to Gautham. The Indian consulate sends Raghavan Nambiar (Jayaram) to Gautham's rescue. When Gautham tries to run away from the Russian police, he gets drowned in a lake, and Aarthi finds him at the shore. Aarthi kisses Gautham to rescue him, and she realises that she has fallen in love with Gautham, but she suppresses her feelings when she learns about Shenba. Gautham escapes from the police and is running around St. Petersburg with Aarthi, trying to figure out who murdered Anna and why he was caught up in the scandal. Whilst fleeing from the police, Gautham gets shot by the mob and manages to escape narrowly. After taking care of his wounds, Aarthi and Gautham decide to seek down those who misled them. The eventual villainous figure is revealed to be Raghavan.