[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ronald Richter

hter's project should be discontinued. The committee analyzed Richter's work and concluded that the actual temperature reached in his experiments was far too low to produce a true thermonuclear reaction. They reported their findings to Perón in September 1952; soon after that project was terminated.

After the termination of the project, Richter appears to have spent periods of time abroad, including some time in Libya. Eventually he returned to Argentina, where he died in 1991; a short announcement of his death appeared in an obituary published by Microsemanario.

Project Huemul: reactions and aftermath
On 24 March 1951 Perón announced to the international press "Argentina Produces Atomic Energy", and later decorated Richter with the Peronista Medal. Following international publicity and claims, scientists in Britain were hesitant to accept the claims of the unknown Richter without corroboration. In the US, the press discounted reports of Richter's work, but secretly the government started funding two projects, Sherwood and Matterhorn. An intelligence assessment by the US, later declassified, stated that he could possibly be a "mad genius [...], thinking in the year 1970." However, it soon became evident that the claims were spurious, and interest dried up. After Perón was deposed, the new government investigated Richter regarding 1,000 million Argentine pesos (about £25 million at the time) allocated to the project and unaccounted for, and arrested him. Nothing further was heard about him. Secret British government documents declassified under the 30-year rule in 1983 report that Perón had contemplated invading the Falkland Islands in 1951, possibly due to his confidence that Argentina would be the first country to exploit atomic energy for industrial purposes.

Biographical publications
The following are quotations from books and articles published by journalists, biographers, physicists, and historians, with sources below:

From Eva Perón (Alicia Dujovne Ortiz, 1996):  

From Juan G. Roederer (2003):

Richter, The Opera: A Musical Documentary
Ronald Richter inspired an opera, Richter: Ópera Documental de Cámara, by Mario Lorenzo and Esteban Buch, with references to the spectacular experiments. It has been performed both in Argentina (Teatro Colón) and in France (Théâtre Paris-Villette).
 
The plot develops poetically framed between the ever-present Patagonian winds of the roaring forties and the recurrent breaking of the waves of the lake on the shores of the island... until the peace is shattered by German utterances and acoustic bangs.
Summary and critique. Casullo, Eduardo. La Aventura de la Isla de la Mula: Richter.

Spectacles. Richter: Opéra documentaire de Mario Lorenzo.

Notes

References 
 Alemann, Peter (1955). Esto Es, last week of October 1955.
 Confalonieri, Orestes D. (1956). Peron contra Peron, Editorial Antygua, Buenos Aires.
 Eloy Martínez, Tomas (1996). Las Memorias del General. Editorial Planeta, Buenos Aires. . See translated excerpt, below.

 Extensive discussion in Chapter 10.

1909 births
1991 deaths
People from Sokolov
German Bohemian people
Austrian scientists
Naturalized citizens of Argentina
Austrian emigrants to Argentina
Argentine nuclear physicists