[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Murders of Channon Christian and Christopher Newsom

bery and rape. Boyd's request for a new trial was denied by Knox County Criminal Court Judge Bob McGee in 2019. In 2021, Tennessee Court of Criminal Appeals Judge Timothy L. Easter also denied Boyd a new trial. In March 2022, the Tennessee Supreme Court denied Boyd another appeal of his convictions.

Incarceration status 
Vanessa Coleman, the only female charged and convicted in the crimes, is held at the Tennessee Prison for Women, now known as the Debra K. Johnson Rehabilitation Center, in Nashville. Serving a 35-year sentence, Coleman was eligible for parole in 2017 and her sentence expires on April 18, 2036. In August 2014, the families of the victims were notified that with good behavior, Coleman's sentence was being reduced by 16 days per month of incarceration, making her eligible for parole consideration in October 2014. The parole hearing was rescheduled from October to December. At the December 2014 hearing, Coleman was denied parole and her next parole consideration date was set for December 2020. Coleman again went before a parole board on December 8, 2020. Christian's and Newsom's mothers and Christian's father gave statements to the board opposing parole. The seven board members voted unanimously to deny Coleman parole and ensure that she would not be eligible to go before a parole board again for ten years.

Cobbins and Thomas were originally incarcerated at Riverbend Maximum Security Institution in Nashville. After the Bledsoe County Correctional Complex in Pikeville opened in 2012, they were transferred to that facility. Cobbins is currently serving a life sentence without parole at the Northwest Correctional Complex. Thomas is incarcerated at the Northeast Correctional Complex. His sentence ends in May 2053. Davidson was sentenced to death on October 30, 2009, and is incarcerated at the Riverbend Maximum Security Institution. Eric Boyd, who had been serving his sentence of 18 years at Federal Correctional Institution, Beckley, a medium-security prison near Beaver, West Virginia, was potentially eligible for release in 2022, but found guilty on charges of rape and first-degree murder on August 13, 2019. He was immediately sentenced to life in prison by the judge, who stated that a life sentence was automatic for the murder conviction. Boyd is incarcerated at the Bledsoe County Correctional Complex.

Reaction
According to the Associated Press, some bloggers and media critics claimed that the national media ignored the murders because the victims were white while all five suspects were black. Most news reports came from local media and online news sites. Erroneous early reporting made claims of dismemberment and mutilation of Christian's body. The District Attorney denied most of the original reports containing misinformation; the source was a federal deputy U.S. Marshal after the suspects' arrest in Kentucky.

The president of Criminal Justice Journalists, an association of crime, court, and prison writers, editors, and producers, said:

I can't say that this one would have had any more coverage if five whites had been accused of doing these things to two blacks, absent a blatant racial motive... as bad as this crime is, the apparent absence of any interest group involvement or any other 'angle' might also explain the lack of coverage.

Police Chief Sterling Owen IV said that there was no indication that the crimes were racially motivated. "We have no evidence to support the notion that this was a race-based crime. We see this as a cold-blooded murder."
"There is absolutely no proof of a hate crime," said John Gill, special counsel to Knox County District Attorney Randy Nichols. "We know from our investigation that the people charged in this case were friends with white people, socialized with white people, dated white people. So not only is there no evidence of any racial animus, there's evidence to the contrary."

Some commentators disagreed, claiming that such a crime represented motives of racial hatred. Conservative political commentator Michelle Malkin repeated this opinion on her blog and on Fox News' The O'Reilly Factor program. Newsom's mother also disagreed with the assertion that the offenders were not motivated by racism. "If this wasn't a hate crime, then I don't know how you would define a hate crime," said Newsom's mother. "It may have started out as a carjacking, but what it developed into was blacks hating whites. To do the things they did, they would have to hate them to do that." Christian's father, addressing those whom he believes used his daughter's death to further their agenda, stated: "[the crime] ain't about you."

On May 27, 2007, fewer than 30 white supremacists, led by Alex Linder, rallied in downtown Knoxville to protest against the murders. They were met by more than 300 law enforcement officers. About twice as many counter-protesters as protestors attended, including the "Coup Clutz Clowns", an activist group which mocks the Ku Klux Klan.