[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of private schools in Scotland

The following is a partial list of currently operating private schools in Scotland.

Many of the schools are perceived to be heavily influenced by the culture, practices and ethos of English independent, or "public", schools. Author James Robertson described Glenalmond College as "a Scottish boarding school modelled on the English public school system". The perceived English influence in many of these schools was such that in 1887 one author referred to them as "English schools". 43% of Scottish independent secondary schools offer boarding as an option, although there is more of a trend to attend as a day pupil compared to in England.

There are 91 independent schools across Scotland of which 71 are members of the Scottish Council of Independent Schools (SCIS). According to the SCIS, its members educate around 29,000 pupils in Scotland representing around 4.2% of the school age population in Scotland. The figure is significantly higher in Edinburgh, with around 1 in 4 pupils educated at an independent school, the highest proportion in the UK.

Scottish students from independent schools are over-represented at the four ancient universities of Scotland. They represented 26% of the student body at the four institutions in 2014/15 with 71% in total receiving an offer of admission at one of the four ancient universities compared to only 29% of state-school entrants.

List of schools

North

Albyn School, Aberdeen
Gordonstoun, Elgin
International School of Aberdeen, Aberdeen
Lathallan School, Johnshaven
Drumduan School, Forres
Robert Gordon's College, Aberdeen
St Margaret's School for Girls, Aberdeen

Central & Tayside

Ardvreck School, Crieff
Craigclowan Preparatory School, Perth
Dollar Academy
Fairview International School, Bridge of Allan
Glenalmond College, Glenalmond
The High School of Dundee
Kilgraston School, Bridge of Earn
Morrison's Academy, Crieff
Queen Victoria School, Dunblane
Strathallan School, Forgandenny

Fife
St Leonards School, St. Andrews

Edinburgh City Region

Basil Paterson Middle School
Belhaven Hill School, Dunbar
Cargilfield Preparatory School
Clifton Hall School
The Compass School, Haddington
The Edinburgh Academy
Edinburgh Montessori Arts School 
Edinburgh Steiner School
Erskine Stewart's Melville Schools
Erskine Stewart's Melville Junior School
The Mary Erskine School
Stewart's Melville College
Fettes College
George Heriot's School
George Watson's College
Loretto School, Musselburgh
Mannafields Christian School
Merchiston Castle School
Regius School
St. George's School
St. Mary's Music School

Glasgow City Region
Al Qalam School, Paisley
Belmont House School, Newton Mearns
Cedars School of Excellence, Greenock
Fernhill School, Rutherglen
The Glasgow Academy, Kelvinbridge
Hamilton College
The High School of Glasgow, Anniesland
Hutchesons' Grammar School, Pollokshields
Kelvinside Academy, Kelvinside
Lomond School, Helensburgh
St. Aloysius' College Garnethill
St. Columba's School, Kilmacolm

Ayrshire
Wellington School, Ayr

Borders
St. Mary's School, Melrose

Additional Support Needs / Complex Additional Needs Schools
Ardfern School, Johnstone
Closeburn House School, Dumfries
Common Thread Schools, Dumfries
Corseford School, Kilbarchan
Donaldson's School, Linlithgow
Dunedin School, Edinburgh
East Park School, Maryhill
Falkland House School, Falkland
Good Shepherd Centre, Bishopton
Harmeny School, Balerno
Hillside School, Aberdour
Kibble Education & Care Centre, Paisley
Maben House School Lochmaben
Mirren Park School, Paisley
Moore House Academy, Bathgate
Moore House Academy, Butterstone, Dunkeld
New Struan School, Alloa
Ochil Tower School, Auchterarder
The Royal Blind School, Edinburgh
Scottish Centre For Children With Motor Impairments, Craighalbert Centre, Cumbernauld
Seamab School, Rumbling Bridge
Stanmore House School, Lanark
Starley Hall School, Burntisland
Troup House School, Gamrie

Figures

Fees
The schools are ranked here by day school pupil fees for 2023/24 and boarding fees are given where applicable. In cases where the 2023/24 fees are not yet available, this is indicated next to the figures. Membership of the Headmasters' and Headmistresses' Conference (HMC) is indicated, as well as the curriculum followed by the school: English (i.e. GCSEs, A-levels), Scottish (i.e. Standard Grades/Intermediates, Highers, Advanced Highers), Mixed English and Scottish, or International Baccalaureate (IB).

Exam results
Scottish Exams
The following table ranks the schools by performance in the 2008 round of Scottish Qualifications Authority examinations according to the percentage of A/B grades achieved at Higher level according to The Times newspaper. The percentage of 1 grades at Standard Grade and A grades at Intermediate 2 are also provided. As indicated above, some independent schools in Scotland follow the English curriculum or offer the International Baccalaureate.