[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Arshak II

sed, took his visitor's knife and killed himself. Drastamat, moved by what he had just witnessed, took the knife from Arshak II's chest and stabbed himself as well. 

The Roman historian Ammianus Marcellinus gives an alternative account where Arshak is captured, blinded and executed by the Persians.

Legacy
Arshak II is held in poor regard and is described as sinful by the classical Armenian historians, which can partly be explained by his acrimonious relationship with the Armenian church. The Roman historian Ammianus Marcellinus presents Arshak in a more positive light. M. L. Chaumont characterizes Arshak as "weak and indecisive," while Vahan M. Kurkjian writes that although the Armenian king did not lack "intelligence, courage and will power [...] he committed many mistakes and cruelties which overshadowed his virtues and contributed to his tragic end."

Physical appearance
In Faustus of Byzantium's History of the Armenians, Arshak II is described by Parandzem as unattractively hairy and dark.

Family and issue
Arshak II had two known wives: the Greek noblewoman Olympias and the Armenian noblewoman Parandzem. The chronology of his marriages is unclear, and it is possible that he had more than one wife simultaneously, despite his Christian faith. He was married to Olympias until her death (purportedly by poisoning at the instigation of Parandzem) and had no known children with her. Arshak's other known wife, Parandzem, was a member of the Siuni dynasty and the widow of Arshak's nephew Gnel. Parandzem bore Arshak a son, Pap, who would succeed his father as King of Armenia. Arshak apparently had another son, not mentioned by name in the histories of Faustus and Movses Khorenatsi, who may have fathered Varazdat, Pap's successor as king. This other son is called Trdat in another Armenian source, the anonymous Vita of St. Nerses.

Cultural depictions 
Arshak II is the titular character of the first Armenian classical opera, Arshak II, written by Tigran Chukhajian and Tovmas Terzian in 1868. Bedros Minasian and Mkrtich Beshiktashlian wrote plays where Arshak is the titular character. He is also a character in the play  (Nerses the Great or the patron of Armenia) by Sargis Vanandetsi. The author and playwright Perch Zeytuntsyan wrote a play titled  (The legend of the ruined city) and a novel titled  (Arshak the Second) about the Armenian king in 1975 and 1977, respectively. Stepan Zoryan's novel  (Armenian fortress) is also about Arshak II.

References

Sources
 Faustus of Byzantium, History of the Armenians, 5th Century.
 Movses Khorenatsi, History of Armenia, 5th Century.

See also
 Arshak II (opera)
 Parandzem
 Julian's Persian expedition

4th-century kings of Armenia
Armenian Christians
Arian Christians
4th-century Arian Christians
Roman client kings of Armenia
Prisoners and detainees of the Sasanian Empire
Arsacid kings of Armenia
Julian's Persian expedition