[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# University of Saskatchewan academics

ollege Building held the first classes for the Agricultural College. There were also  reserved for agriculture practice, University Barn, crops, and livestock study. The new Agriculture building built between 1988 and 1991 was a large six storey glass building, with a seventh floor addition in 2000.

College of Arts and Science
The Arts and Science college diversifies into 60 subject areas which are grouped into four program types: Fine Arts, Humanities, Natural Sciences, and Social Sciences, with Interdisciplinary Studies combining elements from two or more areas. Fine Arts programs cover creative arts such as visual arts, drama, and music. Language, literature, history, and religion and culture studies are included in studies of the Humanities. Social Sciences programs include anthropology, economics, political studies, psychology, and sociology, and the Natural Sciences programs contains classes such as biology, chemistry, physics, toxicology, mathematics and statistics, and computer sciences. There are also a number of classes that overlap more than one of the main areas discussed above, such as courses in bioinformatics, palaeobiology, regional and urban development, and Classical, Medieval and Renaissance Studies (CMRS).
The classroom wing of the Arts Building opened in 1959, while the seven storey Arts Tower, and the Theatre, were opened in 1961. During the 1960s, the Arts Tower was expanded to eleven stories in height. The first classes using the new Arts building were Arts, biology, the School of Household Science, the College of Education, and the School of Accounting. The Physics Building (1922), Chemistry - Thorvaldson Building (1924), W. P. Thompson (Biology) Building (1960), and Geology Building (1989) provide classrooms and laboratory facilities for students pursuing a Bachelor of Science and interdisciplinary studies.

Edwards School of Business

The N. Murray Edwards School of Business offers degrees in Accounting, Finance, Human Resources, Management, Marketing, and Supply Chain Management. Formerly the College of Commerce, the academic unit was renamed in 2007 to honor N. Murray Edwards, an alumnus and entrepreneur.

College of Education

Teacher training was officially established at the U of S in 1927. Its initial emphasis was to provide training for secondary school teaching. Elementary school teachers taught in the early 1900s with a Class 3 Standard Certificate. The Normal School on Idylwyld Drive provided training space until the Education Building was opened on campus in 1970. The college also offers a Bachelor of Music in Music Education program as well as an overseas educational administration graduate program.

College of Engineering

The Engineering Building was first opened in 1912 for the Agricultural Engineering Department and the Department of Field Husbandry. The 1925 fire which destroyed this building made way for a new construction which opened in 1926. Mechanical Engineering laboratories were added in 1939. In 1961, the construction of the Evan A. Hardy Laboratory provided an area for the Department of Agricultural Engineering, the Agricultural Engineering Research and Development Section and the Divisions of Hydrology and Control Systems. 1986 saw the creation of the Computer Science Department within the Engineering department, which only lasted until 2000.

The Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering saw renovations for their studies in the 21st century.

The college of Engineering U of S offers undergraduate, Masters, and Doctorate degrees in seven different departments: Agricultural & Bioresource, Chemical Engineering, Civil & Geological, Electrical & Computer, Environmental Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Physics & Engineering Physics. Engineering students can choose to specialize in the following disciplines: Chemical and biological engineering, Civil Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Physics, Environmental Engineering, Geological Engineering and Mechanical Engineering. The Transportation Research Centre was developed in the early 1970s to provide research and development for transportation systems, vehicle safety and road design and technologies.

College of Kinesiology

Courses are offered for sports and physical activity instruction, coaching, theory and development. The Physical Activity Complex (PAC) was officially opened on November 28, 2003, for the College of Kinesiology, community activity programs, and Huskie Athletics. Griffiths Stadium (offering playing field with artificial turf, running track and grandstand seating) was upgraded in 2006 for the Huskie football Vanier Cup playoffs.

Non-direct entry programs
All of the following colleges have university-level prerequisites for admission into their programs.