[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gregory Stanton

m Rwanda and surrounding countries, Stanton met with President Juvenal Habyarimana to ask him to remove ethnic identities from the Rwandan national identification cards because the ID cards could be used to identify people to be killed in a genocide.  The Rwandan genocide of Tutsis occurred in 1994.

Zimbabwe 
In 2010, Stanton demanded that Robert Mugabe be prosecuted for the crime of genocide. He proposed a "Mixed UN-Zimbabwean Criminal Tribunal" inspired by the Khmer Rouge Tribunal, adding, "Mugabe's reign of terror must end."

In 2012, Stanton called for the United States to release "all diplomatic and intelligence cables relating to the Gukurahundi massacres" of Zimbabwe and to explain the U.S. decision "to remain silent", in order to "clear its conscience".

Iran 

Stanton has accused Iran – particularly Mahmoud Ahmadinejad – of incitement to genocide, explaining that the constant calls by the Iranian regime to destroy Israel directly advocate genocide. Stanton referenced speeches by Ahmadinejad calling for the destruction of Israel and advocating that Israeli Jews should be transferred to Germany and Austria. He described the proposal as incitement to genocide and advocacy of forced population transfer. Stanton wrote:Iran is the only country since Nazi Germany that has openly expressed its genocidal intent to wipe another nation off the map while pursuing a program to develop nuclear weapons. Few believed that Hitler was serious about his genocidal intentions until Nazis carried out the Holocaust. The Iranian President denies that the Holocaust even happened.Stanton congratulated Angela Merkel for opposing Iran's nuclear program, and also praised Canada's Ministry of Foreign Affairs for recalling the Canadian Ambassador to Iran.

Stanton has condemned Iran's nuclear program, adding that NATO should protect Israel to safeguard the country from a possible nuclear missile strike.

Somaliland 
In an article for the Mail and Guardian, Stanton acknowledged the Isaaq genocide that occurred in the Democratic Republic of Somalia under Siad Barre. He advocated for the recognition of Somaliland as a separate state from Somalia, arguing it could "help stave off conflict in a region that has suffered terribly."

Genocide Watch
In 1999 Stanton founded Genocide Watch, a non-governmental organization campaigning against genocide based in Washington, D.C. Genocide Watch is the chair and coordinator of the Alliance Against Genocide, which includes 100 organizations in 24 countries, including the Minority Rights Group, the International Crisis Group, the Aegis Trust, and Survival International. Its board of advisers includes former commander of United Nations peacekeeping forces in Rwanda Roméo Dallaire, former Nuremberg Prosecutor Benjamin Ferencz, former US Ambassador to the United Nations and current Administer of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) Samantha Power, and former UN Special Adviser for the Prevention of Genocide Adama Dieng.

In 2010, Genocide Watch was the first organization to assert that the 1980s Gukurahundi massacres in Zimbabwe met the definition of genocide, calling for the prosecution of Zimbabwean leaders including president Robert Mugabe.

Stanton has formed alliances with dozens of human rights leaders, such as Baroness Kennedy and Ewelina Ochab from the Coalition for Genocide Response. In 2020, Genocide Watch joined other human rights groups urging the U.N. Human Rights Council (UNHRC) to investigate the actions of the Chinese government regarding Uyghurs and other Turkic Muslim minorities in the Xinjiang region, and "develop strategies" to end violations that would amount to acts of genocide. In the case of Bosco Ntaganda within the International Criminal Court investigation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Genocide Watch submitted amicus curiae observations along with the Antiquities Coalition and Blue Shield International, on the interpretation of attacks on cultural property in the Rome Statute.

Stanton has criticized the term "ethnic cleansing", calling it a term invented by Slobodan Milošević as a term used for the denial and cover-up of genocide, stating it whitewashes the crimes and impedes forceful action to stop genocide.

Publications

Articles 
 The Ten Stages of Genocide
 Other Articles by Dr. Gregory Stanton
 QAnon is a Nazi Cult Rebranded, by Gregory Stanton
 Emerging paradigms in Genocide Prevention (with Andrea Bartoli and Tetsushi Ogata)

References

External links
The Call TEDx The Call
Biography at George Mason University website

Living people
Year of birth missing (living people)
Oberlin College alumni
People from Fredericksburg, Virginia
University of Mary Washington faculty
American human rights activists
Yale Law School alumni
Harvard Divinity School alumni
University of Chicago alumni
Genocide education
Genocide studies scholars
Activists from Virginia