[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Artistic depictions of the Partition of India

Begum Lipi, Mahbubur Rahman, Promotesh D Pulak, and Pritika Chowdhry.

Project Dastaan is a peace-building initiative that reconnects displaced refugees of the 1947 Partition of India, Pakistan and Bangladesh with their childhood communities and villages through virtual reality digital experiences.

The Partition Museum is a public museum located in the town hall in Amritsar, India. The museum aims to become the central repository of stories, materials, and documents related to the post-partition riots that followed the division of British India into two independent countries: India and Pakistan. The museum was inaugurated on 25 August 2017.

The 1947 Partition Archive is a non-profit non-governmental organization dedicated to institutionalizing the people's history of Partition through documenting, preserving and sharing eye witness accounts from all ethnic, religious and economic communities affected by the Partition of British India in 1947.

Advertisements
The 2013 Google India advertisement Reunion (about the Partition of India) has had a strong impact in both India and Pakistan, leading to hope for the easing of travel restrictions between the two countries. It went viral and was viewed more than 1.6 million times before officially debuting on television on 15 November 2013.

Television
 "Demons of the Punjab", the sixth episode of the eleventh series of the BBC science-fiction series Doctor Who in 2018 deals with how series companion Yasmin Khan learns about her family heritage and how it was affected by the sectarian violence unleashed by the Partition.             
 Lajwanti by Rajinder singh Bedi was a daily soap in zee tv.
 Dastaan by Samira Fazal was a series on Hum TV that follows the story of Bano and her trials and tribulations in migrating from India to Pakistan
 The Disney+ and Marvel Cinematic Universe television series Ms. Marvel (2022) depicts a historical fiction version of a Muslim family, the maternal grandmother and maternal great-grandparents of Kamala Khan fleeing to Pakistan during the partition, however Kamala's great-grandmother, Aisha, who is from an alternate dimension is killed by her former ally and fellow inhabitant of the alternate dimension, while her grandmother and great-grandfather manage to make it out alive.

See also
 The 1947 Partition Archive
 Opposition to the partition of India

 Citations 

 General and cited sources 
 Roy, Pinaki (July–December 2010). "Hearts Divided: Anglo-Indian Writers and the Partition". Exploring History 1.1: 54–61. .
 Roy, Pinaki, and Ashim kumar Sarkar, eds. (2016). The Broken Pens: The (Indian) Partition in Literature and Films''. Jaipur: Aadi Publications. .

 
 
Partition of India