[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Barbuda Council

The Barbuda Council is a local authority that manages the internal affairs on the island of Barbuda. The Council of Barbuda is an organization known by the name "the Barbuda Council" that has the authority to buy, acquire, hold, mortgage, and dispose of land and other property. It also possesses a common seal and perpetual succession. The Barbuda Council, which has the authority outlined in the Barbuda Local Government Act, is the government of the island and its coastal zone. The members of the Senate who meet the requirements outlined in paragraph (1) of section 6 of the Barbuda Local Government Act, nine elected members, and the member of the House of Representatives from the Barbuda constituency make up the Council. A Commonwealth citizen who is eighteen years of age or older, was born in Barbuda, is the child of parents who were at least one of their parents' birthplaces, or who has lived in Barbuda for at least three years prior to the date of their nomination for election, and who is a regular resident of Barbuda and a registered voter under the Representation of the People Act are all required to be eligible to be elected as a member of the Council.

A person will not be allowed to be elected to the Council if they have, through their own actions, acknowledged allegiance, obedience, or adherence to a foreign power or state; if they are an undischarged bankrupt after having been declared or adjudged bankrupt in Antigua and Barbuda; if they have been certified as insane or otherwise determined to be of unsound mind under any Antigua and Barbuda law in effect; or is subject to a death sentence imposed by a court, or has been sentenced to imprisonment (by whatever name called) for a term of time exceeding twelve months and has not received a free pardon, the punishment for which he was sentenced, or any other punishment that may have been substituted therefor by competent authority; or holds or is acting in any paid office or other place of profit that is under the control or jurisdiction of the Council; or is barred from election or membership in the Council under any provisions of the Barbuda Local Government Act; or maintains or is performing any public office; is a member of the Police Force or any Armed Forces of the Crown; has any interest in any contract with the Council that may be prescribed, subject to any exemptions or limitations set forth by the Legislature; stops being a Commonwealth citizen; or serves as a minister of religion.

Any elected member of the Council will lose their membership and become vacant of their seat if they miss three consecutive meetings without the Chairman's permission, or if they are absent from Antigua and Barbuda for longer than sixty days without permission, or if there are any other circumstances that would disqualify them from running for office. The Chairman will promptly notify the minister responsible and the Supervisor of Elections in writing of the vacancy. 

The Cabinet of Antigua and Barbuda may provide the Council with general or specific instructions regarding the policy to be followed in the exercise of the Council's powers and functions under the Barbuda Local Government Act or any other law, with the exception of the matters and things mentioned in subsection (2) of the Barbuda Local Government Act. It is be legal for an authority to consult the Council on a matter if it believes that the Council's cooperation and assistance would make it easier for that authority to implement or carry out any public business that is its responsibility under the Constitution, the Barbuda Local Government Act, or any other law. In that case, the Council will help the relevant authority in any way it can to implement or carry out that public business. It is also legal for the Council to consult with a relevant authority on any matter where the Council believes that the authority's cooperation and assistance are necessary for the Council to carry out any of its duties, powers, or functions under the Barbuda Local Government Act. In that case, the relevant authority will do everything within its power to support the Council in carrying out its duties, powers, or functions.

The Chairman and the Secretary's signatures must be used to validate any bylaws that the Council makes.

History

The Barbuda Council was established in 1976 by the Barbuda Local Government Act. It is an 11-member body consisting of nine directly elected and two ex officio (Barbuda's House and Senate representatives in the national Parliament) members who serve four-year terms.

Councillors serve for four years with elections held every two years in March.

Committees