[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gear Fighter Dendoh

include flight and green palm and scalp beams.
Zero: First appears in episode 27. Powers include flight, an extendable metal staff, thirty eight green lasers around his body, holograms of his human form, and indefinite reformation. In human form he also possesses flight and his staff while also having a high resistance to projectiles, can hack into computers with little effort, can quickly move underwater, is armed with ball-like grenades as well as bombs capable of rivaling atomic blasts, and an extremely high resistance to explosions. He can combine with Vector to become Vector Zero.
Vector: First appears in episode 27 although it does not return until episode 35. Powers include flight, a pair of blue lasers on the underside, and indefinite reformation. It is actually an automated suit of armor that Zero can combine into to become Vector Zero.
Vector Zero: Appears in the final episode. Powers include flight, blue shoulder beams, a double sided spear version of Zero's staff, green finger lasers, and indefinite reformation.
Emperor Galfa: Although he appears early in the series his true form is not seen until the final episode. Powers include an energy shield-like seal, six gigantic heads each being over 200 meters in length, circular energy fields that protect the jaws, and mouth flames that rival napalm.

Machine Beasts
Orbiton: Appears in episode 1. Powers include flight, green laser cannons from the right shoulder, and pelvis missiles. Unlike other machine beasts this is mass-produced as eighteen separate creatures instead of just one.
Bloodon: Appears in episode 2. Powers include purple lasers from its four eyes and palms, saw fingers, and extendable arms.
Palaboon: Appears in episode 3. Its only known power is yellow heat beams from the satellite dish on its back.
Scoodas: Appears in episode 5. Its only known power is speed. It can execute a Triple Stream Attack, a homage to the Jet Stream Attack of the Black Tri-Stars from Mobile Suit Gundam.
Mobiluz: Appears in episode 5. Powers include speed and bombs. It can execute a Triple Stream Attack, a homage to the Jet Stream Attack of the Black Tri-Stars from Mobile Suit Gundam.
Camioon: Appears in episode 5. Powers include speed and bombs. It can execute a Triple Stream Attack, a homage to the Jet Stream Attack of the Black Tri-Stars from Mobile Suit Gundam.
Fightersu: Appears in episode 6. Powers include flight, dual torso machine guns, and extendable jawed arms armed with missiles in the mouths.
Siglight: Appears in episode 7. Although it showed no powers in the series it had extendable arms in the game.
Crane: Appears in episode 7. Powers include an extendable claw crane and purple lasers from the top of its body.
Tangil: Appears in episode 7. Powers include floating on top of water, missile pods on the top side, purple lasers from the many eyes on top of the bow and sides,
Zonbel: Appears in episode 8. Powers include a pair of spiked discs that act like saws on its shovel claw and twin triple barreled machine guns.