[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Santaji Ghorpade

some of the elephants of Qasim Khan, which Santaji had looted earlier. Then Khan was ordered to return to the court, leaving some of his officers to accompany Bidar Bakht, who had been ordered to chase Santaji. Several fights occurred, however Santaji's plunder against Mughal camps still continued.

On the way to Jinji, Santaji had a fight with Dhanaji Jadhav, who was conveying Rajaram to Jinji, on account of an old quarrel. Santaji triumphed, and captured Amrit Rao, brother-in-law of Nagoji Mane and trampled him by an elephant. Santaji also captured Rajaram, but Dhanaji escaped. The next day Santaji tied his hands and apologised Rajaram for his rudeness. Then he conducted Rajaram to Jinji. Zulfiqar Khan Bahadur was ordered to besiege the fort. The fort was captured but Santaji escaped with Rajaram and went towards Satara to fight with Dhanaji, who was there. In this battle, Dhanaji triumphed. Mane Brothers and Dhanaji decided to abuct Santaji. But, Santaji fled from the field with only a few men to the zammdari of Nagoji, with whom he sought refuge. Nagoji gave him shelter in his house, but his wife, whose brother had been killed by Santaji, urged her husband and another brother not to let Santaji go away alive. Nagoji dismissed, but his wife's brother went in pursuit, seeking for an opportunity to kill Santaji. By this time, Aurangzeb issued an imperial order to Ghaziuddin khan Feroz Jung to pursue Santaji. The troops of Bidar Bhakt and Hamiddudin Khan were placed under his command. Mane  and Dhanaji were trying to subjugate Santaji and all his members back to the Maratha Empire by forgetting all the past fights they had. As, Santaji was not ready to do so. Mane with His Brother in law decided to execute Santaji.

At the time Santaji was bathing in a dense forest near karkhel in Maharashtra. Two forces emerged and tried  and one of them killed him on finding him alone. Santaji was killed either by Ghaziuddin Khan's forces or was killed by Mane's brother-in-law. At last, his head was sent to the Emperor by Ghaziuddin Khan.

Legacy 

Santaji was a military genius, an unrivalled master of guerrilla tactics and parthian warfare. He was the "Terror of Mughals" till his death. Khafi Khan writes in his book Muntakhabu L Lubab about Santaji, " Everyone who encountered him was either killed or wounded, or made prisoner; or if any one did escape it was with his mere life with loss of his army and baggage" "Nothing could be done for wherever the accursed dog(Santaji) went and threatened an attack there was no imperial Amir bold enough to resist him" Every loss he inflicted on Mughals made the boldest warriors quake"

The fact that the news bearer of Santaji's death was given the title of "Khushkhabar Khan " by Aurangzeb tells more than enough about the Havoc Santaji Made in Mughal Camps.

Sarkar writes," Santaji's greatest monument is the abject of fear he inspired in all ranks of the Mughal army which is faithfully reflected in the curses and abuses invariably used as epithets to his name in the Persian Sources"

Ascribed to this Khafi Khan writes " When the news came that Shanta(Santaji) had come within 16 or 18 miles of him , Firuz Jung (Aurangzeb's highest General) lost colour in terror, and making a false announcement that he would ride out to oppose him , appointed officers to clear the path sent his advanced tent onwards but then himself fled towards Bijapur by a roundabout path" (K.K 446)

G S Sardesai Quotes," Santaji is now remembered as the past master of guerrilla warfare the highest and the best instrument which enabled the Marathas to attain a rapid rise before the development of artillery warfare in India, The death of this unmatched hero was a big blow to the Maratha Fortunes"

Cavalry Santaji groomed was compared with legendary Asiatic Generals like Timur and Changez. He always Headed an cavalry of 20-25,000 Horses. His cavalry Tactics were naturally inherited by Later Maratha Generals including Bajirao and Raghuji Bhosale.

One of the highlights of Santaji's career was Battle of Dodderi where combined army of Quasim Khan(who was active commander of Sera ) and Khanzad Khan was Utterly defeated by Santaji. The total Ransom Santaji got was Close to 60 Lakhs. Aurangzeb was Shocked by This defeat of His generals. 

In less than one month of Santaji's Triumph at Dodderi He achieved another equally famous victory. Himmat Khan Bahadur who had been deployed to co operate with Quasim Khan had Taken Refugee at Basavapatan(40 miles west of Dodderi) . Santaji Killed Himmat Khan in a sanguinary action at Basavapatan.

These two dazzling victories of Dodderi and Death of Himmat Khan Further raised Santaji's reputation for his invincibility and made him the dread of even the greatest Mughal Generals.