[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Comando Vermelho

tice. As the alliance cemented, members introduced a “common code of prison rules,” designed to promote loyalty among members, reduce violence within the prison, and advance the common cause of the prisoners, while still maintaining a degree of autonomy for individual members to act as they desired.

In attempts to break up the alliance, prison officials moved inmate leaders to different wings and prisons, but this instead helped the group spread throughout the prison system. During this period prison officials gave the group its name: one official called the group “Comando Vermelho” in a memo to his colleagues. The name was adopted first by the press and then later by the group itself.

Split with the guerrillas and the cocaine boom (1979-late 1980s)

In 1979, sensing an impending democratization movement, newly-installed President Joao Figueiredo and his military regime began to fear that they and members of their armed forces could face trial for human rights violations in a democratic system. To protect themselves, Figueiredo “manipulated a grassroots movement demanding amnesty for thousands of political prisoners and exiles to insulate himself and his colleagues from potential indictments,” and passed the sweeping 1979 Amnesty Law, protecting political prisoners and their government captors from prosecution. As a result, the leftist guerrilla elements of the CV were released from prison, weakening the group’s ideological bent.

Meanwhile, the CV began to spread beyond prison gates. While many of its original members were bank robbers, the group quickly became involved in the burgeoning cocaine market. CV members helped traffic drugs overseas for Colombian cartels and distributed cocaine into the local Rio de Janeiro market. The cocaine trade proved incredibly lucrative and the CV grew rapidly: “by the end of 1985, the gang already controlled 70% of the drug market in the favelas of Rio de Janeiro.”

During this period, the CV became increasingly involved in the provision of social services and administration of justice for the favela communities which it controlled. In exchange for the cooperation of favela residents, the CV prohibited theft, robbery, and rape, and provided public goods like school supplies, medical equipment, and food distribution for the poor.

The official end of the military dictatorship in 1985 marked the end of all remaining ties between the leftist guerrillas and the CV. Many of the guerrillas re-entered society and “rose inside political parties;” some would go on to hold elected office.

Infighting and growing cartel-state violence (Late 1980s-2008)

Massive profits created incentives for different CV factions to splinter off as local leaders sought larger profit shares. Notable break-away groups which emerged during this period include Terceiro Comando and Amigos dos Amigos. As these groups clashed over territory in Rio, violence rapidly increased throughout the city.

After Pablo Escobar’s death, the CV established a working relationship with the FARC, a Colombian guerrilla group which moved into the cocaine trade. Led by Luiz Fernando da Costa (alias Fernandinho Beira-Mar or Seaside Freddy) the CV procured arms and ammunition, which they delivered to the FARC in exchange for their supply of cocaine.

Pacification (2008-2013)

Beginning in 2008, in an effort to combat the widespread gang-related violence, Rio state police forces implemented a new “Pacification” strategy, “inspired by notions of community-oriented policing." The strategy, which proceeds in stages, begins with state occupation of a target favela using overwhelming military force, followed by the installation of a proximity-policing unit (Unidade de Policia Pacificadora, UPP), which remains in the favela after military withdrawal. Rather than eliminating the drug trade, the UPPs were primarily tasked with securing the favela communities from gang-related violence.

The early period of Pacification (2008–10) saw forty UPP battalions installed and 200 communities pacified, and was largely successful for the state. The CV, which suddenly ceased their violent confrontation with state forces, ceded significant territory to the state; one UPP effort left “the CV’s principal stronghold firmly in the hand of the state for the first time in more than a generation.”

Resurgence in violence (2013–Present)

Despite its initial success for the state, corruption and over-expansion caused erosion in the Pacification system, and by 2013 program began to break down. Since then, violent clashes between the CV and state forces have surged. In 2016, following the collapse of a 20-year truce between the CV and the PCC, violence surged further. In recent months, sources consistently report frequent violent clashes between the CV and the PCC as well as other rival gang groups.