[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 54th Pennsylvania Infantry Regiment

tured the flag of the 45th VA at the Battle of Piedmont, 5 June 1864
 Private John Mostoller, Co. B, Led a charge against a rebel battery of artillery at the Battle of Lynchburg, 18 June 1864
 Musician James Snedden, Co. E, Picked up a rifle and carried it through the Battle of Piedmont, 5 June 1864

Reenactors
In 1992, a group of civil war enthusiasts started the 54th PVI Co. A, to portray the soldiers and civilians from their hometown of Johnstown, PA. Since then the unit has expanded well beyond the borders of Cambria county. We now consist of members from all over Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Maryland. We participate in various events in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, and Ohio. Such events have included the 150th anniversary events of New Market, Cedar Creek, Gettysburg, Bull Run, Antietam, Chancellorsville, and Appomattox.

The regiment was also instrumental in helping fund a Civil War memorial statue in Johnstown. The monument was dedicated on November 11, 2000, in Johnstown's Central Park. The regiment belongs to the 2nd regiment Federal Volunteer Brigade.

Popular culture
The regiment is highlighted during the Battle of New Market scenes in Sean McNamara's 2014 film Field of Lost Shoes. In the film, Capt. Henry DuPont of the 5th United States Artillery (played by David Arquette) praises the men of the 54th for holding their line, saying "God bless those Pennsylvania boys--holding fast!".

See also
List of Pennsylvania Civil War Units

References

Pennsylvania in the Civil War
Homepage of the 54th PVI Co. A Reenactors

External links
Field and Staff Officers
Company A
Company B
Company C
Company D
Company E
Company F
Company G
Company H
Company I
Company K
Unassigned Men
Detached Men
Regimental Band
54th Pennsylvania Co. A. Reenactors and Living Historians

Units and formations of the Union Army from Pennsylvania
1861 establishments in Pennsylvania
Military units and formations established in 1861
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865