[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Frank Gibney

Frank Bray Gibney (September 21, 1924 – April 9, 2006) was an American journalist, editor, writer and scholar. He learned Japanese while in the US Navy during World War II when it was stationed in Japan. As a journalist in Tokyo, he wrote Five Gentlemen of Japan, a popular book about the Japanese that was welcomed for its humanism and for transcending the bitterness of war. A half dozen more books followed on Japan and East Asia. He also wrote on communism in Europe. At the Encyclopædia Britannica, he directed translations. He was also the founder of the Pacific Basin Institute.

Life and career
Born in Scranton, Pennsylvania, Gibney came of age in New York City. The son of a restaurateur, he excelled in debate and was awarded a scholarship to Yale University. His education was interrupted by World War II, yet he was awarded a bachelor's degree in classics in absentia in 1945.

In the Navy, he studied at its elite Japanese Language School located in the University of Colorado. As an officer in naval intelligence, he was then stationed at Iroquois Point, near Pearl Harbor, where he interrogated Japanese prisoners-of-war, officers among them and made daily use of his Japanese. In 1997, he wrote that in Hawaii, "I came to know the Japanese." After the war, he kept in touch with prisoners "through reunions at a sushi restaurant." For the American occupation he had been transferred to Japan. "I was a small human bridge between Gen. Douglas MacArthur's conquering army and a puzzled but receptive Japanese public."

A foreign correspondent for Time, Gibney also served as Tokyo bureau chief. He was an editorial writer at Life. He became a senior features editor at Newsweek.  While his residence remained in Tokyo, covering Japan, Korea, and Southeast Asia, he also was sent on assignments to Europe. From his experience as a journalist, he began to publish a series of books, many on the Japanese. His first in 1953, Five Gentlemen of Japan, was widely acclaimed for its cross-cultural insight.

In the early 1960s, Gibney worked briefly for two magazines. Until he resigned, he was editor for Show Business Illustrated. He then became the publisher of the short-lived Show magazine, which focused on art and culture. Show is remembered, among other things, for "an undercover exposé of the Playboy bunny world by Gloria Steinem."

From 1966 to 1976, he worked in translations at Encyclopædia Britannica, and served as vice chairman of its Board of Editors. He was president of a joint venture between Britannica and Tokyo Broadcasting System. In 1976 the Japanese government, "for his work in cultural affairs," awarded him the Order of the Rising Sun, Third Class. A few years later, the Japanese government again celebrated his achievements with the Order of the Sacred Treasure, Second Class.

In 1979, Gibney founded the Pacific Basin Institute in Santa Barbara, California, which he led as president for over 20 years. It was affiliated with Pomona College, where he also was a professor. In 1997 the Institute moved to the Pomona campus.

He is the father of Alex Gibney, an Academy Award-winning documentary film director and producer. Frank Gibney is interviewed in Alex's controversial film about American forces in Afghanistan, Taxi to the Dark Side, which was released in 2007. Another son, James, was an editor at The New York Times.

At the age of 81, on April 9, 2006, Frank Gibney died of congestive heart failure in Santa Barbara, California. He was survived by his third wife of 34 years, Hiroko Doi, and seven children.

Publications

Books on East Asia
Gibney wrote more than ten books and co-wrote several more, about half on East Asia. In his five volumes about Japan, there is much discussion of the Japanese economy and business practices that is placed in cultural context.

"His debut book, Five Gentlemen of Japan (1953), was among the first to depict humanely the wartime enemy through portraits of a journalist, a naval officer, a steelworker, a farmer and Emperor Hirohito." It "gave many Americans their first real understanding of a country that was widely viewed as dangerous and mysterious." "In profiling a farmer, a former vice admiral in the Imperial Navy, a newspaperman, the foreman of a steel mill and Emperor Hirohito, Gibney offered an intimate glimpse into postwar Japanese society."

Elizabeth Gray Vining was a Quaker schoolteacher and former tutor of then Crown Prince Akihito, Hirohito's son. She praised Gibney for his 1953 Five Gents book and its "keen and careful analysis" in a New York Times book review. "Their portraits are drawn with sympathy and insight; none of them is caricature," she wrote. That was "so distinct from films and other propaganda" produced during the recent, hard-fought War in the Pacific.

Japan: The Fragile Superpower, his 1975 book, described how traditional Japan survived in the way modern commerce is practiced. Gibney "contrasted American and Japanese cultural and business traditions."