[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Leonas Bistras

Leonas Bistras (20 October 1890 in Liepāja – 17 October 1971 in Kaunas) was one of the most prominent Lithuanian politicians of the interwar period. A Christian Democrat, he rose to the peak of his career in 1925, when he was appointed as the Prime Minister of Lithuania. Bistras also headed the ministries of education, defense and foreign affairs in several different governments throughout 1920s and 1930s and twice served as the speaker of the Lithuanian parliament, the Seimas. After the 1926 Lithuanian coup d'état and the subsequent fall of parliamentary democracy, Bistras led the Christian Democrats and, despite persecution, acted as an outspoken leader of the opposition to the authoritarian President Antanas Smetona.

After the Soviet occupation and annexation of Lithuania, Bistras was arrested, sentenced without a trial and deported from Lithuania, only returning permanently after the death of Josef Stalin. Bistras lived the remaining years of his life in obscurity and poverty, supported only by the local people of Kaunas.

Early life and education
Bistras was born in 1890 to a working-class family in Liepāja, Courland Governorate of the Russian Empire (now in Latvia), where his father had emigrated. He graduated from the Liepāja Gymnasium in 1911.

Bistras attempted studying medicine at the University of Geneva, switching to philosophy at the University of Freiburg a year later. He then returned to studying medicine in Dorpat (now Tartu), but was unable to finish due to the complex international environment leading up to World War I. Upon the start of the war, Bistras was conscripted to the Imperial Russian Army and served in Russia until the Bolshevik Revolution, initially as a private and later as a medic. After the war, Bistras returned to Lithuania and helped to establish the Kaunas municipality, and worked for the press office in Lithuania and Switzerland.

Bistras finally graduated from the University of Freiburg in 1921, with a PhD in Philosophy. Between 1922 and 1940 he taught at the faculty of Theology and Philosophy at the Kaunas University. Throughout his life, Bistras did not publish a single article in philosophy (other than his doctoral thesis), but was proud of his doctoral degree, signing his name "Dr. Leonas Bistras" throughout his political career.

Political career

Entry into politics
Bistras first ventured into politics during the World War I. The February Revolution liberalized the political environment and allowed for discussions on the status of Lithuania. In Voronezh, Bistras met other active Lithuanian Catholics and edited the newspaper Voice of the Lithuanians (Lietuvių balsas), giving him his first experience in journalism – an activity that would take much of his interest in the coming decades. In 1917, Bistras joined the activities of the emerging Lithuanian Christian Democratic movement.

The political situation during the war led to the formation of two parties styling themselves as the Lithuanian Christian Democratic Party. One was originally established by Lithuanian refugees in Russia, led by priest Mykolas Krupavičius, and was radicalized by the ongoing revolution there. The other, established in Lithuania, was led by Aleksandras Stulginskis and was more moderate in its goals. In November 1918, a conference was called to unite the two parties. During the conference, Bistras emerged as one of the leaders of the movement and proposed a solution once an impasse was reached – both radical and moderate Christian Democrats would be represented in the joint leadership of the party and both programs would remain in place until they could be aligned. This goal was eventually achieved and the party remained united. Bistras officially joined the party as a member in 1921 and from 1922 onward was regularly elected to its central committee.

Member of the Seimas
Bistras' growing prominence in the Lithuanian politics was evident when, in 1922, he was elected to the First Seimas from the constituency of Raseiniai and became its speaker. He played a role in the election of Stulginskis as the President of Lithuania, dismissing complaints from the opposition politicians that the Seimas did not have the necessary quorum when voting on his candidacy. The first Seimas, however, had a short and troubled life – no clear majority had emerged in the elections (Christian Democrats and their allies won 38 of the 78 seats allocated), making governing difficult. In fact, Prime Minister Ernestas Galvanauskas failed twice to get his cabinet approved by the Seimas and Stulginskis dissolved the First Seimas on 12 March 1923. However, the Seimas did play a role in the history of interwar Lithuania, authorizing the Klaipėda Revolt that would see the Klaipėda Region become an autonomous part of Lithuania between 1923 and 1939.