[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lai Kew Chai

Singaporean company Pan-Electric Industries. In his judgement, Lai said Tan's offences had "struck at the very heart, integrity, reputation and confidence of Singapore as a commercial city and financial centre". Tan's sentence was later reduced to 14 months, and he was released on 26 December 1987.

Lai was also one of the two judges (the other being Joseph Grimberg) who sentenced Sim Ah Cheoh, a housewife and single mother of two sons, and her two bosses - Lim Joo Yin and Ronald Tan Chong Ngee - to death in 1988 for attempting to illegally import 1.37 kg of heroin from Singapore to the USA. Sim was later granted clemency and her sentence commuted to life imprisonment in 1992, while both Lim and Tan were executed.

In November 1990, Lai and another judge, Judicial commissioner (JC) Tan Teow Yeow, heard the case of Hensley Anthony Neville, a Singaporean fugitive caught in Malaysia in March 1987 for the 1984 rape and murder of Lim Hwee Huang, a 19-year-old interior designer who was thrown to her death from Neville's flat at Kallang Bahru. Neville was reportedly the first person to represent himself without a lawyer during a murder trial in Singapore. Although Neville argued that the sexual activity was consensual and that Lim could have either accidentally or suicidally fell to her death, both Lai and JC Tan rejected Neville's account and found that he had "wilfully and cruelly" killed Lim after he forcibly had sex with her, and hence sentenced him to death on 22 November 1990. Neville was eventually hanged on 28 August 1992.

In the case of Thahir v Pertamina (1992), the Indonesian petroleum conglomerate presented substantial claims to over S$60 million deposit in various accounts with Sumitomo Bank in Singapore, and belonging to the late General Achmad Thahir, a former General Assistant to Pertamina's President-Director, General Ibnu Sutowo. Much of the deposits were deemed to be kickbacks from corruption practices by the General Thahir, during his office in Pertamina between 14 October 1968 and the day of his death on 23 July 1976. Lai thus allowed Pertamina's claims to be passed and the decision was upheld by the Court of Appeal.
The judgement passed by him deeply impressed The Privy Council in Britain, and formally accepted Lai's rejection of exercising an English legal authority on the Commonwealth corruption law that had been upheld for more than a century.

In March 1993, Lai also presided the trial of Yap Biew Hian, a Malaysian shipyard worker charged with killing one of the female tenants of his rented house at Katong there years before. Yap was said to have stabbed the 20-year-old victim Wong Mee Hiong in order to steal her valuables. Yap, who was 22 when he committed the crime, was found guilty and sentenced to hang for murdering Wong, after Lai deemed that the two of the knife injuries inflicted by Yap were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death and the stabbing was done in furtherance of his intent to commit robbery.

Between March 1993 and December 1993, Lai presided over the three-week murder trial of Lim Lye Hock, who was charged with raping and murdering his 30-year-old childhood friend Tan Hui Ngin in October 1990. Out of the witnesses called, Lim's wife said that her husband had confessed to killing Tan by using a brick to bludgeon her on the head until she died. Overruling the defence's objection to call Lim's wife as a prosecution witness, Lai ruled that while marital communication between a wife and husband may be privileged and cannot be disclosed, a defendant's spouse had the right to come to court on its summon to testify against the defendant during a criminal proceeding, reagrdless of whether the evidence incriminates the spouse or not. In the end, Lim was found guilty of murder on 1 December 1993 and sentenced to death.

In January 1995, Lai also tried a Singaporean fugitive named S. S. Asokan for killing a loan shark. Asokan and another man named Maniam Rathinswamy had committed the crime by using an axe and knife to kill 32-year-old Tan Heng Hong at a hospital, before they moved Tan's body into his car and set it on fire at Mandai. While Maniam was arrested and sentenced to death in 1993, Asokan was arrested and detained for a robbery case in Malaysia before being sent back to Singapore for trial. Asokan was later found guilty and sentenced to death. On the morning of 8 September 1995, both Asokan and Maniam were hanged at Changi Prison.