[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Pre-election day events of the 2006 Singaporean general election

f the SDP, in the SDP headquarters. At that time the Chee siblings had yet to make an apology, the meeting was to persuade the siblings to do so, but was unsuccessful. Lawrence Lai, a member of the Centre Executive Committee, walked out after an hour of the meeting, while others declined to comment.

SDP podcast
On 25 April, Elections Department warned SDP that it would take action against the party if they did not take down the audio files and podcasts from the party's website as it is against election advertising regulations under the Parliamentary Elections Act. Within hours after the notice was issued, SDP posted a notice on its website that the podcast service was suspended. Nonetheless, as of 29 April, a podcast of an interview with J B Jeyaretnam was still accessible on the website server, although there is no hyperlink to it.

Remarks on "First World Government"
Several politicians are engaging in exchanges surrounding the phrase "First World". It started with Lee Kuan Yew (PAP) who said "We want to have a First World parliament for Singapore, so we need to have a First World government and a First World opposition. If you want us to treat you as gentlemen, argue on the merits of your policy and our policy. Take it to a higher level and we will treat you accordingly and respond accordingly."

On 24 April, Low Thia Khiang (WP) responded saying that the PAP was not a "First World" government, and rather that instead the Workers' Party was the hope for a "First World" government.

Lee then rebutted on 25 April that if the PAP did not have the capabilities of a "First World" government, Singapore would not have risen up to the First World standards as measured by several world bodies. He added that "The WP under Low Thia Khiang must take this opportunity, having got rid of Jeyaratnam, to begin the process of getting the WP to First World standards."

James Gomez (WP) joined in the fray on 28 April, saying "Singaporeans and Singapore are "First World". There is no doubt in my mind, but it does not mean that the government and the PAP are "First World." Don't claim credit. Singaporeans and Singapore are First World, and this is the message I want to leave with you today. You are "First World", Singapore is First World but the PAP government is not."

In a news release posted at WP's website on 29 April, Low reiterated that PAP was not a "First World" government and took the opportunity to raise the issue of ministerial pay. He criticised the PAP for not "bench-marking itself politically against the matured Democracies around the world although ministers' salaries are bench-marked against international corporate's standards."

Other pre–nomination day events
On 14 January, Workers' Party Secretary-General Low Thia Khiang revealed that the party was planning to contest in four GRCs (Ang Mo Kio, Aljunied, Sembawang, and East Coast) and in three SMCs (Nee Soon East, Joo Chiat, and Hougang). Four days later, the Singapore Democratic Alliance had announced its intention to field candidates in three GRCs (Tampines, Jalan Besar and Pasir Ris–Punggol) and five SMCs (Potong Pasir, Choa Chu Kang, Bukit Timah, Ayer Rajah and MacPherson). Sin Kek Tong, Chairman of SPP, will contest in MacPherson SMC.

On 3 March, Steve Chia, Secretary-General of National Solidarity Party (NSP) had said that the party planned to contest Chua Chu Kang SMC, Bukit Panjang SMC, and Yio Chu Kang SMC. NSP will also attempt to field a team to contest Jalan Besar GRC. Following the release of the electoral boundaries, Chia expressed disappointment that there were no three-seat or four-seat GRCs that he had suggested in a parliament session.  He told The New Paper: "The PAP still wants its MPs to hide behind GRCs. I'm not surprised. I'm disappointed." Chia was expected to contest in Choa Chu Kang SMC again. To help fund his election campaign, Chia launched a book which documented the speeches he made in Parliament over the last four years. Yip Yew Weng, President of NSP, will contest in Yio Chu Kang SMC.

Lianhe Zaobao reported that Singapore Democratic Party (SDP) was planning to contest Jurong GRC, Bukit Panjang SMC and Nee Soon Central SMC. SDP's chairman Ling How Doong had then been expected to contest in Bukit Panjang SMC. Christopher Neo Ting Wei, SDP's Assistant Treasurer, led a team to contest in Jurong GRC; among his team members were Chee Siok Chin, a member of SDP's Central Executive Committee (CEC) and sister of Chee Soon Juan.

On 4 March, Lim Boon Heng, Chairman of PAP, said that at least a quarter of the party's candidates would be new faces. The PAP had also not finalised their candidates list at this point. Lim Hwee Hua (PAP), MP for Marine Parade GRC for the Serangoon Gardens district, ended up contesting in the Aljunied GRC due to changes made in the electoral boundaries; the ward eventually faced a rare contest possibility that would involve three female politicians: including Cynthia Phua (PAP) and Sylvia Lim (WP).