[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Anatoly Marchenko

ey were not allowed to bring his body back to Moscow for burial. Marchenko was buried on 12 December, near the prison in Chistopol, after Russian Orthodox rites at a church nearby. Bogoraz was denied a death certificate, and had to write his name in ballpoint pen on the pine wood cross on his grave.

Posthumous Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought 
On the award of the Sakharov Prize to his widow, Larisa Bogoraz, in 1988, Andrei Sakharov himself paid tribute to Anatoli Marchenko, saying, in a message to the EP: 'in My Testimony Marchenko was the first to tell the truth about the post-Stalin labour camps and prisons. His book became one of the foundation stones of the human rights movement in our country. With its spirit of morality through non-violent struggle for justice, with its aspiration towards unconcealed and complete truth, the book aroused the hatred of the organs of repression towards its author. The whole of his subsequent life and his tragic death on Chistopol prison was their way of repaying him for this truth, this steadfastness, for his high moral principle. The achievement of Marchenko's life and work is an enormous contribution to the cause of democracy, of humanity and of justice'.

Quotations 
"When I was locked up in Vladimir Prison I was often seized by despair. Hunger, illness, and above all helplessness, the sheer impossibility of struggling against evil, provoked me to the point where I was ready to hurl myself upon my jailers with the sole purpose of being killed. .. One thing alone prevented me, one thing alone gave me the strength to live through that nightmare; the hope that I would eventually come out and tell the whole world what I had seen and experienced. .. And I gave my word on this to my comrades who were doomed to spend many more years behind bars and barbed wire." (Introduction to My Testimony)
"I am convinced that publicity is the sole effective means of combating the evil and lawlessness which is rampant in my country today."

Notes
There is some confusion about the date; From Tarusa to Siberia gives 1971, and To Live Like Everyone gives 1973.

Citations

Bibliography 
Anatoly Marchenko, (translator Michael Scammell), My Testimony (Dutton, New York, 1969)
Anatoly Marchenko, (editor Joshua Rubenstein), From Tarusa to Siberia (Strathcona, Michigan, 1980)
Anatoly Marchenko, (translator Paul Goldberg), To Live Like Everyone (Henry Holt & Co., New York, 1989)

Other sources 
Anatoly Marchenko, (translator Michael Scammell), My Testimony (Penguin, Harmondsworth, 1971, paperback edition - This edition contains an appendix with many documents related to the events of 1968–1969, which is not present in other editions.)
The Limits of Glasnost
Anatoli Marchenko Sakharov Prize Laureate

Further reading 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1938 births
1986 deaths
People from Novosibirsk Oblast
Soviet dissidents
Soviet human rights activists
Soviet political activists
Moscow Helsinki Group
Soviet non-fiction writers
Soviet male writers
Soviet political writers
Soviet memoirists
People who died on hunger strike
Prisoners who died in Soviet detention
Soviet people who died in prison custody
Amnesty International prisoners of conscience held by the Soviet Union
Soviet internal exiles
Sakharov Prize laureates
Male non-fiction writers