[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Zhengtai Campaign

Zhengtai Campaign was a series of battles fought between the nationalists and the communists during the Chinese Civil War in the post World War II era, and resulted in the communist victory.

Strategies
After the Campaign to the South of Baoding, nationalist redeployed their forces totaling 26 divisions in 9 armies.  The nationalist forces in North China concentrated on protecting important regions including: the Beijing – Shijiazhuang section of the Beijing – Hankou Railway, the Beijing – Zhangjiakou section of Beijing – Suiyuan Railway, the Northern section of the Datong – Fengling Crossing Railway, Beijing – Shanhaiguan section of Beijing – Shenyang Railway, and the iron triangular region of Beijing – Baoding – Tianjin region.

However, the nationalist strategy was seriously flawed in that in order to strengthen the northern defense in the regions mentioned above, it sacrificed the southern defense: the vast region along Zhengding – Taiyuan Railway in the south were only guarded by three divisions and local militia garrisons, and this flaw was to be exploited to the maximum by the Communists.  The commander-in-chief and political commissar of the communist Shanxi – Chahar – Hebei Military Region, Nie Rongzhen, decided to concentrate his force to first clear the nationalists from their strongholds outside Shijiazhuang, and then annihilate any nationalist reinforcement sent along the Zhengding – Taiyuan Railway.

Order of battle
Nationalist order of battle: 15 divisions totaling 100,000 troops, commanded by Yan Xishan, including those from:
33rd Army
46th Division
(Independent) 8th Division
(Independent) 10th Division
Other divisions
Local garrisons
Communists order of battle: 100,000 troops commanded by Nie Rongzhen, including those from:
2nd Column of the Shanxi – Chahar – Hebei Military Region
3rd Column of the Shanxi – Chahar – Hebei Military Region
4th Column of the Shanxi – Chahar – Hebei Military Region
Independent 7th Brigade of the Central Hebei Military Sub-region
Units of Hebei – Shanxi Military Sub-region
Units of the 10th Military Sub-district

Campaign
On 8 April 1947, communists begun their 1st stage offensive by attacking nationalist strongholds outside Shijiazhuang in a pincer movement.  The outnumbered nationalist garrisons had no choice but to abandon over 90 strongholds and quickly withdrew into the major cities.  By 12 April 1947, all nationalist strongholds fell into the communist hands and in addition, two major counties, Zhengding and Luancheng, also fell into the enemy.  However, the rapid nationalist retreat had prevented the major loss of troops: only two nationalist regiments were lost during the first stage.

On 14 April 1947, communist forces launched their second-stage offensive by taking Niangzi (娘子) Pass and Jingin (井陉).  Important nationalist strongholds to the north of Yangquan including White Earth Slope (Baitupo, 白土坡), Upper Yinying (Shangyinying 上荫莹), and Lower Yinying (Xiayinying, 下荫莹) subsequently fell in a domino effect.  After losing nearly four dozen local strongholds, Pingding County and Yangquan were both seriously threatened by the communists, who besieged the last two remaining nationalist strongholds on 25 April 1947.  On 24 April 1947, Yan Xishan ordered the nationalist 33rd Army stationed in Taiyuan and Qi (祁) County eastward to reinforce the local nationalist garrison via railway, and reached Yangquan the next day.  The defense of Yangquan was further enhanced by the arrival of the nationalist 8th and 10th Division on 28 April 1947.  In response, the communists redeployed part of their force to the west to surround the nationalists by taking regions including Qinquan (芹泉), Yu (盂) County, and Ceshiyi (测石驿), thus completely sealing off the retreating routes of the nationalist reinforcement.  On 29 April 1947, the main force of the nationalist 33rd Army retreated westward, but they were stopped by the communist forces at the Ceshiyi (测石驿) region.