[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Elizabeth Thomas (poet, born 1675)

ing on the selfish Score:
That conscious of our native Worth,
Ye dread to make it more. (ll. 80—84)
Her work initially circulated in manuscript, but due to financial necessity she published Miscellany Poems on Several Subjects anonymously in 1722, and thereafter sought print publication.

Reputation

Her friend Henry Cromwell at one point gave Thomas some letters he had received from a young Alexander Pope. Impoverished, Thomas sold these letters to Edmund Curll in 1726. Curll promptly published the letters in Miscellanea in Two Volumes (1726), much to the irritation of Pope. For this infraction he lampooned Thomas in The Dunciad (1728) as "Curll's Corinna" (II 66):
Full in the middle way there stood a lake,
Which Curl's Corinna chanc'd that morn to make:
(Such was her wont, at early dawn to drop
Her evening cates before his neighbour's shop) (Bk. II, ll. 69—72)
These scatological lines are generally interpreted as referring to ongoing medical issues Thomas suffered — "a history of fluxes, purges, and Surgical and medical horrors" — after 1711. A minor revenge was attributed to her by Pope — the publication of Codrus, or, 'The Dunciad' Dissected (1728). Her reputation was severely damaged by the notoriety, and she was long believed to have been  Cromwell's mistress though there is scant reason to believe she was.Blain, et al., p. 1076.

Later life
Thomas continued to publish through the 1720s, but was unable to meet her debts and was jailed in the Fleet prison in 1727 for three years. However, she managed to put even that time to use and wrote from her cell. Within a year of her release, Thomas died and was buried at St Bride's, Fleet Street in 1731.

Legacy
Her publishing history is complicated and as one commentator has it, "Her few authentic works have been upstaged by the many miscellaneous writings which survive in forms probably significantly changed from the way she left them." Another commentator describes Thomas's critical reputation until the twentieth century: "The poetry - often witty and lively, with sharp satiric insights into the social predicament of women - is predictably dismissed, though part of the fate of Rosalinda in Thomas's 'The Execration' is ironically borne out by the poet's own experience: 'To live reserved and free from blame, / And yet incur an evil fame' (l. 36).

Thomas's writing has been anthologized in Greer's Kissing the Rod: an anthology of seventeenth-century women's verse (1988) and Lonsdale's Eighteenth Century Women Poets: An Oxford Anthology (1989).

 Selected works 
"To the Memory of the Truly Honoured John Dryden, Esq", Luctus Britannici (anon., 1700)Miscellany Poems on Several Subjects (anon.; London: Tomas Combes, 1722); rpt. Poems on Several Occasions (London: Tomas Combes, 1726); rpt. Poems on Several Occasions. To John Dryden Esq; Hen. Cromwel Esq; Reverend Mr. Norris, Sir R. L'Estrange, Lord Hallifax, Anth. Henly Esq; Sir Samuel Garth, Lady Chudleigh, Lady Packington, And Mrs. Phillips, Written by a Lady. The Second Edition. (London: Thomas Astley, 1727)Codrus, or, ‘The Dunciad’ Dissected. Being the Finishing-Stroke. To which is added, Farmer Pope and his Son. A Tale. By Mr. Philips. (attrib.; pseud.; London: Edmund Curll, 1728)Metamorphosis of the Town; or, a View of the Present Fashions. A Tale: After the Manner of Fontaine. (anon.; London:  J. Wilford, 1730; repr. 1731, 1732; posthumously under her own name, 1743)
R. Gwinnett and E. Thomas, Pylades and Corinna: or, memoirs of the lives, amours, and writings of Richard Gwinnett Esq; Of Great Shurdington in Gloucestershire; and Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas Junr. Of Great Russel Street, Bloomsbury. Containing, the letters and other miscellaneous pieces, in Prose and Verse, which passed between them during a courtship of above sixteen years. Faithfully published from their Original Manuscripts. Attested By Sir Edward Northey, Knight. To which is prefixed, The life of Corinna. Written by her self. 2 vols. (London: Edmund Curll, 1731–2)The Honourable Lovers (1732; repr. 1736)"To Almystrea [Mary Astell], on Her Divine Works" RL Notes and references
Notes