[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Angular velocity tensor

t point O, the rigid body system origin is at  and the vector from O to  is R. A particle (i) in the rigid body is located at point P and the vector position of this particle is Ri in the lab frame, and at position ri in the body frame. It is seen that the position of the particle can be written:

 

The defining characteristic of a rigid body is that the distance between any two points in a rigid body is unchanging in time. This means that the length of the vector  is unchanging. By Euler's rotation theorem, we may replace the vector  with  where  is a 3×3 rotation matrix and  is the position of the particle at some fixed point in time, say . This replacement is useful, because now it is only the rotation matrix  that is changing in time and not the reference vector , as the rigid body rotates about point . Also, since the three columns of the rotation matrix represent the three versors of a reference frame rotating together with the rigid body, any rotation about any axis becomes now visible, while the vector  would not rotate if the rotation axis were parallel to it, and hence it would only describe a rotation about an axis perpendicular to it (i.e., it would not see the component of the angular velocity pseudovector parallel to it, and would only allow the computation of the component perpendicular to it). The position of the particle is now written as:

 

Taking the time derivative yields the velocity of the particle:

 

where Vi is the velocity of the particle (in the lab frame) and V is the velocity of  (the origin of the rigid body frame). Since  is a rotation matrix its inverse is its transpose. So we substitute :

 

 

 

or

 

where  is the previous angular velocity tensor.

It can be proved that this is a skew symmetric matrix, so we can take its dual to get a 3 dimensional pseudovector that is precisely the previous angular velocity vector :

 

Substituting ω for Ω into the above velocity expression, and replacing matrix multiplication by an equivalent cross product:

 

It can be seen that the velocity of a point in a rigid body can be divided into two terms – the velocity of a reference point fixed in the rigid body plus the cross product term involving the orbital angular velocity of the particle with respect to the reference point. This angular velocity is what physicists call the "spin angular velocity" of the rigid body, as opposed to the orbital angular velocity of the reference point  about the origin O.

Consistency 
We have supposed that the rigid body rotates around an arbitrary point. We should prove that the spin angular velocity previously defined is independent of the choice of origin, which means that the spin angular velocity is an intrinsic property of the spinning rigid body. (Note the marked contrast of this with the orbital angular velocity of a point particle, which certainly does depend on the choice of origin.)

See the graph to the right: The origin of lab frame is O, while O1 and O2 are two fixed points on the rigid body, whose velocity is  and  respectively. Suppose the angular velocity with respect to O1 and O2 is  and  respectively. Since point P and O2 have only one velocity,

 

 

The above two yields that

 

Since the point P (and thus ) is arbitrary, it follows that

 

If the reference point is the instantaneous axis of rotation the expression of the velocity of a point in the rigid body will have just the angular velocity term. This is because the velocity of the instantaneous axis of rotation is zero. An example of the instantaneous axis of rotation is the hinge of a door. Another example is the point of contact of a purely rolling spherical (or, more generally, convex) rigid body.

References 

Tensor physical quantities
Angle
Velocity