[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

Streets named after Martin Luther King Jr. can be found in many cities of the United States and in nearly every major metropolis.  There are also a number of other countries that have honored Martin Luther King Jr., including Italy and Israel. The first street in the United States named in his honor was  Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive in Chicago in 1968. The number of streets named after King is increasing every year, and about 70% of these streets are in states which were members of the Confederate States of America during the American Civil War: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, and Texas. King's home state of Georgia had the most, with 75 streets as of 2001; this had increased to 105 as of 2006.

As of 2003, there were over 600 American cities that had named a street after King.  By 2004, this number had grown to 650, according to NPR.  In 2006, Derek Alderman, a cultural geographer at East Carolina University, reported the number had increased to 730, with only 10 states in the country without a street named after King (Alaska, Hawaii, Maine, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Rhode Island, South Dakota, and Vermont). In 2014 he estimated that there were over 900 streets named after King in 41 states, Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico.

Seventeen cities have freeways named after Dr. King: Staten Island, New York; Jacksonville, Florida; Norfolk, Virginia; Fayetteville, North Carolina; Tupelo, Mississippi;  Montgomery, Alabama; Louisville, Kentucky; Memphis, Tennessee; Akron, Ohio; Tulsa, Oklahoma; Fort Worth, Texas; Colorado Springs, Colorado; San Diego, California; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (Bucks County); Camden, New Jersey; Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and Topeka, Kansas.

Eleven state capital cities do not have either a street or freeway named after Dr. King: Hartford, Connecticut; Boise, Idaho; Annapolis, Maryland; Jefferson City, Missouri; Carson City, Nevada; Santa Fe, New Mexico; Salem, Oregon; Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Providence, Rhode Island; Columbia, South Carolina; Richmond, Virginia; Olympia, Washington; and Charleston, West Virginia.

Business owners in the affected parts of cities have objected, claiming that naming a street after Martin Luther King is bad for business.

The following is a list of streets named after King in the United States.

Alabama
 Auburn: A section of Alabama State Route 14 is called Martin Luther King Drive, also known interchangeably as Loachapoka Road.
 Dothan: The portion of US 431 between Ross Clark Circle and its conjunction with US 231 is referred to as Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.
Huntsville: Dr. Martin Luther King expressway, located in North Huntsville and part of the Northern bypass. Also known as Alabama State Route 255 from Alabama State Route 53 to Pulaski Pike.
 Mobile: On Mobile's northside area, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue runs from Congress Street in downtown Mobile up to the intersections of Craft Highway and Saint Stephens Road. The section was formerly known as Davis Avenue from Congress Street to Bizell Avenue, and Stone Street from Bizell Ave. to Saint Stephens Road.
 Montgomery: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Expressway is I-85 from the Eastern Blvd to the I-65 interchange
 Scottsboro: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Street in Scottsboro runs north–south on the northwest side of town.
 Selma: In 1976, Sylvan Street was renamed Martin Luther King Street. King spent many days along Sylvan Street working for civil rights in the 1960s, especially by speaking at First Baptist Church and Brown Chapel. Brown Chapel is the background in a famous Time magazine photograph of King in the 1960s. Today, there is a monument honoring King in front of Brown Chapel. Brown Chapel was also the beginning of the route of the infamous Bloody Sunday march. Ironically, the street crosses Jefferson Davis Avenue, named after the president of the Confederacy.

Arizona
Glendale: Maryland Avenue from 91st to 95th avenues was renamed Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard by the city of Glendale in 2016.
Phoenix:  Phoenix was one of the last major cities not to have a major street named after Martin Luther King, Jr.  In 2015, a 13-mile stretch of Broadway Road in the predominately Black and Hispanic South Phoenix neighborhood was unofficially renamed Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard between 67th Avenue and 48th Street.  Broadway retains its original name, as the MLK Boulevard street signs are mainly posted at intersections with a traffic light.
 Maricopa: M. L. K. Jr. Boulevard runs by the Copper Sky Recreation Center.
 Sierra Vista: Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway runs east to west between Moorman and Arizona State Route 90, passing Veteran's Memorial Park.
 Tucson: M L King Jr. Way at the UA Tech Park at The Bridges, south of 36th Street near Kino Parkway.