[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# IDF Spokesperson's Unit

The IDF Spokesperson's Unit (, Dover Tsahal, abbr. Dotz) is the unit in the IDF Operations Directorate, responsible for information policy and media relations. The unit is led by the IDF Spokesperson, a brigadier general and member of the General Staff, and by the Deputy Spokesperson, a colonel. The current Spokesperson is Brig. Gen. Daniel Hagari.

Mandate and objectives
The IDF Spokesperson's Unit is responsible for the IDF's information policy and media relations in both peace and war time. According to its mission statement the purpose of the unit is "to report on the accomplishments and activities of the IDF to the Israeli and international public, to nurture public confidence in the IDF, and to serve as the IDF's primary professional authority on matters of public relations and distribution of information to the public".

The IDF Spokesperson's Unit was established as the liaison between the IDF and the domestic and foreign media and general public. The unit performs a variety of functions, including serving as the spokesperson for the IDF to domestic and foreign media, developing and implementing IDF public relations policies, disseminating military related information to the public, instructing IDF personnel in matters pertaining to public relations, and developing relationships with media outlets and accompanying them to military events. The unit services some 500 media outlets and 2500 journalists and civilian agents, addressing over 2000 inquiries a month.

The unit is also a key player for the public diplomacy efforts of the State of Israel. Indeed the 2015 IDF military doctrine highlights the strategic importance of using the power of the media. Economic, legal, media, and political aspects are considered as part of the military approach as much as military combat. Since 2008, the IDF has increasingly also invested in a strong presence on the most important social media platforms. In the meantime, the English-speaking Facebook page of the IDF is one of the most followed social media representations of armies worldwide. 

By charter, the unit is forbidden from engaging in psychological warfare and from the dissemination of falsified information.

History

The IDF Spokesperson's Unit was founded in 1948 with the creation of the State of Israel and the Israel Defense Forces. The first IDF Spokesman was Lt. Col. Moshe Pearlman, a journalist and immigrant from Britain who was appointed in 1948 with the establishment of the State. After the first several years of activity, the IDF Spokesperson's office was upgraded to unit status, under the authority of the Military Intelligence Directorate of the IDF. It was further upgraded to a full brigade in 1973.

In 1979, Brigadier General Yaakov Even opened the film and photography departments in the IDF Spokesperson's Unit which in turn opened the first International School for Combat Journalism and Photography in 2007.

During the Gulf War in the 1990s, the IDF Spokesperson's Unit was repositioned to directly report to the IDF Chief of Staff. The head of the unit at the time, Brig. Gen. Nachman Shai, changed the unit's uniform tag to the one it has today. It was later placed under the Operations Directorate during changes to the army made in 2000. In the year 2006, the Chief of Staff concentrated the Spokesperson's Unit as the professional military authority in matters of public relations. Within this concentrated framework, new branches, fields, and positions were opened within the unit.

Despite its presence on the front lines since 1948, the unit has only suffered one combat fatality, Sergeant Lior Ziv, a photographer who was killed during military operations in 2003.

The IDF Spokesperson's Unit commonly use a member of their staff to address the media. Lt. Col. Richard Hecht of the IDF is currently employed by the unit when addressing English speaking news agencies.

Structure

The unit has become the largest spokesperson unit in Israel. It counts more than 400 officers, civilians and soldiers. Additionally, a reserve unit of almost 1,200 soldiers and officers exists. The unit is headed by a Brigadier General and reports to the IDF's Operations Directorate. It is also represented on the IDF General Staff Forum and is directly subordinate to the Chief of the General Staff. The unit is divided into several sub-units which deal with various areas of activity including domestic and foreign press liaison, public relations, information, photography, film, video, organization and training: