[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Hotaling

s regularly heard praising Hotaling's bravery and resourcefulness. In 1868, General Charles C. Walcott said of Hotaling: "Our forces owed their success before Atlanta more to him than any other man."

In February 1863, Hotaling received word that his wife Sophia had died in Illinois of tuberculosis.

Postbellum career
Hotaling retired from service after the war and returned to Illinois, where he married a 39-year-old widow named Carrie Cass on December 9, 1868. In the fall of 1869, Hotaling was elected postmaster of Rochelle, a position he occupied until 1884. In 1871, Hotaling placed his wife in charge of his local business and ventured to Central America, lured by an opportunity in the railroad business. However, the tropical environment proved too difficult, and he returned to the States after six months. In February 1874, Hotaling traveled to South America with an interest in gold mining; once more, the climate and complex obstacles involved in the trade took their toll, and he returned home after two months. It would be his last known expedition outside the United States.

In the 1880s, after purchasing some land in the Dakota Territory, Hotaling moved to Huron but died of a heart attack in 1886, at the age of 62. His body was returned to Rochelle, where it is buried in the Lawnridge Cemetery. He had two children with his first wife Sophia, and one son with his second wife Carrie.

Samuel Fletcher, who served under Hotaling during the Civil War, eulogized his former commander thusly in his 1912 memoir of that conflict: "He was quiet, modest, sincere and dignified, but always pleasant and approachable. As a soldier, he was earnest, loyal and brave to a degree, and the welfare of his men was his first consideration. He never commanded a soldier to go where he would not lead, and never hesitated to lead because Death stood in the way."

References

Further reading
 Fletcher, Samuel and D.H. Fletcher. The History of Company A, Second Illinois Cavalry. Palala Press. 2015 re-issue. .

1824 births
1886 deaths
American people in rail transportation
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
Cavalry commanders
Engineers from Illinois
People of the California Gold Rush
Engineers from New York (state)
Illinois postmasters
People of Illinois in the American Civil War
People from Ogle County, Illinois
People from Sharon, New York
People from Huron, South Dakota
Union Army officers
United States Army officers