[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Royal Navy Submarine Service

nother destroyer also sunk. Upholder probably struck a mine on 13 April 1942.

On 8 September 1944, C-in-C Mediterranean ordered that the submarine base at La Maddalena be closed, and that Tenth Flotilla be disestablished and the submarines be incorporated into the First Submarine Flotilla at Malta.

Cold War 
The submarine force was cut back after the end of the war. The first British nuclear-powered submarine,  was launched in 1960, based around a U.S.-built nuclear reactor.  This was complemented by the  from 1966, which used a new British-built Rolls-Royce PWR1 reactor. The UK's strategic nuclear deterrent was transferred to the Royal Navy from the Royal Air Force at midnight on 30 June 1968, i.e. 1 July. The  ballistic missile submarines (SSBNs) were introduced to carry out this role under the Polaris programme from 1968.  These carried US-built UGM-27 Polaris A-3 missiles and were later replaced by the  submarines and the Trident missile system from 1994.

In 1978 the Flag Officer Submarines double-hatted as NATO Commander Submarine Force Eastern Atlantic (COMSUBEASTLANT) part of Allied Command Atlantic, moved from HMS Dolphin at Gosport to the Northwood Headquarters.

 made history in 1982 during the Falklands War when she became the first nuclear-powered submarine to sink a surface ship, the .  HMS Splendid and HMS Spartan hunted the Argentine Navy carrier group Task Group 79.1 but did not engage.

At the end of the Cold War in 1989 the Flag Officer Submarines, who was also COMSUBEASTLANT, a rear admiral, who , commanded a fleet of 30 submarines, which were grouped into four squadrons (First, Second, Third, and Tenth (SSBN)) at three bases.

Post Cold War 

In May 1991 s  and her sister  returned to the submarine base  in Gosport from patrol in the Persian Gulf flying Jolly Rogers, indicating successful actions.

In 1999  participated in the Kosovo Conflict and became the first Royal Navy submarine to fire a Tomahawk cruise missile in anger.

During Operation Veritas, the attack on Al-Qaeda and Taliban forces following the September 11 attacks in the United States, was the first Royal Navy submarine to launch Tomahawk cruise missiles against targets in Afghanistan.  was also involved in the initial strikes.  launched fourteen Tomahawks during the 2003 invasion of Iraq.

In 2011, HMS Triumph and Turbulent participated in Operation Ellamy. They launched Tomahawk cruise missiles at targets in Libya, firing the first shots of the operation.

In April 2016, The Sunday Times reported that Royal Navy submarines were to resume under-ice operations in the Arctic. Such operations have not taken place since 2007 after a fatal explosion on board . The crews of all seven active Royal Navy attack submarines will receive training on how to navigate below and "punch through" ice floes.

As of 2018, there had been three near misses between submerged Royal Navy submarines and civilian vessels due to "an insufficient appreciation of the location of surface ships in the vicinity", according to a Marine Accident Investigation Branch report.

For an extended period of time, the navy has had difficulty in attracting specialist staff into the nuclear submarine force, in part because of the long undersea patrols. In 2008 there were shortfalls of 28% in senior nuclear engineering officers, 23% in sonar and sensor operators, and 20% in nuclear weapons system junior ranks. In 2018, the National Audit Office highlighted the shortage of 337 skilled Royal Navy nuclear staff. In 2023, Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Sir Ben Key said recruiting for the submarine service was still proving difficult and the service was in a "war for talent".

Perisher

'Perisher' (as the Submarine Command Course is better known) is a 24-week course all officers must take prior to serving as an executive officer on board a Royal Navy submarine.  It has been run twice a year since 1917, usually starting on 2 July and 14 November each year.  It is widely regarded as one of the toughest command courses in the world, with a historical failure rate of 25%.

If at any point during the training a candidate is withdrawn from training they will be nominated for boat transfer and kept occupied until the transfer. Their bag is packed for them and they are notified of the failure when the boat arrives.  On departure they are presented with a bottle of whisky.  A failure on Perisher means that the unsuccessful candidate is not permitted to return to sea as a member of the Submarine Service (although they are still allowed to wear the dolphin badge). They are, however, permitted to remain in the Royal Navy, moving into the surface fleet.

In more recent years, the United States Navy has sent some of its own submariner officers to undergo the 'Perisher', in order to foster and maintain closer links with the Royal Navy.