[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Schools for Schools

for each school within the five categories listed above. The committee's ongoing involvement provides opportunities to understand the educational needs and obstacles at each school. With their input, Invisible Children is able to continually tailor their efforts to meet each school's specific needs.

Where the money goes
More than 90% of the funds raised from the Schools for Schools competition go directly to northern Uganda for implementation fostering children's educational purposes. The other 10% is used for administrative and material costs for the program and for motivation of teachers.

Pilot session
In the first semester, 582 international schools joined the competition and in only 100 days raised more than $1.6 million. Over 90% of those funds are currently being used on the ground in northern Uganda.

In July 2007, Schools for Schools began the first implementation of these projects. This first phase focused on refurbishment projects as well as the construction of new classrooms and science laboratories at Lacor Secondary School, Gulu High School, Layibi Secondary School, and Atanga Secondary School. Construction at these sites began in July 2007 and continued until February 2008. In February, the second phase of implementation began, focusing on the remaining projects in all ten schools. Major works for infrastructure implementation include the completion of a second story of a new girls' dormitory; the construction of classroom blocks and science laboratories; renovation and refurbishment of existing classrooms and administrative blocks; perimeter fencing; borehole construction; and renovation of plumbing systems. Schools for Schools also provides equipment and resources, including textbooks, sports and art materials, science apparatus, and other teaching and learning materials. Training and support are provided through workshops, regular stakeholders' sessions, and monitoring and evaluation.

All Round One projects in these schools were completed by June 2008.

The first project undertaken by the Schools for Schools implementation team was a two-story girls’ dormitory at Gulu High School, completed in February 2008. A grant from Africare was used to carry out water and sanitation improvements at seven of the 10 schools.

Round two
Round Two of Schools for Schools launched in September 2007 and ended January 2008, with money still coming in months later. More than $1.7 million came in from this semester and was funneled back to the 10 partner schools, continuing to improve the quality of education for thousands of students.

The team on the ground worked closely with the School Development Committees to spend this money, carry out needs and infrastructure assessments, draw building plans, seek technical advice, and devise budgets. This second phase of projects began in July 2008.

Round three

Round Three of Schools for Schools will start on September 8, 2008 with an international tour and an additional partner school in northern Uganda - Keyo Secondary School.

Unique to this semester is the release of Invisible Children's latest piece of media, GO!, a documentary that captures the adventure of a group of American students traveling to northern Uganda during the summer of 2007.

See also
Invisible Children - The Documentary
Displace Me
Global Night Commute
Operation Day's Work

References

External links
Invisible Children website
Schools for Schools website 
Schools for Schools Tour Info 

Fundraising
Foreign relations of Uganda
Invisible Children
Organizations for children affected by war