[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Todd Rokita

ive majority has "become increasingly hostile to voters" by siding with Indiana's voter identification laws which tend to "disenfranchise large numbers of people without driver's licenses, especially poor and minority voters". Senator Al Franken criticized the ruling for "eroding individual rights."

Redistricting 
In September 2009, Rokita outlined a plan called "Rethinking Redistricting" to reform how Indiana's legislative districts are drawn to reduce gerrymandering. He proposed making it a felony for lawmakers to use political data or incumbents' addresses when drawing electoral maps. Rokita said boundaries should follow existing county and township lines, and that each of the 50 Senate districts should be divided into two House districts, claiming that would lead to more competitive legislative elections.

The reform plan sought to achieve these five objectives:

 Keep communities of interest together
 Create more compact and geographically uniform districts
 Reduce voters' confusion about who represents them by following already existing political boundaries, such as county and township lines
 Not use any political data, including incumbent addresses, for partisan reasons
 "Nest" two House districts under the existing lines of a Senate district

U.S. House of Representatives
Rokita was a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from 2011 to 2019. Rokita vacated his House seat to run for the Indiana U.S. Senate seat held by Democrat Joe Donnelly, losing the Republican nomination to eventual senator Mike Braun.

In October 2013 during the American government shutdown, Rokita was interviewed by CNN journalist Carol Costello. Her pointed questions about Rokita's defense of the shutdown that furloughed hundreds of thousands of government employees without compensation while he continued to receive his paycheck, were eventually countered with his statement that she was "beautiful but you have to be honest" and that journalists were part of the problem. The Congressman's office issued a statement that he intended no offense by his comments.

Attorney General of Indiana
In 2020, Rokita challenged incumbent Attorney General of Indiana Curtis Hill for the Republican nomination.  Rokita defeated Hill for re-nomination in mail-in voting at the Republican state convention, gaining 52% of the vote on the third round. Rokita's nomination marked a political comeback after his unsuccessful runs for governor in 2016 and U.S. Senate in 2018. In the general election, Rokita faced Democratic nominee Jonathan Weinzapfel, a former mayor of Evansville. Rokita defeated Weinzapfel in the November election, the sixth consecutive election in which Republicans retained control of the AG's office.

Rokita was sworn in as Attorney General in January 2021. In 2021, Rokita faced scrutiny for collecting tens of thousands of dollars in payments for advisory roles from various healthcare and pharmaceutical companies while holding public office. In July 2022, Lauren Robel, former Indiana University provost and law school dean, sent a three-page letter to the Indiana Supreme Court Disciplinary Commission calling for a disciplinary investigation into Rokita, alleging he made "false or baseless" statements on Fox News concerning an Indiana doctor who performed an abortion for a 10-year-old Ohio rape victim.

Election reform 
Rokita led a letter signed by 20 Republican state attorneys general opposing the For the People Act, election reform legislation introduced by Democrats in the United States House of Representatives. In March 2021, Rokita testified in the U.S. Senate Rules Committee in opposition to the legislation, threatening to sue if the bill became law. Rokita asserted voting laws should be based on voters' perceptions, rather than any actual evidence of fraud. Democratic Senator Jon Ossoff, responding to Rokita's statement, said he took exception to the notion "that public concern regarding the integrity of the recent election is born of anything but a deliberate and sustained misinformation campaign led by a vain former president unwilling to accept his own defeat" and that said he found it disturbing that a state attorney general "would indulge in that kind of misinformation and spread those kinds of conspiracies".

Lawsuits against the Biden administration
Rokita joined other Republican state AGs in suing the Biden administration over an executive order on environmental protection and climate change.

Abortion case