[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dmitri Polyakov

disappeared from the CIA's "radar." Bagley says Kondrashev told him that an unnamed "mole" in the CIA had reported to KGB headquarters what Polyakov was telling the CIA, and that Polyakov was arrested, tried, and executed because the KGB realized he was telling the CIA more than he was supposed to.

Arrest and execution
Polyakov was arrested by the KGB in 1986, six years after his retirement from the GRU. His contacts at the CIA had no information about what had happened to him. Only later did it become clear that he may have been betrayed by two moles for the Russians: Robert Hanssen in the FBI and Aldrich Ames in the CIA. In 1988, Polyakov was sentenced to death for treason, and subsequently executed.

Legacy
According to the official story, Polyakov remained a CIA informant for twenty-five years as he rose through the ranks, eventually becoming a general. CIA officers speak in superlatives about the kind of information he provided. CIA officer Jeanne Vertefeuille said, "He didn't do this for money. He insisted on staying in place to help us. It was a bad day for us when we lost him." Polyakov insisted on being paid only $3,000 a year and accepted this payment mostly in the form of power tools along with fishing and hunting equipment. Sandy Grimes said that Polakov was "the best source at least to my knowledge that American intelligence has ever had and I would submit, although I certainly can't be certain, but the best source that any intelligence service has ever had." She also noted, “This was a man of tremendous courage...In the end, we won. The Cold War is over and the Soviet Union was dissolved.” Former CIA director James Woolsey said, "Polyakov was the jewel in the crown" and in a 2001 interview he told a reporter, "What Gen. Polyakov did for the West didn't just help us win the Cold War...it kept the Cold War from becoming hot.”

Some CIA and FBI officials, including Deputy Director William Sullivan, believed that, at some point, Polyakov was turned by the Soviets and made into a triple agent who deceived the West with disinformation. Others, like former Soviet Russia Division Counterintelligence Chief Tennent H. Bagley (mentioned above) later came to believe that Polyakov had been a KGB agent in the U.S. in 1962, and that he later "flipped" and became a spy for the CIA when he was posted abroad.

Among the important information Polyakov provided:
 Evidence of the rift between the Soviet Union and China. This information played a crucial role in Richard Nixon's decision to open diplomatic relations with China in 1972.
 Technical data on Soviet-made antitank missiles.  While the US never fought the Soviet Union directly, knowledge of these weapons proved invaluable when Iraq employed them in the Gulf War.
 Proof that British Intelligence official Frank Bossard was a mole for the USSR.

References

1921 births
1988 deaths
GRU officers
Soviet major generals
Soviet military personnel of World War II
Soviet people executed for spying for the United States
People executed by the Soviet Union by firearm
Frunze Military Academy alumni
Russian spies
Executed Soviet people from Ukraine
Soviet military attachés