[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# American Miners' Association

mines rose to three or four times its former value. When word of these high wages and need for experienced miners reached the ear of British workers in England, thousands emigrated to the United States and took advantage of the situation by enjoying high wages and bargaining rights.

Public scrutiny

Although rapid strides in the advancement of this national union were accomplished, they were still done under a great deal of public scrutiny. As stated earlier with the fall of local organizations, coal miners in the United States were often misunderstood and unfavorably judged, more than any other class of laborers in the world.  The prejudice beliefs that were forced upon them were traced to the corporations that employed them.  And because union meetings often took place in public spaces, journalist were known to infiltrated them in order to spread rumors of barbaric and uncivilized tactics. However, it was during times of strikes that newsletters would publish unfair and unverifiable images of miners. This was a major problem because it provided no fair representation to the miners or their grievances.

Fall of the organization

End of Civil War

When the Civil War ended, soldiers who originally left their position returned to their work and war industries that required large amount of coal were shut down.  With the increase in workers and decrease in coal, competition among producers resulted in extreme measures. Contractors cut the prices of their coal in order to make contracts in an already dull market. As a result, wages for miners were drastically cut and strikes ensued.  During the first year of the Civil War, strikes were somewhat successful with the former rate of wages restored. However, as strikes slowly began to be unsuccessful, internal dissension destroyed the union from the inside.

Strikes

The strikes that the union participated in generally dealt with wage cuts. Union representatives argued that the wage cuts were unwarranted and unjust. However, companies argued that they were allowed to cut the wages when the market was damaged. Although successful during the first year after the Civil War, unions eventually started to lose strikes. The strikes of 1867 and 1868 eventually brought the American Miners’ Association down all over the country, resulting in internal dissensions among labor leaders, members, and officers.

Notes

References
 Coal Mines and Coal Miners: The Story of a Great Industry and the Men Who Work In It, I.W.W. Educational Bureau (1923). Chapter 10, The Struggle Towards Organization Among The Coal-Mine WorkersRetrieved May 8, 2007
 Andrew, Roy (1907). A History of Coal Miners of the United States, from the Development of the Mines to the Close of the Anthracite Strike of 1902. Press of J.L. Trauger Printing Company.
 ''British History in Depth: The Chartist Movement 1838 - 1848'".BBC. Retrieved 25 November 2014.
 Mcneill, George Edwin; Powderly, Terence Vincent; James, Edmund Janes (1887). The Labor Movement: The Problem of To-Day: The History, Purpose and Possibilities of Labor Organizations in Europe and America. A.M. Bridgeman & Co.
 Weaver, Daniel (1864). ''Constitution and Laws for the Government and Guidance of the American Miners' Association''. Belleville, Ill: "Miner" Office. Retrieved 12 December 2014.

See also

Miners' labor disputes in the United States
Mining in the United States
1861 establishments in Illinois
Trade unions established in 1861
Mining trade unions
Trade unions disestablished in the 1860s