[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Edward Lipiński (economist)

not be decreed. It is and may only be born of free actions of free people" and pledged that "the movement of revival shall gain strength and the recently intensified repression will not contain it for much longer…" Lipinski's letter came at the time of renewal of massive strikes and riots in Poland.

The letter also coincided with the formation of the Workers' Defence Committee, which marked the beginning of successful cooperation of workers and intellectuals. Also known as the KOR, this group founded by Edward Lipiński, Stanisław Barańczak, Jan Józef Lipski and others gave assistance to worker protest participants jailed after the widespread strikes. Lipiński was one of the elder distinguished members of the organization, whose presence added a degree of protection from the authorities. The assistance provided by the KOR and the continual activities of its members helped, after another wave of strikes, make the Gdańsk Agreement of 1980 possible. On 23 September 1981, Lipiński gave a speech to Solidarity independent trade union first national congress, announcing the disbanding of the KOR. He heralded the arrival of Solidarity as a political force, saying  "The KOR has recognized that its work has ended, and that other forces have arrived on a much more powerful scale. But the task of fighting for an independent Poland, for human and civil rights, is a fight that still must go on."

Works

Lipiński is the author of nearly 200 books and essays on subjects ranging from the theory of economic fluctuations, a field upon which he wielded a great influence, to industrial performance, prices and planning, market structures, and in his early career, social issues. A great deal of his work was dedicated to socio-economic research. Never relying solely on mathematical models and theory to predict and explain economical phenomena, Lipiński is known for the emphasis on human creativity and spontaneity. In his seminal Karl Marx and Problems of Our Time, Lipiński posits that economics are a "complex social phenomena" and he draws on sociology and psychology to explain trends, as much as he relies on mathematics.

Selected bibliography of texts available in English:
Studies in the History of Polish Economic Thought (1956)
Karl Marx and the Problems of Our Time (1969)
Development of Agriculture and Industry (1955)

Memberships and positions held

Member Polish Socialist Party
Member Polish United Workers' Party
President Bank of Economic Developments
Minister of the Statistical Office
Chair of Economics, Higher Academy of International Trade (1930-retirement)
Chair of Economics, Warsaw University (post World War II)
Founder and Head of the Institute of Trade Cycles and Prices (1928)
Director of the Institute of National Economy (1956)
Editor of The Economist (1928-1978)
President Polish Academy of Economists
Founding member Workers' Defense Committee, KOR (1976)
Solidarity advisor (1981)

References

N. Assorodobraj-Kula et al., eds., Studies in Economic Theory and Practice: Essays in Honor of Edward Lipinski New York: North Holland Publishing Company, 1981, ix-x.
Andrzej Brzeski, review of Karol Marks i Zagadnienia Wspolczesnosci, by Edward Lipinski, Journal of Economic Literature Vol. 14, No.2 (Jun, 1976), pp. 478–480.
"Obituary of Professor Edward Lipinski," The Times, 16 July 1986 .
Bernhard, Michael H., The Origins of Democratization in Poland: Workers, Intellectuals, and Oppositional Politics 1976-1980 (New York: Columbia University Press, 1993), 76.
Abraham Brumberg, Edward Lipinski, Jan Litynski, “After Gdańsk: Two Interviews,” New York Review of Books Vol. 27, No. 15 (Oct. 9, 1980)
Edward Lipinski, "Lipinski's Farewell," New York Review of Books Vol. 28, No. 18 (Nov. 19, 1981)
 Witold Gadomski, Edward Lipiński - ekonomista, socjalista, Gazeta Wyborcza, 2003-09-19

1888 births
1986 deaths
Members of the Workers' Defence Committee
Polish dissidents
Polish economists
Academic staff of the University of Warsaw
Recipients of the Order of the Banner of Work
Recipients of the State Award Badge (Poland)