[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Harley-Davidson WLA

ments, was fitted to handle the dust of off-road use and to allow easier field maintenance. Oil bath cleaners require only the addition of standard motor oil rather than replaceable filters.
 fording: changes to the crankcase breather reduced the possibility of water intake into the crankcase.

Uses

The US Army would use motorcycles for police and escort work, courier duties, and some scouting, as well as limited use to transport radio and radio suppression equipment. Allied motorcycles were almost never used as combat vehicles or for troop mobility, and so were rarely equipped with sidecars as was common on the German side.
The WLAs in Soviet service however were often equipped with sidecars and were used as battlevehicles in the frontlines.Nevertheless, the WLA acquired the nickname "Liberator", since it was seen ridden by soldiers liberating occupied Europe.

Technology
The engine of the WLA is a side-valve design, which is reliable though not particularly efficient in comparison to overhead-valve designs. Harley-Davidson already had overhead valve engines in production for its Big Twin lines, but the "small twin" flathead design was popular in applications needing low cost and reliability more than power. This engine remained in production from 1937 to 1973 in the Servi-Car, although it was superseded in two-wheeled motorcycles by the more advanced flathead engine used in the Model K in 1952, the short-lived ancestor engine of the OHV Sportster from 1957.

Though the model designation suggested high compression, for reliability, the Army version actually used a medium-compression version. In modern terms, the WLA's compression ratio of 5:1 is very low. Due to this low compression ratio, a WLA will run on 74 octane gasoline.

The WLA also features springer front suspension. Harley-Davidson would not adopt telescopic front forks until after the war. The rear wheel had no suspension, giving this type of motorcycle the nickname "hard tail".

Other military motorcycles

Harley-Davidson provided motorcycles to the Army during World War I and for earlier excursions against Mexican revolutionaries such as Pancho Villa.

During World War II, the Army produced a specification for a motorcycle much like the BMWs used by German forces. That meant shaft drive, a boxer engine, and several other features that made the BMWs exceptionally reliable and low-maintenance machines. Harley-Davidson produced the XA based closely on the BMW. About 1,000 were produced. Due to its new features and low production, the XA was expensive, and by that time it was clear that the Jeep was the Army's general purpose vehicle of choice; the less advanced but cheaper WLA was considered sufficient for its limited roles.

Other motorcycles produced by HD for World War II included US Army and Canadian versions of the Big Twin EL family, the ELA and ELC, as well as an Army version of the U, the UA. There was also an experimental three-wheeler TA with a 69 ci EL-motor.
These were produced mainly for "home front" use, and not in very large numbers. Consequently, they are very rare today.

Indian, Harley-Davidson's major competitor at the time, also produced some war-time models, such as the Indian 640, Indian CAV/340, Indian 741, and a longitudinal V-twin shaft-drive model, the Indian 841.

Harley-Davidson would later produce the MT350E, after acquiring the British Armstrong company in 1987. These were dual-sport machines, capable of both on-road and off-road service, powered by 350 cc Rotax engines. The MT350E was a redesign of the 500 cc Armstrong MT500, which reduced weight, added an electric start, and upgraded pollution standards. The MT500 began as the Italian SWM XN Tornado, which Armstrong acquired the rights to in 1984 when SWM liquidated, and then modified for military use with assistance from CCM. The MT350E mostly saw British and Canadian service, and some are still in use.

See also
BMW R75
Zündapp KS 750
Harley-Davidson XA
Indian 841
Sokol 1000 M111
G-numbers
List of motorcycles of the 1940s
List of motorcycles of the 1950s

References

Guides and manuals
TM 9-2800
TM 9-879
TM 9-1879
SNL G523

External links
 
"The Unofficial Harley-Davidson XA Website"
www.theliberator.be
www.autogallery.org.ru
Harley-Davidson MT350E Army Bike, part 1 and part 2 at www.realclassic.co.uk
Harley-Davidson WLA and other 45 transmission ratios
http://www.olive-drab.com/idphoto/id_photos_harleywla.php3
Harley-Davidson WLA  at U.S. Veterans Memorial Museum

WLA
World War II military vehicles
Military motorcycles
World War II vehicles of the United States
Motorcycles introduced in the 1940s
Motorcycles powered by V engines
Military vehicles introduced from 1940 to 1944