[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Edgio

Edgio, Inc., evolved from Limelight Networks, a 20-year provider content delivery services to stream digital content over the internet.  Following a 2022 acquisition of Edgecast, the company re-branded as Edgio and has grown to offer a full suite of edge-enabled applications that run on the company's globally scaled network.  These applications include video workflow and automation, website acceleration, and cyber security. As of January 2023, the company's network has more than 300 points-of-presence and delivers with 250+ terabits per second of egress capacity across the globe.

Company history 

Edgio was founded in 2001 in Tempe, Arizona as Limelight Networks, a provider of content delivery network services. The company's Limelight Orchestrate Platform delivers Live and On-Demand video and online content to any connected device anywhere in the world.

In July 2006, the company closed a $130 million equity financing round led by Goldman Sachs Capital Partners. Limelight Networks later raised $240 million in an initial public offering, during June 2007, selling 16 million shares at $15. In April 2008, company founder Michael Gordon was recognized as a "Streaming Media All-Star" by StreamingMedia Magazine, for his contributions to the industry.

Over the years, Limelight has received several other awards for its services including, receiving Frost & Sullivan's prestigious award for Product Line Strategy in 2012. Forrester Research named Limelight a Strong Performer in The Forrester Wave™: Online Video Platforms, Q1 2013.

In October 2017, Limelight Networks was recognized on Streaming Media's List of "100 Companies that Matter Most in Online Video".

In January 2021, Limelight Networks and its board of directors announced that Bob Lyons has been named as the new president and CEO of Limelight Networks, Inc. and will join the company and the board of directors effective February 1, 2021.  Mr. Lyons was formerly CEO of Alert Logic.

In September 2021, Limelight Networks acquired Moov Corporation, which did business as Layer0. The acquisition of Layer0 added website orchestration and workflow products, now part of Edgio's Applications suite. 

On June 16, 2022, Limelight Networks completed the acquisition of Edgecast from Yahoo! Inc. and rebranded itself to Edgio. The acquisition of Edgecast expanded the reach of Edgio's global delivery network, and also added enterprise-class security solutions to the product portfolio.  Additionally, Edgecast brought the Uplynk product - a video workflow and orchestration tool for the streaming of live and on-demand events.  Following this acquisition, Edgio developed two distinct offerings - its Applications suite, consisting of website orchestration and cybersecurity solutions; and its Media suite, consisting of media delivery on its global edge network and video streaming solutions.

Edgio had received several industry accolades. In November 2022, an Industry Analyst firm, Quadrant Knowledge Solutions, conducted research into the commercial content delivery network services marketplace and named Edgio as a Leader in the 2022 SPARK Matrix Report.

In March 2023, another leading Industry analyst firm, IDC, categorized Edgio as a Major Cloud Platform for Cloud-Native PaaS Solutions.

In early June 2023, Frost & Sullivan assessed the holistic web protection platform industry and based on its findings, recognized Edgio with the 2023 Global Customer Value Leadership Award.

In late June 2023, GigaOm, a technology focused analyst firm and media company, awarded Edgio the Leadership and Outperformer position in its latest GigaOm Radar for Edge Platforms v3 Report. Edgio was recognized as the leader in the graphic and several tables, and defined as a platform player with maturity within the market.

In July 2023, Edgio was recognized as a Leader in the Frost Radar: Global Content Delivery Network, 2023, by research and consulting firm Frost & Sullivan.

Technologies 

Edgio operates its own private network with more than 250+ terabits per second of global egress capacity.  The network consists of dense clusters of specially configured servers in more than 300 delivery locations (points-of-presence) which are interconnected through the company's global network and connected to more than 1000 Internet service provider (ISP) networks.  Edgio caches web content for its customers in multiple delivery locations around the world, serving it to users from the fastest location. A private fiber network backbone between its delivery locations allows cache-fill traffic and dynamic content to bypass the public internet and improve the delivery speed of content. This architecture is managed by intelligent proprietary software that increases the speed of delivery with fewer cache misses and can scale to handle surges in end-user demand.