[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stechkin automatic pistol

to the frame and prevents forward travel of the free-floating firing pin. When pointed downwards to the "OD", or single-shot position, the safety lever deactivates the auto-sear and rate reducer to allow semi-automatic fire. Finally, the rearmost "AVT" position puts the APS in fully automatic mode.

The trigger mechanism of the APS is of a simple construction and features a double/single-action fire mode. It comprises a trigger and trigger bar, disconnector, sear and hammer. The rebounding hammer, when in resting state, has an intermediate safety intercept notch that does not allow forward travel of the hammer unless the sear is raised. Disconnection is achieved through a cam in the slide.

To make controllable automatic fire possible through such a system, designer Stechkin employs several mechanical solutions. Firstly, the slide has a very long stroke (three times the length of the cartridge). This allows time to slow the slide down and reduce felt recoil by minimising the jolt produced through the collision of the slide with the frame. Secondly, the rate-reducer lever offers extra resistance to the opening stroke of the slide, further slowing down the cycling process. Finally, the primary inertial rate reducing plunger delays the dropping of the hammer after the slide closes. The slide has a large cam that strikes a lever downwards. This lever transfers that energy to a spring-loaded weight located in the grip. The weight travels down, compressing its spring, then slams back up into the trigger bar, tripping the sear and firing the gun. Effectively, the rate reducer, which reduced the automatic rate of fire from 1,000 RPM to 750RPM, also acts as the auto-sear.

The machine pistol may be fitted with a wooden (early), brown bakelite or steel wire shoulder stock (for the APB variant); otherwise, the weapon becomes difficult to control on full auto. The stock is attached via a T-slot cut into the rear strap of the pistol frame. The stock is hollowed out and can act as a holster, accepting the machine pistol inside, similar to the Mauser C96 pistol. A Leather sling and ammunition pouch were also supplied with the weapon.

APB

The APB (Avtomaticheskiy Pistolet Besshumniy, meaning automatic silenced pistol) version was a version of the APS optimized for silent operations. Developed in the early 1970s by A.S. Neugodov (А.С. Неугодов) under the factory name AO-44, it was officially adopted in 1972 under the service name APB and given GRAU index 6P13. Approximately 2,000 APS pistols were converted to APB variants by the Vyatskie Polyansky Machine-Building Plant from 1972 to 1973. Muzzle velocity reportedly dropped to 290 m/s in this variant. Instead of the holster-stock of the APS, the APB comes with a detachable stock made of steel wire. Its barrel is longer than that of the APS; it protrudes from the slide and is threaded for the attachment of an eccentric sound suppressor. When not in use, the detachable sound suppressor can be clipped to the stock.

During the Soviet–Afghan War, the APB was used by Soviet Spetsnaz team leaders as an extra weapon; they usually carried on a sling with the suppressor and stock mounted. It was used by radio operators and even by some heavy gun crews. Special forces units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD) such as the OMON and the SOBR have also used the pistol.

Users 
 
 
 
 : In service with OMON, SOBR, special forces and customs authorities.
 :A number of APS pistols were supplied from the USSR to the People's Republic of Bulgaria, they remained in service after 1990.
 : People's Armed Police Force
 
 
 :After the reunification of Germany, a number of APS pistols were purchased by the German company "Transarms" for the German police.
 : State Courier Service
 
 
 : People's Movement for the Liberation of Azawad
 : Manufactured variant known as Dracula md. 98
 : Used by various police forces and security guards of the Central Bank of The Russian Federation
 : Used in limited amounts in the Kobre anti-terrorist unit.

See also
 List of Russian weaponry
 PB (pistol)
 Škorpion
 FB PM-63

References

External links

 Modern Firearms - Stechkin APS pistol
 Modern Firearms -  APB / 6P13 silenced pistol
 APB Silenced Machine Pistol
 Юрий Пономарёв, АПС, Kalashnikov magazine 2005/1, pp 34–43; has some APS diagrams 
 Photos of APS and APB in service
 APB photo gallery; disassembled photo showing the expansion tube and drilled barrel
  
  

9×18mm Makarov machine pistols
9mm Parabellum submachine guns 
Cold War firearms of the Soviet Union
Silenced firearms
Pistols of the Soviet Union
Vyatskiye Polyany Machine-Building Plant products
Weapons and ammunition introduced in 1951