[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Kendra's Law

compared with the AOT group in the period during and shortly after assignment."

Another study found, "The odds of arrest for participants currently receiving AOT were nearly two-thirds lower (OR=.39, p<.01) than for individuals who had not yet initiated AOT or signed a voluntary service agreement."

A study previously cited also found, "The likelihood of psychiatric hospital admission was significantly reduced by approximately 25% during the initial six-month court order ... and by over one-third during a subsequent six-month renewal of the order.... Similar significant reductions in days of hospitalization were evident during initial court orders and subsequent renewals.... Improvements were also evident in receipt of psychotropic medications and intensive case management services. Analysis of data from case manager reports showed similar reductions in hospital admissions and improved engagement in services."

A peer-reviewed study that included an analysis on the costs of assisted outpatient treatment found that in New York City net costs declined 50 percent in the first year after AOT began and an additional 13 percent in the second year. In non-NYC counties, costs declined 62 percent in the first year and an additional 27 percent in the second year. This was in spite of the fact that psychotropic drug costs increased during the first year after initiation of AOT, by 40 percent and 44 percent in the city and five-county samples, respectively. The increased community-based mental health costs were more than offset by the reduction in inpatient and incarceration costs. Cost declines associated with AOT were about twice as large as those seen for voluntary services.

Another study found that "In all three regions, for all three groups, the predicted probability of a M(edication) P(ossession) R(atio) ≥80% improved over time (AOT improved by 31–40 percentage points, followed by enhanced services, which improved by 15–22 points, and 'neither treatment,' improving 8–19 points)."Another peer review study on the effect of AOT on the mental health system found that "In tandem with New York's AOT program, enhanced services increased among involuntary recipients, whereas no corresponding increase was initially seen for voluntary recipients. In the long run, however, overall service capacity was increased, and the focus on enhanced services for AOT participants appears to have led to greater access to enhanced services for both voluntary and involuntary recipients."

Finally, a study found individuals in AOT stay in treatment after AOT ends. "When the court order was for seven months or more, improved medication possession rates and reduced hospitalization outcomes were sustained even when the former AOT recipients were no longer receiving intensive case coordination services."

Current status 

On January 15, 2013, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo signed into law a new measure that extended Kendra's Law through 2017.

Forty-seven states have adopted laws allowing for AOT.

In February 2021, Governor Cuomo suggested that state lawmakers should revisit or expand Kendra's law, after New York City experienced a spate of violent attacks committed by people with untreated mental illness.

References

External links
 No Involuntary Outpatient Torture – (Commitment) – WE THE PEOPLE
 MindFreedom International
 The Law Project for Psychiatric Rights
 Nationwide Organizing Call to Action: STOP forced "mental health treatment" – WE THE PEOPLE
 Center for Human Rights of Users and Survivors of Psychiatry
 National Association of Rights, Protection & Advocacy
 Kendra's Law
 Summary of the law
 NYCLU stance on the Law
 Myths about Kendra's Law
 National Mental Health Consumers' Self-Help Clearinghouse
 Kendra's Law, Not Ours

Mental health law in the United States
United States disability legislation
New York (state) statutes
1999 in American law
1999 in New York (state)
1999 politics in New York (state)