[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Attan

Attan () is the national dance of Afghanistan. It is a traditional dance originating from the tribal Pashtun regions of Afghanistan and North Western Pakistan. Some believe it has spiritual roots connecting it to Zoroastrianism.

The dance is performed during weddings or other celebrations (engagements, weddings and informal gatherings). The Attan was also conducted by Pashtuns in times of war such as the British occupation and the Pashtun resistance movement, when Pashtuns used the dance to instil confidence and energy among warriors readying to battle the colonisers. It is now considered the national dance of Afghanistan, popularly carried by other ethnic groups in Afghanistan as well as by the Pashtun ethnic group in Pakistan.

The traditional Attan is a special type of dance performed by a troupe of Pashtun tribesmen who would wave swords by the Khattak tribe or guns by the Mehsud tribe or scarves in the air while drummers beat drums. They move around in a present circle whilst twirling aligned with the drum beat.

Depending on the region and tribe, there are different methods and styles of the Pashtun attan, for example Paktia attan and styles.

Attan is performed traditionally segregated although in modern times, Afghans have performed the dance with both men and women.

Origin
Attan is a traditional Pashtun dance. It is said to have Pre-Islamic roots, some identify Attan as a religious ceremony of early Zoroastrianism.

According to folklore's King Yama, a figure in Iranian mythology, celebrated Nawroz by performing an Attan with his warriors.

Closely related circle dances can be found in the Khorasan and Sistan and Baluchestan provinces of Iran., commonly known as Chapi or Torbati there ("رقص خراسانی"or "رقص سیستانی").

Attan is usually performed with a Dohol, which is a double-headed barrel drum. The dance can be anywhere from 5 to 30 minutes long. There are many different regional and tribal variations and styles of Attan, the most famous being Wardaki, Logari, Paktia, Khosti, Kandahari, and Herati.

During King Yama's time, Attan was performed before going to war because it used to give the army the confidence that they could win the battle. As well as being the national dance of Afghanistan, attan is also a very popular part of festivals, weddings, and other forms of celebrations.

Movement
To the accompaniment of drums and pipes the dancers form a circle, taking each other by the hand or preparing to revolve in circles of their own. The dance starts with slow steps that gradually get faster and faster until it seems the performers must drop from exhaustion. However, the dance continues, sometimes for two or three hours at a stretch, with no breaks except a lowering of tempo or changes in the tunes and songs.

What the Attan Dance consists of:
The dancers gather in a circle, and then is followed by music which starts slow at first, and then gradually speeds up. There is a consistent beat and rhythm, and during that specific beat is when they clap inside the circle, so the movement of the hands is outside prior to the beat. It is then followed by the dancers bringing their hands out and then clapping inside the circle, and it is the same routine and pattern of movement, which then get faster. As the movements and routine get faster, the one clap turns into two claps, and the dancers who are more advanced, at times will add turns into the movements. All in all, they must keep the circular path with the clap on the beat, every other move added is up to the individuals who originate and add their own personal style to the dance. Common dance moves involve the extending of arms into air and the stretch and extension of legs. When extending arms into air, there are times when the hands are free or there is the waving of the regalia and extension of the attire to show the detail and color.

Instruments
Most essential instrument of course is the Dhol (Drum). But dohls vary by sizes, for some types the size is relatively small. The reason for that could be geographic but the distinction between dohls is apparent among the various types of Attans. The tablah is a single-headed hand-drum found in most Arab music ensembles. The goblet-shaped body (cylindrical with a slightly narrowed waist) was traditionally made out of fired clay, and the sounding head out of goat, calf, or fish skin, stretched and glued permanently on the body. The second most important instrument is the zurna surnay, although very common, the surnay is not essential with every type.

Attire

Performers often wear traditional regalia when participating in the lively dance. Usually during the celebratory occasions, men can also be seen wearing suits and ties for a more formal look. The women can be found wearing bright, colorful dresses. These dresses can be accompanied with tiny mirrors on them which are said to symbolize light. The tiny mirrors add great detail and shine under the lights as the women move and dance.