[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Robert Pollack (biologist)

t. Arriving at Columbia in 1978, he soon joined the Columbia College Committee on Instruction, responsible for approving academic policy changes, new courses, and new major proposals. Pollack has been a consistent supporter of the Core Curriculum as a mandatory component of undergraduate education. 

Pollack was an early advocate for the inclusion of science curriculum within Columbia's Core Curriculum. To accomplish this goal, Pollack, alongside Herbert Goldstein and Jonathon Gross, developed a course entitled the Theory and Practice of Science, aimed at providing scientific literacy to the general student population, funded by a $30,000 grant from the Exxon Mobil Foundation along with an anonymous $30,000 donation, later revealed to be a personal donation from Columbia University President Michael Sovern. Based on a belief that fundamental scientific papers double as literary masterpieces, Pollack's portion of the course was organized around key publications in biochemistry, evolution, and genetics. In 1983, the course received an additional $240,000 in support from the Mellon Foundation. Although the course was taught for at least fourteen years, it failed enter the core curriculum, due to concerns regarding the breadth of technical concepts within the discussed works. Pollack later contributed to and taught in Frontiers of Science, a general science curriculum developed by David Helfand and Darcy Kelley, former instructors for The Theory and Practice of Science, which was added to the Core Curriculum in 2005.

Personal life
Pollack is married to Amy Steinberg, an artist. They co-authored The Course of Nature: A Book of Drawings on Natural Selection and Its Consequences (2014), consisting of Steinberg's drawings and Pollack's commentary. Their daughter Marya Pollack, who graduated as a member of the first coeducational class of students from Columbia College in 1987, is an attending physician at New York Presbyterian Hospital and Assistant Clinical Professor in Psychiatry at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons.

References

External links
Curriculum Vitae
Research Cluster on Science and Society
The University Seminars at Columbia University

Jewish American scientists
Brandeis University alumni
Columbia College (New York) alumni
Columbia University faculty
Fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science
History of biotechnology
New York University faculty
Place of birth missing (living people)
Living people
21st-century American biologists
Scientists from Brooklyn
Scientists from New York (state)
Jewish American academics
Jewish biologists
1940 births
Science communicators