[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Remah Synagogue

o the women's section. It has white painted limestone walls with large round headed windows in the north and south sides and lunettes on the east and west sides. A number of chandeliers, some standing, and others hanging from the ceiling contribute to the bright and airy atmosphere of the interior. 

The prayer hall features a centrally situated rectangular bimah with a reconstructed wrought-iron enclosure that has two entrances, one displaying an 18th-century polychrome double door coming from a destroyed synagogue outside Kraków. The bimah door is decorated with a crowned menorah in gilded bas-reliefs whose style appears to have been inspired by the popular art of the region. The late Renaissance style Holy Ark has an Art Nouveau door, above which there are Hebrew inscriptions from the Bible. Although the synagogue has been rebuilt many times, this is the original feature, carved in 1558. A ner tamid with the Hebrew inscription "An eternal flame for the soul of ReMA, of blessed memory" is situated at the left side of the Holy Ark, while at its right a reconstructed plaque commemorates the place where Rabbi Moshe Isserles used to pray. One of the chairs on the eastern wall is reserved in his honor. The foundation tablet has been preserved near the southern wall. A clock presented by Chaim Herzog, the sixth President of Israel, during his visit to the synagogue in 1992 is one of the latest additions. The women's section was originally located on the first floor of a wooden structure connected to the northern wall of the synagogue. It has since undergone major restorations and the present women's gallery is adjacent to the northern wall of the praying hall.

The Old Jewish Cemetery in Krakow is located next to the synagogue.

See also
Moses Isserles
Old Jewish Cemetery in Krakow
Synagogues of Kraków
 Tempel Synagogue (Krakow)
 Old Synagogue (Krakow)
 Izaak Synagogue
 Wolf Popper Synagogue
 High Synagogue (Kraków)
 Kupa Synagogue

References

External links 

 The Jewish Community of Krakow
 The Remuh Synagogue of Krakow, Poland, Beit Hatfutsot - The Museum of the Jewish People

Ashkenazi Jewish culture in Poland
Ashkenazi synagogues
Religious buildings and structures completed in 1557
Orthodox synagogues in Poland
Renaissance synagogues
Synagogues in Kraków
16th-century synagogues
1557 establishments in Europe