[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 171]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

d was commanded him, in a Dream, or
Vision, and to deliver it to his family, and cause them to observe the
same.




Abraham Had The Sole Power Of Ordering The Religion Of His Own People

In this Contract of God with Abraham, wee may observe three points of
important consequence in the government of Gods people. First, that at
the making of this Covenant, God spake onely to Abraham; and therefore
contracted not with any of his family, or seed, otherwise then as their
wills (which make the essence of all Covenants) were before the Contract
involved in the will of Abraham; who was therefore supposed to have had
a lawfull power, to make them perform all that he covenanted for them.
According whereunto (Gen 18.18, 19.) God saith, "All the Nations of the
Earth shall be blessed in him, For I know him that he will command his
children and his houshold after him, and they shall keep the way of the
Lord." From whence may be concluded this first point, that they to
whom God hath not spoken immediately, are to receive the positive
commandements of God, from their Soveraign; as the family and seed of
Abraham did from Abraham their Father, and Lord, and Civill Soveraign.
And Consequently in every Common-wealth, they who have no supernaturall
Revelation to the contrary, ought to obey the laws of their own
Soveraign, in the externall acts and profession of Religion. As for the
inward Thought, and beleef of men, which humane Governours can take no
notice of, (for God onely knoweth the heart) they are not voluntary, nor
the effect of the laws, but of the unrevealed will, and of the power of
God; and consequently fall not under obligation.




No Pretence Of Private Spirit Against The Religion Of Abraham

From whence proceedeth another point, that it was not unlawfull for
Abraham, when any of his Subjects should pretend Private Vision, or
Spirit, or other Revelation from God, for the countenancing of any
doctrine which Abraham should forbid, or when they followed, or adhered
to any such pretender, to punish them; and consequently that it is
lawfull now for the Soveraign to punish any man that shall oppose his
Private Spirit against the Laws: For hee hath the same place in the
Common-wealth, that Abraham had in his own Family.




Abraham Sole Judge, And Interpreter Of What God Spake

There ariseth also from the same, a third point; that as none but
Abraham in his family, so none but the Soveraign in a Christian
Common-wealth, can take notice what is, or what is not the Word of God.
For God spake onely to Abraham; and it was he onely, that was able
to know what God said, and to interpret the same to his family: And
therefore also, they that have the place of Abraham in a Common-wealth,
are the onely Interpreters of what God hath spoken.




The Authority Of Moses Whereon Grounded

The same Covenant was renewed with Isaac; and afterwards with Jacob; but
afterwards no more, till the Israelites were freed from the Egyptians,
and arrived at the Foot of Mount Sinai: and then it was renewed by Moses
(as I have said before, chap. 35.) in such manner, as they became from
that time forward the Peculiar Kingdome of God; whose Lieutenant was
Moses, for his owne time; and the succession to that office was setled
upon Aaron, and his heirs after him, to bee to God a Sacerdotall
Kingdome for ever.

By this constitution, a Kingdome is acquired to God. But seeing Moses
had no authority to govern the Israelites, as a successor to the right
of Abraham, because he could not claim it by inheritance; it appeareth
not as yet, that the people were obliged to take him for Gods
Lieutenant, longer than they beleeved that God spake unto him. And
therefore his authority (notwithstanding the Covenant they made with
God) depended yet merely upon the opinion they had of his Sanctity,
and of the reality of his Conferences with God, and the verity of his
Miracles; which opinion coming to change, they were no more obliged to
take any thing for the law of God, which he propounded to them in Gods
name. We are therefore to consider, what other ground there was, of
their obligation to obey him. For it could not be the commandement of
God that could oblige them; because God spake not to them immediately,
but by the mediation of Moses Himself; And our Saviour saith of himself,
(John 5. 31.) "If I bear witnesse of my self, my witnesse is not true,"
much lesse if Moses bear witnesse of himselfe, (especially in a claim of
Kingly power over Gods people) ought his testimony to be received. His
authority therefore, as the authority of all other Princes, must be
grounded on the Consent of the People, and their Promise to obey him.
And so it was: for "the people" (Exod. 20.18.) "when they saw the
Thunderings, and the Lightnings, and the noyse of the Trumpet, and the
mountaine smoaking, removed, and stood a far off. And they said unto
Moses, speak thou with us, and we will hear, but