[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Allen C. Guelzo

at Guelzo, with his religious training, often emphasizes religious themes that other historians have neglected. Guelzo argues that Lincoln championed the cause of individual rights partly because of his profound fatalism and what Guelzo identifies as "a lifelong dalliance with Old School Calvinism."

Guelzo created a controversy among younger historians of the Civil War when Earl J. Hess reported that Guelzo believed that scholarly blogging was "entirely negative. I consider blogging to be a pernicious waste of scholarly time."

Rachel Shelden has noted that Guelzo's Fateful Lightning: A New History of the Civil War and Reconstruction (2012) is heavily focused on Lincoln. She asserts that little in the book is new, and much is based on old-fashioned historiography. She says he underplays the recent scholarship on the home front, environmental concerns, and medical issues and gives only cursory attention to the black experience or to the complexities of Reconstruction.

Affiliations
Guelzo has been an American Council of Learned Societies Fellow (1991–1992), a Visiting Research Fellow at the McNeil Center for Early American Studies at the University of Pennsylvania (1992–1993), a Fellow of the Charles Warren Center for the Study of American History at Harvard University (1994–1995), and a visiting fellow, Department of Politics, Princeton University (2002–2003 and 2010–2011).  He was appointed by President George W. Bush to the National Council on the Humanities in 2006. He is a board member of the Abraham Lincoln Association. Guelzo is also a senior fellow of the conservative think-tank, the Claremont Institute.

Awards and honors
Guelzo received the 2013 Guggenheim-Lehrman Prize in Military History for Gettysburg: The Last Invasion at an awards ceremony in New York on March 17, 2014.

Guelzo was inducted as a Laureate of The Lincoln Academy of Illinois and awarded the Order of Lincoln (the State's highest honor) by the Governor of Illinois in 2009 as a Bicentennial Laureate.

Guelzo was a recipient of the 2018 Bradley Prize for his "contributions [which] have shaped important debate, thought and research on one of the most critical periods of American history."

Personal life
Guelzo has two daughters and a son who is a career army officer.

In 1980, Guelzo was ordained as a presbyter in the Reformed Episcopal Church, about which he wrote a history early in his career. In 1997, his orders were transferred by letters dimissory to the Episcopal Diocese of Pennsylvania.

Publications

Guelzo, Allen C. "Defending Emancipation: Abraham Lincoln and the Conkling Letter, 1863," Civil War History (2002) 48 #4 pp. 313–337

References

Further reading

 Yaffe, Deborah. "The Politics of History: A conservative scholar of Lincoln and the battle over how we teach about America’s past," Princeton Alumni Weekly March 2021
"Understanding Lincoln: An interview with historian Allen Guelzo" (April 3, 2013), by Tom Mackaman, World Socialist Web Site

External links

Historian Allen Guelzo speaks on the 150th Anniversary of the Battle of Gettysburg, July 3, 2013.

1953 births
Living people
21st-century American historians
American male non-fiction writers
Gettysburg College faculty
Reformed Episcopal Seminary faculty
Historians of the American Civil War
University of Pennsylvania alumni
Lincoln Prize winners
Eastern University (United States)
People from Yokohama
Reformed Episcopal Seminary alumni
Historians from Pennsylvania
Historians of Abraham Lincoln
21st-century American male writers