[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Clipboard (computing)

specific mechanism. Data is "copied" immediately upon highlighting and pasted with the third (middle) mouse button. This copied data is usually separated from the CLIPBOARD selection and does not change its contents. SECONDARY was planned as an alternative to PRIMARY but is only used inconsistently.

There are two command line tools (xsel and xclip) which can access the clipboard:
$ # to paste standard output to the clipboard using xclip
$ echo text | xclip -in -selection clipboard
$ # to paste standard output to the clipboard using xsel
$ echo text | xsel --clipboard

The main difference to OS X and Windows is that no data is actually stored in the CLIPBOARD-clipboard but only the reference to the copied or cut data. The application claims the ownership of the CLIPBOARD selection and communicates its ownership to the X Server. When pasting this data, the data and its available formats are requested from the application that owns the CLIPBOARD selection.

APIs 
Applications can access the clipboard or its data via APIs.

JavaScript 
In JavaScript a class which detects changes in the users clipboard data (ClipboardEvent) and functions to alter the content of a clipboard or read from it (clipboardData.getData(), clipboardData.setData()) exist, but aren't supported by every browser since altering the clipboard of a user can represent a security issue.

Qt 
In Qt a wrapper for every supported platform exists. It provides access to window system clipboards with the use of the class QClipboard. This class facilitates access to common data types by functions. The data type of the element stored in the clipboard is indicated via MIME and MIME data can also be put in the clipboard with help of functions from this class.

See also 
 Clipboard manager
 Cut, copy, and paste

References

Further reading

External links 

 clip | Microsoft Docs
 2. Peer-to-Peer Communication by Means of Selections in the ICCCM
 Windows Dev Center: Transferring Shell Objects with Drag-and-Drop and the Clipboard
 Microsoft Developer Network: How the Clipboard Works, Part 1
 Microsoft Developer Network: How the Clipboard Works, Part 2
 Microsoft Developer Network: Delayed Rendering of Clipboard Data

 
User interface techniques