[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Battle of Droop Mountain

ers, pistols, and carbines. Moor responded to the initial Confederate thrust by ordering his Ohio infantrymen to lie down and "fire by file". Colonel Thomas M. Harris and the 10th West Virginia Infantry moved to the front on Moor's right and began pushing their outnumbered enemy back.

Center attack

Although signals from Moor on the Confederate left were not received, the sounds from the fighting and the Confederate "disturbed appearance in front" led Averell to conclude that it was time for the attack at the center. Averell's three mounted infantry regiments began advancing up the mountain while dismounted, with Francis Thompson's 3rd West Virginia Infantry making the most progress and the 8th West Virginia Infantry struggling with the steep and barren mountainside. They faced sharpshooters, musket fire from breastworks, and battery fire of grape and canister. Schoonmaker briefly advanced two guns from Ewing's Battery partially up the mountainside, where they fired upon the 22nd Virginia Infantry. Return fire from Chapman and Lurty caused the Union guns to back off. The 3rd West Virginia Infantry found Moor's left, and Echols began to face five Union regiments on his left and center. The Confederate center was strongly defended by portions of the 14th Virginia Cavalry commanded by Colonel Cochran and the 20th Virginia Cavalry commanded by Colonel Arnett. When the Union regiments reached the breastworks, the fighting was hand-to-hand at the top as Confederate soldiers used their empty muskets as clubs. After Union soldiers began sticking only their pistols over the breastworks and firing blindly, the Confederates eventually retreated. The 2nd West Virginia Infantry, which had the most casualties of the three center-attack regiments, was the first to enter the Confederate breastworks. Both Jackson and McLaughlin recognized that the Confederate center defense was faltering, and moved most of the artillery to the rear where it could be used to cover a retreat if necessary.

Resistance crumbles
Although the 23rd Virginia Infantry Battalion helped William Thompson's men stall Moor's large infantry force, the Confederates on the extreme left were being driven back toward the center, forming a dangerous angle in their line. After receiving a report from Thompson, Echols shifted Patton and three companies to the left and joined Jackson at the center. The reinforcements temporarily checked the Union advance, but sustained a high number of casualties and was not strong enough to stop Moor's advance. The Confederate center and right were also in trouble, as Ewing's Battery found a target and some of Jackson's men began fleeing toward the rear. A signalman from the 68th New York Infantry signal corps detachment observed the Confederate disarray, and Averell received the news near 3:00pm. Averell ordered Major Thomas Gibson, whose Independent Cavalry Battalion was held in reserve almost  back, to advance as quickly as possible. A section of Ewing's Battery was also sent in pursuit. The battle was mostly finished by 4:00pm, and Echols received news about then that Duffié was at a mountaintop only  west of Lewisburg. With both his left and right flanks breached, Echols ordered Jackson and Patton to fall back. Major Blessing and the 23rd Infantry Battalion (Derrick's Battalion) were ordered to fall back to the road to Lewisburg. Moor's infantry advanced from the Confederate left to the Confederate right where the Confederate artillery had been posted on a hill. Although the Confederates were able to withdraw their last two pieces of artillery that were still on the hill, Moor's presence caused some Confederate panic as men feared being cut off and captured.

Retreat and pursuit

One of the last Confederate officers to leave Droop Mountain was Major Robert Augustus Bailey, of the 22nd Virginia Infantry. Bailey was mortally wounded trying to rally his men. His regiment started the battle with 550 men, and had 113 casualties. The regiment also had three captains wounded (two seriously), and one lieutenant mortally wounded. By the time Bailey was shot, the pike to Lewisburg was "blocked with artillery, caissons, wagons, and horses." The Confederate retreat became even more urgent, and weapons were being thrown away as the men ran. At least one officer is known to have ordered his company to "get out and save yourselves". Many of the Confederate soldiers ran to the woods. Colonel Patton was unable to reorganize his command until he arrived at Frankford— south of the battle.  Both Colonel Cochran and Lieutenant Colonel Thompson were thought to be captured or killed, but were unharmed and eventually returned to their units. The 26th Virginia Infantry Battalion, which had been posted on another road before the battle, became cut off from Echols' Brigade.