[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Decamethyldizincocene

5 rings whose planes are perpendicular to the metal-metal bond axis. The separation between the two ring planes is approximately 6.40 Å. The C5Me5 rings are in an eclipsed conformation with the methyl substituents bent slightly outward (away from the central metal atoms) at angles of 3 to 6 degrees.

In mononuclear metallocenes the bending of substituents attached to the rings serves to prevent steric hindrance; however, the radius of a methyl group is only 2.0 Å and therefore the bending in decamethyldizincocene does not serve this purpose since the distance between the two rings is much greater than this value. It is believed that in the case of decamethyldizincocene the bending of the methyl groups attached to the cyclopentadienyl ligands is preferential because it concentrates the electron density away from the central, positively charged metal atoms. The separation between each Zn atom and the center of the cyclopentadienyl ring attached to it is approximately 2.04 Å and the Zn-C(ring) distances range from 2.27 to 2.30 Å. The Zn-Zn bond distance is 2.305 Å, which indicates considerably strong bonding between the two zinc atoms. This can be compared to the known [Hg-Hg]2+ bond length of 2.5 to 2.7 Å. Two separate types of structures for dimetallocenes have been hypothesized including a coaxial structure (which is the structure of decamethyldizincocene) and a perpendicular structure in which the metal-metal bond axis is parallel to the plane of the cyclopentadienyl ligands (which is predicted to be the structure for dicuprocenes). The compound addressed in this paper is essentially linear with Zn-Zn bond angles of approximately 177°:

Absence of bridging ligands
1H NMR and mass spectrometry studies have been useful in proving that decamethyldizincocene does not include bridging ligands. This study is important considering that the complex previously hypothesized to be Co2(η5-C5Me5)2 was later found using 1H NMR and mass spectrometry data to be supported by three bridging hydrogens. The 1H NMR of decamethyldizincocene shows only one signal at δ 2.02 due to the hydrogens attached to the methyl groups on the cyclopentadienyl ligands.

Electronic structure and bonding characteristics
Decamethyldizincocene has an accumulation of electron density between the two zinc atoms, which indicates bonding. This bond has a predicted dissociation energy of 62 kcal·mol−1 and is approximately as strong as those found among metal-halide bonds. NBO (Natural Bond Order) analysis has indicated that sigma bonding occurs between the 4s orbitals of the central metal atoms with a bonding orbital occupancy of 1.9445.9 Using fragment molecular orbital analysis (FMOA) it has been found that there is one principal molecular orbital that participates in the Zn-Zn bonding with approximately 88% bonding character concentrated between the Zn atoms.

References

Metallocenes
Organozinc compounds
Pentamethylcyclopentadienyl complexes