[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# British Columbia Civil Liberties Association

n cruel expedient of compelling it from his own mouth."
 "The right to counsel":  The association argued that Section 10's wording was ambiguous and should be clarified to explicitly recognize a right to counsel for anyone detained or arrested, regardless of whether or not that person has money available to "retain" such counsel.
 "The exclusionary rule":  The association argued against Section 26 of the draft Charter that stated "[no] provision of this Charter [except for Section 13] affects the laws respecting the admissibility of evidence in any proceedings or the authority of Parliament of a legislature to make laws in relation thereto."  The association argued that rights dealing with search and seizure, the right to silence and right to counsel were not fully meaningful unless the Charter contained a provision to exclude illegally obtained evidence: "prosecutions and convictions for illegal acts should not rest on grounds which are themselves tainted by illegality."
 "Right to a fair hearing":  The association pointed out the absence in the draft Charter of "the right of a person to a fair hearing in accordance with the principles of fundamental justice for the determination of his rights and obligations" as was included in prime minister Trudeau's earlier 1969 proposal and in the Canadian Bill of Rights.  The association argued for inclusion of such a provision, but with its language changed to explicitly include all instances of decision-making determining rights and obligations, including administrative tribunals, and not just criminal proceedings.
The association identified additional areas of concern with the draft Charter:
 Aboriginal rights:  The associated was concerned that the current and future rights of Aboriginals were not adequately protected by the draft Charter.  The association pointed to Section 24 which would preserve rights "presently established by law" and noted that it would not protect future rights.  The association was also concerned that the draft Charter would preclude the federal government from exercising its powers under section 91(24) of the British North American Act to protect the rights of Aboriginal people, and that the draft Charter may invalidate rights contained in the Indian Act and return jurisdiction of several Aboriginal matters from the federal government to the provinces.  The association urged the government to give their submissions, and those made separately by Aboriginal peoples, careful consideration.
 Enforcement and remedies:  The association was concerned with how the Charter would be enforced.  It noted that the only remedy provided in Section 25 of the draft Charter for violations of the Charter was to declare a law inoperative.  The association noted that violations will not only be limited to laws that are inconsistent with the Charter but with the actions of public officers and agencies that are in violation of constitutional rights.  The association urged the committee to provide the courts with inherent jurisdiction to provide an adequate remedy for such violations.
 Equality:  The association argued that Section 15 of the Charter should not be limited to the traditional grounds of discrimination covered in the draft, and that the section should be expanded to include protect against discrimination based on physical disability, former criminal conviction, and sexual orientation.
 Official languages in courts:  The association argued that Section 19 of the draft Charter, which provided for the availability of official languages (i.e. French and English) in courts "established by Parliament" should be extended to "all provincial courts having the same jurisdiction as the B.C. Supreme Court and the B.C. Court of Appeal."
 Right to trial by jury:  The association observed that a right to trial by a jury was absent from the draft Charter and argued for its inclusion.
 Amendment procedure:  The association noted that the Charter could be amended by referendum pursuant to sections 42 and 50 of the draft proposal and argued against inclusion of these sections stating that "'protecting' minority rights by allowing them to be changed, limited or eliminated by majority in a referendum is no protection whatsoever."

Other activities
The BCCLA's other activities in the 1980s included:
 Challenging the use of writs of assistance under the Narcotic Control Act which allowed police to enter any dwelling to search for drugs without a warrant
 Challenging the provincial government's attempt to remove abortion from government provided health coverage
 Challenging the provincial Schools Act which required mandatory reading of the Lord's Prayer
 Challenging the British Columbia's provincial electoral boundaries