[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Callie Torres

days was up they eventually gave in and connected sexually again. At the end of the 30 days at the final therapy session, Arizona realized she couldn't live without Callie; however Callie didn't feel the same and stated she felt suffocated and eventually walked out of therapy, ending their marriage.

Callie then goes on to date Penny, who was the resident in charge of Derek Shepherd's case. She comes to a dinner party hosted by Meredith, who recognizes her. It is then discovered that Penny is going to be working at Grey Sloan Memorial. When everyone, including Callie, finds out who Penny actually is, they protest and try to get her off of the Grey Sloan Memorial residency line. She manages to stay on the line, despite all the others' pleads and wishes.

After Callie discloses her desire to move to New York with Penny and take her and Arizona's daughter, Sofia, with her, Arizona takes Callie to court for sole parental custody. Callie eventually loses custody of her daughter to Arizona and breaks up with Penny, heartbroken, Penny moves to New York. After Arizona decides that both Sofia's moms deserve to be happy, Arizona presents Callie with plane tickets and offers a custody agreement that keeps Sofia in Seattle for the summer and then sharing her every other school year and Christmas.

Callie is referenced occasionally by Arizona and Sofia after her departure from the show.  At the conclusion of season 14, Arizona departs the show to move to New York and it is implied that the two reconciled after Callie and Penny had broken up.

Development

Casting & Creation

Ramirez's Broadway performance in Spamalot garnered the attention of ABC executives, and they offered Ramirez a role on any ABC television series. Ramirez chose Grey's Anatomy. Ramirez further explained that at their initial audition, the producers liked them and had intentions to add them to the show, but did not know as who. They also said that they were in awe of how the executives said, "Pick a show, any show", explaining that it is rare. Shonda Rhimes said: "I was looking for a girlfriend for George, but it was in the infancy stages, so I had no idea what I was looking for." Rhimes built the character around Ramirez after meeting them. Ramirez's character was initially given recurring status in the second season and received star billing in the third season, alongside fellow cast member Dane, who portrayed Mark Sloan. Ramirez discusses maintaining relationships with co-stars:

Characterization

The American Broadcasting Company (ABC) characterized Torres as "driven", "determined", and "outgoing", while also noting her weaknesses: "defensive" and "impulsive". Ramirez described their character as someone who "appears to be a certain way, but has some very complex issues going on behind the scenes. She seems to be a very strong personality, someone who really believes in herself and has worked very hard to get where she is. She's very competitive but does have a sense of self, so she doesn't need to win all the time." At Torres' initial appearance on the show, she was disliked by fans, due to her getting in the way of O'Malley and Meredith Grey's (Ellen Pompeo) relationship. When asked of this, Ramirez said: "You do run across a lot of people who are extremely invested in that storyline. Obviously, I've heard some negative stuff." The end of the show's fourth season saw Torres grow closer to cardiothoracic surgeon Erica Hahn, in a relationship referred to by the portmanteau "Eri-Cal" and later "Callica" by Michael Ausiello of Entertainment Weekly. Rhimes stated that: "Callie and Erica have an undeniable chemistry, and watching the story unfold is something the writers are looking forward to. I wanted to illuminate their relationship in the same way we do all relationships on the show — it will be funny, sweet, honest, and a little bit dirty."