[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Western Allied invasion of Germany

ected on 7 May, Dönitz granted his representative, Alfred Jodl, permission to effect a complete surrender on all fronts. The appropriate documents were signed on the same day and became effective on 8 May. Despite scattered resistance from a few isolated units, the war in Europe was over.

Analysis 

By the beginning of 1945, Allied victory in Europe was inevitable. Having gambled his future ability to defend Germany on the Ardennes offensive and lost, Hitler had no real strength left to stop the powerful Allied armies. The Western Allies still had to fight, often bitterly, for victory. Even when the hopelessness of the German situation became obvious to his most loyal subordinates, Hitler refused to admit defeat. Only when Soviet artillery was falling around his Berlin headquarters bunker did he begin to perceive the final outcome.

The crossing of the Rhine, the encirclement and reduction of the Ruhr, and the sweep to the Elbe–Mulde line and the Alps all established the final campaign on the Western Front as a showcase for Western Allied superiority over the Germans in maneuver warfare. Drawing on the experience gained during the campaign in Normandy and the Allied advance from Paris to the Rhine, the Western Allies demonstrated in western Germany and Austria their capability of absorbing the lessons of the past. By attaching mechanized infantry units to armored divisions, they created a hybrid of strength and mobility that served them well in the pursuit of warfare through Germany. Key to the effort was the logistical support that kept these forces fueled, and the determination to maintain the forward momentum at all costs. These mobile forces made great thrusts to isolate pockets of German troops, which were mopped up by additional infantry following close behind. The Western Allies rapidly eroded any remaining ability to resist.

For their part, captured German soldiers often claimed to be most impressed not by American armor or infantry but by the artillery. They frequently remarked on its accuracy and the swiftness of its target acquisition—and especially the prodigious amount of artillery ammunition expended.

In retrospect, very few questionable decisions were made concerning the execution of the campaign. For example, Patton potentially could have made his initial Rhine crossing north of Mainz and avoided the losses incurred crossing the Main. Further north the airborne landings during Operation Plunder in support of the 21st Army Group's crossing of the Rhine were probably not worth the risk.  But these decisions were made in good faith and had little bearing on the ultimate outcome of the campaign. On the whole, Western Allied plans were excellent as demonstrated by how rapidly they met their objectives.

Legacy
Several German political leaders have described the invasion as "liberation", including President Richard von Weizsäcker in 1985 and Chancellor Angela Merkel in 2019. According to the Chicago Tribune, "over the decades, Germans' attitudes toward the war have evolved from a sense of defeat to something far more complex".

Notes

References

Bibliography 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Attribution:

Further reading
Ellis, L.F. et al. Victory in the West, Volume 2: Defeat of Germany, London: HMSO, 1968
Russell, J "Theirs The Strife" Helion & Company 2020. ISBN 978-1-913118-56-3

External links 

 
1945 in Germany
Conflicts in 1945
March 1945 events in Europe
April 1945 events in Europe
May 1945 events in Europe
World War II invasions
World War II operations and battles of the Western European Theatre
Invasions of Germany
Battles and operations of World War II involving Canada
Military history of Canada during World War II
Invasions by Canada
Battles and operations of World War II involving the United Kingdom
Battles and operations of World War II involving the United States
Battles and operations of World War II involving France
Battles and operations of World War II involving Poland
Battles and operations of World War II involving Belgium
Battles and operations of World War II involving the Netherlands
Battles and operations of World War II involving Hungary
Allies of World War II