[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 36th Iowa Infantry Regiment

, Port Hudson, Vicksburg, Helena, Memphis and Columbus Kentucky in federal hands, the Confederacy west of the river was isolated from secessionist allies in the east. However, rebel guerrilla bands continued to harass federal river traffic from both banks of the Mississippi until the end of the war.

DeValls Bluff, Pine Bluff and the capture of Little Rock 
Following the battle at Helena, the Thirty-sixth was attached to the Third Division, 1st Brigade, Expeditionary Army of Arkansas commanded by Major General Frederick Steele. Marching from Helena on 12 August, the Third Division reached Clarendon, on the White River. Steele complained to his superior, General Stephen Hurlbut at Memphis that he was burdened on his march by at least 10000 men on the sick list.  It got even worse at Clarendon, a malaria-breeding village. A number of men of the 36th were left there awaiting river transportation north to DeValls Bluff, where Steele was establishing his main supply base. Those fit to march left Clarendon and proceeded north to DeValls Bluffs. At this point, Brigadier General John Davidson arrived with the 1st (Cavalry) Division and rendezvoused with Steele.  Davidson's division did most of the heavy fighting with the troops of Confederate generals Marsh Walker, John Marmaduke and Sterling Price over the next twenty days.  As Davidson moved forward and captured Brownsville, the Third and Second Divisions followed . When Davidson's force was blocked at Reed's Bridge, on Bayou Metoe, the 36th and other regiments of the Third Division made a demonstration on the confederate left flank as a diversion.  Steele and Davidson then decided on a surprise flank attack from the south bank of the Arkansas River, which was executed on the morning of 10 September. Although not unanticipated, Marmaduke and Price were surprised by the speed with which Davidson made the crossing at Ashley Ford.  Driving westward straight toward Little Rock, the infantry of the Third Division followed a parallel course supporting artillery batteries firing on the rebels from the north shore.  By 7:30 pm Price and Marmaduke had abandoned the capital and civil authorities surrendered Little Rock to Davidson.  Steele arrived a day later.  The 36th Iowa did not cross the Arkansas and enter the city until 15 September due to the fact that in their retreat, the Confederates had burned the boat-bridge spanning the two shores, and then a Union pontoon bridge broke down.  Upon entering Little Rock, the Third Division and 36th encamped on the spacious high ground south of town near the re-captured U.S. Arsenal and there constructed a permanent camp for winter quarters and endured a bitterly cold winter. Meanwhile, Price and Marmaduke escaped toward Camden, Washington and Murfreesboro to winter while Arkansas state officials moved their capital to the county courthouse at Washington, Arkansas near the Texas-Louisiana border.