[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 9th Michigan Cavalry Regiment

o fall back toward Rutledge.

The next two days, the regiment, under the command of Major Brockway, (Colonel Acker being wounded at Bean's Station), while acting as rear guard, was engaged in constant skirmishing near Rutledge. Later in the month they were in skirmishes at Dandredge and Mossy Creek.

On the 16th, of January, 1864, the regiment, then under the command of Major Gallagher, moved from Dandredge in the direction of Bull's Gap, encountering the rebels infantry in a large force at Kinsboro Cross Roads, where after a severe fight of about an hour and a half, the regiment fell back to Dandredge, having lost 32 in killed, wounded and missing. The next day they were skirmishing from noon to dark near the same place, then fell back to New Market, having been engaged at Fair Garden, Sevierville, and Strawberry Plains. Then they moved from Strawberry Plains to Knoxville. Further memoranda refer to continued marches and counter marches during the month, which closed with the regiment at Little River. The May reports indicate they were camped near Nicholsville, waiting for new equipment.

In June the regiment is found again fighting, with the notorious Morgan near, near Cynthiana, Kentucky. It appears that on June the 9th, the regiment, then under the command of Colonel Acker, was in camp at Nicholasville, and ordered to scout Bayley's Cross Roads, a distance of 14 miles, with orders that if Morgan was found, to engage him. On the 10th., they marched to Lexington, where a battalion of the regiment, under the command of Major McBride, met with a portion of Morgan's command, had a brisk skirmish, then retired. On the 11th the regiment marched to Paris and bivouacked for 2 hours, then after dark started for Cynthiana, leading the horses most of the way, so as to make as little noise as possible. Just at daylight on the 12th, the confederates were found behind rail barricades. The 11th Michigan and the 12th Ohio Cavalry were in line of battle on foot, for the purpose of driving them from the barricade, while the 9th. charged the left flank in a most splendid manner, taking 300 prisoners, 500 horses and a large quantity of small arms. This charge was a brilliant affair, completely routing the southerners, and driving large numbers of their troops into the Licking River in much confusion and thoroughly demoralized.

On October 9, the regiment was at Decatur, then on to Stone Mountain, from there they set out on the Atlanta Campaign with General Sherman's Army, skirmishing at Macon, then Griswaldville, again at Milledgeville on the 24th. of November, thence to Gilliam's Plantation.

For the duration of the war the 9th participated in all of the movements of Sherman's Army on his infamous March to the Sea, then with his northward thrust into the Carolinas that resulted finally in the surrender of Johnston's Army.

The 9th. after months of scouting, foraging and performing picket duty, all along the Eastern seaboard, marched to Concord on the 14th. of July, where they were mustered out of service on the 21st, then sent by rail to Jackson, Michigan, where they were paid off and disbanded on the 30th.

The Ninth was the only Michigan Cavalry Regiment that marched with Sherman to the sea, and composed the escort of General Kilpatrick, who maintained communication between that army and the Atlantic coast.

Total strength and casualties

The regiment suffered 2 officers and 26 enlisted men killed in action or mortally wounded and 2 officers and 154 enlisted men who died of disease, for a total of 184 
fatalities.

Sergeant James W. Tobin of Northfield, Washtenaw County, Michigan, a member of Company C of the Ninth Michigan Cavalry, was awarded the Medal of Honor having shown exceptional courage in three separate actions, including the rescue of his senior officer.

Commanders
 Colonel George Naylor Lockwood
Colonel George Sigourney Acker

See also
List of Michigan Civil War Units
Michigan in the American Civil War

Notes

References
The Civil War Archive

Cavalry
1865 disestablishments in Michigan
1863 establishments in Michigan
Military units and formations established in 1863
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865