[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Russian submarine Losharik

ated from the fire. According to Shoygu, the submarine could be repaired and returned to service.

On 5 July, four members were posthumously awarded Hero of Russia while ten members were posthumously awarded Order of Courage.

Fatalities
The following sailors were killed in the 1 July 2019 incident:

Captain 1st Rank
Denis Dolonskiy, The commanding officer of the submarine, Hero of Russia, awarded two Orders of Courage (including one posthumously), Order of Naval Merit
Konstantin Ivanov, awarded two Orders of Courage (one posthumously), Order of Military Merit
Andrey Voskresenskiy, Hero of Russia (posthumously), three Orders of Courage, Order of Military Merit. He was a son-in-law of the Chief of Sosnovy Bor Naval Training Centre for Nuclear Submarine Crews Counter admiral Vladimir Bederdinov
Konstantin Somov, Hero of Russia (posthumously), three Orders of Courage
Denis Oparin, Hero of Russia (posthumously), Order of Courage. He was a son of the chief of the submarine division that included Losharik, Alexander Oparin
Vladimir Abankin, awarded two Orders of Courage (one posthumously)
Nikolay Filin, test pilot of military deep-diving crewed submersibles, Hero of Russia (2018), awarded four Orders of Courage (including one posthumously), Order of Military Merit

Captain 2nd Rank
Alexander Avdonin, awarded two Orders of Courage (one posthumously)
Dmitriy Solovyov, Hero of Russia (posthumously)
Sergey Danilchenko, awarded two Orders of Courage (one posthumously)

Captain 3rd Rank
Viktor Kuzmin, awarded Order of Courage (posthumously)
Vladimir Sukhinichev, awarded Order of Courage (posthumously)

Other Crew
Lieutenant Captain Mikhail Dubkov, awarded Order of Courage (posthumously)
Lieutenant Colonel of Medical Service Alexandr Vasilyev, awarded Order of Courage (posthumously)

All 14 seamen were buried in Serafimovskoe Cemetery, Saint Petersburg, Russia on 6 July 2019.

Cause of fire

Forensic investigation has shown that the fire started with a massive explosion in the submarine's battery compartment. Burning batteries fuelled the fire despite the best efforts of the crew. Losharik was designed to use silver-zinc batteries made in Ukraine. After the worsening of Russia–Ukraine relations caused by the war in Donbass, the batteries were substituted with lithium-ion batteries produced by Saint Petersburg company Rigel () that were certified for use in submarines. Investigators are checking whether the safety testing of those batteries was sufficient. The other hypotheses include unexpected loads on the batteries caused by a short circuit somewhere on the submarine, or sabotage. Due to its unique top secret design, and possibly secretive mission, the Russian government has been tight-lipped about the incident, as have the American and Norwegian governments who may have surveilled the incident.

Major repair work on the submarine was reported to be underway in 2020.
The submarine may remain out of service until 2024 or 2025.

See also
 Seabed warfare

References

External links
Project "Losharik", an Izvestiya article 
Losharik at globalsecurity.org
Top Gear Russia Magazine Accidentally Published An Image Of A Classified Submarine

2003 ships
Maritime incidents in 2019
2019 fires in Europe
July 2019 events in Russia
Russian submarine accidents
Ships built by Sevmash
Ships built in the Soviet Union
Submarines of the Russian Navy
2019 disasters in Russia