[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles G. Conn

n 1894. The same year, during his congressional term, Conn bought the newly established Washington Times, and conducted a sensational campaign against alleged vice in the city. Eventually he found himself as a defendant in a big damage suit, but won the case. Sometime later he disposed of the paper.

Later career 
After his term in Congress, Conn resumed the manufacture of band instruments at Elkhart, Indiana, while also investing heavily in other businesses. In 1904 Conn constructed a powerhouse and provided electrical service as a competitor to the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company, who later bought out Conn's service at a great loss to himself. This failed venture, the building of Conn's third factory and its loss to fire, and Conn's loss of a  costly lawsuit filed against him by a former company manager resulted in Conn amassing a large amount of debt. In 1911, in an effort to bond Conn's debts and secure working capital, Conn and his wife executed a trust deed for $200,000 covering all their possessions, with the longest bond to mature in ten years.  The deed included, in addition to the horn factory, what was then known as the Angledile Scale Company, and The Elkhart Truth, some sixty descriptions of real estate in Elkhart and vicinity, various real estate mortgages, 125 shares of stock in the Simplex Motor Car Company of Mishawaka, Indiana, a seagoing yacht, a lake motor launch, and much valuable personal property. Conn also lost considerable face when he was ordered by a judge to publicly apologize for publishing inflammatory comments about J. W. Pepper. The Musical Courier picked up on the legal problems and reported about how Conn was knowingly making false statements about Pepper. In his published apology, Conn attributed his aberrant behavior on an addiction to tobacco.

In 1915 Conn's growing debt crisis forced him to seek a buyer for his assets, and all of Conn's holdings were bought by a group of investors led by Carl Dimond Greenleaf, whom Conn had met during his years in Washington, D.C., and invested in some grain mills in Ohio which Greenleaf owned. Initially Conn held onto ownership of The Elkhart Truth, but a few months after the sale of his other holdings, Conn sold The Elkhart Truth to Greenleaf and local entrepreneur Andrew Hubble Beardsley.

Retirement and death 
The sale of Conn's holdings was detrimental to his marriage, and he and his wife Kate divorced. In 1916 Conn retired and moved to Los Angeles, California, where he married Suzanne Cohn. Their son, Charles Gerard Conn III, was born in 1918.

Conn authored books in his retirement, including The Sixth Sense, Prayer: Brain Cell Reformation (1916), For the Good of the World. Finding the Real God (1919), and The Wonder Book: How to Achieve Success (1923). Conn died on January 5, 1931, in Los Angeles, and was interred in Grace Lawn Cemetery, Elkhart, Indiana. Once a very wealthy and influential man, he died almost penniless. His estate didn't have enough money in it to afford a grave marker, and a hat was passed around the horn factory to collect enough money to buy one.

Mrs. Conn was permitted to remain in the Conn's Elkhart home, the Charles Gerard Conn Mansion, where she lived until her death in 1924. The mansion was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2007.

See also
 C.G. Conn

References
Notes

Sources
 Retrieved on 2009-03-31

1844 births
1931 deaths
19th-century American newspaper founders
American musical instrument makers
Mayors of places in Indiana
American Civil War prisoners of war held by the Confederate States of America
Democratic Party members of the Indiana House of Representatives
People from Phelps, New York
People from Elkhart, Indiana
People of Indiana in the American Civil War
Union Army officers
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Indiana
Grand Army of the Republic officials