[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# DarkStar One

grams the ship's computer with her voice so that Kayron will "never be alone". The mission log reads, "No more story missions available", but the open-ended activities of trading, escorting merchant ships, carrying out mercenary assignments, and fending off pirate attacks can still be done.

Setting

The story takes place in the Milky Way, beginning in a solar system called Pencah, several light-years away from the Earth. Starting in Terran (human) territory, the game takes Kayron Jarvis, the protagonist, across the known galaxy, in which he encounters five alien races – the Mortok, Raptor, Oc'to, Arrack, and the Thul – each with their own distinct cultural identities and fighting styles. The Terrans, Mortok, Raptor, Oc’to, and Arrack together form the Galactic Union (GU), a UN-like confederacy which was formed by the Terrans after a major galactic war, in order to prevent such large-scale conflicts from ever happening again. Because of drone attacks, the Thul have become isolated to their territory, while the rest of the galaxy slowly organizes itself against them.

The galaxy is divided into 23 sectors, or ‘clusters’, which contain 331 solar systems. There are seven races in the galaxy; however, only six have territories. These are Terrans, Mortok, Raptor, Oc'to, Arrack, and Thul. The S'kaa is the seventh, and their home territory is unknown, their mothership just occupying an abandoned system in Raptor territory. In Terran territory, the Galactic Union has its Council – its headquarters – on Earth, Sol System, Alpha Centauri cluster.

Gameplay
The game is divided into different action role-playing quests. These are main storyline quests, side quests, and missions which can be accepted from trade stations. The latter can further be broken down into missions which include freighter escort, transportation, bounty hunting, espionage, or taking photos of objects that are of interest to your contractors. In addition, the player is also able to trade, mine, or liberate star systems from space pirates.

The DarkStar One

DarkStar One has some action role-playing elements in it, which are reflected by the ship's properties.

The ship, DarkStar One, is a long-range fighter that is partly organic in its construction, and is upgraded by absorbing alien artifacts that are scattered across the galaxy, usually found inside large asteroids. The artifacts will allow the ship to be enhanced, enabling greater firepower, compatibility with a variety of alien weaponry, manoeuvrability, and resistance to attack. Artifacts add to the exterior of the ship, changing its physical appearance over the course of the game, and increasing the number of weapons and equipment it can carry.

The ship consists of four upgradeable parts: the hull, wings, engines, and plasma cannon. Every time sufficient artifacts are recovered, the player is given the opportunity to upgrade one of the first three along with upgrading the plasma cannon as well.

The plasma cannon is a unique weapon within the DarkStar One universe, and can be used to provide a number of additional attacks and abilities designed to give the player the edge in combat. These can be offensive or defensive, aiding either the ship's weapons, shields, or attacking enemy ships directly. Once all 100 artifacts have been recovered, the plasma cannon also unlocks a zero-point drive, allowing unlimited hyperspace travel throughout the galaxy.

Critical reception

DarkStar One received positive to mixed reviews, scoring 71/100 on Metacritic based on 33 reviews. The graphics were often praised, but the gameplay was not. GameSpot lauded its accessibility and simplicity, while ActionTrip derided it as overly simplistic and repetitive. The game was frequently compared to other space sims, including Elite, Freelancer, and the X series.

References

External links
 DarkStar One: Broken Alliance at Kalypso Media
 
 

2006 video games
Ascaron games
Kalypso Media games
Space trading and combat simulators
Video games developed in Germany
Windows games
Xbox 360 games
CDV Software Entertainment games
Single-player video games