[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Taybeh Brewery

arity in water access in the West Bank brought about by continued Israeli settlement expansion means that Taybeh has concerns about its future water supply. Although it is able to use water from a local spring, the business expects the water scarcity to limit its international expansion.

Milestones

In 1997, Taybeh beer became the first Palestinian product to be franchised in Germany, where it was brewed and bottled for sale in Europe. Taybeh beer is also exported to Sweden and Japan, and is sold in the United Kingdom.

In 2005, an annual Oktoberfest-style beer festival was launched. Dubbed the Taybeh Beer Festival, it opens in the beginning of October.

In 2008, an Australian named Lara van Raay produced a documentary called Palestine, Beer and Oktoberfest Under Occupation, which focuses on the Taybeh Brewery and the Khoury family.

The Taybeh Brewing Company was highlighted in the January/February 2010 Issue of the fine beverage publication Mutineer Magazine.

In 2012, Taybeh opened a winery, which produces Syrah, Merlot, and Cabernet Sauvignon red wines. The winery, which was established with the help of an Italian winemaker, has been run by Nadim Khoury's son Canaan since he graduated from Harvard in 2013 with an engineering degree.

In 2017, Taybeh beer and wine became available in the United States for the first time. The first American store to sell Taybeh was Foley's, the liquor store that the Khoury family ran before founding Taybeh Brewery, though their beer is sold in other stores around Massachusetts and in Rhode Island. Taybeh had been attempting to sell their beer in America since at least 2005, when it was first approved for sale in the US, but have faced obstacles to doing so. One barrier to Taybeh's entry into the US was that the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau's rules against "false or misleading statements on labels" prevented them from branding their beer as "Product of Palestine," as they do in other countries. As a result, Taybeh is sold in the US as "Product of the West Bank."

, Taybeh is still available in Israeli bars and clubs. However, sale of it and other Palestinian beers remains controversial, to the point where some on the Israeli political right have called for boycotting it. , 60% of Taybeh's sales are in Israel and the West Bank, down from 70% in the West Bank alone in 2010.

Beers
, there are six varieties of Taybeh Beer: Golden, Light, Dark, Amber, Non-alcoholic, and White. Golden, which is 5% alcohol by volume (ABV) is the original variety. The Dark and Light beers (6% and 3.5% ABV, respectively) were introduced for the 2000 celebrations in the Holy Land. The Dark variety follows a classic style of the way monks brewed beer in the Middle Ages in order to fortify themselves during their fasting. An Amber variety (5.5% ABV) was launched in 2007. A non-alcoholic beer variety was introduced in 2008 specifically for the local Palestinian Muslim market. Taybeh White (3.8% ABV), a Belgian-style wheat beer, was launched in 2013.

See also
 Beer in Palestine
 Palestinian cuisine

References

External links

Taybeh Oktoberfest
"Palestinian drinkers can hold their own"

Kosher drinks
Beer in the State of Palestine
Buildings and structures in the West Bank
Companies established in 1994
Palestinian brands
Beer brands