[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# International Volunteer Day

The International Volunteer Day for Economic and Social Development (5 December), more commonly referred to as International Volunteer Day (IVD), is an international observance mandated by the UN General Assembly in 1985. It offers an opportunity for volunteer-involving organizations and individual volunteers to promote volunteerism, encourage governments to support volunteer efforts, and recognize volunteer contributions to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at local, national, and international levels. International Volunteer Day is marked and supported by the United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme. UNV coordinates a campaign to promote IVD every year.

Background

The International Volunteer Day for Economic and Social Development was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly through Resolution A/RES/40/212 on 17 December 1985.

In 2012, in response to evolving experiences and recommendations, the United Nations Volunteers (UNV) programme spearheaded a Five-Year International Volunteer Day Strategy, with the aim to make it more globally recognized and grassroots-owned.

Celebration of International Volunteer Day (IVD) and the themes:

IVD is celebrated each year in over 80 countries annually. The IVD website receives around 50,000 page views every year, with around 150 stories posted which highlight over 50,000 volunteers, photos and videos of celebrations worldwide.

IVD 2022 – "Together, act now"

The theme for this IVD is solidarity though volunteering — "Together, act now". The value of volunteers will be celebrated and recognized. While the world grapples with humanitarian and development challenges — amid wars and climate change, we need volunteers to work together for the common good.

IVD 2021 – "Volunteer now for our common future"

IVD 2021 is focused on decision-makers more than in the past. It is important to integrate volunteers and the spirit of volunteerism into national and global implementation strategies to achieve the SDGs and build an inclusive world. By volunteering, people take action to improve their lives and the lives of those around them. Therefore, the theme for this year’s campaign is “Volunteer now for our common future”.

IVD 2020 – "Together We Can Through Volunteering"

IVD 2020 emphasized gratitude for volunteers and their efforts during the COVID-19 pandemic.

IVD 2019 – "For an Inclusive Future"

IVD 2019 focused on the diversity of volunteers and how volunteers themselves contribute to inclusion.

IVD 2018 – "Volunteers build Resilient Communities"

IVD 2018 celebrated volunteer efforts that strengthen local ownership and the resilience of the community in the face of natural disasters, economic stresses and political shocks. The event on 5 December 2018 focused on how volunteers can build resilient communities. 

IVD 2017 - "Volunteers Act First. Here. Everywhere."

The focus of IVD 2017 was to recognize the positive solidarity of volunteers around the world who answer calls in times of crisis, helping save lives today and supporting those who want to continue living their lives with dignity tomorrow.

IVD 2016 - "Global Applause – give volunteers a hand"

Under this theme, IVD presented a round of global applause to celebrate volunteers everywhere and encouraged others to join in and contribute to peace and sustainable development.

IVD 2015 - "Your world is changing. Are you? Volunteer!"

The goal of IVD 2015 was to start a dialogue about how volunteerism is vital to the success of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the 2030 Agenda.

IVD 2014 - "Make change happen, volunteer!"

The goal of IVD 2014 was to highlight the contribution of volunteers in engaging people from the grassroots in decision-making processes, ultimately creating spaces for participation that lead to stronger governance, social cohesion, peace and sustainable development.

IVD 2013 - "Young. Global. Active."

The goal of the event was to pay special tribute to the contribution of youth volunteers to global peace and sustainable human development, highlighting that young people act as agents of change in their communities.

IVD 2012 - "Celebrate volunteering"

The event celebrated its commitment and hope for a better world. The main focus of IVD 2012 was awareness of and recognition for volunteers and volunteer organizations.

A focus on partnership and development

Through the years, International Volunteer Day has been used strategically: many countries have focused on volunteers’ contributions to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, a set of time-bound targets to combat poverty, hunger, disease, health, environmental degradation and gender equality. [1]

International Volunteer Day (IVD) celebrates active volunteers and attracts new volunteers in the North and in the South, with a special focus on promoting South-South cooperation.