[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences

uveniles are less culpable and are much more amenable to rehabilitative efforts and thus should not be transferred to the adult criminal justice system. The assessments that are being proposed in the bill in order to ascertain the mental capacity to commit an offence are arbitrary and unscientific."

In December 2014, it was reported that a soldier from the Indian Navy was being held in NIMHANS for a month to evaluate whether he was suffering from mental illness, after acting as a whistleblower. After the month-long evaluation, it was concluded that the Navy person was not suffering from any mental illness.
In July 2013, TOI reported that NIMHANS was collaborating with the Central Bureau of Investigation to train its staff with interrogation techniques. In 2012, the central government approached NIMHANS to suppress anti-nuclear protests in regard to building the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant. The government asked NIMHANS to dispatch psychiatrists to Kudankulam to counsel protesters. To fulfil the plan, NIMHANS developed a team of six members, all of them from the Department of Social Psychiatry. The psychiatrists were sent to get a "peek into the protesters' minds" and help them learn the importance of the plant.

In 2008, a reality show contestant, Shinjini Sen, after getting reprimanded by the TV show judges, temporarily lost her voice, and physical mobility. It was alleged by the media that the television show judges' behaviour caused such disability. To resolve her case, she was flown from Kolkata to Bangalore's NIMHANS to be treated for a neurobiological condition. Professor B N Gangadhar, the then medical superintendent, told the press, "We can say at this juncture that she could be suffering from depression. Depression does not lead to permanent loss of speech or physical disability. We are diagnosing why that has happened. There could be complex neurological factors leading to such conditions."

Controversies
In February 2014, NIMHANS approached the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce to complain about a film to be released with the same name. Although initially, the institution was able to block the release of the film if it was named as such, subsequently, the film-maker was able to launch his film without renaming it, once the Censor Board and KFCC approved the name in its second round.

Notable people
NIMHANS has a strong alumni network of medical scientists and doctors, taking over many prestigious positions across the world. Some of the prominent people associated with the institute include clinical psychologists H. Narayan Murthy, Radhika Chandiramani, Satwant Pasricha, Elayidath Muhammad, philosophers and yoga therapists S. K. Ramachandra Rao H. R. Nagendra, psychiatrists M. Sarada Menon, Shekhar Seshadri, Jaswant Singh Neki, Valsamma Eapen, neuroscientists, Akhilesh Pandey Turaga Desiraju, Vijayalakshmi Ravindranath, Ganesan Venkatasubramanian Bilikere Dwarakanath, neurologists Naeem Sadiq, Sunil Pradhan, and neurosurgeons, N. K. Venkataramana, R. Marthanda Varma among others.

Bibliography

See also 
Mental health in India

Notes

References

External links

 

Neuroscience research centres in India
Medical research institutes in India
Medical and health sciences universities in India
Hospitals in Bangalore
Research institutes in Bangalore
Mental health organisations in India
1974 establishments in Karnataka