[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Palestinian National Security Forces

ps' communications and command and control capabilities; the detention of key middle-ranking officers; and the confiscation of their arsenals and financial resources".

Also the internment of leading Hamas and PIJ figures should have been explored. The plan aimed to implement the Road map for peace.

In March 2005, a secret British "Palestinian Security Plan" was presented with detailed proposals for a new security taskforce, based on "trusted PA contacts" outside the control of "traditional security chiefs", a British/US security "verification team", and "direct lines" to Israeli intelligence. The document notes that Israel was not content with the functioning of the NSF and opposed enhancement of the organisation with munitions and surveillance equipment. In a "subtle approach", the “old guard” could be retired with honour, "with subtle timing, once the decisions are made and the new structures are emerging" ... "The Israeli occupation has totally destroyed the capability of the NSF itself [in the West Bank] and inflicted significant damage on its infrastructure. NSF personnel are not permitted to bear arms or to move between areas in uniforms ... The NSF, being unarmed, are in no position to confront the militants."

On 2 April 2005, President Abbas dismissed West Bank national security chief General Haj Ismail Jaber. The reason given was a shooting incident on 30 March inside Abbas’ headquarters in which militants fired into the air. Abbas also fired Ramallah security chief Yunis al-Has. Abbas placed the security services in Ramallah on a “state of alert”. A large-scale reform of the security services followed that month. On 22 April, head of the Gaza Security Forces Moussa Arafat was replaced by Suleiman Heles.

2007 Fatah-Hamas conflict
During the year 2007, Fatah and Hamas, two of the main political parties in Palestine, were having confrontations in Gaza. The Fatah deployed the Palestinian Security Forces to confront the Hamas paramilitary forces in Northern Gaza. The confrontation led to the collapse of the Preventive Security Forces headquarters. The surprising Hamas victory led to the withdrawal of Fatah forces from Gaza.

2014 Italian–Palestinian training programme
By virtue of a bilateral agreement signed between the Italian Ministry of Defence and Ministry of Interior of the Palestinian Authority, the Carabinieri became a partner in the technical and professional training of Palestinian security forces and, for this reason, on March 19, 2014, Carabinieri instructors left Italy for Jericho, where is situated the General Training Centre.

Incidents
During the Battle of Gaza, Hamas militants seized several Fatah members and threw one of them, Mohammed Sweirki, an officer in the elite Palestinian Presidential Guard, off the top of the tallest building in Gaza, a 15-story apartment building. In retaliation, Fatah militants attacked and killed the imam of the city's Great Mosque, Mohammed al-Rifati. They also opened fire on the home of Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh. Just before midnight, a Hamas militant was thrown off a 12-story building.
On 20 March 2015, two Palestinian children, Rakiz Abu Assab (10) and Mohammad Raed al-Hajj (11) were shot by Palestinian security forces near the Balata Refugee Camp, when the latter intervened against youths throwing stones. The former was shot in the stomach, the latter in the foot.

Divisions in 1995
Before the 2003–2005 reforms, numerous separate security forces, all under exclusive control of President Arafat, existed. The following list of forces (including Intelligence and Civil Police) was published, based on an interview with Gaza Police Commander Nasir Yusuf in early 1995:

National security ("al-Aman al-Watani") 
Navy ("al-Bahariya")
Information Bureau ("al-Astakhabarat")
Military Police ("al-Shurta al-'Askariyit")
Force 17 ("Kuwat Sabatash")
Intelligence ("al-Mukhabarat")
Civil Defence ("al-Dufaa'a al-Madeni")
Civil Police ("al-Shurta al-Madeniya")
Criminal Security (al-Aman al-Junaa'i")
Drugs ("al-Sha'bat Mkafahat al-Makhdarat")
Riot Police ("Makafa't al-Shaghab")
Traffic Police ("al-Shurta al-Marour")
Preventative Security ('al-Aman al-Waqa'i")
Military Discipline ("al-Anthabama al-'Askari")
Presidential Security ("al-Aman al-Ra'isi")

See also

Palestinian Civil Police Force
Preventive Security Force
Interior Minister of the Palestinian National Authority
United States security assistance to the Palestinian National Authority
Palestine Liberation Army

References

External links
The Evolution and Reform of Palestinian Security Forces 1993–2013. Alaa Tartir, 18 September 2015 
Palestinian Security Forces. Associated Press, 19 January 2005
Marsad – The Palestinian Security Sector Observatory
Abbas outlaws Hamas's paramilitary Executive Force. Richard Boudreaux, The Boston Globe, 7 January 2007
Plan B. US State Department, 2007