[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Global Human Rights Defence

Global Human Rights Defence (GHRD) is an international Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) based in The Hague, Netherlands. GHRD focuses specifically on promoting and protecting human rights worldwide. GHRD places emphasis on those areas and populations of the world where severe and extensive human rights violations of ethnic, linguistic and religious minorities have continued unabated over long periods of time, and where structural help and global attention of Governments and international institutions have failed to reach.

GHRD conducts its work via three pillars:

Human rights reporting: done by local observers
Humanitarian aid: aimed at victims of human rights violations
Human rights education: in South Asia, Netherlands and Europe

Minorities
GHRD concentrates on the human rights of minority groups:

that are dominated by social, economical and political power;
that have been deprived of effective protection against gross and systematic violations;
that have been deprived of access to resources simply because of their identity and beliefs.

GHRD's work is based on the UN Declaration on Rights of Minorities (1992), and therefore it works with linguistic, religious and ethnic minorities.

"Basic aims of the United Nations, as proclaimed in the Charter, is to promote and encourage respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all, without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,[...] emphasizing that the constant promotion and realization of the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, as an integral part of the development of society as a whole and within a democratic framework based on the rule of law, would contribute to the strengthening of friendship and cooperation among peoples and States" General Assembly Resolution 47/135, 18 December 1992.

Identity
GHRD is integrally distinctive from other organisations in various ways. For one, it focuses on those issues and areas where people have been deprived of their rights without their cases being properly addressed by both governments and authorities. GHRD is the first organisation in The Hague (The Netherlands) to address specifically the human rights of minorities. Outside The Hague, GHRD is distinctive because of its permanent presence of local observers, who produce genuine information and reports of distinctive quality, due to their profound knowledge of the local humanitarian situation.

Objective
GHRD has formulated the following objectives in order to fulfil its mission:

To fight against the violation of human rights of minority groups, particularly in those areas and populations where structural help or global attention of the world has not been given;
To provide refugee centre assistance and humanitarian aid to those who lack elementary basic needs such as food, clothing, shelter and proper sanitary conditions;
To develop, stimulate and enhance human rights awareness in a national and international perspective, through means of education.

History
GHRD was officially founded after The Hague 2003 International Conference on Human Rights, which was sub-themed Human Rights of Refugees and Victims of Ethnic and Religious Violence. At the end of the conference a gap in the human rights work was spotted: human rights of minorities. The establishment of GHRD was supported by a broad spectrum of over a 150 selected participants of national and international human rights organisations from all over the world. The memorandum of association, which was agreed upon unanimously and signed by all participating parties, provides the structure of this international organisation.

At the time of its establishment, the Board was led by Sradhanand Sital who still is the chairman of the organisation. When it was first established, GHRD had no official office and worked solely on a voluntary basis.  Meetings were held at the founders’ living-rooms and activities were conducted by a small group of dedicated people.
In September 2005, the organisation opened its head-office in The Hague at Javastraat and employed the first paid staff. In the building, GHRD was neighbour of  United Network of Young Peacebuilders (UNOY) and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Also in 2005, GHRD promoted a four-day congress at the City Hall of the Hague. The congress was titled GHRD reaches for the future and brought together some 120 experts in the field of human rights. Amongst the speakers were Dutch Human Rights Ambassador Mr. P. de Klerk, and the Mayor of The Hague Mr. W. Deetman.

In 2006 the founders had already some contacts in South-Asia and it was easier to start acting in the region. Moreover, the South-Asia region fulfilled the mission/vision of GHRD, as the violations of human rights of minorities did not hit the headlines nor were they on top of the political agenda.