[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith (novel)

– Anakin Skywalker – is responsible for her death and his own fall from grace.

The narrative also describes how it feels to be Darth Vader: robbed of much of his power, in constant pain from his injuries, and "more than half machine", he now feels like "a painter gone blind, a composer gone deaf."

Other key information found in the novel
Names and details are given for the lightsaber techniques the characters use in their respective duels. All the seven lightsaber combat forms are mentioned and described except Form VI.
Anakin wants to access the Holocrons of the Archives to know more about Darth Plagueis so that he can learn how to save Padmé. As the Holocrons are only available to Jedi Masters, this explains his outrage over not being promoted to the rank of Master when put on the Council.
Palpatine deliberately tricks the Council into sending Obi-Wan to Utapau using reverse psychology by suggesting they send Anakin. He knows he needs to get Obi-Wan off Coruscant before he can turn Anakin to the dark side, so he uses General Grievous as a trap to lure Obi-Wan away. This proves necessary when Anakin's reaction to learning that Palpatine is the elusive Darth Sidious is to think "If only Obi-Wan were here – Obi-Wan would know what to say. What to do. Obi-Wan could handle this."
Obi-Wan assumes that Anakin must have been killed during Order 66, and mourns his death before his and Yoda's return to the Jedi Temple.
Towards the end of the movie, a conversation takes place between Obi-Wan and Yoda in which Yoda tells the younger Jedi that Qui-Gon Jinn has "returned from the netherworld of the Force", and is ready to teach the pair of them how to do the same. In the novel, Qui-Gon's return is described in full during a significant conversation between his spirit and Yoda. During the discussion, Yoda laments having had reservations about the headstrong master prior to his death: "A great Jedi Master you always were, but too blind I was to see it." He then declares, "Your apprentice, I gratefully become", as he prepares to embrace the Force in such a way as to retain consciousness after death.

References

2005 novels
2005 science fiction novels
Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith
Star Wars novels
Del Rey books
Novels based on films