[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Israel–Turkey relations

es by attacking Turkey.

In a joint news conference with British Prime Minister Theresa May in London, Erdoğan said Turkey would never accept Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and called on the international community and the U.N. "to act without wasting time and stop this oppression" in Palestine.

Erdoğan tweeted that Hamas was not a terrorist organization but a resistance movement that defends the Palestinian homeland against an occupying power. Netanyahu responded that "A man who sends thousands of Turkish soldiers to hold the occupation of northern Cyprus and invades Syria will not preach to us when we defend ourselves from an attempted infiltration by Hamas." He added that "A man whose hands are stained with the blood of countless Kurdish citizens in Turkey and Syria is the last one who can preach to us about combat ethics," At a dinner in Ankara Erdogan said that "If the silence on Israel’s tyranny continues, the world will rapidly be dragged into a chaos where banditry prevails,"

On 17 May, Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu said that Israel should be taken to the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity and Turkey was providing the Palestinians with legal assistance towards this end.

On 18 May, leaders of the Organization of the Islamic Cooperation member states gathered in Istanbul to attend an extraordinary summit, called by Turkey, to show solidarity with the Palestinian people, to denounce the relocation of the United States embassy to Jerusalem and the Israeli attacks against Palestinians. At the same time, thousands gathered in Istanbul's Yenikapı fairgrounds to show solidarity with Palestinians, including the Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yıldırım, Nationalist Movement Party leader Devlet Bahçeli, and Great Union Party leader Mustafa Destici. The same day, two Israeli journalists, from the broadcaster Hadashot, were shoved while they interviewed locals in Taksim Square about their views about the incidents in Gaza.

The main opposition Republican People's Party presidential candidate Muharrem İnce said that the government should take solid action against Israel rather than just holding rallies.

On 19 May, Turkey launched a campaign called "Be the hope for Palestine" asking the Turks  to donate money. Akdağ said that Turkey's Disaster and Emergency Management Authority and the World Health Organization would send medical aid to Gaza.

Turkish offensive against Kurds in Syria
Netanyahu condemned the 2019 Turkish offensive into north-eastern Syria and warned against ethnic cleansing of Kurds by Turkey and its proxies. He stated that Israel would extend humanitarian assistance to the Kurds.

Libya–Turkey maritime deal, EastMed pipeline, and Bat Galim incident

Following the December 2019 deal between the Tripoli faction in the Second Libyan Civil War and Turkey that allowed for the deployment of Turkish ground troops in Libya and the declared Turkey's sea borders to stretch from Anatolia all the way to the shores of Derna and Tobruk, foreign minister Israel Katz announced Israel's opposition to the maritime border accord between Ankara and Tripoli, and confirmed that the deal was "illegal" according to the Israeli official position, while at the same time noting that Israel does not want a conflict with Turkey.

Earlier in the month, the Turkish navy had driven out an Israeli oceanographic research vessel that had been operating with the consent of the Cypriot government in Cypriot waters. This act, in the context of the deal with the GNA, led to Israeli fears that Turkey aimed to "create a sea border the width of the entire Mediterranean" and cut off Israeli access international waters via the Mediterranean sea, the channel of 99% of Israeli exports. Energy expert Brenda Schaffer interprets the EastMed pipeline between Israel, Cyprus, and Greece (forecasted to be able to cater to 10% of Europe's gas needs, and decrease reliance on Russia) as a joint attempt to exclude Turkey from the "Club Med" gas club, but the decision to sign the deal was stated to be a response to the Turkish-Libyan deal.

Yossi Cohen's remark, Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, and rise of anti-Turkish coalition
In August 2020, Mossad's chief Yossi Cohen had openly named Turkey as a new threat for the peace of the region, and even further single out a number of allies Turkey would gain potential support like Azerbaijan and Qatar, the former has strong relations with Israel since 1990s. His remark was considered as a major move by Israel to openly confront the Turkish government.

Israel's decision to normalize relations with Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates via Abraham Accords had further worsened its relations with Turkey, as Ankara openly accused the two Arab nations of complicit on supporting Israel against Palestinians. In response, Turkey hosted two Hamas leaders, a move which triggered condemnation from Israel and the United States.