[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The King and I (1999 film)

ckboxing, Tuptim finally learns that he is the crown prince and that their love is forbidden. However, he tells her that he does not care about tradition and wants to be with her. Master Little learns of their relationship and tells Kralahome, who plans to use it to anger the King at the right time.

Anna goes to the King and sees that he is troubled after learning that the British are coming because he is allegedly a barbarian, which she knows is false. Anna advises Mongkut to throw a banquet for the British when they arrive so that he can show them he is civilized. At the dinner, Kralahome mentions the royal ivory pendant that the King is supposed to wear, which he gave to his son, who then gave it to Tuptim. When it is revealed that Chulalongkorn gave it away, Tuptim is brought in by the guards. Dishonored by the relationship, the King threatens to whip Tuptim to death but finds that he can't do it.  He orders her to be sent back to Burma, but knowing that this will be a death sentence for her, Chulalongkorn turns against his father and fights off the guards, fleeing with Tuptim and escaping into the jungle with Louis on elephants.

While they escape, Kralahome uses his powers to guide them through the jungle to a river marking the borderline of the kingdom.  Encouraged by this knowledge, they attempt to cross a rope bridge. But the bridge collapses, and Tuptim and Chulalongkorn are almost swept away by the river. The King, having had a change of heart and using one of his hot air balloons, rescues them with Louis's help in distracting Master Little's interference. However, on their journey back to the palace, Kralahome fires a firework, destroys the balloon, and causes it to crash. Everyone but Mongkut is able to jump into a lake for safety. Kralahome celebrates his apparent victory in the murder of the king but ends up exposing his true nature in front of Sir Edward and the royal guards.

An injured, bedridden Mongkut tells his son to be ready to lead Siam if he dies and allows him and Tuptim to be married and become king and queen. With his evil schemes of overthrowing the King exposed, Kralahome loses his position; as a punishment, he is forced to clean the elephant stables with Master Little as his boss, who now loses his last tooth and attacks him out of retaliation. The King heals from his injury and presents Anna with her house outside the palace walls, and the two of them dance.

Voice cast

Production

Development
After the success of Walt Disney Feature Animation's The Little Mermaid (1989), Warner Bros. began distributing several animated films, such as The Nutcracker Prince (1990) and Rover Dangerfield (1991), while also distributing Disney films theatrically in overseas markets until 1992. However, it was the success of The Lion King (1994) that convinced other Hollywood studios to consider producing in-house animated feature films.

In 1991, Morgan Creek Entertainment began a distribution deal with Warner Bros. to release its films within the United States. In 1994, the company established Warner Bros. Feature Animation, hiring Max Howard a year later to preside over the new division. In 1994, Arthur Rankin Jr., the head of Rankin/Bass Productions, had toured Thailand, where he considered adapting The King and I into an animated feature film. Together with his partner Jules Bass, they were able to convince the Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization, which held the copyright to the musical, that an animated feature film "would be a superb way" to expand the property. Both parties struck a deal, with the organization getting a potential share of the box office gross. Rankin/Bass then recruited Morgan Creek as the production company.

Writing
Prior to the release of Quest for Camelot (1998), screenwriters David Seidler and Jacqueline Feather were contracted to adapt the film for Morgan Creek, to be released under the Warner Bros. Family Entertainment label. In 1998, it was revealed the plot had been "slightly altered" from the original musical "in the interest of family viewing." However, no changes could be made without the approval of the Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization. According to then-president Ted Chapin, it was known within the organization that the changes would be a risk, but they hoped the film would "introduce a generation of younger people to the show earlier than they might have been under normal circumstances".