[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hungarian Two-Tailed Dog Party

h  slogans in Hungarian and English such as "Sorry about our Prime Minister" and "Feel free to come to Hungary, we already work in England!".

On 4 February 2016, Medián's poll for the first time registered support for the Hungarian Two-tailed Dog Party, with 1% of the population expressing support.

The Hungarian Two-tailed Dog Party was closely involved in the campaign during the October 2016 migrant quota referendum, mocking the government's anti-immigrant messages and phrases. In response to government posters which read "Did you know?" followed by claimed facts about immigration, the party spent €100,000 of voluntary donations from 4,000 people on posters with satirical slogans, such as "Did you know there's a war in Syria?", "Did you know one million Hungarians want to emigrate to Europe?", "Did you know? The perpetrators in most corruption cases are politicians" and "Did you know? During the Olympics, the biggest danger to Hungarian participants came from foreign competitors". Party leader Gergely Kovács told BBC News that "...What we can do is appeal to the millions in Hungary who are upset by the government campaign. We want them to know they are not alone". The party asked people to cast invalid ballots in the referendum. Eventually, 6% of the voters cast a spoiled ballot.

Shortly before the referendum, the party made a mobile app available for download on its website. The app, called "Vote Invalidly", could be used to take a photo of the spoilt votes and publish it. MKKP received a fine of 832,000 Hungarian forints for releasing the app, because publishing a ballot paper is illegal (even though the app published them anonymously). The fine was later reduced to 100,000 Hungarian forints by the decision of the Curia, based on the argument that publishing ballot papers anonymously did not violate the secrecy of the voting, although it was a misuse of the ballot papers.

The party officially took part in the 2018 parliamentary elections and got 1.73% of the total vote, but no seats.

2019 European parliament election 
The party participated in the 2019 European Parliament election. Despite an increase to 2.62% of the votes, it did not win a seat. Its campaign promises included building an overpass above the country for refugees, opening six Nemzeti Dohánybolt stores outside Hungary, introducing mandatory siesta and banning the Eurovision Song Contest.

2019 local elections 
In the 2019 local elections the party ran in four districts of Budapest (II., XII., XIV., XV.) where they had elected one council member each. They also formally or informally supported a handful of mayoral candidates, most notably in Ferencváros and Szombathely. After the election, newly elected Ferencváros mayor Krisztina Baranyi appointed MKKP member Zsuzsanna Döme as one of her deputy mayors.

Street art

The party has been a strong advocate of freedom of expression and artistic license. This position is expressed by political slogans on walls and pasting posters in Szeged.

The party's main activity is street art: graffiti, stencils, and various posters. These are often humorous critiques of company policies, the state of Hungarian railroads, common advertisements, and so forth. There have also been attempts to sabotage large billboard signs or provide simple meta-humour. A party leader was sued by the Hungarian State Railways over stickers saying "Our trains are deliberately dirty" and "Our trains are deliberately late", but the courts ruled in his favor. In 2009 he created a parody of the website Pecs2010.hu (the official site of Pécs as Cultural Capital of Europe in 2010), for which he was threatened with legal action, but the owners of the original site backed down after the case got publicity.

Election results

National Assembly

European Parliament

See also
 List of frivolous political parties

References

External links

Official site
The English version of the official site
Interview The Guardian, 6 January 2016

2006 establishments in Hungary
Joke political parties
Opposition to Viktor Orbán
Political parties established in 2006
Political parties in Hungary