[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Business rates in England

This itself does not directly provide a definition, but depends on the case law already established by prior forms of rating; no statutory definition of the hereditament exists. In case law, the concept of the hereditament is inextricably linked to that of rateable occupation.

Rateable occupation 

Rateable occupation is occupying a hereditament so as to be liable to pay a rate. In the case of LCC v Wilkins (VO) [1957], the court brought together various prior cases to establish four essentials for rateable occupation:

 Actual occupation — requires physical occupation of the property, in the sense that some use is made of it or control exercised over it. It is treated as a matter of fact, so the legal title may not always be relevant.
 Exclusive occupation – Also a matter of fact, although legal title will often play a part. The courts have laid down that where there are competing occupations, the facts must be considered to establish where paramount control lies. For example, in Westminster City Council v Southern Railway Co & Others [1936], the court had to consider the level of control exercised by operators of various stalls and shops on a railway station, compared to that of the railway company.
 Beneficial occupation – of some benefit to the occupier. It is not necessary to consider financial profit, as the test here is whether someone will pay rent for the property. For example, in R v School Board for London (1886), the board operating a school could take no profit; the court held that this did not prevent beneficial occupation.
 Not too transient – the occupation must not be for too short and fleeting a time. The courts have held back from giving a precise length of time, preferring to judge cases on their facts, including the intentions of the parties involved.

The relationship between rateable occupation and the hereditament can be a complex one – taking rateable occupation of part of a hereditament creates a new hereditament out of the larger one, for example. In practice, determination of rateable occupation and hereditament is often interlinked.

Concept of hereditament 

In the leading case of Gilbert (Valuation Officer) v Hickinbottom & Sons Ltd [1956], Lord Denning said:

The principle Denning stated shows that if a business occupies a single property, that is the hereditament. If it occupies only the ground floor, that is the hereditament (and the first floor is a separate hereditament). If it occupies the neighbouring property as well, the two together are the hereditament.

Gilbert v Hickinbottom featured an exception to the general rule, where there were two properties in the same occupation, separated by a public highway. It was held that the functional connection between the two properties was so great that they were to be treated as a single hereditament. Functional connection is judged by the strength of the connection and the degree and nature of the separation. In Edwards (VO) v. BP Refinery [1974], the analogy of a spark plug was used to illustrate the principle.

A hereditament can include the right to exhibit advertisements on another's property (such as a commercial advertising hoarding), mines, and certain sporting rights. Some items of plant and machinery within a hereditament are assumed to be included in the hereditament.

Exemption 

Certain properties which would otherwise be rateable are in fact exempt from rating (that is, are not entered in any rating list). These properties are specified by the Local Government Finance Act 1988, and include the following:

 Agricultural land and buildings

 Fish farms
 Places of public religious worship
 Lighthouses, buoys and beacons occupied by or belonging to Trinity House
 Sewers and accessories belonging to a sewer
 Certain property of drainage authorities
 Parks
 Property used for the disabled
 Air raid protection works, provided the hereditament is not used or occupied for any other purpose
 Swinging moorings
 Roads crossing over or under watercourses
 Hereditaments in enterprise zones
 Visiting forces premises

It is possible for only part of a property to be exempt, and the rest of it rated accordingly.

Domestic and non-domestic 

Domestic property is defined in the Local Government Finance Act 1988 as "used wholly for the purposes of living accommodation", with provisos to exclude hotels and short stay accommodation and include moorings and caravans where appropriate. It states that unused domestic property is to be considered domestic if it appears that will be the next use. Any hereditament that does not meet the criteria for domestic will be non-domestic (although it may then be exempt). It is possible for a hereditament to be both non-domestic and domestic in different parts, for example a shop with living accommodation. This is known as a composite hereditament, and the whole property is entered in the rating list, but the non-domestic valuation is based on the non-domestic part only.

Alterations and proposals