[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# List of Asian Americans

sian American to be Mayor of Boston.
Andrew Yang first Asian-American man to run for President of the United States as a Democrat for (2020 United States presidential election) 
Kimberly Yee, became Arizona's first Asian American woman to serve as a member of the Arizona State Legislature.

Religion

 Angela Warnick Buchdahl (born 1972), rabbi
 Randolph Roque Calvo, 7th Bishop of Reno, mixed Chamorro, Filipino, and Spanish.
 Francis Chan, American preacher. He is the former teaching pastor of Cornerstone Community Church in Simi Valley, California, a Christian church he and his wife started in 1994.
 Bruce Reyes-Chow, first American-born Asian American to be elected moderator of the 2.2-million-member Presbyterian Church (USA) in 2008.
 Bhante Dharmawara, Buddhist monk and teacher who helped resettle thousands of Cambodian refugees in the US and founded the first Cambodian Buddhist temple in USA.
 Gerrit W. Gong, Apostle, Quorum of the 12 Apostles, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
 Ruben Habito,  Filipino Zen Master of the Sanbō Kyōdan lineage and founder of Maria Kannon Zen Center in Dallas, Texas.
 Jian Tan, Buddhist monk and current abbot of the Chung Tai Zen Center of Houston.
 Hae Jong Kim, elected Bishop of United Methodist Church in 1992.
 Seyoon Kim, biblical scholar at Fuller Theological Seminary.
 Jakusho Kwong, American Chinese Zen Master of Shunryu Suzuki lineage, founder and head abbot of Sonoma Mountain Zen Center.
 Sang Hyun Lee, theologian at Princeton Theological Seminary.
 Dominic Mai Thanh Lương, auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Orange.
 Chieko Okazaki, Relief Society General Presidency, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. First person of color to serve on general boards of the church. Served on the Young Women, Primary, and Relief Society General Boards in Salt Lake City, Utah. (From Hawaiʻi).
 Andrew S. Park, teaches at United Theological Seminary in Trotwood, Ohio.
 Peter C. Phan, American Catholic theologian who is a native of Vietnam.
 Shi Yan Ming, 34th generation Shaolin monk and founder of the USA Shaolin Temple.
 Oscar A. Solis, first Filipino American Roman Catholic bishop in the United States.
 C. S. Song, Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Theology and Asian Cultures at the Pacific School of Religion and acting minister at the Formosan United Methodist Church in San Leandro, California.
 Su Bong, Korean American Zen Master from Kwan Um School of Zen and the designated heir of Seung Sahn's lineage.
 Kenneth K. Tanaka, scholar, author, translator and ordained Jōdo Shinshū priest.
 Thích Thiên-Ân, Buddhist monk, meditation teacher and founder of International Buddhist Meditation Center in Los Angeles, California.
 Ignatius C. Wang, first Chinese American to become a bishop in the Catholic Church.
 Amos Yong, professor of systematic theology at Regent University.
 Jimmy Yu (Guo Gu or 果谷), Chan teacher of Sheng Yen lineage, Associate Professor of Religion at Florida State University and founder of Tallahassee Chan Center in Tallahassee, Florida.

Space

This section is a list of astronauts of Asian ancestry who are, by birth or naturalization, American citizens.