[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Operation Displace

maintain a position by which no more casualties or loss of equipment could be sustained.

Meanwhile, 10 SA Division was formed on the SWA/Namibia border with Angola which would defend against any potential Cuban invasion of South West Africa. This force stayed in position until the end of the year.

Ceasefire
On 8 August, the South Africans, Angolans and Cubans announced a ceasefire in Angola and SWA/Namibia. A line was drawn from Chitado, Ruacana, Calueque, Naulili, Cuamato and Chitado that the Cubans would stay north of and would guarantee the water irrigation supply from Ruacana to SWA/Namibia. SWAPO, not party to the agreement, said it would honour the ceasefire on 1 September if South Africa did so, but this did not happen and SWAPO activities continued. UNITA on the other hand stated that it would ignore the ceasefire and would continue to fight the Angolan government. It did however state that it wished to stop fighting if the Angolan government held talks with them or ceased attacking them and seek national reconciliation.

10 August saw the South African government announce the beginnings of a troop withdrawal from southern Angola, with the final day for withdrawal of SADF personnel set for 1 September. When the Battle Group 20 commander notified the UNITA commander that they had been ordered southwards, the commander sought clarification from his headquarters. It is said that some of the UNITA soldiers cried as the SADF left their positions southeast of Cuito Cuanavale and believed they had been betrayed. The SADF elements arrived at the Angolan/SWA/Namibian border with ten days to spare and had to wait around as the Joint Monitoring Commission and world media organised themselves for the crossover at Rundu at a temporary steel bridge that was to take place on 1 September.

Joint Monitoring Commission
By 16 August the Joint Monitoring Commission was formed. This Joint Monitoring Commission met on 22 August at Ruacana and the formal ceasefire was signed between three parties.  On 30 August 1988, the last of the South African troops crossed the temporary steel bridge into SWA/Namibia watched by the world's media and the Joint Monitoring Commission, 36 hours early than the planned time. A convoy of fifty vehicles with around thousand soldiers crossed over singing battle songs. After officers of the three countries walked across the bridge, the South African sappers begun to dismantle the temporary steel bridge.

Aftermath
The Joint Monitoring Commission then declared on 30 August 1988, that the South African Defence Force had now left Angola.What followed were nine more rounds of negotiations revolving around the dates for the Cuban withdrawal from Angola that finally ended with an agreement called the Tripartite Accord signed on 22 December in New York. This accord finalised the dates of the Cuban staggered withdrawals from Angola and the implementation of UN Resolution 435 on 1 April 1989.

See also
Tripartite Accord (Angola)

References

Further reading
 
 
 
 

Displace
Displace, Operation
Displace
Displace, Operation
Displace, Operation