[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Van Jones

and a DJ set by artist Shepard Fairey. In August 2012 Prince announced a series of concerts in Chicago to support Rebuild the Dream. Prince went on The View with Jones and Rosario Dawson to promote the concerts.Jones claimed 127,000 people had become involved in the movement by the end of July 2011.

In April 2012 Jones published his second book, titled Rebuild the Dream. It debuted at number 16 on the New York Times Best-Seller list.

 Advocates for Opioid Recovery 
Jones founded Advocates for Opioid Recovery together with former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and former Rep.
Patrick J. Kennedy.

Jones has served on the boards of numerous environmental and nonprofit organizations, including Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), 1Sky, the National Apollo Alliance, Social Venture Network, Rainforest Action Network, Bioneers, Julia Butterfly Hill's "Circle of Life" organization and Free Press. He currently serves on the board of trustees at Demos. He also served as a Senior Fellow with the Center for American Progress and a Fellow at the Institute of Noetic Sciences.

 CNN 
 Television shows 
In June 2013, Jones was announced as a co-host of a re-boot of the CNN political debate show Crossfire, alongside Newt Gingrich, Stephanie Cutter and S.E. Cupp. The new version of Crossfire made its debut on September 16, 2013, but the show had been canceled by October 2014.

In 2016, Jones launched The Messy Truth, a news feature documentary series and subsequent studio discussion series, The Messy Truth with Van Jones, which aired in 2017 on CNN. In 2018, Jones launched The Van Jones Show on CNN, with Jay-Z as his first guest.

In 2019 Jones launched The Redemption Project with Van Jones, a show focused on restorative justice and bringing "offenders face to face with the people most affected by their violent crimes."

 Commentary 
Jones continued after the end of Crossfire as a regular CNN contributor. He has contributed to segments on a wide range of topics, including Obama administration policies, Supreme Court decisions, protests in Ferguson, Missouri, after the fatal shooting by police of an unarmed young black man, and the 2016 Republican presidential primary. After the November 2016 election victory by Republican Donald Trump, Jones described the result as a "whitelash": his term for a racist backlash by white Americans who had opposed President Obama.

On October 18, 2019, Hillary Clinton suggested Russians are "grooming" Tulsi Gabbard to be a third-party candidate who would help President Trump win reelection through the spoiler effect. Jones defended Gabbard, stating that "I do not want someone of her stature to legitimate these attacks against anybody. If you’ve got real evidence, come forward with it. But if you’re just going to smear people casually on podcasts, you are playing right into the Russians' hands."

On May 29, 2020, while on CNN's New Day, Jones commented  "It's not the racist white person who is in the Ku Klux Klan that we have to worry about. It's the white liberal Hillary Clinton supporter walking her dog in Central Park who would tell you right now, you know, people like that – 'oh, I don't see race, race is no big deal to me, I see us all as the same, I give to charities. But the minute she sees a black man who she does not respect or who she has a slight thought against, she weaponized race like she had been trained by the Aryan Nation.", referring to the incident involving Christian Cooper being falsely accused of threatening the life of the unrelated Amy Cooper. He went on to say "even the most liberal, well-intentioned white person has a virus in his or her brain that can be activated at an instant."

In late spring 2020, after the police murder of George Floyd and subsequent worldwide Black Lives Matter rallies, protests and marches, Jones advised the Trump White House on police reform policy. In several subsequent media appearances, he praised the president's executive order on police reform. A few weeks later, Jones was called out by The Daily Beast for not revealing his behind-the-scenes White House policy consulting work as he touted the policy in his other role as CNN political news pundit.

 The Dream Corps 
Jones is President of The Dream Corps, a "social enterprise and incubator for powerful ideas and innovations designed to uplift and empower the most vulnerable in our society." The Dream Corps owns and operates several advocacy projects, including Green for All, #cut50, and #YesWeCode.