[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Orlando Engelaar

ss against NAC Breda. Following his return from injury, he continued to regain his first team place for the rest of the 2009–10 season. Despite being sidelined on five occasions throughout the 2009–10 season, Engelaar went on to make thirty–nine appearances and scoring two times in all competitions.

Ahead of the 2010–11 season, Engelaar switched number shirt from eighteen to eight. In the opening game of the 2010–11 season, he scored PSV Eindhoven's third goal of the game in a late consolation, in a 3–1 win over SC Heerenveen. Engelaar then played in both legs of the UEFA Europa League play–off round against Sibir Novosibirsk and scored in the second leg, in a 5–0 win, which saw the club advance to the group stage. After missing one match due to a flu, he returned to the starting line–up against NEC Nijmegen on 11 September 2010 and set up one of the goals for PSV Eindhoven, in a 3–1 win. Since returning from injury, Engelaar continued to establish himself in the first team, playing in the midfield position. He then scored his third goal of the season, in a 2–1 win against Debreceni 2–1 on 21 October 2010. Three days later on 24 October 2010, Engelaar scored the club's seventh goal of the season, as PSV Eindhoven won 10–0 against his former club, Feyernood and giving them their heaviest defeat ever. Two weeks later on 10 November 2010, he scored his fifth goal of the season, in a 3–1 win against SV Spakenburg in the fourth round of the KNVB Beker. In a match against De Graafschap on 11 December 2010, Engelaar was sent–off for a second bookable offence, in a 0–0 draw. In the January transfer window, he was linked with a move to Turkish side Trabzonspor, but no avail. Following the departure of Ibrahim Afellay, Engelaar became Afellay's successor of being the captain for the remainder of the season. In the quarter final of KNVB Cup against Twente, he was at fault in match for giving away a penalty after being penalised for handball, resulting in the opposition team successfully converted to make it 1–1 and missed the penalty in the shootout, resulting in the club being eliminated from the tournament. However, Engelaar received a straight red card in the 55th minute for a foul on Luc Castaignos, in a 3–1 loss against Feyenoord on 24 April 2011. Shortly after, he had his red card overturned by the KNVB, saying: "And that must be the case when it comes to direct red. Engelaar also first plays the ball, after which the violation follows." Engelaar later helped PSV Eindhoven finish third place in the league by earning four points in the remaining two league matches of the 2010–11 season. Despite being sidelined with injuries and suspension throughout the 2010–11 season, he went on to make forty–six appearances and scoring five times in all competitions.

Ahead of the 2011–12 season, Engelaar said about his future: "Whether I will stay? That is a very difficult question, so shortly after the game. Whether or not staying the coach makes any difference to me? I don't know. I think he, like me, still has a contract until next year." As a result, he was linked with a move to Osasuna and Middlesbrough. However, both clubs ended interests in signing him, which Engelaar vowed to stay at the club. He later criticised PSV Eindhoven's management for their lack of experience and passion from last season and was expecting to leave the club but was unwilling to do so. Initially, Engelaar was given the captaincy but a change of heart from PSV Eindhoven's management led Ola Toivonen being appointed instead. He even rejected a chance to be appointed a vice–captain, which went to new signing Kevin Strootman. However, Engelaar found his first team opportunities limited, due to competitions, as well as, his own injury concern for the rest of the year. Despite this, Engelaar was praised by the club director for his commitment to the locker room and described it as "with sporty reluctantly."'' However, he returned to training from injury, only to injure his ankle once again that saw him out for two months. It wasn't until on 18 March 2012 when Engelaar returned to the first team from injury, coming on as a 61st-minute substitute and scored his first goal of the season, in a 5–1 win over Heerenveen. He then came on as a 75th-minute substitute, in a 3–0 win against Heracles Almelo to win the KNVB Beker final on 8 April 2012. At the end of the 2011–12 season, Engelaar went on to make twenty–one appearances and scoring once in all competitions.