[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Shaheen-II

The Shaheen-II (Urdu:شاهين–اا; Military designation: Hatf-VI, Trans: Target-6), is a land-based supersonic and medium-range ballistic missile currently in deployed in military service with the strategic command of the Pakistan Army.

Designed and developed by the National Engineering & Scientific Commission, Shaheen-II is a capable of nuclear weapons-delivery at vast range, and it is described as "highly capable missile which fully meets Pakistan's strategic needs towards maintenance of desired deterrence stability in the region" by the Pakistani military.

The National Air and Space Intelligence Center of the United States Air Force estimates that "as of 2017 fewer than 50 Shaheen-II were operationally deployed.

Description

Development and design of the Shaheen-II influenced from Pakistan's need for attaining surface-based second strike capability in a case of Pakistani military facing the Indian Army in an event of large-scale conventional war. Since 2000, the United States had prior knowledge of such program and was able to confirm it in 2005, when six-axled-ten-wheel MAZ vehicle was shown in the military barracks.

To Indian defense observes, Shaheen-II is seen as "backbone of Pakistan's survivability with ground-based second strike capability."

Re-entry design

The re-entry vehicle carried by the Shaheen-II missile has a mass of between —, which includes the mass of a nuclear warhead and a terminal guidance system.

Much of its engineering data, that is acceptable for public release, is provided by the Pakistani military and compiled by the American independent think tanks. This re-entry vehicle is unlike that of the Shaheen I in that it has four moving delta control fins at the rear and small solid-liquid-propellant side thrust motors, which are used to orient the re-entry vehicle after the booster stage is depleted or before re-entry to improve accuracy by providing stabilization during the terminal phase. This can also be used to fly evasive manoeuvres, making it problematic for existing anti-ballistic missile countermeasures to successfully intercept the missile. The Shaheen II warhead may change its trajectory several times during re-entry and during the terminal phase, effectively preventing radar systems from pre-calculating intercept points.

Ground-based deterrence

 
Due to Pakistan's engineering feat, the American sources leveled serious allegations on China, and often compares missile to either of Chinese DF-11 or DF-25. Pakistani government has always refuted the claims of Chinese assistance, stressing that the Shaheen-II was independently designed in 2000; and its series of expensive trial and errors culminated in final deployment in 2014 to keep the secrecy of the program through ingenious development. Further evidence provided through a press video shown by its designing contractor, NESCOM, at the IDEAS conference in 2004, the missile can achieve "surgical precision". Between 2004–2010, Pakistani contractors committed to series of testing of the Shaheen-II that included its engine, propellent, on-board computers, programming, and vehicle testing.

The re-entry vehicle is also stated to utilize a GPS satellite guidance system to provide updates on its position, further improving its accuracy and reducing the CEP to —. This has led to speculation that Shaheen-II incorporates a satellite navigation update system and/or a post separation attitude correction system to provide terminal course correction, which "may indicate a CEP of much less than ." According to King's College London, "the current capability of Pakistani missiles is built around radar seekers."

See also
Related developments
 Shaheen-I
 Shaheen-III
Related lists
 List of missiles of Pakistan
 Medium-range ballistic missile

References

External links 
 Pakistan’s Long Range Ballistic Missiles: A View From IDEAS
 Pakistani nuclear forces, 2006
 Ghaznavi / Shaheen-II - Pakistan Missile Special Weapons Delivery Systems
 How 'Shaheen' Was Developed

2014 in spaceflight
Military equipment introduced in the 2010s
Medium-range ballistic missiles of Pakistan
Nuclear missiles of Pakistan