[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Holden Commodore (VN)

ced only 302 units in total. This shortened production run did not affect the SS Group A SV's homologation thanks to the Confederation of Australian Motor Sport (CAMS) giving Holden special dispensation, in the hope of bolstering thinning grids in the 1991 Australian Touring Car Championship (ATCC).

Clubsport 
The VN Series HSV Clubsport was released in June 1990 and was based on the VN Commodore. It was offered as a four-door sedan with a  5.0-litre Holden V8 engine.

Maloo 
refer VG Maloo

Special editions 
In addition to the above mainstream models, HSV also built the following special editions and prototype, respectively:

SV LE
Limited edition V8 model from August 1989. 110 sedans were built until September 1989, and 80 wagons until January 1990.

Convertible prototype
Built in 1989 as a feasibility study—and bearing the eventual front styling of the VP series—this car never made it into production and is now displayed at the National Holden Motor Museum in Echuca, Victoria.

Motorsport

Group A 

Group A regulations governed many touring car series between the 1980s and 1990s including in Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, Japan, Italy, Germany and the European Touring Car Championship as well as the one-off 1987 World Touring Car Championship as well as significant races like the Bathurst 1000, Spa 24 Hours and the RAC Tourist Trophy.

The arrival of the Commodore SS Group A SV, coincided with the return of former Holden racing driver, Peter Brock, for the first time since their acrimonious split in 1987. Brock teamed with former three time Bathurst co-winner and HDT driver, Larry Perkins and his team for the first time since 1985 to run two cars under Brock's Mobil sponsorship. The team formed a two-pronged attack by Holden, which also comprised Holden Racing Team led by British driver Win Percy.

Engine outputs of this race car produced approximately , enabling it to reach  with suitable gearing. It was also equipped with a specially homologated Holinger six-speed transmission, and their homologated racing weight was , down from the VL SV's .

The SS Group A SV — as was the rest of the field that included Ford Sierra RS500 and the BMW M3 Evolution teams — was outclassed in the 1991 ATCC by the Gibson Motor Sport built Nissan Skyline R32 GT-R' of reigning champion Jim Richards and his teammate, Mark Skaife. Major complaints by Holden drivers included that the VN SS Group A SV lacked downforce compared to the VL series SV. Reportedly, this was a consequence of Holden demanding that the car be more eye pleasing to its predecessor, which was given various nicknames including the "plastic pig". While the car had a better aerodynamic drag and was significantly faster in a straight line than the VL (at Bathurst that year, Brock recorded  in the Tooheys Top 10 runoff, and aided by a tow from the Sierra of Dick Johnson was recorded at  in the race compared to around  for the VL the year before), it was slower through the corners due to the lack of downforce. This meant that while lap times at most of the shorter ATCC tracks stayed almost the same as with the VL, the VN's were actually slower at Bathurst by around two seconds, though in fairness the VL series had 3 years development compared to less than 1 year for the VN.

Brock gave the VN its only win in Group A racing when he won the opening heat of the first round of the 1992 Australian Touring Car Championship at Amaroo Park in Sydney, though both he and HRT were again uncompetitive during the season to the point that the leading Holden runner became Larry Perkins running a privately entered VL model. In September 1992 the VN was replaced as Holden's front line touring car for Sandown and Bathurst by its VP series successor. Brock's team was the only top team to run the VN Group A in the endurance races as the team's second car driven by Andrew Miedecke and Troy Dunston. The VN continued to be used by various privateers in 1993 and 1994 and last raced in the 1994 Australian Touring Car Championship by long time Holden running Sydney-based privateer, Terry Finnigan.

AUSCAR 
The VN model was introduced to Bob Jane's AUSCAR category in the 1990/91 season. AUSCAR was based on America's NASCAR stock car racing, with the major differences being that the cars were based on the Holden Commodore and Ford Falcon road cars and were not pure space frame chassis like NASCAR. AUSCAR's also ran smaller V8 engines (5.0 L compared to 6.0 L) which developed less power, and as the cars are right hand drive, raced clockwise on the ovals tracks (the Jane owned Calder Park Thunderdome and the ½ mile Speedway Super Bowl at the Adelaide International Raceway) whereas the NASCAR's being left hand drive raced anticlockwise. The theory being that the driver was positioned on the side of the car that was furthest from the outside wall. Also unlike NASCAR, AUSCAR's used a control tyre with tread that was more like a road tyre than a pure racing slick.