[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 150]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ion to induce Hubert and Hadria to
come to dinner, or to join the party, in the evening, whenever they
could.

Hadria shrank from the idea. It was adding another burden to her already
failing strength. To talk coherently, to be lively and make oneself
agreeable, to have to think about one's dress,--it all seemed
inexpressibly wearisome. But Lady Engleton was so genuinely eager to
administer her cure that Hadria yielded, half in gratitude, half in
order to save the effort of further resistance.

She dragged herself upstairs to dress, wishing to heaven she had
refused, after all. The thought of the lights, the sound of voices, the
complexity of elements and of life that she had to encounter, made her
shrink into herself. She had only one evening gown suitable for the
occasion. It was of some white silken stuff, with dull rich surface. A
bunch of yellow roses and green leaves formed the decoration. Hubert
approved of her appearance. To her own surprise she felt some new
feeling creep into her, under the influence of the exquisite attire. It
put her a little more in tune. At least there were beautiful and dainty
things in the world. The fresh green of the rose leaves, and the full
yet delicate yellow of the fragrant roses on the creamy lace, evoked a
feeling akin to the emotion stirred by certain kinds of music; or, in
other words, the artistic sensibility had been appealed to through
colour and texture, instead of through harmony.

The drawing-room at Craddock Place was glowing with subdued
candle-light. Lady Engleton's rooms carried one back to a past epoch,
among the dainty fancies and art of a more leisurely and less vulgar
century. Lady Engleton admitted nothing that had not the quality of
distinction, let it have what other quality it might. Hadria's mood,
initiated at home, received impetus at Craddock Place. It was a
luxurious mood. She desired to receive rather than to give: to be
delicately ministered to; to claim the services of generations of
artists, who had toiled with fervour to attain that grand ease and
simplicity, through faithful labour and the benison of heaven.

Hadria had attracted many eyes as she entered the room. Unquestionably
she was looking her best to-night, in spite of her extreme pallor. She
was worthy to take her place among the beautiful objects of art that
Lady Engleton had collected round her. She had the same quality. Hubert
vaguely perceived this. He heard the idea expressed in so many words by
a voice that he knew. He looked round, and saw Professor Theobald
bending confidentially towards Joseph Fleming.

"Oh, Professor, I did not know you were to be here to-night!"

"What has your guardian spirit been about, not to forewarn you?" asked
the Professor.

"I am thinking of giving my guardian spirit a month's warning," returned
Hubert; "he has been extremely neglectful of late. And how have you been
getting on all this time, Professor?"

Theobald gave some fantastic answer, and crossed the room to Mrs.
Temperley, who was by this time surrounded by a group of acquaintances,
among them Madame Bertaux, who had just come from Paris, and had news of
all Hadria's friends there.

"Mrs. Temperley, may I also ask for one passing glance of recognition?"

Hadria turned round with a little start, and a sudden unaccountable
sense of disaster.

"Professor Theobald!"

She did not look pleased to see him, and as they shook hands, his mouth
shut sharply, as it always did when his self-love was wounded. Then, a
gleam of resolve or cunning came into his face, and the next instant he
was at his suavest.

"Do you know, Mrs. Temperley, I scarcely recognized you when you first
came in. 'Who can this beautiful, distinguished-looking woman be?' I
said to myself."

Hadria smiled maliciously.

"You think I am so much changed?"

Professor Theobald began to chuckle.

"The trowel, I see, is still your weapon," she added, "but I am
surprised that you have not learnt to wield the implement of sway with
more dexterity, Professor."

"I am not accustomed to deal with such quick-witted ladies, Mrs.
Temperley."

"You shew your hand most frankly," she answered; "it almost disarms
one."

A few introductory chords sounded through the room. Hadria was sitting
in front of the window, across which the pale green curtains had been
drawn. Many eyes wandered towards her.

"I should like to paint you just like that," murmured Lady Engleton;
"you can't imagine what a perfect bit of harmony you make, with my
brocade." A cousin of Lord Engleton was at the piano. He played an old
French gavotte.

"That is the finishing touch," added Lady Engleton, below her breath. "I
should like to paint you and the curtains and Claude Moreton's gavotte
all together."

The performance was received with enthusiasm. It deepened Hadria's mood,
set her pulses dancing. She assented readily to the request of her
hostess that she should play. She