[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chilean rodeo

t never entered any of the events. This only began to change in the late 1990s when women became able to participate in the Chilean Equestrian Trials (PECH). Later, women continued to protest and demand that they be included in the main rodeo events, creating organisations to fight for these rights.

This led to, in 2003, the Chilean Rodeo Federation allowing women to participate in main events. During the 2005 National Rodeo Championship, the first female national rodeo was held. The event was won by the rider Romané Soto, with 57 points. She has continued to participate in rodeos, but the overall women's performance has not been the best; however, for the 2009 National Rodeo Championships Soto managed to qualify for the final with one horse, "Aviador". The pair went on to win the championship with only 44 points.

Initially the Chilean Rodeo Federation decided against abolishing article 181 that stated that bull riding can only be a men’s competition. However, on 12 October 12 2009, the first promotional women’s rodeo was held at the Santa Filomena de Colina arena. More than three thousand spectators and media representatives attended; there were thirty women competitors. On Chile’s 200th anniversary, Article 181 was abolished by President Sebastián Piñera and women were allowed to compete in federated rodeos under the same conditions as men. At the 2012 National Rodeo Championship, Michelle Recart became the first woman to qualify for the Champions Series of a National Rodeo.

Internationalisation 
During the 1990s rodeo began to spread to Argentina, especially within Mendoza province. In 1993 the first rodeo arena was built in Argentina, in the town Tunuyán. Following this, Argentinian riders were invited to participate in the Chilean Rodeo National Championship. In January 2018, an agreement was signed between the Chilean Rodeo Federation and the Cuyo Rodeo Association (Argentinian Riders' Association), agreeing that Argentinian Cuyo riders and Chilean riders could participate in both Chilean and Argentinian sponsored rodeos. Arenas have been constructed in Argentina and the sport is gaining supporters daily. In Argentina the rodeo is known as "rodeo cuyano" and it is distinct from the Chilean rodeo because the riders wear traditional gaucho clothing, which is a typical and historical style of clothing from Argentinian rural areas. In Uruguay, interest in rodeos has also grown.

In 2005 the first International Rodeo Championship was held in Argentina and was won by Chilean riders Luis Eduardo Cortés and José Urrutia. That same year, the rider Alfonso Navarro obtained the title of champion in the traditional Gold Brake event which is held in Brazil. The event was and still is attended by representatives of different countries of the Southern Cone and Brazil. The participants compete in different events on Criollo horses.

On 1 May 2009 according to the framework of the Expo FICCC, the most important Criollo horse exhibition in the history of Latin America took place. The rodeo was held in Esteio, Porto Alegre, Brazil. For the event, a new rodeo arena was built in Esteio. The champions were José Astabiriaga and Alfredo Moreno.

References

External links

National Sport
Chilean Rodeo
Portal del Rodeo Chileno (text in Spanish)

 
Chilean culture
Sport in Chile
National symbols of Chile
Sports originating in Chile
Traditional sports
Cruelty to animals
Animal welfare and rights in Chile