[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# March 1973

way. 
The flying of airliners at supersonic speed over the United States was barred by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), effective April 27, three years after the proposed new regulations were first published for notice and comment.
Died: Mikhail Kalatozov, Soviet Georgian film director, 69

March 28, 1973 (Wednesday)
The final stage of repatriation of 591 American prisoners of war in the Vietnam War with the final 148 being prepared for liberation. A group of 81 departed from Hanoi on C-141 Starlifter hospital jets to Clark Air Base in the Philippines. Ernest C. Brace, a civilian who had been the longest held POW, was among those freed, after almost eight years of captivity since his capture on May 21, 1965.
Prime Minister of France Pierre Messmer and his 22-member cabinet gave their resignations to President Georges Pompidou in order to make way for a new cabinet to carry out social reforms. President Pompidou accepted the resignations but asked Messmer to stay on as prime minister.
Residents of the Bulgarian village of Kornitsa, most of them Muslims of Turkish descent, fought against members of the Bulgarian Army and a militia who had come to enforce a new government policy of forcing Muslims to abandon their traditions and to change their names to Bulgarian equivalents. Residents of the villages of Lazhnitsa and Breznitsa attempted to march to Kornitsa, and all three villages were placed under martial law.
The original 7-year term of president of Turkey Cevdet Sunay expired with no successor having been elected. Turkish political leaders agreed to extend Sunay's term for as much as two years or until a successor could be picked. The lower house of parliament voted down the proposal despite a warning from the Turkish military commander to approve the extension or face a takeover of the government. The deadlock in parliament ended when Fahri Korutürk was picked on April 6 on the 15th ballot.
The Danish Maritime Safety Administration was established.
Born: Eddie Fatu, American professional wrestler best known by the ring name "Umaga" in World Wrestling Entertainment (died from a heart attack in 2009).
Died: 
Gertrude Johnson, 78, Australian opera soprano and founder of the National Theatre, Melbourne
Sybil Irving, 76, Australian Army officer and first director of the Australian Women's Army Service (AWAS)
Cecil Roy Richards, 79, Australian World War One flying ace with 12 shootdowns
Henry E. Stebbins, 67, U.S. diplomat and former U.S. Ambassador to Nepal, disappeared after apparently falling off of the cruise ship S.S. Leonardo da Vinci, and was presumed dead.

March 29, 1973 (Thursday)
The last American combat troops departed from South Vietnam, with U.S. Army General Frederick C. Weyand and South Vietnam's General Cao Văn Viên, chief of the general staff, presiding over the farewell ceremony with a review of departing U.S. soldiers at the Tan Son Nhut Air Base. General Weyand said "Our mission has been accomplished," and General Cao told the departing troops, "We are going to do everything we can to see that your great sacrifices were not in vain."
The last group of United States POWs from the military left Vietnam, with 67 being turned over to U.S. authorities. The 589th and last prisoner to board the final airplane out was U.S. Navy Lieutenant Commander Alfred H. Agnew. On April 1, Captain Robert Thomas White of the U.S. Army and two civilians would be set free.
U.S. President Nixon, under his authority in the "Phase III" economic controls granted to him by law, set a maximum for prices that can be charged by wholesalers and retailers for beef, pork and lamb, in response to threats of a boycott by housewives against the purchase of meat. The order took effect upon being issued at 3:00 in the afternoon Washington time.
Joe Cahill, sought by Ireland and the UK as the leader of the Provisional Irish Republican Army terrorist group, was arrested by the Irish Navy when he arrived in the port of Waterford, aboard the Claudia, a ship from Libya loaded with five tons of weapons. 
Sicilian mafioso Leonardo Vitale turned himself in at a police station in Palermo to become an informant, and gave prosecutors enough information to indict 28 defendants, most of whom would be acquitted of charges. Vitale would be shot to death in a drive-by shooting in 1984. 
The Emmy Award-winning TV drama Pueblo based on the 1968 capture of the USS Pueblo and its crew, was telecast by the ABC network in the U.S., with Hal Holbrook starring as Captain Lloyd M. Bucher.
Born: 
Juan Alejandro Ávila Mexican and American television actor known for La rosa de Guadalupe; in Mexico City
Died: 
Buron Fitts, 78, American politician who had served as Lieutenant Governor of California, as well as a prosecutor who survived a 1937 assassination attempt, committed suicide.
Lump, 16, Spanish dog who was constant companion to artist Pablo Picasso and sometimes depicted in Picasso's work, died 10 days before Picasso's April 8 passing.