[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Rodgers Meigs

n B. Floyd, a corrupt and venal politician who strongly disliked Montgomery Meigs. At Montgomery Meigs' urging, Davis and 11 other senators wrote a letter to Floyd supporting John Meigs' application to West Point, noting as well his relationship to Commodore Meigs. But Floyd blocked the appointment.

John applied to West Point again in November 1858. Meigs' father met personally with President James Buchanan to win his son's appointment, but John was refused again when the new appointment list came out in March 1859. Montgomery Meigs learned that Floyd had again blocked his son's appointment. Meigs again approached President Buchanan, who told Meigs that he should meet with Floyd.  On June 25, Meigs met with Floyd and openly admitted how distasteful the meeting was to him. He gave Floyd a letter in which he outlined his objections to the rejection of John's appointment, and requested that it be reconsidered.  Floyd admitted to blocking John's appointment, but said that Meigs had opposed him "in everything" regarding construction of the Washington Aqueduct and the United States Capitol dome and said he would resign from the cabinet if John Meigs' appointment had been approved. Floyd was particularly offended that Montgomery Meigs had seen Buchanan about the appointment rather than him.  Meigs apologized, claiming he did not intend to make an end run around Floyd.  Floyd accepted the apology, and promised that John would get an appointment if a vacancy occurred.

A vacancy opened in September 1859, and Buchanan personally delivered the appointment to Montgomery Meigs. Meigs thanked Floyd in a letter. He gave a copy of it to John, telling him to save it and to remember that John B. Floyd was his patron.

West Point education
John Rodgers Meigs entered West Point on September 7, 1859. He initially found it difficult to fit in at West Point.  His parents wrote him frequently, advising him to maintain the highest moral standards, work on developing the highest social graces, and to seek as much glory and official recognition as possible. They criticized the smallest things, such as omitting to date a letter or slurping his soup. His father urged him to learn how to read Greek and Latin, and to read only the best books such as compilations of famous people's letters, histories, and those novels which taught only the highest moral values.

He seemed little able to take their advice. In November 1860, the academy sent a report to Meigs' parents, informing them that their son had received 74 demerits. Should he receive 100 demerits, he would be expelled. John argued that the demerits were unfair, since his first lieutenant disliked him irrationally and did not given the proper military or personal respect he deserved.

Bull Run

The Civil War broke out on April 12, 1861. Many of the cadets at West Point were eager to engage in the fighting, but many teachers at West Point resigned to fight for the Confederacy and the Union Army desperately needed more trained officers. By now, John's father had been promoted to brigadier general, and was helping to reinforce several Union-held forts in the Deep South. He took a ship to Fort Pickens in Pensacola, Florida, and retrieved Major Henry J. Hunt and a unit of artillery and brought them back to Washington, D.C.  But with so few officers left in the Union Army's ranks, John felt it urgent that he join the fighting, at least temporarily.  John asked his father for a furlough to join in the defense of Washington, and General Meigs gave his permission.  The furlough commenced on July 2 and ended on August 28. On July 18, Cadet John Rodgers Meigs arrived at his parents' house.

The same day Meigs arrived back home, he joined Hunt's Light Company M, 2nd United States Artillery, newly reconstituted and now a reserve unit attached to General Irvin McDowell Army of Northeastern Virginia. The following day, McDowell assigned Company M to Colonel Israel B. Richardson 4th Brigade, Second Michigan Volunteers. Sources vary as to what John Meigs' official role was.  Several, including the official U.S. Army biographical register, claim he was an aide-de-camp to Colonel Richardson. However, others note that he was formally assigned to Major Hunt's Light Company M. Among these are the Meigs' family, and Meigs himself. It is clear, however, that he carried orders and acted as an observer for Hunt and carried orders for Richardson.