[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Franceway Ranna Cossitt

itution was located in the vicinity of Princeton and a farm was bought about a mile from the town. It was to be a manual labor school, and arrangements were made accordingly. Cossitt was chosen to be President and opened the college in March 1826. He would be president for the next seventeen years. 

Cumberland College was an experiment. The country was comparatively new and the Cumberland Presbyterian Church had been chiefly devoted to the more immediate work of saving sinners and collecting congregations. The itinerant plan of preaching, and yearly camp meetings, constituted a large part of their work. The establishment of denominational schools and of colleges had been overlooked. The lessons necessary for success had to be learned from experience. The college looked to the education of young men, and especially of young men preparing for the ministry, who were not able to support themselves at more expensive college. Young men who were more used to a plow were to be converted into scholars, statesmen, and pulpit orators. The students were to occupy dormitories with straw beds and furniture of the plainest and cheapest king. Food was to be healthful, but plain and cheap. All luxuries were proscribed. The students were to work two hours each day except the Sabbath and to pay sixty dollars a year into the College treasury.

Cossitt collected some of the best young men in the land. A large log building was constructed for College purposes, and the students who were educated there during ten of the first years of the Institution "rubbed their backs against wooden walls.". Notwithstanding what would now be considered the grimness and severity of the system, the college was popular and in the spring and summer of 1830, 125 men were attending classes.

Financial difficulties of the College
At the meeting of the General Assembly in 1830, it was thought necessary to raise the charges in money from sixty to eighty dollars as the expenditures were greater than its friends had anticipated. Money had been borrowed to pay for the farm, and other debts had been contracted, and the interest was an eating cancer.

In 1831 the General Assembly leased the College to Rev. John Barnett and Rev. Aaron Shelby for a term of years. During this time, the Church had become to some degree alienated and confidence in the final success of the enterprise was failing. Barnett and Shelby were to have all the proceeds of the College after paying the necessary expenditures - to support a sufficient number of instructors, to keep up the boarding-house, and pay the debts of the College. Mr. Shelby continued his connection with the Institution till the summer or fall of 1833 when he sold his interest to Mr. Harvey Young. The following year, Mr Young died, and the entire management of the financial affairs of the College fell into the hands of Mr. Barnett. At the same time, a number of persons fell victim to cholera and a malignant fever spread over the country. The condition of things became so bad at the College, that a temporary suspension of operations was found absolutely necessary. The manager of the farm and boarding-house died; one of the professors was finally prostrated, one of the students died, and a number were sick. The Church also began to complain about Mr. Barnett. Some thought he managed badly; others thought he managed wholly with a view to his own selfish ends; others went so far as to impeach his integrity as a man of business and a Christian. A change became necessary.

The General Assembly of 1837 met at Princeton and Cumberland College Association was formed and Barnett's interest was transferred to the Association as a joint-stock company. It was pledged to carry on the operations of the Institution under the direction and control of the General Assembly. Prospects seemed to brighten but after a temporary revival of interest and confidence, some people at the College believed that the Church had deserted it, and that assistance was to be expected from that quarter. The idea of transferring the Institution to the control of the Episcopalians of Kentucky was seriously considered. The result of this condition of things was a great effort on the part of Cossitt to arouse the Church to take interest in the College. He and Rev. F. C. Usher, who was connected with him in the department of instruction, published a circular letter, in which earnest appeals were made to the ministers and members of the Church.