[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Darren Barnard

with the ball down the wing, overlap with Brian Tinnion and, of course, his free-kicks had earned him some plaudits. Barnard left the club soon after, to join Barnsley in the Premier League, so this partnership was never seen in a competitive City side. Barnard scored 17 goals in 76 games for City.

Barnsley
Barnsley was looking to strengthen their squad after promotion to the Premier League for the 1997–98 season, signing Barnard for £750,000 as well as players like Eric Tinkler and Georgi Hristov. Barnard became a Welsh international during this season, making his debut for Wales in a 0–0 draw against Jamaica on 25 March 1998 and went on to collect 18 caps whilst at Barnsley. Unfortunately for Barnsley, the Premier League dream lasted only one season, but Barnard played on for them in the First Division for another four seasons and played in the 1999–00 playoff final defeat to Ipswich Town, in which he missed the opening penalty in the match, the last missed penalty at the old Wembley Stadium, although Barnsley was awarded another which Craig Hignett scored. In the 1998–99 season, Barnard turned down a move to go to Southampton in November, on his first game after he declined the move, he scored what possibly could be one of the all-time great goals for his club and himself, a left-footed volley from the corner of the penalty area after a fine pass by Nicky Eaden. The goal was in Barnsley's 7–1 win over Yorkshire rivals Huddersfield Town on 27 November 1998, a game shown live on Sky Sports. Barnard scored 28 goals in 201 appearances for the club with many assists.

Grimsby Town
Barnard joined Grimsby Town for the start of the 2002–03 season along with fellow Barnsley player Steve Chettle. Barnard was used as a left-sided midfielder in his first season while under manager Paul Groves but was also used at left-back, the latter was primarily his main position after the departure of Tony Gallimore in the summer of 2003. In both Barnard's seasons at Blundell Park he suffered relegations in which Grimsby went from Division One to Division Three. Following the club's financial difficulties many of Barnard's colleagues had been inexperienced youngsters. Despite not having any luck at his club, Barnard collected another 6 Welsh caps, the last as a substitute against Norway on 27 May 2004, coincidentally alongside former Grimsby teammates Danny Coyne and John Oster.

Aldershot Town
The former Aldershot and Farnborough District schoolboy joined Aldershot Town in August 2004 after leaving Grimsby Town. The Welsh international left-sided defender was a major signing by the Aldershot manager Terry Brown, becoming the club's penalty taker. In 2007 Barnard was made club captain as well as playing and captaining the Welsh semi Professional side. Barnard scored 24 goals in 127 appearances for Aldershot Town.

Coaching career
Barnard moved to sign for Camberley Town prior to his release from Aldershot in 2007. As well as being used as a player, Barnard was also appointed the Director of Football for the club, and later the general manager. In May 2010 he was appointed joint first team manager alongside ex-Reading and Wycombe Wanderers player Paul Miles. Barnard became sole Manager after Paul Miles resigned in October 2011. In 2010 Barnard started his 'A' Licence coaching badge in Manchester. Other players on the course run through the PFA included David Lee, Paul Williams, Paulo Wanchope and ex-teammate Shaun Goater. In May 2012, Barnard decided to move on from Camberley Town 1st team and stepped down as the Manager.

In July 2011, Barnard become Director and Head Coach for Professional Footballers Soccer Academies. Based at a local 6th Form school and in conjunction with Camberley Town FC. The role included Players receiving daily training involving individual and team coaching focusing on the Roles and Responsibilities of the players within the team. 
Players received guidance on individual Football fitness, nutritional advice and a regular appraisal to monitor each player's development both on and off the pitch. Players had the opportunity to represent the Football club through the academy, youth, and college or reserve team, with the aim to progress into the first team or progress to higher placed teams.