[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Human rights in Nigeria

ques or Islamic schools. In western Nigeria, violence erupted between parents of the christian and muslim denominations after Kwara State officials suspended classes at 10 historically Christian schools because of refusal to admit a female student who came with hijab to one of the christian schools.

Throughout Nigeria, religious minorities are systematically restricted from building places of worship and schools through the denial of land grants.  Members of minority religious groups are often attacked during riots and religious conflicts.

International perspective
According to the U.S. Department of State,
The most serious human rights problems during ... [2011] were the abuses committed by the militant sect known as Boko Haram, which was responsible for killings, bombings, and other attacks throughout the country, resulting in numerous deaths, injuries, and the widespread destruction of property; abuses committed by the security services with impunity, including killings, beatings, arbitrary detention, and destruction of property; and societal violence, including ethnic, regional, and religious violence. Other serious human rights problems included sporadic abridgement of citizens' right to change their government, due to some election fraud and other irregularities; politically motivated and extrajudicial killings by security forces, including summary executions; security force torture, rape, and other cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment of prisoners, detainees, and criminal suspects; harsh and life-threatening prison and detention center conditions; arbitrary arrest and detention; prolonged pretrial detention; denial of fair public trial; executive influence on the judiciary and judicial corruption; infringements on citizens' privacy rights; restrictions on freedom of speech, press, assembly, religion, and movement; official corruption; violence and discrimination against women; child abuse; female genital mutilation ...; the killing of children suspected of witchcraft; child sexual exploitation; ethnic, regional, and religious discrimination; trafficking in persons for the purpose of prostitution and forced labor; discrimination against persons with disabilities; discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity; vigilante killings; forced and bonded labor; and child labor.

Twelve northern states have adopted some form of Shari'a into their criminal statutes: Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Niger, Sokoto, Yobe, and Zamfara. The Shari'a criminal laws apply to those who voluntarily consent to the jurisdiction of the Shari'a courts and to all Muslims. It provides harsh sentences for, among other crimes, alcohol consumption, infidelity, same-sex sexual activity, and theft, including amputation, lashing, stoning, and long prison terms.

Some Christian pastors in Nigeria were reported in 2009 of being involved in the torturing and killing of children accused of witchcraft. In the decade ending in 2009, over 1,000 children were murdered as "witches". Those pastors, in an effort to distinguish themselves from the competition, were accused of decrying witchcraft in an effort to establish their "credentials".

Human rights organizations and bodies
Constitutional Rights Project - founded in 1990 to promote rule of law in Nigeria.

Nigerian Center for Human Rights and Democracy - founded in 1995 to promote democracy and enforcement of rights.

Human Rights Monitor - founded in 1992 to promote human rights.

Institute for Dispute Resolution - founded in 1999 to promote peaceful conflict resolution.

Human Rights Law Services (Hurilaws) - established in 2007.

Youths For Human Rights Protection And Transparency Initiative

Street Priests Inc. – founded in 2014.

Freedom House ratings
The following chart shows Nigeria's ratings since 1972 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is "most free" and 7 is "least free".

International treaties
Nigeria's stances on international human rights treaties are as follows:

See also 

National Human Rights Commission (Nigeria)
Human trafficking in Nigeria
Internet censorship and surveillance in Nigeria
LGBT rights in Nigeria
Politics of Nigeria
Communal conflicts in Nigeria
Saving Africa's Witch Children

References

External links
GQOM Songs
Fakaz A Song
Forible Télécharger

 2012 Annual Report, by Amnesty International
 Freedom in the World 2011 Report, by Freedom House
 World Report 2012, by Human Rights Watch
National Action Plan for the Promotion & Protection of Human Rights in Nigeria, 2006