[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# History of slavery in Nebraska

slaves here, and to hold them as such, and that this is slave territory ... If the friends of slavery insist that they have the right to hold slaves here, shall we tamely submit to it? If they insist on making this a slave territory, which they do, shall we not insist that it shall be forever free?

In 1861 the territorial legislature passed a bill prohibiting slavery in Nebraska, but the governor vetoed it. He claimed that since there were few slaves in the territory, passing a slavery ban was an unworthy use of time, and that the issue should instead be raised if Nebraska earned statehood. The veto message was called "the weakest paper we have ever known to come from a man of the Governor's pretentions and acknowledged ability" by the Nebraska Advertiser in 1861. A vote of ten to three in the Territory Council, and thirty-three to three in the Territorial House overrode his veto, and slavery was forbidden in Nebraska.

Although the Territory prohibited slavery, at first the legislators limited suffrage to "free white males", as was typical of many states. Following the Civil War, having this clause in the proposed 1866 Nebraska State Constitution delayed Nebraska's entrance to the Union for nearly a year, until the legislature changed it.

Mayhew Cabin
Located just outside Nebraska City, Nebraska, is the Mayhew Cabin. Built in 1855, it was owned by Allen and Barbara (Kagi) Mayhew.  John Henri Kagi, Barbara's brother, met and was deeply influenced by abolitionist John Brown in 1856.  Kagi became the secretary of war in Brown's army. Kagi made his sister's farm a stop on the Underground Railroad to house slaves escaping from the South. In 2005, the Mayhew's cabin was rehabilitated.  Today, the museum site also houses the Mt. Zion African Methodist Episcopal Church, one of the first black churches established west of the Missouri River.

See also 
 African Americans History of Nebraska
 African Americans in Omaha, Nebraska

References

External links
"A History of Enslavement in Nebraska" by Adam Fletcher Sasse for NorthOmahaHistory.com
Photo of the original document outlawing slavery in Nebraska.
History of Slavery in Nebraska, in Andreas' History of Nebraska. Retrieved 5/29/07.
Mayhew Cabin with John Brown's Cave Museum

Pre-statehood history of Nebraska
African-American history of Nebraska
Nebraska
History of racism in Nebraska