[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# 1929 Bahamas hurricane

r Mercia Montgomery, which departed from Apalachicola on September 28. The storm's slow forward motion contributed to torrential rainfall over South Florida, peaking at 10.63 in (270 mm) in Miami on September 28. Low-lying areas of the city were flooded. Inundation as deep as  occurred in Homestead.

Damage in the Florida Keys was worst north of the hurricane's eye, such as in Cape Sable, Upper Matecumbe Key, southern Key Largo, and the Ten Thousand Islands. Storm surge heights reached  in Garden Cove and washed out highways along the Keys out to Big Pine Key. A gust of  was estimated in Key Largo, where the hurricane made landfall. Everglades City experienced winds of  and  of rainfall. Damage was wrought to 60–65 homes in both Everglades City and Dupont; they were all repaired within ten days. In Key West, small fishing boats in the upper harbor were overtaken by the high seas, and lighting and telephone service was disrupted; losses were estimated at a few thousand dollars. Railroad service in Key West was unavailable for a week, and mail was delivered to the city by the United States Coast Guard. In Miami, winds reached , blowing down electric lines throughout the area and causing power outages in Miami Beach. Damage along the southwestern Florida coast was generally minor, with only minimal impacts north of Punta Rassa to Cedar Key. South of Florida City, a -stretch of railway roadbed required repairs due to storm damage. An estimated 20–30 percent of oranges and half of grapefruits in Lee County were damaged. Collier had the highest damage toll of any Florida county, sustaining $295,000 in damage. Loss of timber accounted for $150,000 of the total. However, losses sustained by fruit crops in Dade County were ultimately greater, reaching $1.5 million according to monthly records maintained by the National Centers for Environmental Information.

At least five tornadoes occurred in the hurricane's rainbands between Miami and Stuart, moving southeast to northwest with the storm's circulation. These were among the first verified reports of tornadoes occurring within a hurricane. Most of the tornadoes were short-lived and were limited to the coast, producing marginal damage. One tornado struck Fort Lauderdale, taking a  long and  wide path through the city's business center. Frame homes and garages were destroyed. Much of the roof and parapet of a 4-story concrete hotel was torn away by the twister. The tornado lifted within a minute of touching down and produced the severest impacts from the hurricane in Fort Lauderdale, inflicting $100,000 in damage and injuring 16 people.

Gusts of  accompanied the hurricane's landfall on the Florida panhandle, with winds near hurricane-force extending west to Pensacola where a peak gust of  was recorded. The damage in Pensacola was estimated at $60,000. Docks and small craft were damaged, while trees and telegraph lines were downed. Citrus unshiu pine trees saw significant impacts. Along the Apalachicola waterfront, the storm surge destroyed nearly all wharves and damaged all coastal fish and oyster storehouses and canning plants. The surge inundated low-lying portions of the city, flooding additional inland warehouses. Parts of a newly built coastal highway west of Apalachicola were washed out by the waves. Panama City incurred $100,000–$150,000 in damage from destroyed wharves and fish storehouses. Apalachicola incurred a $66,000 damage toll, primarily to shipping.

 Eastern U.S. 

In Alabama, the damage was generally minor but most pronounced to crops. Coastal damage amounted to $1,800 excluding crop losses. The winds caused some damage to roofs and blew down fences. Citrus unshiu'' branches bearing fruit were torn from trees. Pecans suffered the same fate, though their quality remained at market-grade. While most cotton in Alabama's southeastern counties had already been harvested, extensive damage was wrought to the remaining crops.