[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Atto of Vercelli

s to why they needed women around, but Atto saw through these. Although he didn’t threaten any punishment to the offending ecclesiastics, he did strongly suggest that they should stop. More likely than not, his influence was not very strong on matters that were so tied to human nature, such as this.

Atto opposed several other practices within the Church. In the early Middle Ages, it was profitable for clergymen to sell holy cloth, i.e. altar furnishings or priest’s clothing, to families who wished to carry their dead to the grave with a liturgical article for the purpose of ensuring the dead a safe trip into the afterlife. Atto did not disapprove of this due to the actual ‘selling’ of holy articles, however. It was said that once restored to its original purpose, the cloth used to bear the dead would be tainted and pollute the altar and Mass it was meant to serve. Atto thus saw the appropriation of holy cloth during funeral services as a fault of the clergy: in his opinion, the ecclesiastics who performed this practice were unaware of the appropriate way to treat articles that are instrumental in sacred worship.

In the centuries before Atto's time, clerics from the lowest to the highest ranks were known to take counsel from magicians, or seers. This practice – and the general fear that clergymen were corrupted by or becoming magicians – died out in the middle of the 9th Century. Atto inexplicably decided to warn against the consultation of magicians and seers in all ranks of the clergy during his time as Bishop of Vercelli, although there is little evidence that it was still widely regarded as a problem.

Works
Atto of Vercelli's literary canon survives in partial form and is largely instructional. His sermons can be found in contemporary anthologies, such as Atto's “on Palm Sunday (Sermon VII)” in Ray C. Petry's No Uncertain Sound: Sermons that Shaped the Pulpit Tradition, published in 1948. Alongside his larger works, Atto also wrote The Exposition on the Epistles of Saint Paul, a commentary that would have been used to educate the clergymen of Vercelli. A small collection of Atto's Epistolae, or letters, has been preserved, probably compiled from the codices of Vercelli and the Vatican library. This collection includes nine letters that Atto wrote, and two directed to Atto from other authors.

De pressuris ecclesiasticis
The earliest of his principal compositions, De pressuris ecclesiasticis was written around 940 AD. It is sometimes referred to by its full name, De pressuris eclesiasticis libellus, meaning “Book on the Pressures of the Church.” It contains discourse regarding the jurisdiction of the Church and its law and argues against the maltreatment of laypeople. Alongside this, it disproves accusations against the clergy, including matters regarding the ordination of ecclesiastics, especially to the position of bishops, as well as the unwarranted expropriation of church property after a bishop's death.

Polypticum
Sometimes referred to as Perpendiculum, meaning “perpendicular,” “line,” or “plummet,” this work seems to have been completed near the end of Atto's life, perhaps in his last months. It may have been sent to a friend or colleague of Atto's, who wrote the foreword using Latin similar to that of Atto, before being published. It has been suggested that only the first two drafts of the work are in the hand of Atto himself, and that the aforementioned friend or colleague of Atto may have forged his hand for the later edition of the text. The work itself discusses the troubling political atmosphere of the Kingdom of Italy, albeit in an obscure way. It satirizes the political struggles between princes and nobility in the time period, and shows Atto's distaste and pessimism about the age in which he lived.

Canones: Ecclesiastic Law
The name of Atto's compilation of canon law is debatable. Linda Fowler-Magerl calls it the long-winded Capitula canonum excerptarum de diversis conciliis decretalibus statutis atque epistolis congruentium ad forense iudicium tempore domini Attonis episcopi, which translates roughly to “Excerpt chapters of canons about the different decretal statute councils and the corresponding letters to the legal judgment in the time of the lord Bishop Atto.” W. C. Korfmacher uses the shortened Canones statutaque Vercellensis Ecclesiae, roughly meaning “Canons and Statutes of the Church of Vercelli.” Paul Collins prefers the abbreviated Capitulare, simply meaning “capitulary.” It is clear in their writing, however, that Collins, Korfmacher, and Fowler-Magerl reference the same work, namely Atto's compilation of and additions to ecclesiastic law.