[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 83]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ould feel the parting
far more than he would (conventions apart)."

"No question of it," said Hadria. "Our disharmony, radical and hopeless
as it is, does not prevent my having a strong regard for Hubert. I can't
help seeing the admirable sides of his character. He is too irritated
and aggrieved to feel anything but rancour against me. It is natural. I
understand."

"Ah, it will only end in some disaster, if you try to reconcile the
irreconcilable. Of course I think it is a great pity that you have not
more of the instincts on which homes are founded, but since you have
not----"

Hadria turned sharply round. "Do you really regret that just for once
the old, old game has been played unsuccessfully? Therein I can't agree
with you, though I am the loser by it." Hadria grasped a swaying spray
that the wind blew towards her, and clasped it hard in her hand,
regardless of the thorns. "It gives me a keen, fierce pleasure to know
that for all their training and constraining and incitement and
starvation, I have _not_ developed masses of treacly instinct in which
mind and will and every human faculty struggle, in vain, to move leg or
wing, like some poor fly doomed to a sweet and sticky death. At least
the powers of the world shall not prevail with me by _that_ old device.
Mind and will and every human faculty may die, but they shall not drown,
in the usual applauded fashion, in seas of tepid, bubbling, up-swelling
instinct. I will dare anything rather than endure that. They must take
the trouble to provide instruments of death from without; they must lay
siege and starve me; they must attack in soldierly fashion; I will not
save them the exertion by developing the means of destruction from
within. There I stand at bay. They shall knock down the citadel of my
mind and will, stone by stone."

"That is a terrible challenge!" exclaimed Miss Du Prel.

A light laugh sounded across the lawn.

The afternoon sunshine threw four long shadows over the grass: of a
slightly-built woman, of a very tall man, and of two smaller men.

The figures themselves were hidden by a group of shrubs, and only the
shadows were visible. They paused, for a moment, as if in consultation;
the lady standing, with her weight half leaning on her parasol. The tall
man seemed to be talking to her vivaciously. His long, shadow-arms shot
across the grass, his head wagged.

"The shadows of Fate!" cried Valeria fantastically.

Then they moved into sight, advancing towards the terrace.

"Who are they I wonder? Oh, Professor Fortescue, for one!"

"Lady Engleton and Joseph Fleming. The other I don't know."

He was very broad and tall, having a slight stoop, and a curious way of
carrying his head, craned forward. The attitude suggested a keen
observer. He was attired in knickerbockers and rough tweed Norfolk
jacket, and he looked robust and powerful, almost to excess. The chin
and mouth were concealed by the thick growth of dark hair, but one
suspected unpleasant things of the latter. As far as one could judge his
age, he seemed a man of about five-and-thirty, with vigour enough to
last for another fifty years.

"That," said Valeria, "must be Professor Theobald. He has probably come
to see the house."

"I am sure I shall hate that man," exclaimed Hadria. "He is not to be
trusted; what nonsense he is talking to Lady Engleton!"

"You can't hear, can you?"

"No; I can see. And she laughs and smiles and bandies words with him. He
is amusing certainly; there is that excuse for her; but I wonder how she
can do it."

"What an extraordinary creature you are! To take a prejudice against a
man before you have spoken to him."

"He is cruel, he is cruel!" exclaimed Hadria in a low, excited voice.
"He is like some cunning wild animal. Look at Professor Fortescue! his
opposite pole--why it is all clearer, at this distance, than if we were
under the confusing influence of their speech. See the contrast between
that quiet, firm walk, and the insinuating, conceited tread of the other
man. Joseph Fleming comes out well too, honest soul!"

"He is carrying a fishing-rod. They have been fishing," said Valeria.

"Not Professor Fortescue, I am certain. _He_ does not find his pleasure
in causing pain."

"This hero-worship blinds you. Depend upon it, he is not without the
primitive instinct to kill."

"There are individual exceptions to all savage instincts, or the world
would never move."

"Instinct rules the world," said Miss Du Prel. "At least it is obviously
neither reason nor the moral sense that rules it."

"Then why does it produce a Professor Fortescue now and then?"

"Possibly as a corrective."

"Or perhaps for fun," said Hadria.




CHAPTER XXIII.


"Professor Theobald, if you are able to resist the fascinations of this
old house you are made of sterner stuff than I thought."

"I can never resist fascinations, Lady Engleton."

"Do you ever try?"

"My life is