[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Nitzavim

ifying "to teach, guide," and the like. Speiser argued that in Deuteronomy 29:20, the derived noun refers to specified sanctions in a covenant, and in Deuteronomy 30:10, it refers to general instructions and provisions, and in context it cannot be mistaken for the title of the Pentateuch as a whole.

Deuteronomy chapter 30
The Mishnah Berurah noted that the first Hebrew letters of the words of Deuteronomy 30:6, , et-levavecha, v'et-levav, "[the Lord your God will circumcise] your heart, and the heart [of your seed, to love the Lord your God with all your heart]," spell out , Elul, the name of the month that includes Rosh Hashannah and Yom Kippur. The Mishnah Berurah cited this as Scriptural support for the practice of rising early to say prayers for forgiveness (, Selichot) from the first day of the month of Elul until Yom Kippur.

Alter saw in Deuteronomy 30:15, "life and good and death and evil" an echo of "the tree of knowledge good and evil" in Genesis 2:17. Alter taught that the point is that good, which may lead to prosperity, is associated with life, just as evil, which may lead to adversity, is associated with death. Alter wrote that the Deuteronomic assumptions about historical causation may seem problematic or even untenable, but the powerful notion of the urgency of moral choice continues to resonate.

James Kugel wrote that the words of Deuteronomy 30:15–20 resounded in the ears of generations of Jews and Christians. Kugel taught that in a sense, all Jewish and Christian devotion—religious services, prayers, the study of Scripture, and dozens of other acts intended to carry out God's will—find at least part of their origin and inspiration in these words.

Commandments
According to Maimonides and the Sefer ha-Chinuch, there are no commandments in the parashah. Nachmanides, reading Deuteronomy 30:11, suggests that Deuteronomy 30:2 contains a commandment of repentance (, teshuvah).

In the liturgy
The standard Conservative prayerbook quotes Deuteronomy 29:28 and 30:11–14 as readings to accompany the second blessing before the Shema. And then in the daily Shacharit prayer service, just after completing the Shema, in Emet Veyatziv, Jews recite that God's "words are alive and enduring, faithful and desirable forever and to all eternity, for our parents and for us, for our children and for our generations, and for all generations of the seed of Israel, Your servants," and these words are in turn based on the words of Deuteronomy 29:28, "those things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law," in which Jews accept responsibility for the observance of the commandments by all Jews.

Haftarah

The haftarah for the parashah is Isaiah 61:10–63:9. The haftarah is the seventh and concluding installment in the cycle of seven haftarot of consolation after Tisha B'Av, leading up to Rosh Hashanah.

Summary
The prophet rejoiced in God, who had clothed him with salvation, covered him with victory, as a bridegroom dons a priestly diadem, as a bride adorns herself with jewels. For as the earth brings forth vegetation, so God will cause victory and glory to sprout before the nations.

For Zion's sake, the prophet would not hold his peace, until Jerusalem's triumph would burn brightly for the nations to see, and Zion would be called by a new name given by God. Zion would be a crown of beauty in God's hand, and no more would she be called Forsaken or Desolate, but she would be called Delight and Espoused, for God would rejoice over her as a bridegroom over his bride.

The prophet set lookouts on Jerusalem's walls, until God would make Jerusalem a praise in the earth. God has sworn no more to give Israel's corn to her enemies, nor her wine to strangers, but those who harvested shall eat, and those who gathered shall drink, in the courts of God's sanctuary.

The prophet said clear the way, for God proclaimed to Zion that her salvation was coming. And they shall call the Israelites the holy people, and Jerusalem shall be called Sought out, not Forsaken.

The prophet asked Who came in crimson garments from Edom, mighty to save, and why God's apparel was red like one who trod in the wine vat. God said that God had trodden the winepress in anger alone, and trampled in fury, for the day of vengeance was in God's heart, and God's year of redemption had come. God looked and found none to help to uphold God's will, so God trod down the peoples in anger, and poured out their blood.

The prophet spoke of God's mercies and praises, of God's great goodness toward Israel, which God bestowed with compassion. For God said, "Surely, they are My people," and so God was their Savior. In all their affliction God was afflicted, and God's angel saved them; in love and pity God redeemed them, and God bore them and carried them all the days of old.