[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Highway 1 (Israel–Palestine)

ng to its highest elevation of 815 meters as it intersects with the heavily congested Sha'ar Mizrach Junction (East Gate) at Shu'afat and French Hill. At this point, the road crosses the tracks of the Jerusalem Light Rail and intersects with Highway 60, marking the watershed of the Judean Mountains.

Passing Sha'ar Mizrah, the road is called Derech Ma'ale Adumim. The greenery typical of the western side of the watershed is replaced by the eastern side's stark mountain-desert shades of beige. The road turns southward and begins descending, passing the Shu'afat refugee camp and the Al-Issawiya neighbourhood. At this point, a new road alongside and separated from Highway 1 has been built that will become a connecting route between Ramallah and Bethlehem. Passing the At-Tur neighbourhood, the highway leaves Jerusalem at the Zeitim Security Checkpoint. After this point, the road is open to green (Palestinian) license plates.

Jerusalem to the Jordan Valley

Turning eastward after the checkpoint, Highway 1 descends steeply to 375 meters as it passes the Adumim Interchange with Route 417 providing access to Ma'ale Adumim, al-Eizariya and Abu Dis, joining the historic Jericho Road. The road turns east by northeast, continuing its descent, passing E1 (Jerusalem), Mishor Adumim and Route 437 at 250 meters. Levelling out for the next  and occasionally rising in elevation, the road passes the Nahal Og Nature Reserve (Wadi Mukhalik), intersects with the Allon Road (Route 458) and the famous Khan Al-Ahmar, a caravanserai associated with the New Testament story of the Good Samaritan.

Descending again, the road briefly turns due south as it passes Mitzpe Yeriho. Turning southeast, though travellers can stop at a scenic overlook at Sea Level (0 meters), the view of the Jordan Valley at this precise point is mostly obstructed because of the surrounding mountains. The attraction for tourists is to be photographed in front of the sea level sign and, for a price, sitting atop a colourfully decorated camel. The road then turns eastward and descends below sea level passing the entrance road to Nabi Musa, a pilgrimage site where Muslims believe Moses is buried. At 230 meters below sea level, the road passes Jericho Junction, providing access to Vered Yeriho and Jericho. Passing Beit HaArava, Highway 1 ends at Beit HaArava Junction with Highway 90 at an elevation of 325 meters below sea level.

History
The section between Latrun and Jerusalem roughly follows an ancient path connecting Jaffa and Jerusalem. At the entrance to Jerusalem, the steep and winding rise was known as Ma'aleh HaRoma'im (Romans' Ascent), covering a  path rising  in altitude. The Jaffa–Jerusalem road was initially made accessible for wheeled vehicles by the Ottomans in 1867 and since then served as the main highway to Jerusalem, favoured over more topographically convenient routes such as Route 443. The largest bell for the church of the Augusta Victoria complex, built between 1907 and 1910, weighed six tonnes and required that the road be widened and paved.

In 1948, the Latrun section of the highway was taken over by Jordan, and traffic was diverted to a new route called "Derekh Ha'Gvura" (Road of Bravery), which is now part of Highways 44 and 38. In 1965, the old highway was widened to four lanes between Sha'ar HaGai and Jerusalem. After the Six-Day War, the Latrun section was reopened, and an interchange was built at Mevaseret Zion(Harel Interchange). During the 1970s, a bypass was built around the village of Abu Ghosh, including the construction of Hemed Interchange.

The coastal plain and Judean foothills

In 1978, a new section opened, connecting former Road 10 (the Tel Aviv – Ben Gurion Airport road) with Sha'ar HaGai. The new section formed the third freeway in the country, after Highways 2 and 4. Although it is about  longer than the old road (now Highway 44 and Route 424), it is much faster. One of the first passengers on this section was Egyptian President Anwar Sadat during his historic visit to Israel in 1977. This section briefly crosses over the Green Line near Latrun.

The section between Ganot Interchange and Ben Shemen Interchange was widened to six lanes in 1998. During the construction of Highway 6 (1999–2003), the Ben Shemen Interchange was rebuilt, and a new interchange was built near the village of Kfar Daniel. The Daniel Interchange is a  straight, eight-lane segment where Highways 1 and 6 run concurrently, providing 1-west to 6-north and 1-east to 6-south high-speed interchange.

Anava Interchange opened on February 4, 2009, together with the eastern section of Route 431. It is a complex interchange and the first complete freeway to freeway interchange in the country, connecting all eight directions between the two freeways without the use of traffic lights.