[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shelford Priory

estate passed from father to son: 
Sir Thomas Stanhope (1540–1596)
Sir John Stanhope (1559–1611)
Philip Stanhope, 1st Earl of Chesterfield (1584 – 1656).

Shelford Manor was built on the former priory site c.1600. The architect was "probably" Robert Smythson or John Smythson.

Siege and destruction

Philip Stanhope, 1st Earl of Chesterfield was summoned to Parliament in 1640 and took the side of King Charles I in the threatening conflict. When the English Civil War broke out he and his sons took up arms. From around January 1643, Shelford Manor was garrisoned under the command of his son Philip Stanhope. The manor was fortified during the war, and "traces of civil war fieldworks" still survive. The manor was described as "a fortified house surrounded by a very strong 'bulwark' and a great ditch on the outside of it partly filled with water", with mentions of a drawbridge and defensive "'half moons' within the bulwark".

The house was surrounded on 1 November 1645 by forces led by Colonel John Hutchinson and Colonel-General Sydnam Poyntz. The summons to surrender was rejected by Philip Stanhope.

Lucy Hutchinson, the wife of Colonel Hutchinson, described some of the tactics of the defenders:

The house was stormed on 3 November. The attack started at 4 o'clock and lasted just half an hour. Stanhope was killed and many defenders (160 Royalists) were massacred, and 140 were taken prisoner. Shelford House was plundered for valuables and burnt to the ground. On the following day, Colonel-General Poyntz moved to Wiverton Hall in Nottinghamshire which suffered the same fate.

Historian David Appleby has said that a "frenzied massacre", which may have included women and children, followed the battle, and the whole encounter was later covered up, not mentioned by either side. Appleby suggests that the Parliamentarians wanted to forget the savagery, and the defending Royalists to hide the presence of "European Catholics" of the Queen's Regiment, who had a very bad reputation.

Reconstruction
The house was rebuilt after the civil war (c.1678) by another son of Philip Stanhope, 1st Earl of Chesterfield, Arthur Stanhope (1627–1677). This building still exists, although it has now been vacated by the Stanhopes. 
A 2019 aerial study by the University of Nottingham  shows the layout of the original Priory and mentions that the current farmhouse was almost certainly the monastic ‘prior’s lodgings’ and retains a considerable amount of the original medieval building.
The site is now a private residence.

See also
Grade II* listed buildings in Nottinghamshire
Listed buildings in Shelford, Nottinghamshire

Notes

References

Monasteries in Nottinghamshire
Augustinian monasteries in England
1160s establishments in England
1536 disestablishments in England
Christian monasteries established in the 12th century
Grade II* listed buildings in Nottinghamshire
Stanhope family