[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# PATH (global health organization)

PATH (formerly known as the Program for Appropriate Technology in Health) is an international, nonprofit global health organization. PATH is based in Seattle with 1,600 employees in more than 70 countries around the world. Its president and CEO is Nikolaj Gilbert, who is also the Managing Director and CEO of Foundations for Appropriate Technologies in Health (FATH), PATH's Swiss subsidiary. PATH focuses on six platforms: vaccines, drugs, diagnostics, devices, system, and service innovations.

History

Founded in 1977 as the Program for the Introduction and Adaptation of Contraceptive Technology with a focus on family planning, PATH soon broadened its purpose to work on a wide array of emerging and persistent global health issues in the areas of health technologies, maternal health, child health, reproductive health, vaccines and immunization, and emerging and epidemic diseases such as HIV, malaria, tuberculosis, and COVID-19.

In 2000, PATH had 300 employees and an annual budget of $60 million. In 2020, this increased to 1,600 employees and a budget of $323 million.

Developed technologies

Vaccine and pharmaceutical technologies 
PATH collaborated with the World Health Organization starting in 1979 to develop the vaccine vial monitor, a small sticker that adheres to a vaccine vial and changes color as the vaccine is exposed to heat over time. The sticker shows when a vaccine has reached its preset temperature limit and can no longer be safely used. It took over thirty years until 2007 for the widespread adoption of this technology by vaccine manufacturers. UNICEF requires these monitors on all vaccines it purchases. 

PATH also developed the Uniject injection system. The single-dose, autodisabling injection system consists of a needle attached to a small bubble of plastic that is prefilled with medication. The system is designed to prevent disease transmission and requires low training to administer vaccine and other drugs safely, intended for remote villages.

Nutrition 
Developed by Bon Dente International, Ultra Rice is a manufactured grain owned by PATH. Designed to resemble the texture and appearance of regular rice, it is a micronutrient fortified grain that can be mixed with rice to reduce malnutrition in countries where rice is a staple food. The micronutrients include zinc, folic acid and iron, and it is capable of reducing the incidence of anemia and infant (6-24 month old) mortality in low-income populations. It is typically mixed with regular rice at a 1:100 ratio. Ultra Rice has been produced and tested in several countries, including Brazil, Burundi, and India, where it has been served in school-lunch programs. Starting in 2010, PATH distributed Ultra Rice to Cambodia through food assistance programs and for further research, for which it now has over thirty studies. The results showed that fortified rice was well accepted by children, parents and teachers and consumption of it was similar or better than normal rice. In 2012, PATH entered a business partnership in Brazil with a commercial rice producer to sell Ultra Rice mixed in with regular rice at supermarkets.

Sexual and reproductive health 
PATH technologies address sexual and reproductive health include:
 The careHPV test, developed in conjunction with Qiagen as the first molecular diagnostic to screen for human papillomavirus (HPV)—the most common cause of cervical cancer—in clinics in low-resource settings. China's State Food and Drug Administration approved the test for sale beginning in January 2013, followed by India and other emerging markets. The test is designed specifically for use in clinics that lack reliable clean water or electricity.
  The SILCS diaphragm, a "one size fits most" contraceptive device. The device differs from traditional latex diaphragms in that it is made of silicone instead of latex, is designed to hold up to extreme temperatures and poor storage conditions common in developing countries, and will not require a doctor's fitting.
  The Woman's Condom, a female condom designed to be easier to use effectively, less noisy and more comfortable other female condoms. PATH transferred production of the condom to Dahua Medical Apparatus Company in China in 2008. The condom has received regulatory approvals in China and the European Union and became commercially available in China in late 2011.

Water and sanitation 
PATH looks at ways to improve water quality in developing countries, including helping companies develop low-cost filters, gadgets, and other water-treatment products to stimulate a commercial market and keep prices low. Most recently, PATH partnered with Splash! to develop and test a handwashing station for use in LMICs, specifically in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.