[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# William David Rudland

Reverend William David Rudland (1839–1912) was a Christian Evangelist from Cambridge, England, and pioneering member of the China Inland Mission.  Described as a man of intense purpose, Reverend Rudland brought simplicity, humility, and a focus on realism to those he met. Rising above a difficult beginning, he pragmatically tackled obstacles keeping his focus on stretching his hand out in friendship to the Chinese people. His organization, supervision, and a firm belief in native ministry built a single church in Taizhou, Zhejiang, China, into thirty-one outstations and baptized almost two thousand converts in twenty-eight years.  He translated the New Testament and most of the Old Testament into a Romanized Taizhou dialect. He supervised the printing and oversaw distribution for several thousand documents in the local dialect. Reverend Rudland brought new technology to the press room which improved quality and quantity.  He served as printing supervisor for the other mission districts as well.  The British & Foreign Bible Society appointed him Honorary Governor for Life in 1911. Reverend William Rudland was the last surviving adult member of the Lammermuir Party before his death in 1912.

Early years

Born in Harston, Cambridge, England, the only son of William and Abigail (nee Newman) Rudland, on 17 February 1839. His Father a Yeoman, a farmer who owned his own land, died in 1840. William's Mother struggled to support William and his older sister Elizabeth. In 1851 Abigail Rudland married James Stearn; a true blessing for William in many ways, now he would receive a solid education. In addition to the basics reading, writing, and math, family taught him blacksmithing and farming. His curiosity helped him learn to fix just about anything.

Sparked by his sister Elizabeth's departure for Australia, William knew he wanted more than spending his life on a farm. His Mother, a devout Christian, encouraged him to join Bible study groups. It was at one of these meetings that he met Annie MacPherson (a spiritual leader known for her devotion to helping poor and abandoned children) who became his mentor and lifelong friend. Annie gave him tickets to the Mildmay Conference in October 1864 where William first heard Hudson Taylor speak. The next year she introduced William to Hudson Taylor after the Mildmay Conference. William committed himself to the mission. He was quoted saying,  "I know I can follow that man."

Mission beginnings

By February 1866, Hudson Taylor decided William David Rudland, George Duncan, Lewis Nicol, Josiah Alexander Jackson, John Sell, and James Williamson, would sail with him as missionaries. Although the six had little or no formal education and none ordained, each brought skills and a love for Christ to the mission team.  Taylor required each man to sign a memorandum stating God asked him to do His work in China, always look to God for their support, trust Him to provide it, and above all remain loyal to the mission.  The Lammermuir sailed from the East India Docks, east of London, on 26 May 1866.  On board the ship, William struggled with the motion of the waves and spent much time in his cabin.  His roommate, James Williamson, spent many hours helping William study the Chinese language. William also became close friends with Josiah Jackson.  Near the end of the voyage the ship crossed the path of two typhoons. Rudland, Williamson, and Jackson used their skills to repair the ship well enough to sail into port. The group landed in Shanghai on 30 September 1866.

Leaving Shanghai, the mission group sailed in small groups on separate boats. Under the cover of darkness they made their way to the mission house in Hangzhou. During his time in Hangzhou William struggled to learn Chinese. He often suffered from headaches brought on by hours of studying. One afternoon, deciding to take a break, he noticed native helpers trying unsuccessfully to put together a printing press. Enthusiastically he joined in. Using his tinkering skills they successfully put the printing press together. Hudson Taylor took notice and asked William to be in charge of the printing press. Just the boost William needed; full immersion into the language. Soon he became fluent, enough so to leave the mission house on various assignments.

During the voyage William took notice of the Taylor's governess, Mary Bell.  William later told his children, "It was love at first sight."  Engaged in June 1867, the two married on 25 December 1867.