[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Henry Livermore Abbott

in the time of crisis. Many of the soldiers in Abbott's company were sailors and fishermen from Nantucket. The first commander of the 20th Massachusetts  Infantry Regiment was Colonel William Raymond Lee, a United States Military Academy graduate and professional soldier.

American Civil War service

Ball's Bluff, the Peninsula, Seven Days' Battles
On October 21, 1861, Abbott's 20th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry Regiment was ordered to cross the Potomac River from their camp at Poolesville, Maryland and with other Union Army units to make a demonstration towards Leesburg, Virginia. This foray resulted in the comparatively minor Battle of Ball's Bluff, Virginia. The small battle had large consequences as the poorly scouted and coordinated movement of Union Army forces led to the rout of the Union force and the death of Colonel and U.S. Senator Edward Dickinson Baker, a close friend of President Abraham Lincoln. The U.S. Congress thereafter established the Joint Committee on the Conduct of the War, which bedeviled generals and others for the rest of the war. The consequences were severe for the 20th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment as well. The regiment suffered casualties of 30 percent killed and wounded and 37 percent captured. The Confederates routed the Union forces just after they had crossed the Potomac River from Maryland into Loudoun County, Virginia, scaled steep bluffs, crossed a field and run into the Confederate States Army forces hidden in the woods on the other side. Abbott ordered the men of his company to fight lying down but he continued to direct them from a standing and walking position. Despite Abbott's brave attempt to hold the line, the 20th Massachusetts Infantry and other Union troops were steadily forced back. The line finally broke and many men leaped over the bluffs and some tried to swim across the Potomac River and drowned. Others drowned when the overloaded boats in which they tried to recross the river capsized. Abbott and Captain William F. Bartlett led survivors of the 20th Massachusetts Infantry up the river to Smart's Mill where they found a rowboat and got everyone across the river into Maryland under cover of darkness. The 20th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment held up well compared to most other Union regiments at Ball's Bluff but lost 87 of 300 men as killed and wounded and 111 as prisoners, including Colonel Lee, in its efforts to hold the Union line. 

Abbott was promoted to first lieutenant on November 8, 1861. After rebuilding its strength for four and one-half months at Poolesville, Maryland, the 20th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry Regiment took part in the Peninsula Campaign. They were engaged especially at the Battle of Fair Oaks, Virginia where the regiment lost 28 men killed and wounded out of about 350. Later the 20th Massachusetts Infantry helped cover Major General George B. McClellan's retreat during the Seven Days' Battles. On June 30, 1862, Abbott was wounded in the right arm at the Battle of Glendale, Virginia, which compelled him to leave the regiment temporarily in order to recuperate at home. He refused to leave the field, however, until after the Battle of Malvern Hill the next day. On August 9, 1862, Abbott's brother Ned was killed in action at the Battle of Cedar Mountain.

Fredericksburg, Mud March, Second Fredericksburg
On September 2, 1862, Abbott's regiment covered the retreat of the defeated forces of Union Major General John Pope after the Second Battle of Manassas or Bull Run. Weeks of hard duty took their toll on Abbott, who was not fully recovered from the wound he suffered at the Battle of Glendale. Abbott missed the Battle of Antietam because he was hospitalized with typhoid fever and grief over the death of his brother at Cedar Mountain. The 20th Massachusetts Infantry again suffered heavy losses at Antietam. Soon after the battle, Abbott's brother Fletcher, who was suffering from dysentery, joined him in the hospital. Abbott recovered by November 1862 and returned to the regiment camped at Falmouth, Virginia across the Rappahannock River from Fredericksburg, Virginia. He was accompanied on his return by Holmes, who was returning after recovery from a wound suffered at the battle of Antietam.