[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Constantin Mille

failed to respect its obligations involving public works in Constanța (see Hallier Affair). Their campaign culminated in the intervention of low-ranking police forces, who assaulted Mille and Bacalbașa — while recovering, they were visited by the PNL's Ion I. C. Brătianu, who expressed his sympathy.

Also in 1899, the PSDMR disbanded, when a scandal was caused by the presence of socialist clubs in the countryside — of them, the PNL's Minister of the Interior Mihail Pherekyde claimed had been fermenting agitation, an accusation which met with protests from Mille and his Adevărul. In parallel, Munca's legacy was taken over in 1902 by Christian Rakovsky's România Muncitoare, which was more radical in tone and hosted contributions by Mille. As deputy, he unsuccessfully promoted universal suffrage, and notably called for the reduction of tariffs on products of strict necessity to peasants.

Early 1900s causes
Interested in international causes, Mille was, by 1903, a vocal supporter of Alfred Dreyfus and Émile Zola during the Dreyfus Affair which split France into two rival political camps, one in arguing in favor of nationalism and militarism and the other in favor of justice and human rights. Writing at the time, he identified the Third Republic's influential conservative, revanchist and antisemitic groups with a "militarist dictatorship".

In following years, Constantin Mille and Adevărul became opponents of the foreign policy endorsed by the new Sturdza cabinet, and denounced the convention signed with Austria-Hungary regarding, among other things, the duty to extradite Austrian citizens who took refuge to Romania — Mille argued that this was disadvantageous to ethnic Romanian political activists in Transylvania, Bukovina, and the Banat. He took the same stand on similar issues involving relations with the Russian and Ottoman Empires, calling for Bessarabians, Albanians and Aromanians who had evaded to Romania not to be persecuted. Additionally, in 1905, as the mutinous battleship Potemkin took refuge in Constanța, he and his newspapers asked the Cantacuzino government to offer sailors safe haven.

He issued his second daily in 1904: begun as a morning edition of Adevărul, Dimineața soon became a paper on its own, and, through it, Mille was responsible for bringing in several innovations in the local press. He introduced colored print and images, leading Dimineața to claim that it was the first daily to be published in color (1912), and was the first in his country to make use of Linotype machines (1907).

During the large-scale Peasants' Revolt of 1907, he voiced criticism of the governing PNL for the violent manner in which it opted to repress protests, and questioned the attitudes of former socialists who had joined the latter group (including Constantin Stere, who was serving as prefect). At the time, Mille wrote:
"Pacification, not cruelty! We do not wish to start a campaign on this painful issue. We hope that we will be heard and not have to alert public opinion, because calm is required in these murky and unfortunate times. Yet we cannot allow that, after the savagery of peasant gangs, follow the savagery of people coming «with the law»."

Additionally, Mille's paper called for reparations to be paid to victims' families, for an amnesty to be declared, and for Vasile Kogălniceanu, an activist who supported the peasant cause and faced trial, to be set free; it also published the influential protest of Ion Luca Caragiale (1907 din primăvară până'n toamnă, "1907 from Spring till Autumn"), which questioned the establishment and policies of Romania.

Immediately after the Revolt, Adevărul was among the sources to make the controversial claim that 11,000 peasants had perished in the events. "Un secol de la Răscoala din 1907" ("A Century since the 1907 Revolt") , Romanian Academy report, in Curentul, March 30, 2007 According to historian Anton Caragea, a confidential report of that year, presented to his superiors by the Austro-Hungarian Imperial and Royal Secret Service agent Günther, informed that Mille, as well as the editors of Universul and Epoca, had been advanced sums of money in order to exaggerate the amplitude of repression, and to incite both local and international outrage. The importance and extent of Austro-Hungarian agitation remains a debated subject: it has also been argued that, in concrete terms, foreign influence proved to be insignificant.