[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 10th Special Forces Group (United States)

ition to supporting the Para-Commando unit, the CST assisted the 10th Mountain Division, and provided security for meetings with Somali leaders. Following the ethnic conflict in Rwanda, 10th Group deployed to Entebbe airfield, Uganda where they assisted displaced persons in returning to their homes.

On 2 September 1994, 2nd Battalion, 10th SFG(A) transferred to Fort Carson, Colorado, followed by 3rd Battalion on 20 July 1995. The group headquarters moved to Fort Carson on 15 September 1995, ending a 27-year presence in Massachusetts. Affiliated for operations with Special Operations Command – Europe, 10th Group is continuing to conduct Joint Combined Exchange Training and FID/anti-terrorist operations as part of Operation Enduring Freedom – Trans Sahara.
Such activities have included training the Military of Mali and the Military of Mauritania. The 1st and 3rd Battalions of 10th Group also participated in training in Senegal in 2006, along with the 352d Special Operations Group of the US Air Force. 10th SFG(A) has also deployed numerous times in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, but mostly to Iraq, since the start of the War on Terrorism. 10th SFG(A) and CIA's Special Activities Division Paramilitary Officers were the first to enter Iraq prior to the invasion. During Operation Viking Hammer, they organized the Kurdish Peshmerga to defeat Ansar al-Islam, an ally of al-Qa'ida, for control of a territory in Northeastern Iraq that was completely under Ansar al-Islam's control. This battle, one of the most important engagements for Special Forces since Vietnam, led to the elimination of a substantial number of terrorists and the discovery of a chemical weapons facility at Sargat (the only facility of its type discovered in the Iraq war). Three Silver Stars and six Bronze Stars for valor were conferred for this engagement. These terrorists would have been part of the subsequent insurgency had they not been eliminated during this battle, which could be called the Tora Bora of Iraq. While several key leaders escaped into Iran, it was a sound defeat for al-Qaeda and Ansar al-Islam. The Americans then led the Peshmerga against Saddam's northern Army. This effort kept Saddam's forces, including 13 Armored Divisions, in the north and denied them the ability to redeploy to contest the invasion force coming from the south. This effort likely saved the lives of hundreds, if not thousands, of coalition service members.

Subordinate units

 Headquarters and Headquarters Company
 Group Support Company
 1st Battalion – stationed at Panzer Kaserne Böblingen-Sindelfingen of Region Stuttgart, Germany
 2nd Battalion
 3rd Battalion
 4th Battalion

Notable members
 Colonel Aaron Bank – The "Father" of Army Special Forces and first commanding officer of the 10th Special Forces Group (Airborne).
 Colonel Paris Davis - commander of 10th Group and Medal of Honor recipient
 Captain Peter R. Debbins, 1st Battalion, accused of spying for the Russian government.
 Master Sergeant Gary Gordon – Went on to service with Delta Force and was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for his actions during the Battle of Mogadishu. He was portrayed by the Danish actor Nikolaj Coster-Waldau in the 2001 film Black Hawk Down.
 Lieutenant Colonel Fransisco Rubio – a US Army lieutenant colonel and helicopter pilot, flight surgeon, and NASA astronaut.
 Colonel Jerry Sage – Early 1960s commander and World War II OSS veteran captured by Germans during the Kasserine Pass battle. While a prisoner at the Stalag Luft III, he played a major role in the famed "Great Escape" as the prisoners' security Chief before American prisoners were transferred to a separate compound. Colonel Sage was portrayed by actor Steve McQueen in the 1963 film The Great Escape.
 Major Larry Thorne – Finnish soldier who fought the Soviet Army during the Winter War and the Continuation War, immigrated to the United States after World War II and joined the US Army under the Lodge-Philbin Act. 10th Group honors him yearly by presenting the Larry Thorne Award to the best Operational Detachment-Alpha in the command.
 Lieutenant General Kenneth Tovo – Commander of 3rd BN, 10th SFG(A) and led the invasion of Iraq. Went on to become the Commander of 10th SFG(A) and US Army Special Operations Command
 Sergeant First Class Nathan Weber – Olympic Bobsledder. Currently in the U.S. Army's World Class Athlete program.

References

External links

 10th SFG at SOC.mil Archived
 10th SFG at GlobalSecurity.org Archived
 Prior 10th SFG at GlobalSecurity.org Archived
  Archived
 Defense.gov: Photo Essay Image: Department of Defense photo gallery of 10th Special Forces Group (Airborne) conducting airborne operations in Colorado

Military units and formations established in 1952
Special Forces 010