[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Justin McCarthy (hurler)

Justin J. McCarthy (born 1945) is an Irish former hurler and manager. At club level he lined out with numerous club and divisional sides, while he was also a member of the Cork senior hurling team.

McCarthy enjoyed a 30-year club career, during which time he lined out with Rochestown, Passage and Shamrocks, as well as divisional sides Carrigdhoun and Seandún. As an inter-county midfielder, McCarthy won two National League titles and three Munster SHC medals, with the highlight of his career was an All-Ireland SHC victory as Hurler of the Year in 1966.

As a coach, McCarthy has been involved at club and inter-county levels over a 50-year period. He enjoyed All-Ireland IHC success with Antrim and consecutive National League victories with Clare, before coaching Cork to the All-Ireland title in centenary year in 1984. McCarthy's tenure with Waterford yielded Munster SHC and National League titles, while he ended his inter-county coaching career as Limerick manager.

Early life

McCarthy first played as a schoolboy in various competitions at the Capuchin College in Rochestown. When Bord na nÓg was formed in Cork in the 1950s, he took part in the under-14, under-15 and under-16 competitions. McCarthy first played for a Cork team in 1955 when it was arranged for a Cork altar boys selection to take on their Kilkenny counterparts in a challenge game.

Club career

McCarthy's club career spanned nearly 30 years and numerous club sides and divisional teams. He first played at adult level as a 17-year-old with the Rochestown junior team, while also earning selection to the Carrigdhoun divisional team. McCarthy transferred to the Passage club in 1964. When the club regraded to the Cork IHC, he was called into the Seandún divisional team. McCarthy later spent a spell as player-manager with the Shamrocks club, winning a South East JHC medal in 1981. He later returned to the Passage club and continued playing until 1991 when he retired after winning a city divisional junior league title.

Inter-county career

McCarthy first appeared on the inter-county scene when he was selected for the Cork minor hurling team during the unsuccessful 1963 Munster MHC campaign. He immediately progressed to the Cork under-21 and intermediate teams in 1964. McCarthy made such an impression on the latter team that he earned an immediate call-up to the senior team and made his debut in a defeat of Galway in the opening round of the 1964 Munster SHC.

McCarthy quickly became a regular member of the team throughout the following two seasons.  He ended the 1966 season with an All-Ireland medal and the honour of being the then youngest ever Hurler of the Year after lining out at midfield in the defeat of Kilkenny in the 1966 All-Ireland final. McCarthy was one of a number of players from the senior team who also won an All-Ireland U21HC medal after a defeat of Wexford that season.

Cork endured two unsuccessful years after winning the All-Ireland title; however, McCarthy remained a key part of the team. He added to his medal collection with a National Hurling League title after a defeat of Wexford in the 1969 final. After winning his second Munster SHC medal following a first defeat of Tipperary in 12 years, McCarthy's preparations for the 1969 All-Ireland final came to a halt when, on the week of the game, he was involved in a motorbike accident on his way to training and broke his leg in three places. In the short-term, this meant that he had to watch the defeat by Kilkenny from a wheelchair on the sideline. In the long-term, McCarthy's injury meant that he also missed out on Cork's 1970 season, a year which saw the team capture further National League, Munster and All-Ireland honours.

McCarthy made his return to the Cork team during their successful 1971–72 National League campaign. He later claimed a third Munster SHC winners' medal after a defeat of Clare n the final. For the third time in four years, Cork were presented with the possibility of making a clean sweep of all the available hurling titles, however, McCarthy's side suffered a 3–24 to 5–11 defeat by Kilkenny in the 1972 All-Ireland final, having led by eight points at one stage in the second half.

McCarthy won a third National League title after a 6–15 to 1–12 win over Limerick in the 1974 NHL final. His inter-county career ended shortly after this with a defeat by Waterford in the opening round of the 1974 Munster SHC.

Inter-provincial career

McCarthy also lined out with Munster in the inter-provincial hurling competition, the Railway Cup. He first played with his province in 1967, however, Munster were defeated on that occasion by their great rivals Leinster. McCarthy was picked on the Munster team again in 1968. That year Munster overcame Leinster in the final to capture the title. McCarthy won a second consecutive Railway Cup medal in 1969 as Munster trounced Connacht by 3–13 to 4–4. This was his last outing with the province.

Early coaching career