[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 24th Infantry Brigade (United Kingdom)

ards Brigade Group Workshop, Royal Engineers

Commanders
The following officers commanded the brigade during the war:
 Brigadier W. Fraser
 Brigadier Colin McVean Gubbins
 Brigadier Frederick Browning
 Brigadier W.P.A. Bradshaw
 Brigadier A.S.P. Murray
 Brigadier M.D. Erskine
 Brigadier A.F.L. Clive

Cold War
The Brigade was withdrawn from Trieste in October 1954. It later moved to Kenya. In 1960, as the 24th Infantry Brigade Group, the brigade's commander, Brigadier D.G. Horsford, was rushed from Kenya to Kuwait to take command of the British land forces assembled to dissuade President Kassem of Iraq from invading the country (Operation Vantage). On 12 December 1963 Kenya gained its independence. While 1st Battalion, Gordon Highlanders at Gilgil, were in the process of relocating to Redford Barracks Colinton, Edinburgh, having sent their advance party ahead, trouble started to brew in the newly-independent East African armies. Thus 24th Brigade was reduced to two battalions: 2nd Battalion, Scots Guards and 1st Battalion, Staffordshire Regiment, both at Kahawa, plus 3rd Regiment, Royal Horse Artillery and the remnants of the Gordons when the alerts started coming. The brigade was involved in putting the indigenous army mutinies which sprang up in Zanzibar, Tanzania, in the Uganda Army, and Kenya itself in January 1964. Brigade Headquarters left Kenya for Aden at the end of October 1964, and stayed there until the final British evacuation of Aden in November 1967. On its return home it joined 3rd Infantry Division in 1968 as part of Army Strategic Command and was based at Crownhill Fort in Plymouth.

The Brigade arrived in Northern Ireland at the start of The Troubles in mid-1969 and was back again in June 1970. The brigade was soon afterward reorganised as the 24th Airportable Brigade at Streatlam Camp, Barnard Castle, County Durham. At this time the Brigade headquarters consisted of elements from various units. 

The brigade became the only Regular brigade in the reorganized 2nd Infantry Division, stationed in the north, after the army reorganization which implemented the findings of John Nott's 1981 Defence White Paper. Later that decade, after the successful trial conversion of 6th Armoured Brigade to 6th Airmobile Brigade, it was decided to change over 24th Brigade into a permanent airmobile anti-tank formation. Its war role became the rapid barring and blocking of any Soviet breakthrough of I (BR) Corps defences in Germany. In 1990 several Members of Parliament described the brigade as "no more mobile than a bicycle battalion", due to a lack of available helicopters.

1st Battalion the Royal Anglian Regiment pioneered this new airmobile role and served with UNPROFOR in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1995, as part of the 'Rapid Reaction Force'.

Under the 1998 Strategic Defence Review, as a cost cutting measure, the brigade was merged with elements of 5th Airborne Brigade to become the new 16th Air Assault Brigade.

1989 Structure 

 Headquarters, 24th Airmobile Brigade at Catterick Garrison 
 24 Airmobile Brigade Headquarters & Signal Squadron, Royal Corps of Signals, at Catterick Garrison
 1st Battalion, Green Howards (Alexandra, Princess of Wales's Own Yorkshire Regiment), at Somme Barracks, Catterick Garrison (Airmobile Infantry, 42 x MILAN Anti-Tank Missile Launchers)
 586 Signal Troop (Airmobile), Royal Corps of Signals
 Band of the Green Howards (Small Infantry Band)
 Prince of Wales's Own Regiment of Yorkshire, at Bourlon Barracks, Catterick Garrison (Airmobile Infantry, 42 x MILAN Anti-Tank Missile Launchers)
 Band of the Prince of Wales's Own Regiment of Yorkshire (Small Infantry Band)
 27th Field Regiment, Royal Artillery, at Alanbrooke Barracks, Topcliffe (18 x FH70 155mm field howitzers) [to 1st Artillery Brigade]
 16th Air Defence Regiment, Royal Artillery, at Rapier Barracks, Kirton in Lindsey (36 x Towed Rapiers and 12 x Blindfire Radar)
 9 Regiment Army Air Corps, at Alanbrooke Barracks, Topcliffe Moved to Dishforth Airfield over the next several years.
 51 Field Squadron (Airmobile), Royal Engineers, at Claro Barracks, Ripon (under admin of 38 Engineer Regiment)
 24 (Airmobile) Ordnance Company, Royal Army Ordnance Corps, at Gaza Barracks, Catterick Garrison (under admin of 2 Ordnance Bn)
 24th (Airmobile) Field Ambulance, Royal Army Medical Corps, in Catterick Garrison (22 x Land Rover Ambulances)

In addition to the above structure, on mobilisation the Tactical Support Element, 170 Provost Company, Royal Military Police (under HQ RMP, United Kingdom Land Forces) would have reinforced the brigade.

Notes

References

Sources
 
 
 

 (Via Google Books.)

Gregory Blaxland, The Regiments Depart: A History of the British Army 1945-70, William Kimber, London, 1971
 Formation of North West expeditionary Force