[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Resonator guitar

ectric instruments. Most commonly, resonator guitars use piezoelectric pickups (contact type transducers) placed under the bridge or elsewhere on the instrument, or use specialized microphones placed inside the instrument or directly in front of the cone to preserve the resonator's distinctive tone.

However, all acoustic and semi-acoustic styles are very sensitive to audio feedback, making the design and placement of these pickups extremely critical and specialized. Some modern models are manufactured with both piezoelectric and magnetic pickups. In addition, some piezoelectric styles are active pickups, in that they incorporate a preamplifier that increases the output of the pickup to match modern amplifier inputs. More recently, solid body electric resonator guitars have appeared. These instruments incorporate one or more magnetic pickups, and are played via amplification.

Other resonator instruments 
As well as resonator guitars, resonators have been used on:

 Basses, available from Regal
 Ukuleles, (see Resonator ukulele) produced by National and Dobro 1928-1940
 Banjos
 Tenor guitars
 Mandolins and mandolas
 Mountain/Appalachian dulcimers
 Viola guitars

Brands

Historic brands of resonator guitar still in use today include National, Dobro, and Regal.  None of these brands are still owned by their original companies.  Each returned after one or more long breaks in production:

 The National name is now used by National Reso-Phonic Guitars, a company founded in 1987 and unconnected to the original National, specializes in reproductions of historic instruments of all brands, not just National pattern instruments.
 The Dobro name has undergone several ownership changes throughout history, and has been owned by Gibson Guitar Corporation since 1993.  Gibson manufactured Dobro branded instruments under its Epiphone division up to 2020. Since then, no Dobro branded instruments have been produced.
 The Regal name, similar to Dobro, has been bought and sold several times since its original owners went defunct; the name has been a brand of Saga Musical Instruments since 1987.

US patents
 #1,741,453 covering the tricone.
 #1,896,484 covering the Dobro.
 #1,808,756 covering the biscuit single cone resonator, lodged in the name of Beauchamp.

See also

 Brahms guitar, a classical guitar that features an external resonator.
 Slide guitar

References

External links

 Resonator guitars
 Chanticleer (UK), maker of resophonic instruments
 Resonators Explained by Paul Kucharski
 American fretted musical instrument makers (pre-Civil War to WWII)
 Notecannons – Vintage resonator guitars

Acoustic guitars
Continuous pitch instruments
Resophonic instruments