[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Pickett's Mill

2,200) on May 26, and a 643-man detachment of Jackson's cavalry on June 10. Other reinforcements came from two Georgia state regiments (1,200), men returned from furlough, recruits, and returned deserters. There were about 8,000 non-combatants supporting Johnston's army, mostly men unfit for combat.

Operations
 
The Atlanta campaign began with the Battle of Rocky Face Ridge on May 5–9, 1864, when Sherman sent McPherson's two corps to turn Johnston's defenses from the west while Thomas and Schofield demonstrated frontally. Outflanked, Johnston retreated and fought the Battle of Resaca on 13–16 May, by which time Polk's corps began arriving. With his western flank menaced, Johnston withdrew again and Union troops captured Rome. At the Battle of Cassville on May 19, Johnston planned to counterattack part of Sherman's widely-spread army, but timing was ruined when McCook's cavalry appeared in an unexpected location. Johnston then took up a defensive position south of Cassville. Hood and Polk argued that the Cassville line was vulnerable to Union artillery fire, so Johnston retreated to Allatoona Pass on the night of May 19–20. Finding Johnston's position too strong to directly attack, Sherman decided to make another maneuver around Johnston's western flank. After pausing operations for three days, Sherman sent McPherson's right wing south to Van Wert and then east toward Dallas. Thomas's army formed Sherman's center and Schofield's corps his left.

At the start of the latest Union maneuver, Sherman ordered 20 days rations be carried in his wagons because they were leaving the proximity of the railroad. Thomas' army crossed the Etowah River and marched through Euharlee and Stilesboro, while Brigadier General Jefferson C. Davis' 2nd Division, XIV Corps, which was detached at Rome, joined the movement of McPherson's wing. Blair's XVII Corps was approaching from the north, but had not yet joined Sherman. Garrard's cavalry preceded McPherson's columns, McCook's cavalry covered Thomas' front, Stoneman's cavalry headed Schofield's columns, and Kilpatrick's cavalry watched the railroad north of the Etowah. Johnston received news of Sherman's move from Jackson's cavalry, and on the afternoon of May 23, he ordered Hardee's corps to march to Dallas and Polk's corps to follow. On May 24, Johnston ordered Hood's corps to join the others. By May 25, Johnston's army was positioned so that Hardee's corps was on the left near Dallas and Hood's corps was on the right at New Hope Church. Polk's corps was posted to the left of Hood, with a lightly defended gap between Polk and Hardee.

Hooker's XX Corps led the advance of Thomas' Army of the Cumberland. When it reached Pumpkinvine Creek at Owen's Mill, the Federals drove off some Confederates who were trying to burn the bridge. Strongly resisted by three Confederate regiments, Brigadier General John W. Geary's 2nd Division pressed forward until it came into contact with Hood's corps at New Hope Church. It was 5 pm before Hooker was able to reinforce Geary with the divisions of Brigadier General Alpheus S. Williams (1st) and Major General Daniel Butterfield (3rd). Each of the three divisions were formed into brigade columns, that is, with the leading brigade deployed and the two other brigades of the division directly behind it. In the Battle of New Hope Church on May 25, Hooker's divisions repeatedly assaulted the ridge that Hood's troops defended, but without success. The battle lasted three hours, and during its last hour a thunderstorm rumbled overhead. Hooker admitted sustaining losses of 1,665 killed and wounded in a place the Union troops began calling the "Hell Hole". Stewart's division, which was the main defending force, reported losing 300–400 casualties.