[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 2002 world oil market chronology

koil, Zarubezhnest, and Machinoimport — to develop the very large West Qurna oilfield. Although the reasoning for the decision is not made clear by Iraq, it is thought that it is in response to Russian political decisions regarding United Nations inspections and the Oil-for-Food program. (NYT)
December 12: OPEC oil ministers, meeting in Vienna, decide to raise OPEC-10's (i.e. excluding Iraq) total production quota from  to . OPEC ministers also urge strict compliance with the new quotas in an effort to cut back production, as OPEC-10 production is widely regarded to be exceeding even the new production quota of . (LAT)
December 16: The near-month crude oil futures price on the NYMEX tops $30 per barrel for the first time since October 2, as the general strike in Venezuela impacts the world oil market. Later in the month, on December 27, the near-month crude oil futures price rises to $32.72 per barrel, the highest price since November 2000. (WSJ, AP)
December 17: The U.S. Department of Energy allows several oil companies to postpone delivery of an additional  of crude oil to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in an attempt to keep more oil in the market during the strike in Venezuela. The oil companies will have to deliver the oil at a later date. (Reuters)
December 19: U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell declares that Iraq is in "material breach" of United Nations resolutions after reviewing Iraq's weapons of mass destruction declaration released December 7 to the United Nations. States Powell: "Our [U.S.] experts have found it to be anything but currently accurate, full or complete. The Iraqi declaration ... totally fails to meet the resolution's requirements." (Reuters)
December 28: A tanker with  of gasoline arrives in Venezuela from Brazil, providing crucial supplies to the country, as the strike by employees of state oil company PdVSA has meant severe reductions in refinery runs in that country. Crude oil production, that was in excess of  before the strike, is less than  for many days in December. (WSJ)

Sources
 Energy Information Administration: Chronology of World Oil Market Events
 Commodity Research Bureau. The CRB Commodity Yearbook 2002, 2002.
 Other sources include: Associated Press (AP), Dow Jones (DJ), Los Angeles Times (LAT), The New York Times (NYT), Oil Daily (OD), USA Today (USAT), The Wall Street Journal (WSJ), The Washington Post (WP), World Markets Research Center (WMRC).

|-
| width="30%" align="center" | Previous year:2001 world oil market chronology
| width="40%" align="center" | This article is part of theChronology of world oil market events (1970-2005)
| width="30%" align="center" | Following year:2003 world oil market chronology
|-

Oil market timelines
World oil market chronology
World Oil Market Chronology, 2002