[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Danish Americans

recruited by the church to the state.

Nebraska, Iowa, Minnesota and Wisconsin have the largest concentrations of non-Mormon Danish Americans.  The states with the largest Mormon Danish American populations are Utah and Idaho—and in the case of Idaho, particularly the southeastern part of the state.

Smaller but significant numbers of Danish Americans have also become Methodists, Baptists, Roman Catholics, and Seventh-day Adventists.

Danish American communities
Two cities, Chicago and Racine, Wisconsin, claim to be the home to the largest group of Danish Americans in the United States. Racine, 25 miles south of Milwaukee has the largest concentration of city dwellers with Danish origin. A number of other communities were founded by Danish Americans or have a large Danish American community, including:

 Ames, Iowa
 Askov, Minnesota
 Blair, Nebraska
 Boston, Massachusetts
 Bowbells, North Dakota
 Brush, Colorado
 Buffalo, Wyoming
 Cedar Fort, Utah
 Dagmar, Montana
 Dania, Florida
 Danevang, Texas
 Daneville, North Dakota
 Dannebrog, Nebraska
 Denmark, Kansas
 Denmark, Maine
 Denmark, Wisconsin
 Donnybrook, North Dakota
 Duluth, Minnesota
 Elk Horn, Iowa
 Elsinore, Utah
 Ephraim, Utah
 Exira, Iowa
 Fertile Valley, North Dakota
 Flaxton, North Dakota
 Fountain Green, Utah
 Greenville, Michigan
 Hampton, Iowa
 Hartford, Connecticut
 Jamestown, Kansas
 Kenaston, North Dakota
 Kenmare, North Dakota
 Kenosha, Wisconsin
 Kimballton, Iowa
 Luck, Wisconsin
 Madison, Wisconsin
 Manti, Utah
 Milwaukee, Wisconsin
 Minneapolis, Minnesota
 Moroni, Utah
 Mount Pleasant, Utah
 Nysted, Nebraska
 Omaha, Nebraska (see Danes in Omaha, Nebraska)
 Payson, Utah
 Perth Amboy, New Jersey
 Seattle, Washington
 Solvang, California
 South Portland, Maine
 Spring City, Utah
 Tyler, Minnesota
 Viborg, South Dakota
 Washington Island, Wisconsin
 Waupaca, Wisconsin
 Westby, Montana

Additionally, Danish Americans helped settle three U.S. counties: Montcalm, Michigan; St. Louis, Minnesota; and Sanpete, Utah.

Figures from 2000 have shown that the three states with the largest Danish American population in the United States are California, Utah and Minnesota.

Notable people
 For sources see the main article on each person listed.

Art
Cowboy artist and sculptor Earl W. Bascom (1906–1995) was called the "cowboy of cowboy artists" having gained international fame as a cowboy turned artist. His Danish grandfather, C.F.B. Lybbert, was a Utah pioneer. Bascom exhibited with Olaf Wieghorst.
 

Sculptor and popular historian Gutzon Borglum provided a staple of modern Americana when he chiseled the greatest American presidents on Mount Rushmore in the Black Hills of South Dakota. His brother, sculptor Solon Borglum, also gained fame for his representations of the American frontier. 
Another Danish-American sculptor of note is Christian Petersen, who was born in Denmark and emigrated with his family to New Jersey, where his interest in beaux-arts style sculpture began. Many of his well-known sculptures arose out of his later migration to the Midwest and teaching at Iowa State University. Among America's earliest oil painters of merit is Amadeus 
Christian Gullager, a premier painter in early Federal America, who also worked in terra cotta. 
The marine painters Antonio Jacobsen and Emil Carlsen left a considerable body of work which continues to draw strong art auction prices. Several Danish artists settled in the American West where they left their mark on the regional artistic genre. Not least among this group is counted Olaf Wieghorst, called the "Dean of Western Painters," and Olaf Seltzer. 
Johann Berthelsen was a prominent and prolific Impressionist painter known for his urban scenes, especially those of New York City. On the less formal level, 
Carl Christian Anton Christensen, is America's Danish-American equivalent of "Grandma Moses." 
Another early Danish-American artisan was Peter Hanson, a landscape painter, tulip authority, and daguerreian. Hanson was born in Denmark in 1821 and came to America c. 1847, when he settled in Brooklyn, NY, with a photography studio in the Bowery. 
 Ib Penick (1930–1998), a native of Denmark, was known as "the creative mind behind the resurgence of pop-up children's books in the 1960s and 1970s.
Roland Petersen born in Endelave, Denmark in 1926, a painter and printmaker. He is known for his distinctive and recognizable style of intaglio printmaking. 
Peter Sekaer (born Peter Ingemann Sekjær (1901) was a Danish-American photographer and artist. Born in Copenhagen, Denmark, Sekaer came to New York in 1918 to seek freedom and opportunity. By 1922 he acquired a reputation as a master sign painter and later as a master photographer documenting the New Deal and the plight of America's Depression Era. 
William Mortensen, born to Danish immigrant parents in Park City, Utah, became an American art photographer, primarily known for his Hollywood portraits in the 1920s–1940s in the pictorialist style.