[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Politics of California

lifornia, the United States District Court for the Southern District of California, and the United States District Court for the Eastern District of California in the federal judiciary. The district's cases are appealed to the San Francisco-based United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

Notable people
 
 
 
 Stephen C. Bowers, served in the California legislature
 John T. Campbell, served in the California legislature
 John T. Crenshaw, served in the California legislature
 Robert Desty, served in the California legislature
 John M. James, a member of the 1867-1869 California State Assembly
 Charles H. Johnson, a member of the 1861–1862 California State Assembly
 Frank D. Laughlin, served in the California legislature
 James H. Lawrence, served in the California legislature
 Smyth M. Miles, served in the California legislature
 Joseph C. Montague, served in the California legislature
 Miguel D. Pedrorena, served in the California legislature
 Paul Shirley, served in the California legislature
 Frederick A. Snyder, served in the California legislature
 Jacob R. Snyder, served in the California legislature
 Bruce R. Stannard, served in the California legislature
 William H. Stone, served in the California legislature
 David C. Williams, served in the California legislature

See also
Politics of California before 1900
Government of California
California locations by voter registration
Political party strength in California
Electoral reform in California
League of California Cities, a lobbying group representing most of the city governments
Student Senate for California Community Colleges, a lobbying organization, authorized by state statute

References

External links

Archival collections
Guide to the California Political Publication and Ephemera Collection. Special Collections and Archives, The UC Irvine Libraries, Irvine, California.

Other

Deep Cuts Threaten to Reshape California by Jennifer Steinhauer, The New York Times, May 30, 2009
TotalCapitol.com California political news and database of people in California politics
 

 
History of California