[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Prison Six

instructors and prisoners. Intelligence gatherers also gained prestige and more were recruited.

Following the rebellion, the Ashhal Commission was formed to investigate the incident, and the Dekel Commission was appointed by the General Staff to recommend a policy for the prison section in the IDF.

Progress and timeline
09:30 - Most prisoners come out of the company's dining room, except a small group, who wish to stay to eat more.
10:00 - The religious prisoners return from the company's synagogue in order to eat. They are told to keep quiet by the rebels. As one of the jailors in the dining room comes out, three prisoners bypass him and enter the room despite calls to stop. They subdue and tie the lone jailor inside and do the same to the second one who comes back in to find out why the prisoners didn't heed his calls. The prisoners gradually take control of the other three jailors currently on duty in the company.
10:10 - The company sergeant on duty comes out of the company clubhouse after a prisoner tells him that someone lost consciousness in the dining room. He is subdued and tied as he enters.
10:15 - Another sergeant not on duty at the time enters the dining room and struggles against the rebels. He is subdued and injured. Meanwhile, the hostages attempt to reach the communication devices they carried in order to sound an alarm. They are discovered and beaten. Gideon Martin exchanges some of the hostages' binds (they were mostly bound using bandages) with handcuffs. The final jailor in the company's main area, watching the showers at the time, is subdued with teargas and dragged into the dining room.
10:20 - The jailor on duty in the solitary confinement area, oblivious to the situation, opens the door for a 'medic' to pass through. He is tied and subdued. The prisoners block all entrances to the company with beds and arm themselves with nightsticks, knives, and other equipment taken from the hostages.
11:45 - The commander on duty at the time tries to contact the company's jailors without success.
12:00 - He sends the officer on duty to examine the situation and prepare for noon counting. He receives a call from military police headquarters that the prison has been taken over by rebels. The officer on duty reports that company Gimel's jailors aren't opening the door and from a look from the roof, it seems that the prisoners are running free.

The commander on duty verifies the reports, calls the prison's immediate response squad and arms them with the necessary equipment. Cells in the entire prison are closed and the commander declares an emergency. All other free jailors in Prison Six reinforce the response team. Reinforcements are also called from the military police headquarters, and all soldiers belonging to Prison Six are rousted and summoned to base.

The commander on duty finds out through negotiation that one of the hostages is severely wounded and Gideon Martin, the leader of the rebellion, agrees to release him. The hostage is taken out through the infirmary gate and sheds light on the current situation in the company after questioning.

The rebellion was then dispersed through negotiations. Aluf Gabi Ashkenazi commanded the forces that were to disperse the revolt by force, if necessary.

Reinforcements brought in
During the revolt, an emergency was declared throughout the entire army and nearby units sent reinforcements to aid in the event.

Military police reinforcements:
Megiddo Prison (Unit 384) – 4 military policemen
Bahad 13 – 2 military policemen and one military police officer
Yamlat – 22 military policemen
Central command (military police) (Unit 391) – 18 military policemen and one military police officer
Northern command (military police) (Unit 390) – 11 military policemen
Criminal Investigations Division (Metzah) northern command – 3 military policemen and one military police officer

Others military reinforcements:
Yamam – 40 soldiers and 6 officers
Duvdevan – 17 soldiers and 3 officers
Shayetet 13 – 15 soldiers and 2 officers
Camp Naftali – one bulldozer
Medical Corps headquarters – five medical squads
Ba'ah Adam – stretcher squads
Ramat David Airbase – fire engine
Hospital 10 (Haifa) – battalion aid station

Civilian reinforcements:
Israel Police – 2 policemen from the negotiations department
Atlit Fire Department – fire engine