[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2nd Battalion, 2nd Marines

embassy in Tehran, Iran. The unit was recalled when dissidents evacuated the embassy. On December 4, 1979, in the face of terrorist attacks on United States citizens at the Naval Station, Roosevelt Roads, Puerto Rico, they deployed to reinforce the Marine barracks. They were withdrawn in April 1980.

Gulf War and the 1990s
The 1980s were a decade of standard deployments to the four corners of the world. In December 1990, attached to 6th Marine Regiment, the unit deployed to southwest Asia for participation in Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm. The battalion returned from southwest Asia in April 1991.

In May 1992, as part of Landing Force Sixth Fleet, 2nd Battalion supported Operation Provide Promise off the coast of the former republics of Yugoslavia. In August 1994, the battalion departed for the Caribbean and Haitian waters for Operation Support Democracy of DaFont. 2nd Battalion, 2nd Marines once again landed in Cap-Haitian on September 20, 1994. Participation in Operation Uphold Democracy lasted until October 1994. A squad from Echo Company engaged in a fire fight with the Haitian police/ military coup. Fourteen Marines led by Lt. Polumbo where engaged and prevailed despite superior numbers and superior cover by the Haitians. One Navy interpreter was wounded, and several Haitians died.

In April 1996, 2/2 was attached to the 22nd Marine Expeditionary Unit and simultaneously reinforced an American embassy in Monrovia, Liberia, in support of Operation Assured Response and the American embassy in Bangui, Central African Republic, in support of Operation Quick Response. During February 1997, elements of the battalion conducted migrant operations in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, in support of Operation Present Heaven. While attached to the 22nd Marine Expeditionary Unit in August 1998, elements of the battalion, participating in Operation Security Force, reinforced the American housing complex in Tirana, Albania, for 97 days. Upon return from deployment in December 1998, Echo Company was sent to Panama for security and contingency operations in support of USCINCSOUTH from March to May 1999.

In January 2000, 2/2 was attached to the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit for deployment in July. While deployed, the battalion participated in exercises in Tunisia, Turkey, and Croatia.

Global War on Terror

In January 2002, 2nd Battalion, 2nd Marines formed as the battalion landing team for the 24th Marine Expeditionary Unit, in preparation for the Landing Force 6th/5th Fleet deployment in August. While deployed, the battalion conducted peacekeeping and border interdiction operations in support KFOR during Operation Dynamic Response in Kosovo. In December 2002, the battalion under the command of Combined Joint Task Force – Horn of Africa conducted security operations in Djibouti, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. During this time, Echo Company played a vital role in maritime interdiction operations off the coast of Yemen.

While stationed in the Persian Gulf, in March 2003, 2/2 deployed to Iraq to reinforce coalition forces during Operation Iraqi Freedom. Especially notable during this deployment were the events that led to Fox Company's April 10, 2003 recovery of the remains of Sgt. Fernando Padilla-Ramirez a Marine listed as missing during the battle of Al Nasiriyah on March 28,2003.  The battalion returned from Iraq in May 2003. During the winter of 2003, the battalion supported Operation Noble Eagle in the homeland defense as the Quick Reaction Force for the II Marine Expeditionary Force. In the spring of 2004 the battalion was assigned to deploy to Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom II and was designated as Task Force 2nd Battalion, 2nd Marines.

2nd Battalion, 2nd Marines deployed in March 2004 to Iraq where it was attached to Regimental Combat Team 1, 1st Marine Division and fought in Al Mahmudiya, Al Kharma, the first and second assault in the city of Fallujah, and Al Zadan. Especially notable during this deployment were the events that led to 2nd Lt. Ilario Pantano being charged with two counts of premeditated murder; Pantano was acquitted of these charges. During this deployment the battalion suffered 154 Marines wounded and six killed in action while participating in more than 600 separate engagements of various sizes.