[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Bob Carr

cil position in 2012, Carr said the plan represented his first priority in its new United Nations role. Australia's foreign aid for the Syrian crisis was increased to more than $100 million, focusing on shelter, medical support and child protection for refugees fleeing to Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey.

In the absence of a ceasefire or UNSC action on Syria, Carr's plan received international support including from US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the Arab League and leaders at the 2013 G20 Summit.

Resignation
On 23 October 2013, Carr announced his resignation from the Senate, which took effect the following day. He was replaced by Deborah O'Neill on 13 November 2013.

As Carr had been elected to the Senate at the 2013 federal election for a six-year term to commence 1 July 2014, the timing of his resignation created a constitutional quirk, as he was resigning both his current term and a subsequent term that had not yet commenced.  To resolve this, O'Neill had to be re-appointed to the Senate by the New South Wales Parliament after the commencement of the 2014–2020 Senate term. To mitigate the cost of recalling both houses of the parliament for a joint sitting (estimated at AUD $300,000), Premier Mike Baird convened a sitting on 2 July of two government members and two opposition members before the President of the Legislative Council to appoint O'Neill to the Senate for the term which began on 1 July.

Post-political career
After his resignation, Bob Carr accepted the position of Director, Australia-China Relations Institute, University of Technology, Sydney and Carr also accepted a professorial fellowship with the University of Sydney Southeast Asia Centre as a Professorial Fellow, and in May 2014 became head of the Australia-China Relations Institute, a think-tank at UTS established with a donation from Huang Xiangmo, a Chinese billionaire with links to the Chinese Communist Party. As of 2019, Carr is no longer affiliated with the Australia-China Relations Institute.

Bob Carr's current (2022) appointment at UTS is a three-year role as Industry Professor (Business and Climate Change). He also took up a position as Adjunct Professor in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at the University of New South Wales.

Carr has been a long time campaigner against high immigration. since leaving politics he has campaigned on cutting immigration numbers. Carr is also an advocate for the release of Julian Assange.

Literature
Carr is the author of several books, including Thoughtlines (Viking, 2002), My Reading Life (Penguin, 2008), and Diary of a Foreign Minister (2014), which received a mixed reception.

In May 2003, author Marilyn Dodkin authored a biography, Bob Carr: the reluctant leader, partly based on Carr's private diaries and including his often uncomplimentary thoughts on various political personalities. A second biography, Bob Carr: A Self-Made Man, by Andrew West and Rachel Morris, was published in September 2003 by HarperCollins.

Carr participated in the 2004 Sydney Festival in conversation with Sir Tom Stoppard. He has served as a board member of book retailer Dymocks since July 2007.

Awards
For his work in improving Australia–US relations he was awarded a Fulbright Distinguished Fellow Award Scholarship. He donated the prize money to launch scholarships for the State's teachers to complete studies abroad. For his services to conservation he was given the World Conservation Union International Parks Merit Award and made a life member of the Wilderness Society.

In 2008 he was awarded the Cavaliere di Gran Croce Ordine al Merito della Repubblica Italiana (Knight Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic), the second of five grades of the order, in recognition of his services to Italian culture.

See also
 Second Gillard Ministry
 Second Rudd Ministry

References

Further reading

External links

 
 Bob Carr's blog
 

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1947 births
People educated at Matraville Sports High School
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of Australia
Labor Right politicians
Australian ministers for Foreign Affairs
Australian radio journalists
Australian republicans
Delegates to the Australian Constitutional Convention 1998
20th-century Australian politicians
Gillard government
Knights Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic
Leaders of the Opposition in New South Wales
Living people
Members of the Australian Senate
Members of the Australian Senate for New South Wales
Members of the Cabinet of Australia
Members of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly
People from the Eastern Suburbs (Sydney)
Politicians from Sydney
Premiers of New South Wales
Rudd government
University of New South Wales alumni
Academic staff of the University of Technology Sydney
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of New South Wales
21st-century Australian politicians
Australian memoirists
Fulbright alumni