[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Baku Slavic University

n's office for International Students.

Base and opportunities Education 
BSU in the "Dictionary Center", "Turkish-Slavic Relations", "Translation Problems", "International Relations" scientific-research laboratories, "The problems of Azerbaijan" was established in scientific and educational center.

Bachelor's and Master's training of highly qualified university faculty and departments to implement, as well as the general and educational leksikoqrafiyasının, psixolinqvistika and bilinqvizmin, Turkic-Slavic literary and moral relations, scientific-research laboratory, who studied azərbaycansunaslıgın actual problems, the Foreign Relations Department, teaching general education and humanitarian programs lyceum, Ukraine, Sunday school, a publishing-printing center, student theater, "Mr. hours" club, Correspondence Department of Education, Master's office, post-graduate and doctoral work.

University "of scientific works of BSU", "the Russian language and literature" scientific methodical journal, scientists and teachers, graduate students and magistrantların məcmuələri scientific articles are published, "Student World" newspaper is published.

2002, since the candidate and doctoral dissertation research at BSU Council on the protection of the specialized functions. BSU for university students in the new textbooks and teaching resources that meet the requirements of science and culture, vocabulary and literature, educational programs and special attention is paid to the development of methodical recommendations.

Development of new educational programs in all specialties, the history of Russian literature, literary theory, practical Russian language, pedagogy, Russian linguistics and other fields of science textbooks for high school students, teaching aids have been prepared for print publication, as well as the dordcildli "Azerbaijan-Russian Dictionary" see the best examples in the book.

Honorary degrees 

2000 in the Baku Slavic University, "honorary doctor" s name has been established. The strengthening of friendship and cooperation between the countries and peoples, science, education and culture in the work performed great services for the development of a number of prominent state and public and political figure in the decision of the Scientific Council of BSU was awarded the honorary title. Today, the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia II Aleksiy, the Ukrainian Rada Speaker VPlyusc, chairman of the Federation Council of Russia Sergei Mironov, the Presidents of Bulgaria Jelyu Zhelev (1990–1997) and Georqi Parvanov, the president of Greece KStefanopulos, Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko and the Polish President Lech Kaczynski Honorary Doctors of Baku Slavic University .

International relations 
BSU multilateral relations with many foreign countries has established high schools. The University External Relations Russia, France, Ukraine, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Poland, Greece and other countries, the prestigious higher educational institutions, signed contracts and agreements shall be governed by the scientific and public organizations. Named after AS Pushkin State Russian Language Institute of Baku Slavic University (Moscow, Russia), regional Academy of Personnel Management (Ukraine, Kyiv), Slavic University (Ukraine, Kyiv), "Ovidius" University (Greece, constant), University of Shumen (Bulgaria, Shumen ), named after BXmelnitski Cerkask State University (Ukraine, Cerkassk), Moscow State International Relations Institute (Moscow, Russia), Institute of INALKO Eastern languages and cultures (France, Paris) has signed contracts with.

Representatives of foreign states, public and political circles, well-known science, education and culture are closely cooperating with the university staff. During the last two years, a number of public figures, politicians and scientists – the chairman of the Russian Federal Council SMMironov, the speaker of the Russian Duma QNSeleznyov, first vice-mayor of Moscow LSvetsova, Minister of Education of the Russian Federation VFilippov, writer and critic, LYLavrova, French "INALKO" KAliber vice-president of the University of Oriental languages, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria (1990–1997) JJelev, senior dean of the faculty of the University of Shumen EDobreva, a number of foreign countries, representatives of press agencies, and prominent cultural figures have been the guest of the university. University students and magistrantlarının Russia, Ukraine, Bulgaria, Poland and other well-known high schools in foreign countries to be involved in the practice of scientific research, professional education courses, this was the case in traditional educational institutions and teacher-student exchange.

Recently, a number of Baku Slavic University was an important republican scientific-practical conferences.