[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# The Settlers II

welve months of their release.

The game was nominated for Computer Games Strategy Pluss 1996 "Real-Time Strategy Game of the Year" award, losing to Command & Conquer: Red Alert. In 1997, PC Gamer (UK) ranked it at #27 on their "PC Gamer Top 100" list, calling it "an outstanding cerebral challenge".

Nintendo DSIGNs Jack Devries scored the DS version 4 out of 10, calling it "tedious, and [...] not even a functional game". He was critical of the saving and loading times, which he argued were so bad as to discourage players from saving. He also criticised the touchscreen as unresponsive, the "frequent" crashes, and the pace of the gameplay. He concluded, "games like these usually get classified as "only for the hardcore fan", but that's an insult to fans of The Settlers. The biggest fans of the game will be the ones that are most disappointed".GameSpots Kevin VanOrd scored it 3.5 out of 10, calling it "a buggy mess." He criticised the touchscreen as unresponsive, and the map and menu scrolling as "sluggish". He was also highly critical of the bugs, citing a mission which couldn't be completed until the sound effects were turned off, and another which crashes when the player zooms in or out: "When it functions, The Settlers can be laid-back fun. But given that you never know how far you're going to get before the next crash, why bother?"Pocket Gamers Mark Walbank scored it 1.5 out of 5, citing "unforgivable technical issues". He found the touchscreen unresponsive, the map scrolling "jerky", and the menu icons too small. He also found the number of bugs "staggering", citing the disappearance of icons, intermittent inability to attack enemies, stored resources disappearing, and zooming directly after saving causing the game to crash. Although he praised the core gameplay, he wrote "The Settlers emerges as a real botched job, and one that desecrates the good name of the series".Eurogamers Dan Whitehead scored it 1 out of 10, calling it "one of the most clumsy and broken games to [ever] receive a commercial release". He criticised the touchscreen as unresponsive, the overly small icons, and the jerky map and menu scrolling. His biggest criticism concerned the bugs: "Settlers II is a great game. A classic. This version isn't. It's a travesty, and one that should never have been released. Without the fatal bugs it'd be a disappointing but passable conversion, but you can't play a game not knowing when, or if, the game will actually work the way it's supposed to".

ExpansionThe Settlers II Mission CD was released in Germany in December 1996. The expansion features nine new single-player campaign missions in which the player again controls the Romans, this time under the command of Octavius's great-grandchild, as he attempts to conquer the entire world. It also features twelve new maps for Free Game mode, now renamed "Limitless Play", and a map editor.

Released in October 1997, The Settlers II: Gold Edition contains the original game plus the Mission CD. It also features minor graphical enhancements and gameplay tweaks. Additionally, the single-player campaign from the original release has been renamed "Roman Campaign", and the Mission CD single-player campaign has been renamed "World Campaign". In 2009, the Gold Edition was released on GOG.com.

LegacyThe Settlers II has given rise to Widelands. A game written in C++ and built on the SDL libraries, it is an ongoing project begun in 2001. Inspired by and based upon The Settlers and, to a larger extent, The Settlers II, Widelands is itself a new game with its own storyline, races, buildings, graphics and gameplay. In a 2009 review of Build13 for Linux Journal, John Knight wrote: "Widelands is a breath of fresh air in an extremely stale genre, whose roots ironically stem from way back in the past in RTS history. Whether you're chasing a fix of that original Settlers feel or just want a different direction in RTS, this game is well worth a look".

Remake and re-release
In 2006, an enhanced remake with a new storyline was released for Microsoft Windows under the title The Settlers II (10th Anniversary) (). Thomas Häuser, lead designer of the original Settlers II, chose to remake that particular game as it seemed to be the favourite of fans of the Settlers series. The biggest decision regarding the remake was to renovate the game rather than reinvent it: