[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Songpa District

Songpa-gu (Hangul: 송파구) is a district of Seoul, South Korea. Previously known as Wiryeseong, the first capital of the kingdom of Baekje, Songpa is located in the southeastern part of Seoul. With roughly 647,000 residents, Songpa is also the largest district in Seoul by population.

Songpa was at the center of 1988 Seoul Olympics, and most of the sports facilities associated with that event are located within the district.

In 2009, Songpa was named one of the world's most livable cities at the LivCom Awards presented by the United Nations Environment Programme.

History

Hanseong Baekje era (18 BCE – 660 CE)
In 18 BCE, the kingdom of Baekje founded its capital city, Wiryeseong (위례성), in what is believed to be the modern-day Songpa District. Baekje subsequently developed from a member state of the Mahan confederacy into one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea.

Several remains of city fortresses dating from this time exist in the Seoul area. Pungnap Toseong (풍납토성), an earthen wall in Pungnap-dong (near Jamsil) in the southeastern part of Seoul, is widely believed to be the site of Wiryeseong. Another earthen wall, Mongchon Toseong (몽촌토성), is located nearby and also dates back to the early Baekje era.

Joseon Dynasty
Songpa was historically a hub of commercial and military activity, the location of many specialty markets, merchants, and traders, as well as being the site of many battles of the Joseon era.

20th century – present 
Songpa, once a calm and rural area, underwent major land development efforts in the 1970s, which transformed the region into a new, urban town.

Songpa hosted the 1986 Asian Games, the 1988 Summer Olympics, and the 1988 Summer Paralympics. Seoul Olympic Stadium and Olympic Park were constructed for these events, along with a multi-lane expressway, large-scale apartment complexes, and commercial facilities.

Before the Olympics in 1988, Songpa split from the Gangdong District and became its own administrative district.

In 2009, in pursuit of sustainable and environmentally-friendly urban development and participatory local autonomy, Songpa was developed as an autonomous district of Seoul, with the aim of becoming a world-class city.

Economy

Commercial centers

To promote economic development, a high-tech business zone is being built in the neighborhood of Munjeong-dong. This zone falls into three categories: future business (semiconductors, automobiles, digital contents, batteries, biopharmaceuticals, digital TVs and displays, and mobile devices), specialized business (pharmaceuticals, medical instruments, medicine, health care, construction, and engineering service), and administrational function (court, prosecutor's office, and police office).

Garden 5 is a cultural center and the biggest distribution hub in Korea. It consists of five special blocks, including 'Garden 5 Life', a shopping mall with more than 8,300 shops.

Garak Market is a large wholesale agriculture and fish market. Opened in 1985, it was built to modernize agricultural and fishery distribution in Seoul. The market underwent remodeling until 2020.

The Lotte World Tower is a 123-story, 555-meter-tall skyscraper in Sincheon-dong completed in 2016. It has 624,642 m2 of floor space. Prior to its construction, it was estimated to cost 1.7 trillion won and create more than 23,000 construction jobs.

Revitalization of regional economy

Focusing on reduction in unemployment rate as a way to overcome economic crisis, Songpa District launched a handful of projects. First of all, Songpa employed 120 people in computerizing important data of the district. Through this computerization, Songpa contributed to green growth by saving paper. A special budget of 5 billion won—raised through savings of incentives, fringe benefits, and service operation expenses—was used to create 1,270 new jobs, including administrative home-delivery service, anti-smoking campaigns, welfare service, and help for the elderly.

Songpa sought to revitalize regional economy by easing construction regulation and upgrading land use regulation through urban planning. For instance, the "Olympic Street maintenance and improvement project" was introduced to convert motel zones in Bang-i, Sincheon, and Jamsil built for the 1988 Seoul Olympics into commercial building zones. Similarly, the "Songpa Daero maintenance and improvement project" developed a 283,500 m2 area around the Seokchon station intersection and Songpa Daero into a commercial area.

Resource recycling

To ease school-related expenses for residents, Songpa District runs a recycling pool for used school uniforms and books. In this center, a school uniform costs only 4,000 won. In 2008, 1,541 uniforms were sold and 116 were exchanged among the total 2,043 donated.