[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Make Roads Safe

for a Decade of Action for Road Safety at an event in Vietnam in October 2008 organised by the Asia Injury Prevention Foundation. Michelle Yeoh also filmed a documentary on global road safety, 'Turning Point', a version of which was shown on the BBC World News channel in May 2009.

Campaign progress

The campaign claimed success in achieving one of its key objectives in March 2008 with the passage of a strong United Nations resolution on global road safety at the UN General Assembly, including approval of the first-ever global Ministerial conference on road safety. To promote this objective, the Make Roads Safe campaign collected a million-strong petition which was personally delivered to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon by campaign chairman Lord Robertson on 31 March 2008.

The campaign has also claimed some success in persuading donors and the major multilateral lending institutions, such as the World Bank, to recognise their responsibilities for improving road safety. A conference on 'Safer Roads' held in London in July 2008 brought together all the major development banks, and leading donor countries, for the first time to discuss road safety as a component of road projects. This has led to the establishment of a working group of the development banks to agree a declaration ahead of the Moscow Conference.

The campaign's current stated objective is to secure support for a UN Decade of Action for Road Safety.

Criticism 

Some critics have argued that this initiative is car-centric, and does not focus on the problems inherent in  the way road traffic is organised today. They say representatives for environmentally benign and healthy forms of transport are not represented in the board, nor has advice and knowledge about those modes of transport been heeded. The Make Roads Safe campaign has responded to this criticism by arguing that the main beneficiaries of a greater focus on road safety and safer infrastructure design will be vulnerable road users (including pedestrians and cyclists) who are the victims of the majority of road injuries in developing countries. Billions of dollars are being invested in new and upgraded road infrastructure in Africa, Asia and Latin America and the Make Roads Safe campaign argues that this development aid should be invested with the safety and mobility needs of all road users in mind.

See also 
 Global road safety for workers
 Road-traffic safety
 Turning Point (documentary)

Notes

External links
 Make Roads Safe Official Site 
 Turning Point Homepage

Road safety campaigns