[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Haji Ghalib

ories maintained by Haji Jabar, who was the District Manager. The Americans emptied those armories. Ghalib said, as part of his official duties, he too managed an Armory, a sealed Armory, that had not been inspected by the Americans. A few days after his return Americans arrested him, in his office,

Administrative Review Board hearing
Detainees who were determined to have been properly classified as "enemy combatants" were scheduled to have their dossier reviewed at annual Administrative Review Board hearings. The Administrative Review Boards weren't authorized to review whether a detainee qualified for POW status, and they weren't authorized to review whether a detainee should have been classified as an "enemy combatant".

They were authorized to consider whether a detainee should continue to be detained by the United States, because they continued to pose a threat—or whether they could safely be repatriated to the custody of their home country, or whether they could be set free.

Summary of Evidence memo
A Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for Ghalib's  Administrative Review Board hearing on July 25, 2005.

The following primary factors favor continued detention

The following primary factors favor release or transfer

Transcript
Ghalib chose to participate in his Administrative Review Board hearing.
In April 2006 the Department of Defense released a 13-page summarized transcript of the hearing.

Board recommendations
In early September 2007 the Department of Defense released two heavily redacted memos, from his Board, to Gordon England, the Designated Civilian Official.
The Board's recommendation was unanimous
The Board's recommendation was redacted.
England authorized his transfer on 22 October 2005.

Repatriation
On November 25, 2009, the Department of Defense published a list of the dates captives were transferred from Guantanamo.
According to that list
Ghalib Hassan
was transferred on February 8, 2007.  Ghalib is considered a leader in the anti-Taliban resistance under Abdul Haq. Ghalib's tribe, the Shinwari, have signed an Anti-Taliban pact.

Return to the battlefield

While Ghalib's Guantanamo dossier recorded American official's fears that he would "return to the battlefield", his return was as a loyal leader on behalf of the central government.

A profile of Ghalib published on the front page of the New York Times, on November 27, 2015, noted that Joint Task Force Guantanamo authorities had feared he would return to the battlefield, if he were freed from Guantanamo.
However, Joseph Goldstein pointed out that Ghalib had set aside all the bitterness triggered by the injustice and brutality of his treatment in Guantanamo, and relied on his idea of what best served his nation, and had returned to fight on behalf of Afghanistan's central government.

The article noted that he had returned to senior positions in the fight against both the Taliban, and new elements of ISIS that were being found in Afghanistan.  The article noted that he now faced Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, another Guantanamo captive, who held a senior position in ISIS.   The two men had been friends, in GUantanamo, where their cells had been adjacent cells.  Ironically, Muslimdost was one of the 38 captives who had been cleared of suspicions of being an enemy combatant, by his 2004 Combatant Status Review Tribunal, while Ghalib was held for a further two and a half years, and was repatriated without being cleared of suspicion.

The article noted how the Taliban had assassinated many of his relatives, when he first started fighting against them.
It noted that when more senior Taliban leaders noted how effective an opponent he was they reached out to Ghalib and offered to kill the more junior Taliban leaders who were responsible for order the execution of his family members, if only he would retire from fighting them—an offer Ghalib declined.

The Tribune, a newspaper published in Pakistan, compared Ghalib with another captive he made friends with, in Guantanamo -- Abdul Rahim Muslim Dost.  Muslim Dost also joined in the hostilities that plagued Afghanistan—but on the other side.  In recent years he served as a leader of the IS forces in Afghanistan.

See also 
 Guantanamo Bay detention camp

References

External links 
Shadow of Guantanamo follows freed inmates back to their homes
Haji Ghalib Hassan - Video
Ghalib Hassan - Guantanamo Inmate Database

Living people
Bagram Theater Internment Facility detainees
Guantanamo detainees known to have been released
Year of birth uncertain
1963 births
Afghan extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
People from Nangarhar Province