[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Spice World (film)

lley, resident film critic for Variety,  gave a mixed review, calling the film "bright and breezy" and "as timely but evanescent as the Cool Britannia culture it celebrates". He stated that the film would "delight the Fab Five's pre-pubescent fans" but that it would "be forgotten within six months".

Reappraisal
Several critics have reevaluated the film more positively in the years after its initial release. Re-watching Spice World in 2019, Alice Vincent of The Daily Telegraph was "pleasantly surprised" that the jokes had not aged badly and found the sets and costuming had a "now-retro charm". Vincent stated: "It's an irreverent, lighthearted romp that captured the brash, patriotic positivity of a London swept up in Cool Britannia." Writing for The New York Times in 2019, Eleanor Stanford found the film to be "much smarter and more self-aware than I once gave it credit for," particularly enjoying how the Spice Girls poked fun at themselves. Stanford concluded: "The Spice Girls were absolutely working the (very sexist) system, and making a lot of money off it, but they were doing it slyly, with a wink and a grin. They were, I think, misunderstood at the time, and I wonder if an irreverent, breezy group like theirs could even exist today."

Accolades
The film has been listed in Golden Raspberry Awards founder John Wilson's book The Official Razzie Movie Guide as one of "The 100 Most Enjoyably Bad Movies Ever Made". Along with the nominations and wins racked up at the 1998 Stinkers Bad Movie Awards, Spice World was listed in their upcoming "100 Years, 100 Stinkers" list, in which people voted for the 100 worst movies of the 20th century. The film was ranked at #5.

Legacy and cult status

Spice World has arguably achieved cult status. The film, while being negatively reviewed during its original release, is remembered fondly by many who were part of its target audience of younger pop fans at the time of its release. Some commentators consider the film to be a "cult classic", describing it as brilliant, even a masterpiece of the parody genre, that mocks both celebrity culture and cinematic clichés, while giving many winks to popular culture of the time. Several reviews have even made positive comparisons between SpiceWorld and the 1984 "rockumentary" parody film This Is Spinal Tap.

On 18 July 2014, the Spice Bus used in the film was put on permanent display at Island Harbour Marina, on the Isle of Wight, England.

Potential sequel 
In 2010, Bunton revealed that there were plans for a sequel following the first film's release, stating: "We would've liked to do another film, but after Spice World, there was an album, then a tour and then Geri left, so it didn't happen."

Speaking in January 2019, following the announcement of the Spice Girls reunion tour, Simon Fuller confirmed plans to make an animated sequel to Spice World. On 13 June 2019, it was reported that Paramount Animation president Mireille Soria had greenlit the project, with all five members of the band returning. The project will be produced by Simon Fuller, with Karen McCullah and Kiki Smith writing the screenplay, and will feature both previous and original songs. The film would feature the band as superheroes. A director has not yet been announced.

See also
 Spice Girls filmography
 List of films featuring extraterrestrials

References

Book references

External links
 
 
 
 
 

1997 films
1997 comedy films
1990s British films
1990s buddy comedy films
1990s English-language films
1990s female buddy films
1990s musical comedy films
British buddy comedy films
British female buddy films
British musical comedy films
Cultural depictions of Elton John
Films about film directors and producers
Films about filmmaking
Films about musical groups
Films set in London
Films shot in Buckinghamshire
Films shot in London
Films shot in Surrey
Golden Raspberry Award winning films
Icon Productions films
PolyGram Filmed Entertainment films
Self-reflexive films
Works about the Spice Girls