[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John S. Casement

d served to the end of the war as commander of the Second Brigade of the Third Division of the Twenty third Corps. I (T. H. Stevens) have always been proud that I was a humble member of his command. His men all loved him and would have died for him at any time if called upon to make the sacrifice." 

Casement's brigade consisting of four regiments, was transferred to North Carolina as part of Reilley's third division, XXIII Army Corps under Major General John Schofield.

During the Carolinas Campaign, he took a prominent part in the Battle of Wilmington, entering the City of Wilmington, North Carolina on February 22, 1865  which was to be his last major combat as Casement resigned his commission on April 30, 1865  and his unit was disbanded in August 1865.

Postbellum career
After the war, he resumed his involvement in the burgeoning railroad industry.  In 1866, Thomas Clark Durant appointed Major General Grenville M. Dodge as the chief engineer for the Union Pacific Railroad during the construction of the Transcontinental Railroad. Dodge hired Casement and his brother Daniel to direct the construction crews. Daniel T. Casement (1834 - 1881) was responsible for financing the operations, while John directed the construction crews who took to calling their boss "General Jack."  The brothers oversaw the construction from Fremont, Nebraska, to the railroad's completion at Promontory, Utah.

In 1867 when the Union Pacific crossed into what was to become the Wyoming Territory, Casement, a popular figure, was elected to be Wyoming's first Representative in Congress.  After a long struggle, Congress ruled that the election was illegal and Casement was never seated.

Legend has it that when the Golden Spike was to be placed to mark the completion of the transcontinental railway, the driving of the spike was to be done by Leland Stanford, President of the Southern Pacific.  When Stanford was unable to hit the spike properly, Casement supposedly took the spike maul and drove it himself, but the story is probably apocryphal.

After the completion of the transcontinental railway Casement continued to be active in railway construction. 
In July 1870, Casement was part of an effort to reconstruct the Union & Titusville Railroad from wide gauge (6'-0") to standard gauge at an estimated cost of one million dollars. The railroad planned to reconstruct its track  Financing for the project was to be a mix of existing funds in the corporation ($250,000) with the remainder of the funding to be provided by the Casement brothers in exchange for additional stock or bonds. For about half its length, the railroad ran alongside the Oil Creek and Allegheny River Railway and then onto Union Mills to connect with the Philadelphia and Erie Railroad.
 
The railroad eventually became a part of the Philadelphia and Erie Railroad in 1871.

In 1880 Wabash Railroad interests let a contract to Casement for trackwork on the Butler & Detroit Railroad. The next year 1881, Casement constructed the road between Cleveland and Buffalo for the Nickel Plate. By 1885, Casement claimed that he had constructed more trackwork mileage than any other in the United States.
 
Casement even played a role in the construction of a second route to the Pacific, this time in Costa Rica in 1897.

Casement had the misfortune to be in San Jose, California when the 1906 San Francisco earthquake struck.  Staying at the Vendome Hotel with his wife, he was pinned in his bed and suffered three broken ribs when parts of the hotel collapsed.  Although he survived this encounter, his full health never returned.

Casement died in Painesville, Ohio, on December 13, 1909. Casement Airport at Painesville was named in his memory, as was a World War II liberty ship, the SS John S. Casement.

Hell on Wheels
As crews pushed across the plains during Casement's involvement with the transcontinental railway, they were followed by a large contingent of "camp followers" who provided such indulgences as prostitution, liquor, gambling, and other services for the laborers.  This ever-moving assemblage of rail workers and hangers-on became known as Hell on Wheels.  As well as being descriptive of daily life at "end track,"  the term has become further enshrined by an eponymous TV series, Hell on Wheels. In the series, the character of Cullen Bohannon (portrayed by Anson Mount) is loosely modeled on Casement's life and career.

See also

List of Union Pacific railroad civil engineers (1863–1869)

References