[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Faith Wilding

t gallery in Chicago, held the first retrospective of Wilding's work titled "Fearful Symmetries" that featured artwork spanning 40 years.

In 2019, Wilding was featured in her first solo gallery exhibition, "Scriptorium Revisited",  at LA-based gallery Anat Ebgi . The show was featured in Artforum .

In 2021, Faith Wilding held a solo exhibition, "Fossils,"  at Anat Ebgi Gallery in Los Angeles. The show was featured in Contemporary Art Review LA .

Publications
Author
 By Our Own Hands: The Woman Artist's Movement, Southern California, 1970-1976. Santa Monica: Double X, 1977. 
 "The Feminist Art Programs at Fresno and CalArts, 1970-75" in The Power of Feminist Art: The American Movement of the 1970s. Eds. Norma Broude and Mary D. Garrard. New York: Abrams,1996, 32–47.
 "Knowing Bodies - Feminist issues in health care, medicine, and biotechnology." Neme.
 "Monstrous Domesticity". M/E/A/N/I/N/G, #18 November 1995.
 "Stolen Rhetoric: The Appropriation of Choice by ART Industries." Neme.
 "Where is Feminism in Cyberfeminism?". Neme. 28 March 2006.

Coauthor or editor
 Domain Errors! Cyberfeminist Practices. Eds. Maria Fernanadez, Faith Wilding, and Michelle M. Wright. Autonomedia, 2003.
 Laura Meyer with Faith Wilding, "Collaboration and Conflict in the Fresno Feminist Art Program: An Experiment in Feminist Pedagogy". n.paradoxa: international feminist art journal vol. 26, July 2010 pp. 40–51.
 subRosa, Faith Wilding. "Bodies Unlimited A decade of subRosa's art practice."  n.paradoxa: international feminist art journal. July 2012. 28. pp. 16–25.
 Faith Wilding, Critical Art Ensemble. "Notes on the Political Condition of Cyberfeminism." Art Journal. Summer 1998. 58: 4. pp. 46–59.
 Faith Wilding, Mira Schor, Emma Amos, Susan Bee, Johanna Drucker, María Fernández, Amelia Jones, Shirley Kaneda, Helen Molesworth, Howardena Pindell, Collier Schorr "Contemporary Feminism: Art Practice, Theory, and Activism--An Intergenerational Perspective". Art Journal. Winter, 1999. 58: 4. pp. 8–29.

Visual work

Crocheted Environment 
Nicknamed "Womb Room", this piece is a sculptural installation of a large crocheted, weblike structure. Faith Wilding contributed this one room, crocheted environment within the collaborative 1972 Womanhouse installation put together by the Feminist Art Program at the California Institute for the Arts. The piece was also displayed in the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, as well as the Bronx Museum, New York, under “Division of Labor: Women’s Work in Contemporary Art.”

Wall of Wounds 

Wall of Wounds is an installation of 100 Rorschach prints.  Each 6” by 6” print is intended to comment on the social culture by proclaiming one's pre-categorized “wound.” Each print is signed and titled based on the nature of the wound: for example, “political wound,” “sexual wound,” or “phallic wound.”

Battle Dresses 

Battle Dresses are a series of paintings entitled  “Raped Dress,” “Suppurating Dress,” and “Pregnant Dress.” The series is dedicated to the women of the former Yugoslavia who were raped. The series was created in the period between 1995 and 1997. The entire installation measures 75” by 25” and is done on  Vellum using ink and watercolor medium.

War Subjects 

War Subjects is composed of 75” by 50” ink and watercolor drawings, which are “the recombined war body of melancholic historical fragments.”

Recombinants 

Recombinants are a series of drawings, collages, and paintings that speak to the intersection of plant, human, animal and technological bodies. The piece contains visual and intellectual influences derivative of the Cyborg Manifesto.

Performance work

Duration performance 

Wilding gave a performance/lecture on the politics of Information Technology and its relation to femininity as a consequence of the global reconstruction of telecommunication.

Waiting 
In one of her most well-known works, Wilding performed Waiting in Womanhouse while sitting down and rocking back and forth. Waiting is a dramatic monologue that shows the passage of time and that throughout every stage - childhood, teenage years, motherhood, and old age -  of her life, a woman is expected to wait: to be noticed, to be married, for her children and husband to come back home, etc. The burden of these societal expectations is framed in the performance through aesthetic choices: a rhythmical tone, the long skirt that Wilding was wearing, with her hands obediently kept on her knees. She is waiting to experience life and to feel accepted by herself and society.

Cock and Cunt 
This was a role-playing exercise written by Judy Chicago and performed by Wilding and Janice Lester in Womanhouse. This is an interaction between a husband (HE), played by Wilding, and a wife (SHE), played by Lester. Both are wearing comically exaggerated genitalia. It starts in the living room with an argument over dishes and ends in the bedroom where the SHE is murdered by the HE. This play highlights the prevalence and danger of gender roles.