[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Libyan Air Force

moud Misrati, successfully ejected and was captured by the pro-LNA forces. Despite poor performances in the war, pro-GNA forces with the help of Ukrainian specialists continued to overhaul and repair more MiG-25 fighter jets through 2017 and 2018 in order to bring them back to active combat service.

Besides MiG-25 aircraft, the Ukrainians also refurbished both Mirage F-1ED fighter jets of the pro-GNA air forces (serial numbers 502 and 508—the same two that defected to Malta on 21 February 2011), and with their help the pro-GNA forces brought them back into operational status by early 2015, using them extensively to bomb both ISIL militants and pro-LNA forces throughout 2016—but on 3 June 2016, one of the two pro-GNA Mirage F1ED fighter jets crashed west of the city of Sirte due to technical problems, its pilot ejected safely (according to other sources, ISIL militants shot it down, its pilot, a Portuguese mercenary, was killed). The last remaining pro-GNA Mirage F1ED fighter jet was not airworthy as of 2017 and was put in storage by the pro-GNA forces, as it lacked a functional engine due to lack of spare parts.

Despite the pro-GNA L-39ZO Albatros having mediocre combat characteristics, they avoided combat losses—one pro-GNA L-39ZO crashed due to technical problems near the University of Sirte on 10 August 2016 (ISIL claims that they shot it down); both of its pilots, commander of Misrata air force base brigadier general Mukhtar Fakroun and co-pilot colonel Omar Dogha, died in the crash. With the help of Ukrainian specialists, pro-GNA air forces also managed to bring back to service several major transport aircraft that were in storage for over a decade—one CH-130H Hercules (serial number "118"), one An-32P, and one Il-78 (serial number 5A-DLL—this is a former Libyan People's Air force aerial refueling aircraft, but now used solely as a transport aircraft by pro-GNA forces), all of which were flown by Sudanese mercenaries.

During all of 2016, the pro-GNA Libyan Air Force carried out numerous air strikes on positions of the group Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), which had taken control of parts of northern Libya around the city of Sirte—using their L-39ZO, Mirage F-1ED and MiG-23ML fighter jets, pro-GNA forces conducted dozens of airstrikes on ISIL positions both outside and inside of the city of Sirte during the entire summer of 2016, but with limited results. During the 2015. and 2016., pro-GNA air force has launched over 600 airstrikes on both pro-LNA forces and ISIL militants in and around the city of Sirte, with vast majority of these strikes being conducted by pro-GNA aircraft stationed at the Misrata air force base (as seen by news camera on 4 September 2016. At the Misrata air force base - two MiG-23MLD, five G-2 Galeb, 10 L-39ZO Albatros, and one J-21 Jastreb fighter jets, as well as two Mi-24P combat attack helicopter and one Mi-8T transport helicopter). Also, by the summer of 2016, pro-GNA air forces run out of both spare parts, fuel, and even money, and without being paid, most of the mercenaries and engineers that were by then serving in pro-GNA air force just left, crippling its fighting capabilities. Pilots were another problem for the pro-GNA air force – both mercenary pilots and local Libyan pilots refused on many occasions to "bomb the Libyan people", refusing to obey orders of the pro-GNA air force to bomb pro-LNA positions and leaving because of that, which severely limited their fighting capabilities. Probably because of that, and because of lack of progress against ISIL militants in the battle for Sirte in 2016., pro-GNA forces formally requested the US air force to start conducting air strikes against ISIL militants in and around the city of Sirte starting from 1 August 2016. under the name "Operation Odyssey Lightning", which helped the pro-GNA forces to advance in the city - by the time Sirte was finally captured by pro-GNA forces on 6 December 2016. and "Operation Odyssey Lightning" declared concluded by AFRICOM on 20 December 2016., US air force conducted 495 precision airstrikes on ISIL positions in and around the city of Sirte, killing around 800 to 900 ISIL militants.