[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sengunthar

from Koorainaadu, in Tanjore district of Chola country. Now they are found in Pondicherry region. Also called 'Thattaya Nattar' from their sub-region of the Kongu region.

Maduraiyar 
Kaikolars of the Pandya country who wear the Meenakshi Sundareswarar thali like other Pandya country native castes.

Kaikolar originally of the Pandya country who wear the thali (marriage badge) of Meenakshi Sundareshwarar like other Pandya country native castes.

Kulagurus 
The Kongu section has Adi Saiva kulagurus in common with other Kongu castes while the last three sub castes have the Irayamangalam Math, the descendant of Paranjothi Nayanar as their guru,   

a general of the Pallavas. His seat is at Irayamangalam by the Kaveri in the Namakkal District.

Current Status
Sengunthars are classified and listed as a Backward Class by the governments of both Tamil Nadu and India.

Literary references
Senguntha Prabanda Thiratu is a collection of various literary works written about Kaikkolars. It was originally published by Vannakkalanjiyam Kanji Shri Naagalinga Munivar in 1926 and republished in 1993 by Sabapathi Mudaliar. The collection contains:
Senkunthar Pillai Tamizh by Gnanaprakasa Swamigal, Tirisirapuram Kovintha Pillai and Lakkumanaswami. A collection of songs about the Sungunthars, taken from palm-leaf manuscripts, that was first published in the 18th century in Kanchipuram
Eetti Ezhubathu, the major literary work about the Sengunthars. It comprises poetry by Ottakkoothar written in the 12th century CE during the reign of Rajaraja Chola II. It describes the mythical origin of Sengunthar, expeditions of Sengunthar chieftains and also praises the 1008 Kaikolar who were beheaded trying to enable it to be written.
Ezhupezhubathu, a sequel to Eetti Ezhubathu written by Ottakkoothar. In this work, he prays the goddess Saraswathi to reattach the heads of the 1008 Sengunthars to their respective bodies.
Kalipporubathu, a collection of ten stanzas compiled by Kulothunga Chola III. These stanzas were written after Ezhupezhubathu to express joy when the 1008 heads were reattached. These stanzas include the songs who witnessed it in the court of Raja Raja II including himself which was later compiled by his successor Kulothunga Chozha III
Thirukkai Vazhakkam, which describes the good deeds of Sengunthars and their Saivite religious principles. It was written by Puhalendi.
Sengunthar Silaakkiyar Malai was written by Kanchi Virabadhra Desigar. It describes the legends and eminent personalities of the Sengunthar community.

Notable people

See also
Adaviyar
Padmashali
Tanti
Kaikalas
Salagama
Pattusali

Notes

References

Further reading

Indian castes
Social groups of Tamil Nadu
Weaving communities of South Asia
Social groups of Andhra Pradesh
South Indian communities