[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Earl E. T. Smith

Earl Edward Tailer Smith (July 8, 1903 – February 15, 1991) was an American financier and diplomat, who served as ambassador to Cuba from 1957 to 1959 and mayor of Palm Beach 1971 to 1977.

Early life
Smith was born in Newport, Rhode Island on July 8, 1903. He was a son of Frances Bogert "Fannie" Tailer (1884–1953), and Sydney Johnston Smith (1868–1949), a cotton broker and sportsman. His parents divorced in 1909 and his mother remarried to C. Whitney Carpenter in 1916. They also divorced.

His maternal grandparents were Edward Neufville Tailer, a prominent merchant and banker, and Agnes Suffern (the daughter of Thomas Suffern). His aunt, Agnes Suffern Tailer Burnett, was the wife of U.S. Attorney Henry Lawrence Burnett. Another aunt, Mary Tailer Livingston, was the mother of New York Assemblyman Robert Reginald Livingston, a descendant of Chancellor Robert R. Livingston.

He was educated at the Taft School in Watertown, Connecticut followed by Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut from 1926 to 1928.

Career
Before becoming an investment broker and a member of the New York Stock Exchange.  In 1929, he was a founder of the investment brokers, Paige, Smith, and Remick, serving as senior partner until 1937 and remaining a member  for more than 60 years.

In 1941, President Franklin Roosevelt appointed Smith as special assistant in the Office of Production Management (later War Production Board). He left this post to serve in the United States Army during the Second World War. He served overseas and by the end of the war reached the rank of Lieutenant colonel.

As a successful businessman, he became the finance chairman of the Florida Republican Committee.

Ambassador to Cuba
In June 1957, President Dwight Eisenhower appointed Smith ambassador to Cuba, replacing Arthur Gardner. Smith was a businessman who had never held a diplomatic position and who did not speak Spanish. On arrival, Smith was urged by his staff to leave Havana to get a better feel of the country, which was in a state of some turmoil. On a visit to Santiago de Cuba, Smith witnessed firsthand the funeral and burial of Frank Pais, one of the leaders of the M-26-7 movement. After his death, well over 200,000 people attended the event, which convinced Smith that something had to be done about the dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista.

Smith was also critical of what he perceived as Washington's ambivalent attitude towards the growing 26th of July movement led by Fidel Castro. Smith felt that the CIA underestimated the strength of the revolutionary movement.

Smith resigned his post on January 20, 1959 and was replaced by Philip Bonsal, three weeks after the Cuban Revolution led by Castro.

From his 1962 book, The Fourth Floor, Smith’s remark is often quoted: “Whenever I asked President Batista for Cuba's vote to support the United States in the United Nations, he would instruct his Foreign Minister to have the Cuban delegation vote in accordance with the United States delegation and to give full support to the American delegation at the United Nations.”

Later life
In 1960, Smith testified to the Senate Committee on the subject of the "Communist threat to the United States through the Caribbean." During the hearings, Smith said, "Until Castro, the U.S. was so overwhelmingly influential in Cuba that the American ambassador was the second most important man, sometimes even more important than the Cuban president."

He also presented the lawmakers with the following options:

Smith was named the U.S. Ambassador to Switzerland by President Kennedy, but declined because Switzerland was charged with United States relations in Cuba. In the 1980s, he was named to the Presidential Commission on Broadcasting to Cuba by President Ronald Reagan alongside George W. Landau.

Personal life

Smith was married four times and divorced twice. His marriage was on January 7, 1926 to Consuelo Vanderbilt (1903–2011), a daughter of the former Virginia Graham Fair and William Kissam Vanderbilt II. Consuelo, the sister of Muriel Vanderbilt, was also a granddaughter of William Kissam Vanderbilt, Alva Belmont, James Graham Fair, and a niece of Harold Stirling Vanderbilt and, her namesake, Consuelo Vanderbilt (the former Duchess of Marlborough from her marriage to Charles Spencer-Churchill, 9th Duke of Marlborough). Before their 1935 divorce, they were the parents of two daughters:

 Iris Vanderbilt Smith (1927–2006), who married Herbert Pratt Van Ingen, Augustus G. Paine III, Edwin F. Russell, and Donald C. Christ.
 Virginia Consuelo Smith (b. 1930), who married William Langdon Hutton and Edwin Marston Burke.