[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rubén Martínez (writer)

the immigrants face problems such as racism, difficulty finding a job, difficulty acculturating, and the overwhelming sadness of leaving the land that they have always known. The New Americans is based on a PBS documentary series also named The New Americans. The book received many positive reviews.

Articles 
Rubén Martínez has been featured in many literary magazines for his work. His articles have shown up in various magazines, and his interviews have also been widely published. Below are a few of his articles selected for easy online viewing.

 In his interview with Robert Birnbaum, Rubén Martínez tells of how he was nominated to work at Harvard in the field of urban studies. Birnbaum talks a bit about Martínez's contract with PBS for his book The New Americans, and quickly moves on to his newest book Crossing Over. After the book was completed, Martínez says he was shocked to find that the Mexicans he encountered in Norwalk are largely gone.
 The Minutemen Project is a project in which volunteers show up on the border to help deal with Mexicans migrating into the United States. Martínez comments on the project in an interview with Julia Goldberg.
 "The Migrant Story" is an article written by Rubén Martínez, in which he encourages the reader to envision an immigrant briefing the United States Congress on our current immigration policy. This article requires a free and easy membership to be read in its entirety.
 "The Undocumented Virgen" is another article written by Martínez. He spent December 12, the birthday of la Virgen de Guadalupe, at Our Lady Queen of Angels in downtown LA with many Mexican immigrants. He joins the celebration of la Virgen de Guadalupe's birthday, and illustrates just how important she is to Mexicans, even when they are many miles away from home.
 Another immigration interview with Rubén Martínez. This interview examines why exactly Rubén is so interested in writing about immigration, and why it is such a big deal in the United States.
 Benjamin Adair interviewed Rubén Martínez about his newest book, Crossing Over, on the radio. This webpage has a link to the actual radio interview, but also provides a textual overview of the important points throughout the conversation. It also contains some interesting photos of the accident scene from Crossing Over.
 In another free membership required article, Rubén Martínez describes immigration from the standpoint of someone whose father and grandfather were immigrants. He describes what life is like being of Mexican and Salvadoran heritage while living in the United States. He also talks of how the process of crossing the border affects the immigrants' sense of identity.

Awards
Rubén Martínez has received multiple awards for his work. The awards he has received are the following: The Lannan Foundation fellowship, the Loeb Fellowship from Harvard University's Graduate School of Design, the "Freedom of Information Award" from the ACLU, the "Greater Press Club of Los Angeles Award of Excellence", the Luis Leal award from UC Santa Barbara, and an Emmy Award. The Lannan Foundation fellowship is given to a person whose "work inspires communities domestic and international that are struggling to uphold and defend their right to cultural freedom and diversity", (Lannan Foundation). Martínez won this award in 2002, for his nonfiction work, Crossing Over. In 2005, Martínez was awarded an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters (L.H.D.) degree from Whittier College.

Other written works 
 The Other Side:  Notes From the New LA, Mexico City, and Beyond (1993), Vintage Books USA, New York
 "Technicolor" in Half + Half: Writers on Growing Up Biracial + Bicultural (1998) Edited by Claudine Chiawei O'Hearn, Pantheon Books, New York
 Eastside Stories (with Joseph Rodriguez) (1998), Powerhouse Books, New York
 Crossing Over:  A Mexican Family on the Migrant Trail (2001), Henry Holt and Company, New York
 The New Americans (2004), New Press, New York
 Flesh Life: Sex in Mexico City (with Joseph Rodriguez) (2006), Powerhouse Books, New York
 Desert America: Boom and Bust in the New Old West (2012)

References

External links 
 
 Loyola Marymount University – Ruben Martinez
 Los Angeles Review of Books - Daniel Olivas interviews Ruben Martinez

1962 births
Living people
Journalists from Los Angeles
American male journalists
American writers of Mexican descent
American writers of Salvadoran descent
Hispanic and Latino American journalists