[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# George Boyd (footballer)

nnounced, coming on as a 70th-minute substitute in the match. Boyd played 13 times during his time at Salford, leaving the club upon the expiry of his contract in June 2021. In his last game for the club, a 3–0 win against Leyton Orient, Boyd missed a penalty which would have given Salford the lead.

Boyd announced his retirement from playing professional football on 28 October 2021. He has since played for Wrexham AFC in their Wrexham Red Dragons team in the TST 7 vs 7 Tournament in Cary, North Carolina, where he scored 6 goals in the four games he played.

International career

England C
Boyd was called up for the England C team in October 2005 and played in a European Challenge Trophy match against Belgium under-23s He subsequently played in two more matches in the same competition. He played against Italy in February 2006. He then scored his first goal for England C in a 4–1 win against Holland XI in November 2006 in the final match of the competition.

Scotland
Boyd was called up for the Scotland B team on 30 April 2009, after obtaining documentary proof that his maternal grandfather was born in Glasgow. Boyd started and subsequently scored in a 3–0 victory against a Northern Ireland B team, scoring the second goal of the match, giving a performance described as containing "flair and commitment". Boyd received his first call-up to the senior team on 7 March 2013, when he was named in manager Gordon Strachan's squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup qualifiers against Wales and Serbia. He earned his first senior cap in a 2–0 away defeat to Serbia on 26 March 2013. Boyd started the match, playing the whole game at the Karađorđe Stadium in Novi Sad.

Style of play

Initially deployed solely as a winger, Boyd has been used in central midfield positions as his career has progressed. Boyd prefers to play "in the hole" because the position allows him to get more time on the ball. He has expressed his willingness to "play anywhere" to help the team, believing his versatility across the midfield and attacking areas to be one of his main strong-points. Under former Peterborough United manager, Jim Gannon, Boyd was given a "free-role", playing across the midfield and behind the strikers. Gannon believes that Boyd is at his best when he "is saved from doing defensive work that wingers may have to do", and as a result, during Gannon's time at Peterborough, was deployed just behind the strikers as part of a 3–4–1–2 formation. He is predominantly left-footed, and scores the majority of his goals with his left-foot, but is also comfortable using his right.

During his time at Stevenage, Boyd earned the nickname "The White Pelé" – this was due to his use of tricks, as well as the flair Boyd brought to the team. He has been labelled a creative and flamboyant midfielder, and described as "a player who will create goalscoring opportunities all game long". Boyd has stated that he considers assisting goals a "big part of his game". Boyd's creative nature is emphasised by the fact that he assisted over 50 goals for Peterborough during his time at London Road. Peterborough United manager Darren Ferguson has said that Boyd "has the tendency, and ability, to score goals from long distance", talking after Boyd's 35-yard volley against Boston United. This was further highlighted when Boyd scored from just inside the opposition's half in a win against Huddersfield Town in October 2012.

Since the introduction of the Premier League's statistical analysis that "covers every sprint over every blade of Premier League grass" during the 2014–15 season, Boyd's running statistics have gained significant coverage. Throughout the season, he covered an average of 7.45 miles per game, the highest average distance of any player in the Premier League that season. This resulted in Boyd being described as the Premier League's "most industrious" player, as well as being praised for his high fitness levels.

Personal life

Boyd has three children. He supports Crystal Palace, whom he used to watch regularly, and states former Palace striker Chris Armstrong was a player he aspired to play like.

Career statistics

Club

International

Honours
Peterborough United
League Two runners-up: 2007–08
League One runners-up: 2008–09
League One play-offs: 2011

Hull City
Championship runners-up: 2012–13

Burnley
Championship: 2015–16

Individual
PFA Team of the Year: 2007–08 League Two, 2008–09 League One
Burnley Player of the Year: 2014–15

See also
 List of Scotland international footballers born outside Scotland
List of sportspeople who competed for more than one nation

References

External links