[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Avi Loeb

s that studies of UFOs is pseudoscience, Loeb answers that the project aims not to study UFOs based on previous data, but to study Unidentified Aerial Phenomena "using the standard scientific method based on a transparent analysis of open scientific data to be collected using optimized instruments".

In June 2023, Loeb announced the project had found interstellar material on the ocean floor that could be remnants of an extraterrestrial starship. The findings were the result of Loeb and the Galileo Project seeking the remnants of a fireball the US Department of Defense observed in 2014. These claims were criticized by other scientists as hasty, sensational, and part of a pattern of improper behavior. Peter Brown, a meteor physicist at the University of Western Ontario, argued the material can be explained as non-interstellar, noting that measurements from Defense Department data are opaque and error-prone. Brown further said he was disturbed by Loeb's lack of engagement with relevant experts. Loeb countered that Defense Department data is reliable enough to justify the finding. Astrophysicist Steve Desch, at Arizona State University, commented "[his claims are] polluting good science—conflating the good science we do with this ridiculous sensationalism and sucking all the oxygen out of the room", and said several of his colleagues are consequently refusing to engage with Loeb in the peer review process. Monica Grady from the Open University argued that the evidence for Loeb's claims is "rather shaky" and pointed more plausibly to terrestrial pollution.

Media appearances 

In 2006, Loeb was featured in a Time magazine cover story on the first stars, and in a Scientific American article on the Dark Ages of the universe. In 2008, he was featured in a Smithsonian magazine cover story on black holes, and in two Astronomy magazine cover stories, one on the collision between the Milky Way and the Andromeda Galaxy and the second on the future state of our universe. In 2009, Loeb reviewed in a Scientific American article a new technique for imaging black hole silhouettes. Loeb received considerable media attention after proposing in 2011 (with E.L. Turner) a new technique for detecting artificially-illuminated objects in the Solar System and beyond, and showing in 2012 (with I. Ginsburg) that planets may transit hypervelocity stars or get kicked to a fraction of the speed of light near the black hole at the center of the Milky Way.

He has been profiled a number of times, including in Science magazine, Discover, and The New York Times. He has been interviewed by Astronomy magazine, by Lex Fridman, Joe Rogan, and Mick West, and by the H3 Podcast. On August 24, 2023, The New York Times published an article about Loeb and his search for signs of extraterrestrial life. 

Loeb also regularly writes opinion essays on science and policy.

Honors and awards 

Loeb has received many honors, including:

 2020 – Appointed to the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology
 2015 – Elected Fellow of the International Academy of Astronautics (IAA) SETI Permanent Committee
 2015 – Elected Member of the American Physical Society (APS)
 2014 – Member of the Board on Physics and Astronomy (BPA) of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
 2013 – Chambliss Astronomical Writing Award from the American Astronomical Society, for the book How Did the First Stars and Galaxies Form? (2010)
 2012 – Time magazine's 25 most influential people in space.
 2012 – Elected member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
 2012 – Galileo Galilei Chair (Cattedra Galileiana) Award of the Scuola Normale Superiore, Pisa, Italy
 2006/7 – John Bahcall Lecturer at the Tel Aviv University
 2006 – Salpeter Lectureship at Cornell University
 2004 – Distinguished Visiting Professorship at the Faculty of Physics & Einstein Center for Theoretical Physics of the Weizmann Institute of Science
 2002 – Guggenheim Fellowship
 1987 – The Kennedy Prize of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem

See also
CNEOS 2014-01-08

References

External links
 Avi Loeb's home page
 Loeb's recent preprints
 Loeb's published papers
 An introductory movie to Loeb's book
 Search for Interstellar Monuments (Avi Loeb; Scientific American; September 2021).
 

1962 births
Living people
Israeli physicists
Harvard University faculty
20th-century American astronomers
21st-century American astronomers
American cosmologists
Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
Jewish physicists
Harvard–Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics people
Search for extraterrestrial intelligence
Ufologists
Cosmologists
Israeli emigrants to the United States
Scientists in technology assessment and policy
Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni
People from Ness Ziona
Institute for Advanced Study people