[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Foreign agent

duals and entities that undertake certain activities aimed at "political or governmental influence" on behalf of foreign principles. The law imposes a lifetime obligation on former cabinet ministers to register any activity they undertake on behalf of a foreign principal unless an exemption applies.

Canada
Since 2021, Canada has considered implementing a foreign agent registry modeled on the disclosure laws of the U.S. and Australia. As of August 2022, the Senate was considering Bill S-237, An Act to Establish the Foreign Influence Registry, which would publicly name all federal lobbyists acting for "a foreign government, an individual or entity related to a foreign government" and require disclosure of payments and identities of foreign clients, with penalties of up $200,000 in fines and two years’ imprisonment. Unlike FARA, the proposed act emphasizes activities on behalf of governments, with sponsor Leo Housakos of Quebec stating that it would "[expose] those who seek to influence on behalf of foreign regimes" and "countries like" China, Iran and Russia.

European Union

In March 2023, it was reported that the European Commission was working on a foreign agents law which would require commercial and nonprofit organizations around the European Union to reveal non-EU funding pertaining to transactions such as paying for academic study. This law aimed to contain influence of Russia and China and limit the corruption scandals such as Qatargate. A preliminary questionnaire supposed to feed into an impact assessment was sent out to the NGOs on behalf of the European Commission. The legislation is supposed to be modeled on the disclosure laws of the U.S. and Australia.

Ukraine

On 16 January 2014, amid the Euromaidan protests, a group of laws was adopted in Ukraine, which defined a foreign agent as a public association that receives funding from foreign states, foreign and international non-governmental organizations, as well as individuals who are not citizens of Ukraine, and participates in political activities on the territory of Ukraine. According to the law, foreign agents had to be registered, face high scrutiny and additional tax measures. On 2 February 2014, the relevant law was repealed.

Bosnia and Herzegovina

Republika Srpska

Legislation similar to the US Foreign Agents Registration Act has been passed in Republika Srpska.

See also 
 Foreign funding of NGOs
 Anti-Infiltration Act

References

International relations
Foreign intervention