[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# International Commission on Peace and Food

rk of the World Academy of Art & Science

Commission members
Dr. M. S. Swaminathan, Chairman of ICPF, first recipient of the World Food Prize, former Director General of the International Rice Research Institute, Agriculture Secretary to Government of India, Member of the Indian Planning Commission.

Lal Jayawardena, Director, UN World Institute of Development Economic Research; Chief Economic Adviser, President of Sri Lanka; Secretary, Ministry of Finance & Planning, Sri Lanka.

Dr. A. T. Ariyaratne, is the founder and President of the internationally reputed people centered movement for Development and Peace in Sri Lanka - The Sarvodaya Shramaana Movement.

Rosalynn Carter, Former First Lady Rosalynn Carter is the co-founder of The Carter Center in Atlanta, GA., a nonprofit, nongovernmental organization devoted to improving the quality of life worldwide through programs in democratization and development, global health and urban revitalization.

Umberto Colombo, Minister  Gov't of Italy, University and Scientific Technical Research;  Chairman, ENEA (Italian National Agency for Atomic and Alternative Energy Sources); Chairman, Italian Atomic Energy Commission

Erling Dessau, Resident Representative, UNDP, Myanmar, Bangladesh, India, Somalia; Deputy Resident representative, UNDP, Turkey; Deputy Director, M.I.S., Bureau of Administration, UNDP Headquarters. Board of Directors, Data for Development, France.

Garry Jacobs, Member Secretary ICPF, a US-based management consultant and Assistant Secretary of The Mother's Service Society, a social science research institute in Pondicherry, India.

Mary King (political scientist), President, Global Action, Inc., a nonprofit tax exempt organization providing research for international nonprofit and UN agencies on nonviolent peacemaking, international cooperation, and development. Former Senior U. S. government official in the Carter Administration with worldwide responsibility for the Peace Corps and similar domestic national service corps programs. Winner of a 1988 Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Book Award for her book, Freedom Song, about her experiences working in the 1960s American civil rights movement (New York: William Morrow & Co., 1987; Quill paperback, 1988).

Dr. Manfred Kulessa, Former Managing Director, German Development Service, and Director, UNDP (including postings as resident representative in Nepal and China). Presently Director, Association of the Churches Development Services, Bonn. Lecturer, University of St. Gallen.

Martin Lees, Director General of the International Committee for Economic Reform and Cooperation, established in 1993 to assist the reform process in the NIS of the Former Soviet Reunion and in Eastern and Central Europe. Responsible for a programme "China and the World in the Nineties" and a Member of the "China  Council for the Cooperation on Environment and Development". Previously Assistant Secretary-General for Science and Technology at the UN after eight years at OECD.

Uma Lele, Graduate Research Professor, Food Resource & Economics Dept., Univ. of Florida. Director of the Global Development Initiative of the Carnegie Corporation and the Carter Center. Member of the Technical Advisory Committee and the Vision Committee of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR).

Robert Macfarlane, Treasurer of ICPF, a management consultant based in Napa, California and Treasurer of The Mother's Service Society, a social science research institute in Pondicherry, India.

John Mellor, President, JMA, Inc.; Director, IFPRI; Chief Economist, United States Agency for International Development.

V. Nazarenko, Director, Research Institute of Information and Technical-Economic Studies of Agro-Industrial Complex, Russia. Member of AScademic of Agriculture, Economics and Informational Sciences.

Alexander Niconov, Director of the Agrarian Institute; President of the Lenin All-Union Academy of Agricultural Sciences (VASKHNIL);Director of Stavropol Agricultural Institute; Minister of Agriculture of Latvia.

Abdus Salam, Former Director of the International Centre for Theoretical Physics (1964–1993). President of ICTP (1994 to present). President of the Third World Academy of Sciences (1983 to present). President of the Third World Network of Scientific Organizations (1988 to Present).

Jasjit Singh, Director, IDSA, Retired from the Indian Air Force after a distinguished career, last post held was Director of Operations at Air Headquarters. Was Deputy Director, IDSA for two years and took over as Director, IDSA from July 31, 1987. A distinguished analyst on security affairs. Has authored and edited numerous books and articles on strategic issues. Appointed Member of National Security Advisory Board in 1990. Member of the "International Commission for a New Asia".

Robert van Harten, President, Mira International, Netherlands and Senior Research Fellow, The Mother's Service Society, India.