[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Xavras Wyżryn

Xavras Wyżryn  is an alternate history novel by the Polish science fiction writer Jacek Dukaj, published in 1997. Considered one of the best Polish alternate history novels, it discusses Polish martyrology, circling on the philosophical aspects of war, shows the thin line between terrorism and freedom fighters. It has lots of action, which makes it a member of a military science fiction genre.

The story's divergence point is set during the Polish–Soviet War by ending in a decisive Soviet victory. The actual story takes place in the 1990s and is told from the point of view of an American reporter, who is an embedded journalist with the anti-Soviet Polish resistance.

In 1996, a young American reporter, Ian Smith, is sent by his news network to the Soviet republic of Poland, to document guerrilla actions of Polish freedom fighters against the Soviet regime. His task includes interviewing the charimastic leader of Polish Freedom Army, Colonel Xavras Wyżryn. Smith does not realize that during his long trip from Ukrainian steppes to Moscow along with hardened veterans of Polish forces, he will experience the horror of war in which there is no good and evil side. He also expect to find himself in the midst of the most reckless of Wyżryn's campaigns in which the Polish forces capture a Soviet atomic bomb and start to smuggle it towards Moscow.

Editions
The story has had two editions. It was first published in 1997, in a book entitled Xavras Wyżryn, which contained the title story with a second one, "Zanim Noc" ("Before the Night").

In 2004, the story was reprinted in Xavras Wyżryn i inne fikcje narodowe (Xavras Wyżryn and Other National Fictions) and was this time accompanied by the following three short stories: "Sprawa Rudryka Z." ("The Case of Rudryk Z."), "Przyjaciel prawdy" ("Friend of the Truth") and "Gotyk" ("Gothic").

Summary

Backstory

After World War I, Poland managed to regain its freedom but not for long since the Polish–Soviet War was lost in 1920. Poland became a Soviet republic, along with the Ukraine and the Baltic states. In the Soviet Union, Joseph Stalin quickly took the chair of first secretary, and his regime tried to eradicate the Polish culture to prevent any Polish uprisings of the kind that had shaken the Russian Empire in the 19th century. Thousands of Polish civilians were sent to Siberia. Speaking Polish or using the national symbols of Poland was punishable by death.

The increased power of the Soviet Union and the Republic of China meant that the League of Nations soon signed treaties with the Soviets that allowed them to annex Poland. Meanwhile, another power rose in the south since the followers of Islam created a huge empire in the Middle East. The United States was far enough to ignore European problems but supported those armies conflict with the Soviet forces. Those conflicts were relatively minor and were mostly only "border engagements", as the media called them.

In 1935, however, the "Great Bolshevik War" had the Soviets attempt to take control over Western Europe. The war took place mostly on the former Polish and Ukrainian territories and lasted until 1944, when Allied forces dropped three atomic bombs on Leningrad, Kyiv and Warsaw to stop the Soviet armies. Millions were killed in the explosions, and many more died of radiation poisoning. The area between the three bombed cities became known as the "Atomic Triangle". Children born there died at a young age from radiation sickness, and the few who survived were consumed by mutations.

The Bolshevik War ended with the Treaties of Berlin, which were signed on Prussian territory. The Soviet Union and the League of Nations agreed to stop the bloodshed. Still, the countries taken by force in 1920 remained Soviet republics.

After Stalin's death at the end of 1981, the Soviet regime in Poland eased up slightly, but the Soviets still maintained a huge garrison force there since they remembered all the Polish uprisings in Russia during the partitions of Poland. People living inside the "Atomic Triangle" became hardened nearly soulless creatures, balanced on the edge of death and became numb because of the great suffering of the whole nation. Meanwhile, the Soviets had some minor border conflicts with China, Sweden and Prussia.