[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# List of Shaman King characters

tion of his body, Peyote is forcefully resurrected by Hao and given a new spirit, Santa Muerte, to protect him from his own suicidal nature and anything else that Muerte deems as a threat to Peyote.

Team Moon
 is the faction of Hao's followers that advanced to the second round of the Shaman Fights.

  
 
 An enormous Chinese shaman whose guardian ghost is a giant panda named  that forms an Over Soul with a golden Chinese gong. An explosives expert from Shanghai, China. He was born into a wealthy family of doctors, he wanted to become a famous pop idol but was rejected for being overweight, an issue which made him underconfident. Joining Hao in hopes of creating a world where physical appearances aren't important, he is a powerful fighter and impatiently ruthless. Zang Ching is the first to be killed during Peyote's betrayal but is later resurrected with the Hana-Gumi. After the conclusion of the Shaman Fight, he and Bill help Ren build a large electronics manufacturing company and they eventually become Tao Men's bodyguards.

 
 
 Also known as , Mohamed Tabarsi is a youthful man who dresses concealing thawb robes who frequently leads his peers in battle and acts kindly towards his comrades. He had been a mercenary since his childhood and fought on the front lines protecting the weak while his country was invaded during the Gulf War; which he was surrounded by enemies and was about to die but when Hao arrived and recruited him. His guardian ghost is , contained in a golden heirloom lamp charm passed down for generations in his family, who will follow and protect Turbine no matter what. Djinn often combines with a glass shamanic medium on the back of his hand to fire a beam and can successfully grant any wish Turbine asks of him, though he can only grant one wish a day. During Peyote's betrayal, Turbine admits to developing doubts about Hao as well and cautions Peyote against acting rashly. Turbine was killed when he was shot in the forehead by Midori Tamurazaki (Mansumi Oyamada's main henchmen) while fighting Peyote. Because of his body too badly damaged, he could not be resurrected.

 
 
 A gigantic football player and one of Hao's toughest followers, his spirits are the twenty-one members of his football team called  who died in a terrible accident caused by one of Bill's scorned fans. He follows Hao because Hao healed his injuries and gave a reason to live after his accident, though Bill expresses discomfort at the idea of killing ordinary humans. While he is killed during Peyote's betrayal, he is later resurrected. Along with Zang-Ching, he helped Ren build an electronics manufacturing company and eventually becomes one of Tao Men's bodyguards. In the 2001 anime, he dies shortly after joining in the final battle between Hao's allies and Yoh's friends, for his body could not survive his own recently increased power.

Team Flower
 is an all-female faction of Hao's followers who all suffered being mistaken for witches. After being killed by Peyote and saved by Anna before Hao could feed them to the Spirit of Fire, Team Flower's members are revived and work at the Funbari Onsen alongside Tamao.

 
 
 A German shaman who originally came from an aristocratic family, Kanna was born constantly spewing ectoplasm, which attracted spirits who were repelled by , an old medieval knight spirit who has known Kanna since childhood. As her ally and protector, he uses the smoke from Kanna's cigarette as a medium to animate an empty suit of armor wielding a lance. Kanna lived a relatively comfortable and happy life until the death of her loving parents, after which she was surrounded by lawyers and relatives after her inheritance. When Hao found her, he burned down the castle and she became a shaman in order to see the outside world. Kanna does not like children and is often seen riding a motorcycle and smoking cigarettes. After the Hana-Gumi are killed by Peyote, their spirits go to find Hao, believing he will help them but are horrified when he decides to feed them to the Spirit of Fire. They are saved by Anna and later resurrected; out of gratitude toward her, they eventually become waitresses at Funbari Onsen, where Tamao criticizes Kanna for smoking.