[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Devil's Path (hiking trail)

t (somewhat controversially) by DEC in the past offers a preview of later, more expansive vistas to the south. After a half-mile (1 km), the trail reaches a section where roots form a sort of ladder up a steep rock face. Just past it is a ledge with a wide view over the Hudson River and points east.

It is another half-mile from here to the summit, across mostly level stretches of trail save another steep cliff at 3,500 feet (1,067 m) in elevation (where special DEC regulations banning fires and camping except during winter take effect). An overhanging tree formerly provided the only way to get up a narrow cleft in the rock here until July 2013 when it collapsed.  Hikers must now edge their way underneath the trunk to get to the cleft and use handholds to climb up without a pack through the narrow opening. The mountain's 3,573-foot (1,089 m) summit is unremarkable after all this, with a sudden drop the only indicator it has been reached.

The actual summit is just off the trail, with a limited view available to the west. From here it drops down another half-mile into 3,200-foot (975 m) Jimmy Dolan Notch, the highest col on the trail, passing a few switchbacks and chutes along the way. The trail of the same name returns here.

Twin

The trail starts climbing again almost right out of the notch, alternating between challenging ledge scrambles (although not as serious as the ones on Indian Head) and level sections over the next 0.4 mile (640 m). These take over shortly after the  contour is crossed again, and the mountain's southern summit offers a sweeping panorama of the Catskills that has been considered by many to be one of the best views in the region. Slide Mountain and all the major peaks around it are visible across the flat valley of Esopus Creek and Ashokan Reservoir in central Ulster County. Close up loom Twin's true northern summit and Sugarloaf Mountain.

Another half-mile and a gentle descent into the col followed by a slightly steeper ascent separates the south summit from Twin's true, 3,640-foot (1,109 m) summit. The view just past it is not quite so sweeping, but also takes in Hunter Mountain, the Catskill's second highest peak, to the west.
.
The trail then descends  down through switchbacks, rock chutes and some more scrambles to Pecoy Notch, about 2,900 feet (884 m) above sea level. There are some views available to the north in the lower reaches. At the notch, another trail runs north about  to the nearby community of Elka Park.

Sugarloaf

After a short level stretch, the climbing resumes. The eastern slope of Sugarloaf is similar to its counterpart at Twin, except it offers more chutes to surpass and climb, plus some sections where the trail passes narrowly between large rock outcrops. There are some good views back toward Twin where damage caused by past landslides is apparent.

The trail becomes more and more level after the  marker is reached. But the 3,800-foot (1,158 m) summit is still some distance off,  from Pecoy Notch, and the elevation gain to reach it comes in extremely small steps up. Only when the trail starts to slope down and side trails lead off to views similar to those available from Twin is it apparent the climb has been successful.

In the next mile (1.6 km), the trail descends 1,600 vertical feet (488 m) to Mink Hollow. The rock chutes here are some of the most challenging on the entire Devil's Path, and they have led to the nickname "Suicide Mountain" by those using it as a route up in winter.

Shortly before Mink Hollow, a new routing of the trail of the same name comes in from the north, another route off the range if needed or desired. At the col, the Mink Hollow Trail follows an old road south to a lean-to and trailhead near Lake Hill.

Plateau

It is yet another steep and rocky climb up the eastern slope of Plateau Mountain. A good spring can be found about a quarter-mile from the hollow (headed up the mountain), and the 3,855-foot (1,175 m) summit itself is just off-trail  later. The newly rerouted Long Path also comes in from the South on Plateau.  

The ensuing walk across the aptly named Plateau is seen as another attraction of the trail. While there are no views, the  are the longest high-elevation level walk in the Catskills, surrounded entirely by boreal forest, with only 200 feet (62 m) of elevation loss (or gain) along the way. It comes to an end shortly after Danny's Lookout to the northeast, at Orchard (sometimes Orchid) Point. Here Hunter, Southwest Hunter Mountain and West Kill Mountain loom ahead, across the depth of Stony Clove Notch.