[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# The Institute for Citizens & Scholars

by the Ohio Board of Regents' Choose Ohio First program, with additional funds from a statewide group of private philanthropies. The Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio programs all focus specifically on teacher preparation in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, also known as the STEM fields.

In addition to its teacher preparation activities, the organization continues to offer a suite of fellowships that prepare emerging scholars and leaders for success in the American academy and in several high-need fields. These include the Dissertation Fellowship in Women's Studies, the Charlotte W. Newcombe Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship, a suite of fellowships funded by the Mellon Foundation, and others.

The Civic Spring Fellowship 
The Civic Spring Fellowship awards grants to young people or members of youth-centered organizations who are working on projects that address a local community need, such as public health or local elections. Fellows work in communities across the country while building skills to continue engaging and driving meaningful change for the long term.

Institute for Citizens & Scholars Leadership
The president of the organization is Rajiv Vinnakota, former Executive Vice-President of the Aspen Institute and co-founder of the SEED Foundation. The Board of Trustees is chaired by Jane Phillips Donaldson, Co-Founder, Phillips Oppenheim.

References

Further reading
 Bennett, Richard. "The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation: Humanities at Work." South Atlantic Review 66.3 (2001): 114-120. online

 George, Gerald. "Wilson dissertation fellowships: An experiment with speed." Journal of Higher Education 42.1 (1971): 56-63. 

 Mooney, Joseph D. "Attrition among Ph. D. candidates: An analysis of a cohort of recent Woodrow Wilson fellows." Journal of Human Resources (1968): 47-62 online.

 Rosenhaupt, Hans. "The Woodrow Wilson Fellowship Program: Achievements and Problems: 1958 to 1963." Journal of Higher Education 35.5 (1964): 239-246.

 Rosenhaupt, Hans. "Participation of Negroes in Woodrow Wilson Fellowship Programs." (ERIC, 1968). online

 Taylor, Andress, and John A. Sekora. "The Woodrow Wilson teaching internship program: A case study." Journal of General Education (1967): 202-215. online

External links
 The Institute for Citizens & Scholars
The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Archives

Education reform
Organizations established in 1945
Educational foundations in the United States
1945 establishments in New Jersey
Woodrow Wilson