[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dale Stoffel

e a partner of Wye Oak.  Stoffel also alleged that the Ministry was forcing him to use preferred sub-contractors.  By November, Stoffel was owed $24.7 million from the Ministry.  His case was part of a larger trend involving middlemen and kickbacks in the Iraqi government and the rebuilding process.

Stoffel returned to the United States in November 2004.  He met with Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum, who wrote to Secretary Donald Rumsfeld on December 3, 2004, on Stoffel's behalf, urging the Pentagon to address the issue of payment to Wye Oak Technology with the Iraqi Minister of Defense, Hazim al-Shaalan.  With an introduction made by Republican insider Pat Templeton, Stoffel met with Deputy Undersecretary of Defense John A. "Jack" Shaw to discuss payment to his company and his concerns of corruption in both the U.S. and Iraqi procurement efforts.  Shaw's office forwarded the complaint to the Department of the Army.  This would prove useless as Shaw, himself under investigation by the FBI for corruption related to Iraq reconstruction contracts, was fired on December 10, 2004 - two days after Stoffel's death.

Stoffel returned to Iraq on December 5, 2004.  A short time later, he and his business partner Joseph Wemple attended a meeting chaired by British Brig. Gen. David Clements, who was deputy commander of the mission to train Iraqi troops, at the Iraqi Ministry of Defence.  Present at the Meeting were Ziyad Cattan of the Iraqi MOD and Raymond Zayna, the Lebanese businessman.  After some discussion, Clements told the Iraqi MOD to provide Zayna with the authorization necessary to release the money.  Zayna agreed to make an immediate payment of $4.7 million to Stoffel on the condition that Stoffel provides detailed invoices.  Friends and colleagues report that Stoffel considered the problem solved at that time.

Assassination

On December 8, Stoffel met with Clements at Taji, the Iraqi base north of Baghdad where the refurbishment of the armor was carried out.  After the meeting, the vehicle carrying Stoffel, Wemple, and an interpreter was attacked.  As the car was leaving Taji for Baghdad, a car rammed theirs head-on.  Two masked men jumped out and killed Wemple and Stoffel in a hail of bullets; the interpreter was not killed and went missing.  Stoffel had been shot several times in the head and back, while Wemple was shot once through the head.  A previously unknown group, Brigades of the Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility through an online video.  However, security experts doubted the claim and questioned whether the video was simply a ruse.  The video described Stoffel as "CIA shadow director" and "close friend of George Bush".

Aftermath and investigations
His death raised questions about the integrity of the Iraqi reconstruction effort, which had been hampered by corruption. The Sunday Times'' said that Stoffel's death "appeared all too predictable. He was an adventurer who seemed to have met his end at the hands of jihadists while engaged in one of the riskiest businesses on the planet. "

Following the attacks, CLI, Inc. left Iraq.  After Stoffel's death, senior U.S. military officials continued to work with Zayna, who was reported to take over Wye Oak's contract.

In January 2005, Petraeus declined to discuss the matter and a spokesman for Petraeus' task force stated that the issue was an "MOD [Iraqi Ministry of Defence] matter.  There really isn't much ... to our involvement."  After being told about e-mails demonstrating that Petraeus' task force was directing the work on the contract, the spokesman said, "performance under this contract was of interest" to U.S. officials.

According to officials investigating his death, there is no evidence that the attack was related to his allegations of corruption.  The murders remain unsolved. Stoffel's brother, who also worked for Wye Oak, received several death threats, warning him to stay away from Iraq.

In 2009, an investigation into high-level officials, at least partially spawned by Stoffel's 2004 allegations, was opened.  The investigation, including the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, the Justice Department, the Army's Criminal Investigation Command, and other federal agencies investigated numerous instances of graft and bribery among the Iraqi reconstruction effort.