[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sieben Steinhäuser

The Sieben Steinhäuser is a group of five dolmens on the Lüneburg Heath in the NATO training area of Bergen-Hohne, in the state of Lower Saxony in northern Germany. The stones are considered to be part of the funnelbeaker culture (3500 - 2800 B.C.). The gravesite was granted protected cultural monument status in 1923.

Geographical Location 
The Sieben Steinhäuser are located roughly in the middle of the Bergen-Hohne Training Area which lies between Bad Fallingbostel to the northwest and Bergen to the east.

The dolmens are found at a height of 56 and . A stream, the Hohe Bach ("High Brook") which is a northeastern tributary of the River Meiße in the catchment area of the Aller, flows past the stones in a north-south direction.

Accessibility 
The only public access route to the dolmens begins at a barrier in Ostenholz, about  southeast of the Walsrode autobahn interchange. The access road runs for several kilometres through the out-of-bounds area of the military training area. It is regularly cleared of any spent ammunition from the ranges. The site is only accessible on days when no exercises are taking place i.e. at weekends and on public holidays between 8 am and 6 pm.

History 

The Sieben Steinhäuser gravesite was established during the third millennium BC during the neolithic funnelbeaker period by the first settled farmers.  The large gravesite, Grave D, shows similarities to French gravesites, the other four are like those of the Elbe-Weser Triangle.

Although they are traditionally called the Sieben Steinhäusern ("seven stone houses") there are actually only five graves. Because an old illustration from 1744 still shows only five graves, it is assumed today, that the number seven is being used in the figurative sense for a larger number, as in the German expression sieben Sachen ("seven things") which means 'everything'. The first written record of the graves was made in 1720 by an academic.

On 24 July 1835 the gravesite was placed under conservation protection by the Amtsvogtei of Fallingbostel.

The regional author, August Freudenthal, contributed to their fame in the 19th century. Even then it was a popular tourist destination.

Description of the graves 
The burial chambers are all rectangular and aligned in a northeast-southwest direction. Their capstones are not of bay construction, but almost always supported by three or four points of contact. The largest of the dolmens has a capstone measuring 16 by 14 feet (c. 5 m by 4¼ m)  and is supported by seven upright support stones.

All the graves were originally covered with earth, so that they would looked like earth mounds or tumuli. Over the course of time the earth was eroded by wind and weather, so that the stones became visible again. Four graves were excavated and restored between 1924 and 1937.

In 1958, the graves were enclosed by protective earthen walls several metres high. They protect the gravesites from shell damage, because the site is located in the middle of a live firing range.

The dolmens have Sprockhoff Numbers 806 to 810.

Grave A 
Grave A comprises four supporting stones along the sides and another stone at each end. On the supporting stones are three capstones, the middle one of which is considerably narrower and has been broken. The inside dimensions of the chamber are  6.5 x 2 m. The entrance is in the middle of the southeastern side, but only the pair of supporting pillars are left.

Grave B 

Grave B is also composed of four supporting stones along the sides, but unlike Grave A, there are also four capstones. One is very narrow and placed between them like a lintel (Jochstein). The internal size of the chamber is 7.0 x 2.2 m. Of the entrance in the middle, only the southern pillar remains.

Grave C 
The relatively short chamber of Grave C consists of three supporting stones on the southeast and four on the northwest side as well as two end stones and three capstones. Before restoration only the northeastern three-point support, the centre of the three supporting stones on the southeast side and the southwestern end stone were found in situ. Two capstones probably caved in under their own weight when their supports were dislodged. The internal dimensions of the chamber are 5 x 2 m.
The outside entrance appears to have been located between the first and centre support stones to the south of the southeastern side of the chamber.

In December 2013, the chamber collapsed, probably due to soil erosion, but there are plans to rebuild it.

Grave D with enclosure 
Grave D is the most impressive in the entire group. The support stones of the short, almost square burial chamber consist of a slab on the southwest side and two on the other side. The chamber is covered by a mighty stone slab which measures 4.6 x 4.2 m and is half a metre thick. The inside dimensions of the stocky chamber are roughly 4 x 3 m.