[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Japanese cruiser Mikuma

each Arashio and Mogami. In the meanwhile Asashio patrolled in a circle around them to screen the ships from air or submarine attack. The ship's severely wounded captain Sakiyama was lowered on the first life raft, closely followed by the ship's paymaster and air officers, who took with them the ship's important documents. The rafts were launched towards the direction of Arashio. Takashima remained in the ship's smoke-filled bridge, choosing to go down with the ship. The ship's main battery fire control director commander, Lt. Koyama Masao, also refused to leave the ship, choosing to instead commit Hara-Kiri on top of the forward gun turret, ashamed that his guns did not have a chance to smash the enemy. 

A few minutes after Takashima gave the order to abandon ship, the ships were set upon by yet another dive bombing attack. At 1445, 23 Dauntlesses from Hornet that had been launched at 1330 arrived over the hapless formation. Arashio and Mogami immediately commenced evasive maneuvers, leaving behind them many of Mikumas crew in the water who were still making their way to their accompanying ships. The dive bombers commenced their attack at 1500. Mogami and Arashio did not have enough time to get underway and were both hit. The burning Mikuma was also hit. Arashio was hit by a bomb, which exploded among the surviving crew of Mikuma that she had just picked up out of the water, killing 37 men outright and damaging her steering ability badly enough to force the destroyer to switch to manual steering and wounding Cdr. Ogawa Nobuki, commander of DesDiv8. Mogami received a hit near the seaplane deck, which started a fire near the sick bay and killed almost all of the ship's doctors and their orderlies outright. The fire was quickly contained at the cost of the life of most of the injured and wounded men in the sick bay. Asashio was not hit by the bombing attack but lost 22 men to strafing. Realizing the urgency of the situation, Captain Akira Soji, then in command of the detachment, communicated to the Combined Fleet to inform them of the attack, and immediately set course west to vacate the area before more air attacks occurred, leaving most of Mikumas crew in the water, Mogami and the two destroyers of DesDiv8 sailed away from her, having had time to rescue only 239 of her crew, including her dying captain Sakiyama. Mikuma continued to drift and burn for at least 4 more hours. Owing to the great confusion among American sighting report the past 2 days, Admrial Spruance of Task Force 16 ordered two recon Dauntlesses with cameras launched from Enterprise at 1553 to ascertain whether this damaged ship was indeed the alleged battleship reported by multiple reconnaissance airplanes. The Dauntlesses arrived over the burning Mikuma at 1715, just before dusk, and took several photographs of her at extremely low altitude, and recorded footage of her as well. The Dauntlesses recorded her position at 29°-28'N, 173°-11'E before leaving her. A survivor recalled that Mikumas port list began increasing rapidly at dusk, and at approximately 1930, she finally turned over on her portside and sank at . She was the first Japanese cruiser to be sunk during the war. Only 188 of Mikumas crew survived the ordeal; her captain also succumbed 3 days later to his wounds while he was aboard Suzuya. Captain Soji later ordered Asashio to reverse course and go back to Mikuma and make every effort to save any of her surviving crews. Asashio made her way back to Mikumas location but found nothing, and promptly returned to CruDiv7, according to her log she found nothing but a great patch of oil and "not one survivor could be rescued". However, two of Mikumas crew would be rescued by  on 9 June, the only survivors on a life raft that originally held seventeen.

Owing to the secrecy and attempted cover-up of the disaster at Midway, the General Navy Headquarters would list Mikuma as "heavily damaged" rather than sunk, and then temporarily listed her as "unmanned" before being struck off the navy list at 10 August 1942.

References

Bibliography

Further reading

External links
 
Tabular record:   CombinedFleet.com: Mikuma history (Retrieved 26 January 2007.)
Gallery: US Navy Historical Center 

Mogami-class cruisers
Ships built by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
1934 ships
World War II cruisers of Japan
World War II shipwrecks in the Pacific Ocean
Cruisers sunk by aircraft
Maritime incidents in June 1942
Ships sunk by US aircraft