[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# June Wayne

June Claire Wayne (March 7, 1918 – August 23, 2011) was an American painter, printmaker, tapestry innovator, educator, and activist. She founded Tamarind Lithography Workshop (1960–1970), a then California-based nonprofit print shop dedicated to lithography.

Early life and career
Wayne was born in Chicago on March 7, 1918, to Dorothy Alice Kline and Albert Lavine, but the marriage ended shortly after Wayne's birth and she was raised by her single mother and grandmother, both refugees from the violent antisemitism and pogroms of Belarus and Imperial Russia. Wayne had aspirations to be an artist and dropped out of high school at the age of fifteen to pursue this goal. Although she did not have formal artistic training, she began painting and had her first exhibition at the Boulevard Gallery in Chicago in 1935. At age seventeen, Wayne exhibited her watercolors under the name June Claire. She exhibited oil and water color paintings again the following year at the invitation of the Palacio de Bellas Artes in Mexico City. By 1938, she was employed as an artist for the WPA Easel Project in Chicago.

In 1939, Wayne moved to New York City, supporting herself as a jewelry designer by day and continuing to paint in her time off.  She married Air Force surgeon George Wayne in 1940, and in 1942 he was deployed to serve in the European theater of World War II. While her husband was in Europe, Wayne first moved to Los Angeles and learned production illustration at Caltech, where she received training for work converting blueprints to drawings for the aircraft industry. She was then offered a job writing music continuity and war bond programs for radio station WGN in Chicago and moved there. She returned to Los Angeles when her husband came back to the States from overseas in 1944. The couple divorced in 1960, but the artist continued to use "June Wayne" as her professional identity for the rest of her life.

When World War II ended, Wayne returned to Los Angeles and became an active member of the California art scene. While continuing to paint and exhibit, she took up lithography in 1948 at Lynton Richards Kistler's facility, initially producing lithographs based on her paintings and then developing new imagery. In 1957, Wayne traveled to Paris to collaborate with French master printer Marcel Durassier, who was the printmaker for artists including Pablo Picasso, Henri Matisse, Salvador Dali, Marc Chagall and more, first on lithographs illustrating the love sonnets of English poet John Donne and then on an artist's book also based on Donne's poetry. "Her artist's book “Songs and Sonets” completed in December 1958, was among the first in the Parisian tradition to be produced by an American, let alone by an American woman". Wayne ultimately produced 123 copies of the finished book, one of which gained interest from Wilson MacNeil "Mac" Lowry, director of the arts and humanities programs at the Ford Foundation.

Tamarind lithography workshop
When Wayne met with Lowry in 1958, she expressed frustration about having to go to Europe to find collaborators for her lithography projects, printmaking at the time in the US more associated with posters than fine art. Lowry suggested that she submit a proposal to the Ford Foundation seeking money to revitalize lithography in the U.S. With the foundation's assistance, Wayne opened the Tamarind Lithography Workshop (named for its street location in Hollywood), in 1960. Wayne acted as director, supported by the painter and printmaker Clinton Adams in the role of associate director and Garo Antreasian in the role of master printer and technical director.

Tamarind inspired a renaissance in American and world printmaking. Wayne insisted on the use of fine papers, small editions, and integrity in the publication, all intended to affirm that prints were a fine art form.

Artists were invited to two to three months residencies at Tamarind, where they would work with master printers, both American and European, to produce lithographs. Some artists, like Tamarind's first artist-in-residence, Romas Viesulas, already had experience as print makers, while others who came to Tamarind, such as Josef and Anni Albers, Ruth Asawa, Bruce Conner, Richard Diebenkorn, Burhan Doğançay, John Dowell, Claire Falkenstein, Sam Francis, Françoise Gilot, Philip Guston, Richard Hunt, Louise Nevelson, Ed Ruscha, Rufino Tamayo, Charles White, had worked primarily in other media. Tamarind Workshop was an educational institution intent on teaching lithography to American printers and Artists. Wayne, acutely aware of the underrepresentation of women and African Americans in the art world, made a point of including many in the Tamarind roster, rare at the time. The present idea of the American Printer/Artist collaboration began with June Wayne at Tamarind Workshop.