[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Majida El Roumi

s for a cause that I truly believe in. I will travel the extra mile and do what I can regardless of the size of my mission." She also added, "There is no financial rewards for my participation in this humanitarian effort, as financial things do not bring happiness."

Voice characteristics

Speeches 

During many cultural, social and political events, Majida El Roumi always chooses to deliver messages or was asked to give a speech for the occasion. Some of her marked speeches are listed below:
Ghazal'''s First Copy: In a passionate speech addressed to Lebanese, El-Roumi entreated her compatriots to join her in her mission of peace, rejecting wars and divisions in a special release ceremony for her album Ghazal. Majida chose to donate proceeds from her new album to student scholarships at AUB in 2012.
Bikaffe (It Is Enough): A strong speech at the memory of the well-known Journalist Gebran Tueni after 2 years from his assassination. This speech is dedicated to all Lebanese people, leaders and especially politicians in 2007.
Dialogue Between Generations: A speech Majida delivered in Jerash- Jordan about dialogue between generations in 2002.
Maha: A poem written by Majida mourning her sister Maha, during a special mass in Kfarshima in 2002.
Water: An article for Majida published in Lebanese newspapers on the International Water Day in 2002.
World's Peace: Majida's speech on the International Day of Peace in Beirut in 2002.
Telefood Day: An article for Majida published in Lebanese newspapers on the World Food Day in 2002.
FAO Ambassadress: Majida's speech for her designation as the honorable ambassadress of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) in 2001.
Nizar Qabbani: A short message by Majida mourning the Arab poet Nizar Qabbani in 1998.
Red Cross: Majida's speech about Red Cross at a concert in Tripoli, Lebanon in 1996.
Rapture: Majida's opinion on ecstasy while singing in 1995.
Cedar's Medal: Majida's speech on the occasion of receiving Lebanese Medal of the Cedars from President Hraoui in 1994.
The Lebanese Song: A lecture Majida gave on the Lebanese song and music in 1992.
Halim El Roumi: Majida's speech on the occasion of commemorating her father, Halim El Roumi, in Kfarshima- Lebanon in 1991.

 Discography 

 Albums 

 Singles 
Since the 1970s, Majida always released singles, with some of them were not included in her albums. She also performed many Christmas carols in several recitals, and dedicated patriotic singles for countries she visited. Most well-known singles are listed below:

 Egyptian songs: remakes 

 Filmography 
 1976: The Return of the Prodigal Son Videography 

 Honors and titles 

: National Order of the work from the Presidency of the Republic of Tunisia in 1987.
: The Golden Cedar, 1988.
: Shield from the French National Assembly for 1993.
: National Shield of Honor of the Cedars, Knight's Order from the President of the Lebanese Republic, 1994.
: "Algerian citizenship" Certificate from the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, 1997.
: The Médecins Sans Frontières Shield in 1999.
: Order of Merit from the Egyptian Journalists Syndicate, 2000.
A Certificate and a shield of Honor for FAO Ambassador, 2001.
: Honoring Shield from her Majesty Queen Noor of Jordan in 2002.
: The National Shield of Honor, Order of Merit of Officer's Grade from the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, 2003.
: The Shield of Honour from the Syrian Ministry of Culture, 2004.
: Le Bouclier de l'information et de la culture'' / Algerian Shield of Culture and Information and The Gold Medal for the fiftieth anniversary of the outbreak of the liberation revolution, from the President of Republic of Algeria in 2005.
: Honorary member of the Students' Scholarship Association at the American University in Beirut, 2005.
: Honorary President of the Lebanese Association for the prevention of osteoporosis and The Universal framework of the joints and bone disease – the Lebanese branch, 2007.
: Honorary Doctorate in Humanities from the Board of Trustees of the American University in Beirut, (2009).
: Patent of Lebanese honor and gratitude by the Universal Association of Lebanese Worldwide – Belize and the actual recognition of her efforts in the service of Lebanon, humanity and Universal peace (2009).
: Honoring from the Catholic Church on the occasion of an encounter of Catholic priests in Lebanon (2010).
: The National Shield of Honour.
: The National Order of Cultural Merit from the Republic of Tunisia, 2010.
: The National Shield of Honor of the Cedars – Order of Commodore from the President of the Republic, 25 June 2011.
: Ordre des Arts et des Lettres – insigne d'Officier / Officer Grade, from the president of the Republic, 24 January 2013.
: The Golden Key of the city of Alexandria from the mayor Mr. Tarek Mahdi, 20 March 2014.
: Order of Civil Merit, 2017

References

External links