[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Worker and Kolkhoz Woman

ulpture, which won an award at an international exhibition. This paste can be applied at any angle, prevents spreading, enhances adhesion, and increases resistance to environmental damage. A ton of paste was used to treat the sculpture parts, and an additional protective compound was applied on top.

Under Tserkovnikov's guidance, a new triple frame was calculated and designed for the monument. This frame is divided into a load-bearing frame, an intermediate frame, and a structural frame that connects the shell and load-bearing frame. As a result of the reconstruction, the weight of the support increased by 2.5 times to account for the load of hurricane wind. The total weight of the monument now stands at 200 tons. The sculpture was placed on the pavilion, following the general design of Iofan's original project from 1937. The length of the building is 66 meters, and the original coat of arms created for the exhibition in 1937 is installed on the facade.

The monument was installed on November 28, 2009, using a specialized crane from Finland, of which there are only three in existence. The official unveiling of the monument occurred on December 4, 2009.

The total cost of dismantling, storing, and restoring the sculpture was 2.9 billion rubles. However, experts believe that this amount is at least twice as high as it should be. Vadim Tserkovnikov mentioned in an interview that the actual restoration expenses were much lower compared to the additional costs, such as constructing a 60-meter high scaffolding and hiring a crane from Finland, which cost several tens of millions of rubles.

Use in media

In Soviet cinema, the sculpture was chosen in 1947 to serve as the logo for the film studio Mosfilm. It can be seen in the opening credits of the film Red Heat, as well as many of the Russian films released by the Mosfilm studio itself.

A giant moving reproduction of the statue was featured in the opening ceremony of the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, symbolizing post-World War II Soviet society, particularly in Moscow.

See also

Socialist realism
List of tallest statues

References

Sources
 
 
 

Statues in Russia
Monuments and memorials in Moscow
Colossal statues in Russia
Outdoor sculptures in Russia
Steel sculptures in Russia
Socialist realism
1937 sculptures
Relocated buildings and structures
World's fair sculptures
Exposition Internationale des Arts et Techniques dans la Vie Moderne
Monuments and memorials built in the Soviet Union
Sculptures in the Soviet Union
Mosfilm
Exhibition of Achievements of National Economy
Sculptures of women in Russia
Sculptures of men in Russia
Art Deco sculptures and memorials
Stainless steel sculptures
Cultural heritage monuments of federal significance in Moscow
France–Soviet Union relations
Sculptures of women in the Soviet Union
Sculptures of men in the Soviet Union