[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Clint Courtney

h Ah’ll play more than a lot of people think. Ah can hit and Ah ain’t as bad a catcher as a lot of people think," Courtney responded to criticisms. Though Triandos was the main catcher for the Orioles, he was on the disabled list part of the year with a sore thumb, giving Courtney more playing time.

Courtney also made history catching knuckleball pitcher Hoyt Wilhelm. The unpredictable nature of a knuckleball made it notoriously difficult not just to hit but to catch, and catchers often allowed passed balls when Wilhelm was throwing. Baltimore manager Paul Richards had been trying since the previous season to help his catchers deal with Wilhelm's pitches, and in 1960, he decided to have his catchers try wearing an oversized mitt. The glove, nicknamed "Big Bertha", was 42 inches in circumference and weighed 30 ounces; most gloves were only 33–34 inches in circumference and weighed just 27 ounces, for comparison. On May 27, Courtney became the first catcher to wear the oversized mitt when he caught Wilhelm in a game against the Yankees. Baltimore won 3–2, and there were no passed balls. Courtney liked the glove but still found Wilhelm challenging. "Boy is he rough to catch. I don’t see how anybody ever hits him."  The glove did not solve all problems with catching the knuckleball; in the first game of a doubleheader against Detroit on June 19, while catching Wilhelm, Courtney was twice called for catcher's interference. Against the Yankees again on August 15, Courtney dropped a foul pop up hit by Mickey Mantle, who then hit a two-run home run to defeat Baltimore. Still, the mitt was legal until the end of 1964, when MLB's Rules Committee declared 38 inches to be the maximum size for a mitt.

During the 1960 season, Courtney struggled to throw the ball from home plate back to the pitcher, often having to resort to throwing the ball to the third baseman to relay or walking the ball part of the way back to the pitcher. This condition was short-lived. Courtney appeared in 83 games for the Orioles in 1960, batting .227 with 14 runs scored, 35 hits, 1 home run, and 12 RBI.

On January 21, 1961, Courtney was traded to Kansas City with Jim Archer, Bob Boyd, Wayne Causey, and Al Pilarcik for Whitey Herzog and Russ Snyder. He made one appearance for Kansas City, pinch-hitting for Haywood Sullivan in a 5–3 loss to the Yankees in the first game of an April 15 doubleheader, before the Athletics returned him to Baltimore the same day. With Baltimore, he again backed up Triandos. Courtney played his last game for the Orioles on June 24, pinch-hitting for Marv Breeding in a 4–1 loss to the Los Angeles Angels. On July 1, the Orioles demoted Courtney to the Rochester Red Wings, who were in need of catching help. "You don’t have to go back to the minors if you don’t want to, but if you did you’d be doing the organization a big favor," pleaded Richards. Richards also made a promise that wherever he was employed, Courtney would be able to catch. Courtney did go, playing 30 games for the Red Wings for the rest of the season. He batted .217 with 5 runs scored, 13 hits, 0 home runs, and 4 RBI. In 22 games for Baltimore, he had batted .267 with 3 runs scored, 12 hits, 0 home runs, and 4 RBI.

Career statistics and playing style
In an 11-season career, Courtney was a .268 hitter with 260 runs scored, 750 hits, 38 home runs, and 313 RBI in 946 games. As a catcher, he recorded 3,556 putouts with 379 assists and only 50 errors in 3,985 chances for a .987 fielding percentage. He also had a 41% caught stealing percentage, throwing out 198 of 478 would-be base stealers. Richards thought Courtney was underrated as a catcher. "You know, Courtney is about three times better a catcher than anyone has ever given him for being. He hops around out there, but he gets the job done. He’s one of the fellows who doesn’t mind winning." Courtney had a reputation for "burning" the ball back to the pitchers when he returned it to the mound.

When Courtney was with the Browns, he would hold his glove in the center of the plate as pitchers were throwing. Ned Garver noted that Lollar and Les Moss, other Browns catchers, had moved the glove to the part of the plate where Garver wished to throw the ball. "So when Courtney always held his glove in the middle of the plate, it made it harder for me," Garver observed. Courtney held the glove in this manner on instruction from Hornsby, who theorized that "the pitchers will miss it enough that they will hit the edge of the plate a lot of the time." When Hornsby was not managing him, Courtney apparently was more likely to set up the pitch location; biographer Costello called him "an expert framer of pitches."