[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Morgaro Gomis

weighted pass" behind the defence from which Jean Beausejour crossed for Chris Wood to open the scoring.

In May 2013, Birmingham confirmed that they were not going to take up their option to extend Gomis' contract, so he was to leave the club at the end of the season when his existing deal expired.

Return to Dundee United
After training with the club for several weeks, Gomis rejoined Dundee United on 10 October 2013; he signed a contract until the end of the 2013–14 season. He made his first appearance on 26 October, in a 4–0 victory against St Mirren. On 12 April 2014, he came on as a substitute in the Scottish Cup semifinal at Ibrox as United defeated Rangers 3–1, progressing to the final, in which he was an unused substitute as Dundee United lost 2–0 to St Johnstone. With John Rankin and Paul Paton an established pairing in midfield, Gomis struggled for game time. He made only five starts and sixteen substitute appearances in all competitions, and was among nine players to be released by the club when their contracts expired at the end of the season.

Heart of Midlothian
On 12 June 2014, Gomis signed for Heart of Midlothian on a three-year contract. He was the first signing under the management of Robbie Neilson, as well as the first signing since Hearts came out of administration. On 30 November, he was sent off in the eighth minute of Hearts' Scottish Cup fourth-round match at home to Celtic for a two-footed challenge on Scott Brown; Hearts lost the match 4–0.

In February 2016, Gomis moved on loan to fellow Scottish Premiership club Motherwell until the end of the season.

Kelantan
On 11 July 2016, Gomis signed for Kelantan on a one-year contract, becoming the second signing of Kelantan for second transfer window under the new head coach, Velizar Popov.

On 3 December 2017, Gomis extended his contract with Kelantan for another year.

Third spell at Dundee United
Gomis spent time with Sur SC of the Oman Professional League in 2018 before returning to Scotland where he trained with Dundee United. On 11 January 2019, he signed for his third spell with the club, saying that he "[was looking] forward to playing in front of the United fans again." Towards the end of his first league appearance of the new spell, a 1–0 defeat to Ayr United, he was sent off for a second yellow card. Gomis was released by United on 6 May, before the play-offs.

Falkirk
On 18 June 2019, Gomis signed for Falkirk on a one-year contract.

Clyde
On 27 May 2021, Gomis signed for Scottish League One side Clyde. On 23 December 2022, Gomis left the club by mutual consent.

International career
In March 2009, Gomis received his first international call-up, being named in Senegal's squad for friendly matches against Oman and Iran. Having been born in France of Senegalese parents, Gomis had always considered himself to be French, but was reportedly "flattered and surprised" by the call-up. Having initially said he would consider carefully whether to accept, he later announced his decision to play for Senegal. He made his debut that week in the starting eleven against Oman, a 2–0 defeat, and played as a substitute in the 1–1 draw with Iran.

Career statistics

HonoursLewesSussex Senior Challenge Cup: 2005–06Dundee UnitedScottish Cup: 2010Heart of Midlothian'
Scottish Championship: 2014–15

References

External links

1985 births
Living people
People from Le Blanc-Mesnil
Footballers from Seine-Saint-Denis
French men's footballers
Senegalese men's footballers
Senegal men's international footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Montpellier HSC players
Windsor & Eton F.C. players
Dagenham & Redbridge F.C. players
Barnet F.C. players
Lewes F.C. players
Cowdenbeath F.C. players
Dundee United F.C. players
Birmingham City F.C. players
Heart of Midlothian F.C. players
Motherwell F.C. players
Sur SC players
Kelantan F.C. players
Falkirk F.C. players
Clyde F.C. players
Kelantan United F.C. players
Isthmian League players
National League (English football) players
Scottish Football League players
Scottish Premier League players
English Football League players
Malaysia Super League players
Scottish Professional Football League players
Citizens of Senegal through descent
French sportspeople of Senegalese descent
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Expatriate men's footballers in Scotland
Expatriate men's footballers in Malaysia
Expatriate men's footballers in Oman
Senegalese expatriate sportspeople in England
Senegalese expatriate sportspeople in Scotland
Senegalese expatriate sportspeople in Malaysia
Senegalese expatriate sportspeople in Oman