[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sexual obsessions

s response typically generates more confusion and uncertainty. However, this is a conditioned physiological response in the primitive thalamus of a brain which does not identify the thought as sex with a particular person, but just sex. This is generally not indicative of one's own personal desires.

Treatment
People with sexual obsessions can devote an excessive amount of time and energy attempting to understand the obsessions. They usually decide they are having these problems because they are defective in some way, and they are often too ashamed to seek help. Because sexual obsessions are not as well-described in the research literature, many therapists may fail to properly diagnose OCD in a client with primary sexual obsessions. Mental health professionals unfamiliar with OCD may even attribute the symptoms to an unconscious wish (typically in the case of psychoanalysts or psychodynamic therapists), sexual identity crisis, or hidden paraphilia. Such a misdiagnosis only panics an already distressed individual. Fortunately, sexual obsessions respond to the same type of effective treatments available for other forms of OCD: cognitive-behavioral therapy and serotonergic antidepressant medications (SSRIs). People with sexual obsessions may, however, need a longer and more aggressive course of treatment.

Medication
Many people with sexual obsessions are alarmed that they seem to lose their sex drive. People with OCD may see this as evidence that they no longer have normal sexual attractions and are in fact deviant in some way. Some may wonder if medication is the answer to the problem. Drugs specifically for erectile dysfunction (i.e. Viagra, Cialis) are not the answer for people with untreated OCD. The sexual organs are working properly, but it is the anxiety disorder that interferes with normal libido.

Medications specifically for OCD (typically SSRI medications) will help alleviate the anxiety but will also cause some sexual dysfunction in about a third of patients. For many the relief from the anxiety is enough to overcome the sexual problems caused by the medication. For others, the medication itself makes sex truly impossible. This may be a temporary problem, but if it persists a competent psychiatrist can often adjust the medications to overcome this side-effect.

Sexual obsessions and sexual acts
Someone with a sexual obsession may have trouble performing sexual acts, for fear of thinking about deviant sexual behavior, and the fear of being tempted to perform such behavior when it would be harmful to them or to others. When a person with a sexual obsession masturbates, they may have the constant fear of picturing something unwanted and intrusive. Afterwards, they may feel guilty or shameful, as they may have been thinking about the object of their obsession during most or all of the sexual activity. Many people with this type of obsession are often reluctant to or avoid performing any type of sexual act.

References

Further reading

External links 
 
 

Anxiety disorders
Sexuality