[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Galvanized Yankees

y unit of "galvanized Yankees" in Federal service to actively campaign against Confederate forces. At the end of hostilities it was assigned to the Department of Mississippi and garrisoned Natchez, Mississippi, through the summer of 1865. The battalion mustered out at Vicksburg on September 7, 1865.

3rd Pennsylvania Heavy Artillery
Battery M, 3rd Regiment Heavy Artillery, Pennsylvania Volunteers was raised in Philadelphia, then recruited prisoners at Fort Delaware in July and August 1863 to fill out its ranks.  It was apparently over-recruited in numbers. The battery moved to Fortress Monroe to train, where some members were induced to join the newly created 188th Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry.

4th Delaware Infantry
Company C of the 4th Regiment Infantry, Delaware Volunteers is claimed to have been recruited in 1862 or 1863 from prisoners at Fort Delaware, but claims have not been substantiated through checks of muster rolls.

11th Ohio Cavalry
The 11th Regiment Cavalry, Ohio Volunteers was originally raised as four companies of the 7th Ohio Cavalry in October 1861. It was sent west for duty on the Indian frontier in February 1862 to resolve a political dispute after its commander refused to consolidate with the 6th Ohio Cavalry. Permanently detached and given the designation 1st Independent Battalion Ohio Cavalry, it arrived at Fort Laramie on May 30, 1862.  Four additional companies were recruited between June 26 and July 31, 1863, including approximately 40 Confederate prisoners from Camp Chase who became members of Company E. Originally called to service to repel John Hunt Morgan's raid through Ohio, the companies were also sent west to combine with the 1st Independent Battalion into the new 11th Ohio Volunteer Cavalry.  They left Camp Dennison August 1 for Fort Leavenworth, reporting for duty August 13. While awaiting supplies, the battalion joined in pursuit of Quantrill's Raiders following the Lawrence Massacre. After marching 150 miles, they were recalled and marched to Fort Laramie between September 2 and October 10.  En route, four of Company E's recruits plotted to involve all Confederates in the company in a mutiny when it reached Julesburg, but were disarmed and arrested before the attempt could be made.  In July and August 1864, Capt. Henry E. Palmer was assigned to deliver a detachment of 60 recruits, all former members of Morgan's cavalry force, from Camp Chase to Fort Kearny, where they became Company K of the 11th Ohio Volunteer Cavalry.  In August and September 1865 "galvanized" Companies E and K accompanied Connor's Powder River Expedition.  Both companies returned to Fort Laramie, where they continued guard duties along the stage and telegraph lines until mustering out on July 14, 1866.

Ahl's Battery
see Ahl's Heavy Artillery Company

Confederate forces composed of "galvanized Yankees"
Confederate recruitment of Union prisoners of war was authorized by Confederate Secretary of War James A. Seddon on September 30, 1864, after inquires from Gen. Braxton Bragg to recruit foreign-born prisoners.  Seddon had as early as March 1863 granted discretionary permission to commanders including Gen. John Pemberton to recruit prisoners, but few if any, were actually enlisted.  A concerted recruiting effort began on October 12 and continued to the end of the war. At least four Confederate units were recruited, including three units of Regulars in the Provisional Army of the Confederate States.

Confederate regulars
Brooks' Battalion, Confederate Regular Infantry
Recruited from prisoners held at the stockade in Florence, South Carolina, the unit was organized October 10, 1864, as "Brooks' Battalion of Foreigners," saw brief front-line service in McLaws Division until December 18, 1864, then was returned to Florence because of desertions and mutiny.
Tucker's Confederate Regiment
Recruited from prisons at Florence, South Carolina; Salisbury, North Carolina; and Richmond, Virginia, the unit organized October 16, 1864, as the "1st Foreign Battalion," was later increased to regimental size and renamed "1st Foreign Legion," then was re-designated February 28, 1865, as Tucker's Confederate Regiment. It had 72 men serving as pioneer troops at the surrender April 26, 1865.
8th Confederate Battalion
Recruited at Florence, South Carolina, the unit organized December 26, 1864, as the "2nd Foreign Battalion," later known as "2nd Foreign Legion", and was re-designated February 13, 1865, as 8th Confederate Battalion.

State volunteer regiments in Confederate service
10th Tennessee