[Source: PubMed]

46. Eur J Psychotraumatol. 2025 Dec;16(1):2455247. doi: 
10.1080/20008066.2025.2455247. Epub 2025 Feb 4.

Navigating dual crises: mental health of Czech health care workers during the 
Ukrainian refugee influx and COVID-19 pandemic.

Janoušková M(1)(2), Šeblová J(1), Brennan Kearns P(1), Kučera M(1)(3), Kuklová 
M(1)(3)(4), Pekara J(1)(5), Seblova D(1).

Author information:
(1)Second Faculty of Medicine, Department of Epidemiology, Charles University, 
Prague, Czechia.
(2)Third Faculty of Medicine, Division of Medical Psychology, Charles 
University, Prague, Czechia.
(3)National Institute of Mental Health, Klecany, Czechia.
(4)Faculty of Science, Department of Demography and Geodemography, Charles 
University, Prague, Czechia.
(5)Medical College, Prague, Czechia.

ABSTRACTBackground: European health care workers recently experienced serious 
challenges to their mental health. Following the extremely stressful experience 
of the COVID-19 pandemic, the war in Ukraine caused a humanitarian influx of 
refugees in need of social and healthcare. We aimed to explore: (1) how working 
with refugees has affected the mental well-being of health care workers in the 
context of the COVID-19 pandemic, and (2) the nature of health care workers' 
emotional strain related to the refugee situation and the war in 
Ukraine.Methods: We used a combination of quantitative regression analyses and 
qualitative content analysis to assess data collected by an online questionnaire 
in 2022. The study included 1121 health care workers from the Czech arm of the 
international HEROES Study.Results: Quantitative findings did not indicate that 
working with Ukrainian refugees was reliably associated with a greater 
occurrence of symptoms of depression, anxiety, distress, or burnout. Qualitative 
analysis revealed five categories of emotional strain: impacts on working 
conditions, emotional reactions to refugees and the war, comparisons with the 
COVID-19 pandemic, and coping strategies.Conclusions: This study highlights the 
resilience of health care workers but also points to the need for ongoing 
support to address the complex emotional challenges they face during health 
crises.

Plain Language Summary: Although we did not find a significant association 
between working with refugees and mental health issues, health professionals 
encountered emotionally challenging situations.Emotionally challenging 
situations involved reactions to the war and refugees, worsening working 
conditions, and higher subjective strain than during the COVID-19 pandemic.When 
comparing health workers caring for with refugees and COVID-19 patients, we 
found differences in their mental health issues.

Antecedentes: El personal sanitario europeo ha experimentado recientemente 
graves problemas para su salud mental. Tras la experiencia extremadamente 
estresante de la pandemia de COVID-19, la guerra de Ucrania provocó una 
afluencia humanitaria de refugiados necesitados de asistencia social y 
sanitaria. Nuestro objetivo era explorar (1) cómo ha afectado el trabajo con 
refugiados al bienestar mental de los trabajadores sanitarios en el contexto de 
la pandemia COVID-19, y (2) la naturaleza de la tensión emocional de los 
trabajadores sanitarios relacionada con la situación de los refugiados y la 
guerra en Ucrania. Métodos: Se utilizó una combinación de análisis de regresión 
cuantitativa y análisis de contenido cualitativo para evaluar los datos 
recogidos mediante un cuestionario en línea en 2022. El estudio incluyó a 1.121 
trabajadores sanitarios de la rama checa del estudio internacional HEROES. 
Resultados: Los hallazgos cuantitativos no indicaron que trabajar con refugiados 
ucranianos estuviera asociado de forma fiable con una mayor aparición de 
síntomas de depresión, ansiedad, angustia o agotamiento. El análisis cualitativo 
reveló cinco categorías de tensión emocional: impacto en las condiciones de 
trabajo, reacciones emocionales ante los refugiados y la guerra, comparaciones 
con la pandemia COVID-19 y estrategias de afrontamiento. Conclusiones: Este 
estudio destaca la resiliencia de los trabajadores sanitarios, pero también 
señala la necesidad de apoyo continuo para abordar los complejos desafíos 
emocionales a los que se enfrentan durante las crisis sanitarias.

DOI: 10.1080/20008066.2025.2455247
PMCID: PMC11795749
PMID: 39902786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).