[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bicol University

Bicol University (Bikol: Unibersidad nin Bikol, Tagalog: Pamantasan ng Bikol), also referred to by its acronym (BU or Bicol U), is a regional state, research and coeducational higher education institution in Legazpi City, Albay, Philippines, with external campuses scattered throughout the provinces of Albay and Sorsogon. BU is an ISO 9001:2008 certified public university.

The university is partly subsidized by the Philippine government. Students of the university and its graduates are referred to as "Mga Iskolar ng Bayan" ("Scholars of the Nation") but they are commonly called as Bueños. Students who wish to study in the university must pass the Bicol University College Entrance Test (BUCET). During the COVID-19 pandemic, the university implemented the Bicol University College Entrance Scoring System (BUCESS) for its admission of undergraduate students for academic years 2021-2022 and 2022–2023.

History 
The Bicol University was founded on June 21, 1969, by virtue of Republic Act 5521 and was formally organized on September 22, 1970. It evolved out of six educational institutions integrated to form the first state university in the Bicol Region (Region V): 
 Bicol Teachers College (BTC) with its Laboratory School in Daraga, Albay, now the BU College of Education (BUCE) with its Integrated Laboratory School (ILS)
 Daraga East Central School (DECS) also in Daraga, Albay, initially renamed as Bicol University Pilot Elementary School (BUPES), now integrated with the BUCE-ILS as its Elementary Department
 Albay High School in Legazpi City, now the BUCE-ILS High School Department
 Bicol Regional School for Arts and Trades (BRSAT) in Legazpi City, converted from the Albay Trade School by virtue of Republic Act 1129 on June 16, 1954, now the College of Industrial Technology and the College of Engineering.
 Roxas Memorial Agricultural School (RMAS) in Guinobatan, Albay, which became the College of Agriculture, now renamed as the College of Agriculture and Forestry.
 School of Fisheries in Tabaco, Albay, turned into the College of Fisheries, now the Bicol University Tabaco Campus.

These public schools and colleges, now part of Bicol University, had served the people of the region for more than half a century prior to their forming Bicol University.

As of 2023, the 9th Bicol University President issued the Bicol University Vision and Quality Policy:

Vision -  A university for humanity characterized by productive scholarship, transformative leadership, collaborative service, and distinctive character for sustainable societies.

Quality Policy -  Bicol University commits to continually strive for excellence in instruction, research, and extension by meeting the highest level of clientele satisfaction and adhering to quality standards and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements.

Organization and administration
The governance of the university is vested in the Board of Regents, abbreviated as BOR. The board, with its 12 members, is the highest decision-making body of the university.

The chairperson or its designated commissioner of the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) serves as the board's chairperson while the president of the Bicol University is the vice-chairperson. The chairpersons of the Committees of Higher Education of the Senate and the House of Representatives are also members of the Board of Regents which are concurrent with their functions as committee chairpersons.

The students of the Bicol University are represented by a student regent, who is also the chair of the University Student Council. The faculty regent is nominated by the faculty members of the whole university. Alumni are represented by the president of the BU Alumni Association.

As of 2023, the members of the Board of Regents are:

Campus

Legazpi West (Main) Campus 
The Legazpi West (Main) Campus is located on the boundary of Daraga, Albay and Legazpi City along the national highway, Rizal St. Aside from the Administration Building, the campus also hosts the following colleges and institutes:

 College of Education (BUCE)
Courses Offered:

 Bachelor of Culture and Arts Education
 Bachelor of Early Childhood Education
 Bachelor of Elementary Education
 Bachelor of Secondary Education majors in:
 English
 Filipino
 Mathematics
 Science
 Social Studies
 Values Education

2. College of Nursing (BUCN)

Course Offered: BS Nursing

3. College of Arts and Letters (BUCAL)

Courses Offered: 

 AB Broadcasting
 BA Communication
 BA English Language
 BA Literature
 BA Journalism
 BA Performing Arts (BPEA) Theater

4. College of Science (BUCS)

Courses Offered:

 BS Biology
 BS Chemistry
 BS Computer Science
 BS Information Technology
 BS Meteorology

5. Graduate School (BUGS) 

This is divided into two categories:

 Master of Arts Degree (Masteral or MA)

 Doctoral Degree (Doctorate or PhD)

They are both offered with thesis or with no thesis. 

6. Institute of Physical Education, Sports and Recreation (BUIPESR) 

Courses Offered: