[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gettysburg (game)

t had been made to the original game mechanics. In terms of using this game in the classroom, Campion noted that "The combat rules are probably more intricate than most teachers will have time for, but they might appreciate that the game contains plenty of opportunities to use multipl,e commanders."

In the 1980 book The Complete Book of Wargames, game designer Jon Freeman also reviewed the 1977 edition, and had little good to say about it, commenting "It's one of the most splendid examples of wretched excess ever published. All that tremendous order-of-battle work [...] is straitjacketed by a playing board that makes no sense. The scale is totally wrong for regimental simulation, and the game map, which is pretty but hard to read, is virtually ignored in terms of terrain effects and movement." He concluded by giving the game an Overall Evaluation of only "Fair", saying, "In some respects it may be a better historical tool than SPI's vaunted Terrible Swift Sword, but no one in his right mind would want to play it."

In Issue 54 of Moves, Steve List reviewed the 1977 edition and commented, "All in All, the Introductory game is too simple and the Advanced too complex, and both are married to a map which is not the best scale for the purpose. The Intermediate game is the best, but was not as well done as it could be due to the time and ingenuity expended on trying to make the Advanced [game] work." List concluded by giving the Introductory game a grade of "C", the Intermediate game a "B", and the Advanced game a "C".

Gettysburg was chosen for inclusion in the 2007 book Hobby Games: The 100 Best. Game designer Lou Zocchi commented, "With Gettysburg, designer [Charles S.] Roberts created a game that evoked memories of brilliant commanders such as Lee and Jackson, even as players grew to understand the intricacies of their commands."

Awards
At the 1989 Origins Awards, the 125th Anniversary edition of Gettysburg won "Best Pre-20th Century Boardgame of 1988".

Legacy
Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson, co-designers of Dungeons & Dragons, reported that their first board wargame was Gettysburg. According to Gygax, "I’d purchased an AH game (GETTYSBURG) in ‘58 or ‘59 and avidly sought more."

References

External links
 

American board games
American Civil War board wargames
Avalon Hill games
Board games introduced in 1958
Charles S. Roberts games
Origins Award winners
Battle of Gettysburg