[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

Security Council, "the United Nations Security Council again rejected pleas from Lebanon that it call for an immediate cease-fire between Israel and Lebanon. The Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported the U.S. was the sole member of the 15-nation UN body to oppose any council action at all at this time.

On 15 July, the United States sent a security team to Beirut in an effort to begin planning the evacuation of American citizens from Lebanon to Cyprus. The US was believed to be using the facilities at the British Sovereign Base Areas on Cyprus, which included RAF Akrotiri.

On 17 July, in a private conversation that was unintentionally picked up by a live microphone at the G8 conference, Bush told UK Prime Minister Tony Blair that "We’re not blaming Israel and we’re not blaming the Lebanese government." Bush asked "What about Kofi Annan? I don't like the sequence of it. His attitude is basically cease-fire and everything else happens," to which Blair responded, "I think the thing that is really difficult is you can't stop this unless you get this international presence agreed." Bush reasserted his view that the impetus needed to be placed on Hezbollah to end the conflict: "What they need to do is get Syria to get Hezbollah to stop doing this shit, and it's over."

At the G8 Summit, President Bush said that "the root of the problem is Hezbollah" and that the U.S. is "never going to tell a nation how to defend herself." On 15 July, Bush called upon Syria to exert its influence over Hezbollah militants to get them to "lay down their arms," adding that only Israel should try to limit civilian casualties as it steps up attacks on its neighbor. "The soldiers need to be returned.... It’s really sad where people are willing to take innocent life in order to stop that progress (for peace). As a matter of fact, it’s pathetic." As President Bush stated,

Everybody abhors the loss of innocent life. On the other hand, what we recognize is that the root cause of the problem is Hezbollah. And that problem must be addressed. And it can be addressed internationally by making it clear to Syria that they've got to stop their support to Hezbollah. Syria's trying to get back into Lebanon, it looks like to me.... Sometimes it requires tragic situations to help bring clarity in the international community. And it is now clear for all to see that there are terrorist elements who want to destroy our democratic friends and allies, and the world must work to prevent them from doing so.

Bolton said there was no moral equivalence between the civilian casualties from the Israeli raids in Lebanon and those killed in Israel from "malicious terrorist acts." Asked to comment on the deaths in an Israeli air strike of eight Canadian citizens in southern Lebanon, Bolton said that it is a matter of great concern to us...that these civilian deaths are occurring." He added that "it's a tragedy.... I think it would be a mistake to ascribe moral equivalence to civilians who die as the direct result of malicious terrorist acts," while he defended Israel's military action as "self-defense," which has had "the tragic and unfortunate consequence of civilian deaths."

As the campaign in Lebanon began, on 14 July, the US Congress was notified of a potential sale of $210 million worth of jet fuel to Israel. The Defense Security Cooperation Agency noted that the sale of the JP-8 fuel, should it be completed, will "enable Israel to maintain the operational capability of its aircraft inventory," and "The jet fuel will be consumed while the aircraft is in use to keep peace and security in the region." It was reported on 24 July that the United States was in the process of providing Israel with "bunker buster" bombs, which would allegedly be used to target the leader of Lebanon's Hezbollah guerrilla group and destroy its trenches. Al-Manar TV reported on 26 July that the shipment arrived in Israel via Gulf States including Qatar and Saudi Arabia on 25 July. According to Reuters and the New York Times, the Bush administration authorized the expedited processing and shipment of precision-guided bombs (already allotted for sale in 2005) to Israel to support the Israeli campaign, but did not announce the increased haste publicly.

On 25 July, Hassan Nasrallah, Hezbollah's secretary general, said the Israeli onslaught was an attempt by the US and Israel to "impose a new Middle East" in which Lebanon would be under US hegemony.

On 30 July, immediately following the IAF bombing of Qana in which a large number of fatalities took place, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice reportedly stated:"We [the United States Government] want a ceasefire as soon as possible, I would have wanted a ceasefire yesterday if possible, but the parties have to agree to a ceasefire and there have to be certain conditions in place... Any ceasefire has to have circumstances that are going to be acceptable to the parties."