[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Stig Bergling

5,000 dollars every six months, they lived rent free, got cars almost for free and they got pocket money from Jumblatt himself. Jumblatt later apologized to Sweden for having protected a convicted spy for four years but had done so at the request of his former friends in the Soviet Communist Party.

On 2 August 1994, Bergling called the Säpo from Cyprus. He was then ill with Parkinson's disease, his wife had cancer and longed for her children. They wanted to go home to Sweden. When Bergling said who he was, he was at first not believed. After a few checks Säpo realised that it actually was Bergling. The day after the couple returned voluntarily to Sweden and Bergling was arrested at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. On returning home, Bergling's own mother didn't know if he was alive. Bergling spent three years in prison until his release due to health reasons on 17 July 1997. The final time in Asptuna Prison. The last time at Asptuna Prison he spent in his room because he was ostracised and bullied by other prisoners. On one occasion he was attacked and stabbed by a fellow prisoner who thought he disturbed him when he was cleaning. Bergling received a blow over the ear, but no serious injuries. During the end of the prison term, his then wife became acutely ill with chronic cancer. Bergling did not get to the hospital in time, before she died on their wedding day. The following year, Bergling married the psychologist Elisabeth Robertson, 20 years his junior.

Later life and death
On 8 October 2003, Bergling met for the first time before an audience , the former head of the Swedish counterintelligence, in a meeting in Akademiska Föreningen's premises in Lund.

In the middle of 2006, Bergling became a member of the Swedish Left Party, but he later left the party in September the same year, disappointed at the outcome of the elections according to Aftonbladet. In 2008 Bergling pronounced in media his support for the FRA law.

In 1992 he was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease and moved around, at the end of his life, using a wheelchair or a mobility scooter. In 2004 he divorced a Polish woman whom he had been married to twice. Bergling had an adult son which his ex-wife's new husband adopted. The son was adopted when he was a year and a half old. Bergling lived from October 2012 in .

In March 2013 Bergling was suspected to have shot a nurse in the face with an airsoft gun. The incident occurred when the nurse was in Bergling's room to help him with some practical details. According to Bergling himself, he had felt provoked by the keeper and then brought up an airsoft gun and fired the gun into the wall. The police investigation was later discontinued and Bergling's airsoft gun, which had been seized by the police, was returned. Bergling died from Parkinson's disease on 24 January 2015. He was buried on 7 May 2015 at Kungsholms Cemetery in Kungsholmen, Stockholm.

Personal life
In his first marriage, Bergling was married 1961–1965 to Marianne Rinman (1941–2009), daughter of diploma engineer Kurt Rinman. In his second marriage, from 1965–1973, he was married to Kyllikki Kyyrö (born 1934); in his third, he was married in 1986 to Elisabeth Sjögren (also named Lillemor Geuken and Elisabeth Sandberg) (1940–1997); and in his fourth (from 1998–2002) and fifth (from 2003–2004), to psychologist Helena Smejko (also named Elisabeth Robertsson) (born 1955), a native of Poland.

Enemy's Enemy
In the novel Enemy's Enemy (1989) by author Jan Guillou, Carl Hamilton gets the task from his clients to go to Moscow and kill the spy Stig Bergling (in the book called Stig Sandström) who has escaped during his conjugal visit, killed his wife and went to Moscow to work for the Russians. The surname Sandström was taken from Sune Sandström, the then head of Säpo. Bergling wasn't murdered or killed his wife, but later returned to Sweden to serve the remainder of his sentence for espionage. In the 2006 edition of Enemy's Enemy, Guillou writes:
”One morning he [Bergling] phoned me from Hall Prison and woke me up. He felt that he was entitled to a dedicated copy of the book. I could only agree and wrote truthfully that this is the most remarkable dedication I have ever written. One must say that I got off cheaply.”

Bibliography

Notes

References

Footnotes

Print

Further reading

External links
Radio documentary about Stig Bergling on P3 Dokumentär 

1937 births
2015 deaths
Swedish people convicted of spying for the Soviet Union
People convicted of treason against Sweden
Swedish Coastal Artillery officers
Neurological disease deaths in Sweden
Deaths from Parkinson's disease
Defectors to the Soviet Union
1979 in international relations
Swedish police officers
Military personnel from Stockholm
20th-century Swedish military personnel
20th-century Swedish criminals