[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Year of the Five Emperors

f Syria. Once the mobs started to clamor for him, he declared himself emperor in rivalry with Severus. With  allies in the eastern part of the empire, he gathered an army and fought Severus throughout the empire for two years. He eventually lost the civil war near the city of Issus.

Clodius Albinus

Clodius Albinus came into contention for the imperial office in 193, when he was asked to become emperor after the death of Commodus, but rejected the proposition. He eventually gained the title of Caesar as a second to Severus, ruling the empire while Severus was on campaign against Niger. Severus and Albinus were considered enemies at the time, but they made a compact or treaty which gave Albinus administrative power and the title of Caesar. Albinus controlled Britain, and the agreement gave him Gaul and Spain. Some sources say that this agreement was fully under the control of Severus, who retained ultimate imperial power. Albinus continued as Caesar for three years before a civil war broke out between the two, resulting in Severus becoming sole emperor.

Septimius Severus

Severus was, practically speaking, the emperor after Pertinax was assassinated. Some sources tie Severus and Pertinax together as allies, which would explain how Severus became so powerful during this chaotic year. He had originally thought to take the throne after Commodus' murder, but was forestalled when the assassins hastily named Pertinax emperor. Twelve days after the March 28 assassination of Pertinax, Severus made himself ruler with the Senate's backing. He had Didius Julianus executed and made enemies of the other powerful nobles who aspired to the throne, Niger and Albinus. 

For the first few years of his reign, he was preoccupied with the civil war against Niger in the east, so he allied with Albinus despite their rivalry, granting Albinus the title of Caesar but not the real military power. However, once Severus defeated Niger, he set his sights on Albinus and waged a successful civil war against him. After defeating both enemies, Severus  purged their followers to consolidate his position as sole Caesar, founding the Severan dynasty.

See also 
Year of the Four Emperors (AD 69)
Year of the Six Emperors (AD 238)

References

Civil wars of the Roman Empire
2nd-century Roman emperors
190s in the Roman Empire
192
193
Severan dynasty
Wars of succession involving the states and peoples of Europe
Wars of succession involving the states and peoples of Africa
Wars of succession involving the states and peoples of Asia