[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Aliza Sherman

ons for girls, including GenAustin, hipGuide, College Broadband.

In 2003, Sherman established a digital consulting and social media marketing firm, called Conversify. In 2010, she launched the strategic digital and mobile consulting agency, Mediaegg LLC, which provides strategic digital consulting.

Personal background 
In 2001, Sherman relocated to Cheyenne, Wyoming from New York City, where she worked in public relations for the Wyoming Business Council. She is also one of the founders of the Women's Internet History Project. She currently resides in Alaska.

Honors and awards 
 Avon Spirit of Enterprise Award

Published works 
 Sherman, Aliza. Working Together Against Violence Against Women, Rosen Publishing Group, 1996. 
 Sherman, Aliza. Everything You Need to Know About Placing Your Baby for Adoption, Rosen Publishing Group, 1997. 
 Sherman, Aliza. Cybergrrl: A Woman's Guide to the World Wide Web, Ballantine, 1998. 
 Sherman, Aliza. Cybergrrl @ Work: Tips and Inspiration for the Professional You, Penguin Putnam, 2001. 
 Sherman, Aliza. PowerTools for Women in Business: 10 Ways to Succeed in Life and Work, Entrepreneur Press, 2001. 
 Sherman, Aliza. The Everything Blogging Book: Publish Your Ideas, Get Feedback, and Create Your Own Worldwide Network, Adams Media, 2006. 
 Sherman, Aliza. Streetwise Ecommerce: Establish Your Online Business, Expand Your Reach, and Watch Your Profits Soar, Adams Media, 2007. 
 Sherman, Aliza. The Complete Idiot's Guide to Crowdsourcing: Tap the Power of Many to Get Things Done, Alpha/Penguin, 2011. 
 Sherman, Aliza. Mom, Incorporated: A Guide to Business + Baby, Sellers Publishing, 2011. 
 Sherman, Aliza. Social Media Engagement For Dummies, For Dummies, 2013. 
 Sherman, Aliza. The Happy, Healthy Nonprofit: Strategies for Impact without Burnout, Wiley, 2016. 
 Sherman, Aliza. Cannabis and CBD for Health and Wellness: An Essential Guide for Using Nature's Medicine to Relieve Stress, Anxiety, Chronic Pain, Inflammation, and More, Ten Speed Press, 2019.

References

External links 
 

1964 births
American bloggers
American self-help writers
Living people
Writers from Honolulu
Harvard Business School people
21st-century American non-fiction writers