[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tom Quinn (Spooks)

m for ruining his daughter's life when Tom recruited her. Joyce frames Tom for assassinating the Chief of the Defence Staff. While Tom attempts to prove his innocence, Harry corners him, forcing Tom to wound Harry and escape into the North Sea. At the end of the episode, the team assumes he drowned.

In the third series premiere episode, Tom survives and poses as a vagrant in order to find Joyce in a church; Tom kills Joyce and leaves his body outside Thames House in an attempt to prove his innocence. When it does not, Adam Carter (Rupert Penry-Jones) tracks down Joyce's wife and makes her confess to their plan to frame Tom, clearing him of all charges. Tom is reinstated as Head of Section and Christine Dale is removed from her position, telling him he should also leave though Tom disagrees with her. However, in the next episode, he undergoes a "conscience explosion" and sabotages an operation to lure a terrorist cell into buying "red mercury", because he did not like what was being done to the scientist in order for him to attempt to create it (which includes forging gambling debt, prompting the man's wife to leave him. He also develops a severe alcohol problem). As a result, Tom is decommissioned and takes early retirement from MI5. In the book Spooks: The Personnel Files, Tom is revealed to have married Christine Dale following his retirement and to have founded a private security company called 'Trans Atlantic Security'. He is also mentioned in Season 7 Episode 1 when Lucas North asks Harry 'How did Tom Quinn work out?'. Tom briefly returns in the final episode, hired by Harry Pearce as an "outside contractor" to eliminate the head of a conspiracy of Russian nationalists who tried to derail the move to a closer Russian/UK relationship. Although brief, this scene makes it clear that Tom is still involved in spying.

Characteristics
Tom Quinn is depicted as "serious, focused and popular" with his team, as well as "deeply intelligent", with "impeccable instincts." Throughout the first series, Tom has a relationship with Ellie Simm. In the first few episodes, Tom deals with keeping his true identity secret, but not being truthful to Ellie is "eating away at him." Ultimately, Tom tells her the truth, and she later leaves him in the beginning of the second series as a consequence. Throughout the second series, Tom's "journey" has evolved slowly, where his attitude to his work has changed, and his conscience has "kicked in", finding himself questioning the world he is in. In Tom's final episode, writer Howard Brenton described Tom as not disillusioned, but "sort of becomes a human being."

Conceptual history

Series creator David Wolstencroft believed that writing Tom was the most fun, yet the hardest work compared with other characters, because he was Spooks primary protagonist. Wolstencroft chose a job in Information Technology (IT) as the cover story Tom used in his relationship with Ellie, because he felt that in real life people are reluctant to ask questions about IT work. To portray the character, actor Matthew Macfadyen followed the scripts, and did not want to deviate from them, as he did not believe doing so would be useful. Macfadyen was also keen to explore parts of Tom from within him for influence.

During production of the first series, Macfadyen, along with co stars Keeley Hawes and David Oyelowo were wary of playing the lead characters in their mid-twenties, but since felt they earned the right to be in the series. During production of episodes three and five of the first series, Macfadyen burst a blood vessel on one of his eyes. Macfadyen compensated by wearing sunglasses in order to hide it. Halfway through filming series two, Macfadyen got to carry a gun for the first time in the series; he was disappointed in not carrying one in the first series.

Though Macfadyen enjoyed working in the series, he began to feel "very sluggish and fed up" with playing the same character for two years. When the producers knew Macfadyen planned to leave, they did not know whether or not he would appear in the beginning of the third series. Howard Brenton, who wrote the series two finale, originally killed Tom off by drowning him while trying to escape onto the North Sea, while labouring under the impression that he was not to return. The producers would have continued the third series without Tom, however when they heard the actor would be prepared to return for the first two episodes of the third series, they were rewritten to include his character Tom. Brenton had to "unkill him." After a seven-year absence, in October 2011, it was announced that Macfadyen was to make a "fleeting" cameo appearance in the final episode of the series. A Spooks insider stated that his scene "will bring back all the memories of Tom and what the character endured in those first few series."