[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# List of Shaman King characters

ents, though they will not oppose Hao's orders, especially if they attempt to kill Yoh and fear his ruthlessness. Most are killed when Peyote betrays them, though they are resurrected shortly before the end of the Shaman Fight.

Team Star
 is the faction of Hao's followers that Hao personally leads.

 
 
 A small child devoted to Hao who is deceptively much more powerful than she seems because she survived a near-death experience shortly after birth. Found by Hao as a malnourished baby in South Africa, he adopted and raised her. Though he originally named her  after the demon companion he met in his first life, she pronounced the name incorrectly as "Opacho" and the name stuck. Possessing powerful but unrefined shamanic abilities, Opacho is capable of creating illusions and has the same mindreading abilities as Hao and Anna do. Her spirit is known as , who is not powerful, but can be used to create a sheep-like Over Soul with Opacho's hair, giving her great ramming power. Because of Opacho's straightforward and simple-nature, Hao allows her to accompany him and occasionally confides in her about his plans and what he thinks of Yoh and his power. In the 2001 anime, her faith in Hao becomes fear when she notes that Hao has made a change for the worse and flees from him. In the manga, Hao sends her as a messenger to coerce Yoh into returning to the Shaman Fight after he withdraws as per his agreement with Iron Maiden Jeanne to revive Ren. She later becomes part of Yoh's group as they attempt to defeat Hao as he is merging with the Great Spirit; her mindreading abilities allow her to become a great ally to the group, helping them understand more about Hao. When Hao awakens as the Shaman King and kills Goldva, she is deeply upset that he is no longer the person she once knew, but she still expresses steadfast loyalty to him when Hao is confronted by the souls of everyone he has encountered.

 
 
 Originally the founder and leader of the X-Laws, a group of holy warriors opposed to Hao, and the one responsible for finding Iron Maiden Jeanne, Luchist was defeated by Hao upon their first meeting. When Hao spared him, Luchist joined him after losing faith in absolute justice upon realizing those who had been rejected by society had been forced to develop their own understanding of justice. As one of the most powerful shamans under Hao, he is a rival to Marco, who was once Luchist's protégé and partner in developing supercars. The two shared a close relationship, but Luchist's defection from the X-Laws to Hao was a devastating blow to Marco. Described as having nerves of steel for his ability to stand comfortably by Hao's side, he is one of the few aware of Hao's ability to read minds. Though Luchist is one of Hao's followers, he is respectful and cordial towards others, including Yoh and Marco, and candidly straightforward. Luchist is named after Lucky Strikes.

Team Earth
 is the faction of Hao's followers that Peyote leads before it disbands following their loss against Team The Ren during the tournament.

 
 Ryo Sugimoto 
 Zen Yoneda 
 Known as the "Flying Zen Brothers" in the 2001 English anime, BoZ consists of two moderately popular rockstar Buddhist monks,  and  ( and  in the anime; "Zen Hoshi" in the English anime). The duo is among the earliest shaman recruited by Hao and are not very strong. Their spirit allies are , the ghosts of thousands of small living things that they combine with pebbles to create their own Over Souls.  After their initial attempts to eliminate Yoh before the Shaman Fight begins, they later appear as members of Team Tsuchi-Gumi. When Tsuchi-Gumi is defeated by Ren's team, the duo is possessed by Peyote's spirits and beaten by Joco McDonnell. They later leave Hao's group, hoping to achieve their dreams on their own rather than relying on Hao's power, and become allies to Gandhara.

  ("Tecolote" in the early editions of the English manga while "Ramiro" in the 4Kids English dub of the 2001 anime)
 
 Peyote is a Mexican mariachi shaman whose attire is homage to Dia de Los Muertos, using Calavera dolls as Over Soul mediums to channel the spirits of his mariachi band his guardian ghosts. Peyote is attracted to the darkness he saw in Hao's heart, having followed him on the notion he might be able to alleviate Hao's sadness. After being defeated by Ren's team, Peyote becomes disillusioned with Hao, despite continuing to feel a strong sense of attachment to him. He would later kill most of his comrades and then himself in an act of love/hate after learning of Hao's ability to read minds and that he never trusted his followers. Despite the assumption that he could not be revived due the poor condition of his body, Peyote is forcefully resurrected by Hao and given a new spirit, Santa Muerte, to protect him from his own suicidal nature and anything else that Muerte deems as a threat to Peyote.

Team Moon
 is the faction of Hao's followers that advanced to the second round of the Shaman Fights.