[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yarl's Wood Immigration Removal Centre

Yarl's Wood Immigration Removal Centre is a detention centre for foreign nationals prior to their deportation from the United Kingdom, one of 10 such centres currently in the UK. It is located near Milton Ernest in Bedfordshire, England, and is operated by Serco, which describes the place as "a fully contained residential centre housing adult women and adult family groups awaiting immigration clearance." Its population is, and has been, overwhelmingly female.

Management history 
Yarl's Wood opened on 19 November 2001 with a second wing added in January 2002, creating a capacity for over 900 people, making it the largest immigration detention centre in Europe at the time. Initially managed by Group 4 Falck, control passed in May 2004 to Global Solutions Limited (GSL), which was sold off at this time by Group 4 to private equity firms Englefield Capital and Electra Partners Europe.

In 2007, with Yarl's Wood "never having been far from controversy" (a fire following a protest in February 2002, for example, gutted the centre, which did not reopen until September the following year), GSL's contract was not renewed, and control was signed over to Serco, which has run Yarl's Wood to the present time. Chris Hyman, then Serco chief executive, said winning the £85m contract "recognises our ability to care for a wide range of detainees". Serious incidents have continued, however, during the Serco period.

Controversies

February 2002 fire 
In early February 2002, the building was burnt down following a protest by the detainees. This was triggered by someone being physically restrained by staff. According to custody officer Darren Attwood, officers complied with orders to "lock the detainees in the burning building". Five people were injured in the fire.

Hunger strikes 
Just after opening in December 2001, the first hunger strike began with twenty five Roma detainees refusing to eat.

In July 2005, more than 30 Ugandan women detainees went on hunger strike to protest about the behaviour of some staff at Yarl's Wood. They issued a statement detailing their poor treatment and attacking the level of health provision for detainees. "There is no urgency about making sure we are getting the help we need."

In May 2007, it was reported that there was a hunger strike involving over 100 women.

On 4 February 2010, a hunger strike began with a number of women protesting their indefinite detention. One hunger striker had been held for 15 months. The hunger strike was escalated when, according to a Guardian report, "70 women taking part in a protest were locked in an airless corridor without water or toilet facilities."

On 20 April 2015, a hunger strike began with 31 couples from the Hummingbird Unit in regard to a death of a male detainee Pinakeen Patel, aged 33 from Gujarat, India. The hunger strike continued for a second day. Resulting in the release of the widow on Temporary admission. On 25 May in solidarity to an Indian Gujarati lady from Hummingbird Unit suffering from serious medical conditions, a sudden hunger strike was called out by the fellow detainees.

On 21 February 2018, a hunger strike by women detainees began in protest at the Home Office policies of detaining people who came to the UK as minors, detaining asylum seekers and people who had survived torture, and detaining people indefinitely. A government letter in response to the hunger strike stated that it could "lead to your case being accelerated and your removal from the UK taking place sooner". On 8 March (International Women's Day) a 24-hour strike by activists took place in solidarity with hunger strikers.

Sexual abuse 
There have been a series of corroborated allegations of a sexual nature made against staff. The only witness to one alleged incident was deported before she could be interviewed by the police. Almost 90% of people held at Yarl's Wood are women. Approximately half the staff are male.

The decision in November 2014 to give Serco a new £70 million eight-year contract to run the centre was criticised by Natasha Walter of Women for Refugee Women: "Serco is clearly unfit to manage a centre where vulnerable women are held and it is unacceptable the government continues to entrust Serco with the safety of women who are survivors of sexual violence." The following month, Police and Crime Commissioner for Northumbria Vera Baird expressed her support for an independent inquiry.

Detention of children 
In 2010, Children's Commissioner for England Albert Aynsley-Green reported that children detained at Yarl's Wood faced "extremely distressing" conditions and treatment. On 11 January 2011, the High Court ruled that the continued detention of the children of failed asylum seekers at Yarl's Wood was unlawful.

Deaths