[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Katie Chapman

at once. When Chapman returned to action, in the FA Women's Community Shield in August 2003, Fulham were no longer a professional outfit. She represented Fulham in that season's Uefa Women's Cup campaign. In March 2004 Chapman played in Fulham's Premier League Cup final defeat to Charlton Athletic.

Charlton Athletic
July 2004 saw Chapman depart Fulham to sign for Charlton, making her debut in a 1–0 Community Shield win over Arsenal at Broadhall Way. She played in The Addicks' 3–0 defeat to Arsenal in the Premier League Cup final in March 2005. She then missed the conclusion of the 2004–05 season, including Charlton's FA Women's Cup win, with a broken hand sustained on international duty. In March 2006 Chapman played in her third successive Premier League Cup final, as Charlton beat Arsenal 2–1.

Arsenal
Chapman signed for league champions Arsenal in July 2006. She marked her Gunners debut with the opening goal in a 3–0 Community Shield win over Everton at Gresty Road. In Chapman's first season at the club, Arsenal claimed an unprecedented quadruple, winning the FA Premier League Cup, FA Women's Cup, FA Women's Premier League and the UEFA Women's Cup. Arsenal's assistant coach Emma Hayes described Chapman as "a rock that makes everything around her better. She was the engine and heartbeat of the successful quadruple-winning team." Midway through the 2007–08 season, Chapman's second pregnancy ruled her out of the rest of the campaign.

During 2008–09 Chapman returned to help Arsenal retain the league title; she also scored the opening goal in the 2009 FA Women's Cup final at Pride Park against Sunderland Ladies, in a game which ended 2–1 to Arsenal. She had also featured in Arsenal's 5–0 Premier League Cup final win over Doncaster Rovers Belles.

Chicago Red Stars
In December 2009 WPS club Chicago Red Stars signed Chapman, who cited the need for a new challenge. The Red Stars announced that Chapman would join the club in time for the 2010 WPS season, joining up with former Arsenal coach Emma Hayes and England team-mate Karen Carney. After making 21 appearances during the campaign, Chapman negotiated a mutual release from her contract and returned to Arsenal. It was reported that Chapman's husband had difficulty finding employment in America, so she returned home for the sake of her family.

Back to Arsenal
Chapman rejoined Arsenal in October 2010, with the club on domestic hiatus before the launch of the FA WSL. She was praised by manager Laura Harvey after scoring late, decisive goals against Rayo Vallecano Femenino and Linköpings FC which helped to take Arsenal through to a UEFA Women's Champions League semi-final against eventual winners Lyon. In May 2011, following injuries to Faye White and Jayne Ludlow, Chapman captained the Arsenal team which beat Bristol Academy 2–0 at the Ricoh Arena to reclaim the FA Women's Cup.

Arsenal and Chapman won the first two editions of the FA WSL in 2011 and 2012. In March 2013 Arsenal announced that Chapman was seven months pregnant and would miss the first half of the 2013 campaign. She returned to the team in a friendly win over Coventry City in July 2013, following the birth of her third son.

On 3 August 2013, Chapman made a substitute appearance in Arsenal's 3–0 FA WSL win over Liverpool. The FA decreed she had not been properly registered and Arsenal were deducted three points. The blunder meant that Arsenal – champions for the last nine consecutive seasons – could not finish higher than third and would not qualify for the 2014–15 UEFA Women's Champions League, unless they won the 2013–14 competition.

Chelsea
In January 2014, Chelsea announced the double transfer of Chapman and Gilly Flaherty from Arsenal. The move reunited Chapman with Emma Hayes, her coach from Arsenal and Chicago. She hoped that training more regularly with Chelsea would kick start her international career. In August 2015 Chapman captained Chelsea in their FA Women's Cup final against Notts County, the first time the event had been staged at Wembley Stadium. She described the experience as "overwhelming". Chelsea's 1–0 win before a Cup final record 30,710 crowd secured the club's first major trophy. It was the ninth FA Women's Cup winner's medal of Chapman's career. In October 2015 she played in Chelsea's 4–0 win over Sunderland which secured the club's first FA WSL title and a League and Cup "double".

At the 2018 FA Women's Cup Final, Chapman secured a record 10th winner's medal as Chelsea beat Arsenal 3–1 at Wembley. Five days later she announced that she was retiring from football at the end of the 2017–18 season.

International career