[Source: PubMed]

77. Int J Law Psychiatry. 2026 Mar 30;107:102223. doi:
10.1016/j.ijlp.2026.102223.  Online ahead of print.

Evaluation of dangerousness and risk of recidivism of Islamist terrorists by the 
expert psychiatrist: Analysis of 100 penal post-sentence expert reports in 
France.

Dekhil D(1), Giangualano-Fusina P(2), Lancon C(3), Benbouriche M(4), Tuchtan 
L(5), Delteil C(6), Bartoli C(7), Guivarch J(8).

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Légale, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, 
France; Aix-Marseille Université, CNRS, EFS, ADES, Marseille, France. Electronic 
address: dina.dekhil@ap-hm.fr.
(2)Parquet National Antiterroriste, Paris, France. Electronic address: 
pierrick.giangualano@justice.fr.
(3)Centre de Recherche en Santé Mentale et Psychiatrie de la région PACA, 
Marseille, France. Electronic address: christophe.lancon@ap-hm.fr.
(4)Univ. Lille, ULR 4072 - PSITEC - Psychologie : Interactions Temps Émotions 
Cognition, Lille, France; Institut National de Psychiatrie Légale 
Philippe-Pinel, Montréal, Canada. Electronic address: 
massil.benbouriche@univ-lille.fr.
(5)Service de Médecine Légale, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, 
France; Aix-Marseille Université, CNRS, EFS, ADES, Marseille, France. Electronic 
address: lucile.tuchtan@ap-hm.fr.
(6)Service de Médecine Légale, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, 
France; Aix-Marseille Université, CNRS, EFS, ADES, Marseille, France. Electronic 
address: clemence.delteil@ap-hm.fr.
(7)Service de Médecine Légale, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, 
France; Aix-Marseille Université, CNRS, EFS, ADES, Marseille, France; Service de 
Médecine en Détention, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, France. 
Electronic address: christophe.bartoli@ap-hm.fr.
(8)Service de Pédopsychiatrie, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, 
Hôpital Sainte-Marguerite, Marseille, France; IsCrim, Institut des Sciences 
Criminelles, Université de Poitiers, Poitiers, France; Aix-Marseille Université, 
Institut de Neurosciences de la Timone, AMU, CNRS, CanoP, UMR 7289, Marseille, 
France. Electronic address: Jokthan.guivarch@ap-hm.fr.

Islamist terrorism is a major concern because of the security issues it raises. 
In France, magistrates call on psychiatric experts to evaluate the dangerousness 
and risk of recidivism of convicted individuals and to inform post-sentencing 
decisions. We analyzed the responses of the experts and their methodology, 
focusing on their methods of evaluation and the incidence of the factors 
observed during examination of the convicted individual. We collected 
quantitative and qualitative data from 100 post-sentence expert reports taken 
from different case files. The case files, transferred by the national 
anti-terrorism prosecutor's office (Parquet National Antiterroriste), related 
exclusively to islamist terrorist offenses. We found that a majority of experts 
responded to the question of dangerousness, distinguishing between psychiatric 
and criminal dangerousness. The evaluations were based on the search for 
presumed factors of risk, protection or desistance, although these factors are 
not all identified in the current scientific literature. Structured evaluation 
tools were not used, whether actuarial tools or structured professional judgment 
tools. Several factors identified by the experts were correlated with the group 
considered as dangerous or at risk of recidivism: signs of radicalization, 
personality structure, insight, attitude to the offenses, behavior in prison, 
progress since conviction and attitude to treatment. Our findings are an 
encouragement to improve expert evaluations by offering psychiatric experts 
training in criminal psychology that is based on evidence-based data, and in 
particular training in structured evaluation of risk of recidivism.

Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijlp.2026.102223
PMID: 41915947

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interest.