[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Waishengren

Waishengren (; Tâi-lô: guā-síng-lâng; ), sometimes called mainlanders, are a group of migrants who arrived in Taiwan from mainland China between the Japanese surrender at the end of World War II in 1945, and Kuomintang retreat and the end of the Chinese Civil War in 1949. They came from various regions of mainland China and spanned multiple social classes.  The term is often seen in contrast with benshengren (; Tâi-lô: pún-síng-lâng; ), which refers to Hoklo and Hakka people in Taiwan who arrived prior to 1945 who had lived under Japanese rule.  The term excludes other ethnic Chinese immigrants (e.g. from Malaysia or Hong Kong) and later immigrants from mainland China.

Definition 

The formal definition of a waishengren (; Tâi-lô: guā-síng-lâng; ) was someone living in Taiwan whose ancestral home, which is passed down through one's father, was not in Taiwan.  By contrast, a benshengren (; Tâi-lô: pún-síng-lâng; ) was someone whose ancestral home was Taiwan.  By this formal definition, a person born in Taiwan whose father's ancestral home is not in Taiwan is considered a waishengren. Conversely, a person not born in Taiwan whose ancestral home is Taiwan (most notably Lien Chan) is considered a benshengren.  Ancestral homes were eliminated in official records (e.g. on identity cards, household registrations, and passports) in 1996, and replaced with place of birth, which ended the official distinction of waishengren versus benshengren since many waishengren were born in Taiwan.

Today, in practice the term broadly refers to the cultural group of people who migrated from mainland China to Taiwan starting in 1945 when the Republic of China took control of Taiwan after the Surrender of Japan at the conclusion of World War II, and into the 1950s during the retreat of the Republic of China to Taiwan and its aftermath.  Recent immigrants to Taiwan from China are not considered waishengren, but make up a separate social category.  Due to significant intermarriage between waishengren and benshengren families, it is difficult to precisely define the distinction in later generations.

Translations 

The terms waishengren and benshengren pose some interesting difficulties in translation; most academic literature uses the terms waishengren and benshengren directly.  The literal translation of waishengren is "extra-provincial people" while the literal translation of benshengren is "this-province people"; however, these translations are politically loaded since they arose in a historical context when the ruling Kuomintang actively claimed the entirety of China.

One English translation of waishengren is "mainlander", although some waishengren find this translation uncomfortable since many of them have lived in Taiwan their entire lives, and the term may lead to possible confusion with residents of the People's Republic of China.  Likewise, the translation of benshengren as "native Taiwanese" leads to possible confusion with Taiwanese indigenous peoples.

Demographics 
Due to the chaotic nature of the Kuomintang retreat to Taiwan, the exact number of waishengren is unknown.  Estimates vary regarding how many waishengren migrated, with most estimates ranging between 950,000 and 2 million, with 1.2 million being the most commonly cited figure in Taiwan. Newly declassified archival data yielded a population of 1,024,233 mainland Chinese immigrants in Taiwan and the Kinmen-Matsu military zones on September 16, 1956. Furthermore, the male to female ratio among the immigrants was 375:100.

There are several subgroups of waishengren based on how they migrated. About 26% of non-military waishengren arrived prior to the KMT military retreat.  This group consisted of elites, e.g. government officials, businessmen and intellectuals, as well as migrant workers from Fujian. Another significant category consisted of military personnel and their families, as well as soldiers who were press ganged or forcibly conscripted by the Kuomintang.  Another category consists of refugees, who were hastily evacuated during the Kuomintang retreat. Some others, such as Ma Ying-jeou, arrived in the years after the retreat, for example through Hong Kong.

About 40% of waishengren settled in the Taipei area, with another 25% settling in Kaohsiung, Keelung, Taichung and Tainan.

History