[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Golda Meir School

My Life that she "learned a lot more than fractions or how to spell at Fourth Street School..." When she was in fourth grade, Meir undertook her first public works project by organizing a fundraiser to pay for her classmates' textbooks. She rented a hall and scheduled a public meeting for the event.

In 1912 the girl who had arrived as a poor Jewish-Ukrainian immigrant with weak English graduated from Fourth Street School as valedictorian. Four years later she graduated from Milwaukee's North Division High School and entered teachers' college, but her interest in Palestine was growing. She joined the Labor Zionist Movement in 1915, led rallies for them, and during WWI worked for Jewish relief programs and taught Yiddish in Milwaukee's Jewish Community Center. She kept Milwaukee as her home base until 1920, when she and her husband moved to New York, then emigrated to Palestine in 1921.  She later wrote: I took a  great deal with me from America to Palestine, more perhaps than I can express: an understanding of the meaning of freedom, and awareness of the opportunities offered to the individual in a true democracy and a permanent nostalgia for the great beauty of the American countryside. In Palestine she worked for the labor organization Histadrut and in the 1930s she traveled back to the U.S. to lecture and raise funds for the Jews of Palestine. During WWII she worked to rescue Jews from the Nazis. In 1948, as European Jews flooded to Palestine and around the time the State of Israel was established, she returned to the U.S. to raise more funds for Israel. In following years she served as Israel's ambassador to the Soviet Union, Minister of Labor, Foreign Minister, and Prime Minister from 1969 to 1974.

On October 3, 1969, Prime Minister Meir revisited her old Fourth Street School in Milwaukee, accompanied by U.S. National Security Advisor Henry Kissinger and local Aldermen Vel Phillips and Orville Pitts. The school was renamed in her honor in 1979.

The school was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1984.  It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1990.  It is one of three buildings in the United States with a significant association with Meir. A plaque mounted outside the front door of the school reads in part "it was here that she learned the values that carried her through life."

See also
List of National Historic Landmarks in Wisconsin
National Register of Historic Places listings in Milwaukee, Wisconsin

References

External links 
Golda Meir School
Golda Meir: My Life

Magnet schools in Wisconsin
Education in Milwaukee
Buildings and structures in Milwaukee
National Historic Landmarks in Wisconsin
School buildings completed in 1890
Public elementary schools in Wisconsin
School buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Wisconsin
National Register of Historic Places in Milwaukee
Golda Meir