[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Kaaterskill High Peak

so begins to curve to the west.

Spruce, fir and other evergreens become much more common in this somewhat distressed environment, where the trail is often quite wet. Yet the scenery makes it worth the effort for many hikers, especially with the wildflower sightings possible here in the late spring.

Beyond Pine Plains, the forest returns to a more deciduous character as the trail remains level while becoming decidedly westward in heading, crossing many rivulets or streambeds, some offering picturesque mini-cascades of their own. Finally, at a junction  from the trailhead, the Long Path drops down into Kaaterskill Clove while the snowmobile route heads up a slightly steeper slope. After several hundred feet (about a hundred meters), it reaches the loop.

From here, hikers can take one of two routes: either turn right (west), walk several hundred yards, and look carefully for a pair of cairns in the woods on your left marking the north end of the Twilight Park Trail (not yet official, but well-marked) OR turn left and proceed around the mountain, past one of the easily spotted plane wrecks. As the path curves to the right, you will eventually encounter a  cairn in the middle of the path marking the south end of the Twilight Park Trail.   A combination of smaller cairns, surveyor's tape flags and old blue paint blazes have been used by various stealth maintainers over the years to keep this wet and sometimes hard-to-spot route marked. While not seriously steep, it is almost constantly ascending, responsible for the last 450 vertical feet up the mountain in less than a mile. The southerly approach is probably best, since the steepest portions of the ascent are to the south and are best handled going up rather than down.

It begins by winding through the notably scrubbier woods of these slopes before finally settling for a traverse up past some impressive rock outcrops, where it becomes more heavily trodden and easier to follow. Finally, just above , it reaches a short but steep open rock face that requires some scrambling to reward the climber with a view to the north of the Blackhead Range, over Kaaterskill Clove, with Kaaterskill Falls clearly visible below.

Beyond it the path becomes even more obvious as the surrounding forest becomes totally boreal, with spruce and fir in every direction. Some gentle ascents alternate with level stretches before a last ascent into the small, viewless summit clearing. Distance is roughly  from the trailhead, with a vertical gain of .

Upon return, some hikers using this route prefer to either continue south along the Twilight Park Trail to the loop, or remain on the loop (which is often as wet as Pine Plains below it) to the plane wreckage at the loop's southeastern corner and bushwhack from there down to the trail just past Pine Plains in order to save some time and distance.

Northern approach

The northern route begins at the parking area along Malden Avenue in Palenville, just off New York State Route 23A. A woods road with the aqua blazes of the Long Path begins just past its end. It ascends, steadily and sometimes steeply, for  up the side of Kaaterskill Clove. The trail switches back at the top of a small rise and begins to descend slightly to the two streams at the base of Hillyer Ravine.

After a half-mile (1 km) ascent, the trail reaches Wildcat Falls, where a ledge offers an excellent view down into Kaaterskill Clove. Another half-mile produces Buttermilk Falls, a two-step waterfall just off-trail. Just  later, the old road ends and the trail begins to seriously climb over some steep slopes and narrow ledges. This continues for  before joining the Twilight Park Trail. The junction with the snowmobile trail is another  uphill.

Via this route, it is approximately  to the summit and 2,990 vertical feet (911 m).

Alternate southern approach

With permission from private landowners on the south slope a party can begin from the vicinity of Josh Road and follow the southern end of the Twilight Park Trail or forks of it up the mountain for the highest possible starting elevation. The trail is marked and even signed as it passes through some picturesque maple forests into state land, reaching the snowmobile trail at another cairned junction.

The ascent from that point follows the same route and terrain described in the southern approach above.

Other possible routes