[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# National Negro Congress

the organizers offered tickets on generous terms to the National Negro Congress to help fill the larger venue, these sponsors withdrew, in objection to the NNC's Communist ties. Details of the withdrawal of support may be found in the testimony of a House Un-American Activities Committee informant.

In 1942, Doris Miller received recognition as one of the "first US heroes of World War II," commended by a letter signed by US Secretary of the Navy Frank Knox on April 1, and the next day, CBS Radio broadcast an episode of the series They Live Forever, which dramatized Miller's actions.  The All-Southern Negro Youth Conference launched a signature campaign on April 17–19. On May 10, the National Negro Congress denounced Knox's recommendation against awarding Miller the Medal of Honor. (On May 11, President Roosevelt approved the Navy Cross for Miller.)

In 1944, Aubrey Pankey performed a concert at Carnegie Hall in New York City produced by the National Negro Congress in 1944. His encores that evening included a march popular with Soviet troops and Die Moorsoldaten, a song of the victims of the Nazi concentration camps.

In 1946, the National Negro Congress set up picket lines in theaters in the big cities where the film played, with its protesters holding signs that read "Song of the South is an insult to the Negro people" and, lampooning "Jingle Bells", chanted: "Disney tells, Disney tells/lies about the South." On April 2, 1947, a group of protesters marched around Paramount Theatre (Oakland, California) with picket signs reading, "We want films on Democracy not Slavery" and "Don't prejudice children's minds with films like this". Jewish newspaper B'nai B'rith Messenger of Los Angeles considered the film to be "tall[ying] with the reputation that Disney is making for himself as an arch-reactionary".

Members

Members of the NNC included:

Merger

Around 1946, the NNC merged with the International Labor Defense (ILD) and National Federation for Constitutional Liberties (NFCL) to form the Civil Rights Congress (CRC) (1946–1956).

See also

 League of Struggle for Negro Rights
 International Labor Defense
 National Federation for Constitutional Liberties
 Scottsboro Boys
 A. Philip Randolph
 Civil Rights Congress
 Colored Conventions Movement

References

External sources

 
 http://eblackstudies.org/intro/chapter16.htm
http://www.encyclopedia.chicagohistory.org/pages/3214.html
http://www.blackpast.org/?q=aah/national-negro-congress
http://www.collection.johnpdaviscollection.org/
http://www.negroparty.com
http://www.blackradicalcongress.org/black-congresses.html

African Americans' rights organizations
African-American history between emancipation and the civil rights movement
Communist Party USA mass organizations
African-American trade unions
1936 establishments in Washington, D.C.
Trade unions established in 1936
Trade unions disestablished in 1946