[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Motza

cluded in the Jerusalem "Corpus separatum", which was to be detached from "the rest of Palestine" and "placed under effective United Nations control". However, like other provisions of Resolution 194, this was never carried out in practice, and Motza became part of the State of Israel.

1929 murders

Despite good relations with neighbouring Arab communities, the village was attacked during the 1929 Palestine riots. Several residents of Qalunya attacked an outlying house belonging to the Makleff family, killing the father, mother, son, two daughters, and their two guests. Three children survived by escaping out a second-story window; one, Mordechai Maklef, later became Chief of Staff of the Israeli Army. The attackers included the lone police officer and armed man in the area, as well as a shepherd employed by the Makleff family. The village was subsequently abandoned by Jews for a year's time.

Refugees from Motza sent a  letter to the Refugees Aid Committee in Jerusalem describing their plight and asking for help: "Our houses were burned and robbed...we have nothing left. And now we are naked and without food. We need your immediate assistance and ask for nothing more than bread to eat and clothes to wear."

State of Israel
In 2006, the Yellin and Yehuda families helped restore Joshua Yellin's original home, among the oldest and most derelict buildings at the site.

From a municipal perspective, Motza, now called Ramat Motza, is affiliated with the  Jerusalem Municipality. The nearby Motza Illit is under the jurisdiction of the Mateh Yehuda Regional Council.

See also
En Esur, Chalcolithic fortified proto-city in the Sharon Plain

References

 "Talking Picture Magazine", March 1933, p. 45, an article on the film: The Motza Colony, a drama after the event of the murder of the Makleff Family.

External links
 Motza history on Haim Zippori centre for community education 
 Motza Valley 

Populated places established in 1859
Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem
Jewish villages in the Ottoman Empire
Jews and Judaism in Ottoman Palestine
1859 establishments in Ottoman Syria
Crusader castles
1929 Palestine riots