[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Longhope

y active in village life. Other local families included the Carpenters, the Lanes, and the Halls, who were cartwrights. The village also had more than its fair share of eccentrics, including the churchwarden and builder 'Feyther Field', who apparently would ride along on a bicycle carrying a ladder.

Bullock notes that there was a council school next to the Zion Baptist Chapel at the top of Hopes Hill, but he and his siblings went to Longhope Church School across the road from the church. Arthur described it as 'one big room with a fire grate at one end'; toilet facilities were primitive and there were 'no washing facilities but a tin bowl and a chunk of red carbolic soap'. The schoolroom was bitterly cold, he recalled: there were times in winter that his feet were so cold that he could not feel them his hands so cold that he could only write with difficulty. However, he was full of admiration for the quality of education the pupils received from the schoolmaster and schoolmistress, Mr and Mrs Hill. The current village school, Hope Brook Church of England Primary School, was formed on 1 September 2001 by the amalgamation of the two earlier schools (Hopes Hill County Primary School and Longhope Church of England School). It is situated next to the recreation ground.

Longhope Football Club

The village has a football club that has been running for over 100 years at the heart of the Village. The current Longhope side compete in North Gloucestershire Division One. Their home ground is the Recreation Ground. The club's crest is a lion, which is also the village's symbol which features on the war memorial on Monmouth Road.

Longhope won the double as champions of North Gloucestershire Division Three and Cup winners in the season of 1949/50 captained by club legend Gerald Wyman. Longhope again won the North Gloucestershire Division Three league and cup double in the 2000/2001 Season, managed by Malcolm Stock and captained by Tracy Clark. The Club reached the Final of the George Sandoe cup in the 2005-2006 Season but were beaten 3-1 by Worrall Hill. 

In July 2019, Longhope Football Club hosted The Legends Cup. This was a game between the current Longhope side and a team of Longhope Legends of the past. This game produced a record crowd of over 300 spectators. The match was very competitive and was eventually won by the current club side, captained by Steven Clark 

The club's most recent success was winning the 2020-2021 George Sandoe Cup with a 2–1 victory over Ellwood, managed by Rob Clark and captained by Rhys Gardner.

Bibliography
 pp. 10–49.

References

External links

The Longhope Village Website
photos of Longhope and surrounding area on geograph

Forest of Dean
Villages in Gloucestershire