[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ferrocarriles Nacionales de México

ar on the 1958 N de M locomotive roster, and sat for years in the scrapyard at San Luis Potosí.  Notes in the FNM archives in Puebla, Mexico describe how one of these locomotives had a wheel disintegrate at high speed, and also how the Centipede locomotives were delivered in 1948 with parts missing.

In Acámbaro, Guanajuato, N de M operated one of the few facilities in Latin America that was capable of constructing and doing complete rebuilds of steam locomotives, thus with rare exceptions (as with the Niagaras), most of N de M steam motive power was purchased used and rebuilt there. Portions of the facility and a preserved 2-8-0 steam locomotive remain as part of Acambaro's municipal railway museum.

Notable named passenger trains of the N de M 

Named trains usually bore names related to the destination, for example, El Purépecha referred to the Purépecha peoples of western Michoacán.

El Jarocho - Mexico City - Veracruz, Veracruz.
Águila Azteca - Mexico City - Monterrey - Nuevo Laredo, with the addition name, the Texas Eagle for continued service to San Antonio and St. Louis and connections to Amtrak for continued service to Chicago
El Azteca - Mexico City - Querétaro - León - Aguascalientes - El Paso, Texas
La Estrella del Sur - Mexico City - Puebla - Oaxaca de Juárez
El Regiomontano - Mexico City - Monterrey - Nuevo Laredo
El Fronterizo - Mexico City - Chihuahua - Ciudad Juárez - El Paso, Texas; as #7/8, it had connections to Southern Pacific Railroad connections to Los Angeles
El Nocturno - Mexico City - Toluca - Morelia - Uruapan
El Oaxaqueño - Mexico City - Puebla - Oaxaca de Juárez
El Purépecha - Mexico City - Morelia - Uruapan - Lázaro Cárdenas (Michoacán)
El Tapatío - Mexico City - Guadalajara
El Rápido de la Frontera (railcar service) Chihuahua - Ciudad Juárez - with nearby connections to the north in El Paso
El Hidalguense - Mexico City - Pachuca, Hidalgo

The Águila Azteca/Texas Eagle service was in conjunction with the Missouri Pacific railroad. Later with Amtrak, connections could be made in Laredo with Amtrak's Inter-American. Besides connections in Ciudad Juarez and Nuevo Laredo, there were connections to trains in the United States in Guadalajara, Piedras Negras and Matamoros. To the south there were connections to Guatemala in Ciudad Hidalgo.

Other passenger service was provided between Mexico City and: Cuernavaca, Morelos; Tampico, Tamaulipas; and Guanajuato, Guanajuato

Buenavista railway station in Mexico City served as the terminal and after 2005, it was renovated and serves as the southern end of the electric Tren Suburbano line. Photos of Buenavista often prominently feature a pyramid-like tower, the Torre Insignia. The building housed the headquarters of Banobras, but currently is unoccupied and it has been renovated. A preserved Niagara steam locomotive and GE boxcab can be viewed at the Museum of Electricity at Chapultepec, Mexico City. Many more preserved Mexican steam, diesel and electric locomotives can be viewed at the FNM museum in Puebla, Mexico.

In popular culture
In 1999, sound artist and musician Chris Watson worked as an audio recorder for the BBC riding the "Ghost Train" in the fourth episode of the fourth season of the television documentary series Great Railway Journeys. Having spent between five weeks and a month on the journey, Watson used to the field recordings for his 2011 album El Tren Fantasma.
In 2016, a fictional character named Carlos introduced in the Thomas & Friends movie The Great Race was based on the preserved ex-Ferrocarriles Nacionales de México 2-8-0 steam locomotive No.903.

See also
List of Mexican railroads

References

External links

 Official website of Ferrocariles Nacionales de México en Liquidación

 
Defunct railway companies of Mexico
Privatized companies in Mexico
Railway companies established in 1903
1998 disestablishments in Mexico

Railway lines opened in 1903
Railway companies established in 1938
Railway lines opened in 1938
Railway companies disestablished in 1998
History of Mexico
Mexican companies established in 1903
Mexican companies established in 1938