[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Mike Pondsmith

me creators as well as Mike Pondsmith and other RTG designers will contribute on the newly formed cyberpunk.net blog.

Mike Pondsmith also voices two characters in Cyberpunk 2077, one of them being Maximum Mike the DJ of Morro Rock Radio, a continuation of his persona from the Cyberpunk sourcebooks.

Personal life
Pondsmith has a wife, Lisa, and a son, Cody who both work at RTG. Although Mike and Lisa had met earlier, their relationship began around 1977 while both were still in college. They were married in February 1982. Lisa serves as a general manager of RTG and has been credited in various titles, most notably as author alongside Jeff Grubb of The Memoirs of Auberon of Faerie sourcebook for the Castle Falkenstein system; and Cody is credited as a member of the production staff in the Cyberpunk V3.0 supplement Flashpak. He was also involved in the promotion and community communications relating to RTG's steampunk title Castle Falkenstein. Before designing games, Mike Pondsmith worked as an amateur paleontologist. In his spare time he collects plastic GI Joe action figures, prominently featured in Cyberpunk v3.0 core rulebook, and enjoys outdoor activities, reading, as well as playing around with radio-controlled cars and planes.

Public appearances
Pondsmith has been very active in gaming communities and has appeared at many gaming conventions over the years. He was present at many of the Gen Cons which led to his memories of his experiences to be featured in Robin D. Laws' 40 Years of Gen Con published in August 2007 by Atlas Games. He attended I-CON, A-Kon, Norwescon, Origins, DexCon, DunDraCon and others. Pondsmith was a guest of honor at Ropecon 1999, Astronomicon 2001 and I-CON 25 (March 24–26, 2006). Both Mike and his son Cody run various games during different gaming conventions. Pondsmith also appeared on stage to talk about the Cyberpunk 2077 video game during two of CD Projekt Red's conferences.

Academic career
Between years 2010 and 2011 Pondsmith was working in the Department of Game Software Design and Production at the DigiPen Institute of Technology in Redmond, where he taught game design classes. The two courses he taught were Game History (GAT 110) and Game Mechanics I (GAT 210).

Awards and recognitions
Various games designed or co-created by Mike Pondsmith received awards over the years.
 Teenagers from Outer Space received the RPGA Gamer's Choice Award.
 Castle Falkenstein received the Best Roleplaying Rules of 1994 Origins Award.
 Castle Falkenstein received the 1995 Nigel D. Findley Memorial Award for the Best Role-Playing Product.
 Six Guns and Sorcery for Castle Falkenstein written by Edward Bolme, James Cambias, Eric Floch, Angela Hyatt, Jim Parks, Derek Quintanar, Barrie Rosen, Mark Schumann, and Chris Williams received the Best Roleplaying Supplement of 1996 Origins Award.
 Teenagers from Outer Space received the Best Other Category Role-Playing Game of 1987 Origins Gamer's Choice Award.
 Cyberpunk received the Best Science-Fiction Role-Playing Game of 1989 Origins Gamer's Choice Award.
 Kara-Tur: The Eastern Realms written by Jay Batista, Deborah Christian, John Nephew, Mike Pondsmith, and Rick Swan received the Best Role-Playing Accessory of 1989 Origins Gamer's Choice Award.

On July 1, 2006, he was inducted into the Origins Awards Hall of fame, along with Jolly R. Blackburn, Rodger MacGowan, Dennis Mize (posthumously), Aaron Allston, and the game Star Fleet Battles.

On September 12, 2020, Pondsmith was presented with the Jerry Lawson Lifetime Achievement Award at the fourth annual Black in Gaming awards.

Board games designed
In 1990, during his time with TSR, Pondsmith co-designed three, two-player board games for the publisher.
 Attack in the Asteroids with Paul Lidberg and Kim Mohan
 Battle for the Sprawls with Paul Lidberg
 Craters of Tharsis with Paul Lidberg
Additionally R. Talsorian Games released Pondsmith's board game GoDice! in 2006. The initial release of Mekton is also considered to be a board game.

Bibliography
Mike Pondsmith worked on or contributed to various R. Talsorian Games' and TSR's products over the years and wrote several articles in gaming magazines.For R. Talsorian Games:For TSR'''

 Kara-Tur: The Eastern Realms (Oriental Adventures) (1988) with Jay Batista, Deborah Christian, John Nephew, Rick Swan ()
 Hall of Heroes (Forgotten Realms) (1989) with Jeff Grubb, James Lowder, David Edward Martin, Bruce Nesmith, Kate Novak, Steve Perrin, R. A. Salvatore ()
 Buck Rogers XXVc: The 25th Century Science Fiction Role Playing Game'' (1990)
 Boxed set contains: Characters & Combat, The World Book, The Technology Book, maps, cards, counters

References

External links 
 R. Talsorian Official Site
 R. Talsorian Games Store
 Mike Pondsmith at RPGGeek
 Mike Pondsmith at BoardGameGeek
 
Part 1, part 2, and part 3 of Mike Pondsmith's Introduction on the cyberpunk.net blog
 Mike Pondsmith at GenCon 2001  (photo)