[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Maricopa County Community College District

nd will oversee district entrepreneurial activities and initiatives, such as the business incubator on the GateWay Community College campus. It functions independently of the 10 Maricopa community colleges and two skill centers, while drawing on their faculty and facility resources when appropriate.

Center for Entrepreneurial Innovation (CEI)
The Center for Entrepreneurial Innovation constitutes a partnership among the City of Phoenix, the Economic Development Administration and the Maricopa County Community College District, as well as additional public and private partners.

Governance and leadership
The district is governed by a governing board, president, chancellor, and provost. The Governing Board of the Maricopa County Community College District has seven members, five elected from geographical districts within the Maricopa County, and two elected at-large positions by the voters of the entire county. The Chancellor of the Maricopa Community Colleges is the CEO of the 10-college system. The presidents at each college and 4 vice chancellors report to the Chancellor, who serves at the pleasure of the Governing Board.

Awards
 In 2015 The Maricopa Community Colleges won the Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting Program
 In 2015 The Maricopa Community Colleges won the Internet Advertising Competition in the category of Best Education Online Campaign
 In 2014 The Maricopa Community Colleges won the Internet Advertising Competition in the category of Best Education Online Newsletter Campaign & Best University Online Newsletter Campaign
 In 2012 The Maricopa Community Colleges Division of Business Services has been honored with an Outstanding Business Officer award by the Community College Business Officers organization (CCBO)
 In 2012 The Maricopa Community Colleges' Human Resources (HR) department has been profiled in the Fall 2012 edition of The Higher Education Workplace, a national publication of the college and University Professional Association for Human Resources (CUPA/HR)

Lectureships
Honors Forum Lectures: The Honors Forum Lecture Series features local and nationally known speakers who address specific issues related to a theme selected by Phi Theta Kappa. The Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) theme is chosen to bring unity to the Honors Program and the national PTK chapters at each college.

Fischl Lecture Series at Phoenix College: The Eric Fischl Lecture Series was launched in 2005 when American painter and sculpture Eric Fischl returned to Phoenix College for the first time since the late 1960s. Fischl, then student, studied at PC under renowned Southwestern landscape artist and faculty member Merrill Mahaffey.

Name confusion
The Maricopa Community College District, or Maricopa Community Colleges for short, is also known as the Maricopa County Community College District (MCCCD). This is the legal entity name of the District. Some confuse the Maricopa Community Colleges abbreviation for Mesa Community College (MCC), one of the ten Maricopa colleges. The District's official initialism, therefore, is MCCCD, while Mesa's is MCC.

References

External links
 Official website

 

 
Community colleges in Arizona
Education in Tempe, Arizona
School districts established in 1920
1920 establishments in Arizona