[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alex Rackley

informant from Panther circles identified Rackley's photograph and reported seeing Rackley being tortured, New Haven police raided the home of Warren Kimbro on May 22, arresting Kimbro and Huggins. Sams and McLucas escaped initial arrest but were captured later and brought to Connecticut for trial.

Trials
Kimbro and Sams both turned state's evidence and admitted their roles in the killing, in exchange for reducing the charges to second degree murder; although that crime carried a mandatory sentence of life imprisonment, both men would be freed after serving four years.
McLucas confessed his part in the murder when he was arrested but chose to stand trial and pleaded not guilty to conspiracy to commit murder and other charges. His and the other defendants' trials became one of the defining battlegrounds for the radical movement, as thousands of re-energized Panthers and pro-Panther protesters poured into New Haven, disrupting city life and school business on the campus of Yale University. Yale president Kingman Brewster, who suspended some of the campus rules in order to dispel tensions in the student body, famously commented that he doubted whether a black revolutionary could get a fair trial in America.

Ripples from the case continued to spread when Sams testified that in killing Rackley, he had been acting on direct orders from Bobby Seale, who had stopped by the Orchard Street headquarters on May 20 after his Yale speech. Sams also implicated Ericka Huggins in the decision to execute Rackley. Kimbro did not corroborate Sams's evidence about Seale, and although the FBI and New Haven police gave this investigative angle their full attention, no further evidence of Seale's involvement was found. Nevertheless, both Seale and Huggins were arrested and held for trial in Connecticut.

During his trial, McLucas again admitted firing the second shot into Rackley's body but insisted he had been an unwilling collaborator in the killing. Jurors listened to audio recordings the Panthers had made of Rackley's whimpering, tortured voice during his two days of agony. In September 1970, Lonnie McLucas was found guilty and sentenced to 12 to 15 years in prison. The deliberations of the racially mixed jury, which lasted 33 hours over six days, were the longest in Connecticut history to date, and the jurors acquitted McLucas of other, more serious charges, including a capital charge for kidnapping leading to death. His enormously relieved defense attorney, Theodore Roskoff, declared, "The judge was fair, the jury was fair, and, in this case, a black revolutionary was given a fair trial."

In October, Seale and Huggins' trial began. Seale was represented by Charles Garry and Huggins by Catherine Roraback. George Sams, the one-time "field marshal", testified again. By this time, Sams was reviled by the Panthers as a traitor and accused of being a renegade psychopath who had killed Rackley on his own and who was pinning the crime on Seale to please his new masters in the "Establishment". It was even suggested that Sams had been in cahoots with the FBI all along, that he was the real informant and had accused and murdered Rackley to cover his tracks.

The jury deadlocked: 11 to 1 for Seale's acquittal and 10 to 2 for Huggins's acquittal. The prosecution declined to retry the case.

Legacy
Although Seale's prosecution galvanized the American radical left and Seale walked away from the trial without being convicted, the proceedings in New Haven have been called a Pyrrhic victory for the Panthers. The trials had exposed the internal strife and distrust that was undermining the Panther movement and confirmed for the public that the Black Panthers were capable of committing extreme acts of violence. The influence of the national movement soon waned.

References

Sources

Further reading

External links
The Black Panther Party at Internet Archive
New Haven Black Panther Trials at The Clio
The New Haven Tape audio tape uncovered by the New Haven Independent in 2013 of interrogation of Rackley

1950 births
1969 deaths
1969 murders in the United States
Assassinated American activists
Members of the Black Panther Party
COINTELPRO targets
Deaths by firearm in Connecticut
Murdered African-American people
People murdered in Connecticut
American torture victims
Activists from New York (state)