[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 9]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

not like that," objected Fred.

"I speak only from my own narrow experience," said Hadria.

"Oh, she is thinking, as usual, of that unfortunate Mrs. Gordon!" cried
Ernest.

"Of her, and the rest of the average, typical sort of people that I
know," Hadria admitted. "I wish to heaven I had a wider knowledge to
speak from."

"If one is to believe what one hears and reads," said Algitha, "life
must be full of sorrow indeed."

"But putting aside the big sorrows," said her sister, "the ordinary
every day existence that would be called prosperous, seems to me to be
dull and stupid to a tragic extent."

"The Gordons of Drumgarran once more! I confess I can't see anything
particularly tragic there," observed Fred, whose memory recalled troops
of stalwart young persons in flannels, engaged for hours, in sending a
ball from one side of a net to the other.

"It is more than tragic; it is disgusting!" cried Hadria with a shiver.
Algitha drew herself together. She turned to her eldest brother.

"Look here, Ernest; you said just now that girls were shielded from the
realities of life. Yet Mrs. Gordon was handed over by her protectors,
when she was little more than a school-girl, without knowledge, without
any sort of resource or power of facing destiny, to--well, to the
hateful realities of the life that she has led now for over twenty
years. There is nothing to win general sympathy in this case, for Mr.
Gordon is good and kind; but oh, think of the existence that a
'protected,' carefully brought-up girl may be launched into, before she
knows what she is pledged to, or what her ideas of life may be! If
_that_ is what you call protection, for heaven's sake let us remain
defenceless."

Fred and Ernest accused their elder sister of having been converted by
Hadria. Algitha, honest and courageous in big things and in small, at
once acknowledged the source of her ideas. Not so long ago, Algitha had
differed from the daughters of the neighbouring houses, rather in force
of character than in sentiment.

She had followed the usual aims with unusual success, giving unalloyed
satisfaction to her proud mother. Algitha had taken it as a matter of
course that she would some day marry, and have a house of her own to
reign in. A home, not a husband, was the important matter, and Algitha
had trusted to her attractions to make a good marriage; that is, to
obtain extensive regions for her activities. She craved a roomy stage
for her drama, and obviously there was only one method of obtaining it,
and even that method was but dubious. But Hadria had undermined this
matter of fact, take-things-as-you-find-them view, and set her sister's
pride on the track. That master-passion once aroused in the new
direction, Algitha was ready to defend her dignity as a woman, and as a
human being, to the death. Hadria felt as a magician might feel, who has
conjured up spirits henceforth beyond his control; for obviously, her
sister's whole life would be altered by this change of sentiment, and,
alas, her mother's hopes must be disappointed. The laird of Clarenoc--a
fine property, of which Algitha might have been mistress--had received
polite discouragement, much to his surprise and that of the
neighbourhood. Even Ernest, who was by no means worldly, questioned the
wisdom of his sister's decision; for the laird of Clarenoc was a good
fellow, and after all, let them talk as they liked, what was to become
of a girl unless she married? This morning's conversation therefore
touched closely on burning topics.

"Mrs. Gordon's people meant it for the best, I suppose," Ernest
observed, "when they married her to a good man with a fine property."

"That is just the ghastly part of it!" cried Hadria; "from ferocious
enemies a girl might defend herself, but what is she to do against the
united efforts of devoted friends?"

"I don't suppose Mrs. Gordon is aware that she is so ill-used!"

"Another gruesome circumstance!" cried Hadria, with a half laugh; "for
that only proves that her life has dulled her self-respect, and
destroyed her pride."

"But, my dear, every woman is in the same predicament, if predicament it
be!"

"What a consolation!" Hadria exclaimed, "_all_ the foxes have lost
their tails!"

"It may be illogical, but people generally are immensely comforted by
that circumstance."

The conversation waxed warmer and more personal. Fred took a
conservative view of the question. He thought that there were instincts
implanted by Nature, which inspired Mrs. Gordon with a yearning for
exactly the sort of existence that fate had assigned to her. Algitha,
who had been the recipient of that lady's tragic confidences, broke into
a shout of laughter.

"Well, Harold Wilkins says----"

This name was also greeted with a yell of derision.

"I don't see why you girls always scoff so at Harold Wilkins," said
Fred, slightly aggrieved, "he is generally thought a lot of by girls.
All