[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 164]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

d of his mere grace, to bestow Eternall Life upon
the faithfull. And though at that time the Patriarchs and many other
faithfull men were Dead, yet as it is in the text, they Lived To God;
that is, they were written in the Book of Life with them that were
absolved of their sinnes, and ordained to Life eternall at the
Resurrection. That the Soul of man is in its own nature Eternall, and
a living Creature independent on the Body; or that any meer man is
Immortall, otherwise than by the Resurrection in the last day, (except
Enos and Elias,) is a doctrine not apparent in Scripture. The whole 14.
Chapter of Job, which is the speech not of his friends, but of himselfe,
is a complaint of this Mortality of Nature; and yet no contradiction of
the Immortality at the Resurrection. "There is hope of a tree," (saith
hee verse 7.) "if it be cast down, Though the root thereof wax old, and
the stock thereof die in the ground, yet when it scenteth the water
it will bud, and bring forth boughes like a Plant. But man dyeth, and
wasteth away, yea, man giveth up the Ghost, and where is he?" and (verse
12.) "man lyeth down, and riseth not, till the heavens be no more." But
when is it, that the heavens shall be no more? St. Peter tells us, that
it is at the generall Resurrection. For in his 2. Epistle, 3. Chapter,
and 7. verse, he saith, that "the Heavens and the Earth that are now,
are reserved unto fire against the day of Judgment, and perdition of
ungodly men," and (verse 12.) "looking for, and hasting to the comming
of God, wherein the Heavens shall be on fire, and shall be dissolved,
and the Elements shall melt with fervent heat. Neverthelesse, we
according to the promise look for new Heavens, and a new Earth, wherein
dwelleth righteousnesse." Therefore where Job saith, man riseth not till
the Heavens be no more; it is all one, as if he had said, the Immortall
Life (and Soule and Life in the Scripture, do usually signifie the same
thing) beginneth not in man, till the Resurrection, and day of Judgment;
and hath for cause, not his specificall nature, and generation; but the
Promise. For St. Peter saies not, "Wee look for new heavens, and a new
earth, (from Nature) but from Promise."

Lastly, seeing it hath been already proved out of divers evident places
of Scripture, in the 35. chapter of this book, that the Kingdom of God
is a Civil Common-wealth, where God himself is Soveraign, by vertue
first of the Old, and since of the New Covenant, wherein he reigneth by
his Vicar, or Lieutenant; the same places do therefore also prove, that
after the comming again of our Saviour in his Majesty, and glory, to
reign actually, and Eternally; the Kingdom of God is to be on Earth. But
because this doctrine (though proved out of places of Scripture not few,
nor obscure) will appear to most men a novelty; I doe but propound
it; maintaining nothing in this, or any other paradox of Religion;
but attending the end of that dispute of the sword, concerning the
Authority, (not yet amongst my Countrey-men decided,) by which all sorts
of doctrine are to bee approved, or rejected; and whose commands, both
in speech, and writing, (whatsoever be the opinions of private men) must
by all men, that mean to be protected by their Laws, be obeyed. For
the points of doctrine concerning the Kingdome (of) God, have so great
influence on the Kingdome of Man, as not to be determined, but by them,
that under God have the Soveraign Power.




The Place After Judgment, Of Those Who Were Never In The Kingdome Of
God, Or Having Been In, Are Cast Out

As the Kingdome of God, and Eternall Life, so also Gods Enemies, and
their Torments after Judgment, appear by the Scripture, to have their
place on Earth. The name of the place, where all men remain till the
Resurrection, that were either buryed, or swallowed up of the Earth, is
usually called in Scripture, by words that signifie Under Ground; which
the Latines read generally Infernus, and Inferni, and the Greeks Hades;
that is to say, a place where men cannot see; and containeth as well the
Grave, as any other deeper place. But for the place of the damned after
the Resurrection, it is not determined, neither in the Old, nor New
Testament, by any note of situation; but onely by the company: as that
it shall bee, where such wicked men were, as God in former times in
extraordinary, and miraculous manner, had destroyed from off the face of
the Earth: As for Example, that they are in Inferno, in Tartarus, or in
the bottomelesse pit; because Corah, Dathan, and Abirom, were swallowed
up alive into the earth. Not that the Writers of the Scripture would
have us beleeve, there could be in the globe of the Earth, which is
not only finite, but also (compared to the height of the Stars) of no
considerable magnitude, a pit without a bottome; that is, a hole of
infinite depth, such as the Greeks in their Daemonologie (that is to
say, in their doctrine concerni