[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Homi Sethna

Homi Nusserwanji Sethna (24 August 1923 – 5 September 2010) was an Indian nuclear scientist and a chemical engineer, gaining international fame as the Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission (India) during the time when the first nuclear test, codename Smiling Buddha in Pokhran Test Range in 1974 was conducted. He was the primary and central figure in India's civilian nuclear program as well as the construction of nuclear power plants. In 1991, he was appointed as Sheriff of Mumbai.

He was awarded the second highest civilian award the Padma Vibhushan in 1975, by Government of India.

Earlier in his career, he had full technical responsibility for setting up of the Thorium extraction plant at Alwaye, Kerala India, for separation of rare earth from monazite sands.

Early life and education
Sethna was born to a Parsi family on 24 August 1923 in Bombay (now Mumbai). He did his schooling from St. Xavier's High School, Fort, Bombay. He studied chemical engineering at University Department of Chemical Technology and the University of Michigan Ann Arbor.

Homi Sethna's younger brother was the noted lawyer Rusi Sethna. Incidentally, Rusi Sethna's daughter, Behrouz Mistry, is the wife of Shapoorji Mistry, elder son of Pallonji Mistry and elder brother of Cyrus Mistry.

Career
He was formerly Chairman of Atomic Energy Commission, in 1976 he became the first chairman of Maharashtra Academy of Sciences, located in Pune, Maharashtra.

Head of Trombay Nuclear Facility
He completed the construction of the Thorium plant and the plant for the production of nuclear grade uranium metal at Trombay, India. His first major challenging assignment was the setting up of the Plutonium Plant at Trombay in 1959. This was designed and constructed entirely by Indian scientists and engineers under H. N. Sethna as the Project Engineer. The Uranium Mill at Jaduguda, Jharkhand was also constructed under his guidance in 1967. He was also the Project Manager of a 40 MW reactor called Canada-India Reactor in 1956–58.

Indian atomic test of 1974
He was the guiding force behind the first peaceful nuclear explosion, Project Smiling Buddha in India on 18 May 1974, and in 1975, Homi Sethna, then chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, Raja Ramanna and Basanti Dulal Nagchaudhuri (head of the DRDO) received the Padma Vibhushan.

Awards
 1959: Padma Shri
 1960: SS Bhatnagar Prize
 1966: Padma Bhushan
 1967: University of Michigan Sesquicentennial Award
 1975: Padma Vibhushan

References

External links
 Homi N. Sethna on 123 Nuclear deal The Hindu.

1923 births
2010 deaths
Indian nuclear physicists
Indian chemical engineers
Parsi people from Mumbai
Recipients of the Padma Shri in science & engineering
Recipients of the Padma Bhushan in civil service
Recipients of the Padma Vibhushan in civil service
Institute of Chemical Technology alumni
University of Michigan alumni
Fellows of the Indian National Science Academy
Fellows of the Indian Academy of Sciences
20th-century Indian chemists
Scientists from Mumbai
20th-century Indian physicists
Sheriffs of Mumbai
Parsi people
Recipients of the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Award in Engineering Science
Rare earth scientists