[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Human trafficking in the Philippines

Human trafficking and the prostitution of children has been a significant issue in the Philippines, often controlled by organized crime syndicates.
Human trafficking is a crime against humanity.

With the Philippines having a large migrant population, the men are used for fishing, construction, and farming. Women are exploited in more domestic and caretaker roles. Children are exploited for sex and labor trafficking.

In an effort to deal with the problem, the Philippines passed R.A. 9208, the Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2003, a penal law against human trafficking, sex tourism, sex slavery and child prostitution.
In 2006, enforcement was reported to be inconsistent. But by 2017, the U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons had placed the country in "Tier 1" (fully compliant with minimum standards of the U.S. Trafficking Victims Protection Act).

Statistics
An undated United Nations Children's Fund (Unicef) document estimated that 60,000 to 100,000 children in the Philippines were involved in prostitution rings. According to the International Labour Organization (ILO) about 100,000 children were involved in prostitution . There is a high incidence of child prostitution in tourist areas. An undetermined number of children are forced into exploitative labour operations.

As of 2020, the Philippines is ranked as Tier 1 in the Trafficking in Persons Report of the United States (US) State Department after substantial efforts.

Problem areas and history
A report published in 2004 by the Vatican stated: The Philippines has a serious trafficking problem of women and children illegally recruited into the tourist industry for sexual exploitation. Destinations within the country are Metro Manila, Angeles City, Olongapo City, towns in Bulacan, Batangas, Cebu City, Davao and Cagayan de Oro City and other sex tourist resorts such as Puerto Galera, Pagsanjan, San Fernando Pampanga, and many beach resorts throughout the country. The promise of recruiters offers women and children attractive jobs in the country or abroad, and instead they are coerced and forced and controlled into the sex industry for tourists.

Puerto Galera
There are numerous cases of child molestation that have been reported in Puerto Galera, a beach resort on Mindoro Island three hours south of Manila. The area is a favorite for foreign child molesters seeking children. Puerto Galera was described in 1997 as one of the Philippines top five spots for child prostitution.

Angeles City
In 1991 a volcanic eruption of Mount Pinatubo forced an evacuation and destroyed much of the Clark Air Base, a major United States military facility located 40 miles (60 km) northwest of Manila, which closed shortly thereafter. Most of the sex trade around the base closed at the same time due to the loss of the GI customers.  Mayor Alfredo Lim proceeded to crack down on Manila's remaining sex industry, causing many of these businesses to relocate to Angeles City, which borders on the closed base, and was becoming a popular tourist destination especially with former GIs.
By the late 1990s, UNICEF estimated that there are 60,000 child prostitutes in the Philippines, describing Angeles City brothels as "notorious" for offering sex with children.
In 1997, the BBC reported that UNICEF estimated many of the 200 brothels in the notorious Angeles City offer children for sex.

The current trade is dominated by Australian bar operators and sustained by tourists seeking inexpensive sex.
In bars catering mostly to foreign men, girls are sold for a "bar fine".
Conditions are sometimes brutal Children and teenagers are lured into the industry from poor areas by promises of money and care, and are kept there by threats, debt bondage and the fear of poverty.
Angeles City is one of the largest sex tourist destinations in the world with just over 15 thousand women working in its various sex establishments (brothels, bars and videokes).

In 2005, UNICEF reported evidence of growing child pornography production in Angeles City.
Children as young as ten years old have been rescued from brothels in Angeles.

STD cases rose five times. The RHWC treated 1,421 cases in 2005, 2,516 cases in 2006 and 6,229 cases in 2007. Most of the afflicted were women.