[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Siege of Worcester

iament, and if he gave the promise then, but not until then, was his pass handed over to him. On receipt of the passes they marched off.

At about 17:00 Rainsborough entered Worcester. He had already sent in some of his troops, and he thus finished the first Civil War, so far as Worcestershire went.

Although the article of surrender included a provision that the garrison should be allowed to leave with their personal arms and possessions, Thomas Fairfax wrote to the Speaker of the House of Commons reporting that Major-General Massey's horse "have made a most dishonourable breach upon the articles of Worcester, by plundering and violating those that marched out of that city". This action among others cause Parliament to order the disbandment the regiment.

Aftermath
No time was lost in getting rid of the besieging army. It was determined to retain in Worcestershire only one regiment of foot, 100 horse, and some dragoons, as a guard for the sheriff. The rest were marched off into other Counties.

Although the fighting was over, Worcester was made to feel the heavy hand of the conqueror. On 24 July Rainsborough ordered all arms to be brought in on pain of death; all Royalist soldiers to depart the city within ten days; and that, while in the town, no Royalist should wear a sword. Having disarmed the citizens the committee got to work the next day, 25 July, by beginning to make an inventory of all estates, demanding a contribution of 25 per cent. Any man they pleased to call so became a delinquent, and was "then so squeezed that he could not recover in an age".

The committee consisted of Sir Thomas Rous; Nicholas Lechmere, of Hanley; Daniel Dobyns, of Kidderminster; Colonel William Lygon, of Madresfield; John Egiock, of Feckenham; Major Richard Salwey, second son of Humphrey Salwey, of Stanford; Captain Thomas Milward, of Alvechurch; Thomas Cookes, of Bentley; William Moore, of Alvechurch; Major Edward Smith, William Collins, of King's Norton; William Younge, of Evesham; John Younge, servant to Lord Brooke; John Fownes, of Dodford Priory; John Giles, of Astley; Colonel William Dingley, governor of Evesham.

The prisoners Parliament took and obliged to compound included among others: Sherington, Talbot, of Salwarp; Edward Vernon, of Hanbury; Philip Brace, of Dovedale; John Washborne, of Wichenford ; Francis Finch, of Rushock; Sir Thomas Lyttelton, late governor of Bewdley; Edward Sheldon, of Beoley, a condition of whose composition was that he should stay at home; Mrs. Pakington, of Harvington, who had leave to stay at home. Sir John Pakington, of Hampton Lovett, who was the then member for Aylesbury; and Sir Henry Herbert, of Ribbesford, who was then member for Bewdley, voluntarily went and compounded.

The committee got rapidly to work. They first dealt with the Mayor of Worcester (Mr. Eviits):

It was as conquerors that the task was carried out. The Worcestershire Royalists were made to feel that they were the conquered. There was no more fighting. The time was spent in fining, compounding, sequestrating. So far as war was concerned there was a lull. There was to be no more fighting within the borders of Worcestershire for the next five years (until the Worcester Campaign of the Third Civil War).

Notes

Citations

References

 

 

Attribution:

Further reading

 

Military history of Worcestershire
History of Worcester, England
Worcester
1646 in England
Conflicts in 1646
17th century in Worcestershire