[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# SOBT

and its directorates became separate services for intelligence, counterintelligence, combating organized crime, and close protection service for the state officials, etc. The unit was placed directly under the subordination of the Minister of the Interior.

In total 152 men are serving in the SOBT.

In the year 2003 the unit was once again reorganized, gaining its current name of Specialized Counter Terrorism Unit (Bulgarian: Специализиран отряд за борба с тероризма (SOBT)) and the following structure:

Headquarters (14 men)
Office (5 men)
Planning Group (6 men)
Logistics Department (26 men)
 Transportation and vehicles (11 men)
 Communication (3 men)
 Armory (2 men)
 Economic base (10 men)
Operations and Missions Department (101 men)
 Headquarters (9 men)
 Defence and tactical security (4 men)
 4 Commando groups/ Sectors 01-04 (19 men)
 Group leader (1 man)
 3 Teams  (6 men)
 Sector "Training and Education" (12 men)
 Fitness and martial arts (1 man)
 Group "Combat and Para" (5 men)
 Group "Tactical Training" (2 men)
 Group "Strategic Training" (2 men)
 Group "Pyrotechnics and Demolitions" (2 men)

Training and selection
When there are vacant slots within SOBT, or new roles must be filled, the Bulgarian ministry of interior affairs (MVR) releases dates for a selection exam on its official website. This examination lasts 2 days, during which volunteers will be expected to demonstrate an adequate level of physical condition, and undergo a brief psychological test in the form of a one hour interview. Note that there is no requirement for previous experience with firearms. After successfully passing selection, fresh units undergo heavy training for about 6 months. That is usually enough time for the men to go through all of the training to be assigned to a unit and be ready for deployment. The entry examination is not overly selective with the goal of having the 6 month training period act as the main filter. Naturally, daily rigorous training and exercises continue even after these 6 months. To be a team leader requires extensive training that could mean at least one more year of training though some train for three additional years. After around a year of being in the unit, operators can be selected for a more specific role, such as sniper, diver or paratrooper. The selection for these roles is entirely done by the SOBT instructors and current manpower needs. The SOBT has conducted training exercises with respected foreign special forces teams, such as the french RAID (French Police unit). Around the year 2016, SOBT appears to have collaborated with a US special forces Liaison element, during which both equipment and new, extensive tactical knowledge was acquired by SOBT. According to an interview with a lead SOBT instructor, the positive results of this collaboration were clear in the 2018 ATLAS exercise.

Equipment

Armour
The SOBT uses armoured vehicles to get around and a body armour superior in ballistic characteristics to the standard Kevlar Vest. They also use other heat and fire-resistant clothing as well as various weather-proof clothes.

References

External links
Spetsnaz-BG:How to enter SOBT

Non-military counterterrorist organizations
Special forces of Bulgaria
Terrorism in Bulgaria
ATLAS Network