[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hoodoo Mountain

and cooled very quickly, forming a barrier around the entire volcano. This is demonstrated by the glassy texture of the lava and columnar jointing, which indicate fairly quick cooling of an erupted lava flow. The lava cooled, pooled and as the glacial ice receded, it left behind massive lava cliffs.

Subfeatures
The south–central side of Hoodoo Mountain contains a large depression called Long Valley. This feature, having formed by glacial erosion, contains a series of domes with adjacent lava spines. Pointer Ridge on the north–central side of Hoodoo Mountain consists of pyroclastic rocks that form a  stratigraphic unit. The Wall, a more than  cliff at the western base of Hoodoo Mountain, forms the front of an ice-marginal lava flow that displays columnar jointing. The Monument on the southwestern side of Hoodoo Mountain is a vertical rock column that reaches more than  in height. It is the eroded remains of a volcanic vent that was fed by a west-trending dike. Horn Ridge, a  ridge on the north side of Hoodoo Mountain, consists of highly vesicular lava flows that are locally heavily jointed.

The northeastern side of Hoodoo Mountain contains a J-shaped cliff called The Hook. Like The Wall to the southwest, The Hook is the front of an ice-marginal lava flow. Slide Canyon consists of a large chasm that cuts deeply into the southwestern side of Hoodoo Mountain. It is intruded by several dikes, including the one that fed The Monument. Pumice Point on the northwestern side of Hoodoo Mountain contains highly vesicular, lapilli to block-sized fragments of "woody pumice" up to  long. Extending from the northwestern side of Hoodoo Mountain is the Northwest Flow, a lava flow with well-preserved levees. Lava channels up to  wide occur throughout the flow. The Southwest Flow is a large lava flow on the southwestern side of Hoodoo Mountain that appears to have issued from a poorly formed cinder cone.

Volcanic history

Hoodoo Mountain has experienced at least six eruptive periods over the last 85,000 years. This includes three periods involving volcano-ice interaction and three periods with no apparent ice involvement. They were marked by pyroclastic eruptions, lava flows and subglacial eruptions of peralkaline magmas. These magmas were phonolitic and trachytic in composition, having possibly evolved from differentiation of alkali basaltic melts in the mid-crust. Several tephra layers in the Bob Quinn Lake, Dease Lake and Finlay River areas of northern British Columbia may have originated from Hoodoo Mountain.

Eruptive periods
The first eruptive period 85,000 years ago produced massive subglacial lava flows and associated hyaloclastite breccia. These volcanic deposits are mainly exposed on the southwestern and northwestern flanks where they are about  thick. The lava flows display small diameter columnar joints and are aphanitic in nature with low vesicularity. It remains unclear whether or not the subglacial eruptions during this period completely melted the overlying ice. Glacial till underlying the southwestern flank indicates that the area had already experienced past glaciations before the onset of volcanic activity.

Subaerial eruptions from near the summit took place during the second eruptive period 80,000 years ago. Lava travelled down slope from an elevation of roughly  but was then confined by thick glacial ice at an elevation of about . Here, the lava cooled and pooled to create the lower discontinuous set of cliffs around the entire base of Hoodoo Mountain. These ice-marginal lava flows vary from about  to more than  thick and often contain horizontally oriented columnar joints, indicative of a vertical cooling surface. The Wall at the western base of Hoodoo Mountain formed during this eruptive period. Subsequent glacial movements over these flows created north–south trending striations that are consistent with current movements of the Hoodoo and Twin glaciers. Both of these valley glaciers are now roughly  below the striations due to their ongoing glacial retreat.

After the regional ice had disappeared from lower elevations, subaerial explosive eruptions of the third eruptive period took place between 80,000–54,000 years ago. This explosivity generated pyroclastic flows on the northern flank where they deposited a roughly  sequence of pyroclastic material. The sequence comprises non-welded lapilli tuff within a matrix of yellow to light green ash, as well as three highly welded lenses up to about  thick. Volcanic glass of phonolitic or trachytic composition occurs within the sequence. A  subaerial lava flow travelled down the north–central and northeast flanks of Hoodoo Mountain during the latter stages of this eruptive period. It directly overlies the pyroclastic sequence and contains abundant fresh and devitrified glass.