[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Paraguayan War casualties

ans died or were displaced by the War of the Triple Alliance?  All our findings indicate that the number must have been tremendous. Previous references to an 18 percent loss, a 30 percent loss, or even a 50 percent loss must now be set aside. The true figure appears to have reached 60 to 69 percent.

This paper attracted criticism from the Dutch human geographer Jan Kleinpenning  in his paper 'Strong Reservations about “New Insights into the Demographics of the Paraguayan War” '.  Kleinpenning asked how they knew that the census was reliable seeing that in 1870 “Paraguay was a thoroughly damaged and disorganized country”.  Unless one assumed an unfeasible large growth rate its figures conflicted with later censuses.  He also criticised the paper for failing to use certain population data, long available in German language sources, including an 1873 census that put the population at 221,079.  Summarising his criticism, Professor Kleinpenning wrote:To conclude, it appears that Whigham and Potthast have too readily considered the 1870 census results reliable data, enthusiastic as they were about having found a new source of information on Paraguay's postwar population. They have paid too little attention to other postwar figures and the work of Reber.

However, despite those criticisms, while not able to support the more extreme figures traditionally claimed, Kleinpenning concluded as follows:
Because Whigham and Potthast have made a serious attempt to correct the results of the 1846 census and the annual growth rate they assume seems to be realistic, I am inclined to take their 1846 figures as the basis. In that case, population losses due to the war rank between 43.1 and 51.5 percent.  This range is less than the 60 to 69 percent suggested but still perfectly in line with what always has been said: when the War of the Triple Alliance ended, Paraguay had lost about half its population.  The losses were, in my opinion, somewhat less dramatic than Whigham and Potthast calculated.  Yet this interpretation remains a sad one.  The most optimistic calculation that can be drawn, using Reber’s figure, is that at least a quarter of the Paraguayan population was lost.

In her own response 'Comment on “The Paraguayan Rosetta Stone”' Professor Reber did not have a high opinion of this Rosetta Stone.
The challenge of obtaining a complete census in 1870 must have been daunting.  The Allied Powers (Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay) had established a provisional government in Asunción, and Paraguay was in the process of creating a new constitution.  Brazilian troops did not evacuate Paraguay until June of 1876…
Even assuming that it was in the interest of the Allied Powers to conduct a census, to what degree would Paraguayans have cooperated?  Before the war, the Paraguayan government carried out censuses on crop production and the availability of men for the military.  Previous Paraguayan experience with military recruitment may have led potential respondents to avoid cooperating with any government in census taking…

The 'Rosetta Stone' seemed even more dubious in the light of the ensuing census:
Whigham and Potthast's analysis of the 1870 count becomes more questionable on comparing it with the 1886 census…  If one accepts both the Whigham and Potthast count and [the] revised census for 1886, the Paraguayan population would have grown in sixteen years from 166,351 to 329,645.  No country can possibly double its population in sixteen years without heavy immigration.  No such record [of immigration] exists for Paraguay.

In their reply 'Refining the Numbers: A Response to Reber and Kleinpenning' Whigham and Potthast attacked Reber's paper.  Here we summarise their responses to her two main points, viz. that a census carried out by defeated Paraguayans on the orders of a provisional government upheld by the occupying Allies was unlikely to be reliable, and that its count implied an unfeasible population increase in the ensuing sixteen years.

To the first of those points Whigham and Potthast offered the following reply:
Reber speculates that "previous Paraguayan experience with military recruitment may have led the people to avoid cooperating with any government in census taking".  This observation is ahistorical, as well as being beside the point.  By late 1869, the Paraguayan Army had largely disintegrated, and no recruitment was in progress.  No villager could mistake the head-counting of a locally known individual for the brutal incursions a press-gang,  In this instance, Reber is fishing in a dead pond.