[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Police use of firearms in the United Kingdom

In the United Kingdom police firearm policy varies by constituent countries. In Northern Ireland, all police officers carry firearms whereas in the rest of the United Kingdom, firearms are carried only by specially-trained firearms officers. The arming of police in Great Britain is a much debated topic. 

However, the Police Service of Northern Ireland (formerly the Royal Ulster Constabulary), Northern Ireland Security Guard Service, Ministry of Defence Police, Civil Nuclear Constabulary, Belfast Harbour Police, Belfast International Airport Constabulary, and some of the Specialist Operations units of the Metropolitan Police involved in firearms and counter-terrorism policing are all issued firearms as a matter of routine. Every force also has a firearms unit, with armed response vehicles.

The vast majority of officers are instead issued with other items for personal defence, such as speedcuffs, extendable "ASP" batons, and incapacitant sprays such as PAVA or CS spray. While not firearms, incapacitant sprays are subject to some of the same rules and regulations as a projectile firing firearm under Section 5 (b) of the Firearms Act 1968.

Since 2004, police forces have issued Tasers to Authorised Firearms Officers for use against armed assailants which are considered by the authorities to be a less-lethal alternative to conventional firearms.

History 
The history of officers not being armed originates from the formation of the Metropolitan Police Service in the 19th century and is partly due to public fears and objections of armed enforcers. It had been seen as the responsibility of the British Army to maintain order when needed.

Ireland
The Irish Constabulary (later known as the Royal Irish Constabulary), the police force in Ireland from 1822 until 1922, when the country was part of the United Kingdom, was a paramilitary force. Its members were armed with carbines and sword bayonets.

Northern Ireland
Male members of Northern Ireland's police force, the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC), were armed from the beginning due to the threat from the  Irish Republican Army (IRA). The first female members were armed in 1993. Firearms were used routinely by the RUC during The Troubles, and a number of people were killed by RUC firearms or plastic bullets during that time. In 2001 the RUC became the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI). It remained an armed police force, partly due to the continued threat from dissident Irish republicanism. Today, the PSNI have wide-ranging anti-terrorism powers through various acts of parliament not available elsewhere in the UK. Police officers at PSNI have access to a wide range of weapons, which include firearms, CS spray, water cannon, attenuating energy projectiles and tasers.

Northern Ireland also has a ballistics register, which covers both police and civilian-held firearms. It is mandated that during registration, all weapons undergo test firing and that the fired bullet and cartridge case must be stored by the police for the purpose of forensic examination. This is in the event that the weapon is used in a crime or when determining lawful shooting for police officers.

There is an emerging view that the exceptionalism of the Northern Ireland police force is already fading. This is, however, not due to changes at PSNI but on account of the increasing adoption of its policing methods and practices in the rest of the UK.

Great Britain
Police use of firearms in Great Britain has been tightly limited with senior officers, politicians and the general public preferring forces to retain an approach of policing by respect and consent. 

During the Second World War, it was decided that police would provide armed guards at sites deemed a risk from enemy sabotage, such as 10 Downing Street and the Royal Family and to assist the British Armed Forces in the event of an invasion. Metropolitan Police Officers were given access to an arsenal of weapons only to be used in case of invasion but were never taken on general patrol. To fire the Webley & Scott revolver officers were expected to pass an exam consisting of firing six shots at a target with three shots needed to hit the target to pass.

On 1 June 1940, 3,500 Ross Rifles, which had last seen service in 1916, and 72,384 rounds of .303 ammunition were distributed among Police divisions.

After the Second World War, concerns were aired by the Home Office about the readiness of Police Forces in case of another war. It was decided that the Ministry of Defence would issue Sten Guns, Lee–Enfield No4 Mk IIs, revolvers and ammunition to Police Divisions around the country. These were stored in secret depots around the United Kingdom, giving every force quicker access to the weapons.