[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Totskoye nuclear exercise

red with a thin glassy crust of melted sand, crunchy and breaking underfoot, like a thin ice on spring puddles after a night frost. And there were no footprints on it, except for my own. I walked quietly along this crust, since the radiometer registered a level of radioactivity not exceeding 1 R/h."

The residents of villages (Bogdanovka, Fyodorovka and others) that were situated around  from the hypocenter of the future explosion were offered temporary evacuation outside the  radius. The nearest villages were generally not affected by the blast, except for a number of  houses located less than  from the explosion site that caught fire and burned down. They were evacuated by the military and temporarily accommodated in military tents. During the exercise, the residents received daily payment, while their property was insured. Those of them who decided not to return after the operation was complete, were provided with newly built four-room furnished houses near the Samarka river or obtained financial compensation.

A few days afterwards, Soviet scientists received detailed reports on the test and began to study the impact of the nuclear blast on model houses, shelters, vehicles, vegetation and experimental animals affected by the explosion. On 17 September 1954, the Soviet newspaper Pravda published a report on the exercise: "In accordance with the plan of scientific and experimental works, a test of one of the types of nuclear weapons has been conducted in the Soviet Union in the last few days. The purpose of the test was to examine the effects of nuclear explosion. Valuable results have been obtained that will help Soviet scientists and engineers to successfully solve the task of protecting the country from nuclear attack". The results of the exercise were discussed at a scientific conference at the Kuybyshev Military Academy in Moscow and served as the basis for the Soviet program of defense against nuclear warfare.

See also
 List of nuclear weapons tests of the Soviet Union
 Desert Rock exercises, the United States's closest counterpart.

References

"Nuclear Testing in the USSR. Volume 2. Soviet Nuclear Testing Technologies. Environmental Effects. Safety Provisions. Nuclear Test Sites", Begell-House, Inc., New York, 1998
A.A. Romanyukha, E.A. Ignatiev, D.V. Ivanov and A.G. Vasilyev, "The Distance Effect on the Individual Exposures Evaluated from the Soviet Nuclear Bomb Test in 1954 at Totskoye Test Site in 1954", Radiation Protection Dosimetry 86:53–58 (1999) online abstract
 
 
In the zone of nuclear blast (Russian) by General of Aviation Ostroumov
Truth about the testing site of death (Russian), a publication by Moskovskii Komsomolets

External links
Witness of the nuclear explosion (memoir by Valeriy Astafiev about Totskoye nuclear exercise), in Russian

Explosions in 1954
1954 in military history
Russian nuclear test sites
1954 in the Soviet Union
Soviet nuclear weapons testing
Orenburg Oblast
Human subject research in Russia
Soviet military exercises
September 1954 events in Europe