[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kansas City–style barbecue

uri, Curt's has been a large competitor in many local barbecue competitions. Curt's was also known for its predominantly female staff, nicknamed the Lady Meat Cutters.

Jones Bar-B-Q 
Jones Bar-B-Q is an independent barbecue joint on Kaw Drive in Kansas City, Kansas, owned by Deborah and Mary Jones.

In 2001 Doug Worgul featured Jones Bar-B-Q in the afterword of The Grand Barbecue: A Celebration of the History, Places, Personalities and Techniques of Kansas City Barbecue. Worgul said the sisters' barbecue "represent[ed] an artisan approach that cannot be replicated in higher-volume barbecue restaurants" and calls the location, a former taco stand, "the jointiest joint I've ever seen." In 2016 Ardie Davis called it "old school", saying the barbecue is straightforward, not oversmoked, and not overtrimmed.

As of 2016, the Kansas City Star considered them possibly the only Kansas City barbecue owned and operated by women pitmasters. The sisters do not participate in the barbecue competition circuit.

In 2018, they appeared on an episode of Steve Harvey's Steve in a segment titled "The Queens of Barbecue".

In March 2019, the sisters and the barbecue were featured on the third season of American television series Queer Eye, which was filmed in and near Kansas City. Both they and the restaurant received a makeover, and they started bottling their sauce. In the aftermath, they had to put in a second barbecue pit to handle demand.

In 2019, Jones Bar-B-Q's Coconut Pineapple sauce was named by Bloomberg News as one of their five favorite barbecue sauces.

See also

 Bacon Explosion
 Burnt ends
 List of regional dishes of the United States
 List of smoked foods
 Regional variations of barbecue
 St. Louis–style barbecue

References

External links
 Kansas City barbecue restaurants
 KC Library History of Gates
 Kansas City Library Barbecue history resources
 Kansas City Barbeque Society
 American Royal BBQ Contest Information and Contest Results

American cuisine
Barbecue
Cuisine of the Midwestern United States
Culture of Kansas City, Missouri
Smoked meat