[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Ward Churchill

owah Band of Cherokee Indians." In 1992, Churchill wrote elsewhere that he is one-eighth Creek and one-sixteenth Cherokee.
In 1993, Churchill told the Colorado Daily that "he was one-sixteenth Creek and Cherokee."  Churchill told the Denver Post in February 2005 that he is three-sixteenths Cherokee.

In a statement dated May 9, 2005, and posted on its website, the United Keetoowah Band said: "The United Keetoowah Band would like to make it clear that Mr. Churchill is not a member of the Keetoowah Band and was only given an honorary 'associate membership' in the early 1990s because he could not prove any Cherokee ancestry". The Band added that Churchill's claims of Keetoowah enrollment were deemed fraudulent by the United Keetoowah Band.

Two days later, the United Keetoowah Band replaced its earlier statement with the following: "Because Mr. Churchill had genealogical information regarding his alleged ancestry", and because he was willing "to assist the UKB in promoting the tribe and its causes, he was awarded an 'Associate Membership' as an honor". The Band clarified that Churchill "was not eligible for tribal membership due to the fact that he does not possess a 'Certificate of Degree of Indian Blood (CDIB)", and added that associate membership did not entitle an individual to voting rights or enrollment in the tribe. The Band's spokesperson, Lisa Stopp, stated the tribe enrolls only members with certified one-quarter American Indian blood. While the United Keetoowah Band voted to stop awarding associate memberships in 1994, the Band indicated in 2005 that Churchill still held an associate membership. In a separate interview, Ernestine Berry, a member of the tribe's council and a former member of its enrollment committee, said that Churchill had never fulfilled a promise to help the tribe.

Churchill has never asked for CDIB certification, and has said that he finds the idea of being "vetted" by the US government offensive.

In June 2005, the Rocky Mountain News published an article about Churchill's genealogy and family history. The newspaper's research "turned up no evidence of a single Indian ancestor" among 142 direct ancestors [of Churchill's] identified from records. The News reported that both Churchill's birth parents were listed as white on the 1930 census, as were all but two of his great-great-grandparents listed on previous census and other official documents. The News found that some of Churchill's accounts of where his ancestors had lived did not agree with documented records. Nevertheless, numerous members of Churchill's extended family have longstanding family legends of Indian ancestry among ancestors.

Some of Churchill's Native American critics, such as Vernon Bellecourt (White Earth Ojibwe) and Suzan Shown Harjo (Southern Cheyenne-Muscogee Creek), argue that without proof, his assertion of Native American ancestry might constitute misrepresentation and grounds for termination.

In a 2005 interview in The Rocky Mountain News, Churchill said, "I have never been confirmed as having one-quarter blood, and never said I was. And even if [the critics] are absolutely right, what does that have to do with this issue? I have never claimed to be goddamned Sitting Bull."

Blood quantum 
Churchill has responded to requests for verification of his asserted Indian heritage in various ways, including attacking the blood quantum upon which some Native American tribes establish their membership requirements.  Churchill argues that the United States instituted blood quantum laws based upon rules of descendancy in order to further goals of personal enrichment and political expediency.

In 1995, Churchill discussed his views on the blood quantum with David Barsamian in an interview:

For decades in his writings, Churchill has argued that blood quantum laws have an inherent genocidal purpose. He says:

Churchill's assertions have been raised as one of the several research-misconduct allegations that were brought against him in 2005 . He has been accused of using his interpretation of the Dawes Act to attack tribal governments that would not recognize him as a member.

Works
Books, as editor

 Re-released as 

Books, as author and co-author

 Re-released as 
 Revised and expanded edition:  

Articles
 
 First published as "Crimes Against Humanity" in  Also published under the titles "The Indian Chant and the Tomahawk Chop" and "Using Indian Names as Mascots Harms Native Americans".