[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alan Pouton

yed in the opening day victory over Colchester United and were it not for a succession of injuries perhaps would have played in more than the 24 games in which he appeared. Injuries continued to bedevil him in the following season, and on 31 January 2007 it was announced that he had opted to retire.

Dover Athletic
Pouton came out of retirement in June 2007 to sign on a semi-professional basis for Dover Athletic, however injuries again restricted him in claiming a regular first team place. During his spell at Dover Athletic, Pouton gained two promotions to the Isthmian League Premier Division and then the Conference South.

Maidstone United
At the end of the 2008–09 season Pouton decided against signing a new contract with Dover due to work commitments and further travelling. He subsequently signed for fellow Kent side Maidstone United where he was soon appointed vice captain.

Sutton United
In late August 2009 Pouton left Maidstone after just four appearances to join Isthmian League Premier Division rivals Sutton United. Pouton made his debut for Sutton on 5 September 2009 against Boreham Wood and played for the rest of the 2009–10 campaign at the Gander Green Lane club before retiring from playing at the end of the season.

Coaching career
On 18 March 2011, Pouton was named caretaker assistant manager at Maidstone United, who at the time were eight points adrift at the bottom of the Isthmian League Premier Division. He joined up with former Maidstone teammate Jay Saunders who had just been given the role of player-caretaker manager at the club. Saunders and Pouton led Maidstone to five wins from nine games, and although it was not enough to save Maidstone from relegation, Saunders and Pouton were both awarded their respective roles on a permanent basis on 2 May 2011. Pouton left the Stones in January 2012 following budget cuts at the club.

Personal life
Pouton is a keen supporter of Newcastle United.

Honours

Player
Dover Athletic
Isthmian League Division One South: 2007–08
Isthmian League Premier Division: 2008–09

References

External links

1977 births
Living people
Footballers from Newcastle upon Tyne
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Oxford United F.C. players
York City F.C. players
Grimsby Town F.C. players
Gillingham F.C. players
Hartlepool United F.C. players
Dover Athletic F.C. players
Maidstone United F.C. players
Sutton United F.C. players
English Football League players