[Source: PubMed]

17. Epidemiol Rev. 2014;36:5-18. doi: 10.1093/epirev/mxt005. Epub 2013 Aug 29.

Gender differences of postdeployment post-traumatic stress disorder among 
service members and veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts.

Crum-Cianflone NF(1), Jacobson I.

Author information:
(1)Abbreviations: AOR, adjusted odds ratio; CI, confidence interval; MST, 
military-related sexual trauma; OEF, Operation Enduring Freedom; OIF, Operation 
Iraqi Freedom; PCL-C, PTSD Checklist Civilian Version; PTSD, post-traumatic 
stress disorder; VA, Veterans Administration.

Despite the marked expansion of roles for women in the US military over the last 
decade, whether differences by gender exist in regard to the development of 
mental health conditions postdeployment is unclear. This comprehensive review of 
the literature (2001-2012) examined whether US servicewomen were more likely 
than men to experience post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after returning 
from deployments to the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts. Findings from 18 studies 
from 8 unique study populations were reviewed. Seven studies found that women 
had a higher risk for screening positive for PTSD compared with men, including 
prospectively designed studies that evaluated new-onset PTSD among members from 
all service branches. Although results from studies with Veterans Affairs 
samples found women at decreased risk in 4 analyses, these studies used the same 
source databases, were conducted in treatment-seeking populations, and were 
mostly unable to account for combat experience. Seven studies detected no 
differences by gender. In summary, women appeared to have a moderately higher 
risk for postdeployment PTSD, although there was a lack of consensus among the 
studies, and even those with the most rigorous methods were not designed 
specifically to evaluate potential gender differences. Given the limitations of 
the published literature, further research should use longitudinal study designs 
and comprehensive evaluations of deployment experiences while adjusting for 
predeployment factors to confirm that gender differences exist with regard to 
postdeployment PTSD.

DOI: 10.1093/epirev/mxt005
PMID: 23988441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]