[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Valley Heights railway station

nvolvement and ownership of the site.

Valley Heights railway station was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.

The Depot was the first modern depot in NSW. It is the only complete depot built at one time in NSW. The Depot is the only depot built on a curve and in such a restricted area. It was the first depot to have an elevated coal stage on the Western line in NSW. The Depot was the only Depot to utilise parachute style water tanks for watering locomotives on the Western line. The ash disposal method utilised was the most modern in use at the time of being built and is unique to Valley Heights.

The place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.

The Valley Heights railway station is aesthetically significant as a good example of the Federation free classical style as used for public and institutional buildings. The station includes both the main building and the lamp building which have been built in matching style and details.

Valley Heights Locomotive Depot is aesthetically significant because of the original fabric and intact architectural features of the 1914 built roundhouse. This style of building is unique to railway buildings and there are some building elements of the site and roundhouse that are unique even to the Valley Heights site, principally the roof form, which was not used at any of the other roundhouse sites. The building also has an aesthetic quality characteristic of roundhouse sites and strongly reflects the industrial character of the site and the occupation by the Railways. The associated buildings and structures including former Chargeman's office, former amenities building, turntable, trackwork, overhead catenary masts, and trestling foundations contribute to the overall aesthetic quality and setting of the depot. The landscaping enhances the setting with its highly established leafy surroundings.

The place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.

Valley Heights Locomotive Depot has social significance because when the site was vacated by the NSW government, there was significant community interest in retention and conservation of the site as a museum and restorative facility. The site is now tenanted by the Blue Mountains Division of Transport Heritage NSW (formerly known as the Rail Transport Museum) and is staffed entirely by volunteers, indicating a strong local community attachment and interest.

The place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

The locomotive site is of technical and research significance because the roundhouse and its equipment are the remnants of a past era, located in an area of the state where railways played so much a part in development and essential transport of goods and passengers. As one of the very few surviving railway roundhouses, the complex gives valuable information about the age of steam. The depot at Valley Heights provides an insight into the workings of an important transport and freight hub at the height of its operation.

The signal box is also of research significance due to its ability in providing evidence of its associated signalling equipment and very limited ability on the construction techniques and architectural character of an originally three-storey brick signal box via its remnant ground floor structure.

The place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

This item is assessed as historically rare. This item is assessed as scientifically rare. This item is assessed as arch. rare. This item is assessed as socially rare.

The place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a class of cultural or natural places/environments in New South Wales.

Valley Heights Station Group is a representative example of an island platform with footbridge created in response to the duplication of the line in 1902 incorporating a good example of a group of Federation free classical style standard station buildings. This type of island platform station building with lamp room were commonly used later during 1910s and 1920s. The footbridge, although refurbished, is representative of steel footbridges with trussed stair stringers that survive today. The signal box is no longer representative of its type as its original form has been lost.