[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut

center. Located in HaPrachim is a commercial center, two primary schools and a secondary school. The neighborhood's streets are named after trees, flowers, and plants. At the northern part of the neighborhood there is a small compound where the streets are named after phrases from the Song of Songs.

הנחלים HaNechalim – The Rivers (Safdie) and משואה Masuah – Beacon (Givat C) are located towards the west of the city, and were planned by architect Moshe Safdie. Located in these neighborhoods are five commercial centers, a secondary school and three primary schools. The central street names are named after valleys in Israel, and the side streets are named after Israeli rivers and streets. The name "Masuah" was selected in order to represent the neighborhood's high altitude. Within the area consisting of the streets named after rivers and streams is the "Malibu" area, which, as with other areas, is colloquially named after the contractor who designed the neighborhood.

הכרמים HaKramim – The Vineyards (Tsipor) is the northernmost neighborhood in Modi'in.  The streets are named after the Hebrew months. The name "Kramim" is in honor of the vineyards that were located where the neighborhood now stands before the city was founded.

אבני חן Avnei Chen – Precious Stones (Kaizer) is located towards the west of the city, and parts of it are still under construction. The main road is named "Avnei Choshen" and leads to the only retail under residential mixed use buildings in Modi'in. Other streets, in keeping with the neighborhood's name, are named for precious stones. The parks are connected through the center of the neighborhood and allow pedestrians to cross. A bike lane in the Emek Zvuloon street leads to the center of town.

הנביאים HaNevi'im – The Prophets (Northern Shimshoni) and המגינים HaMeginim – The Defenders (Southern Shimshoni) are located towards the northwest of the city. Streets in HaNevi'im are named for the Prophets of Israel, while HaMeginim's streets are named after generals and important battles in Israeli history. Located in the neighborhoods are three commercial centers, three primary schools, and one secondary school.

הציפורים HaTsiporim – The Birds (South Kaizer) is still being planned. Its streets will be named after different species of birds, and will be a relatively small neighborhood consisting of only seven streets.

Culture and sports

In 2007, Modi'in was selected as one of the inaugural cities for the Israel Baseball League. The baseball team was named the Modi'in Miracle, but did not play games in Modi'in as there is no baseball stadium there.

In 2008, the Pioneers of the Israeli Football League (American Football) relocated to Modi'in. The Pioneers played all their home games in Modi'in. In their first year, the Modi'in "Dancing Camel" Pioneers won the IFL Championship. After an unsuccessful 2009–10 season, their second in Modi'in, the Pioneers relocated once again to Tel Aviv, where most of the team's players lived.

Transportation

Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut is accessible by Road 431, Highway 3 and Road 443. An Israel Railways line began operation on April 1, 2008 to a large underground station in Modi'in. Service began in September 2007 to Paatei Modi'in on the western outskirts of the city. This railway connects Modi'in to Tel Aviv by way of Ben Gurion Airport. The line to Modi'in is a spur off the high-speed railway to Jerusalem, currently due for completion in 2016. Once this line is completed, Modi'in will be within 30 minutes' ride of Jerusalem. Intercity and local bus services are provided by Kavim.

Notable people
 Mattanya Cohen (born 1965), Former Ambassador to El Salvador
 Yohanan Danino (born 1959), chief of the Israel PoIice
 Julia Glushko (born 1990), tennis player
 David Lau (born 1966), Chief Rabbi of Israel and son of former Chief Rabbi of Israel Israel Meir Lau
 Yariv Levin (born 1969), Minister of Tourism
 Shahar Pe'er (born 1987), tennis player
 Mark Regev (born 1960), current Ambassador of Israel to the United Kingdom and former spokesman for the prime minister
 Ben Sahar (born 1989), association football player
 Moshe Ya'alon (born 1950), former IDF Chief of Staff, Vice Prime Minister, and Minister of Defense

International relations

Twin towns—Sister cities
Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut is twinned with:
 Hagen, Germany since 1997
 Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina since 2010
 Haikou, Hainan Province, China, since 2013 (Israel Sister Cities Project initiated and coordinated by Unique 1 Asia with the two municipalities.

References

External links

Municipality of Modi'in - official web site 
ModiinApp - The Smartphone App and website for Modiin & The Surrounding Areas 
Modiinfo.com - source for Modiin-related information 
Places to visit in Modi'in 
Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut, Israel (quadcopter video)  

 
Cities in Israel
Moshe Safdie buildings
Cities in Central District (Israel)
Ancient Jewish settlements of Judaea