[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sam Collyer

Sam Collyer (born Walter Jamieson, May 14, 1842 in Boulogne, France – December 7, 1904 in Brooklyn, New York) was a bare-knuckle boxer, and the American Lightweight Champion. He was the son of James Jamieson and Jane Taylor of Angus, Scotland. He weighed between 115 and 125 pounds, and stood 5 feet 5 ½ inches. Born in France, he came to the United States as a boy. He received the United States Medal of Honor in 1898, for his actions in 1864 in the American Civil War.

Early life
Collyer was born in France as Walter Jamieson. He came to the United States as a boy. He joined the Army from Brooklyn in September 1862. He received the Medal of Honor for his actions in the Siege of Petersburg. He left the army with the rank of Lieutenant in June 1865.

Boxing career

The earliest contests of Sam Collyer differ from source to source.  Some list different dates, locations and people for these bouts.  It is certain however, that Collyer did battle, and defeat a man named Mike Carr in early 1866 .  The first significant contest of Collyer's career was his bout with Horatio "Race" Bolster.  The two met in Alexandria, VA on May 8, 1866.  During the contest, Bolster broke his hand, and was given a tremendous beating.  The fight ended after 49 rounds and 55 minutes.  Collyer ended the contest when he knocked his opponent off his feet, and Bolster's seconds threw in the towel.

Taking the American Lightweight Championship, June 1866
Later that year, Collyer battled former champion Young Barney Aaron for the vacant Lightweight Championship of America.  The Title had been vacated since the retirement of Owney Geoghegan back in 1863.  The Aaron/Collyer contest was held on June 20, 1866, at Pohick Landing, VA. The fierce battle was contested for 47 rounds taking 2 hours and 14 minutes before Collyer was declared the winner.	
Below is an account of the last few rounds of the Collyer/Aaron fight as written in the New York Herald on June 21, 1866:

Rounds 41 to 44—These rounds were merely repetitions of each other, Barney constantly going down on his knees, apparently for the purpose of receiving a foul blow and thereby winning the stakes.  At the close of

Round 47—He was entirely blind, and his seconds seeing that there was no possible chance of success and unwilling to subject a game man to further punishment threw up the sponge in token of defeat.

On September 7, 1866, Collyer defended his title against Johnny Lafferty in a contest that lasted 39 rounds and 62 minutes (some sources report 60 minutes).  His second defense came against Johnny McGlade at Goldsboro, PA on January 15, 1867.  McGlade had suffered a severe fever while training, and was completely dominated during the contest.  The two battle for 47 rounds and 55 minutes in the sleet covered ring before McGlade's corner threw in the towel.

Losing and reclaiming the American Lightweight Championship, June 1867
Collyer lost his title in a rematch with Young Barney Aaron on June 13, 1867.  The two contested in a hard-fought battle for 68 rounds and 1 hour and 55 minutes at Aquia Creek in Northern Virginia.  The fight began at 8:50 am, with around 1500 in attendance and was fought outdoors in an Amphitheater on the banks of Aquia Creek in Northern Virginia.  Young Barney won the choice of position and wisely took the side of the ring not facing the sun.  By the end of the bout, Collyer's eyes were closed causing his seconds to throw in the sponge.  The bare-knuckled boxing was desperate and brutal and both boxers were down in various rounds. Immediately after winning the title, Young Barney Aaron took a long leave from the ring, leaving the crown open for Collyer to reclaim.  His bouts with Collyer were considered among his most memorable and significant.

The first man to challenge his right to the title was Billy Kelly.  Kelly was a gifted pugilist, and word of the battle quickly spread.  The Collyer/Kelly contest was held on November 27, 1867, in Strickland, PA.  Collyer pressed the fight from start to finish, and his opponent was forced into the defensive mode for nearly the entire bout.  A total of 111 short rounds and 1 hour and fifty minutes were fought before the champion knocked his opponent down for the final time.

Below is an account of the last three rounds (and conclusion) of the contest.  They were documented in the New York Herald the day after the contest:
	
Round 109—Collyer, determined to close fight before dark, rushed in [? ?] Kelly and struck him a right-hander over the left [?], then gave him the left on the nose, and again the right on the mouth, when Kelly went down.

Round 110—Collyer led off with his left, which brought upon Kelly's nose, and then, putting in two heavy right-handers clinched, Kelly and threw him, falling heavily on him.

Round 111 and Last—Collyer rushed at Kelly and hitting a heavy right-hander in the mouth knocked him down.