[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Night attack at Târgoviște

he burned down, and then sailed to Adrianople, where they arrived on 11 July. On 12 July, the Turks called for a celebration for their "Great victory" over Vlad Țepeș. The Turks had enslaved many of the local inhabitants, which they marched on their way south together with 200,000 cattle and horses.

Popular culture 
 French writer Victor Hugo wrote about the conflict in his poem La Légende des siècles (The Legend of the Centuries).
 The film Bram Stoker's Dracula begins in 1462 with the Ottoman invasion of Wallachia; a night battle (ostensibly this attack) takes place, ending with Vlad Țepeș's victory.
 The Big Finish Productions audio drama Son of the Dragon depicts the battle from the perspective of the Fifth Doctor and his companions.
 The 2014 film Dracula Untold includes an altered rendition of this attack, in which Dracula blocks the sun with black clouds instead of the battle occurring at night.
 In the video game Age of Empires II: The Forgotten, this attack is showcased in one of the final Dracula campaigns. After killing several Ottoman troops and suffering losses of his own, Dracula calls off the attack because he realizes Mehmed II fled the camp before the attack began.
 The TV series Rise of Empires: Ottoman depicts this battle in episodes 5 and 6 of its second season.

See also 

Ottoman wars in Europe

Notes

Footnotes

References 
Babinger, Franz, Mehmed the Conqueror and his time, Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 1992. 
Florescu, Radu R.; McNally, Raymond T., Dracula: Prince of many faces – His life and his times, Little, Brown and Company, Boston, MA, 1989. 
Geringer, Joseph, Staggering the Turks, Crimelibrary.com.
Pippidi, Andrei, Noi Izvoare Italiene despre Vlad Ţepeş şi Ştefan cel Mare, Studies and Materials of Medium History XX/2002
Stoicescu, Nicolae, Vlad Ţepeş, Bucharest, 1979
Andreescu, Ștefan, Vlad Țepeș (Dracula): între legendă și adevăr istoric, Editura Enciclopedică, 1998, 

1462 in Europe
1462 in the Ottoman Empire
Battles involving Wallachia
Battles involving the Ottoman Empire
Battles of Mehmed the Conqueror
Conflicts in 1462
Night attack at Târgoviște
Night battles
Night attack at Târgoviște