[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lusatian League

e towns had positive reputations as well. People from Zittau were referred to as educated, people from Görlitz were known to be honest, people from Bautzen were called well-meaning, Lauban residents were known for being industrious, and Löbau residents enjoyed a reputation for being good with money.

History
The height of the league's power and influence occurred in its first 200 years of existence. In this time period, the league was the most powerful political force in Upper Lusatia, and was able to outstrip the local gentry in terms of power. In 1547, the fallout of the Schmalkald War, when the Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand I fought against the Protestant Schmalkaldic League, weakened the Lusatian League considerably. The league of six towns sided with Schmalkald because as city leagues, they shared the same form of government. The emperor punished the league of six towns severely for this. Indeed, even though the towns were able to again consolidate their position, their political power was never as strong again.

Legal System
Primarily, the legal system in the league was in the hands of the king's representative to Upper Lusatia. He led a court named the "Voigtsding." There the gentry, farmers, and townspeople all appeared, although clergy were exempt to proceedings there. As time progressed, the league managed to have certain aspects of the legal system split. This was first accomplished by establishing a separate court for townspeople, and eventually a court for farmers within each municipal area. Knights and gentry could be tried in municipal courts as well. The courts also heard cases involving crimes which took place on country routes outside of the cities.

Breakup of the league
After the Congress of Vienna in 1815, Lusatia was partitioned. Görlitz and Lauban were ceded to the Kingdom of Prussia, ending the six town league after almost 500 years of existence. The remaining four cities remained in a "four-city league," but this ended in 1868.

Second Founding
On June 21, 1991, the 770-year anniversary of the founding of Löbau, the league was revived. However, there were now seven cities, as the eastern part of Görlitz, on the east side of the Neisse River, became the stand-alone Polish city of Zgorzelec. The league no longer has any political power to speak of, and functions largely as a tourism promotion board.

References

1346 establishments in Europe
1815 disestablishments in Europe
History of Saxony
History of Silesia
Bautzen
Görlitz
Kamenz
Löbau
Lubań
Zittau
Upper Lusatia