[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# People's Liberation Army Special Operations Forces

locating and indicating, airborne insertion, sabotage and offensive strikes, and emergency evacuation. The unit was also used by Chengdu Military Region to experiment with new advanced concept equipment and tactics, including the digitized army soldier system and high-mobility land weapon platforms.

 Shenyang Military Region Special Forces Unit – "Siberian Tiger (东北虎)" is a PLA Ground Force SOF unit. This unit is trained to complete missions on the ground and in the air and water, as well as surviving in the wilderness alone or in small groups. The unit is said to place special focus on survival skills; it often breaks protocol by increasing this training by two-thirds, forcing soldiers to spend three to four months in difficult environments such as forests, mountains, deserts and grasslands with no man-made shelter or food. Soldiers in the unit are trained on multiple transport vehicles for roads, railroads, waterways, and in the air. Individual members of the unit have reportedly completed parachute landings more than 5,000 times and logged scuba diving training of more than 1,000 hours.

 Nanjing Military Region Special Forces Unit – Flying Dragon (飞龙突击队). This is the special land force of east China's Nanjing Military Region.

 Nanjing Military Region Special Forces Unit – Oscar (奥斯卡).

 Lanzhou Military Region Special Forces Unit – Night Tiger (夜老虎, also called Special Warfare Brigade of Peng Xuefeng, 雪枫特战旅). This unit has a long history, with its origins dating back to World War II. It is the home of China's first counter-terrorism unit, established in 2000.

 Jinan Military Region Special Forces Unit – Eagle. Soldiers from this unit are said to focus on training to enhance cardiovascular endurance, including being able to run at least 3,300 meters in under 12 minutes. They also reportedly engage in hand-to-hand combat training and the traditional Chinese health and martial arts practice of Qigong. Soldiers of the Eagle special force can complete sea-air-land operations, in a similar way to the U.S. Navy SEALs.

 The Southwest China Falcon is a special forces unit in Sichuan. It is also known as Hunting Leopards.

 The Leishen (Thundergod) Commando Airborne Force (雷神突击队) is a People's Liberation Army Air Force SOF unit. It is trained for reconnaissance operations for the PLA's airborne units. It is capable of performing strategic deterrence, combat assault, and task operations under IT-based conditions. Members of this unit recently attended the Golden Owl-2015 International Competition of Special Forces held in Kazakhstan, and won first place. Representatives also attended the Russia International Army Games in 2015 where they took first place in the Airborne Platoon competition. Ten teams, from Kazakhstan, Belarus, China, Russia, Indonesia and Singapore, attended the competition.

 Sea Dragon (蛟龙突击队 or literally translated as Jiaolong Assault Team) is a unit of the People's Liberation Army Navy Marine Corps. Members of this force are equipped with black uniforms. Its first publicly known mission was to accompany three Chinese warships in protecting and escorting commercial ships against Somali pirates in December 2008, in cooperation with other nations as part of a UN mandate. Since then, the unit has participated in anti-piracy missions in the Gulf of Aden for over 300 days. Sea Dragon's Jiaolong Assault Team helped evacuate 225 foreign nationals and almost 600 Chinese citizens from Yemen's southern port of Aden during late March 2015, during the Yemeni Civil War.

Awards 
 2009 international military competitions in Slovakia – 8-first places, 6-second places in 13 individual competition events.
 Best overall performance at the fifth and sixth Warrior Competition, organized by the Jordan Armed Forces at the King Abdullah II Special Operations Training Centre.
 Chinese Special Forces took first place at the 2013 fifth International Warrior Competition, organized by the Jordan Armed Forces at the King Abdullah II Special Operations Training Centre.
 Chinese Special Forces took first, second, and fourth place at 2014 Olympics for Elite Warriors. 
 Chinese Thundergod (Leishen) Commando Airborne troops participated in the Golden Owl-2015 International Competition of Special Forces held in Kazakhstan, taking first place. They also attended the Russia International Army Games in 2015 where they took first place in the "Airborne Platoon" competition.
 China's Sky Sword Unit placed first in the ninth edition of the 2017 Annual Warrior Competition in Amman, Jordan. China's Falcon Commando Unit placed third overall in the competition. Thirty-one teams from seventeen nations participated in the competition.
 China's Snow Leopards team placed second in the tenth edition of the 2018 Annual Warrior Competition in Amman, Jordan.

References 

Military units and formations of the People's Republic of China