[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Herman Van Rompuy

us enlargement waves. Turkey is not Europe and will never be Europe." He continued "But it's a matter of fact that the universal values which are in force in Europe, and which are also the fundamental values of Christianity, will lose vigour with the entry of a large Islamic country such as Turkey."

As President, Van Rompuy has avoided opposing Turkish membership. On 23 December 2010, he said "Turkish reform efforts have delivered impressive results." He continued "Turkey plays an ever more active role in its neighbourhood. Turkey is also a full-standing member of the G-20, just like five EU countries and the EU itself. In my view, even before an outcome of the negotiations, the European Union should develop a close partnership with the Turkish Republic."

President of the Belgian Chamber of Representatives (2007–2008)

After eight years in opposition, CD&V (formerly known as CVP) returned to government. On 12 July 2007,  was elected as the President of the Belgian Chamber of Representatives, succeeding Herman De Croo.

Prime Minister of Belgium 

On 28 December 2008, following the 2007–2008 Belgian political crisis, Van Rompuy was asked by King Albert II to form a new government after he was reluctant to take up the role of Prime Minister. He was sworn in as Belgian prime minister on 30 December 2008.

Taxes 
On 13 October 2009, Bloomberg reported that the government of Herman Van Rompuy would seek to tax banks and nuclear power to tame the deficit.

Quote on financial recovery 
"We are in the early stages of a recovery and at this time it is important not to weaken burgeoning confidence and to lay the foundations of a sustainable recovery" Van Rompuy said in a speech to parliament in Brussels. "Most important is to keep the direction. That will also provide stability and support."

Policy on government debt 
On 13 October, Bloomberg reported the following about  Government Debt Policy: "Belgium will trim its budget deficit to 5.3% of gross domestic product in 2011 from almost 5.7% both this year and next, according to a slide presentation handed out by State Secretary for the Budget .  told Parliament earlier today that the deficit would widen to 5.4% of GDP this year. Belgium's deficit will be little changed next year as the shortfall at the level of regional governments and municipalities will widen to 1.5% of GDP from 0.7%, offsetting efforts by the federal government to trim its deficit. Government debt will start exceeding one year's worth of national output , according to European Commission forecasts. Belgium had trimmed debt to as little as 84% of GDP in 2007, before bailouts of Fortis, Dexia SA, KBC Group NV and mutual insurer Ethias Group increased the nation's borrowing costs and inflated the debt ratio to 89.6% at the end of last year."

Negotiations and dispute with GDF Suez 
On 22 October 2009, Reuters reported that the  government had signed a commitment with GDF Suez for nuclear power fees to Belgium. The outstanding dispute with GDF concerns the €250 million fee that Belgium is attempting to charge GDF for 2009 as part of its "Renewable Energy Fund" as stated in the article: "Belgium has also charged nuclear producers a total of 250 million euros for 2008, and the same for 2009, as well as 250 million euros this year payable to a renewable energy fund. These fees remain in dispute. The producers are challenging the 2008 payment in Belgium's constitutional court. A spokesman for  said the government would pass a law to enforce the 500 million euro charge for this year, adding that this could also be contested by GDF Suez."

President of the European Council (2009–2014)

On 19 November 2009, Van Rompuy was chosen unanimously by the European Council, at an informal meeting in Brussels, to be the first full-time President of the European Council; for the period of 1 December 2009 (the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon) until 31 May 2012. He took up his position officially on 1 January 2010.

Gordon Brown also praised Van Rompuy as "a consensus-builder" who had "brought a period of political stability to his country after months of uncertainty". This opinion is shared by others; he has been described as the painstaking builder of impossible compromises (l'horloger des compromis impossibles) A statement made by Van Rompuy at a news conference after his selection illustrates his approach: 

Given Van Rompuy’s support for Europe and opposition to far right, not all parties and factions had positive words for him when he took office. British MEP and Eurosceptic Nigel Farage attacked the freshly appointed president by stating that he had "the charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of a low grade bank clerk." The remarks generated controversy and he was fined €3000 (ten days' pay) by the Bureau of the European Parliament for his comments.