[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Canine reproduction

often favoured for economic reasons and in dogs, particularly, the great range of sizes and shapes plays a role in how many healthy puppies a female can carry. A female dog usually has 10 teats, though this does not mean she can necessarily provide sufficient nutrition for 10 puppies in one litter.

An average litter consists of about five to six puppies, though this number may vary widely based on the breed of dog. Size of the breed is correlated with litter size. Miniature and small breeds average three to four puppies in each litter, with a maximum litter size of about 5–8. Large and giant breeds average 7 puppies per litter but can have a maximum litter size of about 15. In one study, the Rhodesian Ridgeback had the highest average litter size with 8.9 pups per litter while the Pomeranian and Toy Poodle had the lowest with 2.4 pups per litter.

The number of puppies also varies with the mother's age. In smaller breeds, both young and old age are associated with smaller litter size. In larger breeds, only old age is associated with smaller litter size. Use of artificial insemination is also associated with smaller litter size, with frozen semen having a stronger effect than fresh semen.

The largest litter size to date was set by a Neapolitan Mastiff in Manea, England on November 29, 2004; the litter was 24 puppies.

Some breeds have been developed to emphasize certain physical traits beyond the point at which they can safely bear litters on their own.

A large scale study in Norway showed that across all breeds, about 4% of pups will be stillborn and a further 4% will die within the first week (early neonatal mortality). Between 8 days and 8 weeks, 1% will die. Litter size, breed size and age of the female is associated with increased risk. High risk breeds for stillborn includes the Dogue de Bordeaux (14.2%), St. Bernard (12.3%), Chow Chow (12.1%), Pembroke Welsh Corgis (11.7%) and Dalmatian (10.6%). The Basenji, Italian Greyhound, Australian Terrier, Irish Soft Coated Wheaten Terrier and the Bichon Havanais had few to no stillborns (0-0.6%). High risk breeds for early neonatal mortality includes the Rhodesian Ridgeback (11.6%), Dogue de Bordeaux (10.4% ), Dalmatians (8.8%) and Icelandic Sheepdog (8.7%) while the Basenji and Tibetan Terrier had no early neonatal mortality and the Border Terrier and Danish-Swedish Farmdog had <1% early neonatal mortality.

Common causes of early neonatal mortality are bacteria infection, fetal asphyxia and fading puppy syndrome. Other causes may include elective euthanasia because of congenital defects or failure to meet breed standards.

Other multi-breed studies have put stillborn rates at 6.5-7% and early neonatal mortality at 11.5-19.8%.

Inbreeding depression

On the basis of an analysis of data on 42,855 dachshund litters, it was found that as the inbreeding coefficient increased, litter size decreased and the percentage of stillborn puppies increased, thus indicating inbreeding depression.  Inbreeding depression is a reduction in progeny fitness due largely to the homozygous expression of deleterious recessive mutations.

The gray wolves (Canis lupus) of Isle Royale National Park, Michigan, USA were a small highly inbred population that was considered to be at the threshold of extinction in 2019.  This wolf population had been experiencing severe inbreeding depression largely due to the homozygous expression of strongly deleterious recessive mutations.  Another highly inbred Scandinavian population of wolves (Canis lupus) also suffered from inbreeding depression that was again attributed to the homozygous expression of deleterious recessive mutations.

Inbreeding avoidance

Because the African wild dog (Lycaon pictus) largely exists in fragmented small populations, its existence is endangered.  Inbreeding avoidance via mate selection is characteristic of the species and has important potential consequences for population persistence.  Inbreeding is rare within natal packs.  Computer-population simulations indicate that all populations continuing to avoid incestuous mating will become extinct within 100 years due to the unavailability of unrelated mates.  Thus the impact of reduced numbers of suitable unrelated mates will likely have a severe demographic impact on the future viability of small wild dog populations.

Red wolves primarily live in packs composed of a socially monogamous breeding pair and offspring of different ages.  Using long-term data on red wolf individuals of known pedigree, it was found that inbreeding among first-degree relatives was rare.  A likely mechanism for avoidance of inbreeding is independent dispersal trajectories from the natal pack. Many of the young wolves spend time alone or in small non-breeding packs composed of unrelated individuals. The union of two unrelated individuals in a new home range is the predominant pattern of breeding pair formation.