[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tombos Stela

nto Nubia and a description of his middle-east campaign. She argues that his Egyptian empire in Nubia stretched from the marker at Tombos, around the 3rd cataract, south towards Hagar el-Merwa around the 4th cataract. She does not argue that Thutmose’s encompassed Nubia, and the middle east at once.

Bradbury argues that the “inverted/circumvented water” phrase in the Tombos stela is actually a description of the Nile river in its natural change of direction. Around the area of the 4th cataract, the flow of the Nile shifts from northward to southward. This may have created some confusion for Egyptians traveling north from Nubia. Bradbury uses the source of Ahmose, son of Ebana to corroborate this evidence that the reference to “bad water, or inverted water” means the area around the 4th cataract of the Nile. Ahmose son of Ebana, traveled with Thutmosis during his campaigns in Nubia. He writes of “bad water” during their journey into Nubia. Bradbury argues that Egyptians chose to write about the bad water because while they were sailing north along the Nile around the area of the 4th cataract, the river changed course and they found themselves sailing south. This sudden change in direction may have confused Egyptians who had never traveled in the area before.

Another scholar, Julia Budka, notes that there are many contemporary rock inscriptions found around the Tombos Stela.  She maintains that these create a larger corpus of evidence on the story of the stela itself. These minor stela go in order from the large stela in the south and move north. They read as follows; “Horus Victorious Bull, Beloved of Maat, the good god [akh] hprkere [Thutmosis I] given life, who has stroken Kush [Nubia]... “Thuthmosis, who appeared like Re [A God] given life; the Lord of Nubia…Victorious Bull…The king of Upper and Lower Egypt, the Lord of the Two lands, ahprkera [Thutmosis I] given life, the victorious ruler, who destroyed the Nubians.” Budka notes that these rock inscriptions all date to the 18th dynasty. These inscriptions provide evidence that Thutmosis had some sort of military expansion into Nubia, and support the conclusions about the Tombos stela. Budka agrees with scholar Louise Bradbury and her theory that the Tombos stela is evidence of an Egyptian expansion into Nubia during the reign of Thutmosis. Other scholars see religious significance in the Tombos stela and deny the theory that the “inverted water” text is evidence for travel around the 4th cataract in Nubia.

There are scholars who disagree with the theory of Nubian expansion past Tombos, and offer evidence against the theory proposed by Bradbury.

References

Bibliography 

Prudhoe MSS, 1829,

Ancient Egyptian stelas
16th-century BC steles
1829 archaeological discoveries
Eighteenth Dynasty of Egypt