[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bradford Bypass

rk Region and Simcoe County commenced the York-Simcoe Boundary Area Transportation Needs Study as a basis to advocate for the bypass.
Despite this and studies conducted by the , the provincial government did not change its stance in the five-year Growth Plan for the Greater Golden Horseshoe in 2012.

In 2014, a report into transportation needs in the Lake Simcoe area was positive about the highway, stating that the Bypass would be heavily used and easy to build. However, the report also stated that  alternatives such as building high-occupancy vehicle lanes on Highway 400 and improving local roads and interchanges could deliver similar benefits with less environmental impact.
Representatives from York Region, Simcoe County, East Gwillimbury, Georgina, Bradford West Gwillimbury, Innisfil, Essa Township and Newmarket together lobbied the provincial government in November 2015 to put the project on its growth plan.
The bypass was revived on May18, 2017 when it was included in the five-year Growth Plan for the Greater Golden Horseshoe, though without a timeline for construction.

Current status 

On August15, 2019, Minister of Transportation and  for York—Simcoe, Caroline Mulroney, announced that planning for the Bradford Bypass would resume after years of being shelved.
The  is currently in the process of updating the 1997 , with completion expected in 2023.
Engineering and design work on the bypass began in the summer of 2020,
while environmental studies to update the 1997  commenced in September.
The 2021 Ontario Budget, released on March24, 2021, allocated funding towards the highway.
Early works construction was tentatively scheduled to begin in the autumn of 2021, but was deferred until early 2022.
As of June 2021, the project's estimated cost is C$800 million.

On February3, 2021, Jonathan Wilkinson, the federal Minister of Environment and Climate Change, announced that he'd received a request for the project to undergo an  at the federal level,
following a formal request from Environmental Defence.
On May3, 2021, Wilkinson announced that a federal  would not take place for the Bradford Bypass, while the GTA West project would undergo this process. In February 2022, the federal government reiterated that the project would not undergo a federal , despite requests from environmental groups.

In April and May 2021, a virtual public consultation regarding design alternatives for refinements to the route identified in the 2002  took place.
Proposed changes included realigning the Holland River crossing to the south to reduce the impact on the river,
new designs for interchanges to meet contemporary  standards,
and other minor realignments and changes.
Following analysis of this consultation, a subsequent public consultation in the autumn of 2022 will present the preferred design for the route. The finalised design of the route and  is currently anticipated to be completed in early 2023.

In October 2021, a Toronto Star investigation into the Bypass found that the proposed modification to the route would remove it from a golf course jointly owned by the father of MPP Stan Cho, associate minister of transportation.
Cho responded that the conflict of interest had been declared, and that he did not take part in any work connected to the Bypass. In February 2022, the Integrity Commissioner of Ontario found there was no evidence of wrongdoing by Minister Mulroney or Associate Minister Cho regarding the rerouting of the Bypass.

A Freedom of information request demonstrated that the province had undertaken a business case on the potential of the Bypass being a toll road similar to Highway 407, to potentially reduce the cost of building the highway.
However, the office of Minister Mulroney stated that "it is not our intention to toll this highway".
Funding was committed to the project as part of the fall economic statement on November1, 2021.

In November 2022, construction on the project began with work on the Yonge Street interchange