[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of Transmetropolitan characters

. Schact later commits suicide after being exposed and incinerates his home to minimise any damaging evidence it might yield. Spider eventually makes his survival known to the City by defecating on Schact's grave.
Bob Heller, a virulently, openly conservative (bordering on fascist) and racist candidate who has overwhelming support in the state of Florida. His name and manner, as well as various visual clues, indicate that he is meant to be portrayed as an exaggerated futuristic version of Adolf Hitler, and Spider once describes him as such: "Hitler stuffed to the skin with Viagra, Jumpstart (a fictional stimulant drug), gila monster genes, and syphilis". Heller commands the support of a large group of provincial, xenophobic, mostly working-class nationalists, and despises anyone that can be labelled as a pacifist, "weirdo" or member of a "lower race", all of whom Heller sums up as "The Weak" (Spider, in turn, dismissively generalizes Heller's average supporter as "the neo-Nazi subhuman vote" and "Joe Fuckface Sportsbar"). Still, his wholehearted devotion to his extreme cause even makes Spider nervous. After writing about one of Heller's violence-themed and profanity-laden campaign speeches, Spider felt compelled to append the comment, "I swear I didn't make a word of that up". The Smiler cuts a corrupt deal with Heller in order to get the Florida vote, which Spider gleefully exposes; this exposure presumably destroys much of Heller's influence, as he is never a factor in any of the subsequent plot arcs.

Others
 Ziang Huai, Channon's boyfriend, a technophiliac who sports several pounds of cybernetic machinery built into his body. Ziang is introduced as a follower of Gaian-Bias Buddhism, a religion created to allow its followers to implant themselves with non-biodegradable cybernetics without having to feel bad and to justify cheating on their significant others. Although she realized he wasn't really in love with her, Channon could not help but love him, making their eventual break-up all the more unbearable; he leaves Channon to become a foglet and is never seen again. Whilst he made no further appearances, when Channon and Yelena are at a gun range, Channon tells the simulator to generate the following set of targets: "Six. Male. Asian-American. City Modern. Slim. Under thirty". All six targets bear a striking resemblance to Ziang, and she obliterates them with gusto.
 Robert McX, a Scottish-American journalist and media personality whose regular television show is a roundup of political events from Washington, D.C., as well as various op-ed pieces. He is a tall, burly man with a buzzcut and a thick mustache, as well as a distinctive scar next to his right eye, that runs vertically across almost the full length of his face. McX's facial structure and mustache give him an appearance similar to that of G. Gordon Liddy, though he differs from Liddy in his scar and full head of hair.
Whilst many other journalists in Transmetropolitan are presented as being primarily media personalities uninterested in delivering the truth, McX is depicted as being at least reasonably principled. Whilst his personal politics seems to be moderate conservatism or possibly elements of Objectivism, he has a measure of respect and admiration for Spider, mainly because their purpose is similar. At the end of The Cure it is McX who gets to use Spider's research to publicly accuse the Smiler of having an affair with Liesl, a transient hooker, which he does with a smirk on his face. McX is also one of the leading figures in the journalists' revolt towards the middle of the Martial Law arc (he is the first to openly defy the media blackout), and acts as a catalyst to the consciences of other journalists, leading to the widespread defiance of the media blackout that the Smiler has instituted. He has a secret infestation of intelligent venereal tapeworms, and refers to his life as a series of "horrible days".
 Kristen, a highly popular drug dealer and previously a political fixer. She worked on a campaign against the Beast, where Spider first knew her. She has a distinctly abnormal eye (possibly cybernetic) and some unusual mannerisms that lead some characters to believe she's at least partly non-human. After using her as a source for several stories, Spider turns on her when he learns her political contacts gave her information about Vita Severn's assassination - she had used her inside knowledge to bet on the likelihood of her death, using the winnings to buy a bar. For revealing this information to Spider, she and her bodyguards (one of whom resembles an adult Charlie Brown) are assassinated by a man in a blur suit.
 Senator Tartleton Sweeney, a U.S. Senator who becomes embroiled in a pornography scandal. Sweeney, who had filibustered a number of bills concerning sexual education reform, was alleged to have been paid substantial amounts of money and other gifts for doing so, as well as funding (and supposedly appearing in) a number of