[Source: PubMed]

60. Eur J Neurosci. 2025 Aug;62(3):e70214. doi: 10.1111/ejn.70214.

Pro-inflammatory/Anti-Inflammatory Interleukin Imbalance in Iraqi Alzheimer's 
Patients: Implications for Post-Conflict Environmental Exposures.

Hoidy WH(1), Essa SM(1), Al-Saadi MH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, College of Education, University of Al-Qadisiyah, 
Al-Diwanyah City, Iraq.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, University 
of Al-Qadisiyah, Al-Diwanyah City, Iraq.

The role of inflammatory processes has been increasingly recognized in the 
pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), especially in populations with particular 
environmental exposures. This study examined the profiles of pro-inflammatory 
(IL-1β, IL-6) and anti-inflammatory (IL-4, IL-10) interleukins in a cohort of 
112 Iraqi AD patients and a control group of 240 age-matched subjects. 
Peripheral blood samples were obtained and analyzed using quantitative real-time 
PCR and ELISA methods, with correlations made to cognitive performance and 
degree of amyloid burden. AD patients showed significant upregulation of IL-1β 
(2.8-fold, p < 0.001) and IL-6 (3.2-fold, p < 0.001) as well as downregulation 
of IL-10 (0.6-fold, p < 0.01). Interleukin 4 expression was unchanged. Striking 
correlations were found between pro-inflammatory cytokine expression and 
cognitive decline measured by the MMSE scores. Increased expression of IL-1β was 
associated with higher PET imaging-derived amyloid-β deposition. Carriers of the 
APOE ε4 allele showed a greater degree of inflammatory marker dysregulation 
compared to non-carriers. A combined model with multiple interleukins achieved 
superb distinguishing capacity (AUC = 0.94) between AD patients and healthy 
controls. This study suggests that dysregulation of inflammation likely plays a 
considerable role in the pathogenesis of AD in the Iraqi population, possibly 
modified by specific environmental exposures due to decades of conflict. The 
connection made between peripheral inflammatory markers and central AD pathology 
underscores the potential value of interleukin expression profiles as accessible 
biomarkers for prognosis and monitoring. Thus, the connection made between 
peripheral inflammatory markers and central AD pathology underscores the 
potential value of interleukin expression profiles as easily obtainable 
biomarkers for diagnosis and monitoring, which may inform future development of 
targeted treatment strategies aimed at modulating inflammation in specific 
populations.

© 2025 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.70214
PMID: 40758321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Mol Syst Biol. 2010 Nov 30;6:437. doi: 10.1038/msb.2010.90.

Single-cell quantification of IL-2 response by effector and regulatory T cells 
reveals critical plasticity in immune response.

Feinerman O(1), Jentsch G, Tkach KE, Coward JW, Hathorn MM, Sneddon MW, Emonet 
T, Smith KA, Altan-Bonnet G.

Author information:
(1)ImmunoDynamics Group, Programs in Computational Biology and Immunology, 
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.

Understanding how the immune system decides between tolerance and activation by 
antigens requires addressing cytokine regulation as a highly dynamic process. We 
quantified the dynamics of interleukin-2 (IL-2) signaling in a population of T 
cells during an immune response by combining in silico modeling and single-cell 
measurements in vitro. We demonstrate that IL-2 receptor expression levels vary 
widely among T cells creating a large variability in the ability of the 
individual cells to consume, produce and participate in IL-2 signaling within 
the population. Our model reveals that at the population level, these 
heterogeneous cells are engaged in a tug-of-war for IL-2 between regulatory 
(T(reg)) and effector (T(eff)) T cells, whereby access to IL-2 can either 
increase the survival of T(eff) cells or the suppressive capacity of T(reg) 
cells. This tug-of-war is the mechanism enforcing, at the systems level, a core 
function of T(reg) cells, namely the specific suppression of survival signals 
for weakly activated T(eff) cells but not for strongly activated cells. Our 
integrated model yields quantitative, experimentally validated predictions for 
the manipulation of T(reg) suppression.

DOI: 10.1038/msb.2010.90
PMCID: PMC3010113
PMID: 21119631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.