[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Binomial regression

the range of zero to one; it is sometimes used for this type of data when the probability space is where interpretation occurs or when the analyst lacks sufficient sophistication to fit or calculate approximate linearizations of probabilities for interpretation.

Comparison with binary regression  

Binomial regression is closely connected with binary regression. If the response is a binary variable (two possible outcomes), then these alternatives can be coded as 0 or 1 by considering one of the outcomes as "success" and the other as "failure" and considering these as count data: "success" is 1 success out of 1 trial, while "failure" is 0 successes out of 1 trial. This can now be considered a binomial distribution with  trial, so a binary regression is a special case of a binomial regression. If these data are grouped (by adding counts), they are no longer binary data, but are count data for each group, and can still be modeled by a binomial regression; the individual binary outcomes are then referred to as "ungrouped data". An advantage of working with grouped data is that one can test the goodness of fit of the model; for example, grouped data may exhibit overdispersion relative to the variance estimated from the ungrouped data.

Comparison with binary choice models  

A binary choice model assumes a latent variable Un, the utility (or net benefit) that person n obtains from taking an action (as opposed to not taking the action). The utility the person obtains from taking the action depends on the characteristics of the person, some of which are observed by the researcher and some are not: 
 
where  is a set of regression coefficients and  is a set of independent variables (also known as "features") describing person n, which may be either discrete "dummy variables" or regular continuous variables.   is a random variable specifying "noise" or "error" in the prediction, assumed to be distributed according to some distribution.  Normally, if there is a mean or variance parameter in the distribution, it cannot be identified, so the parameters are set to convenient values — by convention usually mean 0, variance 1.

The person takes the action, , if Un > 0. The unobserved term, εn,  is assumed to have a logistic distribution.

The specification is written succinctly as:
  
  
   logistic, standard normal, etc.

Let us write it slightly differently:
  
  
   logistic, standard normal, etc.

Here we have made the substitution en = −εn.  This changes a random variable into a slightly different one, defined over a negated domain.  As it happens, the error distributions we usually consider (e.g. logistic distribution, standard normal distribution, standard Student's t-distribution, etc.) are symmetric about 0, and hence the distribution over en is identical to the distribution over εn.

Denote the cumulative distribution function (CDF) of  as  and the quantile function (inverse CDF) of  as 

Note that 

Since  is a Bernoulli trial, where  we have

or equivalently

Note that this is exactly equivalent to the binomial regression model expressed in the formalism of the generalized linear model.

If  i.e. distributed as a standard normal distribution, then

which is exactly a probit model.

If  i.e. distributed as a standard logistic distribution with mean 0 and scale parameter 1, then the corresponding quantile function is the logit function, and

which is exactly a logit model.

Note that the two different formalisms — generalized linear models (GLM's) and discrete choice models — are equivalent in the case of simple binary choice models, but can be extended if differing ways:
GLM's can easily handle arbitrarily distributed response variables (dependent variables), not just categorical variables or ordinal variables, which discrete choice models are limited to by their nature.  GLM's are also not limited to link functions that are quantile functions of some distribution, unlike the use of an error variable, which must by assumption have a probability distribution.
On the other hand, because discrete choice models are described as types of generative models, it is conceptually easier to extend them to complicated situations with multiple, possibly correlated, choices for each person, or other variations.

Latent variable interpretation / derivation 

A latent variable model involving a binomial observed variable Y can be constructed such that Y is related to the latent variable Y* via

The latent variable Y* is then related to a set of regression variables X by the model

This results in a binomial regression model.

The variance of ϵ can not be identified and when it is not of interest is often assumed to be equal to one. If ϵ is normally distributed, then a probit is the appropriate model and if ϵ is log-Weibull distributed, then a logit is appropriate. If ϵ is uniformly distributed, then a linear probability model is appropriate.

See also
Linear probability model
Poisson regression
Predictive modelling

Notes