[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# African Union Mission to Somalia

ishu hotel before assaulting the building and killing civilians.  Up to 23 people were killed, along with two of the terrorists, before Somali security forces were able to end the attack.  Three surviving terrorists were captured. A second suicide car bomb detonated near the former Parliament house.

2018
 On 23 February twin car-bomb explosions in Mogadishu killed at least 38 people.  The first targeted the presidential palace, Villa Somalia, while the second bomb apparently targeted a hotel.
 On 23 February Ugandan soldiers shot dead three Somalia National Army (SNA) personnel in Mogadishu after a Ugandan vehicle convoy was apparently fired upon by the Somalis.
 On 1 March two soldiers were killed and five other people wounded in an al-Shebaab suicide car-bomb attack on a checkpoint 15 km outside Mogadishu.
 On 2 March five Burundian soldiers were reported killed in an al-Shebaab ambush on a military convoy near Balad, 30 km north of Mogadishu.  On the same day a suicide bomb attack on a SNA base at Afgoye and subsequent IED attack resulted in five SNA personnel and a suicide bomber dying.
 On 2 April al-Shebaab launched coordinated attacks on three Ugandan bases, at Qoryoley, Buulo Mareer and Golweyn.  Initial reports gave casualties as 36 al-Shebaab killed with four Ugandan soldiers killed and six wounded. Subsequent reports from Uganda gave conflicting accounts of their casualties but it seems likely six Ugandans died.
 On 11 April U.S. forces destroyed a Shebaab vehicle-borne improvised explosive device (VBIED) in the vicinity of Jana Cabdalle, some 50 km northwest of Kismayo.  This was reported to be the twelfth air strike by American forces in Somalia during 2018.
 On 12 April al-Shebab detonated a bomb at a soccer stadium in Baraawe, killing at least five people.
 In the early hours of 24 April a Burundian base in the Arba'ow area, near Elasha Biyahawas on the outskirts of Mogadishu, was reported attacked by insurgents.
 On 25 April a UPDF convoy in the El-Waregow area, outside the port city of Merka, was reported to have been targeted by a road-side IED which was followed by an insurgent attack.
 On 9 May a roadside bomb in the town of Wanlaweyn, some 90 km northwest of Mogadishu, killed at least five people when it exploded.  Other reports attribute the explosion to a suicide bomber targeting a khat market, and say that eleven civilians were killed, or ten killed and fifteen wounded.
 On 10 May a second explosion in Wanlaweyn killed seven Somali soldiers and wounded a further two when a road-side bomb targeted the vehicle in which they were travelling.  The casualty list was also reported as ten soldiers killed.
 On 12 May fighting in the village of Halfoley, near the town of Jalalaqsi in the Hiran region, between Somali soldiers and villagers against al-Shebaab tax collectors left 13 insurgents dead.
 Also on 12 May a bomb in a market in the Bulomarer district killed four civilians and wounded five.
 On 31 May a U.S. air strike 50 km southwest of Mogadishu was reported to have killed 12 al-Shebaab insurgents.  This was said to be the fifteenth U.S. air strike in Somalia during 2018.
 On 2 June U.S. forces conducted their sixteenth air strike in Somalia for 2018.  Twenty-seven 'terrorists' were reported killed in the strike near the town of Bosaso, in Puntland.'US Airstrike Kills 27 Terrorist Fighters in N. Somalia', Voice of America (Washington, DC), 5 June 2018. Although the true success of this and other U.S. air/drone strikes in Somalia must remain in doubt as there seems to have been no ground follow-up and so no enemy bodies were recovered, or enemy personnel individually identified; no prisoners taken; no documents captured; no weapons or equipment recovered.
 On 8 June fighting was reported between Somalia National Army forces and al-Shebaab when the insurgents attacked the town of El Wak in what was believed to be a continuation of intensified attacks over Ramadan.
 On 8 June a Somali soldier was assassinated in a market in Afgoye.
 During 8 and 9 June al-Shebaab attacks on a joint Somali-Kenyan-U.S. base 2 km north of the town of Sanguni led to the deaths of a U.S. Special Forces soldier and two Somali soldiers, with another four U.S. personnel wounded.  The base was reported to have then been abandoned.'Jubbaland and U.S. Troops Vacate Town Outside Kismayo After Attacks', Shabelle Media Network (Mogadishu), 10 June 2018.
 On 11 June at least five Somali soldiers were killed and three others injured in an insurgent attack near Teed, 30 km north of Huddur in the Bakool region.
 On 1 July a mortar bombardment apparently aimed at an AMISOM base in the suburb of Halane, Mogadihsu, killed five people and injured another ten.
 On 7 July two suicide bombings followed by an attempt to storm Somalia's Ministry of Interior in Mogadishu left at least 10 people dead and another 20 wounded.
 On 13/14 July al-Shebaab attacked the Police Commissioner's residence in Baidoa, killing three soldiers and i