[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 30]
# Politics — Aristotle

t under good regulations, we must
look upon one half of it as not under the restraint of law, as it
there happened; for the legislator, desiring to make his whole city
a collection of warriors with respect to the men, he most evidently
accomplished his design; but in the meantime the women were quite
neglected, for they live without restraint in every improper indulgence
and luxury. So that in such a state riches will necessarily be in
general esteem, particularly if the men are governed by their wives,
which has been the case with many a brave and warlike people except
the Celts, and those other nations, if there are any such, who openly
practise pederasty. And the first mythologists seem not improperly to
have joined Mars and Venus together; for all nations of this character
are greatly addicted either to the love of women or of boys, for which
reason it was thus at Lacedaemon; and many things in their state were
done by the authority of the women. For what is the difference, if the
power is in the hands of the women, or in the hands of those whom they
themselves govern? it must turn to the same account. As this boldness of
the women can be of no use in any common occurrences, if it was ever so,
it must be in war; but even here we find that the Lacedaemonian women
were of the greatest disservice, as was proved at the time of the Theban
invasion, when they were of no use at all, as they are in other cities,
but made more disturbance than even the enemy.

The origin of this indulgence which the Lacedaemonian women enjoy is
easily accounted for, from the long time the men were absent from home
upon foreign expeditions [1270a] against the Argives, and afterwards the
Arcadians and Messenians, so that, when these wars were at an end, their
military life, in which there is no little virtue, prepared them to obey
the precepts of their law-giver; but we are told, that when Lycurgus
endeavoured also to reduce the women to an obedience to his laws, upon
their refusal he declined it. It may indeed be said that the women were
the causes of these things, and of course all the fault was theirs. But
we are not now considering where the fault lies, or where it does not
lie, but what is right and what is wrong; and when the manners of the
women are not well regulated, as I have already said, it must not only
occasion faults which are disgraceful to the state, but also increase
the love of money. In the next place, fault may be found with his
unequal division of property, for some will have far too much, others
too little; by which means the land will come into few hands, which
business is badly regulated by his laws. For he made it infamous for any
one either to buy or sell their possessions, in which he did right; but
he permitted any one that chose it to give them away, or bequeath them,
although nearly the same consequences will arise from one practice as
from the other. It is supposed that near two parts in five of the whole
country is the property of women, owing to their being so often sole
heirs, and having such large fortunes in marriage; though it would
be better to allow them none, or a little, or a certain regulated
proportion. Now every one is permitted to make a woman his heir if he
pleases; and if he dies intestate, he who succeeds as heir at law gives
it to whom he pleases. From whence it happens that although the country
is able to support fifteen hundred horse and thirty thousand foot, the
number does not amount to one thousand.

And from these facts it is evident, that this particular is badly
regulated; for the city could not support one shock, but was ruined for
want of men. They say, that during the reigns of their ancient kings
they used to present foreigners with the freedom of their city, to
prevent there being a want of men while they carried on long wars; it is
also affirmed that the number of Spartans was formerly ten thousand; but
be that as it will, an equality of property conduces much to increase
the number of the people. The law, too, which he made to encourage
population was by no means calculated to correct this inequality;
for being willing that the Spartans should be as numerous as [1270b]
possible, to make them desirous of having large families he ordered that
he who had three children should be excused the night-watch, and that he
who had four should pay no taxes: though it is very evident, that while
the land was divided in this manner, that if the people increased there
must many of them be very poor.

Nor was he less blamable for the manner in which he constituted the
ephori; for these magistrates take cognisance of things of the last
importance, and yet they are chosen out of the people in general; so
that it often happens that a very poor person is elected to that office,
who, from that circumstance, is easily bought. There have been many
instances of this formerly, as well as in the late affair at Andros. A