[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# USS Mound City

red the Rebel steamer CSS Red Rover, which had been used for accommodating the crew of the floating battery New Orleans. A copy of the Confederate Navy signals was captured with Red Rover; these were delivered to Washington, from where they were made available to the entire US Navy.

Plum Point Bend

Following the capture of Island No. 10, the next Federal objective on the Mississippi was Fort Pillow, upstream of and defending Memphis, Tennessee. Rather than assault the fort, Major General Henry Wager Halleck, commanding the Army west of the Appalachians, had moved into the interior of the states of Tennessee and Mississippi. Consequently, the struggle for Fort Pillow was reduced to a mortar bombardment like that at Island No. 10. However, the Confederate forces were augmented by eight cottonclad rams of the River Defense Fleet, and these surprised the bombarding mortar boat and its single accompanying gunboat  on the morning of 10 May 1862. Mound City was with other gunboats at anchor a short distance upstream when the sounds of battle were heard, and she promptly got up steam and was the first to come to the aid of the vessels already involved in the fray. Because the Union ships entered the fight one at a time, the Rebels were able to concentrate on each in its turn. Cincinnati had already been rammed several times and was out action, fleeing to shallow water to avoid sinking. With no other support, Mound City was rammed by CSS Earl Van Dorn. The blow was so severe that her bow was almost wrenched off. She, like Cincinnati, had to seek refuge in shoals where the deep-draft rams could not follow. By this time, several other Federal gunboats had gotten up steam and were entering the battle, so Confederate commander James E. Montgomery withdrew his fleet.

Both Cincinnati and Mound City were raised and restored to the flotilla, although neither was repaired soon enough to take part in the Battle of Memphis on 6 June.

White River expedition

About this time, the Union Army of the Southwest under Major General Samuel R. Curtis had been operating in the interior of Arkansas. Curtis believed that Confederate forces of the Trans-Mississippi Department were gathering to attack him. Fearing that he would be cut off, he requested that communications be established between his army and that on the Mississippi River. Either the Arkansas River or the White River would have served his purposes, but the Arkansas was too low for water transport, so an expedition was sent up the White River with intent to give Curtis the aid he had asked for. A single regiment, the 46th Indiana Volunteers, embarked in army transports; they were accompanied by two armored gunboats, Mound City and St. Louis, two unarmored gunboats, and an armed tug. On 13 June, the expedition entered the White River and proceeded uneventfully upstream for four more days.

With intent only to slow down the progress of the Union vessels and not to make a determined stand, the Confederates had set up a pair of batteries on the bluffs near St. Charles, Arkansas, some  above the river mouth. The guns were taken from a gunboat which they had then scuttled in the middle of the stream as a further impediment. On 17 June, the Federal flotilla arrived at that point; the soldiers went ashore to attack the batteries from the land side, while the two armored gunboats came up the river, Mound City leading. Shots were exchanged between the gunboats and the shore batteries, with nothing exceptional until a chance shot from the upper battery happened to penetrate the casemate of the lead gunboat. The shot killed some men in its passage, but most of the damage it caused occurred when it hit the vessel's steam drum. Hot steam immediately filled the entire boat, killing and scalding most of the crew. Those who could do so jumped overboard into the river, where Rebel sharpshooters shot them as they tried to swim to safety. By the time the carnage was over, 105 men were dead by the first shot, scalding, drowning, or being shot in the water. An additional 25 were injured by the steam. Among the wounded was Commander Kilty, who survived and later returned to service in the Navy, although he lost his left arm. Only 25 men of the entire crew escaped without major injury. Meanwhile, the soldiers had moved into position to assault the batteries, so the Confederates fled, leaving their wounded and their guns behind.

Despite the almost complete loss of her crew, Mound City had suffered only inconsequential damage that could soon be repaired. First Master John A. Duble of the gunboat Conestoga took temporary command in place of Commander Kilty. Replacements for the crew were taken from other vessels in the expedition, and they went on for another . They then turned back without meeting the Army of the Southwest. Soon enough Curtis was able to move his army to Helena, Arkansas, where he was able to reestablish his communications without the support of the Gunboat Flotilla.