[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The World Before (novel)

The World Before is a  science fiction  novel by British writer Karen Traviss, published in October 2005. It is the third book in the Wess'Har Series.

Plot summary
The Bezeri are no more.  The effects of the cobalt-salted nuclear weapons have had devastating effects on their population and has wiped them out completely.  Aras and the rest of the Wess'Har have a strong desire to see those responsible punished.  They have already destroyed the Actaeon and its crew that refused to abandon ship.  Those who did are now the occupants of the habitat called Umeh Station on the planet Umeh, as it is called by the Isenj who live there.  Aras is battling his conflicting loyalties and genetics.  Part of him wants to blame Bennett for Shan's death as he was involved and another part recognizes that Bennett now shares genes with himself and Shan.  Aras and Bennett take a trip to the transplanted colony from Constantine, now called Mar'an'cas.  Aras feels the need to see the Garrod family and see to the colony's well-being.  He finds, unsurprisingly, that he is no longer welcome.  They admit him as they do not have the force to stop him but they make their feelings clear.

Eddie Michallat is increasingly becoming more involved in the politics of the different worlds interacting.  He is friends with the Isenj Minister Ual; who is finding that as he fights to preserve his world from the potential wrath of Eqbas Vorhi, so Umeh seems intent on its own destruction.  He is inescapably bound to Wess'ej as tries to honor the memory of Shan Frankland and her sacrifices for everyone involved and his growing friendship with Aras, Bennett and the Wess'Har community.  He still is a reporter at heart but that seems to be changing as his conscience affects his decisions for stories more and more.  The information he provides now has the power to create war on Earth and the realization is sobering.  Eddie decides to tell the real reasons for the destruction of Christopher, the death of Shan Frankland and also of the coming of the World Before and its possible ramifications, to the people of Earth.  The Wess'Har have demanded the delivery of Mohan Rayat and Lindsay Neville.  Minister Ual has been told by his government that they will only do so only if the Destroyer of Mjat (name given to Aras for the destruction of the Isenj city on Bezer'ej) is turned over to them.  Ual, knowing that the Wess'Har do not negotiate, has decided to oppose his government by secretly allying with Eddie and the Royal Marines at Umeh Station to capture Neville and Rayat and turn them over to the Wess'Har.  He knows this will be the end of his career and possibly his life but for the sake of Umeh, he feels he must do this.

The Wess'Har scouts have discovered the body of Shan Frankland.  Nevyan takes a shuttle out to recover her body.  To her surprise and astonishment, they discover, once her body is aboard, that Shan is still alive.  She has been floating, frozen in the depths of space for months and her c'naatat has somehow kept her dormant but alive.  Her body appears as a mummy; waxy and emaciated.  They return to F'nar and reveal this to Bennett, Aras, Eddie, and the rest of the F'nar community.  They immediately set about taking care of her to nurse her back to health.  She does eventually recover enough to wake up.

Meanwhile, the World Before has come.  A patrol ship lands and disgorges a crew of only males.  They are the first ship and advise that another will be along as well.  The Wess'Har do what they can to be accommodating but Nevyan does not like the way the Eqbas males seem interested in c'naatat.  Eventually the second ship from Eqbas Vorhi arrives and it is massive.  The ship itself rearranges and two smaller ships split off from it; one to reconnoiter Bezer'ej and the other for Umeh.  The tension on Umeh heightens with this and the Isenj try to make the Wess'Har withdraw but to no avail.