[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jenin, Jenin

reaffirmed the overturning of the ban, stating that the film board does not have "a monopoly over truth". Although the Supreme Court described the film as a "propagandistic lie," the ruling affirmed that choosing not to show 'both sides' of a story is not grounds for censorship.

Defamation lawsuit

Five Israeli reserve soldiers who served in Jenin filed suit in 2002 against Bakri for defamation arguing that the movie had sullied their good names. The plaintiffs were not mentioned in the film. The judge dismissed the case, ruling that while the film did in fact slander Israeli soldiers, the five Israeli soldiers were not personally slandered and thus had no standing to sue. The judge said in her verdict that Bakri had not shown "good faith", had brought no witnesses, and had not proved his claim that his charges were backed up by reports from human rights groups.

Public critics 

Dr. David Zangen, who was the chief medical officer for the IDF in Jenin during Operation Defensive Shield (Head of Pediatric Endocrinology at Hadassah University Hospital in Jerusalem) issued a public statement titled Seven Lies About Jenin, giving his personal accounts about his visit to a private premiere screening of the film at the Jerusalem Cinematheque. In his statement, he cited 7 discrepancies he had hoped to raise in front of the viewers who denied him the possibility to get past the second point. He claimed Bakri has 'skillfully made a crude, albeit well-done, manipulation' that it is difficult not to be drawn into the created distorted picture; and that he was amazed that the audience was not willing to hear his own accounts, a person who had 'physically' been there. The version distributed in the English language is modified from the original movie, and some of the problematic scenes Zangen pointed out were omitted.

Defense

The Mohammad Bakri Defense Committee argues that "the importance of this case reaches beyond Bakri as an individual," amounting to repression of Palestinian self-expression. At a screening of his latest film in New York, a disturbed audience member confronted Bakri with accusations that Jenin, Jenin exaggerated the atrocities of the invasion presented a one-sided view, and Bakri responded that he had "seen hundreds of films that deny and ignore what happened to Palestinians, yet never complained or tried to ban any film."

The main line of defense for Bakri and his film is that, as the Supreme Court found, choosing not to show 'both sides' of a story is not grounds for censorship. Bakri is being represented by attorney Avigdor Feldman, who told Haaretz, "Bakri doesn't say anything in this film. The people who talk are those he filmed. So the residents of the refugee camp say things which sometimes are true and sometimes not. It's a movie. It reflects the subjective understanding of the speakers. Sometimes they say things that are harsher [than they actually were] because that is how he experienced it."

The Mohammad Bakri Defense Committee adds: "For his artistic integrity and his focus on the experiences and narratives of his fellow Palestinians, Mohammad Bakri faces the potential of financial ruin in the face of spurious legal charges and dubious claims of defamation." A major component of the argument for the defense in the most recent allegations is that none of the plaintiffs, Ofer Ben-Natan, Doron Keidar, Nir Oshri, Adam Arbiv and Yonatan Van-Kaspel, are mentioned by name or shown in the film.

Second defamation lawsuit and ban
In November 2016, Israeli army reserve officer Nissim Magnagi sued Bakri for defamation over the film in the Lod District Court. While the previous defamation suit had been dismissed on account of the plaintiffs not being specifically identified in the film, Magnagi was found to have had a legal basis for a defamation suit as he had appeared in the film. In January 2021, the court accepted Magnagi's defamation claim and restored the ban on the film. Bakri was ordered to pay NIS 175,000 in compensation to Magnagi as well as NIS 50,000 in legal expenses.

Awards and nominations
Jenin, Jenin was awarded Best Film at the 2002 Carthage International Film Festival in Tunis, and the 2003 International Prize for Mediterranean Documentary Filmmaking & Reporting.

Notes

External links 

 
Jenin, Jenin, distributor's site
 

2002 films
2002 documentary films
Films about the Israel Defense Forces
Palestinian documentary films
Censorship in Israel
Film controversies in Israel
Documentary films about the Israeli–Palestinian conflict
Documentary films alleging war crimes
Jenin