[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Public Protector

The Public Protector in South Africa is one of six independent state institutions set up by the country's Constitution to support and defend democracy.

According to Section 181 of the Constitution:
 These institutions are independent, and subject only to the Constitution and the law. According to the Constitution, they must be impartial and must exercise their powers and perform their functions without fear, favour or prejudice.
 Other organs of state, through legislative and other measures, must assist and protect these institutions to ensure the independence, impartiality, dignity and effectiveness of these institutions.
 No person or organ of state may interfere with the functioning of these institutions.
 These institutions are accountable to the National Assembly, and must report on their activities and the performance of their functions to the Assembly at least once a year.

Public Protectors 
The first person to hold the office was Selby Baqwa, appointed on the inception of the office in 1995. He was succeeded in 2002 by Lawrence Mushwana and in 2009 by Thuli Madonsela. The current Public Protector, is Busisiwe Mkhwebane, in office since October 2016.

The office of the Public protector has been faced with harsh criticism by parliament specifically by the majority party for requesting an increase of R200m in the budget allocation for additional resources. With the justice portfolio committee chairman Mathole Motshekga being critical of the budget and strategic presentation presented by Adv. Thuli Madonsela.

During the budget speech of 2015 the office of the Public Protector was allocated a total budget for 2015/16 of R 246.1 million an increase of R 60 million as opposed to the increase of R 200 million initially requested, with R 15 million going to the employment of additional investigators and the retention of the 70 investigator who were previously appointed on contract.

The office of the Public Protector is required to appear before the National Assembly at least once every year. During the Adv. Thuli Madonsela's budget and strategic presentation, the advocate was requested to present progress reports before parliament on a quarterly basis.

On 9 June 2022, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that he is suspending Busisiwe Mkhwebane from her duties as the Public Protector in terms of Section 194 of the Constitution which allowed for the suspension of the Public Protector while an impeachment inquiry was under way. On 11 September 2023, National Assembly voted to impeach Busisiwe Mkhwebane, with 318 in support, 43 against and one abstention; her removal comes a month prior to the end of a 7-year non-renewable term.

Speakers of the Public Protector (1995–present)

Organisational structure

The Public Protector has an executive office which administers three major programmes:
 The Investigations and Outreach
 The Executive Management
 The Corporate Support Services

Mandate
The Public Protector receives its mandate from the Public Protector Act of 1994. The Public Protector is one of six State Institutions Supporting Democracy in South Africa. These institutions are independent of the government, subject only to South Africa's Constitution and the law, and report annually to Parliament.

The preamble of the Public Protector Act states, in part:

The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa ... provides for the establishment of the office of Public Protector to investigate matters and to protect the public against matters such as maladministration in connection with the affairs of government, improper conduct by a person performing a public function, improper acts with respect to public money, improper or unlawful enrichment of a person performing a public function and an act or omission by a person performing a public function resulting in improper prejudice to another person.

The Act also gives the Public Protector the authority to order other state institutions to take appropriate remedial action against any impropriety or prejudice made by government.

Any aggrieved complainant may lodge a complaint to the office provided that it falls within powers of the Public Protector in terms of the Public Protector act 23 of 1994. The Public Protector may investigate and take the appropriate remedial action on his/her findings.

History

The Public Protector is one of six State Institutions Supporting Democracy in South Africa. These institutions are independent of the government, subject only to South Africa's Constitution and the law, and report annually to Parliament.