[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Andrei Pervozvanny-class battleship

ships displaced  at normal load and  at deep load. Their hull was subdivided by 17 transverse watertight bulkheads and the engine rooms were divided by a centreline longitudinal bulkhead. They had a double bottom and a metacentric height of . The ships' crew consisted of 31 officers and 924 crewmen.

The ships had two 4-cylinder vertical triple-expansion steam engines, each driving a  propeller, using steam provided by twenty-five Belleville boilers at a working pressure of . The engines had a total designed output of . During the ships' sea trials, they produced  and gave the sisters a top speed of . The ships carried a maximum load of  of coal that gave  at a speed of . Electricity was provided by six steam-driven dynamos.

Armament
The main armament consisted of four  Model 1895 40-caliber guns mounted in twin-gun turrets fore and aft. These guns had a maximum elevation of 35° and could depress to -5°. Eighty rounds per gun were carried and they could fire about one round per minute. The guns could be loaded at any angle between +5° and -3°. They fired a  M1911 armour-piercing (AP) shell at a muzzle velocity of . At maximum elevation the guns had a range of .

Eight of the fourteen 50-caliber  Model 1905 guns were mounted in four twin-gun turrets at the corners of the superstructure while six were mounted in casemates in the superstructure. The turret-mounted guns had a rate of fire of two rounds per minute and a maximum elevation of +25° while the casemate guns were faster at 2.8 rounds per minute, but could only elevate to +19°. Each gun was provided with 128 rounds. Their M1913 shells weighed  and were fired at a muzzle velocity of  to a range of  at an elevation of +15°10'.

For close-range defence against torpedo boats, the ships carried twelve  guns mounted in casemates above the eight-inch guns in the superstructure. The corner guns were positioned to give them a clear field of fire over the eight-inch gun turrets. They had a rate of fire of 10 rounds per minute and the ships carried a total of 2,628 rounds (219 per gun) for them. While their maximum elevation was +23°, they had a range of  at +18° using their  AP shell.

Two underwater  torpedo tubes were mounted, one on each side, and they were provided with six spare torpedoes. The ships would have used M1908 torpedoes that had three range/speed settings:  at ,  at , or  at .

Protection
The sides of the hull were completely protected by Krupp cemented armour. The main waterline belt had a thickness of  abreast the engine and boiler rooms and tapered to a thickness of  at the lower edge. Abreast the main gun magazines the belt was  in thickness and extended to the bow using plates with a thickness of . Aft of the rear magazine the belt used  and  plates to the stern. The belt was  high, of which  was underwater. The upper strake of armour had a maximum thickness of 5 inches amidships and it was  high. It extended to the ends of the ship in plates 4 and  thick.

The front and sides of the main-gun turrets were 8 inches thick and their roofs were  thick. Their barbettes ranged from 4 to 5 inches in thickness. The armour plates on the front and sides of the secondary-gun turrets were 6 and 5 inches thick, respectively, and their roofs were 2.5 inches thick. The barbettes for the secondary turrets were protected by armour 4 inches thick. Protection for the single 8-inch guns consisted of 5-inch armour plates on the sides of the casemate while the transverse bulkheads protecting the guns ranged from 4 (on the centreline) to 5 inches in thickness. The gun shields for the single guns were  thick. Armour plates protecting the 120 mm guns were  thick. A  centreline bulkhead divided the casemate and the armour protecting the funnel uptakes ranged in thickness from . The greatest thickness of deck armour was .

Ships

Service histories