[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ethnic minorities in Armenia

y domains.

Assyrians 

Assyrians are a historic presence in Armenia from very ancient times. Assyrians are the third biggest minority in Armenia after the Yazidis and Russians. Their number is estimated at 5,000. There has been a higher rate of intermarriage between the Assyrians and the Armenians.

According to the 2001 census, there are 3,409 Assyrians living in Armenia, and Armenia is home to some of the last surviving Assyrian communities outside the middle east. There were 6,000 Assyrians in Armenia before the breakup of USSR, but because of Armenia's struggling economy, the population has been cut by half, as many have emigrated to Russian areas.

Assyrians are a Christian Semitic people, Aramaic speakers who are descendants of the ancient Assyrians and Babylonians

Molokans
The Molokans () are a religious sect, among Russian peasants (serfs), who broke away from the Russian Orthodox Church in the 1550s. They reject the Trinity as outlined by the Nicene Creed, the Orthodox fasts, military service, adhering to the Old Testament kosher dietary laws and do not eat pork, shellfish, or other unclean foods. They also refuse many accepted Christian practices, including water baptism. They claim to be the direct descendants of the ancient Armenian "Paulicians". They became known as the "Bogomils" of Thrace, Bulgaria, Bosnia and Serbia.

Molokan means "milk drinkers" in Russian, as they drank milk instead of fasting from it on Orthodox Fasts. There are around 5,000 Molokans in Armenia. They encourage endogamy.

Greeks 

The Greeks of Armenia are mainly descendants of Pontic Greeks, who originally lived along the shores of the Black Sea. Armenians and Greeks have co-existed for centuries.

Armeno-Tats 

Christian Tats (Armenian:hay-tater) are a distinct group of Tat-speaking Armenians that historically populated eastern parts of the South Caucasus.

Ukrainians

The origin of the Ukrainians in Armenia goes back to the mid 19th century after the migration to Transcaucasia “the Cossacks from Minor Russia” to seal the Empire’s Southern borders. The migrants worked mostly in agriculture.

Jews

Jews in Armenia are ethnic / religious Jews living in Armenia. There are about 300–500 Jews presently living in Armenia, mainly in the capital Yerevan. Although the contemporary relations between Israel and Armenia are normally good. The Jews have their religious leaders in Armenia headed by a Chief Rabbi and sociopolitical matters are run by the Jewish Council of Armenia.

Poles

Poles in Armenia are Armenian citizens who have Polish ancestry or Polish immigrants to Armenia. They make up the same population as Russians, Caucasus Germans, Italians, and Scandinavians. Some of them are born to one parent from Poland and one parent from Armenia and some of them have grandparents from Poland. They live in Amrakits, Gyumri, Vanadzor, and Yerevan. 33 of them live there. They have a school called European School in Armenia. They speak Armenian and some Polish.

Udis
The Udis (the self-name Udi, Uti) – are one of the most ancient native peoples of Caucasus as they are considered to be the descendants of the people of Caucasian Albania.

Udis reside in Azerbaijan, Georgia, Russia, Ukraine and Armenia. In Armenia, they number around 200.

The Udi language belongs to the Nakho-Dagestanian group of the Caucasian languages.
There are two primary dialects named Nij and Vartashen. Azeri, Russian, Georgian languages are also spoken.

Most Udis belong to the Orthodox Church. Centuries of life in the sphere of Perso-Islamic culture made a relevant impact on the Udi culture and mentality. This trace is noticeable in Udi folk traditions and the material culture.

Most Udis speak Udi language that is a member of the Northeast Caucasian language family. Udi is related to Lezgian and Tabasaran.

It is believed this was the main language of Caucasian Albania, which stretched from south Dagestan to current day Azerbaijan. The language is spoken by about 5,000 people including in the villages of Debedavan, Bagratashen, Ptghavan, and Haghtanak in the Tavush province of Armenia and in the village of Zinobiani (Oktomberi) in the Kvareli district of the Kakheti province in Georgia.

Versions of Udi were written in Armenian alphabet and the Georgian alphabet.

Organizations of ethnic minorities 
List of organizations of the ethnic minorities of Armenia.

See also
Demographics of Armenia

Notes

References

 
Armenia
Demographics of Armenia