[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jejomar Binay

ly illegal.

Binay's camp claimed and accused President Arroyo of political harassment. Because of this, as per the DILG, a suspension order was served against Binay over alleged corruption. The latter said that the tax obligations were already settled between the BIR and the Makati city government.

Barely a week before the local elections, the ombudsman suspended Binay based on allegations made by a local candidate allied with Malacañang; it would be revealed that the charges were supported by falsified statements. In a repeat of the October 2006 incident, heavily armed policemen barged into the city hall after office hours, forcibly opening the offices and occupying the building. Binay confronted police officials and representatives of the DILG, while hundreds of supporters once again swarmed the city hall quadrangle to show their support.

The suspension order generated national media attention, and prompted even administration senatorial candidates to protest publicly, saying the action further undermined their chances in the elections. Despite the controversy of this tax liability issue, Binay still won the position of vice president in 2010 by a landslide victory.

A photo of then vice presidential candidate and former Makati City mayor Binay, with his rumored mistress, was leaked online. Though he admitted to having an extramarital affair, Binay said that the leaked photo was part of "black propaganda" against him, because of his high ratings in a vice presidential survey conducted prior to the leaking of the photo. The alleged "black propaganda" device had little to no effect on the campaign of Binay, who closed the gap of votes between him and leading vice presidential candidate Senator Manuel "Mar" Roxas II in a survey. Despite the issue, Binay's landslide victory landed him the position of vice president.

Vice presidency (2010-2016) 

Binay initially announced his bid for the presidency for the 2010 elections during his 66th birthday celebration at the Makati City Hall on November 11, 2008, but abandoned his bid to give way to the reelection bid of former president Joseph Ejercito Estrada. He eventually became Estrada's running mate and ran under the banner of PDP–Laban (Partido Demokratiko Pilipino-Lakas ng Bayan).

Binay initially showed a relatively poor performance in public opinion polls, trailing behind senators Loren Legarda and Mar Roxas, the latter of whom was heavily favored to win the race, but Binay's standings improved as the elections approached, overtaking Legarda and tying with Roxas in the final survey conducted. He went on to defeat Roxas in the election.

Binay took his oath as vice president on June 30, 2010, becoming the first local government official to do so. He is also the oldest Filipino to be elected vice president at the age of 67 and the second overall after Teofisto Guingona Jr., who, at age 72, was appointed vice president by Gloria Macapagal Arroyo.

Binay was appointed chairman of the Housing Urban Development Coordinating Council (HUDCC) by President Noynoy Aquino, the same position held by his predecessor, Vice President Noli de Castro and Presidential Adviser for Overseas Filipino Workers (Presidential Adviser for OFW Concerns). During this time, Binay was assigned to lead "Task Force OFW", which helped Overseas Filipino Workers who were maltreated by their employers to return to the Philippines with the assistance of the government.
 
Presidential campaign 

Initially, Binay polled highly among expected presidential candidates for the 2016 Philippine general election. However, in a Pulse Asia survey released in September 2015, he placed third after senators Grace Poe and Mar Roxas, the latter of whom was the ruling Liberal Party's presidential candidate. Binay's trust rating had also dropped by 18% due to political harassment and black propaganda by his political enemies.

Speculation as to who Bunay's running mate for 2016 saw fingers pointed in many directions, including the likes of PLDT Chairman Manuel V. Pangilinan, Senator Jinggoy Estrada, Rep. Manny Pacquiao, Nacionalista Party President Manny Villar, and Batangas Governor Vilma Santos. However, his running mate was later revealed to be Senator Gringo Honasan, who was also the vice president of the United Nationalist Alliance.

Platform
Binay disclosed his platform for his 2016 presidential bid during his speech in the Integrated Bar of the Philippines in Cebu City on March 20, 2015.