[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joseph Nanven Garba

ional Order of Benin"). He wrote a number of books, including Revolution in Nigeria: Another View (1982), Diplomatic Soldiering (1987), and Fractured History: Elite Shifts and Policy Changes in Nigeria (1995), and was awarded an honorary doctoral degree from the State University of New York in 1991.

Garba spent four years (1992-1995) in New York directing The Southern African Peacekeeping and Peacemaking Project, which focused on the security challenges facing a changing southern African region. A key focus of the project was the restructuring of the security forces for a new and post-apartheid South Africa.  The findings and results of the project were published in two volumes in 1993 and 1994. On 26–28 January 1994, in Harare, Zimbabwe, he brought together for the first time military commanders from South Africa and their counterparts from the ANC and the southern Africa region, as well as international security experts for a conference on restructuring South Africa’s security forces.  His input, role and engagement with some senior South African military and police commanders in South Africa, including Lt. General Pierre Steyn, General J.J. Geldenhuys, Major-General Bantu Holomisa and Lt. General Sebastian J. Smit, Major-General George Fivas, and commanders from the neighboring countries would prove instrumental to the smooth transition of the South African military in the post-apartheid era. [ see, Restructuring the security forces for a new South Africa.]

In his later years, Garba was reported as holding a desire to lead Nigeria, and said so publicly in 1995. During the Abacha transition program he was a member of the United Nigeria Congress Party (UNCP), In the fourth republic he joined the All Nigeria People's Party, although he was never elected to public office. From 1999, he was Director General of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies in Nigeria, and while carrying out the duties of this office in Abuja he died on 1 June 2002. Garba was survived by his wife and six children.

Following his death the president of the Nigerian Senate, Anyim Pius, described Garba as "one of [Nigeria's] finest diplomats, patriots and staunch advocates of an indivisible and indissolable African continent", referring to Garba's strong belief in and advocacy of Pan-Africanism.

Publications

 Garba, Joseph Nanven (1993). The Honour To Serve: reflections On Nigeria’s Presidency of the 44th U.N. General Assembly.  Ibadan: Heinemann Educational Books (Nigeria). 
 Garba, Joseph Nanven (1993). Towards Sustainable Peace and Security in Southern Africa.  New York, N.Y.: Institute of International Education.
 Garba, Joseph Nanven (1994). Restructuring the security forces for a new South Africa, New York, N.Y.: Institute of International Education

References

External links

Graduates of the Mons Officer Cadet School
People from Plateau State
Presidents of the United Nations General Assembly
Foreign ministers of Nigeria
Nigerian generals
Nigerian Army officers
Participants in the 1966 Nigerian counter-coup
Participants in the 1975 Nigerian military coup
Participants of coups in Nigeria
Harvard Kennedy School alumni
1943 births
2002 deaths
Permanent Representatives of Nigeria to the United Nations
Commanders of the Order of the Federal Republic
Nigerian Army Brigade of Guards Commanders
Nigerian Defence Academy Commandants
Nigerian Military School alumni