[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Pre-election day events of the 2006 Singaporean general election

that the PAP had used its position as the government to entrench and promote the party through public funded grassroots organisations.  She questioned whether PAP is a first world government, which she said should put national interests ahead of party interests, and operate on a level playing field.

Tan Hui Hua represented the WP on 4 May.

SDA broadcast
SDA's Secretary-general, Chiam See Tong, read the party's political broadcast on both 29 April and 4 May. Chiam pointed out that in this election, the PAP is aiming to win all seats. He asked voters whether they want a one-party system. Chiam argued that a multi-party system would be needed for democracy to survive in Singapore, and that a free Singapore with room for diverse views and opinions would be necessary for the social, cultural and political well-being of the people. Chiam urged the people to act decisively to vote for the opposition, to ensure that Singapore would not degenerate into a one-party state. He said that "a vibrant and cosmopolitan Singapore needs creativity of the mind" and that "these can only flourish in an atmosphere of freedom and an environment where there is no fear." He reminded viewers of the old saying, "absolute power corrupts absolutely."

PAP broadcast
PAP's political broadcast was read by its Secretary-general Lee Hsien Loong on 29 April. Lee highlighted the successes of the PAP government since the last election, especially in creating jobs, reducing unemployment, retraining workers, and investing in young people. He argued that the strategies were working and economy was striving, and that PAP had united the people under the threat of terrorism. He reminded viewers that Singapore would have great opportunities as well as major challenges ahead as Asia was rising, and the PAP would make Singapore a land of opportunity for all people, and each person could find his or her own niche and excel. He said that the government would educate each Singaporean to be the best they can be.

Lee said that the country must ensure that as it progresses, that no one is left behind, and to help those who have difficulty keeping up. He gives this reason for implementing the progress package that was given out. Lee said that the PAP government would take care of older Singaporeans and help them work longer. PAP would install elevators on every floor of every HDB block, make the city barrier free and transport system wheelchair friendly.

He continued to say that the PAP would make medical care more affordable, and the coverage of Medisave would be extended. He said these strategies would improve the lives of all Singaporeans and help create a fair and just society and a safe and harmonious community. He added that the PAP is the best team assembled; it is a diverse team with candidates committed to serve. He asked viewers for support, to help build a nation where every person could develop himself to the fullest and everyone contributed to "this vibrant city".

Debate on housing and lift upgrading
The upgrading of public housing, including the Lift Upgrading Programme (LUP), is a major issue in this election. As in previous elections, the PAP had tied the scheduling of housing upgrades to the number of votes the party received in the election. The PAP argues that government is successful in raising the standard of living in the country, and those who support its various policies, including the upgrading, should be given priority. In the hotly contested Aljunied GRC, George Yeo (PAP) has placed lift upgrading the "top of [his] priority list" so that the lift would stop on every floor in as many blocks as possible. 

Sylvia Lim (WP) accused the PAP of being selective in its upgrading programmes, arguing that this is a divisive policy.

Large turnout at opposition election rallies
The election featured large turnouts at some of the election rallies of the opposition parties, which was unheard of since the 1980s. A report by Malaysian press The Star estimated that around 10,000 people attended the Workers' Party rally on 30 April at Hougang. At the last rally of the Workers' Party at Serangoon Stadium on 5 May, the audience filled up most of the field and even spilled outside the stadium.

The PAP dismissed the significance of the crowds, saying that it does not necessarily translate into votes.

References

2006 Singaporean general election
2006