[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies

h Institute, and later the Moshe Dayan Center, was notable for its publication of the now-defunct Middle East Contemporary Survey, itself a descendant of the earlier Middle East Record, which was reviewed as "the most comprehensive and authoritative annual review of developments in the Middle East."

Periodical publications 
 Tel Aviv Notes: a bi-monthly analytical update on current affairs and regional developments in the Middle East. It has a regular distribution schedule on the 10th and 26th of each month.
 Middle East Crossroads:  A Hebrew-language analytical publication similar to Tel Aviv Notes.
 Bayan: The Arabs in Israel. A quarterly publication of the Konrad Adenauer Program for Jewish-Arab Cooperation at the Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies. The goal of Bayan is to enrich the knowledge of the general public about issues that involve Arab society within Israel. 
 Beehive: Middle East Social Media. A publication of the Doron Halpern Middle East Network Analysis Desk, which studies noteworthy trends on Arab, Turkish, and Iranian social media.
 Bustan: Middle East Book Review. Published through the Penn State University Press, and includes "at least three long-form review essays that review new literature. These essays explore broad themes or issues on a particular topic that go beyond the content of the books under review. The journal also includes ten to fifteen short traditional book reviews, as well as review articles in translation."
Ifriqiya: An analytical publication focusing on sub-Saharan Africa.
Iqtisadi: Middle East Economy. Analyses economic developments in the Middle East and North Africa.  
Turkeyscope: Examines modern Turkish foreign and domestic policy and events.  
Middle East Newsbrief: Released weekly, this summarizes the English-language Arab, Turkish, and Kurdish press, with a particular focus on editorial, versus news pieces.

Governance and partnerships 
The Moshe Dayan Center is governed by an Israeli board of governors, on the advice of an international advisory council. It is administered by an academic director. The center is funded entirely by endowments, research grants, and private and institutional donations.

Some of its programs are in partnership with the Council of Higher Education of the Republic of Turkey and the Konrad Adenauer Foundation.  Its other foreign connections include the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, the Turkish Foreign Policy Institute in Ankara, Royal Institute of International Affairs in London, Emory University, Washington Institute for Near East Policy, and Middle East Technical University (METU) in Ankara.

In 2014, the center began a five-year cooperative program with the George L. Mosse / Laurence A. Weinstein Center for Jewish Studies at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. In August 2015, the center signed a cooperation agreement with the Center for Israel Studies (Jordan).

Selected recent in-house book publications 

 Inbal Tal, "Spreading the Movement’s Message: Women’s Activism in the Islamic Movement in Israel," (2016)
 Itamar Radai, "A Tale of Two Cities: Palestinians in Jerusalem and Jaffa, 1947-1948," (2015)
 Ed. Brandon Friedman and Bruce Maddy-Weitzman, Inglorious Revolutions: State Cohesion in the Middle East after the Arab Spring,  (2015)
 Eds. Uzi Rabi and Shaul Yanai, "The Persian Gulf and the Arabian Peninsula: States and Societies in Transition," (2014)
 Joshua R. Goodman, Contesting Identities in South Sinai: Development, Transformation, and the Articulation of a "Bedouin" Identity under Egyptian Rule, (2014)
 Jason Hillman, "A Storm in a Tea-Cup": The Iraq-Kuwait Crisis of 1961 From Gulf Crisis to Inter-Arab Dispute,  (2014)
 Fouad Ajami, "The Syrian Rebellion," (2013)
 Joseph Kostiner, "The Gulf States: Politics, Society, Economy," (2012)