[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# August 1976

mple return mission probe Chang'e 5 with  of lunar soil.
Died: 
Juscelino Kubitschek, 73, President of Brazil from 1956 to 1961
Oskar Brüsewitz, 47, East German Lutheran pastor who set himself on fire four days earlier to protest the Communist nation's repression of religion, died from severe burns.

August 23, 1976 (Monday)
All 98 hostages (92 passengers and six crew) on EgyptAir Flight 321 were rescued, unharmed, by Egypt's commando team, the El-Sa‘ka Forces after three hijackers had taken over the Boeing 737 as it was flying from Cairo to Luxor. The armed group from the Abd al-Nasir organization, whose members later told police that they had been paid $50,000 of a $250,000 fee for the hijacking, demanded the release of five Libyan nationals imprisoned in Egypt, and for the aircraft to be flown to Libya.  After the pilot convinced the hijackers that the plane had only had enough fuel to reach its destination, Flight 321 landed in Luxor and needed maintenance.  Two commandos, posing as airport workers, made several trips in and out of the EgyptAir plane to give the appearance of checking on mechanical problems, and then gave the signal for the rest of the rescue team (commanded by Egyptian Army Colonel Sayed El Sharkawy) stormed the plane and took everyone alive, including the three terrorists.
A spokesman for the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) announced that the Viking 1 lander had found no signs of life on the planet Mars, based on its test of looking for organic material by heating soil samples to temperatures of  and then attempting to detect carbon by tandem mass spectrometry.  Dr. Klaus Biemann told a press conference, "We can say if there was as much as 12 parts per billion we would see it.  Organically speaking, it's a very clean material." 
Fighting between black South African groups began in Johannesburg after two-thirds of the population of the city's black neighborhoods in Soweto refused to return to work, while another one-third ignored the strike.  As many as 1,500 Zulu workers in the suburb of Orlando West went from house to house after several Zulu residents of a hostel in Mzimhlope had been taunted and had rocks thrown.  After returning from work, the Zulu laborers returned home, gathered weapons, and took revenge on the demonstrators, killing at least four.  The demonstrators then burned down the Zulu hostel, and, with apparent approval by the white South African government and its Johannesburg police force, the Zulus created a vigilante mob to protect other black South African employees who had returned from work, while violently attacking demonstrators.
The southern African nation of Botswana introduced a new currency the pula, to replace the South African rand, which had been used as the legal currency since the republic's independence from the United Kingdom in 1966.  Each pula, which had par value with the rand, was worth 100 thebes. 
Born: 
Scott Caan, American TV actor known as the co-star of the second Hawaii Five-0 series; in Los Angeles
Dai Koyamada, Japanese freestyle boulderer and rock climber; in Kagoshima

August 24, 1976 (Tuesday)
The Soviet Union's Soyuz 21 space mission ended early as cosmonauts Boris Volynov and Vitaly Zholobov returned to Earth 50 days after their launch on July 6.
Born: 
Yang Yang, Chinese speed skater with seven consecutive world championships in the women's events between 1997 and 2003 (including 6 in a row in the 1000m race) 2002 Olympic gold medalist in the 500m and 1000m races; in Jiamusi, Heilongjiang
Alex O’Loughlin, Australian TV actor known as the star of the second Hawaii Five-0 series; in Canberra