[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Postconstructivism

Postconstructivism was a transitional architectural style that existed in the Soviet Union in the 1930s, typical of early Stalinist architecture before World War II. The term postconstructivism was coined by Selim Khan-Magomedov, a historian of architecture, to describe the product of avant-garde artists' migration to Stalinist neoclassicism. Khan-Magomedov identified postconstructivism with 1932–1936, but the long construction time and vast size of the country extended the period to 1941.

Existence of this style is evident, but Khan-Magomedov's explanation of its evolution as a natural process inside the architectural community, rather than as a result of political direction by the Party and State, is strongly disputed.

Khan-Magomedov's viewpoint
This section is based on Khan-Magomedov's Soviet avant-garde architecture, vol.1, "Avant-garde to postconstructivism and beyond"

Background

In 1932–1933, during the Palace of Soviets contest, the State sent a clear message to architects that the age of experiment was over and the new buildings must follow the classical canon. At this time, the architectural profession was divided into three generations:
 Mature Neoclassical architects (most of them in their fifties and sixties), like Ivan Fomin, Alexey Shchusev and Ivan Zholtovsky. Excellent education  and experience led them to success in any style – Art Nouveau, Neoclassicism and Constructivism.
 A younger, diverse avant-garde movement (itself divided into rationalists and constructivists). With the exception of the Vesnin brothers, few constructivists had acquired professional experience before World War I; the war, Revolution of 1917 and Civil war halted any new construction for a decade (1914–1926). In 1927–1929, former theorists Nikolai Ladovsky, Moisei Ginzburg, Ilya Golosov stepped  aside from public discussions and switched to practical building and urban planning. By 1933, they had not more than seven years of practice and were just entering their own age of maturity.
 Finally, the vocal students of the 'Proletarian School', members of VOPRA: the "class of 1929" (Arkady Mordvinov, Karo Alabyan). Trained by Constructivist leaders in a style they dubbed "sterile avant-garde," they were completely unaware of the classical legacy and had no practical experience. They compensated for this with left-wing political assaults and accusations, in particular a campaign against Ivan Leonidov.

Birth of a style
According to Khan-Magomedov, two forerunners of the style were Ivan Fomin and Ilya Golosov. They converged on the same form from opposite directions – neoclassicism and constructivism. Fomin's concept, easily formulated, erected in steel and granite in Moscow (Dynamo Building), was well understood even by the inexperienced youth. "The youth instinctively followed those who managed to declare their stance clearly. The youth believed that this period is a self-sufficient cultural stage, not a transition to something else". In 1933–34, Golosov publicly disposed of the avant-garde. He returned to Neoclassicism, trying to avoid direct citations from the past. For example, he used square columns instead of traditional, round ones. Square, lean columns without capitals became a trademark feature of the emerging style. Golosov's entries in public design contests exposed his style to numerous followers.

Ivan Fomin and Ilya Golosov. Original concepts (never materialized):

Style defined
Khan-Magomedov defined postconstructivism as "neoclassical shapes without neoclassical detailing". Golosov and his followers deliberately replaced the proven historical details (columns, capitals, friezes, and cornices) with their inventions – to differentiate themselves from pure Revivalists. The main volumes follow the classical rules and usually are perfectly symmetrical.

Ilya Golosov and Vladimir Vladimirov. Apartment buildings in Moscow

Recognition
Postconstructivism benefited from a natural reaction against both the avant-garde and the eclectics of the past. It was perceived as new, and at the same time allowed grand buildings that were to the taste of provincial elite. Another benefit in a time of total rationing was that, unlike Constructivism, the new style minimized use of steel and cement, turning back to primitive masonry with wooden floors and partitions. This helps explain the spread of Postconstructivism in the 1930s.

Evolution – Constructivism to Postconstructivism to Stalinism (Moscow)

Leningrad

Sverdlovsk and Kuibyshev

Demise