[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Alice Domon

ath". The document reads:

1. A.F.P. (Agence France-Presse) March 28 story filed from Paris reports that the bodies of the two French nuns (Alicia Doman and Renee Duguet) (sic) who were abducted in mid December with eleven other human rights activists were identified among corpses near Bahía Blanca.

2. Buenos Aires was filled with such rumors over a month ago based on accounts of the discovery of a number of cadavers beached by unusually strong winds along Atlantic Sea, points closer to the mouth of La Plata River some 300-350 miles to the north of Bahía Blanca. 

3. (Name redacted), which has been trying to track down these rumors, has confidential information that the nuns were abducted by Argentine security agents and at some point were transferred to a prison located in the town of Juníi, which is 150 miles west of Buenos Aires.

4. Embassy also has confidential information through an Argentine government source (protected) that seven bodies were discovered some weeks ago on the beach near Mar del Plata. According to this source, the bodies were those of the two nuns and five mothers who disappeared between December 8 and December 10, 1977. Our source confirmed that these individuals were originally sequestered by members of the security forces acting under a broad mandate against terrorists and subversives. Source further states that few individuals in GOA were aware of this information.

5. The source has reported reliably in the past and we have reason to believe he is reliable concerning disappearance questions.

Memorials
On 8 December every year, in the Santa Cruz church of San Cristobal, the anniversary of the "disappearance" of the group of members of the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo and the two French nuns is commemorated and their lives are celebrated. 
In 2000, Buenos Aires named a small plaza "Hermana Alice Domon y Hermana Leonie Duquet," located at the intersection of Moreto, Medina, and Cajaravilla streets. 
2000, director Alberto Marquardt premiered a film titled Yo, Sor Alice about Alice Domon's life; it was an Argentine-French co-production

Bibliography
El Infiltrado: La Verdadera Historia de Alfredo Astiz, Editorial Sudamericana, Buenos Aires, 1996, by Uki Goñi

References 

1937 births
1977 deaths
Argentine human rights activists
Women human rights activists
Assassinated activists
Assassinated French people
French human rights activists
French people murdered abroad
People from Doubs
People killed in the Dirty War
Victims murdered by being dropped out of an aircraft
False flag operations
Women in war in South America
Women in war 1945–1999
20th-century French nuns
20th-century assassinated people