[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Topoxte

site, two 5 meter tall platforms, and a low residential area consisting of more than 100 structures.  The site's central plaza is bounded by 3 temples constructed in the Postclassic architectural style similar to structures at Mayapan (incorporating vertical walls, columns and flat stone ceilings).

The ruins on the island of Topoxte start about four meters above the current level of Lake Yaxha, indicating that the Postclassic water level was roughly the same as present, or perhaps slightly higher. The site was laid out in a manner very similar to the contemporary site of Tayasal on Lake Petén Itzá, now covered by the modern town of Flores, with buildings on the north, south and east side of the main plaza and the west side open to the lake and the sunset. The stone buildings of Topoxte were all built with limestone.

The Main Plaza is built upon an artificial platform constructed with more than  of fill. It is roughly rectangular with a surface area of approximately , it is one of the highest plazas on the island. The plaza is open on the west side and bordered on the north by Building G, on the south by Building B and on the east by Buildings C, D and E. The majority of worked monuments at Topoxte are located in the southwest corner of this plaza. The Main Plaza was the focus of activity from very early in the history of the site, with an offering dating to the Middle Preclassic being found in front of Building E and further Middle Preclassic evidence being found in deep levels in front of Building D. However, the plaza did not reach its maximum size until the Postclassic.

Building C

Building C is perhaps the best example of Postclassic architecture in the Petén region. It is located on the east side of the Main Plaza and is a stepped pyramid with three platforms, measuring ,  and  high. The pyramid has a steep stairway ascending from the plaza on the west side of the building at an angle of 49°.

A fourth level is built upon the three platforms, with its own access stairway climbing from the top platform.  This fourth level supported the temple building, which originally had walls approximately  high and  thick. A broken stela fragment measuring  by  was found on the third tier, in front of the access stairway to the temple. It was associated with an offering of human bones (Burial 22).

The temple building was divided into two rooms covering an area of . The rooms were divided by a wall and two columns, and a  step. The entrance to the temple is divided into three  wide sections divided by two columns. The stone construction was originally covered with stucco or whitewash. The building was damaged in modern times by two looters' pits, one at the base and one near the top. During investigation of the upper pit, Burial 21 was discovered. A second burial (Burial 23) was found in the third tier of the pyramid during restoration work.

Building C was built upon a previous structure dating to the end of the Late Preclassic or the beginning of the Early Classic. This earlier building was enlarged in the Postclassic.

Other structures
Building A is the only large building that can be assigned to the Late Classic. It was formed of a three-tier stepped platform supporting a small temple, perhaps sporting a roof comb. This building was badly damaged in the Postclassic when it was quarried for building stone for later buildings, completely stripping away the facade.

Building B is a long, north-facing palace-type structure standing on the south side of the Main Plaza.

Building D and Building E are built on the same platform on the east side of the Main Plaza, immediately to the north of Building C. Building D is a rectangular platform with rounded corners.

Structure E occupied the same platform as Building D. The structure was part of a temple complex. It shows two construction phases with the earlier taking place around 1200.

Building G is a small square structure on the north side of the Main Plaza. It faces southward onto the plaza.

Structure J is a low platform in the middle of the plaza opposite the stairway of Structure C. It is poorly preserved.

Building K is on the east side of the Main Plaza and once supported two Late Classic stelae.

Burials
As of 1995, 26 burials had been excavated at Topoxte. Two burials were interred in rough cists, two were interred in caves and one in a funerary urn. Eighteen burials were individual, four were multiple burials and four consisted of single burials with additional skulls interred with the deceased.

Burial 1 dates to the Postclassic. It was excavated in a possible residential patio among a group of small buildings at the south end of Topoxte island. It was possibly interred in a seated position. The remains belong to an adult male aged between 15 and 25 years old and were found buried with fragments of tortoiseshell.