[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Joshua ben Levi

Joshua ben Levi (Yehoshua ben Levi) was an amora,  a scholar of the Talmud, who lived in the Land of Israel in the first half of the third century.  He lived and taught in the city of Lod. He was an elder contemporary of Johanan bar Nappaha and Resh Lakish, who presided over the school in Tiberias. With Johanan bar Nappaha, he often engaged in homiletic exegetical discussions.

Etymology

It is uncertain whether the name "ben Levi" meant the son of Levi, whom some identify with Levi ben Sisi, or a descendant of the tribe of Levi.

Biography
Rabbi Joshua ben Levi studied under Bar Kappara, whom he often quoted.  But Joshua considered his greatest indebtedness to Rabbi Judah ben Pedaiah, from whom he learned a great number of legal rulings. Another of his teachers was Pinchas ben Yair, whose piety and sincerity must have exerted a powerful influence upon the character of Joshua. Joshua himself had a gentle disposition. He was known for his modesty and piety, and whenever he instituted public fasting and prayer, it was said that his appeals were answered.

His love of peace prevented him from making any attacks against the theology of the minim (heretics). He was tolerant, though they often annoyed him.  And he forbore cursing one of them, pronouncing rather , "God's mercies extend over all His creatures". His love of justice and his concern that the innocent might suffer on account of the guilty led him to speak against the custom then prevailing of removing from office a reader who, by omitting certain benedictions, had aroused the suspicion of heresy.

Joshua devoted much of his time to furthering the public welfare. His wealth, and his alliance to the patriarchal family through the marriage of his son Joseph, must have added to his authority. He was recognized as a representative of the Land of Israel Jewry, for he was found in company with his friend Rabbi Hanina interceding on behalf of his people before the proconsul in Caesarea, who accorded Joshua and his colleague much honor and respect. On another occasion, when the city of Lod was besieged because a political fugitive had found refuge there, Joshua saved the city and its inhabitants by surrendering the refugee. He also made a journey to Rome, but his mission is not known. Although Rabbi Joshua was connected through family ties with the patriarchal house, and always manifested his high esteem for its members, it is largely due to him that the friendship between the southern schools and the patriarchal house diminished. Joshua was the first to ordain fully his own pupils in all cases where ordination was requisite, thus assuming a power that hitherto had lain in the hands of the head of the Sanhedrin alone.

His son and student Joseph, also a notable amora, married the daughter of Judah haNasi.

In legend

Rabbi Joshua ben Levi was a favorite hero in legend. He was often made to be the companion of Elijah in the latter's wanderings on earth. See, for example, The Messiah at the Gates of Rome. He also had legendary dealings with the Angel of Death. While yet alive, he was permitted to visit paradise and the nether world, and he sent a description of what he saw there to Rabban Gamaliel through the submissive Angel of Death. Many of the legends relating to Joshua have been collected in separate small works entitled "Ma'aseh deRabbi Yehoshua ben Levi" and "Massekhet Gan Eden veGehinnom."

Gravesite
The site of his grave is not known, but Mitch Pilcer of Tzipori claims to have found Rabbi Joshua ben Levi's gravesite while doing construction on his property in Tzipori. The grave may be that of another man by the same name.

Teachings

In the field of legal interpretation, Joshua was of considerable importance, his decisions being generally declared valid even when disputed by his contemporaries Rabbi Johanan and Resh Lakish. He was lenient, especially in cases where cleanliness and the preservation of health were involved. Joshua devoted himself to the elucidation of the Mishnah.  And his own legal interpretations resemble in their form and brevity the writings of the Tannaim in the Mishnah.

In homiletic exegesis (aggadah), however, he was even more influential.  He had a high opinion of that study, and he explained , "the works of God," as referring to homiletic exegesis. Similarly in  he identified "glory" (kavod) with homiletic exegesis.

There is also a reference to a book ("pinkes") by Joshua ben Levi which is presumed by some to have presented aggadic themes, but this can not be well reconciled with Joshua’s disparaging of the writing down of homiletic exegesis. Nonetheless, homiletic exegesis occupied an important place in the teaching of Rabbi Joshua.  His disciples and contemporaries quoted many such propositions in his name.

As an exegete, Rabbi Joshua ben Levi was of some importance, his interpretations often enabling him to deduce legal rulings. Some of his explanations have been accepted by later commentators.