[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eweida v United Kingdom

th".  The tribunal's report highlighted several other issues regarding Eweida's conduct at BA, including refusing to work on Christmas Day and telling a gay colleague that he could still be "redeemed".

Employment Appeal Tribunal
In the Employment Appeal Tribunal, Elias J refused Ms Eweida's appeal.

Court of Appeal
Eweida first appealed to the Court of Appeal for a costs capping order, which was shortly refused. She then appealed on substantive grounds, which also failed in February, 2010. Sedley LJ upheld the judgment of the EAT.

In October 2010, after the Supreme Court refused to hear her case, Ms. Eweida announced her intention to seek redress in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.

European Court of Human Rights
The European Court of Human Rights heard Ms. Eweida's case in September 2012, in combination with three other cases. This was against the UK government for failing to provide domestic law to protect the claimed rights, rather than against BA. In January 2013, the court found that her rights had been violated under Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights and awarded her damages of €2,000 plus costs of €30,000. They ruled this as they said British Airways had not reached a fair balance between Eweida's religious beliefs and the company's desire to have a particular corporate image.

The court said the following, in weighing up the merits of the case.

Significance
This case highlighted some issues around the inadequacy of UK employment equality law in dealing with religion cases. There has been a suggestion from lawyers at Lewis Silkin LLP that perhaps a better approach might be for employers to have a duty to make adjustments to accommodate religion (as currently exists in the US and Canada).

See also

UK labour law
UK employment discrimination law
Goldman v. Weinberger

Notes

References
E McGaughey, A Casebook on Labour Law (Hart 2019) ch 13, 598

External links
British Airways

Christianity-related controversies
History of Christianity in the United Kingdom
Secularism in the United Kingdom
British Airways litigation
Court of Appeal (England and Wales) cases
European Court of Human Rights cases involving the United Kingdom
Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights
2010 in United Kingdom case law
2010 in religion
British uniforms