[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Washington State Route 240

State Route 240 (SR 240) is a state highway in the U.S. state of Washington. It travels diagonally from northwest to southwest within Benton County, serving the Hanford Nuclear Reservation and the Tri-Cities region. The highway begins at a junction with SR 24 and travels around Richland on a limited-access bypass. From there, it briefly overlaps Interstate 182 (I-182) and continues southeast as a freeway along the Columbia River into Kennewick, terminating at an interchange with U.S. Route 395 (US 395). SR 240 is one of the busiest highways in the Tri-Cities region, with a daily average of 76,000 vehicles on a section crossing the Yakima River Delta.

The riverfront route between Richland and Kennewick was part of a 19th-century wagon road and the Inland Empire Highway, a state road established in 1913. It was incorporated into US 410 in 1926 and was part of US 12 from 1967 to 1986. The highway through the Hanford Nuclear Reservation was established as a state highway in the 1950s and opened on July 14, 1965, to connect Richland to the Vernita Bridge on SR 24.

Route description

SR 240 begins at an intersection with SR 24 west of the Hanford Nuclear Reservation in northwestern Benton County. SR 24 continues west towards Yakima and north across the Hanford Reach of the Columbia River on the Vernita Bridge. SR 240 travels southeasterly along Cold Creek Valley at the foot of the Yakima Ridge and Rattlesnake Hills, forming the boundary between the Saddle Mountain National Wildlife Refuge (part of the Hanford Reach National Monument) and the rest of the Hanford Site, including the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory. Cold Creek empties into the Yakima River near the Horn Rapids Dam, where the highway intersects SR 225, which continues southwest to Benton City.

About  downstream from the dam, SR 240 enters the city of Richland and continues its southeasterly course along the north side of the Yakima River. The highway passes the city's landfill and a suburban golf course before reaching an intersection with Stevens Drive and Jadwin Avenue at the edge of Richland's residential neighborhoods. From the intersection, SR 240 turns southwest onto the six-lane Bypass Highway, which acts as a divided highway with limited intersections that travels around the west side of Richland. Jadwin Avenue continues southeast from the intersection as a business route of SR 240, while Stevens Drive continues north to the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.

The  Bypass Highway is followed to the west by the Tri-City Railroad, formerly the main rail link to the Hanford Site and now owned by the Port of Benton, and to the east by the multi-use Urban Green Belt Trail. The highway travels south around Richland's suburban neighborhoods and passes the Richland Airport. SR 240 intersects SR 224 at Van Giesen Street, providing connections to West Richland and Benton City, and continues southeast along the Yakima River to the Chamna Natural Preserve. At the park, SR 240 crosses over and intersects Interstate 182 (I-182) in a trumpet interchange, beginning a short concurrency with I-182 and the already-overlapping U.S. Route 12 (US 12). The three highways continue east for approximately  and reach a combination interchange with George Washington Way, a local road that carries part of SR 240 Business. From the interchange, SR 240 turns south and crosses the Yakima River towards Kennewick, while I-182 and US 12 continue east across the Columbia River to Pasco.

SR 240 continues across the Yakima River Delta as a fully grade-separated freeway, fronted to the west by a branch of the Union Pacific Railroad and the east by the Sacagawea Heritage Trail. The freeway narrows to six lanes at an interchange with the Columbia Park Trail in the Richland Wye and to four lanes at a partial cloverleaf interchange with Columbia Center Boulevard, located north of the Columbia Center Mall and the Toyota Center. SR 240 enters Kennewick after the interchange and continues along the south side of the Columbia River and Columbia Park, passing north of suburban neighborhoods and the Vista Field airport, which closed in 2013. The freeway intersects Edison Street and Columbia Park Trail on the north side of the railroad before reaching its eastern terminus, a dogbone interchange with US 395 at the south end of the Blue Bridge. The interchange also includes direct ramps to the northbound lanes of US 395 as well as access to Columbia Drive, a local street that connects to downtown Kennewick. The junction is located near the site where the Kennewick Man, a skeleton belonging to a 9,000-year-old man, was discovered in 1996.