[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Carl Joachim Friedrich

emies in the Cold War. Friedrich became the head of the European studies division at Harvard University. He designed tough courses for students on Germany, Poland, Hungary, Britain, France and Italy. Friedrich also trained US diplomats on European history and politics before they were sent overseas.

In the 1950s Friedrich had the opportunity to put his ideas of a virtuous federalism again into practice when he acted as constitutional advisor for Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Israel. Friedrich also participated in a project to draft a constitution for the establishment of a European Political Community (EPC), which ultimately failed.
 In 1955 Friedrich was appointed Eaton Professor of the Science of Government at Harvard University. In 1956 Friedrich, together with his student Zbigniew Brzezinski, published Totalitarian Dictatorship and Autocracy which would become Friedrich's most cited book. In 1956 Friedrich was appointed Professor of Political Science at Heidelberg University where he lectured on occasion. In 1962 Friedrich was appointed president of the American Political Science Association. In 1967 Friedrich was appointed as president of the International Political Science Association and was awarded the Knight Commander's Cross of the German Order of Merit by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Upon his retirement in 1971 Friedrich became emeritus professor. He later taught at the University of Manchester and Duke University, among others.

Professor Friedrich's many students included such noted political theorists as Judith Shklar and Benjamin Barber.

He died on September 19, 1984, in Lexington, Massachusetts.

Ideas
Friedrich's concept of a "good democracy" rejected basic democracy as totalitarian. Some of the assumptions of Friedrich's theory of totalitarianism, particularly his acceptance of Carl Schmitt's idea of the "constitutional state", are viewed as potentially anti-democratic by Hans J. Lietzmann. Schmitt believed that the sovereign is above the law. Klaus von Beyme sees the main focus of Friedrich's theories as the "creation and preservation of robust institutions". This can be seen as influencing his work on the creation of Germany's States' constitutions.

Bibliography
 THE NEW BELIEF IN THE COMMON MAN. By Carl J. Friedrich. 345 plus xii pp. Boston: Little, Brown & Co. $3. 1942. 
 The Philosophy of Kant, Editor with editor's introduction [Kant's moral and political writings] (New York: Random House/Modern Library [#266], 1949).
 CONSTITUTIONAL GOVERNMENT AND DEMOCRACY (rev. ed.), by Carl J. Friedrich. Ginn and Company, Boston. 1950. Pp. xvi, 688.
 The Age of the Baroque: 1610–1660 (New York: Harper & Row, 1952).
 Der Verfassungsstaat der Neuzeit [revised German edition of 'Constitutional Government and Democracy'] (Berlin, 1953).
 The Philosophy of Hegel, edited with an introduction (New York: Random House/Modern Library, 1953).
 Totalitarian Dictatorship and Autocracy. Co-authored by Carl J. Friedrich and Zbigniew Brzezinski. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1956. Second edition 1965.
 The Philosophy of History by Hegel, trans. J. Sibree, new introduction by C.J. Friedrich (Dover, 1956).  ("[H]e revolutionized the sciences of man, of culture and society, and neither the humanities nor the social sciences have ever been able to think and talk again in the naive and simple terms that characterized them before Hegel wrote.")
 Totalitäre Diktatur (The Totalitarian Dictatorship). (Stuttgart, 1957).
 Man and His Government: An Empirical Theory of Politics (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1963).
 Tradition and Authority (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1972).
 The Pathology of Politics: Violence, Betrayal, Corruption, Secrecy, and Propaganda (New York: Harper & Row, 1972).

Notes

References 
 Hans J. Lietzmann, Von der konstitutionellen zur totalitären Diktatur. Carl Joachim Friedrichs Totalitarismustheorie (From Constitutionalism to Totalitarian Dictatorship: Carl Joachim Friedrichs' Totalitarianism Theory). Alfred Söllner, Ed. Totalitarismus. Eine Ideengeschichte des 20. Jahrhunderts (Totalitarianism: A History of 20th Century Thought). (1997).

German political philosophers
20th-century German philosophers
German political scientists
Philosophers of law
1901 births
1984 deaths
Historians of communism
Emigrants from Nazi Germany to the United States
Heidelberg University alumni
Harvard University faculty
Knights Commander of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany
20th-century German historians
20th-century political scientists
Presidents of the International Political Science Association