[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Soviet war crimes

civilians. It is mentioned that Soviet forces are leaving no one alive and are even slaughtering livestock in order to starve the Afghan people into submission.
 Katyń (2007), depicts the Katyn massacre through the eyes of its victims and the decades long battle by their families to learn the truth.

Literature
 Prussian Nights (1974) a war poem by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn. The narrator, a Red Army officer, approves of the troops' crimes as revenge for Nazi atrocities in Russia, and hopes to take part in the plundering himself. The poem describes the gang-rape of a Polish woman whom the Red Army soldiers had mistaken for a German. According to a review for The New York Times, Solzhenitsyn wrote the  poem in trochaic tetrameter, "in imitation of, and argument with the most famous Russian war poem, Aleksandr Tvardovsky's Vasili Tyorkin."
 Apricot Jam and Other Stories (2010) by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn. In a short story about Marshal Georgii Zhukov's futile attempts at writing his memoirs, the retired Marshal reminisces about serving against the peasant uprising in Tambov Province. He recalls Mikhail Tukhachevsky's arrival to take command of the campaign and his first address to his men. He announced that total war and scorched earth tactics are to be used against civilians who assist or even sympathize with the peasant rebels. Zhukov proudly recalls how Tukhachevsky's tactics were adopted and succeeded in breaking the uprising. In the process, however, they virtually depopulated the surrounding countryside.
 A Man without Breath (2013) by Philip Kerr. A 1993 Bernie Gunther thriller which delves into the Wehrmacht War Crimes Bureau's investigations of Soviet war crimes. Kerr noted in his Afterward that the Wehrmacht War Crimes Bureau continued to exist until 1945. It has been written about in the book of the same name by Alfred M. de Zayas, published by the University of Nebraska Press in 1989. .

Art
 On 12 October 2013 a then 26-year-old Polish art student, Jerzy Bohdan Szumczyk, erected a movable statue next to the Soviet World War II memorial in the Polish city of Gdańsk. The statue depicted a Soviet soldier attempting to rape a pregnant woman; pulling her hair with one hand whilst pushing a pistol into her mouth. Authorities removed the artwork because it had been erected without an official permit, but there was widespread interest in many online publications. The act promoted an angry reaction from the Russian ambassador in Poland.

 See also 

 Allied war crimes during World War II
 Anti-communist mass killings
 Antisemitism in the Soviet Union
 Crimes against humanity under communist regimes
 Destruction battalions
 Evacuation of East Prussia
 Excess mortality in the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin
 Forced labor of Germans in the Soviet Union
 German war crimes
 Human rights in the Soviet Union
 Italian war crimes
 Japanese POWs in the Soviet Union
 Japanese war crimes
 List of massacres in the Soviet Union
 List of Soviet Union perpetrated war crimes
 Mass graves in the Soviet Union
 Mass killings under communist regimes
 Mass operations of the NKVD
 Military history of the Soviet Union
 Military occupations by the Soviet Union
 Nemmersdorf massacre
 NKVD prisoner massacres
 Operation Frühlingserwachen
 Population transfer in the Soviet Union
 Racism in the Soviet Union
 Red Terror
 Russian war crimes
 United States war crimes
 War crimes and atrocities of the Waffen-SS
 War crimes of the Wehrmacht

Notes

 References 

 Sources 
 Beevor, Antony, Berlin: The Downfall 1945, Penguin Books, 2002, 
 Bergstrom, Christer (2007). Barbarossa – The Air Battle: July–December 1941. London: Chevron/Ian Allan. .
 
 de Zayas, Alfred-Maurice, The Wehrmacht War Crimes Bureau, 1939–1945 (in Wikipedia). Preface by Professor Howard Levie. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1989. . New revised edition with Picton Press, Rockland, Maine, .
 de Zayas, Alfred-Maurice, A Terrible Revenge. The Ethnic Cleansing of the East European Germans, 1944–1950, St. Martin's Press, New York, 1994, 
 Hall, Steve and Lionel Quinlan (2000). KG55: Greif Geshwader. Walton on Thames: Red Kite. 
 Hasting, Max, Armageddon: The Battle for Germany, 1944–1945, Chapter 10: Blood and Ice: East Prussia 
 Hillers, Marta, A Woman in Berlin: Six Weeks in the Conquered City Translated by Anthes Bell, 
 Fisch, Bernhard, Nemmersdorf, Oktober 1944. Was in Ostpreußen tatsächlich geschah. Berlin: 1997. .
 
 
 Merridale, Catherine, Ivan's War, the Red Army 1939–1945, London: Faber and Faber, 2005, 
 Naimark, Norman M., The Russians in Germany: A History of the Soviet Zone of Occupation, 1945–1949. Harvard University Press, 1995. 
 Toland, John, The Last 100 Days, Chapter Two: Five Minutes before Midnight 
 
 Walter, Elizabeth B., Barefoot in the Rubble 1997, 

 External links