[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Next Exit

s sometimes feared by the ignorant as a form of witchcraft.

Doors
Doors, although being the basis for the series and having Markesh and Retrab as leads, is not a prequel. It can best be described as an alternate or simpler version of the same story, or a very similar story with the same characters.

Doors is the short one-shot comic story on which the comic Next Exit is based, having been written a few years earlier by Lijewski for the TokyoPop Rising Star of Manga Contest, where it was a runner-up. The basic premise, as well as the two protagonists, are the same. Retrab and Markesh are seeking a "Door" (a term which in the series is replaced by exit) out of the world of Alkaline, a fantastic dreamscape where thoughts mould and change as rapidly as they can while abiding the rules of this reality. They journey through various traps and monsters (called shadows) to try to reach a door. And eventually they do, but it's not exactly what they expected...

Differences include that Markesh's alchemy is less developed (not in terms of his ability but in explanation), motorized vehicles seem more common place, and Retrab is more useful in a fight, though still careless. Also, Exits are called Doors and neither Maps nor the Academy are mentioned. Doors also are apparently easier to find than exits, but they are individualized, only working for certain people, or even, only a certain person.

It ends up that upon reaching the door, the duo cannot reach it as the  door is on the other side of a very deep and wide cliff. Retrab, However, notices a pair of foot prints in the ground facing the door, and encourages Markesh to stand on them. He does and nothing happens, although he does remark that it makes him feel "like an idiot". Retrab shrugs and begins to walk away saying that it must not be their door, but Markesh stops, saying that it might be hers.

Convinced that it won't be, Retrab stands nonchalantly on the foot prints and begins to say how nothing is happening just in time for a bridge of blocks to rise out of the gap and fill the space to the door. She looks on in denial as she realizes that this is her door, but not Markesh's. After some cajoling, Markesh is able to convince her to fearfully leave him behind, promising that he will follow her soon. The comic ends by revealing Retrab, waking in a hospital bed next to several others, the nearest being an unconscious Markesh, and a pull out through another door, revealing the area to be the coma center. Alkaline in this early version of the story is the land where all those forced out of the conscious plane must live. It is yet to be seen if this reality is also true in the series.

Differences Between Doors and Next Exit
Although very similar, the differences between the two stories are noticeable. The art differs the least, the only change being slight alterations to Retrab's visor. The characters are less well-developed in Doors. Retrab seems a bit more useful in a fight in Doors. The alchemy is present in Doors, but lacks any major development.

Doors, being a short story, has an ending. The change from doors to exits could mean that the ways out are more abstract in Next Exit (in Doors, it is implied that every door is in fact a household door.) The term "exit" has not been defined; exits are simply ways of leaving Alkaline.

References to other media
Lijewski is a big fan of Japanese Manga and American Cartoons, and this is shown in the art, story, and dialogue of her comic. Here are some of them:
In Issue Two of Next Exit Retrab Yells "SWEET ZOMBIE JESUS!" the favorite exclamation of Professor Farnsworth in the cartoon Futurama.
Like Tite Kubo Lijewski assigns her characters theme songs, though she calls them "Image Songs".
A sign in Cara's shop reads "Automail" in English and katakana.

External links
Christy Lijewski on deviantArt

Action-adventure comics
Fantasy comics
Science fiction comics
Slave Labor Graphics titles