[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Coptic Orthodox Church in the United States

Coast.  

By 1976, there were ten Coptic Churches in the United States, two in New Jersey, two in California, two in New York, one in Pennsylvania, one in Texas, one in Ohio, and one in Illinois; all being parishes of the Archdiocese of North America, headed directly by the Patriarch of Alexandria.

The growing number of parishes in the United States garnered the attention of the then newly elected Pope Shenouda III. In May of 1977, Pope Shenouda III, made a historic two month visit to the United States in order to personally serve the Coptic community there. Although Pope Shenouda III had planned another visit to the United States shortly after this first visit, he was detained by the events in Egypt, and was unable to visit the United States again until 1989. From that point forward Pope Shenouda III began making annual visits to the United States. He was accompanied on these visits by Metropolitan Serapion, who at that time, was serving as the Bishop of Public, Social, and Ecumenical Services. In 1992, Pope Shenouda III consecrated Metropolitan Youssef as a general bishop to oversee the churches in the Southern United States. 

It was also at this time that the first Coptic Monastery in the United States was established, the Monastery of Saint Antony the Great, in Newberry Springs, California. In 1972, a piece of land had been purchased for this purpose, but it laid vacant until Pope Shenouda III, sent four monks to establish the monastery in 1989. In 1993, the monastery had grown sufficiently, and was recognized by the Holy Synod as the first Coptic Monastery in the United states. That same year, one of the establishing monks of the monastery, was consecrated as Bishop Karas, and appointed as the Bishop and Abbot of the Monastery.

Establishing local dioceses 
In 1995, following his annual visit to the United States, Pope Shenouda III, saw a need to establish dioceses in some of the most populated regions of the Archdiocese, in order to better effectively serve the community. He thus called Metropolitan Serapion to be Bishop of Los Angeles, Southern California, and Hawaii, and Metropolitan Youssef to be Bishop of the Southern United States, establishing the first two dioceses in the United States. In 1999, after seeing a need for a dedicated Bishop for the service of the Archdiocese of North America, Pope Shenouda III consecrated Bishop David, as a general bishop, to serve as Papal Exarch at the Archdiocese of North America. In 2009, Pope Shenouda also consecrated Bishop Michael as a general bishop, to serve within the Virginia parishes of the Archdiocese of North America.

Upon his election to the Papacy, Pope Tawadros II continued Pope Shenouda III's efforts in expanding ministry within the United States. In 2013, he called Bishop David to be Bishop of New York and New England, establishing a third diocese in the United States. In 2016, he consecrated Bishop Peter to be Bishop of South Carolina, North Carolina, and Kentucky. In that same year he also consecrated Bishop Abraham and Bishop Kyrillos to serve as auxiliary bishops in the Dioceses of Los Angeles, Southern California, and Hawaii. In 2017, he consecrated two new diocesan bishops for the United States, Bishop Siraphem as Bishop of Ohio, Michigan, and Indiana, and Bishop Karas as Bishop of Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, West Virginia and all affiliated regions. In 2018, he also consecrated Bishop Basil and Bishop Gregory to serve as auxiliary bishops in the Diocese of the Southern United States. In 2022, Pope Tawadros II also consecrated Bishop Gabriel as a general Bishop in New Jersey and Papal Exarch for the Archdiocese of North America in the United States.

Episcopacy

Diocesan bishops 
Serapion (b. 1951), Metropolitan of the Holy Diocese of Los Angeles, Southern California and Hawaii and Abbot of the Monastery of St. Anthony in California (1995 - Present).
Youssef, Metropolitan of the Southern Diocese and Abbot of the Monastery of Most Holy Virgin Mary & Saint Moses the Strong in Corpus Christi, Texas. (1995 - Present)
David, Bishop of the Holy Diocese of New York and New England. (2013 - Present)
Karas, Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Pennsylvania and Affiliated Regions (2016 - Present)
Peter, Bishop of the Holy Diocese of South Carolina, North Carolina, and Kentucky (2017 - Present)
Saraphim, Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Ohio, Michigan and Indiana (2017 - Present)

General bishops 
Macarius, General Bishop and Patriarchal Exarch for the Eritrean Congregation in the USA. Member of the Eritrean and Coptic Holy Synods. (1991 - Present)
Michael, General Bishop in Virginia, United States, assistant to the Pope  (2009 - Present)
Gabriel, General Bishop in New Jersey and Patriarchal Exarch for the Archdiocese of North America, assistant to the Pope. (2022 - Present)