[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1997 South Australian state election

ile his opponent, Mike Rann, was seen to have 'won' the campaign despite losing the election.

On 6 February 2007, Mike Rann told parliament that some in the Liberal party had leaked information to him before and during the election campaign. The following quote by Rann is from Hansard on 6/2/2007 :

"You asked me a question and I will give you a 55-minute answer, because you will remember one day when I came into this place and I had, I think, 880 pages of cabinet and other documents... I remember being telephoned and told to go to a certain cafe, not in a white car but in a taxi, and then to walk in a zigzag fashion through the streets of a suburb, where I was to be handed cabinet documents. So much for their cabinet solidarity and cabinet confidentiality! There was a queue on the telephone telling us what had happened the day before. It was the same during the 1997 election campaign. People thought, 'How does this guy (the leader of the opposition at the time) know intuitively exactly what John Olsen is doing the next day?' It was because I was being phoned and told! So, do not talk to me about cabinet solidarity lest I come in here and start naming names, which will set off another generation of disputation on the other side of the house. Anyway, cabinet approved, among other things, on 20 December 2006 minister Lomax-Smith's proposed statement and approved her to announce publicly that she opposed the proposal in cabinet. She did so because we agreed that she should be able to do so. Somehow I do not think that John Olsen agreed to what happened when I was getting the phone call at 6 o'clock in the morning and at midnight, and walking in a zigzag pattern through suburbs to be handed a cabinet bag and cabinet documents. We have a different approach. We agreed to it. It was a cabinet decision to agree to it. So, please, ask me some more questions, because there were two different camps involved in this leaking to the then poor unpopular leader of the opposition, and I am more than happy to name names."

See also
 Candidates of the South Australian state election, 1997
 Members of the South Australian House of Assembly, 1997-2002
 Members of the South Australian Legislative Council, 1997-2002
 Results of the South Australian state election, 1997 (House of Assembly)
 Results of the 1997 South Australian state election (Legislative Council)

References
 1997 election maps and results: Antony Green ABC archive
History of South Australian elections 1857–2006, volume 1: ECSA

Political parties
Australian Labor Party
Liberal Party of Australia
Australian Greens
Australian Democrats
The Nationals

Specific

1997 elections in Australia
Elections in South Australia
1990s in South Australia
October 1997 events in Australia