[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Farcaster

A Farcaster is an instantaneous transportation device in the fictional Hyperion universe. Farcasters allow two points separated by a vast distance to be brought together at a Farcaster Portal. The Farcaster network connects hundreds of planets of the Hegemony of Man into their WorldWeb. The Farcaster network allowed transport between connected worlds without any time discrepancy, unlike Hawking drive (Faster-than-light) transport provided by spaceships of the Hegemony era. The Farcaster was developed by the Artificial Intelligences (AIs) of the TechnoCore and given to humanity sometime after the Hegira.

It was the destruction of the Farcaster network at the order of Hegemony CEO Meina Gladstone in 2852 which precipitated the Fall.

About the WorldWeb Farcaster network
The roughly 250 worlds which are connected by Farcaster are known collectively as the WorldWeb. Each world has thousands, if not millions, of Farcaster connections with every other planet in the Web; all of which are connected through singularity spheres located in orbit of the world they service. Though truly there is only one connection to 'The Void Which Binds', an invisible and intangible domain which permeates the known universe, while its precise nature is poorly understood, it is used by various entities in the universe for travel, communication and even habitation. The actual number of portals is irrelevant, as all are the same portal.  At the height of the Hegemony, it was common for the extremely wealthy to construct houses on multiple worlds, with separate rooms connected by Farcaster.  It was also common for planets to rely so heavily on the Farcasters and the ease of trade allowed through them, that they produced little or no natural foodstuffs of their own.  In this sense, the Farcaster can be likened to the blood vessels of the human body, essential for life.

Planets colonized by the Hegemony, but not inducted into the Farcaster network, are not considered members of the Worldweb. Trade and Hegemony support are available to planets outside the WorldWeb, but interstellar travel between worlds can take months of ship time, equivalent to years or decades of observer time. As such, being connected to the WorldWeb was a major goal for many planetary governments.

Before planetside Farcaster portals can be installed (often in large 'concourses', but also on a private scale, in some cases used as 'doors' between rooms in expensive multi-planetary homes), an orbiting singularity sphere the size of a small moon must be constructed. This process in itself can take years. Getting to the point of singularity sphere construction can take even longer.

Whereas planetside Farcaster portals can transport people, goods, or even personal aircraft and luxury vehicles, orbiting farcasters can be constructed capable of admitting cargo and military ships to a planetary system.

Construction and Mechanics of Farcasters: The TechnoCore's Myths
The Big Mistake of '38 was caused by an artificially created black hole being accidentally dropped into the Earth's core.  This led to the apparent destruction of Earth and the Hegira.  During this time, the Farcaster was developed by the AI TechnoCore and given to mankind.  Farcasters use singularities (artificially created black holes) to generate warps in spacetime.  All knowledge of the Farcasters and how they worked was based on information given by the TechnoCore and the larger part of this knowledge was later proven to be false by Aenea.

When a world was ready to be admitted into the WorldWeb, the military body F.O.R.C.E began construction of a singularity sphere in orbit around the planet being joined to the Web.  Construction of the large sphere could take decades, in part because construction materials had to be transported via FTL Hawking drive spaceships, which accrued time debts in their travels.  However, once a singularity sphere was finished, millions of Farcaster Portals could be opened on the planet below, connecting to all other planets in the WorldWeb.

Portals varied in size, from small doorways, river-spanning arches, and vast orbital rings, allowing torchships to travel by Farcaster.  Each trip through a Farcaster was instantaneous; the traveller felt a slight tingle as they passed through the portal before immediately arriving at his or her destination but no other indication of traversing large interstellar distances.