[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Occupational English Test

The Occupational English Test (also known as OET®) is an English language test  that assesses the English language proficiency of overseas-trained healthcare professionals seeking to register and practise in an English-speaking environment.

The test is recognised by organisations around the world, including for migration and licensing in Australia, New Zealand, the USA and the UK.

History

OET was designed in the late 1980s by Professor Tim McNamara, under the guidance of the Australian National Office for Overseas Skills Recognition (NOOSR), which administered the test at that time. The test has been researched and developed continuously since then to ensure that it has kept up with current theory and practice in language assessment. This work has been done by the University of Melbourne's Language Testing Research Centre and by Cambridge Assessment English.[citation needed]

Since March 2013 the test has been owned by Cambridge Boxhill Language Assessment Unit Trust (CBLA), a joint venture between Cambridge Assessment English (Aus) and Box Hill Institute.

Recognition
OET is recognised by regulatory healthcare boards and councils in countries around the world, including Australia, New Zealand, United Kingdom, United States,Canada, Ireland, Dubai, Singapore, Namibia and Ukraine. Many organisations, including hospitals, universities and colleges, are using OET as proof of a candidate's ability to communicate effectively in a demanding healthcare environment. In addition, OET is recognised by the Australian Department of Home Affairs, Immigration New Zealand,UK Visas and Immigration and some US states for visa categories where an English test may be required.

Each recognising organisation determines the score they require to ensure that candidates meet the language competency standards to function in their profession.

OET test structure 
Modes

There are three delivery modes of OET:

   OET on Paper at a Test Venue
   OET on Computer at a Test Venue and
   OET@Home®

The test tasks, format and level of difficulty remain the same for all the OET tests regardless of the mode of exam delivery.

Both computer-based test modes are evaluated by the highly-trained examiners who mark paper-based OET.

The four parts of OET 

     Listening (approximately 45 minutes)
     Reading (60 minutes)
     Writing (45 minutes)
     Speaking (approximately 20 minutes).

Listening 
Candidates are required to demonstrate that they can follow and understand a range of health-related spoken materials such as patient consultations and lectures.

Part A - consultation extracts (about 5 minutes each) 
Part A assesses candidates' ability to identify specific information during a consultation. They are required to listen to two recorded health professional-patient consultations and complete the health professional's notes using the information they hear.

Part B – short workplace extracts (about 1 minute each) 
Part B tests candidates' ability to identify the detail, gist, opinion or purpose of short extracts from the healthcare workplace. They are required to listen to six recorded extracts (e.g. team briefings, handovers, or health professional-patient dialogues) and answer one multiple-choice question for each extract.

Part C – presentation extracts (about 5 minutes each) 
Part C assesses candidates' ability to follow a recorded presentation or interview on a range of accessible healthcare topics. They are required to listen to two different extracts and answer six multiple-choice questions for each extract.

Reading 
Candidates are required to demonstrate that they can read and understand different types of text on health-related subjects.

Part A – expeditious reading task (15 minutes) 
Part A assesses candidates' ability to locate specific information from four short texts in a quick and efficient manner. The four short texts relate to a single healthcare topic, and they must answer 20 questions in the allocated time period. The 20 questions consist of matching, sentence completion and short answer questions.

Part B and Part C – careful reading tasks (45 minutes) 
Part B assesses candidates' ability to identify the detail, gist or main point of six short texts sourced from the healthcare workplace (100-150 words each). The texts might consist of extracts from policy documents, hospital guidelines, manuals or internal communications, such as emails or memos. For each text, there is one three-option multiple-choice question.

Part C assesses candidates' ability to identify detailed meaning and opinion in two texts on topics of interest to healthcare professionals (800 words each). For each text, candidates must answer eight four-option multiple choice questions.