[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Heshui Campaign

e the communist 770th Regiment under the command of Zhang Caiqian () was stationed at Heshui It was only after World War II were the nationalists finally able to retake the region from the communists and the communists had hoped that they would be able to take the region again from the nationalists.

First stage
After the 48th Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 17th Division was annihilated by the enemy in the Battle of Xihuachi, the nationalists lacked sufficient troops to fill the new gaps in their defense.  As a result, the remaining nationalist garrison was gravely overstretched and the nationalist northern flank was dangerously exposed.  In order to boost local defense, the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division was deployed to Pingliang in eastern Gansu in early 1947.  To strengthen the defense of the triangular region bordered by regions of Western Peak (Xi Feng, ), Ning ) County, and Zhenyuan (), the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade (without its Heavy Weaponry Battalion and its 1st Regiment) of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division was deployed to Qingyang. The 1st Regiment of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division was deployed to Red City (Chi Cheng, ), southeast of Qingyang.  The Heavy Weaponry Battalion of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division was tasked to defend Heshui with the help of the Gansu 2nd Security Regiment.  The Independent 5th Cavalry Regiment of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division was deployed to Zhengning ().  The 1st Regiment of the Reorganized 100th Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division was deployed to Ning County, and the 2nd Regiment of the Reorganized 100th Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division was deployed to the town of Early Victory (Zao Sheng, ), and the 3rd Regiment of the Reorganized 100th Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division was deployed to the town of Zhenyuan.  Qinghai 1st Security Cavalry Regiment was deployed to Jingchuan (), while Qinghai 2nd Security Cavalry Regiment was tasked to defend Pingliang with the help of 2nd Company of the 2nd Regiment of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division.  The 2nd Regiment of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade and other units of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division including the field hospital, the engineering battalion, the communication battalion, the transportation company, the garrison group and others were deployed to Western Peak and Xiaojing () regions.

After the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division had pushed toward eastern Gansu, the nationalists had successfully driven the local communist guerillas into the mountains of Meridian Ridge (Zi Wu Ling, ) in four weeks by taking advantage of their cavalry and the adaptation of their own guerrilla tactic against communist guerillas.  Although the nationalists were expecting the enemy would attack in great numbers eventually, they had not anticipated the assault by the enemy main force would come so soon, and thus initially believed it was just the enemy guerillas grouped together for a counterattack, instead of the main force of the regular communist army.  The defenders of Heshui, nonetheless, was well armed to take care themselves: the Heavy Weaponry Battalion of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division at Heshui included an infantry support gun company, an anti-tank gun company, a heavy machine gun company and a communication platoon, and the battalion is one of the best unit among Ma clique's forces that were experts in urban defense.  The Heavy Weaponry Battalion of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division was further assisted by the Gansu 2nd Security Regiment whose troops were all locals who were very familiar with local terrain.   The nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division Ma Jiyuan () had so much confident in this urban defense garrison of 1,300 men that he deployed them in the exposed town of Heshui, and history would later prove that he was right and his men would not disappoint him.

Order of battle
Defenders: nationalist order of battle
 Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division
Garrison Group (Regiment) of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division
Gansu 2nd Security Regiment
Attackers: communist order of battle
359th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column
Independent 4th Brigade of the communist 2nd Column
Instructional Brigade of the communist 2nd Column