[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ferdinand Nahimana

s against Nahimana under Article 6 (1) of the Stature, but upheld those under Article 6(3)—namely, those of "inciting directly and publicly to the commission of genocide and for persecution as a crime against humanity" by means of the RTLM broadcasts after 6 April 1994. According to JusticeInfo.net:

In December 2008, he has been transferred from Arusha of Tanzania to Mali. In 2016, he was released.

Controversy over conviction 
A 2010 book written by journalist and historian Hervé Deguine argues that the motives invoked in Nahimana's trial were based on very little evidence except that he founded and was one of the owners of the radio station, exposing arguments and circumstantial evidence against his conviction. Although Deguine had himself contributed to Nahimana's conviction, he concludes his book by affirming that on the basis of judicial proofs, Nahimana should be released.

Bibliography
 2007: Rwanda: les virages ratés, Éditions Sources du Nil, France.
 1995: Rwanda. L’élite Hutu accusée, Cameroon.
 1993: Le Rwanda: émergence d'un État, Harmattan, Paris.
 1988: Conscience chez nous, confiance en nous. Notre culture est la base de notre développement harmonieux, I.N.R, Rwanda.
 1987: Le Blanc est arrivé, le Roi est parti. Une facette de l'histoire du Rwanda contemporain, 1884–1931, Rwanda.

References

References

External links
Official website of Ferdinand Nahimana 
News reports from the trial, from Fondation Hirondelle

1950 births
Living people
People from Northern Province, Rwanda
Hutu people
National Republican Movement for Democracy and Development politicians
Coalition for the Defence of the Republic politicians
People convicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda
Rwandan people convicted of genocide
Rwandan people convicted of crimes against humanity
Rwandan people imprisoned abroad
Prisoners and detainees of Mali
People extradited from Cameroon
Université Laval alumni
People convicted of incitement to genocide
Violence against women in Rwanda