[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Israel Religious Action Center

l attempt by the city of Bnei Brak to take down campaign posters that included photos of female candidates. In the city's ultra-Orthodox neighborhoods, women are usually absent from advertisements and billboards because pictures of women are viewed as "sexually provocative". The city's representatives claimed they had been ordered to remove signs picturing Likud contenders such as Miri Regev and Gila Gamliel. The police were summoned and initially supported the city, but then informed city officials the signs could not be removed.  City officials protested that they were only trying to protect the sensitivities of religious residents. But Orly Erez-Likhovski, head of the legal department at the Israel Religious Action Center, said this was a victory for gender equality: "“I am very happy that the officials from the Likud didn’t give up, fought the municipality and the police who first arrived on the scene. It shows that the message is starting to penetrate on every level that exclusion of women is illegal and unacceptable. It doesn't always translate to the people on the ground but we see that great progress is being made - even in Bnei Brak, even in the ultra-Orthodox sector. This is an important message.”
 "Rights on Flights": IRAC is acting in response to complaints by airline passengers who have been subjected to Orthodox male passengers attempting to impose gender segregation on flights. IRAC will be drawing on its experience fighting for the rights of women to sit anywhere they choose on public buses as it collaborates with airlines to develop policies to protect the rights of female passengers in the skies. In January 2015, IRAC contacted almost twenty airlines with flights to and from Israel and asked them to meet with IRAC staff so solutions can be developed that protect the rights of female passengers and comply with legal prohibition of gender segregation and gender discrimination. The New York Times interviewed Anat Hoffman on the phenomenon on Orthodox males asking female passengers on airlines to move, noting that IRAC had started a campaign urging women not to give up their seats. “I have a hundred stories,” said Hoffman. In February 2016, 81 year old Israeli-American attorney Renee Rabinowitz agreed to sue El Al as a plaintiff protesting gender discrimination in response to the airline pressuring her to move from her assigned seat to appease a religious male refusing to sit next to a woman. The Israel Religious Action Center was seeking $13,000 in compensation from the airline. On June 22, 2017,  Jerusalem Magistrate’s Court Judge Dana Cohen-Lekah awarded Rabinowitz 6500 shekels in compensation, and ruled that the airline must declare that it is forbidden for a crew member to ask a passenger to change seats at the request of another passenger based on gender. Nevertheless, IRAC believes that passengers may still be subject to such requests and planned an advertising program for airports, reminding women of their rights. Israeli authorities refused to let the ads be posted.
 In 2018 the Jerusalem District Court ruled that haredi radio station Kol Barama must pay 1 million NIS in damages, not including legal fees, as a result of a class action suit filed by IRAC and Asaf Pink for not allowing women's voices on the radio station. This is the first class action lawsuit on civil rights and gender segregation in Israel.

See also
Religious Action Center
Women of the Wall
Anat Hoffman
Hotline for Refugees and Migrants

References

External links
 Official website of the Israel Religious Action Center
 Official website of the Israel Movement for Reform and Progressive Judaism
 Berman, Daphna. Anat Hoffman Dares to Take On Israel’s Orthodox Establishment. Can She Win?, Moment, March–April 2013.

Conservative Judaism in Israel
Religious organizations based in Israel
Jews and Judaism and pluralism
Jews and Judaism in Jerusalem
Reform Judaism in Israel