[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# City and Town Hall (Rochelle, Illinois)

The City and Town Hall in downtown Rochelle, Ogle County, Illinois, United States, operates as the township history museum, holding a number of static displays on local history. Historically it served as the headquarters for city and township government as well as holding the offices of numerous state, local and national entities. The building was erected in 1884 following an 18-year disagreement about the structure's cost between the city of Rochelle and Flagg Township.

The two-story Italianate structure features several decorative elements and an 1863 Civil War cannon on its lawn. City and Town Hall has been listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places since 1992. The structure was designed by Bradley and Son, a Rockford firm, with input from a Rochelle alderman. In 1968 the building was saved from demolition upon the founding of the Flagg Township Historical Society.

The building currently houses the historical society's Flagg Township Museum, with artifacts and exhibits about the area's history.

History
Though the City and Town Hall's construction occurred in 1884, its history began 18 years earlier, in 1866. That year, the Flagg Township levied a township tax totaling US$3,000 for the purpose of constructing a township building. The project was to be a joint venture between Flagg Township and the city of Rochelle; the city was to provide an additional $3,000 to finance construction. Disagreements over the project eventually led to the city of Rochelle's refusal to pay its share and, thus, construction was delayed indefinitely. The city specifically objected to the cost of the structure the township wanted. In 1869 the township purchased two more lots adjacent the future site of City and Town Hall; the total cost for the two lots was $2,000.

In 1884 the city of Rochelle and the Flagg Township came to an agreement and cooperated to erect the City and Town Hall. John R. Steele, a local contractor, was hired to construct the building from local, red brick at a cost of $6,200. The building became the center for city politics in the small northern Illinois city of Rochelle and the city council made important decisions within its walls regarding the city throughout the last decades of the 19th century.

Some of the early decisions regarded city sidewalks and, in 1888, the creation of a fire district. Many meetings regarding the fire district and its boundaries were held at the City and Town Hall. Other early issues were the local liquor and saloon ordinance and the card playing and gambling ordinance. Election day in Rochelle and official polling places were established in 1885, both decisions were made within the walls of the City and Town Hall. In 1893 a lighting system for Rochelle's Washington Street was decided upon in the building. Local Civil War veterans had an 1863 Civil War cannon and 20 cannon balls placed in front of the City and Town Hall in 1899. The pyramid-shaped stack of cannonballs are no longer extant but the cannon remains on the corner of the lot.

From 1884 to 1968 both the city of Rochelle and Flagg Township used the building for its intended function. The Rochelle City Council chambers were located in the building for the entire period 1884–1968, as were the township meeting room and township board room. Other city and township offices were located in the building during that time span as well, of those the city clerk's, the town clerk's, the township supervisor's and the city manager's office occupied space in the building for the entire period spanning the years 1884–1968. The building also housed a "court room" during that period.

In 1968 the Flagg Township Historical Society took over the property. Under the direction of the historical society's founder, Franklin Kruger, the building was saved from demolition; a project which resulted in the foundation of the historical society. The building is currently being used as the Flagg Township Museum.

Architecture

The building is cast in the Italianate style and was designed by Bradley and Son of Rockford, Illinois. The building's design was based on a sketch by Rochelle alderman Sam J. Parker. The two-story rectangular building is constructed from soft, red local bricks. All four elevations have decorative metal brackets and a brick entablature with dentils beneath the metal eaves. Each of the exterior corners of the building are adorned with white brick quoins. The City and Town Hall's original hip roof was metal, it has since been replaced with asphalt roofing materials.