[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The House of Bernarda Alba

calls for Adela, who has locked herself into a room. When she doesn't respond, Bernarda and Poncia force the door open. Poncia's shriek is heard. She returns with her hands clasped around her neck and warns the family not to enter the room. Adela, not knowing that Pepe survived, has hanged herself.

The closing lines of the play show Bernarda characteristically preoccupied with the family's reputation, not registering that Adela and Pepe had an affair due to her moral code. She insists that Adela has died a virgin and demands that this be made known to the whole town. Bernarda forbids her daughters to cry.

Adaptations
Film and television  adaptations include:
 1976 BBC television production in English, translated by James Graham-Lujan and Richard L. O'Connell, director Claude Whatham, with Mary Morris as Bernarda, Jane Lapotaire as Magdalena, Sylvia Kay as Angustias, Patience Collier as Maria Josepha, Betty Hardy as La Poncia, Rosalind Ayres as Martirio, Madlena Nedeva as Amelia, Michelle Newell as Adela, Janet Chappell as Servant, Hilary Mason as Prudencia, and Carneen Capaldi as Beggar 
 La casa de Bernarda Alba (1987)
 English language British film of a Royal Court Theatre, London 1986 production The House of Bernarda Alba (1991)
 1991, The house of Bernarda Alba with: Glenda Jackson  (Bernarda Alba), Joan Plowright (Poncia). Director: Nuria Espert.
 1991 Indian film directed by Govind Nihlani, Rukmavati ki Haveli.
 Since 2004, the Moroccan adaptation of La casa de Bernarda Alba has been played in theatres in Morocco and across the world. The adaptation was done by Yassine Fennane, and played by Nora Skalli, Samia Akariou, Nadia El Alami, Saâdia Azegoun, Saâdia Ladib and Hind Esâadidi. Later on, the play was extended to a television series called Bnat Lalla Mennana and was aired on 2M between 2012 and 2014.

In 1967, choreographer Eleo Pomare adapted the play into his ballet, Las Desenamoradas, featuring music by John Coltrane.

British playwright Tom Stoppard wrote a new English adaptation of the play, which was first performed on March 21, 1973 at the Greenwich Theatre, London, directed by Robin Phillips.

The play was adapted as an opera, Bernarda Albas Haus, by Aribert Reimann; it premiered in 2000.

Steven Dykes wrote a production named 'Homestead' for the American Theatre Arts (ATA) students in 2004 which was revived in 2013 (The Barn Theatre). The original production went on to perform at The Courtyard in Covent Garden, with members of an ATA graduate company Shady Dolls.

In 2006, the play was adapted into musical form by Michael John LaChiusa.  Under the title Bernarda Alba, it opened at Lincoln Center's Mitzi Newhouse Theater on March 6, 2006, starring Phylicia Rashad in the title role, with a cast that also included Daphne Rubin-Vega.

In 2012, Emily Mann adapted Federico García Lorca's  original, shifting the location from 1930s Andalusia, Spain, to contemporary Iran. Her adaptation opened at the Almeida Theatre under the director Bijan Sheibani, starring Shohreh Aghdashloo as the title character and Hara Yannas as Adela.

In 2012 also, Ulises Cala adapted the play into a monologue theatrical production with title Las Hijas (the daughters) under the direction of Yoshvani Medina, starring veteran Venezuelan actress Sonya Smith The theatre play opened in ArtSpoken Performing Arts Center in Miami, Florida.

In August 2012, Hyderabad, India based theatre group Sutradhar staged Birjees Qadar Ka Kunba, an Urdu/Hindustani adaptation of The House of Bernarda Alba. Directed by Vinay Varma and scripted by Dr. Raghuvir Sahay, the play adapted Lorca's original to a more Indian matriarch family setup. The play boasted of a cast of more than 10 women actors with Vaishali Bisht as Birjees Qadar (Bernard Alba) and Deepti Girotra as Hasan baandi (La Poncia).

In 2018, dramatist Patricia Cornelius adapted The House of Bernarda Alba for Melbourne Theatre Company, retelling the story as a family drama set in a mining town in contemporary Western Australia. The adaptation was staged at the Fairfax Studio, and featured Candy Bowers as Martirio (renamed "Marti"), Peta Brady as Angustias (renamed "Angela"), Julie Forsyth as Poncia (renamed "Penelope"), Bessie Holland as Magdalena (renamed "Magda"), Sue Jones as Maria Josefa, Melita Jurisic as Bernarda Alba (renamed "Bernadette"), and Emily Milledge as Adela (renamed "Adele").

In 2019, Dulaang Unibersidad ng Pilipinas staged Lorca's "La Casa de Bernarda Alba" for its 44th theatre season under the direction of Alexander Cortez. 'The House of Bernarda Alba | Ang Tahanan ni Bernarda Alba' was translated by Daisy Lopez to English and translated by Alexander Cortez himself to Filipino.

References

Sources
Lima, Robert. The Theatre of Garcia Lorca. New York: Las Americas Publishing Co., 1963.

External links
 Full text of the play in Spanish
 Spanish: El sentido trágico en La casa de Bernarda Alba, y algunas relaciones con Yerma y Bodas de Sangre, de Lorca.