[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bob Unglaub

g. Still not having played since May 6, he was sent back to the Americans in late July as a player to be named later from an earlier trade for Patsy Dougherty. In Boston, he was used sparingly, appearing in nine games for the rest of the year. The only two he played to completion were doubleheaders.

On July 4, 1905, Unglaub played all 20 innings at first base in a pitching duel between Cy Young of the Americans and Rube Waddell of the Philadelphia Athletics. He successfully fielded all 32 chances with no errors, though Boston lost 4–2. Much of his playing time came at the end of the year, when he replaced player-manager Jimmy Collins at third base in the second game of a doubleheader against the St. Louis Browns on September 22, then served as the starting third baseman for the rest of the season, batting .288 with 13 runs scored and six runs batted in (RBI) in the season's final 16 games. In 43 games, he batted .223 with 18 runs scored, 27 hits, and 11 RBI.

Salary dispute (1906–07)
Unglaub would not continue to start at third base for the Americans in 1906. Under baseball's National Agreement, players were supposed to make more money in the major leagues than in the minors. Unglaub claimed that he had been paid $2,000 in 1903 by the Brewers but that his salary had stayed the same since he reached the major leagues. In March 1906, Unglaub wrote a letter to August Herrmann, president of the National Commission, asking for his help in the matter; he also sent an open letter to Sporting Life in April detailing his grievances. Though Herrman thought he was entitled to a raise, American League (AL) president Ban Johnson and fellow Commission member Henry Pulliam disagreed, preventing the Commission from interfering with the dispute.

Finding no sympathy from the Commission, Unglaub turned his back on the major leagues and signed with the Williamsport Millionaires of the Tri-State League, which was not affiliated with organized baseball. His salary in 1906 is unknown, but in 1907, the team offered him $4,500. Unglaub was unable to take advantage of the offer, however, because the league became affiliated with organized baseball again in 1907, and his contract was transferred back to Boston. He was fined $200 for skipping the 1906 season, and Unglaub vented his frustrations in an angry letter to the Americans: "So far as I can see it is a case of pure blackmail to extort money from a man to let him make a living for himself & family and so far as I am concerned there will be no fine paid."

Everyday player and manager (1907–08)
Back in Boston, Unglaub became the Americans' everyday first baseman. The Red Sox were struggling to find a manager, as Chick Stahl, who previously served in that capacity, committed suicide during spring training. Cy Young filled the role for six games before resigning; his replacement, George Huff, lasted eight before doing the same. Then, team owner John I. Taylor picked Unglaub to take over the role. As Unglaub later recalled:

The team went 9–20 (.310) before Unglaub was replaced as manager by Deacon McGuire; however, Unglaub still served as team captain. He struggled to field his position and became a constant source of criticism from the fans, who would boo him during games. "Wanted-A good first baseman, who can handle fast balls, occasionally stop bounders, who won’t confuse base ball with bowling, and who won’t draw back when at bat," one reporter wrote. In 139 games, Unglaub batted .254 with 49 runs scored, 138 hits, one home run, and 62 RBI. He continued to hold the first base position for Boston until July, when he was traded to the Washington Senators. Unglaub did not immediately report to his new team, claiming that they had failed to communicate with him and threatening to join the independent Stockton Millers unless he was guaranteed the same salary he had made in Boston. Joe Cantillon, the Senators' manager, said the team had been unable to contact Unglaub but that they would pay the same salary, and Unglaub soon reported. A week after his last game with Boston, he was playing for the Senators.

Washington Senators (1908–10)

Unglaub's move to Washington "revived his career," according to baseball historian Frank Russo. He was used mostly at second and third base but still found himself in the lineup every day. He had batted .263 in 72 games with Boston, but Unglaub upped his average to .308 with the Senators. In 144 games (his career high) between the two clubs, he batted .286 with 46 runs scored, 155 hits, one home run, and 54 RBI.