[Source: PubMed]

5. Health Hum Rights. 2018 Dec;20(2):205-214.

Intersex Variations, Human Rights, and the International Classification of 
Diseases.

Carpenter M(1).

Author information:
(1)Senior advisor at GATE, a co-executive director of Intersex Human Rights 
Australia, and a graduate and PhD candidate in bioethics at Sydney Health Ethics 
in the Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of Sydney, Australia. This 
article was produced in the context of the GATE initiative on the process of 
revision and reform of the International Classification of Diseases.

Over time, the World Health Organization (WHO) has reviewed and removed 
pathologizing classifications and codes associated with sexual and gender 
minorities from the International Classification of Diseases (ICD). However, 
classifications associated with intersex variations, congenital variations in 
sex characteristics or differences of sex development, remain pathologized. The 
ICD-11 introduces additional and pathologizing normative language to describe 
these as "disorders of sex development." Current materials in the ICD-11 
Foundation also specify, or are associated with, unnecessary medical procedures 
that fail to meet human rights norms documented by the WHO itself and Treaty 
Monitoring Bodies. This includes codes that require genitoplasties and 
gonadectomies associated with gender assignment, where either masculinizing or 
feminizing surgery is specified depending upon technical and heteronormative 
expectations for surgical outcomes. Such interventions lack evidence. Human 
rights defenders and institutions regard these interventions as harmful 
practices and violations of rights to bodily integrity, non-discrimination, 
equality before the law, privacy, and freedom from torture, ill-treatment, and 
experimentation. WHO should modify ICD-11 codes by introducing neutral 
terminology and by ensuring that all relevant codes do not specify practices 
that violate human rights.

PMCID: PMC6293350
PMID: 30568414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.