[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Title 18 of the United States Code

Title  18 of the United States Code is the main criminal code of the federal government of the United States.  The Title deals with federal crimes and criminal procedure. In its coverage, Title 18 is similar to most U.S. state criminal codes, which typically are referred to by names such as Penal Code, Criminal Code, or Crimes Code. Typical of state criminal codes is the California Penal Code. Many U.S. state criminal codes, unlike the federal Title 18, are based on the Model Penal Code promulgated by the American Law Institute.

Part I—Crimes

Chapters 1–10

: General Provisions 
  has been repealed per Public Law 98-473, title II, Section 218(a)(1), as of October 12, 1984. 98 Stat. 2027.
  defines principals.
  defines and provides punishment for "accessory after the fact".
  defines and provides punishment for "misprision of felony".
  defines "United States".
  defines "department" and "agency".
  defines "special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States".
  defines "obligation or other security of the United States".
  defines "vessel of the United States".
  defines "interstate commerce" and "foreign commerce".
  defines "foreign government".
  defines "United States Postal Service".
  deals with laws of states adopted for areas within federal jurisdiction.
  has been repealed per Public Law 107-273, division B, title IV, section 4004(a), as of November 2, 2002. 116 Stat. 1812.
  defines "obligation or other security of foreign government".
  defines "crime of violence".
  deals with the insanity defense, defining it as "an affirmative defense to a prosecution under any Federal statute that, at the time of the commission of the acts constituting the offense, the defendant, as a result of a severe mental disease or defect, was unable to appreciate the nature and quality or the wrongfulness of his acts", that "mental disease or defect does not otherwise constitute a defense", and that "the defendant has the burden of proving the defense of insanity by clear and convincing evidence".
  defines "organization".
  defines "petty offense".
  defines "financial institution".
  defines "stolen or counterfeit nature of property for certain crimes".
 .1 defines "court of the United States".
  provides "definitions relating to Federal health care offense".
  deals with the "use of minors in crimes of violence".

: Aircraft and Motor Vehicles 

  contains definitions.
  creates the "crime of destruction of aircraft or aircraft facilities".
  prohibits "destruction of motor vehicles or motor vehicle facilities".
  provides the "penalty when death results".
  prohibits "imparting or conveying false information".
  deals with drive-by shooting.
  prohibits "violence at international airports".
  deals with "fraud involving aircraft or space vehicle parts in interstate or foreign commerce".
  prohibits unauthorized traffic signal preemption transmitters, while an additional  prohibits aiming a laser pointer at or in the flight path of an aircraft, and  prohibits the flying of a drone in an unsafe manner around an aircraft.
  requires commercial vehicles to stop for inspections.

: Animals, Birds, Fish, and Plants