[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War

in control of the rest of the city. Israel halted airstrikes in Beirut due to a surprise visit by US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.  Airstrikes continued in south Lebanon, killing seven near Tyre.  Hezbollah continued to fire rockets into Northern Israel, wounding 13 with roughly 100 rockets.

Tuesday, July 25
On July 25, the IDF intensified its operations in Lebanon with over 100 strikes in southern Lebanon and fresh assaults on Beirut.  Seven were killed in Nabatieh when an Israeli shell struck a house, and twelve were killed Tuesday evening in the  Dahiya quarter of Beirut.  Two houses were also destroyed east of Tyre.  Fighting continued between IDF forces and Lebanese guerrillas near Bint Jbeil with IDF forces surrounding the town.  Eight IDF soldiers were lightly wounded.  Hezbollah said seven of its fighters were killed, and fellow Shiite group Amal said four of its fighters had been killed.  During the course of the day, Hezbollah fired over 100 rockets into northern Israel.  In Haifa, one civilian died of a heart attack during rocket fire as 20 more were injured.  Rockets also killed one and injured three in Maghar.

Israeli officials indicated that they planned to maintain a ground presence in south Lebanon until a multinational peacekeeping force was deployed there, preferably NATO.

Wednesday, July 26

On July 26, the IDF continued operations in Lebanon with 60 strikes primarily on military targets.  During the raids, 13 civilians in Tyre were injured.  Two truck drivers were killed when the IAF fired missiles at supply vehicles.  One aid worker and three wounded near the Syrian border.  Air strikes also killed four unarmed UN observers with artillery strikes and precision guided munitions, in what UN Secretary General Kofi Annan called a deliberate strike.  Their position was well known, and repeated calls were made to request that Israel stop the attacks.

In south Lebanon, nine IDF soldiers were killed and 27 wounded as they battled Hezbollah guerrillas near the border. The casualties sustained by the Israelis were the highest since the initiation of conflict.  Hezbollah fired 151 rockets into northern Israel, injuring 31.  Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said that Israel planned to maintain a 2 km security zone from the border free of Hezbollah as talks continued in Rome for an international peacekeeping force.  Lebanese officials arrested 50 on charges of spying for Israel.

Thursday, July 27
The IDF carried out over 120 air strikes in southern Lebanon, the Bekaa valley and Beirut.  At least 11 were killed.  Hezbollah guerrillas in Lebanon fired over 100 Katyusha rockets at targets in northern Israel landing across the Galilee and Hula Valley. Thirteen were lightly injured.  Israeli officials indicated that they planned not to expand ground operations from their current scope despite pressure from the military.  The decision was made, however, to intensify air strikes. In addition, three divisions of reservists (15,000 troops) were mobilized.

Friday, July 28
Lebanese officials reported that Israel conducted over 130 air raids (killing 13) while an Israeli police spokesman said that Hezbollah fired 97 rockets into Northern Israel (wounding 3). Hezbollah fired a new kind of rocket it called the Khaibar-1 which struck near the Israeli town of Afula.  The rocket has a 100 kg warhead, which is significantly more powerful than the Katyusha rockets, and may be the same as Fajr-5 rocket.  The IDF reported that 26 gunmen were killed in clashes near the southern Lebanon town of Maroun Al Ras, Bint Jbeil and Eitaroun.  Shelling was also conducted on Al Nabatiyya and Sour in addition to areas in Al Biqa plains, 14 Lebanese fatalities were reported.

In Israel, there was disagreement between Mossad intelligence which says Hezbollah will be able to continue fighting at the current level for a long time and military intelligence which believes Hezbollah has been severely damaged.  Other scholars have also questioned the Israeli reliance on air power.

The Mehr news agency in Iran said Ali Larijani, secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council, was in Damascus for meetings on the crisis, but gave no other details.  Furthermore, Iran's state news agency confirmed Hezbollah Secretary General Hassan Nasrallah's presence in Damascus.  Although Hezbollah has received significant Iranian assistance in the past, Iranian officials denied assisting Hezbollah in the current conflict.