[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# List of smoking bans

also on terraces that are open at 1 side or more).

New Zealand

The first building in the world to have a smoke-free policy was the Old Government Building in Wellington, New Zealand, in 1876. This was over concerns about the threat of fire, as it is the second largest wooden building in the world.

New Zealand passed an amendment to the Smoke-free Environments Act 1990 law on 3 December 2003 (effective in 2004) that covers all indoor public workplaces and inside hospitality venues (pubs, bars, restaurants and casinos). Studies have shown very high levels of compliance with the law. Also the air quality inside hospitality venues is very good compared to similar settings in other countries where smoking is still permitted. In New Zealand, tobacco and tobacco products cannot be sold or supplied to anyone under 18.

Outdoor smoke-free laws cover the grounds of all schools, the grounds of some hospitals, stadiums and two university campuses (Massey University, and the University of Auckland, in 2010). Victoria University of Wellington has restricted smoking rules with specified areas where one may smoke. The government has not moved to restrict smoking in cars but has run mass media campaigns that promote smoke-free cars and homes.

On 8 December 2021, New Zealand's government announced it will outlaw smoking for the next generation, meaning those who are aged 14 and under will never be legally able to buy tobacco. The new legislation means the legal smoking age will increase every year, eventually leading to a total prohibition on tobacco for the entire population.

Nigeria

Smoking is prohibited in public places in Lagos, Nigeria, and is punishable by a fine of not less than N200 and not exceeding N1000 or to imprisonment to a term of not less than one month and not exceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

North Macedonia
North Macedonia has a comprehensive national smoke-free law covering all public indoor areas, and in some cases in outdoor areas. Smoking is prohibited in bars, cafes, restaurants, and nightclubs starting 1 January 2010. Smoking is permitted only in people's homes, at open spaces and public areas free of sporting competitions, cultural and entertainment events, gatherings and other public events.

Norway

In Norway, smoking has been restricted in public buildings, workplaces and public transportation since 1988, often allowing for separate, walled-off smoking areas of restaurants, pubs, etc. Since 1 June 2004, smoking has been prohibited in all indoor public areas. Outside some places this ban includes the immediate area surrounding the doorways, etc. Advertising for tobacco has been illegal by law since 1975 (The tobacco related damage protection act). The smoking ban also includes vaping since 1 July 2017.

Panama
As of 2008, smoking is prohibited at all restaurants, bars, and dance clubs, outdoor dining areas, balconies, and indoor areas such as transport terminals and areas that locals would consider a workplace.

Paraguay
Effective April 2010, Paraguay has restricted smoking in all indoor areas including bars and restaurants.

Pakistan
The Prohibition of Smoking and Protection of Non-Smokers Health Ordinance-2002 came into effect on 30 June 2003.
The law has the following aspects:
restriction upon tobacco use in public buildings and transportation,
limiting tobacco advertising,
prohibiting tobacco sale within 50 metres of educational institutions, and requiring "no smoking" signs displayed in public places, public buildings and transportation.

Peru
In Peru, it is slightly banned to smoke in any enclosed public place (inc public transport), according to Law 25357, since December 1993. This has been reinforced with the Anti-Tobacco Law 28705 and 29517.

Philippines

Davao has prohibited smoking in a large number of public places, including public buildings, entertainment venues, hospitals, shopping malls, concerts since 2002. Smoking at gasoline stations is also banned.

Manila has restricted smoking in large public areas like hospitals, malls, public transport, as well as Makati in 2002 Ordinance 2002–090, banning all public transport and enclosed indoor smoking.  After many attempts, finally in June 2011 Metro Manila banned smoking with heavy penalties including community service time for offenders, after 3 months the ban seems to be well respected.

President Duterte has ordered a strict smoking ban, Executive Order 26, forbidding tobacco and e-cigarette use in all public spaces.  No one under 18 can use, sell or buy cigarettes or tobacco products. Tobacco cannot be sold where children might gather and be kept  from schools and playgrounds.  Citizens are encouraged to help apprehend violators. Those who violate the ban could face up to four months in jail and a fine of  (around US$100).  As of 2017, a pack of cigarettes is still cheap, costing about  (54 U.S. cents) and more than 74 percent of that is taxes.