[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ministry of Environment (South Korea)

The Ministry of Environment () is the South Korea branch of government charged with environmental protection. In addition to enforcing regulations and sponsoring ecological research, the Ministry manages the national parks of South Korea. Its headquarters is in Sejong City.

Mission 

The mission of the Ministry of Environment is to protect the national territory from threats of environmental pollution and to improve the quality of life for the public. This includes ensuring the people of South Korea can enjoy the natural environment, clean water and clear skies. Furthermore, the Ministry aims to contribute to the global efforts to protect the Earth. In February 2008, the Korea Meteorological Administration became an affiliate of the Ministry of Environment to facilitate countermeasures against climate change.

Tasks of the Ministry of Environment include

 Enactment and amendment of environmental laws and regulations
 Introduction of environmental institutions
 Building up the framework structure for environmental administration
 Drafting and implementation of mid to long term comprehensive measures for environmental conservation
 Setting up standards for regulations
 Providing administrative and financial support for environmental management to local governments
 Inter-Korean environmental cooperation
 Environmental cooperation with other countries.

History

The environmental authority of the Republic of Korea, began with the Pollution Section of the Ministry of Health and Society, established in 1967, which was expanded to become the Pollution Division, in charge of environmental administration, in 1973. After several reforms and the expansion of environmental authority, the Environment Administration was launched as an affiliate of the Ministry of Health and Society, in 1980. In January 1990, the Environment Administration was elevated to the Ministry of Environment under the Office of the Prime Minister, in order to efficiently integrate and coordinate environmental issues. In December 1994, the Ministry of Environment was given greater authority to establish and implement its own policies.

Timeline

Major policies

Air

Air Pollutant Emissions Trading System
Certification of Exhaust Reduction Equipment
Foul Odor Prevention
Promotion of Natural Gas Vehicles
Air Pollution Monitoring
Clean SYS
In-use Diesel Vehicle Emissions Control
Special Measures for Air Quality Improvement in the Seoul Metropolitan Area
Atmospheric Environmental Standard
Dust and sandstorms
Indoor Air Quality
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Reduction

Water

Drinking Water Quality Standard and Test
Ecological Stream Restoration Projects
Environmental Management of Military Facilities
Environmental Water Quality Standards
Individual Sewerage
Non-point Source Pollution Management
Operation of Water Quality Monitoring Network
Public Sewerage
Total Water Pollution Load Management System
Underground Water Management
Water Environment Management Master Plan
Water Use Charge
Whole Effluent Toxicity Management System

Riparian buffer zone designation system

This is a system that restricts the construction of restaurants, accommodation, spas, factories, and warehouses by establishing a certain section of a river as a buffer zone connecting the aquatic ecosystem and the terrestrial ecosystem for the purpose of securing a healthy aquatic ecosystem and clean water, and designating a Riparian Buffer Zone to form a Riparian Buffer Forest after buying lands near the waterside one by one, through agreements with residents.

For the Han River watershed, 255 km2 adjacent to Paldonghosu, Namhan River, Bukhan River, and Kyoungan stream was first designated as a Riparian Zone in September 1999. Three successive changes have reduced its size to 191.3 km2. For the Nakdong River, Geum River, and Yeongsan River watershed, major dams and the land near stream flow and lakes, which were used as a water source, were designated as Riparian Buffer Zones in September 2003. For the Nakdong River watershed, three changes have been applied, making the designated area 339.9 km2. For the Geum River watershed, three changes have been applied, making the designated area 373.2 km2. For Yeongsan River watershed, four changes have been applied, making the designated area 295.6 km2.