[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Singaporean passport

break from long standing practice, the passport number is now unique to each passport, instead of being identical to the holder's NRIC number. Children are no longer allowed to travel on their parents' passports. The biometric passport project cost the Singapore government a total of S$9.7 million.

A new Singapore biometric passport design was introduced on 26 October 2017. It features a redesigned front cover as well as several new security features such as a Multiple Laser Image (MLI) in the shape of Singapore Island and a window lock of the image of the passport holder which can be viewed as a positive or negative image when tilted and viewed under a light source. New visa page designs, featuring the Singapore Botanic Gardens, Esplanade, Marina Barrage, Gardens by the Bay, Singapore Sports Hub and Punggol New Town were also introduced in the new biometric passport, replacing the previous Central Business District and Esplanade visa page designs.

Physical appearance

Front cover

Singapore passports are red in colour, with the words "REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE" inscribed at the top of the front cover, and the coat of arms of Singapore emblazoned in the centre of the front cover. The motto and the title of the national anthem of Singapore, Majulah Singapura, is inscribed on the scroll of the coat of arms, whilst the word "PASSPORT" is inscribed below. The biometric passport symbol  appears at the bottom of the front cover under the word "PASSPORT".

Passport note

The passport contains a note from the President of Singapore addressing the authorities of all territories:

Information page

Singapore passports include the following data on the plastic information page:

 (left) Photo of the passport bearer
 Type (PA – biometric passport)
 Code of issuing state (SGP)
 Passport number
 Full name
 Sex (Gender)
 Nationality (Singapore Citizen)
 Date of birth
 Place of birth 
 Date of issue
 Date of expiry
 Modifications 
 Authority
 National ID number

The information page ends with the Machine Readable Zone.

Biometric chip
The embedded chip stores the owner's digitised photograph, name, sex, date of birth, nationality, passport number, and the passport expiry date. This is the same information that appears on the printed information page of every passport. Facial recognition technology was introduced with the release of the ePassport to improve identity verification and reduce identity-related fraud. Iris imaging was later added to complement the biometric fingerprint.

Visa requirements

Visa requirements for Singapore citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states which are placed on citizens of Singapore. As of July 2023, Singapore citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 192 countries and territories, ranking the Singapore passport the most powerful in the world in terms of travel freedom, according to the Henley Passport Index. The Singapore passport often periodically switches between being 1st or 2nd on the list.

Automated border control systems 

Singapore citizens aged 6 and older are eligible to use the automated clearance lanes at the country's checkpoints, provided that their biometric identifiers (iris / facial / fingerprints) have been enrolled with ICA. In addition, for young Singapore citizens who wish to use the automated lanes but had collected their passports before turning six, they may enrol their biometrics at the staffed immigration counters (with the supervision of their parent / guardian).

In addition, with Singapore's developed and high-income status, Singapore citizens who intend to travel as tourists, are also eligible to use the automated border control systems (eGates) when arriving in (or departing from) the various following countries:

a) The Trusted Traveller Program offered by the Immigration Services Agency of Japan (ISA), is limited to:

- directors or full-time employees of the Government of Singapore and its public and corporate affiliates.

- directors or full-time employees of international organizations.

- directors or full-time employees of public companies listed in Japan and their subsidiaries.

- directors or full-time employees of public companies listed in the visa-exempt countries under Japanese visa policy.

- directors or full-time employees of private companies with capital or investment of JPY 500 million.

- business relationship foreign invitee of Japanese government-affiliated institutions or Japanese publicly-listed corporations (and their subsidiaries).

- tourists with platinum or higher-status credit cards.

- spouse or child (unmarried minor) of aforementioned businesspeople or high-net-worth tourists.

b) The e-gate can only be used after first-time arrival and registration at the manual immigration counter. Singapore passport holders may use e-gates at Sultan Iskandar Building and Sultan Abu Bakar Complex in Johor, and also at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport.