[Source: PubMed]

5. Child Adolesc Ment Health. 2016 Sep;21(3):154-160. doi: 10.1111/camh.12111.
Epub  2015 Jun 26.

The association between parental imprisonment and the mental health of 
Palestinian adolescents.

Shehadeh A(1)(2), Loots G(1)(3), Vanderfaeillie J(1), Derluyn I(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Lifespan Psychology, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 
Pleinlaan 2, Brussel, B-1050, Belgium.
(2)Ministry of Education, Directorate of Education, Bethlehem, Palestine.
(3)Departamento de Psicología, Instituto de Investigaciones en Ciencias del 
Compartamiento (IICC), Universidad Católica Boliviana 'San Pablo' La Paz, La 
Paz, Bolivia.
(4)Department of Social Welfare Studies & Centre for Children in Vulnerable 
Situations, Ghent University, Gent, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Since 1967, the Palestinian Occupied Territories are marked by a 
protracted political conflict. During this conflict, about one fifth of the 
Palestinian population has been detained; a considerable part of them having 
children outside prison. Although parental detention negatively impacts 
children's psychological well-being, little is known about this impact within 
contexts of protracted armed conflict. Therefore, this study aimed at gaining 
insight into the impact of parental detention onto adolescents' psychological 
well-being.
METHOD: Of 314 (11- to 18-year old) Palestinian adolescents who took part, the 
fathers of 204 adolescents were detained in Israeli prisons. The adolescents 
completed two self-report questionnaires: the UCLA-PTSD-Reaction Index, 
investigating symptoms of posttraumatic stress, and the Strengths and 
Difficulties Questionnaire, looking at overall psychological problems. Several 
hierarchical regression analyses investigated mental health differences between 
both the groups, and possible associations between sociodemographic 
characteristics and the witnessing of the father's arrest, and the mental health 
outcomes.
RESULTS: Parental detention largely impacted adolescents' mental health, with 
one fifth to two thirds of the adolescents reporting considerable mental health 
problems. Witnessing the arrest of the father even increased this risk 
considerably. Above, girls, younger adolescents, participants living in refugee 
camps, and those living with extended families also reported higher scores on 
both questionnaires.
CONCLUSIONS: Detention of fathers in the context of protracted armed conflicts 
has a large impact on adolescents' mental health. Besides an overall plea to end 
armed conflicts as fast as possible, the study also delineates considerable 
implications for the support and care for these adolescents and their families.

© 2015 Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/camh.12111
PMID: 32680351