[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Make Roads Safe

Make Roads Safe is a global road safety campaign established with the aim of securing political commitment for road traffic injury prevention around the world.

The Make Roads Safe campaign recently played a leading role in arguing for and securing the first-ever United Nations Ministerial Conference on global road safety, which was approved by the UN General Assembly on 31 March 2008 and was held in Moscow on 19 and 20 November 2009. The campaign also led the call for a UN Decade of Action for Road Safety to 2020, with the aim of reducing by half the predicted increase in global road deaths. On 2 March 2010 the UN General Assembly approved a resolution proclaiming a UN Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011-2020. The Decade of Action was officially launched  on 11 May 2011.

The campaign was launched in June 2006 following the publication of the Make Roads Safe report by the Commission for Global Road Safety. The Commission, chaired by former NATO Secretary General Lord Robertson of Port Ellen, made recommendations for increasing funding levels for global road safety and argued that the international community was ignoring the scale of road deaths – which World Health Organization statistics show as ranking alongside Malaria and Tuberculosis in terms of global mortality.

The Make Roads Safe campaign is coordinated by the FIA Foundation, a road safety NGO, and includes a coalition of public health and road safety organisations as partners. The campaign aims to raise public awareness of the scale of the road injury problem and to present this as a key issue for sustainable development. The Make Roads Safe campaign argues that tackling road injuries is vital for achieving many of the Millennium Development Goals, including targets for child mortality and health and education targets, because of the vital role played by access to roads in delivering these services. The campaign claims that, although the G8 has approved $1.2 billion for new road infrastructure in Africa, only $20 million has been allocated for road safety measures. The campaign argues that at least 10% of this infrastructure budget, and the similar budgets deployed worldwide by the World Bank, regional development banks and other donors, should be dedicated to road safety measures. If this principle was accepted in the case of Africa it would mean $120 million would be available for road safety measures such as safety assessments of road design, enforcement and education strategies.

The Make Roads Safe campaign also calls for a $300 million, 10 year, Action Plan for road safety to build the capacity of developing countries to respond to their own road traffic injury problems.

Make Roads Safe report

The Commission for Global Road Safety’s first report: Make Roads Safe – a new priority for sustainable development, published in June 2006, made a series of recommendations for improving the international response to global road traffic injuries. Building on the policy platform provided by the seminal 2004 publication from the World Health Organization and the World Bank, the World Report on road traffic injury prevention, the Make Roads Safe report focused on ways in which funding to road injury prevention could be increased. The main arguments of the report were that road traffic injuries were a major and growing public health epidemic, on the scale of Malaria and TB – according to WHO figures; that the cost to developing countries in human lives and economic loss (estimated at up to $100 billion a year by the World Bank) required urgent attention and that failing to address road safety in the context of development policies (particularly relating to road infrastructure investment) would impede progress towards achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.

The report set out three key recommendations aimed at increasing political commitment and investment in road safety:

 a $300 million Action Plan, over ten years, to equip developing countries with the sustainable tools to tackle their own road safety problems and to be able to access multilateral sources of funding for road safety;
 a requirement that a minimum 10% of all multilateral donor road infrastructure budgets should be allocated to road safety measures;
 a ministerial level UN summit to chart a course for international cooperation on road traffic injury prevention.
 
The Make Roads Safe report was endorsed by an Advisory Board including officials, acting in a personal capacity, from the World Bank, OECD, WHO, Asian Development Bank and United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. At the launch, in London, Lord Robertson summarised the findings of the report: ‘to Make Poverty History we must Make Roads Safe’.