[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of Acts of the Parliament of England, 1603–1641

ron or Baro. c. 17
Naturalization of James and Mary Desmaistres. c. 18
Naturalization of Fabian Smith. c. 19
Naturalization of John Ramsden. c. 20

1609 (7 Jas. 1)

The fourth session of the 1st Parliament of King James I (the 'Blessed Parliament'), which met from 9 February 1610 until 23 July 1610.

Note that this session was traditionally cited as 7 Jac. 1; it is listed in the "Chronological Table of the Statutes" as 7 Ja. 1

Public Acts

 (Criminal law) c. 1 An act for the better execution of justice, and suppressing of criminal offenders, in the north parts of the kingdom of England. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 Naturalisation and Restoration of Blood Act 1609 c. 2 An Act that all such as are to be naturalized, or restored in blood, shall first receive the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, and the oath of allegiance and the oath of supremacy.
 (Apprentice) c. 3 An Act for the continuing and better maintenance of husbandry and other manual occupations, by the true implement of monies given and to be given for the binding out of apprentices. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 Vagabonds Act 1609 c. 4 An Act for the due execution of divers laws and statutes heretofore made against rogues, vagabonds and sturdy beggars, and other lewd and idle persons. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (Public officers protection) c. 5 An Act for ease in pleading troublesome and contentious suits prosecuted against justices of the peace, mayors, constables, and certain other his Majesty's officers, for the lawful execution of their office.
 Oath of Allegiance, etc. Act 1609 c. 6 An Act for administring the oath of allegiance, and reformation of married women recusants.
 (Wool sorters, etc.) c. 7 An Act for the punishing and correcting of deceit and frauds committed by sorts, kembers and spinsters of wool, and weavers of woolen yarn. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (Cattle) c. 8 An Act to inlarge an act of parliament made in the second and third year of King Philip and Queen Mary, intituled, "An Act for the keeping of milch-kine, or breeding and rearing of calves." — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (London water (Hackney)) c. 9 An Act for the bringing of fresh streams of water by engine from Hackney-Marsh to the city of London, for the benefit of the King's college at Chelsey. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1948
 (Alehouse) c. 10 An Act for the reformation of alehouse-keepers.
 Game Act 1609 c. 11 An act to prevent the spoil of corn and grain, by untimely hawking, and for the better presevation of pheasants and partridges.
 Shop-books Evidence Act 1609 c. 12 An Acte to avoide the double Payment of Debtes.
 (Deer stealing) c. 13 An Act for the explanation of a statute made in the second session of this present parliament, intituled, "An Act against unlawful hunting and stealing of deer and conies."
 (Horns) c. 14 An Act for reviving of part of a former act made in the fourth year of King Edward the Fourth, That no stranger or alient shall buy English horns unwrought; and that the wardens of the horners of the city of London for the time being, should have power to search all manner of wares appertaining to their mystery in London, and twenty-four miles on every side of it. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 Crown Debts Act 1609 c. 15 An Acte concerninge some maner of Assignementes of Debtes to His Majesty.
 (Cloths) c. 16 An Act for the encouragement of many poor people in Cumberland and Westmorland, and in the towns and parishes of Carptmell, Oxhead and Broughton in the county of Lancaster, to continue a trade of making cogware, kendals, carptmeals and coarse cottons. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (Burning of moor) c. 17 An Act against burning of Ling and Heath & other Moorburning in the Counties of York Durham Northumberland Cumberland Westerland Lancaster Darby Nottingham and Leicester at unseasonable tymes of yeare. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 Sea Sand (Devon and Cornwall) Act 1609 c. 18 An Acte for the takinge landinge and carryinge of Sea Sand for the betteringe of Grounds, and for the Increase of Corne and Tillage within the Counties of Devon and Cornwall.
 (River Exe, weir) c. 19 An act for the continuance and reparation of a new built weare upon the river of Exe, near unto the city of Exeter.
 (Inundations, Norfolk and Suffolk) c. 20 An Act for the speedy recovery of many thousand acres of marsh ground, and other ground within the counties of Norfolk and Suffolk, lately surrounded by the range of the sea in divers parts of the said counties, and for the prevention of the danger of the like surrounding hereafter. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1948
 (Confirmation of decrees as to copyholds, etc.) c. 21 An act for confirmation of decrees hereafter to be made in the exchequer-chamber, and duchy-court, concerning copyhold lands and tenements. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1948
 (Taxation) c. 22 An A