[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Law of rent

production. Thus, rent is a differential between the productive capacity of the land and the margin of production.

Note that Ricardo's original formulation assumes that the best quality land would be the first to be used in production, and that goods are sold in a competitive, single price market.

In Ricardo's Theory of Rent, Ricardo supposes that there are different grades of land, all the same size but with different qualities. Land grades 1, 2, and 3. On the Principles of Political Economy, and Taxation, Ricardo supposes that the land generates profits of 100, 90, and 80 units of corn, depending on quality. If there is plenty of land in proportion to the population, farmers only need to cultivate land number 1 (the highest quality), so there will be no rent (100 units of corn). However, as the population increases, it will be necessary to cultivate land number 2. Therefore, land number 1 will have a rent of 10 units. Land number 1 will generate a profit of 100 units of corn, while land number 2 will only generate 90 units of corn. Finally, whenever land number 3 must be cultivated, the rent for land number 1 will be a rent of 20 units, and for land number 2, the rent will be 10. The profit will equal 80 units (profit made by the lowest quality). Eventually, all land is used except for the lowest quality land because workers will not work for a low wage. (Ricardo, 1817). Due to competition, farmers will bid up to 10 units to use the land. As the population grows and lower quality land is cultivated, the rent will be calculated as the profit difference between the low-quality and high-quality land. Farmers who make a low profit are willing to choose between high-quality land and their own (Ricardo,1817).

See also 
 Differential and absolute ground rent
 Economic rent
 Georgism
 Henry George
 Iron law of wages
 Rack-rent
 Schumpeterian rent
 Von Thünen rent

Notes

Further reading 
 David Ricardo, An Essay on the influence of a low price of corn on the profits of stock

1809 in economics
Economics laws