[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Unidirectional network

s secure network to a high secure network
Time synchronization in highly secure networks
File transfer
Streaming video
Sending/receiving alerts or alarms from open to critical/confidential networks
Sending/receiving emails from open to critical/confidential networks
 Government
 Commercial companies

Usage 
Unidirectional network devices are typically used to guarantee information security or protection of critical digital systems, such as Industrial control systems, from cyber attacks. While use of these devices is common in high security environments such as defense, where they serve as connections between two or more networks of differing security classifications, the technology is also being used to enforce one-way communications outbound from critical digital systems to untrusted networks connected to the Internet.

The physical nature of unidirectional networks only allows data to pass from one side of a network connection to another, and not the other way around. This can be from the "low side" or untrusted network, to the "high side" or trusted network, or vice versa. In the first case, data in the high side network is kept confidential and users retain access to data from the low side. Such functionality can be attractive if sensitive data is stored on a network which requires connectivity with the Internet: the high side can receive Internet data from the low side, but no data on the high side are accessible to Internet-based intrusion. In the second case, a safety-critical physical system can be made accessible for online monitoring, yet be insulated from all Internet-based attacks that might seek to cause physical damage. In both cases, the connection remains unidirectional even if both the low and the high network are compromised, as the security guarantees are physical in nature.

There are two general models for using unidirectional network connections. In the classical model, the purpose of the data diode is to prevent export of classified data from a secure machine while allowing import of data from an insecure machine. In the alternative model, the diode is used to allow export of data from a protected machine while preventing attacks on that machine. These are described in more detail below.

One-way flow to less secure systems 
Involves systems that must be secured against remote/external attacks from public networks while publishing information to such networks. For example, an election management system used with electronic voting must make election results available to the public while at the same time it must be immune to attack.

This model is applicable to a variety of critical infrastructure protection problems, where protection of the data in a network is less important than reliable control and correct operation of the network. For example, the public living downstream from a dam needs up-to-date information on the outflow, and the same information is a critical input to the control system for the floodgates. In such a situation, it is critical that the flow of information be from the secure control system to the public, and not vice versa.

One-way flow to more secure systems 
The majority of unidirectional network applications in this category are in defense, and defense contractors. These organizations traditionally have applied air gaps to keep classified data physically separate from any Internet connection. With the introduction of unidirectional networks in some of these environments, a degree of connectivity can safely exist between a network with classified data, and a network with an Internet connection.

In the Bell–LaPadula security model, users of a computer system can only create data at or above their own security level. This applies in contexts where there is a hierarchy of information classifications. If users at each security level share a machine dedicated to that level, and if the machines are connected by data diodes, the Bell–LaPadula constraints can be rigidly enforced.

Benefits 
Traditionally, when the IT network provides DMZ server access for an authorized user, the data is vulnerable to intrusions from the IT network. However, with a unidirectional gateways separating a critical side or OT network with sensitive data from an open side with business and Internet connectivity, normally IT network, organizations can achieve the best of both worlds, enabling the connectivity required and assuring security. This holds true even if the IT network is compromised, because the traffic flow control is physical in nature.

No reported cases of data diodes being bypassed or exploited to enable two-way traffic.
Lower long-term operating cost (OPEX) cost as there are no rules to maintain. Although there will be software updates to be installed. Often these devices need to be maintained by the vendors.
The unidirectional software layer cannot be configured to allow two-way traffic due to the physical disconnection of the RX or TX line.