[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Second Corps, Army of Northern Virginia

nd the corps through the opening campaigning of 1864 at the Battle of the Wilderness and the Battle of Spotsylvania.  However, Ewell's ability as a corps commander waned, and Lee felt it was necessary to reassign Ewell to the Department of Richmond on May 29, 1864.

Command under Lt. Gen. J.A. Early

With Ewell's reassignment, Lt. Gen. Jubal A. Early took command, bringing a wealth of experience. He had already temporarily commanded both the Second and Third Corps during the incapacitation of Ewell and Hill during The Battle of the Wilderness.  Early had much experience as a division commander and had served under Generals Jackson and Ewell.  Therefore, Lee decided in June 1864 to use the Second Corps on yet another invasion of the Union in an attempt to cause General Ulysses S. Grant to fall back from pressing Lee's front.  Early took the Second Corps, technically as a detached Army of the Valley, down (northward) through the Shenandoah Valley and, following the Battle of Monocacy, to the outskirts of Washington, D.C. at Fort Stevens, raiding the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad and countryside of Maryland and Pennsylvania along the way. But the invasion was short lived, as the Union was able to respond with a counter campaign under Maj. Gen. Philip Sheridan, who pressed Early back into Virginia with overwhelming Union forces.  As Sheridan fought Early up (southward) into the Shenandoah Valley, Sheridan commenced upon his famous "Burning" of the Valley, destroying crops, livestock, farms, barns, homes and destroying everything in his path. Early's Army of the Valley, the bulk of which came from the Second Corps, sustained heavy losses in the battles at Winchester, Fisher's Hill, and Cedar Creek. In November and December, the greater part of Early's forces were ordered back to Richmond, first Kershaw's division in November, followed by the three divisions of the Second Corps in December.

Command under Maj. Gen. J.B. Gordon

The Second Corps thus rejoined the main body of the Army of Northern Virginia, and Maj. Gen. John B. Gordon was placed in command on December 20, 1864.  Gordon commanded the corps, the "left wing" of Lee's depleted army, until it was surrendered at Appomattox Court House, Virginia, on April 9, 1865.  A significant action conducted while Gordon was in command was the Battle of Fort Stedman, which began with a surprise attack by the corps, which achieved some success before it was repulsed by Union reserves.  Gordon's command also was in the van of the army during its last combat near Appomattox Court House.  Gordon and Second Corps led the surrender parade of Confederate infantry.

See also

First Corps, Army of Northern Virginia
Third Corps, Army of Northern Virginia
Fourth Corps, Army of Northern Virginia
Cavalry Corps, Army of Northern Virginia

References
 Bean, W. G., Stonewall's Man: Sandie Pendleton, The University of North Carolina Press, 1998, 
 Douglas, Henry Kyd, I Rode with Stonewall, The University of North Carolina Press, 1940, 
 Gallagher, Gary W., Lee and His Army in Confederate History, The University of North Carolina Press, 2000, 
 Hotchkiss, Jedediah and McDonald, Archie P., Make Me a Map of the Valley: The Civil War Journal of Stonewall Jackson's Topographer, Southern Methodist University Press, Reprint edition, 1998, 
 Pfanz, Donald, Richard S. Ewell: A Soldier's Life, University of North Carolina Press, 1998,

Notes

1863 establishments in Virginia
Military units and formations established in 1863
2
Jubal A. Early
Stonewall Jackson
J. E. B. Stuart
Corps of the Confederate States Army
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865
1865 disestablishments in Virginia