[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Otto Braun (communist)

of 1927. The CCP had subsequently retreated to the countryside and started to organize in the province of Jiangxi. In the later part of 1933 Braun arrived in Ruijin, at that time capital of the "Chinese Soviet Republic" set up by the surviving Chinese Communists, where he became a military adviser.

The precise circumstances of his getting this appointment and his activities in the following years are still debated with some aspects remaining unclear. As noted by Freddy Litten, who thoroughly researched this part of Otto Braun's career, "[Braun]'s memoirs are an important, though dubious, source for the events of these years".

At the time, the Kuomintang, perceiving the CCP as a dangerous threat to its rule, launched a series of vigorous attacks on the CCP in urban areas. Its forces came near to Ruijin, which was in danger of being surrounded and became untenable. The CCP initiated the Long March to escape this danger. Braun, under his assumed Chinese name "Li De", was nearly the only foreigner to participate in the Long March and might have even been the original proposer of the idea of embarking on such a march in an effort to reach the safer interior of China.

In the later part of 1934, Braun/Li De assumed a position of command in the early First Front Army, together with Zhou Enlai and Bo Gu, with authority to make all military decisions. Braun advocated for the First Front Army to directly attack the far larger and better-equipped KMT Army. The First Front Army's suffered great casualties and so CCP forces fell drastically from 86,000 to about 25,000, within a year.

In 1935, the CCP met at the Zunyi Conference, where Mao Zedong and Peng Dehuai expressed their opposition to Braun, Bo Gu and their tactics. Mao argued that the direct attacks were costing lives and suggested that smaller and less-well-equipped forces should run and surround the KMT by using the guerrilla tactics for which Mao was to become famed. Mao already distrusted European advisors from the Comintern, especially since in the 1920s advisers such as the Dutch Henk Sneevliet had given disastrous advice to the CCP. Other military wing leaders agreed with Mao and so Braun and Bo Gu were removed as the military commanders, and Mao become the leader of the Long March. After this conference, the Comintern was pushed aside, and "Native Communists" took control of the CCP.

Still, Braun stayed in China until 1939 and participated in the Long March along with the CCP. No longer holding a military command, he was mainly involved in advisory work and some teaching of tactics.

Though he never returned to China after leaving in 1939, he continued to show interest in Chinese affairs for the rest of his life.

Soviet period in the 1940s
In 1939 Braun arrived in the Soviet Union. At the time a very dangerous place for foreign communists, many of whom, including German communists, were imprisoned, tortured or killed by Joseph Stalin's secret police (NKVD), despite being completely loyal to the revolutionary cause and having often undergone persecution for its sake in their own countries. Braun managed to avoid such a fate though he faced some political difficulties immediately upon his arrival.

The Moscow Foreign Languages Press gave him employment as an editor and translator. After the German invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941, use was made of his German antecedents by making him a "polit-instrukteur" striving to turn the loyalty of German officers captured by the Soviets. In that role, he used an old alias from the 1920s, "Kommissar Wagner". He later performed a similar tactic towards captive Japanese officers as well.

Between 1946 and 1948, he was based at Krasnogorsk, Moscow Oblast, where he lectured in the Antifascist Central School. Afterward, he had another period of working in the Moscow Foreign Languages Press.

Return to Germany and later years
Only after the death of Stalin was Otto Braun allowed to return to his homeland after nearly three decades of exile.

Following his arrival at the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) Braun became a fellow at the Institute for Marxism-Leninism maintained by the Central Committee of ruling Socialist Unity Party (SED), as the Communist Party was officially called. His main responsibility was the publication in German of the writings of Vladimir Lenin.

He was First Secretary of the German Writers' Association from 1961 to 1963when he fell from grace. Already in his mid-sixties, he was for some time a pensioner doing some freelance translation from Russian.

His return to the authorities' good books was evident when in 1964 the ruling party's organ Neues Deutschland carried the revelation that the otherwise unknown Li De, involved in the Chinese Long March of the 1930s, had been in fact none other than the German Otto Braun.