[Source: PubMed]

68. Respir Med. 2026 May;256:108810. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2026.108810. Epub 2026
Apr  7.

Quantitative CT metrics of injury patterns among WTC workers on different 
longitudinal FEV(1) trajectory groups.

Zhang Z(1), San José Estépar R(2), Doucette JT(3), Weber J(4), Ross JC(5), 
Celedón JC(6), de la Hoz RE(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Medicine, New York, NY, USA. Electronic address: 
Zitong.Zhang@mssm.edu.
(2)Department of Radiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. 
Electronic address: rsanjose@bwh.harvard.edu.
(3)Department of Environmental Medicine, New York, NY, USA. Electronic address: 
John.Doucette@mssm.edu.
(4)DeMatteis Cardiovascular Institute, St. Francis Hospital & Heart Center, 
Roslyn, NY, USA. Electronic address: Jonathan.Weber@icahn.mssm.edu.
(5)Department of Radiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. 
Electronic address: jross@bwh.harvard.edu.
(6)Division of Pediatric Pulmonary Medicine, UPMC Children's Hospital of 
Pittsburgh, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. Electronic address: 
Juan.Celedon@chp.edu.
(7)Department of Environmental Medicine, New York, NY, USA; Department of 
Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. Electronic 
address: Rafael.delaHoz@mssm.edu.

INTRODUCTION: We have demonstrated diverging FEV1 trajectories in WTC workers on 
longitudinal health surveillance. We performed a cohort study to investigate the 
association of those FEV1 trajectories with novel QCT markers of subtle lung 
parenchymal injury.
METHODS: We included WTC responders with CT scans with quantitative measurements 
(all as percentage of the CT-measured lung volume) of five different metrics: 
normal parenchyma (Norm%), high attenuation normal parenchyma (NormHA%), 
interstitial lung abnormality features (ILAV%), honeycombing pattern (HcV%), and 
emphysema. We used linear regression to calculate each subject's FEV1 slope and 
classified them into three distinct trajectories: 1) accelerated decline 
(ACCEL): < -62.5 mL/year; 2) normal decline (NORM): 0 to -30 ml/year, baseline 
FEV1%predicted>70% and no significant dyspnea; 3) improved: >0 mL/year.
RESULTS: Among 446 participants, 211 had ACCEL, 142 NORM, and 93 improved FEV1 
trajectory. On chest CTs at an average of 7.5 years after 11-September-2001 and 
compared to the NORM subgroup, ACCEL and improved trajectory subgroups both had 
less normal lung tissue (Norm%), with ACCEL having more emphysema, and improved 
participants higher ILAV% and NormHA%. The values of HcV% were very low and not 
significantly different across groups. ACCEL had a significantly higher 
all-cause mortality.
CONCLUSION: In this occupational cohort on longitudinal surveillance, 
accelerated lung function decline appears primarily associated with emphysema 
and airway disease, while lung function improvement is associated with subtle 
quantitative CT findings suggestive of interstitial inflammatory processes. The 
latter appeared largely nonprogressive at the time, as honeycombing was very 
infrequent and not different across trajectory subgroups.

Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2026.108810
PMID: 41956171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest This work was 
supported by cooperative agreement No. U01 OH010401 (RED, PI) from the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention/National Institute for Occupational Safety 
and Health (CDCP/NIOSH). The authors had no other relevant financial conflict of 
interest to disclose. The WTC General Responders Cohort Data Center provided 
part of the data utilized for analyses (CDCP/NIOSH contract 75D30122C15187). The 
funding agency had no role in the study design, in the collection, analysis, or 
interpretation of the data, in the writing of the report, or in the decision to 
submit this article for publication. The contents of this article are the sole 
responsibility of the authors, and do not represent the official views of the 
CDCP/NIOSH.