[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Azerbaijanis in Russia

awyer Alimardan Topchubashov, was elected its leader. The party was officially registered in 1908. There were six ethnic Azeris elected in the State Duma of the Russian Empire in the 1906 Russian legislative election, six more in the February 1907 election and one in each of the following elections.

In the decades following World War II, Azeris have played significant a role in developing Russian economy. Azerbaijani geologist Farman Salmanov, who later established himself in Moscow, discovered rich oil reserves in Siberia which had previously been considered as an unlikely oil-bearing region. In 2019, Surgut International Airport, the third busiest airport in Western Siberia, is expected to be named after Salmanov following online voting. With many of them involved in entrepreneurship, Azeris have been employed in major economical areas, such as trade and oil industry. Among Russia's 100 richest people ranked by Forbes in 2004, three ethnic Azeris were ranked 10, 66 and 74.

Azeris have established numerous cultural communities, the largest one being the All-Russian Azeri Congress and the Azeri Federal National Culture Autonomy, which control smaller communities across Russia. In addition, the Moscow Public Secondary School No. 157 is set up for students with keen interest in the Azeri language and culture.

A 2005 study indicated noticeable social differences between two groups of Azeris: those who are native to or have lived considerable parts of their lives in Moscow and those who are recent immigrants. About half of the people in the first group have a post-secondary degree, whereas among immigrant Azeris only 25% do. Fluency in the Russian language is characteristic of virtually all of those in the first group (moreover, 24% of Azeris from this group reported it as their first language), while almost one-third of those in the second group speak very limited Russian. About half of Azeri newcomers are engaged in commerce and service sector, compared to the native and earlier immigrant Azeris who tend to pursue careers in sciences, health care, education and the arts.

In general, among ethnic Caucasus diasporas in Moscow, Azeris stand out as the least integrated into Russian society. They have been described as the strongest adherents to their traditions and marriages within their own ethnic community compared to local Armenians, Georgians, Ukrainians, and Tatars. According to a 2006 survey, 71% of Moscow Azeris described themselves as being religious. A great number of them have retained Azerbaijani citizenship and is willing to relocate back to Azerbaijan at some point. The 2010 Russian census saw a decrease in the number of Azeris in Russia compared to the previous census, with 603,070 Azeris (with 21.7% of them in Dagestan) compared to 621,840 in 2002 (with 18% in Dagestan). Over 97% of Azeris living in Russia know the Russian language. Close to 84% considers Azeri their first language. Among Azeris of Dagestan, the number of speakers of Azeri as a first language is over 99%.

Discrimination

Azeris in the Russian Federation have faced discrimination, although racial conflict has had a rapid decline since 2008.

Noble families
Milyukov

Azerbaijanis of Russia

Tamilla Abassova, racing cyclist, 2004 Olympic silver medalist
Geydar Dzhemal, philosopher
Emin Garibov, artistic gymnast
Ruslan Gasimov, judoka
Murad Hüseynov, football player
Stalic Khankishiev, chef, photographer, cooking writer
Georgiy Mamedov, diplomat, currently ambassador to Canada
Ramiz Mamedov, retired football player
Karim Mammadbeyov, revolutionary and early Soviet politician
Timur Rodriguez, showman, singer
Aleksandr Samedov, football player
Ramil Sheydayev, football player
Tofig Zulfugarov, former Azerbaijani foreign minister