[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Leona Aglukkaq

k, who ran as the Liberal nominee.  She was the first centre-right MP in the history of the riding to win a second term.

On August 23, 2012, Prime Minister Stephen Harper announced that Aglukkaq would serve as chair of the Arctic Council when Canada assumed the Chairmanship from Sweden in May 2013.

Aglukkaq gave no indication of support for the nationwide Idle No More protests in 2012/13, and called on Chief Theresa Spence to give up her hunger strike, abandon her request to meet with the Prime Minister and the Governor General of Canada, and instead speak to Aboriginal Affairs Minister John Duncan.

Minister of Environment
On July 15, 2013, Aglukkaq was named Minister of the Environment, which includes responsibility for Parks Canada, the Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency and Environment Canada.

In December 2014, Aglukkaq apologized for reading a newspaper while opposition parties asked the government about high food prices in the North during Question Period. During the 2015 Canadian federal election, Paul Okalik, Nunavut's Health and Justice Minister expressed his discontent with Aglukkaq's actions by reading a newspaper whenever Aglukkaq spoke at the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation election forum in Iqaluit.

In the election, Aglukkaq lost almost half of her vote share from 2011 (even allowing for a turnout nearly double that of the previous election) and was pushed into third place behind Liberal candidate and former Legislative Assembly speaker Hunter Tootoo and NDP candidate and former MP Jack Anawak.  It was one of the larger defeats suffered by a member of Harper's cabinet.

Aglukkaq ran again for the Conservatives in the 2019 Canadian federal election, and again came in third. The election was won by NDP candidate Mumilaaq Qaqqaq.

Electoral history

Federal

Territorial

See also
Arctic Cooperation and Politics
Arctic policy of Canada

References

External links
Leona Aglukkaq, MP

1967 births
Living people
Canadian Ministers of Health
Women members of the House of Commons of Canada
Conservative Party of Canada MPs
Inuit politicians
Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Nunavut
Members of the Legislative Assembly of Nunavut
Members of the King's Privy Council for Canada
People from Gjoa Haven
Women MLAs in Nunavut
21st-century Canadian women politicians
People from Inuvik
Indigenous Members of the House of Commons of Canada
Members of the 28th Canadian Ministry
Women government ministers of Canada
Indspire Awards
Canadian Inuit women
Inuit from the Northwest Territories
Inuit from Nunavut
Environment ministers of Canada