[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Kilmallock

ant Flood's headquarters at the Railway Hotel.  The Commandant and his men managed to escape out the back of the building under the cover of Lewis gun fire.  The second armoured car rammed the front door of another post in the school house, which persuaded the twenty-five troops inside to surrender.

However, when Free State reinforcements, along with armoured cars arrived, the republican counter-attack stalled.  The Free State reinforcements were led by Comdt. Gen. Seamus Hogan, who personally led his forces, riding in the armoured car nicknamed 'The Customs House.' Having failed to secure the surrender of the town, Republican forces retreated.

The Tide turns against the Republicans

Having held Bruree against a Republican counterattack, Free State forces prepared to capture Kilmallock itself, but anticipated there would be heavy fighting.  Republican Adjutant General Con Moloney commented on 2 August, "Up to yesterday we have had the best of the operations there [the Kilmallock area].  There will, I fear, be a big change there now as the enemy have been reinforced very considerably." In 3rd Western Division area they had all but disbanded: unwilling to fight Free Staters, destroy roads, and now discouraged by the Catholic church.

On Thursday, 3 August, 2,000 men strong Free State forces backed up by armoured cars and artillery advanced on Kilmallock from Bruree, Dromin and Bulgaden.  Seven hundred troops arrived the next day with an armoured car and a field gun. By Saturday the town was surrounded by Free State forces.  The Dublin Guard were also on hand to prevent Republican forces from escaping. Three miles away Free State artillery was deployed and shelled Republican forces on Kilmallock Hill and Quarry Hill.  The two hills were soon controlled by Free State forces.

The National Army had, therefore, assembled overwhelming force to smother resistance at Kilmallock.  They were still, however, expecting hard fighting before they took the town.  To their surprise, when the Free State troops entered town, they encountered only light resistance from a Republican rearguard (volunteers from Cork).  Most of the Republican troops had already abandoned their positions and retreated to Charleville.

They had departed not because the Free State troops were much stronger, but because they had been outflanked by Free State seaborne landings on the coasts of County Kerry and County Cork on 2 and 8 August respectively.  The landings in Cork and Kerry forced Comdt. Gen. Deasy to release units from this area to return home to their own areas.  Although the landings in Cork occurred after the retreat from Kilmallock, the subsequent loss of brigades from Cork added to Commandant General Deasy's problems.  The final phase of the fighting in County Limerick came when the Free State advance south was held up at Newcastlewest.  Another day of heavy fighting ensued in which the Government troops had to bring up armoured cars and artillery to dislodge the Republicans, who were reported to have lost up to 12 men before they retreated in the direction of Cork.

Military Analysis
The Republicans battle plan had not failed due to a lack of armaments, nor in the first instance an unwillingness to fight.  However, there was in the high command a real inability to accept that the war against the Provisional Government was different from that with the British.  Lynch was unprepared to draw up detailed instructions, in spite of urgent requests from O'Malley for orders.  Moloney, for example, thought people would see that the National Army was not representing a legitimate Free State.  They refused to recognise that the Catholic church were now, having been in favour of resistance against the British, standing for the State and a cessation of war.  Men in Limerick and the Western Divisional areas lost the towns, only hanging onto mountainous hills looking west to the sea.  Their soldiers refused to fight, went homewards, and would not dig up the roads nor disrupt communication lines.  Lynch was frustrated: in his books, O'Malley blamed his lack of control as contrasting with Mulcahy's efficient logistics.  In the end the Republicans were outnumbered, and by late 1922 were running low on ammunition, rifles, and explosives, artillery and armoured cars.  By contrast the Free State even acquired tanks.

References

Bibliography

External links
Large article about Irish Civil War Main source for article.
NY Times article, 30 July 1922: 'Stubborn battle goes on around Kilmallock'
NY Times article, 1 August 1922: Free State Troops Capture Tipperary; Close In On Kilmallock, But Defenders Still Occupy dominating Heights
NY Times article, 5 August 1922: 'Irish battle rages around Kilmallock'
NY times article, 6 August 1922: 'Free State forces take Kilmallock'

Kilmallock
1922 in Ireland
Kilmallock
National Army (Ireland)
July 1922 events
August 1922 events
Kilmallock
Kilmallock