[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Penn State Greater Allegheny

tee at the end of each academic year.

Each honors student must meet the set requirements each year to remain a part of the program. Generally, a student must maintain a 3.33 GPA, complete at least one honors course each semester and participate in activities sponsored by the honors program.

Campus

Main Building, 1957
Constructed in 1957, Main building was the first building on campus. Formerly containing the campus administrative offices, Main now houses the education, English, communications, psychology and other liberal arts departments as well as the continuing education office and three multimedia equipped classrooms.
Crawford Building, 1959
Crawford is the technology hub of campus, containing three computer labs, the technology help desk and the digital commons (funded by the Digital Commons Initiative) as well as two large multimedia equipped classrooms and the offices for the Theatre Department. The building was named after George Crawford.
The Crawford computer labs include over 80 computers with a mix of Macintosh and PC platforms. The computer labs can also double as classrooms and contain digital projectors.
Frable Building, 1969
Named in honor of Milton Frable, the first campus advisory board president, the Frable Building houses most of the campus administration offices including the chancellor's office, academic affairs, admissions and police services. The second and third floors are home to the business, engineering, information sciences and technology, and mathematics departments along with several classrooms and technology related labs. In addition, many guest speakers and special performances are held in Frank's multi-room conference center on the first floor.
Wunderley Gymnasium, 1971
Named in honor of John M. Wunderley, the Wunderley Gymnasium contains both classrooms and faculty offices in addition to the gymnasium. The building is located directly across from McKeesport Hall on a hill overlooking the center of campus.
Kelly Library, 1972
The Kelly Library contains the campus library as well as the Ladrin Learning Center and the Academic and Cultural Enrichment (ACE) program. Some computers are also available for student use.
Ostermayer Laboratory, 1972
Ostermayer houses the biology and chemistry departments. In addition to several dedicated lab classrooms, there is a large multimedia equipped classroom used for science as well as psychology and CTE (state vocational education program) lectures.
The Student Community Center, 2003
The new Student Community Center, commonly referred to as the SCC, was constructed in 2003 with a total cost of $5.5 Million. The building is located at the center of campus and contains the dining commons as well as the student book store, game room with pool table, campus radio station and the Student Government Association (SGA). The SCC features many student and campus programs ranging from live music and theatre productions to guest speakers and job fairs.
The Lion Shrine, 2003
The campus Lion Shrine was dedicated on October 18, 2003 as a result of a gift from the alumni association. The shrine is located at the front of the Student Community Center and is open to the public for pictures.

Campus housing
Penn State Greater Allegheny is a residential campus, offering housing for 200 students in McKeesport Hall.

Athletics

Varsity sports

Penn State Greater Allegheny offers many different varsity sports including baseball, men's and women's basketball, men's and women's soccer, softball, women's volleyball, men's and women's cross country, and track and field.

Intramural sports
For students interested in playing a sport but not wanting to join a varsity team, various intramural leagues and activities are held throughout the academic year. Some of these intramural sports include flag football, indoor soccer, and men's and women's volleyball.

Fitness facilities
A new fitness center was constructed at Penn State Greater Allegheny in the spring of 2005. The fitness center is located next to McKeesport Hall and contains a variety of fitness equipment. Some of the equipment includes: treadmills, exercise bikes, ellipticals, free weights and weight machines.

References

External links

Official website
Official athletics website

Universities and colleges established in 1952
Pennsylvania State University colleges
Universities and colleges in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania
USCAA member institutions
McKeesport, Pennsylvania
1952 establishments in Pennsylvania
Greater Allegheny