[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Blue Steel (missile)

eat experienced during the Australian summer. Another issue was the very small ground clearance when attached to the Handley Page Victor, and Victor aircrews were especially aware of the dangers when taking off.  The Vulcan had a much higher ground clearance, and ultimately proved a better platform.

On launch the rocket engine's first chamber developing  thrust would power the missile along a predetermined course to the target at around Mach 1.5. Once close to the target, the second chamber of the engine (6,000 lbf) would accelerate the missile to Mach 3. Over the target the engine would cut out and the missile would free-fall before detonating its warhead as an air burst.

To speed the trials at Woomera, the test rounds were flown there by Victors and Vulcans in Operation Blue Ranger. The trials began in 1960 about the time the original requirement expected the weapon to be in service.  The missiles were prepared at the Weapons Research Establishment near Salisbury South Australia, and flown to be launched at the Woomera range from RAAF Edinburgh. A specialist RAF unit, 4 JSTU, was established to carry out preparatory and operational tasks.

Blue Steel finally entered service in February 1963, carried by Vulcans and Victors, although its limitations were already apparent. The short range of the missile meant that the V bombers were still vulnerable to enemy surface-to-air missiles. A replacement for Blue Steel, the Mark 2, was planned with increased range and a ramjet engine, but was cancelled in 1960 to minimise delays to the Mk.1. The UK sought to acquire the much longer-ranged United States AGM-48 Skybolt air-launched ballistic missile and was greatly frustrated when that weapon was cancelled in late 1962.

Blue Steel required up to seven hours of launch preparation, and was highly unreliable. The Royal Air Force estimated in 1963 that half the missiles would fail to fire and would have to be dropped over their targets, contradicting their purpose of serving as standoff weapons. Even as it deployed Blue Steel as a high-altitude weapon, that year the government decided that because of anti-aircraft missiles' increasing effectiveness, V bombers would have to convert from high-altitude to low-altitude attacks.  These trials were conducted in 1964 and concluded in 1965 With no effective long-range weapon the original Blue Steel served on after a crash programme of minor modifications to permit a low-level launch at , even though its usefulness in a hot war was likely limited. A stop-gap weapon (WE.177B) was quickly produced to extend the life of the V-bomber force in the strategic role until the Polaris missile was deployed. This WE.177 laydown weapon supplemented the remaining modified Blue Steel missiles, using a low-level penetration followed by a pop-up manoeuvre to release the weapon at . One live operational round was deployed on each of forty-eight Vulcan and Victor bombers, and a further five live rounds were produced as operational spares. An additional four non-nuclear rounds were produced for various RAF requirements, and there were sixteen other unspecified training rounds.

Blue Steel was officially retired on 31 December 1970, with the United Kingdom's strategic nuclear capacity passing to the submarine fleet.

Operator
 
 Royal Air Force - (V bombers)

Specifications
 Length: 
 Wingspan: 
 Diameter: 1.22 m (48 in) minimum
 Launch Weight: 
 Speed: Mach 2.3
 Ceiling: 
 Maximum Range: 
 Guidance: Inertial
 CEP: ~100 metres
 Warhead: Red Snow thermonuclear (1.1 Mt)

See also
AGM-28 Hound Dog
Kh-22
Rainbow Codes

Notes

Bibliography
 Leitch, Andy. "V-Force Arsenal: Weapons for the Valiant, Victor and Vulcan". Air Enthusiast No. 107, September/October 2003. pp. 52–59.

External links

Video of Blue Steel in operation
Blue Steel
https://web.archive.org/web/20040208232113/http://www.skomer.u-net.com/projects/bluesteel.htm
Official history: RAF Nuclear Deterrent Forces: Author: Wynne. pps 201. 456. . Publisher: HMSO, 1994.
http://www.globalsecurity.org/wmd/world/uk/blue_steel.htm
https://web.archive.org/web/20061209210406/http://www.vectorsite.net/twcruz.html
The Vulcan Gets New Striking Power an AVRO advertisement for the Vulcan from Flight in February 1959, showing the (still unnamed) Blue Steel.
"Blue Steel And Its Engine" a 1960 Flight article on the Blue Steel

Cold War air-to-surface missiles of the United Kingdom
Nuclear air-to-surface missiles
Nuclear weapons of the United Kingdom
Military equipment introduced in the 1960s