[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Typhoon Wanda (1962)

was never a finalized damage total, although it was estimated in the millions of dollars. Over 2,000 boats in the colony were either wrecked or damaged. As damage was so severe in Hong Kong, there were little reports of impact elsewhere, although the storm did move across portions of southern China.

The typhoon Wanda is routed in Hong Kong near Cheung Chau, most parts of Hong Kong was in the right side of it, so the strong wind blew the wave into Tolo Harbour made the sea level rose, therefore Sha Tin (area near Tolo Harbour) became the hardest hit. Since a large number of people settled in squatter huts on low-lying coastal areas or precarious slopes and fishermen lived in fishing boats, it caused large casualties when the typhoon hit Hong Kong. Some of survivors claim that the huge waves covered up their homes, sweeping the squatter huts and the home is dumped in front of them. They had to run to the railway station in a higher sea level, but the flood was also deep in the knees. It is estimated that every 5 squatter huts had 1 was destroyed or damaged by the typhoon in Sha Tin, which is one of the gathering place of squatter huts in Hong Kong at that time, approximately 3,000 squatter huts damaged in total. The road was blocked by a large number of damaged squatter huts and needed the British army to help to rescue the residents and clean up the road. The heavy flooding increased the hardness of the rescue and clean up, there were 869 acres of farm land were flooded with sea water, over 30 percent (277 acres) were in Sha Tin, almost 65 percent (179 acres) of the low lying farm in Sha Tin were still affected two months later. The shops and store were also heavily damaged by the flood, many goods from the store were drifting on the street and it was difficult for them to reopen in short term.

See also

 Other tropical cyclones of the same name

References

1962 Pacific typhoon season
Typhoons in Hong Kong
Typhoons