[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# None Shall Escape

s led him on. While Willie is praying by the side of Janina's body in the church, Wilhelm shoots him in the back.

We return to the courtroom. Wilhelm refuses to accept the authority of the court and continues to spout Nazi propaganda. The judge leaves it to the people to decide Grimm's fate.

Cast 

Marsha Hunt as Marja Pacierkowski, Grimm's fiancée
Alexander Knox as Wilhelm Grimm
Henry Travers as Father Warecki, the village priest in Litzbark
 Erik Rolf as Karl Grimm
Richard Crane as Willie as a young man
Dorothy Morris as Janina
Richard Hale as Rabbi David Levin
Ruth Nelson as Alice Grimm
Kurt Kreuger as Lt. Gersdorf
 Billy Dawson as Willie, Wilhelm's young nephew
Trevor Bardette as Jan Stys as a man (uncredited)
 Elvin Field as the young Jan Stys (uncredited)
Frank Jaquet as Dr Matek, mayor of Lizbark (uncredited)
Shirley Mills as Anna Oremska, the raped girl (uncredited)
Art Smith as Jan's father (uncredited)
Ray Teal as Oremski, Anna's father (uncredited)

Production
Columbia Pictures' in-house producer Sam Bischoff got the idea to make a film about a war crime trial after having heard President Franklin D. Roosevelt declare on August 21, 1942 that the Allies were collecting information about the Nazi leaders responsible for war atrocities, in order to bring them to court after the war. (The prosecution of war criminals was ratified by the Allies in the Moscow Declarations in 1943). He brought on his former partner Burt Kelly to associate produce, who suggested The House of the Seven Gables screenwriter Lester Cole to adapt the original story by Joseph Than and Alfred Neumann. During production it was known as both "The Day Will Come" and "Lebensraum". To ensure the film be exhibited it had to conform to the usual Production Code Administration (PCA) for morality and be submitted for review with the U.S. State Department's Office of Information (OWI) for wartime values.  The PCA passed the film and the OWI gave it an enthusiastic greenlight stating: The film wanted to represent the Tribunal of the Warsaw District accurately during all stages as it was some of the first ever seen of humanity held accountable for its acts.

Production began August 31, 1943 and finished October 26,1943 (i.e. more than eighteen months before the war in Europe ended.) Director Andre DeToth had seen the war up close already in 1939. He was filming newsreels in Hungary when the Germans invaded Poland on September 1, 1939, and was immediately sent to cover the fighting on the German-Polish front.

Reception
Alfred Neumann and Joseph Than were nominated for an Academy Award for Best Story, and the film is considered to be the first feature film to deal with Nazi atrocities against the Jews.

References

External links

1944 films
American black-and-white films
World War II films made in wartime
World War II war crimes trials films
Films scored by Ernst Toch
Films directed by Andre DeToth
Films produced by Samuel Bischoff
Columbia Pictures films
1940s war drama films
American war drama films
1944 drama films
1940s English-language films