[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Timeline of the North Korean nuclear program

tion that 1,000 fuel rods have been moved to the Yongbyon reactor.
 27 December: North Korea says it is expelling the two IAEA nuclear inspectors from the country. It also says it is planning to reopen a reprocessing plant, which could start producing weapons grade plutonium within months.

Phase IV

2003
 Construction of a suspected uranium enrichment facility at the Kangson enrichment site was completed.
 2 January: South Korea asks China to use its influence with North Korea to try to reduce tension over the nuclear issue, and two days later Russia offers to press Pyongyang to abandon its nuclear programme.
 6 January: The IAEA passes a resolution demanding that North Korea readmit UN inspectors and abandon its secret nuclear weapons programme "within weeks", or face possible action by the UN Security Council.
 7 January: The US says it is "willing to talk to North Korea about how it meets its obligations to the international community". But it "will not provide quid pro quos to North Korea to live up to its existing obligations".
 9 January: North Korea sends diplomats to meet with New Mexico governor Bill Richardson about the nuclear crisis; North Korea also agrees to hold cabinet-level talks with South Korea on 21 January.
 10 January: North Korea announces it will withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
 20 January: US Secretary of State Colin Powell calls on the IAEA to refer the North Korean nuclear issue to the United Nations Security Council for resolution.
 21 January: Diplomatic talks commence between cabinet-level officials from both North Korea and South Korea; the North is represented by Kim Ryong Song.
 24 January: Cabinet-level talks between North and South Korea end without making progress. South Korean President-elect Roh Moo-hyun proposes face-to-face meeting with Kim Jong-il.
 28 January: In his annual State of the Union address, President Bush alleges North Korea is "an oppressive regime [whose] people live in fear and starvation". He accuses North Korea of deception over its nuclear ambitions and says "America and the world will not be blackmailed".
 29 January: North Korea says President Bush's speech is an "undisguised declaration of aggression to topple the DPRK system" and dubs him a "shameless charlatan". At the same time, however, it reiterates its demand for bilateral talks on a non-aggression pact.
 31 January: Unnamed American officials are quoted as saying that spy satellites have tracked movement at the Yongbyon plant throughout January, prompting fears that North Korea is trying to reprocess plutonium for nuclear bombs.
 White House spokesman Ari Fleischer delivers a stern warning that North Korea must not take "yet another provocative action... intended to intimidate and blackmail the international community".
 4 February: The United States says it is considering new military deployments in the Pacific Ocean to back up its forces in South Korea, as a deterrent against any North Korean aggression that might arise in the event that the US initiated a new military campaign in Iraq.
 5 February: North Korea says it has reactivated its nuclear facilities and their operations are now going ahead "on a normal footing".
 6 February: North Korea warns the United States that any decision to build up its troops in the region could lead the North to make a pre-emptive attack on American forces.
 12 February: The IAEA finds North Korea in breach of nuclear safeguards and refers the matter to the UN security council.
 16 February: Kim Jong-il celebrates his 61st birthday, but state media warns North Korean citizens to be on "high alert".
 17 February: The US and South Korea announce that they will hold joint military exercises in March.
 24 February: North Korea fires a missile into the sea between South Korea and Japan.
 25 February: Roh Moo-hyun sworn in as South Korean president.
 2 March: Four North Korean fighter jets intercept a US reconnaissance plane in international air space and shadow it for 22 minutes.
 10 March: North Korea fires a second missile into the sea between South Korea and Japan in as many weeks.
 22 March: As a blistering bombing campaign pounds the Iraqi capital, and South Korean and US forces perform military exercises on its doorstep, a jumpy North denounces their "confrontational posture" and calls off talks with the South.
 1 April: The US announces that "stealth" fighters sent to South Korea for a training exercise are to stay on once the exercises end.
 7 April: Ministerial talks between North and South Korea are canceled after Pyongyang fails to confirm they would take place.
 9 April: The United Nations Security Council expresses concern about North Korea's nuclear programme, but fails to condemn Pyongyang for pulling out of the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty.
 12 April: In a surprise move, North Korea signals it may be ready to end its insistence on direct talks with the US, announcing that "if the US is ready to make a bold switchover i