[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United Macedonia

bania
 Prohor Pčinski (Прохор Пчински), southern Serbia; and
 Greek Macedonia (or "Aegean Macedonia", "Егејска Македонија"), northern Greece;
 Blagoevgrad Province (or "Pirin Macedonia", "Пиринска Македонија"), southwestern Bulgaria; and
 Mala Prespa and Golo Brdo (Мала Преспа и Голо Брдо), Albania.

Macedonian nationalists describe the above areas as the unliberated parts of Macedonia and they claim that the majority of the population in those territories are oppressed ethnic Macedonians. In the cases of Bulgaria and Albania, it is said that they are undercounted in the censuses (In Albania, there are officially 5,000 ethnic Macedonians, whereas Macedonian nationalists claim the figures are more like 120,000-350,000. In Bulgaria, there are officially 1,600 ethnic Macedonians, whereas Macedonian nationalists claim 200,000). In Greece, there is a Slavic-speaking minority with various self-identifications (Macedonian, Greek, Bulgarian), estimated by Ethnologue and the Greek Helsinki Monitor as being between 100,000-200,000 (according to the Greek Helsinki Monitor only an estimated 10,000-30,000 have an ethnic Macedonian national identity). The government of Macedonia, led by nationalist party VMRO-DPMNE, claimed that there is an ethnic Macedonian minority numbering up to 750,000 in Bulgaria and 700,000 in Greece. The idea of a united Macedonia under communist rule was abandoned in 1948 when the Greek communists lost in the Greek Civil War, and Tito fell out with the Soviet Union and pro-Soviet Bulgaria.

In its first resolution, VMRO-DPMNE, the nationalistic governing party at the time of the then-Republic of Macedonia, adopted the platform of a "United Macedonia", an act that has annoyed moderate Macedonian politicians and has also been regarded by Greece as an intolerable irredentist claim against Greek Macedonia. Before and just after independence, it was assumed in Greece that the idea of a united Macedonia was still state-sponsored. 

During VMRO-DPMNE's rule, the United Macedonia concept was present in official sources in current North Macedonia, and was taught in schools through school textbooks and through other governmental publications.

See also 

 Autonomy for Macedonia and Adrianople regions
 Independent Macedonia
 Independent Macedonia (1944)
 Macedonia naming dispute
 Macedonia (terminology)
 Demographic history of Macedonia
 History of North Macedonia
 Titoism

References 

Macedonian nationalism
Macedonia
Nationalism in North Macedonia
Modern history of Greek Macedonia