[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Crystal Mountain (Washington)

t approves new facilities including an aerial tram to the summit, a new chairlift in Northback, a surface lift, existing chairlift upgrades, base facility renovations, employee housing and wastewater facilities. The plan is the largest in Washington's history, costing Boyne an estimated $40 million.

Completed projects 
 Northway (C-12) provided direct lift access to the area north of the original ski area. Previously, this area was known as North Backcountry and required a long traverse or shuttle ride back to the base area. The new lift is a fixed-grip double chairlift from Doppelmayr CTEC, installed in the summer of 2007 with a top terminal on Northway Peak.
 Mt. Rainier Gondola provides direct access from the base area plaza to the summit, allowing for year-round access. Sightseers, skiers, hikers, and diners can all ride the gondola. This Doppelmayr CTEC 8-passenger lift was completed in 2010 and opened on January 1, 2011.
 High Campbell "Chair 6" Replacement (C-2) provided direct lift access to the area around Silver Queen and the Southback area. Previously, this area was served by a fixed-grip double known as High Campbell. The old chair was destroyed by an avalanche in March 2014 and was inoperable. The new lift is a fixed-grip double chairlift from Skytrac, installed in the summer of 2014 with a top terminal on Silver Queen at 7002', still providing access to Powder Bowl, Southback and Campbell Basin.  The new chair can withstand higher winds than the original.
 Quicksilver Replacement (C-4) provides access to the green circle Quicksilver and black diamond Boondoggle runs and is accessed by the Discovery triple. Previously, this chair was served by a fixed-grip double installed and left untouched since 1964. Crystal Mountain wanted to make the terrain more beginner-friendly and lowered the top station by 250 feet to avoid the steep slope at the top. The Quicksilver run was previously a blue square but was changed to a green circle. The base station is equipped with a loading carpet to ease the loading process. The new lift is a fixed-grip quad chairlift from Garaventa CTEC, which originally had operated at Deer Valley Resort in Utah as the Deer Crest lift before being replaced with a high speed quad in 2012. Quicksilver was built with a top terminal altitude of around 5200'. The new chair has double the uphill capacity, and the Quicksilver trail was regraded over the summer to make it more beginner-friendly.

Proposed and approved 
 Kelly's Gap Express (C-13) will rise westwards from the new Bullion Base and terminating above and to the north of Green Valley Express.
 Bullion Basin (C15) would rise eastwards on the other side of valley from the Bullion Base to an area that previously had a lift abandoned in 1983 (the footprint of a lift and trails can be viewed from the top of Rainier Express). This lift will also allow access to East Peak backcountry area for expert skiers. Rumors suggest that although this lift was included in the Record of Decision, the lift may not actually be built.
 Park N' Ride (C12) will provide access between the new Bullion Base and the current base area.
 Two new surface tows at the old base area (Ptarmigan, S1) and new Bullion Base (Pika, S2)
 High speed replacements for the Quicksilver and Discovery chairs with no additional trail development.

Rejected by Forest Service 
Silver King lift, this lift would have started on Queen's Run and serviced the summit of Silver King.

References

External links
 
 Ski Lifts.org - photos of lifts at Crystal Mountain
Ski Map.org – trail maps – Crystal Mountain

Buildings and structures in Pierce County, Washington
Ski areas and resorts in Washington (state)
Tourist attractions in Pierce County, Washington