[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Asylum in the United States

and discrimination. Because lesbians live such hidden lives, they tend to lack police reports, hospital records, and letters of support from witnesses, which decreases their chances of being considered credible and raises the stakes of effectively telling their stories in front of asylum officials.

Transgender individuals have a higher risk for mental health problems when compared to cis-gender counterparts. Many transgender individuals face socioeconomic difficulties in addition to being an asylum seeker. In a study conducted by Mary Gowin, E. Laurette Taylor, Jamie Dunnington, Ghadah Alshuwaiyer, and Marshall K. Cheney of Mexican Transgender Asylum Seekers, they found 5 major stressors among the participants including assault (verbal, physical and sexual), "unstable environments, fear for safety and security, hiding undocumented status, and economic insecurity." They also found that all of the asylum seekers who participated reported at least one health issue that could be attributed to the stressors. Participants accessed little or no use of health or social services, attributed to barriers to access, such as fear of the government, language barriers and transportation. They are also more likely to report lower levels of education due to few opportunities after entering the United States. Many of the asylum seeker participants entered the United States as undocumented immigrants. Obstacles to legal services included fear and knowledge that there were legal resources to gaining asylum.

Gang violence 

In 2018, Attorney General Sessions issued a decision in Matter of A-B- that precluded people fleeing gang violence from qualifying for asylum protections based on that alone. In 2021, Attorney General Garland vacated Matter of A-B-, which allows the possibility of asylum seekers to prevail on such claims. Indiscriminate gang violence does not fit under the claim of persecution based on social group. The rationale is that gangs do not target people based on their social group but rather anyone in their territory. Many people in the Northern Triangle of Central America flee their homes in search of safety from members of gangs.

Climate change 
Climate change and natural disasters have caused 265 million people to migrate since 2008. People who have been forced out of their homes and ways of life due to climate change are not recognized and protected under United States asylum policy because they do not fit under one of the protected categories of persecution based on race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership of a particular social group. There are not any protections for environmental refugees on the national, or even international, level. While their homes and villages may be destroyed due to earthquakes, hurricanes, rising sea water etc., the U.S. does not provide them protection. An October 2021 report from The White House titled "The Report on the Impact of Climate Change on Migration" stresses the need and development for further humanitarian assistance in disasters of climate change.

Criticism 
Concerns have been raised with the U.S. asylum and refugee determination processes. A 2007 empirical analysis by described the U.S. asylum process as a game of refugee roulette, meaning that the outcome of asylum determinations depends largely on the particular adjudicator to whom an application is randomly assigned, rather than on the merits of the case.

In 2008 study of immigration court decision-making between 1994 and 2007, the United States Government Accountability Office similarly found that "the likelihood of being granted asylum varied considerably across and within the [immigration courts studied]." After changes were made the disparities decreased somewhat after 2008.

A substantial amount of research has also emerged about the effects of the asylum process on refugees' mental health. Intense psychological stress caused by asylum interviews often compounds pre-existing trauma for refugees, often with little assistance provided by legal professionals to ease the process. This can make it more difficult for traumatized refugees to meet credibility standards in court, as many individuals with post-traumatic stress disorder struggle with retrieving certain memories in detail, particularly in high stress inducing situations. Legal and medical scholars have begun arguing for the incorporation of mental health professionals into the asylum process as a form of harm reduction.