[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals

developing the GHS communication tools include:
 Different philosophies in existing systems on how and what should be communicated;
 Language differences around the world;
 Ability to translate phrases meaningfully;
 Ability to understand and appropriately respond to pictograms.

GHS label elements 

The standardized label elements included in the GHS are:
 Symbols (GHS hazard pictograms): Convey health, physical and environmental hazard information, assigned to a GHS hazard class and category.  Pictograms include the harmonized hazard symbols plus other graphic elements, such as borders, background patterns or cozers and substances which have target organ toxicity. Also, harmful chemicals and irritants are marked with an exclamation mark, replacing the European saltire. Pictograms will have a black symbol on a white background with a red diamond frame.  For transport, pictograms will have the background, symbol and colors currently used in the UN Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. Where a transport pictogram appears, the GHS pictogram for the same hazard should not appear.
 Signal word:  "Danger" or "Warning" will be used to emphasize hazards and indicate the relative level of severity of the hazard, assigned to a GHS hazard class and category.  Some lower level hazard categories do not use signal words. Only one signal word corresponding to the class of the most severe hazard should be used on a label.
 GHS hazard statements: Standard phrases assigned to a hazard class and category that describe the nature of the hazard.  An appropriate statement for each GHS hazard should be included on the label for products possessing more than one hazard.

The additional label elements included in the GHS are:
 GHS precautionary statements: Measures to minimize or prevent adverse effects.  There are four types of precautionary statements covering: prevention, response in cases of accidental spillage or exposure, storage, and disposal. The precautionary statements have been linked to each GHS hazard statement and type of hazard.
 Product identifier (ingredient disclosure): Name or number used for a hazardous product on a label or in the SDS.  The GHS label for a substance should include the chemical identity of the substance.  For mixtures, the label should include the chemical identities of all ingredients that contribute to acute toxicity, skin corrosion or serious eye damage, germ cell mutagenicity, carcinogenicity, reproductive toxicity, skin or respiratory sensitization, or Specific Target Organ Toxicity (STOT), when these hazards appear on the label.
 Supplier identification: The name, address and telephone number should be provided on the label.
 Supplemental information: Non-harmonized information on the container of a hazardous product that is not required or specified under the GHS.  Supplemental information may be used to provide further detail that does not contradict or cast doubt on the validity of the standardized hazard information.

GHS label format

The GHS includes directions for application of the hazard communication elements on the label. In particular, it specifies for each hazard, and for each class within the hazard, what signal word, pictogram, and hazard statement should be used. The GHS hazard pictograms, signal words and hazard statements should be located together on the label. The actual label format or layout is not specified in the GHS. National authorities may choose to specify where information should appear on the label or allow supplier discretion.  There has been discussion about the size of GHS pictograms and that a GHS pictogram might be confused with a transport pictogram or "diamond". Transport pictograms are different in appearance than the GHS pictograms. Annex 7 of the Purple Book explains how the GHS pictograms are expected to be proportional to the size of the label text so that generally the GHS pictograms would be smaller than the transport pictograms.

Safety data sheet

The safety data sheet or SDS (the GHS dropped the word "material" from "material safety data sheet" in its final revisions) is specifically aimed at use in the workplace. It should provide comprehensive information about the chemical product that allows employers and workers to obtain concise, relevant and accurate information in perspective to the hazards, uses and risk management of the chemical product in the workplace. While there were some differences in existing industry recommendations and country specific requirements, there was agreement on a 16-section SDS to include the following headings in the order specified: