[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Colombia–Peru War

The Colombia–Peru War, also called the Leticia War, was a short-lived armed conflict between Colombia and Peru over territory in the Amazon rainforest that lasted from September 1, 1932, to May 24, 1933. In the end, an agreement was reached to divide the disputed area between both countries.

Background

Civilian takeover

The Colombia–Peru War was the result of dissatisfaction with the Salomón–Lozano Treaty and the imposition of heavy tariffs on sugar. On August 27, 1932, Peruvian civilians Oscar Ordoñez and Juan La Rosa Guevara, in the presence of Lieutenant Colonel Isauro Calderón, Lieutenant Commander Hernán Tudela y Lavalle, engineers Oscar H. Ordóñez de la Haza and Luis A. Arana, doctors Guillermo Ponce de León, Ignacio Morey Peña, Pedro del Águila Hidalgo and Manuel I. Morey created the National Patriotic Junta (), known also as the Patriotic Junta of Loreto (). They obtained, through donations and charity from civilians and the military, the necessary weapons and resources to start the “recovery of the port”.

The group released an irredentist manifesto known as the Leticia Plan ( denouncing the Salomón-Lozano Treaty. The "plan" would be carried out peacefully and force would only be used if Colombia authorities responded in a hostile manner. Civilians would be the only ones participating so as not to compromise the entire country, which led to Juan La Rosa Guevara renouncing his appointment as second lieutenant in order to participate as a civilian.

The takeover of Leticia, originally planned for September 15, 1932, was brought forward two weeks. The center of operations was the border city of Caballococha, whose inhabitants joined the Civilian Recovery Army, whose number was 48 people.

In the early hours of September 1, 1932, what is now known as the Leticia Incident took place after Leticia was seized with the support of the local population. As a result, Colombian authorities and police fled to nearby Brazil.

On  September 1, 1932, President Luis Miguel Sánchez dispatched two regiments of the Peruvian Army to Leticia and Tarapacá; both settlements were in the Amazonas Department, now in southern Colombia. Those actions were then mostly ignored by the Colombian government.

Colombian patriotism
It was not until  September 17 that the Colombian government took notice. The Peruvian forces, which were encamped on the banks of the Putumayo River, stopped several large trade ships from traveling to Leticia.

The result was an explosion of Colombian patriotism. Laureano Gómez, the head of the Senate minority, proclaimed, "Peace, peace, peace in inner Colombia; war, war, war on the border against our despicable enemy."

On  September 19, El Tiempo reported that it had received over 10,000 letters calling for war and control of Leticia. The same day, thousands of Colombian students marched through the streets of Bogotá chanting, "Sánchez Cerro will die and Colombia will defy!" Vásquez Cobo was declared the general of the Colombian Amazonian Navy, and 10 million dollars were approved by the Senate to fund his venture. Over 400 kg of gold were donated by the Colombian cities as a symbol of gratitude to the Huilan engineer César García Álvarez.

Conflict

Sánchez believed that Colombia had no chance of defending itself since it lacked roads in the Amazon and a proper navy due to financial hardships brought on by the Thousand Days War. It was not until December 1932 that General Alfredo Vásquez Cobo reached the mouth of the Amazon River with a fleet of old turn-of-the-century Colombian gun boats and new British destroyers that he acquired whilst in Europe. Within 90 days, Colombia organised a respectable military response to the Peruvian invasion. Herbert Boy, Raimunf Behrend, Fritz Tessen von Heydebreck, Hermann Ernst von Oertzen, Ludwig Graf Schaesberg, Gottlob-Fritz von Donop, Bodo von Kaull, Adolf Edler von Graeve, Georg Theodor Meyer.Schaefer, Paul Mutter, Hans Himpe, Heinz Kutscha and other German aviators of SCADTA, which later became Avianca, fitted their commercial planes for war as a temporary Colombian Air Force.

At the end of December 1932, the flotilla of ships acquired by Colombia arrived in the Amazon, but President Enrique Olaya Herrera did not authorize the use of these to recover Leticia, hoping for a diplomatic solution instead.