[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Save Darfur Coalition

e, the Save Darfur Coalition launched the campaign, Million Voices for Darfur, which involved the collation of uniformly worded postcards from citizen advocates across the country. The postcards insisted that President Bush support "a stronger multinational force to protect the civilians of Darfur."

On June 29, 2006, just six months after the start of the campaign, Bill Frist, the Senate Majority Leader at the time, and Senator Hillary Clinton, signed the 1,000,000th and 1,000,001st postcards.

The Million Voices program was the first example of the Save Darfur Coalition's attempt to influence the executive branch of the U.S. government to enact change.

Divest for Darfur
In order to exert financial pressure on the government of Sudan to change its policies, Save Darfur launched a divestment campaign, Divest for Darfur. The campaign was similar to Genocide Intervention Network’s divestment project, The Sudan Divestment Task Force.

Divest for Darfur focused on using print and broadcast advertisements to target the "highest offending" companies that conducted business in Sudan, such as Fidelity Investments and Berkshire-Hathaway. Both companies heavily invested in PetroChina, whose revenue supported the Sudanese military.

Divest for Darfur’s broadcast advertisements aired on CNN and were featured in such publications as The Hill, Roll Call, and the Washington Times. Besides creating general ads encouraging companies to divest in Sudan, the Save Darfur Coalition also directly called on the United States Senate to pass the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act.

Save Darfur: Rally to Stop Genocide
On April 30, 2006, the Save Darfur Coalition organized the "Save Darfur: Rally to Stop Genocide" to occur on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., and encouraged other national communities to hold rallies of their own. Over 50,000 people gathered among prominent speakers, such as Barack Obama, Elie Wiesel, Nancy Pelosi, George Clooney, Paul Rusesabagina, and Brian Steidle, to demand the withdrawal of any objection to a UN peacekeeping force, better humanitarian access to refugees, adhesion to existing treaties and ceasefire agreements and a commitment to a lasting peace agreement in the Abuja peace talks.

Tour for Darfur – Eyewitness to Genocide
Brian Steidle, former Marine Captain and observer to the African Union peacekeeping forces stationed in the Darfur region, toured the United States in 2006 to be the voice for the voiceless in Darfur. Through words and pictures, he expressed the importance of addressing the security and humanitarian needs in Darfur and guided Americans on how to become involved. The tour covered 21,000 miles and 20 different locations. It continued to promote the messages of other campaigns of the Save Darfur Coalition, such as the Million Voices for Darfur and the Save Darfur: Rally to Stop Genocide.

1-800-GENOCIDE
1-800-GENOCIDE was a toll-free number that allowed individuals to voice their concerns about genocides and mass atrocities to their elected public officials. As of February 2013, over 25,000 calls had been made.

DarfurScores.org
DarfurScores.org was a unique scorecard grading system that allowed individuals to learn how the United States Congress and their respective representatives have acknowledged problems in Darfur. DarfurScores.org made affairs in Darfur more transparent and was the model for scorecards for several other countries. The objective of the initiative was to hold representatives accountable, and to sufficiently inform constituents in order to apply more pressure on government officials to instigate change.

Endorsements
The Save Darfur Coalition had over 190 national and regional organizational supporters including Amnesty International, Genocide Intervention Network, NAACP, United to End Genocide (whom it later merged with) and Physicians for Human Rights.

References

External links
 History.com website
 GI-Net Annual Report
 NY Times
 The Morningside Post
Advocacy groups in the United States
War in Darfur