[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chilean Civil War of 1829–1830

Constitution of 1828 
The first (of many) measures of the new government was to call for a constitutional convention. Congress confirmed the return of General Freire and proceeded to dissolve itself. Immediately after, Freire resigned and was replaced by his vice-president Francisco Antonio Pinto.

In August 1828, Pinto's first year in office, Chile abandoned its short-lived federalist system for a unitary form of government, with separate legislative, executive, and judicial branches. The new constitution was finalized in 1828 by José Joaquín de Mora together with Melchor Santiago Concha.  This became the third or Liberal essay.  The government became a unitary system, but maintained the eight Provincial Assemblies created by the federalist essay.  The executive was in the hands of a President, elected for five years who was prohibited from running for re-election.

By adopting a moderately liberal constitution in 1828, Pinto alienated both the Federalists and the Liberal factions. He also angered the old aristocracy by abolishing estates inherited by primogeniture and caused a public uproar with his anticlericalism.

Election of 1829

It was not a military incident which caused the revolution, but a mere political disagreement that led to anarchy.  A new presidential election was called in 1829.  The clear winner (out of 9 candidates) was General Francisco Antonio Pinto, liberal and already Provisional President since the resignation of Freire in 1827, with 118 electoral votes and 29.1% of the vote.  

The problem happened with the vice presidential election.  The winner should have been the first runner-up, Francisco Ruiz-Tagle with 98 electoral votes or 24.1% of the vote, or the second runner-up, General José Joaquín Prieto, with 61 votes or 15.0% of the vote, both conservatives.  Nonetheless, Congress was controlled by the Liberals and presided over by Francisco Ramón Vicuña, also Liberal.  Arguing that no vice-presidential candidate had a majority, they selected Joaquín Vicuña, brother of the President of the Senate, even though he only got 48 electoral votes (11.8% of the vote). That was the pretext for the conservatives to rebel.

Revolution of 1829 
The Liberal leader par excellence, General Ramón Freire, rode in and out of the presidency several times (1823–27, 1828, 1829, 1830) but could not sustain his authority. From May 1827 to September 1831, with the exception of brief interventions by Freire, the presidency was occupied by General Francisco Antonio Pinto, Freire's former vice president. The conservative side was under the military leadership of General José Joaquín Prieto and the political guidance of Diego Portales, while the liberal side was under the command of Ramón Freire and Francisco de la Lastra.  President Pinto promptly resigned on July 14, handing acting presidential duties not to the vice president but rather to that man's brother, the President of the Senate Francisco Ramón Vicuña.

On December 7, 1829 conservative troops under General Prieto approached Santiago from the South, this army having been assembled largely through the efforts of Prieto's cousin, Manuel Bulnes.  The conservative army decided to halt the march for a while and camped a few miles outside the city.  The government under President Vicuña immediately collapsed and they fled first to Valparaíso and then northward to Coquimbo.  On December 14, 1829, General Prieto and his troops met the liberal army under Francisco de la Lastra and defeated them in the Battle of Ochagavía. Meanwhile, President Vicuña and his ministers were captured and imprisoned by the victorious conservative troops.

Chile was without a leader for a few weeks (from December 7 to 24, 1829). After the Battle of Ochagavía, General Freire agreed to a cease-fire with Prieto.  A Government Junta was organized and took control, in order to avoid the continuance of hostilities, under the neutral figure José Tomás Ovalle, who was acceptable to both sides. This junta ruled the country from December 24, 1829 to February 18, 1830. Power was retained by Ramón Freire who organized a liberal convention with the intention of calling for new general elections and the formation of a new Congress. At the same time, the conservatives who were in control of Santiago also called for their own convention, where an agreement was reached which nominated Francisco Ruiz-Tagle as acting president. 

Immediately that Ruiz-Tagle took over as president, the principal leaders of the Liberal side (Manuel Borgoño, Francisco de la Lastra and Juan Gregorio de las Heras) were eliminated from the army rosters. This guaranteed the restart of the hostilities. President Ruiz-Tagle and all the cabinet resigned on April 1, and José Tomás Ovalle, as vice president assumed power.