[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Onyema Ugochukwu

nal organisations like the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the World Bank. During Ugochukwu's tenure, the NDDC focused mainly on economic revival and prosperity, environmental rehabilitation, and the development of social and physical infrastructure.

Campaign for Abia Rebirth (CARE)

At the end of his four-year tenure at NDDC, Ugochukwu returned to Abuja and continued to serve as the President's Special Adviser on Communications. He took an interest in state politics, and resigned from office to join the Abia State gubernatorial race. In 2006, the Campaign for Abia Rebirth (CARE) was launched, with a promise to rebuild the state. On 13 December 2006, Ugochukwu emerged as the People's Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for the 2007 Abia State gubernatorial elections. The hotly contested race was marred by allegations of electoral malpractice, and violence, all of which culminated in the election of Ugochukwu's rival, Theodore Orji of the Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA).

Assassination attempt
There was an attempt on Ugochukwu's life during the Abia State Gubernatorial elections on 14 April 2007. The assailants fired shots at his motorcade, fatally wounding one of his State Security Service (SSS) bodyguards, who suffered gunshot wounds through his head and hands. Ugochukwu, the PDP candidate and frontrunner in the election, blamed the attack on his political opponents in the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA).

Election Petition Tribunal
Ugochukwu sought redress at the Abia State Election Petition Tribunal. Governor Theodore Orji's election was annulled on 25 February 2008, on the grounds that he was ineligible to contest for the office. Orji and his deputy had failed to resign their respective positions in the Abia State government, 30 days prior to the election as stipulated in the 1999 Constitution. The Tribunal also cited Governor Orji's failure to prove beyond a reasonable doubt, his affiliation with a secret cult.

Ugochukwu was thus declared the lawful winner of the April 2007 gubernatorial election, and Governor-elect of Abia State – pending the outcome at the Port Harcourt Appeals Court.
However, on 11 February 2009 an appeal court in Port Harcourt overturned the ruling, declaring that Theodore Orji of the PPA had in fact won the election.

Works
Power and Governance: The Legacy of Dr. Michael Okpara ()

See also

 Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC)

References

Sources
Ugochukwu wins Abia PDP guber primaries
Campaign for Abia Re-Birth

2006 Nigerian National Honours conferred on 263 distinguished Nigerians and friends of Nigeria.
Group commends FG over Ugochukwu’s award (CON)
Ugochukwu promises industrial parks in Abia

Why I'm contesting for Abia gov — UGOCHUKWU

Igbo politicians
University of Nigeria alumni
1944 births
Living people
Igbo economists
Nigerian economists
Nigerian newspaper journalists
Nigerian Methodists
People from Abia State
Peoples Democratic Party (Nigeria) politicians
Commanders of the Order of the Niger
Military personnel of the Nigerian Civil War
Nigerian editors