[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Max Guevara

Max Guevara (X5-452) is a fictional character and the protagonist of the cyberpunk science fiction television program Dark Angel. During both seasons of the series, Max was portrayed by Jessica Alba; Geneva Locke played the character during flashbacks to her childhood. Over one thousand actresses were considered for the part of Max before Alba was given the role. Max also appears in three canonical novels based on the series as well as an apocryphal video game adaptation. Created by James Cameron and Charles H. Eglee, Max followed a long line of strong female characters in Cameron's work, including Sarah Connor and Ellen Ripley.

Max is a genetically enhanced transgenic supersoldier, created in a secret government lab known as Manticore. Along with 11 other children, Max escapes from the facility when she is 9 years old. Max attempts to live a normal life while eluding recapture by Manticore. She also searches for other escaped transgenics with the help of Logan Cale, a cyber-journalist also known as "Eyes Only". The character received mostly positive reception from critics, and Alba won several awards for her portrayal of Max. In 2004, Max was ranked at No. 17 in TV Guides list of the "25 Greatest Sci-Fi Legends."

Creation and appearances
Following his success with the film Titanic, director James Cameron teamed up with Charles H. Eglee. The two formed a production company, Cameron/Eglee Productions, and began working on ideas for a television series, eventually deciding on the idea of Dark Angel. Cameron said they began with the idea that Max would be a genetic construct who appeared normal but was different on a genetic level, saying "We explored what that could mean. Do her eyes look different? Were there things that manifest themselves? Were there negatives to it? We wanted her to have flaws, things that were built inlike Kryptonite." Max followed a long line of strong female characters in films directed Cameron, including Sarah Connor and Ellen Ripley. Cameron believes such characters are well received all round as women respond favourably to strong female characters and male audiences "want to see girls kick ass".

More than one thousand young actresses were considered for the part of Max before Jessica Alba was chosen; Cameron started reviewing audition tapes when it had been narrowed down to 20 or 30 applicants. Cameron said he was not overly impressed with Alba's acting skill or appearance in her audition tape, though he kept coming back and watching it as there was something about her attitude that he liked, eventually deciding he needed to see her in person. Alba was hired for the role before the scripts were written. Eglee said "We had the benefit of being able to write a script kind of backwards, we were writing for this actress, with her cadences and her rhythms and her sensibilities and her attitude and her slang." In order to train for the role, Alba spent a year doing martial arts and gymnastics and riding motorcycles.

Max is the lead character in both seasons of the TV series Dark Angel, where she is portrayed primarily by Alba but also by Geneva Locke as a child in flashbacks. She appears in three original novels based on the series, two of which pick up directly where the series ended and one that serves as a prequel novel, filling in the time between Max's escape from Manticore and the beginning of the first season. Max is also the playable character in the video game adaptation, Dark Angel, where she is voiced by Alba.

Attributes
Max was genetically engineered and carried to term by a woman who was not permitted to meet her. She was created for a secret government supersoldier program called Manticore, then located in Gillette, Wyoming. As with almost all Manticore's soldiers, Max has a barcode on the nape of her neck, with her identifying number sequence (332960073452). She is an X5 model and is thus referred to as X5-452. Designed to be "the perfect soldier," Max is extremely strong, athletic and agile. She can see in the dark, can zoom in with her eyes to view distant objects, does not need to sleep and has a photographic memory. She also has enhanced hearing, can leap up or down from great heights with ease, can hold her breath underwater for extended periods and can dodge bullets with her super speed. Max lies, cheats and steals when she needs to and shows no remorse when doing so, though she is morally opposed to guns. Max rides a Kawasaki motorcycle and enjoys riding at high speed. When she wants to be alone she sits atop of the derelict Space Needle. Max's forms 'family' bonds with her best friend and flatmate Original Cindy, her ally Logan Cale and her fellow X5 escapees. Upon escaping from Manticore, Max chooses the last name "Guevara" for herself.