[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Socialism in the Netherlands

ue and several resistance groups
1948 A small group of former Freethinking Democrats leaves the PvdA to join the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy
1970 A group of conservative social-democrats leaves the PvdA to found ⇒DS70.
2014 Two members of parliament resign from the party and form ⇒DENK.

PSP
1957 The Pacifist Socialist Party (Dutch: Pacifistisch Socialistische Partij) is founded by a group of politically homeless, former members of the ⇒PvdA and ⇒CPN and people involved in the peace movement.
1974 A Trotskyist group leaves the PSP to found the League of International Communists, which would become Socialist Alternative Politics.
1985 A group who opposes further cooperation with ⇒CPN and the Political Party of Radicals, led by MP Fred van der Spek leaves the party to found the Party for Socialism and Disarmament, which would become the Pacifist Socialist Party '92.
1989 The PSP joins the GreenLeft together with the ⇒CPN, Political Party of Radicals and the Evangelical People's Party.

DS70
1970 Democratic Socialists 1970 (Dutch: Democratisch Socialisten '70; DS70) is founded by a group of former members of the ⇒PvdA.
1983 DS70 is officially dissolved, many of its members return to the ⇒PvdA.

SP
1971 The Communist Party of the Netherlands/Marxist-Leninist (Dutch: Kommunistiese Partij Nederland/Marxisties-Leninisties, KPN/ML) splits from the Communist Unity Movement of the Netherlands (marxist-leninist), which had split from the CPN
1972 The KPN/ML renames itself Socialist Party (Dutch: Socialistiese Partij; SP)
1993 The SP renames itself Socialist Party (Dutch: Socialistische Partij; SP)

GroenLinks
1989 GroenLinks (English: GreenLeft) is formed by the ⇒PSP, the ⇒CPN, the green Political Party of Radicals and the Christian left Evangelical People's Party. Although formed by a communist and a socialist party, Groenlinks lacks a specific socialist, communist or social-democratic profile and can better be classified as a green party.

DENK 

2014 DENK is formed by members of ⇒PvdA after disagreements about the party's proposals for monitoring Turkish Islamist organisations.
2017 DENK becomes the first Dutch party advocating the interest of citizens with a migrant background to win seats in parliament.

BIJ1 

2016 ⇒DENK member Sylvana Simons leaves the party after disputes about the party's conservative positions and lack of support for her after receiving death threats. She founds a new party under the name "Article1", making reference to the first article in the Dutch constitution, that prohibits discrimination.
2017 Article1 does not win any seats in the parliamentary elections and is forced to change its name to BIJ1 after complaints about copyright infringement regarding the party's name.
2018 BIJ1 gains parliamentary representation by winning a seat in the municipal council of Amsterdam.
2021 BIJ1 wins a seat in parliamentary elections with a far-left election programme.

Socialist leaders
Social-Democratic League: Ferdinand Domela Nieuwenhuis
Social-Democratic Workers' Party: Pieter Jelles Troelstra
Communist Party of the Netherlands: Paul de Groot
Revolutionary Socialist Party: Henk Sneevliet
Labour Party: Willem Drees, Joop den Uyl, Wim Kok, Wouter Bos, Job Cohen, Diederik Samsom, Lodewijk Asscher, Lilianne Ploumen
Socialist Party: Jan Marijnissen, Agnes Kant, Emile Roemer, Lilian Marijnissen (current)
DENK: Tunahan Kuzu, Farid Azarkan (current)
BIJ1: Sylvana Simons (current)

Socialist thinkers
Influential Dutch socialist thinkers include:
Anton Pannekoek, council communist theorist.
Jacques de Kadt, Marxist, anti-stalinist and social-democrat

See also
 History of the Netherlands
 Politics of the Netherlands
 List of political parties in the Netherlands
 Anarchism in the Netherlands
 Liberalism in the Netherlands
 Christian democracy in the Netherlands
 Trade unions in the Netherlands

 
Political history of the Netherlands
History of socialism
Netherlands