[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nels Ackerson

c policy issues in Indiana, which he recalls as wonderful time of growth in an excellent law firm under the guidance of highly skilled and generous colleagues in an enjoyable community. (Following his experience on the staff of the United States Senate, Ackerson returned to practice law in Indiana).

1976 – 1979: United States Senate Staff: 
In 1976 Ackerson accepted a staff position in the U.S. Senate to serve under the leadership of Indiana Senator Birch Bayh, a member of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary and Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Constitution. Ackerson held the positions of Chief Counsel and Executive Director of the Senate Subcommittee on the Constitution.

Equal Rights Amendment: As Chief Counsel, Ackerson was a leading Senate staff member to assist with Senate consideration and passage of the Equal Rights Amendment. The Equal Rights Amendment (or ERA) would have ensured equal rights of women under all provisions of the Constitution. The resolution passed both Houses and was signed by President Carter, but it failed to receive the required positive vote by legislatures in three-fourths of the States. President Carter recognized Ackerson's work in the Senate in support of the Equal Rights Amendment by presenting Ackerson with one of the pens that he used to sign the Resolution that had been passed by both Houses.

Direct Popular Election of the President: Ackerson was the lead staff member in the U. S. Senate to assist with consideration and passage of the proposed Direct Election Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The Direct Election Amendment would have abolished the Electoral College and provided for direct popular election of the President. This amendment received a majority vote in the Senate and the House of Representatives, but the resolution fell short of the votes necessary to overcome a Senate filibuster. That was the only time in U.S. history that a resolution for the direct election of the President received a majority vote in both Houses of Congress.

Bio Fuel Incentives: In addition to his responsibilities involving the U.S. Constitution, Ackerson also served as Senator Birch Bayh's advisor on agricultural policy. In that role, Ackerson proposed the first legislation passed by Congress and enacted into law to provide incentives for the production of alternatives to petroleum-based fuels. The law was co-authored on a bipartisan basis by Democratic Senator Bayh and Republican Senator Bob Dole and is credited with much of the early success in the development and use of alternative, environmentally sound and economically beneficial fuels from biological sources.

University & Small Business Patent Protection (Bayh–Dole Act): Ackerson also proposed legislation to permit universities, colleges and small businesses to obtain patents on inventions that had resulted in part from research funded by federal grants. Such patents had previously been held by the federal government, which made commercialization difficult if not impossible and dampened university research efforts. Co-authored by Senator Birch Bayh and Senator Bob Dole, the law is known as the Bayh–Dole Act. It has been credited with enabling public access and benefit from inventions; stimulating increased university research and practical commercial applications, generating an estimated revenues in the hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars for higher education, and creating tens of thousands of jobs.

1979 – 1982: Return to Private Law Practice: 
Ackerson returned to Indiana and became a partner in the Noblesville law firm of Campbell Kyle Proffitt – a highly regarded law firm in Hamilton County where Ackerson spent his youth on the Ackerson family's farm.  Ackerson continued his law practice as a trial attorney in state and federal courts, and was the Democratic nominee for Congress in Indiana's Fifth Congressional District where he was defeated by the long-time and widely respected Republican Congressman, Bud Hillis.

1982 – 1985: First American Law Firm in Egypt:

In a dramatic change of his career, Ackerson's law practice turned to international legal issues in 1982, as he accepted a partnership in one of the nation's best-known law firms, Sidley & Austin (Now Sidley Austin).  Ackerson had worked with Sidley & Austin's partners in successful class action litigation, but the firm recruited him for a bigger role – to open the first American law firm office in Egypt. Ackerson opened the office with a distinguished Egyptian lawyer and former diplomat, Gamal Naguib, and the firm was named Sidley & Austin & Naguib.