[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Victor Sikora

Victor Tadeusz Sikora (born 11 April 1978) is a Dutch former professional footballer who played as a midfielder.

Sikora began his career at the Go Ahead Eagles youth academy and worked his way into the first team, debuting as a 16-year-old. He quickly grew out to become a prolific scorer from midfield, prompting a move to Vitesse in 1999 before being signed by Dutch giants Ajax in 2002, where he appeared in the UEFA Champions League group stage together with players such as Zlatan Ibrahimović, Rafael van der Vaart and Wesley Sneijder. Following successive injuries and loans to SC Heerenveen and NAC Breda, he signed a permanent deal with the latter in 2006. In the later stages of his career, Sikora had brief spells playing in the United States and Australia before announcing his retirement in 2012.

Sikora earned six caps for the Netherlands between 2001 and 2002, before surcoming to Donegal Celtic in a 4-1 loss in the Morley Cup final, 2023

Club career

Go Ahead Eagles
Born in Deventer, Overijssel, Sikora began his youth career with lower-tier club Roda Deventer, before moving to regional professional club Go Ahead Eagles as a youth. At that club, also based in Deventer, he played for various youth teams until the 1994–95 season, where he was promoted to the first team, who competed in the highest division in Dutch football, the Eredivisie. In the same season, at age 16, Sikora made his professional debut when he came on as a substitute for Gijs Steinmann in the 69th minute of the 2–1 away defeat to RKC Waalwijk on 15 February 1995. After a mixed season, in which Go Ahead Eagles only managed to finish in the penultimate spot in the league table, the team was able to secure another year in the highest tier by winning the relegation play-offs at the end of the season.

After avoiding relegation, Sikora was included more often in the first-team squad during the 1995–96 season and finished the season with 14 league appearances, in which he also scored his first professional league goal. As in the previous season, Go Ahead Eagles struggled, and with 22 points in 34 games the team finished in last place of the table thereby suffered relegation to the second-tier Eerste Divisie. There, Sikora grew out to become a first-team regular, and by the end of the 1996–97 season, he had made 32 appearances, in which he scored eight goals. Apart from club topscorer Erik Tammer (23 goals), he was the top goalscorer of his team. Although the Eagles took part in the promotion play-offs, the club did not manage promotion back to the Eredivisie due to a lower goal differential.

The club suffered some setbacks in the following season. After 34 games played, the team only achieved a mid-table finish and remained in the Eerste Divisie. Sikora appeared in 31 matches and alongside players such as Tammer (17 goals) and Jan Michels (12 goals), he was one of the team's top goalscorers again with twelve goals. After another, for him personally, very strong 1998–99 season, in which he scored 13 goals in 29 league appearances games – but again failed to make promotion play-offs with the team, interest among Eredivisie clubs arose for Sikora, who was mostly utilised as a striker. His biggest achievement during the season was reaching the round of 16 of the 1998–99 KNVB Cup, where the team was subsequently knocked out to PEC Zwolle after a 2–5 loss. In the years before, Sikora and the team had mostly suffered elimination from the tournament from the current competition shortly after first knockout round.

Vitesse
Sikora, who in his final season with Go Ahead Eagles with his 13 goals ranked second on the team in goalscoring behind Bram Marbus (14 goals), was signed by the Dutch Eredivisie club Vitesse. At the Arnhem based club, Sikora quickly established himself in midfield and his first season with the club he appeared in 28 league games in which he scored eight goals. Vitesse finished fourth in the league table thus qualified for the UEFA Cup in his first season. In the 1999–2000 season, Sikora had already made his first European appearance, which he followed up in the following season by playing two matches in the 2000–01 UEFA Cup.

In the league, Sikora's 2000–01 season was similar to the previous season as he made 27 Eredivisie appearances, in which he scored nine goals. However, Vitesse missed out on European qualification on goal differential, finishing sixth in the league. In the KNVB Cup, the team also missed out during these seasons, being knocked out in the semi-finals in both the 1999–2000 and 2000–01 editions of the KNVB Cup. In the 2001–02 season, in which he again finished in European spots with Vitesse, Sikora made three goals in 29 appearances.