[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Marcoussis

Marcoussis () is a commune in the southern suburbs of Paris, France. It is located  from the center of Paris.

Marcoussis is the location of the CNR (National Centre of Rugby) where the French national rugby union team prepare for international competitions. It is at the CNR that the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement was signed in January 2003 between belligerents in the Ivorian Civil War.

A market village until the 1960s, Marcoussis supplied the markets of Paris with tomatoes and strawberries. A small train route, the Arpajonnais, inaugurated in 1894, took food at 4am every morning, it ceased functioning in 1937.

Geography
Marcoussis is located to the south of Paris, between trunk road RN20, in the east and Autoroute A10 to the west and trunk road RN104 called the Francilienne to the south. It is crossed by the RN446, and a small river of the Orge, called Sallemouille (previously called Gadanine).

Neighboring communes
Linas;
Montlhéry;
Nozay;
Saint-Jean-de-Beauregard;
La Ville-du-Bois;
Ollainville;
Fontenay;
Janvry;
Les Ulis;
Villejust.

Population
Inhabitants are officially called the Marcoussissiens in French or according to other sources are called the Marcoussiens.

List of successive mayors
March 1977- March 1983, Jean Montaru - socialist party
March 1983- May 1986, M Jean Montaru (décédé during the course of mandate) - socialist party
June 1986- March 1989, Marc Nogues - socialist party
March 1989- March 1995 Daniel Hochet - centre-right
March 1995- January 2003 Eric Cochard - socialist party
January 2003-         2014 Olivier Thomas - socialist party, councillor of Île-de-France region

History

Very old traces of occupation exist, in particular a polishing machine found on the southern slope of the valley. The village really started to develop around the priory of Wandrille Saint, depending on the Abbey of Saint-Wandrille. In 854, a charter of Charles the Bald mentions Marcoussis. Initially, it would only be absolutely necessary for one vineyard at Bution, near to Arpajon. The monks losing Bution settled in Marcoussis at the beginning of the 12th century. The absence of records prevents an exact description of what was the priory at the time. It is known only that in 1298, there remained only one monk and that the village had 120 inhabitants. Célestins arrived at the beginning of the 15th century, and absorbed the possessions of the old ruined priory. But the history of Marcoussis also includes the construction desired by Jean de Montagu in 1404–1408. Minister of Finance for Charles VI of France he built his castle here (of which only the base and a tower remains, known as the Oubliettes), the convent of Célestins (remains of the cellars and a portion of the gate) and ordered the rebuilding of the village church. The church shelters a superb marble statue of the Virgin Mary donated by Jean de Berry to the convent of Célestins. The kings came to hunt at Marcoussis and there remains the royal house built under Louis XV. There was a commandry of the order of Saint Jean of Jerusalem from the 13th century (Brother Baudoyn commander of the "meson of the flood" in 1290); a vault is still visible. On the plateau close to Nozay, an important establishment of  Alcatel shelters research laboratories.

Recent times
Since 2002, the field of Bellejame in the east of the commune, abandoned for decades, saw the building of the CNR (National Centre of Rugby), where the French team trains.

The Kleber Accords were signed at the CNR in January 2003 between the government of Côte d'Ivoire and the rebels of North.

On 29 July 2007, for the first time, the town was the departure for the 20th stage of the 2007 Tour de France.

Notable people
 Catherine Henriette de Balzac d'Entragues, was the daughter of the Lord of Marcoussis, François de Balzac d' Entragues, she was the mistress of Henry IV of France, who had promised marriage to her.
 Jean-Jacques Rousseau spent a few days in Marcoussis in 1750–1751 about which he speaks in the Confessions
 Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot regularly travelled to Marcoussis to visit fellow artist Ernest-Joachim Dumax, including in the summers of 1855, 1857, and 1867. His La Charrette, souvenir de Marcoussis is at the Musée d'Orsay.
 Victor Adolphe Malte-Brun, geographer, died in his property at Marcoussis, in the street which bears his name today.
 Louis Marcoussis, painter of Polish extraction, gallicized his name Markus to Marcoussis on the advice of his friend, Guillaume Apollinaire.
 Count Aymar de la Baume Pluvinel, astronomer, member of the Academy of Sciences, pioneer of the photography of the celestial bodies.
 Ib Braase, Danish modern artist and sculptor who lived and worked here from 1968 until his death in 2009.
 Léo Roussel, racing driver, was born in Marcoussis.