[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ernest J. Sternglass

ass, although he admitted
The evidence is not sufficient to prove Sternglass is right [but] the essential point is that Sternglass may be right. The margin of uncertainty in the effects of world-wide fallout is so large that we have no justification for dismissing Sternglass's numbers as fantastic."

In 1971, Sternglass claimed that infant mortality rates increased in communities living in close proximity to nuclear industrial facilities. His study included several nuclear power plants and a nuclear fuel reprocessing facility. He claimed that when setting allowable limits for nuclear industrial emissions "the AEC grossly misjudged the sensitivity of the fetus."

In 1974, Sternglass identified elevated levels of radiation and increased cancer and infant mortality incidence in Shippingport, Pennsylvania. This prompted a scientific review initiated by Pennsylvania governor, Milton Shapp. The review concluded that "it was impossible to rule out the fact that there may have been a relationship between environmental radiation exposure from the Shippingport operation and an increased death rate in the population."

In 1979, Sternglass began extending his analyses of fallout effects to embrace behavioral disorders, including academic deficits seen in high school students.
Later he was to blame radioactivity for higher crime rates and higher AIDS mortality.

Critical responses

Alice Stewart, whose work was the inspiration for the work of Sternglass on radiation health effects, firmly repudiated it, saying of an encounter with him in 1969:
Sternglass had been tremendously excited about our findings [....] But he had exaggerated what we'd said, grossly exaggerated, and we comment on this in the New Scientist. He's said that we'd shown that fetal x-rays had doubled the infant mortality rate, when all we'd said was you'd doubled the chance of a child's dying from cancer. Well, the difference is that one is measured in thousands and the other in single figures [....] Sternglass was a supporter of our work, but he had got our figures very wrong, and we couldn't have our statistics misused like that.

A review in Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists of Sternglass's 1972 Low-Level Radiation lauded the author for bringing the risks (and the nuclear industry's reluctance to discuss them openly) to public attention, with a relatively "calm presentation" compared to other recent titles, however, the reviewers sided more with Stewart on methodology, saying that it was
... over-confident in its manner of reaching conclusions. [....] his method is to [...] to amass many instances of events under various conditions, necessarily uncontrolled, that seem to corroborate the same trend. [...] it seems likely that he has exercised some selectivity, emphasizing favorable cases over those showing no distinct trend. [....] his work should be but a beginning.

The book The Phantom Fallout - Induced Cancer Epidemic in Southwestern Utah / Downwinders Deluded and Waiting to Die  by Daniel Miles repeatedly examines the claims made by Sternglass, and (with extensive documentation) finds them based entirely on cherry-picked data, with extensive application of selective neglect of any data that contradicts his position, and some outright falsified data.  According to Miles, there is zero evidence for any increases in cancer in general, leukemia in particular, or other medical ills referable to exposure to the (documented in his book as trivial... in most cases a fraction of low normal background radiation) exposures to radiation from atmospheric bomb testing in New Mexico, Utah, and Nevada in the 1950s and 60s.  The only credible case of humans harmed by radioactive fallout, Mr. Miles states, is that of some Japanese fishermen on "The Fortunate Dragon" and some nearby Pacific islanders, in the face of a thermonuclear bomb test 1000 times more powerful than any of the USwestern desert small atomic bomb atmospheric tests, and spewing 1000 times or more as much radioactive material.

Three Mile Island 

In April 1979, Sternglass was invited to testify to Congressional hearings on the Three Mile Island accident. Two days later, when the hearings were moved from the House to the Senate, he was told his testimony was no longer desired.  Sternglass believed that an effort was being made to suppress any evidence about possible deaths as a result of the accident. In a paper presented at an engineering and architecture congress, Sternglass argued that an excess of 430 infant deaths in the U.S. northeast that summer could largely be attributed to Three Mile Island radiation releases.
This led some writers on environmental issues to claim that he had proven that figure as a minimum.

Sternglass's methodology was criticized—including by the medical researcher who provided him with the statistics (Gordon MacLeod), and by an otherwise-sympathetic researcher with the Natural Resources Defense Council (Arthur Tamplin) -- on several counts: