[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Paul Hunt (academic)

tising" idea of being tough on organised criminal gangs. This was highly controversial, especially in the wake of news implicating the Mongrel Mob in an international drug bust.

Hunt stated: "Human rights means that every voice is heard, including your voice, and that you also listen with respect."

Hunt and Davidson were widely criticised by the general public, as well as by politicians from the National and ACT parties. National Party police spokesperson, Simeon Brown opined that it is "astonishing" that the pair had accepted an invitation to speak at the gathering, stating that: "The Mongrel Mob peddles drugs, wields firearms and engages in violence, causing misery in communities across the country. They have no regard for their victims." The ACT Party also criticised Davidson and Hunt for attending, with justice spokesperson Nicole McKee saying it is a "kick in the guts" for victims of the Mongrel Mob. As a result of this, National Party leader Judith Collins called for the resignation of Hunt, while ACT Party leader David Seymour emphasised the need for the end of the Human Rights Commission in favour of creating a new more appropriate organisation. Collins spoke to various media organisations:

Seymour stated that under Paul Hunt, the Human Rights Commission had become highly politicised and biased towards left wing ideology, and that it was no longer fit for purpose in actually advocating for human rights.

In a statement to Newshub New Zealand, Hunt defended attending, speaking at the event, and using taxpayer money to provide a donation to the gang:

In June 2021, further information was revealed about the event. Leaked correspondence between the Human Rights Commission and the Waikato Mongrel Mob Kingdom reveal that significant organisation had occurred, with an agreement that no press releases were to be published prior to the event, news media were barred access, and members would be restricted in their use of social media during the event. Hunt's attendance came about after Waikato Mongrel Mob public relations liaison Louise Hutchinson approached the HRC in December, asking if it was possible for him to do a presentation in 2021.

2022 Parliament occupation protests 
Hunt met with the protesters who were camped out in front of Parliament House in Wellington between February and March 2022, as part of the 2022 Wellington protests against vaccine mandates, saying speaking with the protesters was "fostering inclusion". Hunt met with protesters with the intention of using dialogue to resolve the protests and prevent further escalation of violence. The protest however ended violently when riot police cleared the camp.

Other
Hunt has provided expert testimony to the European Court of Human Rights, via the Centre for Reproductive Rights, and Inter-American Court of Human Rights. In 1999–2000, he sat on the Advisory Panel of the UNDP Human Development Report, Human Rights and Human Development.  He was one of the drafters of, and signatories to, the Yokyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Law in relation to Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity in 2006. In 2008, he co-founded the International Initiative on Maternal Mortality and Human Rights. Between 2009–2011, he sat on UNFPA's External Advisory Panel. Hunt sits on the Editorial Boards of the Health and Human Rights and International Journal of Human Rights and Drug Policy.

In 2008 Hunt was awarded an honorary doctorate by the Nordic School of Public Health.

In 2014, he gave a TEDx talk, Equality – the Road Less Travelled. In this he argues that the realisation of social rights, such as those in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948), has a major contribution to make towards the enjoyment of substantive equality for all.

Main publications
 Reclaiming Social Rights: International and Comparative Perspectives (Dartmouth, 1996)
  with Margaret Wilson (eds.) Culture, Rights and Cultural Rights: Perspectives from the South Pacific (Huia, 2000)
 with Willem van Genugten and Susan Mathews (eds.), World Bank, IMF and Human Rights: Including The Tilburg Guiding Principles on World Bank, IMF and human rights (Nijmegen, 2003)
 with Tony Gray (eds.), Maternal Mortality, Human Rights and Accountability (Routledge, 2013)
 with Flavia Bustreo et al., Women's and Children's Health: Evidence of Impact of Human Rights (World Health Organization, 2013)
 Social Rights are Human Rights - but the UK System is Rigged (Centre for Welfare Reform, 2017)

References

Year of birth missing (living people)
Living people
United Nations special rapporteurs
Academics of the University of Essex
Academic staff of the University of Waikato
University of Waikato alumni
Human rights lawyers
New Zealand officials of the United Nations
British officials of the United Nations