[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Security Battalions

us at Blume's action and asked Schimana to dismiss him. Blume, who had a fearsome reputation as the most extreme and violent of all the SS leaders in Greece, was greatly feared by his other SS officers, including his superior, the Higher SS Police Chief Schimana, and no action was taken against him.

The idea that the Security Battalions were secretly supported by the United Kingdom and the United States encouraged them to commit atrocities, as they believed that would not be punished after the war. EAM reported that many of the men serving in the Security Battalions were claiming that "they are serving the interests of England with her consent". After raiding the village of Pili in July 1944 looking for EAM members, the local Security Battalion told the villagers: "Next time we will come back with the English." One agent of the American Office of Strategic Services (OSS) reported after interviewing captured members of the Security Battalions that 35-40% of them believed that the governments of Britain and the United States secretly approved of them fighting for Germany. A member of the Security Battalions wrote in 1944: "Our leaders gave us lectures and tell us that we are chasing the Andartes of EAM/ELAS and that way we are going to avoid Communism; and that the leaders of the Security Battalions act after the orders of the King with whom they are in contact". Many of the leaders of the Cairo government secretly approved of the Security Battalions as a counterweight to EAM. In June 1944 the Greek government-in-exile asked that the BBC's Greek language service stop denouncing the Security Battalions as traitors under the grounds that these men were going to be useful to the government after the war, a request the British government granted. At the same time, the Cairo government also asked that the British and American air forces stop dropping propaganda leaflets over Greece warning that all of the Security Battalions were going to be tried for treason and war crimes after the liberation, as this discouraged recruitment by the Security Battalions which the government was planning to use to fight against EAM once it returned to Greece.

In the summer of 1944, the Security Battalions assisted German forces in Athens with the bloko (round-ups). In the blokos, an entire district of Athens, usually one of the poor neighborhoods where EAM was most popular, was sealed off while the occupying forces and the Security Battalions rounded up the entire male population of the district. Informers wearing hoods to hide their identities would point out suspected EAM members, who were shot on the spot. Other men who were merely suspected of being sympathetic towards EAM would be taken to Haidari prison, where they were held as hostages, with the German policy being that these men would be executed if there were any more ELAS attacks against them. The bloko was ordered by Blume as part of his strategy of polarization, as he wanted to provoke more violence to justify even more extreme violence on his part. Blume had decided that Rallis was insufficiently pliant, and was intriguing to replace him with Pangalos. From Blume's viewpoint, having Athens reduced to chaos would show the need to sack Rallis, who was close to a nervous breakdown in the summer of 1944, and replace him with the stronger Pangalos. Ultimately, Blume was planning to carry out the "Chaos Thesis," under which the Germans, before withdrawing from Greece, would destroy all of the infrastructure, such as factories, railroads, ports, etc., and furthermore would execute the entire political Greek leadership to reduce the country to complete chaos. Appointing Pangalos as prime minister and letting the Security Battalions run amok were part of Blume's preparations for executing the "Chaos Thesis".