[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ian Black (footballer, born 1985)

his first Rangers goal in a 4–0 victory against Queens Park on 9 February 2013.

In September 2013, Black was suspended and fined £7,500 after admitting breaches of Scottish Football Association rules in relation to betting on matches.

Black was released by Rangers at the end of the 2014–15 season.

Shrewsbury Town
Following unsuccessful trial spells at Berwick Rangers and Raith Rovers, Black signed for English League One club Shrewsbury Town in September 2015. He made his debut in a second-round tie of the Football League Trophy against Fleetwood Town the following month, and scored his first goal for the club in a 4–2 victory over Sheffield United at Bramall Lane in November. Black played regularly for the remainder of the season, helping Shrewsbury avoid relegation and also reach the fifth-round of the FA Cup, although he had a poor disciplinary record, picking up 13 yellow and 2 red cards in less than seven months. Featuring only sporadically at the beginning of the following season, Black scored his second Shrewsbury goal in a 1–1 draw against AFC Wimbledon in September 2016, He left Shrewsbury on 31 January 2017, after having his contract cancelled by mutual consent.

Blackpool
In February 2017 Black joined League Two side Blackpool on a contract until the end of the season. He was released in May 2017, after making 10 appearances for the club.

Later career
Black joined Northern Premier League side Skelmersdale United in October 2017. He moved on to National League North side Chorley at the end of October. Black signed for Scottish junior club Tranent in January 2018, then joined East of Scotland League Premier Division club Dunbar United in March 2020.

International career

Black represented Scotland B in the 2005 Future Cup, in a 3–2 defeat by Turkey B. After a four-year absence he was included in the Scotland B squad for their game against Northern Ireland.

In 2012, despite playing in the fourth tier of Scottish football, Black was called up to the Scotland squad for a friendly against Australia. He came on as a substitute late in the game.

Personal life
Black's father, also named Ian, was a professional footballer who started his senior career with Celtic, before being farmed out to Tranent Juniors, also playing for Hearts as well as city rivals Hibernian. Peter Black, Ian's grandfather, was also a footballer; he is the only one in the family to be a goalkeeper.

It was reported in May 2011 that Black, along with his Hearts teammate Robert Ogleby, had been arrested and charged with possession of a class A drug in an Edinburgh night club. On 17 February 2012 the case was dismissed due to the repeated failure of witnesses to attend court. Black was banned from driving for 12 months in March 2023 after he was found guilty of driving under the influence of alcohol.

Career statistics

Footnotes

a. Appearances in the Europa League.
b. Appearances in the Scottish League Challenge Cup.
c. 3 appearances and 1 goal in the Scottish League Challenge Cup. 2 appearances in the Scottish Championship Playoffs.
d. Appearance in the Football League Trophy
e. Appearance in the EFL Trophy
f.  Appearances in the League Two play-offs

Honours
Heart of Midlothian
Scottish Cup: 2011–12

Rangers
Scottish Football League Third Division: 2012–13
Scottish League One: 2013–14

Blackpool
EFL League Two play-offs: 2017

References

External links

1985 births
Living people
Scottish men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Blackburn Rovers F.C. players
Inverness Caledonian Thistle F.C. players
Heart of Midlothian F.C. players
Scotland men's B international footballers
Scottish Premier League players
Scottish Football League players
Scottish Professional Football League players
People from Tranent
Rangers F.C. players
Scotland men's international footballers
Footballers from East Lothian
Shrewsbury Town F.C. players
Blackpool F.C. players
Skelmersdale United F.C. players
Chorley F.C. players
Tranent F.C. players
Scottish Junior Football Association players
Dunbar United F.C. players