[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Elliott Jaques

er of the Total Army Personnel Task Force in...developing new and innovative approaches to achieve personnel economies and realign...along policy and operational lines."
 Harry Levinson Award, American Psychological Foundation, Certificate of Commendation, for a lifetime of scientific contributions.

Publications
 The Changing Culture of a Factory: A Study of Authority and Participation in an Industrial Setting (London: Tavistock, 1951)
 Measurement of Responsibility: A study of work, payment, and individual capacity (Tavistock, 1956) [Reprinted as ]
 Equitable Payment: A General Theory of Work, Differential Payment, and Individual Progress (London: Heinemann, 1961)
 Equitable Payment (London: Heinemann, 1963)
 Time-Span Handbook: the Use of Time-Span of Discretion to Measure the Level of Work in Employment Roles and to Arrange an Equitable Payment Structure (London, Heinemann, 1964)
 Product Analysis Pricing: A method for setting policies for the delegation of pricing decisions and the control of expense and profitability (Carbondale, Southern Illinois University Press, 1964) [with Wilfred Brown ]
 Glacier Project Papers (London: Heinemann Educational, 1965) [with Wilfred Brown ] 
 "Death and the Midlife Crisis", International Journal of Psychoanalysis, 1965.
 Work, creativity, and social justice (London: Heinemann Educational, 1970) 
 A General Theory of Bureaucracy (London: Heinemann Educational, 1976) 
 Health Services (London: Heinemann Educational, 1978) 
 Levels of Abstraction in Logic and Human Action: A theory of discontinuity in the structure of mathematical logic, psychological behaviour, and social organisation. (London: Heinemann Educational, 1978) with R.O. Gibson and D.J. Isaac [Editors]
 Executive Leadership: A Practical Guide to Managing Complexity (Oxford: Blackwell Publishing, 1994)  [with Stephen D. Clement and Ronnie Lessem]
 Human Capability: Study of Individual Potential and Its Application (London: Gower, 1994)  [with Kathryn Cason]
Requisite Organization: Total System for Effective Managerial Organization and Managerial Leadership for the 21st Century (London: Gower, 1997) 
 La Organizacion Requerida: Un Sistema Integrado Para Crear Organizaciones Eficaces y Aplicar el Liderazgo Gerencial en el Siglo XXI (Ediciones Granica, S.A., 2000) 
 Social Power and the CEO: Leadership and Trust in a Sustainable Free Enterprise System (Greenwood, 2002) 
 The Life and Behavior of Living Organisms: A General Theory (Greenwood, 2002)

Notes

External links
 Elliott Jaques at www.requisite.org
  
 "Guru: Elliott Jaques". The Economist. 1 May 2009. Retrieved 2015-03-23.

1917 births
2003 deaths
20th-century American psychologists
Canadian psychologists
Canadian business theorists
Canadian psychiatrists
American psychoanalysts
Harvard University alumni
Johns Hopkins University alumni
People from Toronto
University of Toronto alumni
Canadian psychoanalysts
Canadian emigrants to the United States