[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Administrative divisions of Albania

The administrative divisions of Albania comprise 12 counties, 61 municipalities, and 373 administrative units. Since its 1912 Declaration of Independence, Albania has reorganized its administrative divisions 21 times. Its internal boundaries have been enlarged or subdivided into prefectures, counties, districts, subprefectures, municipalities, communes, neighborhoods or wards, villages, and localities. The most recent changes were made in 2014 and enacted in 2015.

Main administrative divisions

Counties 

The first level of government is constituted by the 12 counties (), organized into their present form in the year 2000. They are run by a prefect () and a county council (). Prefects are appointed as representatives of the national Council of Ministers.

Municipalities 

The second level of government is constituted by the 61 municipalities (). They are run by a mayor () and a municipal council (), elected every 4 years. Before 2015, a  was an urban municipality and only covered the jurisdiction of such cities. After 2015, the jurisdiction of the  was expanded to cover the nearby rural municipalities.

Administrative units 

The third level of government is constituted by the 373 administrative units () or units of local administration (). Most of these were former rural municipalities or communes (), which functioned as second-level divisions of the country until 2015. Parts of the administrative units are still further divided into Albania's 2,972 villages ().

History

Ottoman Albania

At the beginning of the 20th century, the territory which now forms Albania was divided among the four separate vilayets () of Scutari, Janina, Manastir, and Kosovo. This helped mix Albanians with the surrounding Greeks, Serbs, and other groups. The four vilayets were divided into the sanjaks () of Scutari, Durrës, Ioannina, Ergiri, Preveze, Berat, Manastir, Serfiğe, Dibra, Elbasan, Görice, Üsküp, Priştine, İpek, Prizren, and Novi Pazar. The sanjaks were in turn further divided into kazas () at the town level and nahiyes () at the village level.

Revolutionary Albania

Following the successful War of Independence against the Ottoman Empire in 1912, the first Albanian government led by Ismail Qemali initially retained the former Turkish divisions and offices. This was revised by the "Canon of Albanian Civil Administration" on 22 November 1913, which created a new three tier system. The primary division was into the 8 prefectures () of Durrës, Berat, Dibër, Elbasan, Gjirokastër, Korcë, Shkodër, and Vlorë. Each of these was to be overseen by a prefect. The prefectures were divided into subprefectures  (), which were divided into regions or provinces () for local administration. The authority of this provisional government was never recognized by the Great Powers or the Republic of Central Albania; never administered territory outside Vlorë, Berat, and Lushnjë; and was forced to dissolve after the discovery of its plot to restore some Turkish control to gain more territory and better resist Serbia.

Principality of Albania

Separately, the International Control Commission drafted and enacted the Organic Statute ()Albania's first constitutionon 10 April 1914. Primarily functioning as a compromise among the Great Powers of the era, it established the Principality of Albania as a constitutional monarchy to be headed by the German prince Wilhelm Wied and his heirs in primogeniture. 

An entire chapter of the Organic Statute was devoted to the administrative division of Albania, explicitly preserving Ottoman names and terms. The primary division was into the 7 sanjaks of Durrës, Berat, Dibër, Elbasan, Gjirokastër, Korçë, and Shkodër. Each would be administered from its namesake city except Dibër. The former Ottoman sanjak of Dibra had been divided among other countries and the city of Debar remained outside the principality's borders. The Albanian sanjak of Dibër, however, expanded a bit with the inclusion of districts of the former sanjak of Prizren. Areas of Chameria that had been in the former sanjak of Ioannina were added to Gjirokastër and the kaza of Leskovik was added to Korçë. Each sanjak was overseen by a mutasarrif () appointed by the central government and a sanjak council () consisting of five members appointed by lawa secretary, a comptroller, a director of agriculture and trade, a director of public education, and a director of public worksand one member from each of the sanjak's kazas, elected by the local councils and approved by the mutasarrif. The mutasarrif was personally responsible for maintaining public order, controlling the local gendarmerie and police directly. He also controlled local budgets in consultation with the council, providing for public education and inspecting each of the local kazas at least once a year.