[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Huseyincan Celil

een designated as a terrorist organization by the United Nations since 2002. He has been accused of the assassination of a Chinese Ambassador to Kyrgyzstan in March 2000 and the kidnapping of a Chinese officer in June 2000. He has allegedly used the aliases Huseyincan Celil as well as Guler Dilaver.

Effect on Canada-China relations
In November 2006 Prime Minister Harper, President of the People's Republic of China Hu Jintao, and 21 other national leaders attended the Asia-Pacific Economic Co-operation summit in Hanoi, Vietnam. Harper discussed Celil's case with President Hu and said, "When a Canadian citizen is taken from a third country and imprisoned in China, this is a serious concern to this country." Dan Dugas, spokesman for Foreign Affairs Minister Peter MacKay, told The Globe and Mail that MacKay called the Canadian embassy in Beijing. Dugas said, "The Chinese government is not co-operating with the Canadian mission in China and we aren't going to stop asking them for what's happening with Mr. Celil. I can tell you [Minister MacKay] is not happy either. He's asking for answers. He wants to know what is being done and what the next steps are going to be."

The dispute between the two governments escalated when He Yafei, China's assistant minister of foreign affairs for North America, told The Globe and Mail in an interview that the "economic relationship goes hand in hand with the political relationship. We need to have a sound political basis of mutual trust for the economic relationship to flourish. That's why we need to work harder to improve mutual trust."  Harper responded by telling reporters in Halifax he would "point out to any Chinese official that just as a matter of fact, China had a huge trade surplus with this country, so it would be in the interest of the Chinese government to make sure any dealings on trade are fair and above board."

Harper also criticized the Canadian political opposition for its position on Celil's case, saying, "There are those in the Opposition who will say, 'You know, China is an important country, so we shouldn't really protest these things . . . so maybe someday we'll be able to sell more goods there.' I think that's irresponsible. I think the government of Canada, when a Canadian citizen is ill-treated and when the rights of a Canadian citizen need to be defended, I think it's always the obligation of the government of Canada to vocally and publicly stand up for that Canadian citizen. That is what we will continue to do.".

When Harper visited China in December 2009, expectations were high that he would bring up the topic in his discussion with the Chinese leaders, as he had promised in 2007,.

Politicians in the United States of America have also become involved in the case. By a voice vote on September 17, 2007, the House of Representatives passed House Resolution 497, calling on the People's Republic of China to immediately release the children of Rebiya Kadeer and Canadian citizen Huseyin Celil and to "ensure the linguistic, cultural, and religious rights of the Uyghur people" in Xinjiang.

In October 2021, Celil's wife, Kamila Telendibaeva, appeared in an interview on the Canadian television network CTV.  Telendibaeva urged the Canadian government to boycott the 2022 Winter Olympics unless China frees Celil and allows him to return to Canada.  Telendibaeva also stated that she had not heard anything about her husband's case from Canadian officials since Justin Trudeau assumed the Canadian prime minister's office in 2015.

See also
Ismail Semed
Lai Changxing
Omar Khadr

References

External links
Made By China Blog Support
All News about Uyghurs(Uighurs) and East Turkistan
March 10, 2008 Letter From Prison

1969 births
21st-century imams
Canadian people imprisoned abroad
Canadian imams
Canadian people of Uyghur descent
Chinese imams
Chinese emigrants to Canada
Chinese refugees
Living people
Naturalized citizens of Canada
People from Hamilton, Ontario
People from Kashgar
Chinese prisoners and detainees
Uyghur activists
People extradited from Uzbekistan
People extradited to China