[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lillian Alling

of the strait.

Travel between the two countries was common, and it would have been quite normal for someone to pay for a passage across the Strait. What happened to her once she reached Soviet Russia remained unknown until a cryptic report said she had been spotted after crossing the Bering Strait.

In 1972, author Francis Dickie published an account of Alling's journey in True West Magazine. In 1975, Dickie republished the story with a new postscript in which he noted that after his True West article, a reader named Arthur Elmore wrote to him, recounting a "peculiar" story Elmore had heard from a Russian friend in 1965. In fall 1930, Elmore's friend was on the waterfront of Provideniya,  west of Nome. On the beach were several officials interrogating a group—three Inuit men from the Diomede Islands and one Caucasian woman, all standing near a boat. It is not certain if this woman was, in fact, Lillian Alling.

Reporting
Contemporary coverage of Alling's journey included 1928 articles in the Whitehorse Star, as "the mystery woman" who arrived in Hazelton from the regularly scheduled steamship service from Vancouver to Prince Rupert, without suggesting that she had started from New York, and the Dawson News in October 1928, where she had arrived after "the most trying and uncomfortable hours of her long trip" aboard a small boat, followed by a brief item mentioning her departure by the same boat in June 1929.

One early account of her "complete" journey is from the September 1943 issue of The Beaver, a magazine published by the Hudson's Bay Company. This article included many speculative details before and after the timeline established by official records (September 1927 in Hazelton to spring 1929 in Dawson); these details include her origin (New York), early route (via Chicago, Minneapolis, and Winnipeg), river journey (down the Yukon from Dawson through Tanana to Nome), last sighting (Teller), and ultimate destination (Siberia) A colourful retelling of Alling's journey was given by J. Wellsford Mills in a 1948 issue of Shoulder Strap, the journal of the British Columbia Provincial Police; Mills's article repeated the same speculative details, but Cassandra Pybus believes that Mills fabricated most of this history. These speculative retellings were taken up by Coronet in 1949, then appear to have lain dormant until Francis Dickie published his version in 1966, expanded and republished in the March/April 1972 issue of True West. The Toronto Star also published an account in 1985.

In media
Alling's story has inspired contemporary books, a play, films, and an opera:
 La Piste du télégraphe (1994; "The Telegraph Route"), a film directed by Liliane de Kermadec
 Raven Road (2001; republished in 2002 as The Woman Who Walked to Russia), a nonfiction travelogue by Cassandra Pybus
 All the Way to Russia With Love (2002), a play by Susan Flemming's, with Kathi Langston
 Away (2007), a novel by Amy Bloom
 Lillian Alling (2010), an opera commissioned by the Vancouver Opera in 2007; it was composed by John Estacio, with a libretto by John Murrell, and premiered on 16 October 2010.
 Lillian (2019), a film directed by Andreas Horvath

See also
Christopher Thomas Knight
Christopher McCandless was the subject of Jon Krakauer's book Into the Wild (1996), later adapted into a 2007 film by Sean Penn. 
Carl McCunn, a wildlife photographer who became stranded in the Alaskan wilderness, eventually committed suicide when he ran out of supplies (1981).
Lars Monsen, a Norwegian adventurer and TV personality, once travelled by foot, canoe, and dog sled from the east coast of Canada to the west coast, which took over two years to complete.
Nanook of the North (1922) is silent-film documentary following the lives of an Inuit family.
Richard Proenneke spent 30 years at Twin Lakes in the Alaskan wilderness.
Everett Ruess
Timothy Treadwell
Ed Wardle

References

External links
 

Emigrants from the Russian Empire to the United States
20th-century American women
20th-century American people
1896 births
American nomads
Backpacking
Hikers
Year of death missing