[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Front for Victory

The Front for Victory (, FPV) was a centre-left Peronist electoral alliance in Argentina, and is formally a faction of the Justicialist Party. Former presidents Néstor Kirchner and Cristina Fernández de Kirchner were elected as representatives of this party.

The Front for Victory is ideologically identified with what has been called Kirchnerism. Legally, the Front should not be confused with the Victory Party, which is just one of the political parties in it.

History 
Due to internal disagreements over leadership, the Justicialist Party did not participate as such in the 2003 presidential elections, so the Front for Victory was established on behalf of the presidential candidacy of Néstor Kirchner, in opposition to two other Peronist tickets (Carlos Menem's Front for Loyalty and Adolfo Rodríguez Saá's Front of the Popular Movement).

At the 2005 legislative elections the FPV, again running against other Peronist lists, won 50 of the 127 elected deputies (out of 257) and 14 of the 24 elected senators (out of 72), thus obtaining the majority in both Houses of Congress.

At the 2007 presidential election, FPV rallied through the Plural Consensus alliance, including non-PJ candidates. Its presidential candidate Cristina Fernández de Kirchner won the Presidency on the first round, obtaining 45.29% of the total votes, some 22% ahead of her nearest challenger (Elisa Carrió for the Civic Coalition alliance), this being the widest margin any candidate had got on any modern election held in Argentina at that time.

At the 2009 mid-term legislative election, the FPV lost its congressional majorities in both chambers, gaining just 30.80% of the national votes, thus narrowly becoming the first minority party at the Argentine National Congress, while the Civic and Social Agreement (ACyS) alliance arrived a close second.

At the October 2011 elections, however, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner secured her re-election with 54.11% of the votes in the first round (a percentage only surpassed in Argentina by Juan Perón and Hipólito Yrigoyen), and a 38% lead over her nearest challenger (Hermes Binner of the Broad Progressive Front alliance), much widening its former performance of 2007. With 11,864,456 votes, Cristina Fernández also became the most voted person in the history of Argentine democracy, and the FPV achieved a first-time third consecutive mandate for a Peronist alliance.

At the 2013 legislative election, the FPV and its allies marginally won the elections, maintaining its dominance over both chambers of the Congress.

Principles 
The Front for Victory has a Declaration of Principles headed by the motto: "Argentina, conviction and ability to build a new country."

The FPV takes its principles from what it calls an "intolerable" gap between the rich and the poor, and questions the role of those political parties allied to the regime in the 2001 crisis that affected the country. Hence "the vital need of deepening a process of social justice, which by leaving behind a past most Argentines want to overcome, will allow the construction of a new space for political and institutional management in Argentina".

The Declaration of Principles finishes explaining that "imagining and building a new country requires conviction and ability for joining the pieces of a fragmented society and the will to do so, not from a single political party, but from the formation of a broad national front which can bring us back as a Nation this Argentina that can't wait any longer".

Member parties
The Front for Victory is composed by :

Presidency of Nestor Kirchner: 2003-2007 

In 2003 the FPV with the candidacy of Nestor Kirchner came second in the presidential elections with 22% of the vote, behind former president Carlos Menem with 24%. As provided in the Constitution, corresponded settling the election in a runoff, but Menem, with polls favoring Kirchner by more than 60%, withdrew from it, being for that reason elected President of Argentina, Nestor Carlos Kirchner, for the period 2003-10 December 2007.

At that time (2003) Front of Victory had the decisive support of the leaders of Buenos Aires with involvement of the "duhaldismo", political force of whom until then was President Eduardo Duhalde. In the 2005 elections (governors and legislators) there was a break between the Peronist Kirchner and Duhalde, which led to the exclusion of the latter from the Front for Victory and electoral confrontation between the two sectors. The decision to move against corporate economic, agricultural and livestock sector employers of soybean roots caused the confrontation. In 2005, FPV presented as presidential candidate Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, while duhaldismo introduced Hilda "Chiche" González de Duhalde, the wife of the former president, being Cristina the first winner by a large margin.