[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# ATP-sensitive potassium channel

ac ischemia and hypoxia results from the cells' inability to adapt to adverse oxidative conditions.

Metabolite regulation 

The degree to which particular compounds are able to regulate KATP channel opening varies with tissue type, and more specifically, with a tissue's primary metabolic substrate.

In pancreatic beta cells, ATP is the primary metabolic source, and the ATP/ADP ratio determines KATP channel activity. Under resting conditions, the weakly inwardly rectifying KATP channels in pancreatic beta cells are spontaneously active, allowing potassium ions to flow out of the cell and maintaining a negative resting membrane potential (slightly more positive than the K+ reversal potential). In the presence of higher glucose metabolism, and consequently increased relative levels of ATP, the KATP channels close, causing the membrane potential of the cell to depolarize, activating voltage-gated calcium channels, and thus promoting the calcium-dependent release of insulin. The change from one state to the other happens quickly and synchronously, due to C-terminus multimerization among proximate KATP channel molecules.

Cardiomyocytes, on the other hand, derive the majority of their energy from long-chain fatty acids and their acyl-CoA equivalents. Cardiac ischemia, as it slows the oxidation of fatty acids, causes an accumulation of acyl-CoA and induces KATP channel opening while free fatty acids stabilize its closed conformation. This variation was demonstrated by examining transgenic mice, bred to have ATP-insensitive potassium channels. In the pancreas, these channels were always open, but remained closed in the cardiac cells.

Mitochondrial KATP and the regulation of aerobic metabolism 

Upon the onset of a cellular energy crisis, mitochondrial function tends to decline. This is due to alternating inner membrane potential, imbalanced trans-membrane ion transport, and an overproduction of free radicals, among other factors. In such a situation, mitoKATP channels open and close to regulate both internal Ca2+ concentration and the degree of membrane swelling. This helps restore proper membrane potential, allowing further H+ outflow, which continues to provide the proton gradient necessary for mitochondrial ATP synthesis. Without aid from the potassium channels, the depletion of high energy phosphate would outpace the rate at which ATP could be created against an unfavorable electrochemical gradient.

Nuclear and sarcolemmal KATP channels also contribute to the endurance of and recovery from metabolic stress. In order to conserve energy, sarcKATP open, reducing the duration of the action potential while nucKATP-mediated Ca2+ concentration changes within the nucleus favor the expression of protective protein genes.

Cardiovascular KATP channels and protection from ischemic injury 

Cardiac ischemia, while not always immediately lethal, often leads to delayed cardiomyocyte death by necrosis, causing permanent injury to the heart muscle. One method, first described by Keith Reimer in 1986, involves subjecting the affected tissue to brief, non-lethal periods of ischemia (3–5 minutes) before the major ischemic insult. This procedure is known as ischemic preconditioning ("IPC"), and derives its effectiveness, at least in part, from KATP channel stimulation.

Both sarcKATP and mitoKATP are required for IPC to have its maximal effects. Selective mitoKATP blockade with 5-hydroxydecanoic acid ("5-HD") or MCC-134 completely inhibits the cardioprotection afforded by IPC, and genetic knockout of sarcKATP genes in mice has been shown to increase the basal level of injury compared to wild type mice. This baseline protection is believed to be a result of sarcKATP's ability to prevent cellular Ca2+ overloading  and depression of force development during muscle contraction, thereby conserving scarce energy resources.

Absence of sarcKATP, in addition to attenuating the benefits of IPC, significantly impairs the myocyte's ability to properly distribute Ca2+, decreasing sensitivity to sympathetic nerve signals, and predisposing the subject to arrhythmia and sudden death. Similarly, sarcKATP regulates vascular smooth muscle tone, and deletion of the kir6.2 or sur2 genes leads to coronary artery vasospasm and death.

Upon further exploration of sarcKATP's role in cardiac rhythm regulation, it was discovered that mutant forms of the channel, particularly mutations in the SUR2 subunit, were responsible for dilated cardiomyopathy, especially after ischemia/reperfusion. It is still unclear as to whether opening of KATP channels has completely pro- or antiarrhythmic effects. Increased potassium conductance should stabilize membrane potential during ischemic insults, reducing the extent infarct and ectopic pacemaker activity. On the other hand, potassium channel opening accelerates repolarization of the action potential, possibly inducing arrhythmic reentry.

See also
 Cardiac action potential#Channels

References

Further reading