[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Elliott Buckmaster

Elliott Buckmaster (October 19, 1889 – October 10, 1976) was a United States Navy officer, later promoted to flag rank, and naval aviator during World War I and World War II.

Born in Brooklyn, New York, to Dr. Augustus Harper Buckmaster (1859–1941) and the former Helen Gardner Elliott Masters (1858–1910), Buckmaster was raised in Charlottesville, Virginia, from the age of twelve.  Appointed from Virginia to the United States Naval Academy in 1908, Buckmaster graduated with the Class of 1912.  Assigned to the USS New Jersey at the occupation of Veracruz in 1914, Buckmaster was credited with rescuing a wounded sailor and bringing him to safety.  Buckmaster was promoted through the ranks until 1934 when, with the rank of commander, he would commission USS Farragut as her first commanding officer.  Following command of Farragut, Commander Buckmaster applied for flight training at Naval Air Station Pensacola.  Upon graduation in 1936 at age 47, Buckmaster performed duties in aviation until ordered in 1938 to USS Lexington as her executive officer.  Serving in this capacity until 1939, he was then promoted to captain and ordered to Naval Air Station Ford Island as commanding officer, serving in this capacity until January 1941.

On February 5, 1941, Captain Buckmaster assumed command of  at Naval Air Station Ford Island. He was Commanding Officer of Yorktown at the Battles of Coral Sea and Midway. The Yorktown suffered considerable damage during Coral Sea, but quickly, if superficially, repaired at Pearl Harbor. Her air group played a key role in the Midway in fatally crippling two of the four Japanese carriers, but she was seriously damaged in both air attacks made by the Japanese Carrier Striking Force. Buckmaster made the decision to abandon Yorktown after she was struck by two torpedoes at the Battle of Midway. Buckmaster, consulting with his executive officer, Dixie Kiefer, and the ship's chief engineer officer, John F. Delaney, Jr., they concluded that without power, and the undoing of the superficial repairs made at Pearl Harbor following  the Coral Sea Battle, there was no hope of correcting a list that varied between 26 and 28 degrees. Indeed, it was feared "that the vessel might capsize at any moment and take many crewmen below decks with her". According to Yorktown crewmen, Buckmaster was thinking only of the welfare of the ship's company.   While Yorktown was re-boarded the following day, 6 June 1942, she was sunk by I-168 following a torpedo attack that also sank .

Returning from Midway, Buckmaster was promoted to rear admiral and named the first Chief of Naval Air primary Training (NAPTC). NAPTC headquarters were located at the naval Air Training Station, Fairfax Airport, Kansas City, Kansas. Dixie Kiefer, his executive officer on Yorktown, was promoted to captain and became Buckmaster's chief of staff. Under Buckmaster's direction the Navy's first formal Flight Training Manuals were printed in two versions: "No.1 C.A.A.-W.T.S. ELEMENTARY" and "No. 2 PRIMARY". Both versions were printed by LA RUE in Kansas City (20,000 Sept 1943). The period from early 1942 through 1944 saw a rapid expansion of the navy's flight training operations ending in 1944 with the formation of the Naval Air Training Command at Naval Air Station Pensacola under the command of Rear Admiral George D. Murray, USN.

In 1945, Admiral Buckmaster served as Commander, Western Carolines Operating Area, On August 2 he spearheaded shore based operations in the rescue of 317 survivors of USS Indianapolis after her loss to enemy action.

Vice Admiral Buckmaster died in Coronado, California, on October 10, 1976, and was buried at San Diego's Holy Cross Roman Catholic Cemetery alongside his wife, Josie Haizlip Buckmaster (1892–1974)

References

1889 births
1976 deaths
Military personnel from New York City
American Roman Catholics
United States Naval Aviators
United States Navy vice admirals
United States Naval Academy alumni
United States Navy personnel of World War I
United States Navy World War II admirals
Recipients of the Navy Distinguished Service Medal
Recipients of the Navy and Marine Corps Medal
Battle of Midway
 People from Charlottesville, Virginia