[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Caoimhe Butterly

ter being shot, Butterly, who had by then spent more than a year standing in the path of Israeli tanks and troops, refused to leave: "I'm going nowhere. I am staying until this occupation ends. I have the right to be here, a responsibility to be here. So does anyone who knows what is going on here."

Iraq War
Before the 2003 invasion of Iraq, Butterly campaigned against the Irish government's decision to allow the United States military to use Shannon Airport. She was initially a signatory to the Pitstop Ploughshares action that disabled a US warplane at Shannon in February 2003, but decided ultimately not to participate out of a desire to travel to Iraq in solidarity with civilians there. At a 2003 Belfast summit between US President George W. Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair, Butterly was arrested and dragged away by her hair for smearing red jam on the riot shields of two policemen. "There is no such thing as a benign occupation" she says. "It's time to focus again on what is happening in Baghdad."

Stay in Beirut
After the 2006 war in Lebanon, British Prime Minister Tony Blair went on a political trip to the Middle East for meetings with leaders of the region. A feeling of anger against the British Prime Minister was mounting in Lebanon, in relation to his stance during the war, his refusal to call for an immediate ceasefire and his aligning of his policies with those of America President George W. Bush in support of the Israeli military operation. Butterly interrupted Blair's press conference with the Lebanese Prime Minister Fouad Siniora, accusing Blair of complicity in the recent Israeli bombardment of Lebanon. "This visit is an insult", "Shame on you Tony Blair" Butterly shouted as Siniora and Blair spoke at Siniora's office complex. She held a banner saying "Boycott Israeli apartheid" in front of live TV cameras, until security guards holding her by arms and legs carried her out. Blair and Siniora stood quietly as she shouted.

Iain Hook incident
In 2005, she gave written eyewitness testimony in the inquest into the killing of UNRWA relief works project manager Iain Hook by an Israeli military sniper.  Butterly was also shot in the foot during this incident.

Gaza flotilla raid
Butterly was aboard a flotilla bringing relief supplies to Gaza during the Gaza flotilla raid on 31 May 2010.

In the aftermath of the 2010 earthquake in Haiti, she worked with mobile phone healthcare clinics and psycho-social projects there. She later returned to third level education in her early 30s, completing Masters in Development Studies and in Systemic Pschotherapy.

Current work 
Following 15 years working with humanitarian and rights projects in the Middle East, Butterly returned to Ireland. She is based in Dublin, though continues to work with trauma-informed psycho-social support programmes and Search and Rescue response with refugees in Greece, Calais, Italy, Lebanon and the Central Mediterranean. She also lectures and works in critical Development Education and writes for various refugee-related publications

See also
 List of peace activists

References

External links
Front line life of an Irish peace crusader
Interview with Caoimhe Butterly Dec. 2007

1978 births
Living people
Catholic Workers
Irish women activists
Second Intifada casualties
Women human rights activists
Irish pacifists