[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Hong Kong Metropolitan University

O Tsuen Ye
11th session (2018–2019): Faye WONG Kai Laam
12th session (2019–2020): Faye WONG Kai Laam (left the post in Angust 2019)/ Michael Kwok Tsz Tat (assumed office in September 2019)

The Current Chairperson of the Union Council:
13th session (2020–2021): Paul YEUNG Chun Hei

General Meetings 

A general meeting is an authority second to a general polling only. The Union Council should hold an annual general meeting in the first month (starting from April)of each session and the general meeting must be called within 7 to 21 days from a resolution made by the Union Council. At the general meeting, the Union of the previous session shall present its working report and financial report; the Union Council of the current session shall present its budget plan and the Executive Committee and the Editorial Board shall present their year plans and budget plans. Not less than 7 days notice of a general meeting shall be given, and notice shall be given by posting the same on the Union notice board in the campus of OUHK and sending the same by electronic means to members. The quorum of a general meeting will be not less than 100 members personally present. Where the quorum is not reached half an hour before the time appointed for conducting the meeting, the Chairperson shall declare the meeting flopped and may call another meeting again within 14 days. If the adjourned meeting still flops, the motion shall be withdrawn.

Upon a resolution of the Union Council being carried or upon the written requisition of not less than 100 Members, the Union Council shall, as regards the purpose indicated in the relevant resolution or the relevant requisition, call an emergency general meeting, which meeting must be conducted within 7 to 21 days from the day of the resolution or the requisition.

General Polling

A general polling is a means of the members of the Union to resolve issues by way of polling. A general polling is the highest authority of the Union. Upon the resolution of the Union Council being carried or upon the written requisition of not less than 500 members, the Union Council shall conduct a general polling as regards the purpose indicated in the relevant resolution or the relevant requisition, which general polling must be conducted within 7 to 21 days from the day of the resolution or the requisition. The valid votes cast is no less than 1/15 of the total members of the Union. The result of General Polling shall not be valid and the motion shall be deemed to have withdrawn if the number of votes cast is less than 1/15 of the total membership of the Union. A motion of a general polling shall only be carried by 1/2 or above affirmative vote of all the total votes for the motion.

Affiliated Societies 
An Affiliated Body means an organisation of members undertaking extra-curricular activities within the context of OUHK, the constitution of which provides that its membership is open to OUHK students and for its office bearers to be annually elected by its members. As of March 2021, there are 34 student societies for both distance learning and full-time programme students to join.

Programme-related societies (School of Arts and Social Sciences):
Animation and Visual Effects Society
Chinese Society
Cinematic Design and Photographic Digital Art Society
Creative Advertising and Media Design Society
Creative Writing and Film Arts Society
Psychology Society

Programme-related societies (Lee Shau Kee School of Business and Administration):
Student Association of Business and Administration
Accounting Society
Business Management Society
Hospitality and Tourism Management Society
Sports and Recreation Management Society

Programme-related societies (School of Education and Languages):
Applied Chinese Languages Studies Society
English Studies Society

Programme-related societies (School of Nursing and Health Studies):
Nursing Society

Programme-related societies (School of Science and Technology):
Applied Science and Environmental Studies Society
Computing Society
Engineering Society
Statistics Analysis and Data Science Society
Testing and Certification Society

Cultural Association:
Dancing Society
Drama Society
Japanese Culture Society
Music Society

Independent Club Association:
Chinese Students and Scholars Association
Christian Fellowship
Enactus
Film Society
Rotaract Club
Social Service Society

Sports Association:
Badminton Society
Dragon Boat Society
Rugby Society
Tchoukball Society

Educational TV Programmes