[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Holtun

veyed by IDAEH's Department of Prehispanic and Colonial Monuments (Departamento de Monumentos Prehispánicos y Coloniales) in June and July 1994.  New archaeological investigations were initiated in 2010 by Brigitte Kovacevich and Michael Callaghan of Southern Methodist University.

Research Projects

The first official reconnaissance of the site was performed in 1994 by Erick Ponciano and the first map of the site was created.
In 1998 and 2001 respectively, two field seasons were performed looking for rescuing information from the previous looting practices. The result was a valuable documentation of the site and its archaeological traits, particularly the masks at the building facades and the Chultuns.  The seasons were performed by personnel of Yaxhá project from the National Institute of Anthropology and History of Guatemala, and conducted by Vilma Fialko.
In 2010 the first season of Holtun Archaeological Project, with the support of Southern Methodist University , perform the first field season. During this season, personnel of the project did an exhaustive reconnaissance and surveying, creating a new map of the site. During the 2011 season, the project perform test pits in the plazas with the objective of collecting information to understand the ceramic sequence of the site. Also, the excavations pursued to understand the settlement pattern through the study of architectonic modifications in the plazas.  The season of 2012 consisted in the analysis of materials collected during the previous season, particularly ceramics, Obsidian and carbon samples for Radiocarbon dating.  During the next season in 2014, new test pits were done and the mapping project incorporates new land segments and archaeological traits.  During this season, soil samples were taken to understand the chemical composition of the floors at the plazas through X-ray fluorescence analysis.

Mapping
 
Holtun has been mapped three times since the first reconnaissance in 1994. The first version of the map was created in 1994 as part of the first approaching to the site. The first survey reported 86 structures which were organized in four groups named with the literals A, B, C and D. The second map was created by the "Proyecto de Sitios Arqueológicos de Petén" (PROSIAPETEN). It was a revision of the original map which resulted in the identification of 115 structures organized in 14 major groups.  The third map version was created by the Holtun Archaeological Project, which began the research in 2010. The project have been supported by the Department of Anthropology of Southern Methodist University . The map has been updated over three different mapping season, with the result of more than 200 structures identified and more than 27 chultuns.

Site description
The sites consists of about 115 structures distributed largely along a north–south axis according to the local topography, with six architectural groups. The four principal groups are located upon hilltops, with two other groups in dry lower areas not subject to seasonal flooding. The four main groups have been labelled A–D by archaeologists.

Group A
This group is the largest group at the site, located at the extreme northern end.

Structure A-1 is a massive basal platform that measures  and stands  high. Standing upon this platform is another, smaller platform (A-2) and two structures (A-3 and A-7). These two structures flank a patio with a surface area of approximately . The smaller upper platform supports three further structures laid out around a patio with an area of . The whole complex faced southwards and has been identified as a Late Preclassic triadic pyramid structure.

Structure A-2 is smaller platform standing upon Structure A-1. It measures  by  high and is decorated with two large  masks on its south face, fashioned from stone and stucco. These masks were revealed by an enormous looters' trench and gave rise to the name of the site. One of the masks is anthropomorphic and the other zoomorphic, although both have jaguar features.

Structure A-2 supports 3 additional structures (A-4, A-5 and A-6).

Structure A-3 is a mound on the south side of the main platform, it is flanked by structure A-7 and the two together limit access to the platform.

Structure A-4 stands upon the upper platform and measures approximately  high.

Structure A-5 is another structure standing upon the upper platform. It measures approximately  high.

Structure A-6 also stands upon the upper platform and measures approximately  high.

Structure A-7 is another mound on the south side of the main platform, it is flanked by structure A-3 and the two together limit access to the platform.

Structure A-8 is a large pyramid  south of Structure A-1. It measures  and supports a number of smaller structures (A-9 through to A-20) enclosing a courtyard with an area of . The structures have an average base width of  and an average height of  high.

Structure A-9 is the largest building standing on Structure A-8.