[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sagat Singh

nd given command of India's only parachute brigade, the elite 50th Parachute Brigade at Agra. This was unprecedented as command of the brigade is not given to non-para officers. At the age of 42, he immediately earned his maroon beret and his Parachutist badge by making the required number of jumps.

Liberation of Goa
In late November 1961, Singh was summoned to the Military Operations directorate at Army HQ for the planning of the liberation of Goa. The force consisted of 17th Infantry Division, led by Major General Kunhiraman Palat Candeth, which was to move into Goa from the East and 50 Parachute Brigade which was tasked to execute a subsidiary thrust from the North. Gen Candeth was in overall command of the force. The para brigade had two battalions (1 Para and 2 Para) and it was planned that one battalion would be para-dropped. 2 Para was moved to Begumpet Air Force Station for this purpose. The brigade moved from Agra on 2 December and reached Belgaum by 6 December where Singh established the brigade HQ. Since the brigade has only 2 battalions 2nd battalion Sikh Light Infantry (2 Sikh LI) which was in Madras was also allotted. The brigade received armoured elements as well - the 7th Light Cavalry with its Stuart tanks and a squadron of 8th Light Cavalry which had AMX-13 tanks.

Hostilities at Goa began at 09:45 on 17 December 1961, when a unit of Indian troops attacked and occupied the town of Maulinguém in the north east, killing two Portuguese soldiers. On the morning of 18 December, Singh moved the brigade into Goa in three columns:

 The eastern column comprised the 2 Para advanced towards the town of Ponda in central Goa via Usgão.
 The central column consisting of the 1 Para advanced towards Panaji via the village of Banastari.
 The western column—the main thrust of the attack—comprised the 2 Sikh LI as well as an armoured division which crossed the border at 06:30 and advanced on Tivim.

Although the 50th Para Brigade was charged with merely assisting the main thrust conducted by the 17th Infantry Division, its units moved rapidly across minefields, roadblocks and four riverine obstacles to be the first to reach the capital of Goa, Panjim on 19 December 1961. The brigade achieved objectives much beyond its initial purview. On entering the capital, Singh ordered his troops to remove their steel helmets and wear the Parachute Regiment’s maroon berets.

The brigade was in Goa till June 1962. After moving back to Agra, Singh led the brigade for another year-and-a-half, until January 1964. He was selected to attend the prestigious National Defence College (NDC). He joined the 4th NDC course and graduated in January 1965. He was then appointed Brigadier General Staff (BGS) at HQ XI Corps at Jalandhar.

General Officer
After a short stint as BGS, in July 1965, Singh was promoted to the rank of major general and appointed general officer commanding (GOC) 17 Mountain Division, the division which had participated in the Goa operations. The division had since moved to Sikkim and was on the Indo-China border. During this stint, the Nathu La and Cho La clashes took place, where 17 Mountain Division achieved "decisive tactical advantage" and defeated the Chinese forces in these clashes.

In December 1967, Singh was appointed GOC 101 Communication Zone in Shillong. The formation was involved in operations in the Mizo Hills. He immediately set out to build the formation's capabilities in intelligence gathering and counter-insurgency. During this stint, on 26 January 1970, Singh was awarded the Param Vishisht Seva Medal for distinguished service of the most exceptional order. 

After a stint of three years as GOC 101 Communication zone, Singh was promoted to the rank of lieutenant general and took over the command of IV Corps in December 1970

Indo-Pakistani War of 1971
During the Bangladesh Liberation War in  1971, the corps made the famous advance to Dhaka over the River Meghna. 
Lt Gen Sagat Singh also conceptualised the Indian Army's first heliborne operation in the Battle of Sylhet
He witnessed in Dhaka the signing of the surrender instrument by General Niazi.

For his leadership and command for the race to Dhaka,  the Government of India honored Lt. Gen. Sagat Singh with the third highest civilian award of Padma Bhushan. Lt. Gen. Sagat Singh is the only other Corps commander besides Lt. Gen. (later Gen. and COAS) T N Raina and Lt. Gen. Sartaj Singh to be so awarded in 1971.

Lt. Gen. Sagat Singh died at the Army Hospital Research and Referral, New Delhi on 26 September 2001.