[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Centre for Human Rights and Democratic Development

nflicts expanded after Braun was joined on the board by David Matas. After the Durban controversy, board members protested funding to three groups, accusing two of having links to terrorism and the other of being unworthy of funding (one Israeli and two Palestinian) – Al-Haq, Al Mazen, and B'Tselem.

Following a particularly hostile board meeting in January 2010, Beauregard died of a heart attack, and board members Sima Samar, Payam Akhavan and Guido Riveros resigned. Riveros wrote an extensive public letter demanding Braun's resignation. Subsequently 45 of the centre's 47 staff (some of them hired during Beauregard's tenure) called for Braun's resignation, accusing him of "a pattern of harassment". Suggesting a conspiracy that resulted in the heart attack, four hold-over members of the board requested "a full investigation of the circumstances surrounding Mr. Beauregard's death, with a focus on the role and conduct of the board". A Report of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Canadian House of Commons recommended a number of reforms in the Board of Directors of Rights and Democracy and found several aspects of the controversy "unclear and disputed". It nonetheless included among its recommendations that "current Board of Rights and Democracy issue an apology to Mr. Beauregard's family for any statements damaging his reputation."

Closure
In April 2012, the Canadian government announced that it was closing down R&D and would transfer the organization's functions to the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade. It stated that the closure was due to the controversies surrounding the agency.

Foreign Affairs Minister John Baird said, "For some time, the many challenges of the International Centre for Human Rights and Democratic Development, also known as Rights & Democracy, have been well publicized. It is time to put these past challenges behind us and move forward."

Presidents 
Rights & Democracy's chief executive was its president, appointed by the government. Seven presidents held office during the organization's history:
 Ed Broadbent, 1988–1996
 Warren Allmand, 1997–2002
 Jean-Louis Roy, 2002–2007
 Jean-Paul Hubert (interim), November 2007–July 2008
 Rémy Beauregard, July 2008–January 2010
 Jacques Gauthier (interim) January–March 2010 
 Gérard Latulippe, March 2010–July 2012

References

External links  
 https://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/politics/the-rights-and-democracy-twist/article1314283/
 Former official website via Archive.org
 Getting it Right Human Rights Impact Assessment Guide
 Maclean's article on internal troubles
 Radio documentary from CBC Radio's The Current on Rights and Democracy's internal strife: Part I Part II
 Sourcewatch article
 The Politics of Canadian Government Funding for Advocacy NGOs, Gerald M. Steinberg and Steven Seligman, February 01, 2012
 Rights and Democracy annual reports

International human rights organizations
Organizations established in 1988
Organizations disestablished in 2012