[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stephen Decatur Trenchard

ssistance despite the United States's neutrality in the conflict. Soon after, when the United States concluded a treaty with China, Trenchard was part of Ambassador John Elliot Ward's retinue that traveled to Peking where treaties were formally exchanged. Powhatan then returned to the United States.

Civil War
On April 19, 1861, shortly after the start of the Civil War, Trenchard was given command of the gunboat  at Philadelphia. From there he sailed to Norfolk Navy Yard, arriving there to find it in flames, as Union forces destroyed everything before the Confederates could capture it. Confederate forces had already sunk several vessels to block the channel, and the frigate  was in great danger, but Keystone State succeeded in towing her to safety. Flag Officer Hiram Paulding then transferred his flag to the Keystone State and proceeded to Washington.

Supply ship commander
On June 19, 1861, Trenchard was given command of the supply ship , formerly the Eagle, a 236-foot side-wheel steamer built for the Charleston Line. Eight  guns were installed, while her bows were heavily plated with iron. An ice-house and other fittings were also added to her at the Brooklyn Navy Yard.

Between July 1861 and November 1862 Rhode Island made nine voyages, operating between either New York or Philadelphia and the Gulf of Mexico, carrying supplies of food, guns, powder and ammunition to ships on blockade, and transporting officers to their ships, and prisoners or sick or injured men to shore. She also captured the Confederate schooner Venus, laden with lead, copper, tin, and wool, in December 1861.

Trenchard was promoted to commander on July 16, 1862.

With the capture of New Orleans, Pensacola, Port Royal, Fernandina, and other southern ports by the Union in 1861–62, it became easier for the blockading squadrons to obtain fresh supplies, and only one steamer was considered necessary to maintain the service. The Rhode Island was therefore refitted in Boston as a gunboat, and rearmed with eight 8-inch broadside guns, a 3-pounder Parrott gun, a rifled 12-pounder Dahlgren gun, and an 8-inch Dahlgren aft. Her complement also was increased.

Gunboat commander

Rhode Island left Boston on December 5, 1862, on her maiden cruise as a gunboat. Trenchard's first important duty was to tow the ironclad  from Hampton Roads to Port Royal. Unfortunately, during the night the weather deteriorated, and the Monitor broached and sank. Trenchard sent his ships boats and saved most of the crew. On January 12, 1863, Rhode Island left Hampton Roads with the monitor  in tow for Port Royal, arriving safely.

Trenchard was then ordered to join the search for the Confederate cruisers  and . Trenchard pursued several suspicious vessels between Hampton Roads and Havana, then in company with  patrolled the Bahama Banks. Trenchard captured the Cronstadt, a blockade-runner from Wilmington bound for Nassau, Bahamas, with a cargo of cotton, tobacco, and turpentine on August 16. From November 1863 until March 1864, the Rhode Island was engaged in escorting mail-steamers in the West Indies. Finally ordered home, during her cruise she had boarded more than fifty vessels.

In October 1864 Trenchard was ordered to tow the new monitor  from Boston Navy Yard to Norfolk, Virginia, accompanied by the  and the Little Addie. Another serious loss was averted after the tow-line parted in a gale and the ships ran for shelter in Holmes's Hole, before making Brooklyn Navy Yard. Rhode Island was then detached to sail to Aspinwall, Columbia, to escort the valuable mail-steamer Costa Rica from there back to New York. Rhode Island then remained at New York anchored in the East River opposite Wall Street, having her guns trained so as to protect Government properties from the threat of mob violence.

On November 22, 1864, Rhode Island departed New York, and a few days later, in company with , captured the British blockade-runner Vixen. On December 24 Rhode Island took part in the failed attack on Fort Fisher, returning the next day to embark troops from the shore. Rhode Island resumed blockade duty, and prepared for the second attack which was a success. On the first day, January 13, 1865, Rhode Island was heavily engaged with Confederate batteries, and landed artillery for the army on the 14th and 15th, when the fort fell. In March Trenchard was ordered to take Rhode Island to Belfast, Maine, in order to recruit men for the Navy, and was there when the war ended in April 1865.

Post-war career
In June 1865 Trenchard was appointed senior officer of the convoy service fleet, based at Cap-Haïtien, and was promoted to the rank of captain in July, then served as executive officer of the Brooklyn Navy Yard in 1866–69. On September 9, 1865, he fell overboard while attempting to assist a ferryboat which had collided with another vessel. One of his men, Seaman John Taylor, rescued him from the water, for which Taylor was later awarded the Medal of Honor.