[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lithuania in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006

k before their airdates. "We Are the Winners" performed by LT United was selected as the winner after gaining the most votes from the public. In addition to the performances of the competing entries, No Money, Žuvėdra and 2005 Moldovan Eurovision entrants Zdob și Zdub performed as the interval acts.

At Eurovision
According to Eurovision rules, all nations with the exceptions of the host country, the "Big Four" (France, Germany, Spain and the United Kingdom) and the 10 highest placed finishers in the 2005 contest are required to qualify from the semi-final on 18 May 2006 in order to compete for the final on 20 May 2006; the top 10 countries from the semi-final progress to the final. On 21 March 2006, an allocation draw was held which determined the running order for the semi-final and Lithuania was set to perform in position 18, following the entry from the Netherlands and before the entry from Portugal. At the end of the show, Lithuania was announced as having finished in the top 10 and subsequently qualifying for the grand final. This marked the first qualification to the final for Lithuania since the introduction of semi-finals in 2004. It was later revealed that Lithuania placed fifth in the semi-final, receiving a total of 163 points. The draw for the running order for the final was done by the presenters during the announcement of the 10 qualifying countries during the semi-final and Lithuania was drawn to perform in position 14, following the entry from Bosnia and Herzegovina and before the entry from the United Kingdom. Lithuania placed sixth in the final, scoring 162 points. Despite achieving the nation's best result to date, the entry received mixed reactions and was one of the few Eurovision songs to get booed at the contest.

The semi-final and final were broadcast in Lithuania on LTV with commentary by Darius Užkuraitis. The Lithuanian spokesperson, who announced the Lithuanian votes during the final, was Lavija Šurnaitė.

Voting 
Below is a breakdown of points awarded to Lithuania and awarded by Lithuania in the semi-final and grand final of the contest. The nation awarded its 12 points to Russia in the semi-final and the final of the contest.

Points awarded to Lithuania

Points awarded by Lithuania

References

2006
Countries in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006
Eurovision