[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Zuzanna Ginczanka

the "Jewish things" (rzeczy żydowskie; line 6)  Ginczanka's personal effects that will now be looted by her betrayer, the thirty pieces of Jewish silver earned by (and in ethnic contrast with) this particular kiss of an Aryan Judas  that takes Ginczanka out of the sphere of realisation of her dream.

Aftermath
In January 1946 on charges of collaborationism Zuzanna Ginczanka's betrayer before the Nazis, Zofja Chomin, and her son Marjan Chomin were arrested and tried in a court of law. Ginczanka's poem "Non omnis moriar" formed part of the evidence against them.  (This is considered by many scholars to be the only instance in the annals of juridical history of a poem being entered in evidence in a criminal trial.)  According to the article which appeared in the newspaper Express Wieczorny of 5 July 1948 (page 2), Zofja Chomin, the concierge in the building (in the ulica Jabłonowskich № 8a) where Ginczanka lived in Lwów, was sentenced to four years' imprisonment for betraying Ginczanka's identity to the Nazis  the poem "Non omnis moriar" again being cited in the writ of the sentence  while her son was acquitted.  Zofja Chomin's defence before the court were to be her words, intended to refute the charge of collaborationism: "I knew of only one little Jewess in hiding..." (znałam tylko jedną żydóweczkę ukrywającą się...).  An account of these events is given in a study by Agnieszka Haska (see Bibliography).

Remembrance

Despite the quality of her poetry, Ginczanka was ignored and forgotten in postwar Poland, as communist censors deemed her work to be undesirable. Renewed interest and recognition of her work emerged only after the collapse of communism.

She is the subject of a moving poem by Sydor Rey, entitled "Smak słowa i śmierci" (The Taste of the Word and of Death) and published in 1967, which ends: "I will know at the furthermost confines | The taste of your death".  Another poem in her honour is the composition "Zuzanna Ginczanka" by Dorota Chróścielewska (19481996).

In 1987, poet Józef Łobodowski published a collection of poems in memory of Ginczanka entitled Pamięci Sulamity. In 1991, after Poland regained independence, a volume of her collected poems was published. Izolda Kiec published two books devoted to Ginczanka: a biography entitled Zuzanna Ginczanka. Życie i twórczość (Zuzanna Ginczanka. Life and Works) in 1994 and Ginczanka. Nie upilnuje mnie nikt in 2020.

In 2001, Agata Araszkiewicz, published a book Wypowiadam wam moje życie. Melancholia Zuzanny Ginczanki (I Am Expressing to You My Life: The Melancholy of Zuzanna Ginczanka).

In 2003, poet Maciej Woźniak, dedicated a poem to her in his collection of poems Obie strony światła (Both Sides of Light). In 2015, the Museum of Literature in Warsaw hosted an exhibition Tylko szczęście jest prawdziwym życiem (Only Happiness Is Real Life) devoted to the works of Ginczanka.

In 2017, on the centenary of Ginczanka's birth, a commemorative plaque was unveiled on a tenement house on Mikołajska Street in Kraków where she was in hiding during her stay in the city. The same year, Marek Kazmierski translated and published the first book of her work in English. In 2019, Jarosław Mikołajewski published a book Cień w cień. Za cieniem Zuzanny Ginczanki which deals with her life and literary legacy.

In 2021, Hanna Kubiak and Bernhard Hofstötter published the first German edition of works by Ginczanka.

Publications
 O centaurach (1936)
 Wiersze wybrane (1953)
 Zuzanna Ginczanka [: wiersze] (1980)
 "Non omnis moriar" (before 1990)
 Udźwignąć własne szczęście (1991)
 Krzątanina mglistych pozorów: wiersze wybrane = Un viavai di brumose apparenze: poesie scelte (2011; bilingual edition: text in Polish and Italian)
 Von Zentauren und weitere ausgewählte Gedichte (2021; German edition; ISBN 978-3347232334)

Translation
Vladimir Mayakovsky, Wiersze, translated into Polish by Zuzanna Ginczanka (1940)