[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Statements in response to the 11 July 2006 Mumbai train bombings

ates stands with the people and government of India". The State Department issued a statement stating that they "condemn these attacks in the strongest possible terms", calling them  "senseless acts of violence designed to strike at those innocent people who were just going about their daily lives".

Oceania
 :  Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said "This senseless slaughter of innocent civilians reinforces the continuing importance of strong international resolve to confront the threat posed by terrorism wherever it threatens our communities." The Prime Minister John Howard also released a statement: "It is a reminder because it has occurred in India, it's a reminder that no country is immune from the possibility of terrorist attacks."

South America
 : A document issued by the Venezuelan foreign ministry stated: "We have received the terrible news of this tragedy that today brings mourning to hundreds of families of Indian and other nationalities. The Venezuelan government and people call for peace and calm to return to the noble people of Gandhi".

World organizations
Commonwealth of Nations: Secretary-General Don McKinnon issued a statement saying, ""These dreadful events once again remind us that the international community needs to stand together and remain resolute in fighting terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, wherever it exists. Let me assure you of the Commonwealth’s shared sense of concern and unwavering solidarity with you and your government at this time. May I also convey the heartfelt condolences of all Commonwealth governments and myself personally to all those who have been injured, bereaved or otherwise affected by yesterday’s events."
: Secretary-General Kofi Annan "The bombings in Mumbai and the grenade attacks in Srinagar increase the urgency of coordinated action by all countries to defeat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, committed by whomever, whenever, wherever and for whatever purpose."

Statements from militant groups
The Lashkar-e-Toiba and Hizb-ul-Mujahideen militant groups have condemned the blasts and rejected suggestions that they are behind the attacks. A spokesman for the Lashkar-e-Toiba group described the bombings as "inhuman" and "barbaric". It should, however be noted that these groups have reduced direct attacks on the establishment of late and have started providing intelligence and arms to splinter groups and sympathetic organisations like SIMI to carry out similar deadly attacks. 

A spokesman of Al Qaeda told CNS that the Al Qaeda Jammu and Kashmir chief Abu Abdur Rahman Ansari has "expressed happiness over the Mumbai serial blasts and appreciated those who carried out these attacks." He further stated that Al Qaeda had established itself in Jammu and Kashmir.

References

Terrorist incidents in India in 2006