[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brain mapping

rucial to understanding traumatic brain injuries (as in the case of Phineas Gage) and improving brain injury treatment.

Following a series of meetings, the International Consortium for Brain Mapping (ICBM) evolved.  The ultimate goal is to develop flexible computational brain atlases.

Achievements

The interactive and citizen science website Eyewire maps mices' retinal cells and was launched in 2012. In 2021, the most comprehensive 3D map of the human brain was published by an U.S. IT company. It shows neurons and their connections along with blood vessels and other components of a millionth of a brain. For the map, the 1 mm³ sized fragment was sliced into over 5 000 nanometers-thin pieces which were scanned with an electron microscope. The interactive map required 1.4 petabytes of storage-space. About two months later, scientists reported that they created the first complete neuron-level-resolution 3D map of a monkey brain which they scanned via a new method within 100 hours. They made only a fraction of the 3D map publicly available as the entire map takes more than 1 petabyte of storage space even when compressed.

In October 2021, the BRAIN Initiative Cell Census Network (BICCN) concluded the first phase of a long-term project to generate an atlas of the entire mouse (mammalian) brain with 17 studies, including an atlas and census of cell types in the primary motor cortex.

Brain development 

In 2021, the first connectome that shows how an animal's brain changes throughout its lifetime was reported. Scientists mapped and compared the whole brains of eight isogenic C. elegans worms, each at a different stage of development. Later that year, scientists combined electron microscopy and brainbow imaging to show for the first time the development of a mammalian neural circuit. They reported the complete wiring diagrams between the CNS and muscles of ten individual mice.

Vision 
In August 2021, scientists of the MICrONS program, launched in 2016, published a functional connectomics dataset that "contains calcium imaging of an estimated 75,000 neurons from primary visual cortex (VISp) and three higher visual areas (VISrl, VISal and VISlm), that were recorded while a mouse viewed natural movies and parametric stimuli". Based on this data they also published "interactive visualizations of anatomical and functional data that span all 6 layers of mouse primary visual cortex and 3 higher visual areas (LM, AL, RL) within a cubic millimeter volume" – the MICrONS Explorer.

Brain regeneration 
In 2022, a first spatiotemporal cellular atlas of the axolotl brain development and regeneration, the interactive Axolotl Regenerative Telencephalon Interpretation via Spatiotemporal Transcriptomic Atlas , revealed key insights about axolotl brain regeneration.

Current Atlas tools 
 Talairach Atlas, 1988
 Harvard Whole Brain Atlas, 1995
 MNI Template, 1998 (The standard template of SPM and International Consortium for Brain Mapping)
 Atlas of the Developing Human Brain, 2012
 Infant Brain Atlas, 2023

Full SBMT definition 

Brain mapping is the study of the anatomy and function of the brain and spinal cord through the use of imaging (including intra-operative, microscopic, endoscopic and multi-modality imaging), immunohistochemistry, molecular & optogenetics, stem cell and cellular biology, engineering (material, electrical and biomedical), neurophysiology and nanotechnology.

See also 

 Outline of brain mapping
 Outline of the human brain
 Brain Mapping Foundation
 BrainMaps Project
 Center for Computational Biology
 Connectogram
 FreeSurfer
 Human Connectome Project
 IEEE P1906.1
 List of neuroscience databases
 Map projection
 Neuroimaging software
 Whole brain emulation
 Topographic map (neuroanatomy)
 Society for Brain Mapping and Therapeutics
 Computational anatomy

References

Further reading 
 Rita Carter (1998). Mapping the Mind.
 F.J. Chen (2006). Brain Mapping And Language
 F.J. Chen (2006). Focus on Brain Mapping Research.
 F.J. Chen (2006). Trends in Brain Mapping Research.
 F.J. Chen (2006). Progress in Brain Mapping Research.
 Koichi Hirata (2002). Recent Advances in Human Brain Mapping: Proceedings of the 12th World Congress of the International Society for Brain Electromagnetic Topography (ISBET 2001).
 Konrad Maurer and Thomas Dierks (1991). Atlas of Brain Mapping: Topographic Mapping of Eeg and Evoked Potentials.
 Konrad Maurer (1989). Topographic Brain Mapping of Eeg and Evoked Potentials.
 Arthur W. Toga and John C. Mazziotta (2002). Brain Mapping: The Methods.
 Tatsuhiko Yuasa, James Prichard and S. Ogawa (1998). Current Progress in Functional Brain Mapping: Science and Applications.

Neurophysiology
Neuroimaging
Neurosurgery
Bioinformatics