[Source: PubMed]

54. Soc Psychiatry Psychiatr Epidemiol. 2023 May;58(5):757-768. doi: 
10.1007/s00127-022-02419-3. Epub 2023 Jan 12.

A house is not a home: a network model perspective on the dynamics between 
subjective quality of living conditions, social support, and mental health of 
refugees and asylum seekers.

Schilz L(1), Kemna S(1), Karnouk C(1), Böge K(1), Lindheimer N(1), Walther L(1), 
Mohamad S(1), Suboh A(1), Hasan A(2), Höhne E(3), Banaschewski T(4), Plener 
P(5)(6), Strupf M(7), Hahn E(1), Bajbouj M(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charité - Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Campus Benjamin Franklin, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics, Medical Faculty, 
University of Augsburg, BKH Ausgburg, Augsburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Philipps-University Marburg, 
Marburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Central 
Institute of Mental Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, 
Mannheim, Germany.
(5)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Medical University Vienna, 
Vienna, Austria.
(6)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University 
of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital LMU, Munich, 
Germany.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charité - Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Campus Benjamin Franklin, Berlin, Germany. malek.bajbouj@charite.de.

BACKGROUND: Providing adequate living conditions for forcibly displaced people 
represents a significant challenge for host countries such as Germany. This 
study explores refugee mental health's reciprocal, dynamic relationship with 
post-migration living conditions and social support.
METHODS: The study sample included 325 Arabic- or Farsi-speaking asylum seekers 
and refugees residing in Germany since 2014 and seeking mental health treatment. 
Associations between reported symptoms of post-traumatic stress and depression 
and the subjective quality of living conditions and perceived social support 
were analyzed using a two-level approach including multiple linear regression 
and network analyses.
RESULTS: Post-migration quality of living conditions and perceived social 
support were significantly associated with negative mental health outcomes on 
both levels. In the network, both post-migration factors were negatively 
connected with overlapping symptoms of psychiatric disorders, representing 
potential target symptoms for psychological treatment.
CONCLUSION: Post-migration quality of living conditions and social support are 
important factors for refugee mental health and should be targeted by various 
actors fostering mental well-being and integration.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00127-022-02419-3
PMCID: PMC10097787
PMID: 36633630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. Alkomiet Hasan received paid 
speakership from Janssen, Otsuka, Lundbeck, Rovi, and Recordati and was member 
of advisory boards for these companies. He is the editor of the WFBSP and German 
guidelines for schizophrenia. He reports no COI with regard to the topic of this 
report. Paul Plener received speaker’s honorarium from Shire, Gerrot Lannach, 
Infectopharm, and Oral B. He received an advisory honorarium from 
Boehringer-Ingelheim. He receives royalties from Hogrefe Publishers.