[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Daniel Fried

d it is those people who we are asking Europeans to take a look at." As of September 16, 2009, Hungary, France, Ireland and Portugal, Palau and Bermuda had formally agreed to take former Guantanamo detainees, and according to Fried, France, Spain, Italy and Belgium had detainees under consideration.

On January 28, 2013 Charlie Savage, writing in The New York Times reported that Fried would be reassigned, and wrote that according to: "...an internal personnel announcement ... no senior official in President Obama’s second term will succeed Mr. Fried."
His duties would be added to those of the senior counsel in the State Department. Savage speculated that the termination of Fried's office was a sign that the Obama administration did not see closure of the prison as realistic.

However, approximately five months later, the Obama administration appointed a new special envoy, Washington lawyer Clifford Sloan, to fill the chief diplomatic role, working in close coordination with a Pentagon-based counterpart, Paul Lewis.

On February 8, 2018, Fried delivered the keynote address at the 21st Johns Hopkins University Model United Nations Conference (JHUMUNC XXI).

Positions

Fried, who has admitted that "for eight years, first in the Bush administration, then in the Obama administration, I helped draft the U.S. government’s annual statements on that remembrance," opposed the recognition of the Armenian genocide during the U. S. Congressional hearings in March 2007. He stated that the Congressional resolution "would undercut those voices emerging in Turkey who call for a truthful exploration of those events in pursuit of Turkey’s reconciliation with its own past, and with Armenia," and added, "Our fear is that passage of any such resolution would close minds and harden hearts."

In mid-2008, reporter Helene Cooper of The New York Times wrote that an anonymous administration official described Fried as a foreign policy "hawk" on the issue of whether the U.S. should give military aid to the nation of Georgia in its territorial dispute with Russia.

See also
Prunes on Line A Guide To Presidential Appointments
List of czars of the Obama administration

References

External links
Crowley, Michael Prisoner's Dilemma, The New Republic, 2009-06-17.
Al Kamen."No Solidarity for Envoys to Poland", WashingtonPost.com, 2008-03-28.(on the rivalry with Christopher Hill)
Brose, Christian. Dan Fried, real American hero , ForeignPolicy.com, 2009-06-01 (on the difficulty of relocating the prisoners)

|-

|-

|-

1952 births
Living people
American Jews
Cornell University alumni
Ambassadors of the United States to Poland
Clinton administration personnel
George W. Bush administration personnel
Obama administration personnel
Trump administration personnel
Recipients of the Order of the Cross of Terra Mariana, 3rd Class
School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University alumni
United States Assistant Secretaries of State
United States National Security Council staffers
United States Special Envoys
United States Foreign Service personnel