[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hector de Saint-Denys Garneau

tere and sad Garneau [...]". His letters are “both a sort of novel […] and a form of essay". They tell "the story of a life with an intensity, a lucidity and an acuity superior to anything that Garneau's friends or commentators on his work have attempted to do" and this life, "vibrates everywhere.".

Texts in prose
De Saint-Denys Garneau lived intensely, especially in the period from 1929 to 1938, during which he threw himself headlong into writing. Although the influence of short studies in philosophy is felt in his articles and essays (Œuvres en prose), his Journal 1929–1939 and his many Letters, "all his studies would be nothing if de Saint-Denys Garneau had done no work of personal training. For him, the "intellectual" quest is based on the ontological quest [that is to say, on a "search for being"], which embraces the spiritual and artistic adventure" writes the editor of the Works in prose Giselle Huot. Also, "his work cannot be "understood" or [worse] "explained" without giving a large part to the ontological adventure, which is, at least as far as de Saint-Denys Garneau is concerned, the alpha and the omega.".

The distinction between writings intended for publication and private writings hardly works in the case of Garneau: the Works brought together in a first edition of 1,320 pages in 1971 had moreover not been published during the author's lifetime, whether it is the "found" poems, the Journal or the Letters. Biron remarks: "Almost all of Garneau's writings, this is an exceptional fact in the history of modern literature, escapes the public sphere.". For François Hébert, de Saint-Denys Garneau “was able to say the essential in a few words, with a terrifying and admirable authenticity” then, “shut it up, to let us find it again. ».

Yvon Rivard observes: “De Saint-Denys Garneau died at the age of thirty-one, in 1943. Since his death, he has known a long purgatory from which he has been slowly emerging for several years [...] Most writers Québécois preferred to De Saint-Denys Garneau's 'bad poor' (cf. Œuvres in prose, p. 623.) works of revolt, liberation, affirmation. [...] It is understandable that many turned away from this poet who refused all the subterfuges and all the consolations that literature, religion or the nation offered him. De Saint-Denys Garneau does not write to affirm his singularity, he writes to try to find an answer to the only question that matters [...] When he stops publishing, it is not out of revolt or disappointment, it is that silence appeared to him as the only way to be. ".

Diary 1929–1939

Between 1929 and 1939, perhaps later, de Saint-Denys Garneau kept his "Journal" consisting of about seven notebooks. According to François Dumont: "The complete edition of the Journal 1929–1939 raised various obstacles until 2012, in particular censorship and the desire of friends to prune and classify the texts according to their aesthetic principles", while de Saint-Denys Garneau himself would have immediately looked for a disorder in his texts. He adds that: "The diversity of the genres practiced and the literary dimension of several of them mean that the word 'diary' does not reflect its particular nature". In attempting to characterize the forms that de Saint-Denys Garneau experimented with in the notebooks that have come down to us—from self-examination, fiction and the letter, to meditations on art, and poetry: "It emerges from this examination that Garneau progressively linked reflective discourse with the openings offered by poetry and fiction: a dynamic develops between the life summary and the sketch, leading to a form of writing that incorporates various aspects of his Diary”.“I would have liked to say: I am not a person who speaks to you, not a person, this disorderly, dispersed being, without a real center. But I hope you would not be wrong in believing that you can still address the center at some point, a small flame perhaps which persists, a remnant of what was ravaged [...], where perhaps persists the place of a possible hope of not being rejected from the Be-ing itself.” — Journal 1929–1939, January 21, 1939

One notices a unity in the diversity of the forms borrowed by de Saint-Denys Garneau: “At the end of his journey, de Saint-Denys Garneau manages to free himself from literary conventions to find a totalizing form (but always fragmentary) by which poetry and fiction are linked to existence”. Dumont notes that while illustrating "dimensions of the writing of the notebook which transform the usual aims of the diary [...]", the notebooks fall under "an erratic and heuristic form which is undoubtedly closer to the essay such as what Montaigne meant than what the word "essay" has come to designate today".