[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Transformers: The Game

o different sides. Also, the player is able to play a total of 23 characters, including characters from previous generations. Overall the PSP version of the game has the most playable characters out of all versions, and also includes an alternate story, unrelated to that of other versions.

Synopsis

Setting 
The game focuses on the eponymous Transformers, a race of extraterrestrials from the planet Cybertron who resemble robots, and can change their form into various vehicles. The Transformers consist of two factions: the heroic Autobots and the evil Decepticons, that arrived on Earth following a civil war that left their home planet a deserted and lifeless place. Forced to disguise themselves by taking the form of human vehicles, the Transformers soon reenact their past conflict upon learning that the AllSpark, a powerful artifact and the source of all Transformer life, is on Earth. While the Decepticons seek its power to subjugate the Earth, the Autobots attempt to stop them and make peace with mankind. The game features two separate campaigns, one from the Autobots' perspective and the other from the Decepticons', which cross over on several occasions.

Characters

Autobots campaign
The Autobot scout Bumblebee lands on Earth and takes on the form of a yellow Camaro to disguise himself from humans. Upon defeating a group of Decepticon drones, Bumblebee learns that Sam Witwicky has the transformers code and is going to buy a used car, so he transforms into his car form in order to be bought by him. Later, Sam and his girlfriend, Mikaela Banes, are attacked by the Decepticon Barricade, but Bumblebee saves them, defeating Barricade. Afterwards, he is contacted by Autobot leader Optimus Prime, who informs him that Sam is in possession of an artifact which could lead them to the AllSpark and, as such, must be protected at all costs. Optimus and other surviving Autobots - Ironhide, Ratchet, and Jazz - soon land on Earth and assume alternate forms as well (namely a Peterbilt 379, a GMC Topkick, a Hummer H2 Search and Rescue vehicle, and a Pontiac Solstice). After they meet with Bumblebee, Mikaela, and Sam, the latter gives them the artifact -  his grandfather's glasses - and Optimus proceeds to explain to the two humans their mission on Earth: to find the AllSpark and use it to revitalize their homeworld of Cybertron. Ratchet then explains that the Decepticon leader Megatron, trapped in the Arctic, burned the location of the AllSpark in Sam's grandfather's glasses for the Decepticons to find.

After Bumblebee takes on a new alternate form - an improved yellow Camaro - the Autobots' location is detected by the Sector 7 agency and helicopters are sent to capture them. Jazz creates a distraction, allowing the others to escape, but the Autobots are then attacked by another group of Decepticon drones, led by Shockwave. While the Autobots fight the drones, with Optimus defeating Shockwave, Bumblebee, Sam, and Mikaela are captured by Sector 7. Decoding Shockwave's transmissions, the Autobots then discover that Starscream, Megatron's second-in-command, has also learned about the AllSpark and Megatron's whereabouts. Bumblebee, Sam and Mikaela are imprisoned at the Hoover Dam, but the former manages to escape following a power outage. While exploring the base, he stumbles upon the frozen Megatron and the AllSpark. As Megatron partially unfreezes himself, he attacks Bumblebee, who manages to retrieve the AllSpark and escape with Sam and Mikaela. Starscream and Blackout then attack the dam and free Megatron.

Bumblebee, Sam and Mikaela travel to Mission City with the AllSpark, whose power surges transform ordinary machines into feral drones that attack Bumblebee. While Ironhide protects Bumblebee, Jazz defeats Starscream and Blackout, but is then killed by Brawl, who is in turn defeated by Ironhide. Meanwhile, Bumblebee fights Barricade to stop him from taking the AllSpark, but after defeating him, he is quickly subdued by Megatron. Sam and Mikaela flee with the AllSpark and as Optimus intercepts and battles Megataron. The latter is ultimately killed after Optimus takes the AllSpark and rams it into Megatron's chest, destroying both him and the AllSpark. The game ends with the surviving Autobots choosing to remain on Earth and protect it from any potential future threat.