[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# LGBT rights in Iceland

committee of professionals. If the committee determines that a diagnosis of gender dysphoria is appropriate, the National Registry is informed and the applicant chooses a new name to reflect their gender and is issued a new ID. SRS is not required for an official name change and gender recognition.

In June 2019, the Althing voted 45–0 on a bill to implement a self-determination model, similar to numerous European and South American countries. The new law allows transgender individuals to change their legal gender without having to receive a medical and mental disorder diagnosis, or undergo sterilization and sex reassignment surgery. Minors may also change their legal gender with parental consent. Furthermore, the law allows individuals to choose a third gender option known as "X" on official documents. The law went into effect on 1 January 2020, and finally implemented in January 2021. The original bill included a ban on medical interventions performed on intersex children, but this was dropped to increase the chance of passage in the Althing. Instead, a committee was set up to discuss the issue and report within a year.

Access to medical care

Icelandic law on gender affirming healthcare historically was more restrictive, with trans patients having to go through a minimum of one year of psychiatric evaluation before they're allowed to begin hormone therapy or puberty blockers, and three years or more for surgery.

In 2019, however, a bill was passed to allow trans people to access such healthcare by informed consent, eliminating all of the above requirements for access.

Sex education
Since 2016, the town of Hafnarfjörður has included information about same-sex relationships in its eighth grade (age 14–15) sex education lessons.

The Queer Student Association of Iceland organises several social activities, such as field trips, where students of the University of Iceland can discuss and learn about LGBT issues.

Blood donation
In 2014, a man filed a lawsuit against the blood ban, describing the current policy as a clear example of discrimination.

In October 2015, Health Minister Kristján Þór Júlíusson announced his support for regulatory changes to enable MSM in Iceland to donate blood. It has been announced that sometime in the near future, Iceland will allow gay and bisexual men to donate blood.

In September 2021 it was announced that gay and bi men will be able to legally donate blood after a 4-month deferral period. However, as of June 2023, the decision is still not in effect.

Conversion therapy
The Iceland Parliament passed a bill to ban conversion therapy on 9 June 2023, with a vote of 53–0 with 3 abstentions.

Public opinion
A February 2000 Gallup opinion poll showed that 53% of Icelanders supported the right of lesbians and gay men to adopt children, 12% declared their neutrality and 35% were against the right to adopt.

A July 2004 Gallup poll showed that 87% of Icelanders supported same-sex marriage.

In May 2015, PlanetRomeo, an LGBT social network, published its first Gay Happiness Index (GHI). Gay men from over 120 countries were asked about how they feel about society's view on homosexuality, how do they experience the way they are treated by other people and how satisfied are they with their lives. Iceland was ranked first with a GHI score of 79.

Living conditions

Despite its small population, Iceland has a visible gay scene, particularly in the capital Reykjavík, which has a few bars and cafés, and some places with a mixed gay and straight crowd. Elsewhere in Iceland, however, the sparse population means there is almost no gay scene. Akureyri, the biggest city outside the capital area, does not have any gay bars.

Gay pride parades in Iceland are usually held in August, and are among Iceland's biggest annual events. In 2015, about 100,000 attended the Reykjavík Pride event, representing about 30% of the Icelandic population. In 2016, Icelandic President Guðni Th. Jóhannesson participated in the Reykjavík Pride parade, making him the first president to attend a gay pride parade.