[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ali (graffiti artist)

quating the entire hippie generation with lemmings bent on self-destruction. The crew of teenagers made similar comparisons between themselves and the residents of the nearby city zoo. Noting the perversities of contemporary urban psychology, ALI proclaimed New York City itself "not new, but a zoo!"

"Shoot the Pump"
In 1981, as street hip hop and rapping mainstreamed to popular music, ALI formed a band he named J. Walter Negro and the Loose Jointz, featuring himself as frontman J. Walter Negro, "The Playin' Brown Rapper" (songwriter, vocals), Arturo O'Farrill on keyboards (Fender Rhodes, Hammond Organ, Steinway grand piano), Tomás Doncker (guitar, vocals), Leonard K. Seeley (guitar, vocals), H.B. Bennett (drums, vocals), Lonnie D. Hillyer (bass guitar, vocals) and Pablo Calogero (alto and baritone saxophone). Their first single, "Shoot the Pump," was released first under John Hammond's "Zoo York" imprint, and was later produced overseas on Island Records. A conglomeration of rap, hip hop, Latin funk and disco rock, the song features ALI as “Negro” rap-vocalizing about opening a fire hydrant with a monkey wrench and directing the water blast with a can to soak passing cars and pedestrians by "shooting the pump" at them. Police arrive, see him reaching for something and "shoot the punk"; they then close the hydrant and flee the scene of the crime. But crafty Negro survives thanks to a bullet-proof vest, and he heads off to “shoot the pump” again. The act opened for Talking Heads, Blondie and Kid Creole at The Peppermint Lounge and The Mudd Club in downtown Manhattan. The Loose Jointz had an occasional celebrity guest in Jean-Michel Basquiat, a friend of ALI's well before earning fame; "Shoot the Pump” co-writer Pablo Calogero went on to record music for the soundtrack of Basquiat's New York Beat Movie, Downtown 81.

Death
Edmonds died while struggling with cocaine addiction in Tucson, Arizona on April 18, 1994.

References

External links
 J. Walter Negro & Nicky Tesco

1956 births
1994 deaths
20th-century African-American painters
20th-century American painters
American graffiti artists
American male painters
Painters from New York City
Cocaine-related deaths in Arizona
Artists from Manhattan
20th-century American male artists