[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dissaving

Dissaving is negative saving. If spending is greater than disposable income, dissaving is taking place. This spending is financed by already accumulated savings, such as money in a savings account, or it can be borrowed. Household dissaving therefore corresponds to an absolute decrease in their financial investments.

Usually dissavings start after retirement, when an individual starts deducting money from the amount that he has been saving during his life time. There are also other reasons for dissavings; like big purchases, huge events, and emergencies. 
On the macro level, also governments could reach a certain situation where they start dissaving from their accumulated funds.

Why people save
Savings is when an income contributor keeps a certain amount of the income on a side (saving account) and start having an accumulative amount of money based on their savings. People usually save money for certain reasons such as: 
1- Emergencies are those unexpected emerging events that might happen in a persons life and that might need a certain amount of money in order for it to be satisfied/solved (such as a health emergency, unexpected damage in some equipment, etc…). In such cases, having financial security can help reduces the chances of borrowing money or taking loans. 
2- Kids education is one of the most crucial choices on an households future, therefore parents usually worry about their kids educations and are always willing save money for the increasing educational fees, or potential improvement in the degree obtained. 
4- Big purchases like cars, house, or equipments wouldn’t be easily to be bought without any saved amount as sometimes they might constitute of more than 1.5 times of the monthly salary. Buying big purchases fills the satisfaction of the buyer depending on his/her preferences and willingness, leading to an improved well-being situation.
5- Accumulating wealth or increasing the cash reserves also help invest some money at the bank where the investor would be getting a certain interest rate on his/her saving account. 
Once an individual starts deducting a certain amount of money for any of these purposes, in addition to daily  expenses, here starts the dissaving process.

Why people dissave
There are multiple reasons why people dissave. The first one is that a person accumulates savings for the purpose of spending them after retirement. This type of dissaving is intentional and voluntary and requires planning how much to save and dissave in order not to run out of money in their savings. Another reason is that a person experiences a shock, e.g. sudden unemployment or medical emergency and is forced to spend more than they earn. This person first dissaves from their personal savings and possibly later has to borrow money to finance their expenses. Third reason is that a person lacks judgment and lives above their means. These people finance their spendings from credit and are the most prone to shocks which may lead to personal bankruptcy.
We can also assimilate a request for credit to early dissaving. Indeed, a household that has a consumer credit for the acquisition of a good commits to repay the loan and the interest on its future income, which reduces its future savings.

Dissaving was reported as a typical response to deficits, for households with normal income and expenditure patterns during the depression of the 1930s.
Although this phenomenon is very rare at the collective level, it is quite common at the individual level since, the purpose of savings is to one day be used for consumer purchases. With a phenomenon of dissaving at the collective level would be bad for the economy of a country since it is used for financing. Zero savings would practically prevent the financing of new investments and therefore potential growth. Dismissals at the collective level would have even more important consequences because the decrease in outstanding investments would lead to a drop in the quotations of financial securities (stocks and bonds) and would risk putting the banks and the systems of collecting savings into bankruptcy. following a liquidity crisis. Massive dissaving to consumption can also lead to inflation risks if the production of consumer goods is not sufficient to meet new demand.

Saving and dissaving lifecycle