[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Harris Poll

orporation in 1996, which in 1997 became Harris Black International Ltd., which became a public company in 1999 called Harris Interactive. In the 21st century, it was owned by Nielsen beginning in 2014; then in 2017, Stagwell Group acquired The Harris Poll and the polling company, taking it private.

Mergers, acquisitions, and sale of business 
The Gordon S. Black Corporation was founded in 1975 in Rochester, New York as a New York corporation. It formed and became part of the Delaware corporation now known as Harris Interactive in 1997. During these years, the company's acquisitions have included:
February 1996 – all of the stock of Louis Harris % Associates, Inc., headquartered in New York.
February 2001 – the custom research division of Yankelovich Partners, Inc., headquartered in Norwalk, Connecticut.
August 2001 – all of the capital stock of Market Research Solutions Limited, a privately owned UK company headquartered in Oxford, England.
September 2001 – all of the capital stock of M&A Create Limited, a privately owned company headquartered in Tokyo, Japan.
November 2001 – all of the capital stock of Total Research Corporation, a Delaware corporation headquartered in Princeton, New Jersey.
March 2004 – all of the capital stock of Novatris, S.A. ("Novatris"), a share corporation organized and existing under the laws of France.
September 2004 – all of the capital stock of Wirthlin Worldwide, Inc. a privately held California corporation headquartered in Reston, Virginia.
April 2007 – all of the capital stock of MediaTransfer AG Netresearch & Consulting, a privately held German stock corporation headquartered in Hamburg, Germany.
August 2007 – all of the capital stock of Decima Research Inc. ("Decima"), a corporation incorporated in Ontario, Canada.
August 2007 – all of the capital stock of Marketshare Limited, a company incorporated under the laws of Hong Kong, and Marketshare Pte Ltd, a company incorporated under the laws of Singapore.
February 2014 – Harris Interactive joins Nielsen.  Nielsen and its wholly owned subsidiary, Prime Acquisition Corp., completed tender offer to buy all outstanding shares of common stock of Harris Interactive, Inc. (NASDAQ:HPOL).  Harris Interactive became a wholly owned subsidiary of Nielsen and its shares ceased to be traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market.
June 2014 – ITWP Acquires Harris Interactive UK, Harris Interactive SAS in France, and Harris Interactive AG in Germany from Nielsen.
January 2017 – The Stagwell Group acquires Harris.

Company leadership
Since its acquisition by The Stagwell Group in 2017, The Harris Poll has been led by Chairman Mark Penn and Co-Chief Executive Officers John Gerzema and Will Johnson. 
Mark Penn, whose career spans 40 years in market research, advertising, public relations, polling and consulting, is president and managing partner of The Stagwell Group, a private equity firm with investments in digital marketing services. Before founding the Stagwell Group in 2015, Penn was chief strategy officer and executive vice president at Microsoft Corp. For six years, he was White House pollster to President Bill Clinton and was a key adviser in his 1996 re-election.  Penn later was chief strategist to Hillary Clinton her U.S. Senate and 2008 presidential campaigns. After graduating from Harvard College in 1976, Penn and his future business partner Doug Schoen started Penn & Schoen  – now PSB Insights - and helped elect more than 25 government leaders in Asia, South America and Europe, including Tony Blair  and Menachem Begin. Penn was also CEO of Burson Cohn & Wolfe, a public relation company owned by WPP Group, from 2006 to 2012. He is the author of “Microtrends Squared: The New Small Forces Driving Today’s Big Disruptions,”  which was published in 2018 and an update to his 2007 book “Microtrends.” Penn has been a columnist for The Wall Street Journal, Time, Politico, The Hill and the Huffington Post. He is a visiting lecturer at Harvard College.

John Gerzema, who began a career in advertising and marketing in 1987, became co-CEO of The Harris Poll in 2017, after almost seven years as chairman and CEO of BAV Consulting, a unit of advertising agency Young & Rubicam, today known as VMLY&R. Previously, he was Chief Insights Officer for Young & Rubicam, which is part of WPP Group. Gerzema is the author of three best-selling books, “The Brand Bubble,” “Spend Shift,”  and “The Athena Doctrine,”  a 2013 exploration of the rise of feminine values in society, leadership and business, which became a New York Times  and Washington Post best-seller. He has given TED Talks and written numerous articles for such publications as the Harvard Business Review and was named ‘Top Management Articles of the Decade’ by Strategy & Business. He keynoted the Milken Global Conference with global research amid the global pandemic in 2020.