[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ithaca Health Alliance

organizational meetings to hammer out policy and set IHA's direction. Today, however, members expect the Board of Directors to take responsibility for the organization. For example, the Board oversees the staff, operational details of all its programs, and every leadership-level decision within IHA.

Since the NYSID decision, IHA program development has exceeded local expectations. To date, the Fund program has awarded more than $200,000 in grants. IHA members can apply for grants of up to $3,000 to $4,500 per year for specific healthcare needs. Most frequently requested grants are for dental care, whereas the biggest grant categories are dedicated to emergency services. The IHA seeks to expand grant categories annually, based on the needs expressed by members and the resources of the organization. In addition to the services available through grants, a revolving loan fund provides interest-free help to members for dental and eye care.

IHA healthcare providers 
Over 150 healthcare providers are IHA members, and they give discounts typically from 5 to 10 percent of the cost of their services to other IHA members. Providers include professionals from conventional and complementary/alternative practices, including physicians, dentists, chiropractors, herbalists, acupuncturists, registered nurses, psychologists, doulas, and many others. Most providers live and work in Ithaca and the surrounding villages and towns of Tompkins County. IHA maintains a provider member directory on its website, thus promoting providers' commitment to community health.

At the same time, IHA made payments on behalf of members to any health provider worldwide.

IHA memberships 
In addition to the individual membership, which continues to cost the original $100 per year, discounted memberships are available to spouses, partners, and children. Employers also get a 20 percent discounted rate for employees when the employees join as a group. Memberships are frequently made available through the generosity of community donors in IHA's donated membership program, and the Board has committed to paying for additional memberships whenever community or donated funds for the program have been exhausted.

IHA Community Grants 
The IHA Community Grants program offers small grants to community organizations that conduct health projects. A few examples include funds for the Cayuga Nature Center (CNC), which received grants to train its Bobcat camp counselors in CPR and resources to buy medical supplies and protective gear for CNC staff. IHA has also used Community Grants to subsidize shares in a Cornell Cooperative Extension program that makes food from the area's community-supported agriculture program available to low-income families. Recently under the grants program IHA and other health education agencies joined with a local environmental group, Sustainable Tompkins, for presentations centered on "Sustainable Health Care for All."

IHA educational programs 
The Ithaca Health Alliance education program receives high marks from the community. This program has sponsored events at intervals during the past several years, making them open to everyone, and three years ago also undertook the publication of a quarterly newsletter. The newsletter is either mailed or emailed to members. In an effort to fulfill its commitment of education of the community at large, IHA distributes without charge copies of the newsletter to local coffee shops and other public places. As part of this program, IHA has funded the acquisition of books focused on health promotion by the Tompkins County Public Library and the Durland Alternatives Library at Cornell.

IHA staff 
A combination of resources between the IHA and funders has made it possible to employ three staff members, who receive a modest but certified "living wage" and IHA membership as a benefit of employment. The office manager is responsible for the distribution of grants, communication with members, area officials, and business people. The outreach coordinator works to educate the community about the IHA and the Free Clinic, with a mandate to assess the needs of the community regarding health programs. The clinic coordinator facilitates care during Ithaca Free Clinic sessions, and trains and coordinates volunteers.

The Ithaca Free Clinic 
With the opening of the Ithaca Free Clinic (IFC) in January, 2006, the IHA fulfilled one of its earliest dreams by making free care available to uninsured residents. In doing so, Ithaca has joined the ranks of generally much larger cities in the U.S. Financed through membership savings from 1997 to the Free Clinic's inception, members continue to support the IFC, as do donations from the wider community. The IHA has also received competitive grants that have allowed for better-supported and expanded Free Clinic services.