[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 182]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

o go with my
mother to the field, where all the women of the village were assembled
to plant rice for their subsistence. The joyful songs which they used to
sing, amid their toils, delighted my infant ear, and when their daily
task was done, they danced together under the shade of spreading palms.
In this manner did they raise the simple food which was sufficient for
themselves and their children; yams, a root resembling your potato,
Indian corn, and, above all, rice: to this were added the fruits which
nature spontaneously produced in our woods, and the produce of the chase
and fishing. Yet with this we are as much contented as you are with all
your splendid tables, and enjoy a greater share of health and strength.
As soon as the fiery heat of the sun declined, you might behold the
master of every cottage reposing before his own door, and feasting upon
his mess of roots or fruits, with all his family around him. If a
traveller or stranger happened to come from a distant country, he was
welcome to enter into every house, and share the provisions of the
family; no door was barred against his entrance, no surly servant
insulted him for his poverty; he entered wherever he pleased, set
himself down with the family, and then pursued his journey, or reposed
himself in quiet till the next morning. In each of our towns there is
generally a large building, where the elder part of the society are
accustomed to meet in the shade of the evening, and converse upon a
variety of subjects. The young and vigorous divert themselves with
dances and other pastimes, and the children of different ages amuse
themselves with a thousand sports and gambols adapted to their age; some
aim their little arrows at marks, or dart their light and blunted
javelins at each other, to form themselves for the exercises of war and
the chase; others wrestle naked upon the sand, or run in sportive races
with a degree of activity which I have never seen among the Europeans,
who pretend to be our masters.

"I have described to you the building of our houses; simple as they are,
they answer every purpose of human life, and every man is his own
architect. A hundred or two of these edifices compose our towns, which
are generally surrounded by lofty hedges of thorns, to secure us from
the midnight attacks of wild beasts, with only a single entrance, which
is carefully closed at night"----

"You talk," said Tommy, "of wild beasts; pray, have you many in your
country?"

"Yes, master," said the Black, "we have them of many sorts, equally
dreadful and ferocious. First, we have the _lion_, which I daresay you
have heard of, and perhaps seen. He is bigger than the largest mastiff,
and infinitely stronger and more fierce; his paws alone are such that,
with a single blow, he is able to knock down a man, and almost every
other animal; but these paws are armed with claws so sharp and dreadful
that nothing can resist their violence. When he roars, every beast of
the forest betakes himself to flight, and even the boldest hunter can
scarcely hear it without dismay. Sometimes the most valiant of our youth
assemble in bands, arm themselves with arrows and javelins, and go to
the chase of these destructive animals. When they have found his
retreat, they generally make a circle round, uttering shouts and cries,
and clashing their arms, to rouse him to resistance. The lion,
meanwhile, looks round upon his assailants with indifference or
contempt; neither their number, nor their horrid shouts, nor the glitter
of their radiant arms, can daunt him for an instant. At length he begins
to lash his sides with his long and nervous tail--a certain sign of
rising rage--his eyes sparkle with destructive fires; and if the number
of the hunters is very great, he perhaps moves slowly on. But this he is
not permitted to do; a javelin thrown at him from behind wounds him in
the flank, and compels him to turn. Then you behold him roused to fury
and desperation: neither wounds, nor streaming blood, nor a triple row
of barbed spears, can prevent him from springing upon the daring Black
who has wounded him. Should he reach him in the attack, it is certain
death; but generally the hunter, who is at once contending for glory and
his own life, and is inured to danger, avoids him by a nimble leap; and
all his companions hasten to his assistance. Thus is the lion pressed
and wounded on every side; his rage is ineffectual, and only exhausts
his strength the faster; a hundred wounds are pouring out his blood at
once; and at length he bites the ground in the agonies of death, and
yields the victory, though unconquered. When he is dead, he is carried
back in triumph by the hunters, as a trophy of their courage. All the
village rushes out at once; the young, the old, women and children,
uttering joyful shouts, and praising the valour of their champions. The
elders admire his prodigious size, his mighty limbs, his dreadful fang