[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# Constructive set theory

gate the countability of such a countable union of pairs. Assuming countable choice rules out that model as an interpretation of the resulting theory. This principle is independent of  - A naive proof strategy for that statement fails at the accounting of infinitely many existential instantiations. 

A choice principle postulates that certain selections can always be made in a joint fashion so that they are also manifested as a single set function in the theory. As with any independent axiom, this raises the proving capabilities while restricting the scope of possible (model-theoretic) interpretations of the (syntactic) theory. A function existence claim can often be translated to the existence of inverses, orderings, and so on. Choice moreover implies statements about cardinalities of different sets, e.g. they imply or rule out countability of sets. Adding full choice to  does not prove any new -theorems, but it is strictly non-constructive, as shown below. The development here proceeds in a fashion agnostic to any of the variants described next.
 Axiom of countable choice  (or ): If , one can form the one-to-many relation-set . The axiom of countable choice would grant that whenever , one can form a function mapping each number to a unique value. The existence of such sequences is not generally provable on the base of  and countable choice is not -conservative over that theory. Countable choice into general sets can also be weakened further. One common consideration is to restrict the possible cardinalities of the range of , giving the weak countable choice into countable, finite or even just binary sets (). One may consider the version of countable choice for functions into  (called  or ), as is implied by the constructive Church's thesis principle, i.e. by postulating that all total arithmetical relations are recursive.  in arithmetic may be understood as a form of choice axiom. Another means of weakening countable choice is by restricting the involved definitions w.r.t. their place in the syntactic hierarchies (say -). The weak Kőnig's lemma , which breaks strictly recursive mathematics as further discussed below, is stronger than - and is itself sometimes viewed as capturing a form of countable choice. In the presence of a weak form of countable choice, the lemma becomes equivalent to the non-constructive principle of more logical flavor, . Constructively, weak form of choice is required for well-behaved Cauchy reals. Countable choice is not valid in the internal logic of a general topos, which can be seen as models of constructive set theories.
 Axiom of dependent choice : Countable choice is implied by the more general axiom of dependent choice, extracting a sequence in an inhabited , given any entire relation . In set theory this is again an infinite set of pairs, a subset of  and one is granted to pass from several existence statements to a unique existence statement for every natural. An appropriate formulation of dependent choice is adopted in several constructive frameworks, e.g., by some schools that understand unending sequences as ongoing constructions instead of completed objects. At least those cases seem benign where, for any , next value existence  can be validated in a computable fashion. The corresponding recursive function , if it exists, is then conceptualized as being able to return a value at infinitely many potential inputs , but these do not have to be evaluated all together at once. It also holds in many realizability models. In the condition of the formally similar recursion theorem, one is already given a unique choice at each step, and that theorem lets one combine them to a function on . So also with  one may consider forms of the axiom with restrictions on . Via the bounded separation axiom in , the principle also is equivalent to a schema in two bounded predicate variables: Keeping all quantifiers ranging over , one may further narrow this set domain using a unary -predicate variable, while also using any 2-ary -predicate instead of the relation set .
 Relativized dependent choice : This is the schema just using two general classes, instead of requiring  and  be sets. The domain of the choice function granted to exist is still just . Over , it implies full mathematical induction, which, in turn allows for function definition on  through the recursion schema. When  is restricted to -definitions, it still implies mathematical induction for -predicates (with an existential quantifier over sets) as well as . In , the schema  is equivalent to .
 -: A family of sets is better controllable if it comes indexed by a function. A set  is a base if all indexed families of sets  over it, have a choice function , i.e. . A collection of sets holding  and its elements and which is closed by taking indexed sums and products (see dependent type) is called -closed. While the axiom that all sets in the smallest -closed class are a base does need some work to formulate, it is the strongest cho