[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Liberal Alliance (Denmark)

y's founding and eventual collapse was released with scenes detailing internal disagreements between the party's lead members. Khader eventually joined the Conservatives who he represented as an MP from 2009–2011 and 2015–2021 where he after a period as an independent left politics for good in 2022.

In the 2009 European Parliament election, the party won 0.6% of the vote, leaving the party without representation in the European parliament. In the 2011 general election held on 15 September 2011, the party won 5.0% of the vote and 9 seats. When Malou Aamund resigned from the Folketing in June 2011, she was replaced by Professor Niels Høiby, who took his seat with the Liberal Alliance, taking their contingent in four. In the 2014 European Parliament election, the Liberal Alliance received 2.9% of the vote, again failing to return any MEPs.

In the 2015 general election held on 18 June 2015, the party won 7.5% of the vote and 13 seats in the Folketing. In its most successful constituency, Gentofte Municipality, a well-off suburb of Copenhagen, it even scored 17.5% while on Bornholm its share of votes was only 4%. Initially, the party did not participate in Lars Løkke Rasmussen's Venstre minority cabinet, but it did lent its parliamentary support to the government.

Participation in third Løkke government 
In late November 2016, it joined a three-party centre-right coalition government alongside Venstre and the Conservative People's Party in Løkke Rasmussen's third government. Party leader Anders Samuelsen was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs while Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille took the post of Minister of the Economy and Interior. Additional cabinet members of Liberal Alliance were Merete Riisager (Minister of Education), Mette Bock (Minister of Culture), Ole Birk Olesen (Minister of Transport) and Thyra Frank (Minister for Elder Affairs).

At the 2019 general election held on 5 June 2019, the party won 2.3% of the vote, losing 9 of its 13 seats in the Folketing. At the same time, party leader Anders Samuelsen failed to get reelected, leading him to resign the following day.

Vanopslagh leadership (2019–present) 
On 9 June 2019, Alex Vanopslagh became the new leader of the Liberal Alliance with MP Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille leaving the LA on 23 October attributing political disagreements as the reason. At the 2021 local elections, LA achieved its first ever mayor with LA candidate Emil Blücher becoming mayor in Solrød Municipality. During the election campaign to the 2022 general election, the party ran on a campaign called Du kan godt roughly translating to 'You can' or 'Yes, you can'. Furthermore, Vanopslagh managed to acquire a large following on the social media platform TikTok especially engaging younger voters. At that election, the party received its best ever result receiving 7.9% equal to 14 seats making it the joint fifth-largest party in the Folketing alongside the Denmark Democrats. Following the formation of the SVM government, the LA is currently in opposition.

Ideology and platform 
Located on the centre-right to right-wing of the political spectrum, the Liberal Alliance has been described in ideology as liberal, classical liberal, libertarian, and right-wing libertarian.

The original New Alliance considered itself a centrist party, "taking the best values of social liberalism and social conservatism". By using these two terms, the New Alliance positioned itself equidistant between the former parties of the three founding members. Social liberalism is the official ideology of the Danish Social Liberal Party whereas social conservatism is a term sometimes invoked by members of the Conservative People's Party who stress the support of the welfare society such as Liberal Alliance co-founder Gitte Seeberg. In the earliest days of the party's existence, the party was accused of populism or personalism, still lacking stances on many topics and based on the popularity of Naser Khader. After Gitte Seeberg left the party, the "social conservatism" part was dropped and the party name was changed to the Liberal Alliance. However, there were still considerable ideological differences among the two remaining founders and it was not until Naser Khader was replaced by Anders Samuelsen that the party took on a more classical liberal identity. The party has proposed extensive economic liberal reforms, including a tax reform replacing progressive income tax with a flat-rate income tax of 40%, halving rates of corporation tax, instigating user charges for public healthcare, abolishing  early retirement schemes and reassessing everyone receiving disability benefits.