[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 56]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

xcited the mirth of the whole assembly. Tommy,
who had never before seen one of these creatures, was very much
surprised and entertained, but still more so when he saw the animal rise
upon his hind legs at the word of command, and dance about in a strange,
uncouth manner, to the sound of music.

After having satisfied themselves with this spectacle they proceeded on
their way, and Tommy asked Mr Barlow whether a bear was an animal easily
tamed, and that did mischief in those places where he was wild.

"The bear," replied Mr Barlow, "is not an animal quite so formidable or
destructive as a lion or a tiger; he is, however, sufficiently
dangerous, and will frequently devour women and children, and even men,
when he has an opportunity. These creatures are generally found in cold
countries, and it is observed that the colder the climate is, the
greater size and fierceness do they attain to. There is a remarkable
account of one of these animals suddenly attacking a soldier when on
duty, but it was fortunate for the poor fellow that the first blow he
struck the bear felled him to the ground, and the soldier immediately
plunged his sword into his heart, which of course killed it. In those
northern countries, which are perpetually covered with snow and ice, a
species of bear is found, which is white in colour, and of amazing
strength as well as fierceness. These animals are often seen clambering
over the huge pieces of ice that almost cover those seas, and preying
upon fish and other sea animals. I remember reading an account of one
that came unexpectedly upon some sailors who were boiling their dinners
on the shore. This creature had two young ones with her, and the
sailors, as you may easily imagine, did not like such dangerous guests,
but made their escape immediately to the ship. The old bear then seized
upon the flesh which the sailors had left, and set it before her cubs,
reserving a very small portion for herself; showing by this, that she
took a much greater interest in their welfare than her own. But the
sailors, enraged at the loss of their dinners, levelled their muskets at
the cubs, and, from the ship, shot them both dead. They also wounded the
dam, who was fetching away another piece of flesh, but not mortally, so
that she was still able to move. But it would have affected any one with
pity, but a brutal mind (says the relation), to see the behaviour of
this poor beast, all wounded as she was and bleeding, to her young ones.
Though she was sorely hurt, and could but crawl to the place where they
lay, she carried the lump of flesh she had in her mouth, as she had done
the preceding ones, and laid it down before them, and, when she observed
that they did not eat, she laid her paws first upon one, and then upon
the other, and endeavoured to raise them up, all this while making the
most pitiful moans. When she found that they did not stir, she went away
to a little distance and then looked, back and moaned, as if to entice
them to her; but finding them still immovable, she returned, and
smelling round them, began to lick their wounds. She then went off a
second time as before, and, after crawling a few yards, turned back and
moaned, as if to entreat them not to desert their mother. But her cubs
not yet rising to follow her, she returned to them again, and, with
signs of inexpressible fondness, went round first one and then the
other, pawing them and moaning all the time. Finding them at last cold
and lifeless, she raised her head towards the ship and began to growl in
an indignant manner, as if she were denouncing vengeance against the
murderers of her young; but the sailors levelled their muskets again,
and wounded her in so many places that she dropped down between her
young ones; yet, even while she was expiring, she seemed only sensible
to their fate, and died licking their wounds."

"And is it possible," said Harry, "that men can be so cruel towards poor
unfortunate animals?" "It is too true," answered Mr Barlow, "that men
are frequently guilty of every wanton and unnecessary acts of barbarity,
but in this case it is probable that the fear of these animals
contributed to render the sailors more unpitying than they would
otherwise have been; they had often seen themselves in danger of being
devoured, and that inspired them with a great degree of hatred against
them, which they took the opportunity of gratifying." "But would it not
be enough," answered Harry, "if they carried arms to defend themselves
when they were attacked, without unnecessarily destroying other
creatures, who did not meddle with them?" "To be sure it would," replied
Mr Barlow, "and a generous mind would at any time rather spare an enemy
than destroy him."

While they were conversing in this manner, they beheld a crowd of women
and children running away in the greatest trepidation, and, looking
behind them, saw that one of the bears had broken his chain, and was