[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Randy Hultgren

an same-sex marriage.

Basic research 

Hultgren was described by the American Physical Society as an "outspoken advocate for basic scientific research and STEM education." According to NBC Chicago, "the conservative Republican has carved a reputation as a pro-science, pro-STEM education supporter."

Hultgren went on record to note that "The U.S. research system is unique. We’ve found an incredibly powerful combination, wedding education and research by incorporating universities, user facilities and Department of Energy resources. But this system is only as stable our commitment to it, which is why sustained and predictable research funding is crucial."

Along with then United States Senator Mark Udall (D-CO), Hultgren was awarded the George Brown Science Technology Engineering Leadership award by the Science, Technology, Engineering Working Group, a coalition of pro-science groups including The American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Institute of Physics, and ASME.

In October 2012 Hultgren was a recipient of the Champion of Science Award by the Science Coalition, a nonprofit advocacy group composed of the 50 leading research universities in the United States. The award was presented by Fermilab Director Pier Oddone and University of Illinois President Robert Easter along with University of Chicago President Robert Zimmer, who said, "Congressman Hultgren provides a strong voice for science in Congress."

Hultgren introduced the American Super Computing Leadership Act (H.R. 2495; 113th Congress) into the House on June 25, 2013. The bill would require the United States Department of Energy to improve and increase its use of high-end computers, especially exascale computing, through an organized research program.

Women's rights 
Hultgren voted against reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act in 2013.

Personal life
In 2002, Hultgren moved four miles southwest from Wheaton to adjacent Winfield, Illinois. In 2014, he moved 22 miles southwest from Winfield in DuPage County to Plano, Illinois, in Kendall County. Hultgren lives in Plano with his wife, Christy, and their four children, who have been home-schooled.

He is evangelical Christian and a member of Wheaton Bible Church.

References

External links
 
 
 
 

|-

|-

1966 births
21st-century American politicians
American people of Swedish descent
Bethel University (Minnesota) alumni
Chicago-Kent College of Law alumni
County board members in Illinois
Illinois Institute of Technology alumni
Republican Party Illinois state senators
Living people
Republican Party members of the Illinois House of Representatives
People from DuPage County, Illinois
People from Park Ridge, Illinois
People from Plano, Illinois
People from Wheaton, Illinois
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Illinois