[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mind control in popular culture

rugged, and taken to a secluded Texas ranch, where young women are tortured and brainwashed into becoming obedient, living sex dolls, that are then sold into the sex trade.
 In the 2022 TV series Severance, a medical procedure is applied to employees to separate non-work memories from work memories.

Video games
In the critically acclaimed DC Comics video game Batman: Arkham City, highly trained mercenaries loyal to a rogue private military firm, Tyger Security, have been systematically programmed (through a combination of psychoactive drugs and posthypnotic manipulation) to blindly hate the protagonist and answer only to their employer, the ruthless Hugo Strange. Following Strange's death late in the game's storyline these effects seem to have been broken, as Tyger units promptly cease following current orders and withdraw quietly from the scene.
In BioShock, the player's character, Jack, is revealed to have been subconsciously mind-controlled and must obey any action stated after the command phrase, "Would you Kindly?". The young girls called Little Sisters are also revealed to be brainwashed with sea slugs that are designed for mind control.
In Call of Duty: Black Ops, the protagonist, Alex Mason, is being interrogated by his own CIA colleagues following his brainwashing into a sleeper agent while imprisoned in the Vorkuta Gulag. The plot revolves around retracing events prior to the interrogation in an attempt to discover the purpose of the psychological manipulation Mason was subjected to. At the end of the game, it is strongly implied that Mason was responsible for John F Kennedy's assassination. In the game's sequel, Mason is shown to struggle with the lasting effects of his brainwashing.
In the MMORPG City of Heroes, players of the Controller class can opt for the primary list of powers dubbed Mind Control, which includes the ability to affect emotions remotely, confuse, inhibit or affect physical actions, and cause psionic damage to opponents.
The character Yuri in Command & Conquer: Red Alert 2 is an extremely advanced telepath with the capability of completely controlling the actions of others. There is one flaw, however: a mind-controlled person can be seen to be showing strain against Yuri's power, culminating in sweating, stammering and memory loss. Later, in the game expansion Yuri's Revenge, he leads an entire faction with several mind controlling units included. His "psychic dominators" also possess the ability to permanently mind control units.
In Crash Bandicoot series, Doctor Neo Cortex, Crash's nemesis, wants to control the mutant minds with the Cortex Vortex to conquer the world.
In the Danganronpa series, the main antagonist, Junko Enoshima, brainwashes multiple people into committing acts of despair, for example brainwashing the 77th Class of Hope's Peak Academy and converting them into Ultimate Despair.
In the series Destroy All Humans!, the main character, Cryptosporidium, can use mind control to force humans to do his bidding.
In Dreamfall: The Longest Journey, the mysterious Project Alchera is revealed to be a form of mind-control, marketed to the masses as a form of entertainment.
In Final Fantasy IV, the playable character Kain is mind controlled by Golbez to act as his lieutenant to seize crystals around the earth.  Later, it is revealed that Golbez himself was controlled by Zemus.
In Final Fantasy VI, the game begins with the half-human, half-esper Terra controlled by the imperial general Kefka using a slave crown.  The control is broken once the slave crown is removed.
In Heroes of the Storm, the playable hero Sylvanas has access to Mind Control, as one of her two heroic abilities.
In Lego Batman, some of the playable villain characters can use a power called mind control, which allows them to take control of an enemy to open doors or reach inaccessible areas.
In the Mass Effect series the primary antagonists, the Reapers, use a form of mind control called "indoctrination" to manipulate people into becoming willing servants and thralls.
In Metal Gear Solid, Psycho Mantis, a rogue special forces member with powerful telepathic abilities, subtly controls a small army, and on several occasions completely dominates a single person's movements and speech.
In Psi-Ops: The Mindgate Conspiracy, the player's character, Nick Scryer can perform mind control.
In Resident Evil 4, the enemies are civilians mind-controlled through the use of parasites known as "Las Plagas"; in Resident Evil 5, the main antagonist, Albert Wesker, uses a special drug to brainwash a recurring protagonist, Jill Valentine.
In Sonic Pinball Party, Doctor Eggman, Sonic's nemesis, turns all the people into robots, kidnaps Sonic's assistant Miles "Tails" Prower and Sonic's love interest Amy Rose, ties them up to a chair, puts them on a device and brainwashes them.
In the MMORPG Star Wars: The Old Republic, players that choose a force user class can occasionally force persuade a NPC during conversations, which somet