[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Warrant officer (United States)

d "commissioned warrant officer" for those in grades CWO-2, CWO-3 and CWO-4.

On 1 February 1992, the grade of CWO-5 (paygrade W-5) was created and those who are appointed serve on the highest unit echelon levels. Only 5% of chief warrant officers occupy this grade.

Current requirements and duties 

The present role and purpose of a chief warrant officer in the United States Marine Corps is to fulfill the responsibilities as a high-rank "subject matter expert" within their chosen military occupation specialty, with the additional authority of a commissioned officer.

The chief warrant officers commonly provide their respective Marine units and sections, valuable practical experience, and a master level of technical proficiency. Normally, an unrestricted officer (second lieutenant – general) would not have the opportunity to achieve such specialized skills due to their career progression track being more command-centric and less technical as they advance through the ranks.

Currently, there are three selection program distinctions, with each its own separate qualifications: infantry, recruiter and regular warrant officer. Both active-duty and reserve enlisted (non-commissioned officers) are accepted into the regular program, but infantry weapons officers—commonly known as Marine Gunners—and recruiters are only selected from the active-duty component.

The regular Warrant Officer Selection Program requires a minimum of eight years of enlistment upon date of appointment (not commissioned), proof and/or demonstration of their exceedingly technical proficiency within their MOS field, and achieved the rank and pay grade of sergeant (E-5) or above.

However, the requirements for an infantry weapons officer are much more demanding: The Infantry Weapons Officer Program requires a minimum of sixteen years in MOS 0300 (Infantry) and achieved at least the rank and grade of gunnery sergeant (E-7). Given the extended time in service requirements and expertise, these gunners are commissioned as a chief warrant officer 2 directly from enlisted and wear the Bursting Bomb on their left collar.

Recruiter's selection is slightly different being they must be a minimum rank of staff sergeant (E-6) and hold the MOS 8412, career recruiter, as well as have served a successful recruiting tour as a 8412. Staff sergeants will appoint to the rank of WO, while the gunnery sergeants will commission as a CWO2. The time in service requirements remain the same of 8 years.

When the marines are selected for the program, they are given additional leadership and management training during the Warrant Officer Basic Course (WOBC), conducted at The Basic School, in Quantico, Virginia.

Navy 

In the United States Navy, the warrant and chief warrant officer ranks are held by technical specialists who direct specific activities essential to the proper operation of the ship, which also require commissioned officer authority. Navy warrant officers serve in 30 specialties covering five categories. Warrant officers should not be confused with the limited duty officer (LDO) in the Navy. Warrant officers perform duties that are directly related to their previous enlisted service and specialized training. This allows the Navy to capitalize on the experience of warrant officers without having to frequently transition them to other duty assignments for advancement. With the exception of the Navy's short-lived flying chief warrant officer program, all Navy warrant officers are accessed from the chief petty officer pay grades, E-7 through E-9, analogous to a senior noncommissioned officer in the other services, and must have a minimum 14 years time in service.

Background 

The Navy has had warrant officers among its ranks since 23 December 1775, when John Berriman received a warrant to act as purser aboard the brigantine, USS Andrew Doria. That warrant was considered a patent of trust and honor, but was not considered a commission to command. Since this first appointment, Navy warrant officers have held positions as masters, masters' mates, boatswains, gunners, carpenters, surgeons, and chaplains. Until 1912, a midshipman graduating from the United States Naval Academy was required to have two years of sea duty as a warrant officer before receiving a commission as an ensign. Although based on the British Royal Navy warrant officer ranks that were in place until 1949, the United States had never needed to address an issue of social class, which resulted in warranted officers in the Royal Navy. However, the United States Navy experienced a similar issue of rank, where highly competent senior noncommissioned officers are required to report to inexperienced junior officers, giving rise to special status to the Navy's chief warrant officers.