[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Sri Lanka Air Force

t up as a non-profit public service. Helitours has been in operation since 1983 but due to the civil war operations were restricted. The SLAF is once again launching frequent flights and besides Helitours, it is also operating charter flights to give the people a further choice and reliable service.

Currently Harbin Y-12 fixed-wing aircraft are being used for passenger transportation. An Antonov An-32 will also be in operation in the near future to provide more capacity along with six Xian MA60s. All the charter flights are commenced from Ratmalana Air Force Base.

 Air Force museum 

The Sri Lanka Air Force museum is the only national museum dedicated entirely to aviation and the history of the Sri Lanka Air Force. The museum was first established in 1993 as the Aircraft Preservation and Storage Unit at SLAF Ratmalana and was reopened on 5 November 2009 after refurbishment. The museum exhibits historic aircraft, vehicles, uniforms and weapons. The museum consists of the main hangar, outdoor exhibits and hangar numbers 1, 2 and 3.

 Personnel 

 Parama Weera Vibhushanaya recipients 
The Parama Weera Vibhushanaya is the highest award for valour awarded in the Sri Lankan armed forces. Air Force recipients include;
 Wing-Commander Tyron Silvapulle

 Notable fallen members 
Over 23,790 Sri Lankan armed forces personnel were killed since beginning of the civil war in 1981 to its end in 2009, this includes air officers killed in active duty. 659 service personnel were killed due to the second JVP insurrection from 1987 to 1990. 53 service personnel were killed and 323 were wounded in the first JVP insurrection from 1971 to 1972. Notable fallen members includes;

 Air Commodore Shirantha Goonatilake  – Commanding Officer, No. 1 Flying Training Wing
 Group Captain D. S. Wickramasinghe  – Senior Staff Officer, Directorate of Aeronautical Engineering
 Group Captain Roger Weerasinghe  – Zonal Commander, Northern Zone
 Group Captain Jagath Rodrigo  – Commanding Officer, No. 9 Attack Helicopter Squadron
 Wing Commander Thilina Kaluarachchi  – Officer Commanding Operations, No. 9 Attack Helicopter Squadron

 Women in the Sri Lanka Air Force 

The first female officers to join the air force were in 1972, to the Volunteer Air Force, today women are recruited to both the regular and volunteer forces as both officers and airwomen to the SLAF Women's Wing'. As of 16 November 2020, two Lady Officers were commissioned in the General Duties Pilot Branch and they can also join any other branch, including the SLAF Regiment and the Air Force Police.

 Accidents