[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Institute for Information Infrastructure Protection

addresses the need to detect, monitor, and prevent insider attacks, which can inflict serious harm on an organization. The researchers have undertaken a systematic analysis of insider threat, one that addresses technical challenges but also takes into account ethical, legal, and economic dimensions.

U.S. Senate Cyber Security Report 
The I3P delivered a report titled National Cyber Security Research and Development Challenges: An Industry, Academic and Government Perspective, to U.S. Senators Joseph Lieberman and Susan Collins on February 18, 2009.  The report reflects the finding of three forums hosted by the I3P in 2008 that brought together high-level experts from industry, government and academia to identify R&D opportunities that would advance cyber security research in the next five to 10 years. The report contains specific recommendations for technology and policy research that reflect the input of the participants and also the concerns of both the public and private sectors.

Workshops
The I3P connects with and engages with stakeholders through workshops and other outreach activities that are often held in partnership with other organizations. The workshops encompass a range of topics, some directly related to I3P research projects; others that are intended to bring the right people together to probe a particularly difficult foundational challenge, such as security systems engineering or workforce development.

Postdoctoral Fellowship Program
The I3P sponsored a postdoctoral research fellowship program from 2004 to 2011 that provides funding for a year of research at an I3P member institution. These competitive awards were granted according to the merit of the proposed work, the extent to which the proposed work explored creative and original concepts, and the potential impact of the topic on the U.S. information infrastructure. Prospective applicants were expected to address a core area of cyber security research, including trustworthy computing, enterprise security management, secure systems engineering, network response, and recovery, identity management and forensics, wireless computing and metrics, as well as the legal, policy, and economic dimensions of security.

References

External links
 Official website

Computer security organizations