[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zack Space

worth's 61 percent to 39 percent defeat of John Hostettler in Indiana's 8th district, Space's victory was the largest margin of any Democrat in a Republican-held seat nationwide in 2006.

2008

Space defeated Republican Fred Dailey, former director of the Ohio Department of Agriculture 60-40%.

2010

Space was challenged by Republican State Senator Bob Gibbs and Constitution Party Lindsey Sutton. Gibbs won the election, securing 54% of the vote to 40% that went to Space.
During the campaign, Gibbs attacked Space for his role in the financial meltdown and his support for policies like cap and trade, which Gibbs argued would have been devastating for Space's district, which was predominantly made up of coal miners.

Ohio Auditor of State campaign 
Space formally announced his campaign for Ohio Auditor of State in August 2017 with stops in Martins Ferry, Zanesville, Columbus, and Lima. Space focused his campaign around using the auditor's office to restore confidence in Ohio's democratic process. He pledged to expose pay-to-play in Ohio's state government and mitigate against the influence of money in politics. In addition, Space campaigned for an end to partisan gerrymandering. Space also embarked on an "Ohio River Tour to Restore" in November 2017, holding 11 campaign events over three days in Scioto, Lawrence, Gallia, Meigs, Athens, Monroe, Belmont, and Jefferson counties along the Ohio River. In February 2018, Space's race for state auditor was named a National Priority Target by the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, an anti-gerrymandering organization.

In January 2018, as a campaign point Space called on politicians who took campaign contributions from the founders of the Electronic Classroom of Tomorrow (ECOT) to donate those monies back to local public schools. In May, Space's Republican opponent, Keith Faber, returned over $36,000 in ECOT campaign contributions, also claiming he "helped shut ECOT down". Politifact Ohio rated this "Mostly False". In June 2018, Space announced a plan to form a unit in the Auditor's office to investigate the full extent of the for-profit charter school scam in Ohio. Space's proposal was criticized by Faber, who argued that the auditor was already responsible for auditing all charter schools in Ohio.  In August 2018, Space announced a plan to investigate the effects of NAFTA-era free trade policies on Ohio communities and workers. The plan, called Working Families First, was announced at United Steelworkers halls in Youngstown and Martins Ferry.

In September 2018, The Columbus Dispatch criticized a website launched by Faber, which included false claims made against Space and an image of Space's father which had been doctored to look like Space shaking hands with Nancy Pelosi. Space also criticized the doctored photograph as a campaign point. In October, three weeks before the election, the Associated Press reported that Faber had incurred penalties for failing to pay nearly $5,500 in taxes on time on multiple properties over multiple years. Space argued these failures would make Faber a hypocritical state auditor. After Space in September 2018 was endorsed by the Columbus Dispatch and Akron Beacon Journal, the Cleveland Plain Dealer endorsed Space in mid-October, citing Faber's reputation for partisanship. Space was defeated in the November election by less than 3.5%. Space led the Democratic ticket, running ahead of the four other statewide Democratic ticket, and ran between 5-10% ahead of the Democratic ticket across Appalachian Ohio.

Personal life
Space is a managing member of several closely held companies that have constructed and operated hotels in Tuscarawas County. He has served as a board member for the Tuscarawas County Board of Elections, the Tuscarawas County Board of Intellectual Disabilities and Developmental Disabilities, the Ohio Association of Nonprofit Organizations, the Ohio Legislative Black Caucus Foundation, CoalBlue, the Rural Community Assistance Partnership, and as a steering committee member for the Central Ohio Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation and Clean Fuels Ohio.

Space is now President of Sunday Creek Horizons, a lobbying firm described on its website as "a mission-driven advocacy, strategic communications, and business development firm focused on improving the lives of Appalachian Ohioans." Sunday Creek Horizons was founded in 2019 and is based in Athens, Ohio. Space’s partners are Will Drabold and Zachary Reizes.

Space is a member of St. George Greek Orthodox Church of Massillon, Ohio.

References

External links

 
Profile at SourceWatch
Photos from Zack Space's first day in office

1961 births
Living people
21st-century American politicians
American people of Greek descent
Kenyon College alumni
Ohio State University Moritz College of Law alumni
People from Dover, Ohio
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Ohio
Members of Congress who became lobbyists