[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Land of Toys

ignals their absolute and irreversible transformation into donkeys. 

When the children become donkeys, the Coachman and his minions would sell these donkeys to farms, salt mines, circuses, and markets. The Coachman sells Pinocchio to a circus and sells Candlewick to a farmer whose donkey just died.

Some commentators have said that the sudden, yet completely clean (no graphic, obscene, or overtly scary descriptions are used) transformation can seem terrifying to younger children. Adaptations of the scene have been hailed as too frightening for certain age groups.

When framed in the context of the late 19th century, the chapters set in the Land of Toys also serve as social commentary: abandoning school means securing oneself a future with no other way to make a living but through hard back-breaking labor, and there are plenty of people (like the ruthless Coachman) who will always try to take advantage of that. Alternatively, it could be taken to mean that those who avoid education and responsibility and lead irresponsible lives end up making metaphorical and colloquial "jackasses" of themselves.

Adaptations
In some film versions of the story, Pinocchio is not fully transformed into a donkey. In the 1940 Disney version, for example, the transformation is arrested by his escape from the island after he's grown donkey ears and a tail. In The Adventures of Pinocchio (1996), Pinocchio is not affected by the Terra Magica's cursed water as it leaks out holes in his (wooden) chest, due to a scuffle between Lampwick and an unidentified boy over a gun earlier at the funfair game. He grows donkey ears after riding the roller coaster. In Geppetto (2000), the roller coaster is again the cause of Pinocchio's transformation and the puppet does fully take on donkey form. However, he turns back into human form when he later jumps overboard in an attempt to save Geppetto from being swallowed by the whale.

Pleasure Island

Pinocchio (1940)
The segment from Pleasure Island in Disney's Pinocchio (1940) is a morality tale. The boys who are taken to the island go voluntarily with the promise of unlimited fun, freedom and privilege, all free of cost. It is clear, however, that Pleasure Island has a terrible reputation despite its name, as Honest John and Gideon react in horror at the name when they meet the Coachman at the Red Lobster Inn as "the law" has declared Pleasure Island illegal and off-limits, and worries about what will become of them if they should get caught. There, the boys ride on the carnival rides and are encouraged to do naughty deeds like eating a diet composed entirely of foods that include but are not limited to cakes, pies, dill pickles, and ice cream, breaking stuff at a Model Home that is opened for destruction, fighting in the Rough House, drinking beer, smoking cigars at Tobacco Row, and gambling—all of which are a few things that good children are not supposed to do. In short, the park was designed for boys to "make jackasses of themselves." The nature of the Coachman and of Pleasure Island itself are shown as preternatural and inherently evil. While the boys are enjoying themselves, the Coachman orders his henchmen, which are shown as terrifying silhouettes with ape-like arms and no distinguishing features, to close and lock the entrance before ordering them to get below and get the crates ready.

The transformation into a donkey is not instantaneous. When the boys arrive on the island, they remain human for some time, even days, as their "jackass" behavior must build up sufficiently for the curse to activate. Since Jiminy Cricket does not engage in such acts at all while looking for Pinocchio, he remains completely unaffected the entire time (or maybe it is simply because he is a bug). The first indication of the transformation is when the boy's laughter is replaced with a donkey's braying (in Lampwick's case, he discovers this upon gaining the ears, tail and head), followed by the growth of donkey ears and a tail. The head, torso, and extremities come next, after which the boy is then forced into a quadrupedal stance. The final change is losing the ability of human speech and, as seen with the particular case of Lampwick, the total loss of humanity.