[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 177]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

ur
Saviour saith, (Mat. 16.27.) "The Son of man shall come in the glory
of his Father, with his Angels; and then he shall reward every man
according to his works." To reward every man according to his works, is
to execute the Office of a King; and this is not to be till he come in
the glory of his Father, with his Angells. When our Saviour saith,
(Mat. 23.2.) "The Scribes and Pharisees sit in Moses seat; All therefore
whatsoever they bid you doe, that observe and doe;" hee declareth
plainly, that hee ascribeth Kingly Power, for that time, not to
himselfe, but to them. And so hee hath also, where he saith, (Luke
12.14.) "Who made mee a Judge, or Divider over you?" And (John 12.47.)
"I came not to judge the world, but to save the world." And yet our
Saviour came into this world that hee might bee a King, and a Judge in
the world to come: For hee was the Messiah, that is, the Christ, that
is, the Anointed Priest, and the Soveraign Prophet of God; that is to
say, he was to have all the power that was in Moses the Prophet, in the
High Priests that succeeded Moses, and in the Kings that succeeded the
Priests. And St. John saies expressely (chap. 5. ver. 22.) "The Father
judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment to the Son." And this is
not repugnant to that other place, "I came not to judge the world:" for
this is spoken of the world present, the other of the world to come; as
also where it is said, that at the second coming of Christ, (Mat. 19.
28.) "Yee that have followed me in the Regeneration, when the Son of
man shall sit in the throne of his Glory, yee shall also sit on twelve
thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel."




The End Of Christs Comming Was To Renew The Covenant Of The Kingdome
Of God, And To Perswade The Elect To Imbrace It, Which Was The Second
Part Of His Office

If then Christ while hee was on Earth, had no Kingdome in this World,
to what end was his first coming? It was to restore unto God, by a new
Covenant, the Kingdome, which being his by the Old Covenant, had been
cut off by the rebellion of the Israelites in the election of Saul.
Which to doe, he was to preach unto them, that he was the Messiah, that
is, the King promised to them by the Prophets; and to offer himselfe in
sacrifice for the sinnes of them that should by faith submit themselves
thereto; and in case the nation generally should refuse him, to call
to his obedience such as should beleeve in him amongst the Gentiles. So
that there are two parts of our Saviours Office during his aboad upon
the Earth; One to Proclaim himself the Christ; and another by Teaching,
and by working of Miracles, to perswade, and prepare men to live so, as
to be worthy of the Immortality Beleevers were to enjoy, at such time as
he should come in majesty, to take possession of his Fathers Kingdome.
And therefore it is, that the time of his preaching, is often by himself
called the Regeneration; which is not properly a Kingdome, and thereby
a warrant to deny obedience to the Magistrates that then were, (for
hee commanded to obey those that sate then in Moses chaire, and to pay
tribute to Caesar;) but onely an earnest of the Kingdome of God that was
to come, to those to whom God had given the grace to be his disciples,
and to beleeve in him; For which cause the Godly are said to bee already
in the Kingdome of Grace, as naturalized in that heavenly Kingdome.




The Preaching Of Christ Not Contrary To The Then Law Of The Jews, Nor
Of Caesar

Hitherto therefore there is nothing done, or taught by Christ, that
tendeth to the diminution of the Civill Right of the Jewes, or of
Caesar. For as touching the Common-wealth which then was amongst
the Jews, both they that bare rule amongst them, that they that were
governed, did all expect the Messiah, and Kingdome of God; which they
could not have done if their Laws had forbidden him (when he came) to
manifest, and declare himself. Seeing therefore he did nothing, but by
Preaching, and Miracles go about to prove himselfe to be that Messiah,
hee did therein nothing against their laws. The Kingdome hee claimed was
to bee in another world; He taught all men to obey in the mean time them
that sate in Moses seat: he allowed them to give Caesar his tribute, and
refused to take upon himselfe to be a Judg. How then could his words,
or actions bee seditious, or tend to the overthrow of their then Civill
Government? But God having determined his sacrifice, for the reduction
of his elect to their former covenanted obedience, for the means,
whereby he would bring the same to effect, made use of their malice,
and ingratitude. Nor was it contrary to the laws of Caesar. For though
Pilate himself (to gratifie the Jews) delivered him to be crucified; yet
before he did so, he pronounced openly, that he found no fault in him:
And put for title of his condemnation, not as the Jews required, "that
he pretended to be King;" but simply, "That hee