[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Republican Guard (Syria)

The Syrian Republican Guard (), also known as the Presidential Guard, is an elite 25,000 man mechanized division, although it may actually approach corps size with around 60,000 guardsmen. Its main purpose is to protect the capital of Syria, Damascus, from any foreign or domestic threats. The Guard was the only Syrian military unit allowed within the capital before the civil war.

History
The Guard was formed in 1976 after the Syrian occupation of Lebanon to protect the increasingly unpopular president Hafez al-Assad. Major-General Adnan Makhlouf commanded the Guard from 1976 until 1997. The Republican Guard is used mostly to protect top Syrian government officials from any external threats and to serve as a counter-weight to the other powerful Syrian Army formations near the capital, the 4th Mechanized Division, the 3rd Armoured Division, and the 14th Special Forces (Airborne) Division. Many members of the Assad family have served in the Republican Guard. The current president Bashar al-Assad was a Colonel, and was given control of a brigade. His younger brother Maher was also a Colonel in the Republican Guard.

Structure

At the outset of the 2011 conflict, the Republican Guard included three mechanized brigades and two "security regiments." The overall force structure is comparable to a conventional mechanized infantry division, but like the 4th Armored Division, the Republican Guard is outfitted with better equipment and maintained at full strength.

The main ground combat unit of the Syrian military is often called a brigade or regiment and is between 500 and 1,000 strong. This is considerably smaller than a corresponding Western formation of that designation. For reasons of esprit de corps, these retain their pre-civil war titles as tank, infantry, mechanised, artillery, special forces and airborne Republican Guard brigades or regiments. However, their internal organisation is now very different from their pre-civil war structure.

Order of Battle (2021)
In the last days of October 2017, Jane's Information Group published in its Jane's Intelligence Review an article on the current military situation of the Syrian Arab Army and its future challenges. The text reflects the transformation that the battle order has presented through the conflict, from the old order of battle of the Soviet influence to the current one, more adapted to the new challenges. 

Between 2017 and 2021, Syrian Republican Guard's battle order was partially changed and new units were created.

Syrian Republican  Guard (2021)
 100th Artillery Regiment 
 101st Infantry "Security" Regiment (whose task is to provide security to the President, government ministers, senior government officials and the Army headquarters and other government institutions)
 102nd Infantry "Security" Regiment
 103rd Commando Brigade 
Syrian Marines (dissolved in 2017)
 104th Commando Brigade
 105th Mechanized Brigade
 47th Special Forces Regiment
 800th Regiment
30th Division – serves as an administrative command
 18th Mechanized Brigade – formerly part of the 10th Mechanised Division
 102nd Commando Brigade
 106th Mechanized Brigade
 123rd Special Forces Brigade (629th Battalion)
 124th Special Forces Brigade (872nd Battalion)
 93rd Special Forces Regiment
 147th Special Forces Regiment
Other special units:
Lionesses of Defense Armored Battalion
Popular Security and Support Forces (dissolved in 2019)

Operational history in the Syrian Civil War
At the beginning of the Syrian civil war, the Republican Guard kept out of the conflict, with only the regular Syrian Armed Forces fighting.

In June 2012, the Republican Guard clashed with rebels near its housing compounds and bases in the suburbs of Qudsaya and al-Hamah, about 8 kilometers from central Damascus.

The unit has been accused by Human Rights Watch of engaging in human rights abuses during the conflict. In 2012, Republican guard units played an important role in repelling opposition offensives on Damascus and Aleppo.

Later on, Republican Guard units were deployed to government bases in the North and East of the country, in order to bolster and stiffen the resistance against rebel advances.

400 Syrian Republican Guard fighters were reportedly called in as reinforcements during the Battle of Al-Hasakah.

The 103rd brigade reportedly operated in the Latakia province where (in 2013) it assisted other pro-government units in stopping opposition assaults on the Alawit heartland. The brigade also reportedly participated in offensive operations which partially expelled rebels from the Latakia province.