[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# January 1973

sian SFSR, its final scheduled destination after departing from Kazan on a flight that had originated in Krasnodar.  While only four people died from the impact of the crash of the Antonov An-24B in rugged terrain near Petukhovo,  from Perm, the 35 survivors froze to death in  while awaiting rescue.

January 22, 1973 (Monday)
The U.S. Supreme Court rendered its decision in Roe v. Wade by a vote of 7 to 2, overturning individual state bans in the first three months of pregnancy on a woman's right to an abortion, concluding that such bans deprive a woman of a fundamental liberty without due process of the law contrary to the 14th Amendment to the United States Constitution.  States were allowed to bar abortions during the final 10 weeks of pregnancy. The Texas case had been consolidated with the lesser known Georgia case of Doe v. Bolton.  Justices Byron R. White and William H. Rehnquist dissented, while Harry A. Blackmun was joined in the majority opinion by fellow justices William O. Douglas, William J. Brennan Jr., Potter Stewart, Thurgood Marshall, Lewis F. Powell Jr., and Chief Justice Warren Burger.  For nearly half a century afterward, a division between "pro-life" and "pro-choice" positions on abortion would continue with challenges until the overruling of Roe v. Wade on June 24, 2022, in the case of Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization.
The crash of a ALIA Royal Jordanian Airlines flight from Saudi Arabia to Nigeria killed 176 of the 202 people on board. The chartered Boeing 707 was bringing Muslim pilgrims back home and had taken off from Jeddah before it crashed in Kano, Nigeria.
Former U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson, who had served from 1963 to 1969, suffered a massive heart attack at 3:50 p.m. local time while at his LBJ Ranch in Stonewall, Texas, and died shortly thereafter.   According to contemporary reports, he picked up the phone next to his bed and told the switchboard operator at the Ranch, "Send Mike immediately," referring to his Secret Service agent, Mike Howard.  The nearest agents, Ed Noland and Harry Harris reached Johnson's bedroom at 3:52 and found him lying on the floor, dead.  The death of Johnson, coming 27 days after that of Harry S. Truman, marked the first time since January 5, 1933, that there were no former U.S. presidents alive.
George Foreman, a 24-year-old challenger, defeated champion Joe Frazier in Kingston, Jamaica to win the heavyweight world boxing championship.
Born: Erin O'Toole, Canadian politician, MP of Durham and former Opposition leader; in Montreal

January 23, 1973 (Tuesday)
The Eldfell volcano on the Icelandic island of Heimaey erupted at 1:55 in the morning near the town of Vestmannaeyjar.  The 5,500 inhabitants of the island were evacuated by the fishing boats already docked in the island's harbor. The eruption would last until July 3.
After U.S. National Security Adviser Henry Kissinger and North Vietnamese negotiator Lê Đức Thọ attached an agreement on terms of a treaty at 12:30 p.m. local time in Paris, President Richard Nixon announced that a peace agreement had been reached in Paris to end the Vietnam War, including the release by North Vietnam of all American prisoners of war, and a complete withdrawal of U.S. combat troops from South Vietnam by March.  The cease-fire was scheduled to take effect on Saturday, January 27. Nixon spoke on national television in the evening and said that "we today have concluded an agreement to end the war and bring peace with honor in Vietnam and in Southeast Asia."
American inventors Mario Cardullo and William L. Parks, received U.S. patent 3,713,148 for the first radio-frequency identification transmitter, the first implantable tracking device, after having filed the application on May 21, 1970. 
The U.S. House of Representatives implemented electronic voting for the first time in its history, with the members of Congress pushing buttons on their desks rather than the more time-consuming roll call. The first test was for a quorum call, moved for by Congressman Wayne Hays of Ohio, to determine if the House had a quorum of at least 218 members present to conduct business.
After lying in state at the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum in Austin, Texas, the late president Johnson was flown in his casket to Washington, D.C., to lie in state in the United States Capitol.
Born: 
Mark Boal, American screenwriter and producer, winner of two Academy Awards for The Hurt Locker; in New York City
Zurab Gegenava, Georgian broadcasting executive and philanthropist; in Tbilisi, Georgian SSR, Soviet Union
Died: Alexander Onassis, 24, Greek businessman, heir to the Aristotle Onassis fortune and chairman of Olympic Airways, died one day after being fatally injured in the crash of his single-engine airplane on takeoff from the Athens airport.