[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bikem Ekberzade

m PlanB publishing.

In 2010, Ekberzade self-published her second book "West-end of the Border" as an e-photography book, first of its kind. The book details Ekberzade's one of many visits to the Sahel, to document the flight of the Sudanese from Darfur to neighbouring refugee camps in Eastern Chad.

In 2014, Ekberzade co-authored "tel•e•gen•ic (ˌtɛl ɪˈdʒɛn ɪk)" with curator Özge Ersoy including an end note by academic Thomas Keenan. SPOT Production Fund issued a 500 copy limited edition of "tel•e•gen•ic" as a flip book in both English and Turkish, as part of their annual production fund Domates Biber Patlican-Produce. The digital edition was shared online by the authors a year later. The book was intended to be a part of a trilogy and the co-authors, this time accompanied by journalist Mahmut Bozarslan on video call from Diyarbakır, delivered the second volume, "Pro•pa•gan•da" as a talk on 14 November 2015, as part of Amber '15 festival in Istanbul.

In 2016, Ekberzade started working on her most recent book, "Standing Rock: Greed, Oil and the Lakota's Struggle for Justice", detailing the stand-off at Standing Rock which came out from Zed Books in the fall of 2018.

Ekberzade’s editorial work continues to be published in various print and on-line services including The New York Times, Newsweek, Businessweek, Christian Science Monitor, NTV-MSNBC, Times Picayune, and DoubleTake Magazine. She has also contributed to several books such as the Danish version of "The Mantle of the Prophet" by Roy Mottahedeh and the Baku–Tbilisi–Ceyhan pipeline compendium.

Other projects
Ekberzade is also the founder of a civil grassroots initiative called For Women, By Women (Kadinlar Icin, Kadinlar Tarafindan) which has brought several hundred Turkish female photographers together to make a stance on violence against women. The initiative is aimed at raising funds, through sales of photographs, for agencies and foundations whose aim is to fight violence against women. Since its start in March 2005, two NGOs have already benefited from the funds raised by the project.

Currently residing in Istanbul, Ekberzade continues to work as a freelance photojournalist and documentary photographer. Her latest project is an extension of "The Refugee Project", a continuation of "ILLEGAL", a feature-length documentary about refugees in Turkey. The documentary aims to focus primarily on individual stories and through them have the existing legislations in Turkey regarding refugees discussed by officials.

References

External links
The Virtual Story

Living people
1971 births
Turkish photojournalists
Journalists from Istanbul
Photographers from Istanbul