[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Madeira Archipelago Liberation Front

AMA's signature action, was the expression "Cubans" to describe the mainland Portuguese. This came from the fact that Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho, a well-known Portuguese military officer and main strategist of the 1974 Carnation Revolution, was an admirer of Fidel Castro's communist policies in Cuba.

In the beginning of August 1975, FLAMA released several statements in which it promised violent acts in case no action was taken to start the process of independence. The expression "Friday, it's João's birthday" (Portuguese: "Sexta-feira, o João faz anos") was supposed to be a code for violent acts that were going to be taken. As a response, Madeira's military forces launched operation "Happy Birthday" (Portuguese: parabéns), in which 200 military officers and police officers were given orders to find the group. At 2:45am of 9 August, a Saturday, a bomb attack was perpetrated and its target was the national news station, Emissora Nacional. The attackers made use of 200 grams of dynamite, but the attack did not cause much damage and was intended to serve as a warning.

On 23 August, FLAMA struck Emissora Nacional once again, and at 3:16am, a bomb exploded at its headquarters in Funchal. The organization stated that it viewed the news station as "leftist propaganda". Following that attack, whose main aim was to neutralize the electronic equipment of the station and therefore stop the news casting, a series of other attacks followed. Less than 24 hours later, another explosion took place at a bakery. The next bomb attack took place on 29 August, when a car from a well known politically left-oriented banker was the target of the explosion. On that same day, FLAMA releases pamphlets stating its intentions to start a provisional government of Madeira and asking for the recognition of FLAMA "as the true representative of the will of Madeira's people". However, the director of FLAMA at the time, José Carvalho, has stated that the move was "pure propaganda". Another attack followed, in the morning of 31 August, when another banker's car, João Abel Azevedo, was the target of the bomb attack. This attack led to the detention of a number of suspects by the local police forces, and when the news of the detentions was released on 2 September, FLAMA retaliated and a firecracker was thrown at São Lourenço Palace.

One of FLAMA's most controversial moments however, came on the night of 28 August, when 6 young men aged 15 to 17 sprayed slogans in support of FLAMA and Madeira's independence on the walls of a tourist complex named Matur, located in the municipality of Machico. They were detained by the police forces, due to the security cameras at the site, and once the news spread regarding their detention there was popular outrage against their actions. However, as minors, they were released but the event, which captured significant media attention, became known as the "Popular Trial of Machico".

A manifestation against FLAMA and its actions was called on 18 September, and it turned into a protest against independence with banners reading "Death to FLAMA". The following morning, two firecrackers were fired, the attacks were perpetrated by FLAMA, the first aimed at a car, the second bomb aimed at the house of a known syndicalist on the island. Several attacks took place in the following days, and after an occupation of another news broadcaster by a group of expatriates who had returned to Portugal following the war for independence of Angola and Mozambique and who demanded higher standards of living, three more attacks took place on the 10th, 12th, 15th and 21 October.

After establishing contact with FLA, FLAMA's boldest attack took place on November 13. At the Santa Catarina airport, there were three planes, one of them a military one called Noratlas of the Portuguese Air Force. At the time, there were rumors that the military plane was supposed to carry a sum of money out of Madeira and to the mainland, and at 4:10, a bomb explodes under the plane's cockpit, which causes significant damage to the plane and a fire at the airport. No suspects were detained due to the lack of evidence.

After a period of conversation and turmoil on the mainland, where elections had just taken place and Azores has plans of institutional autonomy, FLAMA was behind another attack which took place on 14 January 1976. This was followed by, on 19 February, the visit of José Baptista Pinheiro de Azevedo, Prime-Minister at the time, to start the talks with the local governmental authorities regarding the region's autonomy. On 20 February, following an explosion on a road in which the car of the Prime-Minister was passing, the documents granting a provisional government to the region of Madeira were signed.