[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Judiciary of Greece

The judicial system of Greece is the country's constitutionally established system of courts.

Independence of the justice system
In Greece, the Constitution has firmly established the independence of the justice system.

However the selection of the presiding judges of the three Supreme Courts is regulated by the Government (Ministry of Justice). Manipulation of the judicial system and its decisions by each government, is a common phenomenon which violates so the independency of the system.

Selection and appointment of professional judges
The Greek National School of Judges (ESDI) is an educational institution based in Thessaloniki, supervised by the Minister of Justice. It was established on the basis of Law 2236/1994, with the task of selecting, educating and training those intended to be appointed to positions of judicial officers of the Council of State, the Court of Auditors, administrative, civil and penal courts and public prosecutors, as well as the continuous training of judges already in service. Its operation began in 1995 and its attendance lasts one year. In order to be admitted into the School, law school graduates must first complete their internship, gain their license to practice and  then  pass examinations for their admission.

Promotions and placements are regulated by judicial boards, while the Council of Ministers appoints the Presiding Judges of the three Supreme Courts.

The three categories of the Greek judicial system

According to the Constitution, there are three categories of courts: civil courts, penal courts and administrative courts. The supreme court of the civil and penal justice is the Court of Cassation, while the supreme court of the administrative justice is the Council of State. Hence, Greek judges belong to one of these two branches. Consequently, an administrative judge is not entitled to judge a penal or civil case, while a civil judge is entitled to judge a civil or penal case but not an administrative one.

The civil justice

Civil cases are judged:
 At first instance, by the District Courts or the Courts of First Instance, according to the estimated value of the matter disputed at law.
 At second instance, by the Courts of First Instance or the Courts of Appeal, according to the estimated value of the matter disputed at law.
 By the Court of Cassation, when a writ of certiorari is filed against a final decision of the Court of Appeal. The Court of Cassation's decisions are irrevocable. If the Court of Cassation concludes that a lower court violated the law or the principles of the procedure, then it can order the rehearing of the case by the lower court.

The penal justice

Crimes are judged as follows:
 Felonies are judged, at first instance, by the "mixed" Court of First Instance and, at second instance, by the "mixed" Court of Appeal. The term "mixed" refers to the participation of professional judges and jurors (retaining almost no difference from lay judges in this respect). In these "mixed" courts four jurors participate along with three professional judges, of first instance and of appeal, respectively. A constitutional provision allows the exemption of certain crimes from the jurisdiction of the "mixed" courts. These crimes are judged, at first instance by the three-member Court of Appeal and, at second instance, by the five-member Court of Appeals, without the participation of any jurors. For example, the members of the Revolutionary Organization 17 November terrorist group were judged according to this procedure, because felonies of terrorism or organised crime belong to the competence of the Court of Appeal and not to the "mixed" courts.

The Court of Cassation examines writs of certiorari against the final decisions of the ("mixed" or not) Courts of Appeals and it can order the rehearing of a case by the lower court, if it concludes that the lower court violated the law or the principles of the procedure.
 Misdemeanours are judged, at first instance, by the Misdemeanours Court and, at second instance, by the Court of Appeal. A writ of certiorari against the final decision of the Court of Appeal is possible.
 Infringements are judged by the Magistrate's Court.

Administrative justice
The judicial control of an administrative act goes either on its merits or not. The administrative acts of the first case are appealed against with the legal remedies of the recourse or of the suit and they belong to the jurisdiction of the Administrative Courts (of First Instance and of Appeal), while all the other administrative acts are appealed against with the legal remedy of the writ of annulment and they belong to the jurisdiction either of the Council of State or of the Administrative Court of Appeal.