[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Marvel CyberComics

to stop Ryker's cyborgs from rewriting their programming, from the inside! By Andrew Ball and Nghia Lam!
Issue # 52 (July 10, 1997): The concluding chapter of the Spider-Man/Deathlok saga! Cyberspace was never this exciting! By Andrew Ball and Nghia Lam!

Spider-Man Storyline # 13: Path of Vengeance

Issue # 53 (July 30, 1997): Part One! Someone has targeted Osborn Industries for destruction – and Spider-Man fears it could be his worst enemy, back from the dead! By Glenn Greenberg, Pat Chau and Mark Badger!
Issue # 54:
Issue # 55 (August 13, 1997): Part Three! Spider-Man takes on the villain from his past who has targeted Osborn Industries for destruction - with Liz Allan Osborn caught in the middle! By Glenn Greenberg, Pat Chau and Atomic Paintbrush!
Issue # 56 (August 20, 1997): Part Four! Spider-Man takes on his old enemy, The Headsman, as the life of Liz Osborn hangs in the balance!

Spider-Man Storyline # 14: Maximum Plumage

Issue # 57 (August 27, 1997): Part One! Things turn fowl for Spider-Man when New York City is infiltrated by clones of Howard the Duck! By Glenn Greenberg and Daerick Gross!
Issue # 58 (September 3, 1997): Part Two! Doctor Bong is out to avenge himself upon Howard the Duck and Spider-Man finds himself drawn even deeper into this long-standing feud! By Glenn Greenberg, Daerick Gross and Mark Badger!
Issue # 59 (September 10, 1997): Part Three! At last: Spider-Man comes face-to-face with the diabolical Doctor Bong, with Howard the Duck caught in the middle! By Glenn Greenberg, Daerick Gross and Mark Badger!
Issue # 60 (September 17, 1997): Part Four! The conclusion to the mind-boggling Howard the Duck saga, featuring Spider-Man's showdown with the maniacal menace, known as Doctor Bong!

Spider-Man Storyline # 15: Doom Control 

(In five parts; 1998) His name is Von Doom. Victor Von Doom. And only Spider-Man can stop him from seizing control of all the minds in Manhattan. It can be seen completely here. By D. G. Chichester and Daerick Gross.

Heroes

 Blade (A one-shot; 21. August 1998)  The story is tied into the Wesley Snipes movie of the same name. Art by Daerick Gross. Read it here! 
 Captain America / Iron Man: Invasion Force (In four parts) Two of the Avengers' most prominent uncover the truth behind the new alien race, the Ravel, and must halt an alien invasion! Art by Daerick Gross. Read it here! 
 Daredevil (v.1): Protection Racket (In four parts; 1998) Featuring Daredevil's fight against Kingpin and Bullseye. By D. G. Chichester and Daerick Gross. Read it here! 
 Daredevil (v.2) #0: What a Life (A one-shot; September 1998) Written by Kevin Smith, with art by Joe Quesada & Jimmy Palmiotti A preview/prequel to the relaunched Daredevil title in 1998.
 Heroes Return (In five parts; 1997) It took place between issues #3 and #4 of the Heroes Reborn: The Return Limited Series. The Wall-crawler takes on the Green Goliath and encounters the Heroes Return super-heroes! By Tom DeFalco, Casey Jones and Rob Haynes.
 Marvel Milk Maniacs: Race for Destruction (A one-shot; 2000) Starring Captain America, the Hulk and Spider-Man. A promo CyberComic for drinking milk.
 Nick Fury / Black Widow: Jungle Warfare (In four parts) Nick Fury and the Black Widow race to defuse a bomb buried in the banks of the Panama Canal - without setting off any political landmines. Art by Casey Jones. Read it here! 
 Deadpool: Ride My Hard Drive, Baby! (In four parts; February 2000) In this quirky tale of everyone's favorite Merc-With-A-Mouth, Deadpool gets interactive as he ends up being downloaded into the computer, owned by his good buddy Weasel, and mayhem ensues in Cyberscape! Featuring appearances by Quasimodo, Vision, Captain America and Iron Man. "Ride My Hard Drive, Baby!" is written by Joe Kelly, with art by Casey Jones!

Mutants