[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Constructive set theory

ionistic Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory (), is a strong set theory without . It is similar to , but less conservative or predicative.
The theory denoted  is the constructive version of , the classical Kripke–Platek set theory without a form of Powerset and where even the Axiom of Collection is bounded.

Models 
Many theories studied in constructive set theory are mere restrictions of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory () with respect to their axiom as well as their underlying logic. Such theories can then also be interpreted in any model of .

For a set theory context without infinite sets, constructive first-order arithmetic can also be taken as an apology for most axioms adopted in : The arithmetic theory  is bi-interpretable with a weak constructive set theory, as also described in the article on Heyting arithmetic. One may arithmetically characterize a membership relation "" and with it prove - instead of the existence of a set of natural numbers  - that all sets in its theory are in bijection with a (finite) von Neumann natural, a principle denoted . This context further validates Extensionality, Pairing, Union, Binary Intersection (which is related to the Axiom schema of predicative separation) and the Set Induction schema. Taken as axioms, the aforementioned principles constitute a set theory that is already identical with the theory given by  minus the existence of  but plus  as axiom. All those axioms are discussed in detail below.
Relatedly,  also proves that the hereditarily finite sets fulfill all the previous axioms. This is a result which persists when passing on to  and  minus Infinity.

As far as constructive realizations go there is a relevant realizability theory. Relatedly, Aczel's theory constructive Zermelo-Fraenkel  has been interpreted in a Martin-Löf type theories, as sketched in the section on . In this way, theorems provable in this and weaker set theories are candidates for a computer realization.

More recently, presheaf models for constructive set theories have been introduced. These are analogous to presheaf models for intuitionistic set theory developed by Dana Scott in the 1980s. Realizability models of  within the effective topos have been identified, which, say, at once validate full Separation, relativized dependent choice , independence of premise  for sets, but also the subcountability of all sets, Markov's principle  and Church's thesis  in the formulation for all predicates.

Subtheories of ZF

Notation

Language 
The propositional connective symbols used to form syntactic formulas are standard. The axioms of set theory give a means to prove equality "" of sets and that symbol may, by abuse of notation, be used for classes. Negation "" of elementhood "" is often written "", and usually the same goes for non-equality "". However, in a context with apartness relations, for example when dealing with sequences, the latter symbol is also used for something different.

Variables 
Below the Greek  denotes a proposition or predicate variable in axiom schemas and  or  is used for particular such predicates. The word "predicate" is sometimes used interchangeably with "formulas" as well, even in the unary case.

Quantifiers range over sets and those are denoted by lower case letters.
As is common, one may use argument brackets to express predicates, for the sake of highlighting particular free variables in their syntactic expression, as in "".

One abbreviates  by  and  by . The syntactic notion of bounded quantification in this sense can play a role in the formulation of axiom schemas, as seen below.

Two ways to express disjointness capture many of the intuitionistically valid negation rules: . Using the above notation, this is a purely logical equivalence and below the proposition will furthermore be expressible as .

Express the subclass claim , i.e. , by .
The similar notion of subset-bounded quantifiers, as in , has been used in set theoretical investigation as well, but will not be further highlighted here.

Unique existence  here means .

If there provenly exists a set inside a class, meaning , then one calls it inhabited. One may also use quantification in  to express this as . The class  is then provenly not the empty set, introduced below. While classically equivalent, constructively non-empty is a weaker notion with two negations and ought to be called not uninhabited. Unfortunately, the word for the more useful notion of 'inhabited' is rarely used in classical mathematics.