[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Embassy of Sweden, Prague

in 1927 for the wealthy Czech Růžička family. It has four floors and several terraces. The house is next to the Strahov Monastery and near the Prague Castle. The hill below slopes steeply towards the river Vltava. The view consists of a vast park and the famous Charles Bridge looming over the river.

The building was designed by the architect Tomáš Šašek, who managed to make it fit in stylistically with the surrounding baroque architecture. One of the obstacles to the construction was that the popular tavern Na szállé vyhlídce ("At the beautiful view") had to be demolished to make room. From the beginning, the house was intended as a single-family house, but in the end a large building with room for four families was created. Šašek was obviously given a free hand and the building became very lavish. Architect Šašek designed an angular house body, facing the street, divided into three parts that follow the slope of Úvoz street with gradually decreasing heights. Inside, behind the screening wall, the various parts of the house body are emphasized by terraces and an arcade. The leveled division of the garden follows the steeply sloping plot and becomes like an organic extension of the building. The only decor Tomáš Šašek used was simply profiled moldings and the play between surfaces, between light and shadow over the facades of the house. There's a view of Prague from the garden side of the embassy.

The automobile racer Eliška Junková lived in the house from 1930. When Junková moved in, she thought the whole house was upside down and to get a better view, she paid for a balcony to the attic apartment she rented. From there she could see to the south and the Strahov Monastery. A small bronze plaque on the wall facing Úvoz street states that she lived in the house until her death in 1994. In recent years, the National Property Board of Sweden (SFV) has carried out a complete renovation of the property. Today it houses the chancery, ambassador residence and three staff residences. In 2013, SFV did foundation strengthening of the lower part of the property and renovation work on the embassy's facades.

Heads of Mission

References

External links

 

Sweden
Prague
Czech Republic–Sweden relations
Czechoslovakia–Sweden relations