[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Emily Stevens (actress)

Emily Stevens (February 27, 1883 – January 2, 1928) was a stage and screen actress in Broadway plays in the first three decades of the 20th century and later in silent films.

Family lineage
Stevens was born in New York City, the daughter of Robert E. Stevens (born c. 1837 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania), a theatrical manager, and actress Emma Maddern Stevens. Her father had joined the United States Navy just before the American Civil War, rising to the rank of Lieutenant. According to The New York Times, Robert E. Stevens "took out the first traveling theatrical company" from New York City. He also managed actor Lawrence Barrett for many years.

She was from a theatrical family. She was a cousin of Minnie Maddern Fiske. Stevens bore a strong physical resemblance to Mrs. Fiske. This likeness was accentuated by her style of acting. Stevens' mother, Emma Maddern, was a sister of Mrs. Fiske's mother, Elizabeth Madden, and also a sister of Mary Madden, who played with Mrs. Fiske for many years.

Stevens  was educated at the Institute of the Holy Angels in Fort Lee, New Jersey and St. Mary's Hall-Doane Academy in Burlington, New Jersey.

Theater actress
Stevens got her first training with Mrs. Fiske's company after she (Stevens) left St. Mary's Hall School (now Doane Academy) in Burlington, New Jersey. She made her theatrical debut as a maid in Becky Sharp in Bridgeport, Connecticut on October 8, 1900. Stevens was in the cast of Miranda of the Balcony produced by the Manhattan Theatre, Broadway and 33rd Street, New York City in September 1901. The drama was the first presentation at the venue under the management of Harrison Grey Fiske. Stevens had the part of Lady Ethel Mickleham. As Miranda Warriner, Mrs. Fiske was praised for her interpretation of the principal character. In November the company of Mrs. Fiske staged The Unwelcome Mrs. Hatch at the Manhattan Theatre. The author of the play was either Constance Cary Harrison or David Belasco. The theme of the work had to do with a woman who becomes a social outcast because of marital problems. Stevens played the role of Gladys Lorimer.

In May 1902 Mrs. Fiske put on a revival of Tess of the D'Urbervilles at the Manhattan Theatre. Stevens was among the players in a recreation of this production of Mrs. Fiske first staged in 1897. She became a permanent member of the company of Mrs. Fiske in 1904, following three seasons on stage. She acted the role of Miriam in Mary of Magdala in 1904. The Manhattan Theatre presented Becky Sharp in September 1904. Based on Vanity Fair by William Makepeace Thackery, the comedy in four acts was written by Langdon Mitchell. Mrs. Fiske and the Manhattan Company brought it before audiences with Stevens and George Arliss as cast principals. A revival of Hedda Gabler was staged in November 1904 with Mrs. Fiske in the title role and Stevens as Berta. The Henrik Ibsen work played for one week in 1903 with near capacity attendance for each performance. Leah Kleschna was written especially for Mrs. Fiske by C.M.S. McLellan (Hugh Morton). The Manhattan Theatre presented the play about the daughter of a thief in December 1904. The production marked the first original role Fiske had acted in two years. Stevens, Arliss, John B. Mason, and Marie Fedor were among the players.