[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Crusade of Romanianism

d evisaged villages being uplifted by teams of political activists, including educators and agronomists. According to Manu, the Crusaders were recruiting their own social and political elites, but these were in fact set aside by their wish to return man "to the clay that man was originally made of."

As described by Talex, this brand of Romanianism was "noble and creative", Istrati being its leading exponent. When first introduced to Gandhism and the Ramakrishna Mission in 1930, Istrati himself had declared: "To me, the Occident is dead"; Crusaders posthumously described him as: "born as a vagabond, lived as a loner, died as a Romanian." In its search for authenticity,  also partook in the campaign against modernist literature. In December 1934, it hosted a literary review by scholar I. E. Torouțiu, who informed readers that modernists were foreigners, citing a German statistic which alleged that only 7 in 400 young writers were "authentically German". Talex, who once described himself as a "know-nothing" in political matters, had for a personal idol the nationalist historian Vasile Pârvan. He was especially inspired by Pârvan's critique of "formalist literature" and his Russophobia, both of which colored his reading of Istrati's work. Talex's admiration for "Romanianism" opposed him to the more cosmopolitan liberals of the day, prompting the Crusade's journalistic attacks against Eugen Lovinescu, the modernist doyen of Romanian liberalism. Lovinescu (who had been Talex's high school teacher) was called "a con artist" in .

Notes

References

External links
 Issues of  at the Cluj-Napoca Central University Library

1934 establishments in Romania
1937 disestablishments in Romania
Political parties disestablished in 1937
Political parties established in 1934
Defunct political parties in Romania
Fascist parties in Romania
Greater Romania
Iron Guard
Third Position
Syncretic political movements
Romanian nationalist parties
Anti-communist parties