[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# William T. R. Fox

William Thornton Rickert Fox (January 12, 1912 – October 24, 1988), generally known as William T. R. Fox (or occasionally W. T. R. Fox), was an American foreign policy professor and international relations theoretician at the Columbia University (1950–1980, emeritus 1980–1988). He is perhaps mostly known as the coiner of the term "superpower" in 1944. He wrote several books about the foreign policy of the United States of America and the United Kingdom (and the British Empire). He was a pioneer in establishing international relations, and the systematic study of statecraft and war, as a major academic discipline. National security policy and an examination of civil-military relations were also focuses of his interests and career. He was the founding director of Columbia's Institute of War and Peace Studies and held the position from 1951–1976.

Early life and early career
Fox was born and grew up in Chicago.  He attended Haverford College, graduating Phi Beta Kappa with a B.S. in 1932.

He then obtained his masters and Ph.D. degrees at the University of Chicago, in 1934 and 1940, respectively.  There he was among a group of students, which also included V. O. Key, Jr. and David Truman, who studied with the pioneering political scientist Charles E. Merriam.  He also studied international law under Quincy Wright.  Harold Lasswell and his approach towards political analysis  was the biggest influence on Fox there.

He married Annette Baker in 1935, who also became a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago and an international relations scholar.  They had two children together and sometimes collaborated on academic work as well.

Fox initially taught as an instructor at Temple University from 1936–41 and Princeton University from 1941–43. He joined Yale University in 1943 and became an associate professor there in 1946.  He was associate director of the Yale Institute of International Studies from 1943 to 1950.  The director there, Frederick S. Dunn – who held that international relations was "politics in the absence of central authority" – was another important influence on Fox.

Fox coined the word "superpower" in his 1944 book The Super-Powers: The United States, Britain, and the Soviet Union – Their Responsibility for Peace to identify a new category of power able to occupy the highest status in a world in which, as the war then raging demonstrated, states could challenge and fight each other on a global scale. According to him, there were (at that moment) three states that were superpowers: the United States, the Soviet Union, and the British Empire.  The book forecast the directions that Soviet-American relations would take if the powers did not collaborate, but also made an effort to explore feasible opportunities that leaders might have to forestall that future. Fox was part of the international staff at the 1945 United Nations Conference on International Organization, the San Francisco meeting that led to the creation of the United Nations Charter. He was one of the contributors to Bernard Brodie's landmark 1946 volume The Absolute Weapon: Atomic Power and World Order, where he recognized with Brodie that the future nuclear stand-off between the U.S. and U.S.S.R. would become focused on the fear of mutual destruction, but in his portion explored ways that international agreements to limit or control nuclear weapons might improve matters.  Fox came away from his activities during this period convinced that the framing of international relations theory should be around the proposition that, "If man is to have the opportunity to exercise some measure of rational control over his destiny, the limits of the possible and the consequences of the desirable both have to be investigated."

Columbia years and organizational positions
Fox joined the Columbia faculty as a full professor in 1950.  Later, he became the James T. Shotwell Professor of International Relations from 1968–72, the Bryce Professor of the History of International Relations from 1972–80, and Bryce Professor Emeritus after that.

Upon the request of President of Columbia Dwight D. Eisenhower, in 1951 Fox became the first director of the university's Institute of War and Peace Studies, a position he would hold for 25 years.  Fox said that the new institute would focus on security studies and that its aim was "to find a road to security with the most peace and the least war."  Early areas of focus for the institute were civil–military relations and the Cold War and nuclear strategy; these areas, and especially the first, were of particular interest to Fox.  Meanwhile, Fox remained focused on developing the academic discipline of international relations theory and was one of the key influential figures in discussions about that theory during this period.