[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sri Lanka Army Special Forces Regiment

sts in counter terrorism and urban warfare  
 A Squadron 
 K Squadron 
 L Squadron 
 S Squadron 
 Urban Fighting Squadron - formed on 16 April 2012
 Support Squadron
 Administrative Squadron
 5th Special Forces Regiment (5 SF) - formed in 2009 and disbanded on 1 April 2012.

Recruitment and training

Any member of the Sri Lanka Army can apply for the Special Forces Regiment. Applicants need to pass the 28 day selection course. Candidates who successfully complete this course are then enrolled to complete the basic Special Forces course which lasts between 10–12 months. After graduating the Special Forces course, the candidates are inducted as members of the Special Forces Regiment and are offered training programs of occupational specialities offered by the Regiment.

Training Schools
Special Forces Training School was established on 15 February 1992 and it is conducting the basic and specialized training for all Special Forces personnel. It also conducts special courses to train instructors from other battalions in the Army and has also helped to train Navy Special Boat Squadron personnel and Sri Lanka Air Force Regiment Special Force.

 Special Forces Training School - SFTS
 Special Forces Combat Diving Training School - SFCDTS
 Special Forces Jungle Warfare Training School - SFJWTS

Colors and insignia

Rana Parashuwa 

Unlike other regiments in the Sri Lanka Army, the Special Forces Regiment has been awarded Rana Parashuwa which are a ceremonial battle hatchets that represent President's and regimental colors in 2019.

Insignia 
The Special Forces Regiment cap badge depicts an Eagle and has been regarded as a symbol of the SF along with the black-colored beret and the Jolly Roger skull-and-crossed-bones arm patch with the "Special Forces" shoulder tab.

Parama Weera Vibhushanaya recipient
Colonel A.F. Lafir, PWV, RWP, RSP  – Former Commanding Officer of the 1st Regiment Special Forces
Lieutenant Colonel  J.A.L Jayasinghe, PWV, WWV, RWP, RSP  – Former Officer Commanding of M Sqn, 3rd Regiment Special Forces.
Major Ajith Gamage, PWV, RWP, RSP  – Former Officer Commanding of C Sqn
Sergeant Sugath Chandrasiri Bandara, PWV  - 2nd Special Forces Regiment
Corporal K. Chandana, PWV  - 3rd Special Forces Regiment

Notable members

Major General Gamini Hettiarachchi - Father of the Special Forces Regiment
General Mahesh Senanayake - former Commander Of the Army and Special Forces Brigade Commander 
Major General Prasanna De Silva - Former Special Forces Brigade Commander 
Colonel Raj Vijayasiri, RWP, RSP - Founder of the Long Range Reconnaissance Patrol (LRRP) Concept for Special Forces and former Special Forces Brigade Commander
Major General Nirmal Dharmaratne -Former Special Forces Brigade Commander 
Brigadier Harendra Ranasingle – Former Special Forces Brigade Commander
Brigadier Sujeewa Senarathyapa – Special Forces Brigade Commander

Order of precedence

See also
Long Range Reconnaissance Patrol (Sri Lanka)
Commando Regiment
List of military special forces units

Further reading
The Perfect Soldier: Special Operations, Commandos, and the Future of U.S. Warfare by James F. Dunnigan

References

External links
Ministry of Defence Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka Army
ShadowSpear Special Operations – Sri Lanka Special Forces

Special Forces Regiment
Special forces of Sri Lanka
Military units and formations established in 1986
1986 establishments in Sri Lanka