[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of Shadow Raiders characters

and size are identical to Planet Tek from the original War Planets toy line.

The Beast Planet
The Beast Planet is the main antagonist of the show. By using its ability to create Beast Drones  and alongside its Beast Generals, they crush the defenses of a planet so that the Beast Planet can eat it.

Blokk
One of the Beast Generals sent to conquer any planets they could get their hands on, Blokk was a firm believer in the brute force method. He gets carried away quite easily, and is definitely not as intelligent as Lamprey - if he had his way, he would launch an all-out assault on the Alliance and wipe them out with his Beast Drones. Despite this, Blokk is one of the Beast's most formidable warriors, being armed with a pair of jagged claws on each forearm. He also lacks the frailty of his drone subordinates, having no obvious weak points to destroy.

After their failure in the first season, Blokk and Lamprey returned to the Beast Planet and were tortured and beaten. However, at the end of the series, he invades the underdefended Planet Rock, killing Lord Mantel and several inhabitants before challenging Graveheart to a final battle in the planet's World Engine. Blokk meets his end at Graveheart's hands when a forcefield generator is shoved into his body, disintegrating him from within.

Blokk had a habit of "jittering" his skull during the first season, but stopped when Lamprey told him that it annoyed her. Late during season two he regained his "jitter" whenever he became angered. He is voiced by Scott McNeil.

Lamprey
One of the Beast Generals sent to conquer any planets they could get their hands on, Lamprey is much more level-headed than Blokk, often bickering with him on the best way to proceed. She favored more subtle tactics than Blokk, using manipulation to create inner turmoil amongst the Alliance. In combat, Lamprey can use the tendrils on her arms as whips or blades.

Her main plan was to possess Tekla and turn the Alliance members against each other.  The plan failed, but Lamprey continued to taunt the group, until the destruction of Remora sent her and Blokk back to the Beast Planet for punishment. In Lamprey's last appearance in the series, she makes another attempt on Tekla's life, but is instead engaged in combat with Jade. She accidentally crushes herself underneath a collapsing ceiling in the melee, killing her, though after the fight, no sign of Lamprey remains underneath the rubble. Her fate is left uncertain. She is voiced by Tasha Simms.

Voyd
One of the Beast Generals sent to conquer any planets they could get their hands on. Voyd outranks Blokk and Lamprey, and thus acts as the deciding vote on which of their plans to carry out. Additionally, he is able to act as an interdimensional transport, teleporting Blokk and Lamprey to safety when able to. Being significantly larger than Blokk and Lamprey, Voyd is assumed to be much more powerful than both of them, and is the one being besides the Beast Planet they both fear. He is a mysterious being that never speaks, and appears primarily in the first season. He later appears on a monitor within Blokk's fighter during the second season. Voyd does not have a "jaw" (unlike Blokk and Lamprey), which may be the reason why he never talks. He, however, still make grunts similar to that of Beast Drones.

The fact that Lamprey is female, Blokk is male and Voyd is of indeterminate gender may be seen as significant in their positions and in the way they prefer to work.

Beast Drones
The mindless infantry of the Beast Planet's forces, consisting of null matter condensed around a crescent-shaped containment unit. They can be killed instantly by destroying their containment units, but make up for it through sheer numbers and deadly null-matter blasters on their left arms.

Planet Sand

Zuma
A peaceful inhabitant of Planet Sand, Zuma is native and unfamiliar to the other worlds.  She knows only what she learned, and has very powerful telepathic abilities. She joins the Alliance as a representative of her planet. However, she finds it difficult to be separated from her "kindred". She is voiced by Ellen Kennedy.

Ramset
The apparent leader of the Sun people, a small humanoid who moves about in an imposing suit of gold armor.  He thought that the Sand people were unable to communicate until Zuma first "spoke" to him. He is voiced by Grahame Andrews

Prison Planet