[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# May 1965

e the roof off the elementary school in Shell Lake, Wisconsin at 9:40 in the morning while 307 students and teachers were in the ten classrooms, but there were no injuries.
Died:
Ernesto de Martino, 56, Italian anthropologist, historian, and philosopher
Una Marson, 60, Jamaican-born British feminist

May 7, 1965 (Friday)
The 173rd Airborne Brigade, the first major ground combat unit of the United States Army to be deployed in the Vietnam War, arrived in South Vietnam, with two infantry battalions landing at the Bien Hoa Air Base. In all, the "Sky Soldiers" of the 173rd Airborne had 3,500 men and the brigade would remain until August 25, 1971.
The Rhodesian Front political party, led by Prime Minister Ian Smith, retained its majority in the general election for the House of Assembly. The election was held using two rolls, an "A" roll, which was largely white (getting votes from 95,208 whites and 2,256 blacks) for the 50 seats set aside for white candidates, and a "B" roll, mostly African, for 15 seats reserved for colony's African majority population.
Brigadier General Antonio Imbert Barrera of the Dominican Air Force was named as the President of the Dominican Republic by the military regime, replacing Colonel Pedro Bartolomé Benoit, who had been installed ten days earlier. Meanwhile, the rebels opposing the government claimed Colonel Francisco Caamaño as the President.
President Johnson signed legislation providing an additional $700,000,000 toward fighting the Vietnam War. The resolution had passed the U.S. Senate by a vote of 88 to 3, and the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 408 to 7. At the ceremony, Johnson said, "America keeps her promises.  And we will back up those promises with all the resources that we need."
The limestone carrier freighter  collided with a Norwegian freighter, SS Topdalsfjord, while both were traveling in the Straits of Mackinac that separate the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and the rest of the state, and connect Lake Michigan and Lake Huron. Twenty-five members of the crew of 35 were rescued, but two died while floating in the cold waters, and eight others went down with the ship.
Born: 
Owen Hart, Canadian-born American professional wrestler known as "The Blue Blazer", who was killed when he fell  while being lowered to a match during a pay television event; in Calgary (d. 1999)
Norman Whiteside, Northern Ireland soccer football player and the youngest player (in 1982 at age 17) to appear in the World Cup; in Belfast
Died:
Charles Sheeler, 81, American photographer
Alf Bjørnskau Bastiansen, 81, Norwegian priest and politician

May 8, 1965 (Saturday)
Randy Matson became the first person to hurl a standard shot put more than . Matson, competing at an athletic meet at Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas, threw the  sphere 70 feet,  inches (21.52 meters). The current record, set in 1990, is 75 feet, 10 inches (23.12 meters).
The Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians (AACM) was founded in Chicago.

May 9, 1965 (Sunday)
Construction began on what would become the Chu Lai Air Base in South Vietnam, as a unit of the U.S. Naval Mobile Construction Battalion, NMCB-10, began the task of putting in the first combat zone "Short Airfield for Tactical Support" (SATS). The team would have a  runway in place within 23 days and the first airplanes would land on June 1.
Luna 5 was launched toward the Moon by the Soviet Union on a multi-stage rocket. The probe's attitude control system would fail on several occasions along the way.
Pianist Vladimir Horowitz returned to the stage after a 12-year absence, performing a legendary concert in Carnegie Hall in New York.
A passenger bus with 40 people on board ran off of the road near Ixtapan de la Sal in Mexico, and plunged into the  deep Calderón River Ravine, killing most of the people on board.
Born: Steve Yzerman, Canadian NHL player, in Cranbrook, British Columbia
Died: Leopold Figl, 62, Chancellor of Austria from 1945 to 1953