[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# L'Est Républicain

L'Est Républicain (; ) is a daily regional French newspaper based in Nancy, France.

L'Est Républicain was established in 1889 by Léon Goulette, a French Republican. The newspaper was founded on the grounds of anti-Boulangisme. It was closed down in 1941 when France was under German occupation during World War II. In 1946 it was restarted. The paper is headquartered in Nancy and has its primary market in the regions of Lorraine and Franche-Comté.

L'Est Républicain has a conservative stance. The paper belongs to Société du Journal l'Est Republicain SA, who also owns the newspapers La Liberté de l'Est and Les Dernières Nouvelles d'Alsace among others. The publisher of L'Est Républicain is Est Bourgogne Rhône Alpes.

On 23 September 2006, L'Est Républicain published a report on the possible death of Osama bin Laden.

The circulation of the daily was 180,000 copies in 2009.

History

1889-1914: Foundation and development
L'Est Républicain was founded in Nancy by Léon Goulette on 5 May 1889, the day of the inauguration of the Exposition Universelle for which the Eiffel Tower was built. The first issue was printed in 1200 copies on four pages. The newspaper was then the sixth daily in the Nancy press, alongside the Journal de la Meurthe et des Vosges (1799), L'Espérance (1838) and L'Impartial. Sold for 5 cents, the newspaper had an anti-Boulangist and pro-Republican stance. It was read by many figures of Republican sensitivity, such as Jules Méline, Jules Ferry, Émile Gallé, Auguste Daum, Alfred Mézières, as well as political figures from Nancy and Lorraine. Its headquarters were then located in rue de Saint-Dizier in downtown Nancy.

On 1 April 1911 René Mercier became head of the newspaper, replacing Léon Goulette who held an anti-Dreyfusard position. Mercier opened an agency in Paris to collect political information and advertisements. The newspaper then generated enough profit to be self-financing. Due to the premises' becoming too cramped, René Mercier bought land from the Compagnie de l'Est, at the corner of the Faubourg Saint-Jean. In March 1913, the editorial staff moved into a hotel designed by the French architect Pierre Le Bourgeois in the style of the École de Nancy. At the same time, the director bought a new press with a speed of 20,000 copies per hour, making it possible to increase the number of pages and editions without increasing the price.

In 1911, the circulation was 21,000 copies divided into three editions. The newspaper was modernized: new presentation, introduction of photographs, new sections on fashion, industry and agriculture, hiring of young journalists and numerous correspondents. The L'Est Républicain went through six editions, extending to neighboring departments: the Vosges and the Meuse. The newspaper then shifted rather to the left, while denouncing pacifists and antimilitarists, and supporting the action of the Lorraine-based Raymond Poincaré, President of the French Republic.

1914-1945: The journal during the two world wars
In 1914, following the outbreak of the First World War, the newspaper lost much of its staff. Located in a combat zone, it fell victim to French military censorship. But it continued, nonetheless, to be published, sometimes on a single double-sided sheet. The newspaper helped maintain the morale of Nancy, especially during the Battle of Grand Couronné in 1914, and when evacuating the city was considered in 1918. On the night of 26 to 27 February 1918 the printing house was bombed, but the newspaper continued to be distributed on one page.

In 1920, the printing amounted to 60,000 copies. In 1927, the newspaper was printed in 100,000 copies and extended its distribution to Haute-Saône and the Territoire de Belfort. In 1933, L'Est Républicain had offices in Bar-le-Duc, Verdun, Metz, Thionville, Épinal, Saint-Dié and Belfort.

Before World War II, L'Est Républicain held an anti-Nazi line. Paper restrictions and power cuts made it difficult for the newspaper to be published. On 13 June 1940 the newspaper was published for the last time. On 14 June, as the Germans entered Paris, the newspaper was scuttled, just like its competitor, L'Éclair de l'Est, the next day. On 18 June the Germans entered Nancy, and on 8 July the authorities requisitioned the premises of L'Est Républicain.

As the region had then no written information, the editors of L'Est Républicain and L'Éclair de l'Est created the Nancy Presse newsletter which would be published until 3 August 1940. On 2 August 1940 the collaborationist journal L'Écho de Nancy published its first number. Totally controlled by the Germans, it defended Nazism, Adolf Hitler and advocated for antisemitism. The last issue printed in the installations of L'Est Républicain came out on 1 September 1944, but it continued to be printed in Germany until February 1945.