[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Paul Hunt (academic)

Paul Hunt, a New Zealand and British national, is a human rights expert who specialises in economic, social and cultural rights. In January 2019, he took up office as Chief Commissioner at the New Zealand Human Rights Commission.

Formerly a Senior Lecturer at the University of Waikato and a Professor of Law at the Human Rights Centre, University of Essex. He has held senior UN human rights appointments, including Member of the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, UN Special Rapporteur on the right to the highest attainable standard of health and Senior Human Rights Advisor to the Assistant WHO Director-General, Flavia Bustreo.

Background
In 1979, he graduated from Cambridge University (UK) with a law degree. Between 1982-1985, he worked for Kingsley Napley (London) as a civil and criminal litigation solicitor, and assistant to the Senior Partner, Sir David Napley. In 1988, he married a New Zealander and in 1992 moved to New Zealand where he took up the position of Senior Lecturer at the University of Waikato. In 1995, he was awarded a Masters of Jurisprudence (1st Class Hons) by the University of Waikato (New Zealand). In 2000, he was appointed Professor of Law at the University of Essex (UK) and also became a Visiting Professor at the University of Waikato. Between 2000-2018, he was an annual visitor to, and speaker in, New Zealand. In 2018, he moved back to New Zealand to take up the position of Chief Commissioner in the New Zealand Human Rights Commission. In 2018, Nicola Sturgeon, First Minister of Scotland, appointed Hunt to her Advisory Group on Human Rights Leadership.

Human rights
In 1985, Hunt left private practice and became a human rights lawyer in Israel/Palestine working for Quaker Peace and Service (now Quaker Peace and Social Witness). Between 1985 and 1987, he lived in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and researched the Israeli Military Courts. Published in 1987, Justice? The Military Court System in the Israeli-Occupied Territories, examined the Military Courts through the "lens" of Israel's international human rights obligations.

On his return to the UK, Hunt worked with Sydney Bailey on an inter-denominational project about human rights in Britain and Ireland. This Quaker project included Mary Robinson, shortly to become the President of Ireland, and David Trimble, shortly to become leader of the Ulster Unionist Party and First Minister of Northern Ireland. The project led to Human Rights and Responsibilities in Britain and Ireland, edited by Bailey, and a shorter version, A Christian Perspective on Human Rights and Responsibilities: with Special Reference to Northern Ireland, edited by Hunt and was responsible for one of the earliest publications in favour of incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights into UK law.

Between 1987–1990, Hunt worked for the National Council for Civil Liberties/Liberty (UK) as Legal Officer, Head of the Legal and Campaign Team and Acting general secretary. He conducted national and international human rights cases, including litigation in Strasbourg under the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition to prisoners' rights, he worked on the lawfulness of Northern Ireland's emergency laws. and was responsible for one of the earliest publications in favour of incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights into UK law.

Between 1990–1992, Hunt was appointed Associate Director of the African Centre for Democracy and Human Rights Studies (Gambia), working under Raymond Sock (formerly Solicitor-General) and Hassan Jallow (then Minister of Justice). The Centre paralleled and monitored the new Gambian-based African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights established under the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights. With Jallow, Hunt co-authored one of the first publications on HIV/AIDS and human rights in Africa, as well as research on African national human rights institutions, and children's rights in the Gambia.

Academic career

Between 1992–2000, Hunt was senior lecturer at the University of Waikato, New Zealand. The focus of his teaching and research was national and international public law, especially human rights. He began to specialise in economic, social and cultural rights and his study, Reclaiming Social Rights: International and Comparative Perspectives, was published in 1996. This was one of the first books published on social rights. Reviewing it in the Human Rights Quarterly, Barbara Stark remarked upon the book's ambition and concluded, "Hunt succeeds brilliantly" and that the study "dazzles".