[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Admiralty (United Kingdom)

ablished in 1917 and existed until 1964 when the department of the Admiralty was abolished, and the staff departments function continued within the Navy Department of the Ministry of Defence until 1971 when its functions became part of the new Naval Staff, Navy Department of the Ministry of Defence.

Offices of the Naval Staff
 Office of Deputy Chief of the Naval Staff.
 Office of the Vice Chief of the Naval Staff. 
 Offices of the Assistant Chiefs of the Naval Staff.

Admiralty Departments
The Admiralty Departments were distinct and component parts of the Department of Admiralty that were superintended by the various offices of the Sea Lords responsible for them; they were primarily administrative, research, scientific and logistical support organisations. The departments role was to provide the men, ships, aircraft and supplies to carry out the approved policy of the Board of Admiralty and conveyed to them during 20th century by the Admiralty Naval Staff.

Offices of the Sea Lords
 Office of the Deputy First Sea Lord 
 Office of the Second Sea Lord. 
 Office of the Third Sea Lord.
 Office of the Fourth Sea Lord.
 Office of Fifth Sea Lord

Department of the Permanent Secretary

The Secretary's Department consisted of members of the civil service it was directed and controlled by a senior civil servant Permanent Secretary to the Board of Admiralty he was not a Lord Commissioner of the Admiralty, he functioned as a member of the board, and attended all of its meetings.

Organizational structure by time period

"Admiralty" as a metonym for "sea power"
In some cases, the term admiralty is used in a wider sense, as meaning sea power or rule over the seas, rather than in strict reference to the institution exercising such power. For example, the well-known lines from Kipling's Song of the Dead:

See also

 Admiralty administration
 Admiralty buildings
 Admiralty chart
 Admiralty, Hong Kong
 Admiralty Inlet
 Admiralty Peak
 Navy Department (Ministry of Defence)
 List of lords high admiral
 List of first lords of the Admiralty
 List of lords commissioners of the Admiralty
 Lord High Admiral of Scotland
 St Boniface's Catholic College

References

Further reading
 Daniel A. Baugh, Naval Administration in the Age of Walpole (Princeton, 1965).
 Sir John Barrow, An Autobiographical Memoir of Sir John Barrow, Bart., Late of the Admiralty (London, 1847).
 John Ehrman, The Navy in the War of William III: Its State and Direction (Cambridge, 1953).
 C. I. Hamilton, The Making of the Modern Admiralty: British Naval Policy-Making 1805–1927 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2011).
 C. I. Hamilton, "Selections from the Phinn Committee of Inquiry of October–November 1853 into the State of the Office of Secretary to the Admiralty, in The Naval Miscellany, volume V, edited by N. A. M. Rodger, (London: Navy Records Society, London, 1984).
 C. S. Knighton, Pepys and the Navy (Stroud: Sutton Publishing, 2003).
 Christopher Lloyd, Mr Barrow of the Admiralty (London, 1970).
 Malcolm H. Murfett, The First Sea Lords: From Fisher to Mountbatten (Westport: Praeger, 1995).
 Lady Murray, The Making of a Civil Servant: Sir Oswyn Murray, Secretary of the Admiralty 1917–1936 (London, 1940).
 N.A.M. Rodger, The Admiralty (Lavenham, 1979)
 J.C. Sainty, Admiralty Officials, 1660–1870 (London, 1975)
 Sir Charles Walker, Thirty-Six Years at the Admiralty (London, 1933)

External links 

 The Admiralty at the Survey of London online

 
Defunct departments of the Government of the United Kingdom
Royal Navy

History of the Royal Navy

1964 disestablishments in the United Kingdom
United Kingdom in World War II
Military history of the United Kingdom during World War II