[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 6-inch siege gun M1877

iod were not yet capable of carrying large diameter bombs the burden of delivering heavy firepower fell on the artillery.  The majority of combatants scrambled to find anything that could fire a heavy shell and that meant emptying the fortresses and scouring the arms depots for guns held in reserve.

It was under these conditions that 496 M1877's in fortresses in European Russia were sent to the front in order to support Russian armies assaulting German and Austro-Hungarian frontier fortresses.  However, due to a string of Russian defeats in the first year of the war large numbers of M1877's were captured by the Germans due to their lack of mobility.  The Germans transferred a number of these guns to the Western Front where they were assigned to heavy artillery battalions of the army in order to replace losses suffered during the first two years of the war.

World War II
An unknown number of M1877's were still in use by the Soviet training, reserve and coastal defense units during World War II.  The last documented usage was in 1941 during Operation Barbarossa when due to a lack of suitable anti-tank guns twelve were removed from the Dzerzhinsky Military Academy in Moscow and participated in the defense of Moscow.  These guns closed a gap in the defenses of the Soviet 16th Army under the command of K. K. Rokossovsky during the Battle of Moscow in the Solnechnogorsk and Krasnaya Polyana area.  The guns were dug into revetments to cover the approaches to Moscow and the gun crews had to aim via boresight since they lacked sights for direct fire.  Despite this, they were successful in the anti-tank role out to  range.

Ammunition 
The M1877 was able to fire a variety of different types of projectiles segregated by the type of propellant used.

Black Powder:
 Cast Iron HE -  projectile,  bagged charge,  muzzle velocity and  range.
 Cast Iron Shrapnel -  projectile with 630 balls,  bagged charge, and  muzzle velocity.
Smokeless Powder:
 HE -  projectile with  TNT filling,  muzzle velocity and  range.
 Chemical -  projectile.
 Illumination -  projectile.
 Long Range HE -   projectile with  TNT filling,  muzzle velocity and  range.

Users

Wars

 Russo-Japanese War
 World War I
 Finnish Civil War
 Russian Civil War
 Polish–Soviet War
 Winter War
 World War II

Photo Gallery

References

World War I guns
Artillery of the Russian Empire
Russo-Japanese war weapons of Russia
152 mm artillery
World War I artillery of Russia