[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Peter Kellman

eeds using primarily human labor. He is also studying and beginning to organizing around the cultural side of agriculture. In a way he has come full circle from 1964 when he worked for Helen and Scott Nearing, many consider the parents of the 1960s back-to-the-land movement.

Memberships and awards 

Peter Kellman is a member of the National Writers Union, Local 1981 of the United Auto Workers, AFL-CIO.  He has previously been in the following unions: International Brotherhood of Painters and Allied Trades, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, United Food and Commercial Workers, the American Federation of Teachers, the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union and Chaired the Labor Parties Maine Chapter.

In 2002, Kellman was named a co-recipient of the 2002 Stringfellow Awards for Justice and Peace, given by the Chaplain's Office at Bates College in honor of peace activist, theologian and lawyer William Stringfellow.

INSERT: His Portrait is part of the "Americans Who Tell the Truth" collection.

Published works
Kellman, Peter.  Building Unions. Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.: Apex Press, 2001). .
Kellman, Peter. Divided We Fall: The Story of the Paperworkers' Union and the Future of Labor. Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.: Apex Press, 2004. 
Kellman, Peter, ed. Pain On Their Faces: Testimonies on the Paper Mill Strike, Jay, Maine, 1987-1988. Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.: Apex Press, 1998. 
Kellman, Peter and Bruno, Ed. "Toward a New Labor Rights Movement." WorkingUSA. Spring 2001.

Notes

 POCLAD is a project of the Council on International and Public Affairs (CIPA).

References
"1,200 Maine Workers Strike International Paper Co. Plant." New York Times. June 17, 1987.
Getman, Julius. The Betrayal of Local 14. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1999. 
Minchin, Timothy J. " 'Labor's Empty Gun': Permanent Replacements and the International Paper Company Strike of 1987–88." Labor History. 47:1 (February 2006).
Kellman, Peter. Divided We Fall: The Story of the Paperworkers' Union and the Future of Labor. Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.: Apex Press, 2004.

External links
Maine AFL-CIO
Program on Corporations, Law and Democracy (POCLAD)
Council on International and Public Affairs (CIPA)

1945 births
Living people
People from Sanford, Maine
Labor historians
American community activists
American trade union leaders
American Federation of Teachers people
American anti-war activists
American civil rights activists
American non-fiction writers
Historians of Maine
Activists from New York City
Trade unionists from Maine