[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 94]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

l the vegetables which serve as
nourishment to man, so that they are obliged to be continually upon the
sea, in order to catch fish for their maintenance.

_Tommy._--What a dreadful life that must be in a country which is so
cold!

_Mr Barlow._--In consequence of that extreme cold, those northern seas
are full of such immense quantities of ice, that they are sometimes
almost covered with them. Huge pieces come floating down, which are not
only as big as the largest houses, but even resemble small mountains.
These are sometimes dashed against each other by the winds, with such
immense force, that they would crush the strongest ship to pieces, and
with a noise that exceeds the report of a cannon. Upon these pieces of
ice are frequently seen white bears of an enormous size, which have
either fallen asleep upon them, and so been carried away, or have
straggled over those ice hills in search of fish.

_Tommy._--And is it possible that the inhabitants of such a country can
find enough in it for all their necessities?

_Mr Barlow._--The necessities of life are very few, and are therefore to
be found even in the most rugged climates, if men are not wanting to
themselves, or deficient in industry. In plentiful countries like this,
and in most of the more temperate climates, great numbers are maintained
in idleness, and imagine that they were only born to live upon the
labour of others; but, in such a country as Greenland is described to
be, it requires continual exertion to procure the simplest support of
human life; and therefore no one can live at all who will not employ
himself in the same manner as his neighbours.

_Tommy._--You said that these people had neither flesh nor corn; do they
then clothe themselves with the skins of fish, as well as live upon
them?

_Mr Barlow._--There is in those seas a peculiar species of animal called
a _seal_. He is nine or ten feet long, and has two small feet before, on
which he is able to walk a little upon the shore, for he frequently
comes out of the sea, and sleeps, or amuses himself upon the land or
ice. His body is very large, and full of oil, and behind he has two legs
which resemble fins, with which he swims in the water. This animal is
the constant prey of the Greenlander, and furnishes him with all he
wants. The flesh he eats, the fat serves him to feed his lamp, which is
almost as necessary as food itself in that cold climate. With the skin
he makes clothes that are impenetrable to the water, or lines the inside
of his hut to keep out the weather. As this animal is so necessary to
the existence of a Greenlander, it is his greatest glory to chase and
take him. For this purpose he places himself in a small narrow boat, the
top of which is covered over with the skins of seals, and closes round
the middle of the fisher so tight as entirely to exclude the water. He
has a long oar, or paddle, broad at both ends, which he dips first on
one side, then on the other, and rows along with incredible swiftness
over the roughest seas. He carries with him a harpoon, which is a kind
of lance or javelin, tied to a long thong, at the end of which is fixed
a bladder, or some other light thing that sinks with difficulty. When
the fisherman is thus prepared, he skims lightly along the waters, till
he perceives at a distance one of these animals floating upon the
surface. The Greenlander then approaches him as softly as he is able,
and, if possible, contrives that the animal shall have the wind and sun
in his eyes. When he is sufficiently near he throws his harpoon, and
generally wounds the creature, in which case he instantly hurries away,
and carries with him the thong and bladder. But it is not long before he
is compelled to rise again to the surface of the water to breathe; and
then the Greenlander, who has been pursuing him all the time, attacks
him anew, and dispatches him with a shorter lance, which he has brought
with him for that purpose. He then ties his prey to his boat, and tows
it after him to his family, who receive it with joy, and dress it for
their supper. Although these poor people live a life of such continual
fatigue, and are obliged to earn their food with so much hardship, they
are generous and hospitable in the management of it, for there is not a
person present but is invited to partake of the feast; and a Greenlander
would think himself dishonoured for life, if he should be thought
capable of wishing to keep it all to himself.

_Tommy._--I think it seems as if the less people had the more generous
they are with it.

_Mr Barlow._--That is not unfrequently the case, and should be a lesson
to many of our rich at home, who imagine that they have nothing to do
with their fortune but to throw it away upon their pleasures, while
there are so many thousands in want of the common necessaries of life.

_Tommy._--But, pray, sir, have you no more particulars to tell me about
these Greenlanders?