[Source: PubMed]

69. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Jul 27;19(15):9157. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19159157.

Health Status of Afghan Refugees in Europe: Policy and Practice Implications for 
an Optimised Healthcare.

Matsangos M(1), Ziaka L(2), Exadaktylos AK(3), Klukowska-Rötzler J(3), Ziaka 
M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Insel Gruppe AG, Kreditorenbuchhaltung, 
Freiburgstrasse 18, 3010 Bern , Switzerland.
(2)Department of Special Needs Education, University of Oslo, 0315 Oslo, Norway.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Inselspital, University Hospital, 
University of Bern, 3010 Bern, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, General Hospital of Thun, 3600 Thun, 
Switzerland.

Four decades of civil war, violence, and destabilisation have forced millions of 
Afghans to flee their homes and to move to other countries worldwide. This 
increasing phenomenon may challenge physicians unfamiliar with the health status 
of this population, which may be markedly different from that of the host 
country. Moreover, several factors during their migration, such as transport in 
closed containers, accidental injuries, malnutrition, and accommodation in 
detention centres and refugee camps have a major influence on the health of 
refugees. By taking into account the variety of the specific diseases among 
migrant groups, the diversity of the origins of refugees and asylum seekers, and 
the increasing numbers of Afghan refugees, in this review we focus on the 
population of Afghans and describe their health status with the aim of 
optimising our medical approach and management. Our literature review shows that 
the most prevalent reported infections are tuberculosis and other respiratory 
tract infections and parasitic diseases, for example leishmaniasis, malaria, and 
intestinal parasitic infections. Anaemia, hyperlipidaemia, arterial 
hypertension, diabetes, smoking, overweight, malnutrition, low socioeconomic 
status, and poor access to healthcare facilities are additional risk factors for 
non-communicable diseases among Afghan refugees. With regards mental health 
issues, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are the most common 
diagnoses and culture shock and the feeling of being uprooted modulate their 
persistence. Further research is needed in order to provide us with extensive, 
high-quality data about the health status of Afghan refugees. The main objective 
of this review is to identify protective factors which could ensure key health 
concepts and good clinical practice.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19159157
PMCID: PMC9368211
PMID: 35954518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.