[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Charles Sousa

not saving enough for retirement. The Conservative government of Prime Minister Stephen Harper did not want to discuss the idea. That lack of co-operation from Ottawa prompted Wynne to promise the ORPP, but she emphasized Ontario would abandon that plan if a deal to enhance the CPP could be reached.

In November 2016, Sousa announced plans to create a new regulator in the province to consolidate and strengthen oversight of credit unions, mortgage brokers, provincial pension plans and provincially registered insurers. The creation of the Financial Services Regulatory Authority (FSRA) was a key recommendation of an expert panel on financial regulation convened by the Ontario government.

In April 2017, Sousa released the 2017 Ontario Budget. As his government promised when elected in 2014, the budget was the Ontario's first balanced budget since the 2008 global recession. The budget announced new government initiatives like free prescription medications for everyone 24 and under (dubbed OHIP+), free tuition for 210,000+ post-secondary students, a 25% cut to energy bills via the Fair Hydro Plan, housing affordability measures through the Fair Housing Plan, the Ontario Seniors' Public Transit Tax Credit, and increased investment for healthcare and education. Included in the budget, but announced previously, were initiatives like a plan to study basic income with pilot projects in 3 cities, and a pledge to open 100,000 new child-care spaces with a quarter of those spots set to open in 2017.

On March 28, 2018, Sousa released the 2018 Ontario Budget: A Plan for Care and Opportunity. In the document, the Minister announced a new drug and dental coverage for Ontarians without employer health plans, free preschool child care for children aged two-and-a-half until junior kindergarten, billions in both hospital capital funding, and hundreds of millions in operational funding. Also included in the 2018 budget was new mental health funding, new home-care funding for seniors, and new funding for developmentally disabled adults, among other initiatives.

As Minister of Finance, Sousa had following agencies under his direction: Deposit Insurance Corporation of Ontario, Financial Services Commission of Ontario, Financial Services Tribunal, Liquor Control Board of Ontario, Ontario Electricity Financial Corporation, Ontario Financing Authority, Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation and the Ontario Securities Commission.

Federal politics
On November 5, 2022, it was announced that Sousa would run as the federal Liberal candidate in the Mississauga—Lakeshore by-election scheduled for December 12, 2022. The riding had been vacated earlier in the year following the resignation of Liberal MP Sven Spengemann in order to accept a position with the United Nations. Sousa comfortably won the election, defeating Conservative candidate Ron Chhinzer.

Electoral record

Federal elections

Provincial elections

References

External links

1958 births
Canadian people of Portuguese descent
Living people
Members of the Executive Council of Ontario
Ontario Liberal Party MPPs
Politicians from Mississauga
Politicians from Toronto
University of Western Ontario alumni
Wilfrid Laurier University alumni
Finance ministers of Ontario
21st-century Canadian politicians
Liberal Party of Canada MPs
Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Ontario