[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Staffordshire Yeomanry

e Yeomanry obtained a special dispensation to continue its 12 troops. It was also issued with Westley Richards breechloading carbines. Lord Bagot retired from the command in 1874 and was appointed the regiment's first honorary colonel, Lt-Col William Bromley-Davenport, MP, succeeding to the command.

Following the Cardwell Reforms a mobilisation scheme began to appear in the Army List from December 1875. This assigned Regular and Yeomanry units places in an order of battle of corps, divisions and brigades for the 'Active Army', even though these formations were entirely theoretical, with no staff or services assigned. The Staffordshire Yeomanry were assigned as 'divisional troops' to 1st Division of III Corps based at Croydon, Surrey, alongside Regular Army units of infantry, artillery and engineers. By now, the regiment had expanded to 12 Troops with regimental headquarters (RHQ) at Lichfield. The strength on 1 December 1875 was stated to be 495 out of an establishment of 599. The regiment was issued with the Snider carbine in 1881, replaced by the Martini–Henry carbine in 1885 and the Martini–Metford carbine in 1896. Colonel Bromley-Davenport died during the 1884 training and Lt-Col Henry Paget, 4th Marquess of Anglesey, succeeded to the command. The Tamworth Trp had been disbanded in 1882 due to falling numbers; it was followed by the Leek Trp in 1889 (when 18 men over the age of 50 were forcibly retired) and the Cheadle Trp in 1892, leaving the regiment with nine troops, in addition to the band, ambulance and signal sections.

Yeomanry regiments were reorganised into permanent squadrons in January 1893, when the Staffordshires adopted the following organisation:
 RHQ – Yeomanry House, Lichfield, moving to the Friary, Lichfield, in 1895
 A Squadron – Lichfield and Walsall Trps
 B Squadron – Newcastle and Stafford Trps
 C Squadron – Anglesey (or Burton) and Uttoxeter Trps
 D Squadron – Himley and Wolverhampton Trps

The 1875 mobilisation scheme had never been more than a paper organisation, but now the Yeomanry regiments were grouped into brigades for collective training. They were commanded by the senior regimental CO but they did have a Regular Army Brigade major. The Staffordshire Yeomanry together with the Warwickshire Yeomanry formed the 8th Yeomanry Brigade in the 4th Division of Auxiliary Cavalry.

The Prince of Wales visited Lichfield for the regiment's centenary in 1894, when he was entertained at Elmhurst Hall, former home of the regiment's founder, Francis Eliot, by the commanding officer, Cromartie Sutherland-Leveson-Gower, 4th Duke of Sutherland, great-grandson of the first CO.

Imperial Yeomanry

Second Boer War

The Yeomanry was not intended to serve overseas, but due to the string of defeats during Black Week in December 1899, the British government realised that it was going to need more troops than just the regular army. A Royal Warrant was issued on 24 December 1899 to allow volunteer forces to serve in South Africa. The Royal Warrant asked standing Yeomanry regiments to provide service companies of approximately 115 men each for the Imperial Yeomanry. The new force was equipped to operate as Mounted infantry (MI), armed with a Lee–Metford infantry rifle and bayonet instead of a cavalry carbine and sabre.

In January 1900 the Staffordshire Yeomanry quickly raised 6th (Staffordshire) Company, IY, commanded by Capt William Bromley-Davenport, MP (son of the regiment's former colonel), comprising four officers and 64 yeomen, together with 50 civilians and members of the Volunteers, who were specially enlisted in the regiment. The company sailed from Liverpool on 21 February and on arrival in South Africa it formed part of 4th Battalion, IY, commanded by Col F.G. Blair of the Leicestershire Yeomanry.

On 4 March the 4th was sent with other IY battalions to Naauwpoort, and by 19 April it had joined Lieutenant-General Sir Leslie Rundle's 8th Division ('Rundle's Column') concentrating at Rosendal in the Orange Free State. Next day Rundle advanced on Dewetsdorp with the 4th and other IY and MI battalions as a covering force, followed by the infantry and artillery. As they advanced the Boer scouts fell back to their main position on a Kopje to the north. The MI and guns attacked the kopje, while the IY tried to work round the flank, but the action ended inconclusively. Three days of desultory firing followed before reinforcements arrived, when the Boers fled. In the pursuit the IY were used fo wide turning movements. In the next operation Rundle's force was ordered to advance north on a wide front to sweep up the Boers in his path as the army advanced on Bloemfontein.