[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abraham Jefferson Seay

ed his name to President Harrison to serve as the second governor. However, it would be three months later when Harrison officially appointed Seay to the office. On February 1, 1892, Justice Seay resigned from the judiciary and was inaugurated as the second governor of Oklahoma Territory at Guthrie.

Governor Seay would be in office only sixteen months. The Encyclopedia of Oklahoma History and Culture rated him as "...an able and effective governor."   During his tenure as governor, he oversaw the opening of the land run of the Cheyenne-Arapaho Reserve on April 19, 1892. He oversaw the creation of six new counties, selecting county seats and appointing county officials. He also promoted the Territory's educational system by introducing a tax on liquor to help pay for schools, and advocating compulsory school attendance. He also convinced the legislature to appropriate $15,000 to create an Oklahoma exhibit for the 1893 World's Fair. This showcased the territory's agriculture and business potential so effectively that the practice continued for several World's Fairs after Oklahoma became a state.

Seay's governorship came to an abrupt end when Grover Cleveland became president and appointed William Cary Renfrow governor on May 7, 1893.

Late life
Seay made his home in Kingfisher, building his mansion home there in 1892, where he lived with various members of his extended family. On November 23, 1899, he organized the Central State Bank of Kingfisher. Later, the bank's name was changed to the First National Bank of Kingfisher. On October 26, 1904, the bank was taken over by the Kingfisher National Bank. Despite that take over, Seay remained his position as bank president.

Seay was an active member of the Episcopal Church, as well as a member of the Freemasons. He suffered a fall that fractured his hip in the early 1900s. The injury worsened as Seay aged, and he was eventually forced to use a wheelchair. He was advised to move to a better climate, and so in 1909, Seay purchased a home in Long Beach, California. Seay spent the rest of his life in California until his death on December 12, 1915. His remains were returned to Oklahoma for burial and interred in the cemetery at Kingfisher, where his grave is suitably marked and next to the grave of one of his sisters, Susan Isabel Seay Collins. His funeral was held at the Masonic Temple in Guthrie. Governor of Oklahoma Robert L. Williams and his staff attended the funeral.

Notes

References

Sources
Meserve, John Bartlett. "The Governors of Oklahoma Territory". Chronicles of Oklahoma 20:3 (September 1942) 218–227 (accessed August 28, 2006).
Abraham Jefferson Seay
Chisholm Trail Museum and Governor Seay Mansion

1832 births
1915 deaths
Governors of Oklahoma Territory
Missouri lawyers
Oklahoma state court judges
People from Amherst, Virginia
Union Army colonels
Missouri Republicans
Oklahoma Republicans
California Republicans
American lawyers admitted to the practice of law by reading law
People from Union, Missouri
People from Kingfisher, Oklahoma
Lawyers from Long Beach, California
Politicians from Long Beach, California
People of Missouri in the American Civil War
19th-century American judges
19th-century American lawyers
19th-century American Episcopalians
Military personnel from California