[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Kazakhstan–United States relations

ontinued collaboration in support of stability in the region, including through our joint efforts on counterterrorism. Our commitment to security cooperation is demonstrated by activities such as U.S. support for Kazakhstan's peacekeeping brigade KAZBAT and the annual military exercise Steppe Eagle.

Kazakhstan and the USA hold regular meetings dedicated to developing cooperation in the field of security and the fight against organized crime, terrorism, extremism and drug trafficking. In May 2015 General Prosecutor of the Republic of Kazakhstan Askhat Daulbayev met with U.S. Ambassador to Kazakhstan George Krol in Astana to discuss wide-ranging issues of bilateral legal cooperation, including transnational organized crime, terrorism, and drug trafficking. Daulbayev noted that Kazakhstan's General Prosecutor Office is actively cooperating with the U.S. in fighting against crimes.

In August 2016 US Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy and Human Rights Sarah Sewall conducted a trip to Kazakhstan to discuss with her Kazakh counterparts ways the two countries can strengthen their cooperation against terrorism.

The U.S. State Department's coordinator for counterterrorism, Nathan Sales, visited Kazakhstan on October 7 and 8, 2019, to discuss the U.S. – Kazakhstan counterterrorism partnership and Kazakhstan's efforts to repatriate its citizens from Syria. Ambassador Sales said that Kazakhstan's repatriation program could serve as a roadmap for other countries to do the same.

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has pointed to Kazakhstan's work to repatriate more than 600 fighters and family members of Kazakh citizenship as a model for other countries.

Democracy and development
The United States and Kazakhstan reaffirmed the importance of democratic development and efforts to strengthen representative institutions such as an independent media and local self-government. Both sides acknowledged the importance of a vibrant and varied civil society during the Strategic Partnership Dialogue roundtable on governance and human rights with non-governmental organizations. The United States welcomes Kazakhstan's efforts to establish a national development assistance agency, KazAID.

Kazakhstan is the first country in Central Asia to have a national system of ODA (official development assistance). The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) expressed its hope that the establishment of the KazAID would help build a more stable and secure environment.

On December 10, 2014, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Kazakhstan's Foreign Minister Erlan Idrissov co-chaired the third meeting of the Strategic Partnership Dialogue in Washington, DC. The two sides highlighted the robust and growing bilateral ties between Kazakhstan and the United States. The wide-ranging discussions on bilateral and regional issues in the Strategic Partnership Dialogue included the following: partnership on global issues; nonproliferation; democracy, human rights, and development; trade, investment, and energy; Afghanistan and regional integration; security and law enforcement cooperation; military cooperation; education, science, and technology partnership; development in humanitarian assistance; EXPO-2017.

Economic cooperation

The American Chamber of Commerce in Kazakhstan represents nearly 200 member companies in 30 industry sectors. 15%, or $48.4 billion, of total FDI in Kazakhstan originated from the United States.

Trade and business
Kazakhstan is currently the 79th largest goods trading partner of the U.S. with $2.1 billion in total (two way) goods trade during 2018. U.S. goods exports to Kazakhstan in 2018 were $729 million, up 32.1% ($177 million) from 2017. Kazakhstan was the United States' 72nd largest supplier of goods imports in 2018. U.S. goods imports from Kazakhstan totaled $1.4 billion in 2018, up 75.0% ($593 million) from 2017.

According to the US diplomatic mission in Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan provides trade and investment prospects for U.S. firms seeking new opportunities in one of the most dynamic of the emerging markets. The US Chamber of Commerce produces each year the commercial guide for US companies. U.S. firms invested more than $42 billion in Kazakhstan between 1993 and 2013. Two-way trade between the United States and Kazakhstan reached $2.4 billion in 2014.

The United States has applied Kazakhstan with Normal Trade Relations status. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce advocates that it is in the national interest of the United States to provide Kazakhstan permanent normal trade relations.

Kazakhstan's ambassador to the U.S. Kairat Umarov visited Springfield, Missouri in August 2014 to cultivate commercial opportunities for American and Kazakh companies. This resulted in Springfield, Missouri based Allen Global President Jerry Nichols to travel to Kazakhstan and later announce a major expansion into Kazakhstan that will create more American and Kazakh jobs.