[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Public Protector

the appropriate remedial action on his/her findings.

History

The Public Protector is one of six State Institutions Supporting Democracy in South Africa. These institutions are independent of the government, subject only to South Africa's Constitution and the law, and report annually to Parliament.

Functions of the Public Protector
The powers of the Public Protector are regulated by the national legislation. Additional powers may also be granted by the national legislator. However, court decisions may not be investigated by the office. It receives and investigates complaints from the public government.
Some functions include (but are not limited to): 
 The power to investigate any conduct of government or administration that is seen as improper/ prejudiced. 
 Their main objective is to defend democracy and its citizens. They are seen as an independent state institution. 
 They report to the National Assembly (NA) at least once a year. 
 They protect and enforce constitutional obligations.
 Anyone may access or lay a complaint to the public protector for inadequate or corrupt services by government employees. 
 They do not deal with complaints against the judiciary.

Appointment
The Public Protector is appointed by the president, in accordance with the provisions of section 193 of the Constitution. The candidate must be a South African citizen who-

"
 is a Judge of a High Court; or
 is admitted as an advocate or an attorney and has, for a cumulative period of at least 10 years after having been so admitted, practised as an advocate or an attorney; or
 is qualified to be admitted as an advocate or an attorney and has, for a cumulative period of at least 10 years after having so qualified, lectured in law at a university; or
 has specialised knowledge of or experience, for a cumulative period of at least 10 years, in the administration of justice, public administration or public finance; or
 has, for a cumulative period of at least 10 years, been a member of Parliament.
" – Sub-s. (1A) Act 23 of 1994

Tenure
Under chapter nine of the constitution, the Public Protector may only serve a non-renewable period of seven years in office.

Investigation Reports
Reports made by the Public Protector must be open to the public and be accessible to anyone. However certain reports may be kept confidential under exceptional circumstances. The Public Protector has to date investigated at least 40 000 cases.

One of the most prominent cases is the investigation into allegations of impropriety and unethical conduct relating to the installation and implementation of security measures by the Department of Public Works at and in respect of the private residence of President Jacob Zuma at Nkandla in the KwaZulu-Natal province

Jurisdiction 
Any matters in which the Public Protector has jurisdiction may be reported to the office of the Public Protector by any person.

In terms of the Public Protector Act 23 of 1994 and other legislative acts, the Public Protector may investigate, on the basis of a complaint or on his or her own initiative, any level of government. This includes national, provincial and local government, any public office bearer, any parastatal and any statutory council.

Relationship with other chapter nine institutions

Similar to other bodies under the Chapter nine institution under the Constitution, the office of the Public Protector is independent of government and must be impartial and must exercise their powers and perform their function without any influence or prejudice.

Budget
Currently the office of the Public Protector manages an estimated 40,000 cases, with a staff of 314. During the 2013/14 budget, the office was allocated R199.3m, with an increase of R18.3m for the 2014/15 financial year.

During the budget of 2015, the office was allocated an additional increase of R60m instead of the R200m initially requested at the justice portfolio committee. As a result, the office of the Public Protector was required to make drastic cutbacks.

As a result of the funding difficulties, the spokesman of the office the Public Protector office cited that they would look at external agencies to help fund the office. The executive management of the office of the Public Protector has held meetings with development partners from German, Japan and Belgium.

References

External links
 Public Protector official site
 State of Capture a report by the Public Protector into the activities of the Gupta family and Jacob Zuma

South Africa
Government of South Africa
Ombudsmen in South Africa
Chapter nine institutions