[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Gheorghe Pintilie

g with Nicolschi, Pintilie issued arrest warrants for 417,916 people (some of whom were no longer alive or present in the country); over 130,000 of these were solely targeted for their membership in religious organizations, while 100,000 more were divided between the old regime's political parties. 

Prosecutor Grigore Răduică reported in 1992 that he considered Pintilie "responsible for many a crime", including the sending of thousands to do work on the Canal; Pacepa sees him as guilty for the deaths in custody of some 50,000 people. Colonel Ilie Bădică, who was tasked with supervising the labor colonies, claimed in 1968 that improving the living standards of inmates was disallowed by "comrade Pintilie, [...] who said that, if a warden ever gave good food to his prisoners, then he might as well be colluding with the class enemy." One record of the Georgescu–Pintilie conversations sees the latter reporting that scores of people had been arrested "just because we needed to take their homes." Such criminal lassitude was sometimes curbed by the PCR leadership. Also in 1952, Pintilie reluctantly staged a round-up among the staff of the Canal labor camps, arresting eight leading figures of the dedicated Securitate branch. These figures were then tried for their abuses against political prisoners, which helped to document the crimes for posterity. In 1955, a military tribunal handed out 32 prison sentences, including for 21 high-ranking officers. Drăghici had them pardoned within the year, and Pintilie added his weight, ordering that they be reinstated and granted an expense-free vacation.

Faced with an increase in the cases of armed anti-communist resistance, Georgescu, Pintilie, and the other figures at Internal Affairs initially relied on input from the regular police force, or Miliția. In March 1949, they assigned some missions to Eugen Alimănescu, already famous for his wanton killings of criminal suspects. Alimănescu then proceeded to execute anti-communist "bandits" held in custody, including some who had served under Ion Uță and Nicolae Dabija. Alongside Nicolschi, Avram Bunaciu, and others, Pintilie also personally handled the one-week-long trial of Spiru Blănaru, who had assisted Uță in Teregova. The Lieutenant General eventually organized a Singular Command of the Securitate to deal with resistance groups, staffing it with figures such as Pavel Aranici, Ristea Ciuchici, and Spiridon Coman. During March 1950, at the peak of the "Tito–Stalin split", he introduced speculation that the resistance groups of Timișoara Region were being propped up by a Yugoslav network, and that the Securitate's failures in untangling this conspiracy suggested its own infiltration by the "Titoists". In early 1951, he extended the "dislocation" policy to those areas, deporting some 44,000 locals, including children, to the inland Bărăgan Plain. 

Pintilie also implicated the Securitate in the more violent aspects of land collectivization, particularly after the Securitate and Miliția were called upon to contain peasant revolts. On August 31, 1949, he organized a meeting of all regional Securitate leaders "in order to instruct them about how to reduce repressive intervention in the villages and take appropriate measures to resolve tensions." In this context, Pintilie acknowledged that some arrests made by the Securitate were based on "imaginary charges", and asked his agents to cease arresting "disorganized inimical elements", unless the latter persisted in their opposition. In July 1950, the Securitate of Cluj County cited its "immediate tasks", as outlined by the Lieutenant General, including "the sound completion of [grain] collecting." As recounted in October by Major Mihail Kovács, who had shot down five peasants near Luduș, "Comrade Minister Pintilie said that we should spare no effort for the timely discovery of conspiracies by the chiaburi against collective farms and yards".

Brainwashing experiment