[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# History of cricket in the United States

the league struggled through its initial season due to poor attendance. Although most of the games were shown on Dish network PPV, the competition was linked to the unsuccessful launch of the so named "American Desi TV" channel based in New Jersey. The league ceased operations after the 2004 season.

Game-play format 
The format of the games were 20 overs a side, similar to Twenty20 cricket. However, there were two major changes from the rules of cricket used elsewhere:
Overs consist of five balls instead of six.
Bowlers could bowl up to five overs each (25% of the total), meaning only four bowlers are needed rather than five.
Additionally, the league used a "designated hitter" rule, in which teams consist of 12 players, 11 of whom field and 1 of whom bat. This was similar to such rules existing in some domestic List A cricket competitions. All of these changes were designed to shorten the game and produce more aggressive batting, which the league administrators believed would help make the sport more appealing to the U.S. public.

The league counted on participation from first-class players from all the major countries, but the Indian board barred its players from participating.

Each team was allowed a limited roster of global players from professional cricket teams outside the U.S. The ICC, however, ruled that because Pro Cricket was not organised by the USACA, contracted players from ICC Test nations could not be released from their contracts to play in Pro Cricket matches. However, several notable players without contracts, such as Ajay Jadeja, Daren Ganga, Mervyn Dillon, Colin Miller and Rahul Sanghvi took part in the competition. Also featured was 51-year old Larry Gomes, as well as a few Zimbabwean exiles such as Craig Wishart. The 15–⁠20 international players who did turn out were rotated among the teams to improve gate attractability.

Although cricket had a strong following in the U.S. up to the mid-19th century, its popularity dwindled with the rise of baseball, and it remained an almost unknown sport throughout the 20th century. The U.S. was one of the first nations to become an associate member of the ICC in 1965, but growth of the game there languished until the late 1990s, when the ICC focused development efforts on the country. Progress has since been slow but steady, and many hoped that Pro Cricket would prove to be a turning point in the popularity of the sport in the U.S.

2004 Season 
The league consisted of eight teams in two divisions. The East division, known as "The Covers" and the West, known as "The Mid Wickets", are listed with their home grounds:

East Division
 New York Storm (Staten Island, New York) – Richmond County Bank Ballpark
 New Jersey Fire (Bridgewater, New Jersey) – Commerce Bank Ballpark
 D.C. Forward (Bowie, Maryland) – Prince George's Stadium
 Florida Thunder (Homestead, Florida) – Homestead Sports Complex

West Division
 Chicago Tornadoes (Schaumburg, Illinois)– Alexian Field
 San Francisco Freedom (San Francisco, Northern California) – Kezar Stadium
 Los Angeles Unity (Los Angeles, San Bernardino, Southern California) – Arrowhead Credit Union Park
 Texas Arrow Heads (Houston, Texas) – Cougar Field at the University of Houston

The competition involved round-robin home and away games between all pairings within a division, followed by inter-divisional semi-finals and a final. The schedule ran from the opening game on 19 June 2004 to the final on 4 September 2004. In addition, Pro Cricket had a policy of not playing the games that have no importance to them on the points table. The game scheduled for 21 August 2004 between Chicago and Los Angeles was canceled due to the lack of importance of the game. Neither team could have made the playoffs even if they won the game; therefore, Pro Cricket chose to not play the game. In 2004, San Francisco Freedom defeated New Jersey Fire for the league championship title.

Playoffs standings

Major League Cricket 

Major League Cricket (MLC) is the highest level of domestic T20 cricket in the USA. A development league, Minor League Cricket (MiLC), started its first season in 2021, with star players from MiLC to eventually play in MLC.

United States Youth Cricket Association

American-born Test cricketers 
Although the United States is only an associate member of the ICC and has never played a Test match, two Test cricketers have been born in the United States. Ken Weekes was born in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1912 and played in two of the Tests on the West Indies' tour of England in 1939. Weekes scored 137 at The Oval in the last Test match before the Second World War. Weekes eventually returned to the United States from Jamaica, and died in Brooklyn in 1998.

Later, the Washington, D.C.-born Jehan Mubarak became an international Test player. He has played 8 Tests and 20 One Day Internationals for Sri Lanka.

See also 
 Cricket in the United States

Notes

Further reading