[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Timor Gap Treaty

ll decisions made by the Ministerial Council were achieved by unanimity. The location of the annual meetings that were held by the Council also alternated between Indonesia and Australia. The first annual meeting was held in 1991 in Bali, Indonesia and was attended by two ministers from each nation.

The function and structure of the Joint Authority was found in Part IV of the Treaty. The Joint Authority was directly accountable to the Ministerial Council and was required to perform under its direction. Article 8 outlined that the Joint Authority was responsible for “the management of activities relating to exploration for and exploitation of the petroleum resources in Area A”. One of its largest roles was to enter into Production Sharing Contracts with corporations, under Article 8(b) of the Treaty. These contracts allowed companies to exploit oil resources in the Area. The Joint Authority supervised the behaviour of these companies to ensure all activities were pursuant to the Treaty's Petroleum Mining Code. A sample Production Sharing Contract was provided in Annex C of the Treaty. The Joint Authority was unable to enter into or terminate any contracts without the approval of the Ministerial Council. All activities of the Joint Authority were originally funded by Australia and Indonesia, but were intended to eventually be supported by the revenues generated by any mining in Area A.

These responsibilities of the Joint Authority were equally shared between Australia and Indonesia. The executive board consisted of one executive director from each nation (which were appointed by the Ministerial Council) and one director of each of the four functions of the Authority: Technical, Financial, Corporate Services and Legal. The directors of the Technical and Financial functions could not be representatives from the same nation, as these were the two most important functions of the Authority. Agreement had to be reached by both parties on every decision. If no agreement could be made, the matter was referred to the Ministerial Council. The Joint Authority had offices in both Darwin, Australia and Jakarta, Indonesia.

International Court of Justice Proceedings 
In 1991, Portugal brought proceedings against Australia in the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in regards to the Timor Gap Treaty. Portugal argued that by being a party to the Treaty, Australia had violated the right to self determination of the East Timorese population, and had disregarded Portugal's status as the administering authority of East Timor. The ICJ handed down its judgement on 30 June 1995. It ruled that no case was able to be brought against Australia without also considering Indonesia's role as a Treaty party. To decide whether Indonesia could lawfully enter into treaties on behalf of the East Timorese population, the Court would have been required to determine whether Indonesia's invasion of East Timor was lawful. The Court ruled 14 to 2 that this decision could not be made without Indonesia's consent as they were an indispensable third party. Portugal's claim were dismissed.

Judge Weeramantry and Judge Skubiszewski dissented the decision. Judge Skubiszewski condemned the ruling of the court, stating that "recognition of annexation erodes self-determination", and the court's adherence to legal correctness alone had been to the detriment of justice and was "cause for concern".

Effect of East Timor's Independence on the Treaty 
East Timor gained independence from Indonesia in 1999. On 25 October 1999, The United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) was created by the Security Council Resolution 1272 to help East Timor transfer to a self governing territory. Had East Timor transitioned to independence immediately without UN administration, customary international law dictates that the nation would have “start[ed] with a clean slate in the matter of treaty obligations”. East Timor would not have been required to assume the treaty obligations of Indonesia.

However, Resolution 1272 gave extensive treaty-making power to the UNTAET, allowing the UN (via the UNTAET) to replace Indonesia as Australia's treaty party, until East Timor transitioned to complete independence. On 5 July 2001, this arrangement was formalised in a Memorandum of Understanding that established the Joint Petroleum Development Area (JPDA). The JPDA covered the same area as the Zone of Cooperation. This agreement was incorporated into Australian law in the Timor Gap Treaty (Transitional Arrangements) Act 2000 (Cth).