[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ramsey House (Knox County, Tennessee)

The Ramsey House is a two-story stone house in Knox County, Tennessee, United States.  Also known as Swan Pond, the house was constructed in 1797 by English architect Thomas Hope for Colonel Francis Alexander Ramsey (1764–1820), whose family operated a plantation at the site until the U.S. Civil War.  In 1969, the house was added to the National Register of Historic Places for its architecture and its role in the region's early 19th-century history.

Francis Alexander Ramsey arrived in what is now Greene County in 1783, and shortly thereafter made a surveying trip down the Holston River, where he first identified the future site of the Ramsey House.  Throughout the 1780s, he served as an official of the fledgling State of Franklin, and later served in various capacities in the governments of the Southwest Territory and the State of Tennessee.  Ramsey's children included early Knoxville mayor, W. B. A. Ramsey, and early Tennessee historian and businessman, J. G. M. Ramsey, both of whom occupied the Ramsey House at various times.  Due to their Confederate sympathies, the Ramseys fled Knoxville when the Union Army occupied the city during the Civil War, and the family sold the house in 1866.

The Knoxville Chapter of the Association for the Preservation of Tennessee Antiquities (APTA) purchased the Ramsey House in 1952, and currently maintains the house and grounds as a museum.

Location

The Ramsey House is situated in a broad valley just over a mile east of Forks-of-the-River, where the Holston River and French Broad River join to form the Tennessee River.  The property managed by APTA, which includes the Ramsey House, a visitor's center, and gardens, covers .  The house and grounds are located at 2614 Thorngrove Pike, just off John Sevier Highway (TN-168).

History

Early history and development

Francis Alexander Ramsey was born in Pennsylvania in 1764 to Scotch-Irish parents, and moved to Greene County, Tennessee in 1783.  That year, North Carolina (which controlled what is now East Tennessee) opened up Cherokee lands north of the French Broad to settlement, and Ramsey, James White, and several other explorers began making excursions into what is now the Knoxville area in search of new land.  On one such expedition, Ramsey discovered a game-rich beaver dam pond which he named "Swan Pond."  He was issued a grant for Swan Pond and its surrounding land in November 1786.

Ramsey's rise to prominence in the failed State of Franklin (1784–1788) kept him occupied for the remainder of the decade, and it wasn't until 1792— after he had been appointed clerk for the newly formed Southwest Territory— that he decided to move to Swan Pond, which lay just outside the territory's new capital at Knoxville.  Ramsey chose to build his new house on a peninsula in the pond, although due to malaria concerns, he was forced to drain the pond before the house was constructed.  London-trained architect Thomas Hope designed the house, and probably built it between 1795 and 1797.

In the years after its completion, the Ramsey House came to be part of a sizeable plantation.  Upon Ramsey's death in 1820, the house passed to his eldest son, W.B.A. Ramsey.  In 1840, W.B.A Ramsey sold the house to his brother, J.G.M. Ramsey (1797–1884), who had taken an active interest in the region's history, and had built a large mansion nearby to the east, known as "Mecklenburg," overlooking the fork of both the French Broad River with the Holston River and the no longer extant Lebanon In The Fork Presbyterian Church, along the nearby and present-day Asbury Road.  Mecklenburg was noted for its 4,000-volume library containing numerous 18th-century documents pertaining to the settlement of Tennessee.  In 1857, J.G.M. Ramsey gave the Ramsey House to his son, also named Francis Alexander Ramsey, as a wedding  present.

The Civil War

J.G.M. Ramsey played an active role in the economic development of East Tennessee.  He helped establish the region's first medical society, served as president of the Bank of East Tennessee, and fought to bring railroads to the region.  In the late 1850s, as one of the directors of the Bank of East Tennessee, Ramsey ran afoul of Knoxville's fiery newspaper publisher, William G. "Parson" Brownlow.  Brownlow relentlessly accused the bank's directors, who along with Ramsey included Ramsey's brothers-in-law, John H. Crozier and A.R. Crozier, of defrauding the bank's clients.  He also accused Ramsey's son, John Crozier Ramsey (1824–1868), whom Brownlow called "a few degrees removed from an idiot," of creating false pension funds for employees.  His continued attacks helped Horace Maynard defeat John Crozier Ramsey for the district's Congressional seat in 1859.