[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Daniel K. Inouye Solar Telescope

of the Sun. Each camera features 4k×4k pixels. The interference filters work as a band-pass filter that only transmits a selected wavelength range (i.e. color) of the sunlight. Four different interference filters are available in each channel that are mounted in a motorized fast-change filter wheel.

VBI blue channel (45″ field of view)
 393.327 nm, FWHM: 0.101 nm (Ca II K spectral line, dark-violet)
 430.520 nm, FWHM: 0.437 nm (G-band, violet)
 450.287 nm, FWHM: 0.41 nm (blue continuum) 
 486.139 nm, FWHM: 0.0464 nm (H-beta spectral line, turquoise)

VBI red channel (69″ field of view)
 656.282 nm, FWHM: 0.049 nm (H-alpha spectral line, light-red)
 668.423 nm, FWHM: 0.442 nm (red continuum)
 705.839 nm, FWHM: 0.578 nm (Titanium(II) oxide (TiO) spectral line, dark-red)
 789.186 nm, FWHM: 0.356 nm (Fe XI spectral line)

Per wavelength, a burst of images shall be recorded with high frame rate (30 fps), digitally analyzed and formed into a single sharpened image (speckle-reconstruction).

VBI is fabricated by the National Solar Observatory.

Visible Spectro-Polarimeter (ViSP)
ViSP is fabricated by the High Altitude Observatory.

Visible Tunable Filter (VTF)
VTF is fabricated by the Kiepenheuer-Institut für Sonnenphysik.

Diffraction-Limited Near-InfraRed Spectro-Polarimeter (DL-NIRSP)
DL-NIRSP is a diffraction grating based integral field spectrograph with a spectral resolution R=250000. DL-NIRSP is fabricated by Institute for Astronomy (IfA) of the University of Hawaii.

Cryogenic Near-InfraRed Spectro-Polarimeter (Cryo-NIRSP)
Cryo-NIRSP is fabricated by Institute for Astronomy (IfA) of the University of Hawaii.

Partners
, twenty-two institutions had joined the collaboration building DKIST:

 Corporate Office: Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy
 Funding Agency: National Science Foundation
 Principal Investigator: National Solar Observatory
 Co-Principal Investigators:
High Altitude Observatory
New Jersey Institute of Technology
Institute for Astronomy, University of Hawaii
Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics and Department of Mathematics, University of Chicago
 Collaborators:
Air Force Research Laboratory
Bellan Plasma Group, Laboratories of Applied Physics, California Institute of Technology 
Department of Physics and Astronomy, California State University at Northridge
Colorado Research Associates
Center for Astrophysics  Harvard & Smithsonian
Kiepenheuer-Institut für Sonnenphysik, Freiburg, Germany
Lockheed Martin Solar and Astrophysics Laboratory
Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University
Department of Physics, Montana State University
NASA Goddard Space Flight Center
NASA Marshall Space Flight Center
Plasma Physics Laboratory, Princeton University
Instrumentation and Space Research Division, Southwest Research Institute
W.W. Hansen Experimental Physics Laboratory, Stanford University
University of California Los Angeles
Center for Astrophysics and Space Sciences, University of California, San Diego
Center for Astrophysics and Space Astronomy and Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics, University of Colorado at Boulder
Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Rochester

See also
Daniel K. Inouye International Airport
European Solar Telescope
List of solar telescopes
List of largest optical reflecting telescopes

References

External links

Optical telescopes
Solar telescopes
National Science Foundation