[Source: PubMed]

46. Environ Health. 2017 Dec 5;16(Suppl 1):113. doi: 10.1186/s12940-017-0328-z.

Health impacts of climate change and health and social inequalities in the UK.

Paavola J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy (CCCEP), School of Earth and 
Environment, University of Leeds, Leeds, LS2 9JT, UK. j.paavola@leeds.ac.uk.

This article examines how social and health inequalities shape the health 
impacts of climate change in the UK, and what the implications are for climate 
change adaptation and health care provision. The evidence generated by the other 
articles of the special issue were interpreted using social justice reasoning in 
light of additional literature, to draw out the key implications of health and 
social inequalities for health outcomes of climate change. Exposure to heat and 
cold, air pollution, pollen, food safety risks, disruptions to access to and 
functioning of health services and facilities, emerging infections and flooding 
are examined as the key impacts of climate change influencing health outcomes. 
Age, pre-existing medical conditions and social deprivation are found to be the 
key (but not only) factors that make people vulnerable and to experience more 
adverse health outcomes related to climate change impacts. In the future, 
climate change, aging population and decreasing public spending on health and 
social care may aggravate inequality of health outcomes related to climate 
change. Health education and public preparedness measures that take into account 
differential exposure, sensitivity and adaptive capacity of different groups 
help address health and social inequalities to do with climate change. 
Adaptation strategies based on individual preparedness, action and behaviour 
change may aggravate health and social inequalities due to their selective 
uptake, unless they are coupled with broad public information campaigns and 
financial support for undertaking adaptive measures.

DOI: 10.1186/s12940-017-0328-z
PMCID: PMC5773866
PMID: 29219089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
author declares no competing interest to the authorship and/or publication of 
this article. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to 
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.