[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Proxy bomb

The proxy bomb, also known as a human bomb, is a tactic that was used mainly by the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) in Northern Ireland during the conflict known as "the Troubles". It involved forcing people (including off-duty members of the British security forces or people working for the security forces) to drive car bombs to British military targets after placing them or their families under some kind of threat (as human shields or hostages)  The tactic was later adopted by the FARC in Colombia and by rebels in the Syrian Civil War. 

The tactic has been compared to a suicide bomb, but each bomber is coerced, rather than being a volunteer.

Early proxy bombs

Irish Republican Army
The first proxy bomb attacks took place in Northern Ireland during the Troubles. By 1973, increased searches and surveillance by the British security forces were making it harder for IRA members to plant their bombs and escape. In response, the IRA introduced the proxy bomb tactic in March of that year. In the early proxy bombings, the driver and nearby civilians would usually be given enough time to flee the area before the bomb detonated. One of the proxy bomb attacks carried out by the IRA during this period took place in 1975, when an employee of Northern Ireland's Forensics Laboratory in Newtownbreda was forced to drive a car laden with explosives to the building. The explosion caused moderate damage, and operations resumed quickly. The Laboratory would be the subject of one of the largest IRA bombings in 1992, when a 1,700 kg van bomb, abandoned in the compound parking lot, demolished the facilities and caused widespread damage within a radius of 1 km.

Irish National Liberation Army
The Irish National Liberation Army used a proxy bomb on at least one occasion. On the 28 August 1986 the INLA claimed responsibility for seven bomb attacks across Northern Ireland: two of the bombs were proxy bombs when they forced taxi drivers to drive bombs to RUC stations which exploded outside the RUC bases in Newry and Downpatrick, nobody was hurt in either bombing.

Loyalists
The proxy bomb was used by Ulster loyalists on a number of occasions in 1974 in the Republic of Ireland. In July, an armed group kidnapped an off-duty Garda and forced him to drive a car bomb to the village of Magheraveely, on the border between County Cavan and Fermanagh. The proxy-bombers target was a Catholic-owned pub. The Garda managed to abandon the vehicle on an open field. In another incident, a man was forced to drive a car bomb which eventually failed to explode into Clones, County Monaghan. The IRA claimed that they defused the device. On 11 September 1974, masked gunmen in British Army uniform hijacked a car in Northern Ireland, placed a time bomb inside and forced the owner to drive it into the village of Blacklion, County Cavan. They claimed to be from the Ulster Volunteer Force and threatened to attack his family if he did not comply. The village was evacuated, and the Irish Army carried out a controlled explosion on the car. It estimated that the bomb would have destroyed most of the village.

Hindawi affair
In the 1986 Hindawi affair, a Jordanian citizen romanced an Irish woman working as a chambermaid in a London hotel, getting her pregnant, asking her to marry him and persuading her to fly on an El Al airliner to be introduced to his family in Damascus, Syria.  She was stopped by airport security at Heathrow, who discovered that he had planted a bomb in her suitcase before taking her to the airport to put her on the flight.

October 1990 proxy bombings

On 24 October 1990, the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) carried out a series of proxy-bomb attacks. In these particular cases, three men deemed by the IRA to be "collaborators" were strapped into three vehicles and forced to drive to three British military targets. However, unlike the earlier proxy bombings, they were not given the chance to escape. The three synchronised attacks took place at Coshquin (near Derry), Cloghoge (near Newry), and Omagh in the early morning of 24 October 1990. The Coshquin attack was the deadliest, killing the human proxy and five soldiers. One soldier was killed at Cloghoge, but the proxy survived. At Omagh, there were no fatalities because a faulty detonator meant the main explosive charge did not go off as intended.

Coshquin
The Coshquin operation involved 11 members of the IRA's Derry City Brigade. RUC Special Branch had received some intelligence about the operation, but it was said to be only a "vague outline" of an "impending assault against a base" in the area.