[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# 1st Arkansas Infantry Regiment (Union)

uld carry on their backs due to a lack of adequate transportation. On May 3 the regiment reached Little Rock where they rested for four days before taking up the line of march again on the 7th towards Fort Smith. Arriving on the 16th they were placed on garrison duty for the remainder of the summer.

Service on the Frontier 1864-1865 
During the July 4th festivities at Fort Smith, the regiment was reported as arriving in “fine style of martial array and with their regimental band at the head of the column." The celebrations that began the month of July were replaced by the shot and shells of confederate artillery at the end. On July 29 confederate artillery began attacking the Fort but was driven off by the 2nd Kansas Battery. The attack sent anxiety through the unionists in the northwest and the Fort took on even more refugees as a result, refugees that no doubt included relatives of the 1st Arkansas. On August 29, Captain Vanderpool was sent on a scouting mission with around 40 men from Company C and throughout September, October, and November, Vanderpool and his men would skirmish with confederate forces in Washington, Sebastian, and Newton Counties, seeing in all 5 men killed. Notably, they skirmished with soldiers belonging to Colonel William Brooks and Major General James Fagan following their raid into Missouri in early November.

In September Col. Johnson returned from Washington, D.C., and again assumed command of the regiment. Despite his efforts, his election was not recognized by Congress and they refused to seat him. Johnson also worked for President Lincoln's re-election campaign in Baltimore in the summer before returning to Arkansas. On November 7 Johnson was ordered to march the regiment east to escort a commissary train from Little Rock to Fort Smith. After marching 50 miles the train was reached and they proceeded back to Fort Smith unmolested, arriving on the 15th. By the fall of 1864, Fort Smith was in great need of supplies for both the soldiers stationed there and the refugees. Confederate activity in the region was also very much present. The previous month a foraging party from the 1st Arkansas was attacked and, while they successfully killed three rebels, one man was wounded and later had his leg amputated. A soldier later remarked that “It is hard that a good loyal man should lose his leg for three rebels." Attacks on union food supplies would continue and the status of Fort Smith was further weakened. On November 28 the regiment was ordered to escort 117 prisoners to Fort Gibson and report to Colonel Stephen H. Wattles. The prisoners belonged to Major General Sterling Price and, like many of the 1st Arkansas, were confederate deserters who left at the first chance they could. Eight companies of the regiment proceeded to Fort Gibson while Companies A and D remained at Fort Smith.

Attempted Evacuation of Fort Smith 
On December 5 General Edward R. S. Canby ordered that Fort Smith be evacuated because of the post's lack of adequate supplies. This order was met with shock and anger in Arkansas, including in the union state government in Little Rock. Three colonels of Arkansas union regiments, including Col. Johnson, wrote a letter to President Lincoln and, referring to the loyal Arkansas units at Fort Smith, wrote the following about the effects of Fort Smith being abandoned -

On January 10, 1865, after protests from the state government and military officials, General Ulysses S. Grant countermanded General Canby's evacuation order and Fort Smith remained occupied. Some union families had evacuated before this order was received but military troops remained in the region. While this was happening eight companies of the 1st Arkansas were stationed at Fort Gibson with companies A and D still present at Fort Smith. By January the regiment returned from Gibson and was back under the command of Lt. Col. Searle as Col. Johnson once again left to attend the next session of Congress in another effort to be recognized. He would return to the regiment in April.

Mustering out 
In 1865 much of the frontier began to quite down and by summer the Civil War was over. The First Regiment of Arkansas Infantry Volunteers was mustered out on August 10, 1865, serving the union for over 2 years.

Attachment
The 1st Arkansas Infantry was attached to District Southwest Missouri, Dept. Missouri to December 1863. The 1st Arkansas was attached to 2nd Brigade, District of the Frontier, Dept. Missouri, to January 1864. The regiment was attached to 2nd Brigade, District of the Frontier, 7th Army Corps, Dept. of Arkansas, to March 1864. The regiment was attached to 1st Brigade, District of the Frontier, 7th Army Corps, to February 1865. 1st Brigade, 3rd Division, 7th Army Corps, to August 1865.

See also

 List of Arkansas Civil War Union units
 List of United States Colored Troops Civil War Units
 Arkansas in the American Civil War

References