[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Droop Mountain

reach the mines. An August 1863 planned raid on Lewisburg, which Confederate leaders worried was a raid on a railroad, ended when Brigadier General William W. Averell was "handsomely repulsed" by a brigade commanded by Colonel George S. Patton in the Battle of White Sulphur Springs.

Kelley's orders

Brigadier General Benjamin Franklin Kelley was commander of the Union Army's Department of West Virginia.  Kelley reported to General-in-Chief Henry Halleck. Through his chief-of-staff, Brigadier General George W. Cullum, Halleck let Kelley know that he wanted the Confederates out of Lewisburg and the Virginia and Tennessee Railroad disabled. On October 23, 1863, Kelley ordered Averell to move his command south from Beverly, West Virginia, and attack a Confederate force stationed near Lewisburg in Greenbrier County, West Virginia. Droop Mountain was not part of the plan. The objective was to capture, or drive away, Confederate forces at or near Lewisburg. A second Union force, which was from Brigadier General Eliakim P. Scammon's Third Division, would move southeast from Charleston to meet Averell in Lewisburg and provide assistance. The Charleston force would consist of two regiments of infantry and two regiments of cavalry, plus artillery.

After Lewisburg, Averell was to attack the Virginia and Tennessee Railroad if practicable. Union infantry that was not mounted would remain in Lewisburg while mounted troops (cavalry and mounted infantry, including Duffié's) would proceed further south to Monroe County and cross into Virginia. Their objective was to destroy the railroad bridge over the New River, which was less than  from the railroad's Dublin Station near Newbern, Virginia. One historian considers the destruction of the railroad bridge and line to be the principal goal of Averell's expedition. At the time, Confederate Lieutenant General James Longstreet was in Tennessee with two divisions of the Army of Northern Virginia—serious damage to the railroad would disrupt his ability to communicate with army leadership and make it difficult to return his troops to the east. If Averell determined that an attack on the railroad bridge was impracticable; he was to send his infantry and one battery back to Beverly. The remaining portion of his command would move to New Creek and get resupplied. New Creek, originally known as Paddytown and later as Keyser, was a stop on the B&O Railroad near the West Virginia–Maryland border. With no attack on the railroad, Duffié's command would hold Lewisburg or fall back to Meadow Bluff, West Virginia.

Opposing forces

Confederate army

In November 1863, the Confederate Army controlled much of the Greenbrier Valley in West Virginia. Confederate Major General Sam Jones commanded the Department of Western Virginia and East Tennessee, and his headquarters were about  south of Lewisburg, West Virginia, at the Dublin Rail Depot for the Virginia and Tennessee Railroad in Virginia. Although Jones did not participate directly in the battle, the men and territory were his responsibility, as were the railroad and bridge near his headquarters that were targeted by the Union. He was in eastern Tennessee when Averell began his expedition, and returned to Dublin around November 6. Brigadier General John Echols commanded a brigade that was headquartered in Lewisburg, and Colonel William L. "Mudwall" Jackson had a small cavalry brigade that patrolled in the Huntersville-Hillsboro region of West Virginia. Further east, Brigadier General John D. Imboden commanded the Shenandoah Valley District. Brigadier General Albert G. Jenkins, who was a Cabell County, West Virginia native, was recovering from a wound received at the Battle of Gettysburg—but two regiments and a battery from his brigade were detached in the Greenbrier County area of West Virginia. Colonel Milton J. Ferguson temporarily commanded Jenkins' brigade.

Union army—Averell