[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Human Rights Act 2004

The Human Rights Act 2004 is an Act of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly that recognises the fundamental human rights of individuals. Ratified by the Australia Capital Territory (ACT) Legislative Assembly on the 1 July 2004, it was the among first of its kind to define and enshrine human rights into Australian law by establishing civil, political, economic, social and culture rights. The unprecedented legislation followed the proposal extended by ACT Bill of Rights Consultative Committee. This proposal embodied a community wide deliberation, designed to assess public sentiment toward Human Rights within the ACT. Consequently, this dialog would go on to highlight the popularity of an ACT Charter of Human Rights among the populace.

While this piece of legislation established newly held human rights, the act itself does not inhibit already established rights and freedoms . The act explicitly outlines within section 7, "Rights apart from act", that rights established within the document are not exhaustive. Additionally, this legislation draws distinct limitations, exclaiming that the Human Rights outlined, are accountable to "reasonable limits" enacted by law, such that, they are "demonstrably justified" throughout civilisation.

Additionally, the Act established an Australian Capital Territory Human Rights Commissioner while also empowering the ACT Supreme Court to facilitate compliance of legislation.

Sections of the Human Rights Act 2004
(The full text of the Act is available online.)

This section outlines the significant segments of the Human Rights Act 2004 that grant Australian rights within the A.C.T. This will include Part 2 - Human Rights, Part - 3 Civil and Political Rights, and Part - 3A Economic, Social and Culture Rights. Part 1- Preliminary is not included in the following summary because it does not contribute to the establishment of Human Rights in the A.C.T.

Part 2 – Human Rights: What are human rights ?

The 2004 Act establishes human rights by connecting civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights.

Part 2 – Human Rights: Who has human rights?

The Human Rights Act maintains only individuals can possess human rights.

Part 3 – Civil and political Rights: Recognition and equality before the law

The Human Rights Act solidifies recognition and equality before the law through three pillars. Firstly, the Act enshrines the right of the individual to be recognised before the law as a person. Secondly, every individual retains the right, detached from prejudice or difference, to enjoy their Human Rights. To conclude, all individuals are warranted an equitable defence before the law and individuals shall be treated as equals before the law, without prejudice.

Part 3 – Civil and political Rights: Right to life

This title sets out the individual's ‘’right to life’’; it states ‘’no-one may be arbitrarily deprived of life’’.

Part 3 – Civil and political Rights: Protection from torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading way

The following section prohibits torture of individuals, medical or scientific experimentation in the absence of freely obtain permission from the individual and the punishment and/or treatment of an individual in a ‘’cruel, inhuman, or degrading’’ manner.

Part 3 – Civil and political Rights: Protection of the family and children

The Human Rights Act upholds the protection of family and children by establishing two focal points. Firstly, the Act maintains that family should be afforded protection within the community because it's the ‘’natural and basic group unit of society’’. Secondly, all children maintain the right to safety, unaccompanied by differentiation or prejudice.

Part 3 – Civil and political Rights: Freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief

Section 14 supports an individual's right to freedom of ‘’thought, conscience and religion’’ by outlining two subsections. Firstly, the right to arrogate a religion or faith of ones choosing. What's more, the ability to express religion or faith by ‘’worship, observance, practice and teaching’’ is instilled. This definition extends publicly or privately on an individual or collective basis. Secondly, no individual can be pressurised into narrowing their freedom to maintain or express their faith through ‘’worship, observance, practice or teaching’’.

Part 3 – Civil and political Rights: Freedom of expression

This title facilitates the right to express oneself irrespective of boarders, media, art, or action. Additionally, the individual's right to an opinion in the absence of intercession is outlined.

Part 3 – Civil and political Rights: Retrospective criminal laws