[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Denis Fahey

stributism. Like fellow Irish priests Fr. Edward Cahill and Fr. Richard Devane, he pointed to the pre-capitalist Middle Ages and the guild system as a more rightly ordered ideal. Within Fahey's worldview both economics and politics must be subordinate to the "moral law binding on members of Christ."

Books
Fahey, Denis. Mental Prayer According to the Teaching of Saint Thomas Aquinas. Dublin: M.H. Gill, 1927.
Fahey, Denis. The Kingship of Christ, According to the Principles of St. Thomas Aquinas. Dublin, London: Browne and Nolan, Ltd, 1931.
Phillippe, A., and Denis Fahey. The Social Rights of Our Divine Lord Jesus Christ, the King. Dublin: Browne and Nolan, 1932.
Philippe, Auguste, and Denis Fahey. The Social Rights of Our Divine Lord, Jesus Christ, the King; Adapted from the French of the Rev. A. Philippe, C. SS. R. Dublin [etc.]: Browne and Nolan, 1932.
Fahey, Denis. The Mystical Body of Christ in the Modern World. Dublin: Browne and Nolan, 1935.
Le Rohellec, Joseph, Denis Fahey, and Stephen Rigby. Mary, Mother of Divine Grace. Palmdale, Calif: Christian Book Club of America, 1937.
Joannès, G., and Denis Fahey. O Women! What You Could Be. [Dublin]: Browne and Nolan, 1937.
Fahey, Denis. The Mystical Body of Christ and the Reorganization of Society [Imprimatur 1943]. Waterford, Ireland: Browne and Nolan, 3rd edition, 1939.
Fahey, Denis. The Rulers of Russia. 3rd American edition, revised and enlarged. Detroit: Condon Print. Co., 1940.
Fahey, Denis. The Kingdom of Christ and Organized Naturalism. Wexford, Ireland: Forum Press, 1943.
Fahey, Denis. Money Manipulation and Social Order. Cork: Browne and Nolan Ltd, 1944.
Fahey, Denis. The Tragedy of James Connolly. Cork: Forum Press, 1947.
Fahey, Denis. The Rulers of Russia and the Russian Farmers. Maria Regina series, no. 7. Thurles: Co. Tipperary, 1948.
Fahey, Denis. Grand Orient Freemasonry Unmasked as the Secret Power Behind Communism. 1950. republication of George F. Dillon's work.
Fahey, Denis. Humanum Genus: Encyclical Letter of His Holiness Pope Leo XIII on Freemasonry. London: Britons Publishing Society, 1953.
Fahey, Denis. The Church and Farming. Cork: The Forum Press, 1953.
Fahey, Denis. The Kingship of Christ and the Conversion of the Jewish Nation. Dublin: Holy Ghost Missionary College, 1953.
Fahey, Denis. The Rulers of Russia. 3d. Ed., Rev. and Enl. Hawthorne, Calif: Christian Book Club of America, 1969.
Fahey, Denis. Money Manipulation and the Social Order. Dublin: Regina Publications, 1974.
Fahey, Denis. Secret Societies and the Kingship of Christ. Palmdale, Calif: Christian Book Club of America, 1994.
Fry, L., and Denis Fahey. Waters Flowing Eastward; The War against the Kingship of Christ.. London: Britons Pub. Co, 1965.

Bibliography
The Coughlin-Fahey connection : Father Charles E. Coughlin, Father Denis Fahey, C.S. Sp., and religious anti-Semitism in the United States, 1938–1954, Mary Christine Athans, P. Lang, 1991 New York,

See also
 Joseph McCarthy
 Judeo-Masonic conspiracy theory
 Catholicism and Freemasonry
 Catholic social teaching
 Christianity and anti-Semitism
 Charles Coughlin
 L. Fry

References

External links

Enda Delaney, Political Catholicism in Post-War Ireland
'The Kingship of Christ and the Conversion of the Jewish Nation' full text
Appreciation of Fr Fahey from the Society of St. Pius X
Grand Orient Freemasonry Unmasked; republished by Fr. Fahey
The Catholic World of Father Denis Fahey on the Saint Benedict Center web site
 The Problem of Capitalism in Irish Catholic Social Thought, 1922-19501 by Aidan Beatty

1883 births
1954 deaths
Alumni of the Royal University of Ireland
Anti-Masonry
Antisemitism in Ireland
Catholicism and far-right politics
Catholicism and Freemasonry
Far-right politics in Ireland
Holy Ghost Fathers
Irish anti-communists
20th-century Irish Roman Catholic priests
Irish rugby union players
People educated at Rockwell College
Christian clergy from County Tipperary
Pontifical Gregorian University alumni
Roman Catholic conspiracy theorists
Rugby union players from County Tipperary
Irish conspiracy theorists
Irish Spiritans
Theocrats