[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rick Anderson (political strategist)

nother, with Anderson leaving the new party's executive, the party fracturing, and Day eventually resigning.  Stephen Harper succeeded Day, reunited the Alliance and the Progressive Conservative Party into today's Conservative Party, and went on to become Prime Minister in the 2006 federal election.

Anderson has been a member of the board of the Manning Centre for Building Democracy.  He is a supporter of democratic reform, including Senate reform and more proportional representation.  Since 2003, he has served on the board of directors and advisory board of Fair Vote Canada. In 2007, he was campaign chair of the YES side in Ontario's provincial referendum on MMP, which had been recommended by the Ontario Citizens Assembly on Electoral Reform.

Professionally, Anderson served as an executive with Hill & Knowlton and predecessor companies from 1980 to 1995, in Ottawa and Toronto, Canada; London, England; and Washington, DC. He left H&K in 1995 to launch his own consulting practice, ASCI Anderson Strategic Consulting Inc. From 2004 to 2008, Anderson served as president and CEO of Zip.ca, a Canadian online DVD rental company.  Anderson is currently EVP of Interborder Holdings Ltd, parent of Walton International  in Calgary, Alberta.

Since 1993, Anderson has been a frequent commentator on national affairs, including with CTV's Canada AM, CBC Radio's As It Happens, CBC TV's Newsworld, the Toronto Star, Edmonton Journal, Ottawa Citizen and CBC's The National.  During the 2006 Canadian federal election campaign, CBC's The National had a recurring feature throughout the campaign entitled "Campaign Confidential", in which an unidentified "former campaigner", who was actually Anderson, provided detailed written analyses of the campaign which were then read by an actor on television.  The identity of Anderson as the analyst was revealed on-air by Peter Mansbridge on January 24, 2006, the day after the election.

For the 2008 election campaign, Anderson was on CBC's The National along with David Herle, as one of "The Insiders" commenting on-air and on the CBC's website regarding the unfolding campaign.

Anderson currently provides political commentary on CBC Newsworld's Politics broadcast, hosted by Don Newman, and authors a blog for The Globe and Mail.

References

External links
Globe and Mail Blog
CBC National The Insiders, CBC, September–October 2008
Ask a political strategist, CBC.ca, September 15, 2008
CBC Newsworld video interview on MMP referendum, CBC Newsworld, Sept 13, 2007
Campaign Confidential website, CBC News, January 24, 2006
FFWD Viewpoint, Hamish MacAulay, May 31, 2001
Anderson suspended from Canadian Alliance executive, CBC May 2001
The Canadian General Election of 2000, Chris Dornan et al.
Profile on Anderson, EYE magazine, December 10, 1998
"Manning's United Alternative" Maclean's, November 23, 1998
An Election to be Remembered: Canada 1993, Alan C. Cairns
Zip Entrepreneurs buy the Rapidz

Living people
Year of birth missing (living people)
Canadian campaign managers