[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Electricity Trust of South Australia

1 was in operation from 1901 to 1925, and the adjacent on from 1923 to 1967. There is an "Historic Engineering Plaque" on a ground level plinth just east of the north-east corner of the building, which was dedicated by the Institution of Engineers, ETSA and the Adelaide City Council on 6 April 1995.

WW2 and coal shortage (1939–1946)
The boilers in the Osborne station initially used black coal imported from New South Wales, which, until 1946, held a monopoly over electricity supplies in Adelaide. During World War II, coal supplies became critically low. The state government sought to establish a reliable long-term source of coal for the state and the sub-bituminous coal from the Telford Cut at Leigh Creek, though of poorer quality, was considered the most viable source. The deposits seemed extensive and extracting the coal by open-cut methods was considered feasible. Exploratory boring started in 1941 and plans were made to develop the first open-cut mine. The South Australian Government, led by Liberal and Country League (later Liberal Party of South Australia) Premier Tom Playford, had committed to the use of Leigh Creek coal, and excavation started in 1943.

Establishment of ETSA 
In 1946, AESC refused to use Leigh Creek coal as proposed by the government, even going to the extent of buying boilers that could only use black coal. Playford responded by requesting Commonwealth funds to nationalise the company, which was provided by Labor Prime Minister Ben Chifley. The Electricity Trust of South Australia (ETSA) was created in September 1946 for the nationalisation of AESC. Chief engineer F.W.H. Wheadon, who had led AESC for 48 years, retired at this point, aged around 73.

The LCL suffered a split in its ranks because of the nationalisation, and the state legislation passed only with the support of ALP and independent members of parliament.

Work on the Osborne 'B' Power Station started in 1947 and was completed soon after. The boilers at the Osborne Power Stations were modified to burn Leigh Creek coal.

In 1948, control of the Leigh Creek coalfield was transferred to ETSA, its largest user.

ETSA built major power stations near Port Augusta: Playford A was completed in 1954, Playford B in 1963 and later Northern in 1985, and on Torrens Island. The combined Playford A and B plants had a total generating capacity of . Northern Power Station was fuelled by Leigh Creek coal. The use of large excavating machines and efficient mining equipment at Leigh Creek, together with the rebuilding of a railway line between Leigh Creek and Port Augusta by the Commonwealth Railways, resulted in economic production and delivery of coal to the power station. Pacific National provided the coal freight service from 2001.

Privatisation
After the State Bank collapse in the early 1990s, South Australia was left with a large debt after fulfilling its obligation to bail out the bank. In the lead up to the 1997 state election, the incumbent Olsen Liberal government pledged not to privatise ETSA. However, after being re-elected, the government proceeded with privatisation plans citing the dire financial situation, with new information such as a warning from the State Auditor General and the introduction of the Australian National Electricity Market.

Following the 1997 state election, the Olsen Liberal government needed the support of an additional two non-Liberal upper house members to pass legislation, with the Australian Democrats retaining the balance of power on three seats. However, defectors from Labor in the upper house, Terry Cameron and Trevor Crothers, brought independent member Nick Xenophon in to play. In 1998, Xenophon voted with Cameron and the government to proceed with the second reading of the ETSA power sale bill. The bill became law when Cameron and Crothers voted with the Liberal government. They subsequently resigned from the Australian Labor Party.

The privatisation involved the disaggregation of the vertically integrated business, with the generation, transmission, distribution and retail assets taken up by distinct investors. However, the South Australian Government retained freehold ownership of the generation, transmission and distribution assets, with the investors acquiring long term leasehold interests in the assets. Also, the Government introduced a regime of industry regulation, calculated to ensure that the public interest was protected and that safety standards are maintained.

The purchaser of the distribution business took the name "ETSA Utilities" (later renamed "SA Power Networks"), while the acquirers of the other parts of the business adopted distinct identities for their businesses.