[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Augustine Mahiga

Augustine Philip Mahiga (28 August 1945 – 1 May 2020) was a Tanzanian diplomat and Minister of Justice and Constitutional Affairs in 2019 and 2020. He served as Minister of Foreign Affairs from 2015 to 2019. He previously served as the Permanent Representative of Tanzania to the United Nations from 2003 to 2010 and as the UN Special Representative and Head of the United Nations Political Office for Somalia from 2010 to 2013.

In December 2015, he was nominated as a Member of Parliament by President John Magufuli and thereafter appointed to the Cabinet as Minister of Foreign Affairs.

Early life and education
Mahiga was born in Tosamaganga, Iringa on August 28, 1945. He had his primary education between 1952 and 1955 at Tosamaganga primary school, between 1956 and 1959 at Tosamaganga middle school, between 1960 and 1963 at Tosamaganga secondary school and between 1964 and 1965 at Tosamaganga High School. In 1971, he earned a Bachelor of Arts (Education) at the University of East Africa in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. That same year, Mahiga completed a Masters of Arts at the University of Toronto (U of T). He also received a PhD in International Relations in 1975 from the same institution.

Personal life
Mahiga was married and had three children.

Career

Permanent Representative to the United Nations
Mahiga served as Permanent Representative of Tanzania to the United Nations from 2003 to 2010.

UN Special Representative
Between 2010 and 2013, he also served as the United Nations Special Representative and Head of the United Nations Political Office for Somalia. He was appointed to the positions by UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on 9 June 2010, replacing Ahmedou Ould-Abdallah.

Kampala Accord
On 9 June 2011, Mahiga, along with the Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, oversaw a signed agreement in Kampala between Somalia's incumbent President Sharif Sheikh Ahmed and the Speaker of Parliament Sharif Hassan Sheikh Aden. After months of political infighting over whether to hold presidential elections in August 2011, the two politicians agreed to postpone the vote for a new president and parliamentary Speaker for one year in exchange for the resignation of the Premier within a period of thirty days. The signed Kampala Accord would also see the well-regarded technocratic Cabinet that Prime Minister of Somalia Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed had assembled in November 2010 re-composed to make way for a new government. Political analysts suggested that the agreement may have been a bid on President Sharif Ahmed's part to fend off attempts by the Speaker of Parliament Sharif Hassan to force him from power by pre-emptively "sacrificing" the Premier. Hassan was reported to harbour presidential ambitions of his own.

The announcement of Prime Minister Mohamed's proposed resignation was immediately met with protests in various cities. Thousands of civilians, many government soldiers, and some legislators marched through the streets of Mogadishu, calling for the dismissal of the President, the Parliament Speaker and the Parliament. The crowd also demanded that the Premier be reinstated and described Mohamed as the "only honest leader in recent years". Posters of the UN Special Envoy were symbolically burned, with protestors appealing to the UN Secretary General to dismiss Mahiga due to what many felt was the latter's infringement on Somalia's sovereignty through his signing of the Kampala agreement. Attacks on hotels in which members of parliament were staying and at least five deaths were also reported. Additional demonstrations against the Premier's resignation were held in Galkacyo, a key trading city in the north-central Mudug region, as well as in Belet Hawo in the far south. Internationally, protests also reportedly took place in Cairo, Nairobi, Johannesburg, Sydney, London, Rome, Stockholm, Minneapolis and Toronto.

In response, Prime Minister Mohamed released a statement through the state-run Radio Mogadishu commending the military for its rapid response and urging its troops to exercise restraint. He also appealed to the public to calm down, and indicated that "I have seen your expressions and heard your calls[...] You are part of the decision making – what you want must be heard." Additionally, in a press conference, the Premier called for the immediate release of all protestors who had been detained, and stated that his administration would launch an independent investigation into their arrest. Weighing in on the demonstrations, Mogadishu's Mayor Mohamed Nur suggested that "what [the demonstrators] have a problem with is that two people go and decide the fate of this government without considering the feelings of this population", and that putting the issue before Parliament for approval is a more democratic course of action.