[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# David D'Or

lyrical content of several movements, and with Psalm 113 (sung in Hebrew by D’Or) as the basis of the 4th movement. He then released Halelu—Songs of David; Cantata for Peace (2007), in which he was accompanied by Lee, the Ra'anana Symphony Orchestra, and members of the Philharmonia Chorus of Israel.

D'Or sang for Martin Luther King III at a Middle East Peace Initiative (MEPI) Conference in the summer of 2007 in Tel Aviv. King was in tears as D'Or finished his rendition of "Summertime", and the crowd was on its feet cheering. King was so moved that he extended an invitation to D'Or to sing at the 2008 "Realize the Dream" celebration honoring King's birthday at the Covenant Avenue Baptist Church in Harlem, New York – the last church in New York City that Martin Luther King Jr., spoke at prior to his 1968 assassination. D'Or obliged with a performance of "Amazing Grace" before a crowd including former President Bill Clinton and Dr. King who was reduced to tears.

He also performed in the 2007 WOMAD (World of Music, Arts and Dance) festival concert, and in reviewing his performance BBC Radio referred to his voice as "sensational". D'Or described an experience that he had singing at the festival as follows:  "I had a concert in the Canary Islands...in the WOMAD Festival in front of something like 20,000 people, and then I saw just in front of me, a group of Palestinian young people with a huge Palestinian flag. And at the beginning I was very tense because I didn't know what their intentions were. I closed my eyes and said 'Look, you speak always about the power of music and how music can get people close to each other', and I was like aiming to their heart, and I'm singing especially for them, and then when I opened my eyes and I saw those people dancing with the Palestinian flag and singing with me together, and it was for me like an amazing sight, because this is something that I don't think ever happened before. I don't know why this world...is choosing...always...war and hate, because things are much easier to solve if you just want to solve them, that's what I feel. And maybe it's naïve, but this is my belief."

On December 11, 2007, D'Or released Live Concert. D'Or composed most of the songs on the album, which included "Kiss from a Rose" (in English), "Sri Lanka" (instrumental), and an Arabic song.

In 2008, D'Or also released Shirat Rabim ("Prayers", or "Songs of the Many"—"A World Prayer; The Jewish Project of David D'Or and Patric Sabag"), a collection of prayers that he had originally heard from his father, and which he focused on when he started attending synagogue to say kaddish after his father's death. The album went gold in just three weeks. He also performed in all the 2008 WOMAD festival concerts, including in London with Peter Gabriel, the founder of the world music festival, and won the WOMAD "Favorite of the Audience" Award,
 though one reviewer wrote that "his reverb-drenched voice can sound bombastic, even when he is praying for peace. He is more successful when...in dance-pop". His performance of the song "Lecha D'odi" is featured on the compilation album Womad New Zealand 2008, which was released on June 2, 2008, by Shock Records. The year was capped when D'Or became an Israel Cultural Excellence Foundation ("IcExcellence") chosen artist in 2008, receiving one of Israel's highest recognitions for excellence in the arts.

In 2008 and 2009, D'Or performed in a series of "Voice of Love" charity concerts for the Tzu Chi Foundation in the United States (New York, San Francisco, San Jose, Pasadena, Los Angeles, Chicago, Dallas, New Jersey, and Washington, D.C.) and Asia (the Philippines and Taiwan), and recorded a CD and DVD by the same name, donating all of the profits to charity. The CD has since gone platinum.  The foundation works to improve social and community services, medical care, education, and humanism in Taiwan and around the world. By helping others, D’Or said, the foundation, while Buddhist and not Jewish, is involved in the spirit of the Jewish concept of tikun olam, or "repairing the world". "We believe that all humanity is connected in a way", said D'Or.

D'Or sang a medley including "Amazing Grace" and a rendition of the traditional Hebrew melody "Avinu Malkeinu" at New York's Apollo Theater in Harlem on April 28, 2009, with three New York gospel choirs.

In May 2009 D'Or sang, along with Dudu Fisher and the "Arab-Jewish Girl's Choir", for Pope Benedict XVI in Jerusalem at the home of Israeli President Shimon Peres as the Pope visited Israel.

Vocal style
D'Or's voice has a range (or "diapason") of more than four octaves. His vocal range in head voice is from G3 in scientific pitch notation, up to a well-defined G5 (as heard in one of the final notes in the "Phantom of the Opera" track in his album David D'Or and the Philharmonic''), thus making him a "mezzo-soprano" type of countertenor.