[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Turkish think tanks

nal security, international relations, and ideology research. 
 Institute for Armenian Research or Ermeni Araştırmaları Enstitüsü (EREN). Privately funded organization, created by the Center for Eurasian Strategic Studies (ASAM).
 International Strategic Research Organization (USAK) is an Ankara-based liberal think tank, established in 2004. An umbrella organization with 9 research centers, it has close ties with Turkish diplomacy, military and political circles. It is sponsored by the business world and member donations.
Milli Görüş Vakfı is a centre-right foundation with academic personnel: Oğuzhan Asiltürk, Mehmet Recai Kutan, Temel Karamollaoğlu, İlyas Tongüç, Salih Turhan, Hamdi Sürücü, İbrahim Nedim Titiz, Tacettin Çetinkaya, and Atik Ağdağ. Dr. Karin Yeşilada was appointed to the Board of Educators. Yeşilada is a full-time lecturer for intercultural literary studies and taught at Universities in Marburg, Istanbul, Cologne, Munich, Paderborn and Bochum. In the past Karin was lecturer for the German Academic Exchange Service at Marmara University. The Milli Görüş Movement (or the "National Vision Foundation") is active in nearly all European countries and also  countries like Australia, Canada and the United States. 
 S.E.S.A.R. (). Implicated in the Ergenekon investigation, with its chief, İsmail Yıldız, jailed.
 SETAM - Center for Strategic Economic Social Research Established in 2010.
 S.E.T.A. Established in 2006. Close to the government. Conservative.
 Strategic Outlook Konya based think tank. Established in 2011.
 Turkish Asian Center for Strategic Studies (TACSS) 
 T.A.S.A.M. is Istanbul-centred and nationalist.
 Turkish Economic and Social Studies Foundation (T.E.S.E.V.) is a liberal research centre in Istanbul. Close to the business circles, yet less effective in political circles.
Turkish Think Tank  TTT Making sense of Turkey for the non Turkish Audience 
 Economic Policy Research Foundation of Turkey (TEPAV) is a liberal research centre based in Ankara. Close to business circles, particularly chambers of commerce. Undertakes research and projects on economic and foreign policy and good governance.
 T.U.R.A.N.S.A.M. is Konya centred. Established in 2007, it is Rightist nationalist, defends Turkish Nationalism and TURANIAN Ideological Holy Union of World Turks'. Close to the military and National Action Party's ideologies. Radical Islamic(What does Radical Islamic mean??) and Turkish Nationalist Think-Thank Organisation, NGO, Thought Producer Organisation. Founder President is Dr. Elnur Hasan MIKAIL (Ph.D. in History), he's also an Expert in an International Relations with the M. Sc. Degree in IR branch, born in old Sovietski street-Yasamal,  Baku city, Republic of Azerbaijan. He immigrated to Turkey when he was 18 years old and since that date he lives in Turkey. He's a writer of 4 scientific books one of them written in English. - TURAN-CSR : TURAN Center for Strategical Researches, Konya based, nationalist Turkish Think-Thank org.
 Turkish Centre for International Relations & Strategic Analysis (TURKSAM). Ankara-centred nationalist think tank, established in 2004. Close to the military and Nationalist Action Party circles.
 T.U.S.A.M. is Ankara-centred. Leftist nationalist. Close to the ultra-nationalist military circles.

Following Turkish Foreign policy vectors and priorities, these centers cooperate with the Balkans, Central Asia and Middle East Think-Tanks. SETA and SDE are involved in the “ThinkTank cooperation” project implemented by the government program, which is conducted by Turks Abroad governmental body coordinating the activity of Turkish diaspora and the Associated Societies state department. TASAM also conducts some steps in this direction with the support of Turkish Foreign Affairs Ministry. According to Nuh Yilmaz, executive of SETA’s Washington office, they are funded by businessman, who are in trade with the Balkans and Middle East countries. In recent years, issues on media, science, education, human rights, Turkish diaspora, security and defense are in the focus of the center’s research.