[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of Asian Americans

edal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters
 Gene Luen Yang – graphic novelist
 Taro Yashima - author of children's books, recipient of the 1955 Children's Book Award 
 Laurence Yep (叶祥添) – author of children's books
 Charles Yu - novelist and winner of the 2020 National Book Award for Fiction
 Connie Young Yu – writer and historian 
 Judy Yung – writer

Military

Individuals

 Leandro Aragoncillo – gunnery sergeant, U.S. Marine Corps. Convicted of spying against the United States Government
 Raquel C. Bono – rear admiral (lower half), U.S. Navy. Command Surgeon, United States Pacific Command
 Jose Calugas – captain, U.S. Army. Medal of Honor recipient, World War II
 Joseph Caravalho – brigadier general, U.S. Army. Commanding General, Brooke Army Medical Center
 Ming Chang – rear admiral (upper half), U.S. Navy, retired. Department of Navy Inspector General, 1987–1990
 Dan Choi – first lieutenant, U.S. Army. Gay rights advocate.
 David S. C. Chu – captain, U.S. Army. Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (2001–2008), President/CEO of the Institute for Defense Analyses
 Gordon Pai'ea Chung-Hoon – rear admiral (upper half), U.S. Navy. First Asian American citizen graduate from United States Naval Academy; first Asian American flag officer
 Anatolio B. Cruz – rear admiral (lower half), U.S. Navy. Deputy Commander, United States Fourth Fleet
 Susan Ahn Cuddy – lieutenant, U.S. Navy. First female Gunnery Officer in the navy
 John R. D'Araujo Jr. – major general, U.S. Army. First Filipino American to be promoted to a general officer rank. Former Director of the Army National Guard Bureau. Former Director of the Recovery Division for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
 Rudolph Davila – first lieutenant, U.S. Army. Medal of Honor Recipient, World War II
 John Liu Fugh – major general, U.S. Army, retired. First Chinese American officer to be promoted to a general officer rank in the United States Army; first Chinese American to serve as Judge Advocate General of the Army
 Barney F. Hajiro – private, U.S. Army. Medal of Honor recipient in World War II
 Harry B. Harris Jr. – admiral, U.S. Navy. First Asian American to achieve the rank of a four-star admiral.
 Mikio Hasemoto – private, U.S. Army. Posthumous Medal of Honor recipient in World War II
 Joe Hayashi – private, U.S. Army. Posthumous Medal of Honor recipient in World War II
 Shizuya Hayashi – private, U.S. Army. Medal of Honor recipient in World War II
 Oscar Hilman – brigadier general, U.S. Army, retired.
 Daniel Inouye – captain, U.S. Army. Senator from Hawaii, Medal of Honor recipient World War II
 Theodore Kanamine – United States Army brigadier general
 Terry Teruo Kawamura – sergeant first class, U.S. Army. Posthumous Medal of Honor recipient in Vietnam War
 Andrew Kim, former head of CIA's Korea Mission Center
Young-Oak Kim – colonel, U.S. Army. First ethnic minority to lead a U.S. Army Battalion
 Yeiki Kobashigawa – second lieutenant, U.S. Army. Medal of Honor recipient in World War II
 Wah Kau Kong – second lieutenant, U.S. Army Air Corps. First Chinese American fighter pilot
 Alice K. Kurashige – captain, U.S. Marine Corps. First Japanese American woman to be commissioned in the United States Marine Corps
 Robert T. Kuroda – staff sergeant, U.S. Army. Posthumous Medal of Honor recipient in World War II
 Ben Kuroki – technical sergeant, U.S. Army Air Corps. Only Japanese American Army Air Force pilot to fly combat missions in the Pacific theater in World War II
 Hazel Ying Lee (李月英) – civilian, Women Airforce Service Pilot (WASP). First Chinese American woman to earn a pilot's license; flew for the United States Army Air Forces during World War II
 Kurt Lee – major, US Marine Corps. First Asian American marine corps officer, Navy Cross recipient
 Brian L. Losey – rear admiral (lower half), U.S. Navy. Navy SEAL, and Commander of U.S. Special Operations Command, Africa (SOCAFRICA); Japanese American and first Asian American SEAL flag officer
 Viet Luong – major general, U.S. Army. First Vietnam-born general officer.
 Eleanor Mariano – rear admiral (lower half), U.S. Navy, retired. First Filipino American to be promoted to a flag officer rank. Former White House physician
 Susan K. Mashiko – major general, U.S. Air Force
 Roy Matsumoto – master sergeant, U.S. Army.  Member of Merrill's Marauders, and an inductee of the U.S. Army Rangers Hall Of Fame and the Military Intelligence Corps Hall of Fame
 Spark Matsunaga – captain, U.S. Army. Senator from Hawaii, 1977–1990
 Hiroshi Miyamura – staff sergeant, U.S. Army. Medal of Honor recipient in Korean War
 Kenneth P. Moritsugu – rear admiral (upper half), U.S. Public Health Service. Former acting Surgeon General of the United States
 Kaoru Moto – private first class, U.S. Army. Medal of Honor recipient in World War II
 Sadao Munemori – private first class, U.S. Army. Posthumous Medal of Honor recipient in World War II
 Kiyoshi K. Muranaga – private first class, U.S. A