[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paweł Pawlikowski

e Cannes Film Festival.

Pawlikowski's next film is scheduled to begin filming in 2023 under the working title The Island. The film is inspired by true events and will star Joaquin Phoenix and Rooney Mara as an American couple in the 1930s, who leave behind civilization to live on a deserted island.

Personal life
Pawlikowski grew up a Catholic and considers himself one up to this day, but says that he finds the Catholic Church in Great Britain to be easier to grow in faith in than that in Poland.

Pawlikowski was a Creative Arts Fellow at Oxford Brookes University from 2004 to 2007. He teaches film direction and screenwriting at the National Film School in the UK and the Wajda Film School in Warsaw. In addition to his native Polish, he speaks six languages including German and Russian. 

Pawlikowski's first wife, who was Russian, developed a serious illness in 2006 and died several months later. They have a son and a daughter. After his children left for university, Pawlikowski moved to Paris, and later relocated to Warsaw, where he lives close to his childhood home. At the end of 2017, he married Polish model and actress Małgosia Bela.

Filmography

Film

Documentary works
Television

Film

Awards and nominations
Academy Awards

British Academy Film Awards

Golden Globe Awards

European Film Awards

Polish Film Awards

British Independent Film Awards

Film festivals and other award ceremonies

Critics' Circle

Other distinctions

Pawlikowski was made Honorary Associate of London Film School. In 2019, he was awarded the title of an honorary citizen of Warsaw.

See also 
 Cinema of Poland
 List of Poles
 List of Polish Academy Award winners and nominees

References

External links
 
 BBC Interview 2004
 Pawel Pawlikowski's website
 Paweł Pawlikowski at Culture.pl
 Interview with Terry Gross on NPR's Fresh Air, 12 February 2015
 Paweł Pawlikowski and his TV movie documentaries From Moscow to Pietushki, Dostoevsky’s Travels, Serbian Epics and Tripping with Zhirinovski on vimeo

1957 births
Living people
Film people from Warsaw
Polish film directors
Polish television directors
Academics of Oxford Brookes University
British film directors
British television directors
Polish emigrants to the United Kingdom
Polish people of Jewish descent
Polish Roman Catholics
Cannes Film Festival Award for Best Director winners
Directors of Best Foreign Language Film Academy Award winners
European Film Award for Best Director winners
European Film Award for Best Screenwriter winners
Filmmakers who won the Best Foreign Language Film BAFTA Award
Outstanding Debut by a British Writer, Director or Producer BAFTA Award winners