[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Firefly (G.I. Joe)

Firefly is a fictional character from the G.I. Joe: A Real American Hero toyline, comic books and animated series. He is a mercenary who works for the Cobra Organization as a saboteur. He is portrayed by Ray Stevenson in the 2013 film G.I. Joe: Retaliation.

Profile
Firefly's given name is unknown. Even Cobra Commander doesn't know his real name or what he looks like. Firefly is a ninja master, a saboteur, and an expert in all NATO and Warsaw Pact explosives and detonators. He always places his charges in the proper location for maximum damage. His fees are paid into a numbered Swiss bank account and are always paid in advance. He makes no guarantees, and gives no refunds.

H.I.S.S.
Firefly also tends to go together with Black Out and Munitia as H.I.S.S. (short for Hierarchy of Infiltration, Stealth, and Sabotage).

Phoenix Guard
The members of the Phoenix Guard were Cobra agents in disguise, but for Cobra Commander's elaborate ruse to succeed, each member of the team needed doctored military records and manufactured personal histories. Firefly's fabricated identity was Snake-Eater, real name Jason B. Lee, most likely an alias, as his birthplace and serial number were classified. Snake-Eater's specialties were ranger, counter-intelligence and cartography. He attended basic training, advanced infantry training, Airborne School and Ranger School all at Fort Benning, and also completed the Special Forces Qualification course at Fort Bragg. General Rey noted him to be brutal, impulsive and unpleasant to be around, but could not deny his great skill in the field.

Toys
Firefly was first released as an action figure in 1984. A new version of Firefly was released in 1992. The figure was repainted and released as part of the Battle Corps line in 1993. Firefly has 11 action figures plus two convention exclusive figures in the 3¾" line, one 12" figure, and two 8" figures. He is most commonly seen in a ski mask and BDU fatigues. He is popularly shown in urban or grey camouflage, although only 4 of his figures portray him in that manner.

A version of Firefly with no accessories came with the Built to Rule Cobra Sand Snake in 2004, which followed the G.I. Joe: Spy Troops story line. The figure featured additional articulation with a mid-thigh cut joint, plus the forearms and calves of the figure sported places where blocks could be attached. The same figure was also recolored and released with the Built to Rule Cobra Venom Striker.

Firefly appeared as a Kreon in the 2013 G.I. Joe Kre-O toy line as part of the Check Point Alpha playset. The set includes Check Point Alpha along with Law & Order and a Cobra motorcycle piloted by Firefly.

25th Anniversary
Firefly has been released in Wave 3.

Comics

Marvel Comics
Firefly first appeared in the Marvel Comics series G.I. Joe: A Real American Hero #24 (June 1984).

Firefly's father was owed a debt by the Koga Ninja Clan. When his father died, Firefly was taken in by the ninja. Training with them he eventually earned Master status, and took the name "Faceless Master". Soon after Cobra Commander approached Firefly with a job: kill the man known as Snake-Eyes. Cobra Commander blamed Snake Eyes for his brother's death. Traveling to the Arashikage dojo where Snake Eyes was training, Firefly realized that he was no match for Snake Eyes.

Firefly approached the assassin Zartan for help. In a case of mistaken identity, Zartan kills the Hard Master, leader of the Arashikage, instead. The Hard Master's nephew, Storm Shadow, was blamed and he fled the dojo, dishonored and branded a traitor.

On another mission for Cobra Commander, Firefly was left in the Florida Everglades by the Commander. Running into Destro, who had also been left behind, the two returned to Cobra's base in Springfield, stopping for multiple battles with the Joes. They then plan revenge. First they attempted to return to the Commander's good graces by attacking Snake Eyes' mountain lodge. The Cobra agents were surprised that Snake Eyes wasn't alone and fled. When Firefly arrived in Springfield, he took part in the trial of Billy, Cobra Commander's estranged son, who had tried to kill the Commander. Storm Shadow freed Billy before a verdict could be reached.