[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Terrorism in Russia

terrorist attack, caused by an improvised bomb containing the equivalent of up to  of TNT that detonated during the flight. The Russians said they had found explosive residue as evidence. On 24 February 2016, Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi acknowledged that terrorism caused the crash.

2017

On 3 April 2017, a terrorist attack using an explosive device took place on the Saint Petersburg Metro between Sennaya Ploshchad and Tekhnologichesky Institut stations. Seven people (including the perpetrator) were initially reported to have died, and eight more died later from their injuries, bringing the total to 15. At least 45 others were injured in the incident. The explosive device was contained in a briefcase. A second explosive device was found and defused at Ploshchad Vosstaniya metro station. The suspected perpetrator was named as Akbarzhon Jalilov, a Russian citizen who was an ethnic Uzbek born in Kyrgyzstan. Prior to the attack, Chechen separatists had been responsible for several terrorist attacks in Russia. In 2016, ISIS had plotted to target St. Petersburg due to Russia's military involvement in Syria, resulting in arrests. No public transport system in Russia had been bombed since the 2010 Moscow Metro bombings. ISIS propaganda was being circulated prior to this incident. It encouraged supporters to launch strikes on Moscow. ISIS propaganda showed bullet holes through Putin's head and a poster circulated before the attack of a falling Kremlin and included the message "We Will Burn Russia."

On 22 April 2017, two people were shot and killed in an attack in a Federal Security Service office in the Russian city of Khabarovsk. The gunman was also killed. The Russian Federal Security Service said that the native 18-year-old perpetrator was a known member of a neo-Nazi group.

On 27 December 2017 a bomb exploded in a supermarket in St Petersburg, injuring thirteen people. Vladimir Putin described this as a terrorist attack.

2019 
Several terrorist incidents occurred in Russia during the year of 2019:

On March 13, two perpetrators attacked Federal Security Service (FSB) officers with automatic weapons and grenades when stopped for questioning in Stavropol of the Shpakovsky district.  Both Perpetrators were killed in the confrontation. Later, Russian authorities reported they were planning a terrorist attack in accordance to their affiliation with ISIS.

On April 8, ISIS (claimed to have) set off an explosion at Kolomna, a city near Moscow. The attack did not result in any casualties.

On July 1, ISIS claimed responsibility for an attack on a police officer at a checkpoint in the Achkhoy-Martonovsky district of Chechnya, who was stabbed to death. The attacker was shot and killed as he threw a grenade at the other officers.

On December 19, someone living in the Moscow region opened fire near the FSB headquarters in Moscow and caused 6 casualties; 2 killed and 4 wounded. Subsequently, the shooter, later identified as Yevgeny Manyurov, a 39-year-old ex-security guard, was killed onsite.

2021 
A German court sentenced Russian agent Vadim Krasikov to life imprisonment for the murder of Zelimkhan Khangoshvili which the judge called "state terrorism".

2022 
On April 14, the Ukrainian parliament endorsed a bill recognizing Russia as a terrorist state, whose political regime's aims include genocide, physical destruction, mass killings, international crimes against civilians, use of prohibited methods of war, destruction of infrastructure, and artificial humanitarian catastrophes in certain regions of Ukraine.

On May 10, Lithuania's parliament designated the Russian Federation a terrorist state and its actions in Ukraine a genocide.

On August 11, Latvia's parliament recognised Russia as a terrorist state.

The US Senate unanimously passed a nonbinding resolution to this effect on July 27, 2022, calling on the State Department to recognize Russia as a state-sponsor of terrorism for its invasions of Ukraine, as well as of Chechnya, Georgia and Syria, that caused "the deaths of countless innocent men, women and children." The US House of Congress is considering such legislation. A large international legal effort intends to use the international definition of terrorism to help win reparations from the Russian state, mercenaries, and business people for war damage in Ukraine.

Darya Dugina was killed on 20 August 2022, in a car-bombing in the settlement of Bolshiye Vyazyomy outside Moscow.

The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution declaring the Russian Federation a terrorist regime, by a vote of 99 to 0, with 1 abstaining, on 13 October 2022. The European Parliament resolved to discuss the topic in November.

On October 18, parliament of Estonia declares Russia a terrorist state.

On October 25, the Polish senate recognized the Russian government as a terrorist regime.