[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Mount Laurel doctrine

e's failure to act on overdevelopment to be an "abject failure by our state government."

Public criticism

In June 2018, NJ 101.5 radio host Bill Spadea advocated for a constitutional amendment to revoke the doctrine, arguing the imposition of unnecessary development increased tax burdens unfairly.

Regional town partnership approaches
In the summer of 2017, the mayors of five Bergen County towns announced they were "teaming up to take a regional perspective on affordable housing, in an effort to find reasonable solutions that will protect the integrity of their communities."

Case Study: Chatham, NJ
As of October 2019, no affordable housing units are listed as available in Chatham Township, NJ. In Morris County as a whole, between 2010 and 2014, there were only 39 units of affordable housing for every 100 renters classified as having extremely low income (ELI). This is a 6% decrease in the number of units since 2000. The suburban town has acquired COAH-certified credits associated with previous iterations of the third round of affordable housing, which reduced the town's affordable housing obligation (16). To address the current lack of affordable housing, Chatham Township is in the process of building the third round of affordable housing units in compliance with the Mount Laurel Doctrine. Sterling Sun Homes Developers will be constructing 25 affordable housing  on the 3.6-acre site of the current skate park on Southern Boulevard.

Objections:

	The Chatham Township community has raised several objections to the new affordable housing units consistent historical and regional objections to the Mount Laurel Doctrine. Many citizens have raised concerns about the impact fees that will be imposed on the residents to help fund the new affordable housing units. A Chatham Township resident, speaking at the Township Committee meeting on September 12, 2019, suggested this “punitive fee...can… be passed and simply not implemented”. This suggestion mirrors the open refusal to comply with the Mount Laurel Doctrine I, which requires the municipality to provide housing for people of multiple income brackets, which was common between 1975 and 1981. The Mount Laurel Doctrine requires municipalities to add fair share housing via municipal zoning. Aside from the monetary cost, residents have raised concerns about the loss of open space and trees. This development will require the removal of 18 trees on the skate park property and is slated to exceed the allowed building height in the township by 2.98 feet. The conflict over open space is one that is occurring in many municipalities, such as those in the "Builder’s remedy lawsuit cases". A group of teens raised concerns about the loss of the community's skate park, for which there are no current plans to rebuild. As this area is suburban, a resident said “I’m not averse to affordable housing in itself,” but he is “averse to is an expanded population” as the town is characterized by low-density housing. Another resident noted that the location of the development is in a high traffic area near the elementary school, and the new residents will lead to reduced parking and pedestrian safety. Concerns about the changing suburban form come up frequently in "legislator outcry" in connection to concerns that New Jersey suburban communities will begin to look like cities.

New Jersey mayors have traditionally opposed affordable housing. The stance of town leadership on fair land use policies is unclear as the public has been excluded from many of these discussions surrounding inclusionary inclusionary zoning via the Open Public Records Act (N.J.S.A 10:4-12 ) are taking place in executive session, rather than the public session.

Vacant and abandoned properties

Some have argued that the deluge of abandoned and vacant properties in New Jersey should be taken into account before forced building occurs in less crowded areas.  They have also suggested that the state step up funding for code enforcement to reduce burdens of urban blight on attractive home development, including enforcement on absentee landlords.  The City of Newark is "working with the Urban League to identify vacant or abandoned properties that can be sold to small developers to then sell at cost to residents. About 16 percent of Newark's housing is vacant and the city has a high eviction and foreclosure rate according to a Rutgers report.

See also
Abbott district, a similarly controversial legal doctrine resulting from a series of New Jersey Supreme Court cases holding that the education of children in poor communities was unconstitutionally inadequate.
Frederick Wilson Hall, who wrote the initial decision
 Latino Action Network v. New Jersey, a lawsuit filed in 2018 to desegregate the public schools.

References

External links