[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sucrose phosphorylase

nction in sucrose phosphorylase regulation.  The cAMP-CRP complex formed when both molecules combine acts as a positive regulator for transcription of the sucrose phosphorylase gene.  The complex binds to the promoter region to activate transcription, enhancing the creation of sucrose phosphorylase.

Genetic regulation of sucrose phosphorylase is also performed by metabolites.  Through experimentation it is known that genes encoding for the sucrose phosphorylase enzyme can be induced by sucrose and raffinose.  Glucose, on the other hand, represses the transcription of the sucrose phosphorylase gene.  These metabolites undoubtedly function in this way because of their implications in cellular metabolism.

There has been little research on methods of the allosteric regulation of sucrose phosphorylase, so at this point the function of allosteric molecules can only be hypothesized.  Due to the nature of its function in metabolic pathways, it is likely that sucrose phosphorylase is additionally regulated by other common metabolites.  For example, the presence of ATP would probably inhibit sucrose phosphorylase since ATP is a product of the catabolic pathway.  Conversely, ADP would likely stimulate sucrose phosphorylase to increase levels of ATP.  Further research on the subject would be required to support or refute these ideas.

Function 
As mentioned above, sucrose phosphorylase is a very important enzyme in metabolism.  The reaction catalyzed by sucrose phosphorylase produces the valuable byproducts α-D-glucose-1-phosphate and fructose.  α-D-glucose-1-phosphate can be reversibly converted by phosphoglucomutase to glucose-6-phosphate, which is an important intermediate used in glycolysis.  In addition, fructose can be reversibly converted into fructose 6-phosphate, also found in the glycolytic pathway.  In fact, fructose-6-phosphate and glucose-6-phosphate can be interconverted in the glycolytic pathway by phosphohexose isomerase.  The final product of glycolysis, pyruvate, has multiple implications in metabolism.  During anaerobic conditions, pyruvate con be converted into either lactate or ethanol, depending on the organism, providing a quick source of energy.  In aerobic conditions,
pyruvate can be converted into Acetyl-CoA, which has many possible fates including catabolism in the Citric Acid Cycle for energy use and anabolism in the formation of fatty acids for energy storage.  Through these reactions, sucrose phosphorylase becomes important in the regulation of metabolic functions.

The regulation of sucrose phosphorylase can also be used to explain its function in terms of energy consumption and preservation.  The cAMP-CRP complex that enhances transcription of the sucrose phosphorylase gene (Reid and Abratt 2003) is only present when glucose levels are low.  The purpose of sucrose phosphorylase, therefore, can be linked to the need for higher glucose levels, created through its reaction.  The fact that glucose acts as a feedback inhibitor to prevent the formation of sucrose phosphorylase further supports its catalytic role in the creation of glucose for energy use or storage.

The glucose-6-phosphate molecule created from the original α-D-glucose-1-phosphate product is also involved in the pentose phosphate pathway.  Through a series of reactions, glucose-6-phosphate can be converted into ribose-5-phosphate, which is used for a variety of molecules such as nucleotides, coenzymes, DNA, and RNA.  These connections reveal that sucrose phosphorylase is also important for the regulation of other cellular molecules.

References

External links 
 The Mechanism of Action of Sucrose Phosphorylase
 BRENDA Sucrose Phosphorylase Reaction Mechanism

Transferases
EC 2.4.1
Peripheral membrane proteins