[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 136]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ry symptom of extravagant joy.
Nor is this to be wondered at, when you are informed that this
inundation renders the soil which it covers the most abundant in the
world. Whatever land is covered by the waters, receives such an increase
of fertility, as never to disappoint the hopes of the industrious
husbandman. The instant the waters have retired the farmer returns to
his fields and begins the operation of agriculture. These labours are
not very difficult in a soft and yielding slime, such as the river
leaves behind it. The seeds are sown, and vegetate with inconceivable
rapidity, and, in a few weeks, an abundant harvest of every kind of
grain covers the land. For this reason all the necessaries of life are
easily procured by the innumerable multitudes which inhabit the country.
Nor is the climate less favourable than the soil; for here an eternal
spring and summer seem to have fixed their abode. No frost nor snow is
ever known to chill the atmosphere, which is always perfumed with the
smell of aromatic plants that grow on every side, and bring on a
pleasing forgetfulness of human care. But, alas! these blessings, great
as they may appear, produce the effect of curses upon the inhabitants.
The ease and plenty which they enjoy, enervate their manners, and
destroy all vigour both of body and mind. No one here is inflamed with
the sacred love of his country, or of public liberty; no one is inured
to arms, or taught to prefer his honour to his life;--the great business
of existence is an inglorious indolence, a lethargy of mind, and a
continual suspense from all exertion. The very children catch the
contagion from their parents; they are instructed in every effeminate
art--to dance in soft unmanly attitudes; to modulate their voices by
musical instruments, and to adjust the floating drapery of their dress.
These are the arts in which both sexes are instructed from their
infancy; but no one is taught to wield the arms of men, to tame the
noble steeds in which the country abounds, to observe his rank in war,
or to bear the indispensable hardships of a military life. Hence this
celebrated country, which has been in every age the admiration of
mankind, is destined to the most degrading servitude. A few thousand
disciplined troops are sufficient to hold the many millions it contains
in bondage, under which they groan, without ever conceiving the design
of vindicating their natural rights by arms.'----

"'Unhappy people,' exclaimed Sophron, 'how useless to them are all the
blessings of their climate! How much rather would I inhabit the stormy
top of Lebanon, amid eternal snows and barrenness, than wallow in the
vile sensuality of such a country, or breathe an air infected by its
vices!'

"Chares was charmed with the generous indignation of Sophron, and thus
continued: 'I was of the same opinion with yourself, and therefore
determined to leave a country which all its natural advantages could not
render agreeable, when I became acquainted with the manners of its
inhabitants. But before I quitted that part of the globe, my curiosity
led me to visit the neighbouring tribes of Arabia--a nation bordering
upon the Egyptians, but as different in spirits and manners as the hardy
shepherds of these mountains from the effeminate natives of the plains.
Egypt is bounded on one side by the sea; on every other it is surrounded
by immense plains or gentle eminences, which, being beyond the
fertilizing inundations of the Nile, have been, beyond all memory,
converted into waste and barren sands by the excessive heat of the sun.
I therefore made preparations for my journey, and hired a guide, who was
to furnish me with beasts of burden, and accompany me across those
dreary deserts. We accordingly began our march, mounted upon camels,
which are found much more useful than horses in such a burning
climate.'"----

"Indeed," said Tommy here to Mr Barlow, "I am sorry to interrupt the
story; but I shall be much obliged to you, sir, if you will inform me
what kind of an animal a camel is?"

"The camel," answered Mr Barlow, "is chiefly found in those burning
climates which you have heard described. His height is very great,
rising to fourteen or fifteen feet, reckoning to the top of his head;
his legs are long and slender, his body not large, and his neck of an
amazing length. This animal is found in no part of the world that we are
acquainted with, wild or free; but the whole race is enslaved by man,
and brought up to drudgery from the first moment of their existence. As
soon as he is born, they seize him, and force him to recline upon the
ground, with his legs doubled up under his belly. To keep him in this
attitude, they extend a piece of canvass over his body, and fix it to
the ground by laying heavy weights upon the edge. In this manner he is
tutored to obedience, and taught to kneel down at the orders of his
master, and receive the burthens which he is destined