[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# HMS E18

German decoy ship Kronprinz Wilhelm (known as Schiff K) did attack two submarines during E18s patrol in May. K rammed the Russian Gerpard and the following day took the Russian Bars under fire in Hano Bay. The Germans believed they had sunk both submarines; E18 was not in the area of these actions.

Tsar Nicholas II sent a telegram of condolence on the loss of E18, and posthumously decorated the crew; Halahan awarded the Order of St. George, the other two officers the Order of St. Vladimir. These Orders were not normally awarded posthumously. Three of E18s crew did not sail on her last mission; one, Jeremiah Ryan had measles and later transferred to E19; another, Albert Phillips, missed her patrol for unknown reasons.  The third was signalman Albert Edward Robinson who was replaced on this mission by E8s telegraphist George Gaby; he was later sent home in January 1917 and joined E4 on her recommissioning. Ryan and Phillips went home in January 1918.

NB: 11 June 1916 is stated on the crew's papers as the date of being 'lost at sea', purely for administration purposes to close the books on E18, as the timing and circumstances of E18s loss were unknown.

Discovery of the wreck, 2009
In October 2009, the wreck of HMS E18 was discovered by a ROV deployed by the Swedish survey vessel MV Triad''. The position of the wreck lies off the coast of Hiiumaa, Estonia. Photographs taken of the wreck show the submarine with its hatch open, suggesting that it struck a mine while sailing on the surface.

Notes

Citations

References

External links
 'Submarine losses 1904 to present day' - Royal Navy Submarine Museum 

 

British E-class submarines of the Royal Navy
Ships built in Barrow-in-Furness
1915 ships
World War I submarines of the United Kingdom
Maritime incidents in 1916
Lost submarines of the United Kingdom
Royal Navy ship names
World War I shipwrecks in the Baltic Sea
Shipwrecks of Estonia
Warships lost with all hands
Submarines lost with all hands