[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Timor Gap Treaty

arrangement was formalised in a Memorandum of Understanding that established the Joint Petroleum Development Area (JPDA). The JPDA covered the same area as the Zone of Cooperation. This agreement was incorporated into Australian law in the Timor Gap Treaty (Transitional Arrangements) Act 2000 (Cth).

Current Position 
The Timor Gap Treaty was replaced by the Timor Sea Treaty between the Government of East Timor and the Government of Australia (Timor Sea Treaty). On 20 May 2002, The Timor Sea Treaty was signed in Dili by the Australian Prime Minister at the time, John Howard, and the then East Timorese Prime Minister, Mari Alkatiri. This was the same day that East Timor gained independence from UN rule. This new treaty created only one zone. Revenue from that zone was divided 10% to Australia and 90% to East Timor.

In April 2016, East Timor brought conciliation proceedings against Australia under Annex V of the UNCLOS with the intent of establishing permanent maritime boundaries. A UNCLOS Conciliation Commission considered the matter and was able to solve the boundary disputes of each party. Following the proceedings, the Treaty between Australia and the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste Establishing their Maritime Boundaries in the Timor Sea (Maritime Boundaries Treaty) was drafted. The Maritime Boundaries Treaty was signed on 9 March 2018 at the UN Headquarters in New York by the Foreign Ministers of Australia and East Timor. This treaty established permanent maritime boundaries between East Timor and Australia and a framework for resource development.

The Timor Sea Treaty was terminated on 30 August 2019 when the Maritime Boundaries Treaty came into force.

See also 

Timor Gap 
Timor Sea 
Timor Sea Treaty
History of East Timor 
Australia-Indonesia border

References

Further reading

 Auburn, Francis M.; Ong, David and Forbes, Vivian L. (1994) Dispute resolution and the Timor Gap Treaty Nedlands, W.A. : Indian Ocean Centre for Peace Studies, University of Western Australia.  Occasional paper (Indian Ocean Centre for Peace Studies); no. 35.
 
 
 Dubois, B. (2000) [The Timor Gap Treaty : where to now? ] based on initial research by Monique Hanley and Kirsty Miller]. Fitzroy, Vic.: Community Aid Abroad, Oxfam in Australia. Briefing paper (Community Aid Abroad (Australia)) ; no. 25.
 King, Robert J. “The Timor Gap, 1972-2018”.
 

Timor Sea
Australia–East Timor border
Australia–Indonesia border
East Timor–Indonesia border
Indonesian occupation of East Timor
Boundary treaties
Energy in East Timor
Joint development areas
Treaties of Australia
Treaties of Indonesia
1989 in East Timor
1989 in Indonesia
Treaties concluded in 1989
Treaties entered into force in 1991
1990s establishments in East Timor
Australia–Indonesia relations
1989 in Australian law
1980s in East Timor
1990s in East Timor