[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Burn Cycle

oad his consciousness completely into the Televerse, the virtual world in which most of the planet does business. Once inside Cutter must seek Vielli, the CEO of Cortex, a rival multinational to SoftTech, who might have the cure. Cutter's mind is downloaded, but his code is fractured in the process.

Inside the Televerse, Cutter must track down the rogue pieces of his code, personified by a man, a strange golden Buddha and Kris. Once absorbing each piece back into himself he is finally able to enter Cortex where Vielli is waiting. Vielli explains that SoftTech were the ones who hired him to steal their own data, intending to infect him with the Burn Cycle virus knowing that he would have to seek out Vielli. Vielli, who is revealed to have died and exists solely as a program, has perfected the process for downloading consciousness into the Televerse, but also uploading it into any body, effectively inventing the code for immortality. Vielli helps Cutter to cure the Burn Cycle virus, but Deally appears at Doc's in the real world, killing both Doc and Gala and telling Cutter that he will kill Cutter's body, stranding him in the Televerse, unless Cutter brings him the upload code.

Vielli instead uploads Cutter into a spare body (an attractive female) and charges him with smuggling Vielli's physical head (along with the upload code) out of the country. Cutter is ambushed at his hotel room by Deally with a team of agents. Deally reveals that he was the one who murdered Kris, prompting Cutter to kill him. He manages to shoot his way out and escape, but must leave Vielli's head behind.

Cutter is attempting to flee the country when Vielli contacts him and reveals that his head didn't contain the upload code, but rather an augmented copy of the Burn Cycle, which wipes out SoftTech overnight. Vielli congratulates Cutter and gives him an infinite number of bank accounts which can be accessed anywhere in the world, mentioning that he may approach Cutter again if he needs his services. Cutter in voice-over muses that he wonders what his new body will look like with an all over tan.

Development and promotion 
The game, written by Eitan Arrusi for TripMedia, London, features live action characters. Arrusi and Darius Fisher were the director and assistant director, respectively. The FMVs and in-game graphics were shot on a blue screen, as backgrounds are composed of 3D renders. The effect is that navigation through Burn Cycle'''s environments cues a 3D walkthrough, while interaction with characters or the activation of scripted events prompts the loading of overlaid camera footage, sometimes even with complete scene changes.

The game's live action cast are credited as follows:

Aaron Swartz as Cutter
Viva Duce as Kris
Abigail Canton as Gala
Tanya Pohlkotte as Female Cutter
Indra Sinha as the Golden Buddha

The 1995 re-release for personal computers was preceded by an early use of marketing a video game through the Internet. The official Burn Cycle website featured original content set in the game's world that was intended to serve as a precursor to the events depicted in the game. The site also featured various promotions and allowed visitors to sign up for an e-mail list that sent out hints for the game. The website was hosted at http://burncycle.com/ (Archived).

 Soundtrack Burn Cycle features a largely techno soundtrack, composed and performed by the partnership of Simon Boswell and Chris Whitten. The game came packaged with a soundtrack CD that could be played on the CD-i or on any conventional CD player. Some of the songs on the soundtrack are remixed with dialogue from the game's voice actors.

Reception

The CD-i version of Burn Cycle has been viewed as one of the most prominent titles on its system, with Electronic Gaming Monthly awarding it "Best CD-i Game of 1994" in their Buyer's Guide, and GamePro calling it "just what the CD-i needed". The magazines lauded the game's audio and cinematics. GamePro gave it a 5/5 score for three categories (graphics, sound, and fun factor), rating control at 4.5. 1UP.com, impressed by its futuristic setting and storyline, referred to Burn Cycle as "one of the best showcases of the console's strengths."