[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Margaret Bryan

antagenet bloodlines through her paternal great-grandmother, Anne of Gloucester, who was the granddaughter of King Edward III. She was also the maternal aunt of Henry VIII's wives Anne Boleyn and Catherine Howard as well as a member of the wider circle of kin and dependents around the Howard family.

Legacy
Three of her five children by Sir Thomas Bryan survived: Margaret Bryan, who married Sir Henry Guildford, Elizabeth Bryan, who became the wife of Sir Nicholas Carew, and Sir Francis Bryan, who became Lord Chief Justice of Ireland. Through her daughter, Elizabeth, she was the great-grandmother of Elizabeth Throckmorton, Lady Raleigh, wife to Walter Raleigh and chief lady-in-waiting to Queen Elizabeth I.

In fiction
Margaret Bryan makes an appearance in Kathryn Lasky's novel for young readers, Elizabeth I, Red Rose of the House of Tudor. In the book she is nicknamed "Muggie" by the four-year-old Princess Elizabeth. She also appears in The Lady Elizabeth by Alison Weir.

In the TV series The Tudors, the role of "Lady Margaret Bryan" is played by Jane Brennan. Like many of the characters in the show, she is a composite of the woman on whom she was based and also of Anne Shelton, who was in overall charge of Princess Elizabeth's household. Unlike Margaret Bryan, Anne Shelton had a very difficult relationship with Mary Tudor when she was living in Elizabeth's household.

Notes

Further reading
 Fuller, Terry A. The Spear and the Spindle: Ancestors of Sir Francis Bryan (D.1550) 
 Susan Brigden, 'Bryan, Sir Francis (d. 1550)’, Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, (Oxford University Press, September 2004; online edn, January 2008) , accessed 28 August 2008

External links
 Genealogy of Margaret Bryan at TudorPlace.com

1468 births
1550s deaths
Margaret Bryan
People from Hambleton District
16th-century English women
15th-century English women
15th-century English people
Margaret
Barons in the Peerage of England
English baronesses
Governesses to the English Royal Household
English ladies-in-waiting
Household of Catherine of Aragon
Court of Henry VIII
Wives of knights