[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joaquin Castro

after redistricting in 2006, and Dewhurst lost the 2012 Republican runoff Senate election to Cruz.

Tenure

Castro was sworn into office on January 3, 2013, becoming a member of the 113th United States Congress. He was chosen as the president of the freshman class of Democrats in the 113th Congress.

In the 114th Congress, House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer named Castro a Chief Deputy Whip. During the 2016 presidential election, Castro served as a surrogate for Hillary Clinton's campaign. He was selected as chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus for the 116th Congress.

Castro voted against a House resolution condemning the UN Security Council Resolution 2334, which called Israeli settlement building in the occupied Palestinian territories a "flagrant violation" of international law and a major obstacle to peace.

On January 12, 2019, Castro introduced and endorsed his twin brother, former HUD Secretary Julián Castro, at the launch rally of Julián's 2020 presidential campaign.

In February 2019, Castro authored House Joint Resolution 46 to overturn Trump's declaration of a National Emergency Concerning the Southern Border of the United States, under which Trump said he would divert funds from other sources to construct a wall along the U.S. and Mexico border. The bill passed the House by a vote of 245–182 on February 15, and the Senate by a vote of 59–41 on March 15. Trump vetoed the Joint Resolution on March 15.

In August 2019, Castro tweeted the names and employers of 44 San Antonio residents who had given the maximum allowable contribution to Trump's reelection campaign. He said it was "sad to see so many San Antonians" whose "contributions are fueling a campaign of hate that labels Hispanic immigrants as 'invaders'." The information came from publicly available lists published by the Federal Election Commission. Republicans denounced the tweet, saying that such a "target list" invites harassment and could even encourage violence.

In July 2020, following the primary defeat of House Foreign Affairs Committee chairperson Eliot Engel, Castro declared his candidacy for chair. Gregory Meeks also announced his candidacy and Brad Sherman, who defeated former chairperson Howard Berman in a 2012 primary, is expected to run as well.

On January 12, 2021, Castro was named an impeachment manager (prosecutor) for Trump's second impeachment trial.

Castro was among the 46 Democrats who voted against final passage of the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023 in the House.

Committee assignments
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency Subcommittee
National Security Agency & Cyber Subcommittee
Committee on Foreign Affairs
United States House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere (Ranking Member)
United States House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Indo-Pacific

Caucus memberships
New Democrat Coalition
Congressional Hispanic Caucus
U.S.-Japan Caucus (Founder)
Bipartisan Congressional Pre-K and Child Care Caucus (Founder)
ASEAN Caucus (Founder)

Personal life

Family
Castro is the son of Jesse Guzman and Rosie Castro and the identical twin brother of Julián Castro, the former mayor of San Antonio and the 16th United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; he is one minute younger than Julián. In 2019, Joaquin grew a beard so that people could distinguish him from his brother.

In 2013, Castro became engaged to Anna Flores. Julián Castro made the announcement on his Facebook page. The couple had a daughter in 2013, a son in 2016, and a second daughter in 2022.

Other work and board memberships
While in the Texas Legislature, Castro practiced law in San Antonio. He has also been a visiting professor of law at St. Mary's University and an adjunct professor at Trinity University in San Antonio. He sits on several boards of nonprofit organizations and institutions of higher education, including the National College Advising Corps.

Health
In February 2023, Castro had surgery to remove neuroendocrine tumors and described his prognosis as "good" afterward.

See also
 List of Hispanic and Latino Americans in the United States Congress

References

External links

Congressman Joaquin Castro official U.S. House website
Joaquin Castro for Congress

|-

|-

|-

1974 births
21st-century American politicians
American politicians of Mexican descent
Jefferson High School (San Antonio, Texas) alumni
Harvard Law School alumni
Hispanic and Latino American state legislators in Texas
Hispanic and Latino American members of the United States Congress
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Texas
Identical twin politicians
Living people
Democratic Party members of the Texas House of Representatives
Politicians from San Antonio
Stanford University alumni
Texas lawyers
American twins
Julian Castro