[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Immigration and Checkpoints Authority

y illegal immigrants. Those who harboured or employed illegal immigrants could also be punished. Data on foreigners' movements within Singapore were processed by the new Immigration Data Processing Centre.

The Last Port Clearance was introduced in 1980 to attract more passenger liners to Singapore.

A passport office was opened at Joo Chiat Complex in 1984. This office issued both international and restricted passports and was closed in 1999. The Immigration Department moved its head office to the Pidemco Centre in June 1986. Immigration officers were also deployed to places such as India and Hong Kong to open consulates and high commissions. All passports issued by Singapore immigration after 1990 were computerised and machine-readable. The Entry and Exit Control Integrated System implemented in the early 1990s was a computerized immigration system that was used at checkpoints to speed up the processing of travellers. A hotline for information was set up in 1992, with restricted access to countries lifted.

National Registration Office 
The independence of Singapore in 1965 brought with it the National Registration Act in 1966. The distinctive pink identity cards were issued for the first time. The National Registration Office (NRO) replaced the former Registry of Persons.

At the time, the NRO and the Registry of Births and Deaths (RBD) came under the former Ministry of Labour. The Registry of Societies (ROS), Martial Arts Control Unit (MACU) came under the Ministry of Home Affairs. On 16 October 1981, the NRO, RBD, ROC, MACU and ROS merged to form the National Registration Department (NRD). The NRD consisted of four registries: the Registry of Births and Deaths, the Registry of Citizens, the Registry of Societies and the National Registration Office. The NRD was located at the Empress Place Building until 1986 when the building was transformed into the now defunct Empress Place Museum.

Customs and Excise Department 
Tobacco, liquor, motor vehicles and petroleum became restricted goods after Singapore was granted independence as a sovereign nation. The Customs and Excise Department (CED) cooperated closely with other government agencies such as the Agri-Food & Veterinary Authority and the Central Narcotics Bureau. When the GST was introduced in 1994, the work scope of the CED was expanded. The red and green channel customs system was implemented in 1991 in Changi Airport and at sea checkpoints.

The CED was located first at Cecil Street from 1910 till 1932 and later the White House at Maxwell Road from 1932 until 1989 when it moved to World Trade Centre (now HarbourFront Centre).

Singapore Immigration and Registration 
In 1995, the Immigration Department was renamed Singapore Immigration. An immigration checkpoint was established at the Changi Ferry Terminal in May that year. There was a change in the passport application and collection in the 1990s, reducing the need for applicants to report to the building. To further reduce that need, applications by mail and internet were introduced and rebates were given for such applications.

A new logo was launched by then-Minister for Home Affairs, Wong Kan Seng, at the foundation stone ceremony for the SI Building in 1995. The West Coast Barter Trade Centre closed in June 1995. Singaporeans were then sent renewal forms for passports nine months before their passports expired.

SI became an autonomous agency in 1996 as well as launching its first website. All immigration offices moved from the Pidemco Centre to the new building at Kallang Road in 1997. The Singapore Immigration and the National Registration Department merged to form Singapore Immigration & Registration in 1998. A new land checkpoint at Tuas was opened on 2 January.

21st century: Merger and integration (2003–present) 
On 1 April 2003, SIR and the border control functions of CED were merged to form ICA in response to the 9/11 attacks and the Jemaah Islamiyah plots. The remaining functions of the CED was reorganised and renamed into Singapore Customs. ICA was to be part of the Home Team and a new, blue uniform was introduced to reflect that change. The first Commissioner of ICA was Lock Wai Han, who was in the Singapore Police Force before he oversaw the merger of the two agencies.

ICA's first major challenge came with the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) epidemic in 2003, testing the agency's ability to control Singapore's borders and screen passengers for contagious diseases.

In 2005, the then-Director CNB Eric Tan became the Commissioner of the ICA.

In 2010, Deputy Commissioner Clarence Yeo became the Commissioner of the ICA.

On 1 July 2011, Keretapi Tanah Melayu Berhad (KTMB) and the Malaysian CIQ agencies were relocated to the Woodlands Train Checkpoint (WTCP). From then on, all arriving and departing trains terminated and started at WTCP.