[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

ch is located along the Ohio River.  Volunteers for the new cavalry regiment committed to serve for 3 years. One company of recruits already had military experience. CompanyH consisted mostly of men who had completed their 3-month commitment at the beginning of the war as part of 18th Ohio Infantry.

Organizers originally planned for the regiment to be the 4th Ohio Cavalry. However, Ohio's governor William Dennison refused to accept the unit's application, stating that he had instructions to recruit no more cavalry. After being rejected in Ohio, the organizers sought acceptance from an alternative government for the state of Virginia that was composed of western Virginia counties that refused to accept Virginia's succession from the United States. This restored government of Virginia was located in Wheeling, and had a provisional governor. The provisional governor, Francis Harrison Pierpont, accepted the regiment's application with approval from the United States Secretary of War. The ten original companies of the unit reported at Parkersburg, Virginia (now West Virginia) in mid-September, 1861. The regiment was originally named 2nd Regiment of Loyal Virginia Volunteer Cavalry.  Its first commander was Colonel William M. Bolles, and deputy commander was Lieutenant Colonel John C. Paxton. John J. Hoffman was one of the regiment's two majors. Among the other original officers, William H. Powell was captain of BCompany, and David Dove was captain of HCompany.

The regiment was armed by December 15, 1861. Most of the regiment was equipped with horse pistols, a poor weaponry choice for a cavalry unit. Horse pistols were 58-caliber hand guns that fired a single shot. They were typically carried in pairs—one in each holster on the sides of the horse. They had a long barrel for a hand gun—nearly  long. Horse pistols were accurate up to about . A portion of the regiment received shortened muzzle-loading Enfield rifles. This British import fired a .577-caliber projectile, and was popular with both sides at the beginning of the war. Like the horse pistol, it needed to be reloaded after firing a single shot. Both weapons were difficult for a rider to reload while mounted—and had significant recoils. The men were also issued sabers, which were good quality, but not always useful in the mountainous terrain of western Virginia.

After receiving their weapons, the regiment was ordered to Guyandotte in (West) Virginia's Cabell County. This small Ohio River community is located close to Virginia's border with Ohio and Kentucky, and is now part of Huntington, West Virginia (which did not exist at the time). At Guyandotte, the regiment received its horses and conducted more drills.

Kanawha Valley
During 1862–1863, the 2nd Loyal Virginia Volunteer Cavalry usually camped in (or near) the Kanawha River Valley, in the southwestern portion of the present West Virginia. The regiment's first serious warfare occurred on January 8, 1862, near Louisa, Kentucky. Assisting Colonel James A. Garfield, the regiment combined with additional cavalry and infantry to drive rebels from the area.  This was also the day the regiment experienced its first loss of life in combat. A few days later, the 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry returned to its winter quarters in Guyandotte. Garfield would eventually become the 20th President of the United States.

In April 1862, the regiment was divided into two battalions consisting of five companies each. One battalion was ordered to report to General Jacob Dolson Cox (commanding the Kanawha Division) at Flat Top Mountain. Much of its work for the next few months involved removing "bushwhackers" from Raleigh, Fayette, and Wyoming counties in the southern portion of the present West Virginia.

The other battalion joined some Ohio infantry regiments to form Cox's 3rd Brigade of the Kanawha Division, which was commanded by Colonel (later Major General) George Crook. This brigade normally operated apart from Cox. Its camp was located at Meadow Bluff, west of Lewisburg in Greenbrier County.