[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nodular fasciitis

, if any, of these pathways are overactive and can be successfully targeted with specific drug therapies to treat NF and its variants.

Two cases of NF have shown tumor cells in which the USP6 gene has fused with the  PPP6R3 gene. In both of these cases, the tumors clearly showed malignant behavior.

Diagnosis
NF may resemble and therefore be misdiagnosed as dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, fibrosarcoma, malignant fibrous histiocytoma, spindle-cell melanoma, leiomyosarcoma, or inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor. The diagnosis of NF and its variants depends on a combination of findings, no single one of which is definitive. These include: presentation (especially location in the cranium, within blood vessels, or outside of these areas); histopathology (analyses of tumor cell mitoses which, if atypical, strongly suggest the tumor is not NF); presence of myofibroblasts that typically express muscle-specific actin, SMA, and vimentin, may express CD68, but generally do not express S100, desmin, trypsin, factor VIII, F4/80, or CD34; and presence of typical neoplastic cells expressing an USP6-containing fusion gene. 

While virtually all cases of NF and variants have had excellent prognoses, the two cases of individuals with an USP6-PPP6R3 fusion gene in their NF tumor cells had less favorable prognoses: their tumors were locally invasive, repeatedly relapsed after surgical removal, and grew progressively larger over 2 and 10 years of observations.

Treatment 
Some cases of NF have regressed after being partially biopsied, suggesting that a watchful waiting approach may be appropriate after biopsy in some cases. The most common and generally accepted first-line treatment for cases of NF, craniofacial fasciitis, and intravascular fasciitis tumors is surgical removal. In almost all cases this removal is curative, and tumor recurrences are uncommon, even in cases where the tumor is only partially removed. Furthermore, tumor recurrences are typically cured by simple re-excisions. NF cases have also been successfully treated with corticosteroid drugs (e.g. triamcinolone) injected directly into the tumor. This treatment has been most often used for patients with recurrent tumors. Some studies, however, have suggested reevaluating the diagnosis in recurrent NF tumors to ensure the diagnosis is correct. Surgical and corticosteroid interventions may need to be performed promptly in order to a cranial tumor from expanding into the skull's interior or an intravascular tumor from compromising blood flood flow.

Prognosis
Two cases of NF in which tumor cells expressed a USP6-PPP6R3 fusion gene had highly aggressive, locally invasive, repeatedly recurrent, and progressively enlarging tumors over 2 and ten years. One case developed multiple metastases that were partially controlled with radiation therapy. The other case was treated by wide surgical resection of the tumor; this case did not have metastatic disease and one year after the wide resection had no recurrences.

See also 
 Leiomyosarcoma
 List of cutaneous conditions
 Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumour

References

External links 

Dermal and subcutaneous growths
Disorders of fascia
Soft tissue disorders
Connective and soft tissue neoplasms
Benign neoplasms