[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Bint Jbeil

en, apparently to provide an escape route for the town's defenders. Instead Hezbollah used the opportunity to send in reinforcements to the town. According to the orders issued by the IDF Northern Command on 22 July, the IDF should not enter Bint Jbeil. The town was to be encircled but not occupied.

The Israeli advance was preceded by a massive artillery bombardment. An IDF artillery officer, Lt.-Col. Avi Mano, claimed that Bint Jbeil had been hit by 3,000 shells by 25 July. According to the officer, IDF cannons could make direct hits on houses and cause "more damage" than Katyusha rockets.

According to Time magazine over 5,000 Israeli soldiers participated in the siege of Bint Jbeil by 25 July while the number of Hezbollah defenders of the town was estimated to "over 100".

The battle for Bint Jbeil started on 24 July when Israeli forces approached the nearby town of Aynata from the east and approached the Sadr district. Five Golani soldiers were wounded by friendly fire, and two tanks were sent to evacuate them. The first tank was hit by a missile, killing the platoon commander and wounding two of the crewmen. The second tank, a Merkava IV, ran over a powerful remote-controlled mine and rolled over from the blast. One of the crew was killed and the commander of the 52nd battalion, Lt.-Col. Guy Kabili, as well as his deputy, was wounded. An armor-plated D-9 bulldozer that attempted to rescue the casualties was forced to retreat after being hit by a missile. The wounded were finally evacuated under the cover of a smoke-screen. Altogether the IDF lost 2 killed and 18 wounded in the clashes. Five Hezbollah soldiers were also killed during the fighting. One of them, Marwan Samahat, was killed in the clashes in eastern Aynata. Another four soldiers were killed in southern Bint Jbeil, near the Maslakh mosque.

An Apache Longbow attack helicopter flying support mission for ground forces at Bint Jbeil crashed on the same day on the Israeli side of the border, killing both pilots. IAF at first believed that the helicopter accidentally was hit by Israeli MLRS artillery fire. Hezbollah claimed to have shot down the helicopter. An IAF crash investigation team later said that the crash was caused by a "rare technical fault". Investigators from Boeing, the helicopter's manufacturer, however, disagree with the IAF's findings. Boeing claims that the technical fault that caused the crash did not originate from the manufacturing process.

By the next day the IDF had taken up positions east, west and south of Bint Jbeil and Aynata but had not yet entered the built-up areas. In spite of this Gen. Hirsch declared victory to the press. "The town is in our control," he declared on 25 July. "The work is almost completed and the terrorists are fleeing." The statement would quickly prove disastrously wrong. An Israeli soldier would later describe his feelings when hearing Hirsch's words over the radio, while being under Sagger missile attack "from every direction" in the town: "you realize something is wrong."

The soldiers Golani Brigade's 51st Battalion were ordered to enter Bint Jbeil. They set out from Avivim and after a night-time march over the Maroun ar-Ras hill reached the southern outskirts of Aynata. In the early hours of the morning on 26 July the orders were suddenly changed. Now the battalion was ordered to sweep into the Bint Jbeil and conquer it.

The Golani brigade commander Col. Tamir Yedai did not leave Israeli territory but remote-controlled the battle from kibbutz Malkia, the civilian settlement where the Golani brigade had established its wartime command post. Because of topographical reasons he frequently lost contact with his men in Lebanon. Battalion commander Lt.-Col. Yaniv Asor commanded the first company of the 51st battalion, while his deputy, Maj. Roi Klein, commanded the third company. Both companies consisted of approximately 100 soldiers.

The third company walked into a well-prepared ambush in the outskirts of Aynata, the town immediately to the east of Bint Jbeil. Lebanese accounts refer to this battle as "the battle of Aynata" as the Israeli forces had not yet entered Bint Jbeil proper. The olive grove in southern Aynata where the clash occurred was later renamed "Liberation square"  (). The southern section of Aynata was defended by two squads [majmu’a]. A Hezbollah squad would normally include 7 – 10 soldiers.

IDF Platoon commander Merchavia and two of his men were killed immediately as they entered the olive grove surrounded by high wall. One Hezbollah unit attacked the Israeli force in the grove while a second unit fired at the reinforcements from positions in the upper stories of buildings with small arms and anti-tank rockets. Most of the soldiers from the platoon that entered the olive grove were eventually killed or wounded.