[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mahmoud Mohieldin

Mahmoud Mohieldin, (born 15 January 1965 in Egypt) is an economist with more than 30 years of experience in international finance and development. He is the UN Climate Change High-Level Champion for Egypt. He is an Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund. He has been the United Nations Special Envoy on Financing the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda since February 2020.
He was the Minister of Investment of Egypt from 2004-2010, and most recently, served as the World Bank Group Senior Vice President for the 2030 Development Agenda, United Nations Relations and Partnerships. His roles at the World Bank also included Managing Director, responsible for Human Development, Sustainable Development, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management, Finance and Private Sector Development, and the World Bank Institute; World Bank President's Special Envoy on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the Post-2015 Development Agenda (later, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)), and Financing for Development; and Corporate Secretary and Executive Secretary to the Development Committee of the World Bank Group's Board of Governors.
Dr Mohieldin also served on several Boards of Directors in the Central Bank of Egypt and the corporate sector. He was a member of the Commission on Growth and Development and was selected for the Young Global Leader of the World Economic Forum in 2005. His professional experience extends into the academic arena as a Professor of Economics and Finance at the Faculty of Economics and Political Science, Cairo University and as a Visiting Professor at several renowned Universities in Egypt, Korea, the UAE, the UK and the USA. He is a member of the International Advisory Board of Durham University Business School. He also holds leading positions in national, regional and international research centres and associations. He has authored numerous publications and articles in leading journals in the fields of economics, finance and development.

Education 
Mohieldin holds a PhD in economics from the University of Warwick, UK; a master's degree in economics and social policy analysis from the University of York, UK; a diploma of development economics from the University of Warwick; and a B.Sc. in economics from Cairo University. He also participated in executive programs at Wharton Business School of the University of Pennsylvania, the MIT and Georgetown University. In 2018, the American University in Cairo conferred upon him the honorary degree of doctor of Humane Letters “in recognition of renowned attainments and achievements”.

Early career 
Dr Mohieldin started his career as a lecturer in financial economics at the Faculty of Economics and Political Science of Cairo University. He then took on the position of director of the Macroeconomic and Debt Analysis Unit in the Office of the Minister of State for International Cooperation from 1995 until 1996. In 1996, he became an economic advisor in the Office of the Minister of State for Economic Affairs. In 1997, he became senior advisor to the Minister of Economy and in 1999, became senior advisor to the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade. In 2001, he moved to the Ministry of Foreign Trade as a senior advisor to the minister. In 2004, he was appointed Minister of Investment.

Mohieldin also served as a member of the board of directors of the Central Bank of Egypt (1999–2004); a member of the board of directors of HSBC-Egypt; a member of the board of directors of Telecom Egypt; and a member of the board of directors of the Egyptian Diplomatic Institute at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Egypt. Mohieldin was also an advisor to the Egyptian Centre for Economic Studies and the director of Cairo Economics and Finance.

Academia 
Mohieldin has been teaching various graduate and undergraduate courses since 1986, focusing on economics and finance at the department of economics, Faculty of Economics and Political Science at Cairo University. At the postgraduate level, he taught international finance and advanced macroeconomic theory and policy. He taught the economics of money and banking and financial markets, Microeconomic Theory and Macroeconomic Theory at the undergraduate level. He also supervises and examines post-graduate and PhD students. He is currently a visiting professor at Durham Business School. Mohieldin is also a member of the advisory board of the Durham Business School.

He was also an active faculty member, as coordinator of the Economic Dialogue Forum and founder of the Model Egyptian Stock Exchange (MESE), which, since its commencement, has become one of the biggest and most successful events in the Faculty of Economics and Political Science in Cairo University and many other universities in Egypt. Mohieldin also founded and supervised the Economists' Society at the Faculty of Economics and Political Science.