[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Michael P. Riccards

s in the DC public schools. Riccards wrote a history of the College Board, and successfully lobbied Congress to increase its Advanced Placement subsidy to $25 million. Riccards' efforts with Congress and the Department of Veterans Affairs to help veterans enroll in CLEP courses were also successful.

After three years at the College Board, Riccards moved back to his native New Jersey and became the founding executive director of the Hall Institute of Public Policy - New Jersey in Trenton.  At the Hall Institute, he worked on creating a website, Hallnj.org, established a television forum, a radio show, and published four volumes of essays from the website.  He was named the New Jersey representative on the national Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission and headed up the state commission.

He published a volume of his collected plays, and one of them on Lincoln became a musical produced by Genevieve Fraser on behalf of the Drama Circle in Massachusetts (2012). He has written four volumes of fiction on Italian American life, later compressed into The Ordinary Duties of the Day and Growing Up Jersey, generally set in his hometown of Madison, NJ. He is also the author of books on papal leadership. One of his books on the early presidency was cited in an opinion by U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice William Rehnquist. Riccards was on the board of the Center for the Study of the Presidency and Congress for five years. In 2019, he co-authored Woodrow Wilson as Commander in Chief: The Presidency and the Great War. He currently is co-writing Party Politics in the Age of FDR: Making America a Global Power.

He is married and has three children and five grandchildren. His wife Barbara was a master English teacher in urban and rural high schools. His youngest daughter, Abigail, is a professional jazz singer in Chicago and his daughter Catherine was a corporate lawyer for Saks Fifth Avenue and is now with Barnes & Noble. His son, Patrick, is an education reform advocate and CEO of the Driving Force Institute, having formerly served as an aide to three U.S. senators and one U.S. representative. Dr. Riccards has won the Luigi Pirandello Award and is the recipient of an Honorary Doctor of Medicine from Tie-in University. He lives in Hamilton, NJ.

Bibliography

Books
 Riccards, Michael P. and Cheryl A. Flagg. (forthcoming) Party Politics in the Age of FDR: Making America a Global Superpower. Lexington Books.
 Riccards, Michael P. and Cheryl A. Flagg. (2019) Woodrow Wilson as Commander in Chief: The Presidency and the Great War. McFarland Publishing. 
 Riccards, Michael P. (2015) A Hero of My Own Life: Living in Post-War America. CreateSpace. 
 Riccards, Michael P. (2012). Destiny’s Consul: America’s Ten Greatest Presidents. Rowman & Littlefield. 
 Riccards, Michael P. (2012).  Faith and Leadership: The Papacy and the Roman Catholic Church. Lexington Books, .
 Riccards, Michael P. (2010).  The College Board and American Higher Education. Fairleigh Dickinson University Press. .
 Riccards, Michael P., ed. (2011).  Into the New Millennium: New Jersey and the Nation. iUniverse.
 Riccards, Michael P., ed (2007) Reaction and Reform in New Jersey. Walsworth Publishers.
 Riccards, Michael P., ed (2006).  The State of the Garden State. Walsworth Publishers.
 Riccards, Michael P. (2004). The Myth of American Mis-education.  Global Publications, New York. .
 Riccards, Michael P. (2003). The Ferocious Engine of Democracy, Updated: From Theodore Roosevelt through George W. Bush. Cooper Square Press, New York. .
 Riccards, Michael P. (2002). The Papacy and the End of Christendom: The Leadership Crises in the Church from 1500 to 1850  (Binghamton, N.Y.: Global Publications, Binghamton, NY. .
 Riccards, Michael P. (2001). The Odes of DiMaggio: Sports, Myth, and Manhood in Contemporary America. Global Publications, Binghamton, NY. 
 Riccards, Michael P. (1998). The Presidency and the Middle Kingdom: China, the United States and Executive Leadership. Lexington Books, Lanham, MD. .
 Riccards, Michael P. (1998). Vicars of Christ: Faith, Leadership, and the Papacy in Modern Times. Crossroad Publishing Company, New York. . 
 Riccards, Michael P. (1995). The Ferocious Engine of Democracy: From Origins to William McKinley.  Madison Books. .
 Riccards, Michael P. (1987). A republic, if you can keep it: the foundation of the American presidency, 1700-1800. Greenwood Press, New York. .
 Riccards, Michael P. (1973). The Making of the American Citizenry: An Introduction to Political Socialization. Chandler Publishing Company,  San Francisco. .
 Byron W. Daynes, Byron W., Pederson, William D., and Riccards, Michael P. (eds.) (1998). The New Deal and public policy. St. Martin's Press, New York. .

Articles, papers, and opinions