[Source: PubMed]

57. Encephale. 2018 Nov;44(5):476-478. doi: 10.1016/j.encep.2018.01.002. Epub
2018  Mar 24.

On cognitive debiasing and the judgment of suicide-attackers.

Bou Khalil R(1), Richa S(2).

Author information:
(1)Hôtel-Dieu de France, A. Naccache boulevard, 166830 Achrafieh, Beirut, 
Lebanon; Department of psychiatry at Saint Joseph University, Damascus, Beirut, 
Lebanon. Electronic address: ramiboukhalil@hotmail.com.
(2)Hôtel-Dieu de France, A. Naccache boulevard, 166830 Achrafieh, Beirut, 
Lebanon; Department of psychiatry at Saint Joseph University, Damascus, Beirut, 
Lebanon.

Suicide-attacks are possibly increasing in frequency all over the world. To 
date, these attacks are not considered as a manifestation of a particular mental 
illness. However, the process of radicalization of suicide-attackers has to 
interest the field of mental health. One plausible explanation for the 
radicalization of individuals is the use of biased cognitive schemes by the 
indoctrinator. Among these cognitive schemes could figure the causal attribution 
bias in which the subject cannot distinguish in front of two factors that 
operate simultaneously, the share of each factor in achieving a certain goal. 
Another cognitive bias would be the confirmation bias during which the subject 
would tend to adhere to ideas from his/her own thinking or the thinking of 
subjects who share some cultural values with him/her and refute any other ideas. 
Finally, the bias of polarization or splitting could also be incriminated. 
Through this bias, the subject would either be proud of being a member of a 
cultural group or ashamed when he/she feels that this group is being attacked 
and that he/she is unable to rescue it. Approaches to increase the awareness of 
individuals to the adverse effects of these biased cognitive schemes may 
theoretically reduce the risk of committing suicide-attacks. However, despite 
numerous attempts of "deradicalization" involving technological means of 
communication as well as social "reintegration" centers, all approaches aiming 
at raising awareness of cognitive biases need to be studied in a scientific 
manner before they become widespread.

Copyright © 2018 L'Encéphale, Paris. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.encep.2018.01.002
PMID: 29580704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]