[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Human rights in Thailand

urrendering to the police.

Surayud Chulanont, the junta prime minister vowed to right Mr Thaksin's wrongs. 
Human Rights Watch, says that the panel's original report named the politicians who egged on the gunmen. But after the PPP won the 2007 elections, those names were omitted.

Human trafficking

Human trafficking is a major issue in Thailand.  This includes misleading and kidnapping men from Cambodia by traffickers and selling them into illegal fishing boats that trawl the Gulf of Thailand and the South China Sea. These men are promised better paid jobs but instead forced to work as sea slaves for as long as 3 years.  Numerous international news organizations including The Guardian, AP, and The New York Times have extensively covered the topic; The Associated Press, in particular, has won prominent awards for their coverage (although not without controversy for overstating their role in combating trafficking). 
Child trafficking is also another major issue in Thailand, with forced kidnapping of children as young as four, to use as sex slaves in major cities like Bangkok and Phuket. Such activities are especially rife in rural areas of Thailand.

Instances of forced labor in the fish and shrimp industry, as well as child labour in the pornography industry, are still observed in Thailand and have been reported in the 2013 U.S. Department of Labor's report on the worst forms of child labor and in the 2014 List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor.

Paween Pongsirin, high ranking police officer who was investigating human trafficking in Thailand, sought asylum in Australia in 2015. After Paween investigated many high-profile and high ranking police and army officers, due to fear of reprisals from the authorities, he fled to Singapore, and from there entered Australia.

Military conscription

Conscription was introduced in Thailand in 1905, according to the Constitution of the Kingdom, serving in the armed forces is a national duty of all Thai male citizens, but it has disregarded human rights in the military institution, each year reports of abuse, torture, and killing against draftees are common. A violent punishment in the Thai military culture called 'repair' (Thai: ซ่อม), had caused 11 deaths of conscripts during 2009 to 2018. In 2017, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Prawit Wongsuwon stated a lack of empathy to the victims, pointed that it was common way in Thai military culture.

In a report issued in March 2020, Amnesty International charged that Thai military conscripts face institutionalised abuse systematically hushed up by military authorities. According to Amnesty, the practice has "long been an open secret in Thai society". One of infamous cases was in 2011 which 10 officers torturing Wichian Pueksom to death. Until today there is still no verdict to the officials

Children's rights

Child prostitution

Thailand has an unfortunate reputation for being a centre for child sex tourism and child prostitution. Even though domestic and international authorities work to protect children from sexual abuse, the problem still persists in Thailand and many other Southeast Asian countries.

Child abuse
Child abuse often goes unnoticed in Thailand, except the victim is raped or becomes pregnant. Incest and pedophilia cases in Thailand had been taken lightly, as Thai society deems as famous Thai proverb, 'Their personal family matter, we don't mess.'

In October 2021, a renowned music producer, Jakkawal 'Neung' Saothongyutitum, made many Instagram posts, seen clowning around with his nine-year-old daughter and touching her buttocks, hugging and rubbing her tummy with both his arms under her shirt, rubbing near her crotch area, which Jakkawal later explained that he was scratching at the request of the child. There was public uproar due to the sexual nature of these posts, mentioned over 1.84 million times after a video of one of the incidents was released on TikTok. Jakkawal had not been charged of any crime and denied to go to a counselling after this incident.

Government attitude toward NGOs and activists
In early 2021, Thai government led by Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha had adopted a draft law, Draft Act on the Operations of Not-for-Profit Organizations, to regulate non-governmental organization (NGOs). The bill was mentioned by Amnesty International as an effort to pass repressive legislation to silence civil society groups and NGOs.