[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Canadian Museum for Human Rights

focus precisely because they redefined the limits of "human depravity" and were "the foundation of our modern human rights legislation." He also said that it "made sense" that another gallery be dedicated to Indigenous peoples, and criticized the "pitting of one group of Canadians against another."

Winnipeg Free Press columnist Dan Lett similarly expressed dismay at the quarrel over the square footage allotted to any given atrocity or human rights violation, arguing that there should be less haggling over which wronged group gets the most space in a museum, and more concern over the prevention of human rights abuses in the future. Scholars explored many of the controversies in The Idea of a Human Rights Museum.

LGBT content censorship 
From January 2015 until the middle of 2017 the management sometimes asked staff not to show any LGBT content on tours at the request of certain guests, including religious school groups, diplomats and donors. The communications department justified such requests by saying "all groups are special, some groups are just a bit more special and there are some things that shouldn't be put on paper. So we have to meet in person to discuss what guides can say to these special visitors." In June 2020, CMHR CEO John Young resigned following complaints that staff were forced to censor LGBT content, as well as allegations of sexual harassment, homophobia and racism at the CMHR. An apology from the Executive team of the CMHR and an interim report of the independent third-party review into allegations were published on the CMHR website, with Young and several others named as signatories to the apology. In October 2020, it was revealed some staff were told not to talk about pregnancy or abortion, in addition to censoring LGBT content, during some tours involving religious schools.

See also

 Human rights
 Universal Declaration of Human Rights

Footnotes

References

External links

 Official website
 Friends of the CMHR

Canadian federal Crown corporations
Museums in Winnipeg
Human rights
Human rights organizations based in Canada
Antoine Predock buildings
Human rights museums
Museums established in 2008
Museums established in 2014
2008 establishments in Manitoba
2014 establishments in Manitoba
Tourist attractions in Winnipeg