[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gilo

saves energy and greatly reduces pollution. Park Gilo has a large adventure playground for children.

Settlement debate

Because Gilo is located beyond the 1949 Green Line, on land occupied since the Six-Day War, the United Nations, the European Union and Japan refer to it as an illegal settlement.

Israel disputes this, and considers it a neighborhood of Jerusalem. In an interview with the Jerusalem Post, Gilo community council director Yaffa Shitrit, invited the world "to come and see the neighborhood of Gilo and to understand the geography. We're not a settlement, we're part of the city of Jerusalem, we're a neighborhood like Katamon." Palestinians regard it as occupied territory and make no distinction between Gilo and the West Bank settlements.

Plans to expand Gilo have drawn criticism from the United States and United Kingdom. Israel maintains that it has the right to build freely in Gilo because the neighborhood is within (expanded) Jerusalem municipal borders and not a West Bank settlement. In 2009, the Jerusalem Planning Committee approved construction of 900 new housing units in Gilo, sparking a fresh round of global criticism.

Arab-Israeli conflict

From 2000, Beit Jala, a predominantly Palestinian Christian town, was used as a base by Fatah's Tanzim gunmen to launch sniper and mortar attacks against Gilo. The Israeli government built a concrete barrier and installed bulletproof windows in the homes and schools on the periphery of Gilo, facing Beit Jala. The attacks on Gilo subsided after Operation Defensive Shield, with the rate slowing to three incidents of gunfire that year. On August 15, 2010, following years of relative quiet, the IDF started dismantling the concrete barrier, nearly a decade after its construction.

Seventeen of the 19 passengers killed in the Patt Junction bus bombing were residents of Gilo.

Notable residents
Eli Amir (born 1937), writer and civil servant
Yisrael Friedman (born 1923), rabbi
Rami Levy (born 1955), founder of Rami Levy Hashikma Marketing

See also
Positions on Jerusalem
List of modern names for biblical place names

References

External links

 Israeli Army Leaves Palestinian Town In West Bank After 2 Days of Tension, Clyde Haberman, New York Times
Widening Hostilities, Israel Kills Chief of P.L.O. Faction, Joel Greenberg, New York Times
Israeli troops won't relinquish West Bank town Michele Chabin, USA Today
 Israelis leaving Beit Jala, say Palestinians , CNN
Israeli barrier draws artists to a cause  Matthew Kalman, The Boston Globe
To truly see Jerusalem, try varied perspectives, Steven Erlanger, San Diego Union Tribune
School Students Heard Explosion Outside Associated Press
Blast Hits Palestinian HQ, CBS News
Gilo, settlements, and the Green Line in perspective

Ring Settlements, East Jerusalem
Populated places established in 1973
Second Intifada
Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem