[Source: Gutenberg#1232 | Part 56]
# The Republic — Plato

the castle, it being common to
the Lucchese and the Pistoians, and unclaimed by either—neither of them
wishing to displace Manfred as long as he kept his promise of
neutrality, and came under obligations to no one. For these reasons,
and also because the castle was well fortified, he had always been able
to maintain his position. It was here that Castruccio had determined to
fall upon his enemy, for here his few men would have the advantage, and
there was no fear lest, seeing the large masses of the hostile force
before they became engaged, they should not stand. As soon as this
trouble with Florence arose, Castruccio saw the immense advantage which
possession of this castle would give him, and having an intimate
friendship with a resident in the castle, he managed matters so with
him that four hundred of his men were to be admitted into the castle
the night before the attack on the Florentines, and the castellan put
to death.

Castruccio, having prepared everything, had now to encourage the
Florentines to persist in their desire to carry the seat of war away
from Pistoia into the Val di Nievole, therefore he did not move his
army from Montecarlo. Thus the Florentines hurried on until they
reached their encampment under Serravalle, intending to cross the hill
on the following morning. In the meantime, Castruccio had seized the
castle at night, had also moved his army from Montecarlo, and marching
from thence at midnight in dead silence, had reached the foot of
Serravalle: thus he and the Florentines commenced the ascent of the
hill at the same time in the morning. Castruccio sent forward his
infantry by the main road, and a troop of four hundred horsemen by a
path on the left towards the castle. The Florentines sent forward four
hundred cavalry ahead of their army which was following, never
expecting to find Castruccio in possession of the hill, nor were they
aware of his having seized the castle. Thus it happened that the
Florentine horsemen mounting the hill were completely taken by surprise
when they discovered the infantry of Castruccio, and so close were they
upon it they had scarcely time to pull down their visors. It was a case
of unready soldiers being attacked by ready, and they were assailed
with such vigour that with difficulty they could hold their own,
although some few of them got through. When the noise of the fighting
reached the Florentine camp below, it was filled with confusion. The
cavalry and infantry became inextricably mixed: the captains were
unable to get their men either backward or forward, owing to the
narrowness of the pass, and amid all this tumult no one knew what ought
to be done or what could be done. In a short time the cavalry who were
engaged with the enemy’s infantry were scattered or killed without
having made any effective defence because of their unfortunate
position, although in sheer desperation they had offered a stout
resistance. Retreat had been impossible, with the mountains on both
flanks, whilst in front were their enemies, and in the rear their
friends. When Castruccio saw that his men were unable to strike a
decisive blow at the enemy and put them to flight, he sent one thousand
infantrymen round by the castle, with orders to join the four hundred
horsemen he had previously dispatched there, and commanded the whole
force to fall upon the flank of the enemy. These orders they carried
out with such fury that the Florentines could not sustain the attack,
but gave way, and were soon in full retreat—conquered more by their
unfortunate position than by the valour of their enemy. Those in the
rear turned towards Pistoia, and spread through the plains, each man
seeking only his own safety. The defeat was complete and very
sanguinary. Many captains were taken prisoners, among whom were Bandini
dei Rossi, Francesco Brunelleschi, and Giovanni della Tosa, all
Florentine noblemen, with many Tuscans and Neapolitans who fought on
the Florentine side, having been sent by King Ruberto to assist the
Guelphs. Immediately the Pistoians heard of this defeat they drove out
the friends of the Guelphs, and surrendered to Castruccio. He was not
content with occupying Prato and all the castles on the plains on both
sides of the Arno, but marched his army into the plain of Peretola,
about two miles from Florence. Here he remained many days, dividing the
spoils, and celebrating his victory with feasts and games, holding
horse races, and foot races for men and women. He also struck medals in
commemoration of the defeat of the Florentines. He endeavoured to
corrupt some of the citizens of Florence, who were to open the city
gates at night; but the conspiracy was discovered, and the
participators in it taken and beheaded, among whom were Tommaso Lupacci
and Lambertuccio Frescobaldi. This defeat caused the Florentines great
anxiety, and despairing of preserving their liberty, they sent envoys
to King Ruberto of Naple