[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Body hacking

1985 with the publication of Donna Haraway's influential "Cyborg Manifesto" but can be traced back all the way to Manfred Clynes and Nathan Klines' article "Cyborgs and Space". This body of theory criticizes the rigidity of ontological boundaries and attempts to denaturalize artificial dichotomies.

Notable people
 Kevin Warwick is a British scientist and professor of cybernetics who has been instrumental in advancing and popularizing cyborg technology and biohacking through his self-experiments.
 Steve Mann is a professor of electrical and computer engineering who has dedicated his career to inventing, implementing, and researching cyborg technologies, in particular, wearable computing technologies.
 Amal Graafstra is known for implanting an RFID chip in 2005 and developing human-friendly chips, including the first-ever implantable NFC chip. In 2013, he founded the biotech startup company Dangerous Things. He is also the author of RFID Toys and speaker on biohacking topics, including a TEDx talk. He has also built a smartgun that is activated by his implants. He has created an implantable cryptographic processor called VivoKey for personal identity and cryptography applications.
 Lepht Anonym is a biohacker and transhumanist known for self-surgeries and material implementation of transhumanist ideologies.
 Winslow Strong is a mathematician and physicist.
 Tim Cannon is a software developer, entrepreneur, and co-founder of biotech startup company Grindhouse Wetware.
 Jeffrey Tibbetts is the organiser of the Grindfest events at his lab in California. He is a biohacking researcher whose work has been featured in a number of sources, such as Gizmodo.
 Alex Smith is a biohacker known for his work developing new implants, such as the Firefly implants. He has spoken at various conferences, including DEFCON, and been featured in a number of news articles.
 Rich Lee is known for implanting headphones in his tragi in 2013, as well as for his work on a vibrating pelvic implant called the Lovetron9000. His biohacking activities were used as a justification to remove his parental custody rights in 2016.
 Brian Hanley is an American microbiologist who became known for being one of the first biohackers to engineer their own DNA using gene therapy for human enhancement and life extension.
 Meow-Ludo Disco Gamma Meow-Meow implanted a microchip used for the Opal card in Sydney, Australia, though he was subsequently fined $220 for failing to comply with existing transit laws. He also ran against Barnaby Joyce in the Division of New England.
 Jo Zayner attempted a full fecal microbiota transplant on themself in February 2016.
 Dave Asprey is an American entrepreneur and author who founded Bulletproof 360 in 2013. Asprey has written five books on biohacking. As of 2019, Asprey had spent at least $1 million "hacking his own biology", including having parts of his bone marrow removed and later re-injecting his own stem cells, taking 100 supplements daily, following a strict diet, bathing in infrared light, using a hyperbaric oxygen chamber, and wearing Irlen lenses to correct Irlen syndrome.
 Biohacker Hannes Sjöblad has been experimenting with NFC chip implants since 2015. In his talk at Echappée Voléé 2016 in Paris, Sjöblad said that he has also implanted himself with a chip between his forefinger and thumb and uses it to unlock doors, make payments, unlock his phone, and essentially replace anything that is in his pockets. He has also hosted several "implant parties", where interested parties can get chips implanted.
 Tim Vasilev is a pioneer of biohacking and the most famous popularizer of the practice in the CIS. In 2018, he opened his own biohacking laboratory, spending more than $2 million, together with partners. Vasilev has a decade of experience optimizing health and performance for executives and professional athletes, including Olympic medalists.

Groups and organizations
 Grindhouse Wetware, biotechnology startup company based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
 KSEC Solutions, worldwide distributor and consultancy based in the United Kingdom.

See also

 Neurohacking
 Do-it-yourself biology

References

External links
 Grinder Resource Library
 Biopunk directory

Videos
 Richard Thieme, "Hacking, biohacking and the future of humanity"
 "Biohackers: a journey into cyborg America"
 Kevin Warwick, "The last remaining hurdles to cyborg technology"
 Kevin Warwick, "Implants and technology—the future of healthcare?"
 Kevin Warwick, "Cyborg interfaces"
 RBC Trends: "How to make yourself more powerful: what is biohacking?"

Biology and culture
Biopunk
Hacker culture
Subcultures
Transhumanism