[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of smoking bans

ate-by-state basis. In chronological order by state:

The first place smoking was banned in Victoria was in 1990 when Councillor John Huntley (a smoker) moved a motion to ban smoking in the Shire of Orbost offices.
The motion was carried and Orbost was the first public office that had a smoking ban.

 South Australia: Smoking prohibited in all indoor dining areas since January 1999. Banned in all enclosed public places since November 2007.
 Western Australia: Incremental restrictions introduced from January 2005 with a comprehensive total restriction upon smoking in all enclosed public spaces taking effect from July 2006.
 Tasmania: Total indoor smoking ban in force since January 2006. From January 2008 the regulations were extended to include smoking in cars with passengers under the age of 18.
 Queensland: Comprehensive smoking ban in effect since July 2006. Smoking is prohibited in all pubs, clubs, restaurants and workplaces, commercial outdoor eating and drinking areas, outdoor public places, and within 5 metres of non-residential building entrances.
 Australian Capital Territory: A restriction upon smoking in enclosed public places has been in effect since December 2006.
 Victoria: A restriction upon smoking in enclosed public places has been in effect since July 2007. It is also an offence to smoke in a vehicle where there is a person under the age of 18 present, since January 2010. Smoking is still Permitted in all drinking areas providing it is 25% Outdoors and meals are not being served. Private cigar bars and certain rooms of the Crown Casino still permitted smoking in fully enclosed areas providing it has a proper ventilation system.
 New South Wales: A restriction upon smoking in all enclosed areas of restaurants, licensed clubs and pubs came into force in July 2007. From 1 July 2009, smoking in a car with a child under the age of 16 is against the law. The Public Health (Tobacco) Act 2008 creates a new offence of smoking in a car with a child under 16 years of age in the vehicle. A$250 on-the-spot fine applies to the driver and any passenger who breaks the law. This is enforced by NSW Police.
 Northern Territory: Certain restrictions upon smoking in enclosed areas of restaurants, licensed clubs and pubs came into force on 2 January 2010.
Norfolk Island: Smoking is banned in all government buildings, tour buses, taxis and flights to and from the island. There is no law on smoking in restaurants but many are smokefree, however, they often have a dedicated smoking room for people that wish to smoke. Smoking is permitted in all bars and licensed premises. Resorts and motels have smoking rooms and areas for smokers.

Smoking has been banned in all prisons in Queensland, the Northern Territory, Tasmania, Victoria, and New South Wales since 2015. While South Australia is due to follow in 2019, smoking is still permitted in prison cells in Western Australia and the Australian Capital Territory.

Austria
In 2009, smoking was prohibited by law in all enclosed public spaces and educational institutions. The 2009 law granted certain exceptions for eating and drinking establishments as well as workplaces if no employee works in the enclosed space objects. Smoking was banned on trains and in railway stations when Germany introduced a similar smoking ban in 2007.
The 2009 law mandated that all restaurants, bars, discos, and pubs larger than 50 m2 had to be either be non-smoking or introduce separate smoking rooms. Below 50 m2 the owner could opt to make the establishment either a smoking or non-smoking place. The law provided for a long transition phase ending July 2010. The 2009 law was a subject of controversy, as the rules were widely ignored by bar owners and not actively enforced by the authorities. Anti-smoking campaigners claimed to have filed 18,000 reports with the authorities on non-compliant businesses since the bans were introduced, to little effect.

In December 2017, after a change in government – under the coalition of the centre-right ÖVP and the far-right FPÖ – an already passed bill banning smoking in all restaurants, bars, discos and pubs from May 2018 was repealed and the prior rules reinstated with some minor changes.
 In July 2019, after another change in government – under a technocratic government led by Chancellor Brigitte Bierlein – the parliament decided to reintroduce the strict ban for all types of restaurants, bars, discos, and pubs from 1 November 2019.

Bahrain
In 2008, the Bahrain government introduced anti-smoking laws indoor public areas, including restaurants, cafes, hair salons, shopping malls and public transport. The law was highlighted by the ban of smoking in private cars when there are children.

The law could be implemented in the following points: