[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nick Foligno

astern Conference Quarterfinals; Foligno's goal was his only registered point of the series.

Foligno spent the entire 2008–09 season in the NHL with the Senators, scoring 17 goals and 32 points in 81 games. The Senators, however, struggled throughout the season and failed to make the 2009 playoffs.

In the 2009–10 season, Foligno missed 21 games due to injuries, including a broken leg suffered from blocking a shot in a game against the Montreal Canadiens on January 30, 2010. He scored nine goals and 26 points in 61 games he appeared in. The Senators qualified for the 2010 playoffs, and in six games, Foligno had one assist as Ottawa again fell to the Pittsburgh Penguins in the Eastern Conference Quarterfinals.
Foligno appeared in all 82 games in the 2010–11 season for Ottawa, scoring 14 goals and 34 points. The team, however, failed to make the playoffs for the second time in three seasons. Foligno put up his best offensive numbers during the subsequent 2011–12 season, registering 15 goals and 47 points while again playing in all of Ottawa's 82 regular season games.

Columbus Blue Jackets
On July 1, 2012, Foligno was traded to the Columbus Blue Jackets in exchange for defenseman Marc Methot. Having lost two of their starting six defensemen via free agency, Ottawa desperately needed to acquire a defenseman and Methot fit the bill for the Sens. Foligno had earlier been offered to Columbus as part of a package for superstar Rick Nash; however, Blue Jackets General Manager Scott Howson informed the Senators that Nash was unwilling to accept a trade to Ottawa. Five days after acquiring him, Columbus signed Foligno to a three-year contract worth a reported $9.15 million; Foligno had been a restricted free agent.

Foligno scored a notable goal in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference Quarterfinals in the 2014 playoffs against the Pittsburgh Penguins — Blue Jackets forward R. J. Umberger blocked a slapshot with his head, whereupon Foligno picked up the puck, skated down the ice and shot a knuckle-puck past goaltender Marc-André Fleury for the come-from-behind overtime winner.

In 2015, Foligno was selected by the NHL general managers to represent Columbus, in addition to Blue Jackets teammates Ryan Johansen and Sergei Bobrovsky, at the 2015 NHL All-Star Game, held in Columbus, Ohio. Foligno was additionally named a captain for one of the teams during the Game, Team Foligno. His team lost to Team Toews 17–12.

On April 4, 2015, Foligno scored his first career NHL hat-trick against the Pittsburgh Penguins. On May 20, shortly after the end of the 2014–15 season, Foligno was named captain of the Blue Jackets, filling a vacancy existent since previous team captain Rick Nash's departure to the New York Rangers in the 2012 off-season. Foligno became the sixth captain in Blue Jackets' history. The captaincy came after Foligno posted career-highs in goals (31) and points (73) from 79 regular season games played, ranking tenth in the League in the latter statistic, points. 

On February 25, 2016, in a game against the New Jersey Devils, Foligno recorded 4 points, including his second career hat trick, and leading the Blue Jackets to a 6–1 victory.

On November 9, 2019, Foligno was assessed a major penalty and game misconduct for elbowing Colorado Avalanche forward Pierre-Édouard Bellemare. He was suspended three games for the incident.

On February 7, 2021, in a regular season game against the Carolina Hurricanes, Foligno scored his 200th career goal.

Toronto Maple Leafs
On April 11, 2021, one day before the NHL trade deadline and in the final year of his contract with a Blue Jackets team expected to miss the postseason, Foligno was involved in a three-team trade to eventually end up with the Toronto Maple Leafs. To make the trade work, he was initially dealt to the San Jose Sharks in exchange for forward Stefan Noesen, with Columbus retaining 50% of his salary. Shortly after, Foligno was dealt to Toronto in exchange for a fourth-round pick in 2021, where San Jose retained 50% of Foligno's remaining salary (or 25% of his overall cap hit). Afterwards, Noesen was traded to the Maple Leafs, with Columbus receiving a first-round pick in 2021 and a fourth-round pick in 2022, as the compensation for Foligno.

Foligno's short tenure in Toronto was marred with injury. He missed several games between the trade and end of the regular season with injury, although picked up four assists in seven appearances. Again limited by injury, Foligno appeared in four of the team's seven playoff games, collecting one assist and having relatively little on-ice impact, although was involved in a notable fight with Corey Perry after Perry concussed captain John Tavares.