[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Civilian casualties during Operation Allied Force

ge Tenet later admitted in congressional testimony that the CIA had organised the strike and that it was the only strike of the campaign organised by his agency, though he still claimed it was accidental. China has never accepted the US explanation for the incident.

May 14, 1999: Bombing of Koriša 

Starting before midnight and lasting into the morning hours of May 14, 1999, NATO planes bombed the village of Koriša in Kosovo, where Albanian peasants were seeking refuge in a convoy. Sources vary between 77 and 87 killed.<ref name="Balt">{{cite web|url=http://articles.baltimoresun.com/1999-06-20/news/9906220504_1_refugees-yugoslavia-korisa|newspaper=The Baltimore Sun|author=Will Englund|title=Refugees call Korisa a setup|date=June 20, 1999|access-date=July 4, 2012}}</ref> Survivors of the attack claimed that they had been set up by the Yugoslav police, who led them to the supply depot which was bombed that night. The Yugoslav police had led the refugees to the depot promising them refuge and passage to Albania, although the survivors claimed that the police asked for money and made threats before escorting them. After the bombing of Koriša, Yugoslav troops took TV crews to the scene shortly after the bombing. The Yugoslav government insisted that NATO had targeted civilians.

May 19–21, 1999: Bombings in Dedinje, Gnjilane, and the Dubrava prison massacre
Gnjilane
At approximately 10:20 am local time on May 19, 1999, a small industrial area in Gnjilane was struck by NATO airstrikes, immediately killing three women who were working at the agricultural firm "Mladost". A man working for "Binačka Morava" initially survived the airstrikes, but died of his injuries the same day. Glas javnosti published the names of all four workers killed in Gnjilane that day.

Dragiša Mišović hospital bombing
At approximately 12:50 am local time on May 19, 1999, the University Hospital Center Dr Dragiša Mišović in Belgrade was destroyed by NATO laser-guided bombs. RTS listed the names of three patients killed. Seven soldiers of the Yugoslav Army were also killed in the hospital, although their names were listed separately from those of the three patients. NATO admitted that a missile was aimed at barracks in the Dedinje district, which is close to the hospital, went astray.

Dubrava prison massacre

Starting on May 19, 1999, NATO forces bombed the town of Istok, killing three prisoners and a prison guard that day. Two days later, NATO forces struck the prison complex again, with at least 19 prisoners being killed from the airstrikes, according to Human Rights Watch. Subsequent to the lethal airstrikes, special units from the Yugoslavia's Ministry of Internal Affairs along with various criminals selected by the special forces carried out a false flag operation, during which the prisoners were massacred by firearms, after which state agency Tanjug claimed that all of the prison victims were killed by the airstrikes.

 May 29–31, 1999: Morava region, Novi Pazar, and road bombings

On May 29, 1999, the Prizren-Brezovica road was subject to NATO airstrikes. A chauffeur was killed driving in a convoy of journalists, and three more were injured. At 1:05 pm local time on the following day, 1999, 10 civilians were killed when NATO bombers mounted a daylight raid on a bridge over the Great Morava river in Varvarin. The streets and bridge had more people than usual as Trinity Sunday was observed that day. NATO spokesman Jamie Shea said the alliance had bombed a "legitimate designated military target".

Surdulica was bombed for the second time on the night of May 30–31, 1999, when NATO airstrikes destroyed a sanatorium and a retirement home. Human Rights Watch published the names of the 23 civilians killed in the sanatorium.

On May 31, 1999, a residential building was struck by a NATO bomb in Novi Pazar, killing 11 civilians. On the same day, Human Rights Watch recorded that airstrikes killed three civilians in three separated incidents throughout central and southern Serbia; in Vranje, on the "Raška bridge", and in Draževac.

 Human Rights Watch analysis 

Human Rights Watch documented and evaluated the impact and effects of the NATO military operation, and confirmed 90 incidents in which civilians died as a result of NATO bombing. These included attacks where cluster bombs were dropped. In 1999, it was estimated that 488–527 Yugoslav civilians died as a result of NATO bombing. The report also criticized Pentagon and NATO officials for a lack of attention to the issue of civilian deaths, suggesting "a resistance to acknowledging the actual civilian effects and an indifference to evaluating their causes."