[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Andalusian nationalism

gaining the absolute majority of eligible voters in the proposed region, and in all provinces except for Almería, where it fell just short of a majority of all "eligible voters". Due to this,  Andalusia could not achieve autonomous status under the "fast route" proposed by the Spanish constitution.

In response to this situation, where a clear majority of voters wished for autonomy to be granted to the region but fell short of the actual requirements of the chosen autonomy process, the Spanish Congress of Deputies passed "Ley 13/1980" allowing for the substitution of the approval by the deputies and senators of Almeria province instead the required approval of an absolute majority of the voters of the province. The new Statute of Autonomy was approved by the Spanish parliament in 1981 under the requirements of article 151.

A proposal for the reform of the Statute of Autonomy for Andalusia was finalised by the Andalusian Parliament in May 2006. After being debated and posteriorly approved in the Spanish Parliament, the original wording of the statute was amended to define Andalusia as a "Nacionalidad" (Historic Nationality). This has led to severe criticism by the Andalusist Party and other political forces for falling short of the steps taken in the 2006 Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, where this territory defined itself as a Nation.

The amended text was approved by both the Senate of Spain and the Congress of Deputies of Spain and was voted in referendum on February 18, 2007.

Gallery

See also
Autonomous communities of Spain
Andalusist Party
Andalusian language movement
Nationalities in Spain
Andalusian Liberation
Unitarian Candidacy of Workers

References

External links

History
 History of Andalucismo
 Biography and thought of Blas Infante, Blas Infante Memorial Foundation

Political parties and unions
 Andalucista Party, in Spanish.
 Socialist Party of Andalusia (refounded), in Spanish.
 Asamblea Nacional de Andalucía, in Spanish.
 Nación Andaluza, in Spanish.
 Major standpoints of Nación Andaluza (in English)
 CUT-BAI, a nationalist trade union, in Spanish.
 Somos Andaluces