[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Security Through Regularized Immigration and a Vibrant Economy Act of 2007

rea with an unemployment rate lower than 10 percent for workers whose education level is at or below a high school diploma.

The visa program has an initial cap of 400,000, which adjusts up or down yearly based on market fluctuations.

Applicants for a H-2C visa must meet the following requirements:

 demonstrate job qualifications
 provide evidence of a job offer from U.S. employer
 complete criminal- and terrorism-related background checks
 pay a $500 application fee
 undergo a medical exam
 show admissibility to the U.S.

It includes labor rights and protections for new workers including:

 competitive wages
 the same conditions and benefits as received by U.S. workers
 the ability to travel outside the United States
 whistleblower protections
 right to change employers (portability) so long as the new employer has complied with the applicable H-2C recruiting requirements
 an opportunity to apply for permanent resident status through the Earned Citizenship Program (see below)

The H-2C visa would take effect one year after the enactment of the Strive Act. Congress would be required to enact implementation regulations within six months.

Earned Citizenship

The Earned Citizenship Program provides new immigrant workers (and their spouses and children) with an opportunity to apply for conditional permanent residence and eventual citizenship.

Requirements for Earned Citizenship
 work in United States for five years
 show physical presence in the U.S. and evidence of employment
 complete criminal and security background checks
 pay $500 application fee
 meet English and civic requirements
 show admissibility

Title V – Visa Reforms

Title V of the STRIVE Act makes certain reforms to the US visa system in order to increase the rate of immigration and reduce inefficiency.

These reforms include adjustments to annual numerical visa limits such as:

 exempting immediate relatives from the 480,000 annual family-sponsored visa limit
 increasing the limit of annual employer sponsored visas from 140,000 to 290,000
 slightly increasing the per-country cap on family and employer sponsored visas
 exempting certain highly skilled workers from caps on H-1B visas and employer-sponsored visas
 exempting sons and daughters of Filipino World War II veterans from annual visa limitations

Title V also provides for special immigration benefits for victims of a major disaster or emergency. It also provides a special immigration status for women and children deemed to have a credible fear of harm in their home country.

Title VI – Legalization of Illegal Aliens

Title VI of the STRIVE Act provides two new programs for certain qualified illegal aliens to acquire citizenship. These programs mirror the ones in Title IV of the STRIVE Act, but are for illegal aliens rather than new or prospective immigrant workers.

Conditional Nonimmigrant Program

The Conditional Nonimmigrant Program creates a new six-year visa for illegal aliens and their families.

Requirements for Conditional Nonimmigrant Status:

 Establish continuous presence in the U.S. on or before June 1, 2006
 Verify employment in the U.S. before June 1, 2006 and employment since that date
 Complete criminal and security background checks
 Pay a $500 fine plus necessary application fees
 Must not be ineligible to receive a visa pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act
 Has not been convicted of a felony or three or more misdemeanors
 Has not participated in the persecution of another person on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion
 Has not been convicted by final judgment of a particularly serious crime and there are no reasonable grounds for believing that the alien has committed a particularly serious crime abroad before arriving in the U.S.

There is a penalty of up to five years' imprisonment for anyone who willfully falsifies information in an application for conditional nonimmigrant status.

Earned Citizenship

The Earned Citizenship Program for Undocumented Individuals provides qualified conditional nonimmigrants and their families with an opportunity to apply for lawful permanent resident status (green card) and eventual citizenship.

Applicants must:

 meet employment requirements during the six-year period immediately preceding the application for adjustment
 Pay a $1,500 fine plus application fees
 Complete criminal and security background checks
 Establish registration under the selective service (if applicable)
 Meet English and civic requirements
 Undergo a medical examination
 Pay all taxes
 Show admissibility to the U.S.
 Meet a Legal Reentry requirement during the six-year period in conditional nonimmigrant status, no later than 90 days before filing an application for adjustment to lawful permanent resident status.

Some additional features of the Earned Citizenship Program for Undocumented Individuals are: