[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lindow (Mark)

w north of the town. The widow of the Music Professor Zeidler was deported to Theresienstadt after her husband's death in 1942 and perished there. She was a Protestant of Jewish descent, and lost her previous precarious protected status of a so-called privileged mixed marriage when her husband died.

After the Second World War Lindow became part of the Soviet Occupation Zone in Germany, which became East Germany (the German Democratic Republic) in 1945. From 1952 to 1990, Lindow was part of the Bezirk Potsdam of East Germany. The damsels' foundation became a Protestant home for elderly of all backgrounds (called Evangelisches Stift "Kloster Lindow" since), many terribly impoverished by the impacts of the war, run by deaconesses of the Lichtenrade Mother House "Salem" in West Berlin between 1947 and 1961, when the Berlin Wall disrupted this affiliation. The Evangelical Church in Berlin-Brandenburg, the regional Protestant church body of the area, converted a building in the nunnery compound on Wutzsee as its conference venue (Evangelische Akademie). However, communist East Germany, with its censorship and repression of free conventions, forbade the opening of the venue.

In the 1980s a local initiative renovated the enclosure walls and headstones of the Jewish cemetery, which had weathered the Nazi period untouched. In 1989, the Town Church became a venue for people demanding change in East Germany. In March 1990 the dismissed East German head of state Erich Honecker retired for two nights in the manor house of Gühlen, used as guest house of the Council of Ministers of the GDR, however, leaving after protests by people from Lindow. Since 3 October 1990 Lindow is a part of the Federal Republic of Germany. Many traditional productions sharply reduced their staffs, while tourism became a stronger business. The German demographic crisis is also felt in Lindow, here combined with the migration of many younger to more prosperous areas. Evangelisches Stift "Kloster Lindow" was extended by modern premises between 1998 and 2000.

Demography

Components of Lindow

Today's Lindow comprises the formerly independent municipalities of:
Banzendorf (a former outlying estate of the nunnery)
Hindenberg 
Keller bei Gransee 
Klosterheide (literally monastery/cloister heath; a former outlying estate, Vorwerk, of the nunnery)
 Schönberg in der Mark/Schönberg (Mark)

Further there are the following localities: 
Birkenfelde 
Dampfmühle 
Grünhof 
Gühlen 
Kramnitz 
Kramnitzmühle 
Rosenhof 
Rudershof 
Siedlung Werbellinsee 
Sportschule Lindow 
Wilhelmshöhe (erected as lung sanatorium in 1913 by Rohde & Beschoren in a generous palace-like style)

References

External links

Localities in Ostprignitz-Ruppin