[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Eunicidae

fishing communities, attracting a large gathering of tarpon. These mass swarming events, or ‘risings’, are a spectacle that is the foundation of local tradition in Samoa, Fiji, Tonga, Papua New Guinea, Vanuatu, Kiribati and Indonesia.

Human relations

As bait in commercial and recreational fishing 

Marphysa sanguinea, or known locally in Italy as “Murrido”, “Murone”, “Bacone” and “Verme sanguigno” is the most valuable bait of all Polychaete species collected in Italy. This species is also cultivated in USA and South Korea and is typically commercially harvested once at its optimal length of 20–30 cm. Marphysa sanguinea can reach up to 50 cm long and is collected by excavating in deep sediment. For example, in the Venice lagoon, fisherman dig below the sediment layers colonised by the nereidids and sieve organic material through coarse screens. This process is also common in Italian coastal areas with intertidal and shallow littoral muddy bottoms. Eunice aphroditois, another sizeable (up to 1 metre in length) species of Eunicidae, is harvested by scuba divers along the Italian Apulia coasts. This species is collected at soft bottom ocean floors at a depth of 10 metres using specialised harvesting instruments that fit into U-shaped parchment tubes where the worm lives. This species of Eunicidae is suitable bait for fish of the Sparidae family and is used in commercial hook and line practice. Species within the Eunicidae family are also caught by recreational and commercial fisherman in estuaries along the West coast of Portugal and in Arcahon Bay in France. Marphysa are propagated and harvested in Australian estuary communities located along the coast of New South Wales and Queensland. Collecting of Marphysa moribidii as bait occurs along the West coast of Peninsular Malaysia, Marphysa elityeni are caught in subsistence fisheries in Africa and Eunice sebastiani have been reported as being harvested for bait in Brazil. Eunicids are also used as supplementary feed for aquaculture. For example, mudworms are a part of the black tiger prawn diet in some Thailand hatcheries.

In legend and culture 

In the Indo-Pacific, during 1-2 nights each year, the epitokes of the Palola viridis species are automatised. The sizeable epitokes (up to 30 cm in length) swim autonomously upwards and rupture, releasing gametes across the surface of the ocean. The epitokes are composed of hundreds of segments, with females emerald in colour and males transitioning from orange to brown during maturation. On ‘rising’ night it is tradition for some local communities to attract epitokes with artificial light sources or using other traditional methods. In Samoa for example, locals wear necklaces made of mosoʻoi flowers and use the fragrant floral scent to attract Palola worms. The epitokes are scooped from the shallows into nets and containers to be consumed raw, or cooked, baked, dried or frozen for later consumption.

See also 
 Bobbit worm (Eunice aphroditois)

References

External links

 
 Special issue of Marine Ecology dedicated to polychaetes
 Key to Families of Polychaetes, Natural History Museum

Annelid families
Extant Ordovician first appearances
Errantia
Polychaetes
Fishing techniques and methods
Fauna of Samoa
Marine animals