[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ryuichi Shimoda v. The State

Ryuichi Shimoda et al. v. The State was an unsuccessful case brought before the District Court of Tokyo by a group of five survivors of the atomic attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, who claimed the action was illegal under the laws of war and demanded reparations from the Japanese government on the ground that it waived the right for reparations from the U.S. government under the 1951 Treaty of San Francisco.

Background
Ever since the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in World War II, there has been legal debate over the action. On August 10, 1945, the Japanese government addressed a communication to the International Committee of the Red Cross, asking it to denounce the U.S. government as performing a crime under international law. Following the surrender of Japan and the landing of U.S. occupation troops in the country, Prime Minister Naruhiko Higashikuni offered not to make any complaints in the media or in legal institutions about the use of the nuclear weapons if the United States Government agreed to drop its demand to try Japanese war criminals. During the Tokyo War Crimes Trial, some of the defense lawyers tried to convince the International Military Tribunal of the Far East to launch a legal investigation into the matter of the legality of the first use of nuclear weapons, but their motions were ignored. At the end, the Tokyo trials did not raise any issues regarding the strategic bombing of cities during World War II both because the Allies performed the same air raid conducts as the Axis powers and that no international treaty governing aerial warfare existed throughout the war. As a result, many Japanese leaders and military personnel escaped prosecution for the bombings of Asian cities and unprovoked attack on the neutral United States at Pearl Harbor. 

Despite this, one of these defense lawyers, Shoichi Okamoto, decided to press on with the nuclear weapons issue after the trial was concluded. In February 1953, he published a booklet titled "Genbaku Minso Wakumon (Questions and Answers on the Civil Lawsuit over the Atomic Bombings)", in which he called upon individuals in Hiroshima and Nagasaki to take legal action against the U.S. government within the U.S. legal system.

Okamoto's plan met great deal of opposition within Japanese society and even in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Shinzo Hamai, the mayor of Hiroshima at the time, opposed the plan on grounds that the US legal system was not favorable to such actions. This was based largely upon Article 19 (a) of the 1951 Treaty of San Francisco, which prevents Japanese nationals from suing the U.S. for actions "arising out of the war or out of actions taken because of the existence of a state of war" (similarly, U.S. nationals are not permitted under Article 14 (b) of the treaty to sue Japan for its war-related acts). As a result, Okamoto gave up the notion of trying the case in a US court and decided to seek action in the Japanese legal system. In co-operation with local organizations in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, a group of five people were selected for the purpose of making the motion in a Japanese court. Shimoda, the leader of the group, came from Hiroshima and was 57 years old. He lost four daughters and one son in the atomic attack on Hiroshima, and he, his wife and surviving son suffered from persistent health problems. A lawyer named Yasuhiro Matsui joined the legal team.

Proceedings at the District Court in Tokyo began in April 1955, and they lasted for eight and a half years until the final ruling was rendered on December 8, 1963. Okamoto died of a stroke in April 1958 and did not live to see the final ruling.

The ruling
On 7 December 1963, in Ryuichi Shimoda et al. v. The State the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were the subject of a Japanese judicial review. On the 22nd anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor, the District Court of Tokyo ruled the use of nuclear weapons in warfare wasn't illegal, but issued an opinion in its obiter dictum that the act of dropping an atomic bomb on cities was at the time governed by the Hague Convention of 1907 IV - The Laws and Customs of War on Land (governing land warfare) and IX - Bombardment by Naval Forces in Time of War (governing bombardment of land targets by naval ships), and the Hague Draft Rules of Air Warfare of 1922–1923 (which detailed regulations for aerial warfare, but never came into force), and was therefore illegal.

It was reported in the Hanrei Jiho (Law Cases Report), vol. 355, p. 17; translated in The Japanese Annual of International Law, vol. 8, 1964, p. 231. that the facts were that

And it was held