[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Church of the Risen Christ

ovember 2003.

Present-day
Due to redevelopment works at the Church of St Alphonsus (Novena Church), its Saturday Novena devotions are now conducted at Risen Christ. As at Novena Church, the devotion is conducted in English and Chinese, although the number of sessions has been reduced to six.

Music

Choirs
Choirs at the Church of the Risen Christ sing a varied repertoire of hymns and songs, from contemporary works to traditional hymns and chants.

One of the more renowned choirs was the Peter Low Choir, which was based in the parish from 1970 until 2002, when it shifted to the Cathedral of the Good Shepherd to become the Cathedral Choir of the Risen Christ. The choir has gone on numerous tours around the world, even singing for the Pope and his audience of 30,000 on 5 June 1985 at Saint Peter's Square in the Vatican City. The Choir was known as the Risen Christ Choir while it was based at the Church of the Risen Christ, and it was during this period that its first 3 LPs were released, including the WEA album, "Christmas in Singapore." The choir also recorded and was featured in the original TV broadcast for Singaporean National Day songs in the 80s such as "Count on Me, Singapore" and "We are Singapore".

Organs
The Parish houses 2 Allen Digital Pipe Organs, which forms the foundation of congregational worship in the Liturgy and choral accompaniment.

The pipe organ is the instrument that is held in high esteem in the Roman Catholic Church for use in its liturgical celebrations. Musicam Sacram, which is a document issued by the Church on the use of music in the liturgy, states "The pipe organ is to be held in high esteem in the Latin Church, since it is its traditional instrument, the sound of which can add a wonderful splendor to the Church's ceremonies and powerfully lift up men's minds to God and higher things."

The organ has an integral place in liturgical music in the Church of the Risen Christ, and is the sole instrument that accompanies the congregation and choirs during the mass. The organ is also used together with other encouraged forms of liturgical music like choral polyphony and plainchant. It is hoped that this total experience of liturgical music will lead the faithful to a greater awareness of the divine in the liturgical celebrations, and help the faithful to truly sing the mass, and not just sing at mass.

The Choir Loft Organ is a new one that was purchased in 2010 for use in Sunday masses and replaces an older Allen which served the church for a good 20 years. The new instrument is an Allen Quantum 2 manual and pedal instrument with 45 stops or voices. Other notable features include a set of 6 voicebanks which allow the entire organ's voices to be changed to sound like pipe organs built in different musical periods or countries. These include the American Classic, Cavaillé-Coll (French), Arp Schnitger (North German baroque), English Cathedral, Schlicker and Orchestral (pipe organ with orchestral sounds).

The other Allen Organ was purchased in 1998 to replace the ageing organ in the Sanctuary used for weekday services. It is a small instrument with over 20 stops.

Organisation
The church has a parish population of 8000 served by 3 priests:
Rev Fr Edward Lim (Parish Priest)
Rev Fr Leo Justin Chinnappan
Rev Fr John Bin Shan

Controversies
On 4 October 2021, a 65-year old retiree fell violently ill and was hospitalised after consuming ivermectin at the urging of a group of close friends from the Church of the Risen Christ. The group claimed that the mRNA vaccine was against God and urged her not to get vaccinated. They also claimed that the virus was a test of faith and that vaccines were Satanic. Upon hospitalization, the group administrators quickly removed the retiree from Telegram chats and erased all conversations with her.

See also
 Archdiocese of Singapore
 Roman Catholicism in Singapore
 Toa Payoh New Town

References

External links

Toa Payoh
Roman Catholic churches completed in 1971
20th-century Roman Catholic church buildings in Singapore