[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# International Criminal Court investigations

Gaddafi; his son, Saif al-Islam; and the head of Libya's intelligence, Abdullah Senussi, for allegedly committed crimes against humanity. The request was granted on 27 June 2011, resulting in the second ICC warrant of arrest against an incumbent head of state, the other being Sudan's Omar al-Bashir.

Côte d'Ivoire 
On 19 May 2011, the Prosecutor informed the Presidency of the Court of his intention to request the authorization to open a formal investigation into the situation in Côte d'Ivoire since 28 November 2010. A day later, the Presidency issued an order, assigning the situation to Pre-Trial Chamber II, which was modified on 22 June 2011 by establishing a Pre-Trial Chamber III and assigning the situation in Côte d'Ivoire to it.

On 23 June 2011, the Prosecutor formally requested the authorization from a Pre-Trial Chamber to begin an investigation into crimes allegedly committed in Côte d'Ivoire.

While Côte d'Ivoire was then not a state party to the Rome Statute, it had repeatedly, by different administrations, accepted the ICC's jurisdiction. It became a state party in February 2013.

On 3 October 2011, Pre-Trial Chamber III allowed an investigation to be conducted by the Prosecutor.

On 27 May 2015, the ICC ruled that it can prosecute Simone Gbagbo on charges including murder and rape linked to violence that left 3000 people dead in the aftermath of the country's disputed 2010 presidential election.

Mali 
On 18 July 2012, the government of Mali had referred the situation there to the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. On 16 January 2013, the Prosecutor determined that there is a reasonable basis to believe that war crimes have been committed in the conflict so the Prosecutor opened an investigation.

Central African Republic II 
On 12 June 2014, the government of the Central African Republic had referred the second situation there to the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. On 24 September 2014, the Prosecutor determined that there is a reasonable basis to believe that war crimes have been committed in the conflict so the Prosecutor opened an investigation.

State of Palestine 

On 3 March 2021 prosecutor Fatou Bensouda announced the opening of an investigation respecting the situation in the State of Palestine. It considers alleged war crimes under the jurisdiction of the court that have been committed since 13 June 2014. After having requested a pre-trial jurisdictional ruling to first conform the territory within which the investigations may be conducted, the court found that the territorial scope of this jurisdiction extends to Gaza and the West Bank, including East Jerusalem.

Venezuela 

On 4 November 2021 prosecutor Karim Khan announced the opening of an investigation regarding the situation in Venezuela.

Preliminary examinations

In addition to the sixteen situations in which the Prosecutor has opened formal investigations, several other situations are under "preliminary examination": Bolivia, Guinea, Nigeria and Ukraine.

Preliminary examinations into situations in Korea, Comoros (regarding the Israeli attack on three vessels involved in the Gaza flotilla raid), Honduras and Gabon were also closed. In these cases, the Prosecutor concluded that no investigation would be initiated because the necessary requirements had not been met. With regard to the Israeli attack on the vessels of the Gaza flotilla raid, the Comoros appealed from the Prosecutor's decision. On 30 November 2017, this appeal was finally dismissed.

Preliminary examinations regarding Iraq and Venezuela were at some point closed but later on reopened. With regard to the 2003 invasion of Iraq, the Prosecutor published a letter responding to complaints he had received. He noted that "the International Criminal Court has a mandate to examine the conduct during the conflict, but not whether the decision to engage in armed conflict was legal", and that the court's jurisdiction is limited to the actions of nationals of states parties. He concluded that there was a reasonable basis to believe that a limited number of war crimes had been committed in Iraq, but that the crimes allegedly committed by nationals of states parties did not appear to meet the required gravity threshold for an ICC investigation. However, on 13 May 2014, the Prosecutor announced that preliminary examinations regarding the situation in Iraq are re-opened, due to communication received by the European Center for Constitutional and Human Rights regarding alleged war crimes by United Kingdom officials between 2003 and 2008.

Other complaints received

As of end September 2010, the Office of the Prosecutor had received 8874 communications about alleged crimes. After initial review, 4002 of the communications were dismissed as "manifestly outside the jurisdiction of the Court".