[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Habropoda laboriosa

s exoskeleton also prevents the bees from growing continuously. In order for bees to grow, they need to shed or molt their exoskeleton. Bees in the larval stages shed their exoskeleton and increases in size periodically. However, bees in the adult stage stay the same size and do not grow any bigger.

Habitat 
H. laboriosa is native to the eastern United States and are found in warm, humid conditions. They are often found nesting 33cm to 71cm in the ground, in moderately dry and sandy soils in eastern United States, ranging from Illinois to the New England states, south to Mississippi and Florida. They are solitary ground nesting bees, and they prefer soil that is covered by leaf litter with low moisture, so there would be a lack of roots near their nests to keep the soil relatively dry. Under these leaf litters are hidden burrows which connects to tunnels that can be 20cm long leading to their nests . If a nest has been invaded or disturbed by other organisms, often the bees will abandon it to find a new area nest. For example, it is common for ant species such as Iridomyrmex humilis to invade open nesting sites which results in nest abandonment. Another instance where H. laboriosa abandon their nests is when cleptoparasitic bees in the genus Melecta parasitizes these nests with their eggs. These parasitic bees are commonly referred to as Cuckoo bees; they parasitize other bee species by invading their nests to lay their parasitic eggs, so their offspring can thrive off the host's resources (pollen deposits) that are meant for the host's offspring. When H. laboriosa is searching for new areas for potential nesting sites, they prefer areas that have been dug already but uninhabited by other organisms. These nesting sites are usually near blueberry orchards with pits that have been previously plowed.

Pollination behavior 
H. laboriosa exhibits a special method of pollination referred to as buzz pollination. They are oligolectic or specialist pollinators to the genus Vaccinium ashei and Gelsemium sempervirens. They latch onto the anthers of a plant and vibrate their thoracic muscles and their wings at 100 to 500 Hz, which results in the ejection of pollen from the anthers subsequently landing on the bee's body. When the bees visit a different blueberry plant, the pollen on the bee's body will land on the female reproductive organ for fertilization. This behavior is specially tuned for the extraction of pollen in blueberry plants, because blueberry plants require these vibrations to be able to efficiently release their pollen; since blueberry plants have naturally heavy and adherent pollen, it is hard for other pollinators to extract pollen. This makes H. laboriosa an efficient pollinator for blueberry plants. Buzz pollination has been discovered in the past 100 years, however, there is still much research to be done on this topic due to the difficulty in measuring the vibrations in a natural pollination occurrence.  H. laboriosa emerge around late February till April and are only active during this time period to pollinate the blueberry plants. This is because blueberry plants only flower and bloom at this time. They have the ability to emerge before the start of spring due to their ability to survive in cooler weather. They are able to vibrate their thoracic muscles for warmth thus allowing them to fly in temperatures as low as 60 degrees Fahrenheit. When they are vibrating their thoracic muscles, human observers describe the sound it produces as "buzzing"; usually, this sound is at a higher pitch during pollination because they are vibrating at a higher frequency then normal flight.They are absent by the time the fruit is ready for harvest, so they are only active for a couple of weeks during the year.  Compared to the bumble bee species, the female H. laboriosa are quicker at finding pollen and nectar, and they spend most of the day collecting it when it is in their preferred range of temperatures. 

Male and female individual behavior differs when foraging for pollen and nectar. Females have more pollen grains on 4 out of 5 parts of their bodies whereas males often carry a wider species of pollen grains that increases the chances of fertilization in plants. Males stay a shorter amount of time on each plant and range further out. Females stay longer on each plant to collect resources for them and their bro

References

Apinae
Hymenoptera of North America
Insects of the United States
Insects described in 1804