[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Constitutional Court of Korea

to adjudicate on the constitutionality of statutes, no superior court, including the Supreme Court of Korea, may intervene. This restriction on the powers of the Supreme Court was motivated by its historical passivity in confronting other branches of government during periods of authoritarian rule.

However, this clause was abused by President Park Chung Hee under the Yushin Constitution. He refused to re-appoint Supreme Court justices who challenged his authority, effectively preventing the ordinary courts from making any formal requests for constitutional review. This event laid bare the vulnerabilities of making constitutional review contingent upon a court's request.

As a result, the 1987 tenth constitutional amendment introduced another avenue for an interested party to bypass the court and directly ask the Constitutional Court to intervene in constitutional review. This alternative route, called Constitutional Complaint (), is defined in Article 68(2) of the Constitutional Court Act.

Impeachment 

Impeachment adjudication () is another prominent power of the Constitutional Court. According to Article 65(1) of the Constitution, if the President, Prime Minister, or other state council members violate the Constitution or other laws of official duty, the National Assembly can file an impeachment motion with at least one third of the members of the National Assembly. In order to pass, the motion must receive the support of a supermajority if it concerns the President, and a simple majority for any other office. Once the impeachment motion passes the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court adjudicates the impeachment, and until the Constitutional Court reaches a decision, the person against whom the impeachment motion was lodged is suspended from exercising his or her power.

Neither the Constitution nor the Constitutional Court Act lays out concrete criteria to be considered in an impeachment case. Therefore, the Constitutional Court's decisions play an important role in establishing standards of review for impeachment cases. There have been two presidential impeachment cases: the failed impeachment of Roh Moo-hyun of 2004 and the successful impeachment of Park Geun-hye of 2017. In the ruling on the impeachment of President Roh Moo-hyun, the Court declared that a 'grave ()' violation of the law is required for the impeachment of a President. However, in the impeachment case of President Park Geun-hye, the Constitutional Court held that a violation of the Constitution is sufficient cause for impeachment, even if there is no grave violation of the law or statutes.

Dissolution of political parties 

Under the Constitution of South Korea, the government has the right to request the dissolution of a political party if its objectives or activities are deemed to be in opposition to the principles of the liberal democratic basic order (; ), and such requests are adjudicated by the Constitutional Court. The party-dissolution provision was influenced by its German equivalent, called 'Party Ban' (), designed to prevent the recurrence of events like the rise of the Nazis. While the clear provision for dissolving a political party serves to prevent anti-democratic factions from destabilizing society, it also acts as a safeguard against attempts to dissolve a party as a means of suppressing dissent and stifling free expression since a dictator cannot dissolve at will a political party challenging his or her authority.

The Constitutional Court rarely accepts dissolution petitions, and even less often rules in favor of dissolving a political party. As of April 2023, the Unified Progressive Party (UPP, ) is the only political party dissolved through the party-dissolution provision.

Competence disputes 
The Constitution of South Korea empowers the Constitutional Court to adjudicate competence disputes (), which is derived from the German 'Organs Dispute' (). Competence is legal jargon defined as the "legal authority to deal with a particular matter," and therefore, competence disputes are legal cases between state agencies () or local governments () asking the Constitutional Court to adjudicate which party does or does not have "competence." In some instances, two separate agencies may have overlapping powers, which are defined in the relevant statutes that grant those powers. As a result, it may become necessary to distinctly establish the agency responsible for a particular matter. In some other cases, the existence of competence itself can be disputed. For example, the central government in Seoul may delegate certain government projects to local governments, which uses the labor and resources of the local government. Local governments may lodge a competence-dispute lawsuit with the Constitutional Court to challenge the constitutionality of the delegation, citing their lack of constitutional competence to undertake the delegated tasks.

Constitutional complaints