[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Canal Street station (New York City Subway)

ccommodate eight-car trains. Edwards & Flood submitted a low bid of $101,775 for the project. The BMT platform-lengthening project was completed in 1927, bringing the length of the platforms to . The commission ordered the BMT to install additional signs at the Canal Street BMT stations in mid-1930.

Meanwhile, the commission again considered lengthening the IRT platforms at Canal Street in December 1927. The platforms would be extended southward, in the direction of the Worth Street station, where the platforms would not be lengthened. At the end of the month, the Transit Commission requested that the IRT create plans to lengthen the platforms at Canal Street and three other Lexington Avenue Line stations to . The New York City Board of Transportation drew up plans for the project, but the federal government placed an injunction against the commission's platform-lengthening decree, which remained in place for over a year. The commission approved the plans in mid-1929; the Canal Street station's platforms were to be extended  to the south. The IRT refused, claiming that the city government was responsible for the work, and obtained a federal injunction to prevent the commission from forcing the IRT to lengthen the platforms. In late 1930, the commission requested that the New York Supreme Court force the IRT to lengthen platforms at the Canal Street and Spring Street stations.

Overcrowding issues 
After the BRT stations at Canal Street opened, the complex became a major transfer hub for the BRT lines, but the different platforms were only connected via a narrow passageway. Overcrowding was exacerbated by the fact that the station was the only place where Centre Street Line passengers could transfer to a BRT train to Midtown Manhattan; the convoluted layout of staircases and passageways; and the lack of directional signs. By 1918, local civic groups were advocating for the opening of the BRT's Canarsie Line (which had a transfer to the Broadway Line at Union Square) to alleviate congestion at Canal Street;  the Public Service Commission was obligated to open that line as part of the Dual Contracts. The Broadway Board of Trade called the station "a menace to life and limb". In response, in February 1918, the Public Service Commission announced in February 1918 that it would build two exit stairways and have some Centre Street Loop trains skip the Canal Street station. The BRT also employed staff members on the platforms at all times to direct traffic.

In June 1920, the BRT began requiring passengers to exit the station if they wished to transfer between the Nassau Street and Broadway lines during rush hours. Passengers were issued transfer tickets from the Nassau Street Line to the Broadway Line in the morning and vice versa in the afternoon. To further alleviate crowding, the Transit Commission requested in mid-1922 that plans be drawn up for a new entrance at the southwest corner of Centre and Walker Streets. In addition, the Broadway Association asked that a station be built on the Broadway Line between Canal Street and City Hall due to the unusually long distance between the two stops. By 1924, BMT officials said that, if anyone were to be killed because of congestion at Canal Street, mayor John Francis Hylan would be to blame. The next year, the BMT agreed to complete the Canarsie Line to reduce overcrowding at Canal Street. Canarsie Line trains finally began running directly to Brooklyn in 1928, by which the BMT was issuing 38,000 transfers per day at Canal Street during rush hours. The addition of direct Brooklyn service on the Canarsie Line reduced overcrowding at the Canal Street station, and the passageway at Canal Street was reopened in August 1928.

1940s to 1980s 
The city government took over the BMT's operations on June 1, 1940, and the IRT's operations on June 12, 1940. The New York City Board of Transportation issued a $1.992 million contract in April 1947 to extend the southbound IRT platforms at Canal Street and Worth Street to fit ten-car trains. The work was finished the next year. In late 1959, contracts were awarded to extend the platforms at , , , Canal Street, , , , , , and  on the IRT Lexington Avenue Line to . The next April, work began on a $3,509,000 project (equivalent to $ million in ) to lengthen platforms at seven of these stations to accommodate ten-car trains. The northbound platforms at Canal Street, Spring Street, Bleecker Street, and Astor Place were lengthened from ; the platform extensions at these stations opened on February 19, 1962.

In the late 1960s, New York City Transit extended both sets of Broadway Line platforms to accommodate ten-car trains. The NYCTA also covered the elaborate mosaic tile walls with  white cinderblock tiles at 16 local stations on the Broadway and Fourth Avenue lines, including both the Broadway main line and Manhattan Bridge line platforms at Canal Street.