[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Brunei

tion football. The Brunei national football team joined FIFA in 1969, but has not had much success. Brunei's top football league is the Brunei Super League, which is managed by the Football Association of Brunei Darussalam (FABD). The nation has its own martial arts called "Silat Suffian Bela Diri".

Brunei debuted at the Olympics in 1996 and has competed at all subsequent Summer Olympics except the 2008 edition. The country has competed in badminton, shooting, swimming, and track-and-field, but has yet to win any medals. The Brunei Darussalam National Olympic Council is the National Olympic Committee for Brunei.

Brunei has had slightly more success at the Asian Games, winning four bronze medals. The first major international sporting event to be hosted in Brunei was the 1999 Southeast Asian Games. According to the all-time Southeast Asian Games medal table, Bruneian athletes have won a total of 14 gold, 55 silver and 163 bronze medals at the games.

See also 

 List of Brunei-related topics
 Outline of Brunei

Notes

References 

Sources

External links 

Government
 Prime Minister's Office of Brunei Darussalam  website
 Chief of State and Cabinet Members 

General information
 Brunei. The World Factbook. Central Intelligence Agency.
 Brunei profile from the BBC News
 Brunei at Encyclopædia Britannica
 
 Key Development Forecasts for Brunei from International Futures

Travel
 Brunei Tourism website (archived 9 May 2007)

 
Countries in Asia
Islamic states
Countries and territories where Malay is an official language
Member states of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation
Member states of ASEAN
Member states of the United Nations

Borneo
Former British colonies and protectorates in Asia
1888 establishments in the British Empire
Commonwealth monarchies
Island countries
English-speaking countries and territories
Maritime Southeast Asia
Member states of the Commonwealth of Nations
Southeast Asian countries
States and territories established in 1984
Sultanates