[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frank T. Caprio

on in a campaign. His television documentary, Caprio, the Biography, was available for free viewing throughout Rhode Island via Cox Communications's On-Demand program.  He also launched one of the nation's first campaign internet TV channels.  Both the website and his television ads garnered awards.

Investments and the 2008 market crisis
Months before the subprime mortgage crisis began to take a toll on banks, financial services companies and public pension funds, Caprio began to minimize the State's exposure to asset backed securities. Steps included conducting a competitive bidding process that expanded the number of qualified investment banks underwriting the State's bond transactions, and minimizing the State's exposure to companies such as Bear Stearns.

As part of his effort to ensure the health of Rhode Island's pension system, Caprio moved $1 billion from Quality D money market funds (with loose terms that could have allowed for investment in CDOs and SIVs) into Quality A institutional money market funds.  This occurred before the subprime crisis began to shake financial markets. At the same time, Caprio moved approximately $150 million in high-yield investments into safe Treasury bonds, before the high yield market began to decline. Rhode Island's pension fund has maintained its five-year average on investment returns in spite of the current economic turmoil.

Caprio's approach to assessing and managing risk has helped ensure that the public funds managed by his office avoid the investment losses now plaguing other states. During Caprio's term the Rhode Island State Pension fund outperformed the States of Massachusetts and California State Pension funds as well as the Harvard endowment.  In the midst of the 2008 market collapse, Caprio established a financial "SWAT team" of Rhode Island's top financial minds to ensure the State's protection from AIG's collapse. For the fiscal year 2010 a national study was done by the Maryland Public Policy Institute which found that Rhode Island's pension plan under Frank Caprio paid some of the lowest fees to outside money managers when compared to the other 49 states.

2010 Rhode Island gubernatorial election

In 2010, Caprio was the Democratic nominee for governor of Rhode Island in the general election. He ran on the platform of advancing small business. After learning that President Barack Obama would not endorse him in the election, Caprio said that Obama could "take his endorsement and really shove it." The Huffington Post suggested that Obama did not endorse Caprio out of respect for Lincoln Chafee, the Independent nominee who had endorsed Obama in 2008.

2014 General Treasurer election
In May 2013, Caprio announced his intention to regain the Rhode Island General Treasurer's post in the 2014 election. He lost in the Democratic primary to first-time candidate Seth Magaziner in a landslide, 80,378 votes (66.55%) to 40,402 (33.45%).

See also
Rhode Island gubernatorial election, 2010

References

External links
Caprio TV official campaign site (Archived)
Rhode Island General Treasurer

|-

1966 births

American people of Italian descent
Bishop Hendricken High School alumni
Candidates in the 2010 United States elections
Democratic Party members of the Rhode Island House of Representatives
Democratic Party Rhode Island state senators
Harvard Crimson football players
Living people
Massachusetts lawyers
People from Narragansett, Rhode Island
Rhode Island lawyers
State treasurers of Rhode Island
Suffolk University Law School alumni