[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Renewable energy in the United Kingdom

the UK. These power stations are net consumers of electrical energy however they contribute to balancing the grid, which can facilitate renewable generation elsewhere, for example by 'soaking up' surplus renewable output at off-peak times and release the energy when it is required.

Geothermal power

Investigations into the exploitation of Geothermal power in the United Kingdom, prompted by the 1973 oil crisis, were abandoned as fuel prices fell. Only one scheme is operational, in Southampton. In 2009, planning permission was granted for a geothermal scheme near Eastgate, County Durham, but funding was withdrawn and  there has been no further progress. In November 2018, drilling started for a plant planning permission for a commercial-scale geothermal power plant on the United Downs industrial estate near Redruth by Geothermal Engineering. The plant will produce 3MW of renewable electricity. In December 2010, the Eden Project in Cornwall was given permission to build a Hot Rock Geothermal Plant. Drilling was planned to start in 2011, but , funding is still being sought.

Microgeneration
Microgeneration technologies are seen as having considerable potential by the Government. However, the microgeneration strategy launched in March 2006 was seen as a disappointment by many commentators. Microgeneration involves the local production of electricity by homes and businesses from low-energy sources including small scale wind turbines, and solar electricity installations. The Climate Change and Sustainable Energy Act 2006 is expected to boost the number of microgeneration installations, however, funding for grants under the Low Carbon Building Programme is proving insufficient to meet demand with funds for March 2007 being spent in 75minutes.

Community energy systems
Sustainable community energy systems, pioneered by Woking Borough Council, provide an integrated approach to using cogeneration, renewables and other technologies to provide sustainable energy supplies to an urban community. It is expected that the same approach will be developed in other towns and cities, including London. Highlands and Islands Community Energy Company based in Inverness are active in developing community-owned and led initiatives in Scotland.

An energy positive house was built in Wales for £125,000 in July 2015. It is expected to generate £175 in electricity export for each £100 spent on electricity.

See also 

 Renewable energy in Scotland
 Renewable energy in Wales
 Renewable energy in the Republic of Ireland
Green electricity in the United Kingdom
 Energy in the United Kingdom
 List of renewable resources produced and traded by the United Kingdom
 Renewable energy by country
 Renewable energy in the European Union
Decarbonisation measures in proposed UK electricity market reform
 Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC)

References

Further reading 
 Could the UK's tides help wean us off fossil fuels?. BBC News. Published 22 October 2023.

External links 
 Sustainable Energy at DEFRA
 The UK Renewable Energy Strategy (official government policy)
 Planning Policy Statement 22 (PPS22) on renewable energy
 UK Renewables Policy.
 Small-scale Wind Power in the UK
 Britain's Old Industries See Renewable Boost
 Britain To Launch Innovative Feed-in Tariff Program in 2010
 Map of UK renewable power installations
 UK energy generation dashboard