[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 Hengchun earthquakes

stated that an undersea cable off the southern coast had been damaged, interrupting communications (including IDD, telephone services and internet services) of Taiwan with China, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, and the United States.  The international calling capacity was reduced to 40%.

China
China Telecom reported that several international submarine communications cables had been broken, including:
 CUCN and SMW3, which was damaged on 26 December 2006  20:25 UTC+8 approximately 9.7 km away from landing point in Fangshan, Pingtung County, Taiwan;
 APCN 2 S3, which was damaged on 27 December 2006  02:00 UTC+8 approximately 2100 km away from landing point in Chongming, Shanghai, China;
 APCN 2 S7, which was damaged on 27 December 2006  00:06 UTC+8 approximately 904 km away from landing point in Tanshui, Taipei County (now New Taipei City), Taiwan;
 FLAG Europe Asia, the segment between Hong Kong and Shanghai was severed on 27 December 2006 04:56 UTC+8;
 FLAG North Asia Loop, the segment between Hong Kong and Pusan was severed on 26 December 2006 20:43 UTC+8, severely damaging the communications within the Asia-Pacific region and with the United States and Europe.

IDD, telephone services, and internet services of China with North America were seriously affected by the earthquake. However, China Telecom announced on December 31 that IDD services had resumed to normal levels. Internet services had resumed to 70% of normal levels. As the undersea cables to North America were seriously damaged by the earthquake, the quality of internet services depended on the progress of repair work.

Hong Kong 
Starting from dawn on 27 December, connections between foreign websites/servers and Hong Kong internet users kept failing. Wikipedia, search engines, online messengers like ICQ and MSN Messenger, and portals like Google, Yahoo! and MSN were largely unavailable. Access to Chinese Wikipedia was also cut by the earthquake, as the servers are located in South Korea. Websites located in mainland China, such as xinhuanet.com, the website of Xinhua News Agency, were also inaccessible.

On 29 December, the Office of the Telecommunications Authority (OFTA) of the Hong Kong Government announced that IDD and roaming calls to Taiwan had resumed to 50% of the normal level. IDD and roaming calls to other Asian countries (e.g. South Korea) were slower than normal. Calls from Hong Kong to overseas using calling cards experienced the same situation as the IDD and roaming calls. However, calling from overseas to Hong Kong using calling cards still faced serious congestion.

For internet services, as of December 29, connections to websites in the U.S., South Korea, Japan, and Taiwan were still very slow. However, the situation was improving; sites which could not be accessed before (e.g. Wikipedia, Google, YouTube) were available at extremely slow speeds. Among the internet service providers in Hong Kong, PCCW's Netvigator was the slowest to resume enough bandwidth for their users. Therefore, as a temporary remedy, many internet users in Hong Kong used proxy servers in Australia, Thailand, Spain, and even the UAE and Kuwait to access foreign websites.

As of 31 December, the situation of internet connection had improved. Although sites that were previously unavailable became accessible, connection speeds were still slower than normal.

Philippines
The earthquake cut PLDT's phone service capacity and connectivity by around 40 percent. The two largest Philippine mobile communications companies (Smart Communications and Globe Telecom) also reported some international connectivity problems. Some carriers were able to re-route their service. Call centers and other outsourced business processes that have become a major industry in the Philippines feared that the cable damage might hamper their operations dramatically; only two centers were totally shut down due to the problems.

United States
In the United States, several networks and bloggers experienced a noticeable reduction in the volume of spam received after the earthquake.  A blogger noted that "one large network in North America saw their mail from Korea drop by 90% and from China by 99%."

Other areas
Korea Telecom, Malaysia's Telekom Malaysia and Jaring, as well as the Communications Authority of Thailand, Singapore's StarHub and SingTel and Brunei's Telbru also reported disruption to most Internet services. In Singapore, search engines and portals like Google, Yahoo!, MSN and most websites were virtually unreachable. In Indonesia, Google was not accessible, but Yahoo! and Wikipedia could still be used, though the network connection speed was very slow. Sri Lankan internet services were likewise affected. In Malaysia, there were problems with popular Internet services  such as Gmail and Yahoo! News; however, the situation was reported to be improving on 29 December.