[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Scouting in the United States

from the BSA and mainly merged in 1930.

Seton restarted Woodcraft after departing from the BSA in 1915, but the program faded after his death in 1946. After helping to create the BSA and seeing it grow into a successful rival, the YMCA began the Indian Guides in 1926 using some of Seton's material.

After the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the BSA's rights to the "Scouting" service mark, several Scouting organizations were forced to change their names. In 1918, the Life Saving Scouts changed its name to LifeSaving Guards-Boys which led to many Life Saving units transferring to the BSA. LifeSaving Guards leader began to press for affiliation with the BSA. United States Boy Scouts then changed its name to American Cadets in 1919. The ABS survived for a few more years under various names before fading away.

The Columbian Squires, run by the Knights of Columbus were formed in 1925. In 1929, a special charter was granted to the Life Saving Guards-Boys from the BSA to join the two organizations together.

John F. Kennedy was the first president to have been a Boy Scout.

In the 1930s, a leader in the Church of the Nazarene launched Boy's Works and Girl's Work in the church's Southern California district, which pick it up as a district wide program in 1934. While another set of Caravan forerunner programs, "Bluebirds" for young children and "Pioneers" for older children were also developed and promoted by a minister and an Eagle Scout. All Nazarene Scouting organizations were merged into Caravan in 1946.

Further history

The Calvinist Cadet Corps was officially founded in 1952 in Christian Reformed Church in North America. The Royal Rangers was founded in 1962 as a program of the Assemblies of God.

In 1975, the Camp Fire Girls of America changed its membership policy to being co-ed and its name to Camp Fire.

In 2001, SpiralScouts International was formed at the Wiccan Aquarian Tabernacle Church in Index, Washington. Although it serves a Wiccan community, it is open to members of any faith or no faith. The group is small and co-ed, claiming a membership of 150 adult volunteers and 350 scouts in 2013. With BSA membership controversies, the SpiralScouts offered their highest rank to those Eagle Scouts that turn in their badges to the BSA in protest.

In 2003, a Boy Scouts troop in New York City's East Harlem neighborhood and sponsored by the Unitarian Church of All Souls broke away from the BSA over the exclusionary membership policies to start the Navigators USA, a co-ed scouting group.

In 2008, the Baden-Powell Service Association was found after a Cub Scout Pack leader, David Atchley, in Washington, Missouri fought over adopting a nondiscrimination policy for the pack. The group reported 19 units in 2013.

Scouting for girls

Origins

Scouting for girls began when the Camp Fire Girls were incorporated in 1910 with help from the BSA. Again, Seton's influence was established with the use of his awards scheme and Indian ceremonies.

Other local girls groups formed in 1910, including Girls Scouts in Des Moines, Iowa and Girl Guides formed by David W. Ferry in Spokane, Washington. In 1911, these two groups planned to merge with the Camp Fire Girls and form the Girl Pioneers of America, but relationships fractured and the merger failed. Grace Seton quit the group over the reject of her committee's draft of a handbook followed by Linda Beard in September 1911 over difference with the Gulicks. However, there was an organizational meeting held by Lina Beard on February 7, 1912 in Flushing, New York of a Girl Pioneers of America group. Lord Baden-Powell had authorized an American version of the Girl Guides manual through the Henry Holt Publishing Company, who then approached Lina Beard to write the manual.

The Girl Guides of America, later the Girl Scouts of the United States and finally the Girl Scouts of the USA (GSUSA), were founded by Juliette Gordon Low in 1912 and were granted a congressional charter on March 16, 1950.   They are a youth organization for girls in the United States and American girls living abroad. Founded by Juliette Gordon Low in 1912, it was organized after Low met Robert Baden-Powell, the founder of Scouting, in 1911. Upon returning to Savannah, Georgia, she telephoned a distant cousin, saying, "I've got something for the girls of Savannah, and all of America, and all the world, and we're going to start it tonight!"

Membership is organized according to grade, with activities designed for each level. The GSUSA is a member of the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts (WAGGGS). A 1994 Chronicle of Philanthropy poll showed that the Girl Scouts was ranked by the public as the eighth "most popular charity/non-profit in America" of over 100 charities. It describes itself as "the world's preeminent organization dedicated solely to girls".