[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# History of the Gold Coast, Queensland

ung up in the area. The Ipswich roots remain as the Currumbin Lifesavers, share with a similar Ipswich swimming club the title 'Vikings'. Many Vikings swimming club members joined the life saving squads at Currumbin during the holiday periods. Direct flights from Sydney to Coolangatta began in 1956.

The first town planning on the Gold Coast began with the 1953 South Coast Planning Scheme.  It featured height controls that restricted development towards strategic nodes.  By the 1960s the Gold Coast's infrastructure had grown considerably, and the local building industry was able to support the development of high-rise holiday apartments and hotels (the first of which, Kinkabool, was completed in 1959). Surfers Paradise had firmly established itself as the leading destination and the introduction of bikini-clad meter maids in 1965 to feed parking meters by the beach to prevent holiday makers from getting parking fines was a particularly popular innovation.  In 1965, the World water skiing championships were held at the Surfers Paradise Ski Gardens, now known as Sea World.  This was the first international event held on the coast.

The hi-rise boom continued in earnest during the 1970s and by the time the Gold Coast Airport terminal opened in Coolangatta in 1981, the region had become Australia's most well-known family holiday destination and much of the vacant land within  of the coast had been developed. Japanese property investment during the 1980s made the skyline soar, and the construction of modern theme parks including Dreamworld, Sea World, Warner Bros. Movie World and Wet'n'Wild Water World confirmed the Gold Coast's reputation as an international tourist centre.

Some unethical business practices and State Government corruption during the late 1980s tainted the Coast's reputation as a place of business, and property marketeering (seminars which duped interstate and overseas investors into paying premium prices for new Gold Coast property developments) during the 1990s did little to help the region's image.

In 1994, Queensland Local Government Commissioner, Greg Hoffmann began reviewing the local government boundaries in the Gold Coast, Albert and Beaudesert areas. After public debate, the 'Local Government (Albert, Beaudesert and Gold Coast) Regulation 1994' provided for the amalgamation of Gold Coast City Council and the Shire of Albert to create a new local authority called the City of Gold Coast Council. An election was held on 11 March 1995 and the first Council meeting was held on 24 March 1995.

21st century

By the turn of the 21st century the Gold Coast had shrugged off its shady past and fully embraced the real estate boom. This boom reached its physical, and economical peak in 2005 with the opening of the 322.5m 'Worlds Tallest Residential Tower' Q1, in Surfers Paradise.

In September 2010 the Gold Coast Native Title Claim QUD346/06 was registered by the Registrar of the National Native Title Tribunal (NNTT). This administrative decision was made under the Australian Federal Government's Native Title Act 1993 which is administered by the Federal Court of Australia. A registered claim entered on the Tribunal's Register of Claims, (which in this case is currently in mediation in the Federal Court) means that in all matters which may affect the claimants' native title rights and interests in the claim area, and under the procedural rights afforded by the Native Title Act (Cwth 1993), consultation and often negotiation with the claim group is required.  Jabree Limited on behalf of the claim group is the registered cultural heritage body. Yugambeh people are now recognised as significant stakeholders in the Gold Coast region.

Notable historical figures
James Cavill, first Gold Coast hotelier
Eddie Kornhauser, Gold Coast property developer and owner of Surfers Paradise Hotel
Russ Hinze, influential and controversial Queensland politician
Annette Kellerman, Female swimming pioneer
Johan Meyer, owner of the Meyer's Ferry and the Main Beach Hotel
Sir Bruce Small, businessman, property developer, mayor of the Gold Coast

See also

 History of Queensland
 Timeline of Gold Coast, Queensland

References

Bibliography