[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Bletchley Park

site as a museum. The site opened to visitors in 1993, and was formally inaugurated by the Duke of Kent as Chief Patron in July 1994. In 1999 the land owners, the Property Advisors to the Civil Estate and BT, granted a lease to the Trust giving it control over most of the site.

Heritage attraction

June 2014 saw the completion of an £8 million restoration project by museum design specialist, Event Communications, which was marked by a visit from Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge. The Duchess' paternal grandmother, Valerie, and Valerie's twin sister, Mary (née Glassborow), both worked at Bletchley Park during the war. The twin sisters worked as Foreign Office Civilians in Hut 6, where they managed the interception of enemy and neutral diplomatic signals for decryption. Valerie married Catherine's grandfather, Captain Peter Middleton. A memorial at Bletchley Park commemorates Mary and Valerie Middleton's work as code-breakers.

Exhibitions

 Block C Visitor Centre
 Secrets Revealed introduction
 The Road to Bletchley Park. Codebreaking in World War One.
 Intel Security Cybersecurity exhibition. Online security and privacy in the 21st Century.
 Block B
 Lorenz Cipher
 Alan Turing
 Enigma machines
 Japanese codes
 Home Front exhibition. How people lived in WW2
 The Mansion
 Office of Alistair Denniston
 Library. Dressed as a World War II naval intelligence office
 The Imitation Game exhibition
 Gordon Welchman: Architect of Ultra Intelligence exhibition
 Huts 3 and 6. Codebreaking offices as they would have looked during World War II.
 Hut 8.
 Interactive exhibitions explaining codebreaking
 Alan Turing's office
 Pigeon exhibition. The use of pigeons in World War II.
 Hut 11. Life as a WRNS Bombe operator
 Hut 12. Bletchley Park: Rescued and Restored. Items found during the restoration work.
 Wartime garages
 Hut 19. 2366 Bletchley Park Air Training Corp Squadron

Learning Department

The Bletchley Park Learning Department offers educational group visits with active learning activities for schools and universities. Visits can be booked in advance during term time, where students can engage with the history of Bletchley Park and understand its wider relevance for computer history and national security. Their workshops cover introductions to codebreaking, cyber security and the story of Enigma and Lorenz.

Funding
In October 2005, American billionaire Sidney Frank donated £500,000 to Bletchley Park Trust to fund a new Science Centre dedicated to Alan Turing. Simon Greenish joined as Director in 2006 to lead the fund-raising effort in a post he held until 2012 when Iain Standen took over the leadership role. In July 2008, a letter to The Times from more than a hundred academics condemned the neglect of the site. In September 2008, PGP, IBM, and other technology firms announced a fund-raising campaign to repair the facility. On 6 November 2008 it was announced that English Heritage would donate £300,000 to help maintain the buildings at Bletchley Park, and that they were in discussions regarding the donation of a further £600,000.

In October 2011, the Bletchley Park Trust received a £4.6m Heritage Lottery Fund grant to be used "to complete the restoration of the site, and to tell its story to the highest modern standards" on the condition that £1.7m of 'match funding' is raised by the Bletchley Park Trust. Just weeks later, Google contributed £550k and by June 2012 the trust had successfully raised £2.4m to unlock the grants to restore Huts 3 and 6, as well as develop its exhibition centre in Block C.

Additional income is raised by renting Block H to the National Museum of Computing, and some office space in various parts of the park to private firms.

Due to the COVID-19 pandemic the Trust expected to lose more than £2m in 2020 and be required to cut a third of its workforce. Former MP John Leech asked tech giants Amazon, Apple, Google, Facebook and Microsoft to donate £400,000 each to secure the future of the Trust. Leech had led the successful campaign to pardon Alan Turing and implement Turing's Law.

Other organisations sharing the campus

The National Museum of Computing

The National Museum of Computing is housed in Block H, which is rented from the Bletchley Park Trust. Its Colossus and Tunny galleries tell an important part of allied breaking of German codes during World War II. There is a working reconstruction of a Bombe and a rebuilt Colossus computer which was used on the high-level Lorenz cipher, codenamed Tunny by the British.