[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Christina of Norway, Infanta of Castile

Archaeologists and historians, Manuel Ayala and Jose Luis Monteverde, were employed to interpret the data.  The limestone is from Hontoria.  The fabrics within the casket were shown to be from the 13th century.  The report by doctors Maximiliano Gutierrez and Gabriel Escudero stated:

Legacy of saga

The cities of Tønsberg and Covarrubias have entered a friendship agreement as the result of this old connection.  In 1978 a statue of Infanta Christina by artist Brit Sørensen was unveiled in Covarrubias and a copy was later placed in Tønsberg. The Princess Christina Foundation has been established to further the work to preserve and advance the cultural and historical ties.

Tradition states that Christina had desired for a church to be built in Spain dedicated to St Olaf. "A modernized version of the simple pre-Roman church", designed by architect Pablo López Aguado, has been built in Covarrubias, Spain.  "Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway have financed close to 40% of the total cost of the project. Local Spanish authorities as well as several Spanish and Norwegian companies are among the other contributors." 750 years later, a church was constructed and consecrated to Olav the Holy on 18 September 2011 in Covarrubias. Representatives from both Spain and Norway were present at the opening, as well as more than 1300 spectators. For several years now the area of Covarrubias has become a pilgrimage of sorts for visitors from Norway to visit the final resting place of a Norwegian daughter.

Ancestry

References

External links
https://www.nrk.no/vestfoldogtelemark/bokskatt-til-norge-for-forste-gang-pa-400-ar-1.15626086 [Literary treasure to Norway for the first time in 400 years] (2021) NRK

Norwegian princesses
Castilian infantas
1234 births
1262 deaths
Burials in the Province of Burgos
Christina
13th-century Norwegian women
13th-century Norwegian nobility
13th-century Castilian nobility
Daughters of kings