[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

ear the street is the home of Frederick Douglass, the famous abolitionist, for whom a major city bridge along South Capitol Street is named. Other streets and bridges named for prominent civil rights figures are Nannie Helen Burroughs Avenue NE and the Whitney Young Bridge along East Capitol Street.

West Virginia
 Charles Town: West Virginia Route 51, Middleway Pike, is also designated as Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, from Washington Street west.
 Princeton: The city boasts a one-block "MLK Jr. Ave.", running off Raleigh Road on the north side of town.

Wisconsin

 Fond du Lac: Second Street in Fond du Lac, from Marr Street to Military Road was "honorarily" renamed Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Avenue in 2017.  The "honorary" renaming means that, for mailing-address purposes, it is still designated as Second Street.
 Kenosha: Martin Luther King Drive in Kenosha forms a connector across Lincoln Park, connecting 71st Street on the east side of the park to 69th Street on the west side.
 Madison: The two-block street southeast from the Wisconsin State Capitol building to Wilson Street in front of Monona Terrace is named Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.  While it is short, it is very prominent, with the city and county's government offices and the main post office being located along it. The street was formerly known as Wisconsin Avenue (which continues under that name northwest of the Capitol). It is not to be confused with the King Street running two blocks east from the Capitol, named for William Rufus King.
 Milwaukee: On the northwest side of downtown Milwaukee, N. 3rd Street (from W. McKinley Avenue to W. Capitol Drive), was renamed N. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive, although residents and street signs sometimes refer to it as King Drive. The renamed portion is a  stretch through the Harambee, Brewer's Hill, and Halyard Park neighborhoods, which in the 19th century were originally populated by German immigrants but are now predominantly African-American. A branch of the Milwaukee Public Library located on this road is also named the Martin Luther King Library.
 Racine: Dr. Martin Luther King Drive was formerly named Milwaukee Avenue, having once been part of the Native American trail that led to Milwaukee from Chicago. It was renamed sometime in the 1980s. The street stretches  from Douglas Avenue in the north to the intersection of State Street and Marquette Street. At this southern terminus is a statue of Dr. Martin Luther King, the centerpiece of a small park labeled Dr. Martin Luther King Plaza. Other points of interest on the street are the Dr. Martin Luther King Community Center, and Julian Thomas Elementary School, named in honor of a local civil rights leader.

Wyoming
Cheyenne: Martin Luther King Drive is an extension of 18th Street west into Martin Luther King Park.