[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chen Ding-nan

f votes) of the Kuomintang, followed by Chen (39 percent) of the  Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), Ju Gau-jeng (4 percent) of The New Party and the two remaining candidates, Wu Tzu of the Taiwan United People's Party and the independent Tsai Cheng-chih (1 percent for the two candidates combined).

For the first and only time during the 1990s, the KMT made corruption its main theme of attacking a candidate of the DPP, as Soong accused Chen of hiring land speculators and drug dealers as campaigners. Soong distributed a series of advertisements attacking Chen for corruption during his two terms as magistrate of Yilan County, containing slogans targeting Chen such as: 'number one at land speculation' () and 'cultivating corruption expert series' () or depicting Chen in the gown of a judge with the Chinese character for 'speculation' () on the gown. In response, Chen accused Soong of breaking the election law with these accusations. Furthermore, other than spreading their own advertisements accusing the Kuomintang of past false accusations, the DPP also responded with promoting Chen's record of fighting corruption as magistrate of Yilan County, for example by means of an advertisement showing a picture of Chen and Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore, with the slogan 'Choosing Chen Ting-nan equals Lee Kuan Yew becoming Provincial Governor' (), insinuating how Chen had followed Lee's cracking down on corruption and discriminatory privileges.

Sober personal expenditure

 (), who was Chen's chief secretary while the latter was justice minister, claimed that his former boss used the public bus as a general means of transportation, in contrast with other politicians of high ranks, and noted that he never spent over  on a meal and used the public train for his travels home to Yilan.

Anti-corruption efforts

Immediately after assuming his post as Minister of Justice in 2000, Chan founded the 'Black Gold Investigation Center' () under the Taiwan High Prosecutors Office in an attempt to reduce 'black gold'. The center would thus have four offices, in Taipei, Taichung, Tainan and Kaohsiung respectively. He set the strictest ever minimum amount for election bribery - NT$30.

In June 2004, Chen attempted to close the center down because it became difficult to secure funds. Due to opposition by Eric Chen (), Hou Kuan-jen () and Shen Ming-lun (), the center's prosecutors, the center stayed open. In January 2005, three opposition lawmakers, which were being investigated by the center for alleged acts of bribery, threatened to cut down on the center's proposed  budget. This did not happen, as prosecutors shared this threat with reporters. Subsequently, other lawmakers and two non-governmental organizations also vouched their support for the center. Afterwards, the legislature approved the center's budget for 2005. In February 2005 some District Court prosecutors expressed their doubt on the importance of the center, claiming that its role overlaps with their own as part of the district anti-corruption task forces.

Chen was dubbed by the media as and known as 'Mr. Clean' () due to his efforts to limit corruption. The Wall Street Journal Asia lauded Chen as 'Taiwan’s black gold nemesis' (), implying 'Taiwan’s anti-corruption star'. It has been claimed that Chen never accepted any lobby invitations during his political career.

Environmentalist

Political analyst Shih Cheng-fong claimed that Chen focused on the environmental protection of Yilan County's ecology, rather than transforming it into an industrial center. According to Shih, Chen insisted that efforts in environmental conservation, such as through the reduction of pollution, are important indicators of a county's progress, and that such progress can not be merely equated to economic growth.

Influence

According to the 'Chen Ding-nan Educational Foundation', in 1988, the CommonWealth Magazine () listed Chen as one of the fifty most influential persons in the history of Taiwan.

When DPP candidate Lin Tsung-hsien won the 2009 elections for the Yilan County magistrate, certain media attributed his success partly due to the handing over of Chen's briefcase to Lin by Chen's widow Chang Chao-yi (), seen as a gesture symbolizing her endorsement for the candidate.

In 2015, while William Lai was still mayor of Tainan, Lai noted that he saw Chen as the embodiment of integer and diligent government. The media noted that Lai has often said that his political career is greatly influenced by Chen and that he has literally pledged to carry on 'the spirit of Chen Ding-nan' in his own governance.

Death