[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1915 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1915 in New Zealand.

World War I and New Zealand's participation in it dominate the year. Most notably, New Zealand troops take part in the landings at ANZAC cove, Gallipoli on 25 April, and the ensuing campaign.

The various political parties agree to form a wartime coalition in August, even though the Reform Party has an absolute majority in parliament.

Many sporting events are put on hold for the duration of the war, due to the number of men serving in the armed forces and the drive to conserve resources for the war effort.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
 Head of State – George V
 Governor – Arthur Foljambe, 2nd Earl of Liverpool

Government
The 19th New Zealand Parliament commenced, initially with the Reform Party in power, but in August a wartime coalition government was formed, with Liberal party leader Joseph Ward becoming finance minister.
Speaker of the House – Frederic Lang (Reform Party)
Prime Minister – William Massey (Reform Party)
Minister of Finance – James Allen until 12 August, then Joseph Ward

Parliamentary opposition
 Leader of the Opposition – Joseph Ward (Liberal Party). Ward retained the title even though he became part of the coalition government.

Judiciary
Chief Justice – Sir Robert Stout

Main centre leaders
Mayor of Auckland – James Parr then James Gunson
Mayor of Wellington – John Luke
Mayor of Christchurch – Henry Holland
Mayor of Dunedin – John Shacklock then James Clark

Events 

 1 January – First flight of the Walsh Brothers' Curtiss-type flying boat. The flight takes place at Bastion Point and it is the first such aircraft built and flown in the Southern Hemisphere.
 14 February – The first contingent of 500 Māori soldiers sails for Egypt aboard SS Warrimoo. Earlier policy had been against 'native peoples' fighting in a European war.
 25 April – New Zealand troops participate in the landings at Gallipoli.
 23 October – Sinking of SS Marquette with 32 New Zealand deaths; mainly nurses and medical staff
 October – The New Zealand Flying School is started by the Walsh Brothers at Ōrākei. Its primary purpose is to train pilots for the Royal Flying Corps.
 November – The New Zealand Flying School moves to Kohimarama.
 20 December – The last New Zealand troops are evacuated from Gallipoli.

Undated
The Waikato Argus, established in 1896, merges into the Waikato Times.

Arts and literature
See 1915 in art, 1915 in literature, :Category:1915 books

Music
See: 1915 in music

Film
See: :Category:1915 film awards, 1915 in film, List of New Zealand feature films, Cinema of New Zealand, :Category:1915 films

Sport

Chess
 The 28th New Zealand Chess Championship is held in Christchurch, and is won by Fedor Kelling of Wellington, his second title.

Golf
 The New Zealand Open championship and National Amateur Championships are not held due to the war.

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup – Country Belle
 Auckland Trotting Cup – Cathedral Chimes

Thoroughbred racing
 New Zealand Cup – Tangihou
 Auckland Cup – Balboa
 Wellington Cup – Pavlova
 New Zealand Derby – Desert Gold

Lawn bowls
The national outdoor lawn bowls championships are held in Auckland.
 Men's singles champion – M. Walker (Ponsonby Bowling Club)
 Men's pair champions – G.A. Blackwood, A. Smellie (skip) (Green Island Bowling Club)
 Men's fours champions – N.H. Nash, S. Dixon, F.J. Tasker, J.A. Nash (skip) (Palmerston North Bowling Club)

Rugby union
 The Ranfurly Shield (held by Wellington) is not contested as interprovincial matches are cancelled due to the war.

Soccer
 Provincial league champions:
 Auckland – Brotherhood
 Canterbury – Christchurch Club
 Hawke's Bay – Waipukurau
 Otago – HSOB
 Southland – No competition
 Wanganui – No competition
 Wellington – Wellington Thistle

Births

January–March
 3 January – Robert Hurst, nuclear chemist
 7 January – Mary Martin, netball player
 22 January
 Tom Burtt, cricketer and field hockey player
 Mona Leydon, swimmer
 13 February – Raniera Ellison, fishing company manager
 15 February – Jimmy James, dancer, dance teacher and cabaret proprietor
 22 February
 James Pirret, lawn bowler
 John Scandrett, cricketer
 2 March – Bill Crawford-Crompton, air force pilot and commander
 5 March – Hardy Browning, potter, local politician
 11 March – Amelia Batistich, writer
 22 March – Fen Cresswell, cricketer
 23 March – Cecil Devine, Standardbred racehorse driver
 28 March – Ray Emery, cricketer