[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Israel Prison Service

nters

Northern District

 Carmel Prison (Oren Junction)
 Damon Prison (Rimon Junction)
 Gilboa Prison (HaShita Junction)
 Hermon Prison (North Tzalmon Creek Junction)
 Megiddo Prison (Megiddo Junction)
 Shata Prison (HaShita Junction)
 Tzalmon Prison (North Tzalmon Creek Junction)

Central District

 Ashmoret Prison (HaSharon Junction)
 Ayalon Prison (Ramla)
 Giv'on Prison (Ramla)
 HaSharon Prison (Hadarim Interchange)
 Maasiyahu Prison (Ramla)
 Nitzan-Magen Prison (Ramla)
 Neve Tirtza Women's Prison (Ramla)
 Ofek Juvenile Prison (Even Yehuda)
 Ofer Prison (West Bank, between Ramallah/Beituniya and Giv'at Ze'ev)
 Rimonim Prison (Even Yehuda)

Southern District

 Beersheba Prison (prison complex) in Beersheba
 Dekel Prison
 Eshel Prison
 Ela Prison
 Ktzi'ot Prison (Ktzi'ot Junction)
 Nafha Prison (Mitzpe Ramon)
 Ramon Prison (Mitzpe Ramon, right next to Nafha Prison)
 Saharonim Prison (Ktzi'ot Junction)
 Shikma Prison (Ashkelon)

Detention centers

 Eilat Detention Center (Southern District)
 Hadarim Detention Center (Central District)
 Jerusalem Detention Center (see also Russian Compound)
 Kishon Detention Center (Northern District)
 Nitzan Detention Center (Central District)
 Ohalei Kedar Detention Center (Southern District)
 Petah Tikva Detention Center (Central District)
 Tel Aviv Detention Center, aka Abu Kabir Detention Center (Central District)

Ranks
The current ranks (circa 2007). Their military equivalent is shown in parentheses.

Jailers
They wear their rank insignia on their upper sleeves.
 Soher – Warder
 Rav Soher – Chief Warder (Corporal)
 Samal – Sergeant
 Rav Samal – Chief Sergeant (Staff Sergeant)

Non-Commissioned Officers
They wear their rank insignia on their collars.
 Rav Samal Rishon – Chief Sergeant First Class (First Sergeant)
 Rav Samal Mitkadem – Master Chief Sergeant (Sergeant Major)
 Rav Samal Bakhir – Command Chief Sergeant (Command Sergeant Major)
 Rav Nagad  – Chief NCO (Warrant Officer)

Officers
They wear their rank insignia on their epaulets or shoulderboards.
  Meyshar Mishne – Junior Inspector (2nd Lieutenant)
  Meyshar – Inspector (1st Lieutenant)
  Kalai – Superintendent (Captain)
  Rav Kalai – Chief Superintendent (Major)
  Sgan Gundar – Deputy Commissioner (Lieutenant Colonel)
   Gundar Mishne – Junior Commissioner (Colonel)
  Tat Gundar – Assistant Commissioner (Brigadier General)
  Gundar – Commissioner (Major General)
  Rav Gundar – Chief Commissioner (Lieutenant General) – Commander of the prison service.

Special units

Metzada unit 
Metzada unit (named after Masada) is IPS's hostage rescue and special operations unit, one of five hostage rescue units in Israel.

Nachson unit 

Nahshon is the IPS's main intervention and conveyance unit and deals with searches, silencing disturbances, guarding IPS staff, etc.
The Nachson unit is the operational arm of the Israel Prison Service (IPS). The unit was established in 1973, and serves as the central unit for the observation of prisoners, operational interventions and security. The tasks of the unit include, among others: escorting prisoners and detainees from an incarceration facility to another location, and intervening during irregular events that may take place to establish order and security. The unit helps conduct broad searches within prisons to find weapons, drugs, information, notes, explosives, mobile phones, SIM cards, and any information about possible enemy terrorist attacks. The unit must also ensure the safety of prison staff members who have been threatened (them and their families) by delivering prisoners to foreign countries as part of international extradition agreements for prisoners, escorting detainees to court and he is responsible for maintaining the security of the courtroom, and even escorts dangerous prisoners on their home visits and when they leave prison for medical treatment. Members of the Nachshon unit escort around 1,800 prisoners, criminals and terrorists daily in the unit's vehicles, resulting in an annual number of 390,000 prisoners. The unit has hundreds of specially designed operational vehicles, from buses to trucks to motorcycles, all of which are adapted to escort the prisoners. Vehicles serve as mobile prisons, transporting a violent and dangerous sector of society that is very likely to try to escape. These vehicles can operate both day and night and can reach anywhere in the country. The Nachshon unit is divided into 3 brigades scattered throughout the country (north, center and south), and under the command of the unit's headquarters.

Yamar Dror 
Yamar Dror, founded at the end of 1993, is the IPS unit for fighting narcotics. It specializes in searches and interrogation.

Commanders