[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Reg Saunders

ginal situation." His community work was recognised in the Queen's Birthday Honours of June 1971 when he was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the Civil Division. In 1972 he wrote a piece in Identity magazine, urging Aboriginal people to vote in the forthcoming election.

Saunders continued to serve with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Canberra until retiring in 1980. In July 1985 he was appointed to the Council of the Australian War Memorial, and held this position until his retirement. He was also involved in the RSL, though he fell out with leaders Alf Garland and Bruce Ruxton over Garland's suggestion that Aborigines be blood-tested to determine their entitlement to government benefits. "They can take all the blood they want from me," Saunders declared in a 1986 interview, "and they'll never find out what I am – least of all an Aborigine – bloody stupid!"

During his two marriages, both of which ended in divorce, Saunders fathered ten children, two of whom predeceased him. Having suffered recent heart trouble, he died on 2 March 1990. His ashes were scattered on Lake Condah, traditional territory of the Gunditjmara people. Of Saunders' children, one of his sons followed him into the Army, and four of his daughters married soldiers. His son Christopher portrayed him in a 1978 episode of the television series The Sullivans.

Memorials

On 14 December 2001, Saunders was honoured with the dedication of Reg Saunders Way, which passes through the Canberra suburbs of Campbell and Russell, in a ceremony attended by the Secretary of the Department of Defence, Dr Allan Hawke, and the Chief of the Defence Force, Admiral Chris Barrie. Saunders was also commemorated with a room in the Canberra Services Club,  and by the RSL's Captain Reg Saunders Scholarship.

The Australian War Memorial holds Saunders' medals and several personal effects in its national collection, along with an official portrait and several photographs. On 11 November 2015 the Australian War Memorial's Western Gallery and Courtyard were renamed in Saunders' honour. These were the first sections of the Memorial to be named after any Australian.

Notes

References

Further reading

 
 
 

1920 births
1990 deaths
Military personnel from Victoria (state)
Australian Army officers
Australian Members of the Order of the British Empire
Australian military personnel of the Korean War
Australian Army personnel of World War II
Indigenous Australian military personnel