[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 67th Cyberspace Operations Group

The 67th Cyberspace Operations Group is a unit of the 67th Cyberspace Wing. Headquartered on Kelly Field Annex's Security Hill, the group is an Air Force information operations unit.

The group was first organized during World War II as the 67th Observation Group and saw combat with Eighth and Ninth Air Forces in the European Theater of Operations. It was deployed for 36 months overseas and 18 months of combat action. The group performed tactical reconnaissance during the D-Day invasion of Europe and the campaign against Germany. For its World War II operations, the group earned the Distinguished Unit Citation, two foreign decorations, and the Belgian Fourragère.

Mission 

The 67th COG is the principal Air Force group conducting Offensive Cyber Operations (OCO) to "Engage the Enemy." Provides forces to conduct Air Force computer network operations for United States Strategic Command, United States Cyber Command and other combatant commands. The group conducts computer network operations and warfare planning for the Air Force, joint task forces and combatant commanders. The group also conducts Secretary of Defense-directed special network warfare missions.

History
 For related history, see 67th Cyberspace Wing

World War II
Flew antisubmarine patrols along the east coast of the US after the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. Began training in January 1942 for duty overseas. Operational squadrons were the 12th, 107th, 109th, and 153d Observation Squadrons.

Moved to the European theater, August–October 1942. Assigned first to Eighth and later (October 1943) to Ninth Air Force. At RAF Membury, the group received well-used Supermarine Spitfire Vs and early Douglas A-20 Havoc and Boston aircraft from the RAF plus a few L-4B Grasshopper observation aircraft to train with until their Lockheed F-5/P-38 Lightning aircraft arrived from the United States. The 67th Group operated as the nucleus of the USAAF tactical reconnaissance organization in the UK, a task acknowledged by the redesignation as such soon after the Membury units were transferred to the Ninth Air Force in October 1943. At the time of the transfer to Ninth Air Force, the group was redesignated the 67th Reconnaissance Group.

At the time, the 107th and 109th Squadrons were converting to North American P-51 Mustangs. However, before this was completed, the 107th Squadron was moved to RAF Aldermaston and the 109th to RAF Middle Wallop so that their reconnaissance photographs and visual intelligence would be quickly available to IX Troop Carrier Command and IX Fighter Command Headquarters based there.

The group received a DUC for operations along the coast of France, 15 February – 20 March 1944, when the group flew at low altitude in the face of intense flak to obtain photographs that aided the invasion of the Continent. Flew weather missions, made visual reconnaissance for ground forces, and photographed enemy positions to support the Normandy campaign and later to assist First Army and other Allied forces in the drive to Germany. Took part in the offensive against the Siegfried Line, September–December 1944, and in the Battle of the Bulge, December 1944 – January 1945. From January to May 1945, photographed dams on the Roer River in preparation for the ground offensive to cross the river, and aided the Allied assault across the Rhine and into Germany.

Returned to the US, July–September 1945. Inactivated on 31 March 1946.

Postwar era
The group was activated as part of a service-wide, wing-base test on 19 May 1947 by Tactical Air Command. Assigned to Ninth Air Force. Formed at Shaw Field, South Carolina and equipped with RB-26's and RF-80's. Moved to Langley AFB Virginia, as photo-reconnaissance organization. Reassigned to Twelfth Air Force and moved to March AFB, California. Budget constraints, though, resulted in the wing's inactivation on 28 March 1949.

Korean War
The need for tactical reconnaissance resources became obvious when North Korea launched a surprise attack against the Republic of Korea in June 1950. In February 1951, Headquarters Far East Air Forces activated the 67th Tactical Reconnaissance Group at Komaki Air Base, Japan replacing the inactivated 543rd Tactical Support Group.

Used RB-26, RF-80, RF-86, and RF-84 aircraft. Made photographic reconnaissance of front lines, enemy positions, and installations; took pre-strike and bomb-damage assessment photographs; made visual reconnaissance of enemy artillery and naval gun positions; and flew weather missions. Received an AFOUA for the period 1 December 1952 – 30 April 1953 when, in the face of enemy opposition and adverse weather, the group performed reconnaissance missions on a 24-hour-a-day, 7-day-a¬week basis to provide valuable intelligence for UN forces.