[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Ovda Airbase

Ovda Airbase (, English: fact) is an Israeli Air Force (IAF) base, located in the very south of Israel, around 40 kilometers north of Eilat, in a large plain of the southern Negev desert. It has two runways with lengths of 3,000 and 2,600 meters and a heliport. There are currently (2023) no operational fighter jets or helicopters stationed there, but the so-called Aggressor Squadron for pilot training. The international military aviation exercise Blue Flag takes place there every two years.

History 
Ovda (Uvda) was opened in 1981 as a military airbase – a replacement for the Etzion Airbase on the Sinai Peninsula, which was abandoned after the Camp David Accords (see map below).

From 1982 onwards it was also used as Ovda Airport for civil charter flights and from 1988 to 2019 for regular scheduled flights by holidaymakers from Europe who wanted to get to the seaside resort of Eilat on the Gulf of Aqaba.

On 31 March 2019, the civilian part was closed, because the new Ramon Airport had now gone into operation, which is also much closer to Eilat.

In March 2005, the 115 Aggressor Squadron "Flying Dragon" was brought back to life on Ovda. At this point it was flying both F-16A/B jets and AH-1 Cobra attack helicopters. Their task is or was to simulate enemy jet or helicopter attacks and especially their tactics in order to create the most realistic scenario possible in real combat. The squadron also includes a surface-to-air unit that simulates enemy air defense systems.

The squadron is not intended for operational missions, although the pilots are trained fighter pilots and the jets are operational machines. Similar to the USAF, the squadron also offers this training service to other nations.

In 2013, all AH-1 Cobra attack helicopters of the IAF were decommissioned, including those based at Ovda. In April 2017, the Aggressor Squadron's older F-16A/B jets were replaced with newer used F-16C/D.

Blue Flag 

Since 2013, the international military aviation exercise Blue Flag has taken place on Ovda every two years in the fall, for which several Western countries send their pilots and fighter jets to Israel, where they undergo intensive training, which also includes the 115 Squadron "Flying Dragon" of the IAF with its role as aggressor. In addition to the air forces directly involved, numerous observers from other countries are also regularly present.

Units 
 115 Aggressor Squadron "Flying Dragon" – operating F-16C/D Barak
 IAF Ground Staff School
 IAF Officers' School

Note: IAF aircraft can usually be assigned to their squadron by the symbols on the tail

See also 
 Operation Uvda

References

External links

 Ovda Airbase on GlobalSecurity.org
 Ovda Airport on Airports-Worldwide.com

Israeli Air Force bases