[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Tina Karol

oal of my initiative is to inspire people to do good deeds."
On June 7, 2015, in the end of the song project "Holos Krainy - 5", Tina Karol presented an apartment in Kyiv to the winner - her student Anton Kopytin, who was forced to leave Donetsk with his family due to the war in the East of Ukraine.

In 2016 and 2018, she took part in the photo shooting for the charity photo project "Sincerely", dedicated to the Ukrainian national costume and its popularization. All revenue from the sale of calendars was donated to cultural projects, including the Mykhailo Strutynsky Museum of Folk Art, the Novoaidar Museum of Local History and the National Center of Folk Culture "Ivan Honchar Museum".

On March 20, 2022, Tina Karol took part in a large-scale campaign in support of Ukraine (Lodz, Poland), where she sang the songs “Закрили твої очі” ("Closed your eyes") and “Україна – це ти” ("Ukraine is you"). The performance of the latter was joined by Amelia Anisovich, who has become famous throughout the world thanks to the video in which she performs the song from the cartoon "Heart of Ice" in a bomb shelter.

On April 5, 2022, Tina Karol's charity foundation "The Pole of Attraction", in partnership with the Israeli Foundation “Israeli Friends of Ukraine”, purchased the necessary medicines for two hospitals in Ukraine, which specialize in the treatment of children with cancer.

On July 31, 2022, she took part in the anti-war concert - "Voice of Peace" (Almaty, Kazakhstan). Revenue from the concert in the amount of 50,000 dollars was donated to the Tina Karol's charity foundation "The Pole of Attraction", for humanitarian aid to Ukrainian children, as well as to support children's oncology hospitals in Ukraine.

In August 2022, Tina Karol donated an apartment to the family of a 9-year-old boy, Yehor Kravtsov, who in the spring 2022 touched the whole of Ukraine with his diary describing life in occupied Mariupol. The family's new home is now located in the Ivano-Frankivsk region.

During 2022, the Tina Karol Foundation provided assistance to oncology hospitals in Ternopil, Chernivtsi, Khmelnytskyi, Mukachevo, Kharkiv, Lutsk, Odesa, Lviv, and Derhachi for a total amount of over 1.5 million hryvnas.

In January 2023, the Tina Karol Foundation, in cooperation with the head of Rakuten Group and Viber messenger Hiroshi Mikitani, handed over 500 generators from Japan to Ukraine.

Personal life 
On 15 June 2008 Tina married her producer Yevhen Ohir (1980—2013). On 18 November 2008 Karol gave birth to their only child, a son named Veniamin Ohir.

Tina's husband Ohir died on 28 April 2013 from stomach cancer at the age of 32.

When asked by the Jewish Telegraphic Agency in 2006 whether she identifies as a Jew she replied "I don't like talking about self-identifications, I feel simply a human being, who came to this world to make a change. There was a period in my life when I was deciding on my religious beliefs, but now I think I've found my stand on this. I believe in God, but I don't identify with any particular religion."

Discography

Studio albums

Extended plays

Live albums

Compilation albums

Singles

Other songs 
 "Ya Budu Tebya Tselovat" (with B.Stone)
 "Posvyashchenie v Albom"
 "Misyats'"
 "Letniy Roman" (with B.Stone)
 "Dusha" (with О.Gavriluk)
 "Heal the World" (Ukrainian Stars, in memory of Michael Jackson)
 "Kartina Lubvi" ("New Wave" festival 2005, Latvia)

Filmography

Music videos

Television

Films and series

Documentaries

Concert tours

Theatre

Books

Honours and awards

Music and television awards

State and church honors

Media awards

See also 
Ukraine in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006

Notes

References

External links

 
Tina Karol Foundation 

1985 births
Living people
People from Yagodninsky District
Eurovision Song Contest entrants for Ukraine
Eurovision Song Contest entrants of 2006
Ukrainian Jews
21st-century Ukrainian women singers
Jewish women singers
Ukrainian pop singers
Recipients of the title of Merited Artist of Ukraine
Ukrainian sopranos
English-language singers from Ukraine
Jewish Ukrainian musicians
R. Glier Kyiv Institute of Music alumni
Recipients of the Order of Princess Olga, 3rd class
Founders of charities