[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arthur Schneier

ce.” 

Following the contentious dismissal of Park East's former assistant rabbi, Benjamin Goldschmidt in 2021, Daniel L. Kurtz, a former head of the Charities Bureau at the New York State Attorney General's Office accused Rabbi Schneier of concentrating power at Park East in violation of state law.

Awards and recognitions
  : Grand Decoration of Honor in Gold with Star for Service to the Republic of Austria (1997)  
 Dr. Karl Renner Prize of the City of Vienna, Grand Decoration of Honor in Gold for Special Services to the Province of Vienna
  : Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary
 Order of St. Daniel of Moscow (Moscow Patriarchate, Russian Orthodox Church)
 Religious Liberty Award
  : Legion of Honor
 Archons Athenagoras Human Rights Award
  : Presidential Citizens Medal
  : U.S. Department of State Special Recognition Award from Secretary Colin Powell “for his ecumenical work in favor of mutual understanding, tolerance and peace” (2002)
  : Made a Knight Commander of the Order of Civil Merit by King Juan Carlos I of Spain (2009)
  : The Order of the Star of Italian Solidarity (2009)
  : Officer's Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany (2010)
  : U.S. Department of State Special Recognition Award from Secretary Hillary Clinton “for his 30 years of partnership in helping Foreign Affairs professionals to better understand the right to religious freedom in the countries in which they serve” (2011)
   : Order of Saint Sylvester from Pope Francis, to be awarded April 27, 2015.
 Named one of the 100 Most Trusted People in America by Reader's Digest in 2013
 Named one of the 50 Most Influential Rabbis in America 2009-2013 by Newsweek
 In 2004, Rabbi Schneier's alma mater, Yeshiva University, established the Rabbi Arthur Schneier Center for International Affairs in his honor.
 Hofstra University Garu Nanak Interfaith Prize
 Rabbi Schneier is the recipient of eleven honorary doctorates from U.S. and European universities.
 April 2015, conferred with a Papal Knighthood by Timothy Dolan, Cardinal of the Archdiocese of New York.
2019 Responsible Leaders Summit's Lifetime Achievement Award for promoting interfaith cooperation and understanding.

He is a member of Council on Foreign Relations; Asia Society; United Nations Development Corporation; United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Committee on Conscience; Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations; Joint Distribution Committee; Past President and Honorary Chairman, Religious Zionists of America, Honorary Chairman, and serves as Vice President of the World Jewish Congress American Section.

Personal life

Born in Vienna in 1930, Rabbi Schneier lived under Nazi occupation in Budapest during World War II and arrived in the United States in 1947. He is married to Elisabeth Nordmann Schneier and is the father of Rabbi Marc Schneier and Karen Schneier Dresbach. He has 5 grandchildren and 1 great-grandchild.

References

External links
Rabbi Arthur Schneier Papers at Tamiment Library and Robert F. Wagner Labor Archives at New York University Special Collections.

American Orthodox rabbis
Orthodox Jews and Judaism in New York City
Yeshiva University alumni
Austrian emigrants to the United States
Austrian expatriates in Hungary
Austrian Jews
American people of Austrian-Jewish descent
Rabbis from Vienna
Rabbis from New York City
1930 births
Living people
Presidential Citizens Medal recipients
Orthodox rabbis from New York City
Recipients of the Grand Decoration with Star for Services to the Republic of Austria
Commander's Crosses with Star of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary (civil)
Jewish human rights activists
Jewish anti-war activists
American human rights activists
Christian and Jewish interfaith dialogue
20th-century American rabbis
People in interfaith dialogue
21st-century American rabbis