[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Terrorism in New Zealand

rations at Dunedin hospital Ward failed to recover from his injuries. The explosion also destroyed his desk and the exterior facing window of his office. The police never solved the crime and described it as "one of the most callous murders in the history of New Zealand crime."

Vietnam War protests

In 1969–70 there were multiple bombings and attempted bombings of military bases and other sites related to the New Zealand military. The bombings were in protest against New Zealand's involvement in the Vietnam War. On one occasion, in 1969, four students who were protesting against the war attempted to blow up the flagpole at Waitangi treaty grounds, the site of Waitangi Day celebrations.

Anti-Apartheid protests
In 1976 the Hutt Recreation Ground in Lower Hutt hosted the Men's Softball World Championship. The tournament was controversial due to the participation of Apartheid era South Africa. Prior to the tournament start, an opponent to South Africa's involvement, planted an incendiary bomb in the middle of the ground's softball diamond which exploded and damaged a 10 metre radius. A caller then rang the Wellington newspaper, The Dominion, and claimed responsibility.

Wanganui Computer Centre bombing

On 18 November 1982, a suicide bomb attack was made against a facility housing the main computer system of the New Zealand Police, Courts, Ministry of Transport and other law enforcement agencies, in Whanganui. The attacker, a punk rock anarchist named Neil Roberts, was the only person killed, and the computer system was undamaged.

Wellington Trades Hall bombing

On 27 March 1984, a suitcase bomb was left in the foyer of the Trades Hall in Wellington. The Trades Hall was the headquarters of a number of trade unions and it is most commonly assumed that unions were the target of the bombing. Ernie Abbott, the building's caretaker, was killed when he attempted to move the suitcase, which is believed to have contained three sticks of gelignite triggered by a mercury switch. To this day, the perpetrator has never been identified. It was revealed in a 2019 episode of Cold Case that police had a prime suspect, a retired marine engineer with explosives expertise and anti-union attitudes; however the evidence was considered circumstantial and insufficient to lay charges.

Before her death in 2016, union leader Helen Kelly (who knew Abbott) said she felt the bombing was a result of the "anti-union hysteria" created under the then government of Robert Muldoon.

Rainbow Warrior bombing

On 10 July 1985, the Greenpeace vessel Rainbow Warrior was sunk by the French foreign intelligence service, the Direction Générale de la Sécurité Extérieure (DGSE). Greenpeace had planned to use the Rainbow Warrior as part of protest efforts over French nuclear testing at Moruroa, and DGSE divers sank the vessel by detonating mines against its hull while it was berthed in Auckland. The crew left the ship, but one person, photographer Fernando Pereira, was drowned when he returned to a cabin to retrieve his cameras, just before the vessel sank.

France initially denied responsibility for the attack, but later admitted its role. Two of the French agents involved in the attack were arrested, convicted, and jailed, while several others escaped. French defence minister Charles Hernu eventually resigned over the affair. Prime Minister David Lange later referred to the sinking as "a sordid act of international state-backed terrorism."

Christchurch mosque shootings

On 15 March 2019, Al Noor Mosque and Linwood Islamic Centre in Christchurch were attacked by a gunman. The shootings killed 51 people and injured 40 others, making this the deadliest mass shooting in New Zealand history. Two improvised explosive devices were found attached to a car and were subsequently disabled. Brenton Tarrant, an Australian, was arrested and charged with murder and engaging in a terrorist  act. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern described the shootings as a terrorist attack. The gunman was later sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole in August 2020. Ardern implored people not to use the gunman's name, stating “speak the names of those who were lost, rather than the name of the man who took them. He may have sought notoriety, but we in New Zealand will give him nothing. Not even his name.”

Auckland supermarket stabbing 

On 3 September 2021, Ahamed Aathill Mohamed Samsudeen acted as a lone wolf using a knife to attack shoppers at a Countdown supermarket inside LynnMall, West Auckland. He injured seven people and was being followed by police at the time. He was shot dead by officers at the scene about two minutes after the attack began. According to a statement by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, Samsudeen held a violent ideology inspired by the Islamic State.