[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mike Junkin

the Pittsburgh Steelers, Junkin made his debut, and the plan was for him to gradually see more playing time each week. In early November, due to a combination of a players' strike and an injured wrist, Junkin was placed on the injured reserve list and replaced on the active roster by David Grayson.

Due to a combination of the Browns drafting Clifford Charlton and Junkin's desire to move back inside, the Browns planned to move him back to inside linebacker for the 1988 season. He spent training camp competing with Eddie Johnson for the second inside linebacker position alongside Mike Johnson, and by the end of preseason play, Junkin had won the starting job. In his first career start against the Kansas City Chiefs, Junkin had six tackles, including the first one of the game in a 6–3 Browns win. A month later, Junkin injured his knee, and was forced to miss several games. He returned to the team in early November, but Johnson had played so well in Junkin's absence that he spent the next few weeks as the backup inside linebacker. He was given the starting job again to end the season, but missed tackles and a lack of impact plays led to his second season being considered a disappointment.

In early 1989, Schottenheimer was fired as Browns head coach, and took the head coaching job with the Kansas City Chiefs. He still had faith in Junkin, unlike the Browns, and traded a fifth-round pick to bring him to Kansas City. Two weeks after the trade, a report came out that Junkin had taken steroids provided by a doctor to treat an injured ankle, and had failed a drug test at the scouting combine as a result. Entering the 1989 season, Junkin competed with Walker Lee Ashley for the second inside linebacker spot alongside Dino Hackett. Ashley won the job, and Junkin played five games before a shoulder injury sidelined him for the rest of the season. He was released from the Chiefs after season's end, and retired after not being signed by any team through the 1990 season.

Junkin became known as a draft bust due to his unproductive career. An ESPN article in 2008 noted Junkin noted as the eighth biggest draft bust of all time. He was also named one of the Cleveland' Browns worst three draft picks from 1995 or earlier.

References

1964 births
Living people
Players of American football from Little Rock, Arkansas
American football linebackers
Duke Blue Devils football players
Cleveland Browns players
Kansas City Chiefs players