[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alastair G. W. Cameron

uction of chemical elements in stars, especially r-process elements. This work by Cameron, along with the B2FH paper (published in the same year by  Margaret Burbidge, Geoffrey Burbidge, William A. Fowler, and Fred Hoyle), helped to publicise and direct research in the field of nuclear astrophysics.

In 1959, after growing frustrated with what he saw as the Canadian government's lack of interest in investing in science, Cameron emigrated to the United States, which had just seen a major expansion of  funding for space-science research due to the Sputnik crisis. He held academic positions at the California Institute of Technology, the Goddard Institute for Space Studies, and at Yeshiva University. In 1973 he became a professor of astronomy at Harvard University and remained there for 26 years. From 1976 to 1982 he was chairman of the Space Science Board of the National Academy of Sciences.

Five days before his death in 2005, the 2006 Bethe Prize for his work on nuclear astrophysics was announced. Cameron would receive this award for his 50-year-old work on stellar nucleosynthesis, which was still an area of active research.

Formation of the Solar System 
After learning about the 1960 discovery of an excess of xenon-129 due to the radioactive decay of iodine-129 in the Richardton meteorite, Cameron became interested in what the abundances of radioactive isotopes can tell us about the formation of the solar system and the interstellar medium. In 1975, he gave a seminar at Caltech, titled The Origin of the Solar System, where he outlined a unified model of the formation of the Solar System, from the Sun's formation from the collapse of cloud of gas and dust, the subsequent formation of a protoplanetary disk, to the formation of the gas giants and the terrestrial planets out of material from the disk. When an audience member asked, “What did you do on the seventh day?” he reportedly responded, “I rested.”

Formation of the Moon 
Samples brought back from the Apollo program showed that the Moon was composed of the same material as the mantle of the Earth. This surprising result was still unexplained in the early 1970s, when Cameron began work on an explanation of the Moon's origins. He theorized that the formation of the Moon was the result of a tangential impact of an object at least the size of Mars on the early Earth. In this model, the outer silicates of the body hitting the Earth would be vaporized, whereas a metallic core would not. The more volatile materials that were emitted during the collision would escape the Solar System, whereas silicates would tend to coalesce. Hence, most of the collisional material sent into orbit would consist of silicates, leaving the coalescing Moon deficient in iron and volatile materials, such as water.

After seeing William Hartmann present a similar, independent model at a conference in 1974, Cameron began a several decade-long collaboration with Hartmann to develop the giant-impact hypothesis. Cameron was able to use increasingly sophisticated computer models to show that such a collision could produce an Earth-Moon system with the correct mass, spin, and orbital momentum. The giant-impact theory gained mainstream acceptance as the scientific explanation for the origin of the Moon beginning in the 1980s.

After his retirement from Harvard in 1999, Cameron held a position at the Lunar and Planetary Laboratory of the University of Arizona.

Awards and recognition 

 1961 Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada
1970 R.M. Petrie Prize Lecture Award of the Canadian Astronomical Society
1972 Fellow of the American Physical Society
1976  Member of the National Academy of Sciences
 1983 NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal
 1988 J. Lawrence Smith Medal of the National Academy of Sciences
 1989 Harry H. Hess Medal of the American Geophysical Union
 1994 Leonard Medal of the Meteoritical Society
 1997 Henry Norris Russell Lectureship of the American Astronomical Society 
 2006 Hans Bethe Prize

Personal life 
Cameron married Elizabeth MacMillan in 1955. She died in 2001.

While Cameron became a naturalized United States citizen in 1963 in order to receive the security clearances necessary to work in the US space program, he frequently returned to visit his native Canada and remained active in Canadian politics throughout his life.

Cameron died on October 3, 2005, from heart failure. He was 80 years old.

See also 
2980 Cameron

References

External links 
 Oral history interview transcript for Alastair G. W. Cameron on 10 February 2003, American Institute of Physics, Niels Bohr Library & Archives
 Laudatio from the Bethe Prize
 David Arnett, "A. G. W. Cameron", Biographical Memoirs of the National Academy of Sciences (2017)