[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Abdul Rahman (convert)

t Hamid Karzai for a "favorable resolution", though she did not demand that the charges be dropped.  Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs R. Nicholas Burns asked for the trial to be conducted with "transparency" and reminded Afghanistan that "people should be free to choose their religion."

The U.S. Islamic advocacy group Council on American-Islamic Relations called for Abdul Rahman's immediate release.

The Seventh-day Adventist Church urged that Abdul Rahman be released, and allowed to practice his religion freely.

The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) wrote in a letter addressed to U.S. President George W. Bush on March 22, 2006 that: "On several previous occasions, the Commission has raised concern that the Afghan constitution's failure to include adequate guarantees of freedom of religion and expression for members of the country's majority Muslim community could lead to unjust criminal accusations of apostasy and blasphemy. With no guarantee of the right to religious freedom for all individuals, together with a judicial system instructed to enforce Islamic principles and Islamic law, the door is open for a harsh, unfair, or even abusive interpretation of religious orthodoxy to be officially imposed".
 : Pope Benedict XVI urged the president of Afghanistan to pardon Abdul Rahman. asking "for respect for human rights sanctioned in the preamble of the new Afghan constitution".

Threats to cut off aid to Afghanistan
Germany, which is involved in the UN-mandated International Security Assistance force in Afghanistan and also heads an international effort improving Afghanistan's police force, has suggested that Afghanistan could potentially lose aid or technical support for reconstruction efforts depending on the outcome of Abdul Rahman's case. German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schäuble has stated "I highly support the idea that we make it clear to Afghanistan, in every way possible, that abiding by and protecting human rights, which Afghanistan is obliged to, includes [protecting the] freedom of religion."  Schäuble also said, "We contribute a lot to rebuilding Afghanistan and towards its stability, so I truly believe that Afghanistan must realize that we insist upon the freedom of religion. You cannot punish people because they change their religion."

In response to Schäuble's comments, Afghan Economy Minister Amin Farhang said that the government in Kabul cannot stop donor countries from withholding aid or technical support, but consequences of such withdrawals would be worse for Western countries than Afghanistan.  Farhang stated: "I think that politicians in the West, including in Germany, reacted very emotionally. It shouldn't be like that. There's a lack of information. And besides, while the situation hasn't been resolved and the final decision hasn't been made yet, they can't threaten to withdraw security forces or foreign aid. That amounts to blackmail." Farhang also said that Kabul is attempting to build democracy after the Taliban was forced from power by US forces in 2001, but that the right to convert from Islam to Christianity is too extreme for a traditional Islamic society such as Afghanistan which upholds the Islamic punishment for apostasy. He also stated: "Afghanistan cannot switch suddenly from one extreme to the other."

See also
Kamilia Shehata
Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam
Islam and other religions
Persecution of Christians
Universal Declaration of Human Rights

Notes

External links
"In quotes: Afghan convert case" - BBC, 22 March 2006

1965 births
Living people
Afghan former Muslims
Afghan Roman Catholics
Persecution of Catholics
Converts to Roman Catholicism from Islam
Victims of human rights abuses
Afghan expatriates in Pakistan
People from Kabul
Afghan refugees
Afghan prisoners sentenced to death
Prisoners sentenced to death by Afghanistan
Afghan Tajik people
Afghan emigrants to Italy
Afghan Christians