[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 2006 St. Louis Rams season

kick a 37-yard field goal. However, the Big Red pulled away with Shipp's 9-yard TD run and Rackers' 20-yard TD run. Even though St. Louis made another TD, with Bulger completing a 1-yard pass to WR Isaac Bruce, Arizona held on to win. With the loss, the Rams fell to 5–7.

Week 14: vs. Chicago Bears 

at Russell Athletic Field, St. Louis, Missouri
Coming off their loss to the Cardinals, the Rams stayed at home for a Monday Night fight with the current NFC North champion Chicago Bears. After a scoreless first quarter, the Rams struck first with QB Marc Bulger completing a 1-yard TD pass to WR Torry Holt, yet the PAT attempt had a botched snap, making it no good. However, immediately following St. Louis's first score, the Bears took the lead with DB Devin Hester returning a kickoff 94 yards for a touchdown. Fortunately, the Rams responded with RB Steven Jackson's 2-yard TD run, yet Chicago responded with QB Rex Grossman's 34-yard TD pass to WR Bernard Berrian. St. Louis tried to get a 48-yard field goal in before halftime, yet it just went wide right. In the third quarter, the Rams' recent struggles continued with RB Thomas Jones's 30-yard TD run, while Grossman completed a 14-yard TD pass to WR Muhsin Muhammad. In the fourth quarter, the Bears dominance continued with RB Adrian Peterson's 1-yard TD run. St. Louis tried to come back with Bulger completing a 6-yard TD pass to Holt, yet Hester immediately followed that up with a 96-yard kickoff return for a touchdown, which gave him the single-season record for the most returns for a touchdown with six. The only thing remaining within St. Louis was Jackson's 2-yard TD run. With their second-straight loss, the Rams fell to 5–8.

Week 15: at Oakland Raiders 

at McAfee Coliseum, Oakland, California
The Rams flew to McAfee Coliseum to take on the Oakland Raiders, who, just like the Rams, used to play in the city of Los Angeles.

After a scoreless first quarter, St. Louis struck first in the second quarter with kicker Jeff Wilkins nailing a 24-yard and a 34-yard field goal. In the third quarter, the Rams increased their lead with RB Steven Jackson's 4-yard TD run. In the fourth quarter, St. Louis wrapped up the win with Jackson's 19-yard TD run. With the win, the Rams improved their record to 6–8. It was the first Rams shutout win since 2003.

Week 16: vs. Washington Redskins 

at Edward Jones Dome, St. Louis, Missouri
Coming off their dominating road win over the Raiders, the Rams played their last home game of the year as they took on the Washington Redskins. In the first quarter, the Redskins struck first with RB T. J. Duckett getting a 5-yard TD run for the only score of the period. In the second quarter, St. Louis took the lead with QB Marc Bulger completing a 10-yard TD pass to WR Isaac Bruce and a 27-yard TD pass to rookie TE Dominique Byrd. However, Washington responded with RB Ladell Betts getting a 6-yard TD run and QB Jason Campbell completing a 9-yard TD pass to TE Chris Cooley. In the third quarter, the Redskins increased their lead with Betts getting a 7-yard TD run. The Rams responded with Bulger completing a 64-yard TD pass to RB Stephen Jackson and a 10-yard TD pass to RB Stephen Davis. In the fourth quarter, St. Louis took the lead with kicker Jeff Wilkins getting a 21-yard field goal, yet Washington managed to tie the game with kicker Shaun Suisham getting a 52-yard field goal. In overtime, the Rams won with Jackson getting a 21-yard TD run. With the win, St. Louis improved to 7–8.

However, because the New York Giants won a Week 17 match-up against the Redskins, it ended any chance for the Rams to get into the playoffs.

Week 17: at Minnesota Vikings 

at Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome, Minneapolis, Minnesota
The Rams flew to the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome to take on the Minnesota Vikings. In the first quarter, St. Louis got off to a fast start as free safety Ronald Bartell returned an interception 38 yards for a touchdown. Afterwards, kicker Jeff Wilkins made a 42-yard field goal. After that, the Vikings responded with QB Tarvaris Jackson getting a 1-yard TD run. In the second quarter, the Rams' domination began with RB Stephen Jackson getting a 4-yard TD run and a 10-yard TD pass from QB Marc Bulger. In the third quarter, Wilkins kicked a 53-yard field goal, while Stephen Jackson got a 3-yard TD run. In the fourth quarter, Stephen Jackson wrapped up the game for St. Louis with a 59-yard TD run. Afterwards, Minnesota got their remaining points with RB Chester Taylor getting a 1-yard TD run, while Tarvaris Jackson completed a 3-yard TD pass to WR Travis Taylor. Afterwards, the Rams ended the game with a victory to end their season at 8–8.