[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sagat Singh

highest civilian award of Padma Bhushan. Lt. Gen. Sagat Singh is the only other Corps commander besides Lt. Gen. (later Gen. and COAS) T N Raina and Lt. Gen. Sartaj Singh to be so awarded in 1971.

Lt. Gen. Sagat Singh died at the Army Hospital Research and Referral, New Delhi on 26 September 2001.

Personal life
Singh married Kamla Kumari on 27 January 1947; Kamla was daughter of the Chief Justice of Jammu and Kashmir, Rachpal Singh. They had four sons, two of whom joined the army. Their eldest son, Ranvijay, was born in February 1949. He was  commissioned into the 1st battalion, The Garhwal Rifles (1 GARH RIF), which was later mechanised and re-designated as 6th battalion the Mechanised Infantry Regiment (6 MECH). He retired in the rank of colonel. The second son, Digvijay, was born in October 1950 and was commissioned into the 2nd battalion the 3rd Gorkha Rifles (2/3 GR), the battalion his father had commanded. Unfortunately, he died an untimely death while serving with the battalion in Poonch as a captain on 4 March 1976, when the jeep in which he was travelling met with an accident. Their third son, Vir Vijay was born in August 1954. An ill-fated scooter accident in Delhi claimed his life just eight months before that of his elder brother. The loss of two sons in the prime of their lives within a short span of eight months was a terrible loss to Sagat and his wife. Their youngest son  Chandra Vijay was born in April 1956. He became a business executive.

In Popular Culture
Sagat Singh's character was played by Bollywood actor Jackie Shroff in the 2018 Indian Hindi-language film Paltan (film).

See also 
 Annexation of Goa
 Indo-Pakistani War of 1971
 Meghna Heli Bridge
 Pakistani Instrument of Surrender

Further reading
 Col. C L Proudfoot, Flash of the Khukri: History of the 3rd Gorkha Rifles Regiment, Vision Books
 Air Chief Marshal P C Lal, My Years with the IAF, Lancer International
 Maj. Gen. Afsir Karim,  The Story of India’s Airborne Troops, Lancer International
 Brigadier Siddiq Salik,  Witness to Surrender,  Vikas Publications
 Maj. Gen. Sukhwant Singh, The liberation of Bangladesh, Vikas Publications
 Maj. Gen. Lachman Singh Lehl, Victory in Bangladesh,  Natraj Publications
 Maj Gen Randhir Sinh, A Talent for War: The Military Biography of Lt Gen Sagat Singh, Vij Books
 Maj Gen DK Palit, War in the High Himalayas, Lancers
 Brig RS Sodhi, Operation Windfall, Allied Publishers
 Brig Jagdev Singh, Dismemberment of Pakistan, Lancers
 Maj Gen VK Singh, Leadership in the Indian Army, Sage Publishers
 Maj Gen AK Verma, The Bridge on the River Meghna, KW Publishers

Citations

References

External links
 A Talent for War: The Military Biography of Lt Gen Sagat Singh (2013), Maj Gen Randhir Sinh, Vij Books India / United Service Institution of India, 
 "Remembering Sagat Singh (1918–2001)" by P.V.S.Jagan Mohan, 12 October 2006  - Bharat Rakshak
 Memorial Service for General Sagat Singh - Press Information Bureau
 Official History of the 1971 India Pakistan War, History Division, Ministry of Defence (India) - Bharat Rakshak

1919 births
2001 deaths
Recipients of the Padma Bhushan in civil service
Rajasthani people
Generals of the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971
Generals of the Bangladesh Liberation War
Indian generals
People from Churu district
Military personnel from Rajasthan
Indian military personnel of the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971
Recipients of the Param Vishisht Seva Medal
National Defence College, India alumni