[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006–2008 Lebanese protests

ween Hezbollah paramilitary forces and the Israeli army that lasted 34 days. The conflict resulted in the deaths of over 1,100 Lebanese, the majority of whom were civilians, and the destruction of a significant amount of national civilian infrastructure, including Rafiq Hariri International Airport.

However, due to the failure of Israeli forces to eliminate Hezbollah's leadership, halt Katyusha rockets and mortar attacks on northern Israel, did not rescue its two captured soldiers, Hezbollah declared victory. By resisting destruction at the hands of a far more powerful opponent, Hezbollah's support in Lebanon increased significantly amongst sectors of the population. The ruling government, by contrast, was seen by some as impotent in comparison, for its failure to effectively combat the Israeli forces.

Syria and its allies declared the ruling government illegitimate, prevented the parliament from meeting and would not allow presidential elections to replace Emile Lahoud, who left office in November 2007. The Syrian Muhabarat acted through the Fatah al-Islam in the Palestinian refugee camps of northern Lebanon to disrupt the Sunni community and the Lebanese army. This may have been related to Bashar al-Asad's objections to the Special Tribunal for Lebanon (Asad reportedly told Ban Ki-moon in April 2007 that "Instability would intensify if the Special tribunal were established).

Before the protest

Timeline
October 21, 2006 – The United Nations sent a draft plan for the creation of the Special Tribunal for Lebanon to try suspects in the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri to the Lebanese government.
October 27, 2006 – Speaker of the Lebanese Parliament Nabih Berri called for a resumption of the March 2 "National Dialogue" among all of Lebanon's political leaders, set to begin three days later on October 30, 2006. The day before the conference, he delayed the talks one week, citing the absence of several important officials.
October 30, 2006 – In a televised interview on Al-Manar, Hezbollah Secretary General Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah warned of "street demonstrations" to demand early elections if the National Dialogue conference failed to form a national unity government. He said Hezbollah and its allies should have at least a third of the Cabinet, which would give it veto power.
November 1, 2006 – The United States warned of a plot amid "mounting evidence" that Syria, Iran, and Hezbollah were planning to topple the Lebanese government in order to stop the creation of the Hariri tribunal. Syria's ambassador to the US rejected the allegations as "ridiculous" and added "We, in Syria, respect the sovereignty of Lebanon", while an Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman said the claims were "aimed to create divisions among Lebanese people and their government." Hezbollah said the US backing of the government of Prime Minister Fouad Siniora was "a blatant interference" in Lebanon's internal affairs, and vowed to pursue its demand for a national unity government.
November 11, 2006 – The five Shi'a Ministers resigned from the Cabinet; one independent, two from Hezbollah, and two from the Amal Movement.  A sixth Cabinet Minister also resigned from the Cabinet. Prime Minister Fouad Siniora rejected all six resignations. Nevertheless, two days later, the remaining eighteen Cabinet Ministers unanimously approved a draft accord outlining the creation of an international tribunal to try suspects in the assassination of Rafik Hariri, sending it to the Security Council for endorsement. Pro-Syrian leaders in Lebanon argued that the Cabinet did not have the authority to approve the accord because it lacked the sectarian representation called for in the Lebanese constitution.
November 19, 2006 – Hassan Nasrallah gave a speech telling his followers to be "psychologically" ready for protests, and demanding the formation of a national unity government. He insisted that the protests should remain peaceful.
November 21, 2006 – Lebanon's Industry Minister Pierre Amine Gemayel was assassinated in his car by gunmen in Jdeideh, a Christian neighborhood on the outskirts of Beirut, bringing the Cabinet one seat closer to the nine empty seats that would force it to collapse. He was a young, outspoken opponent of Syria's occupation of Lebanon and its influence in the country. Analysts said Gemayel's death was likely to worsen tensions in the already divided country. Hours after the assassination, the Security Council approved the draft accord for the creation of the Hariri tribunal, sending it to the Lebanese government for final approval.
November 23, 2006 – An estimated 800,000 people attended the funeral of Pierre Gemayel, turning it into a political rally against Syria and its supporters.
November 25, 2006 – The seventeen remaining Cabinet Ministers approved the creation of the Hariri tribunal. However, President Émile Lahoud called the vote "null and void", deeming the Cabinet unconstitutional due to its lack of Shi'a repres