[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Police Coast Guard

or less hindrance in body movement due to the more relaxed fit, and its non-flammable properties, they met with opposition from some officers who feel it projects the wrong image to the general public, including its "technician" look. Officers began to don the new combat uniform from 21 August 2006.

Current fleet

There are currently eight types of boats utilised by the PCG, namely the Command Boat, the Coastal Patrol Craft (CPC), two types of PT boats, the PC class Patrol Craft, the PK class Interceptor Craft and PJ Class for the Special Task Squadron, and the Marina Reservoir Patrol boats for localised patrols, particularly up smaller rivers and canals.

Command Boat (PT Class)
The two Command Boats in operation are slightly larger versions of the regular 3rd generation PT patrol craft, and built by Asia-Pacific Geraldton in 1998.

New Coastal Patrol Craft

In 2006, the PCG signed a contract with Damen Shipyard to build 10 specially designed boats, the Damen StanPatrol 3507 to replace its aging Coastal Patrol Craft. The first vessel PH51 Mako Shark was commissioned on 3 February 2009.

Patrol Craft (3rd Generation, PT Class)
The third generation of Patrol Craft were introduced in 1998, with 18 built in 1999 and another seven in 2000. They are the Stingray 18WJ Class manufactured by Strategic Marine. At a top speed of , they were  faster than the older PT class boats in the PCG when they were officially launched on 29 January 2000 Odd-numbered craft are based in Gul Base.

Patrol Interdiction Boat (4th Generation, PT Class)
A new, 4th generation Patrol Interdiction Boat (PIB) sourced from Lung Teh shipyard, Taiwan is scheduled to enter service from 2015 onwards to progressively replace the 1st generation PT patrol craft. The first vessel was commissioned on 21 July 2015. A total of 11 boats would be acquired.

Patrol Craft (5th Generation, PT Class)
On 3 March 2020, Minister for Home Affairs K. Shanmugam announced the acquisition of the 5th generation patrol vessels. A total of 24 vessels will be acquired to replace 12 of the existing 3rd generation patrol vessels and to increase the fleet.

The 5th generation patrol vessels will be acquired from ST Engineering Marine and are derived from the Super Swift series fast patrol vessels (FPB).

New Generation Patrol Craft (PC Class)
The New Generation Patrol Craft, also known as the Fast Response Craft, were delivered from the year 2002. There are currently 32 in active service. Even-numbered craft are based in Loyang Base, while odd-numbered craft are in Lim Chu Kang.

Interceptor Craft (2nd Generation PK Class)
A new, 2nd generation PK interceptor was ordered from Lung Teh shipyard, and commissioned in 2015.

Interceptor Craft (2nd Generation, PJ Class)
In addition to the PK class, the Special Task Squadron also operates the second generation PJ Class that are meant for shallow water operations.

Other
The Police Coast Guard also operates two Marina Reservoir Patrol Boats (MRPB), named “Archerfish” (PC1) and “Tigerfish” (PC4) which were acquired in 2016 for patrols along the Singapore/Kallang rivers for internal security operations. These replaced earlier PJ class RHIBS which were in service for more than 30 years.

Unmanned Surface Vessels (USV)
The Police Coast Guard has been experimenting with unmanned surface vessels (USV) since the mid 2010s. The unmanned surface vessel system tested in 2017 consist of an autonomous vessel and a control ship (Tide Hunter) where the USV operator resides.

Decommissioned vessels

Historical vessels
During the 1970s and 1980s, the Marine Police operated a number of vessels, which included the wooden hull PA and PB class patrol vessels and the steel hull PX class patrol vessels, which were replaced by the PT class, 1st Generation from the mid 1980s onwards.

Patrol Craft (1st Generation, PT Class)
The oldest generation of Patrol Craft in PCG service were built in 1984. Odd numbered craft are based in Gul Base and even numbered craft are based in Brani. The first generation Patrol Craft are scheduled to be replaced by the 4th generation Patrol Craft from 2015 onwards. PT5 and PT11 were decommissioned and sold via auction on 29 October 2014.

A single PT class patrol boat, PT8 Mangove Jack was preserved at Pasir Ris Town Park as part of the Nexus Youth Hub.

Patrol Craft (2nd Generation, PT Class)
The second generation of Patrol Craft were built between 1987 and 1989, including the two Command Boats. Another four boats are operated by the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority. Odd-numbered craft are based in Gul base.