[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tail Concerto

is an action-adventure platformer developed by CyberConnect and published by Bandai for the PlayStation. It is the first installment in the Little Tail Bronx series, which takes place in a steampunk fantasy world of floating islands populated by anthropomorphic dogs and cats. The game revolves around a canine police officer named Waffle Ryebread and his encounters with the Black Cats Gang, a group of sky pirates who aim to steal magic crystals. Though it received a generally positive response from critics, the title was met with low sales in Japan, falling short of the publisher's expectations.

Tail Concerto was first released in Japan in April 1998 and the following December in France, with an English version released in North America in November 1999 by publisher Atlus USA. The game features character designs and artwork by manga artist Nobuteru Yūki, and the Japanese version included the opening theme song "For Little Tail" performed by Kokia before her debut in the music business.

Gameplay

Tail Concerto is an action-adventure platforming game featuring three-dimensional characters and environments. Players control the character Waffle, who pilots a semi-humanoid mecha called the "Police Robo" with the ability to run, jump, climb on ledges, and hover in mid-air for brief periods. In addition, the mecha is equipped with a pair of mechanized arms that can pick up and throw objects such as crates and bombs, as well as a long-range "bubble blaster" used to damage or immobilize enemies. The game features support for the PlayStation's DualShock controller's analog sticks, which can be used for movement instead of the directional pad, as well as its built-in vibration feedback function.

The game features a variety of levels, each with their own objectives that usually involve capturing enemy kittens by grabbing them with the Police Robo's limbs, as well as boss battles that take place at the end of certain stages. Some areas require the use of different means of travel, such as mine carts and a jet pack, or attacking enemies using heat-seeking missiles. While the game's camera remains static most of the time, the player is given the ability to rotate the view angle during certain action scenes.

The game also contains role-playing game features such as the ability to explore towns and interact with non-player characters. Also hidden in each area are whistles that grant extra lives, and boxes containing pieces of photographs featuring artwork that may be viewed in a gallery once all the sections are found. Players may choose between one of three difficulty settings from the main options screen which directly affect the level of challenge, and progress can be saved to a PlayStation memory card.

Plot and setting
Tail Concerto is set in the Kingdom of Prairie, a floating archipelago populated by anthropomorphic dogs and cats. Animosity between the two species has led to a history of conflict, with dogs now representing the majority population. Due to its unique geographical configuration, the nation's inhabitants mostly commute by way of airships, and their society is characterized by steam-based technology and mysterious crystals culled from the ruins of an ancient civilization.

The story revolves around a young canine police officer named Waffle, and begins as he investigates a public disturbance caused by the Black Cats Gang on one of Prairie's islands. He and the Black Cat's leader, Alicia, immediately recognize each other as childhood friends before she feigns ignorance and escapes. Waffle soon encounters the cats again after they kidnap the adventurous Princess Terria, and learn that they are seeking five special crystals that hold an unknown, potentially dangerous power. After speaking with his grandfather Russel, Waffle learns that the crystals once served as the power source for a colossal robot called the Iron Giant which nearly destroyed the world centuries ago in a great war. Thinking the cats want to revive the giant themselves, he discovers that the gang is unaware of the crystals' purpose, and were only gathering them on behalf of their financer and weapon supplier Fool, who tricked them with the promise of getting revenge on the dog people for years of prejudice. Fool successfully awakens the giant using the four gathered crystals and Alicia's pendant, a present from Waffle when they were both young, which is revealed to be the fifth. However, the robot turns on him immediately, and Alicia flies her hot air balloon inside the creature to get her pendant back. Waffle goes to rescue her, assisted by both the Black Cats and the princess's royal guard, Cyan, and manages to destroy the Giant's core while he and Alicia make their escape. In the end, Waffle takes Alicia back to his home to recover, and gives her back her pendant to reaffirm their friendship.

Voice cast