[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Richard Yates (politician, born 1815)

). Such humanitarian gestures cemented Yates's popularity, and the governor enjoyed the nickname of the "Soldiers' Friend". In September 1862, Yates attended the Loyal War Governors' Conference in Altoona, Pennsylvania, which ultimately gave Abraham Lincoln support for his Emancipation Proclamation.

During the Civil War, Yates benefited from his relations with Lincoln to bring significant federal financial resources to the State of Illinois and Chicago in particular. Chicago became the location for the largest prisoner of war encampment, Camp Douglas, which had been erected on the former estate of Lincoln's political opponent, the late Senator Stephen A. Douglas (similarly, the estate of Confederate General Robert E. Lee in Arlington, Virginia was taken over by the government for use as a military cemetery). During this period, Yates enlisted the services of former Chicago Mayor James Hutchinson Woodworth, a Republican with strong anti-slavery views similar to those of Yates, to oversee the disbursement and management of the federal funds received.

In his 1863 annual message, Yates denounced the talk among some secession sympathizers that the Union might be reconstructed to the exclusion of New England.

After the Emancipation Proclamation, the Democratic-dominated Illinois legislature proved increasingly uncooperative. Yates, fearing that the Democrats had been infiltrated by the pro-secession Knights of the Golden Circle, dissolved the Illinois legislature on June 10, 1863, declaring that "the past history of the Assembly hold[s] out no reasonable hope of beneficial results to the citizens of the State, or the army in the field, from its further continuance".

Senatorial and later career

After his service as governor ended, Yates was elected as a Republican to the United States Senate and served from March 4, 1865, to March 3, 1871. While in the Senate, Yates was Chairman of the Committee on Revolutionary Claims (Thirty-ninth and Forty-first Congresses) and Chairman of the Committee on Territories (Fortieth Congress). He was identified as an associate and "disciple" of Charles Sumner, the Radical Senator from Massachusetts. During the impeachment proceedings against Andrew Johnson, Yates spoke in favor of convicting the President, whom he described as a "most pestilent disturber of public peace ... who, through murder succeeded to the chief command and seeks to betray us to the enemy."

Yates did not seek reelection to the Senate. After leaving the Senate, he was appointed by President Grant as a United States commissioner to inspect a land subsidy railroad.  He died suddenly in St. Louis, Missouri on November 27, 1873.  He is buried in Diamond Grove Cemetery, Jacksonville, Illinois.

Legacy
In 1923 a statue of Yates by Albin Polasek was erected on the Illinois State Capitol grounds.

His son, Richard Yates, Jr., was also active in Illinois politics, and also became governor of Illinois.

References

Bibliography
 
  The standard scholarly history. 
 
 Portrait and Biographical Album of Champaign County, Illinois, Chapman Brothers, Chicago, 1887 – online as part of Illinois History, an ILGenWeb project

External links

Illinois Blue Book 2005–2006
Digital collections of the Yates Family Papers and Yates (Wabash College) Papers at the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum website

1815 births
1873 deaths
Republican Party governors of Illinois
Republican Party members of the Illinois House of Representatives
People of Illinois in the American Civil War
People from Morgan County, Illinois
Politicians from Jacksonville, Illinois
Transylvania University alumni
Illinois College alumni
Miami University alumni
Georgetown College (Kentucky) alumni
Republican Party United States senators from Illinois
Union (American Civil War) state governors
Whig Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Illinois
People from Warsaw, Kentucky
19th-century American politicians