[Source: PubMed]

89. Front Psychol. 2022 Aug 25;13:920657. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.920657. 
eCollection 2022.

Subjective Well-Being Among Unaccompanied Refugee Youth: Longitudinal 
Associations With Discrimination and Ethnic Identity Crisis.

Oppedal B(1), Keles S(2), Røysamb E(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Mental and Physical Health, Department of Child Health and 
Development, Norwegian Institute of Public Health (NIPH), Oslo, Norway.
(2)Knowledge Centre for Education, University of Stavanger, Stavanger, Norway.
(3)PROMENTA Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Oslo, Oslo, 
Norway.

Unaccompanied refugee youth (URY), who as children fled their countries to seek 
asylum in a foreign country without the company of an adult legal caretaker are 
described as being in a vulnerable situation. Many of them struggle with mental 
reactions to traumatic events experienced pre-migration, and to the daily 
hassles they face after being granted asylum and residence. Despite continuous 
high levels of mental health problems URY demonstrate remarkable agency and 
social mobility in the years after being granted asylum in their destination 
countries. A sense of subjective well-being (SWB) may enable resilient outcomes 
in people exposed to past or ongoing adversities. To fill the gap in the 
research literature about positive psychological outcomes among URY, the overall 
aim of this study was to explore the longitudinal associations between SWB and 
two taxing acculturation hassles: perceived discrimination and ethnic identity 
crisis. Three annual waves of self-report questionnaire data were collected from 
a population-based sample of URY; n = 581, M age = 20.01(SD = 2.40), M length of 
stay = 4.63 (SD = 4.40), 82 % male, mainly from Afghanistan, Somalia, Iraq, and 
Sri Lanka. The longitudinal associations between SWB, perceived discrimination 
and ethnic identity crisis across time were analyzed using auto-regressive 
cross-lagged modeling. The results revealed that perceived discrimination, but 
not ethnic identity crisis, negatively predicted subsequent levels of SWB. More 
importantly, high levels of SWB at one timepoint predicted decreases in both 
discrimination and ethnic identity crisis at subsequent timepoints. Further, 
increases in SWB from one timepoint to the next was associated with significant 
co-occurring decreases in both discrimination and ethnic identity crisis, and 
vice versa. Despite the negative effect of perceived discrimination on SWB, 
promoting SWB in URY can protect them from future hazards of acculturation 
hassles in complex ways. We underscore the need for more research on SWB among 
URY and other refugee youth. We further discuss the potential of SWB to foster 
resilient outcomes in young refugees and suggest that interventions to 
strengthen SWB among them should consider their transnational and multicultural 
realities and experiences.

Copyright © 2022 Oppedal, Keles and Røysamb.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.920657
PMCID: PMC9453845
PMID: 36092076

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.