[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jonny Howson

it began a twelve-match unbeaten run which would last into the new year and propel United into automatic-promotion contention. Howson – thriving in a more attacking position – added a further three goals during this run in away victories over Coventry City, Burnley and a draw at home to Portsmouth.

United's impressive form continued into 2011 as Howson captained to the side to what was almost another famous FA Cup victory over Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium on 8 January. The Gunners equalised in the 90th minute through a penalty from Cesc Fàbregas after Robert Snodgrass had initially given United the lead from the spot shortly after half-time. Leeds lost the replay 1–3 at Elland Road a couple of weeks later. The month was characterised by United's familiar prudent attitude in the January transfer window as the side began to slip away. Howson helped to end a run of two wins in eight games with his ninth and tenth goals of the season in a 5–2 victory over Wembley victors Doncaster Rovers on 5 March. The month proved to be a personal success for Howson as he was nominated for and won the Football League Championship Player of the Month award. As United returned from an international break, they recorded a vital 4–1 victory over ten-men play-off rivals Nottingham Forest with Howson opening the scoring early in the second-half. The team's failure to win any of their subsequent five games would cost them a play-off spot, missing out by a point as they finished the season in seventh place. Howson ended the season with a personal best of eleven goals from midfield and he picked up the club's Young Player of the Year award.

2011–12 season
In the summer of 2011, Howson was made permanent club captain, replacing the departed Richard Naylor. Howson's long-term midfield teammates Neil Kilkenny and Bradley Johnson also left the West Yorkshire club, with Player of the Year Max Gradel joining the exodus on the deadline day of the Summer transfer window, as Ken Bates once again emphasised the need for prudence, much to the anger of the fanbase. Howson's first game as official captain of Leeds came on the opening day of the season as Leeds suffered a 3–1 defeat against Southampton. He picked up his second career red card in the next league game versus Middlesbrough as United lost 0–1. Despite the loss of several key players and their slow start to the season, United recovered to remain competitive for much of the first half of the season; regularly stationed in the play-off zone. On 29 November, Howson scored his first goal of the season in a 4–0 away victory over Nottingham Forest in what was an emotionally charged affair, coming only two days after the death of Leeds legend Gary Speed. In the following game, Howson picked up a knee injury against Millwall in what would prove to be his last match for the club. The injury was suspected to keep Howson out of football for several months and he did not feature for his boyhood club again before he was sold to Premier League Norwich City in late January 2012.

The sale of Howson prompted protests amongst Leeds supporters; enraged by what they perceived as a lack of ambition after failure to hold on to several key players in recent seasons and minimal investment in the first team squad. United defender and Howson's long-term friend Ben Parker rejected the club's claims that midfielder wanted to leave the club at a fans forum whilst negotiations were taking place. Parker would be sent out on loan to Carlisle United shortly after and Simon Grayson, who had initially defended the sale, was sacked after criticising the club's lack of investment after a 1–4 defeat to Birmingham City on the January transfer deadline day. In total, Howson made 225 appearances for the club and scored 28 goals.

Norwich City

2011–12 season
On 18 January 2012, Leeds reported that they had "reluctantly accepted" a bid from Norwich City for Howson. After agreeing terms and completing a medical, Howson was signed on 24 January and would wear shirt number 24 for the Canaries. After recovering from his knee injury, he made his Norwich debut on 3 March in a 1–0 defeat to Stoke City. He then cemented a place in the side, starting three consecutive games in March. Howson then scored his first goal for the club on 7 April in a 2–2 draw against Everton with a close-range finish. After the game, manager Paul Lambert described the performance as one of the best midfield performances that he had ever seen and likened his passing ability in the game to Barcelona and Spain midfielder Andrés Iniesta.

2012-13 season
In the 2012-13 season Jonny Howson played 30 Premier League games for Norwich, under manager Chris Hughton. He scored two goals in the last two games of the season, including a fine solo effort at Manchester City, as Norwich finished the campaign in 11th position in the table.