[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Body composition

tion results in a percentage that can indicate protein depletion.

Many methods of determining body composition use the body weight as a measurement, determined via a weighing scale. Other details such as height and age can be correlated with other measures and are often used in estimation formulas.

Validity
The methods above are each valid and notable in providing a measurement that can be used to determine the "true body composition" of the tested individual. However, each method does possess its own individual limitations, such as accuracy, precision, or expense, and the combination of methods also has limitations. Often, the relative change from one period to the next is most important; if an individual can maintain all factors as similar as possible, even a simple method such as weighing may give enough information to determine the true change in composition.

Types of exercises 
The ideal percent of body mass which should be fat depends on an individual's sex, age, and physical activity. For example, a female thirty year old will have a different ideal fat percentage than a male thirty year old. An athlete will have a different ideal than a non athlete, and it can depend on the sport.

The physical activities which can help decrease fat mass, increase lean mass, or both are the same for everybody. Aerobic exercise, also known as cardio (heart) exercise, decreases fat. High intensity interval training (HIIT) in particular helps decrease visceral fat. Visceral fat is near the internal organs, while subcutaneous fat is just under the skin. The former poses higher health risks. Bone and muscle strengthening exercise, also known as resistant training, decreases fat mass and increases lean mass at the same time, though it does better at the latter. In order to prevent injury from repetitive motion, people should do resistant training with different parts of their bodies on different days.

See also
 Body fat percentage
 Body mass index
 Body volume index

References

External links
 

Physiology
Self-care
Body shape
Medical signs