[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Catherine Bertini

utions and programs that could help advance humanitarian relief, development, and pandemic response. She published a report titled "Leading Change in United Nations Organizations", which gives guidance to incoming senior management in the United Nations and advice on leading transformational change.

Domestic career
During the President George H.W. Bush administration, Catherine Bertini served as Acting Assistant Secretary of the Family Support Administration in the United States Department of Health and Human Services, and as Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Food and Consumer Services at the United States Department of Agriculture.

During the Reagan administration, Bertini was the Director of the Office of Family Assistance at DHHS. She was responsible for regulations that strengthened education and training support for the poorest American women in support of the Family Support Act of 1988.

Board for International Food and Agricultural Development 
President George W. Bush appointed and President Barack Obama reappointed her to the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development (BIFAD), where she advised USAID for nine years (2006-2015) on agriculture and higher education issues pertinent to food insecurity in developing countries.

Accountability Review Board 
In 2012, Catherine Bertini was named to serve on the State Department's five-member Accountability Review Board that examined the facts and circumstances of the attacks on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya.

State and Local Government
Earlier in her career, Bertini was appointed by Illinois Governor James R. Thompson as a member of the Illinois Human Rights Commission, and as a member of the Illinois State Scholarship Commission.

Academic career

Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs
In 2005, Bertini joined the faculty of the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University. She taught graduate courses in Managing Change in the United Nations, Girl's Education, International Organizations, Executive Leadership, Food Security, and Post-Conflict Reconstruction. She served for one year as Chair of the International Relations Department and one year as the Vice-Chair of the Public Administration and International Affairs Department. She taught at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs for twelve years and in 2018 was named professor emeritus.

Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
In 2002, she taught for one semester as Policy Maker in Residence at the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the University of Michigan.

Institute of Politics at the John F. Kennedy School of Government
In 1986, she taught for one semester as a Fellow at the Institute of Politics at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.

Private sector career

Before joining the federal government, she served for ten years in public affairs positions at the Container Corporation of America in Chicago, where she ran its public affairs department, its foundation, and where she created its political action committee.

Recent awards
Bertini is the 2003 World Food Prize Laureate and, in 2007, was awarded the Gene White Lifetime Achievement Award for Child Nutrition. She has also been named a Champion of the 2021 United Nations Food Systems Summit. Concern Worldwide U.S. presented her its Brigid Award in 2010. She is also the recipient of the 2011 Borlaug CAST Communication Award. In 2013, she received the Women Extraordinaire Award from the International Women Associates. Twelve universities in four countries have awarded her honorary degrees.

Professional affiliations 
Global Food Banking Network, member
Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition, chair of board
Lugar Center, Affiliated Expert
Center for Strategic & International Studies, senior non-resident advisor
Stuart Family Foundation, board member
Scowcroft Institute, Bush School, Texas A&M University, member of advisory board
COMPACT 2025 Leadership Council of the International Food Policy Research Institute, member
Council on Foreign Relations, member
National Academy of Public Administration, Fellow
Global Child Nutrition Foundation, honorary advisor
International Union of Food Science and Technology, Fellow