[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Israel Space Agency

to bring its technical and engineering expertise for the sake of advancing the broad goals of lunar science at the institute. The agreement offers NASA important research involving lasers, the development of advanced sensors for Solar System research tasks and automatic vehicle navigation.

SpaceIL

The SpaceIL is a non-governmental organization made up of multidisciplinary team of Israeli scientists and space aficionados. The organization was formed to compete in the international Google Lunar X Prize competition.

The SpaceIL team developed a robotic spacecraft, built as a microsatellite, weighing around 500 kg. It was designed to be launched and then land on the Moon bearing the Israeli flag. To win, they must have been the first to launch, fly, and land the spacecraft on the Moon then transmit live video feed back to Earth. The team intended to donate the prize, about $30 million, toward space education, if they won it.

On 11 April 2019, Beresheet crash-landed on the lunar surface. Prior to impact, the probe had been able to take two last photographs: a view of itself against the Moon, and a closer shot of the Moon's surface.

On 13 April 2019, Morris Kahn announced that a new mission, named Beresheet 2 would attempt a second time to land on the Moon. The planned date is 2024.  At World Space Week in Dubai, in October 2021, Israel and the UAE ministers of science and technology announced plans for cooperation on the mission.  Said Kahn to the Global Investment Forum in Dubai, "It would be wonderful if we could develop a space program that would be a combination of Israel and the Arab world,  “I would welcome it – if it fits in with the program the Emirates have. They have an ambitious program.”

Commercial and industry involvement
The Israel Space Agency, Israeli industry, and the academy are all heavily involved in all the different stages of planning, development, construction, launching, and operating of space programs.

The main contractors of the Ofeq and Eros space programs is the  IAI Mabat factory in Yehud. The Mabat facility is responsible for the experiment and integration center, the ground monitoring, and the control stations and the remote satellites receiving stations. Many of the high-tech companies are involved in the various space programs in Israel, and in manufacturing sub-systems and components.

The TAUVEX was spun off as DAVID, a small telescope with a resolution of about five meters. It is currently being developed jointly by an Israeli hi-tech firm and a German firm. Many smaller university-related commercial products are being developed across the state.

Industrial groups
In addition to university research, a number of large industrial groups are heavily involved with the Israel Space Agency.

IAI
The Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI) is Israel's prime aerospace and aviation manufacturer, producing aerial systems for both military and civilian usage. IAI entered the space race in the 1990s and has since been  responsible for the development of most Israel's civilian and military satellites, particularly the AMOS and Ofeq.

Elbit Systems
El-Op, which merged with Elbit Systems in 2000, is the country's largest research and development company for space-qualified cameras and advanced telescopes that deal with various panchromatic, dual band, multi and super spectral wavelength applications. It is Israel's Center of Excellence for space electro-optics.

Rafael Advanced Defense Systems
Rafael Advanced Defense Systems is the Israeli authority for development of weapons and military technology. They are responsible for most of the ISA's spacecraft propulsion systems.

Agency managers/directors
Dror Sadeh	
David Abir	
Akiva Bar-Nun	1989 - 1993
Marcel Klein	
Aby Har Even (Avi Har-Even)	January 1995 - September 2004
Zvi Kaplan	September 2004 - September 2011
Menachem Kidron	January 2012 - 2015
Avi Blasberger	May 2016- August 2021
Uri Oron	September 2021

Agency chairperson
Yuval Ne'eman (1983-2005)
Yitzhak Ben Israel (2005-2022)
Dan Blumberg (2022-)

See also 

 List of government space agencies
 National Committee for Space Research
 Science, Technology and Space Minister of Israel
 Economy of Israel
 List of multinationals with research and development centres in Israel
 List of space agencies
 Science and technology in Asia

References

External links 
 ISA Home Page
  of the Israeli Ministry of Science, Technology and Space
 
 
 ISA-MEIDA (NASA Node)

Space program of Israel
Science and technology in Israel
Space agencies
1983 establishments in Israel