[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lippmann–Schwinger equation

actions of the asymptotic states to occur over a timescale  and in particular it is no longer inconceivable that the interactions may turn off outside of this interval.  The following argument suggests that this is indeed the case.

Plugging the Lippmann–Schwinger equations into the definitions

and

of the wavepackets we see that, at a given time, the difference between the  and  wavepackets is given by an integral over the energy .

A contour integral

This integral may be evaluated by defining the wave function over the complex E plane and closing the E contour using a semicircle on which the wavefunctions vanish.  The integral over the closed contour may then be evaluated, using the Cauchy integral theorem, as a sum of the residues at the various poles.  We will now argue that the residues of  approach those of  at time  and so the corresponding wavepackets are equal at temporal infinity.

In fact, for very positive times t the  factor in a Schrödinger picture state forces one to close the contour on the lower half-plane.  The pole in the  from the Lippmann–Schwinger equation reflects the time-uncertainty of the interaction, while that in the wavepackets weight function reflects the duration of the interaction.  Both of these varieties of poles occur at finite imaginary energies and so are suppressed at very large times.  The pole in the energy difference in the denominator is on the upper half-plane in the case of , and so does not lie inside the integral contour and does not contribute to the  integral.  The remainder is equal to the  wavepacket.  Thus, at very late times , identifying  as the asymptotic noninteracting out state.

Similarly one may integrate the wavepacket corresponding to  at very negative times.  In this case the contour needs to be closed over the upper half-plane, which therefore misses the energy pole of , which is in the lower half-plane.  One then finds that the  and  wavepackets are equal in the asymptotic past, identifying  as the asymptotic noninteracting in state.

The complex denominator of Lippmann–Schwinger

This identification of the 's as asymptotic states is the justification for the  in the denominator of the Lippmann–Schwinger equations.

A formula for the S-matrix

The S-matrix is defined to be the inner product

of the ath and bth Heisenberg picture asymptotic states.  One may obtain a formula relating the S-matrix to the potential V using the above contour integral strategy, but this time switching the roles of  and .  As a result, the contour now does pick up the energy pole.  This can be related to the 's if one uses the S-matrix to swap the two 's.  Identifying the coefficients of the 's on both sides of the equation one finds the desired formula relating S to the potential

In the Born approximation, corresponding to first order perturbation theory, one replaces this last  with the corresponding eigenfunction  of the free Hamiltonian , yielding

which expresses the S-matrix entirely in terms of V and free Hamiltonian eigenfunctions.

These formulas may in turn be used to calculate the reaction rate of the process , which is equal to

Homogenization
With the use of Green's function, the Lippmann–Schwinger equation has counterparts in homogenization theory (e.g. mechanics, conductivity, permittivity).

See also
Bethe–Salpeter equation

References

Bibliography

Original publications

Scattering