[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Khmer Rouge Tribunal

ne chief in Cambodia's Anlong Veng District, further speculating political pressure would come to drop charges if these three were ever tried together.

As early as November 2010, the Defence Support Section attempted to assign lawyers to represent the interests of the suspects in Cases 003 and 004.

Failure of the Government of Cambodia to prosecute the crime of genocide 
Pre-Trial Chamber's Case 004 Considerations issued on 17 September 2021, Judges Kang Jin BAIK and Olivier BEAUVALLET underlined the continued absence of genuine prosecutorial effort by the Cambodian authorities and recalled that, as a state party to the Genocide Convention, the Royal Government of Cambodia has an obligation to ensure that Khmer Rouge cadres charged with genocide are prosecuted and tried by a competent court of justice. They added that considering the evidence collected in Cases 003 and 004, the national authorities are "indubitably obligated to take on the responsibility to prosecute the Defendants should the ECCC not proceed further".

Domestic response

The ECCC received broad public support. Under the early leadership of the ECCC's Helen Jarvis  and the UN's Peter Wickwire Foster, the public affairs office of the ECCC fully integrated Cambodian and United Nations staff from the very start, helping to present a unified message to the public and launch effective public information and outreach programs. This integration was unique within the ECCC's early structure, which had initially divided international and national staff working areas. Nevertheless, the courts overall administrative and judicial divisions led to some mixed messages and public confusion.  

As a result of the extensive outreach initiatives, more than 353,000 people observed or participated in the court's proceedings. In Case 001, 36,493 people observed the trial and appeal hearings. In Case 002, the first trial involving multiple Khmer Rouge leaders, 98,670 people attended the 212-day trial hearings. In addition, nearly 67,000 people from rural areas in Cambodia attended ECCC community video screenings. The ECCC also took steps to involve younger members of the community by educating them on the court proceedings. According to a survey conducted by the International Republican Institute, 67% of the respondents replied that they "very much agree" with a trial against the top Khmer Rouge leaders. In a more recent population survey conducted by University of California, Berkeley, 83% of the respondents agreed that the ECCC should be involved in responding to what happened during the Khmer Rouge regime. The same survey also concluded that the awareness of the ECCC had substantially increased from 2008 to 2010.

Criticisms
There were many criticisms involving the ECCC. For instance there was  significant controversy surrounding the closings of Case 003 and Case 004. Many international critics say these closings stem from a reluctance by the Cambodian government to try Khmer Rouge officials who managed to switch alliances towards the end of the conflict.

Furthermore, the ECCC was criticized for its general stagnancy in relation to its finances. In financing the tribunal, the Cambodian government and the United Nations were both responsible for managing the cost of operations of the ECCC. Between 2006 and 2012, $173.3 million was spent on the ECCC. Out of the $173.3 million, Cambodia has contributed $42.1 million, while the United Nations has donated the other $131.2 million. For the year 2013, Cambodia had a budget of $9.4 million to spend, while the United Nations had $26 million, making the total budget for that year $35.4 million. However, as of 2014, the ECCC had cost over $200,000,000, in which, at that point, only one case has been completed. Many in the international committee demanded an outside committee to review the failures of the ECCC. In accordance, many urged countries such as Japan, Germany, France, the United States, and the United Kingdom to stop financing the ECCC until it became a more transparent and independent court.

The court was also criticized for its rejections of victim applications. A victim applying to participate in Case 003 was rejected because the judges claimed her psychological harm to be "highly unlikely to be true" and through a narrow definition of "direct victim", determined her an indirect victim in the case.  The Open Society Justice Initiative called for the UN to investigate the proceedings of the ECCC. A trial monitor for the OSJI claimed that the recent proceedings "don't meet basic requirements or adhere to international standards or even comply with the court's own prior jurisprudence." In late February 2012, the court requested another $92 million to cover its operating cost for 2012 and 2013.

See also
 Mass killings under Communist regimes
 People's Revolutionary Tribunal (Cambodia) - The 1979 trial, in-absentia, of Pol Pot and Ieng Sary by the People's Republic of Kampuchea

References

External links