[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists

blishment of IJL's branch in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and together with members from the IJL's office in Buenos Aires, worked to bring to justice Iranian officials who had planned the terrorist attacks on the Israeli embassy in 1992 and the Jewish community building (AMIA) in 1994, in Buenos Aires. 

Furthermore, during Hertman's presidency, IJL organized conferences in London and in Madrid, showcasing Israel's separate and independent legal system and Israel's proportional and necessary military actions. Additionally, IJL worked to commemorate the many Hungarian Jewish lawyers and jurists who were not allowed to practice law and later were murdered, because they were Jewish, during the Second World War. Together with Yad Vashem, IJL organized a special ceremony in Hungary, with the participation of leading officials from Hungary's legal system, to commemorate the life of Hungarian Jews murdered in the Holocaust. Hertman is currently a senior partner in S. Horowitz & Co, Law Office.

Adv. Irit Kohn

Adv. Irit Kohn served as President of IJL from 2010 to 2017. Before that, she was Director of the Department of International Affairs, Office of the Israel State Attorney. During that time, she was responsible for representing Israel on international criminal issues. As IJL President, Kohn managed many public and legal activities against antisemitism, human rights violations and denial of the State of Israel. In one of her appearances at the UN Human Rights Council, she fought claims that falsely accused Israel of stealing organs from dead Palestinians during the 2006 Second Lebanon War. During her presidency, Kohn strove to ensure that IJL continue its efforts to tackle human rights abuses not only against Jews but also against other minorities. She  also organized many IJL international conferences, with the participation of hundreds of Jewish lawyers and jurists from all over the world.

Founding members 

René Cassin (1887 – 1976)

A jurist, humanitarian, and internationalist, René Cassin was one of the world's foremost proponents of the legal as well as the moral recognition of the rights of man. He received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1968 for his work in drafting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Cassin was born in Bayonne, France, to a French-Jewish merchant. He forged his career in law as a practitioner, professor, scholar, administrator, and promoter of human rights. Cassin occupied high posts in the judicial systems of France and Europe.

Haim Cohn (1911 - 2002)

Haim Cohn was born in Lübeck, Germany in 1911. He emigrated to Palestine in 1933 due to the rise of Nazism in Germany. After the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, he was appointed as manager of the legislation department of the Ministry of Justice and later became State Attorney. In 1949, he was made CEO of the Ministry of Justice and Attorney General of Israel a year later. In 1952, he was chosen as the Minister of Justice, and in 1960, he was appointed to the Supreme Court of Israel. In addition to his civil service, he served as a representative of Israel in the United Nations Human Rights Council and as a member of the International Court of Justice in the Hague.

Arthur Joseph Goldberg (1908 – 1990)

Arthur Goldberg was born in 1908 to Russian-Jewish parents on Chicago's west side and was the youngest of 11 children. Goldberg graduated from Northwestern University School of Law in 1930. He later became a prominent labor attorney. In 1961, President John F. Kennedy appointed Goldberg as Secretary of Labor and successfully nominated him to the Supreme Court one year later. In 1965, Goldberg resigned from the bench to accept an appointment by President Lyndon B. Johnson to become the Ambassador to the United Nations. In that role, he helped draft UN Security Council Resolution 242* (1967) in the aftermath of the Six-Day War. UN Security Council Resolution 242 has been the pivotal point of reference in all Arab-Israeli diplomacy since 1967. It established the basis of Israel's legal right to defensible borders.

References