[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Timeline of the 2008 United States presidential election

l be able to go at me."
 October 30 – Massachusetts Senator John Kerry makes a "botched joke" about education and the Iraq War, which dominates the news for several days. Republican Representative Duncan Hunter of California announces the formation of an exploratory committee for a presidential run.

November 2006
 November 9 – Outgoing Democratic Governor of Iowa Tom Vilsack announces that he will be a candidate for the Democratic nomination.
 November 10 – Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona announces the formation of a presidential exploratory committee. Rudy Giuliani, the former Republican Mayor of New York City, forms a presidential exploratory committee.
 November 12 – Wisconsin Senator Russ Feingold, a prominent member of the Democratic Party's progressive wing, withdraws his name from the race.
 November 15 – Former Republican Governor of Wisconsin and Secretary of Health and Human Services Tommy Thompson announces that he intends to form a presidential exploratory committee in early 2007.
 November 29 – Republican Senator and Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist of Tennessee withdraws his name from the race.
 November 30 – Tom Vilsack announces that he is running for president.

December 2006
 December 1 – Democratic Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana announces the formation of an exploratory committee. On The Tonight Show, Democratic Senator Barack Obama of Illinois states he is considering running for president.
 December 2 – Former Democratic Senator and former Senate Minority Leader of South Dakota Tom Daschle withdraws his name from the race.
 December 3 – Democratic Senator Hillary Clinton begins discussions with New York Democratic officials to indicate the possibility of a 2008 presidential campaign and to ask for their support if she does.
 December 4 – Republican Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas announces the formation of an exploratory committee.
 December 9 – Republican Senator George Allen of Virginia, who had lost a close campaign for re-election to Jim Webb, announces that he will not run for president. Democratic Governor of New Mexico Bill Richardson states that he will decide in January whether to form an exploratory committee.
 December 11 – Democratic Representative and 2004 presidential candidate Dennis Kucinich of Ohio announces his plans to run for president in a report by the Associated Press.
 December 16 – Democratic Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana withdraws from the race, citing his status as "a relatively unknown candidate".
 December 17 – Former Democratic Senator, 2004 presidential candidate and 2004 vice presidential nominee John Edwards of North Carolina announces he will formally begin his candidacy later in the month.
 December 19 – Former Virginia Governor Jim Gilmore announces he is setting up an exploratory committee, saying that he is a "Reagan Republican."
 December 28 – John Edwards officially launches his campaign in New Orleans, Louisiana, following an Internet glitch causing his website to announce his candidacy earlier than planned.

2007

January 2007