[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Ryszard Wieczorek

Ryszard Wieczorek (born 25 January 1962) is a Polish football manager and former player who played as a midfielder. He was most recently in charge of Arka Gdynia.

Wieczorek played for Naprzód Syrynia, Górnik Pszów, Odra Wodzisław and Preussen TV Werl.

He graduated from the Warsaw Coaching School, and has previously managed Limanovia Limanowa and Wisła Puławy. He also coached Korona Kielce from 2004 until he was succeeded by Arkadiusz Kaliszan.

Wieczorek was appointed coach of Odra Wodzisław in June 2018, before moving onto KKS 1925 Kalisz a year later, winning promotion with them in 2020. He was dismissed on 19 October 2021.

On 10 May 2022, he returned to Odra for his fourth stint. He left the team at the end of the season after saving it from relegation, with a record of four wins and two losses.

Shortly after, on 1 July 2022, he was appointed manager of another III liga side, Polonia Bytom. He left the team on 9 January 2023 citing health issues, with a record of 12 wins, one draw and four losses.

On 7 March 2023, Wieczorek replaced Marek Hanzel, who himself was facing health issues, as head coach of IV liga club Unia Turza Śląska. He led the team in just four league games however, as on 11 April 2023 he signed a deal with I liga club Arka Gdynia to become their manager until the end of the season. On 16 June, it was announced Wieczorek's contract would not be extended.

References

External links
Ryszard Wieczorek at Soccerway

1962 births
Living people
People from Wodzisław Śląski
Footballers from Silesian Voivodeship
Polish men's footballers
Odra Wodzisław Śląski players
Men's association football midfielders
Polish expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Germany
Polish expatriate sportspeople in Germany
Polish football managers
Odra Wodzisław Śląski managers
Korona Kielce managers
Piast Gliwice managers
Górnik Zabrze managers
Legionovia Legionowo (football) managers
Polonia Bytom managers
Arka Gdynia managers
Ekstraklasa managers
I liga managers
II liga managers