[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Axis leaders of World War II

The Axis leaders of World War II were important political and military figures during World War II. The Axis was established with the signing of the Tripartite Pact in 1940 and pursued a strongly militarist and nationalist ideology; with a policy of anti-communism. During the early phase of the war, puppet governments were established in their occupied nations. When the war ended, many of them faced trial for war crimes. The chief leaders were Adolf Hitler of Nazi Germany, Benito Mussolini of Fascist Italy, and Hirohito of Imperial Japan. Unlike what happened with the Allies, there was never a joint meeting of the main Axis heads of government, although Mussolini and Hitler met on a regular basis.

Kingdom of Bulgaria (1941–1944)

Boris III was the Tsar from 1918 until his death in 1943.
Simeon II was Tsar of Bulgaria from 1943 until 1946, was underage and did not have any power.
Kyril, Prince (knyaz) of Bulgaria, head of the regency council, 1943–44.
Bogdan Filov, prime minister, 1940–43, member of the regency council, 1943–44.
Dobri Bozhilov, prime minister, 1943–44.
Ivan Ivanov Bagryanov was prime minister in 1944. He attempted to pull Bulgaria out of the war and declare neutrality.
Konstantin Muraviev, prime minister, 1944. Bulgarian Agrarian National Union.
Kimon Georgiev, prime minister, 1944–46.
Aleksandar Tsankov, prime minister of the Bulgarian government-in-exile.
Nikola Mikhov was a lieutenant general, Minister of Defence of Bulgaria
Constantine Lukasz was a lieutenant general, Chief of Staff of the Bulgarian Army
Stoyan Stoyanov was the highest scoring Bulgarian fighter ace of the Royal Bulgarian Air Force with 14 victories.
Ferdinand Kozovski was a lieutenant-general in the Bulgarian who served as the Chairman of the National Assembly of Bulgaria from 1950 to 1965.
Damyan Velchev was a Bulgarian colonel-general, Minister of Defence of Bulgaria.
Vladimir Stoychev was a Bulgarian colonel-general, diplomat and horse rider.

The Third Reich (Nazi Germany) 

Adolf Hitler was leader of Nazi Germany, first as Chancellor from 1933 until 1934. He later became Germany's Führer from 1934 until his suicide in 1945. Hitler came to power during Germany's period of crisis after the Great War. The time of this was somewhere between the 1920s and early 1930s. During his rule, Germany became a fascist state with a policy of anti-Semitism that led to the Holocaust. Hitler pursued an extremely aggressive foreign policy that triggered World War II. He committed suicide on April 30, 1945, along with Eva Braun, his long term mistress whom he had married less than 40 hours before their deaths.
Joseph Goebbels was Minister for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda from 1933 until 1945. An avid supporter of the war, Goebbels did everything in his power to prepare the German people for a large-scale military conflict. He was one of Hitler's closest associates and most devout followers. After Hitler's suicide, Goebbels and his wife Magda had their six children poisoned and then also committed suicide. He became Chancellor for one day before his death.
Hermann Göring was Reichsmarschall and Prime Minister of Prussia. Within the short life of the Third Reich, Göring held a variety of public offices heaped upon him by Hitler. He was the commander-in-chief of the Luftwaffe, President of the Reichstag, Original Head of the Gestapo, Minister of Economics, Paramount Chief of the War Economy, Head of the Four Year Plan, Reichmarshall of the Greater German Reich, Minister of the Forests of the Third Reich and finally defendant Number 1 at the Nuremberg Trials. Hitler awarded Göring the Grand Cross of the Iron Cross for his successful leadership. Originally, Hitler's designated successor, and the second highest-ranking Nazi official. However, by 1942, with his power waning, Göring fell out of favor with the Führer, but continued to be the de jure second-in-command of the Third Reich. Göring was the highest-ranking Nazi official brought before the Nuremberg Trials. He committed suicide with cyanide before his sentence was carried out.
Heinrich Himmler became the second-in-command of Nazi Germany following Göring's downfall after the repeated losses of the Luftwaffe which the Reichsmarshall commanded, as Supreme Commander of the Home Army and Reichsführer-SS. As commander of the Schutzstaffel (SS), Himmler also held overall command of the Gestapo. He was the chief architect of the "Final Solution" and through the SS was overseer of the Nazi concentration camps, extermination camps, and Einsatzgruppen death squads. He held final command responsibility for annihilating "subhumans" who were deemed unworthy of living. Shortly before the end of the war, he offered to surrender "Germany" to the Western Allies if he was spared from prosecution as a Nazi leader. Himmler committed suicide with cyanide after he became a captive of the British Army.
Joachim von Ribbentrop was the German Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1938 to 1945.  He was conde