[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jacco Macacco

in a small cage when not fighting and was secured by a short length of thin metal chain during his matches.

Identification
Which species of monkey or ape Jacco belonged to is unknown. Lennox initially describes him as coming from Africa, but later writes that he belonged to the Asian gibbon family:

Egan describes him as the "famed Italian monkey", Umberto Cuomo writing in Il Bulldog in 2002 says he was probably a mandrill. Before Aistrop had acquired Jacco, he had featured a baboon at the Westminster Pit in an attempt to capitalise on Jacco's growing fame, but, according to Lennox, this had only served to emphasise Jacco's skill by comparison. Neither the Cruikshanks' aquatint nor Henry Alken's depiction of Jacco fighting an unidentified opponent are detailed enough to identify Jacco's species, even if they are taken from life (the Cruickshanks are more interested in depicting the spectators than in the accuracy of the depiction of the monkey). Landseer's etching shows Jacco with a short tail and is annotated with "...from a sketch made at the time by himself". Aistrop described Jacco as "canine mouthed and much larger than the common monkey".

The most accurate depiction of Jacco Macacco would seem to be an etching in the collection of the British Museum described as 'Head of a fighting monkey called Jacco Macacco in three-quarter profile to right, with slightly open mouth, wearing a collar. 1826'. This detailed etching shows a monkey with a pronounced muzzle and a distinctively pointed ear. The general impression appears to be consistent with the subject being a macaque of some type (most likely a Barbary macaque, rhesus macaque or bonnet macaque). The monkey's face in this etching is similar in appearance to the head of the monkey shown in the Landseer etching. The relatively short tail length indicated by Landseer would appear to point towards an identification as a rhesus macaque (Barbary macaques have only vestigial tails and bonnet macaques have long tails). 

Rhesus macaques adapt well to the presence of humans and often live in or near urban environments, which may explain Jacco Macacco having come into the possession of a sailor (presumably while on shore leave in a port). The Alken depiction is also broadly consistent with an identification as a rhesus macaque. However, rhesus macaques are relatively light in colour (both in fur and skin) which seems inconsistent with, for example, Lennox's description and Cruikshank's depiction of a darker pigmentation. As mentioned above, Cruikshank's depiction of the monkey is indistinct and the coloration (black monkey vs white dog) may be more for the sake of clarity than as a reflection of historical reality. The British Museum etching and the Landseer depiction, both of which appear to have been made taken from life (and attempt to show the actual monkey, rather than a generic simian) would seem to be the most accurate means of attempting an identification at the present time. Alternative identifications such as gibbon, mandrill, baboon or lemur do not seem to be borne out by the various pictorial depictions.              

The term Macacco was in use as a general term for a monkey at the time; it came from the Portuguese macaco meaning "monkey," a derivative of a Bantu word that had been exported to Brazil where it was used to describe various type of monkey in the 17th century. As different authors applied the term to different species it is difficult to know which species, genus or family was meant. Macaca was given as a name to a widespread genus of Old World monkeys (the macaques) in 1799. Jaco was the specific name for a lemur and the term "Macauco" was also in general use to mean lemur, but there is no suggestion that Jacco was a lemur — Lennox specifically discounts this, and credits Jacco's forename as deriving from the "Jolly Jack Tars" that transported him to England and first observed his fighting abilities. Jacco's fame may have been associated with the rise of a Cockney slang word for a monkey "Murkauker" in the middle of the 19th century (although this was already obsolete by the 1890s), and "Jacco Macacco" itself was at least sometimes used as a generalised term for a monkey at the same period. Aistrop claimed that the sailor that had originally owned him had taken him from the "Isle of Maccacco".

See also
 List of individual monkeys

References

External Links
Detailed image of Jacco Macacco in the collection of the British Museum

Notes

Citations

Sources
Books

Newspapers

Journals and magazines

 
  

Baiting (blood sport)
Individual monkeys
Individual animals in England
1820s in London