[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Inca army

e the Khipu kamayuq, the specialist in making, reading and storing quipus.

The word Apukispay or Apusquipay could come from the word Apu: "Powerful; rich; leader; sovereign; chief; authority." and kispay, that would come from Qispi: "Glass; crystal". In this case, meaning "that shines".

Equipment 

One of the things that granted to the Incas the capacity to create the biggest empire in the pre-columbian america, was their ability to use the metallurgy in war and also the ability to adapt to every new kind of weapon, from the bow and arrow of the Antisuyu to the sword and arquebus of the Spaniards. Each Inca soldier carried a different kind of weapon according to his origin in the ayllu, the quality of the decoration as well as the metal that made it up, depended on his military rank (See table above). Here is a list of all the weapons used in the army:

Protection 
 Capes (Quechua: Yaqulla): These capes were made of thick alpaca wool, it was so useful to block arrows and reduce the damage of the hits that later the Spaniards would use them too.
 Chestplates and bracers (Quechua: Awqana Kusma):Used by officers and noblemen. Would consist of thickly quilted and padded cotton tunics, with wooden plates to reinforce them. They also served as the base for the gold or bronze plates that the nobles used as a distinction.
 Helmets (Quechua: Uma chuku): Created from wood, some were reinforced with small copper plates. The officers wore metallic helmets of copper, bronze, or gold depending on their rank, as well as the ornaments.
 Shields (Quechua: Wallqanqa): These shields were made of wood and covered with leather, useful for blocking enemy projectiles and slightly reducing damage from hits, on the front were the symbols of the ayllu of his bearer.
Square shield: The favorites of the Andean soldiers, they could have a small cape made of wool in the lower part of the shield to protect the legs.
Round Shield: Common on the coast, their easy maneuverability made them appropriate for the deserts and valleys that cover the coasts of the Chinchaysuyu.
Rectangular shield: Large shields made of wood brought from the jungle, were placed on the back and were used by soldiers who had to use both hands to fight.

Weapons 
 Axes (Quechua: Chiqtana) – Light weapon used in all places of the empire.
 Bolas (Quechua: Liwi) – Three or four stone balls tied to be thrown in order to immobilize the enemy and deal damage on the impact, acquired during the first campaigns to the Collasuyu, were one of the most effective weapons against the Spanish cavalry. Its bearers were trained from a young age in its use during hunting.
 Bow and arrow (Quechua: Wachina and Wachi, respectively) – It wasn’t used by the Andean civilizations until the expansion towards the Antisuyu and the annexation of the Chachapoyas kingdom, specialized hunters in its use were indispensable in any important military campaign. Having at their disposal poisoned and incendiary arrows, they were fundamental for the siege of Cuzco and the rebellion of Manco Inca in general.
 Clubs (Quechua: Waqtana) – Thick bats made of wood, its efficiency was only remarkable against unarmoured warriors, it was long and both hands had to be employed to use it. It was equipped by some ethnic groups in the north of the Collasuyu (modern Bolivia). It wasn't very popular due to its slowness and the time it took to make each hit.
 Daggers (Quechua: Tuksina) – Juan de Velasco (Ecuadorian priest and writer), tells us about a supposed pre-Hispanic "Inca sword" called Tuccina (spanish, pronounced as "Tucsina") made of copper or bronze, much thicker than the european sword but at the same time smaller, so it could be used with one hand. However, after his disastrous theory of the supposed "Kingdom of Quito" that never existed, and due to the lack of archaeological as well as written evidence (Spanish chroniclers), it's more than obvious that this would simply be an attempt to magnify the incan technology to justify the fall of the pre-Inca tribes of Ecuador. Instead, many quechua dictionaries describe the word "Tuksina" as: "dirk, Andean dagger". We can then affirm then that the tuksina was actually an Incan dagger, used by soldiers for executions or as a weapon of last resort, but not for direct combat.
 Halberds (Quechua: Kunka kuchuna) – These were a symbol of power for the troops in Cuzco and throughout all the empire, generals and important heads of provinces used them. Similar to the European models, it consisted of an axe blade with a spearhead on the back side, being above the 1.5 meters but below of 2 meters.