[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mount Fee

ed during Fee's earlier volcanic events. This volcanic event was also followed by a period of erosion, and likely one or more glacial periods. Extensive erosion following the last volcanic event at Mount Fee has created the rugged north-south trending ridge that currently forms a prominent landmark.

Petrography
The dacite and rhyodacite rocks comprising Mount Fee contain up to 70% brown volcanic glass and up to 15% vesicles. About 25% of the rocks contain crystal content, including plagioclase, hornblende, orthopyroxene, orthoclase and sporadic quartz. The orthoclase crystals are interpreted to represent rock fragments that became enveloped during hardening of the dacitic lavas. A portion of the southwestern flank of Mount Fee comprises no volcanic glass, but rather composed of an abnormal cryptocrystalline matrix. This indicates that it might have developed as part of a subvolcanic intrusion.

Human history

Habitation

Human habitation at Mount Fee extends from hundreds to thousands of years ago. Glassy volcanic rocks, such as rhyodacite, were widely used to make knives, chisels, adzes and other sharp tools before the arrival of Europeans in the 18th century. It was collected from a number of minor outcrops on the flanks of Mount Fee, as well as at Mount Cayley and Mount Callaghan. This material appears in goat hunting sites and at the Elaho rockshelter, collectively dated from about 100 to 8,000 years ago.

In September 1928, Mount Fee was named by British mountaineer Tom Fyles after Charles Fee (1865–1927), who was a member of the British Columbia Mountaineering Club in Vancouver at the time. Subsequently, Mount Fee was one of the volcanoes in the Mount Cayley volcanic field illustrated by volcanologist Jack Souther in 1980. Others included Mount Cayley, Cauldron Dome, Slag Hill, Ember Ridge and Ring Mountain, which was titled Crucible Dome at the time. Souther created a geologic map the following year that displayed the locations of the volcanoes and the regional terrain.

Monitoring
Like other volcanoes in the Garibaldi Belt, Mount Fee is not monitored closely enough by the Geological Survey of Canada to ascertain how active its magma chamber is. This is partly because no major eruptions have taken place in Canada for over a hundred years and the volcano is located in a remote region. As a result, volcano monitoring is less important than dealing with other natural processes, such as tsunamis, earthquakes and landslides. No recent earthquakes are known to have occurred at Mount Fee. If it were to erupt there would likely be weeks, months or years of warning signs, such as clusters of minor earthquakes that would likely originate less than  below the surface. They are generally too small to be felt by people, but the existing network of seismographs has been established to monitor tectonic earthquakes. However, the seismograph network is too far away to provide a good indication of what is happening under the mountain. It may sense an increase in seismic activity if the volcano becomes very restless, but this may only provide a warning for a significant eruption. It might detect activity only once the volcano has started erupting. A significant eruption at Mount Fee would probably have considerable effects, particularly in a region like southwestern British Columbia where the Garibaldi Belt is located in a highly populated area. Because of these concerns, significant support from Canadian university scientists has resulted in the construction of a baseline of knowledge on the state of the Garibaldi volcanoes.

Climate
Based on the Köppen climate classification, Mt. Fee is located in the marine west coast climate zone of western North America. Most weather fronts originate in the Pacific Ocean, and travel east toward the Cascade Range where they are forced upward by the range (Orographic lift), causing them to drop their moisture in the form of rain or snowfall. As a result, the Cascade Mountains experience high precipitation, especially during the winter months in the form of snowfall. Temperatures can drop below −20 °C with wind chill factors below −30 °C. The months July through September offer the most favorable weather for climbing Fee.

See also
List of Cascade volcanoes
List of volcanoes in Canada
Volcanology of Canada
Volcanology of Western Canada

References

External links

Garibaldi Volcanic Belt (Mount Cayley area) Map of Canadian volcanoes. Natural Resources Canada. 2005-08-20

Mount Cayley volcanic field
Two-thousanders of British Columbia
Pleistocene volcanoes
Pliocene volcanoes
Polygenetic volcanoes
Subduction volcanoes
Volcanoes of British Columbia
New Westminster Land District
Stratovolcanoes of Canada
Pleistocene stratovolcanoes
Pliocene stratovolcanoes