[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# MyRichUncle

MyRichUncle was a loan product that was marketed to students by the American company MRU Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ: UNCL). Incorporated  March 2, 2000 in Delaware, MyRichUncle entered the student lending market as an originator and holder of private student loans. By 2007, the company was listed on the Naqdaq composite and expanded into holding Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) loans. 

It was one of the first companies to use credit algorithms, combined with traditional credit scoring, to determine the terms a student's loan would carry. These proprietary analytic models and decision tools were positioned as a "human capital investment" approach to underwriting student loans.

In 2007, MyRichUncle ran a New York Times advertising campaign that publicized the practice of financial aid offices having relationships with student loan companies. The New York Attorney General, Andrew M. Cuomo, launched an investigation into deceptive marketing practices in the student loan industry shortly thereafter, the result of which was a marketing code of conduct that eight lenders (Campus Door, EduCap, GMAC Bank, Graduate Loan Associates, Nelnet, NextStudent, Xanthus Financial Services, and MyRichUncle) agreed to follow.

Between May 2005 and September 2008, MRU Holdings, the parent holding company of MyRichUncle, originated over $550 million in student loans and became one of the largest providers of private student loans, behind top lenders such as Sallie Mae, Citibank, and JPMorgan Chase. On February 9, 2009, MRU Holdings filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy and suspended all its operations.

History

MyRichUncle's co-founders, Raza Khan and Vishal Garg, met at Stuyvesant High School in New York City and attended New York University together. In June 1999, Khan and Garg incorporated Iempower Inc., planning to enable investors to purchase an economic share of an individual's future income stream for a set amount of time.  As they developed their business, they found that their original concept had significant crossover potential in the education financing market. Students, who have a large, recurring need for financing their immediate education expenditures, typically do not own any assets other than their potential future earnings as a result of their education. However, these education endeavors could be used to predict future income, which in turn, could be used to underwrite student loans. This concept was originally proposed by Nobel Laureate Milton Friedman in 1954 as the optimal means of financing education. Further work by Nobel Laureates Gary Becker and James Tobin validated the concept and its applicability to education finance.

In May 2001, the founders launched www.myrichuncle.com, Iempower's consumer-facing brand; through this website, investors could defray a student's undergraduate or graduate degree expenses in exchange for a fixed percentage of that student's future income for a set period after graduation.  In order to decide how to allocate investor financing to students and at what rates, Iempower built a proprietary data model that used historical data going as far back as the 1960s to predict a student's future income and career prospects based upon a variety of academic and credit factors. Over the course of 2001, the founders successfully raised $3 million to invest in students through programs such as the Robertson Education Empowerment Fund and the Education Investment Fund LLC, among others.

Iempower suffered a setback in 2001 when the company's offices, located on the 78th floor of 1 WTC, were destroyed in the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center. The company's recovery was later profiled by Entrepreneur magazine.

In the following years, MyRichUncle rebuilt and demand for its Education Investment product grew to the point that it significantly exceeded the investment capacity of the company. Around that time, the founders began to notice that a significant number of its Education Investment applicants also had private student loans, which, at the time, was the fastest-growing segment of consumer finance. MyRichUncle decided to enter the private student loan industry. Entry into the private student loan business, which was traditionally the mainstay of large banks and Sallie Mae, required the company to raise significant amounts of external capital. In July 2004, Iempower, with an equity capital raise of $4.2 million, entered into a reverse public merger with Pacific Technologies, a publicly traded company. Upon completion of the takeover, Iempower Inc. changed its name to MRU Holdings, Inc.