[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Interleukin 15

r.

The main mechanism of IL-15 signaling is trans-presentation which is mediated by membrane-bound complex IL-15/IL-15Rα (Figure 3). IL-15 bind to IL-15Rα receptor alone with an affinity of Ka = 1.1011/M. It can also bind to IL-15Rβγc signaling complex with lower affinity (Ka = 1.109/M) (Figure 4).

Signaling pathway of IL-15 begins with binding to IL-15Rα receptor, with subsequent presentation to surrounding cells bearing IL-15Rβγc complex on their cell surface. Upon binding IL-15β subunit activates Janus kinase 1 (Jak1) and γc subunit Janus kinase 3 (Jak3), which leads to phosphorylation and activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and STAT5. Due to sharing of receptor subunits between IL-2 and IL-15, both of these cytokines have similar downstream effects including the induction of Bcl-2, MAP (mitogen-activated protein kinase) kinase pathway and the phosphorylation of Lck (lymphocyte-activated protein tyrosine kinase) and Syk (spleen tyrosine kinase) kinases, which leads to cell proliferation and maturation (Figure 5).

In mast cells, the IL-15R signaling pathway has been found to include Jak2 and STAT5 instead Jak1/3 and STAT3/5. Phosphorylation STATs form transcription factors and activate transcription of appropriate genes. The β chain of IL-15R recruits and also activates protein tyrosine kinases of the Src family including Lck, Fyn and Lyn kinase. It also activates phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and AKT signaling pathway and induce expression of transcription factors including c-Fos, c-Jun, c-Myc and NF-κB.

IL-15 is also able to bind to the 15Rβγc signaling complex with intermediate affinity without requirement for IL-15Rα receptor. Upon binding IL-15 to signaling complex,  kinases of the Src family including Lck and Fyn are activated, and subsequently activates PI3K and MAPK signaling pathway. The second mechanism of IL-15 action is cis-presentation, when IL-15 is presented by IL-15Rα to 15Rβγc signaling complex on the same cell. This mechanism is mediated by the C-terminus flexibility which is mediated by 32 amino acids linker and/or 74 amino acids long PT region (Figure 6).

Function 

IL-15 regulates the activation and proliferation of T and natural killer (NK) cells. Survival signals that maintain memory T cells in the absence of antigen are provided by IL-15.  This cytokine is also implicated in NK cell development.  In rodent lymphocytes, IL-15 prevents apoptosis by inducing BCL2L1/BCL-x(L), an inhibitor of the apoptosis pathway. In humans with celiac disease IL-15 similarly suppresses apoptosis in T-lymphocytes by inducing Bcl-2 and/or Bcl-xL.

A hematopoietin receptor, the IL-15 receptor, that binds IL-15 propagates its function.  Some subunits of the IL-15 receptor are shared in common with the receptor for a structurally related cytokine called Interleukin 2 (IL-2) allowing both cytokines to compete for and negatively regulate each other's activity.  CD8+ memory T cell number is controlled by a balance between IL-15 and IL-2.  When IL-15 binds its receptor, JAK kinase, STAT3, STAT5, and STAT6 transcription factors are activated to elicit downstream signaling events.

IL-15 and its receptor subunit alpha (IL-15Rα) are also produced by skeletal muscle in response to different exercise doses (myokine), playing significant roles in visceral (intra-abdominal or interstitial) fat reduction  and myofibrillar protein synthesis (hypertrophy).

Evolution 
All classes of jawed vertebrates, including sharks, share an IL-15 gene at a conserved genomic location. Unusual features of IL-15 that appear to be conserved throughout jawed vertebrate evolution are (1) multiple AUGs in the transcript 5’ untranslated region, (2) an unusually long N-terminal hydrophobic (leader) sequence, and (3) a dependency on the formation of what might be considered “heterodimer cytokine” complexes with IL-15Rα for stability. The latter probably helps to retain IL-15 activity at the surface of the expressing cell and therefore within restricted tissue niches, while the reasons for (1) and (2) are still not known. In fish, the gene duplication resulting in mammalian IL-2Rα and IL-15Rα has not occurred yet, and the molecules IL-2, IL-15, and IL-15-like (IL-15L) all share the same receptor alpha chain which looks like mammalian IL-15Rα. In fish, as in mammals, IL-15 appears to stimulate type 1 (Th1) immunity.

In jawless fish or invertebrates, homologues of IL-15 have not been found.

Disease

Epstein–Barr virus 

In humans with history of acute infectious mononucleosis (the syndrome associated with primary Epstein–Barr virus infection), IL-15R expressing lymphocytes are not detected even 14 years after infection.

Celiac disease