[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Marva

Marva (Hebrew: מרווה) is a two-month Israel Defense Forces basic training program for young Jews from the Diaspora which offers an opportunity to experience the  IDF and Israeli life. The program is based at Sde Boker.

History
Marva,  originally affiliated with Gadna, which is now part of the Israeli Education and Youth Corps, is open to young adults aged 18-25 fluent in English or Hebrew. The majority of participants are 18-20.

Every week, the program focuses on a different aspect of Israeli army life. Participants travel around the country visiting IDF bases and experiencing the life of a soldier while learning about the army itself. The program costs US$1650 and is non-refundable. Medical coverage does not apply to out weekends, which are every two weeks. Should a participant need time off during the course a letter must be written to the commanding officer in Hebrew. Also all orders are given in Hebrew, however due to it being understood that the course participants are not fluent in Hebrew, all orders are translated.

Participants are also assigned kitchen and guard duty.  Marva is characterized by a greater focus on discipline than on physical fitness compared to basic training for combat units in the army. A former graduate Mike Steinbach has credited his experiences in Marva for helping him write his books "Torah and Zionism?" as well as Pirkei Avot A Zionist approach"

Course schedule
Week 1: Induction
Participants are taught the basics of discipline and get a weapon after a short hike. They also learn the theory of shooting and practice shooting positions.

Week 2: "Field Week".

The week is spent outside, living like a soldier on the line. Participants sleep in tents, eat army field rations and learn the basics of field techniques (camouflage, movement, etc.). Participants also undergo target practice with an M16 rifle.

Week 3: North Week

Using Michve Alon as a home base, participants tour the north of the country, take part in an exercise session in Kfar Blum and hike in the Banias.

Week 4: Navigation Week

Participants learn the basics of map-reading, and use the knowledge learned in the classroom while in the field, in small squads.

Week 5: Sport Week

Participants spend a week at Wingate Institute, Israel's leading sports training facility, training with army sports instructors. 

Week 6: Combat Week

Participants spend a week at the home base of one of the IDF infantry units, Nahal. Participants learn how combat soldiers live, and practice shooting with an Israeli-manufactured rifle, the Tavor.

Week 7: Jerusalem

Participants tour  Jerusalem and the surrounding areas in uniform. The highlight of the week is a ceremony at the Western Wall.

Week 8: Final Week

The week begins with a hike up the Snake Path at Masada to watch the sunrise. On the last day of the course, at David Ben-Gurion's grave,  family and friends are encouraged to come and watch the participants receive a ceremonial pin, the "Marvaton".

Staff/personnel 
Marva operates as a Military Company (Pluga) comprising 2-3 Platoons (Machlakot) which are further divided into 5-6 Sections (Tzvatim) per Machlaka. 

At the top is The Company Commander (Mefaked/et HaPluga) a commissioned officer responsible for the overall operation of the Company mostly dealing with external affairs such as communicating with youth movements and the base commander. He/ She is highly ranked and is rarely seen apart from one or two classes and the most formal of ceremonies (when received in the Het all members of the Pluga don their berets as a sign of respect). Assisting the Company Commander is the Chief Company Sergeant (Rav Samal Plugati) responsible for Company wide logistical matters (painted as the owner/ custodian of the store rooms; all uniforms and property you use, you lose uniform or property you face the RSP) and of course the highest level of discipline (regarded as the most fierce and cruel on base. Do not make eye contact, always angry, will scream at you). Other Company wide ancillary staff exist but are not relevant to the participants i.e. Deputy/ Secretary to the MP, curriculum coordinator or medics.