[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Woodstock (novel)

e a family group in which the central figure was the old knight of Ditchley, whose venerable features expressed his appreciation of the happiness of once more pressing his sovereign's hand, and whose contented death almost immediately followed the realisation of his anxious and long-cherished hopes.

Characters
Principal characters in bold
Sir Henry Lee, of Ditchley, keeper of Woodstock Park
Albert Lee, his son, a Royalist colonel
Alice Lee, his daughter
Dr Anthony Rochecliffe, late rector of Woodstock
Rev Nehemiah Holdenough, a Presbyterian minister
Colonel Markham Everard, a Roundhead, Sir Henry's nephew
Joceline Joliffe, a Royalist forester, and Sir Henry's servant
Phoebe Mayflower, his sweetheart
Commissioners of the Council of State
Colonel Desborough
General Harrison
Joshua Bletson
Joseph Tomkins, their steward
Captain Roger Wildrake, of Squattlesea-mere
Spitfire, his page
Oliver Cromwell
 Zerobabel Robins, a Parliamentary soldier (Zerubbabel in some editions)
Captain Pearson, his aide-de-camp
Louis Kerneguy, a page, the future Charles II of England
Bevis, a wolf-dog

Chapter summary
Volume One

Preface:  The Author has extracted the following Memoirs from the papers of the [fictitious] 17th-century Rector of Woodstock the Rev. J. A. Rochecliffe, D. D.

Ch. 1: Nehemiah Holdenough, a Presbyterian minister, is displaced in the pulpit of Woodstock parish church by an Independent [Joseph Tomkins] who is heckled by Josceline Joliffe, a royalist forester.

Ch. 2: In the park, Tomkins overhears the staunch royalist Sir Henry Lee and his daughter Alice discussing their family's divided political allegiances. After initially resisting, Sir Henry submits to him as a steward of the Parliamentary Commissioners, and the Lees leave to seek shelter in Joliffe's hut.

Ch. 3: Tomkins and Joliffe spar verbally on their way to the Lodge, where Joliffe despatches Phoebe Mayflower to his hut with refreshments.

Ch. 4: At the hut Markham Everard offers Sir Henry and Alice his assistance, but it is indignantly rejected by his uncle.

Ch. 5: On his way to the Lodge, Markham encounters Roger Wildrake. Tomkins agrees, without enthusiasm, to afford the pair a night's lodging.

Ch. 6:  Markham composes an appeal to Cromwell, to be delivered by Wildrake, for the preservation of Woodstock from sequestration.

Ch. 7: Wildrake arrives at Windsor and has an interview with Cromwell.

Ch. 8: Wildrake obtains from Cromwell an order consigning the Lodge to Markham's keeping, and delivers it to him at a Woodstock inn.

Ch. 9: On the way to the Lodge, Markham, Wildrake, the Mayor of Woodstock, and Holdenough discuss the order and the stories of supernatural goings-on there.

Ch. 10: The three Commissioners present at the Lodge—Desborough, Harrison, and Bletson—are introduced to the reader.

Ch. 11: The Commissioners, Mark, and Wildrake discuss strange happenings at the Lodge. Markham thinks he hears two warning voices, one which he takes to be Alice's, the other belonging to a man by whom he is slightly wounded.

Volume Two

Ch. 1 (12): At Joliffe's hut Markham attempts to assure Sir Henry, and then Alice, of his integrity.

Ch. 2 (13): As they return to the Lodge, Wildrake tells Markham that he believes Cromwell views the Lodge as a device to attract and trap the fugitive King. Wildrake fights a crazed Harrison, who believes the cavalier is the ghost of the actor Dick Robison whom he had murdered, before Markham calms the pair.

Ch. 3 (14): Markham again hears the warning voices and fires without effect in the direction of two forms.

Ch. 4 (15): The three Commissioners reluctantly agree to vacate the Lodge in compliance with Cromwell's order.

Ch. 5 (16): Holdenough tells Markham that he believes he has seen the spirit of his fellow-student Albany, who had become a priest and had been killed at his instigation during an attack on a royalist house. Markham persuades him to assist the Lees if it should prove necessary.

Ch. 6 (17):  On his return to the Lodge, Sir Henry spars verbally with Tomkins and rejoices with Joliffe. At Rosamond's Well, Alice encounters a female fortune-teller [Charles in disguise], who drops a ring in her pitcher.

Ch. 7 (18): Albert Lee arrives at the Lodge unexpectedly, and narrowly escapes injury when his father thinks he is an intruder.

Ch. 8 (19): Albert says that Charles has escaped after the battle of Worcester. He introduces 
his page Louis Kerneguy [Charles in another disguise], who is teased by the drunken Wildrake.
 
Ch. 9 (20): Charles and Albert discuss the situation in private.

Ch. 10 (21): Dr Rochecliffe, the deposed vicar of Woodstock, advises Albert that the Lodge is as safe a refuge for Charles as anywhere. Alice praises the King's virtues (but not his appearance) in Louis's presence.

Ch. 11 (22): Louis defends the King's behaviour before escaping from Sir Henry's Shakespeare recitation. He determines to discontinue his attempts to seduce Alice.