[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Duncan L. Hunter 2008 presidential campaign

holding China accountable on trade, and protecting life are resonating with the voters. Our campaign is one of issues, not flash and expense. We don't have a jet or an army of consultants and paid staff. We do have the conservative message that is true. In the end, that will be what Americans want."

Hunter participated in all televised Republican Party (GOP) debates until January 5, 2008; noted for his role in the May 15 South Carolina debate where he discussed his experience with border security. "I built the border fence in San Diego", he claimed, arguing it contributed to reductions in the smuggling of narcotics by 90% and a 50% drop in crime. Speaking of the bill Congress passed to build  of border fence across the Southwest, he noted that as of that moment (May 15, 2007), only two miles of the fence had been built. He quipped "this [Bush] administration has a case of the slows on border enforcement."

The next month, Hunter participated in the third GOP debate, featured on CNN. During the forum, he discussed his experience as chairman of the Armed Services Committee and voiced his support for the War in Iraq and the training of Iraqi battalions for security there. Hunter speculated that Iran was helping to arm the insurgency in Iraq. When asked what he would do as president if he discovered Iran was developing a nuclear weapon, Hunter stated that he "would authorize the use of tactical nuclear weapons [to end development] if there was no other way to preempt..." After discussing foreign policy, Hunter turned his attention to the issue of immigration. He again mentioned the importance of a border wall and evoked the audience's memory about the fence he helped build in his congressional district, joking "if they (illegal immigrants) get across my fence [in San Diego], we sign them up for the Olympics immediately." At the end of the debate, Hunter took the opportunity to criticize the three frontrunners: John McCain, Rudy Giuliani, and Mitt Romney. He complained that Democratic Senator Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts exerted too much influence on the three men, describing them as the "Kennedy Wing of the Republican Party."

Second half of 2007 
A Gallup poll from early July 2007 showed Hunter with three percent support, placing the campaign behind only Rudy Giuliani, Fred Thompson, Mitt Romney, and John McCain. In addition, Hunter won the backing of political commentator Ann Coulter. Hunter described Coulter as "a particularly articulate spokeswoman for the conservative view."

In late August 2007, Hunter's campaign communication's director, Roy Tyler commented that the chances of Hunter winning the nomination were the same as "pushing a string through a maze." This came as Hunter spoke to students at the Brown-Lupton Student Center about two foci of his campaign: border security and fair trade with China. He continued campaigning after hearing of the statement and won the Texas Straw Poll a few days later with Tyler at his side.

After his victory in the Straw poll, Hunter received media attention for his response to Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's invitation to speak to students at Columbia University. He criticized the school for its decision, stating that "if the left-wing leaders of academia will not support our troops, they, in the very least, should not support our adversaries..." He then called for a revocation of federal funding to the University. These statements resulted in criticism from liberals such as Glenn Greenwald, who described Hunter's proposal as "dangerous", "improper" and "unconstitutional".

Later in the month, Hunter's campaign website was hacked by anti-war activists. For a few hours, the words, "hacked by Adnali f0r TurkStorm [dot] org No War!" above images of children in a warzone were posted to Hunter's site. Turkstorm.org, cited in the hacking, appeared to have no connection as IP analysis identified the hackers location in Germany. Roy Tyler revealed that hackers had attempted to change the website at least six times, but this was the first successful alteration.

At the October 21 Florida GOP Debate, after expressing that questioner Carl Cameron was trying to divide the Republican Party, Hunter raised an issue he thought might bring the participants together. He reminisced of the time, he felt the "Democrat Party [sic] lost its identity". He compared the Kennedy administration's failed Bay of Pigs Invasion with President Ronald Reagan's actions in El Salvador. He described Reagan's El Salvador policy as successful in advancing freedom, and noted that as he spoke, the military of El Salvador was "fighting side by side with our guys (The United States military) in Iraq." He then referred to the Republican Party as "the Party of Freedom."