[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Annie Turnbo Malone

integral to its success. The divorce suit forced Poro College into court-ordered receivership. With support from her employees and powerful figures such as Mary McLeod Bethune, she negotiated a settlement of $200,000. This affirmed her as the sole owner of Poro College, and the divorce was granted.

After the divorce, Turnbo moved most of her business to Chicago's South Parkway, where she bought an entire city block. Other lawsuits followed. In 1937, during the Great Depression, a former employee filed suit, also claiming credit for Poro's success. To raise money for the settlement, Turnbo Malone sold her St. Louis property. Although much reduced in size, her business continued to thrive.

Philanthropy and personal life 

In 1902 she married Nelson Pope; the couple divorced in 1907.

On April 28, 1914, Annie Turnbo married Aaron Eugene Malone, a former teacher and religious book salesman.

By the 1920s, Annie Turnbo Malone had become a multi-millionaire. In 1924 she paid income tax of nearly $40,000, reportedly the highest in Missouri. While extremely wealthy, Malone lived modestly, giving thousands of dollars to the local black YMCA and the Howard University College of Medicine in Washington, D.C.

She became a benefactor of the St. Louis Colored Orphans Home, where she served as president on the board of directors from 1919 to 1943. With her help, in 1922 the Home bought a facility at 2612 Goode Avenue, which was renamed Annie Malone Drive in her honor.

The Orphans Home is located in the historic Ville neighborhood. Upgraded and expanded, the facility was renamed in the entrepreneur's honor as the Annie Malone Children and Family Service Center. As well as funding many programs, Turnbo Malone ensured that her employees, all African American, were paid well and given opportunities for advancement.

Death and legacy 
Turnbo was named an honorary member of the Zeta Phi Beta sorority and was awarded an honorary degree from Howard University.

On May 10, 1957, Annie Turnbo suffered a stroke and died at Chicago's Provident Hospital. Childless, she had bequeathed her business and remaining fortune to her nieces and nephews. At the time of her death, her estate was valued at $100,000.

St. Louis has an annual Annie Malone parade in support of children's charities.

In media 
A fictionalized version of Malone is portrayed by British actress Carmen Ejogo in the 2020 Netflix miniseries Self Made. In this version, the character is renamed Addie Munroe.

Turnbo is featured in Bayer Mack's 2019 documentary, No Lye: An American Beauty Story, that chronicles the rise and decline of the black-owned ethnic beauty industry.

References

Further reading

External links
 "Annie Malone", Living St. Louis Story, KETC-9.
 Annie Malone Children & Family Service Center
 
Annie Turnbo Malone at Find a Grave

19th-century births
1957 deaths
African-American inventors
American women chief executives
American cosmetics businesspeople
American chief executives of fashion industry companies
Businesspeople from Chicago
People from Brooklyn, Illinois
People from Metropolis, Illinois
People from Peoria, Illinois
Businesspeople from St. Louis
20th-century American inventors
Women inventors
20th-century American businesspeople
20th-century American businesswomen
Philanthropists from Illinois
Burials at Burr Oak Cemetery
20th-century African-American businesspeople
20th-century African-American women
African-American women in business