[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas McInerney

n Medal with 1960- device

McInerney has also been awarded the Third Order of the Rising Sun by the Japanese government. McInerney was inducted into the USAF Order of the Sword in July 1980.

Post military career
Beginning in January 2002, McInerney was a military analyst on Fox News until May 2018.

McInerney was a staunch advocate for the Iraq War. In 2002, he incorrectly predicted that a military campaign against Iraq would be "shorter" than the 42 days it took to complete the Persian Gulf War in 1991, and further, "It is going to be absolutely awesome, and that's why this war, if we do it properly, will go very quick, and we'll have less civilian casualties than we did last time."

In 2004, he claimed without evidence that with the aid of a Russian Special Forces team with GRU, Saddam had transported weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) to Syria and the Bekaa Valley in Lebanon for safekeeping. Although McInerney said they had been moved to three places in Syria and one in Lebanon, the final report of the Iraq Survey Group, by Charles A. Duelfer, special adviser on Iraqi weapons to the C.I.A., concluded that any stockpiles had been destroyed long before the war and that transfers to Syria were "unlikely."

In 2006, McInerney advocated for regime change via military action against Iran and North Korea.

McInerney has been a member of the Boards of Directors of military contractors, including Alloy Surfaces Company, Kilgore Flares Co, Nortel Government Solutions Inc. Pan American International Academy (Flight Simulators), Agusta Westland NA, and Crescent Partnerships.

In 2008, it was revealed that McInerney received email communications from the Pentagon with talking points that he should use to defend the Bush administration in his TV appearances and columns.

In 2010, McInerney provided his support against the court martial of fellow birther Terrence Lakin, who refused to deploy to Afghanistan due to his suspicion of President Barack Obama's birthplace.

On September 6, 2016, McInerney was 1 of 88 retired military leaders who endorsed the Republican presidential nominee, Donald Trump.

On September 15, 2020, McInerney was 1 of 235 retired military leaders who endorsed President Trump's re-election for president.

Views
McInerney has called President Obama a treasonous leader who is "aiding and abetting the enemy." McInerney also has said there were "widespread and legitimate concerns that the President [Obama] is constitutionally ineligible to hold office."

In 2010, McInerney called for strip-searching all Muslim men between the ages of 18 and 28 at airports.

In 2015, as a Fox News contributor and a member of the Iran Policy Committee, McInerney was noted for suggesting on Fox News that terrorists could have flown the disappeared Malaysia Airlines 370 to Pakistan.

In May 2018, McInerney appeared on Fox Business News and asserted to the show's host Charles Payne, that torture had "worked on" John McCain (when he was a POW in North Vietnam) and "That's why they call him 'Songbird John'," referencing an unverified claim made against McCain during the Republican primary in South Carolina in 2000. After the show, Payne apologized on Twitter to Senator McCain and his family for what McInerney had said which he himself did not hear or challenge because he was being told at the same time by the control room to "wrap the segment". Afterward, Fox News announced that McInerney would never appear on Fox News or Fox Business again.

On November 28, 2020, McInerney pushed claims about election fraud after the 2020 elections. He claimed that "US special forces command seized a server farm in Frankfurt, Germany", which was run by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Both the U.S. Army and U.S. Army Special Operations Command denied that such an attack occurred. He later called on President Trump "to declare a national emergency, use the Insurrection Act, declare martial law, suspend habeas corpus, set up military tribunals, and suspend the electoral college [vote for president and vice-president] on December 14 and the presidential inauguration on January 20". He claimed that the election was being stolen from Trump and treasonous parties should be arrested and charged and a "full investigation" must be done by President Trump.

See also
WMD theories in the aftermath of the 2003 Iraq War
Attempts to overturn the 2020 United States presidential election

References

Further reading
 Thomas Mcinerney and Paul E. Vallely, Endgame: The Blueprint for Victory in the War on Terror, Regnery Publishing, 1 February 2004

External links
Official United States Air Force biography
Thomas McInerney biographical note, NetStar Systems, accessed 23 February 2006.
Interview with Thomas McInerney and Lt. General Gard from 1999