[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Urby Emanuelson

the Round of 16 of Coppa Italia, he set up two goals for the side, as the club won 3–0 against Reggina. By November, however, Emanuelson began to find himself placed on the substitute bench. By the time he was loaned out, Emanuelson made twenty appearances and scoring two times in all competitions.

At the start of the 2013–14 season, Emanuelson returned to the first team and made his first appearance of the season, playing in the left–back position, in a 1–1 draw against PSV Eindhoven in the first leg of the UEFA Champions League Play–Off Round. Since returning from a loan spell from the previous season, Emanuelson continued to establish himself in the left–back position, though he faced competition from Kévin Constant. At times, Emanuelson appeared three times in a midfield positions for AC Milan. He then contributed three assists for the club, winning all three matches. As the 2013–14 season progressed, competitions increased further between the two that saw both of them alternating the starting line–up and substitute role. Despite suffering injuries on two occasions throughout the 2013–14 season, Emanuelson made thirty–three appearances in all competitions. Following this, he was released by the club upon expiry of his contract.

Fulham (loan)
Emanuelson signed for English Premier League side Fulham on loan until the end of the 2012–13 season on 31 January 2013.

He made his Fulham debut on 2 February against Manchester United at Craven Cottage, coming on for Giorgos Karagounis. Since making his debut for the club, Emanuelson was involved in a number of matches in the first team, playing in different midfield positions. He scored his first goal for Fulham in a 3–0 win over Swansea City on the final day of the season. Following this, he returned to his parent club, as Manager Martin Jol previously stated that he ruled out of signing him. Reflecting in his time at Fulham, Emanuelson said: "I think I have adapted to English football even though football is completely different here. I was asked to do so. Moving to Fulham and I caught the ball: I always wanted to play in the Premier League."

Roma
On 11 July 2014, Emanuelson signed a one-year deal with Roma with the option for the club to extend his contract for another two seasons.

However, he found himself placed on the substitute bench, due to the strong competitions in every positions. On 21 September 2014 Emanuelson made his debut for the club, coming on as an 81st-minute substitute, in a 2–0 loss against Cagliari. His second appearance for Roma came on 6 January 2015, again coming on as an 83rd-minute substitute, in a 1–0 win against Udinese. With his first opportunity at Roma limited, he was expected to leave the club in January. By the time Emanuelson was loaned out, he made two appearances for Roma.

It was announced on 21 January 2015 that Emanuelson was loaned out to Atalanta for the rest of the 2014–15 season. He made his debut for the club, coming on as a 67th-minute substitute, in a 2–1 win against Cagliari. Since making his debut for Atalanta, Emanuelson's first team alternated between a starting and a substitute role for the club. In a match against Juventus on 20 February 2015, he set up Atalanta's only goal of the game, as they lost 2–1. For his performance in February, Emanuelson was awarded the club's Player of the Month. Emanuelson then set up two goals in two matches between 19 April 2015 and 26 April 2015 against Roma and Empoli. At the end of the 2014–15 season, he went on to make nine appearances for the club. Following this, Emanuelson returned to his parent club. At the end of June, he was released by Roma following the expiration of his contract.

Verona
After leaving Roma, Emanuelson went to training at his former clubs, Ajax and AC Milan, in order to maintain his fitness in hopes of joining a new club. On 3 January 2016, Emanuelson joined Hellas Verona on a free transfer.

Four days later after signing for the club on 6 January 2016, he made his Hellas Verona debut, coming on as a 62nd-minute substitute, in a 3–0 loss against Juventus. Since making his debut for the club, Emanuelson found his playing time, mostly coming from the substitute bench. He then helped Verona earn their first win, coming twenty-three games into the season after winning 2–1 against Atalanta on 3 February 2016 at home. Emanuelson then set up the club's equalising goal, having came on as a 79th-minute substitute, in a 1–1 draw against Fiorentina on 13 March 2016. However, Verona was eventually relegated from Serie A. At the end of the 2015–16 season, he went on to make eleven appearances for Verona in all competitions.

Sheffield Wednesday
After being released by Verona in the summer 2016, Emanuelson joined English Championship side Sheffield Wednesday on 6 September on a free transfer.