[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Third World War (Hackett novels)

f Soviet occupation or a punitive bombing campaign if it refuses to comply, France withdraws from the conflict after the Soviet Union assures that it will escape occupation and attack. Unwilling to risk global nuclear war, American forces withdraw from Europe, and the remnants of NATO sue for peace.

Despite not being occupied, the United Kingdom is forced to accept a set of conditions that effectively give the Soviet Union control of British political, military, and economic institutions. National control is handed to a joint British–Soviet commission. Britain's European Economic Community membership is terminated, as are its obligations to the Treaty of Rome. A journalist predicts the Soviets will terminate trade union immunities under the law. Queen Elizabeth II remains in the United Kingdom, but most of the British royal family flees for Commonwealth states, while much of the British military escapes Soviet control by putting themselves under American, Canadian, or Australian commands.

This chapter is not included in the Macmillan edition.

Development 
Only a portion of The Third World War was actually written by Hackett.

Hackett had two objectives in mind: to demonstrate the necessity for Western Europe to have a strong and coordinated conventional military and to suggest that the use of nuclear weapons might not result in full nuclear warfare between the Soviets and the West. The limited use of nuclear weapons portrayed in the scenario results after one side's conventional forces have become weak and vulnerable; the other side responds quickly, albeit with limited retaliation.

Critical response
Christopher Lehmann-Haupt of The New York Times thought that Hackett's proposed scenarios were too optimistic. Points that Lehmann-Haupt questioned included the portrayal of the Soviets as not initiating a major nuclear exchange and thereby a global nuclear war as they near defeat and the projecting of Western forces proceeding without critical setbacks caused by poor decisions or bad luck. The effects of the war and enlightened policies resolve many local conflicts from Ireland to Central America and in Palestine. Lehmann-Haupt criticized the novel for being too dry and swift in moving through its major incidents. However, noting that Hackett had consulted with many military and political experts, Lehmann-Haupt said that the book represented a "very high order of strategic thinking" and "a signal to the Soviets, or even a warning, of the way some Western military leaders are thinking."

Release details

The Third World War
1978, UK, Sidgwick & Jackson (), Pub date 1978, hardback (First edition)
1978, US, Macmillan (), Pub date 1978, hardback

The Third World War: The Untold Story
1982, UK, Sidgwick & Jackson (), Pub date 1982, hardback (First edition)
1982, US, Macmillan (), Pub date 1982, hardback
1983, US, Bantam Books (), Pub date 1983, paperback
1983, US, New English Library, (), Pub date 1 July 1983, hardback

See also
Team Yankee, a 1987 novel by Harold Coyle set in Hackett's scenario
Future War 198X, a Japanese anime war film partially based on Hackett's novel
Red Army, by Ralph Peters, depicting a Soviet invasion of Western Europe from an entirely Soviet perspective
Red Storm Rising, a similar World War III scenario by Tom Clancy, detailing a conventional Soviet invasion of Western Europe

References

1978 British novels
1982 British novels
Novels set during World War III
Alternate history novels
South African Border War in popular culture
Fiction set in 1984
Fiction set in 1985
Sidgwick & Jackson books