[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Margaritaville at Sea Paradise

ship underwent a 2-week drydocking before reentering service on 2 June, during which she was completely refreshed, featuring new dining venues (including Cheeseburger in Paradise burger bar), new menus, fitness center upgrades, a pickleball court, and two new theater shows.

Incidents and accidents

MSC Poesia collision 
On June 6, 2008, MSC Poesia and Costa Classica collided in the Adriatic Sea near Dubrovnik, after the anchor line became slack on MSC Poesia and she went adrift. There were no injuries, and the damage was minimal. Both vessels continued on their scheduled itineraries with no delays.

2009 passenger disappearance 
A Hong Kong woman and her son disappeared while on a cruise from Beijing to Fukuoka in July 2009. It was reported that three letters were found in their cabin concerning the distribution of their belongings. The agency Hong Thai Travel confirmed that the pair were among 35 tourists who boarded the cruise ship in Tianjin and its tour guide realized the pair were missing on 7 July. Costa Crociere said it had reported the incident to law enforcement bodies in Korea, China and Japan.

2010 collision  near Shanghai 
On 18 October 2011, Costa Classica collided with the Belgian-flagged cargo ship Lowlands Longevity near the deep water channel of the Yangtze River as she returned to Shanghai from Jeju, Korea. Several passengers reported to the infirmary with minor injuries. Three passengers were sent ashore for further medical checks. News images showed a gash along the starboard side of Costa Classica that stretched about 60 feet, and well above the ship's waterline. Costa Classica docked a few hours after the incident and passengers on the current voyage of the ship were disembarked.

Costa Classica then sailed to Changxing, China to undergo an emergency drydock. It took just 96 hours to complete repairs, resuming service afterwards. The next voyage was resumed in Hong Kong on 25 October, two days short, and its Manila port destination was cancelled.

2019 Grand Classica banned from entering Havana, Cuba
Viva Travel, a Florida-based travel agency, chartered Grand Classica for what was advertised as a Valentine's Day cruise to reunite Cuban exiles with their relatives aboard the vessel.  Despite claims by the cruise line and travel agency that they had secured the necessary governmental approvals, the ship was denied entry and diverted to Nassau, Bahamas.

References

External links

Margaritaville at Sea Paradise website
Video clip of Costa Classica

1991 ships
Maritime incidents in 2008
Maritime incidents in 2009
Maritime incidents in 2010
Ships of Costa Cruises
Ships built by Fincantieri
Sea Paradise