[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Elinor Ostrom

oil fields or grazing lands—can be managed successfully by the people who use them rather than by governments or private companies". Ostrom's work in this regard challenged conventional wisdom, showing that common resources can be successfully managed without government regulation or privatization.

In awarding Ostrom the Nobel Prize for the Analysis of Economic Governance, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences noted that her work "teaches us novel lessons about the deep mechanisms that sustain cooperation in human societies." Even if Ostrom's selection (along with co-recipient Oliver Williamson of the University of California, Berkeley) seemed odd to some, others saw it as an appropriate reaction to free-market inefficiencies highlighted by the 2008 financial crisis.

Death 
Ostrom was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in October 2011. During the final year of her life, she continued to write and lecture, giving the Hayek Lecture at the Institute of Economic Affairs just eleven weeks before her death. She died at 6:40 a.m. Tuesday, June 12, 2012, at IU Health Bloomington Hospital at the age of 78. On the day of her death, she published her last article, "Green from the Grassroots," in Project Syndicate. Indiana University president Michael McRobbie wrote: "Indiana University has lost an irreplaceable and magnificent treasure with the passing of Elinor Ostrom". Her Indiana colleague Michael McGinnis commented after her death that Ostrom donated her share of the $1.4 million Nobel award money to the Workshop—the biggest, by far, of several academic prizes with monetary awards that the Ostroms had given to the center over the years. Her husband Vincent died 17 days later from complications related to cancer. He was 92.

Selected publications

Books

Chapters in books

Journal articles 
 
 
 
  Pdf version.

See also 
 Co-production of public services by service users and communities.
 Institutional analysis and development framework (IAD)
 List of Jewish Nobel laureates

References

Further reading 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ostrom, Vincent and Elinor Ostrom. "Rethinking Institutional Analysis: Interviews with Vincent and Elinor Ostrom." By Paul Dragos Aligica. Interview, Mercatus Center at George Mason University, 2003.

External links 

 On Collaboration Elinor Ostrom speaks on BBC The Forum
 Ostrom Workshop at Indiana University
 Elinor Ostrom Curriculum Vitae
 Center for the Study of Institutional Diversity at Arizona State University
 No Panaceas! Elinor Ostrom Talks with Fran Korten
  including the Nobel Lecture on 8 December 2009 Beyond Markets and States: Polycentric Governance of Complex Economic Systems
 Elinor Ostrom news, photos and videos from The Herald-Times, Bloomington, Indiana.
 Profile at the International Institute of Social Studies (ISS).
 Video of Annual Reviews Conversations Interview with Elinor Ostrom (2011).
 Bonnie J. McCay and Joan Bennett, "Elinor Ostrom", Biographical Memoirs of the National Academy of Sciences (2014)

1933 births
2012 deaths
Nobel laureates in Economics
American Nobel laureates
Women Nobel laureates
20th-century American economists
21st-century American economists
Jewish American economists
Climate economists
Environmental economists
Information economists
New institutional economists
American women economists
Jewish American writers
21st-century American women writers
20th-century American writers
20th-century American women writers
21st-century American non-fiction writers
American women political scientists
American political scientists
American Protestants
Articles containing video clips
Beverly Hills High School alumni
Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
Members of the United States National Academy of Sciences
Public commons
University of California, Los Angeles alumni
Deaths from cancer in Indiana
Deaths from pancreatic cancer
Members of the American Philosophical Society