[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Cerberus Capital Management

ced talks with private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management LP over a leveraged buyout deal. After integrating the Safeway purchase, on October 14, 2022 Kroger announced it would be acquiring Albertsons for $25 billion, combining the largest and second-largest supermarket chains in North America.

Transportation
Acquired bankrupt ANC Rental, then owner of the National and Alamo car rental chains, for $230 million in October 2003, and subsequently sold to Enterprise Rent-a-Car in 2007.  Purchased DaimlerChrysler's 45% share of debis AirFinance, an aircraft leasing business, in May 2005.  Acquisition of debis AirFinance (later renamed AerCap) was completed in July 2005.  AerCap completed its IPO in 2006.  Cerberus also acquired North American Bus Industries, Optima Bus Corporation, and Blue Bird Corp. in the bus manufacturing sector. (Cerberus sold its commercial bus manufacturing assets to New Flyer Industries in 2013 but retained the Blue Bird school bus production line.)

Automotive
Peguform (acquired by Cerberus in 2004 and sold it to Polytec four years later), GDX Automotive (owned by Cerberus until 2011), and Chrysler.

In 2007, Cerberus and about 100 other investors purchased an 80% stake in Chrysler for $7.4 billion seeking to bolster the auto maker's performance by operating as an independent company. In 2008, the plan collapsed due to an unprecedented slowdown in the U.S. auto industry and a lack of capital.

In response to questioning at a hearing before the House committee on December 5, 2008 by Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite, Chrysler President and CEO Robert Nardelli said that Cerberus' fiduciary obligations to its other investors and investments prohibited it from injecting capital.  "In order to achieve that goal Cerberus has advised the U.S. Treasury that it would contribute its equity in Chrysler automotive to labor and creditors as currency to facilitate the accommodations necessary to affect the restructuring."

On April 30, 2009, Chrysler declared bankruptcy protection and announced that GMAC would become the financing source for new wholesale and retail Chrysler cars.

On March 30, 2009, Cerberus Capital Management announced that it would voluntarily give up its equity stake in the Chrysler as a condition of the US Treasury Department's bailout deal, but would retain its stake in Chrysler's financing arm, Chrysler Financial. Cerberus agreed to provide $2 billion to backstop a $4 billion December 2008 US Treasury Department loan given to Chrysler. In exchange for obtaining that loan, it promised many concessions including surrendering equity, foregoing profits, and giving up board seats. US Treasury and the Obama administration recognized the "sacrifices by key stakeholders" in an effort to give Chrysler the "opportunity to thrive as a long-term viable 21st century company".

Chrysler Financial, once the exclusive lending arm of the automaker, remained owned by Cerberus until April 2011.

Chrysler Financial initially refused to take $750 million in Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) government bailout aid because executives didn't want to abide by executive-pay limits, and because the firm doesn't necessarily need the money.  In January 2009, Chrysler Financial was the recipient of $1.5 billion from the Troubled Asset Relief Program. The company said that it used the money to fund 85,000 loans to purchase Chrysler automobiles. Chrysler Financial repaid all of the TARP loan in July 2009 by raising funds from an asset-backed securitization through the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility program.

In December 2010, Cerberus agreed to sell certain assets of Chrysler Financial to TD Bank Group for $6.3 billion in cash, retaining approximately $1 billion in Chrysler Financial assets.  This transaction, which closed in April 2011, allowed Cerberus to recover virtually all of its investment in Chrysler.Bloomberg. "Cerberus Is Said to Recoup 90% of Chrysler Investment After Loan Unit Sale" .

Staffing services
Advantage Hire Thinking (formerly known as Radia International).

Financial services
Cerberus acquired 51% of GMAC, General Motors' finance arm, in 2006 for $7.4 billion.  It appointed Ezra Merkin as nonexecutive Chairman.The New York Times. "Inquiry Started of Financier Who Invested With Madoff" .

On December 10, 2008, GMAC said, "GMAC LLC, the auto and home lender seeking federal aid, hasn't obtained enough capital to become a bank holding company and may abandon the effort, casting new doubt on the firm's ability to survive. A $38 billion debt exchange by GMAC and its Residential Capital LLC mortgage unit to reduce the company's outstanding debt and raise capital hasn't attracted enough participation.” GMAC's exposure to the gap in residual values was around $3.5 billion.