[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Gloria Richardson

on and prevent protests about the same topics another 100 years from now. She believed that these actions remain necessary in America today where Black citizens continue to face inequities in the "criminal justice system, housing, health care, and other areas compared with their White counterparts".

Her legacy is less known than many other women in the movement such as Rosa Parks and Dorothy Height. Lopez Matthews Jr., a historian and digital production librarian at Howard University, believes that she is not well-known because "she was a woman who was feisty and who refused to back down. As a society, we tend not to value those traits in women". However, those traits made Richardson a great leader in the civil rights movement, because she did not back down. In the biography, The Struggle is Eternal: Gloria Richardson and Black Liberation, the author, Joseph Fitzgerald, believes that Richardson was not in the Civil Rights movement for a career. Instead, she was in it solely for the purpose of advancing Black liberation. He believes this is the reason why Richardson stepped aside when she felt that she could be of no further meaningful use in the movement. An oral history of Richardson is included in the 2006 book Generation on Fire: Voices of Protest from the 1960s by Jeff Kisseloff; in a review for The Journal of Popular Culture, Ray Schuck writes, "When Gloria Richardson mentions how she and others put red pepper on their legs to deter attack dogs, you understand the enormity of the struggle for equality".

In 2017, the state of Maryland honored her legacy by dedicating February 11 as "Gloria Richardson Day". Although Richardson was not able to travel as planned to Cambridge's historic Bethel AME Church to be recognized in person, she spoke to the packed church in a live remote broadcast from her apartment. Five months later, a fireside chat was facilitated by Kisha Petticolas, the co-founder of the Eastern Shore Network for Change (ESNC), at the Hyatt Regency Chesapeake Bay Resort in Cambridge. Richardson was a featured speaker at the Reflection's banquet, where her remarks "brought 300 guests to their feet in a sustained standing ovation".

Richardson helped to establish a new image for Black women in the United States. She replaced the image of a long-suffering martyr with the image of a woman as a warrior. When Richardson was asked how she would like to be remembered, she replied: "I guess I would like for them to say I was true to my belief in black people as a race". Today, there is a mural placed left of center next to Dorchester native and Underground Railroad conductor Harriet Tubman of Gloria boldly demanding justice.

She died in New York on July 15, 2021.

References

Bibliography

Further reading

Scholarly monographs

Fitzgerald, Joseph R. (2018). The Struggle Is Eternal: Gloria Richardson and Black Liberation, Lexington: University Press of Kentucky. .

Journal articles

Dissertations and theses

Non-academic works

External links
 
 SNCC Digital Gateway: Gloria Richardson, Documentary website created by the SNCC Legacy Project and Duke University, telling the story of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and grassroots organizing from the inside-out
 Cambridge MD, Movement 1962-1967, Provided by the Civil Rights Movement Archive website
 How Gloria Richardson's Look of Righteous Indignation Became a Symbol of No Retreat, an article by Janelle Harris Dixon containing many photographs of and an extensive interview of Gloria Richardson, Smithsonian, February 9, 2022

1922 births
2021 deaths
African-American activists
Activists from New York City
Activists for African-American civil rights
History of civil rights in the United States
Howard University alumni
Activists from Baltimore
People from Cambridge, Maryland
21st-century African-American people