[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Filipe Teixeira

Filipe Andrade Teixeira (; born 2 October 1980) is a Portuguese retired footballer. Born in France, he was regarded as technical and creative, being capable of playing in several midfield positions.

Teixeira started out as a senior at Felgueiras in 1998, and spent the first part of his career with stints between Portugal and France, namely at Istres, Paris Saint-Germain, União Leiria and Académica. He moved to English club West Bromwich Albion in 2007 and also had a loan spell at Barnsley in 2010, before spending his late years in Ukraine, Romania and the United Arab Emirates.

Internationally, Teixeira represented Portugal at under-18, under-20 and under-21 levels. With the former side, he won the UEFA European Championship in 1999.

Club career

Early career
Born in Boulogne-Billancourt, France, Teixeira started his senior career with Felgueiras in the Segunda Liga, being an automatic first-choice since the age of 18.

After a career-best nine goals in 2000–01 season, he returned to his nation of birth – his parents were Portuguese immigrants – and signed with Ligue 2 club Istres.

Paris Saint-Germain
Although he appeared sparingly for the Bouches-du-Rhône side in his only season, Teixeira joined Ligue 1 after being transferred to Paris Saint-Germain where he teamed up with Brazil's Ronaldinho, being rarely used during his spell with the capital side.

Teixeira then returned to Portugal, making his Primeira Liga debut at Vítor Pontes's União de Leiria, on loan, and playing alongside Hugo Almeida and Luís Filipe. At the end of the campaign he went back to PSG, and shared teams up with two more compatriots: Pauleta and Hugo Leal.

Another move to Portugal followed, as Teixeira signed for Académica de Coimbra. With the Students, he only missed five league game in two seasons combined, helping the team to consecutive 13th-place finishes (the competition changed from 18 to 16 clubs for 2006–07).

West Bromwich Albion
Teixeira completed a move to West Bromwich Albion on 17 July 2007 for a fee of £600,000, signing a three-year contract. He made his pre-season debut one week later against Northampton Town, scoring twice, and his first appearance in the Football League Championship came in a 1–2 defeat at Burnley, on the opening day of the season.

Teixeira scored his first goal for Albion in a 2–0 home win over Barnsley, on 1 September 2007. His performances in midfield during that month earned him a place on the shortlist for Championship Player of the Month, although the award eventually went to Watford's Darius Henderson.

Teixeira was stretchered off after 18 minutes of WBA's 3–0 home win against Plymouth Argyle in early March 2008, when he landed awkwardly following a clash with Gary Sawyer– initial scans on the player's knee suggested that he had suffered cruciate ligament damage and was "likely to miss the rest of the campaign". The prognosis proved correct and he returned to Portugal to have an operation, before undergoing rehabilitation at former club Académica; as Albion promoted to the Premier League, he contributed with five goals in 30 games.

On 31 January 2010, having appeared scarcely for WBA following his return from injury, Teixeira joined fellow division two club Barnsley, on loan until the rest of the season.

Late career
On 22 June 2010, aged nearly 30, Teixeira joined Ukrainian side Metalurh Donetsk on a two-year contract, after being granted a free transfer from West Bromwich– he teamed up at the club with compatriots China and Mário Sérgio. In February of the following year, however, he was loaned to FC Brașov in Romania for six months.

Teixeira continued in Romania and its Liga I for the 2011–12 season, signing for Rapid București. He was released from his contract after the club entered administration, and moved to the United Arab Emirates with Al-Shaab.

Teixeira returned to Romania in the summer of 2013, joining Petrolul Ploiești. He scored seven league goals in 29 games in his debut campaign, helping his new team to the third position with the subsequent qualification to the UEFA Europa League; on 7 August 2014 he opened the scoring against Viktoria Plzeň, contributing to 4–1 away win for the third qualifying round of the Europa League (5–2 on aggregate).

On 23 June 2017, after spending the preceding two seasons with Astra Giurgiu where he won the 2015–16 national title, Teixeira signed a one-year contract with FCSB. He netted his first competitive goal on 25 July, his header helping to a 2–2 home draw to Viktoria Plzeň for the third qualifying round of the UEFA Champions League; he scored again in the second leg, a 4–1 victory where he also obtained a penalty. Teixeira played his last professional match on 19 May 2019, scoring the only goal in a league win over CFR Cluj.

Career statistics

Club

Honours
West Bromwich Albion
Championship: 2007–08

Rapid București
Cupa României runner-up: 2011–12

Petrolul Ploiești
Supercupa României runner-up: 2013