[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# András Simonyi

hoped the Hungarian government would name the innovative bridge after him, leading to the ambassador's appearance on the show.

Voting was taking place in an online poll on the Ministry's website. On 8 August 2006 the newswire service Reuters had reported that Chuck Norris was the leading candidate.

He appeared on the 10 April 2007 episode, in response to comments Colbert claimed to have made on his supposed radio show, Colbert on the Ert, about Hungarians' lack of guitar playing talent, in a parody of Don Imus' recent comments about the Rutgers women's basketball team. After referring to the alleged scandal throughout the episode, the ambassador appeared suddenly in the tag playing an electric guitar live. After Simonyi offered Colbert the Hungarian-made eagle-headed guitar, Colbert apologized, they both agreed that the Finnish could not play guitar, and Simonyi played as the show went to credits.

Literary work

" Rocking Toward a Free World: When the Stratocaster Beat the Kalashnikov " (Hatchette/Grand Central, 2019) a memoir about his childhood and youth, growing up behind the Iron Curtain with Western Rock and Roll music being his defining experience. The book, published in 2019, is a testament to the power of American and British Rock and Roll and how it became a tool to break the monopoly and the monotony of Marxist ideology "force fed" to the youths of Central and Eastern Europe by Soviet dominated authorities. Listening to Rock Music on Radio Free Europe, the Voice of America or Radio Luxemburg, the British pop radio-station, was his link to the West. "When I listened to that station, it was as if I had once again become one with my friends in the West. I closed my eyes and the border disappeared", he says in the book.

Music

As a seven year old  met American singer Paul Robeson in Budapest, which sealed his love of American blues music. In 1963 he heard the Beatles for the first time and has been a rock devotee ever since.

He is a lifelong practitioner of the electric guitar. He had his first rock band at age 15, the Purple Generator. In 2003 while ambassador to the United States, he became a founding member of The Coalition of the Willing with Jeff "Skunk" Baxter (Steely Dan, Doobie Brothers),  Linc Bloomfield (bass),  Dan Poneman (guitar), Alexander "Sandy" Vershbow (drums 2003–2004) and Dan McDermot (drums 2004–present). Secretary of State Antony Blinken (guitar, vocals), a personal and professional acquaintance of the band's members has played with the band since 2016.

He appeared with GoodTime Charlie lewis on famed guitarist Jerry Miller's (of Moby Grape)  2006 Best Friends CD.

You can sometimes find him  late at night jamming with musicians at Madam's Organ Blues Bar in Adams Morgan in Washington D.C.

Academia
In November 2010, Ambassador Simonyi began his tour of American university and college centers. He focused his lectures on building transatlantic relationships through innovation. At his visit with Ohio University Global Leadership Center undergraduates, Simonyi described a situation where the world has, as a positive thing, become affixed to ideas based in American innovation. He warned that the day "a Facebook or prominent innovation" comes "from Beijing rather than America" will be the day the West knows it has allowed itself to slow. Simonyi was honored by Ohio University students and faculty for his contributions to international diplomacy.

In February 2012, Johns Hopkins University announced that Simonyi joined the university as the managing director of the Center for Transatlantic Relations. He remained at Johns Hopkins University until May 2018. Today he is associated with the George Washington University.

Personal Life

He is married and has two children. His greatest influence are his parents. His political hero is Winston Churchill.

References

External links
Washington Diplomat Bio
Hungarian embassy in the USA: Simonyi presenting his letter of credence to President Bush
Columns at Huffington Post
Andras Simonyi Interview NAMM Oral History Library (2020)

1952 births
Living people
Ambassadors of Hungary to the United States
Diplomats from Budapest
Corvinus University of Budapest alumni