[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Frederick Walker (native police commandant)

cts of £1160 14s 11d were left to his sister Harriet Yorke.

Legacy
Walkers Creek, located near Marathon Station in far north Queensland is named after Frederick Walker.

Frederick Walker's grave is located  south of the township on Floraville Station, in far north Queensland. The inscription reads:

On August 17 1848 Frederick Walker, aged 28, was appointed to the position of Commandant of the Corps of Native Police having emigrated from Australia from England. The Corps commenced with fourteen troopers recruited from four different New South Wales tribes. In 1850 Walker had three units and two lieutenants in the corps and by 1852 he increased the Corps with 48 additional Aboriginal troopers who were drilled and trained in the use of carbines, swords, saddles and bridles. On 12 October 1854 Walker was dismissed from the service for impropriety of conduct due to his heavy drinking. After his dismissal he continued to live on the frontier and briefly formed an illegal force of ten ex-troopers from the Native Police Corps to protect settlers in the Upper Dawson region. In August 1861 fears had grown for the safety of the Burke and Wills expedition and Walker was sent at the insistence of the Royal Society of Victoria to search for the ill-fated expedition.

There are two memorial plaques to Frederick Walker in Hughenden commemorating his actions in attempting to find the Burke and Wills expedition party.

The original letter from Frederick Walker to the Colonial Secretary regarding an attack of the Native Police on "Friendly Blacks" at a station in Central Queensland, killing and wounding several of them. was ranked #45 in the ‘Top 150: Documenting Queensland’ exhibition when it toured to venues around Queensland from February 2009 to April 2010.  The exhibition was part of Queensland State Archives’ events and exhibition program which contributed to the state’s Q150 celebrations, marking the 150th anniversary of the separation of Queensland from New South Wales.

References

Further reading
Paul Dillon, Frederick Walker Commandant of the Native Police (Brisbane: Connor Court Publishing, 2018). .

External links
J. T. S Bird of Rockhampton account of events in the early 20th century

1820 births
1866 deaths
Explorers of Australia
Year of birth uncertain
History of Indigenous Australians
Defunct law enforcement agencies of Australia
Burke and Wills expedition
19th-century Australian public servants
Pre-Separation Queensland
Colony of Queensland people