[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Irish socialist volunteers in the Spanish Civil War

e volunteers were involved included the 1938 advance on Gandesa and the decisive Battle of Ebro where they fought as part of the XV Brigade.

Demobilization
On demobilization of Republican forces the Irish contingent marched to Marsa, later Els Guiamets, and then the demobilization center in Ripoll.

Motivations
Other factors outside of anti-fascist political conviction and the charismatic urging of Ryan and O'Donnell cited by volunteers for fighting in Spain include:
a series of riots in Belfast in 1932 and 1935. The 1932 riots, labeled the "Outdoor Relief Riots" were seen by many working class Protestants as a reason to turn to the politics of Socialism. William Tumilson, a working class Protestant, volunteered to join the IRA in the Short Strand district and subsequently became involved in the politics of Republican Congress following the riots.
Harry Midgley, leader of the Northern Ireland Labour Party, supported the Spanish Republic, but this alienated most of his Catholic supporters.
sections of the Catholic Church's support of Generalísimo Francisco Franco also turned many to support the legitimate government.
media reporting of the bombing of Guernica in April 1937 and a perceived bias in pro-Francoist media reporting in the Irish and British media. Along with radio reports given by Frank Ryan on "Radio Madrid".
it was easier to form a "common front" against fascism abroad rather than against imperialism and unionism at home
events organized across Ireland, including the Ulster Hall in Belfast, in which Basque representatives encouraged participation
a continuation of the struggle that the Irish had been engaged in; Tumlinson was to write home shortly before his death on 14 March 1937:
"Still determined to stay here until fascism is completely crushed. Impossible to do other than continue on with the slogan of Cathal Brugha: "No Surrender"

Legacy
The heavy toll paid by the Republican side in terms of manpower and eventual defeat lead to the imprisonment of those who did not escape from Spain following the victory of the Francoists. While many Socialist and Republicans were able to escape on time, they returned to an Ireland which had undergone significant change in terms of restrictions placed on those sympathetic to the aims of the IRA.

Commemorations of the part Irish Republicans and Socialists played in the conflict are still held and a plaque honoring IRA volunteers from the Short Strand in Belfast is the site of annual ceremonies. The Connolly bookshop in Dublin keeps various items of memorabilia from the troops who fought.

Notable Socialist Irish volunteers in Spain

Ulster

Arthur Archibald - Belfast
Archie F Bailey - Belfast
Victor Barr - Belfast
William (Bill) Beattie - Shankill Road, Belfast. Killed in the Battle of Brunete on 25 July 1937.
William Black - Belfast
Edward G (Ted) Bourne - Belfast
Joe Boyd -  Ulsterville Avenue, Belfast. Paramedic in the Scottish Ambulance Unit.
Danny Boyle - Belfast. Killed in the Battle of Jarama, 1937.
Robert Boyle - Belfast
James Campbell - Derry
John Campbell - Belfast
James W Clarke - Belfast
John Coleman - Belfast
James C Domegan - Belfast
Alex Donegan - Belfast
Charles (Charlie) Donnelly - Dungannon, County Tyrone. Killed in the Battle of Jarama on 27 July 1937
John (Paddy) Donovan - Belfast
Hugh (Pat) Dooley - Belfast
William Falconer - Belfast
John (Jack) Flynn - Derry
Albert F (Willie) Fulton - Belfast
George F Gorman - Derry. Killed in the Battle of the Ebro, 1938
William John Haire - Lurgan, County Armagh
Pat Hall - Belfast
James Patrick Haughey - Lurgan, County Armagh
John Hugh Heeney - Belfast
Bill Henry - Old Lodge Road, Belfast. Killed in the Battle of Jarama, 1937.
James Isaac Hillen - Belfast
Hugh Stewart Hunter - Ballyclare, County Antrim/York Street, Belfast
William Keenan - Bangor, County Down
Joseph Kelly - Belfast
Thomas A Kerr - Belfast
Jim Lamour - Belfast
William P (Bill) Laughran - Belfast. Killed at the Battle of Brunete, 1937.
James Richard (Bill) Lord - Belfast
Joseph E Lowry - Belfast
James (or Joseph) Patrick Magill - Lurgan, County Armagh
Samuel Martin - Belfast
William Meeke - Bushmills, County Antrim
Andrew Molyneaux - Belfast
William A Morrison - Belfast
John Murphy - Derry
Patrick K (Paddy) Murphy - Belfast
Thomas (Tom) Murphy - Monaghan/Belfast
Basil Andrew (Ben) Murray - Aughnacloy, County Tyrone/Ballymacarrett, Belfast. Killed in the Battle of Aragon 1938
Joe Murray, County Antrim
Richard John McAleenan - Banbridge, County Down
Paddy McAllister - Belfast (fought with Canadian Mackenzie-Papineau Battalion)
Paddy "Roe" McLaughlin - Lecamey, Donegal
Eamon McGrotty - Derry
Fred McMahon - Belfast. Paramedic in the Scottish Ambulance Unit
Paddy O'Daire - Glenties, County Donegal
Willie O'Hanlon - Belfast
Dick O'Neill - Falls Road, Belfast
James Straney - Short Strand, Belfast - KIA Advance on Gandesa, Hill 481, 1938
William "Liam" Tumilson - Belfast - KIA Battle of Jarama Hill, 14 March 1937

Other regions of Ireland