[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bella Dodd

k, Benjamin J. Davis Jr., and Pat Tuohy. Dodd began angling to leave the Party but was refused. In January 1946, Browder and all those suspected of "Browderism" were expelled from the Party; Dodd claimed "several thousands were expelled". These included writer Ruth McKenney and husband Bruce Minton.

Dodd began to come under government suspicion. She told the New York County district attorney's office she had become a Communist "because only the Communists seemed to care about what was happening to people in 1932 and 1933.... They were fighting hunger and misery and fascism then; and neither the major political parties nor the churches seemed to care." In Spring 1947, after Foster traveled to Europe for consultations with Moscow, the Party replaced the Daily Worker editor Morris Childs with John Gates, with Dodd abstaining from the vote. Foster announced plans for a new Progressive Party, and in January 1948, "before Henry Wallace had made any public statement, in fact even before the Progressive Party had been formally organized, Foster announced through the Associated Press that it was going to be formed and that Henry Wallace would be its standard bearer."

By late 1947, Dodd became convinced of her pending Party expulsion for Browderism, and focused on her law work. On June 17, 1949, she heard from the Associated Press: "We have received a statement from the Communist Party announcing your expulsion from membership. It says here that you are anti-Negro, anti-Puerto Rican, anti-Semitic, anti-labor, and the defender of a landlord." Officially, Dodd was expelled for representing a landlord in a legal dispute with a renter, violating Party bylaws against defense of private property.

Post-Communist career

Catholicism
On April 8, 1952, Dodd rejoined the Roman Catholic Church at Saint Patrick’s Cathedral, New York City,  after taking weekly instruction from Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen (whose converts also included Louis F. Budenz and Clare Booth Luce). She became an outspoken proponent for the Catholic Church and a vocal anti-communist, warning against the "materialistic philosophy" which guided public education and demoralized Americans, as well as formed the basis of both Communism and National Socialism.

Congressional Testimony
On March 10, 1953, Dodd testified before a televised hearing of the U.S. Senate Internal Security Subcommittee (SISS) about covert Party infiltration of labor unions and other institutions. The following day, The New York Times front page stated: "Bella Dodd Asserts Reds Got Presidential Advisory Posts." Dodd had testified that "Communists had got into many legislative offices of Congress and into a number of groups advising the President of the United States," as well as the State of New York's Office of Education in Albany and New York City's Board of Education, and the Party had "read the minds" of some thousand school and college teachers in New York. It had been very easy for her to inject communist beliefs into her teaching: this was the "function of a Communist teacher...to create people willing to accept a Communist government." The only way to root out communism among teachers would be by "a Federal investigating group with subpoena power."

On June 17–18, 1953, Dodd testified before the U.S. House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC), under the questioning of HUAC lead counsel Robert Lowe Kunzig. She claimed to have resigned her Party position in 1946 and returned to law. (However, in her memoir, she reports that she continued to use her position as a lawyer to continue Party work until her expulsion in 1949. She testified that she knew J. Peters.)

She explained:
 "The Communist Party in this country set itself up as the one organization that was fighting fascism."
 "I went in the Teachers' Union and I received $60 a week... When I went to serve as the legislative representative of the Communist Party, I received $50 a week... We weren't doing it for pay. We were doing it because we really believe in it."
 Her dedication to Communism arose from nascent Browderism: "After the Tehran Conference and Yalta Conference, we were told the United States and the Soviet Union were going forward to a hundred years of peace."
 American communists can justify overthrowing their government because "They (the Party) divide your loyalty to the 'country' from loyalty to the 'people.'"
 When she tried to leave the Party in 1946, New York party secretary Bill Norman told her "Nobody gets out of the Party. We throw you out, but you don't get out by yourself." She was warned that leaving the Party would descend into becoming a "stool pigeon." She remarked, "That is a hard word to live with. It is a hard word to live with."