[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Crows and Sparrows

cius)
Zhao Dan as Mr. Xiao (nicknamed Little Broadcast)
Wu Yin as Mrs. Xiao
Sun Daolin as Hua Jiezhi
Shangguan Yunzhu as Mrs. Hua
Li Tianji as Hou Yibo
Huang Zongying as Yu Xiaoying (or Mrs. Hou)
Wang Bei as Ah Mei
Wang Lulu as Wei Wei
Xu Weijie as Da Mao
Qiu Huan as Er Mao
Ge Meiqiang as Little Mao

Introduction of Main Characters 
Kong Youwen (nicknamed Confucius)An experienced proof-reader in the newspaper office, who's grown pessimistic after years of hardship. His son is a member of the communist New Fourth Army. Kong used to own the apartment complex, but he's been relegated to a small apartment on the bottom floor after Hou Yibo seized the building by threat of force.
Mr. Xiao (nicknamed Little Broadcast)A street vendor and commodity speculator. He has a preoccupation with wealth, and schemes to get rich, such as hoarding expensive medication in hopes the price will surge. He lives with his wife, Mrs. Xiao, and their three sons, Big Mao, Second Mao, and Little Mao, in a ground floor apartment.
Mrs. Xiao Another street vendor, who sells mostly canned goods important from the United States. She shares her husband's aspirations of riches. Despite their schemes and caches of valuables, their family lives in relative economic precarity.
Hua Jiezhi A left-leaning but somewhat self-important and cowardly high school teacher. He's well read in liberal and communist literature and speaks highly of social transformation, but several recent arrests of political organizers at his school have left him paranoid and avoidant of anything that might risk his position. He lives with his wife, Mrs. Hua, and their daughter Wei Wei in a small terrace apartment.
Mrs. Hua   A hardworking mother struggling to provide for her family. She's deeply devoted to her daughter and husband, although she sometimes grows frustrated with Mr. Hua over his neglect of practical matters in favor of loft theory.
Hou Yibo  A mid-ranking section chief at the KMT Ministry of Defence. He's prone to petty and self-enriching corruption, like using his government connections and relationship with the police to seize the apartment building previously owned by Kong Youwen. He lives with his concubine Yu Xiaoying on the second floor. 
Yu Xiaoying (or Mrs. Hou) A concubine of Hou Yibo.  She largely lives a life of leisure, playing mahjong with friends and attending to Mr. Hou's wealth and properties. She's distrustful of the building's tenants, and often seeks to further exploit them.
Ah Mei A girl from the countryside who works as a servant for Yu Xiaoying and Hou Yibo.

Theme & Title
The title is a dramatization of small birds banding together to fend off a larger crow. The Metaphor of tiny sparrows is used to highlight the struggle of the common people against their oppressors.

This dramatization was inspired by the events of the Chinese civil war. In 1948, China's political situation was unstable and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) was carrying out three major battles against Kuomintang. Actors and employees of the Kunlun Film Company  discussed a potential script over dinner, highlighting the political and social difficulties of recent events. Sensing that significant changes were about to occur in China, it was decided that the film would serve as an allegory towards China ushering towards a new age.

Drawing both from the literal and the metaphorical, the setting of the apartment building draws on the imagery of the housing shortages that occurred after the conclusion of China's war with Japan to explore themes of a divided and exploited nation. Many tenants were forced to share living spaces with other equally destitute occupants given the inflation from the war. These cramped living spaces forced people from all trades of life, and a diverse range of economic classes, to collude together. The "house" also serves as a nation usurped by dictators but eventually returned to its original owners, who promise to construct a new future. The two-storey house epitomises and literalises the social hierarchy of the crows and the sparrow, Hou and his mistress lord it over the tenants and live upstairs, where Kong used to live as the original owner. The tenants divide up the rooms below according to their social positions and professions.