[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Adel Taarabt

the matches against Manchester City and Stoke City. During this period, continued speculation linked him with PSG, and Warnock even admitted he would gladly accept an offer for Taraabt if the right one came along. Adel was considered the best Arab player of 2011 for the Argélia Le Buteur newspaper.

Taraabt went on international duty and also had some minor injuries which also saw him left out of the side at this stage. Warnock was highly critical of the player's agents during this period and laid much of the blame for him being unsettled at their feet. He advised him to rethink the advice they had given him and said, "They won't make him better and I think it is a shame. Adel can always make money but he is better than that. I will be sad if he ends up going to make some money because I think he has great ability." Still left out of the side throughout most of November, subsequent injuries to his teammates saw a recall, however, and he was commended for his performance in the 2–0 loss to Manchester United on 18 December. He sustained this level of improved performance against Sunderland and Swansea City. On 31 March, Taarabt scored the first goal in QPR's victory over Arsenal, and was also voted Man of the Match. Taarabt followed up his goal against Arsenal by scoring a long-range free-kick, the winning goal in a victory over his former club Tottenham on 21 April. He was also shown his first red card in English football in the same match for a second bookable offence.

2012–13 season
On 11 July 2012, Taarabt signed a new three-year contract with QPR, keeping him at the club until June 2015. On 1 October 2012, he scored his first goal of the season against West Ham United with a dipping long-range shot after dribbling past two players. He scored his second goal in three matches with an emphatic volley away against West Bromwich Albion on 6 October. On 15 December, he scored both goals in QPR's first victory of the 2012–13 season, a 2–1 win over West London rivals Fulham, the second with a mazy dribble ending with a finish on the outside of his foot. Manager Harry Redknapp praised Taarabt by stating, "It was one of the all-time great performances, I felt." On 2 January 2013, in QPR's second win of the season, a 1–0 away victory over rivals Chelsea, Taarabt was played in an unfamiliar striker position, gaining the Man of the Match award and assisting the only goal, described as "Pelé-esque".

Fulham (loan)
Taarabt joined Premier League side Fulham on a season-long loan on 7 August 2013. He made his Fulham debut in an away match against Sunderland, where he played the full 90 minutes. He scored his first goal for the club against Burton Albion in the League Cup on 27 August 2013.

AC Milan (loan)
On 30 January 2014, Taarabt signed for AC Milan until the end of the season, demonstrating the Rossoneris renewed ambition on the transfer market. He scored his first goal for Milan eight minutes into his debut, against Napoli, having tackled the ball in his own half and dribbling halfway across the pitch to score from outside the box in a 3–1 loss. On 19 February, he made his debut in the UEFA Champions League, in the first leg of the round of 16 in a 1–0 loss at the San Siro against Atlético Madrid.

Return to QPR 
In the 2014 summer season, Taarabt returned from his loan spells back to QPR, but after starting in the League Cup match against Burton Albion on 27 August, only came on as a substitute in the away match against West Ham. Responding to a journalist's question, QPR manager Harry Redknapp stated after his team's home defeat against Liverpool, "Taarabt is not injured. He's not fit. He's not fit to play football unfortunately. He played in a reserve game the other day and I could have run about more than he did. I can't pick him." Taarabt responded that Redknapp was "making excuses because QPR are losing games", adding, "[M]aybe he expects me to make more tackles. I am not this type of player."

Benfica
On 12 June 2015, Taarabt signed a five-year contract with Portuguese champions Benfica on €4 million transfer fee. On 10 January 2017, he joined Italian club Genoa on a loan deal until June 2018.

After seven months with Benfica's reserve team, Taarabt returned to the first-team in February 2019, making his debut on 30 March 2019 as a 71st-minute substitute in a 1–0 home win over Tondela in Primeira Liga.

During the 2019–20 season, Taarabt established himself as a regular starter for Benfica in an unfamiliar defensive midfield position. On 1 September 2022, Benfica announced the termination of his contract.

Al-Nasr SC
On 25 September 2022, Taarabt joined Emirati club Al-Nasr SC.

International career