[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hermano Pule

rnment forces lasted four hours. Three to five hundred men, women, elders, and children were killed on the cofradía side. Afterwards, 500 were taken prisoner, including 300 women. The rest of the cofradía escaped to the forests and were not pursued. Only eleven were wounded on the government's side.

Capture, trial, and execution
Pule fled to Barrio Gibanga in Sariaya but was captured by Colonel Huet's forces the following evening. On November 4, 1841, after a summary trial held at the Casa Comunidad in Tayabas town, he was tortured and later executed by firing squad at age 26. The Spanish authorities had his body quartered. His dismembered head, hands, and feet were exhibited throughout Tayabas province.

The other leaders of the Cofradía—Octavio Ygnacio "Purgatorio" de San Jorge, Dionisio de los Reyes, Francisco Espinosa de la Cruz, Gregorio Miguel de Jesus, and around 200 other cofradía prisoners—were also executed the same day as Pule.

Aftermath and legacy

Public reaction and Supreme Court investigation
The 1841 Alitao massacre became a public controversy in Manila, where flyers criticizing the government's actions were circulated. The Real Audiencia blamed De Oraá for his failure to consult them prior to sending troops, and his order to give no quarter to the cofradía fighters. Meanwhile, Governor-General De Oraá blamed Colonel Huet for allegedly exceeding his orders.

After investigating the massacre, the Supreme Court of Spain officially reprimanded Governor-General De Oraá. The court affirmed that Pule and the cofradía had no political motives. However, they acknowledged that the cofradía had committed an ecclesiastical offense for conducting religious activities without the approval of the Catholic Church.

Mutiny of the Tayabas Regiment
On January 20, 1843, members of the Spanish Armed Forces' Tayabas Regiment stationed in Manila, led by Sergeant Irineo Samaniego, rose in mutiny in retaliation for the November 1841 massacre of the cofradía members. They managed to capture Fort Santiago and held it for a few hours, but were defeated the next day. Eighty-two mutineers were immediately executed on Bagumbayan Field, while the rest were imprisoned.

Revival of the Cofradía and the origin of the colorums
In 1870, the Cofradía de San José was revived under the leadership of Profeta y Pontifice ('Prophet and Pope') Juanario Labios. The members of the revived cofradía claimed to have witnessed the alleged joint apparition of the Virgin of the Rosary, Hermano Pule, and Octavio Ygnacio "Purgatorio" de San Jorge. The activities of the revived cofradía ended in 1871 when Labios and his followers were captured and banished to Mindoro and the Calamian Islands.

The surviving members of the Cofradía de San José, who lived in the vicinity of Mount San Cristobal and Mount Banahaw, continued with their religious activities and were known as colorums, a corruption of the Latin phrase in saecula saeculorum ('unto the ages of ages'), which was used at Mass to end prayers. During the American colonial era, the term colorum was applied to all the cults and insurgent groups characterized by Roman Catholic devotion, folk superstition, and hero worship. Some of these groups are still active today in various provinces in the Philippines.

Beginning in the 1930s, the colloquial meaning in the Philippines behind colorum became extended to any illegal activity, notably the unregistered public utility vehicles.

Commemoration
A monument to Hermano Pule now stands on the boundary of Tayabas and Lucena. His death anniversary, November 4, is a holiday in Quezon.

A play titled "Ang Unang Pagtatanghal ng 'Ang Huling Pasyon ni Hermano Pule'" was written by Rosauro de la Cruz and was first performed in 1975. It won the first prize for the one-act play in Filipino category of the 1972 Palanca Awards.

The historical film Ang Hapis at Himagsik ni Hermano Puli (The Agony and Fury of Brother Puli''), directed by Gil Portes and starring Aljur Abrenica as Hermano Puli, was released in September 2016.

Footnotes

References

Bibliography

1815 births
1841 deaths
Catholic Church in the Philippines
Executed Filipino people
Filipino Christian religious leaders
Filipino revolutionaries
Filipino Roman Catholics
Paramilitary Filipinos
People from Quezon
People from Tayabas
People from the Spanish colonial Philippines
People executed by Spain by firing squad
Tagalog people
Torture victims
19th-century Filipino people