[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mort Künstler

et wide and 12 feet high, Künstler says it is “the most important painting I've ever done." Civil War historian Harold Holzer, formerly with the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which owns the original Leutze painting, called Künstler "the best-known and most respected historical artist in this country."

Other works
His later work covered a wider range of subject, including all the wars from the American Revolution through the Korean and Vietnam wars, with many paintings of World War II.  He painted historical events such as the Oklahoma Land Rush  and he tried to humanize emotional settings by paintings of new immigrants at Ellis Island or Teddy Roosevelt celebrating the 4th of July. Some experts feel that it was Künstler's ability to humanize such moments which distinguished his works from most other historical artists.

He also painted subjects which illustrated American technological advances, such as dramatic illustrations of the Space Shuttle Columbia, for which NASA made him their official artist. His paintings recorded its manufacture, launching and landing.

In 1998, his paintings were exhibited at The North Carolina Museum of Art and at other U.S. museums, including the National Civil War Museum in Harrisburg, the North Carolina Museum of History in Raleigh, and the Museum of the Confederacy in Richmond.

Among the eight books featuring his work, is the 1986 coffee-table book The American Spirit: The Paintings of Mort Künstler, which contains nearly 200 images and commentary written by historian Henry Steele Commager. An updated edition of The American Spirit was published in 1994.

Awards and honors
1992. Painted a United States postage stamp depicting the Buffalo Soldiers.
1993. a one-hour television special with Stacy Keach  entitled Images of the Civil War: The Paintings of Mort Künstler, was shown on the A&E network. (DVD released in 2014)
1999. Virginia officially declared a “Mort Künstler Day.”
2000. Virginia Governor James Gilmore officially opened an exhibition at Richmond's Museum of the Confederacy. The exhibit, titled, The Confederate Spirit: The Paintings of Mort Künstler, was the first one-man exhibition that the museum had ever held.
2001. Made official artist for the motion picture Gods and Generals.
2001. He received the Henry Timrod Southern Culture Award.
2002. Künstler became the first artist to be honored by a six-month, one-man exhibition at the new National Civil War Museum in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
2003. He received the Jefferson Davis Southern Heritage Award, both by the Military Order of the Stars and Bars.
2003.  A residence hall at Timber Ridge School - a residency academy for special students in Winchester, Virginia, was named Mort Künstler Hall in his honor, because of his art assistance.
 2004. Named an official artist for the H. L. Hunley, a submarine of the Confederate States of America, at which time he unveiled a new painting of the vessel during ceremonies in Charleston, South Carolina.
2004. Commissioned to furnish all the artwork for the Middletown, Ohio, Veterans Memorial, which was unveiled on July 4, 2004.
2011. His depiction of George Washington crossing the Delaware River was unveiled at the New York Historical Society on December 26, 2011, the 235th anniversary of the actual event, to great acclaim.

Bibliography 

 Images of the Civil War: the Paintings of Mort Künstler (1992), 
 Gettysburg: The Paintings of Mort Künstler (Text by James M. McPherson) (1993), 
 The American Spirit: The Paintings of Mort Kunstler (1994) 
 Jackson & Lee: Legends in Gray (1995), 
 Mort Künstler's Old West. Cowboys. (1998), 
 Mort Künstler's Old West. Indians. (1998), 
 Gods and Generals: the Paintings of Mort Künstler (2002), 
 The Civil War Paintings of Mort Künstler (2006), 
 For Us the Living: The Civil War in Paintings and Eyewitness Accounts (2010),

Museums and institutions who have examples of his work
Pritzker Military Museum & Library

References

Other sources 

 Official website
 American Gallery showing art by Mort Kunstler
 Early men's magazine art by Kunstler
 Crossing the Delaware, More Accurately
 Mort Künstler at American Art Archives
 King James Gallery of Mort Kunstler art

1931 births
Living people
20th-century American painters
21st-century American painters
21st-century American male artists
20th-century American illustrators
American male painters
American people of Austrian-Jewish descent
American people of Polish-Jewish descent
American war artists
Film poster artists
Jewish American artists
Abraham Lincoln High School (Brooklyn) alumni
Brooklyn College alumni
Pratt Institute alumni
University of California, Los Angeles alumni
21st-century American Jews
20th-century American male artists