[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 76]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

t what that light was,
which danced before you in so extraordinary a manner?

_Harry._--When I came home, my father told me it was what the common
people called a _Jack-o'-the-lantern_; and Mr Barlow has since informed
me that these things are only vapours, which rise out of the earth in
moist and fenny places, although they have that bright appearance; and
therefore told me that many people, like me, who have taken them for a
lighted candle, have followed them, as I did, into bogs and ditches.

Just as Harry had finished his story, they arrived at Mr Barlow's; and
after sitting some time, and talking over the accidents of the day, the
little boys retired to bed. Mr Barlow was sitting alone and reading in
his parlour, when, to his great surprise, Tommy came running into the
room, half undressed, and bawling out, "Sir, sir, I have found it out!
they move! they move!" "What moves?" said Mr Barlow. "Why, Charles' Wain
moves," answered Tommy; "I had a mind to take one peep at the sky before
I went to bed, and I see that all the seven stars have moved from their
places a great way higher up the sky." "Well," said Mr Barlow, "you are
indeed right. You have done a vast deal to-day, and to-morrow we will
talk over these things again."

When the morrow came, Tommy put Mr Barlow in mind of the story he had
promised him about the people buried in the snow. Mr Barlow looked him
out the book, but first said, "It is necessary to give you some
explanation. The country where this accident happened is a country full
of rocks and mountains, so excessively high that the snow never melts
upon their tops." "Never?" said Tommy; "not even in the summer?" "Not
even in the summer. The valleys between these mountains are inhabited by
a brave and industrious people; the sides of them, too, are cultivated,
but the tops of the highest mountains are so extremely cold that the ice
and snow never melt, but go on continually increasing. During a great
part of the winter the weather is extremely cold, and the inhabitants
confine themselves within their houses, which they have the art to
render very comfortable. Almost all the roads are then impassable, and
snow and ice afford the only prospect. But when the year begins to grow
warmer, the snow is frequently thawed upon the sides of the mountains,
and undermined by the torrents of water, which pour down with
irresistible fury. Hence it frequently happens that such prodigious
masses of snow fall down as are sufficient to bury beasts and houses,
and even villages themselves, beneath them.

"It was in the neighbourhood of these prodigious mountains, which are
called the _Alps_, that, on the 19th of March 1755, a small cluster of
houses was entirely overwhelmed by two vast bodies of snow that tumbled
down upon them from a greater height. All the inhabitants were then
within doors, except one Joseph Rochia, and his son, a lad of fifteen,
who were on the roof of their house clearing away the snow, which had
fallen for three days incessantly. A priest going by to church advised
them to come down, having just before observed a body of snow tumbling
from the mountain towards them. The man descended with great
precipitation, and fled with his son he knew not whither; but scarcely
had he gone thirty or forty steps before his son, who followed him, fell
down; on which, looking back, he saw his own and his neighbours' houses,
in which were twenty-two persons in all, covered with a high mountain of
snow. He lifted up his son, and reflecting that his wife, his sister,
two children, and all his effects, were thus buried, he fainted away;
but, soon reviving, got safe to a friend's house at some distance.

"Five days after, Joseph, being perfectly recovered, got upon the snow,
with his son and two of his wife's brothers, to try if he could find the
exact place where his house stood; but, after many openings made in the
snow, they could not discover it. The month of April proving hot, and
the snow beginning to soften, he again used his utmost endeavours to
recover his effects, and to bury, as he thought, the remains of his
family. He made new openings, and threw in earth to melt the snow, which
on the 24th of April was greatly diminished. He broke through ice six
English feet thick, with iron bars, thrust down a long pole and touched
the ground; but evening coming on, he desisted.

"The next day the brother of his wife, who had heard of the misfortunes
of the family, came to the house where Joseph was, and after resting
himself a little, went with him to work upon the snow, where they made
another opening, which led them to the house they searched for; but,
finding no dead bodies in its ruins, they sought for the stable, which
was about two hundred and forty English feet distant, which, having
found, they heard the cry of 'Help, my dear brother!' Being greatly
surprised, as well as encouraged by these words, they laboured with all
di