[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rodrigo Riera

era to stage a concert in New York, where she was residing. The recital was very successful in a city which, although traditionally is rich in culture, was thirsty for good classical guitar. Riera ended up staying for years, consolidating his triple career as composer, concert guitarist and teacher.

During those years, Riera composed many important works, the best known today being the Preludio Criollo, which is a required piece in the guitar syllabi in Europe and the Americas. He also composed the prelude Elorac which features a very daring harmonic structure and style that predates the works of modern guitar composers such as Leo Brouwer, Roland Dyens and Carlo Domeniconi.

Riera also performed many times on different stages and concert halls in the U.S. East Coast both as a solo guitarist and as featured soloist with an orchestra.

Riera was a popular member of New York's Society of the Classic Guitar.  He frequented Mirko's Restaurant, a salon frequented by luminaries of the New York guitar scene, namely Vladimir Bobri, Gregory d'Alessio, and Segovia's inner circle.  Known as the leading improviser on the classic guitar he created spontaneous accompaniments to many standard etudes.  Riera collaborated with the Robert Joffrey Ballet Company arranging a work for guitar and orchestra, Antonio Vivaldi's Concerto in D-Major for Violin, Strings, a Cembalo, Pincherle 151 which he performed many times.  The work, Viva Vivaldi, remains a mainstay in the Joffrey repertoire.

The return to Venezuela: Self-realization as educator
In 1969 he decided to move back to Venezuela with his family. He established himself in Barquisimeto, in 1971, where he created a music studies program for the Universidad Centro Occidental Lisandro Alvarado. Additionally, in the summer months, he opened a teaching practice similar to what he had experienced in Siena. In 1971, he ran the first Curso Internacional de Guitarra between July 1 and August 30. Many Venezuelan and foreign-born guitarists attended. The last one took place in 1991.

Last years
He spent his last years composing and teaching further. His presence was often a cherished sight at guitar festivals in Caracas and other cities, where he held informal meetings and fraternal conversations with other guitarists of fame, like Alirio Díaz, Leo Brouwer, David Russell, Carlos Barbosa-Lima, and of course his many pupils, several of which are now celebrities. A composer's competition was established bearing his name. Rodrigo Riera died in Barquisimeto on August 9, 1999.

Guitar works
The work of Rodrigo Riera concentrates on Latin American forms. He once said that he "would feel silly [...writing...] fugues and minuets, when we don't have that kind of music [in Latin America]." Therefore, his compositions are a reflection of the music that was popular in the early 20th century. He wrote valses, danzas, joropos, golpes, gaitas, merengues and even a few choros.

Most popular pieces 
Rodrigo Riera's compositions are not easy to catalog or categorize, as there is a copious assortment of notable compositions from his years in Spain, like Choro (1960). Merengue Venezolano (1962), Serenata Ingenua (1963), and Canción Caroreña (1964); from his years in New York, as Preludio Criollo (1963), Elorac, (1964), A Venezuelan triptych - Melancolía, Monotonía, Nostalgia (1968), Golpe al Diablo de Carora (1969); and those compositions he created in Venezuela, the most popular of which are: Chorinho, Homenaje a la Chicachagua, Pajarillo con Revoltillo (1980s), and Suite Popular - Homage to Maestro Antonio Lauro (1990).

Complete list of works 

Disclaimer: Though fairly accurate, this list may prove to be confusing (especially to the non-fluent in Spanish language) due to several reasons: first, Rodrigo Riera was not so prolific at inventing names for his compositions as he was at creating music, so there are many repeated names corresponding to distinct compositions; second, the names that he chose consist mostly of the genre of the piece, which adds to the confusion: i.e., Estudio (étude), Preludio (prélude), and Valse (waltz) were his favorite words for naming his creations. Obviously, there is a strong need for a numbered catalogue if Riera's works are ever to be orderly published. Dedications (ded.), dates and places of the compositions have been included whenever available. 
  
WORKS FOR THE GUITAR