[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Critical reaction to 24

pisode, one Muslim terrorist transporting the bomb changes his mind and tries to stop the attack before he is killed by another terrorist. The twelfth episode features an Imam who confronts Syed Ali, the head of a terrorist organization named Second Wave, over Syed's twisted interpretation of Islam.

The second half of the second season revolves around finding evidence to stop a war waged by the United States on three innocent Middle Eastern countries. A major theme during this arc revolves around the unjustified blame of Muslims for a terrorist bombing in the United States. A subplot involves President David Palmer attempting to quell Anti-Muslim sentiment and riots. In one episode, Palmer orders the National Guard to protect the Muslim community, telling his staff:

A Muslim Intelligence Agent, Yusuf Auda, was added to the series late in the second season. His character was well received by fans of the series. Auda partnered with main characters Jack Bauer and Kate Warner against the Counter-Terrorist Unit, which was at the time seen by Bauer, Warner, and Auda as rushing into an unjustified war in the Middle East. An attack on Warner and Auda by anti-Muslim Americans resulted in Auda's death. As Auda died, Jack whispered the words, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry", the same thing he whispered when another character died in the first season.

Criticism of the show's depiction of Muslims began in Season Four, in which the main antagonists were Muslims affiliated with the fictional terrorist group Turkish Crimson Jihad. In the first episode of Season 4, a Muslim-American family is depicted to be among these, in which parents and their teenage son actively engage in a plot to kill Americans However, the son and the mother are both portrayed sympathetically later in the season. The writers of the show said in a special DVD feature that they countered this depiction of terrorist Muslims by showing opposing situations.

During this season, the Council on American-Islamic Relations issued a complaint that depicting Muslims as terrorists could "contribute to an atmosphere that it's OK to harm and discriminate against Muslims. This could actually hurt real-life people." Following this complaint, representatives from the Council on American-Islamic Relations and Fox met to discuss the matter, and an episode of the season began with a public service announcement by Kiefer Sutherland addressing these concerns, in which he stated that "the American Muslim community stands firmly beside their fellow Americans in denouncing and resisting all forms of terrorism. So in watching 24, please bear that in mind." Another episode of this season also portrays two Muslim American citizens aiding Jack Bauer with the intention of seeking retribution for the previous attacks by terrorists that day. Both brothers (and Bauer) survive a gunfight against American mercenaries.

In 2007, the American Islamic Community renewed its criticism of the series when it appeared that the main terrorists of the sixth season would, as in 2005, be Muslim. (It was later revealed that the Muslims in season 6 were being used by Russian radicals to take the fall for their agenda.)

In response to this criticism, FOX sent a statement to the Council on American-Islamic Relations, expressing that "Over the past several seasons, the villains have included shadowy Anglo businessmen, Baltic Europeans, Germans, Russians, Islamic fundamentalists, and even the (Anglo-American) president of the United States. Over the course of the series, no ethnic group has been singled out for persecution or blame."

Anti-Muslim sentiment in the public returns as a major theme in Season Six. The opening scene involves an innocent Muslim-American walking through Los Angeles while receiving suspicious and worried looks from White-American passerby. The Muslim-American is denied a seat on a city bus, which is subsequently bombed by an actual Muslim terrorist on board. A strong debate is featured between the Republican Chief of Staff Tom Lennox and the Democratic National Security Advisor Karen Hayes over the creation of Muslim detention facilities, which Hayes believed were "nothing more than concentration camps". President Wayne Palmer eventually sided with Hayes. This racial witch hunt also includes the wrongful arrest of the Director of the Islamic-American Alliance, who is eventually brought to the Muslim Detention Facilities. The Muslims imprisoned in the detention facility are portrayed as innocent and sympathetic. Another storyline revolves around main character and Muslim-American CTU Agent Nadia Yassir being racially profiled by Homeland Security. Nadia is later wrongfully tortured by the Counter-Terrorist-Unit.