[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Camp Nelson National Cemetery

Camp Nelson National Cemetery is a United States National Cemetery located in southern Jessamine County, Kentucky. It was originally a graveyard associated with the U.S. Army's Camp Nelson, which was active during the U.S. Civil War and its aftermath. The camp was named for Major General William "Bull" Nelson, commander of the Civil War Army of Kentucky, who was murdered by a fellow officer in 1862.

Administered by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, the cemetery encompasses , has a capacity for 15,000 graves, and currently contains over 12,000 interments, nearly all of which were, at death, either U.S. Armed Forces personnel on active duty, veterans of the Armed Forces, or their dependent family members. There are 2,452 burials that date to the U.S. Civil War, and of those, 837 are known to be the graves of African-American soldiers. Their gravestone are marked with the letters "USCT" over their names; the designation stands for "United States Colored Troops".

History
The cemetery was created in 1863 as a place to bury Union soldiers who died while serving in and around Camp Nelson during the Civil War. The first cemetery was located near the camp hospital, and 379 people were buried there between June 1863 and July 1865. A plot of land for the second cemetery, designated "Graveyard No. 2", was selected, and is now at the core of the present national cemetery. There were 1,183 soldiers and affiliated civilian employees buried there between the summer of 1865 and February 1866.

After the end of the Civil War, there was a federally mandated program to recover the bodies of Union soldiers from scattered and expedient battlefield graves across the country, and have them re-interred at national cemeteries as a gesture of respect and in order to facilitate the maintenance of graves. As part of this program, the federal government appropriated  for use as a cemetery and the roadway leading from the cemetery to the old Danville Pike, and it was designated a National Cemetery in 1866. In 1867 and 1868 a stone wall was built to enclose the cemetery. During June and July 1868, the remains of 2,023 Union soldiers were recovered from battlefield graves in Frankfort, Richmond, Perryville, London, and Covington; then brought to Camp Nelson and re-interred with honor.

Confederate graves
During the same time as the reburial program for the remains of Union soldiers, the remains of Confederate soldiers buried at Camp Nelson were exhumed, and re-buried in a designated section of the public cemetery in nearby Nicholasville, or in private cemeteries elsewhere. During the 1990s, genealogical evidence was presented to the cemetery director that the remains of two Confederate soldiers recovered from a Covington battlefield were mistakenly assumed to be Union soldiers during the post-war recovery program, and were buried at Camp Nelson. As exhumation and re-burial of the 130-year-old graves was considered impractical, their headstones were simply replaced by VA-approved Confederate gravestones, which have peon (pointed) tops and are marked by a Confederate emblem. These are the only two (alleged) Confederate graves at Camp Nelson National Cemetery.

From Reconstruction to the present
The area of Camp Nelson National Cemetery has expanded several times since its inception.  In 1874 an additional adjoining acre was purchased. In 1875, a house was built near the stone wall as a residence for the superintendent of the cemetery. The two-storey brick house with open entry porch was designed by Quartermaster General Montgomery C. Meigs in the Second Empire architectural style.

Camp Nelson National Cemetery interred the remains of armed forces personnel and veterans who served in conflicts from the late 19th century until it closed to new burials in 1964. In 1975, the donation of  just outside the cemetery's stone wall allowed it to begin accepting new burials again. The purchase of additional land since then has enabled the cemetery to accommodate newly deceased World War II veterans and the recent influx of fatalities from the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

During the late 1980s, cemetery directors chose to commute to the cemetery from private residences rather than live on site. In 1995 the resident superintendent's house was renovated for use as the cemetery's main office and visitor center. In 1995, the Daughters of the Union erected a granite monument dedicated to the memory of Union soldiers who fought in the Civil War. In 1997, a new flagpole with surrounding assembly area was erected on a knoll within view of the road.