[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Young Riders

The Young Riders is an American Western television series created by Ed Spielman that presents a fictionalized account of a group of young Pony Express riders (some of whom are young versions of legendary figures in Old West history) based at the Sweetwater Station in the Nebraska Territory during the years leading up to the American Civil War. The series premiered on ABC on September 20, 1989 and ran for three seasons until the final episode aired on July 23, 1992.

Production
Filming of the original pilot for the series took place in California. After the ABC network picked it up, the series production moved to Tucson, Arizona, with filming in "Mescal", a western-themed movie town operated by Old Tucson Studios.

Before the series premiere, producers of the 1988 film Young Guns filed a lawsuit against ABC and the series producers, claiming the series title combined with its plot infringed on their trademark.

In the second season, Don Franklin joined the cast to portray the character Noah Dixon. In doing so, he became the third African-American actor to hold a starring role in a television western – after Raymond St. Jacques, who had co-starred on the final season of Rawhide as cattle drover Simon Blake (1965) and Otis Young, who co-starred with Don Murray on the short-lived (1968–69) TV series The Outcasts. Having never ridden a horse before, Franklin was sent to "Cowboy Camp" for 3–4 days where he learned how to mount and dismount, and the basics of riding. Desiring to also work behind the cameras, Franklin talked with producers about writing and directing an episode for the series. In an interview, he noted that the series producers were very receptive and was regularly encouraging the cast to not only make suggestions, but also follow through with them. When the cast noted that they didn't like the series becoming a "guest-villain-of-the-week", it was changed to refocus back on the individual characters and their relationships with each other. Franklin himself also encouraged that more black characters be included in the series.

Characters
Aloysius "Teaspoon" Hunter (Anthony Zerbe)
A former Texas Ranger and one of the few survivors of the Battle of the Alamo.  A colorful yet immensely wise character, Teaspoon can be a tough task master but he cares about all of his riders.

The Kid (Ty Miller) 
A soft-spoken boy from Virginia, The Kid is the first character introduced in the series. Like most of the other riders, he is an orphan. The Kid is quick-witted but still has a lot to learn. He loves his horse, Katy, whom he purchased with the money he won in a boxing match.

William F. Cody (Stephen Baldwin) 
Buffalo Bill, who usually goes by Cody, is arrogant, brash, and a bit on the goofy side, but also devoted to his friends. He is an excellent shot with long arms such as rifles. He and Jimmy maintain a sibling-like rivalry.

James Butler Hickok (Josh Brolin) 
Wild Bill, usually referred to as Jimmy, is hot-tempered and quick to go for his gun. He is a fast draw and gains a reputation as a gunslinger that he doesn't particularly want as it causes people to come challenge him.  His temper frequently gets him in trouble, though Teaspoon and Sam try to help him learn to control it.

Buck Cross (Running Buck) (Gregg Rainwater) 
The son of a Kiowa mother and white father, Buck never truly fit in with his tribe, prompting him to leave and join the Pony Express. He occasionally faces discrimination from townsfolk but his friends are quick to stick up for him. He is close friends with Ike.

Louise "Lou" McCloud (Yvonne Suhor) 
Lou is the shortest of the riders, but also one of the most skilled. She has a strong sense of right and wrong. Lou initially presents herself as a man in order to get the job. Upon learning this, the other riders agree to maintain her guise. She eventually falls in love with and marries The Kid.

Sam Cain (Brett Cullen) Season 1  
The current marshal of Sweetwater, and a former gunslinger.  He is in love with Emma and she finally marries him at the end of Season 1.  Because of his own past, Sam tries to help Hickok deal with his growing gunslinger reputation.

Ike McSwain (Travis Fine) 
Ike is mute and bald, but that doesn't keep him from being an excellent rider. He is particularly close to Buck, who taught him sign language.  Ike can be very passionate about protecting people.

Noah Dixon (Don Franklin) Seasons 2-3 
A free-born black man who joins the Riders in the second season.

Emma Shannon (Melissa Leo) Season 1  
The caretaker of the station and the riders. Though she can be just as tough as Teaspoon when the riders do wrong, she tries to be a mother to them all.  She is in love with Marshal Cain, but because of her past, she hesitates to marry him until the end of the first season.

Jesse James (Christopher Pettiet) Season 3 
A young boy who joins the riders in the third season.