[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Stuart Holden

nnounced that Holden would be part of the 23-man roster for the U.S. National Team which played in the 2010 World Cup in South Africa and he played as a substitute in the opening 1–1 draw with England. He was part of the United States team that won their group ahead of England, Algeria and Slovenia.

After two-and-a-half years without a national team appearance due to injuries, Holden was called up by Jurgen Klinsmann. In May 2013, he made his return, coming on as a substitute during the United States' important match vs Panama in 2014 World Cup Qualifying. Later that summer, he was named to the 2013 CONCACAF Gold Cup squad that eventually went on to win the tournament. He appeared in 5 Gold Cup matches and scored in the opening match vs Belize. In the final vs Panama, Holden started the match, but was forced off through injury in the 23rd minute. It was later announced that he had torn his anterior cruciate ligament in the right knee and would require surgery, effectively ending his career with the national team.

Broadcasting career 
Upon retiring from professional soccer, Holden pursued a career in TV and has become a voice of soccer in North America. He worked as an analyst for ESPN and NBC in 2014, before signing exclusively with Fox Sports 1 in 2016. Holden has also done work as a host, where he recently debuted a new series with Steve Nash called 'Speak Responsibly'.

Fox Sports

Holden first started working with Fox Sports in 2014, working on all of their marquee soccer properties (UEFA Champions League, MLS, FIFA, FA Cup, Europa League). He made a sharp rise in the TV business and within two years has established himself as Fox's lead color commentator across multiple soccer properties. On April 25, 2018, Fox announced that he will be their lead color commentator for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. He partnered in the booth with John Strong, and the pair traveled throughout Russia calling the tournament's biggest games, including the 2018 World Cup Final on July 15, 2018, featuring Croatia and France. The duo continue to call games as Fox's #1 broadcast team for MLS, USMNT, and 2022 FIFA World Cup matches.

B/R Football and Turner Sports

Ahead of the 2018–2019 season of the UEFA Champions League Holden was signed by Turner Sports and B/R Football to be one of their lead studio analysts alongside Tim Howard, Kate Abdo and Steve Nash. Turner opted out of their three-year broadcast deal early in 2020.

Club ownership 
On January 4, 2016, it was announced that an American Group of investors, led by Robert Sarver, purchased a controlling stake in RCD Mallorca for $21 million. The ownership group included basketball icon, Steve Nash, and Stuart Holden. Holden and Nash's journey as owners of the club has been well documented in their video podcast 2 Dads United, in which they discuss their roles and influence on the club. In 2018, RCD Mallorca were promoted to the 2nd division in Spain. In 2019, RCD Mallorca were promoted to Spain's top division, La Liga. Holden and Nash are heavily involved on the soccer side and frequently visit their club on the island of Mallorca.

Style of play
Holden was a versatile, linking midfielder who, due to his ambidexterity, could play in the left, right, or center of the midfield. Holden was particularly noted for his adeptness at taking set pieces and delivering crosses, being compared to David Beckham.

Personal life
Holden was born in Scotland and moved to the United States at the age of ten. His father lost a six-year battle with cancer in early 2009. His mother and sister still live in Houston. He has been an American citizen since 2006. Every game, Holden wears a Livestrong bracelet that belonged to his father, taping over it for its protection.

Holden's brother, Euan Holden, was also a professional soccer player who last played for League Two club Bury. Euan was a viral sensation in 2018 when he became "#PlaneBae" – he had a blossoming romance that was filmed by a couple passengers on a plane. Holden said he was "upstaged" by his brother while he was covering the biggest tournament of his broadcasting career

Having lived in and spent the majority of his childhood growing up in Scotland, Holden spoke with a Scottish accent up until the age of around 10, when, having emigrated to the U.S. with his family, he developed a pronounced Houstonian accent with which he still speaks to this day, despite having returned to live and work in the UK. He became engaged to model Karalyn West in March 2014 and the two got married in June 2015.

Holden and his wife Karalyn announced the birth of their first child in February 2016. They currently reside in Los Angeles.

Career statistics

Club

International

Honors

Club
Houston Dynamo
MLS Cup
Winners: 2006, 2007
Supporters' Shield
Runners-up: 2008
Western Conference
Winners (Playoff): 2006, 2007
Winners (Regular Season): 2008

International
CONCACAF Gold Cup 
Winners: 2013
Runners-up: 2009
 All-Tournament Team: 2009