[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 51]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

rence with the
freedom of another person? If _that_ is what love means--the craving
to possess and restrain and demand and hamper and absorb, and generally
make mincemeat of the beloved object, then preserve me from the
master-passion."

Henriette was baffled. "I don't know how to make you see this in a truer
light," she said. "There is something to my mind so beautiful in the
close union of two human beings, who pledge themselves to love and
honour one another, to face life hand in hand, to share every thought,
every hope, to renounce each his own wishes for the sake of the other."

"That sounds very elevating; in practice it breeds Mr. and Mrs. Gordon."

"Do you mean to tell me you will never marry on this account?"

"I would never marry anyone who would exact the usual submissions and
renunciations, or even desire them, which I suppose amounts almost to
saying that I shall never marry at all. What man would endure a wife who
demanded to retain her absolute freedom, as in the case of a close
friendship? The man is not born!"

"You seem to forget, dear Hadria, in objecting to place yourself under
the yoke, as you call it, that your husband would also be obliged to
resign part of _his_ independence to you. The prospect of loss of
liberty in marriage often prevents a man from marrying ("Wise man!"
ejaculated Hadria), so you see the disadvantage is not all on one side,
if so you choose to consider it."

"Good heavens! do you think that the opportunity to interfere with
another person would console me for being interfered with myself? I
don't want my share of the constraining power. I would as soon accept
the lash of a slave-driver. This moral lash is almost more odious than
the other, for its thongs are made of the affections and the domestic
'virtues,' than which there can be nothing sneakier or more detestable!"

Henriette heaved a discouraged sigh. "You are wrong, my dear Hadria,"
she said emphatically; "you are wrong, wrong, wrong."

"How? why?"

"One can't have everything in this life. You must be willing to resign
part of your privileges for the sake of the far greater privileges that
you acquire."

"I can imagine nothing that would compensate for the loss of freedom,
the right to oneself."

"What about love?" murmured Henriette.

"Love!" echoed Hadria scornfully. "Do you suppose I could ever love a
man who had the paltry, ungenerous instinct to enchain me?"

"Why use such extreme terms? Love does not enchain."

"Exactly what I contend," interrupted Hadria.

"But naturally husband and wife have claims."

"Naturally. I have just been objecting to them in what you describe as
extreme terms."

"But I mean, when people care for one another, it is a joy to them to
acknowledge ties and obligations of affection."

"Ah! one knows what _that_ euphemism means!"

"Pray what does it mean?"

"That the one serious endeavour in the life of married people is to be
able to call each other's souls their own."

Henriette stared.

"My language may not be limpid."

"Oh, I see what you mean. I was only wondering who can have taught you
all these strange ideas."

Hadria at length gave way to a laugh that had been threatening for some
time.

"My mother," she observed simply.

Henriette gave it up.




CHAPTER XV.


The family had reassembled for the New Year's festivities. The change in
Algitha since her departure from home was striking. She was gentler,
more affectionate to her parents, than of yore. The tendency to grow
hard and fretful had entirely disappeared. The sense of self was
obviously lessened with the need for self-defence. Hadria discovered
that an attachment was springing up between her sister and Wilfrid
Burton, about whom she wrote so frequently, and that this development of
her emotional nature, united with her work, had given a glowing centre
to her life which showed itself in a thousand little changes of manner
and thought. Hadria told her sister that she felt herself unreal and
fanciful in her presence. "I go twirling things round and round in my
head till I grow dizzy. But you compare ideas with fact; you even turn
ideas into fact; while I can get no hold on fact at all. Thoughts rise
as mists rise from the river, but nothing happens. I feel them begin to
prey upon me, working inwards."

Algitha shook her head. "It is a mad world," she said. "Week after week
goes by, and there seems no lifting of the awful darkness in which the
lives of these millions are passed. We want workers by the thousand.
Yet, as if in mockery, the Devil keeps these well-fed thousands eating
their hearts out in idleness or artificial occupations till they become
diseased merely for want of something to do. Then," added Algitha, "His
Majesty marries them, and sets them to work to create another houseful
of idle creatures, who have to be supported by the deathly toil of those
who labour too much."

"The devil is full o