[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Summer Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China

The Summer Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China (东北1947年夏季攻势) is a series of battles initiated by the communists against the nationalists during the Chinese Civil War after World War II.

Prelude
In the spring of 1947, the nationalist tried and failed to eliminate communist bases south of Songhua River in the Linjiang Campaign, and both side temporarily stopped military actions for a brief period of rest before resuming the fight.  The total strength of the nationalists in northeast China by then had numbered 480,000, including eight armies totaling twenty-three divisions, along with independent divisions totaling 360,000 troops, and security forces of a further 120,000.  In contrast, the total strength of the communists in northeast China numbered 460,000, including five columns with fifteen divisions, and another eleven independent divisions, totaling 240,000 troops, and these units of the communist field army were supplemented by other local garrison units which numbered 220,000 troops.

Strategies
Nationalist Strategy:
The nationalist strategy was to consolidate its area of control by continuing the separation of the different communist bases in the north, east, west and south, and when there was enough reinforcement arrived from China proper, launching another renewed offensive against the enemy.  The Newly Organized 1st Army, the 71st Army and the 54th Division of the 13th Army were tasked to man the defensive line along the Jilin City, Dehui (德惠), Nong’an (农安), Shuangshan (双山), and Tongliao,  4th Division of the 13th Army and the 93rd Army (without its 20th Division) were tasked to protect the communication line between Rehe and northeast China, the 52nd Army, the 60th Army, the 20th Division of the 93rd Army, and the 207th Division of the Youth Army were deployed at Shenyang and its regions to east and south of the city, later boosted by the newly arrived 53rd Army.  The Newly Organized 6th Army deployed between Benxi and Anshan would act as mobile strike force.

Communist Strategy:
The communists planned their offensives at two fronts.  In the north, the 1st Column and the 2nd Column would attempt to control the regions between Changchun and Siping (city) with the help of the 1st and the 2nd Independent Divisions, and then would strike south of Siping (city).  In the south, the 3rd Column, the 10th Division of the 4th Column and the Southern Manchurian 2nd Independent Division would attack Mountain City (Shancheng Zhen, 山城镇), and Grass City (Cao Shi, 草市), and then push toward Siping (city) from Meihekou (梅河口).  The Western and Eastern Manchurian Independent Divisions would strike toward Village of the Zheng Family (Zhengjia Tun, 郑家屯) and regions east of Jilin City, and the goal was to take more urban centers from the enemy.

Order of battle
Nationalist order of battle:
 The Newly Organized 1st Army
 The Newly Organized 6th Army
The 13th Army
 The 52nd Army
 The 53rd Army
 The 60th Army
 The 71st Army
 The 93rd Army
 The 38th Division
 The 2nd Division of the Youth Army
 The 207th Division of the Youth Army

Communist order of battle:
The 1st Column
 The 2nd Column
 The 3rd Column
 The 4th Column
 The 6th Column
 The Independent 1st Division
 The Independent 2nd Division
 The Independent 3rd Division
 The Eastern Manchurian Independent Division
 The Southern Manchurian 2nd Independent Division
 The Western Manchurian 3rd Independent Division
 The Two cavalry divisions

First stage
From their base in Fuyu (扶余) and Dalai (大赉), the communist 1st Column, 2nd Column, Independent 1st Division, Independent 2nd Division struck south to the west of Changchun.  On May 13, 1947, the communist 4th Division of the 2nd Column suddenly besieged Huaide (怀德), while the communist 5th Division of the 2nd Column was deployed to the south of the besieged town to stop any nationalist reinforcement from Siping (city).  In the meantime, the communist 1st Column and the Independent 1st Division ambushed the nationalist reinforcement from Changchun on the eastern bank of Xinkai River (新开河), while the communist Western Manchurian Independent 3rd Division launched its offensives on Glass Mountain (Boli Shan, 玻璃山) and Twin Mountain (Shuang Shan, 双山) to the north of Village of the Zheng Family (Zhengjia Tun, 郑家屯), thus tying up the local nationalist garrison, the 87th Division of the 71st Army.