[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Treaty of Tours

ible marriage alliance between England and France. The English embassy was headed by William de la Pole, Earl of Suffolk, who on 1 February was dispatched to France. The French delegation was led by Jean de Dunois. In March 1444, Suffolk landed in France and in April, he met with the French embassy.

The English offered to drop Henry VI's claim to French throne in exchange for Normandy without French suzerainty, but this was rejected. The English in turn rejected French demands that landowners who fled the English occupation be restored to their possessions. Negotiations bogged down, the French refusing any significant concessions. Suffolk formally requested the hand of Margaret of Anjou, daughter of René of Anjou (brother in law to Charles VII) as a wife for Henry. Rene agreed, but insisted that he had no money and could not provide the customary dowry, when the amount that should have been given was 20,000 livres. He demanded that in exchange for the marriage and a proposed 21-month truce in the War, England return to France the lands of Maine and Anjou. Suffolk knew that this would not be popular in England, but Henry insisted on the truce, having heard that the Count of Nevers was preparing to offer marriage to Margaret himself. The marriage was not considered advantageous to England since Margaret was not a close relation to Charles VII, and was related only through the marriage of her father to the King's sister.

The English had optimistically thought that a marriage alliance would turn René of Anjou into a major advocate for peace at his brother-in-law's court. For Charles VII however, a marriage between his niece and the English King would prevent the English from concluding a marriage alliance with one of his more rebellious nobles, the Count of Armagnac having already made proposals previously. An alliance with the impoverished house of Anjou was less beneficial to the English than one with the house of Armagnac. Another factor cited as a diplomatic blunder was Suffolk's failure to include Brittany and Aragon in the list of Henry VI's allies on the truce, and allowing Charles VII to place Brittany in his own. All of the concessions in the treaty were made by England and France got the better end of the truce. Henry believed it was a first step towards a lasting peace; Charles intended to use it purely for military advantage.

Additionally, the blame of the unfavorable request to return Maine and Anjou to the French was laid at Suffolk's feet, though he insisted that he had made no promises at the Treaty to that demand. Suffolk brought the new queen back to England later that year to meet the king.  When she landed in England, the King dressed himself as a squire and brought a letter supposed to be from the King so that he could watch Margaret in secret.  When Suffolk asked later what she thought of the squire, the queen stated that she did not notice him at all.  Suffolk told her that she had just been with the King, and she was upset, realizing she'd kept him on his knees the entire time he read the letter.

The Treaty of Tours was to expire in April 1446, and England sought to extend it in order to find a longer-lasting peace with France. This was perhaps undermined by the fact that Henry VI refused to cede the lands of Maine and Anjou until 1448, and only then on threat of military force from Charles VII.

Aftermath in England
In England, the cession of Maine was expected to garner opposition principally by two powerful men: the Earl of Somerset, who was the greatest landowner in, and the governor of, Maine, and the Duke of Gloucester, who opposed territorial concessions to the French and whose opposition to the peace process was well known. Although Gloucester congratulated the Duke of Suffolk in parliament in June 1445 for his role in the peace process, he soon after helped flare up tensions by sending (12 July) a gift to the King of Aragon – the archenemy of Henry VI's new father-in-law René of Anjou. Just a few days later (15 July), probably as a response for this, Suffolk and Henry VI humiliated Gloucester in front of French ambassadors, the latter signaling his disdain for his uncle's political inclinations and the former telling them (in the king's presence) later on that Gloucester counted for nothing on government policy. The possibility that Gloucester could serve as a figurehead for embittered war veterans and other opponents of the regime led Suffolk to instigate his arrest on charges of treason in early 1447. The imprisoned duke died shortly afterwards, probably of a stroke, though there were rumors that he had been murdered.