[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Kazakhstan–United States relations

souri in August 2014 to cultivate commercial opportunities for American and Kazakh companies. This resulted in Springfield, Missouri based Allen Global President Jerry Nichols to travel to Kazakhstan and later announce a major expansion into Kazakhstan that will create more American and Kazakh jobs.

The U.S. Ambassador to Kazakhstan, George Krol, affirmed U.S. commitment to Kazakhstan in a 2015 interview. Ambassador Krol said, "The United States and Kazakhstan, I would say, have been made for each other. And we have pledged to deepen this strategic partnership and increase our economic and business interaction. In this part, we have agreed that we will work on the development of our commercial cooperation."

In June 2015 Kazakhstan finalized its accession to WTO. On this occasion US Ambassador to Kazakhstan George Krol said: "It meets our interests because Kazakhstan plays an important role in the global economy and has to be a member of the WTO. We supported Kazakhstan's WTO accession and will continue to support Kazakhstan."

In 2014 Kazakhstan sold the U.S. about 12 million pounds of uranium, which is 23% of the total 53.3 million pounds purchased by the U.S. It is twice more than in 2013.

Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan Sagintayev visited the United States on April 11–14, 2017. The goal of the trip was to discuss with the U.S. business leaders opportunities for cooperation in regards to the 3rd Modernization of Kazakhstan's economy. The Prime Minister met with the CEO of Chevron, the representatives of the largest financial institutions, as well as tech companies in the Silicon Valley. During the Prime Minister's visit, the U.S. and Kazakh sides signed an agreement on opening a Representative Office of Kazakhstan in the Silicon Valley.

Astana hosted  the U.S. – Kazakhstan business forum June 14, 2017. The forum was attended by 25 U.S. companies and representatives of Kazakh state bodies, national companies and local business representatives. The event aimed to attract U.S. companies to priority sectors, including car assembly industry, health, construction, agriculture and light industry.

Foreign direct investment
U.S. companies are the second largest investors in Kazakhstan. In 2019, $5.5 billion of FDI was directed to Kazakhstan from the U.S., which accounted for 23% of total FDI in the country.

Kazakhstan - United States Convention
The first Kazakhstan - US Convention took place in Washington, D.C., on December 11, 2013. The theme of the 2013 Convention was Successful Strategic Partnership. It centered on moving forward the existing partnership between Kazakhstan and the United States, increasing strategic cooperation and opening new opportunities for long-term initiatives between American and Kazakhstan.

The 2013 convention was attended by several members of the US Congress, including Senator Kelly Ayotte, Representative Henry Cuellar, TX, Representative Jim Bridenstine, OK, Representative Ted Poe, TX, Representative Dana Rohrabacher, CA, Representative Steve Stockman, TX, Representative Leonard Lance, NJ, Representative Bill Pascrell, NJ, Representative Mike Fitzpatrick, PA, Representative Rob Andrews, NJ, Representative Michelle L. Grisham, NM, Representative Pete Olson, TX, Representative Pete Gallego, TX, Representative Mark Meadows, NC, Representative Chris Gibson, NY, Representative Doug Collins, GA, Representative Hakeem Jeffries, NY, Representative Grace Meng, NY, Representative Stephen Lynch, MA, Representative Corrine Brown, FL, and Representative Donna Edward, MD.

The 2nd Kazakhstan - United States Convention was held on December 10, 2014, and held the theme "Working Together For A Secure Future." A video was produced to highlight the topics covered at the 2014 convention.

The 2014 convention comprised opening ceremony, political and business sessions. Frederick Kempe, CEO and president of the Atlantic Council, moderated the political session. Erlan Idrissov, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, and Madeleine Albright, former secretary of state, were the keynote speakers of the session. Also Assistant Secretary of State Nisha Biswal, Deputy Administrator of National Nuclear Security Administration Anne Harrington, former deputy secretary of energy Daniel Poneman and senior fellow and director of CSIS Russia and Eurasia Program Andrew Kuchins gave speeches during this part of the event.

The business session of the 2nd convention was moderated by president of USKBA William Courtney. Keynote speakers of the session included Minister of Economic Integration of Kazakhstan Zhanar Aitzhanova and Under Secretary of State Catherine Novelli. The speakers of the business session were deputy chair of Astana EXPO-2017 Ainur Kuatova, Deputy Chair of KAZNEX INVEST Assel Yergaziyeva, former Under Secretary of State Robert Hormats, president of Guggenheim International Steven J. Green, executive secretary of National Chamber of Entrepreneurs Sabr Yesimbekov.