[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ideas bank

e each other's ideas and have the best ideas be automatically promoted (and you need an automated promotion mechanism in the software because the problem isn't that you won't get enough ideas, the problem is you'll get too many and you don't want someone to have to manually filter through them all).

While idea management led to the installment of corporate social platforms for communication, research shows that focus must be put on the idea communication process. Good ideas need collegial elaboration and motivation, while resources should not be spent on ideas that are not applicable. Idea screening is an activity that will use the idea management platforms to fulful this taslk. Idea screening is an activity that consists of perception (the process of making sense and becoming aware) and judgement (reaching conclusions about what has been perceived). Given that organizations have limited resources, and cannot implement all of the ideas, idea screening acts as a bottleneck during the innovation process.Thus far, research studies have mainly focused on improving the efficiency and effectiveness of idea screening through e.g. crowdsourcing, improving its accuracy, and even developing algorithms that mimic human evaluations. However, this pursuit of technical and procedural optimization has only reinforced the perception of idea screening as a strict decision gate, limiting our understanding of the human side of this phenomenon.

Examples
 As an open ideas bank project, Yle Kipinä, was launched to increase public's involvement in how the Finnish media tax is spent. 
 As part of the adoption of enterprise social software, many companies have decided to use such a portal to allow their employees (on their intra-net) or their customers (on the internet) to collaborate in the process of raising new ideas.
 Idea management software has the sole purpose of raising new ideas—for new products, process improvements, employee welfare or any other corporate use.
 Although not necessarily ideas banks per se, by allowing anyone to edit, wikis allow a group of people to work on information collaboratively. This collaborative writing can continue until all are satisfied with the article or piece of writing, but more often than not contributions continue as visitors add information, improve what is already there, and remove irrelevant or incorrect information.
 Halfbakery is an example of a slightly less serious ideas bank. Users submit ideas, often jokingly, which are then commented on, often jokingly, by other users.
 The Global Ideas Bank is the opposite of Halfbakery in that ideas are proposed seriously, and in some cases actually implemented. It started as a group of inventors in 1985 and became a large organization over several years until it was put online with its current name in 1995.
 Founded in London in 2000, Idea a Day solicits submissions of original ideas from around the world, edits and publishes one considered example every day. A book, The Big Idea Book, comprising 500 of the best ideas, was published by Wiley in 2003.
 In Ecuador, the National Secretariat for Higher Education, Science, Innovation and Technology, launched its own Idea Bank to boost innovation and help local entrepreneurs get some funding and resources. They also posted a set of open source hardware technologies so everybody can use them.
 Betterific gives consumers a platform to offer feedback on how to improve their favorite products and companies and to post their ideas for new products and services. The site's aim is to crowdsource innovation.
 Idea Drop is an idea management software that allows large corporations to collect, develop and manage ideas from their stakeholders. It also allows organisations to share specific challenges and invite employee's ideas on how to solve them.
President of Pakistan announced National Idea Bank in February 2021 
 Howitcouldbedifferent.org is a website to easily see, share, and suggest ideas. The site's aim is to make it easier to access ideas and spread innovation.
IdeaGist is an idea collection and development platform that helps communities in developing ideas from concept to MVP. IdeaGist is the platform used by National Idea Bank Pakistan.

See also
 Crowdsourcing
 Ideation (creative process)
 Q&A website
 Smart mobs
 TED, a conference for "ideas worth spreading".
 The Wisdom of Crowds

References

External links
 
 
 Idea generation
 IdeaMill Idea Bank
 Ecuadorian Idea Bank
 Drawing Ideas Generator
 Self-Sustainability strategies for development initiatives
 Via Interaxion, Social development solutions hub
National Idea Bank, Pakistan
How it could be different

 
Collaboration
Social information processing