[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Special Forces of Zimbabwe

yond the capabilities of either the commando or Parachute regiments. Further, SAS operates with very small teams to conduct protracted, very complex and challenging small team operations, involving high level precise military skills for precision surgical operations, often in very remote areas, with little tactical level support whilst the commandos generally operate in larger commando units to conduct conventional commando raids and assaults.

One Parachute Regiment (sometimes referred to as Parachute Group) at Andre' Rabie Barracks just north of Harare. The Parachute regiment is an elite, cutting edge, airborne Infantry regiment of the Zimbabwe National Army. It was a unit formed by the British Military Advisory Training Team (BMAT) after independence of the country in 1980 and is not an inherited unit from the Rhodesian army . The regiment's distinguishing colors and features are generally the same as the British army's Parachute regiment which encompass the Maroon beret and stable belt, para wings and other inherent features of the unit, only separated by the Zimbabwe bird rather than the British crown. This shows the British Army's input in the creation and operational doctrine of the Parachute regiment. Members of the Parachute regiment are renowned for carving out a reputation for professionalism, resilience, courage, endurance, aggression and supreme physical fitness. The selection and training of paratroopers is an exacting process and in many ways similar in principle to that of the commandos but differs in doctrine to produce a very special type of a soldier the regiment wants. They are trained to conduct diverse  missions, from conventional prevention and pre-emptive duties, to complex, high amplitude war fighting. The Paratroopers train to a very rigorous standard and form the cutting edge of the ZNA's strategy of rapid intervention. They are also skilled to provide the capability to deploy at very short notice, by air, universally.  They are professional, resilient, brave and self-reliant. A professional rivalry between the Parachute and Commando regiments as to who is the best between these two elite special forces regiments exists. Close professional relations  exist between the Parachute and Special Air Service  regiments. Some key leaders and the nucleus of the Parachute regiment in some areas are actually secret special air service regiment members. In the year 2021 the commando, Parachute and special air service regiments have been deployed to Mozambique as part of a task force to Counter the insurgency and terrorism. 

Combat Diving Unit. Special Boat Squadron based in Nyami Nyami Kariba.

Special Air Service - It is revered as the premier, most highly trained and finest special forces unit of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces. Selection and training are the most extensive, and toughest of any course ZNA has to offer. It is designed to select men with the requisite character and profile capable to serve as SAS soldiers.Zim SAS operators are trained to solve and conduct the most complex special operations missions far beyond the proficiency or capability of any other unit of the Zimbabwe security forces, including those of the famed commando and Parachute regiments shaming the same. The Zim SAS being a special task force are trained first and foremost as a deep reconnaissance field intelligence-gathering unit behind enemy lines to obtain both tactical and strategic intelligence.They are trained to operate as universal soldiers.