[Source: PubMed]

36. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2018 Oct 19;15(10):2306. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph15102306.

Climate Change Adaptation through the Water-Energy-Food Nexus in Southern 
Africa.

Mpandeli S(1)(2), Naidoo D(3), Mabhaudhi T(4), Nhemachena C(5), Nhamo L(6), 
Liphadzi S(7), Hlahla S(8), Modi AT(9).

Author information:
(1)Water Research Commission of South Africa, 4 Daventry Street, Lynnwood Manor, 
Pretoria 0081, South Africa. sylvesterm@wrc.org.za.
(2)School of Environmental Sciences, University of Venda, Private Bag X 5050, 
Thohoyandou 0950, South Africa. sylvesterm@wrc.org.za.
(3)Water Research Commission of South Africa, 4 Daventry Street, Lynnwood Manor, 
Pretoria 0081, South Africa. Dhesn@wrc.org.za.
(4)School of Agricultural, Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of 
KwaZulu-Natal, P. Bag X01, Scottsville, Pietermaritzburg 3209, South Africa. 
Mabhaudhi@ukzn.ac.za.
(5)International Water Management Institute, Southern Africa (IWMI-SA), 141 
Creswell Street, Silverton, Pretoria 0184, South Africa. C.Nhemachena@cgiar.org.
(6)International Water Management Institute, Southern Africa (IWMI-SA), 141 
Creswell Street, Silverton, Pretoria 0184, South Africa. l.nhamo@cgiar.org.
(7)Water Research Commission of South Africa, 4 Daventry Street, Lynnwood Manor, 
Pretoria 0081, South Africa. stanleyl@wrc.org.za.
(8)School of Agricultural, Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of 
KwaZulu-Natal, P. Bag X01, Scottsville, Pietermaritzburg 3209, South Africa. 
hlahlas@ukzn.ac.za.
(9)School of Agricultural, Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of 
KwaZulu-Natal, P. Bag X01, Scottsville, Pietermaritzburg 3209, South Africa. 
modiat@ukzn.ac.za.

Climate change is a complex and cross-cutting problem that needs an integrated 
and transformative systems approach to respond to the challenge. Current 
sectoral approaches to climate change adaptation initiatives often create 
imbalances and retard sustainable development. Regional and international 
literature on climate change adaptation opportunities and challenges applicable 
to southern Africa from a water-energy-food (WEF) nexus perspective was 
reviewed. Specifically, this review highlights climate change impacts on water, 
energy, and food resources in southern Africa, while exploring mitigation and 
adaptation opportunities. The review further recommends strategies to develop 
cross-sectoral sustainable measures aimed at building resilient communities. 
Regional WEF nexus related institutions and legal frameworks were also reviewed 
to relate the WEF nexus to policy. Southern Africa is witnessing an increased 
frequency and intensity in climate change-associated extreme weather events, 
causing water, food, and energy insecurity. A projected reduction of 20% in 
annual rainfall by 2080 in southern Africa will only increase the regional 
socio-economic challenges. This is exacerbating regional resource scarcities and 
vulnerabilities. It will also have direct and indirect impacts on nutrition, 
human well-being, and health. Reduced agricultural production, lack of access to 
clean water, sanitation, and clean, sustainable energy are the major areas of 
concern. The region is already experiencing an upsurge of vector borne diseases 
(malaria and dengue fever), and water and food-borne diseases (cholera and 
diarrhoea). What is clear is that climate change impacts are cross-sectoral and 
multidimensional, and therefore require cross-sectoral mitigation and adaptation 
approaches. In this regard, a well-coordinated and integrated WEF nexus approach 
offers opportunities to build resilient systems, harmonise interventions, and 
mitigate trade-offs and hence improve sustainability. This would be achieved 
through greater resource mobilisation and coordination, policy convergence 
across sectors, and targeting nexus points in the landscape. The WEF nexus 
approach has potential to increase the resilience of marginalised communities in 
southern Africa by contributing towards attaining the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, and 13).

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph15102306
PMCID: PMC6210720
PMID: 30347771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.