[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cape Verdean Football Championship

lético in 2012, and the third was Mindelense in 2015 and also conceded only a goal while the club scored fourteen, the first after the creation of a six club group system, Derby did not conceded a goal in a regular season in 2001, also Derby won all five and was their second and recent time in 2015.

The 2017 season revived the triangular phase and is the first featuring three groups and together with a playoff system, the top three of each group will qualify into the semis along with the second placed club with the most points. The champion will compete in the 2018 CAF Champions League in the following season.  As the Malian Premier League was abandoned for the 2017 season as the Malian Football Federation was dissolved, another participant would have been made (along with one from Senegal), the Malian competitions resumed in early May and it reduced to one participant. They could be a participant at the continental but a possibility there could be no participant.  No word that the first placed second place of each group qualifies for the 2018 CAF Confederation Cup as no 2017 Cape Verdean Cup will take place.

The Santiago North Premier Division had disputes in the final match of the season ended a week before the start of the nationals, in 2016, it was between Scorpion Vermelho and Varandinha over Scorpion Vermelho's match, the award decision was revoked and Varandinha was regional champions and qualified into the nationals, the first round match was delayed due to that. Benfica Santa Cruz and some other clubs protested AJAC's round 16 win over Juventus Assomada where AJAC fielded a suspended player, Marco Aurélio, who had received two yellow cards. On 7 May, AJAC became champions, the final result actually went to uncertainty especially after 11 May where the regional Judicial Council thought to make it official, Benfica de Santa Cruz were crowned Premier Division champions of the North Zone as well as AJAC. AJAC did not field that suspended player, the chairman Amarildo protested that decision alongside other clubs and on 17 May, the award was revoked and AJAC became regional champions of Santiago North.

In August 2017, Sporting Praia won their recent national championship title after defeating FC Ultramarina from Tarrafal de São Nicolau and Santiago now has 15 titles won, two less than São Vicente.
 
After two years in which the championship was not held due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the 2022 season culminated with the final played on the island of Boa Vista, in which Académica do Mindelo beat Palmeira 1-0, winning their second title after 33 years.

In a rerun of the previous season's final, the two teams faced each other once again, this time the final was held on the island of Maio, on June 8th. After the matched ended 1-1, the winner would eventually be decided via a penalty shootout, with Palmeira beating Académica do Mindelo (7-6), thus becoming national champions for the first time in their history.

League format
The championship is played out in a tournament between the champions of the nine islands (the 10th island, Santa Luzia is not inhabited, Santa Luzia and its islets are part of the São Vicente Premier Division). The islands Santiago and Santo Antão each have  two teams due to the fact that both are divided into two football regions (North Santiago, South Santiago, North Santo Antão and South Santo Antão). The defending champions' island or sport region also gets an extra spot in the following season's championship.

Clubs 2016-17

Group A
Onze Unidos (Cidade do Maio) – Champion of the Maio Premier Division
FC Ultramarina Tarrafal (Ribeira Brava) – Champion of São Nicolau Island League
Vulcânicos (São Filipe) – Champion of the Fogo Premier Division
AJAC da Calheta – Champion of the Santiago North Premier Division.

Group B
Académico do Aeroporto (Espargos) – Champion of the Sal Premier Division
Académica Porto Novo (Porto Novo) – Champion of Santo Antão Island League (South)
CS Mindelense (Mindelo) – National Champions 2016, also champion of the São Vicente Premier Division
Paulense DC (Pombas) – Champion of the Santo Antão North Premier Division.

Group C
FC Derby (Mindelo) – Runner-up of the São Vicente Premier Division
Sport Sal Rei (Sal Rei) – Champion of Boa Vista Island League
Sporting da Brava (Nova Sintra) – Champion of Brava Island League
Sporting Clube da Praia (Praia) – Champion of the Santiago South Premier Division

Before independence
The competition featured a club from the island of São Vicente and a club from the island of Santiago and continued up to the end of Portuguese rule.