[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# December 1977

Yusuf Islam. Born: Matt Baker, British TV presenter who hosted the children's show Blue Peter from 1999 to 2006, BBC One's Countryfile since 2009 and the BBC newsmagazine The One Show from 2011 to 2020; in Easington, County Durham 
Nikolay Alexeyev, Russian lawyer and LGBT rights activist; in Moscow

 December 24, 1977 (Saturday)
Colombian serial killer Daniel Camargo Barbosa was incarcerated at the "inescapable" prison on Gorgona Island,  off of the coast of Colombia, after having killed more than 80 young girls. He would remain on the island for almost seven years before escaping in November 1984, and would be presumed dead until less than a month later, when he would travel to Ecuador and resume killing at least 72 more girls over 14 months before being arrested again.  He would be stabbed to death in 1994 by the nephew of one of his victims.November 15, 1994Died: General Juan Velasco Alvarado, 67, President of Peru 1968 to 1975
Nalini Bala Devi, 79, Indian poet and writer
Peruchín (Pedro Nolasco Jústiz Rodríguez), Cuban pianist

 December 25, 1977 (Sunday)
Menachem Begin became the first Prime Minister of Israel to visit an Arab republic as he and a delegation that included Defense Minister Moshe Dayan landed at the Abu Sweir air base and then flew to Ismailia as the guest of Egypt's President Anwar Sadat. From the airport, the Israeli delegation was chauffeured "in what must rank as one of the world's briefest motorcades", traveling in six limousines  to Sadat's home. On the flight from Tel Aviv, Begin told reporters, "Moses made the same trip.. only faster and in the opposite direction."Born: Uhm Ji-won, South Korean film and TV actress; in DaeguDied: Charlie Chaplin, 88, English comedian, silent film actor, and filmmaker, died at his mansion in Switzerland, Le Manoir de Ban, near Lake Geneva and the village of Vevey.

 December 26, 1977 (Monday)
The Gitanjali Express, described as the first "classless train" in India because it provided drinking water, comfortable seating and other services to all passengers regardless of their social class or income, began operations with its inaugural run from Bombay to Calcutta. The Indian Railway Board had approved the experiment, proposed by Railway Minister Madhu Dandvate, for the 30-hour trip. Dandvate named the train for the book Gitanjali, by Rabindranath Tagore.
Vietnam launched a large-scale invasion of Democratic Kampuchea, the neighboring country that had formerly been Cambodia until its takeover by the Khmer Rouge. Kampuchea expelled the Vietnamese ambassador and embassy staff on December 31, and the Vietnamese-Kampuchean war soon deteriorated into a larger war with the People's Republic of China in 1978. Died: Howard Hawks, 81, American film director known for directing Sergeant York and Bringing Up Baby
Alberto Gainza Paz, 78, Argentine newspaper publisher and owner of the Buenos Aires daily La Prensa

 December 27, 1977 (Tuesday)
Star Wars made its debut in the United Kingdom, seven months after its world premiere in the United States.
A grain elevator explosion in the U.S. in less than a week killed 18 people at the Farmer's Export Company in Galveston, Texas. The disaster happened five days after a similar accident in killed 34 people in Westwego, Louisiana

 December 28, 1977 (Wednesday)
G. William Miller, Chairman of the Board of Textron, Inc., was selected by U.S. President Carter to succeed Arthur F. Burns as the new Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, effective January 31.Died: Charlotte Greenwood, 87, American stage and film actress

 December 29, 1977 (Thursday)
All 24 people aboard a SAN Ecuador airliner were killed when the Vickers 764D Viscount crashed into a hillside while en route from Guayaquil to Cuenca.
U.S. President Carter arrived in the Communist nation of Poland, coming to Warsaw as the first stop in a 9-day tour of six nations. He was greeted by the de facto leader, Polish Workers Party chairman Edward Gierek. The translator for the U.S. Department of State offended Carter's hosts when he rendered Carter's remark about a "desire for peace" by using the word for a sexual desire for the Polish people. Another statement by Carter, about his departure on the trip from the U.S., used a word referring to abandonment. Carter's press secretary, Jody Powell, told reporters that the translator had been "relieved of his duties" and added, "There will be a new translator tomorrow," while a State Department official made an official apology to the Polish government.
Pakistan's President Zia ul-Haq announced the release of 11,109 political prisoners who had been detained by Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, who had been overthrown in July.