[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 112]
# Politics — Aristotle

,
and appropriate the winter for this business. The married couple ought
also to regard the precepts of physicians and naturalists, each of whom
have treated on these [1335b] subjects. What is the fit disposition of
the body will be better mentioned when we come to speak of the education
of the child; we will just slightly mention a few particulars. Now,
there is no occasion that any one should have the habit of body of a
wrestler to be either a good citizen, or to enjoy a good constitution,
or to be the father of healthy children; neither should he be infirm or
too much dispirited by misfortunes, but between both these. He ought to
have a habit of labour, but not of too violent labour; nor should that
be confined to one object only, as the wrestler's is; but to such things
as are proper for freemen. These things are equally necessary both for
men and women. Women with child should also take care that their diet is
not too sparing, and that they use sufficient exercise; which it will be
easy for the legislator to effect if he commands them once every day
to repair to the worship of the gods who are supposed to preside over
matrimony. But, contrary to what is proper for the body, the mind ought
to be kept as tranquil as possible; for as plants partake of the nature
of the soil, so does the child receive much of the disposition of the
mother. With respect to the exposing or bringing up of children, let
it be a law, that nothing imperfect or maimed shall be brought
up,.......... As the proper time has been pointed out for a man and a
woman to enter into the marriage state, so also let us determine
how long it is advantageous for the community that they should have
children; for as the children of those who are too young are imperfect
both in body and mind, so also those whose parents are too old are weak
in both: while therefore the body continues in perfection, which (as
some poets say, who reckon the different periods of life by sevens)
is till fifty years, or four or five more, the children may be equally
perfect; but when the parents are past that age it is better they should
have no more. With respect to any connection between a man and a woman,
or a woman and a man, when either of the parties are betrothed, let
it be held in utter detestation [1336a] on any pretext whatsoever;
but should any one be guilty of such a thing after the marriage is
consummated, let his infamy be as great as his guilt deserves.




CHAPTER XVII


When a child is born it must be supposed that the strength of its body
will depend greatly upon the quality of its food. Now whoever will
examine into the nature of animals, and also observe those people who
are very desirous their children should acquire a warlike habit, will
find that they feed them chiefly with milk, as being best accommodated
to their bodies, but without wine, to prevent any distempers: those
motions also which are natural to their age are very serviceable; and
to prevent any of their limbs from being crooked, on account of their
extreme ductility, some people even now use particular machines that
their bodies may not be distorted. It is also useful to enure them to
the cold when they are very little; for this is very serviceable for
their health; and also to enure them to the business of war; for which
reason it is customary with many of the barbarians to dip their children
in rivers when the water is cold; with others to clothe them very
slightly, as among the Celts; for whatever it is possible to accustom
children to, it is best to accustom them to it at first, but to do it
by degrees: besides, boys have naturally a habit of loving the cold, on
account of the heat. These, then, and such-like things ought to be the
first object of our attention: the next age to this continues till
the child is five years old; during which time it is best to teach him
nothing at all, not even necessary labour, lest it should hinder his
growth; but he should be accustomed to use so much motion as not to
acquire a lazy habit of body; which he will get by various means and by
play also: his play also ought to be neither illiberal nor too laborious
nor lazy. Their governors and preceptors also should take care what sort
of tales and stories it may be proper for them to hear; for all these
ought to pave the way for their future instruction: for which reason
the generality of their play should be imitations of what they are
afterwards to do seriously. They too do wrong who forbid by laws
the disputes between boys and their quarrels, for they contribute to
increase their growth--as they are a sort of exercise to the body:
for the struggles of the heart and the compression of the spirits give
strength to those who labour, which happens to boys in their disputes.
The preceptors also ought to have an eye upon their manner of life, and
those with whom they converse; and to take care that they are never
in the compa