[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ali Asad Chandia

Ali Asad Chandia (born 1976 in Lahore, Pakistan) is a Pakistani former teacher at al-Huda elementary school in Maryland, United States.
Chandia was accused of providing material support for terrorism to Lashkar-e-Taiba, a U.S.-designated Pakistani terrorist organization. On June 6, 2006, a jury unanimously found Chandia guilty. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison, with three years of supervised release at the end of his incarceration, on three counts of conspiracy and providing material support to Lashkar-e-Taiba on August 30, 2006. Assistant U.S. Attorney David H. Laufman and Department of Justice Trial Attorney John T. Gibbs, who prosecuted the case, had sought a sentence of 30 years to life.

Education
Chandia moved from Pakistan to the U.S. in 1994 at the age of seventeen. He attended Watkins Mill High School in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  The mother of one of his high school friends said he moved toward Muslims, who had a similar culture. She spoke anonymously because some of Chandia's supporters were against interaction with the media. The mother said Dar al-Arqam mosque "became a community center" for Chandia and his friends "because they're not really comfortable with the opposite sex. That's a cultural thing." He attended Montgomery College from fall 1995 through spring 2000, becoming increasingly religious, and serving as the president of the Muslim Students' Association from 1998 to 1999. Chandia has a son, born in 2004, and a stepdaughter, born in 2000. Chandia taught Arabic at Al-Salik Institute in College Park sometime before working at Al Huda.

Terrorism
Chandia was alleged to have provided material support to Lashkar-e-Taiba, and helped Ali al-Tamimi, the spiritual leader of the Virginia Jihad Network, by scheduling speaking engagements, providing 50,000 paintballs to assist in training terrorists, and introducing Tamimi's Network to Lashkar-e-Taiba.

Special Agent Christopher Mamula led the Washington, D.C. and Baltimore field offices of the FBI, in conjunction with the Anti-Terrorist Branch of New Scotland Yard in the United Kingdom, in investigating the case.

2003 Gaithersburg raid
Federal authorities raided his home in Gaithersburg on May 8, 2003 after finding evidence of his involvement in terrorist organizations. FBI agents found books about violent jihad and recordings in Chandia's home and car glorifying terrorism, an audiotape by al-Timimi justifying the Taliban's destruction of ancient Buddhist statues, and a recording that asked God to "grant safety to Osama bin Laden." FBI agents found a CD on the front seat of Chandia's Dodge Neon showing the September 11 attacks with voices dubbed in shouting "God is Great" in Arabic. Marvin Miller, Chandia's attorney, claims that 97% of what was found in Chandia's home was harmless and parts of Chandia's library were taken out of context. U.S. Attorney Chuck Rosenberg released a statement saying the findings "manifested his commitment to commit violent jihad... Terrorist organizations like Lashkar-e-Taiba rely on a network of individuals to carry out their deadly operations. Ali Asad Chandia was a member of that network for Lashkar-e-Taiba, and he will now spend a very long period of time in prison for providing material support in furtherance of its violent agenda."

Release on bond
He was released on bond on September 20, 2005, despite the prosecutor's objections, and ordered not to leave the United States. He was tracked by a GPS bracelet and U.S. Magistrate Judge Theresa Carroll Buchanan decided his mother's house would serve as collateral. Miller accused prosecutors' of unfairly considering Chandia a flight risk. "The federal government decided suddenly and miraculously overnight he became a flight risk."

Activities related to Lashkar-e-Taiba
Chandia quit his job at Costco between September and November 2001, giving a handwritten explanation to his boss that said, "I have to leave now due to some family emergency." Chandia visited Lashkar-e-Taiba's headquarters in Lahore, Pakistan, after Tamimi urged him, in November 2001 to February 2002. Miller claimed Chandia only flew to Pakistan to organize his brother's wedding. In February 2002, Chandia picked up Mohammed Ajmal Khan, a Lashkar-e-Taiba official now serving nine years in prison in Britain, at Reagan National Airport. In March 2003 Chandia helped Khan deliver 21 boxes of paintballs and unknown goods from Chandia's house to a shipping company in Sterling, Virginia, which mailed them to Pakistan for $761.84, which Chandia paid. Chandia allowed Khan to use his computer to buy unmanned aerial vehicles, night vision equipment, wireless video cameras and $17,000 of Kevlar anti-ballistic material.