[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wanted sa Radyo

eir owners in the "Solian ng Bayan" segments aired throughout the month. The awardees receive a medal, plaque, cash reward, and items from the sponsors; these are in addition to the cash reward and items received during the "Solian ng Bayan" segment in which they appeared.

Internet and social media

On July 4, 2016, Wanted sa Radyo launched a website entitled "Raffy Tulfo in Action", which features the cases featured in WSR and also cases in the spin-off segment Itimbre Mo kay Tulfo on Aksyon sa Tanghali and Idol in Action. The show's video feed is simulcast over Radyo5's Facebook page and a copy of the day's show is also posted on the "Raffy Tulfo in Action" YouTube channel. The social media accounts contain video clips that feature how some of the cases were resolved as well as how the off-air conversations between the parties have gone.

Wanted sa Radyo segments
"Accomplishment Report" - about Wanteds cases that went through successfully.
"Aksyon sa Text" - complaints and actions that came from texters/callers.
"Huwarang Pulis" - a monthly segment honoring honest policemen.
"Sumbong at Aksyon" - a segment featuring walk-in complaints and on-the-spot solutions.
"Solian ng Bayan" - a segment where lost items are returned by finders. The rule is that if the lost items remain unclaimed by the end of 1 month, they can be kept by finders. And every month, they honor chosen honest finders, giving them plaques and additional rewards.
"Wanted Update" - Wanteds cases that are still ongoing.
"Wanted Netizens" - posts by netizens who reacted accordingly.

Hosts

 Raffy Tulfo 
 Sharee Roman 

Substitute hosts
 Atty. Gareth Tungol 
 Atty. Danilo Tungol 
 Atty. Blessie Abad 
 Atty. Gabriel Ilaya 
 Atty. Ina Magpale 
 Atty. Gail Dela Cruz 
 Atty. Freddie Villamor 
 Atty. Joren Tan 
 Atty. Pau Cruz 
 Atty. Paul Castillo 
 Aanaan Singh 
 Marsh Salcedo 
 Maricel Tulfo-Tungol 

Former host
 Niña Taduran

Wanted reporters

Current
 Odette Molina
 Sharee Roman
Jam Cordero

Spin-off television series
From January 28, 2011, to July 30, 2012, Wanted, a public affairs program acting as an extension and TV version of Wanted sa Radyo, was aired every Monday at 11:30pm–12:00am on TV5. AksyonTV aired its producer's cut from February 21, 2011, to January 11, 2019. The set was different, with Tulfo sitting comfortably in a radio booth setting. Respondents and interviewees are videotaped while they are on the phone with him. From June 8, 2020, to October 1, 2021, it was renamed Idol in Action.

Wanted: Ang Serye, a docu-drama anthology and another extension of Wanted, premiered on January 16, 2021, on TV5. Presented by Cignal Entertainment and JCB Entertainment Productions, it is also hosted by Tulfo. The program dramatizes true stories based on complaints brought to Raffy Tulfo in Action. After its most recent episode was aired on May 1, 2021, it took a "season break". It returned on June 27 in a new timeslot.

Controversies

Jee Ick-Joo's abduction and killing

On October 21, 2016, a complainant named alias "Joy" was exulted to WSR that her employee South Korean businessman named Jee Ick-Joo was kidnapped by a policeman identified as SPO3 Richard "Ricky" Sta. Isabel, due to alleged involvement of illegal drugs on October 18 in Angeles, Pampanga, the maid and Jee were sent to Quezon City and eventually separated at Camp Crame, and that night when they separated Jee was killed in nearby White House, the residence of the Philippine National Police Chief, incidentally Gen. Ronald dela Rosa was in Beijing accompanied by President Rodrigo Duterte on his State Visit.

Political involvement

Raffy Tulfo and his siblings are staunch supporters of President Rodrigo Duterte's policies. During the 2019 elections, he and Erwin acquired ACT-CIS Partylist from former Representative Samuel Pagdilao, Jr. and nominated Erwin's Chief of Staff Eric Go Yap, Raffy's wife Jocelyn Tulfo, and co-host Niña Taduran, while Ramon, Wanda, and Ben declined to participate. ACT-CIS took the top position with 2.6 million votes, earning the maximum of three seats at the 18th Congress. One of the campaign strategies is inserting the ACT-CIS logo into the Raffy Tulfo in Action social media pages, as RTIA is only a blocktimer to 92.3 Radyo5 True FM.

References

External links
Raffy Tulfo in Action
 
 

TV5 (Philippine TV network) original programming
One PH original programming
Philippine radio programs
Philippine reality television series
2020s Philippine television series
2011 Philippine television series debuts
1994 radio programme debuts
Filipino-language television shows
Simulcasts