[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Treaty of Waitangi claims and settlements

Claims and settlements under the Treaty of Waitangi () have been a significant feature of New Zealand politics since the Treaty of Waitangi Act 1975 and the Waitangi Tribunal that was established by that act to hear claims. Successive governments have increasingly provided formal legal and political opportunity for Māori to seek redress for what are seen as breaches by the Crown of guarantees set out in the Treaty of Waitangi. While it has resulted in putting to rest a number of significant longstanding grievances, the process has been subject to criticisms including those who believe that the redress is insufficient to compensate for Māori losses. The settlements are typically seen as part of a broader Māori Renaissance.

The Waitangi Tribunal was set up as the primary means of registering and researching claims because the Treaty of Waitangi itself has little legal standing. The primary means of settling those claims is through direct negotiations with the government of the day.

History of the Treaty 

The Treaty of Waitangi was first signed on 6 February 1840 by representatives of the British Crown and Māori chiefs (rangatira) from the North Island of New Zealand, with a further 500 signatures added later that year, including some from the South Island. It is one of the founding documents of New Zealand. It was preceded by the Declaration of Independence or He Whakaputanga signed in 1835, where some North Island Māori proclaimed the country of New Zealand to an international audience as an independent state with full sovereign power and authority held with Māori chiefs (rangatira).

The Treaty of Waitangi was written in English and translated into the Māori language (). As some words in the English treaty did not translate directly into the written Māori of the time, this text is not an exact translation of the English text, such as in relation to the meaning of having and ceding sovereignty. In the English version, Māori ceded the sovereignty of New Zealand to Britain; Māori gave the Crown the exclusive right to purchase lands they wished to sell, and, in return, Māori were guaranteed full ownership of their lands, forests, fisheries and other possessions and were given the rights of British subjects. However, in the Māori language version of the Treaty is very different, the word 'sovereignty' was translated as  ('governance'). And in contradiction to the English language version, Māori retained authority and sovereignty, and did not give this to the Queen. In addition, the English version guaranteed 'undisturbed possession' of all 'properties', but the Māori version guaranteed  ('full authority, sovereignty') over  ('treasures').

Around 530 to 540 Māori, at least 13 of them women, signed the Māori version of the Treaty of Waitangi, known as . Only 39 signed the English version after the Māori language version was read to them.

The different understandings of the content of the treaty led to disagreements between Pākeha and Māori, beginning almost immediately after the signing of the treaty, and contributed to the New Zealand Wars, which culminated in the confiscation of a large part of the Waikato and Taranaki.

Early settlements and claims 
Matiaha Tiramōrehu made the first formal statement of Ngāi Tahu grievances in 1849, only one year after the Canterbury purchase between Ngāi Tahu and Henry Tacy Kemp, this land transaction was very large, 20 million acres for £2,000. Between the 1870s and the 1990s almost every Ngāi Tahu leader was actively pursuing the Ngāi Tahu claim in Parliament.

In the 1920s, land commissions investigated the grievances of hapū whose land had been confiscated or otherwise fraudulently obtained in the previous century, and many were found to be valid. By the 1940s, settlements in the form of modest annual payments had been arranged with some hapū. However, hapū came to consider the amounts to be inadequate, especially as inflation eroded their value, and the Crown has conceded that it did not sufficiently seek the agreement of hapū to declare their claims settled.

The Waitangi Tribunal 

During the late 1960s and 1970s the Treaty of Waitangi became the focus of a strong Māori protest movement which rallied around calls for the government to 'honour the treaty' and to 'redress treaty grievances'. Māori expressed their frustration about continuing violations of the treaty and subsequent legislation by government officials, as well as inequitable legislation and unsympathetic decisions by the Māori Land Court alienating Māori land from its Māori owners.