[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Marina Verenikina

Marina Gennadievna Verenikina (born 3 October 1978), known as Marina V, is a Russian singer and musician. She has released 12 albums and toured internationally, performing over 1,200 concerts.

Early life and education
Verenikina was born to Gennadiy and Irina Verenikina in  Moscow, Russia. Gennadiy works as a nuclear physicist Irina as a child psychologist Marina started singing before she could talk, and writing songs at 4 years of age.

Her mother arranged her formal music education, and Marina attended classical music school every day after her regular school day, from age 6 until age 14. She graduated summa cum laude. When she was 10 years old, Marina performed one of her original compositions for her piano teacher, who dismissed it as "nonsense".  Marina was discouraged and stopped writing for a while.

At the time, the Soviet Union was falling apart and more western music started started appearing on the market; as a child Marina was mostly exposed to classical music. After a friend gave Marina a bootleg cassette of The Beatles , she was inspired to write songs again. She learned many Beatles songs, which also helped her improve her understanding of the English language.

At 15, Marina won a national competition, beating over 100,000 peers, for a fully funded scholarship (Future Leaders Exchange (FLEX)) to study in the United States. After living in Springfield, Illinois, for a year, she returned to Moscow and started working to save enough money to return to the US, where she felt a greater freedom for individual creativity. At the same time, Marina learned that her parents were divorcing and her mother was moving to Australia, and that the Russian school system would give her no credit for her time studying in America.

Marina returned to Springfield when she was 17 years old, having saved money for a plane ticket, and she enrolled at Illinois College. During this time she battled with severe depression, and began to write more songs about her experiences and relationships, channeling her emotions into music. While at Illinois College she was also involved in the Concert Choir, International Club, and Investment Club. She graduated cum laude with a combined degree in international studies and economics-business and a minor in Spanish.

Career 

Shortly after she turned 19, Marina met guitarist Nicholas M Baker, who inspired her to take her musical talents seriously. She sold her pickup truck and bought a piano. She entered in her college's talent competition and sang her original composition "Leaving," winning first prize. She then decided to start recording her music and was able to finance a recording session for her debut CD Let Me Dream through, paid for by pre-orders from students and faculty members. Her first show, at a coffeehouse in Jacksonville, Illinois, was filled to capacity. Marina and Baker began writing songs together and began touring around Illinois, enjoying considerable success.

Marina and Baker moved to Los Angeles in 2001, the week after she graduated from Illinois College. Virtually unknown in Los Angeles, Marina and Baker accepted any gigs they could find — including a successful tour of several Borders Bookstores — and sent out hundreds of demos to people in the music industry. Eventually they caught the attention of David Krebs, a manager who had worked with Don McLean, Trans-Siberian Orchestra, AC/DC and Aerosmith, among others.

In 2005, Marina collaborated with Jack Douglas. Douglas produced two tracks for her Simple Magic album: "Underneath Your Sky" and "Killing My Dream."

In Sept 2006, Marina released her first live album, "Live at SoundMoves," which was recorded in one session at SoundMoves recording studios in Burbank, California. In 2006, Marina and Nick Baker toured the Czech Republic and Slovakia.

In January 2008, Marina released "Modern Fairytale," recorded with Nick Baker, Marina's band, and their friend and engineer Jared Brown at the home studio of musician Graham Nash.

In 2009, "Sunshine Guaranteed" from "Modern Fairytale" was featured on a popular iPhone game, Tap Tap Revenge2. Another song, "Pesnya o Tebe", appears in Direct Contact, a 2009 Danny Lerner film starring Dolph Lundgren.

In January 2011, Marina and Baker released My Star, produced by Guy Erez. It was funded entirely by Marina's listeners, who raised $30,000 for her on marinav.com. One of the songs, "Killing My Dream," featured guitarist and former KISS member Bruce Kulick.

In 2011, several of Marina's songs aired on NBC's soap opera, Days of Our Lives. In July 2011, Marina released an EP entitled "Small Collection of Interesting Songs," which featured three of the songs featured on the program.

Marina and Baker wrote the theme song for the 2012 film Truth About Kerry.