[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mittelstand

mpanies suggests that British firms are far more short-term oriented in terms of management and policy raising the question whether the UK Mittelstand can endure over time in the same manner as the German equivalent, something the British government hopes to work on by embracing a longer term place.

 Mittelstand's main sectors 
Germany's Mittelstand is heavily concentrated in:
 machinery
 auto parts
 chemicals
 electrical equipment

 Industrie 4.0 

While the Mittelstand has served the German economy well since World War II, it is now faced with questions about how it will adapt to the digital revolution of the 21st century. Many of the industrial machines produced by the Mittelstand are quickly being connected to the Internet of Things (IoT), from manufacturing equipment that can warn owners when material is low to cars that are connected to digital entertainment systems. Strides have recently been made by firms such as Trumpf, which in October 2015 unveiled a digital platform called Axoom that can connect machines built by Trumpf and others to collect data that can be used to help firms improve their operating efficiency.

Germany's National Academy of Science and Engineering (Acatech) has addressed the challenge by introducing the concept of "Industrie 4.0" in 2013, calling for German manufacturing firms to enter the IT revolution by "consistently integrating information and communication technology into its traditional high-tech strategies so that it can become the leading supplier of smart manufacturing technologies."

The cause of Industrie 4.0 has been taken up by the German government and was a favorite theme of Chancellor Angela Merkel. The government has invested 200 million euros in Industrie 4.0 research. With this policy, the government seeks to create test beds for new ideas in industry and to convince the smaller Mittelstand firms to take up the cause of digitization.

Notes

References
Audretsch, D. B., Lehmann, E. E., & Schenkenhofer, J. (2018). Internationalization strategies of hidden champions: lessons from Germany. Multinational Business Review, 26(1), 2-24.
 K. Hartmann: "German Mittelstand deals: Dead, or alive and kicking?". In: Acquisition Monthly'' Nr. 9, 2005, p. 2–3. (PDF, 360 KB)
  (PDF, 340 KB)

External links
 Venohr, Bernd and Meyer, Klaus E. (2007): The German Miracle Keeps Running: How Germany's Hidden Champions Stay Ahead in the Global Economy, Working Paper 30, FHW Berlin. (PDF, 363 KB)
 Jörg Meyer-Stamer, Frank Wältring: The Institutional Environment Supporting SME Enterprises in Germany
 Witt, A. & Carr, C. 2014. 'Success Secrets Shared: Learning from the Best Mittelstand and British Global Niche Champions.'

 Spezial Mitarbeiterbeteiligung

Economy of Germany
German words and phrases
Economy of the United Kingdom
Social class in Germany
Companies by type
Types of business entity
Small and medium-sized enterprises