[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sandokan

Sandokan  is a fictional late 19th-century pirate created by Italian author Emilio Salgari. His adventures first appeared in publication in 1883. Sandokan is the protagonist of 11 adventure novels. Within the series, Sandokan is known throughout the South China Sea as the "Tiger of Malaya".

Sandokan series
Emilio Salgari wrote several novels chronicling the adventures of Sandokan and Yanez, two of his most legendary creations. They are introduced in The Tigers of Mompracem, which portrays their conflicts against the Dutch and British. In subsequent novels, they battle against James Brooke, the Raja of Sarawak, and also travel to India to measure themselves against the Thugs, a notorious band of stranglers devoted to the goddess Kali.

The original series

 The Mystery of the Black Jungle (I Misteri della Jungla Nera, 1895)
 The Pirates of Malaysia (I Pirati della Malesia, 1896)
 The Tigers of Mompracem (Le Tigri di Mompracem, 1900)
 The Two Tigers (Le due Tigri, 1904)
 The King of the Sea (Il Re del Mare, 1906)
 Quest for a Throne (Alla conquista di un impero, 1907)
 Sandokan to the Rescue (Sandokan alla riscossa, 1907)
 Return to Mompracem (La riconquista del Mompracem, 1908)
 The Brahman (Il Bramino dell'Assam, 1911) 
 An Empire Crumbles (La caduta di un impero, 1911) (published posthumously)
 Yanez' Revenge (La rivincita di Yanez, 1913) (published posthumously)

Follow-up works
Other Sandokan titles were written by Italian authors Luigi Motta, Emilio Fancelli and by Salgari's son Omar.
Paco Ignacio Taibo II has written a recent Sandokan novel entitled The Return of the Tigers of Malaysia.
Gianni Padoan wrote a series of novels that are declaredly a sci-fi reinterpretation of the Tigers of Malaysia series by Emilio Salgari: I misteri della stella nera (Mondadori 1978), I pirati della galassia (Mondadori 1978), Le tigri di Moonpracer (Mondadori 1979), Alla conquista di Rigel (Mondadori 1980).

Fictional biography
Sandokan is the son of Kaigadan, the last of a dynasty of rulers of Borneo, whose parents were killed by the East India Company in a bid to seize the throne. Having sworn revenge, Sandokan assembles a group of rebel pirates, the Tigers of Mompracem (now Pulau Kuraman), to attack them, and earns the personal name of the Tiger of Malaysia. Stranded in Labuan, Sandokan is recovering of his wounds in the house of  Lord James Guillonk, when he meets the lord's niece Marianna, the "Pearl of Labuan", with whom he falls in love. Sandokan escapes, but reunites with Marianna and later marries her. After his defeat, Sandokan stills frees his men from jail and apparently gives up piracy and escapes to Java with his wife.

Sandokan and his friend Yanez De Gomera go on to help Kammamuri fight James Brooke, the "Exterminator", the White Rajah of Sarawak, so as to free Tremal-Naik. Sandokan later has to help Tremal-Naik again, when his daughter is kidnapped by the Thugs of the Kali, a sect of killers commanded by Suyodhana, the "Tiger of India".

Following many battles over a period of years, Sandokan defeats all of his enemies and retires as rajah of Kini Balù (Ambong and Marudu). His friend Yanez is appointed rajah of Assam.

Characteristics 
Sandokan character is inspired by the Spanish naval captain Carlos Cuarteroni Fernández. He is depicted by Salgari as a gallant pirate. He is described as tall, charming, very muscular, slender, and attractive, with cold, black eyes, a fierce and severe look, and a big turban on his head. Unlike his troops, who are described as mostly half-naked, Sandokan always wears fine oriental clothes, generally red silk with embroidered gold, and long, red, leather boots.

Sandokan is a formidable fighter, brave, and ruthless with his enemies, but kind, generous, and faithful to his friends. He has absolute leadership over his men, and is often shown as having no fear, with Yanez playing as a sort of counterweight to his impulsive nature.

Related characters
 Sandokan, also known as the Tiger of Malaysia, a Bornean king turned pirate
 Lady Marianna Guillonk, also known as the Pearl of Labuan, Sandokan's Italian-English wife
 Yanez De Gomera: Sandokan's loyal friend and comrade, Portuguese, Goan
 James Brooke, the White Rajah of Sarawak, their worst enemy
 Lord James Guillonk, Marianna's father, wants to kill Sandokan
 Tremal-Naik, Indian from Bengal
 Kammamuri, Tremal-Naik's servant

Films
The first Sandokan films were made in 1941 in Italy with Luigi Pavese as Sandokan.

 Pirates of Malaya (I pirati della Malesia) (dir. Enrico Guazzoni)
 The Two Tigers (Le due tigri) (dir. Giorgio Simonelli)

A series of Italian-made films with American leads were filmed in 1964 and released internationally.