[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yes TV Shows Channels

irs selected shows from the yes stars channels in high definition.

On December 14, 2008 yes re-branded the channels again, and yes stars 1, yes stars 2 and yes stars 3 has been canceled.

New name and rebranding

As of December 14, 2008 - yes changed the channels to be consisted of five as follows:

 yes stars Drama (replaced yes stars 1) - Airs drama, lifestyle and reality shows. Airs in High Definition simulcast.
 yes stars Action (replaced yes stars 2) - Airs thrillers, sci-fi, action and competitive reality shows. Airs in High Definition simulcast.
 yes stars Comedy - Airs sitcoms, comedy shows and dramedies.
 yes stars Base (replaced yes stars 3) - Airs joint shows with Hot Family (of HOT).
 yes stars Israeli - Aired Israeli movies and TV shows of all genres.

Another new name

As of January 17, 2010 - yes changed the channels to be consisted of five channels as follows (As of August 20, 2010, the word "stars" was removed from the channels' name):

 yes Drama - Airs drama, lifestyle and reality shows. Airs in High Definition simulcast as yes Drama HD.
 yes Action - Airs thrillers, Sci-Fi and action shows. Airs in High Definition simulcast as yes Action HD.
 yes Comedy - Airs sitcoms, comedy shows and dramedies.
 yes Next - Airs shows from all genres which are pointing to the young demos. Airs in High Definition simulcast as yes Next HD.
 yes Base - Airs joint shows with Hot Family (of HOT).

The channel "yes stars Israeli" was canceled on January 16, 2010 and replaced with yes stars Next.

yes TV Shows Channels 2011

as of January 15, 2011 - consists of five channels as follows.,

 yes Drama - Airs drama, lifestyle and reality shows. Airs in High Definition simulcast as yes Drama HD.
 yes Action - Airs Action shows. Airs in High Definition simulcast as yes Action HD.
 yes Comedy - Airs sitcoms, comedy shows and dramedies. Airs in High Definition simulcast as yes Comedy HD.
 yes SCI FI - Airs Sci-Fi, mystery and thriller shows. Airs in High Definition simulcast as yes SCI FI HD.
 yes Base - Airs joint shows with Hot Family (of HOT).

On July 2, 2011 yes SCI FI changed to Yes Real broadcast reality shows.

Broadcasting formats
yes TV Shows Channels air shows in 4 formats:
 Normal (4:3)
 Letterbox (4:3)
 Pan & Scan (4:3)
 Widescreen (16:9)

In order to watch widescreen (16:9) shows on a 4:3 TV, there are 3 options to see the picture: 
 4:3 Letterbox (Widescreen with black bars - Original Aspect Ratio)
 16:9 (Anamorphic Widescreen)
 4:3 (Pan & scan)

Choosing the format of the picture is in the digital set-top box setup. The setup does not affect shows which are not broadcast in Widescreen.

yes stars HD

yes stars HD broadcasts shows in High Definition at a resolution of 1080i50 with an original aspect ratio of 16:9 (widescreen) using H.264 compression format. The channel available only to the HD consumers of yes, using yes HD set-top box. The channel aired until April 21, 2009, then it was replaced with a full schedule simulcast on 2 channels - yes stars Drama HD and yes stars Action HD'''''.

References

Yes (Israel)