[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Book of Esther

The additions, called "The rest of the Book of Esther", are specifically listed in the Thirty-Nine Articles, Article VI, of the Church of England as non-canonical, though "read for example of life and instruction of manners".

Modern retelling

See also
Grager

Notes

References

Citations

Sources 

 
 
 Beal, Timothy K (Timothy Beal). The Book of Hiding: Gender, Ethnicity, Annihilation, and Esther. NY: Routledge, 1997. Postmodern theoretical apparatus, e.g. Jacques Derrida, Emmanuel Levinas
 Extract from The JPS Bible Commentary: Esther by Adele Berlin: Liberal Jewish view.
 Grossman, Jonathan, Esther: The Outer Narrative and the Hidden Reading, Winona Lake, IN.: Eisenbrauns, 2011.
 
 
 Sasson, Jack M. "Esther" in Alter and Kermode, pp. 335–341, literary view
 The Historicity of Megillat Esther: Gil Student's survey of scholarship supporting a historical reading of Esther
 Thespis: Ritual, Myth, and Drama in the Ancient Near East by Theodor Gaster. 1950.
 White, Sidnie Ann. "Esther: A Feminine Model for Jewish Diaspora" in Newsom
 Esther (Judaica Press) translation [with Rashi's commentary] at Chabad.org
 Cumming, Rev. J. Elder DD The Book of Esther: Its spiritual teaching London: The Religious Tract Society, 1913
 Fischer, James A. Song of Songs, Ruth, Lamentations, Ecclesiastes, Esther. Collegeville Bible Commentary. Collegeville, MN: Liturgical Press, 1986.
 Hudson, J. Francis Esther: For Such a Time as This. From Character and Charisma series. Kingsway, 2000.
 
 Levenson, Jon D. Esther. Old Testament Library Series. Louisville, KY: Westminster John Knox, 1997.
 McConville, John C. L. Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. Daily Study Bible Series. Philadelphia: Westminster, 1985.
 Moore, Carey A. Esther. Anchor Bible, vol. 7B. Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1971.
 Paton, Lewis B. A Critical and Exegetical Commentary on the Book of Esther. International Critical Commentary. Edinburgh, Scotland: T&T Clark, 1908.
 Hazony, Yoram. God and Politics in Esther. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2016.
 Shurpin, Yehuda, How Could Esther Marry a Non-Jewish King?, Chabad.org.

Further reading

External links 

 Eliezer Melamed, Purim and Reading the Megillah in Peninei Halakha site.

Text and translations 
 Jewish translations
 Esther (Judaica Press) translation [with Rashi's commentary] at Chabad.org
 Purim insights to Megillat Esther
 Mechon Mamre Full text, Aleppo Codex: text of Esther in Hebrew
 Christian translations
 Introduction to the Book of Esther

Physical relics 
 Catalogue of Illuminated Esther Scrolls by Dagmara Budzioch, the Bezalel Narkiss Index of Jewish Art, the Center for Jewish Art at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
Scroll of the Book of Esther, illustrated, Italy, 1747.

 
4th-century BC books
Esther (parts)
Esther
Esther, Book of
Purim
Historical books