[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pilgrim (archbishop of Cologne)

sed to crown his wife, Gisela, on the grounds that their marriage was invalid and consanguineous. On 21 September Pilgrim crowned Gisela queen in Cologne Cathedral, which led to a rapid rapprochement between king and prelate. He tried to reconcile Duke Gothelo I of Lotharingia, but was unsuccessful.

Pilgrim continued to benefit from Aribo and Conrad's estrangement when, at Aachen on 14 April 1028 (Easter Sunday), he crowned Conrad and Gisela's son, Henry III, following his election as King of Germany to replace his father, who had been crowned emperor by the pope. A convention was established, and from this point on the archbishops of Cologne, not those of Mainz, crowned the kings of Germany. In June 1031, Conrad appointed Pilgrim archchancellor for Italy, an honour that remained with the archbishops of Cologne throughout the Middle Ages.

Diocesan projects
Pilgrim was a reformer and a builder, extending the western suburbs of his city by the foundation of the Romanesque basilica of the Holy Apostles (1022/4), a mint (c. 1027) and a new market. On 8 November 1029 he consecrated the abbey of Brauweiler. His extensive influence in the Rhineland involved him a dispute over the right to the tithes of the land between the Rhine and the Ruhr with Sophia, abbess of Gandersheim and Essen. His wealth and learning are evident in his rich donations to his own cathedral and to Monte Cassino. The musical theorist Berno of Reichenau dedicated his work on the tonarius to Pilgrim.

Pilgrim supported the Cluniac reforms, and took part in the negotiations between Henry II and King Robert II of France in August 1023. He attended the council of Frankfurt in September 1027. His last major action was to oppose the appointment of Conrad the Younger to the Duchy of Carinthia in 1035. Pilgrim died suddenly in Nijmegen while attending the wedding of Henry III and Gunhilda of Denmark. He was buried in the church he had founded dedicated to the Holy Apostles.

Notes

Sources

980s births
1036 deaths

Year of birth uncertain
Aribonid dynasty
Archbishops of Cologne
11th-century archbishops