[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bashir al-Najafi

rassa Akhund Al Kubra.
 Madrassa Akhund Al Sughra.
 Madrassa Al Imam Al Sadiq known as Madrassa Shubariya.
 Madrassa Hindiya
 Madrassa Mahdiya Kashif ul Ghita.
 Madrassa Al Kashif ul Ghita.
 Madrassa Al Qizwini.
 Madrassa Dar Ul Abrar.
 Madrassa Dar Ul Mutaqeen.
 Madrassa Al Hussainiya Al Shiraziya.

Projects in process 
He is continuously trying that in South Asia there should be continuity of Marjiat. The following projects are under completion:

 Madrassa for male students.
 Madrassa for female students.
 Hussainian Hall (imambargah): a place for classes and to perform majalis so that students and zawaar from South Asia can pay their respects to Ahle Bayt according to their culture and language.
 Imam Ali hospital: where free medical treatment shall be provided to students and zawaar (pilgrims) and for this, place has been purchased near baab ul qibla of Imam Ali shrine and it is awaiting construction.
 Najaf colony Madina tul Ilm: along with the difficulties faced by students, regarding courses, teachers, residence permit from government (iqama), they are also facing accommodation problems. They live in small rented quarters where sometimes rent is raised and sometimes they have to move to another place, and due to this problem many leave the Hawsa without completing the studies. He has obtained permission for the construction of 1000 quarters from the government and the area has been purchased at baab ul qibla of Imam Ali shrine, but is waiting for respectable momineen to sponsor the construction. This project has been included in the map of the colony madrassa for male and female and hussainia is also included.

Beside these in all the parts of South Asia:

 Madrassa to be established as in Najaf e Ashraf.
 Syllabus of Hawza Ilmiya Najaf e Ashraf to be taught all around.
 Construction of mosques and imambargahs in areas of momineen.
 To support ulema when momineen can't afford there expenses and accommodation.

Works
Below are some of Ayatullah Al-Najafi's works:

 Basheer Hussain Najafi
 Al-Deen Al-Qayim: Rules and Verdicts for worships and interactions - a total of three volumes, it has been translated to English, Urdu and the Kijrati language.
 Following Late Clerics -(multiple issues were published)
 Improving your level in Usool (Murqat al-Usool)  - (multiple issues were published
 Laws of Hajj - (published)

-Rules of Modesty (a number of issues were printed)

 100 Questions Regarding Khums - (published)
 Guidance for the Youth -(published)
 The Laws and Rituals of the Holy Month of Ramadan (multiple issues were published)
 Najaf: the Pioneer for Hawzas around the World - (multiple issues were published).
 The Laws of Taqleed - (multiple issues were published)
 Mustafi Al-Deen al-Qaim -(multiple issues were published)
 A Friendly Guide to the Holy Kaa'ba - (published)
 A Fresh Guide for Muslims in the West - (published)
 Research in Modern Jurisprudence - (published)
 Explaining the features of Usool - (Handwritten)
 The Rules Surrounding Qiblah -(Handwritten)

Rules and Laws of I'tikaf -  (Handwritten)

 Justice - (Handwritten)
 Laws of Backbiting -  (Handwritten)
 Rules of Correct & Incorrect Guarantees
 Explaining Kifayat Al-Usool - (Handwritten)
 Classifying Narrators - (unfinished)
 An Intensive Paper Regarding the Science of Intellect - (Handwritten)
 Explaining Manthoomat Al-Sibzawari - (Handwritten)
 Reviewing the theme of "Qawaneen (laws) of Usool" - (handwritten)
 The Indian Circle used for Defining Qiblah -  (Handwritten)
 Commentary on Sharh Al-Tajreed  -  (Handwritten)
 Explaining Inheritance in "Luma'ah" - (Handwritten)
 Rules of Radio, Television, and Acting (Handwritten)
 Khums - (Handwritten)
 The Rules of Friday Prayers
 Upholding Traditions for Imam Hussain and the Mourning Ceremony
 Those Who Repent are the Beloved of Allah - multiple issues were published
 Nasabi - a reply to misconceptions brought up by one of the Nasabis (handwritten)
 The Birth of Imam Mehdi -  multiple issues were published, translated to Urdu
 A Summarized Edition of Rules & Verdicts - translated into Urdu. (Published)
 For the Youth - (advice and instructions from Ayatollah Al-Najafi to the youth - (multiple issues were published)

See also
Ali al-Sistani
Abu al-Qasim al-Khoei
Muhammad Hossein Naini 
Muhammad Kazim Khurasani
Mirza Husayn Tehrani
Abdallah Mazandarani
Mirza Ali Aqa Tabrizi
Mirza Sayyed Mohammad Tabatabai
Seyyed Abdollah Behbahani

References

External links 
 Official Website (Arabic)
 Official Website (English)
 Imamia Mission (followers of Ayatollah Bashir)
 Official Twitter Account

1942 births
Living people
Pakistani grand ayatollahs
Pakistani Shia Muslims
Pakistani expatriates in Iraq
Iraqi grand ayatollahs
20th-century Islamic religious leaders
21st-century Islamic religious leaders
Iraqi people of Pakistani descent
People from Jalandhar