[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Neal Ball

he team record for most assists by a rookie with 438 (this record has since been broken by Derek Jeter, who had 444 assists in ). On May 18, , in the middle of the season, Ball’s contract was bought by the Cleveland Naps for approximately $5,000 ($ in current dollar terms).

Cleveland Naps (1909–12)

Ball was brought in to serve as the temporary replacement for Cleveland's injured starting shortstop Terry Turner, who suffered from a recurring arm injury that needed treatment. In his first season with the Indians, Ball batted .256 with one home run and 25 runs batted in. Although he was never famous for his defensive skills, he achieved baseball history when he executed the first unassisted triple play in the MLB on July 19, 1909, doing so against the Boston Red Sox at League Park. In the second inning of the game, Ball, playing shortstop, caught Amby McConnell's line drive, stepped on second base to retire Heinie Wagner, and then tagged outfielder Jake Stahl as he was advancing towards second. Because the play was unprecedented and turned so swiftly, the ballplayers on the field did not know the inning was over and the crowd of 11,000 were unsure of how to react. Cy Young, the game's starting pitcher, was puzzled and asked Ball why he was leaving the field. Once the fans in attendance realized what had happened, they gave him an ovation, while his teammates applauded him as he returned to the dugout. In the following inning, with the crowd still cheering, he hit an inside-the-park home run into center field (the only home run he hit that season). After the game, he was questioned in a post-game interview, a rare occurrence at the time. He remained humble about the feat and reminded the reporters that "anyone could have made the play". The glove that he used to make the unassisted triple play is on exhibit at the Baseball Hall of Fame. He was presented with two medals to recognize his achievement: one by the Cleveland Press newspaper, and one paid for by a fund organized by the Cleveland News. 

At the end of the  season, after playing just 54 games with the team, Ball was sent down and released to the Portland Beavers. He refused to play for the minor league team and this, coupled with the underperformance of the infielders brought in to replace him, resulted in the Naps repurchasing his contract.

The  season turned out to be Ball's best statistical year, resulting in several career high numbers being set. He batted .296 and amassed 122 hits, 9 triples, 45 RBI and hit 3 home runs, though he also recorded the third highest number of strikeouts in the AL with 93. Although his defense was never stellar, he executed two noted plays that season. He made a one-handed stop against the Chicago White Sox that was described as "marvelous" by The New York Times and held the Yankees (his former team) to a 3–3 draw when Ball, serving as the cut-off man, successfully relayed the ball thrown from right fielder Shoeless Joe Jackson to catcher Gus Fisher. In doing so, he nailed Birdie Cree (who represented the Yankees' winning run) at home plate and the game was immediately suspended due to darkness. However, in a rematch against the White Sox on May 5, 1912, Ball suffered a momentary defensive lapse that ultimately cost his team the game. In the sixth inning, he was unable to catch Shano Collins stealing second base and then inexplicably held onto the ball. This allowed Ping Bodie to advance to home plate and score the winning run. On June 25, the Boston Red Sox purchased Ball's contract from the Naps for $2,500 ($ in today's dollars).

Boston Red Sox (1912–13)
Ball's final major league team was ironically the one he turned his unassisted triple play against. The player who was final out of that play, Jake Stahl, became his manager and teammate. The Red Sox signed Ball with the intention of using him only as a utility player who would be a competent substitute to any injured players on the team. As a result, he rarely started a game for the Red Sox. The team advanced to the World Series at the end of that season, where they defeated the New York Giants 4–3. Although he struck out in his only plate appearance of the series, he still received the prize money of $4,025 ($) rewarded to players on the winning team. This prompted the Ottawa Citizen to label him "the luckiest man in baseball."

Post-playing career
After playing his final major league season in , Ball returned to minor league baseball and played for several teams until . Most notably, in May , he was traded by the Toronto Maple Leafs to his hometown team, the Bridgeport Hustlers of the Eastern League, and became both their manager and second baseman. The Hustlers were struggling at the time and the addition of Ball did nothing to change the team's fortunes. By July, the Hustlers were still languishing in last place and, as a result, he was dismissed from the team.

References

External links

, or Retrosheet
Neal Ball at SABR (Baseball BioProject)