[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eli Rosenbaum

[former U.S. congresswoman] Elizabeth Holtzman to thank."

In an early television appearance in Britain, in 1987 Rosenbaum joined the After Dark discussion programme alongside Neal Ascherson, Gena Turgel, Philippe Daudy and Paul Oestreicher to debate Jacques Verges, Klaus Barbie's defense attorney.

The U.S. Justice Department Nazi-hunter character in Jodi Picoult's 2013 novel The Storyteller (which reached #1 on The New York Times fiction bestseller list), about the pursuit of an alleged Nazi war criminal in New England, was based loosely on Rosenbaum. In a Washington Post interview, Picoult called him “a modern-day superhero.” Under his leadership, OSI was called "the most successful government Nazi-hunting organization on earth" and "the world's most aggressive and effective Nazi-hunting operation." The Simon Wiesenthal Center characterized OSI as the world's only "highly successful proactive prosecution program" in Nazi cases and USA Today reported that OSI possessed "a tremendous success record . . . [having] uncovered and won more cases than any other Nazi-hunting operation in the world."

In 1997, Rosenbaum was selected by the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania Law School to receive the school's Honorary Fellowship Award which commended him for "making significant contributions to the ends of justice at the cost of great personal risk and sacrifice." He has also received the Anti-Defamation League's "Heroes in Blue" award  and the Assistant Attorney General's Award for Human Rights Enforcement and the Criminal Division's Award for Special Initiative.

Cases investigated and prosecuted under Rosenbaum's direction have resulted in deportations to Europe of Nazi perpetrators such as John Demjanjuk, subsequently convicted there of participation in tens of thousands of Holocaust murders.  On January 11, 2008, he was profiled as the weekly "Making a Difference" feature on NBC Nightly News with Brian Williams.

Kurt Waldheim controversy
Rosenbaum directed the World Jewish Congress investigation that resulted in the worldwide 1986 exposure of the Nazi past of former United Nations Secretary General Kurt Waldheim, arguably the most "sensational" uncovering of a Nazi in postwar history. Rosenbaum was the primary author of Betrayal: The Untold Story of the Kurt Waldheim Investigation and Cover-Up, a book which was selected for "Notable Books of 1993" by The New York Times and "Best Books and Audiotapes of 1993" by The San Francisco Chronicle and which demonstrates that Waldheim was involved in the commission of Nazi war crimes while serving in the German military as an officer under the Nazi regime and postulates a Soviet-Yugoslav conspiracy to help whitewash his history. After the war, Waldheim became Austria's foreign minister and its United Nations ambassador.

At the time of his exposure at the hands of Rosenbaum, Waldheim had served most prominently as Secretary General of the United Nations and was a candidate for the presidency of Austria (an election that he won in 1987 despite the exposure of his Nazi past).  He was never officially considered to be a suspect by the Austrian Government in any war crimes, but he was banned from entering the United States as a result of a U.S. Government investigation in 1986–87 that concluded that he was complicit in the perpetration of Nazi crimes during World War II. Writing in The New York Times, James R. Oestreich claimed that the "final blow" to Austria's self-portrayal as a victim of the German Nazi regime, rather than its willing partner, "may have been the election of Kurt Waldheim as president of Austria in 1986, after it had become widely known that he had lied about his complicity in Nazi war crimes."

Eli Wiesel award
The Justice Department's Office of Special Investigations was a 2021 recipient of the Elie Wiesel Award, the highest award of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. The award was established in 2011 and recognizes "internationally prominent individuals whose actions embody the Museum’s vision of a world where people confront hate, prevent genocide, and promote human dignity." The award was accepted on behalf of the office "by former OSI Director Eli Rosenbaum, under whose leadership the majority of the unit’s prosecution successes were achieved."