[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Goran Hadžić

ick mother, wife, son and sister in a convoy of jeeps and police cars that left the detention unit of the Serbian war crimes court in the morning and headed first to Novi Sad and then to Belgrade Nikola Tesla Airport. He arrived at Rotterdam airport after he refused to appeal his extradition orders.

The Croatian government directed its Chief Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice to "take all the necessary steps" to bring Hadžić to a war crimes trial in the country to face other "serious crimes" they claimed that had been committed in Croatia. The government of Croatia was said to have wanted to ensure that Hadžić serve the two prison sentences previously ordered in absentia by Croatian courts.

Trial and death
Hadžić's initial arraignment before the ICTY was on 25 July and lasted 15 minutes. He declined to enter a plea to charges arising from the war in Croatia. His duty counsel Vladimir Petrovic said Hadžić would not "enter a plea today. He is going to avail himself of the rights granted to him..."

Hadžić pleaded not guilty at his second appearance before the tribunal on 24 August. The prosecutors announced they would call 141 witnesses, seven of them experts whose reports would be submitted later. Also announced was testimony from 82 fact witnesses, 20 of whom would give evidence in court. Transcripts of testimonials from the remaining 62 would be submitted into evidence, and the defense would have the opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses later.

Prosecutors received a total of 185 hours to examine the witnesses and experts-in-chief. The trial began on 16 October 2012. The prosecution completed its case in November 2013, and in February 2014 the tribunal rejected Hadžić's mid-trial motion for acquittal. Hadžić had argued that the prosecutor had produced insufficient evidence to convict. Hadžić was then required to put on his defense.

Hadžić was diagnosed with terminal brain cancer in November 2014. His trial was suspended in October 2014 as he was unable to take part due to the side effects of his treatment, which included chemotherapy. The prosecution wanted the trial to proceed in his absence but no decision was made. In April 2015 the court ordered Hadžić's provisional release, and he was sent back to Serbia. Hadžić died of his cancer the following year on 12 July 2016, aged 57.

References

External links

The Prosecutor v. Hadžić (IT-04-75), International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia

1958 births
2016 deaths
Heads of state of former countries
People indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
People from Vinkovci
Serb Democratic Party (Croatia) politicians
Serbian nationalists
Serbs of Croatia
People extradited from Serbia
Deaths from brain cancer in Serbia
Heads of government who were later imprisoned