[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Moreh, India

Moreh (Meitei pronunciation: /mō-rey/) is a border town located on the India–Myanmar border in Tengnoupal district of the Indian state of Manipur.
As a rapidly developing international trade point with the integrated customs and international immigration checkpoint, Moreh plays animportant role in India's Look East Policy, trade and commerce under ASEAN–India Free Trade Area, India-Myanmar relationship, India–Myanmar–Thailand road connectivity, and Trans-Asian Railway connectivity.

Tamu in Myanmar, just across the Menal river from Moreh, is connected to Moreh via two roads: The Indo-Myanmar Friendship Bridge and a newer Moreh ICP Bridge which connects the Moreh Integrated Check Post (Moreh ICP). Tamu in Myanmar connects Moreh in India to Kalewa-Yagyi-Mandalay in Myanmar and Mae Sot in Thailand through the India–Myanmar–Thailand Trilateral Highway.

History 
The Gazetteer of Manipur (1888) describes Moreh as a border post (thana) of Manipur northwest of Tamu, the latter a principal town of the Kabaw Valley. Tamu is on the bank of the Lokchao River, which flows down from Manipur hills (present day Tengnoupal district) to the Kabaw Valley at this location. Kabaw Valley had been undr the control of Manipur kingdom since the 15th century, and Tamu appears to have grown up as a market town in the valley, overshadowing its previous capital Khampat.

In 1764, the Burmese emperor Alaungpaya invaded Manipur via Tamu. The disposition of the Kabaw Valley after this invasion is disputed, but during the First Anglo-Burmese War (1824–1826) the Manipur prince Gambhir Singh reoccupied it. After a considerable dispute lasting eight years, the British Raj returned the Kabaw Valley to Burma as part of the post-war settlement.

In the intervening period, Gambhir Singh is recorded to have established a new village near Tamu in 1829, which could have been Moreh. He is also said to have "barricaded" the Lokchao gorge. Moreh is on a flat end of a spur coming down from the hills, centered in a separate, wider valley from the Lokchao valley. Two streams called Kujierok and Lierok flow down from the hills and unite in the Moreh valley, joining the Lokchao River further downstream. During the border settlement of 1834, the would-be village of Moreh was allocated to Manipur and Tamu was allocated to Burma.

A road from Lamting to Tamu, passing through Pallel and Moreh was laid in 1878. It was generally referred to as the "Pallel–Moreh route".

Demography 

Moreh is a town in Tengnoupal district in Manipur bordering between India and Myanmar with sizeable number of Tamils and other Indians. The local population includes Kuki and Naga tribals and Meiteis.  It is one of the fastest growing towns in Manipur. In the 2011 India census, Moreh had a population of 16,847. Males were 8,670 while 8,177 were females. In Moreh, 14.58% of the population was under 6 years of age. The female sex ratio was 943 compared with the state average of 985. The child sex ratio was around 985 compared with the Manipur state average of 930.Schedule Caste (SC) constitutes about 0.2% of total population in Moreh while Schedule Tribes (ST) were about 56.2% of total population in Moreh.

Religion
According to 2011 Indian census the town of Moreh is a multi-religious town and the Christians getting the clear majority. there are 4,403 being Hindus, 2,354 being Muslims, 9,547 being Christians, 57 being Sikhs, 109 being Buddhists, 17 being Jains, 33 didn't specify any Religion, 327 Others.

Literacy
Moreh had an average literacy rate of 71.47%,which is lower than the Manipur's average literacy rate of 76.94%: male literacy was around 79.52%,which was also lower than the state average of 76.94%. and female literacy was 62.88%, was again lower than the state average of 70.26%

Languages
The predominant language in Moreh is the Thadou language. The town is also multi-ethnic with other prominent languages like  Hindi, Tamil, Zou, Mizo, Meiteilon, etc, and many more.This town also has a substantial population of Tamils who migrated from Myanmar (Burma) when they were forced to leave during the 1962 Burmese coup d'état.

Economy 

Being a border trade and transit town, Moreh plays a key role in the development of the economy of the state with border haat as well as international trade. A significant portion of the economy of Moreh depends on smuggling, including illegal teak smuggled from Myanmar.

Border haat 
Moreh has the local Border Haat trade, under the India-Myanmar Barter Trade mechanism, in which over 40 tradable items are listed. Major exports include cement, engineering goods, transport equipment, motor cycles, iron and steels, medicine, chemicals and allied products, cotton yarn, etc. The major items now imported from Myanmar through barter mechanism are betel nuts, turmeric, red kidney beans (Rajma), kuth roots, gram, resin, dry ginger, etc.

International trade