[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Non-citizen suffrage

constitution was adopted in June 2002 and an amendment of the Law on elections to municipal councils was adopted in September 2002. A Law on elections to the European Parliament was adopted by the parliament in November 2003. Other permanent residents of the respective administrative units can vote.

Luxembourg
(EU member) In 2003, local voting rights were granted, with no nationality restrictions, to all foreigners who have been resident in Luxembourg for at least 5 years on the date on which  electoral registration closes (around 3 months before the election itself). On 7 June 2015, a referendum was held on whether to grant the right to vote in national elections to foreigners resident in the country for more than 10 years. The proposal was overwhelmingly rejected, by 78% to 22%. The result was met with dismay by foreign residents, who make up almost 50% of Luxembourg's population, meaning that around half of adult residents in the country are unable to vote.

Malawi
(CN member) Non-citizens who have been ordinarily resident in Malawi for seven years may vote for parliamentary elections, but only Malawi citizens are eligible to stand.

Malaysia
(CN member) Article 119 of the Constitution of Malaysia effective as of 2010 defines voting rights as only for citizens.

There have been over the years several allegations of massive illegal voting by aliens organized by the leading party UMNO, e.g. in Kuala Lumpur in 2011 and at several elections in Sabah since the 1990s, where these false-document-holding illegals who vote are called "phantom voters".

Malta
(EU and CN member) Since 1993, United Kingdom residents in Malta enjoy the same voting and eligibility rights as Maltese citizens at the local and regional council elections. A Bill to make provision for participation of EU citizens to local elections and a Bill to make provision for holding of elections to the European Parliament were adopted in November 2003.

Mauritius
(CN member) Commonwealth citizens may vote and are eligible for parliamentary elections, with a condition of residence in Mauritius for not less than two years or domiciled in the country on a prescribed date (also compulsory for Mauritius citizens), but "allegiance to a State outside the Commonwealth" is a criterion for ineligibility and "ability to speak and read English with a degree of proficiency sufficient to allow for taking an active part in Assembly proceedings" is a condition of eligibility.

Morocco
On 17 December 2008, after a Spanish-Moroccan summit, the Moroccan Prime Minister  Abbas El Fassi declared that his government was "studying" the possibility to grant voting rights for municipal elections to foreign residents in Morocco.

The new Moroccan Constitution adopted in July 2011 includes in its article 30 this possibility: "Foreigners enjoy the fundamental freedoms recognized to the Moroccan citizens, according to the law. Those who reside in Morocco can take part at local elections according to law, application of international conventions or reciprocity practices."

Namibia
(CN member) Voting and eligibility requirements include citizenship of Namibia (by birth) or child of at least one parent born in Namibia or residence in the country for at least 4 years prior to the date of registration as elector.

Netherlands
(EU member) In 1979 non-citizens were allowed to vote in local elections in Rotterdam.  This was expanded nationwide in 1985 (though necessary reforms meant aliens did not vote in local elections until 1986). Residents without Dutch nationality are not allowed to vote in national elections, only in municipal elections. Aliens holding a passport from a European country are allowed to vote in European elections.

New Zealand
(CN member) National voting rights were granted in 1853 to all British subjects who met the other qualifications (e.g. property), to some non-citizens from 1960 to 1974, and to all permanent residents from 1975 onwards, see History of voting in New Zealand. However, permanent residents cannot gain election to parliament unless they hold New Zealand citizenship. One party-list candidate in the 2002 election, Kelly Chal, could not assume her position as a member of parliament because she did not meet that criterion. Although the former MP Matt Robson, was an Australian citizen at the time of his election, he was able to stand for election, because he was registered as a voter before 1975.