[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marva

of course the highest level of discipline (regarded as the most fierce and cruel on base. Do not make eye contact, always angry, will scream at you). Other Company wide ancillary staff exist but are not relevant to the participants i.e. Deputy/ Secretary to the MP, curriculum coordinator or medics.

Each Machlaka (Platoon) is headed The Platoon Commander (Mefaked/et HaMachlaka), a commissioned officer, and is responsible for the operation of the Platoon. Most classes about Israeli military history are taken by the “MMs”. Additionally, they manage ammunition and rifle allocation for their respective Machlaka. MMs also adjudicate (mock) military trials if you consistently misbehave and are reported by the Platoon Sergeant. Deputising for the MM is the Samal or Samelet, the sergeant (platoon sergeant). They are the archetypical manifestation of a sergeant and are very much visible when it comes to exercising constant discipline and drills (do not approach them, always angry). Furthermore, they are responsible for the Platoons logistics; especially meal or bus allocation, the distribution of uniforms/ canteens (overseen by the Rav Samal Plugati of course).

Most significantly, your Commander or Mefaked/et is your group leader. You will spend all your days been directed and disciplined by your Mef. They are your only point of call with anything in relation to the programme. They run activities and classes on a daily basis about military history, leadership and teamwork strategies. During the last week you do break distance with all members of the Company in ascending order. It is indented that by the end of the program one has developed a positive relationship with the Mef as such a unique experience cannot be mimicked ever in your lifetime.

Lastly, “Commanders without distance” exist: one for each Machlaka and one for the Pluga. They are known as Moshakit Tash or service rights commander. During your 1-hour free time a day they hang around and you are able to meet with them in a relaxed and open manner. They are responsible your pastoral and emotional care and any issues within should be brought up with them.

References

External links
 Marva Israel Official website

Israel Defense Forces
Wingate Institute