[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Origin of the Azerbaijanis

Iranians.

A study from 2007 demonstrated a "strong genetic tie between Kurds and Azerbaijanis of Iran", with the results of the analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) from the same study having "revealed no significant difference between these two populations and other major ethnic groups of Iran."

In another study from 2017, Iranian Azerbaijani subjects from Tabriz were studied for human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles, which were used to compare their relatedness with other Middle Eastern, Caucasian, Mediterranean and Central Asian populations. According to the study, "genetic distances, Neighbour Joining and Correspondence analyses showed that Azerbaijanis were close to Kurds, who have shown a closer Mediterranean/Caucasus HLA profile, and Gorgan (Turkmen) who have shown a closer Central Asia profile".

It was noted that studies on genetic distances based on both HLA allele and class II haplotype frequencies "place Azerbaijani sample in the Mediterranean cluster close to Kurds, Gorgan, Chuvash (South Russia, towards North Caucasus), Iranians and Caucasian populations (Svan and Georgians)". The study further showed that the Azerbaijanis are "close to Iranian populations like Baloch and Iranians from Yazd, Gorgan Turkmen and Kurds (the closest population according to plain genetic distances), but in a half-way position between Mediterraneans and Western and Central Siberians, such as Mansi or Todja, together with Gorgan, Kurds and Chuvash (South Russian towards North Caucasus)." The study explained the close affinity of Azerbaijani samples with the Kurdish samples due to geography, "since Kurds from Iran sample were taken from Iran province of Kurdistan which is quite below or Iran province of West Azerbaijan."

The neighbor joining (NJ) relatedness dendrogram based on HLA-DRB1 allele frequencies from the same study separated the various populations examined in the study in two well-differentiated clusters: the first cluster grouping North and South Mediterraneans (Europeans and Africans), Middle Easterners, Caucasians and western Siberians, and the second cluster grouping the rest of the analyzed populations (central and eastern Siberians and Orientals). Azerbaijanis were integrated in the first cluster, together with Gorgan (Iranian Turkmen population) and Kurds, and in an intermediate position between Iranian populations and western Siberians, namely the Chuvashes, Mansis, Buryats and Todja (Tozhu Tuvans). Correspondence analyses based on HLA-DRB1 allele frequencies showed similar results.

The HLA genetic distances observed in the study "presented low values in Altaic populations and Mansi with respect to Azerbaijanis, which are shown in a half-way position between Mediterranean and Central Asian, but much close to Todja, Tuvinians and Mansi, in correspondence analyses (Fig 3). These results suggest that “turkification” process caused by Oghuz Turkic tribes could also contribute to the genetic background of Azerbaijani people, as other genetic and historic data argue (Yarshater, 1988; Schonberg et al. 2011)."

The MtDNA subclade U7a4 peaks among the modern inhabitants of Azerbaijan (26%) and Azerbaijani inhabitants of northwestern Iran (16-22%), while occurring in the rest of Iran at frequencies from 2-16%.

According to generalized data from various laboratories, more than half of Azerbaijanis are carriers of Y-haplogroups of Near East origin (E-M35, G-P15, J-P209 and T-CTS6507), which confirms the hypothesis of Neolithic migrations from the Fertile Crescent. East European subclades of the Y-haplogroup R (R-Z2109, R-PF7562, R-Y4364) and haplogroups of Central Asian origin (C-M217, N-P43, O-F238, Q-M242, R-Z93, R-M478) totally cover more than a third of the studied and indicate migrations from eastern and northeastern geographical areas. Haplogroups of South Asian and West European origin were also identified, but with a rather low frequency.