[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nirbhay

issile was tracked with the help of ground-based radars and its health parameters were monitored by telemetry stations from DRDO's ITR and LRDE (Electronics & Radar Development Establishment). An Indian Air Force SEPECAT Jaguar chased the missile during its flight to capture the video of the flight.

Third trial
The third test of the missile took place on 16 October 2015. The missile was to be tested for its low flying capability. The missile in flight was supposed to be brought down from 4800 meters to 20 meters gradually and in stages. A Su-30MKI aircraft videotaped the flight. A press release by the Ministry of Defence stated the missile was launched at 11:38 IST and all initial critical operations such as Booster ignition, Booster separation, Wing deployment and engine start were successfully executed and Nirbhay reached the desired Cruise Altitude. Although the take off was successful after repeated disruptions of countdown, the missile crashed into the Bay of Bengal 11 minutes into its flight after covering only 128 km of its 1500 km range.

Fourth trial 

The fourth test of the missile took place on 21 December 2016 from Launch Complex-III of Integrated Test Range (ITR) at Balasore in Odisha around 11:56 IST. There has been no official word on the test outcome, however according to news reports this test was not successful. The booster engine in the first stage started working and lifted the missile off from its launcher. But the missile started veering dangerously towards one side in two minutes after lift-off and veered outside its safety corridor. Due to this, the test was aborted and the missile was remotely destroyed. A potential reason for the failure was described as a hardware problem with one of the missile's component.

Fifth trial 
The fifth successful test of the missile took place on 7 November 2017 from Launch Complex-III of Integrated Test Range (ITR) at Balasore in Odisha around 11:20 IST. The flight test was a success and met all mission objectives. During the test, the missile traveled a distance of 647 km over a 50 minute duration, and was tracked by ground based radars and telemetry stations. This trial of the missile used a turbojet engine instead of a turbofan engine

Sixth trial 

The sixth successful trial took place on April 15, 2019. Traversing around 650 km, the test missile navigated way-points located at altitudes varying from 5 meters to 2.5 km. DRDO clarified that all mission objectives were met. The test also validated the terrain hugging and the sea skimming capability of the missile.

This trial completed the developmental trials of the missile. The next set of trials will be conducted as per the requirements of the Indian Armed Forces.

Nirbhay project is now technically closed after completing six developmental trials. The next phase of tests will happen from April 2020 under a new name called Indigenous Technology Cruise Missile (ITCM). It will include Small Turbo Fan Engine (STFE) developed by Gas Turbine Research Establishment (GTRE) and a radio-frequency (RF) seeker from Research Centre Imarat (RCI). A separate air-launched variant and submarine-launched variant is under active development.

Seventh trial 
On 24 June 2021, Nirbhay was successfully test-fired from Launch Pad No. 3 of the Integrated Test Range at Chandipur. The successful test was conducted with the GTRE Manik engine paving the way for a full range test.

Further plans 

In April 2023, the development trials of Nirbhay missile were completed, reportedly to the satisfaction of the DRDO. User trials are expected to follow. The induction of Nirbhay in the forthcoming rocket force of the Indian Armed Forces is planned.

Variants

Base variant 
The standard Nirbhay subsonic cruise missile is powered by a Russian NPO Saturn 36MT engine.

Indigenous Technology Cruise Missile (ITCM) 
Indigenous Technology Cruise Missile (ITCM) is based on Nirbhay missile but uses locally developed Small Turbo Fan Engine (STFE), also known as Manik Engine from Gas Turbine Research Establishment.

First trial 
On 12 October 2020, the missile was test fired for the first time with indigenously developed GTRE STFE MANIK turbofan engine. The test was aborted after 8 minutes of launch. As per DRDO, the missile deviated from predetermined flight path and was destroyed mid-air by mission control team.

Second trial 
On 11 August 2021, ITCM was test fired from Integrated Test Range (ITR). But it was a partial success. As per DRDO officials, MANIK engine performed well but the missile failed to achieve the desired range due to failure in control mechanism.

Third trial 
On 28 October 2022, ITCM test fired from ITR failed due to a snag in the engine after separation of booster stage. This test included an upgraded radio frequency seeker.

Fourth trial 
On 21 February 2023, ITCM was test fired successfully. Fitted with an upgraded radio frequency seeker and Manik engine.

See also