[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Blair's Landing

oward the west bank, firing her  guns. Its gunners soon ran out of canister shot and grapeshot, so they substituted shrapnel shell with one second fuses. The Confederate artillery horses were killed, forcing the men to manhandle their guns into new positions when the Union gunboats found the range. 

The Neosho appeared, and, together with the Lexington and Fort Hindman, blasted the west bank with canister and grapeshot for . At the same time, the Alice Vivian drifted off the shoal, which meant that the fleet could now continue downriver. All the Confederate guns were out of action, so Green decided to charge the vessels. This might have been possible because some of the vessels were in water only shoulder-deep to a horse. One Texan wrote that Green, "was a man who, when out of whiskey, was a mild mannered gentleman, but when in good supply of old burst-head was all fight." Perhaps made reckless from alcohol intake, Green yelled at the men of Woods' regiment that, "he was going to show them how to fight." Aboard the Osage, Selfridge saw an officer on a white horse on the riverbank and had a cannon fired at him, after which the man disappeared. Green was killed by an artillery projectile that took the top of his head off.

Aftermath 

The action lasted about one hour, ending at dusk when the Union expedition got underway, and the Confederates withdrew. Though both sides believed that they had inflicted heavy losses on their opponents, in fact losses were relatively light. T. K. Smith left his dead and wounded in the hands of the Confederates. Taylor wrote that Green's loss was "an irreparable one."  Green was replaced by Bee as the commander of Taylor's cavalry. Boatner stated that the Union army sustained 50 casualties while the navy lost 7. The National Park Service listed 60 Union and 57 Confederate casualties. That night, the Union expedition traveled downstream until 1:00 am when it anchored for the night. Major led the Confederate cavalry from Blair's Landing back to Pleasant Hill.

On April 13, the transport John Warner went hard aground, forcing the expedition to halt its progress. Liddell set up two sections of 6-pounder guns on a high bluff at Bouledeau's Point and proceeded to fire on the Union fleet from the east bank. One section belonged to Captain Archibald J. Cameron's Louisiana battery. The distance was too great and the caliber of the guns too small to do much damage. Nevertheless, fearing that a lucky shot might set off an ammunition explosion, Porter and T. K. Smith sent most of the vessels downriver, headed by the transport Sioux City. At the same time, Osage fired on Liddell's guns, silencing them. 

Hearing that the expedition was in trouble, Banks sent A. J. Smith with two brigades, two batteries, and some cavalry to the east bank at 4:00 pm on April 13. After a  march, these troops reached Campti, found most of the fleet, and drove away Liddell's forces. Upstream, the Fort Hindman finally succeeded in pulling the John Warner free. Meanwhile, the transport Iberville grounded near Campti and the John Warner stopped to help. These last two stragglers caught up to the rest of the expedition at Grand Ecore on April 16. A witness recalled that the expedition's vessels were riddled and their smoke-stacks looked like "pepper boxes". When they left Campti, A. J. Smith's troops burned the town to the ground.

Notes

References

External links
 
 

Blair's Landing
Blair's Landing
Blair's Landing
Blair's Landing
Red River Parish, Louisiana
April 1864 events