[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 32]
# List of Shaman King characters

spirit had continued to wait for him at Funbari Hill. He is later summoned to reforge Harusame after it is broken during the confrontation with Tokagero. In the 2001 anime, Mosuke later becomes Manta's guardian ghost, semi-trapped in Manta's laptop, and forms an Over Soul with the form of a hammer.

   (Lee Pai-long in the 2001 English anime)
 
 "The White Dragon"; Lee Pyron was a Kung Fu movie star who was murdered by the Tao family to be Jun's Jiangshi bodyguard. He is a thinly-veiled reference to the late Bruce Lee, who died under suspicious circumstances. Lee Pyron was born on November 29, 1948, and died mysteriously at the age of thirty; his body disappeared after his funeral. Technically, he is not a spirit, but a living corpse reanimated using Tao Jun's "ofuda". However, he can be considered to be serving a similar purpose, since he serves Tao Jun and hangs around her perpetually. It is later revealed that Lee Pyron was murdered to be Tao Jun's guardian Jiangshi. Once he becomes self-aware again, he forgives Jun for what her family did to him and becomes very protective of her. While Jun appreciates his dedication, she is somewhat dismayed that he tends to knock down any young men who try to get to know her. Throughout Pyron's life, he devoted himself to training and perfecting his martial arts, regretfully at the cost of neglecting his wife and son. Lee Pyron's master, Shamon (Shao-lin in the 2001 English anime), founded a variation of the Chāolín ("super forest") Temple Style (a parody of Shaolin) which he named "Ruichong-quan kung-fu" (Eijuken in the 2001 English anime). Shawen's Ruichong-quan became the basis of Pyron's style, the Dǎodàn-do (dǎodàn is Chinese for "missile"), which combined Boxing, Muay Thai, and Karate. Before Pyron died, he intended to create a perfect version of it and he intended not to pass it on until he finally perfected it; however, he died before he could complete his art form. Various Daodan Do moves include Fu chong Hong Zha si (dive bomber, a series of matrix-like flips), followed by Hong Zha Jiao (Bomb kick, a thrust to the face using the right leg) or the Dao Dan Jiao (rocket kick, a sudden thrust to the body with the legs).  To increase his power, Jun performs various modifications on his body, including extendable limbs, which he utilizes against the Hana-Gumi's Guardian ghosts. In battle, he fights without Jun controlling him; instead, she uses her talismans to enhance his abilities in combat.

 
 A pair of shikigamis that resemble Oni and were created by Hao with the Genma Choboku to protect the Ultra Senji Ryukketsu (Tome of the Shaman). Anna defeats both of them and claims them as her own, using them as her muscle. Zenki is the blue shikigami, with eye sockets in the shape of the "Seven Star Tree of Renewal" used as the crest for the Asakura family, and is skilled in mêlée combat and carries a shield. The red shikigami, Goki, has one eye in the center of "Five Point Star" shape used as Hao's symbol and wields a large battle axe in combat. In the manga, Anna is able to enhance them and form an Over Soul with them using the 1080 beads as a medium. Kouki is eventually destroyed when Anna uses it to defend herself and the Hana-Gumi from Hao's Armour Over Soul. In the 2001 anime, Hao retakes control of the Shikigami duo to hold Yoh's friends at bay at the conclusion of the end of the anime series, though the Shikigami were soon destroyed.

 
 A pair of , mountain gods, who are over a thousand years old and serve as Mikihisa's spirit partners. Their Over Souls are formed from using stones as mediums and they are considered skillful and powerful fighters. Imari is a kitsune who was once an evil nature spirit but became a helpful guardian spirit after being defeated by the Asakura family. She is intelligent and noble, and excels in transformations, particularly into a human woman; however, despite her feminine mannerisms, nobody is certain whether she is actually female. Shigaraki is a tanuki spirit who was found by an Asakura shugensha in a Buddhist temple and convinced to leave, becoming the shugensha's guardian spirit. He also specializes in transformations but is less skilled than Imari.  They were both given names 300 years ago by a member of the Asakura family who enjoyed tea ceremony and found their fur reminded him of Imari porcelain and Shigaraki ware. The duo is both high-class spirits who cannot be compared to Conchi and Ponchi and hate any sort of comparison made. Imari & Shigaraki aid Yoh when he confronts the X-Laws after he is coerced by Hao into returning to the Shaman Tournament.