[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Petroecuador

ht into terrain was caused by a loss of situational awareness by the pilots, owing to distractions (lack of sterile cockpit rule) and poor crew resource management. All these factors were compounded by bad weather (fog) and the plane's lack of a ground proximity warning system.

Environmental record

Petroecuador has been the subject of controversy over the impact of exploration and pipeline operations on the environment and Huaorani and Cofan indigenous peoples within the Amazon basin in Ecuador's Oriente (eastern) region. In 1964 oil drilling operations began to take place in previously roadless rainforest carried out by Texaco.

Advocacy groups such as Amazon Watch and ChevronToxico have attempted to document the oil spills, ecological damage and human impacts of these operations. Prof. Judith Kimerling of CUNY School of Law in 1991 published a book Amazon Crude () which details many of these problems.

Petroecuador has been the sole owner and operator of the oil facilities since 1990.  In 2000–2008, the company was responsible for 1,415 oil spills.  Petroecuador has also failed to clean up sites that were its responsibility under the joint venture.

Lago Agrio oil field operations

Between the years 1964 and 1992 the Texaco Corporation and years later Petroecuador carried on intensive oil operations in the northeastern region of the Ecuadorian Amazon. These operations affected indigenous and non-indigenous local livelihoods in the area by impairing the ecological functions and biodiversity of thousands of acres of land. Today the effects of these operations have been investigated and through the dumping crude in open pits, burying oil extraction byproducts, and burning unwanted oil without proper treatment, cancer rates amongst indigenous and non-indigenous residence has increased dramatically with in a ten-year time period. As oil weathers, contamination occurs as aromatic compounds are released and invade surrounding aquifers.

See also

 Sarayaku

References

 International Directory of Company Histories, Vol. 4. St. James Press, 1991,Petroleos del Ecuador History, FundingUniversity.
 U.S. Energy Information Administration( eia), Jan 2014, Ecuador Countries overview
 Sawyer, Suzanna. Crude Chronicles: Indigenous Politics, Multinational Oil, and Neoliberalism in Ecuador.Durham; Duke University Press, 2004.
 Center for Economic and Social Rights, Health and Human Rights Vol 01, No01, (1994) Published by The President and fellows of Harvard College.

External links
 
 Ecuador Crude Oil Production

Oil and gas companies of Ecuador
Ec
Non-renewable resource companies established in 1972
Ecuadorian brands
Energy companies established in 1972
1972 establishments in Ecuador