[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Herbert Pitman

stepped into the lifeboat and it was lowered to the water. Murdoch had ordered Pitman to take the lightly loaded lifeboat to the gangway doors to take on more passengers there, but (as Pitman later testified) the doors failed to open as the lifeboat waited for this about 100 yards off from the ship.

Up to this point Pitman had expected the ship to remain afloat. After an hour in the lifeboat however, he realised that Titanic was doomed, and withdrew the lifeboat 300 yards further off from the descending ship. He watched Titanic sink from about 400 yards distance, and was one of the few to state afterwards in the official enquiries that he thought she sank in one piece. As the stern slipped under water, he looked at his watch and announced to the lifeboat's occupants, "It's 2.20,". Hearing the cries of those in the water after the ship had gone, Pitman decided to row back to them to rescue whomever he could. However, after announcing this course of action to the passengers in the lifeboat he was confronted with voluble protests from amongst them against the idea, with the expression of fear that the lifeboat would be mobbed and capsized by the panicking multitude in the water. Faced with this Pitman acquiesced and kept the lifeboat at its station several hundred yards off whilst the passengers and crew in the water perished swiftly in the cold. (In later life Pitman admitted to bearing the burden of a bad conscience for his failure to take the lifeboat to the rescue of those dying in the water that night).

Lifeboat No. 5 was picked up by the next morning by the rescue ship  along with the other survivors from the sinking, and Pitman arrived at Pier 54 in New York City with the rest of the survivors on 18 April 1912. While in New York he testified as a witness in the American Government's inquiry into the sinking. He and his fellow surviving officers left New York City on the Adriatic on 2 May 1912. On returning home to England, he testified as a witness to the sinking for a second time before a British Governmental inquiry.

Later years
Pitman continued to serve with the White Star Line following the Titanic disaster. He served on the liners  and Titanic''s older sister , later moving from deck officer to purser because of his failing eyesight. In the early 1920s, he moved from White Star to Shaw, Savill and Albion Company Ltd. and also took a wife in 1922 – Mildred "Mimi" Kalman from New Zealand. During the Second World War, he served as purser on board the , and finally retired in the spring of 1946 after over fifty years at sea. He spent his retirement living in the village of Pitcombe, in the county of Somerset, with his niece (his wife having preceded him in death).

Death
Pitman died of a subarachnoid hemorrhage on 7 December 1961 at the age of 84 years. His body was buried in the graveyard of Pitcombe Parish Church, Somerset.

Media
 In the 1997 Titanic film, Pitman was portrayed by film producer Kevin De La Noy.

References

Pitman's testimony on Day 4 of the US Senate Inquiry

Further reading
Mr Herbert John Pitman article at Encyclopedia Titanica. Accessed 12 December 2014
Third Officer Herbert John Pitman of the Titanic at Titanic-Titanic.com. Accessed 12 December 2014

1877 births
1961 deaths
British Merchant Navy officers
People from Somerset
RMS Titanic survivors
20th-century British people