[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pfalz Flugzeugwerke

Hell's Angels and The Dawn Patrol.

A derivative of the D.XII, the D.XIV, was not ordered into the production. Pfalz's final scout, the D.XV, participated in the Third Fighter Competition. The Idflieg ordered the D.XV into production just before the Armistice, but it did not see operational service.

Interbellum 
At the end of the war, the Pfalz factory fell into the French-occupied area, and was stripped of anything useful. On June 4, 1919, the company was re-established as A.G. Pfalz, which listed its main businesses as "shipbuilding, production, and the buying and selling of industrial goods." This company eventually went bankrupt during the Great Depression in 1932.

World War II 
On October 1, 1937 the factories once again turned to aircraft work, this time under the name Saarpfalz Flugwerke, a maintenance company. The Speyer airfield was no longer operational, so aircraft repaired there had to be transported to Mannheim-Neuostheim for flight, but the city decided to rebuild the airport over the next year and it re-opened in 1938.

The new company grew quickly, starting with over 200 employees by the end of 1937, growing to 500 by the start of the war, and to 1,500 by the time the war ended. They maintained many designs during this time, including the Focke-Wulf Fw 58, Heinkel He 45, He 46, He 51 and He 111, Junkers Ju 52, and Ju 88.

Work at the plants ended in March 1945 due to the approach of American and French troops.

Ernst Heinkel, VFW and MBB 
Ernst Heinkel introduced his famous bubblecar, the Heinkel Kabine, in 1955, receiving a roadworthiness certificate in February 1956. He soon purchased the Speyer plants for additional production capability, adding to the major assembly line in Karlsruhe. Given the location at the airfield, it appears he may have been planning to start aircraft production at Speyer as well.

Over the next five years, 3,800 Heinkelkabine's were produced at the Speyer plants, reaching 50 a day. However, Heinkel's death in 1958 ended any plans for expansion into aircraft, and in 1961 the two assembly lines were sold off to Ireland and Argentina.

In 1964 the remains of Heinkel, Focke Wulf and Weser Flugzeugbau merged to form VFW (and for a time, VFW-Fokker). The Speyer plants were then involved in production of the Transall C-160, building 169 of them. They also produced on parts for the UH-1 Iroquois and CH-53 Sea Stallion, produced under license by VFW. Some work was also carried out for other aviation companies, notably Messerschmitt-Bölkow-Blohm (MBB), Dornier, and the engine manufacturer MTU.

In 1983 MBB bought the Speyer factories and turned them into a primary helicopter repair center. MBB ran into financial difficulties, and merged with Deutsche Aerospace in 1989.

Pfalz Flugzeugwerke reforms 
On January 1, 1997 the Speyer plant was handed over to the remaining 523 employees, and once again renamed Pfalz Flugzeugwerke. They continue their work in helicopter maintenance to this day.

In 1996, the DASA factory was transferred into an employee-owned joint stock company. Three managers from the DASA factory took over the management. The company became a supplier for cargo loading systems, ducts and manifolds, as well as additional fuel tanks and fairings. On January 1, 1997 the Speyer plant was officially handed over to the remaining 523 employees, and the name of the first Speyer aircraft plant, Pfalz-Flugzeugwerke was again selected.

After one year (on January 22, 1998), the Mannheimer Morgen reported of a: 'fantastic morale among the employees at PFW.' There was no question about personnel cuts and, in the meantime, the number of employees had even been reinforced with temporary workers. There were 617 employees at the time and the planned turnover of 125 million DM had been achieved.

Today the Pfalz-Flugzeugwerke is in a good position. Positive developments in the aviation industry and in Airbus are giving the company a major boost.

In 2001 the decision was made to sell shares to the Safeguard International Fund to acquire further capital and to meet the additional requirements of a rapidly growing aerospace market in the future. This step allowed a fast expansion especially in regard to the international market.

Aircraft
Pfalz D.III
Pfalz D.VI
Pfalz D.VII
Pfalz D.VIII
Pfalz D.XII
Pfalz D.XV
Pfalz Dr.I

References 

 Pfalz Flugzeugwerke

Defunct aircraft manufacturers of Germany
Defunct helicopter manufacturers of Germany
Aircraft component manufacturers of Germany
 
German companies established in 1913
Companies based in Rhineland-Palatinate