[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# European route E73

European route E73 forms part of the United Nations International E-road network, connecting Hungary and eastern Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Adriatic Sea in the vicinity of the port of Ploče. This  route is also designated as the Pan-European Corridor Vc, a branch of the fifth Pan-European corridor. The route largely consists of two-lane roads with at-grade intersections, although in the 2000s, about a third of the route was upgraded to motorway standards. The remainder of the route is currently being upgraded in all the countries spanned. The longest part of this corridor goes through Bosnia and Herzegovina and is widely touted as a road instrumental to the development of the country. The road also serves as the shortest connection of the eastern and southern parts of Croatia.

Route description 

The European route E73 is a part of the International E-road network,  long, connecting parts of Hungary and Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Adriatic Sea coast near the port of Ploče. The route is a Class A intermediate north–south road, consisting of  of motorways, and a substantial proportion of two-lane roads with at-grade intersections. The E73 starts at the Budapest ring motorway, providing connection to the Hungarian motorway network, as well as the European routes E60, E71 and E75, at an interchange with the M6 motorway taking the E73 route south, past Dunaújváros and Szekszárd towards Bóly, where the motorway (as of August 2011) terminates, and the E73 switches to routes 57 and then 56 past Mohács to Udvar/Duboševica border crossing where the route crosses to Croatia. The Hungarian section of the E73 is  long, and all but the last  has been upgraded to the motorway standards. The final section of the motorway to the Croatian border is planned to extend to a new border crossing at Ivándárda.

The E73 route through Croatia starts at Duboševica border crossing, following the D7 state road to Beli Manastir and Osijek. South of Beli Manastir, there is a junction with the European route E662, signposted as the D212 state road. The D7 road carries the E73 through Osijek, to the southern city bypass, an expressway signposted as the D2 state road providing a connection to the A5 motorway to the west of Osijek. The A5 is scheduled for extension north to the Hungarian border, where it would link up with the Hungarian M6 motorway. The A5 extends south to the Sredanci interchange whee it meets the A3 motorway, which carries the E70. The A5 continues further south to the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Svilaj border crossing at the Sava River. First segment of the E73 through Croatia, between Hungary and Bosnia and Herzegovina, is  long, including  of motorways.

The E73 route in Bosnia and Herzegovina starts at Svilaj border crossing, following the A1 motorway for  to Odžak. Near Odžak the E73 switches from the A1 motorway to a short road connector which carries the E73 to the M-14.1 road. The M-14.1 road carries the E73 to Vukosavlje, located to the north of Modriča where it meets the M-17 road. The M-17 road carries the E73 past Modriča, Doboj, Maglaj, Žepče and Zenica. In Zenica, the E73 switches back to the A1 motorway and  forms a junction with European routes E661 and E761. The latter and the E73 are concurrent between Zenica and Sarajevo, where the E761 diverges towards Višegrad. The European route E762 also forms a junction with the E73 in Sarajevo, heading towards Nikšić, Montenegro. The A1 motorway carries the E71 near Zenica, Kakanj, Visoko, Ilijaš, Vogošća, Sarajevo and Tarčin. In Bradina, the E73 once more switches to the M-17 road which carries it past Konjic, Jablanica, Mostar and Čapljina. The route crosses back into Croatia south of Čapljina. Total length of the E73 route through Bosnia and Herzegovina is  long.

The southernmost segment of the E73 route is located in Croatia, spanning  between Metković border crossing and Opuzen, where the route physically signposted as the D9 state road, connects to the D8 state road (European route E65). The D8 connects the E73 route to the port of Ploče to the north and Dubrovnik to the south. Furthermore, the section has a junction to the D62 state road providing a link to the A1 motorway and the Croatian motorway network in the south of the country. This section completes the total length of the E73 in Croatia of .

Toll