[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Delhi Ridge

cineraria (jaand), tinospora cordifolia (giloi), etc.

Mangar Bani forest

Mangar Bani, neolithic archaeological site and sacred grove hill forest on Delhi-Haryana border, is in the South Delhi Ridge of Aravalli mountain range in Faridabad tehsil of Faridabad district in the Indian state of Haryana.

It lies within the Northern Aravalli leopard wildlife corridor stretching from Sariska Tiger Reserve to Delhi. Historical place around sanctuary are Badkhal Lake (6 km northeast), 10th century ancient Surajkund reservoir (15 km north) and Anangpur Dam (16 km north), Damdama Lake, Tughlaqabad Fort and Adilabad ruins (both in Delhi), Chhatarpur Temple (in Delhi). It is contiguous to the seasonal waterfalls in Pali-Dhuaj-Kot villages of Faridabad, and the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary. It is also an important wetland for the migratory birds as there are several dozen lakes formed in the abandoned open pit mines in and around the area.

Spread over 5000 ha, this is the largest pre-historic site and stone age tool making factory in the Indian subcontinent, first ever site discovered in the Aravalli range with cave paintings. The stone tools and rock art dating back to 100,000 years BP and cave paintings date back to  20,000-40,000 BP. This is also the oldest human habitation discovered in Haryana and Delhi NCR.

Tilpath Valley Biodiversity Park

Tilpath Valley Biodiversity Park, spread over 172 acres is a biodiversity area in the South Ridge, immediately northwest of Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary and south of Sainik Farm. Before the area had valleys dotted with the sand-mined quarries, dried up springs due to no charging of ground water, with no forest cover except the invasive weed species of prosopis juliflora, lantana and parthenium. This was replaced with 3 layer of forest community with native trees and plants such as mahua, haldu, sheesham and bael. Scrubland was restored to attract reptiles and birds. 100,000 trees were planted in 2015 with the effort of 40,000 volunteers in 6 hours and 20,000 trees in 2016 again. Wildlife survey is conducted using pugmarks are tracking using pug impression pad and by photographing the wild animals. It now covers grasslands, hilly terrain,  105 plant species, 103 bird species, 32 butterflies species, 15 herpetofauna (reptiles and amphibians) species and eight mammalian species including leopard, Indian rock python, jackals, neelgai, mongooses, porcupines, small Indian civet, gecko, Sirkeer malkoha cuckoo, nightjar, Indian paradise flycatcher.

Being developed since 2015, it was officially inaugurated as Delhi's third biodiversity park on 3 February 2018.

See also
 National Parks & Wildlife Sanctuaries of Haryana
 Wildlife of India
 Wildlife sanctuaries of India
 Talkatora Gardens

References
Citations

Bibliography
 

External links

 Aravalli Biodiversity Park, Gurgaon, website
 Foundation of  biodiversity park laid
 Thorny British tree to be thrown out of biodiversity park
 ARAVALLI BIODIVERSITY PARK

Landforms of Delhi
Ridges of India
Aravalli Range
Tourist attractions in Delhi
Wildlife sanctuaries in Delhi
Wildlife sanctuaries in Haryana
South Delhi district
Gurgaon district
Faridabad district