[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# Va'etchanan

s in the observance of the laws (as it might deter them from further Torah study). But Rava taught that it is meritorious to say it in their presence (as they might think that if merely reciting the Shema twice daily earns reward, how great would the reward be for devoting more time to Torah study).

A Midrash warned that if one changed the Hebrew letter dalet () in the word , echad ("one") in  into the letter resh () (changing the word from "one" to "strange") one could cause the destruction of the Universe.

A Midrash interpreted , "My beloved is like a gazelle or a young hart; behold, he stands behind our wall," to apply to God's Presence in the synagogue. The Midrash read the words, "behold, He stands behind our wall," to allude to the occasion in  when God came to visit Abraham on the third day after Abraham's circumcision.  says, "And the Lord appeared to him by the terebinths of Mamre, as he sat (, yoshev) . . . ." The word for "he sat" is in a form that can be read yashav, the letter vav () being omitted, as though it read that Abraham was sitting before he saw God, but on seeing God, he wanted to stand up. But God told him to sit, as Abraham would serve as a symbol for his children, for when his children would come into their synagogues and houses of study and recite the Shema, they would be sitting down and God's Glory would stand by. To support this reading, the Midrash cited , "God stands in the congregation of God."

A Midrash taught that when Jews rise from their sleep and quickly proceed to read the Shema, thus proclaiming the sovereignty of God, they become like lions. Then as they set out on their worldly affairs, if they stumble over any sin, or if destroying demons approach them, they proclaim the sovereignty of God. When they recite the words of , "The Lord is One," the destroying demons are consumed; they whisper, "Blessed be His Name whose glorious kingdom is for ever and ever" (conceding God's sovereignty); and they flee. By virtue of reading the Shema, Jews are supported by angelic watchers of the day and entrusted to the watchers of the night. When, on awakening, they again proclaim the sovereignty of God, the watchers of the night hand them over to the watchers of the day, as  can be read to say, "My soul is entrusted to the Lord; from the time of the watchers of the morning to that of the watchers of the following morning."

A Midrash taught that great is peace, for the world could not be maintained except by peace, and the Torah is wholly peace, as  says, "Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace." The reading of the Shema concludes (in the Evening, Maariv, Prayer Service) with the words: "He spreads the tabernacle of peace over His people." The Amidah prayer concludes with peace. And the Priestly Blessing concludes with peace. Rabbi Simeon ben Halafta observed that there is no vessel that holds a blessing save peace, as  says, "The Lord will give strength to His people; the Lord will bless His people with peace."

A Midrash asked to which commandment  refers when it says, "For if you shall diligently keep all this commandment that I command you, to do it, to love the Lord your God, to walk in all His ways, and to cleave to Him, then will the Lord drive out all these nations from before you, and you shall dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourselves." Rabbi Levi said that "this commandment" refers to the recitation of the Shema, but the Rabbis said that it refers to the Sabbath, which is equal to all the precepts of the Torah.

The Mishnah read the words "and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart" in  to teach that one should love God with one's two impulses—the evil impulse and the good—and thus that a person should bless God for the evil in the world as well as the good. The Mishnah read the words "with all your soul" in  to mean that one should love God even if it means God takes one's life. And the Mishnah read the words "with all your might" in  to mean with all one's wealth. Alternatively, "with all your might (me'odeka)" means that one should love God whatever "measure" (middah, a play on me'odeka) God metes out.