[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# History of the transitional federal government of Somalia

The transitional federal government (TFG) was the government of Somalia between 2004 and 2012. Established 2004 in Djibouti through various international conferences, it was an attempt to restore national institutions to the country after the 1991 collapse of the Siad Barre government and the ensuing Somali Civil War.

There were two distinct phases of the transitional government: the transitional national government (TNG) and the transitional federal government:

The transitional national government (TNG) was formed in April–May 2000 at the Somalia National Peace Conference (SNPC) in Djibouti. It had the following:
 2000: Election of Abdiqasim Salad Hassan as president by the clan/faction representatives;
 2001: National Commission for Reconciliation and Property Settlement;
 2002: 2002 Somali Reconciliation Conference in Eldoret, Kenya. 

The TNG was opposed by a rival pan-Somali governmental movement, known as the Somalia Reconciliation and Restoration Council (SRRC). Eventually the factions of the TNG and the SRRC were reconciled, and a new united movement subsequently developed, dubbed the transitional federal government (TFG).

 The Transitional Federal Government (TFG) was formed in October–November 2004 in Nairobi, Kenya with the adoption of the following transitional federal institutions (TFI), all accomplished by the end of the sessions:
 Selection of 275 transitional federal parliament (TFP) members;
 Approval of the Transitional Federal Charter (TFC);
 Election of Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed as President of Somalia and head of the TFG by the Parliament (October 10), and his appointment of the Council of Ministers, including Prime Minister Ali Mohammed Ghedi (November 4).

2000

Somalia National Peace Conference 
Officially dubbed the 2002 Somalia National Peace Conference (SNPC), and sometimes called the Djibouti conference, this was a series of meetings held in Arta, Djibouti, on April 20 – May 5, 2000. The conference was aimed at bringing together representatives of the warring factions of Somalia to end the civil war that had claimed over 300,000 lives. The name Transitional National Government (TNG) was selected for the movement at this time.

Presidency of Abdiqasim Salad Hassan (2000–2004)
Abdiqasim Salad Hassan served as the interim President from August 27, 2000 until October 14, 2004. He was instrumental in negotiating early supporters of the TNG:

 December 2000 – Hussein Haji Bod
 February 2001 – Mohamed Qanyare Afrah, appointed Minister of Fisheries and Marine Resources, and later, Security Minister
 ??? – Osman Ali Atto
 June 18, 2001 – Barre Adan Shire Hiiraale, of the Juba Valley Alliance (JVA), later appointed Minister of Reconstruction and Resettlement and Defense Minister

Conference attendees who later opposed the TNG
 General Omar Haji Mohamed "Masale" – Somali National Front (SNF)
 Hassan Mohamed Nur "Shatigudud" – Rahanwein Resistance Army (RRA)
 Abdullahi Sheikh Ismail – Southern Somali National Movement-Biennal Resistance Movement (SSNM-BIREM), though he later joined the TFG as deputy prime minister and foreign minister

2001

National Commission for Reconciliation and Property Settlement 
On May 6, 2001, an effort to create a 25-member working body, dubbed the National Commission for Reconciliation and Property Settlement (NCRPS), was damaged when Abdirizak Haji Hussein, former Prime Minister, was named as its head. The Somalia Reconciliation and Restoration Council (SRRC) and Puntland leadership objected strongly. Hussein later resigned on July 25, 2001.

Leaders factions opposed to the TNG in 2001
 Hussein Mohamed Farah Aidid – Somalia Reconciliation and Restoration Council (SRRC)
 Musse Sudi "Yallahow"

2002

Somali Reconciliation Conference 
Held in Eldoret, Kenya, this conference was attended by most TFG supporters. However, at the time, the Rahanweyn Resistance Army (RRA) was still hotly contending with other factions, including warlord Adan Madobe, who captured Baidoa. The RRA accused the Juba Valley Alliance of assisting the warlord OF ERA, an accusation denied by the JVA leader Barre Adan Shire Hiiraale.

2004

Transitional Federal Charter
In February 2004, at Nairobi, Kenya, the government endorsed the Transitional Federal Charter of the Somali Republic.

Presidency of Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed (2004–2008)
On October 10, 2004, in a session held by the TFP in Nairobi, Ahmed was elected as president of the TFG, an interim federal administrative body that he had helped establish earlier in the year. He received 189 votes from the TFG Parliament, while the closest contender, erstwhile Somali ambassador to Washington Abdullahi Ahmed Addou, got 79 votes in the third round of voting. The then incumbent President of Somalia, Abdiqasim Salad Hassan, peacefully withdrew his candidature. Ahmed was sworn in a few days later on October 14, 2004.