[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Optimus Prime

newly tamed Grimlock into battle through Hong Kong. He kills Lockdown and Harold Attinger at the film's climax, avenging his friends, such as Ratchet and Leadfoot. At the end of the film, he leaves the Earth and flies off into deep space, seeking to find out the truth about his mysterious Creators.

Optimus Prime returns in Transformers: The Last Knight, which is set five years after the events of the previous film. Having been frozen in the vacuum of space, Optimus has been drifting on the far reaches of the Earth's solar system for some time. However, he later crash-lands on Cybertron, its atmosphere reviving him. He then confronts the being currently in control of the planet, a powerful sorceress named Quintessa, who confesses to be the maker he is searching for. Optimus is easily subdued by Quintessa, who convinces him that he destroyed Cybertron and reveals that the Earth is actually Cybertron's "ancient enemy" Unicron. Redubbing him "Nemesis Prime", Quintessa brain-washes Optimus and tasks him with retrieving her stolen staff, with which she plans to drain Earth/Unicron's life force so that Cybertron can be restored. Nemesis succeeds in retrieving the staff, but is hindered by Bumblebee, whom he engages in a fierce duel. Nemesis nearly kills Bumblebee, but when the normally mute Bumblebee suddenly speaks, urging Prime to remember who he is, the sound of his oldest friend's voice is enough for Optimus to return. However, Megatron, revealed to be in league with Quintessa, swoops in and steals the staff from Optimus. Prime is then attacked and sentenced to death by the Guardian Knights for aiding Quintessa, but he is saved by Cade Yeager, who convinces Optimus to help him save the Earth. Optimus leads the Autobots in the attack on Quintessa's lair, during which he slays the Infernocons and defeats Megatron. Optimus then attacks Quintessa, distracting her long enough for Bumblebee to shoot and seemingly vaporize her. At the end of the film, Optimus and the other Autobots return to Cybertron, unaware that Quintessa is actually still alive.

Optimus Prime returns in the 2018 film Bumblebee, initially a prequel and later declared as a reboot. As the Decepticons are defeating the Autobots in a war on Cybertron, Optimus Prime orders the surviving Autobots to evacuate, and sends Autobot scout B-127 to establish a base on Earth for the Autobots to regroup. To buy time for him to escape, Prime fends off an army of Decepticons. Later in 1987, teenage girl Charlie Watson finds and befriends B-127, whom she names "Bumblebee". She accidentally unlocks a holographic message from Optimus Prime about B-127's mission, restoring Bumblebee's memories of watching Optimus fighting many Decepticons while escaping from Cybertron. The message is activated again when Bumblebee is interrogated by Decepticons Shatter and Dropkick. Optimus later reunites with Bumblebee, driving alongside him. In a mid-credits scene, he praises Bumblebee for protecting the Earth, as they walk together through a forest.

Optimus Prime returned in the 2023 film Transformers: Rise of the Beasts alongside his Beast Wars counterpart, Optimus Primal.

Film incarnation
During the promotion of the Transformers films, Optimus Prime appeared in several commercials. Optimus Prime, along with other Transformers, were featured in several commercials for General Motors. Scenes with Optimus Prime were used in several General Motors commercials. A commercial for the Discovery Channel featured Optimus Prime singing part of a promotional song.

Optimus also appeared on the Late Show with David Letterman, giving "The Top Ten Things That Sound Cool When Spoken by a Giant Robot".

Honors
At BotCon 2010, Hasbro named Optimus Prime as one of the first five robot inductees in the Transformers Hall of Fame.

In March 2023, Optimus Prime received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards.

See also

Notes

References

Bibliography

External links

Pages on Optimus Prime at the Transformers Wiki

3H Enterprises characters
Action film characters
Devil's Due Publishing characters
Extraterrestrial superheroes
Fictional characters with superhuman strength
Fictional commanders
Fictional axefighters
Fun Publications characters
Male characters in animated series
Male characters in comics
Male characters in film
Robot characters in video games
Science fiction film characters
Television characters introduced in 1984
Transformers characters