[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of burial places of founders of religious traditions

This article lists burial places of founders of world religions. If there is no burial place, the place of death is mentioned.

Bábism 

The Shrine of the Báb, the burial location of the Báb, the founder of Bábism and one of three central figures of the Baháʼí Faith, is located on Mount Carmel, in Haifa, Israel.

Baháʼí Faith 

Located in Bahji near Acre, Israel, the Shrine of Baháʼu'lláh is the most holy place for followers of the Baháʼí Faith. This also serves as their Qiblih, or direction of prayer. It contains the remains of Baháʼu'lláh, founder of the Baháʼí Faith and is near the spot where he died in the Mansion of Bahji.

Buddhism 

Gautama Buddha's body was cremated in Kushinagar, India and the relics were placed in monuments or stupas, some of which are believed to have survived until the present. Ramabhar Stupa in Kushinagar was built over a portion of the Buddha's ashes on the spot where he was cremated by the ancient Malla people. The Temple of the Tooth or Dalada Maligawa in Sri Lanka is the place where the relic of the tooth of the Buddha is kept at present.

Christianity 

A number of claimed relics associated with Jesus have been displayed throughout the history of Christianity. While some individuals believe in the authenticity of Jesus relics, others doubt their validity. For instance, the sixteenth-century philosopher Erasmus wrote about the proliferation of relics, and the number of buildings that could be constructed from wooden relics claimed to be from the crucifixion cross of Jesus. Similarly, at least thirty Holy Nails were venerated as relics across Europe in the early 20th century. Part of the relics are included in the so-called Arma Christi ("Weapons of Christ"), or the Instruments of the Passion.

Some relics, such as remnants of the crown of thorns, receive only a modest number of pilgrims, while others, such as the Shroud of Turin, receive millions of pilgrims, including Pope John Paul II, Pope Benedict XVI, and Pope Francis.

As Christian teaching generally states that Christ was assumed into heaven corporeally, there are few bodily relics. A notable exception is the Holy Foreskin of Jesus.

According to early Christian sources, the Church of the Holy Sepulchre occupies the location where Jesus is said to have been entombed between his crucifixion and resurrection. It is located in the Christian Quarter of the Old City of Jerusalem.

A second site, known as the Garden Tomb, located just outside Jerusalem's Old City has become a popular Protestant alternative to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, which is dominated by the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox faiths.

Protestantism

Calvinism

The exact location of John Calvin's burial is unknown.

Lutheranism

Upon his death, Martin Luther was buried in All Saints' Church in Wittenberg. This was the formerly Catholic Church to which he nailed his 95 theses. Today, it is a Lutheran church.

Methodism

John Wesley was buried at Wesley's Chapel in St Luke's, Central London, United Kingdom.

Christian Science 

Mary Baker Eddy is buried at Mount Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States.

Seventh-day Adventism 

Ellen G. White and her husband James White were buried at Oak Hill Cemetery, in Battle Creek, Michigan, United States.

Jehovahs Witnesses/Bible Students

The tombstone of Charles Taze Russell (1852-1916) is located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in the United States.

Latter Day Saint movement

Joseph Smith is buried at the Smith Family Cemetery in Nauvoo, Illinois in the United States.

Spiritism 

Allan Kardec is buried at Père Lachaise Cemetery, in Paris, France.

Confucianism 

The grave of Confucius is located in a large cemetery in Qufu, Shandong Province, China where more than 100,000 of his descendants are also buried.

Islam 

The Green Dome, which houses the tomb of the Islamic prophet Muhammad (who is buried alongside the first two Rashidun Caliphs), is located in the southeast corner of Al-Masjid an-Nabawi ("The Mosque of the Prophet") in Medina, Saudi Arabia. The tomb lays within the confines of the Hujra ("Noble Chamber"), what used to be his and his wife Aisha's house. It only adjoined the mosque until Caliph al-Walid I ordered to incorporate it during the mosque's expansion under his reign.