[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rana dynasty

The Rana dynasty ( , ) were a Chhetri dynasty that imposed authoritarianism in the Kingdom of Nepal from 1846 until 1951, reducing the Shah monarch to a figurehead and making the Prime Minister and other government positions held by the Ranas hereditary. They are Kshatriya, whose ancestors were descended from the Ranas of Udaipur, Rajasthan, India. The Rana dynasty is historically known for their iron-fisted rule. This changed after the Revolution of 1951 with the promulgation of a new constitution, when power shifted back to the monarchy of King Tribhuvan.

The Rana dynasty were descended from the Kunwar family, a nobility of the Gorkha Kingdom. Due to their marital lineages with the politically reigning Thapa dynasty (of Mukhtiyar Bhimsen Thapa) from the early 19th century, Ranas gained entry to central Darbar politics. The Ranas were also linked to a minor faction of the Pande dynasty of Gorkha through the Thapa dynasty.

Origins 
Please note that the following genealogy by Daniel Wright was most likely fabricated during the nineteenth century, and there is no historical evidence before that time to back it up.

Chronicler Daniel Wright has published the genealogy of Jang Bahadur Kunwar Rana. The genealogy begins with Tattā Rāṇā as Raja (King) of Chittaurgarh. His nephew Fakht Siṃha Rāṇā had a son named Rāma Siṃha Rāṇā, who came to the hills after the siege of Chittaur. He was employed by a hill Raja for ten or twelve months who wanted to retain Rāma Siṃha in his country. The hill Raja asked for the daughter of the Raja of Bīnātī, a Bagāle Kṣetrī, and married her to Rāma Siṃha. They had six sons over 10–12 years, one of whom was recognized by the title of Kum̐vara Khaḍkā for bravery displayed in the battle against Raja of Satān Koṭ. The title was used by his descendants. Rāma Siṃha was suddenly met by his younger brother who requested him to return Chittaur for once, and Rāma Siṃha died reaching there. The hill Raja made Rāma Siṃha's son Rāut Kunwar a nobleman (Sardār) and commandant of the army. Ahirāma Kunwar, a son of Rāut Kunwar, was invited by the King of Kaski and was made a nobleman with a birta or jagir of Dhuage Saghu village. The King of Kaski asked for the hand of Ahirāma's daughter, who was a great beauty, through only Kalas Puja, to which Ahirāma replied to give his daughter only through lawful marriage. The King brought his troops and tried to take on the village by force. Ahirāma was supported by the villagers belonging to the Parājulī Thāpā caste and a war was initiated. On the same day, Ahirāma took his immediate family including two sons namely; Ram Krishna Kunwar and Jaya Krishna Kunwar, to the King of Gorkha, Prithvi Narayan Shah where the lands of Kunwar-Khola were given to them as birta.

John Whelpton opines that the Kunwar origin legend which states that the first of their ancestors to enter the hill married a daughter of Bagale Kshetri might have directed their family links to Bagale Thapa, the clan of Mukhtiyar Bhimsen Thapa.

The Rana dynasty descended from Kunwar Kumbhakaran Singh, younger brother of Guhila King of Mewar, Rawal Ratnasimha. During the first siege of Chittorgarh in 1303 A.D., Kumbhakaran Singh's descendants left Mewar to the north, towards the Himalayan foothills, according to the book "Rana's Of Nepal" where the preface is written by Arvind Singh Mewar. The Rana dynasty claimed to be Rajputs of western Indian origin, rather than the native Khas Kshatriyas despite the fact that they spoke Khas language and attempted to disassociate from their Khas past. Also, many historians are of the opinion that ruling families in Nepal often claim Indian Rajput descent for political purposes. The Ranas claimed the Vatsa gotra.

Historical background