[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Henry Mordaunt, 2nd Earl of Peterborough

own to Westminster Hall, to vote against the condemnation of Lord Stafford (7 December) In October 1681 he was summoned to Scotland by the Duke of York, whom he attended on his return to England in the following March. On 28 February 1683, he was restored to his place in the council.

Under James II

He bore St. Edward's sceptre at the coronation of James II, by whom he was made Groom of the Stole and a Knight of the Garter in 1685, and colonel of the 3rd regiment of horse. In March 1687 he was received into the Roman church. When the King fled England in 1688, Peterborough was caught trying to escape with him, taken near Ramsgate and committed to the Tower of London (24 December).

Later life
He was stripped of all his former offices and on 26 October 1689 he was impeached of high treason, together with the Earl of Salisbury, 'in departing from their allegiance, and being reconciled to the Church of Rome'. The proceedings were stalled by the subsequent dissolution, and on 9 October 1690, he was released on bail. In February 1696 he again fell under suspicion of treasonable practices, and was confined to his own house, but was enlarged the following May. Peterborough was lord of the manors of Turvey in Bedfordshire and Drayton, Northamptonshire, and was for many years lord-lieutenant of the latter county. He died on 19 June 1697, and was buried in the parish church of Turvey.

Family
Peterborough married, in 1644, Lady Penelope O'Brien, daughter of Barnabas O'Brien, 6th Earl of Thomond and Anne Fermor, by whom he had two daughters: Elizabeth, who died unmarried, and Mary, who married Henry Howard, 7th Duke of Norfolk, from whom she was divorced in 1700. The Countess of Peterborough was the groom of the stole to Mary of Modena, and survived till April 1702. Samuel Pepys admired her: "a very wise woman".

On his death in 1697, his earldom passed to his nephew, the Earl of Monmouth, and his barony (which was able to pass through the female line) passed to his daughter, the Duchess of Norfolk. Since she died childless, the barony returned to the earls of Peterborough until that title died out in 1814.

References

Attribution

|-

1621 births
1697 deaths
People educated at Eton College
Ambassadors of England to the Holy Roman Empire
Fellows of the Royal Society
Garter Knights appointed by James II
Lord-Lieutenants of Northamptonshire
Lord-Lieutenants of Rutland
Members of the Privy Council of England
Roundheads
People associated with the Popish Plot
Governors of Tangier
17th-century English diplomats
Soldiers of the Tangier Garrison
Grooms of the Stool
Earls of Peterborough
Court of James II of England
6