[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Provisional Legislature of Oregon

The Provisional Legislature of Oregon was the single-chamber legislative body of the Provisional Government of Oregon. It served the Oregon Country of the Pacific Northwest of North America from 1843 until early 1849 at a time when no country had sovereignty over the region. This democratically elected legislature became the Oregon Territorial Legislature when the territorial authorities arrived after the creation of the Oregon Territory by the United States in 1848. The body was first termed the Legislative Committee and later renamed the House of Representatives. Over the course of its six-year history the legislature passed laws, including taxation and liquor regulation, and created an army to deal with conflicts with Native Americans.

Many of the legislators would become prominent figures during the territorial years of Oregon. At first the body was a small committee of nine people, but the group was altered when the Organic Laws of Oregon were revised in 1845 with the legislative branch of the Provisional Government becoming the Oregon House of Representatives with a minimum of 13 members. Once the government was dissolved in 1849, all the laws remained in effect, except for the one that authorized the minting of coins. Territorial Governor Joseph Lane nullified that law, because it was in conflict with Article I, Section 8 of the United States Constitution, giving Congress the sole right to coin money, thus ending production of the Beaver Coins.

Background

On May 2, 1843, by a vote of 52 to 50, the European American settlers  of the Oregon Country (mainly those from the Willamette Valley), created a provisional government at Champoeg. In May and June, a nine-person committee met in Oregon City and drafted the Organic Laws of Oregon as a pseudo-constitution that was subsequently ratified on July 5, 1843. This document created the government and authorized a provisional legislature of nine people.

1843

On May 16, the nine-person committee of James A. O'Neil, Robert Moore, William H. Gray, William P. Dougherty, David Hill, Robert Shortess, Thomas J. Hubbard, Robert Newell, and Alanson Beers met for three days to draft laws. The group met again for two days starting on June 16, with George LeBreton serving as the recorder and Moore as the chairman for both sets of meetings. The laws drafted became the Organic Laws of Oregon and were ratified on July 5. Committees on land claims, appropriations, military, the judiciary, and districting were also formed at that meeting.

The organic laws were based on the laws of Iowa Territory. The document outlined the legislative branch and its powers, vested in a unicameral or single body. At that time the title of the legislature was the Legislative Committee and it consisted of nine elected representatives apportioned by population to the four established districts (which later became counties). The Organic Laws required the legislature to meet in June and December of each year.

1844
The first meeting of the 1844 legislature took place June 18 at the home of Felix Hathaway in Oregon City. This session lasted until June 27, and another session was held from December 16 to 21 at the residence of John E. Long, also in Oregon City. At the December meeting, Executive Committee members Peter G. Stewart and Osborne Russell presented a message to the group regarding the opposing claims of the United States and Great Britain.

Among the laws passed during the 1844 session was the "Lash Law", which banned Blacks from living in the territory with violators subject to 20–39 lashes across the back every six months, until the person left the region.

Members
Members of the legislature and the districts they represented (McCarver served as the speaker of the body with John E. Long as the recorder):

Thomas D. Keizur, Champoeg
Robert Newell, Champoeg
Daniel Waldo, Champoeg
Asa L. Lovejoy, Clackamas
Peter H. Burnett, Tuality
Samuel M. Gilmore, Tuality
David Hill, Tuality
Morton M. McCarver, Tuality