[Source: PubMed]

13. Mil Med. 2022 Mar 28;187(3-4):e313-e321. doi: 10.1093/milmed/usab108.

Review of Military Casualties in Modern Conflicts-The Re-emergence of Casualties 
From Armored Warfare.

Khorram-Manesh A(1)(2), Goniewicz K(3), Burkle FM(4), Robinson Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska Academy, Gothenburg University, 
Gothenburg 413 45, Sweden.
(2)Department of Development and Research, Armed Forces Center for Defense 
Medicine, Västra Frölunda 426 76, Sweden.
(3)Department of Aviation Security, Military University of Aviation, Dęblin 
08-521, Poland.
(4)Harvard Humanitarian Initiative, T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Harvard 
University, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The re-emergence of armored warfare in modern conflicts has 
resulted in a higher number of extremity injuries, burns, and brain injuries. 
Despite this dramatic increase, little is reported on the type of injuries 
caused and their management. This review summarizes the publicly available 
literature and reports on the rate and type of injuries related to armored 
warfare, their medical outcomes, and management limitations.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This rapid evidence review involves a systematic 
literature search, followed by a non-systematic literature review. The reason 
for choosing this approach was the inherent lack of quantitative outcome data in 
the literature to satisfy the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews 
and Meta-Analyses checklist. The study also used content analysis to study all 
peer-reviewed articles, focusing on similarities and differences in the findings 
necessary to formulate tentative results. The electronic search included PubMed, 
Scopus, and Web of Science, using the following search string: "Armored; 
Injuries; Mechanized; Morbidity; Mortality; War; Warfare", alone or in 
combination.
RESULTS: Modern conflicts are associated with higher number of extremity 
injuries, burns, and brain injuries among military casualties. Several 
publications claim that the characteristics of armored warfare and anticipated 
injuries in this type of warfare might require the far forward deployment of 
medical support supported by a reliable casualty evacuation chain. Still the 
quality of the available casualty data is low.
CONCLUSIONS: Because of the limited availability of reliable data or military 
trauma registries, up-to-date military casualty estimation remains a recognized 
knowledge gap, which needs to be addressed by armed forces worldwide. The future 
management of modern war casualties requires professional and well-trained staff 
in all levels, indicating a need for educational initiatives to provide both 
nurses and medics a greater proportion of medical care and management 
capabilities and responsibilities than in past conflicts.

© The Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2021.

DOI: 10.1093/milmed/usab108
PMCID: PMC8963150
PMID: 33742659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]