[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Va'etchanan

of  and  "I am the Lord your God."

Rabbi Levi explained that God said the words of  and , "I am the Lord your God," to reassure Israel that just because they heard many voices at Sinai, they should not believe that there are many deities in heaven, but rather they should know that God alone is God.

Rabbi Levi said that the section beginning at  was spoken in the presence of the whole Israelite people, because it includes each of the Ten Commandments, noting that: (1)  says, "I am the Lord your God," and  says, "I am the Lord your God"; (2)  (20:3 in NJPS) says, "You shall have no other gods," and  says, "Nor make to yourselves molten gods"; (3)  (20:7 in NJPS) says, "You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain," and  says, "And you shall not swear by My name falsely"; (4)  (20:8 in NJPS) says, "Remember the Sabbath day," and  says, "And you shall keep My Sabbaths"; (5)  (20:12 in NJPS) says, "Honor your father and your mother," and  says, "You shall fear every man his mother, and his father"; (6)  (20:13 in NJPS) says, "You shall not murder," and  says, "Neither shall you stand idly by the blood of your neighbor"; (7)  (20:13 in NJPS) says, "You shall not commit adultery," and  says, "Both the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death; (8)  (20:13 in NJPS) says, "You shall not steal," and  says, "You shall not steal"; (9)  (20:13 in NJPS) says, "You shall not bear false witness," and  says, "You shall not go up and down as a talebearer"; and (10)  (20:14 in NJPS) says, "You shall not covet . . . anything that is your neighbor's," and  says, "You shall love your neighbor as yourself."

Rabbi Ishmael interpreted  (20:2–3 in NJPS) and  (5:6–7 in NJPS) to be the first of the Ten Commandments. Rabbi Ishmael taught that Scripture speaks in particular of idolatry, for  says, "Because he has despised the word of the Lord." Rabbi Ishmael interpreted this to mean that an idolater despises the first word among the Ten Words or Ten Commandments in  (20:2–3 in NJPS) and  (5:6–7 in NJPS), "I am the Lord your God . . . . You shall have no other gods before Me."

The Sifre taught that to commit idolatry is to deny the entire Torah.

Tractate Avodah Zarah in the Mishnah, Tosefta, Jerusalem Talmud, and Babylonian Talmud interpreted the laws prohibiting idolatry in  (20:3–6 in NJPS) and  (5:7–10 in NJPS).

Tractate Shabbat in the Mishnah, Tosefta, Jerusalem Talmud, and Babylonian Talmud interpreted the laws of the Sabbath in  and 29;  (20:8–11 in NJPS); ; ; ; ; ; ; and  (5:12 in NJPS).

Noting that  (20:8 in NJPS) says, "Remember the Sabbath day," and  (5:12 in NJPS) says, "Observe the Sabbath day," the Gemara taught that God pronounced both "Remember" and "Observe" in a single utterance, an utterance that the mouth cannot utter, nor the ear hear. Rav Ada bar Ahabah taught that the Torah thus obligates women to sanctify the Sabbath (by reciting or hearing the Kiddush, even though women are generally not bound to observe such positive precepts that depend on specified times). For Scripture says both "Remember" and "Observe," and all who are included in the exhortation "Observe" are included in the exhortation "Remember." And women, since they are included in "Observe" (which the Rabbis interpret as a negative commandment that binds all Jews), are also included in "Remember."

The Gemara reports that on the eve of the Sabbath before sunset, Rabbi Simeon ben Yochai and his son saw an old man running with two bundles of myrtle and asked him what they were for. The old man explained that they were to bring a sweet smell to his house in honor of the Sabbath. Rabbi Simeon ben Yochai asked whether one bundle would not be enough. The old man replied that one bundle was for “Remember” in  (20:8 in NJPS) and one was for “Observe” in  (5:12 in NJPS). Rabbi Simeon ben Yochai told his son to mark how precious the commandments are to Israel.

A Midrash deduced from similarities in the language of the creation of humanity and the Sabbath commandment that God gave Adam the precept of the Sabbath. Reading the report of God's creating Adam in , “And He put him (, vayanihehu) into the Garden of Eden,” the Midrash taught that “And He put him (, vayanihehu)” means that God gave Adam the precept of the Sabbath, for the Sabbath commandment uses a similar word in  (20:11 in the NJPS), “And rested (, vayanach) on the seventh day.”  continues, “to till it (, le’avedah),” and the Sabbath commandment uses a similar word in  (20:9 in the NJPS), “Six days shall you labor (, ta’avod).” And  continues, “And to keep it (, ule-shamerah),” and the Sabbath commandment uses a similar word in  (5:12 in the NJPS), “Keep (, shamor) the Sabbath day.”