[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mobile Suit Gundam SEED C.E. 73 Δ Astray

e of the supplying was attacked and neutralized by Isaac Mau. So Waid returned to the battle with Ergnes, but Sven's flightpack was destroyed by the Martian. Thus he took automatic control of Waid's Dagger and took his I.W.S.P pack, which sent Waid crashing into the ocean without the ability to fly.

Vanfelt Ria Lindsay
Codename: Panther 2;
Striker Pack: AQM/E-X01 Aile Striker
A pilot who wants to progress in the lower noble families of Orb, and tries to do it through his achievements in battle. As he and the others are sent out to eliminate the Martians Vanfeldt cuts in the battle before Waid, but is ultimately betrayed by him when he orders them to do a "pincer attack". As Waid leaves the battle, Vanfeldt is left alone with Ergnes shooting him down leaving a scar across Vanfeldt's face.

Sars Sehm Ilia
Codename: Leopard 3;
Striker Pack: AQM/E-X03 Launcher Striker
A rather calm, but not so sure of herself pilot. She stays close to Gard and starts bombarding the Martian ship, Acidalium through the battle but Isaac Mau attacks them, resulting in Sars having to escape from her Dagger Mobile Suit.

Hoskin Gira Sakato
Codename: Cougar 4;
Striker Pack: AQM/E-X02 Sword Striker
An analytic pilot who takes no interest in superstition, but only in real facts. As a surprise move he anchors the Acidalium to the seafloor and climbs on board. He is confronted by Nahe in the Guarshell, believing his Dagger is far superior to a "Mobile Armor" he is soon overwhelmed. As the Guardshell is in fact a transformable "Mobile Suit", and incapacitates Hoskin & his "Dagger".

Gard Dell Hokuha
Codename: Tiger 5;
Striker Pack: P204QX Lightning Striker
A very protective pilot, he tries to keep his teammates safe, especially Sars. Yet as he and Sars starts bombarding the "Acidalium" in the battle outside of Orb, they are attacked by Isaac Mau. Both Mobile Suits are soon incapacitated by the ZAFT unit, and in his last words he tells Sars to run.

Earth Alliance 

Dana Snip
Natural; 22 years old; pilot of the GAT-X207SR Nero Blitz and a member of Phantom Pain.

Emilio Bloderick
Natural; 20 years old; pilot of the GAT-303AA Rosso Aegis and a member of Phantom Pain.

Media

Volume list

References

External links
 機動戦士ガンダムSEED C.E.73 Delta Astray Official website 
 Artist Koichi Tokita's blog: Initial announcement

SEED C.E. 73 Astray
Kōichi Tokita
Mobile Suit Gundam SEED
Shōnen manga