[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# University of National and World Economy

ally, the highest number of applicants as well as a record number of A-students study at UNWE in comparison to other universities in the country. Since 2007, a unified exam (test) similar to the SAT test is used for admission to the university. Since 2008 it is also used for the professional fields.

The university ranks second in Bulgaria by the realization of its graduates and the majority of them hold extremely favourable positions in the labour market. State and private employers adopt UNWE as synonymous with the excellent training and professionalism of its graduates. Only in the recent few years among its graduates there are four prime ministers, vice prime ministers, ministers, a president of the National Assembly, many deputies, a President of the National Audit Office, a chief prosecutor, a lot of bankers, businessmen and many others.

Academic profile
Under regular and distance form of education are trained more than 20,000 students at UNWE. There are 39 majors for bachelor's degree (in four of them – Economics, International Economic Relationships, Finance and Accounting, Business Informatics – the education is only in English) as well as over 40 graduate programmes.

The university has been awarded the Certificate of quality in education according to ISO 9001:2000.

UNWE is the coordinating university for Bulgaria in the Central European initiative for inter-university relationships and it is in collaboration with over 100 universities in Europe, the US and Asia.

The implemented credit system allows foreign students at UNWE to earn credits at the university, as well as current students at UNWE to graduate from foreign universities with a diploma.

The university issues an almanac, a yearbook and Scientific Works, the scientific magazine Economic Alternatives and the UNWE newspaper. The material facilities have been completely renovated in the recent years.

Campus

The building of UNWE is a 41 thousand square metres built up area and there are 120 auditoriums, a lot of computer rooms, offices, laboratories, 367 study rooms, a modern library with 100 computer workstations and free Internet access, a ceremonial hall, some modern conference rooms, an electronic system of information services for students, a publishing house, a printing house, a bookshop, a website, a sports centre, dormitories for nearly 5000 students, health – educational facility in Ravda and many others. UNWE has 8 faculties and 32 departments.

Notable alumni
Throughout its history, a sizeable number of UNWE alumni, have become notable in many varied fields, both academic and otherwise. Six Bulgarian Prime Ministers are graduates of the University of National and World Economy after the changes in 1989, including Prof. Lyuben Berov, Reneta Indzhova – the only female prime minister in Bulgarian history, Plamen Oresharski etc. Only in the last few governments of Bulgaria more than half of the cabinet ministers graduated from the University of National and World Economy. Since 1938, out of 23 Bulgarian Finance Ministers, only 5 of them have been persons who have not graduated or taught at UNWE.

References 

 24 hours Ranking go Navy go marines

External links 
 Efficiency and public funding for higher education in Bulgaria

 
Universities and colleges established in 1920
Universities of economics in Europe
1920 establishments in Bulgaria