[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Yingkou

the Japanese 3rd division and elements of the 2nd reserve infantry were attacked by 1,000 bandits but these were repulsed. On the 21st the Chinese once again approached Haicheng but beside long range artillery fire no attack was made simultaneously, both sides received reinforcements in the region. 

The Chinese side had received 10,000 men under Wu Dacheng who departed Shanhaiguan for the Japanese their reinforcements consisted of elements of the 1st Division which was dispatched on the 20th the Japanese accordingly extended their frontline to Taping-shan a large hill 2miles long and 60metres high which was of considerable military importance. This however was re-taken by troops under Ma Yukun on the 21st. General Yamaji gathered the 1st division and retook the hill on the 24th the Chinese lingered in the villages beyond the hill and Yamaji attempted to drive them off solely with artillery fire in fear of overstretching his forces but this was insufficient and the infantry was sent in and the Chinese withdrew from the vicinity of the hill. Japanese casualties for the battle of the hill were 250 and 1,500 were afflicted with frostbite. Chinese losses are at least 800 wounded.

The battle

On 28 February, Japanese forces under General Nozu Michitsura began a counterattack against Liaoyang and Niuzhuang, beginning with an artillery barrage and followed with an infantry offensive across a wide front. The Qing forces were driven in disorderly retreat to the north and northwest towards Jinzhou, offering only light and sporadic resistance. A portion of the Japanese army under Lieutenant General Katsura Tarō pursued the retreating Chinese to the walls of Liaoyang by 3 March, while the main force with the 3rd and IJA 5th Divisions under General Nozu reached Niuzhuang and Liaoyang by the 4th of March. Chinese losses on the 28th amounted to over 400 and the Japanese 124. 2,500 Chinese under General Xu marched on Haicheng again attacking the western defences but were repulsed by the 1st division. 

On the 3rd of March the 3rd and 5th Japanese divisions attacked Niuzhuang after a two-hour-long artillery barrage, Qing forces abandoned the walls of Niuzhuang with almost no resistance, fleeing into town. A total of 3,000 Qing soldiers were defending the town (given as 5,000 men of the Huai army by DuBoulay but 2,000 fled before the battle) against the Japanese 5th Division (6,000 men and 24 guns of this division took part) and the 3rd Division. Following fierce fighting, Qing forces abandoned the town with 1,900 killed and wounded with 633 taken prisoner by Japanese forces. Japanese casualties were 70 killed and 319 wounded. The fighting in Niuzhuang was fierce as regular combat yielded little by 5pm on the day the Japanese decided to systematically destroy the houses in the town bringing their guns to fire directly on Chinese positions this continued until 11pm when the remaining troops surrendered DuBoulay gives casualties as 389 Japanese and 3,000 for the Chinese 2,000 dead 633 prisoners the rest unknown.

Whilst fighting was occurring at Niuzhuang, the rest of the 1st Division and the 3rd Division assaulted Yingkou and General Song decided to withdraw to Tianzhuangtai, abandoning Yingkou to avoid encirclement. When Japanese forces arrived on the 7th, there was sporadic resistance and the port town fell quickly. The Japanese also captured the gunboat Mei Yuan and 2 transports trapped by the ice.

Though the battles were losses for the Chinese, the Qing forces were able to recuperate and the day following the battle, General Song managed to gather 11,000 men at Tianzhuangtai to continue fighting. General Nozu, not willing to let the Chinese troops to recuperate, reinforce, and strengthen their defenses, pushed on once again. The 5th Brigade was left as a garrison at Niuzhuang and Yingkou as the rest of the Japanese forces fell upon the Chinese at Tianzhuangtai. Chinese forces put up slight resistance and were successfully dispersed by the Japanese with 2,000 Chinese casualties and the capture of the entire Chinese artillery force. Japanese losses were 16 killed and 144 wounded. The army of Song Qing ceased to exist as an organised force as a consequence of the battle.