[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1926 Nassau hurricane

The 1926 Nassau hurricane also known as the San Liborio hurricane or The Great Bahamas Hurricane of 1926, in Puerto Rico, was a destructive Category 4 hurricane that affected the Bahamas at peak intensity. Although it weakened considerably before its Florida landfall, it was one of the most severe storms to affect the Bahamian capital Nassau and the island of New Providence in several years until the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane, which occurred just two years later. The storm also delivered flooding rains and loss of crops to the southeastern United States and Florida. Being a slightly mid-range Category 4, this hurricane peaked at about 967 mbars, making it the least intense Category 4 Atlantic hurricane on record, especially for wind speeds of 140 mph.

Meteorological history

The system was first spotted east of the Lesser Antilles as a weak tropical storm on July 22. Moving northwest, the tropical storm passed near Dominica with winds of  before entering the eastern Caribbean. It reached hurricane status at 06:00 UTC on July 23, and a short while later passed just south of Puerto Rico. The cyclone attained its first peak of  before hitting Cabo Rojo early on July 24. San Juan recorded maximum winds of around  and a low barometric pressure of  as the eye of the hurricane passed near the extreme southwest corner of Puerto Rico. The storm continued northwest and tracked just east of Hispaniola, losing some intensity to land interaction; by 18:00 UTC on July 24 its winds diminished to . However, the storm began rapid re-intensification as it moved over the Turks and Caicos Islands early on July 25.

The storm continued strengthening, attaining the equivalence of major hurricane status by 12:00 UTC that day. By the time it reached the central Bahamas at 00:00 UTC on July 26, it reached winds of . After 12:00 UTC, while still moving northwest, the cyclone made landfall on New Providence and crossed over Nassau, where winds were unofficially estimated at . Reducing its forward speed, the storm weakened considerably after passing New Providence, losing major hurricane status by 06:00 UTC on July 27. As the storm neared the Florida coast, it curved somewhat to the north-northwest and passed just east of Cape Canaveral early on July 28. It made landfall at 10:00 UTC near present-day Edgewater, near the Canaveral National Seashore just south of New Smyrna Beach, with winds of . Prior to reanalysis in 2010, the storm was estimated to have made landfall farther south, near Cocoa Beach. In Florida, the storm's lowest known barometric pressure of  was estimated, although it was likely deeper near the Bahamas.

After landfall, the storm curved northwestward and weakened rapidly as it moved inland, weakening to a tropical storm southwest of Jacksonville. On July 29, it moved across Georgia as a weakening tropical storm and entered Alabama as a tropical depression. It continued across the southeastern United States while losing tropical characteristics, gradually beginning to curve northeastward over Arkansas, Missouri, and the Ohio Valley, becoming extratropical by 00:00 UTC on August 1. It finally dissipated the following day as it moved northeastward over Lake Ontario.

Impact
On its path, the storm killed more than 287 people in Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, Bahamas, and Florida. In the Bahamas, the storm caused over 100 deaths, but the exact total varies from 106 to 146. Combined with two later storms in September and October, the entire hurricane season killed more than 300 people in the Bahamas.

Puerto Rico and Hispaniola
The storm initially caused little damage until it passed near Puerto Rico, where heavy crop damage, most notably to coffee plantations in the west-central region of the island, occurred. Strong winds affected the entire island, and all rivers in the southern half of the island overflowed their banks. Heavy rainfall of around  occurred on the island, while the average rainfall reported for July was . About 25 people drowned when heavy floods resulted from rapid rise of rivers. Total losses in Puerto Rico were estimated at $2.350 million. The storm is known as the San Liborio hurricane for its effects in Puerto Rico. Estimated damage amounted to around $3 million in eastern Santo Domingo as the storm center passed over the eastern half of Hispaniola.