[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brigitte Mabandla

dren's rights were adequately protected in the post-apartheid constitution. She worked closely with non-governmental organisations and the ANC Women's League in this capacity. At the same time, she worked on research in related areas at the Community Law Centre of the University of the Western Cape.

National Assembly: 1994–2009 
In South Africa's first post-apartheid elections in May 1994, Mabandla was elected to represent the ANC in the National Assembly, the lower house of the new South African Parliament. During her first year in the assembly, Mabandla was a member of the Portfolio Committee on Justice, as well as of an ad hoc committee on the legal status of abortion. She was viewed as a likely candidate for later appointment to the Human Rights Commission.

Deputy minister: 1995–2003 
However, in March 1995, President Nelson Mandela announced that Mabandla would join the Government of National Unity as Deputy Minister of Arts, Culture, Science and Technology. Her promotion to this position was viewed as surprising, although the Mail & Guardian described her as "one of the more prominent and most highly-regarded women in the African National Congress caucus". She replaced Winnie Mandela, who, aggrieved by her own departure, said that Mabandla's appointment was "irregular and unconstitutional". She was retained in the same position under the cabinet of Mandela's successor, President Thabo Mbeki, who took office after the June 1999 general election.

Mabandla reportedly worked well with the minister in her portfolio, Ben Ngubane of the opposition Inkatha Freedom Party. She later said that her proudest achievements in the office included the successful campaign to have Sarah Baartman's remains repatriated from the Musée de l'Homme to South Africa.

During this period, Mabandla was additionally a member of the National Executive Committee of the ANC. She was directly elected onto the body for the first time at the party's 50th National Conference in December 1997, ranked 34th by popularity of the 60 members; she was also elected to the influential National Working Committee. In December 2002, she was re-elected to the National Executive Committee, ranked 27th, and to the National Working Committee.

Minister of Housing: 2003–2004 
In February 2003, in a minor cabinet reshuffle, Mabandla replaced Sankie Mthembi-Mahanyele as Minister of Housing. She remained in that office only until the April 2004 general election.

Minister of Justice: 2004–2008 
After the 2004 election, President Mbeki appointed Mabandla to his second cabinet in a key portfolio as Minister of Justice and Constitutional Development. The Mail & Guardian said that, during her four years in that office, she "was widely seen as an indecisive underperformer".

Scorpions and arrest of Jackie Selebi 
Her term was dominated by public controversies arising from law enforcement investigations into prominent political figures, particularly by the Scorpions, a specialised anti-corruption unit of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). When Mbeki appointed the Khampepe Commission to review the structure and mandate of the Scorpions in 2005, Mabandla told commission chair judge Sisi Khampepe that the relationship between the Scorpions and the police had "irretrievably broken down" and that she would support merging the Scorpions into the South African Police Service. Although the commission did not accept her recommendation, journalists suspected, and Mabandla later confirmed, that her testimony to the Khampepe Commission had lasting damage on her relationship with Vusi Pikoli, the head of the NPA. Observers also surmised that Mabandla, as the NPA's political head, felt that Pikoli excluded her from decision-making, particularly in high-profile cases and particularly by comparison with the close relationship between their respective predecessors, Bulelani Ngcuka and Minister Penuell Maduna.