[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lucas Biglia

European clubs such as Barcelona, Inter Milan, Valencia, Fenerbahce, Galatasaray and Birmingham City. However, he remained at Anderlecht, insisting the club wanted him to stay. The club failed to win the league title in 2008–09. In all competitions, Biglia made 35 appearances and scored three goals.

Ahead of the 2009–10 season, Biglia announced his desire to leave the club in the summer. Despite this, Biglia continued to make a good start at the club when he set up two goals in two matches between 8 August 2009 and 15 August against Cercle Brugge and Westerlo. Biglia then scored his first Anderlecht goal of the season, in the round of 16 of the Belgium Cup, in a 3–0 win over FCV Dender EH. On 17 October 2009, after scoring against Charleroi, Biglia stated his goal was the greatest goal in his Anderlecht career. Biglia suffered a potentially serious injury to his ligament but managed to recover after it was found to be not as serious as first thought. Bigila then scored two more goals in the UEFA Europa League campaign against Athletic Bilbao and Hamburger SV. Despite elimination from the Europa League, the club would win the league title in the 2009–10 season, in which he dedicated the league title to his late father. Biglia went on to make forty-eight appearances and scoring four times in all competitions.

In the 2010–11 season, Biglia started the season well when he set up a goal for Cheikhou Kouyaté to score the winning goal, in a 1–0 win over Gent in the Belgian Super Cup. However, in a 4–1 win over Eupen in the opening match of the season, Biglia suffered a shoulder injury and was sidelined for weeks. Following Deschacht's injury, he was served as club captain for the time being until Deschacht returned, only to be injured himself and sidelined for several weeks. He further suffered a hamstring injury that kept him out for the rest of the year. In the January transfer window, Turkish Galatasaray renewed their interest in him and made a bid of €4.5 million. However, the move never materialized due to a lack of funding. Prior to the interests, Biglia said he would not leave the club in January. Although he was injured again for the fourth time in the 2010–11 season, Biglia made 35 appearances in all competitions.

In 2011–12 season, Biglia signed a new contract that would have kept him at the club until 2015. After the 2011 Copa América, Biglia said he wanted to leave Anderlecht to seek new challenges in a more competitive league. Notwithstanding, Biglia stayed at the club throughout summer and was appointed vice-captain by new manager Ariël Jacobs, with Olivier Deschacht remaining as captain. Biglia then scored his first goal of the season in a 2–2 draw against Monss on 21 August 2011. One month later, he captained his first Anderlecht match on 15 September 2011, a 4–1 win over AEK Athens. He then went on assisting spree when he assisted five times in four league appearances between 25 September and 23 October, including twice against Beerschot and Westerlo. Biglia was later awarded the captaincy after Deschacht was no longer able to continue the role. Deschacht's captaincy was met with disapproval by supporters. Towards the end of October, Biglia suffered a shoulder injury which had to be operated on; he was sidelined for four months. He made his return on 15 January 2012, setting up one of the goals in a 3–0 win over Club Brugge. It was not until on 18 March 2012 when he scored his second goal of the season in a 2–2 draw against Sint-Truiden. Despite missing out with a shoulder injury, Biglia helped the club win the league this season, his first in two years, and went on to make 38 appearances and scored two goals in all competitions. For his performance, Biglia was awarded the club's Player of the Year by club supporters.