[Source: PubMed]

91. Clin Imaging. 2025 Sep;125:110559. doi: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2025.110559. Epub 
2025 Jul 7.

Global radiology: Building equitable and effective partnerships with low and 
middle-income countries.

Kwarteng LA(1), Lee AY(2), Sakafu L(3), Mango VL(4), Fundikira LS(5), Lyimo 
F(6), Kwikima U(7), Mushi BP(7), Van Loon K(8), Minja FJ(9).

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), Global Cancer Program, San 
Francisco, CA, United States of America; UCSF, Department of Radiology and 
Biomedical Imaging, San Francisco, CA, United States of America.
(2)University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), Global Cancer Program, San 
Francisco, CA, United States of America; UCSF, Department of Radiology and 
Biomedical Imaging, San Francisco, CA, United States of America. Electronic 
address: Amie.Lee2@ucsf.edu.
(3)Muhimbili National Hospital-Mloganzila, Department of Radiology, Dar es 
Salaam, Tanzania.
(4)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Department of Radiology, New York, 
NY, United States of America.
(5)Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences, Department of Radiology, 
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
(6)Muhimbili National Hospital, Department of Radiology, Dar es Salaam, 
Tanzania.
(7)Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
(8)UCSF, Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, San Francisco, CA, 
United States of America; UCSF, Division of Hematology and Oncology, San 
Francisco, CA, United States of America.
(9)Emory University, Department of Radiology and Imaging Sciences, Atlanta, GA, 
United States of America.

Global radiology partnerships can be leveraged to help address the shortage of 
radiology access in low and middle-income countries (LMICs). Concurrently, 
efforts to address inequities in global health initiatives and the power 
asymmetry between High-Income Countries (HIC) and LMIC partners are ongoing. As 
the field of radiology continues to expand its global health presence, it is 
important to ensure the creation of equitable partnerships that avoid 
perpetuating power imbalances. This paper reviews the critical need to establish 
and scale-up radiologic care in LMICs, provides historical background on the 
origins of global health and how these origins might impact current global 
health practice, briefly introduces the topic of the Decolonize Global Health 
(DGH) movement, and provides examples of best practices to foster equitable and 
effective global radiology partnerships.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2025.110559
PMID: 40633489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Victoria Lee Mango reports a 
relationship with National Institutes of Health that includes: funding grants. 
Corresponding author, AYL, receives book royalties from Elsevier. If there are 
other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper.