[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Stig Synnergren

General Stig Gustaf Eugén Synnergren (25 February 1915 – 29 April 2004) was a senior Swedish Army officer. Synnergren had an illustrious military career that began in 1939 as a second lieutenant. He played a pivotal role during World War II, serving in the Ski Battalion and conducting intelligence operations in Northern Norway after the German occupation of Narvik. His exceptional skills and experience led him to manage the evacuation of Norwegian refugees in Jokkmokk.

Synnergren's rapid ascent through the ranks continued, including graduation from the Royal Swedish Army Staff College and various military studies abroad. He held teaching positions and became a major while heading the Tactics Department. Notably, he became the Chief of the Army Staff in 1963 and ultimately achieved the rank of Supreme Commander of the Swedish Armed Forces in 1967. During his tenure as Supreme Commander, Synnergren oversaw significant defense policy changes, including the abandonment of neutrality and the development of the Saab 37 Viggen aircraft. He also led reorganization efforts and cutbacks in the Army and Navy.

Synnergren was widely associated with military intelligence, particularly during the exposure of the secret intelligence agency IB. Beyond his military career, Synnergren held various positions of trust in organizations such as the Swedish Tourist Association, Swedish Ski Association, and corporate boards. He also served on the board of the East Economic Office, a unique agency within Swedish military intelligence. Synnergren was famous for advancing from the rank of captain to becoming the "youngest general in the modern times" in just five years.

Early life
Synnergren was born on 25 February 1915 in Överluleå Parish, Boden Municipality, Sweden, the son of Gösta Synnergren, an engine driver, and his wife Sara (née Carlstén). His father was also a Social Democratic city councilman in Boden and his mother was a Social Democratic member of the child welfare committee. Synnergren's school years were marked by sports, physical education and outdoor recreation. He passed studentexamen in Luleå in 1936 with the grades A in physics and a in mathematics and chemistry. He was then admitted to the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm. He had at this time no thought of becoming an officer.

The turning point of his life happened during a fall day in 1936 during the Berlin Olympics in which Synnergren participated as a member of the Swedish gymnastics squad. The experience of Adolf Hitler, surrounded by the Third Reich throughout threatening paramilitary splendor changed Synnergren's choice of career. Like so many of his peers, he had a strong feeling that a new world war was imminent. He withdrew his application to the Royal Institute of Technology and decided to become an officer. In 1939, as World War II broke out, he finished first in his class at the Swedish Infantry Officer Candidate School at the Royal Military Academy.

Career

Military career
Synnergren was commissioned as an officer with the rank of second lieutenant in 1939 and served in the Ski Battalion (I 19 K) in Kiruna during World War II and guarded the Norwegian border when Germany occupied Narvik. After the German attack on Norway on 9 April 1940, he as an intelligence officer in the regimental staff, on several occasions, alone and on skis, got into the war zone in Northern Norway to make contact with the Norwegian forces and gather intelligence within the German dominated area. Because of his fell experience and skills, he became, after a brief interlude as a cadet officer at Karlberg in 1944, the head of evacuation in Jokkmokk and was as such responsible for management of the Norwegian refugees. After the war, he was appointed captain in 1946 and did in a short time a rapid military career.

Synnergren graduated from the Royal Swedish Army Staff College in 1948 and became a cadet of the General Staff and then captain of the General Staff. He conducted studies in the Norwegian Army in 1950 and 1953, the British Army in 1951 and 1953 and the United States Army in 1951 and 1959. He was a teacher at the Royal Swedish Army Staff College from 1953 to 1956 and again from 1957 to 1958. Synnergren was promoted to major in 1957 and was head of the Tactics Department at the Army Staff from 1958 to 1960. He studied at the Swedish National Defence College in 1960 and was promoted to lieutenant colonel in the Svea Life Guards (I 1) in 1961.