[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert Rantoul Jr.

t many friends, earned widespread public ire, and was ultimately forced to leave Salem.

Upon leaving Salem, Rantoul moved to South Reading, Massachusetts, in 1830. In 1832, Rantoul move to Gloucester, Massachusetts, where in four successive years he was voted to the Massachusetts state legislature.

In 1838, Rantoul moved to Boston, Massachusetts. In Boston, Rantoul would come across many of the same challenges that he faced as a young lawyer in Salem, namely opposition from the wealthy and elite whose political views differed so starkly from his own. As a liberal fighting on behalf of the common man in a city so dominated by a wealthy and conservative few, Rantoul earned himself a reputation as "a bold champion of political justice; an inflexible and eloquent advocate of the rights of man, as above those of property, whether held by individuals, or corporations. He had a sincere and just respect for mental power, exerted in any useful direction, and, especially, for that intelligence, which, triumphing over adverse circumstances, is able to secure success to enterprise and reward to industry. But he had a higher respect for integrity, justice, and truth; a higher respect for the rights of the poor, the weak, and defenceless. He acknowledged no authority in an oligarchy of wealth; no other nobility than that conferred by beneficence to mankind, by services actually rendered to his fellow-creatures.  What he regarded as the humanity and justice of his political opinions, were treated, by the selfish and the arrogant, as treasonable to wealth.  And hence the fact that neither the extent, nor the emoluments of his professional practice, indicated his merit as a lawyer, or its just reward.  In short, he was a democratic lawyer in the city of Boston."

While in Boston, Rantoul took on a number of landmark cases, always in pursuit of what he believed to be right and just.

Commonwealth v. Hunt
The first such case was Commonwealth v. Hunt, known at the time as the Journeymen Boot-Makers' Case, in which Rantoul argued on behalf of an organized labor movement in Massachusetts. The case involved the yet unsettled question of whether labor unions were legal in the United States. After an unfavorable decision at trial, Rantoul appealed the case to the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts where Justice Lemuel Shaw eventually determined that labor organizations were lawful provided they were organized for legal purposes and used legal means to achieve their goals. With this victory, Rantoul "succeeded in obtaining one of the completest triumphs that it ever fell to the lot of an American lawyer to achieve."

Rhode Island trials
In 1842, Rantoul came to the defense of several individuals charged by the government with attempts "of a revolutionary character" for their efforts to extend suffrage to African-Americans in Massachusetts. The defendants were arrested, imprisoned, and tried not in the same county in which they allegedly committed the acts, but in counties where partisan judges and packed juries, "resembling those of the worst periods of English history were selected as the triers." In order "[t]o unloose this unjust grasp of power, and to save some of the best citizens of Rhode Island from these anti-American and tyrannical modes of proceeding, Mr. Rantoul was employed as leading counsel; and he brought to bear, on the merits of the question, a force of reason, and an extent of learning, which startled and electrified the court, and a convincing eloquence, which drew involuntary outbursts of applause from a numerous and enlightened assembly . . . Even Webster, the opposing counsel, clapped his hands with applause. The rights of the person, and the rights of the state, their relations to each other, and their just limitations, were never perhaps more ably reviewed, or justly defined in a forensic address."