[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# University of Saskatchewan academics

Environment and Sustainability was established in 2007 and is currently located in Kirk Hall. Three degrees are offered, all interdisciplinary in nature: Master of Sustainable Environmental Management (MSEM), Master of Environment and Sustainability (MES), and PhD in Environment and Sustainability.

College of Graduate Studies and Research
This college first started out in 1946 as the College of Graduate Studies, and as of 1971 included "Research" in the title. The college supports students seeking their post-graduate diploma, master's or doctorate degree. There are several facilities which cooperate with the university to provide research facilities and faculty. Three interdisciplinary options are available through the College of Graduate Studies and Research: Biomedical Engineering, Environmental Engineering, and Toxicology. The College of Graduate Studies is housed in the Murray Building on campus.

School of Physical Therapy
The School of Physical Therapy started in 1965 and is a part of the College of Medicine.

School of Public Health
The School of Public Health was founded in 2007 and is currently located in the Health Sciences Building. It offers the degree of Master of Public Health (MPH), as well as the degrees of MSc and PhD in (a) collaborative biostatistics and (b) vaccinology and immunotherapeutics.

Johnson-Shoyama Graduate School of Public Policy

The Johnson-Shoyama Graduate School of Public Policy was created in 2007 and operates on the campuses of both the University of Regina and University of Saskatchewan. It was named to honor Albert Wesley Johnson, who had served as President of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation among other posts, and Thomas Shoyama, a journalist who eventually served as Deputy Minister of Finance, and later as head of Atomic Energy of Canada.

On-campus research facilities
The following research centres, divisions, institutes, groups, and facilities are located on the Main (Saskatoon) Campus:

 Canadian Light Source
 Royal University Hospital
 Innovation Place Research Park
 VIDO-InterVac
 Plant Biotechnology Institute
 Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada
 Institute of Agricultural, Rural and Environmental Health
 Centre for Studies in Agriculture, Law and the Environment
 Community University Institute for Social Research
 National Hydrology Research Centre
 Regional Psychiatric Centre
 Saskatchewan Research Council
 Centre for the Study of Co-operatives
 Toxicology Centre

University Library

The University Library was operational by October 1909, but it took almost five decades for it to have its own building. In 1959 the Murray Memorial Library was opened in the newly constructed Murray Building, known today as Murray North or the North Wing. A seven-story addition to the Murray building was completed in 1974.

The University Library has seven branch libraries: 
 Murray Library - main library branch covering arts, humanities, social sciences, and business
 Education & Music Library
 Engineering Library
 Leslie and Irene Dubé Health Sciences Library
 Law Library
 Science Library
 Veterinary Medicine Library

It also has nine research and service units:
 The Centre for Evidence Based Library and Information Practice
 Student Learning Services
 Numeric, Geospatial, and Government Information Portal
 Saskatchewan Research Data Centre (SKY-RDC)
 Saskatchewan Health Information Resources Program (SHIRP)
 Indigenous Studies Portal
 Interlibrary Loans
 Distance and Distributed Library Services
 University Archives and Special Collections

Federated colleges
As of June 2013, St. Thomas More College (STM) is the only federated college of the University of Saskatchewan. As a federated college it is academically integrated with the university, but legally and financially an independent institution.

St. Thomas More College

The Newman Society of 1926 was the precursor to the Catholic College of the U of S. St. Thomas More College (STM)is the only federated college on the U of S campus. Newman Hall, or the White House on the intersection of Bottomley Avenue and College Drive was the first chapel and clubhouse, and later the first building of St. Thomas More College in 1936. An Act of the Legislature of Saskatchewan incorporated STM in 1943. The new greystone building had its official opening in 1957.

Students attending STM may enroll in Archaeology, Anthropology, Economics, English, Languages & Linguistics, History, Philosophy, Political Studies, Psychology, Religious Studies and or Sociology course,s which are all interchangeable with the University of Saskatchewan College of Arts and Science.

Affiliated colleges
As of June 2013, the University of Saskatchewan has seven affiliated colleges. Similar to federated colleges, affiliated colleges rely on the university's degree-granting authority, but unlike federated colleges, they are wholly independent institutions (that is, they are not legally, financially, or academically integrated with the university).