[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Barry Cogan (footballer)

initial shot whilst Cogan scored the rebound. He then set up Grays' second, crossing the ball to Andy Pugh, who scored a consolation goal as Grays lost 3–2. He then scored in Grays' 2–1 home victory over Altrincham on 7 March. Cogan finished the season as Grays' top goal scorer in all competitions.

Crawley Town
Crawley Town manager Steve Evans signed Cogan on 8 June following his release from Grays Athletic. Evans admitted he tried signing Cogan three times the previous season, but had his attempts rejected. Cogan had other offers, but Crawley assistant manager Paul Raynor stated that the club's South London location appealed to him. He made his debut for Crawley on 8 August, in the 4–0 away defeat to Mansfield Town, replacing Daniel Powell as a substitute in the 52nd minute. Having made only three appearances in the 2010–11 season, Cogan was released by mutual consent on 16 November 2010. Evans stated that Cogan wanted to "play some first team football".

Dover Athletic
Cogan signed for Dover Athletic a few days after leaving Crawley, making his debut coming on as a substitute for Sam Long in the 2–1 home defeat against Woking in the FA Trophy on 20 November.

Dartford
In July 2015, he signed for National League South side Dartford on a free transfer, following a successful trial with the club. He was released on 24 May 2016 following the end of the 2015–16 season having made 26 league appearances for the club scoring one goal against Bishop's Stortford in a 2–1 away victory on 24 October 2015.

Leatherhead, Hastings and returning to Grays
After spells with Leatherhead and Hastings United, Cogan returned to Grays on 7 June 2017.

International career
Cogan was called up to the Republic of Ireland under-21 squad for the Madeira International Tournament, where he made his under-21 debut against Madeira on 27 February 2004.

Honours

Club
Millwall
FA Cup runner-up: 2003–04

References

External links
 

1984 births
Living people
Association footballers from Sligo (town)
Republic of Ireland men's association footballers
Republic of Ireland men's under-21 international footballers
Men's association football midfielders
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Isthmian League players
Belvedere F.C. players
Millwall F.C. players
Barnet F.C. players
Gillingham F.C. players
Grays Athletic F.C. players
Crawley Town F.C. players
Dover Athletic F.C. players
Dartford F.C. players
Leatherhead F.C. players
Hastings United F.C. players