[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kuno Meyer

he Gaelic League and the Irish Press petitioned the restoration as they were unaware that it had already occurred.

Meyer was regranted the Freedom of the City of Cork, as follows: "Re-elected 14th May, 1920, and order of Council of the 8th January, 1915, expunging his name from the roll rescinded."

Also in 1920, Meyer was described by his acquaintance Douglas Hyde, Celtic philologist and later president of the Republic of Ireland, as "one of the most lovable men who ever existed, and himself undoubtedly in love with Ireland". Hyde credited him with advancing the goals of the Gaelic League when the question arose whether to allow the teaching of the Irish language in the Intermediate Education of Ireland.

W. T. Cosgrave, later president of the Irish Free State, as a Dublin councilman, had strenuously opposed removal of Meyer's name from Dublin's Freemen roll in the first place. Cosgrave wrote in a letter that Meyer was recognized as "the greatest Celtic authority since the death of Whitley Stokes" and that he has "done more for Irish scholarship and Irish national glory than any other living man".

In 2004, on the centenary of the publication of Ériu, Proinsias Mac Cana described Kuno Meyer as "great" scholar, in "brilliant" partnership with John Strachan as the first editors of Ériu, his predecessors in that position. Meyer is among those credited with playing a crucial role in fostering native Irish Celtists in the initial phases of Ériu and the School of Irish Learning, and when the editorship over Ériu later passed to the succeeding generation of Irish scholars, tantamount to the fulfillment of the "primary intention of Meyer and his associates".

Selected bibliography
 1885: The Irish Odyssey
 1892: The Vision of MacConglinne, with A. Nutt
 1894: The Voyage of Bran
 1896: Early Relations of the Brython and Gael
 1901: King and Hermit
 1905: Cáin Adamnáin: An Old Irish Treatise on the Law of Adamnan
 1911: Selections from Ancient Irish Poetry
 1912: Sanas Cormaic, an Old Irish Glossary
 1913: Learning in Ireland in the Fifth Century
 1914: Über die älteste irische Dichtung

Festschrift
Miscellany presented to Kuno Meyer by some of his friends and pupils on the occasion of his appointment to the chair of Celtic philology in the University of Berlin; ed. by Osborn Bergin and Carl Marstrander. Halle: M. Niemeyer, 1912.

Notes

References

Bibliography

External links
 
 
Bibliography by Štěpán Kosík.
Biography and works from CELT Project
CELT (Corpus of Electronic Texts)

 The New York Times on the Harvard controversy:
 
 
 
  Remarks by Professors John A. Walz, Kuno Francke, and poem author C. Huntington Jacobs '16.
 

1858 births
1919 deaths
Linguists from Germany
Celtic studies scholars
German monarchists
Translators from Irish
Translators from Old Irish
Translators of the Táin Bó Cúailnge
Translators to German
Academics of the University of Liverpool
Academic staff of the Humboldt University of Berlin
Columbia University faculty
People educated at the Gelehrtenschule des Johanneums
German male non-fiction writers
19th-century translators
19th-century German non-fiction writers
19th-century German male writers
19th-century German writers
19th-century British male writers
People from Hamburg
Emigrants from the German Empire to the United Kingdom