[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jabra Ibrahim Jabra

t art. Although the Baghdad Modern Art Group was ostensibly an art movement, its members included poets, historians, architects and administrators. Jabra was deeply committed to the group's founder, Jawad Saleem and Saleem's ideals, and drew inspiration from Arab folklore, Arab literature and Islam.

Jabra's involvement in the artistic community continued with his becoming a founding member of the One Dimension Group, established by the prominent Baghdadi artist, Shakir Hassan Al Said in 1971. The group's manifesto gave voice to the group's commitment to both heritage and modernity and sought to distance itself from modern Arab artists, which the group perceived as following European artistic traditions. The One Dimension group was part of a broader movement among Arabic artists who rejected Western art forms and sought a new aesthetic, one that expressed their individual nationalism as well as their pan-Arab identity. This movement subsequently became known as the Hurufiyya movement.

Following his death in 1994, a relative, Raqiya Ibrahim, moved into his Baghdad home. However, the house was destroyed when a car bomb targeting the Egyptian embassy next door detonated on Easter Sunday in 2010, destroying much of the street and killing dozens of civilians. Thousands of Jabra's letters and personal effects were destroyed in this incident along with a number of his paintings.

Work
As a poet, novelist, painter, translator and literary critic, Jabra was a versatile man of letters. He also translated many works of English literature into Arabic, including Shakespeare's major tragedies, William Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury, chapters 29–33 of Sir James Frazer's The Golden Bough and some of the work of T. S. Eliot. Jabra's own work has been translated into more than twelve languages, including English, French and Hebrew. His paintings are now difficult to locate, but a few notable works can be found in private collections.

Jabra was among the contributors of the poetry magazine Shi'r based in Beirut.

Bibliography

Novels
 Cry in a Long Night (Surakh fi layl tawil, 1955)
 Hunters in a Narrow Street (written in English; 1959)
 The Ship (al-Safinah, 1970)
 The Search for Walid Masood (al-Bahth 'an Walid Mas'ud, 1978)
 World Without Maps ('Alam bi-la khara'it, 1982; written with Saudi novelist Abdul Rahman Munif)
 The Other Rooms (al-Ghuraf al-ukhra, 1986)
 The Journals of Sarab Affan (Yawmiyyat Sarab 'Affan, 1992)

Short story collections
 Arak and Other Stories ('Araq wa-qisas ukhra, 1956)

Poetry collections
 Tammuz in the City (Tammuz fi al-madinah, 1959)
 Anguish of the Sun (Law'at al-shams, 1979)
 Closed Circle (al-Madar al-mughlaq, 1981)

Autobiographies
 The First Well: A Bethlehem Boyhood (al-Bi'r al-ula: fusul min sirah dhatiyyah, 1987)
 Princesses' Street: Baghdad Memories (Shari' al-amirat: fusul min sirah dhatiyyah, 1994)

Screenplays
 The Sun-King (al-Malik al-shams, 1986)
 Days of the Eagle (Ayyam al-'uqab, 1988)

Critical Studies
 Freedom and the Flood (al-Hurriyyah wa-l-tufan, 1960)
 The Eighth Journey (al-Rihlah al-thaminah, 1967)
 Contemporary Iraqi Art (al-Fann al-'iraqi al-mu'asir, 1972)
 Jawad Salim and the Freedom Monument (Jawad Salim wa-nusb al-hurriyyah, 1974)
 Fire and Essence (al-Nar wa-l-jawhar, 1975)
 Sources of Vision (Yanabi' al-ru'ya, 1979)
 The Grass Roots of Iraqi Art (Judhur al-fann al-'iraqi, 1984)
 Art, Dream, Action (al-Fann wa-l-hulm wa-l-fi'l, 1985)
 A Celebration of Life (Ihtifal-un li-l-hayah, 1988)
 Meditations on a Marble Monument (Ta'ammulat fi bunyan marmari, 1989)

Translations (English and French into Arabic)
 Adonis, or Tammuz (Adunis aw Tammuz, chapters 29–33 of The Golden Bough by Sir James Frazer, 1957)
 Before Philosophy: The Intellectual Adventure of Ancient Man by Henri Frankfort
 Sight and Insight by Alexander Eliot (translated as Afaq al-fann)
 The Sound and the Fury by William Faulkner
 Camus by Germaine Brée
 The Writer and His Craft, Being the Hopwood Lectures, 1932–1952 by various authors (translated as al-Adib wa-sina'atu-hu)
 The Life of the Drama by Eric Bentley
 Axel's Castle by Edmund Wilson
 Waiting for Godot by Samuel Beckett
 Shakespeare Our Contemporary by Jan Kott
 What Happens in Hamlet by John Dover Wilson
 The Tower of Babel by André Parrot
 Shakespeare and the Solitary Man by Janette Dillon
 The Happy Prince by Oscar Wilde
 Dry September, a collection of twelve modern English and American short stories

Translations of Shakespeare
 Hamlet
 King Lear
 Othello
 Macbeth
 Coriolanus
 The Tempest
 Twelfth Night
 Shakespeare's Sonnets: A Study with Forty Translated Sonnets (1983)

Paintings
 The Window (al-Nafidhah, 1951)
 Woman and Child (Imra'ah wa-tiflu-ha, early 1950s)
 The Brass-Seller (al-Safdar, 1955)

See also

 Arabic novel
 Arabic art
 Hurufiyya movement
 Islamic art
 Iraqi art
 Islamic calligraphy
 List of Iraqi artists

References

Further reading
 Shahin, Mariam. Palestine: A Guide (2005). Interlink Books.  (pages 43–44).