[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Isaiah 53

a defense of the crucifixion against the curse of Deut 21:23. But here Justin simply offers him more of Isaiah 53, on the assumption that anyone already prepared to accept such a suffering Messiah will not be too offended at a crucified one and will be able to fit this into the picture of Isaiah 53.

In Justin's response to this objection, he stressed that suffering is equivalent to crucifixion, so Isaiah 53's fulfillment in Jesus was self-evident (Dialogue 89). Trypho affirmed that the Messiah was to suffer, but strongly objected that such suffering could include crucifixion, because God would not curse his Messiah with a shameful death (Deut 21:23). Trypho based his argument on Torah, but Justin's response downplayed the Torah and ultimately failed to respond to the argument.

In Bailey's judgment, Trypho's appeal to Deuteronomy 21:23 is a mark of authenticity for the debate on this matter, because Justin never satisfactorily answers the objection, and thus leaves his interpretation of Isaiah 53 without proper defense. Timothy J. Horner also points to Trypho's use of Deuteronomy as a mark of historicity:

[Trypho] is neither Justin’s puppet nor is he blindly obdurate. This examination reveals an individual voice with its own sensibility, style, and agenda. It is a voice which defies fiction. His personality is unique, consistent, and idiosyncratic. Perhaps more surprisingly, his function in the text actually weakens Justin’s argument in some places.... It is implausible and inappropriate to imagine Justin crafting his Jewish disputant in such a way as to erode some of the basic tenets of his Christian argument.

In sum, the Dialogue with Trypho presents an argument between a second-century Christian and Jew, both of whom agree that Isaiah 53 predicts a suffering Messiah. They disagreed about whether the historical circumstances of Jesus' life, and especially his ignominious death, could be said to match the predictions of Isaiah. Justin said yes; Trypho, based on appeal to the Torah (Deuteronomy 21:23) said no.

Origen (early 3rd-century CE) 
The church father, Platonist, textual critic, and theologian Origen preserved an early witness to the "national" identification of the servant in the Jewish circles of his acquaintance. In his works, he consistently interprets Isaiah 53 in reference to Christ. However, the pagan philosopher Celsus wrote a book criticizing Christianity, and in his arguments, Celsus often employed an anonymous Jew as the one delivering the objections. Circa 248 CE, Origen wrote a response entitled Contra Celsus, where he simultaneously argued against Celsus the man and the Jewish voice that Celsus incorporated. In Contra Celsus 1.55, Origen recalled a personal conversation he had with Jews he was acquainted with:

Now I remember that, on one occasion, at a disputation held with certain Jews, who were reckoned wise men, I quoted these prophecies; to which my Jewish opponent replied, that these predictions bore reference to the whole people, regarded as one individual, and as being in a state of dispersion and suffering, in order that many proselytes might be gained, on account of the dispersion of the Jews among numerous heathen nations. And in this way he explained the words, “Thy form shall be of no reputation among men;” and then, “They to whom no message was sent respecting him shall see;” and the expression, “A man under suffering.” Many arguments were employed on that occasion during the discussion to prove that these predictions regarding one particular person were not rightly applied by them to the whole nation.... But we seemed to press them hardest with the expression, “Because of the iniquities of My people was He led away unto death.” [Isaiah 53:8 LXX] For if the people, according to them, are the subject of the prophecy, how is the man said to be led away to death because of the iniquities of the people of God, unless he be a different person from that people of God?

In this report, the Origen's Jewish interlocutors interpreted Isaiah 53 as a description of the entire nation of Israel while suffering in the diaspora. They cited the disrespect and ill repute of Jews in the eyes of the Gentile nations, as well as the suffering the entire nation endured as if one individual. In reference to the redemptive themes Isaiah 53, the Jewish interlocutors said that Israel's suffering was for the purpose of an increase in proselytes to Judaism, a reference to pre-Constantinian Jewish missionization hopes. Origen's response, based on the Septuagint of Isaiah 53:8 (which has "unto death"), responded that the reference to "my people" ought to distinguish the servant from being equivalent to the nation.

Babylonian Talmud (4th through 6th centuries CE)

Midrash (Talmudic Era and later) 

Midrash Tanchuma Buber interprets Isaiah 52:13 concerning the greatness of Messiah: