[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# United States support for Iraq during the Iran–Iraq War

tention in Washington was on isolating Iran; accepting Saddam's apology for the error, the White House criticized Iran's mining of international waters, and in October 1987, the U.S. attacked Iranian oil platforms in retaliation for an Iranian attack on the U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tanker Sea Isle City.

Longer term interests
In response to further Iraqi chemical attacks on Kurdish civilians after the August 1988 ceasefire with Iran, U.S. senators Claiborne Pell and Jesse Helms called for comprehensive economic sanctions against Iraq, including an oil embargo and severe limitations on the export of dual-use technology. Although the ensuing legislation passed in the U.S. Senate, it faced strong opposition within the House of Representatives and did not become law. In a rare rebuke, Secretary of State George Shultz condemned Iraq's "unjustified and abhorrent" attacks, which Shultz's assistant Charles E. Redman characterized as "unacceptable to the civilized world." Even after these pronouncements, however, the State Department advised against sanctions.

In October 1989, President Bush signed NSD 26, which begins, "Access to Persian Gulf oil and the security of key friendly states in the area are vital to U.S. national security." With respect to Iraq, the directive stated, "Normal relations between the United States and Iraq would serve our longer term interests and promote stability in both the Persian Gulf and the Middle East."

See also

 CIA activities in Iraq
 International aid to combatants in the Iran–Iraq War
 Iran Air Flight 655
 Iran–Contra affair
 Iran–Saudi Arabia proxy conflict
 Operation Staunch was created in spring 1983 by the United States State Department to stop the illicit flow of U.S. arms to Iran.
 Soviet support for Iraq during the Iran–Iraq war
 Italian support for Iraq during the Iran–Iraq war

References

Sources

Further reading

 Bryan R. Gibson, Covert Relationship: American Foreign Policy, Intelligence, and the Iran–Iraq War, 1980–88. Praeger, 2010.
 Bruce Jentleson, With Friends Like These: Reagan, Bush, and Saddam, 1982–1990. New York, W. W. Norton, 1994.
 Mark Phythian, Arming Iraq: How the U.S. and Britain Secretly Built Saddam's War Machine. Boston, Northeastern University Press, 1997.

External links
 Shaking Hands with Saddam Hussein: The U.S. Tilts toward Iraq, 1980-1984 National Security Archive Electronic Briefing Book No. 82
 U.S. Diplomatic and Commercial Relationships with Iraq, 1980 - 2 August 1990 Timeline

20th century in Iraq
Foreign relations during the Iran–Iraq War
Carter administration controversies
Reagan administration controversies
History of the foreign relations of the United States
Investigations and hearings of the United States Congress
Iraq–United States military relations
Iran–United States relations
Articles containing video clips