[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# National Museum of Nuclear Science & History

ner used by the US Department of Energy (DOE) to transport transuranic waste.

What's Up With U(ranium) – An exhibit that seeks to engage visitors in answering questions like "where does uranium come from," "how does it move through the environment," "how does it affect us," and "is it radioactive?"

Uranium; Enriching Your Future – A partially interactive exhibit that explains how nuclear power contributes to the energy industry.

Dark Cube: Heisenberg's Race for the Bomb – A special exhibition where visitors can learn about Nazi Germany's futile effort to outpace the Manhattan Project's atomic weapons research featuring a "dense, two-inch charcoal-black cube made of pure uranium metal that Nazi scientists suspended with 663 other similar cubes."

Nuclear by Mail –  This exhibit displays the development of nuclear science and technology in the 20th century through these developments' appearance on stationery. 

Temporary Exhibit Hall –  An area devoted to different temporary exhibits.

Both self-guided and docent-led tours are available.

Noteworthy artifacts 
 replicas of Little Boy and Fat Man
 the only full size replica of the "Gadget" and Trinity Test Tower 
 assorted modern nuclear bombs and warheads
 a WE.177 bomb (British nuclear weapon deployed from the 1960s until 1998)
 a Norden bombsight
 two of the actual B28 bomb casings from the Palomares hydrogen bombs incident
 a collection of items reflecting daily life at Los Alamos during the Manhattan Project as well as a case representing Oak Ridge
 an assortment of kitsch and products exemplifying the impact of the Atomic Age on US culture.
 an early fluoroscope X-ray device
 a PRISM 2000 XP Gamma Camera (example of more modern nuclear imaging technology)
 a display of nuclear and homeopathic medical quackery artifacts
 an extensive model collection of military aircraft and other vehicles
 a Lego model of Chicago Pile-1
 a cube of uranium used by the Nazis in their effort to build an atomic weapon (on indefinite loan from Dr. Tim Koeth)
 a 260 mm M65 Atomic Cannon, often referred to as "Atomic Annie"

Controversy arose when the Museum relocated to the Old Town museum district and erected its Redstone rocket at the corner of 20th Street and Mountain Road NW. Some people saw the erecting of the rocket in an area of the city frequented by lovers of the arts and families with children as emblematic of pervasive military-industrial complex influence in Albuquerque and New Mexico. Others saw the rocket as relevant to an accurate portrayal of New Mexico's involvement in the nuclear age. With the opening of the new museum, the Redstone rocket was relocated to the Eubank site.

Aircraft on display 
Due to its colocation with Kirtland AFB, the museum has acquired several historically significant aircraft.

Science education and community activities 
The Museum conducts year-round primary, secondary, and adult education programs both in-house and via outreach using the Up'n'Atom Mobile. Professional educator development programs support New Mexico school curriculum standards. The museum hosts guest speakers, annual special events, and week-long youth science camps in the summer. Rental space is available for birthdays, weddings, conferences, and other occasions.

In popular culture 
The former museum site was used in the 2008 AMC television show Breaking Bad in a storyline as a drug drop area. It appeared in several scenes in the season 2 episode Negro y Azul.

See also
 American Museum of Science and Energy
 Bradbury Science Museum
 National Atomic Testing Museum

References

External links

 
 Trinity [Atomic Test] Site: The 50th Anniversary of the Atomic Bomb (an e-book at Project Gutenberg) 
 
 A Visitor's Pictorial Web Site of the old Museum at Kirtland AFB. National Atomic Museum Pictorial, Kirtland AFB.
 NMNS&H online collection access
 NMNS&H's first online exhibit

Museums in Albuquerque, New Mexico
Aerospace museums in New Mexico
Nuclear technology in the United States
Nuclear history of the United States
Military and war museums in New Mexico
Science museums in New Mexico
1969 establishments in New Mexico
Museums established in 1969
Nuclear Science & History
Nuclear Science & History
Nuclear Science & History
Physical museums with virtual catalogues and exhibits
Cold War museums in the United States
World War II museums in the United States