[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Martha Dodd

preferred replacement for him as U.S. Ambassador and told the NKVD leadership, "If this man has at least a slight chance, I will persuade my father to promote his candidacy." After the Dodds left Germany in December, 1937, Iskhak Akhmerov, NKVD rezident in New York City, managed her espionage work.

In Summer 1938, while still romantically involved with the filmmaker Sidney Kaufman, with whom she lived for several months, Dodd married New York millionaire Alfred K. Stern Jr. According to Dodd, Stern was prepared to contribute $50,000 to the Democratic Party to secure an ambassadorship. The Soviets viewed Dodd as a valuable but uncertain asset. One assessment was, "A gifted, clever and educated woman, she requires constant control over her behavior." Another assessment was, "She considers herself a Communist and claims to accept the party's program. In reality [she] is a typical representative of American bohemia, a sexually decayed woman ready to sleep with any handsome man." In a February 5, 1942, letter, Dodd told her Soviet contacts that her husband should be brought into their network. With their approval, she approached her husband and reported that he responded with enthusiasm: "He wanted to do something immediately. He felt he had many contacts that could be valuable in this sort of work." Stern established a music publishing house that served as a cover for routing information to the Soviet Union.  Dodd and Stern proved of little value to the Soviets beyond providing the publishing house cover and occasionally recommending someone as a potential agent.  As part of the Soble spy ring, Miss Dodd (code named Liza) recommended Jane Foster to infiltrate the OSS.

In 1939, Dodd published a memoir of her years in Berlin, Through Embassy Eyes. It included extravagant praise of the Soviet Union based in her travels there. With her brother as co-editor, she published her father's Berlin diaries, Ambassador Dodd's Diary, 1933–1938.

Her 1945 novel, Sowing the Wind, described the moral deterioration of decent Germans under Hitler. It was "not much esteemed as a work of fiction," but became a best-seller in translation in the Russian sector of Berlin in 1949.

The FBI had Dodd under surveillance by 1948. Contacts between Dodd and Stern and NKGB lapsed in 1949. In 1955, Dodd published The Searching Light, a defense of academic freedom that told the story of a professor under pressure to sign a loyalty oath.

In July 1956, subpoenaed to testify in several espionage cases, Dodd and Stern fled to Prague via Mexico with their nine-year-old adopted son Robert. They later applied for and were denied Soviet citizenship. Boris Morros implicated Dodd and Stern in 1957 as Soviet agents as part of his exposure of the Soble spy network. The Soviets then allowed them to emigrate to Moscow just as they were convicted of espionage by a U.S. court.

A KGB document, dated October 1975, noted that the Sterns spent 1963–1970 in Cuba. In the 1970s, apparently disappointed with their lives in the Soviet Union, they tried without success to have their American attorney negotiate their return to the U.S. The KGB monitored the negotiations and had no objections, since their knowledge of espionage activities was outdated or had been revealed by Morros.

In 1979, the U.S. Department of Justice dropped charges against Dodd and her husband related to the Soble case. She died on August 10, 1990, in Prague.

Her letters were deposited at the Library of Congress. Her FBI file contained 10,400 pages.

Works
 Martha Dodd, Through Embassy Eyes (NY: Harcourt, Brace, 1939), excerpt available, UK title: My Years in Germany
 Martha Dodd, Charles Austin Beard, eds., Ambassador Dodd's Diary, 1933–1938 (NY: Harcourt, Brace, 1941), 
 Martha Dodd, Sowing the Wind (NY: Harcourt, Brace, 1945)
 Martha Dodd, The Searching Light (NY: Citadel Press, 1955)

In popular culture
 Dodd features as a character in the 2012 novel Flight from Berlin by David John.
 Dodd figures prominently in the nonfiction book In the Garden of Beasts by Erik Larson, which recounts the Dodd family's experiences in Berlin in the 1930s.
 Dodd appears as a friend of a major character in the 2020 novel The Words I Never Wrote by Jane Thynne.
Dodd is mentioned in the nonfiction book Berlin Diary by William Shirer as a frequent member of the reporters' cafe acquaintances.
Dodd appears extensively in the 2021 nonfiction book All the Frequent Troubles of Our Days by Rebecca Donner, an account of Mildred Fish Harnack, an American woman in Berlin, who played an active role in the underground civil resistance in Nazi Germany. Ironically, given her Nazi entanglements and sympathies, Dodd was one of Harnack’s circle of friends but was kept isolated from the latter’s clandestine activities.
Dodd is a major character in the 2019 novel Resistance Women by Jennifer Chiaverini.

References

Citations

Bibliography