[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# 50th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

The 50th Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry Regiment was a volunteer infantry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War.

Service
The 50th Wisconsin was organized at Camp Randall in Madison, Wisconsin, by Colonel John G. Clark and mustered into Federal service between March and April 1865 with a total of 958 men. Leaving Madison, they arrived at St. Louis, Missouri, where they were assigned quarters at Benton Barracks. While Colonel Clark headquartered in Jefferson City, the regiment was distributed throughout Missouri for guard and picket duty, encountering skirmishes near Booneville, Missouri, on May 3, 1865.

The regiment moved on to Kansas City and then to Fort Leavenworth, where they assisted in quelling a mutiny in the 6th West Virginia Cavalry, which took place in July 1865 after the cavalry regiment refused orders to fight Native Americans and instead demanded to return home. For this, the 50th received an adulatory acknowledgement by Brigadier General Charles J. Stolbrand praising their "steadiness and devotion to duty". The regiment would later depart for Fort Rice in the Dakota Territory – with Col. Clark placed in command of the post – where they arrived on October 10, 1865, and were stationed until May 1866. The regiment was mustered out between April 19 and June 12, 1866.

Casualties
Records vary on the number of casualties suffered by the 50th Wisconsin. An official book published in 1915 by the State of Wisconsin on its losses in the war describes one enlisted man killed in action, one officer and three enlisted men who died through accident, and 38 enlisted men who died of disease, for a total of 43 fatalities; while A Compendium of the War of Rebellion by Frederick H. Dyer describes 1 enlisted man killed in action and 1 officer and 43 enlisted men killed by disease, for a total of 45.

Commanders
 John G. Clark (March 1865June 12, 1866) commanded the regiment for its full term of federal service.

Notable people

 Edwin E. Bryant was lieutenant colonel, but was detailed to a military commission.  Prior to this service, he had been an officer in the 3rd Wisconsin Infantry Regiment and was a veteran of Gettysburg.  After the war he served as private secretary to Governor Lucius Fairchild, was adjutant general of the Wisconsin National Guard, and was dean of the University of Wisconsin Law School.
 Charles G. Crosse was 2nd assistant surgeon.  Later served as a Wisconsin legislator.
 James E. Newell was 1st lieutenant of Co. B.  Later served as a Wisconsin legislator.
 John Coit Spooner was captain of Co. A.  Received an honorary brevet to major.  After the war became a United States senator.

See also

 List of Wisconsin Civil War units
 Wisconsin in the American Civil War

Notes

References

Military units and formations established in 1865
Military units and formations disestablished in 1866
Units and formations of the Union Army from Wisconsin
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865
1865 establishments in Wisconsin
1866 disestablishments in Wisconsin