[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The New World Order (Wells book)

The New World Order is a non-fiction book written by H.G. Wells and was published by Secker & Warburg in January 1940. In The New World Order, Wells proposed a framework of international functionalism that could guide the world towards achieving world peace. To achieve these ends, Wells asserted that a socialist and scientifically planned world government would need to be formed to defend human rights.

Wells's motivation for writing The New World Order was based upon the outbreak of World War II. Wells was concerned that the Allies had no clear statement of aims for fighting in the war and that this would lead to the continuation of the pre-existing balance of power. In The New World Order, Wells writes that without a revolution in international affairs and the establishment of human rights, then further destructive wars were inevitable.

The New World Order received praise for its imagination but was also criticised for its lack of technical detail and emphasis on collectivisation.

Wells published in The New World Order his first version of a human rights declaration, which was a precursor to his work on the Sankey Declaration of the Rights of Man (1940). In 1947, both declarations became used as advisory works by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights for drafting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948).

Background 
The science fiction works of H.G. Wells reached a broad popular audience and covered the big ideas that were emerging at the start of the 20th century. His utopian exploration of concepts like technological change, evolution, identity and new forms of global governance has seen scholars describe him as 'the father of science fiction'. The British author George Orwell, a harsh critic of Wells, said that no one writing books between 1900 and 1920 influenced the young as much as H.G. Wells. Orwell also expressed that 'thinking people who were born about the beginning of this century are in some sense Wells's own creation'.

Wells's non-fiction works mainly analysed the issues of his time and in these works he consistently urged that a socialistic and cosmopolitan world government would solve modern social issues. Wells believed that technological innovations were making the world a smaller place, and this presented an opportunity to unify the world. The scholar John Partington has argued that Wells 'promoted, years ahead of his time, many of the internationalist policies and realities of the post-1945 period'. Partington also argues that Wells is the first to form a theoretical account of international functionalism. Whilst Wells became more insistent with his support of international functionalism throughout his career, the publication of The New World Order was the first time he began to condemn other models of transnational government.

Wells's contemporaries mostly disregarded his insistence for forming a world state, with his proposal being considered as too unrealistic to be politically possible. His utopian fiction was also the subject of parody in Aldous Huxley's Brave New World and George Orwell's Coming Up for Air.

In the inter-war period, Wells was one of the first members of two civil society organisations, PEN and the National Council for Civil Liberties (NCCL). Both organisations primarily advocated for the human right to free speech and expression. However, with the rise of the Nazi Party in Germany and fascism in Spain, both organisations became increasingly political in promoting humanist and pacifist causes. In The New World Order, Wells urged his readers to join the NCCL, pressing that it 'is your duty as a world citizen'.

In October 1939, one month after Britain declared war on Nazi Germany, Wells initiated a public campaign to make human rights a point of international concern. Wells wrote a letter to The Times calling for a 'Great Debate' into establishing the aims for fighting in World War II, arguing that the formulation and acceptance of human rights should be at the forefront of these aims. The Times declined his proposal for a national debate into the subject, but the Daily Herald gave Wells one page a day for a month to host the discussion. Wells's work in the Daily Herald served as the foundations for his human rights declaration in The New World Order.

Publication 
The New World Order was published in January 1940 by Secker & Warburg in London and by Alfred A. Knopf in New York. Beginning in November 1939, before the official publication of The New World Order, The Fortnightly Review magazine began serialising the book in four monthly instalments, ending February 1940. The New World Order would go on to be re-issued in 1942 by being bounded with another book by Wells, The Fate of Homo Sapiens. The re-issued twofer received a new title, The Outlook for Homo Sapiens.