[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Vocational panel

er of councillors on each city and county council, to be somewhat more aligned with each area's population. The 2016 Seanad election reflected this demographic shift in the panel electorate with an increase in the number returned from more populous urbanised areas at the expense of more rural areas.

Reform proposals
Seanad reform proposals may be divided into those requiring amending the Constitution of Ireland via referendum, and those limited to amendment of statute law within the existing constitutional parameters. Those in the former group typically suggest abolishing the vocational aspect of the Seanad as ineffectual and based on outdated political thinking. Proposals in the latter group typically suggest altering the nomination process and the franchise. The 1958–59 Seanad Electoral Law Commission proposed changing the electorate for the outside subpanel from elected representatives to the nominating bodies. Opponents of such a change have suggested that, rather than replacing party politics with vocationalism in the Seanad, it would instead politicise the nominating bodies.  The 2015 Manning report recommended that "the concept of vocational representation be retained but modernised", with 13 panel senators still elected on the current limited franchise, and the other 30 popularly elected. The 2018 report of the Seanad Reform Implementation Group was based on the Manning report but altered these numbers to 15 and 28. In both reports, all citizens over 18 could register either for one of the five nominating bodies subpanels or (if a graduate) for the university constituency, but not both.

See also
 1969 French constitutional referendum — rejected proposal to merge the Economic, Social and Environmental Council into the Senate
 Functional constituency — in Hong Kong and Macao

References

Footnotes

Sources
Primary
Irish Statute Book:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary

Citations

External links
Seanad election details since 2002, Oireachtas website

Seanad constituencies
Corporatism
Local authorities in the Republic of Ireland