[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Noise regulation

roduction or amplification of the human voice or other sound.

Vibration perception threshold
The minimum ground or structure borne vibrational motion necessary to cause a person of normal sensitivity to be aware of the motion through contact, hearing, or through visual observation of moving things.

Ordinance provisions for stationary sources in the United States
there are three levels of regulation for stationary sound sources. The most basic is the general one associated with noise disturbance. (See Noise Disturbance below.) It is a very broad subjective immission control that has evolved from earlier disturbance of the peace provisions. Subjectivity can lead to arbitrary enforcement. The next level of regulation is less broad; it is an objective immission control that uses specific levels of sound considered to be a noise disturbance.  Arbitrary enforcement is reduced. (See Maximum Permissible Sound Levels below.) In both cases, however, the person creating the sound may not be aware that his actions are in violation.  The concept that a potential violator should have fair warning that his actions are in violation has led to provisions that address specific noise problems.  The sections below list those that are found in community noise ordinances.

Air conditioning, heating and pool equipment
This provision is a subjective immission control.  An evaluation of the noise disturbance is made at the listener without a sound level meter. This provision is mostly applied in residential zones such as homes, apartments and condominiums.  Albuquerque, NM (Article 9-9) requires that such units the maximum permissible sound levels (Se section below) and recommend that those units be placed away from other residential units or on roof tops to diminish impact.

Airport and airport operations
Community control of airport created noise is limited to those sounds not related to flight operations.  The community is able to control the land use around the airport however.

Animals
This provision is a subjective immission control.  Most relate to barking dogs and put an upper time limit for continuous sound from them.  New Jersey (Chapter 13:1G) considers a violation if the sound is continuous for more than 5 minutes or intermittent for more than 20 minutes.  They also consider it a defense to violation if the animal is provoked to bark. Connecticut (Chapter 442)exempts animal sounds while Anchorage, AK (Chapter 15.70) requires that continual violations permit the animal to be taken and put out for adoption.

Authorized outdoor discharge of firearms and shooting ranges
This provision contains only a curfew since most states protect shooting ranges from liability for noise disturbance.  It can include a curfew requirement and a requirement for a public hearing if expansion of the range is desired.  The provision may prohibit other weapons such as rocket propelled projectiles but may exempt unpowered weapons such as arrows. South Carolina (title 31 Chapter 18) requires that a sign stating SHOOTING RANGE-NOISE AREA be placed on all primary roads. Arizona (ARS 17-602) places a curfew from 10pm to 7 am.  It also allows a tradeoff between the number of events and the maximum permitted sound level. New York (Chapter 150) also trades off overall levels with the duration of the sounds. Colorado (Article 25-12-109) declared that noise restrictions on shooting ranges is a detriment to public health, welfare, and morale.

Condominiums and apartments
This provision is a subjective immission control. It is designed to limit the noise disturbance between living units as defined by an enforcement official.  One criterion used to evaluate that disturbance is use of plainly audible but at the location of the listener instead of at a specific distance.  However, Charlotte, NC (Sec. 15-69) limits indoor levels to 55 dB(A) between 9am to 9pm and 5 dB less at other times, but only from sound reproducing devices. Salt Lake Valley Health Department (Chapter 4), Minneapolis, MN (Chapter 389), and Albuquerque, NM (Article 9) use levels to existing ambient to define a violation. Albuquerque NM and Omaha, NE (Chapter 17) require that intruding sounds not be audible. Burlington, VT (Chapter 18) requires that renters be supplied with the city noise ordinance.

In New York City specifically, the neighbor-to-neighbor noise issue is predominantly based on the average living situation. Due to the fact that most residents either live above, below, or directly next to their neighbors NYC building codes require the "acoustical isolation of dwelling units." Through the use of thick concrete walls or flooring to make sure the condo or cooperative is able to pass a warranty of habitability each unit must be able to withstand a certain amount of noise.