[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 174]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

erishly.

He moved backwards along the path, as they advanced.

"I have to thank you for bestowing a mother's care on my poor child. You
can suppose what a joy the thought has been to me all along."

Hadria flushed.

"You need not thank me," she answered. "As you know, I did it first for
her mother's sake, and out of hatred to you, unknown as you then were to
me. Now I will do it for her own sake, and out of hatred to you,
bitterer than ever."

She stooped to take the child's hand.

"You are most kind, but I could not think of troubling you any longer. I
think of taking the little one myself. She will be a comfort to me, and
will cheer my lonely home. And besides you see, duty, Mrs. Temperley,
duty----"

Hadria caught her breath, and stopped short.

"You are going to take her away from me? You are going to revenge
yourself like that?"

"You have made me feel my responsibilities towards my child, as I fear I
did not feel them before. I am powerless, of course, to make up for the
evil I have done her, but I can make some reparation. I can take her to
live with me; I can give her care and attention, I can give her a good
education. I have made up my mind."

Hadria stood before him, white as the gravestone.

"You said that vengeance was futile. So it is. Leave the child to me.
She shall--she shall want for nothing. Only leave her to me."

"Duty must be our first consideration," he answered suavely.

"I can give her all she needs. Leave her to me."

But the Professor shook his head.

"How do I know you have told me the truth?" Hadria exclaimed, with a
flash of fury.

"Do you mean to dispute it?" he asked.

She was silent.

"I think you would find that a mistaken policy," he said, watching her
face.

"I don't believe you can take her away!" cried Hadria. "I am acting for
her mother, and her mother, not having made herself into your legal
property, _has_ some legal right to her own child. I don't believe you
can make me give her up."

The Professor looked at her calmly.

"I think you will find that the law has infinite respect for a father's
holiest feelings. Would you have it interfere with his awakening
aspirations to do his duty towards his child? What a dreadful thought!
And then, I think you have some special views on the education of the
little one which I cannot entirely approve. After all, a woman has
probably to be a wife and mother, on the good old terms that have served
the world for a fair number of centuries, when one comes to consider it:
it is a pity to allow her to grow up without those dogmas and sentiments
that may help to make the position tolerable, if not always
satisfactory, to her. Though, as a philosopher, one may see the
absurdity of popular prejudices, yet as a practical man, one feels the
inexpediency of disturbing the ideas upon which the system depends, and
thus adding to the number of malcontents. All very well for those who
think things out for themselves; but the education of a girl should be
on the old lines, believe me. You will not believe me, I know, so I
think it better, for this as well as for other reasons, to take my
daughter under my own care. I am extremely sorry that you should have
had all this trouble and responsibility for nothing. And I am grieved
that your educational idea should be so frustrated, but what am I to do?
My duty is obvious!"

"I regret that you did not become a devotee to duty, either a little
sooner or a little later," Hadria returned. "For the present, I suppose
Martha will remain with Hannah, until your conscience decides what
course you will take, and until I see whether you can carry out your
threat."

"Certainly, certainly! I don't wish to give you any unnecessary pain."

"You are consideration itself." Hadria stooped to take the child's hand.
The little fingers nestled confidingly in her palm.

"Will you say good-bye, Martha?" asked the Professor, stooping to kiss
her. Martha drew away, and struck her father a sturdy blow on the face.
She had apparently a vague idea that he had been unkind to her
protectress, and that he was an enemy.

"Oh, cruel, cruel! What if I don't bring her any more toys?" Martha
threatened tears.

"Will you allow us to pass?" said Hadria. The Professor stood aside, and
the two went, hand in hand, down the narrow path, and through the wicket
gate out of the churchyard. Hadria carried still the drooping yellow
heartsease that the little girl had given her.




CHAPTER XLVI.


Professor Theobald made his confession to Lady Engleton on that same
night, when he also announced that he found it suddenly necessary to
return to town.

It was some time before she recovered from her astonishment and horror.
He told his story quietly, and without an effort to excuse himself.

"Of course, though I can't exonerate you, Professor, I blame her more
than you," she said finally, "for her standard in the matter was so
diffe