[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Valley of stability

ve estimate for the neutron-proton ratio.  The energy is a quadratic expression in  that is minimized when the neutron-proton ratio is .  This equation for the neutron-proton ratio shows that in stable nuclides the number of neutrons is greater than the number of protons by a factor that scales as .

The figure at right shows the average binding energy per nucleon as a function of atomic mass number along the line of beta stability, that is, along the bottom of the valley of stability.  For very small atomic mass number (H, He, Li), binding energy per nucleon is small, and this energy increases rapidly with atomic mass number. Nickel-62 (28 protons, 34 neutrons) has the highest mean binding energy of all nuclides, while iron-58 (26 protons, 32 neutrons) and iron-56 (26 protons, 30 neutrons) are a close second and third.  These nuclides lie at the very bottom of the valley of stability.  From this bottom, the average binding energy per nucleon slowly decreases with increasing atomic mass number.  The heavy nuclide 238U is not stable, but is slow to decay with a half-life of 4.5 billion years.  It has relatively small binding energy per nucleon.

For β− decay, nuclear reactions have the generic form 
  →  +  + 
where  and  are the mass number and atomic number of the decaying nucleus, and X and X′ are the initial and final nuclides, respectively.  For β+ decay, the generic form is
  →  +  +   
These reactions correspond to the decay of a neutron to a proton, or the decay of a proton to a neutron, within the nucleus, respectively.  These reactions begin on one side or the other of the valley of stability, and the directions of the reactions are to move the initial nuclides down the valley walls towards a region of greater stability, that is, toward greater binding energy.

The figure at right shows the average binding energy per nucleon across the valley of stability for nuclides with mass number A = 125.  At the bottom of this curve is tellurium (52Te), which is stable.  Nuclides to the left of 52Te are unstable with an excess of neutrons, while those on the right are unstable with an excess of protons.  A nuclide on the left therefore undergoes β− decay, which converts a neutron to a proton, hence shifts the nuclide to the right and toward greater stability.  A nuclide on the right similarly undergoes β+ decay, which shifts the nuclide to the left and toward greater stability.

Heavy nuclides are susceptible to α decay, and these nuclear reactions have the generic form,
  →  + 
As in β decay, the decay product X′ has greater binding energy and it is closer to the middle of the valley of stability.  The α particle carries away two neutrons and two protons, leaving a lighter nuclide.  Since heavy nuclides have many more neutrons than protons, α decay increases a nuclide's neutron-proton ratio.

Proton and neutron drip lines

The boundaries of the valley of stability, that is, the upper limits of the valley walls, are the neutron drip line on the neutron-rich side, and the proton drip line on the proton-rich side.  The nucleon drip lines are at the extremes of the neutron-proton ratio.  At neutron–proton ratios beyond the drip lines, no nuclei can exist. The location of the neutron drip line is not well known for most of the Segrè chart, whereas the proton and alpha drip lines have been measured for a wide range of elements.  Drip lines are defined for protons, neutrons, and alpha particles, and these all play important roles in nuclear physics.

The difference in binding energy between neighboring nuclides increases as the sides of the valley of stability are ascended, and correspondingly the nuclide half-lives decrease, as indicated in the figure above.  If one were to add nucleons one at a time to a given nuclide, the process will eventually lead to a newly formed nuclide that is so unstable that it promptly decays by emitting a proton (or neutron). Colloquially speaking, the nucleon has 'leaked' or 'dripped' out of the nucleus, hence giving rise to the term "drip line".

Proton emission is not seen in naturally occurring nuclides. Proton emitters can be produced via nuclear reactions, usually utilizing linear particle accelerators (linac).  Although prompt (i.e. not beta-delayed) proton emission was observed from an isomer in cobalt-53 as early as 1969, no other proton-emitting states were found until 1981, when the proton radioactive ground states of lutetium-151 and thulium-147 were observed at experiments at the GSI in West Germany. Research in the field flourished after this breakthrough, and to date more than 25 nuclides have been found to exhibit proton emission. The study of proton emission has aided the understanding of nuclear deformation, masses and structure, and it is an example of quantum tunneling.