[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Spanish Modernist literature

Spanish Modernist literature is the literature of Spain written during the Modernism (beginning of the 20th century) as the arts evolved and opposed the previous Realism.

Parnasianism and Symbolism
The influence of these two movements, which were developed in France from the middle of the 19th century, was very important to the appearance of Modernism in Spain.

 Parnasianism, named after its first appearance in the magazine "Le Parnasse Contemporain" (1866–1876), is a literary style that postulates art for art's sake, far from the important and sentimental ambitions that Romanticism defended. Those in favor tried to create "beautiful objects", approaching exotic subjects and ornamenting them with a musical language, but which are cold. The father of this school was Leconte de Lisle.
 Symbolism, however, has a transcendental ambition. The main figure of the movement is Charles Baudelaire. For the author of The flowers of evil, all the universe, spiritual, and terrestrial, forms a harmonious set, united to each other by invisible correspondences, and the personality of the poet is the one in charge of revealing them. This way, for example, a sun hiding could be seen by the writer as a decay symbol, while a sunrise would symbolize the Renaissance. This assumption suggests comparisons to the poet, but fundamentally metaphors.

Literary Modernism in Spain: context
In Literature, the precursor of Modernism in Spain was Realism.

The disaster of the 98

The Spanish–American War, known in Spain as the Disaster of the 98 or War of Cuba, arose between Spain and the United States in 1898, during the regency of María Cristina, widow of the king Alfonso XII. For Spain it meant the loss of the overseas colonies and the end of the formerly powerful Spanish empire.

The Regenerationism
The intellectual movement that thinks objectively and scientifically about the causes of the decadence of Spain as a nation between the 19th and the 20th century is called Regenerationism. It expresses a pessimist judgement about Spain. The regenerationist intellectuals divulgated their studies in journals with a big diffusion, so the movement expanded.

The Free Institution of Education
Among the organisms of great importance at this time, it is possible to emphasize the Free Institution of Education, founded in Madrid in 1876 by the university professor and thinker Francisco Giner de los Ríos. With philosophical ideas of German origin, he undertook a hard work of cultural modernization of Spain, in education and investigation. His pro-European character was very influential during the 20th century, particularly during the Second Republic, that welcomed his reformist ideals willingly. In 1939 the Institution disappeared, strongly repressed by the winners of the Civil War. Whatsoever, a decidedly modern thought was spread mainly between the bourgeoisie, class which will display the most important authors of the 20th century.

Characteristics
Modernism, studied as a literary or as an artistic-literary movement, appeared in the Hispanic world in the final decades of the 19th century and the first ones of the 20th century. It is seen today as a phenomenon with much more vast projections in space and time. A period of renovation in America and Europe was opened, which started from a common will of rejection towards the dogmas and principles of the society. The Modernist period or time begins and closes in dates that could be fixed towards 1880 and 1945, although precursory signs occurred before the first and they continued being observed after the last.

In the politics, the forms of the modernist disobedience are reflected in a sentimental rather than intellectual inclination, towards the liberating creeds, socialism and anarchism. In their youth, people like Miguel de Unamuno and Leopoldo Lugones were attracted to socialism, whereas the anarchist doctrine seemed at first to attract Pío Baroja and Manuel González Prada. The aversion to the society that surrounded them (and not only, although of course also, the governments) urged them to look for inhabitable worlds, often invented. The indigenism and the exotism are the two slopes of the protest against the predominant meanness.

The escapism and the denunciation of the bourgeois society are complementary aspects of an ambivalent attitude. The plastic writers and artists agreed in the negation, and even an officially conservative man like Antonio Gaudí projected in unusual architectures his escapist deliriums (arabicism of the Vicens House, in Barcelona, or purified gothicism of the Episcopal Palace of Astorga). Indigenism and exotism were not negative attitudes: they implied the affirmation of the inhabitable world; even more, of myths in which close truths of universal validity were declared.