[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Max Headroom: 20 Minutes into the Future

rosthetic make-up, contact lenses, and a plastic molded suit while sitting in front of a blue screen. Harsh lighting and other editing and recording effects heightened the illusion of a CGI character. Rod Lord and Peter Tupey won the award for best graphics at the 1986 BAFTA Television Craft Awards.

In discussing Max's fictional origin story, it was first proposed that he could be an AI created to stand-in for a human TV host who was late for his own show. The backstory would be revealed through different five-minute segments during the first season of The Max Headroom Show. When Channel 4 decided Max's origin would be featured in an hour long TV movie instead, an expanded story was developed and the origin was altered to now involve a crusading journalist named Edison Carter. On 4 April 1985, the TV movie Max Headroom: 20 Minutes Into the Future introduced Max to television audiences. On 6 April 1985, Channel 4 aired the first episode of The Max Headroom Show.

Spin-off

In 1987, American network ABC hired the creators of the Channel 4 film to adapt the story and world of Max Headroom: 20 Minutes into the Future into the dramatic series Max Headroom. Fourteen episodes were broadcast during the 1987–1988 television season. The pilot was a remake of the Channel 4 movie with minor changes, such as having Max and Carter actually acquainted, and making Max work with Network 23 rather than Big Time. The pilot recycled some of the digital footage from the original film. Cast members Matt Frewer, Amanda Pays and William Morgan Sheppard reprised their roles from the original film. Jeffrey Tambor was added to the cast as Edison's boss Murray. Pablo Cruise keyboardist Cory Lerios provided the theme. Each episode of the dramatic series began with the phrase "20 Minutes into the Future."

Home media release
Max Headroom: 20 Minutes into the Future was released on VHS in the US and UK in 1986. In 2006, it was released on DVD in Japan.

References

External links 
 maxheadroom.com the Max Headroom project - Comprehensive Max Headroom information site
 
 

Channel 4 original programming
British science fiction television films
Max Headroom
1985 television films
1985 films
Cyberpunk films
Films directed by Annabel Jankel
Films directed by Rocky Morton
1980s British films