[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tsubasa Oozora

asa once again leads the Japanese team into the tournament and encounters old enemies including Carlos Santana in the finals and Natureza—a teenager trained by Roberto. After Japan's victory, Tsubasa proposes to Sanae and they get married. In the aftermath, the Barcelona FC invites him to join them.

Road to 2002
In the manga series Road to 2002, Tsubasa says farewell to Roberto during his final match in São Paulo. Tsubasa and Sanae move to Spain, where Tsubasa intends to join the Barcelona team. There, he meets Rivaul, a highly skilled player who has surpassed Tsubasa. Because Tsubasa is not able to fit into the team, he is instead sent to the low-class division team FC Barcelona B. He scores 12 goals and 11 assists, and is sent back to the main Barcelona team. When Rivaul being wounded in a match, Tsubasa replaces him for a game between Barcelona and Real Madrid, during which Tsubasa faces Natureza once again but is unable to lead the team into victory until a wounded Rivaul rejoins the team.

Golden-23—onwards
In the following series, Golden-23, Tsubasa debuts in the adult Japan team during a match against Germany. He continues playing for Barcelona because the Japanese coach decides not to seek help from international players in the Olympic Games' elimination stages. Tsubasa once again faces Carlos Santana, who is playing in the Valencia team while Misaki is leading Japan in the eliminatories. Tsubasa learns that Sanae is pregnant. Tsubasa, Hyuga and Aoi Shingo return for a match in Hiroshima. The one-shot La Liga depicts another match between the Barcelona team and other Spanish teams. At the beginning of Rising Sun, Tsubasa has become his team's most valuable player because he has made multiple hat tricks and has helped Barcelona become the champion of La Liga. Following this, Tsubasa joins Japan's team to participate in the Olympic Games. After a few matches, he collapses and is forced to leave the team until he recovers.

Tecmo's game series continuity
Tsubasa has appeared in multiple video games based on the manga. The first game, titled Captain Tsubasa, altered Tsubasa's design and called him Robin Field. However, the video games starting from Super Striker follow an alternate life of Tsubasa. In Super Striker, Tsubasa is already playing for São Paulo Youth. He aims to defeat Carlos Santana and win the Rio Cup while also joining his fellow Japanese players for a cup. In Kotei no Chosen, Tsubasa aims for a second consecutive win in the Brazilian Rio Cup. Japan challenges the "World Youth". By Captain Tsubasa IV: Pro no Rival-tachi, Tsubasa still remains in São Paulo and can become a member of the Brazilian league selection. The final Tecmo game, Hasha no Shogo, has Tsubasa goes to Italy to play for the U.S. Lecce as a transfer from Brazil while later joining the Japanese team.

Other media
In the film Captain Tsubasa: The Great European Showdown (1985), Tsubasa is selected as one of the Japanese members of an International Jr. Youth Tournament in which Japan faces multiple Western rivals. The film was followed by the sequel Captain Tsubasa: Danger! All Japan Jr. (1985), in which Japan faces an All Europe Jr. team despite lacking Hyuga and Wakabayashi. The third film, Captain Tsubasa: Run Towards Tomorrow (1986), follows Tsubasa as he leads a team from the All Japan Jr. Youth against another team while remembering how he met them. The fourth and most recent film, Captain Tsubasa: World Great Battle - Jr. World Cup (1986), involves a new tournament between multiple youth teams in which Tsubasa's All Japan Jr. faces South America Jr., a team trained by Roberto Hongo.

His first manga one-shot appearance was in Captain Tsubasa: World Youth Tokubetsu Hen - Saikyo no Teki! Holanda Youth, in which Tsubasa returns from Brazil to Japan to play a match against Holland's Youth Team. The one-shot was adapted into an original video animation (OVA), in which Tsubasa can only assist Japan during the game's second half due to his late arrival. In the one-shot Captain Tsubasa 2000: Millennium Dream, he appears as a playable video game character competing with Brazil's team for a gold medal. In the two-part story Captain Tsubasa: Golden Dream, Barcelona faces Japan's Júbilo Iwata, resulting in the first time Tsubasa faces Misaki. In the five-part story Captain Tsubasa 25th Anniversary, Japan's team plays against a team composed of famous international players. In the one-shot Captain Tsubasa: Golden-23 - Japan Dream 2006, Tsubasa is a part of a Japanese team that plays against a team from Germany.