[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Terminator (wrestler)

Marcus Laurinaitis (born February 21, 1965) is an American retired professional wrestler, better known by his ring name, The Wrecking Crew (Fury) & Terminator. He wrestled primarily in Florida (FCW), Japan (All-Japan Pro Wrestling & New Japan Pro Wrestling), and Europe (CWA), as well with World Championship Wrestling (WCW). He is the brother of fellow professional wrestlers John Laurinaitis and Road Warrior Animal.

Professional wrestling career
Marcus made his debut in 1987 after being trained by his brothers Joseph and John, as well as by Gene Anderson and Nelson Royal, and initially worked for Dusty Rhodes in Texas for a new NWA under the name The Terminator. He joined Devastation Incorporated managed by Skandor Akbar and tagged with The Angel of Death and Black Bart. He made a run with The Fabulous Freebirds, Sting, Rick Steiner and the Brad Armstrong & Tim Horner tag team. One of his earliest encounters with the Fabulous Freebirds was at the New Orleans Superdome in a First Blood cage match where The Terminator was one of the last to survive the blood bath until Terry Gordy eventually defeated him. In late 1987 Marcus toured with All Japan Pro Wrestling in November and December. While in Japan he teamed up with Tom Zenk to participate in the 1987 version of the World's Strongest Tag Determination League where he competed against such teams as Jumbo Tsuruta and Yoshiaki Yatsu (the winners), Jimmy Snuka and Bruiser Brody, The Great Kabuki and John Tenta, and Terry and Dory Funk, Jr. The Terminator and Zenk finished in 11th place only ahead of Mark and Chris Youngblood.

After the tour Marcus returned to Florida where he participated in a tournament to crown a new NWA Florida Heavyweight Championship, losing in the final to Mike Graham. When Marcus returned he also teamed up with his brother Johnny to challenge for the NWA Florida Tag Team Championship chasing the champions Mike Graham and Steve Keirn until September 20, 1988, where the Laurinaitis brothers won the gold. Marcus and Johnny defended the titles for over 3 months until they came across Florida newcomers The Nasty Boys (Jerry Sags and Brian Knobs) who took the gold from them. The brothers would come back strong only 3 weeks later to regain their gold and hold on to it until March 24, 1989, where the Nasty Boys once again beat them for the gold. During their second run with the gold Marcus and Johnny also toured with All Japan Pro Wrestling as a team. Shortly afterwards Johnny Ace left Florida Championship Wrestling to compete in Jim Crockett Promotions as one of the “Dynamic Dudes” (with Shane Douglas). The team known as the Bounty Hunters won the Florida tag team titles in November, but when one of the Bounty Hunters was injured Marcus stepped in and teamed up with the other Bounty Hunter to defend the tag team titles. The team held the gold until the Nasty Boys beat them on a card in Nassau, Bahamas on January 6, 1990.