[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Heinrich Böll Foundation

"; earlier that year, the Russian Ministry of Justice had delisted the foundation from the NGO affiliates registry.

Fields of activity
The Heinrich Böll Foundation works on a range of issues, some long-term, some short-term. The following areas figure large in many of its projects and publications:

Climate Change: The foundation focuses on the concept of Greenhouse Development Rights (GDRs), arguing that the impasse between the climate crisis on the one hand and development on the other has to be overcome by making the protection of "development dignity" part of the climate protection agenda. Recent publications in this field include the Coal Atlas that focuses on the environmental and health impacts of coal mining and use.
Resource Policy: The foundation advocates a responsible use of resources and accordingly advises governments, political actors, and interest groups in Germany and abroad. An example for this is the memorandum Resource Politics for a Fair Future. In 2014, a widely reviewed publication titled The Meat Atlas presented a wide range of data demonstrating that the present amount of international meat consumption is unsustainable.
European Policy: The foundation supports the democratic reform of European institutions and is committed to a further expansion of the European Union and the integration of new member states.
Gender Policy and LGBTI Rights: From its very beginning, gender politics and gender democracy have been priorities for the foundation, and its organisational development, which is based on gender equity, has become a template for many other institutions. The foundation's work on LGBTI rights has garnered national as well as international attention.
Scholarship Programmes: The foundation awards scholarships to outstanding students in Germany, be they German citizens, EU nationals, or from other parts of the world. It encourages the integration of non-German students into the programme. In addition, there are specific programmes for journalists, as well as sur-place-scholarship programmes in Russia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia and in Central America and the Caribbean.

Organisation

Headquarters and offices in Germany
The foundation's present headquarters (since 2008) in the centre of Berlin provide approximately 7,000 square metres of floor space with modern offices for ca. 185 employees. The conference centre seats up to 300 people in varying configurations, making it possible to hold large multi-day conferences.

The foundation claims that its headquarters are in the "ecological vanguard" of modern office and conference centre design. At 55.7 kWh/m2 the building's energy consumption is less than half the legal maximum. In partnership with Grammer Solar, a photovoltaic system has been installed on the roof. This has an annual energy yield of some 53,000 kWh and feeds into the district heating system. In addition, the building uses an adiabatic recooler to climatise its offices. Outlet slits run at sill level along the glazing in every office. The sill casing houses high-performance heat-exchangers, through which water at a temperature of 20 °C circulates in the summer. A small ventilator inside ensures that cooled air is distributed throughout the room. Even when the temperature outside is over 30 °C, the room temperature does not rise above 25°.  This system uses approximately ten times less energy than a conventional air conditioning system. The building uses the heat created by the computer network servers to heat its rooms. In recognition of this innovative project that significantly improves the energy efficiency of IT systems the foundation was presented with the Green CIO Award. Lastly, the atrium and internal courtyard create natural convection currents that serve to ventilate the building all year long.

The Heinrich Böll Foundation has regional offices in each of Germany's 16 states. These regional offices, which are organised as independent, associated units, implement community and regional programmes to do with ecology, democracy, migration, and gender democracy. Such activities, however, are not limited to regional or national issues and some co-operation projects are international in scope. Although legally independent, all 16 offices are part of the foundation's overall structure and are bound by the statutes of the Heinrich Böll Foundation (e.g. they have to serve the public interest and have to meet the quota for female employees).

International offices

The Heinrich Böll Foundation currently operates 32 international offices. Projects overseen by individual offices are frequently not limited to the country where an office is located as many have regional responsibilities. Overall the foundation conducts and supports over 100 projects in 60+ countries.