[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Estat Català

he French government, handed to the German nazis and deported to the extermination camps of Mauthausen and Gusen. Those who stayed free joined the French Resistance and had worked intensely to help allied airmen and Jews to escape from occupied France and against the Francoist State up to his death.

Estat Català also gave Catalan nationalism a globalised vision of the Catalan nation: as early as in 1942, the party published the first map of the so-called "Catalan Countries" which included the Principality (with Northern Catalonia included), the Valencian Community, the Balearic Islands, the coterminous area of Catalonia with Aragón (known as La Franja or The Stripe) and the ancient Catalan town of Alghero in Sardinia.

In 1975, after the death of Franco, Spain started a process of democratisation. In 1976, after decades of secrecy, Estat Català claimed again its legalization under the direction of historical members of the party such as Josep Planchart i Martori, Ramon Rius, Xavier Balagueró i Ràfols, Jaume Ros i Serra, Martí Torrent i Blanchart, etc. Supporter of the independence movement of the Catalan Countries were declared, and interclass-conscious and they received the adhesion of historical militants of the years of the foundation of the party like Ventura Gassol i Rovira. By the time the Spanish general elections of 1977 were held Estat Català yet had not been legalized and had to form a coalition with other parties in the same situation (like Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya). Estat Català achieved legalization that same year and, on 16 September 1977 was finally registered in the Registry of Political Parties of the Ministerio del Interior. Later it spoke against the approval of the Spanish Constitution of 1978 and the regional political autonomy, since it considered them tools contrary to the full freedoms of the Catalans, like this like continuation of the Spanish State of the Caudillo Franco. According to the positioning of Estat Català, sustained already during the Spanish State on considering the possibility of a claim future of Statute, a Statute like that of 1979 remained subordinated to a Constitution on denying the inalienable national rights and imposing a Borbonic monarchy which was the heir of that of 1714 and of Francoist Spain.

Estat Català has contested Spanish general elections, but it did not initially stand in the Catalan regional elections, in order to not reduce the vote of the other nationalist parties. In the Spanish general elections of 1979 it obtained 6,328 votes, which was 0.29% of the total. At the municipal level Estat Català use the name Acció Municipal Democràtica has been presented repeatedly in the elections or in proper noun or lamb through its coalition.

Recent history 
Estat Català has contested several elections but has never attained a result better than 0.6% of the vote in Catalonia. At municipal level, through its municipal coalition Acció Municipal Democràtica it has achieved a variable number of town councilors depending on the electoral contest and also the government of some towns (45 town councilors 1979, 9 town councilors and two mayor's offices 2007, etc...)

Regarding the recent results Estat Català contested the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia in 1999, obtaining 1,174 votes (0.06%). In the Spanish general elections of 2000, it obtained 2,321 votes to the Congress of Deputies (0.07%) and 17,825 in the Senate (0.53%), to the elections in the Parliament of Catalonia (2003) it obtained 1,890 votes (0.06%) and to the Elections in the European Parliament of 2004 it obtained 1,540 votes (0.07%). From 2004 the party has not stood in elections except for local elections through its municipal coalition Acció Municipal Democràtica with which obtained, in 2007, 9 town councilors who allowed it to sustain the government of two town councils.

In recent years different groups have been fighting over who are the heirs of the historical party at a moment when support for independence is a cross-party policy widely supported and Estat Català have supported different options in different elections, Esquerra Republicana, Solidaritat Catalana per la Independència, etc.

References 

 Josep Carner i Ribalta. El Complot de Prats de Molló Barcelona. Dalmau editors, 1987.
 Joan Crexell i Playà. Origen de la bandera independentista. Barcelona: el Llamp, 1984.
 Imma Tubella i Casadevall. Jaume Compte i el Partit Català Proletari. Barcelona: la Magrana, 1979.
 Albert Viladot i Presas. Nacionalisme i premsa clandestina (1939–1951). Barcelona: Curial, 1987.

External links 
 Official website of Estat Català 

History of Catalonia
Political parties in Catalonia
Catalan independence movement
Pro-independence parties
Secessionist organizations in Europe
Political parties established in 1922
1922 establishments in Spain