[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Simula Research Laboratory

t of Simula's research on software engineering, scientific computing, and high-performance computing occurs at Simula Research Laboratory. Research on cybersecurity, cryptography, and information theory occurs at Simula UiB. Research on communication systems and machine learning occurs at SimulaMet.

Simula is host for the national infrastructure Experimental Infrastructure for Exploration of Exascale Computing (eX3), a national research infrastructure funded by the Research Council of Norway. The eX3 allows high-performance computing (HPC) researchers throughout Norway and their collaborators abroad to experiment hands-on with emerging HPC technologies: hardware and software.

Simula has hosted prior centres of excellence and innovation including the Centre for Biomedical Computing (a Center of Excellence; SFF) and Certus (a Center for Research-based Innovation; SFI), and been a partner in the Center for Cardiological Innovation and SIRIUS HPC. Currently Simula is a partner in ProCardio (Precision Health Center for optimised cardiac care; SFI).

Innovation
Simula's innovation and applied research activities are mainly organised through two wholly owned subsidiaries: Simula Consulting provides tailored training and R&D services in the core competence areas of Simula; Simula Innovation manages Simula's investment portfolio. As of 2020, Simula Innovation has a portfolio of 28 companies. In addition, Simula provides start-up development assistance through the Simula Garage.

Education
Through the Simula School of Research and Innovation (SSRI) and in collaboration with national and international degree-awarding institutions, Simula supervises master students, PhD students, and postdoctoral fellows. Simula annually supervises about 30 master students and 10 PhD students to the completion of their degree.

SSRI also organises and teaches many undergraduate and graduate-level courses at collaborating universities, mainly the University of Oslo, University of Bergen and Oslo Metropolitan University.

Major international collaborations
Simula and the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) collaborate on educating master- and PhD-students through the PhD program SUURPh, and through the joint Summer School in Computational Physiology (SSCP).

Simula also collaborates with the Technical University of Berlin (TU Berlin) on several PhD programs.

Continuing education offers
In addition to research education, Simula offers training to research fellows and scientists, to prepare them for careers in academia or industry, and offers professional development training such as programming courses for teachers; see e.g., KodeSkolen.

See also 
Aslak Tveito
Dag Sjøberg
Hans Petter Langtangen
Magne Jørgensen
Olav Lysne
Marianne Aasen
Simula

References

External links
 

Computer science institutes in Norway