[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mennonite settlements of Altai

vered the cost of transport. The cost of transport to Kamen-na-Obi was often more than the going rate for wheat. The settlers needed  industrial products, such as farm equipment, but almost all had to be brought from the other side of the Urals and were very expensive because of the transport costs.

Russification
By 1914 all of the German settlements and municipalities had to be renamed with Russian names. Typically the Russian names were formed from the name of district in which the respective villages were found: Alexanderkron - Kussak, Alexanderfeld - Griškovka, Gnadenheim - Redkaja Dubrava, Grünfeld - Čertjož, Hochstadt - Wyssokaja Griva, Lichtenfeld - Petrovka, Landskrone - Golenkij, Nikolaidorf - Djagilevka, Tiege - Uglovoje, Wiesenfeld - Stepnoj.

Some of the villages were named by translating of the German name into Russian: Ebenfeld - Rovnopol, Reinfeld - Čistoje, Rosenwald - Lesnoje, Halbstadt -Polgorod, Schönsee - Sineosjornoje, Alexeifeld - Polevoje.

Some villages received names that had no direct relationship to the region or their German name: Blumenort - Podsnežnoje, Friedensfeld -Lugovoje, Gnadenfeld - Mirnoje, Nikolaipol - Nikolskoje, Rosenhof - Dvorskoje, Schönau -Jasnoje, Schöntal - Krasnyj Dol, Kleefeld - Krasnoje.

The Orlovo was restructured into the Znamenskij district in 1924 and ceased to exist as an administrative entity.

Economic survey
In 1916 an inspection commission for settler affairs examined the settlement in Tomsk. The summary provided a view of the economic condition of the Orlovo district:

Notes

Further reading 
 Aziatskaja Rossija, Tom 1, S. – Petersburg, 1914.
 Očerki Altajskogo kraja. Barnaul, 1925.
 Fast, Gerhard: In den Steppen Sibiriens. Rosthern, 1952.
 Sbornik statističeskich svedenij ob ékonomičeskom položenii pereselencev v Tomskoj gubernii. Vypusk 1, Tomsk, 1913.
 The story about a generation of Kulunda steppe Germans PART II, italki, September 2011.

External links 
 Altai State University, The Germans of Altai Region in Historical and Ethnographic Reviews 

Populated places in Altai Krai
Altai
Russian and Soviet-German people
Populated places established in 1906
1906 establishments in the Russian Empire