[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tail Concerto

es to rescue her, assisted by both the Black Cats and the princess's royal guard, Cyan, and manages to destroy the Giant's core while he and Alicia make their escape. In the end, Waffle takes Alicia back to his home to recover, and gives her back her pendant to reaffirm their friendship.

Voice cast

 : Akio Suyama (JP) / Lani Minella (EN)
 : Tarako (JP) / Lani Minella (EN)
 : Yūko Miyamura (JP) / Amanda Winn-Lee (EN)
 : Kumiko Nishihara (JP) / Carrie Gordon Lowrey (EN)
 : Chieko Higuchi (JP) / Carrie Gordon Lowrey (EN)
 : Yōsuke Akimoto (JP) / Travis (EN)
 : Ryūsei Nakao (JP) / Ari Ross (EN)
 : Maaya Sakamoto (JP) / Carrie Gordon Lowrey (EN)
 : Ryōtarō Okiayu (JP) / Jeff Hobbs (EN)
 Chamberlain: Motomu Kiyokawa (JP) / Ari Ross (EN)
  Yōsuke Akimoto (JP) / Jeff Hobbs (EN)
 Chief: Motomu Kiyokawa (JP) / Travis (EN)

Development
Development for Tail Concerto began in 1996 by members of CyberConnect, later known as CyberConnect2, shortly after the company was established. After the success of such 3D action titles as Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo 64 and Nights into Dreams... for the Sega Saturn, the company made a proposal to publisher Bandai to produce a similar game for the PlayStation, which they "gladly accepted". The game features artwork and character designs by manga artist and illustrator Nobuteru Yūki, as well as nearly 20 minutes of animated cutscenes produced by Astrovision, Inc. Tail Concerto spent nearly two years in development before being released in Japan in April 1998, and would make an appearance at the 1998 Tokyo Game Show where it "drew a crowd for its looks and playability", according to website IGN.

A playable demo featuring Japanese text and audio was later released in North America in the "Imports" section of the PlayStation Underground: Jampack disc in 1998. While Bandai of America had originally not confirmed an English release in the region, the company remarked that the title "had a very good chance" of coming to the West as early as June 1999. However, they expressed concern that the developers responsible for translating and localizing the title may not be able to complete the game on time, citing it as "the only factor that would make Tail Concerto not see a release on these shores". As the deadline passed, publishing rights changed hands between multiple US studios, including Activision, before Atlus USA announced in July 1999 that they would be releasing the North American version of Tail Concerto as part of their company strategy to "broaden its domestic library through eclectic acquisitions", and to release it by the end of the following September. Although delays caused the title to miss this date, Atlus later made a statement on their website that they would begin shipping the game to retailers on November 3, and for players to expect it in stores shortly thereafter.

Audio
Tail Concerto'''s background music was composed by Chikayo Fukuda and Seizo Nakata, and features the Japanese opening theme song "For Little Tail" by J-Pop singer Kokia, which was replaced by an original instrumental piece in the English version, but retained in the French version. "For Little Tail" was recorded in 1997 specifically for the game, one year before Kokia's musical debut, and was regarded by her as an "illusion song" since it was never released on any album until 13 years later, when it appeared as the B-side of her 2010 single "Road to Glory ~Long Journey~". Although no soundtrack originally accompanied the game's 1998 release, an album called the Tail Concerto Perfect Sound Track was eventually released on January 30, 2015 featuring 47 tracks, including a new version of "For Little Tail" performed by Tomoyo Mitani, who provided the vocals for the theme songs to Solatorobo: Red the Hunter and Little Tail Story.

ReceptionTail Concerto received a 30 out of 40 from the staff of Famitsu, earning the publication's Silver Award, as well as a 77.5% average score from Dengeki PlayStation, based on individual reviews of 75, 85, 75, and 75.