[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Shane McCutcheon

arla (Sarah-Jane Redmond), Shane realises that she may do the same to Carmen and jilts her. Heartbroken, Carmen leaves Shane for good. Shane later attempts to make amends with Carmen, but she is forcibly escorted off the premises by Carmen's cousins, who tell her Carmen never wants to see her again.

Shane does a drug binge with Cherie, and Carla abandons Shane's half-brother, Shay. Shane does not want to be responsible for Shay, but lets him stay because she does not want him to have a life in foster care like she did. Shane starts modelling underwear for Hugo Boss AG to pay medical bills for Shay's broken arm. He makes friends with Jared. Shane becomes close to Jared's mother, Paige, and after numerous failed attempts, they have sex. Gabriel returns to take Shay home. Realizing she will not win custody of Shay, Shane is forced to let him leave. Shane and Paige go in search of a new home to share, but for no apparent reason, Shane has sex with their realtor while looking at a house. Paige tells Shane she is fine with Shane sleeping around, but Shane, ashamed of her actions, tells Paige that she is not in love with her and ends their relationship. Wax is later set on fire. Though visibly shocked, Shane does not file a police report, and Paige and Jared disappear shortly afterwards. It is initially assumed that Paige was responsible out of revenge, but Shane later claims that she burned Wax down herself; it is left unrevealed if this was the truth, or if Paige was the culprit but Shane lied in order to protect her from potentially going to prison and leaving Jared motherless.

Shane later has sex with a mother and her two daughters separately on one of the daughters' wedding day. The fall out causes Shane to abstain from sex. However, she ends up not being able to abstain for long, and has a threesome with Dawn Denbo (Elizabeth Keener) and her oppressed lover Cindi (Alicia Leigh Willis), the owners of the newest lesbian club Shebar. When she sleeps with Cindi without Denbo's permission, Denbo sets out for revenge. Denbo tells Shane and her friends that she will ruin their lives. She starts a turf war between Shebar and The Planet. Molly Kroll (Clementine Ford) develops an attraction to Shane and they sleep together. Her mother Phyllis Kroll (Cybill Shepherd) talks to Molly about Shane, and Molly refers to Shane as "uneducated", "easy" and not smart. Shane overhears their conversation, so Molly tries to convince Shane that she loves her. They attempt to make their relationship work, but Phyllis' intervention puts an end to it (ironically, Phyllis herself had persuaded Molly to spend time with lesbians in the hopes that she herself would become a lesbian and understand her mother's own homosexuality).

When Jenny breaks up with Niki Stevens, (Kate French), Shane has sex with Niki on a balcony and Jenny interrupts them. Molly gives Jenny a letter addressed to Shane, but Jenny hides it. Shane makes a series of gestures to earn Jenny's forgiveness to no avail. Jenny tells Shane that it was she who broke her heart, not Niki, because of their long friendship. She reveals that she's in love with Shane. Jenny and Shane enter a relationship which Alice discovers and reveals to their friends. Jenny's behavior becomes more erratic than usual and this alienates her friends against her. Shane ignores her friends' pleas for her to dump Jenny because she feels an obligation to Jenny. Shane starts sleeping with Niki. Jenny tells her she does not care, but makes her feel guilty about it. Shane has a chance meeting with Molly, who informs her about the letter she gave Jenny. Shane finds the letter in Jenny's attic along with many of other objects taken from their friends, prompting her to decide to end her relationship with Jenny. At Bette and Tina's party, Jenny is found dead in the pool, having committed suicide.

Interrogation tapes 
Following Jenny's death, each of the characters are interrogated by the police for their individual motives for murdering Jenny. Though Shane is unable to divulge any information, she confesses that she burned down Wax herself, not Paige. 

As the tapes were initially intended for Alice to be wrongfully convicted of murder and serve as the basis for a cancelled women in prison-like series titled The Farm starring Alice and a new cast of characters, the canonicity of the tapes' content is now uncertain with the production of The L Word: Generation Q, leaving it unknown if it was Shane or Paige who burned Wax down.