[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# History of the Jews in Sweden

the Communist government. More refugees came then from Poland between 1968 and 1970. Between 1945 and 1970, the Jewish population of Sweden doubled.

One of the last prohibitions against Jews in Sweden – that Jews could not hold political office – was not removed until 1951.

Contemporary situation

Contemporary Jewish population of Sweden
There is no ethnic registration in Sweden, so the Jewish population can only be roughly estimated. The Official Council of Swedish Jewish Communities' estimation is that about 20,000 pass the halakhic criteria. Of those about 7,000 are members of a congregation. There are five Jewish congregations in Sweden: Stockholm (about 4500 members), Gothenburg (about 1000 members), Malmö (about 500 members), Northwest Scania (about 100 members) and Norrköping (formally independent but administered as part of the Stockholm congregation due to its small size). Smaller organized Jewish communities are also found in Uppsala, Lund, Borås and Västerås. Synagogues can be found in Stockholm (which has two Orthodox and one Conservative synagogue), Gothenburg (an Orthodox and a Conservative synagogue), Malmö (an Orthodox and an egalitarian synagogue), Helsingborg (an Orthodox synagogue), and in Norrköping (a Conservative synagogue, although the Norrköping community is too small to perform regular services). The Stockholm community also boasts a primary school, kindergarten, library, a bi-monthly publication (Judisk Krönika) and a weekly Jewish radio program.

Reports of increasing antisemitism
In 2014, a global ADL study of antisemitism placed Sweden as one of the least antisemitic countries in the world, with only 4% of the population harboring antisemitic attitudes. The 2019 edition of the same study ranked Sweden as the least antisemitic country in the world.

In October 2010, however, The Forward reported on the current state of Jews and the level of antisemitism in Sweden. Henrik Bachner, a writer and professor of history at the University of Lund, stated that members of the Swedish Riksdag have attended anti-Israel rallies where the Israeli flag was burned while the flags of Hamas and Hezbollah were waved, and the rhetoric was often antisemitic—not just anti-Israel. Charles Small, former director of the Yale University Initiative for the Study of Anti-Semitism, stated that "Sweden is a microcosm of contemporary anti-Semitism. It's a form of acquiescence to radical Islam, which is diametrically opposed to everything Sweden stands for." Per Gudmundson, chief editorial writer for Svenska Dagbladet and well known for his pro-Israeli stance for decades, has sharply criticised politicians who he says offer "weak excuses" for Muslims accused of antisemitic crimes. "Politicians say these kids are poor and oppressed, and we have made them hate. They are, in effect, saying that the behaviour of these kids is in some way our fault." Much of the antisemitism in the country has been attributed to the growing Muslim immigrant population.

According to the Swedish National Council for Crime Prevention, in 2012, 66 anti-Jewish hate crimes were reported in Malmö, compared with just 31 in Stockholm. In 2013, 35 such hate crimes were reported in Malmö. These figures show an increase in anti-Semitic incidents over recent years with a total of 44 reports in 2010 and 2011 combined.

In January 2015 the police in Skåne, the southernmost Swedish county, published a report referring to antisemitism. According to it, there were 137 antisemitic hate crimes in 2013–2014, with half of hate crimes in Skåne's biggest city, Malmö, directed against individual Jews. In February, following shooting attacks that left a filmmaker and a Jewish security guard dead in Copenhagen, Swedish public broadcaster Sveriges Radio asked the Israeli ambassador whether Jews were responsible for antisemitism. They later apologised for the question.

In 2015 the journal Ethnic and Racial Studies published a study conducted between 2003 and 2009 on secondary school students in Sweden. Its goal was to examine changes in antisemitic attitudes among young people. The results showed no significant change in the total level of antisemitism between the two groups of youths (the 2003 and 2009 groups). However, findings showed that in both 2003 and 2009, students born outside of Sweden or whose parents were born outside Sweden display higher levels of antisemitism compared to students born in Sweden.