[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Nelson Bay, New South Wales

Nelson Bay is a significant township of the Port Stephens local government area in the Hunter Region of New South Wales, Australia. It is located on a bay of the same name on the southern shore of Port Stephens about  by road north-east of Newcastle, its nearest rail link. At the 2021 census, Nelson Bay had a population of 6,141.

It is a major tourism centre, particularly for dolphin and whale watching, surfing, diving, fishing and other recreational aquatic activities. The eastern boundaries of Nelson Bay lie within the Tomaree National Park while the southeastern section is almost entirely within the park. Nelson Head Light, an unusual lighthouse built in 1875, is positioned on the northeast corner.

Early settlers
Early settlers included the Dalton family, the patriarch being Captain John Dalton who sailed his ship SS Kingsley to Sydney with fresh marine produce from Port Stephens. He built a house "Westward Ho" in 1882 on the hill overlooking the modern town, on . He donated land from his holding for the Methodist Church, and for a school.

Demographics 
At the 2021 census, there were 28,418 people in Nelson Bay.

 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people made up 3.7% of the population.
 78.3% of people were born in Australia. The most common other countries of birth were England 5.7%, New Zealand 1.6%, Scotland 0.7%, South Africa 0.7% and Germany 0.6%.
 89.6% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Italian and Greek, both at 0.4%.
 The most common responses for religion were No Religion 37.3%, Catholic 20.4% and Anglican 20.0%.

Transport
Port Stephens Coaches operate local services to Newcastle, Raymond Terrace and  as well as an express service to Sydney.

Climate
Nelson Bay has a maritime-influenced humid subtropical climate (Cfa) with warm humid summers, damp autumns, cool wet winters and relatively dry springs. The suburb is relatively sunny, receiving 117.8 clear days annually. Despite the high amount of rainfall throughout the year (due to its exposed location on a peninsula), the rain days are relatively few, barely reaching over 10 days per month.

Notes

References

External links
 Port Stephens Visitors Centre
 Nelson Bay at Australian Explorer
 Nelson Bay Online & Internet Cafe
 Local radio station Bay FM 99.3
 The Weekender Guide to Nelson Bay
 

Suburbs of Port Stephens Council
Towns in the Hunter Region
Bays of New South Wales
Marinas in Australia
Beaches of New South Wales