[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hebrew keyboard

A Hebrew keyboard (Hebrew:  mikledet ivrit) comes in two different keyboard layouts. Most Hebrew keyboards are bilingual, with Latin characters, usually in a US Qwerty layout. Trilingual keyboard options also exist, with the third script being Arabic or Russian, due to the sizable Arabic- and Russian-speaking populations in Israel.

Layouts

Standard Hebrew keyboard
Standard Hebrew keyboards have a 101/104-key layout.  Like the standard English keyboard layout, QWERTY, the Hebrew layout was derived from the order of letters on Hebrew typewriters. The layout is codified in SI-1452 by SII. The latest revision, from 2013, mostly modified the location of the diacritics points.

One noteworthy feature is that in the standard layout, paired delimiters -– parentheses (), brackets [], braces {}, and angle brackets (less/greater than) <> –- have the opposite logical representation from the standard in left-to-right languages. This gets flipped again by the rendering engine's BiDi mirroring algorithm, resulting in the same visual representation as in Latin keyboards. Key mappings follow the logical rather than the physical representation. For instance, whether on a right-to-left or left-to-right keyboard, Shift-9 always produces a logical "open parenthesis". On a right-to-left keyboard, this is written as the Unicode character U+0029, "right parenthesis": ). This is true on Arabic keyboards as well. On a left-to-right keyboard, this is written as the Unicode character U+0028, "left parenthesis": (.

In a 102/105-key layout of this form, there would be an additional key to the right of the left shift key.  This would be an additional backslash key.  Keyboards with 102 keys are not sold as standard, except by certain manufacturers which have elected to sell European-style 102-key Hebrew keyboards, such as  Logitech and Apple).

On computers running Windows, Alt-Shift switches between keyboard layouts. Holding down a Shift key (or pressing Caps Lock) in Windows produces the uppercase Latin letter without the need to switch layouts.

SI-1452-2 Improved Mapping 
In 2018, SII published the SI-1452-2 "Improved Mapping" standard. This layout is also known as arkn (Hebrew: ארקן) after the four consecutive keys in the top left of the keyboard.

It is mostly identical to the SI-1452 layout, with the following changes:

 The punctuation marks period (.), comma (,), apostrophe (') and forward slash (/) have been moved to the same position as on a QWERTY keyboard.
 Note: semicolon (;) remains in place.
 ת takes ן's place in order to move the latter away from ו, to which its proximity sometimes causes confusion.
 ץ and ן were moved to the top left part of the keyboard.
 All Niqqud marks moved to their Lyx-style layout, even on systems where this isn't supported with the SI-1452 layout (such as macOS).
 The rafe diacritic (◌ֿ) and two cantillation marks, meteg (◌ֽ) and ole (◌֫), were added.
 True Hebrew gershayim (״), quotes („”) and maqaf (־) were added.
 RLM and LRM characters added on all systems.
 Multiplication (×) and division (÷) signs were added.

As of October 2023, the improved mapping has no support by default on major desktop providers (Microsoft Windows, MacOS, or X Keyboard Config on Linux) and users must download it from mikladot.com.

Hebrew on standard Latin-based keyboards
There are a variety of layouts that, for the most part, follow the phonology of the letters on a Latin-character keyboard such as the QWERTY or AZERTY. Where no phonology mapping is possible, or where multiple Hebrew letters map to a single Latin letter, a similarity in shape or other characteristic may be chosen.  For instance, if ס (samech) is assigned to the S key, ש (shin/sin) may be assigned to the W key, which it arguably resembles. The shift key is often used to access the five Hebrew letters that have final forms (sofit) used at the end of words.

These layouts are commonly known as "Hebrew-QWERTY" or "French AZERTY-Hebrew"  layouts. While Hebrew layouts for Latin-based keyboards are not well standardized, macOS comes with a Hebrew-QWERTY variant, and software layouts for Microsoft Windows can be found on the Internet. Tools such as the Microsoft Keyboard Layout Creator can also be used to produce custom layouts.

While uncommon, manufacturers are beginning to produce Hebrew-QWERTY stickers and printed keyboards,  useful for those who do not wish to memorize the positions of the Hebrew characters.

Niqqud

History 
SI-1452 in its pre-2013 version made an error in the definition. Originally, it tried to assign niqqud to the upper row of the keyboard. Due to an ambiguity in the standard's language, however, anyone reasonably reading the standard would conclude that pressing shift+the upper row keys would produce both Niqqud and the standard signs available in the US keyboard.