[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stephen Zunes

Tinderbox: U.S. Middle East Policy and the Roots of Terrorism (Common Courage Press, 2003). He is the principal editor of Nonviolent Social Movements (Blackwell Publishers, 1999). With Jacob Mundy, he wrote Western Sahara: War, Nationalism and Conflict Irresolution (Syracuse University Press, 2010).

Zunes is a regular contributor to the Common Dreams, Truthout, and Alternet websites. He has written for The Nation, Tikkun, The Progressive, In These Times, Yes!, and other magazines, and his op-ed columns have appeared in major daily newspapers throughout North America and Europe. He is also a frequent guest on National Public Radio, Pacifica Radio, PBS, BBC, MSNBC and other media outlets for analysis on breaking world events.

Travels
Zunes frequently visits the Middle East and other conflict regions, where he has met with top government officials, academics, journalists and opposition leaders. He has traveled to more than sixty countries and has accepted invitations to speak at venues in more than twenty.

In September 2007, Zunes was among a group of American religious leaders and scholars who met with Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. In a subsequent article, Zunes stated that:
 [Mahmoud Ahmadinejad] was quite unimpressive. Indeed, with his ramblings and the superficiality of his analysis, he came across as more pathetic than evil... The Iranian president impressed me as someone sincerely devout in his religious faith, yet rather superficial in his understanding and inclined to twist his faith tradition in ways to correspond with his pre-conceived ideological positions.

Non-violence work
A scholar and advocate of nonviolent people power movements, he has also served as a trainer and workshop leader for pro-democracy activists and community organizers in the United States, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East.  During his twenties, he worked with Movement for a New Society and other groups advocating nonviolent direct action in opposition to nuclear power, the nuclear arms race, U.S. intervention in Central America, and foreign investment in apartheid South Africa.

Family life
Zunes lives in a cohousing community in Santa Cruz, California with his spouse Nanlouise Wolfe (born 1957), who serves on the staff of the Resource Center for Nonviolence, and their children Shanti (born 1988), Kalila (b. 1990) and Tobin (b. 1993). Zunes is a folk musician and enjoys the outdoors.

Zunes was born in Salisbury, North Carolina, the only child of Helen Karnes Zunes and the Rev. John Zunes, an Episcopal priest.  Both parents were active in civil rights, nuclear disarmament, anti-Vietnam War and pro-Palestinian causes.  He grew up in the university town of Chapel Hill, attending public and Quaker schools, and spent most summers as well as his early adolescence in the Celo Community in the mountains of western North Carolina.  After attending Oberlin College and living in Philadelphia, Washington, and Boston, he married his former college sweetheart in 1987 while in grad school in Ithaca, New York.

Selected bibliography

Books

Zunes, S. & McNair, R. (eds.) (2008). Consistently Opposing Killing: From Abortion to Assisted Suicide, the Death Penalty, and War. California: Praeger Press. 
Zunes, S. (2002). Tinderbox: U.S. Foreign Policy and the Roots of Terrorism. Common Courage Press.  / 
Zunes, S., Kurtz, L. & Asher, S. (eds.) (1999).  Nonviolent Social Movements: A Geographical Perspective. 1999. Blackwell Publishing. 

Articles
Zunes, S. (2011). "America Blows it on Bahrain"
Zunes, S. (2011) "The Gaza War, Congress and International Humanitarian Law"
Stringfellow, T. (2011) "The Measure of a Movement: Stephen Zunes on Nonviolent Resistance"
Zunes, S. (2009). "Weapons of Mass Democracy: Nonviolent Resistance Is the Most Powerful Tactic Against Oppressive Regimes"
Zunes, S. (2009). "The War on Yugoslavia: 10 Years Later"
Zunes, S. (2008). "The U.S. and Georgia"
Zunes, S. (2008). "Nonviolent Action and Pro-democracy Struggles". Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus.
Zunes, S. (2007). "The United States and the Kurds: A Brief History"
Zunes, S. (2006) "The United States and Lebanon: A Meddlesome History"
Zunes, S. (2006). "Western Sahara: The Other Occupation"
Zunes, S. (2006). "U.S. has contributed to Iraq's sectarian strife". National Catholic Reporter. 
Zunes, S. (2006). "U.S. undermines Israeli doves in their quest for peace". National Catholic Reporter.
Zunes, S. (2005). "How the Hawk Kills the Dove: Western Intervention Keeps Slamming the Door on Peace in Iraq. New Internationalist.
Zunes, S. (2002). "Nonviolent Resistance in the Islamic world". Nonviolent Activist. 
Zunes, S. (2002). "The Case Against War". The Nation.
Zunes, S. "The Strategic Functions of U.S. Aid to Israel"

References