[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Anomalous experiences

transient nature such as extreme fatigue, would appear to provide support for the dimensional model. The alternative to this view requires one to posit some hidden or latent disease process, of which such experiences are a symptom or precursor, an explanation which would appear to beg the question.

Philosophical
The "argument from hallucination" has traditionally been one of those used by proponents of the philosophical theory of representationalism against direct realism. Representationalism holds that when perceiving the world we are not in direct contact with it, as common sense suggests, but only in direct contact with a representation of the world in consciousness. That representation may be a more or less accurate one depending on our circumstances, the state of our health, and so on. Direct realism, on the other hand, holds that the common sense or unthinking view of perception is correct, and that when perceiving the world we should be regarded as in direct contact with it, unmediated by any representation in consciousness.

Clearly, during an apparitional experience, for example, the correspondence between how the subject is perceiving the world and how the world really is at that moment is distinctly imperfect. At the same time the experience may present itself to the subject as indistinguishable from normal perception. McCreery has argued that such empirical phenomena strengthen the case for representationalism as against direct realism.

 See also 

Aura (symptom)
Lucid dream
False awakening
Out-of-body experience
Apparitional experience
Schizotypy
Perception
Philosophy of perception
Representationalism
Trance
Tulpa
Simulated reality
Idealism

 References 

 Further reading 
 
 Aleman, A & Laroi, F. (2008). Hallucinations: The Science of Idiosyncratic Perception. Washington: American Psychological Association.
 Birchwood, Max J., Chadwick, Paul, and Trower, Peter (1996). Cognitive Therapy for Delusions, Voices and Paranoia. New York: John Wiley & Sons Inc.
 Cardeña, E., Lynn, S. J., & Krippner, S. (2000). Varieties of Anomalous Experience: Examining the Scientific Evidence. American Psychological Association.
 Johnson, Fred H., (1978). The Anatomy of Hallucinations. Chicago: Nelson-Hall.
 Murray, C. (Ed.) (2012). Mental Health and Anomalous Experience. New York: Nova Science Publishers.
 Pearson, R. S. (2005) The Experience of Hallucinations in Religious Practice. Seattle: Telical Books.
 Reed, Graham. (1988). The Psychology of Anomalous Experience''. Prometheus Books. 

Hallucinations
Lucid dreams
Pragmatism
Parapsychology