[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Proslavery thought

ort their arguments.

Abolitionist rabbis, including Einhorn and Michael Heilprin, concerned that Raphall's position would be seen as the official policy of American Judaism, vigorously rebutted his arguments, and argued that slavery—as practiced in the South—was immoral and not endorsed by Judaism.

Ken Yellis, writing in The Forward, has suggested that "the majority of American Jews were mute on the subject, perhaps because they dreaded its tremendous corrosive power. Prior to 1861, there are virtually no instances of rabbinical sermons on slavery, probably due to fear that the controversy would trigger a sectional conflict in which Jewish families would be arrayed on opposite sides. ... America's largest Jewish community, New York's Jews, were overwhelmingly pro-southern, pro-slavery, and anti-Lincoln in the early years of the war." However, as the war progressed, "and the North's military victories mounted, feelings began to shift toward[s] ... the Union and eventually, emancipation."

Proslavery views in the 20th century
In the 20th century, the American philosopher Robert Nozick defended the notion of voluntary slavery, whereby persons voluntarily sell themselves into slavery. In Anarchy, State and Utopia, Nozick writes that "The comparable question about an individual is whether a free system will allow him to sell himself into slavery. I believe that it would." Commenting on Nozick's views, David Ellerman (writing under the pseudonym "J. Philmore") notes their parallels with provisions in the Institutes of Justinian which permit individuals to sell themselves into slavery.

Rousas Rushdoony, an adherent of theonomy, believed that Old Testament laws should be applied in the present day, including those laws which permitted slavery. Unlike Nozick, who believed that slavery should be limited to those who voluntarily agreed to it, Rushdoony supported the forcible enslavement of all who rejected Christianity. Rushdoony also asserted that even though antebellum American slavery was un-Biblical, it was still a positive good.

Jack Kershaw, who served as an attorney for James Earl Ray, the assassin of Martin Luther King Jr., is famous for saying "Somebody needs to say a good word for slavery."

Robert Creel, who served as Grand Dragon of Alabama for the United Klans of America from March 1964 to January 1966 and notoriously supported Goldwater, once stated that "I got news for you niggers. We're on the move too. I don't believe in segregation. I believe in slavery."

Representative Howard W. Smith (D-VA) had been described by contemporaries as an apologist for slavery who invoked the Ancient Greeks and Romans in its defense, furthermore stating civilizations such as Ancient Egypt and Rome were made great through this institution.

In the 1980s, Rabbi Meir Kahane introduced legislation into Israel's Knesset, which in part stated that "Non-Jews will be obliged to assume duties, taxes and slavery. If he does not agree to slavery and taxes, he will be forcibly deported". The legislation was rejected, with one MK comparing it to Nazi Germany's infamous Nuremberg Laws.

Rabbi Avigdor Miller claimed that the Emancipation Proclamation had come too soon to "civilize" the African Americans.

See also
 Albert Taylor Bledsoe
 Thomas Roderick Dew
 George Fitzhugh
 James Henry Hammond
 William Harper (South Carolina politician)
 Mildred Rutherford

References

 Kolchin, Peter. American Slavery 1619-1877. (2003 revision) 
 Wilentz, Sean. The Rise of American Democracy: Jefferson to Lincoln. (2005)

Further reading
 Finkelman, Paul. Defending Slavery: Proslavery Thought in the Old South. New York: Bedford/St. Martin's, 2003.
 Kennedy, David M., Cohen, Lizabeth, and Bailey, Thomas A. The American Pageant: A History of the Republic 12th Edition. New York: Houghton Mifflin Company, 2001.
 Tise, Larry E. Proslavery: A History of the Defense of Slavery in America, 1701–1840, 2004
 Smith, John David (1986) " The Old Arguments Anew: Proslavery and Antislavery Thought during Reconstruction", The Kentucky Review: Vol. 6: No. 1 , Article 2.

External links

 Attempts to justify slavery, BBC
 Philosophers justifying slavery, BBC
 An Overview of Some Proslavery Arguments, libertarianism.org
 27f. The Southern Argument for Slavery, ushistory.org, archived at archive.org
 Wikiversity:Is slavery good?

 
Slavery in the United States