[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rajinder Sachar

poor handcart pullers, maidservants, hawkers and so on. The court called for consultation with the affected people as part of the project's decision-making process. They should be treated humanely, without force or coercion, and should not be evicted during periods of bad weather.

Sachar committee

In March 2005 Justice Rajinder Sachar was appointed to a committee to study the condition of the Muslim community in India and to prepare a comprehensive report on their social, economic and educational status.
On 17 November 2006 he presented the report, entitled "Report on Social, Economic and Educational Status of the Muslim Community of India", to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.
The report showed the growing social and economic insecurity that had been imposed on Muslims since independence sixty years earlier.
It found that the Muslim population, estimated at over 138 million in 2001, were under-represented in the civil service, police, military and in politics. 
Muslims were more likely to be poor, illiterate, unhealthy and to have trouble with the law than other Indians. 
Muslims were accused of being against the Indian state, of being terrorists, and politicians who tried to help them risked being accused of "appeasing" them.

The Sachar Committee recommendations aimed to promote inclusion of the diverse communities in India and their equal treatment. It emphasised initiatives that were general rather than specific to any one community. It was a landmark in the debate on the Muslim question in India.
The speed of implementation would naturally depend on political factors including the extent of backlash from Hindutva groups.
The Sachar Committee Report recommended setting up an institutional structure for an Equal Opportunity Commission.  
An expert group was established that presented a report, including a draft bill to establish such a commission, in February 2008.
There was opposition. Thus, a speaker at a seminar in April 2008 sponsored by a group called "Bharatiya Vichar Manch" described the report as unconstitutional, saying "It should be rejected completely. It is on communal lines and will divide the country. It is a result of vote bank politics".

Other activities

In 2003, as counsel for the Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), Sachar and Prashant Bhushan challenged the government's plans to privatise Bharat Petroleum and Hindustan Petroleum. CPIL said that the only way to disinvest in the companies would be to repeal or amend the Acts by which they were nationalised in the 1970s.
In December 2009 it was reported that Sachar was being proposed as Governor of West Bengal to replace Gopalkrishna Gandhi, whose term had expired.
In the event, Devanand Konwar was appointed acting governor.

At the age of eighty-seven Sachar was detained by Delhi Police on 16 August 2011 during the India Against Corruption protest. The arrest was for unlawful assembly and for making speeches in a location where a magistrate had declared the Section 144 rules were in force.  Sachar claimed that he knew the law and should not be arrested, but despite this he was taken into custody.

Sachar was a guest at anti-India conferences organized by Ghulam Nabi Fai in the US. Fai was later convicted as an ISI front, bribing US politicians using money from Pakistan.

Other statements

In 1989–1990 the Central Bureau of Investigation launched an inquiry into kickbacks in a government gun purchase deal. The inquiry was abandoned after the V. P. Singh government fell.  Sachar called for the 500 pages of documents collected during the inquiry to be made public, saying: "There is no reason why the public should not be told of the full contents of the Bofors papers and only delay in disclosing the contents will unnecessarily expose the government to the charge of political manipulation".

He said in 1992: "... the bureaucracy deviates from rules in the hope of basking in political favour.  But this is short-term approach. Soon, the bureaucracy will find that after the massive ego and power lust of the politicians are satisfied, there comes a day when the bureaucrat is at the receiving end.  And there is no one to support him because in league with politicians he has destroyed the strength of the public opinion.  Bureaucrat is an unruly horse but has the potential to win the Derby, provided the Jockey is the expert, capable of giving proper motivation and desired direction. Politician with Bureaucratic mould of course, would do better,".

In March 2003 Sachar was a signatory to a statement that condemned the US-led invasion of Iraq, calling it "unprovoked, unjustified, violates international law and constitut[ing] an act of aggression".  Other signatories included Shanti Bhushan, Pavani Parameswara Rao, Rajeev Dhavan, Kapil Sibal and Prashant Bhushan.