[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles H. Gerhardt

r General Gerhardt was, however, a superb and driven trainer of soldiers and expected the same from his subordinates. He led the 29th Infantry Division throughout the fighting in Western Europe, from D-Day (June 6, 1944) until the end of World War II in Europe on Victory in Europe Day (May 8, 1945).

Gerhardt was one of the European Theater's more controversial commanders. His critics held that he was lacking as a military tactician and careless with the lives of his men; often pointing to the astonishingly high casualty rate of the 29th Division, which, from June 6, 1944, to May 8, 1945, suffered over 20,600 men killed, wounded or missing. It was said that Gerhardt actually commanded three divisions: one on the field of battle, one in the hospital and one in the cemetery. He was also considered somewhat loose morally, as evidenced by a house of prostitution he established for his men near Rennes, France, which Lieutenant General Omar Bradley, the U.S. 12th Army Group commander, did not approve of and ordered closed. It was only open for five hours. Gerhardt personally approved the sign, which read, "Blue and Gray Corral; Riding Lessons 100 Francs." Blue and Gray was the nickname of the division which consisted of men from both sides of the Mason-Dixon Line. Gerhardt usually walked the line between approval and disapproval with his superior officers. After the war, he was demoted to colonel for reasons thought to be a combination of the 29th Division's high casualty rate and his moral lapses.

Postwar
Following the war Gerhardt served as the United States Defense Attaché to Brazil and in a post at Fort Meade, Maryland.  He reattained the rank of brigadier general and was able to retire at his highest held rank of major general.

He died on October 9, 1976, at the age of 81 and is buried at Arlington National Cemetery.

Awards
His awards include:
 Army Distinguished Service Medal
 Silver Star
 Legion of Merit
 Bronze Star (2)

See also
 The Major of St. Lo

References

Bibliography

 29 Let's Go! A History of the 29th Infantry Division in World War II, by Joseph Ewing

External links
Memoirs of Charles H. Gerhardt, Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library 
29th Division order of battle at Omaha Beach
Booklet of the 29th Infantry Division
Generals of World War II

|-

1895 births
1976 deaths
United States Army Cavalry Branch personnel
United States Army personnel of World War I
United States Army generals of World War II
United States Army generals
United States Military Academy alumni
United States Army Command and General Staff College alumni
Burials at Arlington National Cemetery
Recipients of the Distinguished Service Medal (US Army)
Recipients of the Silver Star
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
Military personnel from Tennessee
People from Lebanon, Tennessee