[Source: PubMed]

29. Hastings Cent Rep. 2025 Jul-Aug;55(4):24-38. doi: 10.1002/hast.70005.

Maintaining Health Care in Occupied Ukraine: Criminal Collaboration or 
Conscientious Professionalism?

Gross ML.

Following Russia's occupation of Eastern Ukraine, local health care 
professionals, particularly hospital administrators and public health officials, 
have faced criminal charges of medical collaboration for taking senior 
managerial positions in the occupation regime and allocating resources to the 
Russian army. Although Ukraine is entitled to prosecute collaborators who 
threaten its national security, the grounds for criminalizing medical 
administration during military occupation are much weaker and essentially 
indefensible. During occupation, international humanitarian law requires Russia 
to maintain adequate health care services with the assistance of local 
officials, protects these officials from prosecution, and ensures their 
independence as they weigh their professional duties to maintain essential 
health care for the civilian population. An analysis of representative legal 
cases charging health care professionals with treason and collaboration 
demonstrates the shortfalls of Ukrainian policy that (a) does not clearly 
differentiate between charges of collaboration, aiding and abetting the enemy, 
and treason, (b) rejects public health officials' duty to cooperate with an 
occupation regime, and (c) ignores health care administrators' right to 
condition their decision to cooperate on its attendant costs and benefits. 
Recognizing a policy of humanitarian cooperation rectifies these deficiencies by 
highlighting the independence of health care officials, their protection from 
prosecution by Ukrainian and Russian authorities, and each party's duty to 
maintain adequate medical care for the local population during military 
occupation.

© 2025 The Author(s). Hastings Center Report published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of The Hastings Center.

DOI: 10.1002/hast.70005
PMCID: PMC12424574
PMID: 40932375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]