[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hnat Khotkevych

Hnat Martynovych Khotkevych (, also Gnat Khotkevich or Hnat Khotkevych, born December 31, 1877 – died October 8, 1938) was a Ukrainian theater and public figure, engineer, inventor, writer, historian, translator, ethnographer, art critic, playwright, screenwriter, composer, musicologist, violinist, pianist, baritone, bandurist, and teacher. Having suffered repressions at a young age during the occupation of Ukraine by the Russian Empire, 30 years later he was shot by the Russian terrorist organization KGB during the Great Terror on the territory of Ukraine.

Khotkevych was a Renaissance man and was multi-talented. Although he was trained as a professional engineer, he is known more as a prolific Ukrainian literary figure, and also as a dramatist, composer, and ethnographer, and father of the modern bandura.

Early life and education 
Khotkevych was born in Kharkiv in 1877. His mother was a domestic worker, though little is known about his father, who left the family in the mid-1880s. As a youth he learned to play the piano and violin and later learned to play the bandura through observing the blind folk kobzars of the region. He completed his tertiary studies in engineering at the Kharkiv Polytechnic Institute in 1900 and then worked as a railway engineer.

Literature 
Khotkevych began writing as a student, and had his first story published in 1897, "The Georgian Lady". Later there appeared "The Prodigal Son" (1898), "Analogies of Life" (1901), and "Mountain Aquarelles" (1914). His first major successful work was a novel about life in the Carpathian mountains, The Stone Soul, which was published in 1911. Other novels followed: Aviron (1928), Berestechko, and Tarasyk. An eight-volume collection of his writing was published in 1928; many of his unpublished works have been lost.

Khotkevych incorporated original folkloric and ethnographic material, in particular folk songs, tales, customs, and even dialectical and lingual differences of the region or time which he was writing about. He included many aspects of the modernist style popular in Ukraine at the time.

English Translations 
English translations of Hnat Khotkevych's works include:
 Short stories: “The Hunger Strike”, “In a Free Country p. 260”, “The Three”, “Facing the Door” and “It Had To Be Thus”.<ref>Khotkevych, B., 1998, '[http://www.languagelanterns.com/brother.htm 'Brother against Brother], pp.252-293, Language Lantern Publications, Toronto, (Engl. transl.</ref>

 Theatre 

As a youth, he had the chance of seeing a number of theatrical performances in Kharkiv. He was so taken by these performances that in the summers he organized a theatre in the village of Derkachi for the peasants.

In 1903 he organized a Ukrainian workers' theatre in Kharkiv which was also hugely successful. He produced and wrote over 50 plays. Because his activities addressed social and national issues, he was forced to emigrate in 1905 to Halychyna (part of Western Ukraine) which at that time, was under Austro-Hungarian rule.

In 1910 whilst in Halychyna he once again organized a theatrical troupe made up of illiterate Hutsuls who had great success touring Western Ukraine performing the ethnographic plays he had created.

In 1912 he returned to Kharkiv and after being released from incarceration renewed the activities of the Kharkiv Ukrainian Theatre until his internal exile to Russia in 1914.

He continued writing plays, the most interesting was the work Bohdan Khmelnytsky which chronicles the life and times of the renowned Kozak leader in the mid-17th century.

In 1936 he played the role in the film Nazar Stodolya, which appeared in 1937, but after being shown briefly for two weeks was removed from showings.

Khotkevych wrote a number of studies on the history of theatre in Ukraine such as "The Folk Theatre in Galicia", and "The Theatre in 1848".

 Music 
As a student, Khotkevych became well known for his bandura playing. He first purchased an instrument in 1894, and first performed on stage as a soloist in 1896. When he was expelled from the Kharkiv Polytechnical Institute he joined Mykola Lysenko's touring choir as a bandura soloist. At a young age, he was renowned as a virtuoso of the bandura.

In 1902, he was asked to read a paper on the music and traditions of the folk bandurists known as kobzars at the XIIth Archeological Conference held in Kharkiv in 1902. He prepared a paper and also organized a concert which became the first performance of a bandura ensemble in history. During the congress, he was one of the initiators of the idea of the preservation of kobzar music by means of sound recording using recently invented phonograph.

Since that time this art form became hugely popular throughout Ukraine.

After emigrating to Austria-Hungary in 1906 he traversed Halychyna with solo recitals of bandura music. In 1907, he wrote the first bandura handbook which was published in 1909 in Lviv.