[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Path 46

ng the Ivanpah Valley. The line crosses the freeway again just prior to the Nevada State Line and enters Nevada to the southeast of Primm where it then turns northward and rejoins with the other Path 46 line northeast of the community and continues northeast on the way to the Marketplace substation.

Capacity and source of the electricity
The entire Path 46 system has a capacity of transmitting 10,623 megawatts (about 10 gigawatts) from east to west. It has no rating to transfer power from west to east and historically this never happens. It sends electric power to the cities of Southern California such as San Diego, Los Angeles, San Bernardino, Santa Ana, Temecula, Riverside and Bakersfield. The sources of electricity are from hydroelectric dams (like Hoover Dam) on the Colorado River, fossil fuel plants (like the Chuck Lenzie Generating Station in North Las Vegas, Nevada), nuclear energy (like the Palo Verde Nuclear Plant), and more recently, utility-scale solar plants (such as the Ivanpah Solar Power Facility and the Desert Sunlight Solar Farm).

Expansion

Devers – Palo Verde No. 2 

A new 500 kV line called Devers – Palo Verde No. 2 (DPV 2) proposed by Southern California Edison (SCE) was approved by both the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) and California Independent System Operator (Cal-ISO) in the years 2007 and 2005, respectively. The new  500 kV line will follow the existing Devers – Palo Verde – 500 kV from Devers substation in the San Gorgonio Pass near Palm Springs in California to the Harquahala Generating Station (near the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station) in Arizona and will cost $680 million to build. The new line and associated upgrades to the regional transmission system will bring an additional 1,200 MW of electrical power to the Greater Los Angeles area, which is enough to power 780,000 homes.

In June 2007, the Arizona Corporation Commission rejected SCE's application for the line expansion. SCE then appealed to the FERC, and is currently working directly with ACC to find a solution. Construction on the California portion of the line could begin in 2009, but Arizona is not expected to respond before the end of 2009.

In 2011, Southern California Edison began construction on a second line anyway between their Valley Substation in Romoland, CA and the new Colorado River Substation near the Chuckawalla Valley State Prison, west of Blythe, which went into service in 2013. This has some use since 750MW of renewable energy generating capacity was being added in the region. A second line continuing into Arizona was not included in Arizona Public Service's most recent (2014) plan, which covers planning up to 2023.

Both Devers – Palo Verde 500 kV lines are now split into 5 different sections.  Devers – Red Bluff 500 kV lines #1 and #2, Colorado River – Red Bluff 500 kV lines #1 and #2, and the Colorado River – Palo Verde 500 kV line. The Colorado River and Red Bluff substations facilitate different solar projects in the area and allow the opportunity to transmit into each station at 230 kV (known as 220 kV within Southern California Edison) or lower voltages and step up to the 500 kV system.  There are Series Capacitor stations between Devers and Red Bluff (known as "Cal Caps") and in between Colorado River and Palo Verde (known as AZ Caps).

SDG&E

San Diego Gas & Electric has also proposed a new 500 kV power line, with its eastern terminus at the North Gila substation and several possibilities for the western terminus and route configuration.

Incidents

Wildfires of October 2007
On October 21, 2007 the Harris Fire, part of the California wildfires of October 2007, damaged and disabled an extension of the North Gila-Imperial Valley 500 kV line that heads into San Diego.

Power outage of September 2011
The 2011 Southwestern United States blackout that began on September 8, was a widespread power outage which affected parts of western Arizona, northern Baja California, and Southern California. A mistake by an Arizona Public Service employee at the North Gila substation resulted in the loss of a 500 kV line supplying San Diego Gas & Electric's North Gila-Imperial Valley segment on the Southwest Power Link  causing one of the largest power outages in history for the Southern California region. Had the utilities affected realized the consequences to the loss of this line, they would have taken steps to eliminate the vulnerability. On April 27, 2012, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation released their report detailing the blackout and its causes.
Most of the areas affected were served by San Diego Gas & Electric Company, and left more than 5 million people without power.

Notes

References
 Wecc.biz
 California Public Utilities Commission
 Map of several paths 

Western Interconnection
Energy infrastructure in California
Energy infrastructure in Nevada