[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Maxi Rodríguez

e net in a 2–0 League Cup win, and his team went on to win the latter competition.

On 26 December 2011, Rodríguez scored just his second league goal of the season in a 1–1 draw at Anfield against Blackburn Rovers. He netted his last two on 10 April 2012, for a 3–2 away defeat of the same adversary.

Return to South America
On 13 July 2012, after 73 official games and 17 goals scored, Rodríguez left Liverpool and returned to his first professional club Newell's Old Boys. He wrote an open letter to the Reds fans before his departure, thanking them for their support in his two-and-a-half-year stint.

Rodríguez played his first match for the club since leaving on 5 August 2012, in a 0–0 draw against Club Atlético Independiente. According to him, football in his country was now "worse than ten years ago". In June 2013, he helped the team win the Torneo Final, being awarded the Alumni by directors and former directors of Argentinian football late in the year.

In July 2017, the 36-year-old Rodríguez moved to Uruguayan club Peñarol. After winning the league in both of his seasons in Montevideo, he returned to Newell's on an 18-month contract in the last days of 2018.

On 27 November 2021, Rodríguez confirmed his retirement at the age of 40, having been substituted to a standing ovation at home to Club Atlético Banfield in his final match. The following January, however, he joined Hughes Foot Ball Club in the Liga Venadense de Fútbol (a regional football league in Santa Fe Province) along with his childhood friend and Newell's teammate Ignacio Scocco, president of said club.

Rodríguez was given a farewell match at the Estadio Marcelo Bielsa on 24 June 2023, which pitted historic players of Newell's Old Boys against their counterparts of the Argentina national team, such as captain Lionel Messi who was celebrating his 36th birthday. He scored for both sides as the latter won 7–5, and both his daughters, Alma and Aitana, did the same once each in the second half.

International career
Rodríguez won the 2001 FIFA World Youth Championship with the Argentine under-20s on home soil, scoring four goals in seven matches including the first and last for the eventual winners. He made his full side debut in a friendly against Japan on 8 June 2003, coming on as a 75th-minute substitute for Santiago Solari and scoring to conclude a 4–1 win in Osaka.

After being part of the 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup squad, Rodríguez was called for the 2006 FIFA World Cup by national boss José Pékerman and, on 16 June, he scored twice in Argentina's 6–0 victory over Serbia and Montenegro in the group stage. In the round of 16, he scored the winning goal against Mexico in a 2–1 extra time victory: he controlled a cross-field pass from Juan Pablo Sorín with his chest before volleying it into the top corner of Oswaldo Sánchez's net from outside the penalty area with his left foot, in the 98th minute; in an unofficial online poll by FIFA, it was voted the best goal of the tournament.

After Argentina lost the quarter-final game against Germany on 30 June 2006, Rodríguez punched opponent Bastian Schweinsteiger in the back. FIFA fined him CHF5,000 and suspended him from two matches in the 2007 Copa América for violent conduct. However, after a serious knee injury in a friendly with Spain in October 2006, he missed the continental competition as national team manager Alfio Basile, whom initially intended to select the player, eventually rested him for precaution.

Rodríguez scored in Diego Maradona's first game in charge of Argentina, a 1–0 friendly win in Scotland. On 19 May 2010 he was named in the squad of 23 for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa and, in the last home game before the finals five days later, scored twice against Canada, netting from a free kick from a sharp angle and after receiving a pass from Carlos Tevez in an eventual 5–0 rout.

In June 2014, Rodríguez made Argentina's list for the 2014 World Cup. He started in his side's opening game, a 2–1 defeat of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the Estádio do Maracanã, playing the first half before being substituted for Gonzalo Higuaín at half-time. He was only fielded again in the semi-finals against the Netherlands, converting the decisive penalty shootout attempt (0–0 after 120 minutes) to send his country to the final for the first time in 24 years.

Personal life
Rodríguez was raised by his mother Claudia in his grandparents' home and never met his father. He is the cousin of fellow footballers Alexis Rodríguez and Denis Rodríguez, and all three played for Newell's at the same time.

Other ventures
In 2009, Rodríguez appeared in a music video for Coti, starring alongside Atlético teammate Diego Forlán.

Career statistics
Club

International
Appearances and goals by years:

Argentina score listed first, score column indicates score after each Rodríguez goal. Sign ‡ indicates goals scored from a penalty kick.