[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Treaty of Giyanti

f Mataram in central Java was given to Pakubuwono III with Surakarta as its capital, while the western half was given to Prince Mangkubumi with its capital in Yogyakarta. This treaty marked the division of the former territory of Mataram Sultanate between Surakarta Sunanate and Yogyakarta Sultanate.

After the signing of the treaty, Prince Mangkubumi changed his title as prince and became known as Sultan Hamengkubuwono I. The accord, however, did not end hostilities in the area since Prince Sambernyawa (or Raden Mas Said) continued to fight against Pakubuwono III. The division of Java was recorded in a series of Javanese texts altogether known as the Babad Giyanti or Babad Mankubunièn with the best known Babad Giyanti possibly having been composed by Yasadipura the Elder in the early 19th century.

Articles of the Agreement 
Soedarisman Poerwokoesoemo in his book, the Duchy of Pakualaman, writes the following:

 Article 1 - The Prince of Mangkubumi was appointed Sultan Hamengkubuwana Senapati in Alaga Abdurrahman Sayyidin Panatagama Khalifatullah over half of the Mataram Sultanate conferred on him by inheritance to his heirs, in this case the Duke of Anom Bendoro Raden Mas Sundoro.
 Article 2 - There will always be cooperation between the people under the Dutch East India Company and the people of the sultanate.
 Article 3 - Before Dalem (Rijks-Bestuurder) and the regents begin their duties, they must take the oath of allegiance to the Dutch East India Company. Dalem is a day-to-day executive power executive with the approval of a resident or governor.
 Article 4 - The Sultan shall not lift or dismiss the Dalem and Regent before obtaining approval from the Dutch East India Company.
 Article 5 - Sri Sultan will pardon the Regent in favor of the Dutch East India Company in war.
 Article 6 - The Sultan will not claim his rights over Madura Island and the coastal areas which have been handed over by Sri Sunan Pakubuwana II to the Dutch East India Company in his contract dated May 18, 1746. Instead, the Dutch East India Companywill compensate the Sultan with 10,000 royalties annually.
 Article 7 - The Sultan will provide assistance to Sri Sunan Pakubuwana III whenever necessary.
 Article 8 - Sri Sultan promises to sell the Dutch East India Company ingredients at certain prices.
 Article 9 - The Sultan promises to abide by all the agreements entered into between the previous Mataram rulers and the Dutch East India Company, in particular the treaties made in 1705, 1733, 1743, 1746, and 1749.
 Article 10 - Termination of this Agreement from signed by N. Hartingh, W. van Ossenberch, J.J. Steenmulder, C. Donkel, and W. Fockens of the Dutch East India Company.

See also
List of treaties

References

Citations

Sources

Further reading

External links

Gianti Java
1755 treaties
Gianti Java