[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Culture of Hamilton, Ontario

ere Hamilton Place is located today. Legend has it that the drummer, Jack Nance, wrote "It's Only Make Believe" between sets, although another story puts them at the nearby Fischer Hotel. The song was recorded in 1958 and became the first of nine Top 40 hits for Twitty, selling eight million copies.

The Hamilton region has produced several talented musical artists over the years. Some of these include King Biscuit Boy (Canadian blues musician), Steve Negas (drummer for progressive rock band Saga), Skip Prokop (drummer and band leader for Lighthouse + The Paupers), Stan Rogers (Canadian folk singer), Neil Peart (drummer and lyricist for the progressive rock band Rush (Hagersville, ON)), Lorraine Segato (lead vocalist for 1980s pop group Parachute Club), Ian Thomas (singer/ songwriter), Jackie Washington (legendary Canadian blues singer), and Tom Wilson (veteran of the Canadian music scene).

Hamilton was also an important centre of punk rock in the 1970s and early 1980s, spawning influential acts such as Teenage Head, Forgotten Rebels, Simply Saucer and The Dik Van Dykes.

A number of recording studios call Hamilton home. The Sonic Unyon label started and fostered the Hamilton sound in the early 1990s and continues today as one of Canada's most successful independent record labels and distributors. In 1985 Daniel Lanois, opened Grant Avenue Studios a landmark in Hamilton. A solo artist in his own right he's made his mark as a producer for some of the world's biggest musical acts. Some of these include Bob Dylan, Peter Gabriel and U2. Steve Negas is also a producer with a studio in town. Some of his clients include Chris De Burgh, The Nylons, Liona Boyd and Saga.

Hamilton has hosted the Juno Awards a total of six times, in 1995, 1996, 1997, 1999, 2001, and 2015. The Juno Awards are awards of achievement presented to Canadian musical artists and bands. 1996 was the most memorable one. Anne Murray was the host for the ceremonies and prominent nominees were Alanis Morissette and Shania Twain. The Canadian Music Hall of Fame Inductees that evening were: David Clayton-Thomas (Blood, Sweat & Tears), Denny Doherty (The Mamas & the Papas), John Kay (Steppenwolf), Domenic Troiano (played w/ various artists) and Zal Yanovsky (The Lovin' Spoonful).

Hamilton was the location of a local cassette scene during the 2010s, consisting of artists releasing experimental music, especially ambient, drone, and noise music. Notable artists from this scene included Scott Johnson ( Thoughts On Air), Connor Bennett and Nate Ivanco; some labels part of this scene were Perdu, Cloud Valley, HAVN Records and Barton Street Tapes.

Festivals

Hamilton has hosted several cultural and craft fairs since the 1960s, notably Festival of Friends, which made it a major tourist destination. The Festival of Friends, founded in 1975, is the largest annual free music event in the country. Burton Cummings, Lighthouse, Bruce Cockburn, Steve Earle and Richie Havens have been among the main stage headliners at Gage Park on Gage Avenue. WestJet is a major sponsor of the festival. Supercrawl is an annual, free, two-day festival featuring indie music and art, and attracts over 100,000 visitors. The Winona Peach Festival will be celebrating its 40th-anniversary in the summer of 2007; established in 1967. 4-time winner of the "Top 50 Ontario Festivals" from Festivals and Events Ontario. The 2006 attendance was in excess of 230,000 and attracts attendees from Ontario the Western New York area. It's a food and beverage festival that includes free entertainment, arts & crafts, a midway, pageant and car show that features vintage vehicles, hot rods & classics. Hamilton is also home to the Mustard Festival because Hamilton is home to the largest miller of dry mustard in the world. It's held annually at Ferguson Station, Ferguson Avenue at Hamilton's International Village and is another summertime food & beverage festival that features some of the top Blues and Jazz acts in the region. Hamilton is also home to the Fix Our World Festival, bringing awareness to poverty, environment, peace and AIDS. It's held annually at Pier 4 Waterfront Park, Pier 4 Waterfront Park and is another summertime music festival featuring some of the top local talent in the region.

Ottawa Street, is known as the Textile District and is Hamilton's "Decor Destination." It is the largest Fabric and Textile District in Canada. It also hosts and annual Ottawa Street Streetfest, a shopping extravaganza that includes shopping deals, entertainment, foods, crafts, all part of outdoor street sale.