[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Andronikos II Palaiologos

possessions; eventually he sought to confiscate property from some of the wealthier churches and monasteries. Many clergymen responded with overt hostility, going as far as pelting him with stones as he walked the streets of Constantinople. Athanasius ceased to appear in public without a bodyguard.

When in the summer of 1293 Andronikos returned from a visit to his swiftly-dwindling Anatolian holdings, he was met by a delegation of leading clergyman who demanded the deposition of Athanasius. Andronikos was unwilling, but the strength of the opposition eventually forced him to comply. Meanwhile, Athanasius personally penned a church bull in which he excommunicated the clergymen who had denounced him, hiding it in a pillar in the northern gallery of Hagia Sophia. It was only found a few years later, causing much uproar.

Family
On 8 November 1272 Andronikos II married as his first wife Anna of Hungary, daughter of Stephen V of Hungary and Elizabeth the Cuman, with whom he had two sons:
 Michael IX Palaiologos (17 April 127712 October 1320).
 Constantine Palaiologos, despotes (1335). Constantine was forced to become a monk by his nephew Andronikos III Palaiologos.

Anna died in 1281, and in 1284 Andronikos married Yolanda (renamed Irene), a daughter of William VII of Montferrat, with whom he had:
 John Palaiologos (–1308), despotes.
 Bartholomaios Palaiologos (born 1289), died young.
 Theodore I, Marquis of Montferrat (1291–1338).
 Simonis Palaiologina (1294 – after 1336), who married King Stefan Milutin of Serbia.
 Theodora Palaiologina (born 1295), died young.
 Demetrios Palaiologos (1297–1343), despotēs.
 Isaakios Palaiologos (born 1299), died young.

Andronikos II also had at least three illegitimate daughters:
 Irene, who first married Ghazan, Khan of Persia, and later John II Doukas, ruler of Thessaly.
 Maria, who married Toqta, Khan of the Golden Horde.
 A daughter known as Despina Khatun, who married Öljaitü, Khan of the Ilkhanate.

Foundations
 Ardenica Monastery
 Panagia Olympiotissa Monastery
 Zograf monastery

See also

List of Byzantine emperors
Rabban Bar Sauma

Notes

References

External links
 

1259 births
1332 deaths
Palaiologos dynasty
13th-century Byzantine emperors
14th-century Byzantine emperors
Monarchs who abdicated
Eastern Orthodox monks
Eastern Orthodox monarchs
Burials at Lips Monastery
Founders of Christian monasteries
Children of Michael VIII Palaiologos
Byzantine people of the Byzantine–Ottoman wars
Sons of Byzantine emperors