[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lutheran Church in Malaysia

in the culture, language and origins between the Tamils and Chinese who were ministered by the respective missions, the former consisting mainly of established Tamil Lutheran families while the latter consisted mainly of congregations of young individual Chinese who were first generation Christians.

As a result, two Lutheran church bodies were established in Malaya; the Tamil Evangelical Lutheran Church districts in Malaya were reconstituted as the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Malaysia and Singapore (ELCMS) on 13 August 1962 whereas the mainly Chinese congregations of the American Mission was organised the Lutheran Church in Malaya (later renamed the Lutheran Church in Malaysia and after Singapore's independence in 1965, the Lutheran Church in Malaysia and Singapore or LCMS) a year later on 3 August 1963.

Establishment of the LCMS
Mission work extended southwards; first towards Kuala Lumpur and soon afterwards to Singapore, which was then considered part of Malaya. The LCMS was formally established in 1963 with two districts in Peninsular Malaysia and one district encompassing Singapore. By 1978, all established congregations were financially self-supporting and together assumed support for the administrative budget of the LCMS central office.

In August 1996 the Singapore District separated from the LCMS and was gazetted as the independent Lutheran Church in Singapore to reflect the fact that Malaysia and Singapore had been separate countries politically since 1965. LCMS continued to retain the word "Singapore" in its name for legal purposes until 2011 when the Church in Convention agreed to formally change the name back to the Lutheran Church in Malaysia.

Missions
The LCM has seen steady growth over the years with a 10.8% growth in membership recorded in 2006 and also actively supports mission work among the Senoi and Jahai people of West Malaysia and overseas mission work in Kyrgyzstan and Myanmar (in partnership with the Myanmar Lutheran Church).

Bombing in Myanmar
On 7 May 2005, a series of coordinated bombings occurred in the city of Yangon, Myanmar. Eleven people were killed in the attack, and among the 162 people that were injured was a member of the LCMS mission team to Myanmar.

Beliefs and practices
The LCM is a member church of the Lutheran World Federation, a communion of Lutheran Churches throughout the world. As a church in the Lutheran tradition, it accepts the teachings found in the unaltered  Augsburg Confession, Luther's Small Catechism and other confessional articles and symbols of the Book of Concord.

The LCM accepts the ordination of women as co-workers and pastors in the denomination, and a significant percentage of their full-time workers are women. To date no women have been appointed as bishops.

Languages in use
Most services conducted by the LCM congregations are in Mandarin and the other varieties of Chinese commonly spoken in West Malaysia like Hokkien and Cantonese. English language services are becoming increasingly common, with some congregations using English exclusively, and some congregations have started Malay and Tamil services. Senoi language services are conducted almost exclusively with the Senoi congregations.

The LUTHER Plan
In 2006, the LCM adopted a four-year ministry development plan dubbed the LUTHER Plan  that seeks to chart the development of "the spiritual and material aspects of the Church, and also her contribution to the society." It has a sixfold focus based on an acronym formed by the name of Martin Luther: Lutheran identity, Unity in ministry, Transformation of lives, Human resource development, Expansion in mission, and Renewal of structure.

Structure and organisation

Overview
The highest decision-making body of the LCM is the General Assembly ("Biennial Convention" until 2011), a group  of elected lay and ordained voting members from each congregation which meets every two years and elects an Executive Council headed by a bishop (president until 1974). While the Biennial Convention is in recess, authority is delegated to the executive council.

The LCM is divided into five full regional districts and one provisional district headed by a dean. The districts of the LCM act as the middle judicatory of the church. Specialized subcommittees and divisions include structures to support missions, education, social concerns, and youth ministries.

The Ministerium, consisting of the ordained pastors of the church, attends to matters of doctrine, nurture and spiritual care. On the local congregation level, local church councils run the various LCM congregations. All properties of the local congregations are owned by the LCM.