[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The New World Order (Wells book)

ightly Review magazine began serialising the book in four monthly instalments, ending February 1940. The New World Order would go on to be re-issued in 1942 by being bounded with another book by Wells, The Fate of Homo Sapiens. The re-issued twofer received a new title, The Outlook for Homo Sapiens.

Synopsis 
H.G. Wells starts The New World Order by setting out the aim to provide a 'nucleus of useful information for those who have to go on with this business of making a world peace'. After introducing the objective of the book, Wells admits that people of his generation 'thought that war was dying out'. For Wells, 'disruptive forces' were building up in civilised society, but in the years before World War I, these forces were operating at the margins of civilisation. These forces included an arms race, economic stress, social upheaval and the continuation of the pre-existing balance of power. Wells argues that these forces caused World War I and World War II and are the symptoms of intertwining patriotism and enterprise with the world system. Wells declares that a revolution must occur to replace the world system, as otherwise, humanity faces extinction.

Wells goes on to insist that 'free speech and vigorous publication' are at the forefront of working towards world peace.  He points out that the conditions of war lead to the suppression of free speech which would harm his wish of a 'great world debate'. For Wells, a free and open discussion about reconstructing the post-war order was 'something much more important than warfare'. Next, Wells identifies that technological innovations had caused the 'abolition of distance' and a change in the scale of production in modern society. Wells expresses that an out-dated mode of thinking has met both of these new facts of global life, leading to unnecessary destruction in economic, social and biological life. Wells goes on to argue that the era of nationhood was obsolete, and only a 'rational consolidation of human affairs' would ensure human survival. Before progressing his argument further, Wells distinguishes his vision of global collectivisation from Marxism and Soviet communism. He firstly defined collectivisation as such:

In the case of the Soviet political system, Wells argued that its form of socialism lacked respect for individual freedom. Wells asserted that the Soviets forgot that 'the more highly things are collectivised, the more necessary is a legal system embodying the Rights of Man'. Wells also goes on to state that Marx's concept of class conflict is 'an entanglement and perversion of the world drive towards a world collectivism'. Later in The New World Order, Wells assails the Vatican for being against socialism and free speech. He also criticises Clarence K. Streit's version of world federation, arguing that it ‘seems hopelessly vague’, ‘confused’ and ‘hopelessly optimistic’. Wells then goes on to advance that the outbreak of war was bringing about socialism across the world. For Wells, the historical process was bringing about changes in society without revolutionary intervention. Wells provides Great Britain as an example, saying that it has 'in effect gone socialist in a couple of months'. From here, Wells begins to formalise how to achieve the collectivisation of world affairs:

To protect an individual's liberty under global socialism, Wells asserts that a set of human rights must become universal law and be the primary motive of peace negotiations at the conclusion of the war. Wells drafts his version of a Declaration of the Rights of Man with the following ten human rights:

1.    The right to nourishment.

2.   The right to education.

3.   The right to be paid in an occupation of choice.

4.   The right to exchange.

5.   The right to legal protection.

6.   The right to free movement.

7.   The right to not be imprisoned unjustly.

8.   The right to be free from any misrepresentation that may cause distress or injury.

9.   The right to not be tortured.

10.  The right to be subject to the universal laws of human rights.

Wells concludes The New World Order by saying that the remaking of world order will come into being similar to the process of science and invention:

Critical reception 
For the American poet T.S. Eliot, The New World Order was indicative of a resurgence in H.G. Wells's career in public discourse. Eliot responded to the conclusion of The Fortnightly Review's serialisation of The New World Order by writing an article for the New English Weekly. In this article, Eliot compared Wells to Winston Churchill, noting that both men shared a returning ‘glare of prominence’ once found earlier in their respective careers. Despite this tribute from Eliot, he would end his remarks on The New World Order by highlighting that Wells ‘is walking very near the edge of despair’ by wanting rapid change.