[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USS McKean (DD-784)

n had the sonar sounds piped to the bridge, so they were able to follow the approach to contact. "Rancher" immediately sent out the international Morse identification code, "dot dash" or the letter A, for "American." The code was sent with no response, and evasive action was being taken by the subs.

"Rancher" started a depth charge run, rolling charges from the rear racks and firing from the side launchers. The tracker aircraft overhead reported a silhouette in the center of the pattern at the time of the explosions, after which it disappeared and was not sighted again. The aircraft then reported sighting air bubbles near the location of the first attack and an oil slick, which grew larger as time passed. This oil slick was also sighted by the McKean and the Frank Knox, which joined about 20 minutes after the first attack. She completed her initial run, at times she lost contact but then she picked it up again and made an additional run. "Rancher" dropped 11 depth charges per pattern. "Rancher" would drop a pattern and the Frank Knox would cross her wake and drop a pattern.

Torpedo man Hudnall was on depth charge central which was on the starboard side of the ship one deck below the bridge. Torpedo man Hudnall fired the K-guns electronically and the crews on the K-guns fired manually. The pattern of depth charges were eleven to a pattern, three on each side of the ship and two stern racks. The submarine was in 250 feet of water or above because any deeper the depth charges would not go off. McKean fired 54 depth charges the day of 18 December 1950.

"Rancher" had dropped about 84 depth charges in a 24-hour period. The morning of 19 December, one of the three anti-sub airplanes overhead reported a torpedo wake passing astern of the McKean. It just missed "Rancher", and she didn't even see it. The other Russian submarine was lashing back.

A salvage ship, the submarine rescue ship , arrived from Sasebo on 20 December, to join the five destroyers and three anti-submarine airplanes at the site of the sinking. A hard hat diver was lowered to the scene, and returned to the surface with a pair of new binoculars. In addition, the Russian submarines had deployed a decoy that the sounds of a submarine in order to confuse an attacking ship. This "Black Box" was so top secret the Greenlet immediately returned to Pearl Harbor with it, and rumor has it that the Greenlet was not allowed to return to the war area because it had retrieved so many Russian secrets. Perhaps it got their code books? Rumor also has it that 43 days later all the B girls knew everything that happened, but the crew couldn't say anything because they had signed the letters of secrecy. The story the crew was told was that it was a "sunken Jap freighter the Iona Maru. Supposedly the Iona Maru capsized on 10 December 1950.  The Navy brass had already formatted their cover story with the skipper of the USS Greenlet. "If those binoculars were from WWII, why wasn't there debris or barnacles, on the item". Recently a former shipmate commented, "We sunk a hulk ship that was doing five knots!."

After January 1951 McKean joined Task Force 95 for shore bombardment duty and blockade work around Wonsan, Songjin and Chinjŏn.  Early in 1952 she was converted to a radar picket ship and redesignated DDR-784. Special surface scanning radar was added and in addition, the 40mm, 20mm guns and torpedo tubes were removed and replaced with three twin mount 3in guns 3"50's.

In 1954 she appears in the closing scenes of the film The Caine Mutiny.
In 1955 she took part in an underwater A-Bomb test Operation Wigwam.  In early 1956 she crossed the equator for the first time to visit Singapore and again later in 1956 to visit Melbourne during the time of the Olympic Games being held there. The task group consisting of one cruiser and four destroyers were the first U.S. ships to visit Melbourne since the end of World War II.

1960s
In February 1964 the McKean was refitted at the Long Beach Naval Shipyard in California. This was the Fleet Rehabilitation and Modernization (commonly known as FRAM) conversion which, all told, modernized 80 of the original 98 Gearing class ships.