[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Pilot (Bones)

"Pilot" is the first episode of the television series Bones, which premiered on Fox on September 13, 2005. It is written by series creator Hart Hanson and directed by Greg Yaitanes. It introduces the two main characters of the series, Dr. Temperance Brennan (played by Emily Deschanel) and FBI Special Agent Seeley Booth (played by David Boreanaz), and their partnership in solving cases involving unidentified human remains.

Summary
Returning to Washington, D.C., after two months in Guatemala, where she was identifying victims of genocide, renowned forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance Brennan is accosted at the airport by an agent from Homeland Security for carrying a human skull in her bag (when the agent grabbed her, Dr Brennan, who is a student of three different martial arts, easily took him down until the gathering security drew their guns on her). Upon the arrival of FBI Special Agent Seeley Booth, Brennan is released, which she finds odd and realizes that it was his plot to get her to help him on an FBI case. She refuses to help until Booth promises her full participation in the case.

At the crime scene, Brennan and Booth find decomposed human remains with only the bones remaining. Brennan and her assistant, Zack Addy (Eric Millegan), determine the victim is a woman 18 to 22 years old and was a tennis player. Back at the Jeffersonian Institute, Brennan argues with her boss, Dr. Daniel Goodman (Jonathan Adams), for assigning her to work with other federal agencies without consulting her.

Inside the Medico-Legal Lab of the Jeffersonian Institute, Brennan examines the victim's remains while her colleagues inquire about the resemblances between themselves and the characters in her new book, Bred in the Bone. Dr. Jack Hodgins (T. J. Thyne), an entomologist, finds that the victim has been in the pond for more than two summers. Hodgins has also found small bone fragments in the silt, which he guesses are rana temporaria or, simply, frog bones. Dr Brennan's best friend Angela Montenegro (Michaela Conlin), a forensic artist who flashed the airport clerk to get his attention when trying to find Brennan to pick her up at the start of the episode, uses a computer program she has developed, called the Angelator, to make a three-dimensional holographic reconstruction of the reassembled skull. The victim is revealed to be Cleo Louise Eller, a missing Senate intern who was rumored to have had an affair with Senator Bethlehem.

Brennan wants to confront the Senator but Booth argues that he is not the only suspect. The Senator's aide, Ken Thompson, was Cleo's boyfriend. There is also Cleo's stalker, Oliver Laurier. Booth tells Brennan that they have a major case and that FBI Deputy Director Cullen is going to want to set up a special unit to investigate. To do everything by the book he wants her to stay at her lab; but Brennan coerces Booth into agreeing to let her come with him into the field.

Based on the particulates embedded in Cleo's skull, Hodgins determines that Cleo's skull may have been smashed by a sledgehammer on a cement floor with diatomaceous earth. By the distinctive damage done to her finger pads and the way the body was hidden, the team determines that the murderer had put a lot of effort into hiding the body. Hodgins also reveals that Cleo was taking medicine for her depression, while Brennan realizes that the small bones found with Cleo's body are not frog bones but fetal ear bones, indicating Cleo Eller was pregnant.

Hodgins, a devout conspiracy theorist, convinces Brennan that they may never find the truth because Senator Bethlehem will impede the investigation. Without telling Booth, Brennan recklessly confronts the Senator. Consequently, Deputy Director Cullen removes Booth from the case, but Brennan refuses to give up. With the help of her fellow scientists, she uncovers evidence that Cleo Eller's boyfriend, Ken Thompson, had killed Cleo because he feared the scandal of Cleo's pregnancy would affect his career negatively.

Cultural references
Almost every episode of Season 1 contains a popular culture reference to which the character Dr. Temperance Brennan replies with her catch phrase, "I don't know what that means".

In the pilot, Booth references The X-Files: "We're Scully and Mulder."

Production details
Despite the fact that the series is set in Washington, D.C., filming of the pilot and subsequent episodes primarily took place in Los Angeles, California. Footage of Washington, D.C. was shot by the second unit with body doubles. The first scene featuring the characters Angela Montenegro and Dr. Temperance Brennan inside Washington Dulles International Airport was actually shot at Los Angeles Convention Center, while the opening shot of a plane landing was taken from footage filmed at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.