[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Kids kicking cancer

Kids Kicking Cancer is an organization devoted to helping children overcome the pain of cancer. It was founded in 1999 by Rabbi Elimelech Goldberg, a black belt in the martial arts and the former Rabbi of congregation Young Israel of Southfield, Michigan, USA. The goal of the organization is to teach children to cope with cancer through martial arts and spiritual training.

The organization based in Michigan has drawn national and international attention, for its acclaimed method of assisting children suffering from cancer through karate and similar techniques.

After a two-year break their annual golf outing is back At the golf outing there is a silent auction . Orthdox Rabbi and acclaimed Master Distiller Binyomin Terebelo of Terebelo Distillery has promised to make shock waves with the bottle that he is releasing in salute of both the heroes fighting cancer and their support team. A fascinating twist is now planned for the 2024 auction as per reports that the 2023 bottles were not delivered but were damaged and discarded in shipment. Master Distiller Binyomin Terebelo plans on making an in-person appearance to show his support.

Program Goals
Kids Kicking Cancer partners with existing local hospitals in different communities to provide individual and group instruction, in the martial arts for children with serious acute and chronic illness – including cancer and sickle cell disease. As a way of making patients feel heroic, they are given martial arts uniforms to wear during treatment. During weekly class sessions, children are taught stretching, breathing exercises, guided imagery and meditation, as well as traditional karate moves. The breathing and guided imagery and meditation techniques have proved to be very effective in reducing a child's anxiety, pain, and discomfort during difficult clinic and hospital procedures.

The organization has been widely lauded in the press. In March 2012, Goldberg was featured in People Magazine in their "Heroes Among Us" feature. In August, 2013, Kids Kicking Cancer was featured on Good Morning America. In 2014 Rabbi Goldberg was nominated for the CNN heroes program and as of October 2014 he is a top 10 finalist.

Participating hospitals can be found in California, New York, Florida, Michigan, Ontario, Israel, Italy, and South Africa.

References

External links
 Kids Kicking Cancer website

Cancer organizations based in the United States