[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 67]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

all patience at this
mortifying spectacle, 'is this the entertainment you have prepared for
me, with so many speeches and prefaces? Do you imagine that a person of
my fortune can sup on such contemptible fare as would hardly satisfy the
wretched peasants whom I saw at dinner in your hall?' 'Have patience, my
dear sir,' replied the physician; 'it is the extreme anxiety I have for
your welfare that compels me to treat you with this apparent incivility.
Your blood is all in a ferment with the violent exercise you have
undergone; and were I rashly to indulge your craving appetite, a fever
or a pleurisy might be the consequence. But to-morrow I hope you will
be cooler, and then you may live in a style more adapted to your
quality.'

"The gentleman began to comfort himself with this reflection, and, as
there was no help, he at last determined to wait with patience another
night. He accordingly tasted a few of the dates and olives, ate a piece
of cheese with a slice of excellent bread, and found himself more
refreshed than he could have imagined was possible from such a homely
meal. When he had nearly supped, he wanted something to drink, and
observing nothing but water upon the table, desired one of the servants
to bring him a little wine. 'Not as you value the life of this
illustrious gentleman,' cried out the physician. 'Sir,' added he,
turning to his guest, 'it is with inexpressible reluctance that I
contradict you, but wine would be at present a mortal poison; therefore,
please to content yourself, for one night only, with a glass of this
most excellent and refreshing mineral water.'

"The gentleman was again compelled to submit, and drank the water with a
variety of strange grimaces. After the cloth was removed, Signor
Ramozini entertained the gentleman with some agreeable and improving
conversation for about an hour, and then proposed to his patient that he
should retire to rest. This proposal the gentleman gladly accepted, as
he found himself fatigued with his journey, and unusually disposed to
sleep. The doctor then retired, and ordered one of his servants to show
the gentleman to his chamber.

"He was accordingly conducted into a neighbouring room, where there was
little to be seen but a homely bed, without furniture, with nothing to
sleep upon but a mattress almost as hard as the floor. At this the
gentleman burst into a violent passion again: 'Villain,' said he to the
servant, 'it is impossible your master should dare to confine me to such
a wretched dog-hole! Show me into another room immediately!' 'Sir,'
answered the servant, with profound humility, 'I am heartily sorry the
chamber does not please you, but I am morally certain I have not
mistaken my master's order; and I have too great a respect for you to
think of disobeying him in a point which concerns your precious life.'
Saying this he went out of the room, and shutting the door on the
outside, left the gentleman to his meditations. They were not very
agreeable at first; however, as he saw no remedy, he undressed himself
and entered the wretched bed, where he presently fell asleep while he
was meditating revenge upon the doctor and his whole family.

"The gentleman slept so soundly that he did not awake till morning; and
then the physician came into his room, and with the greatest tenderness
and civility inquired after his health. He had indeed fallen asleep in
very ill-humour; but his night's rest had much composed his mind, and
the effect of this was increased by the extreme politeness of the
doctor, so that he answered with tolerable temper, only making bitter
complaints of the homeliness of his accommodation.

"'My dearest sir,' answered the physician, 'did I not make a previous
agreement with you that you should submit to my management? Can you
imagine that I have any other end in view than the improvement of your
health? It is not possible that you should in everything perceive the
reasons of my conduct, which is founded upon the most accurate theory
and experience. However, in this case, I must inform you that I have
found out the art of making my very beds medicinal; and this you must
confess, from the excellent night you have passed. I cannot impart the
same salutary virtues to down or silk, and therefore, though very much
against my inclinations, I have been compelled to lodge you in this
homely manner. But now, if you please, it is time to rise.'

"Ramozini then rang for the servants, and the gentleman suffered himself
to be dressed. At breakfast the gentleman expected to fare a little
better, but his relentless guardian would suffer him to taste nothing
but a slice of bread and a porringer of water-gruel--all which he
defended, very little to his guest's satisfaction, upon the most
unerring principles of medical science.

"After breakfast had been some time finished, Dr Ramozini told his
patient it was time to begin the great work of restoring him to the