[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Florida National Guard

only as part of their respective units. However, since 11 September 2001 there have been a significant number of individual activations under Title 10 USC to support military operations (2001–Present); the legality of this policy has been a major issue within the National Guard.

Active duty callups

For much of the final decades of the twentieth century, National Guard personnel typically served "One weekend a month, two weeks a year", with a portion working for the Guard in a full-time capacity as either Active Guard and Reserve (AGR), Army Reserve Technicians or Air Reserve Technicians (ART).  This changed dramatically during the 1990-91 Gulf War, and continued on to present day, with both the Federal Reserve Components and the National Guard increasingly utilized as an "operational" force for worldwide deployment.

The current forces formation plans of the US Army call for the typical Army National Guard unit (or Army National Guardsman) to serve one year of active duty for every three years of service.  The US Air Force applies a similar utilization model for Air National Guard units (and Air National Guardsmen).

More specifically, previous Department of Defense policy was that no National Guardsman would be involuntarily activated for a total of more than 24 months (cumulative) in one six-year period. This policy has changed 1 August 2007, with the new policy stating that National Guard soldiers and airmen will be given 24 months between deployments of no more than 24 months; individual states have differing policies but remain subordinate to DoD policy).

As of 2020, the Florida National Guard was composed of approximately 10,000 soldiers and 1,900 airmen.

See also
 Florida Naval Militia

References

General sources 
 United States National Guard, accessed 4 November 2006
 Florida National Guard, accessed 20 November 2006
 Florida Army National Guard at GlobalSecurity.org
 Army National Guard page at GlobalSecurity.org
 Red Horse going to war.  16 Nov 2006 press release.

Citations

External links

 Bibliography of Florida Army National Guard History compiled by the United States Army Center of Military History
 Florida National Guard website

National Guard (United States)
Military in Florida
1861 establishments in Florida