[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joel Redman

e. The team would go on a losing streak for the next few months and even lost to The Kartel (Sha Samuels and Terry Frazier) in a match for the IPW:UK Tag Team Championship. The Thrillers won their first match as a tag team in a dark match by defeating JP Monroe and Jules Lambrini on 27 January 2008.

The team debuted for Real Quality Wrestling on 16 February 2008 and defeated the Maximum Head (Dan Head & Max Voltage) and would next month beat The Lost Boys (Danny Darko and Jo FX). After their two successful matches they challenged The Damned Nation (Cameron Kraze and Dragon Aisu) on 26 April for the RQW Tag Team Championship which they won.

The Thrillers returned to International Pro Wrestling: United Kingdom on 4 May triumphant with tag team gold in the form of RQW Tag Team Championship only to lose the championship The Kartel (Sha Samuels & Terry Frazier) in a championship unification match which also involved IPW:UK Tag Team Championship. The team debuted for One Pro Wrestling losing to BritRage (Mark Sloan & Wade Fitzgerald). However they would beat The Kartel on 28 September for the Unified British Tag Team Championship. The Thrillers would then debuted for Westside Xtreme Wrestling at the beginning of 2009 and won a wXw Tag Team Championship contendership match defeating Adam Polak and Lazio Fe. With that win, they challenged Doug Williams and Martin Stone for the wXw Tag Team Championship the following month, but were unable to win the title.

Upon their return to IPW:UK, The Thrillers lost the Unified British Tag Team Championship to The Leaders of The New School (Marty Scurll and Zack Sabre Jr.). The Thrillers tried to regain the championship on two separate occasions, the first ending in DQ and the second where they were defeated clean in a tables, ladder and chairs match.

On 15 February 2015, Martin Stone was confirmed to have returned to the United States for another company, so Joel Redman had to choose another partner to substitute for Stone. At High Stakes, this partner was revealed to be Mark Haskins, not only successfully defending the titles, but reuniting once more. After Haskins was injured in mid-2015, Jake McCluskey stepped in as a replacement partner at Summer Sizzler, however, Redman and McCluskey were unable to defeat The Kartel (Sha Samuels and James Castle) and subsequently lost the British Tag Team Championship. In 2016, Redman began teaming with Charlie Garrett, and the duo successfully defeated The Kartel on 12 June 2016 at Angle vs Sabre Jr. to end their reign at two days short of one year.

Their first defence took place the next month at Summer Sizzler, defeating Jody Fleisch and Jonny Storm, Jake McCluskey and Kieran Bruce and The Legion of Lords (Gideon Grey and Rishi Ghosh) in a fatal four way to retain. Redman and Garrett successfully defended the championships once again in November, defeating NJPW's Los Ingobernables de Japón (Evil and Bushi) at Global Wars UK. Redman and Garrett (now known as Charlie Sterling) made two successful defences in January 2017, first defeating The London Riots (James Davis and Rob Lynch) at Live at the Cockpit 12, and War Machine (Hanson and Raymond Rowe) at High Stakes.

Irish Whip Wrestling (2008–2009)

Redman made his debut for Irish Whip Wrestling on 5 July 2008 in a four corners match for the IWW International Heavyweight Championship which Mandrake won, the match also involved Doug Basham and Vic Viper. After competing only a few matches in 2008, the next year he became a regular at the promotion. He took on LA Warren for the IWW Zero Gravity Championship and Mandrake for the IWW International Heavyweight Championship on multiple occasions but would also come up short. In mid-2009, Redman had formed a partner ship with Captain Rooney which for their short time together worked, winning all their matches, however Rooney would turn on Redman and joined up with Bingo Ballance. The Redman and Ballance feud culminated with Ballance coming out on top. Redman's last match for IWW was against Mandrake for the IWW International Heavyweight Championship, once again losing.

WWE

Florida Championship Wrestling (2012)
In a March 2012 interview, Pettyfer stated that he had signed a contract with WWE following two try-out matches and was waiting for his visa to be approved before he could travel to Florida to join WWE's developmental territory. Pettyfer made his debut under the Joel Redman name at a Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) live event on 20 June 2012, teaming with Conor O'Brian, against Garrett Dylan and Rick Victor in a losing effort. On the 28 June 2012 FCW live event, Pettyfer competed under his real name teaming with CJ Parker in a losing effort against Big E Langston and Lincoln Broderick. Pettyfer would make his singles debut at the 29 June 2012 FCW live event against Mason Ryan in a losing effort.