[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Anti-flash white

Anti-flash white is a white colour commonly seen on British, Soviet, and U.S. nuclear bombers. The purpose of the colour is to reflect some of the thermal radiation from a nuclear explosion, protecting the aircraft and its occupants.

China
Some variants of the Xian H-6 had the underside of the fuselage painted anti-flash white.

Soviet Union/Russia

Some nuclear bombers had the underside of the fuselage painted anti-flash white with the upper surfaces painted light silver-gray. This was true for the specially fitted, single Soviet Tu-95V bomber that test-deployed the most powerful bomb of any kind – the 50+ MT-rating Tsar Bomba on 30 October 1961 – as it had the anti-flash white on all its undersurfaces and sides.

The Tupolev Tu-160 of the 1980s was the first series-built Soviet/Russian bomber aircraft to be painted anti-flash white all over, leading to its Beliy Lebed ("White Swan") Russian nickname.

United Kingdom

Anti-flash white was used on the Royal Air Force V bombers force and the Royal Navy Blackburn Buccaneer when used in the nuclear strike role. Nuclear bombers were given – though not at first, until the problem was considered – salmon pink and baby blue roundels and fin flash rather than the traditional dark red, white and blue.

Anti-flash white was applied to several prototype aircraft, including the British Aircraft Corporation TSR-2. Paint used on the Avro Vulcan was manufactured by Cellon, and that on the Handley Page Victor by Titanine Ltd.

United States

Many Strategic Air Command nuclear bombers carried anti-flash white without insignia on the underside of the fuselage with light silver-gray or natural metal (later light camouflage) on the upper surfaces.

United States Navy E-6 aircraft remain painted in anti-flash white, as of October 2023.

Other aircraft

In addition to these military aircraft, Concorde was painted white to reduce the additional heating effect on the aluminium skin caused by the sun whilst the aircraft was flying at high altitudes, the skin temperature already being raised to over  at Mach 2 by aerodynamic heating.

Aircraft with at least part of the fuselage painted anti-flash white on nuclear delivery variants:

CF-105 Arrow prototypes

Xian H-6
/
Myasishchev M-4
Tupolev Tu-16
Tupolev Tu-95
Tupolev Tu-22M
Tupolev Tu-160

V bombers
Avro Vulcan
Handley Page Victor
Vickers Valiant
Blackburn Buccaneer
English Electric Canberra (experimental)
BAC TSR-2 prototype
Saunders-Roe SR.53 interceptor prototype

Convair B-36
Boeing B-47 Stratojet
Boeing B-52 Stratofortress
North American A-5 Vigilante
North American XB-70 Valkyrie prototype
Rockwell B-1 Lancer prototype

See also 
 Royal Air Force roundels
 List of colors
 The House in the Middle – film that demonstrates the thermal flash protective effects of the related white wash paint

References 

 

Explosion protection
Shades of white