[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Blackheath railway station, New South Wales

Blackheath railway station is a heritage-listed former railway bridge and now railway station located on the Main Western line in Blackheath in the City of Blue Mountains local government area of New South Wales, Australia. It was designed and built by NSW Government Railways and built from 1897 to 1985. It is also known as the Blackheath Railway Station Group. The property was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999. The station opened on 28 December 1869.

History 
The contract for extending the railway from Lawson to Blackheath was awarded in 1863 to W. Watkins, who completed the track a year ahead of schedule in 1866, although the ballasting of the line by a separate contractor took longer. Blackheath was to be the temporary terminus because of its level site and good water supply, but before the station was finished the destruction of the road bridge over the Nepean River at Emu Plains in the flood of 1867 prompted John Whitton, in charge of railways, to open the line as far as Wentworth Falls to assist stranded travellers to the west. Wentworth Falls, therefore, was for a short time the terminus. In the meantime, Watkins had won the contract to extend the line from Blackheath to Mount Victoria and the completion of this stretch in May 1868 led to Wentworth Falls being replaced by Mount Victoria, not by Blackheath, as the temporary terminus of the Western line. Plans to build a two-storied station at Blackheath were abandoned and this grander building was erected instead at Mount Victoria.

Blackheath station opened in 1868 as a "halt" and as a platform in 1869. The Great Western Railway was intended to initially reach Bathurst but, beyond that town, its terminus was not stated. The line was duplicated between Blackheath and Mount Victoria in 1898 and the present platform building was erected on an island platform to serve both lines at that time. A signal frame was provided at the Sydney end of the building and would appear to have been open-air, later enclosed. When duplication extended from Medlow Bath to Blackheath in 1902, a new platform building was not provided.

The Footbridge at Blackheath Station that provides access to the platforms was built in 1911. Its twin beam construction is typical of NSWGR practice. Since 1990, every component of the bridge, except the steel structure, has been replaced.

Then Chief Executive, David Hill, authorised in 1985 the reconstruction of the 1897 building when fire virtually destroyed much of the platform building. The Blackheath reconstruction, together with the restoration of Mortuary station, marked the start of heritage management in the NSW railway organisation.

Platforms and services
Blackheath has one island platform with two sides. It is serviced by NSW TrainLink Blue Mountains Line services travelling from Sydney Central to Lithgow.

Description 
The complex comprises a type 11 station building, completed in 1898 and partially reconstructed 1985. Other structures in the complex include the brick-faced island platform, completed in 1898; and the steel-framed footbridge, completed in 1911 and partially replaced in 1990.

Station building
External: This station building is a rare example of a large (type 11) timber island platform building. It has eight bays with cantilevered bracketed awnings to each platform elevation. Verandah brackets are plain with standard circular bracing sitting on decorative timber supports. Detailing is generally restrained with rusticated weatherboard siding and V-jointed timber panelled gable ends. Doors and windows are panelled with decorative architraves and sills, similar in design to rendered details on brick buildings from the period. A corrugated iron roof with timber fretwork gables with decorative finials to flying gable ends is a distinctive feature of the building. Two brick chimneys with corbelled tops are extant.

Internal: The internal original layout of the building as well as a number of original finishes remain, however the Station Master's office together with the parcels office (at the Sydney end) have been reconstructed after the 1985 fire. The planning is linear with booking office, Station Master's office, parcels office (formerly enclosed signal box with no surviving equipment), ladies waiting and toilet and at the far end with access from the gable wall, the men's toilet. Original features include decorative moulded pressed metal ceiling to the general waiting room, double-hung sash windows with multi-paned upper sashes and coloured glazing, timber panelled doors with multi-paned fanlights, and chimney breasts. Later modifications included changes to all other room finishes including plasterboard ceilings with simple cornices, tile and carpet flooring and new toilet fittings.