[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Victor Odlum

tuate the memory of their original commanding officer, William Hart-McHarg, killed during the Second Battle of Ypres.  Odlum also served as a member of the Provincial Legislature from 1924–1928. At the same time, he returned to the world of journalism, becoming the owner of the Vancouver Daily Star.

As with his rivals in the business at the time, Odlum used the paper to aggressively promote his views and advance his pet political causes, such as the temperance movement, as well as descending to sensationalist yellow journalism to boost circulation. In 1924, his paper stirred up anti-Chinese fervour by suggesting a Chinese houseboy employed by a posh Shaughnessy neighbourhood couple had murdered a Scottish nursemaid, Janet Smith, employed in the same household. Although the evidence instead suggested that the nursemaid had been accidentally killed by one of her employers during a domestic dispute, Odlum's paper suggested the Chinese houseboy, Wong Foon Sing, who had discovered the body, was the guilty party. Wong was subsequently kidnapped by vigilantes and tortured to elicit a confession; upon being freed, he was charged by police, but eventually released due to a total lack of evidence against him.

Odlum was virulently anti-Bolshevik and anti-union, and shut down the Star rather than give in to his employees, who had unionized and refused to accept a pay cut. During the 1930s, he helped coordinate and train Special Constables hired to break a strike on Vancouver's waterfront.

After the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation was formed in 1936, Odlum served on its board of governors until the outbreak of World War II.

Soldier turned diplomat
Although Odlum had left the Canadian Army in 1919 and had also resigned his commission in the militia in 1924, with the outbreak of World War II in 1939, he lobbied the government for a position in the expanding Canadian Army. Eventually, through the efforts of his friend Ian Mackenzie, who was in the federal cabinet of William Lyon Mackenzie King, Odlum was promoted over several Permanent Force officers, including Halfdan Hertzberg, to the rank of major general and command of the 2nd Canadian Infantry Division. However, instead of preparing his forces for modern warfare, Odlum devoted much time to "extraneous matters" such as regimental brass bands and arm patches. Field Marshal Sir Alan Brooke, the Chief of the Imperial General Staff (CIGS, the professional head of the British Army), thought him a "political general", and was prompted to write to General Andrew McNaughton that Odlum was "too old...too set...to adapt his ideas" for the war.

In order to remove him from command, Odlum was appointed the High Commissioner to Australia from 1941 to 1942, and from 1942 to 1946, he was the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to China. In 1947, he was appointed Canada's first Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Turkey, where he served until 1952.

Personal
Odlum was a zealous reader, and in 1963, he donated his collection of 10,000 books to the library at the University of British Columbia.

His son, Major Victor E.C. Odlum studied at the Royal Military College of Canada in Kingston, Ontario in 1923, student # 1713, and served in the Royal Canadian Engineers during the Second World War.

References

Bibliography

External links
 Victor Odlum at The Canadian Encyclopedia
 
Generals of World War II

1880 births
1971 deaths
Canadian generals of World War I
Canadian Expeditionary Force officers
Canadian military personnel from Ontario
Canadian Companions of the Distinguished Service Order
Canadian Companions of the Order of St Michael and St George
Canadian Companions of the Order of the Bath
BC United MLAs
People from Cobourg
Politicians from Vancouver
High Commissioners of Canada to Australia
Ambassadors of Canada to China
Ambassadors of Canada to Turkey
Canadian Army generals of World War II
Canadian military personnel of the Second Boer War
Canadian Militia officers
Royal Canadian Regiment soldiers