[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Timana Tahu

r the Wallabies against New Zealand in the Tri-Nations. Despite only coming on towards the end of the game, Tahu effectively made himself Australia's 46th Dual-International. Tahu earned a further cap against South Africa in Johannesburg in a starting role only for the Wallabies to be defeated 53–8.

Return to rugby league (2010-2014)
On 22 July 2009, it was announced that Tahu would return to league and would rejoin his former club, Parramatta Eels on a three-year contract in 2010. He ended his career with league when in 2007, he signed a nearly $2 million, four-year contract with the ARU and NSW Waratahs.

In 2010, Tahu earned a recall to the New South Wales State of Origin team and was involved in a race-related incident with assistant coach Andrew Johns. In New South Wales Blues training, Johns reportedly called Greg Inglis "a black cunt". Tahu withdrew in protest from the New South Wales Origin team. It is believed Johns made the racial slur at a team bonding session. Johns was reported as telling centre Beau Scott he needed to stop Greg Inglis, and made a racial reference to the Maroons Aboriginal star. Tahu's mother is Aboriginal.

Tahu ended his season by playing for the New Zealand Māori against England.

After the tumultuous 2010 season, Tahu requested an extended break from the Eels pre-season training, hoping to return in January 2011. New coach Stephen Kearney denied the request and Tahu was released from his contract. After a period where it seemed possible Tahu would not return to the NRL, Tahu was signed by the Penrith Panthers.
Tahu played just 7 games for the Panthers in 2011 before a torn pectoral muscle ended his season. Only a week later it was announced Tahu would be returning to his original club, the Newcastle Knights on a 2-year contract starting from 2012.

On 6 September 2013, Tahu re-signed with the Knights on a 1-year contract.

Tahu's last game was in Round 26 of the 2014 NRL season, where he came off the bench into the centres for an injured Joseph Leilua. He scored two tries.

PRO Rugby (2016)
It was announced in March 2016 that Tahu would play rugby union in the United States in the newly formed PRO Rugby competition.
On 24 April 2016, he came off the bench and played a role in Denver's game in San Francisco only a few days after he had moved to the United States from Australia.

Achievements 
 Scored the most tries in a season for Newcastle Knights for 3 consecutive years: scoring 20 tries in 26 games (2000), 18 in 25 games (2001), 21 in 21 games (2002)

See also 
 List of players who have converted from one football code to another

References

External links
2014 Newcastle Knights profile
NRL profile

1980 births
Living people
Australia international rugby union players
Australia national rugby league team players
Australian people of Māori descent
Australian rugby league players
Australian rugby union players
Country New South Wales Origin rugby league team players
Denver Stampede players
Dual-code rugby internationals
Indigenous All Stars players
Indigenous Australian rugby league players
Indigenous Australian rugby union players
New South Wales Rugby League State of Origin players
New South Wales Waratahs players
New Zealand Māori rugby league team players
Newcastle Knights players
Parramatta Eels players
Penrith Panthers players
Rugby league centres
Rugby league players from Melbourne
Rugby league second-rows
Rugby league wingers
Rugby union players from Melbourne
Rugby union centres