[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hamilton Police Service

Clan Hamilton, and it thus refers to the city's namesake.  The coat of arms is included in the Public Register of Arms, Flags and Badges of Canada.

Flag

"Per bend sinister azure and gules a bend sinister or overall the badge;"
The symbolism of this emblem is found in other elements of this record

Consecration and trooping of the colours
It was on May 12, 2008, that a special event was planned to unveil the Hamilton Police Service Grant of Arms and the consecration and trooping the colour, the service’s first police colour. The grant of arms, more commonly known as a coat of arms incorporates symbolism reflecting the years of history and heritage of the Hamilton Police Service. A ‘colour’ is the ceremonial flag, with a specific registered design, awarded to the Hamilton Police Service by Queen Elizabeth II, Queen of Canada.  In Canada this is done through the Governor General of Canada and the Canadian Heraldic Authority. The design incorporates very specific symbolic features.  To consecrate a flag is to ceremonially dedicate it to the service of the men and women, officers and civilians, of the Hamilton Police Service. The consecration making the flag a visible symbol of the years which have passed since the Service was created, and emblematic of the years to come. It is meant to serve as an inspiration for the future, and is a silent challenge to the future members to meet and exceed the achievements of those who have come before them. In a ceremony steeped in protocol and pageantry, the colour was consecrated by a drumhead service.

Logo
The logo, similar to the heraldic crest, was developed by a police committee when the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Police became the Hamilton Police Service.  It is the logo that appears on marked patrol vehicles, signage, letterhead, etc.
 St. Edward's Crown
 ribbon containing the words Hamilton
 banner below with the words police
 within the ribbon:
 maple leaf: while representing Canada, the leaf has six facets, representing the six municipalities that formed the Hamilton-Wentworth Region (1974) and then later the amalgamated City of Hamilton (2001). Those municipalities in addition to Hamilton are Ancaster, Dundas, Flamborough, Glanbrook and Stoney Creek.
 wreath of golden maple leaves
 waves - representing the connection of the city to Lake Ontario and Hamilton Harbour

The blue oval at the top of the red maple leaf represents the Hamilton Harbour, the six veins of the red maple leaf represent the six former municipalities, the veins of the leaf extending into the blue oval illustrate inclusiveness of the community, the gold trim around the maple leaf represents the wealth of industry, natural resources, business and community partnerships, the two blue waves at the bottom of the leaf represent the vision to be the best and most progressive police service.

Organization

Police services board
Like all municipalities in Ontario, the City of Hamilton maintains a police services board, responsible for overseeing policing services in the City. The board approves the police budget, hires the chief and deputy chiefs of police directly, and is the legal employer of every Hamilton Police employee. Although the board sets overall service policy and direction, it has no operational control over the service or its officers, and day-to-day policing decisions are the exclusive jurisdiction of the police chief.

The board is composed of seven members: the mayor (or their designate); two city councillors; one member of the public appointed by city council; and three members of the public appointed by the province. As of 2022, it consists of:

Special constabularies
In addition to maintaining the Hamilton Police Service, the Board is responsible for approving and overseeing special constabularies that operate in the City. Currently, there is only one special constabulary operating in the City of Hamilton that falls under the jurisdiction of the Board, the McMaster University Campus Security Service.

Historically, the Board was responsible for two other special constabularies in Hamilton: the Harbour Police and Parks Police. The Parks Police force was disbanded in 1963, in response to union-mandated wage hikes, while the Harbour Police force was amalgamated into the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Police Force in 1986.

Rank structure

Sworn investigators employed by the Hamilton Police hold the ranks of Detective Constable or Detective Sergeant, but these ranks are equivalent to Sergeant and Staff Sergeant, respectively.

Unlike other Ontario police services, all Hamilton Police officers wear shields on their chest. Members at the rank of Sergeant and above have their rank listed on the badge in a blue oval, and members at the rank of Inspector and above have gold shields.

Divisions