[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Uthayan

ttack. The attack came after the paper published a series of articles highlighting seizure of Tamil owned land by the army. Ten days later, on 13 April 2013, three men came to the paper's office in Jaffna and threatened security guards before damaging equipment and setting the printing press ablaze.

Commentary on attacks by notable media/personalities/entitiesCommittee to Protect Journalists"These attacks on the offices of Uthayan have been going on for years and typify the threats faced by the Tamil press in Sri Lanka," said CPJ Asia Program Coordinator Bob Dietz.Reporters Without Borders"At least five of its employees have been killed this year, two of them in an attack on the newspaper on the eve of World Press Freedom Day. The press that prints the Colombo edition was the target of an arson attack in September. In Jaffna, the newspaper has twice been forced to publish communiqués at gunpoint", RSF said.United States Department of State"As we continue our free the press campaign we will highlight the case of Uthayan, a Tamil language newspaper in Sri Lanka. Uthayan has seen its personnel beaten, its newspaper shipments burned, its equipment destroyed and its offices set ablaze in the past month alone. The assault on a free press in Sri Lanka extends beyond Uthayan" Speaking at the US State Department's daily press briefing in Washington, the Department's Acting Deputy Spokesperson, Patrick Ventrell, expressed.Human Rights WatchThe Rajapaksa government has a long history of media harassment and attacks on journalists critical of the government, Human Rights Watch said. Publications − including electronic media − that oppose government policies have been subject to censorship, and some have been forced to close down. The leading Tamil opposition newspaper, Uthayan, has faced repeated physical attacks against its journalists and property.International Federation of Journalists"The International Federation of Journalists (IFJ) joins partners and affiliates in Sri Lanka in unequivocally condemning the repeated targeting of the Tamil newspaper Uthayan.......... The effort to silence Uthayan after the country’s long civil war was formally declared over in May 2009, 'is seen as a direct attack on post-war democracy and media freedom in the country, aimed at suppressing the dissemination of important information and diverse views among the public'.The Wall Street Journal"The newspaper has supported self-rule for Tamils and its staff has repeatedly faced threats and violence, the most serious in 2006 when gunmen stormed its offices and killed two staffers."The Globe and Mail".....I also saw the bullet holes above the sofa in the office of the editor of a Tamil language newspaper in Jaffna. Days after we visited the paper, its offices were trashed and employees beaten." – Hugh Segal.

Awards and recognition

The Uthayan was nominated in the "Media" category in the 15th Reporters Without Borders-Fondation de France Prize. It was awarded by the prize in 2013.

The Uthayan received the Public service and Tolerance Journalism Award at a ceremony at Galle Face Hotel on 24 October 2008 organised by six Sri Lankan journalists associations (National Federation of Journalists, Federation of Media Employee's Trade Unions, Free Media Movement, Sri Lankan Working Journalists Association, Sri Lanka Muslim Media Forum and Sri Lanka Tamil Media Alliance).

The chief editor and staff of Uthayan won the Sepala Gunasena Award for Defending Press Freedom in Sri Lanka'' award at the Journalism Awards for Excellence 2008 held at Mount Lavinia Hotel on 14 July 2009.

In its August 2007 report The International Press Freedom Mission to Sri Lanka describes the Uthayan as "a heroic paper". It goes on to say – "This newspaper, Jaffna’s most popular Tamil daily, has paid a heavy price for doing its job since it was founded in November 1985. Its offices were bombed by the Indian army in the 1980s and then by Sri Lankan war planes in 1990. Its staff have been threatened by several Tamil armed groups, including the EPRLF and the EPDP, that have been fighting in Jaffna for the past 20 years, and in 1999 paramilitaries threw a grenade into its offices."

References

External links

 

Daily newspapers published in Sri Lanka
Mass media in Jaffna
Newspapers established in 1985
Tamil-language newspapers published in Sri Lanka
Uthayan Group of Newspapers
1985 establishments in Sri Lanka
Indian Peace Keeping Force