[Source: Gutenberg#7370 | Part 56]
# The Social Contract — Jean-Jacques Rousseau

he properties of his people,
but the satisfaction of his own ambition, revenge, covetousness, or any
other irregular passion.

Sect. 200. If one can doubt this to be truth, or reason, because it
comes from the obscure hand of a subject, I hope the authority of a king
will make it pass with him. King James the first, in his speech to the
parliament, 1603, tells them thus,

/#
     I will ever prefer the weal of the public, and of the whole
     commonwealth, in making of good laws and constitutions, to any
     particular and private ends of mine; thinking ever the wealth and
     weal of the commonwealth to be my greatest weal and worldly
     felicity; a point wherein a lawful king doth directly differ from a
     tyrant: for I do acknowledge, that the special and greatest point
     of difference that is between a rightful king and an usurping
     tyrant, is this, that whereas the proud and ambitious tyrant doth
     think his kingdom and people are only ordained for satisfaction of
     his desires and unreasonable appetites, the righteous and just king
     doth by the contrary acknowledge himself to be ordained for the
     procuring of the wealth and property of his people.
#/

And again, in his speech to the parliament, 1609, he hath these words:

/#
     The king binds himself by a double oath, to the observation of the
     fundamental laws of his kingdom; tacitly, as by being a king, and
     so bound to protect as well the people, as the laws of his kingdom;
     and expressly, by his oath at his coronation, so as every just
     king, in a settled kingdom, is bound to observe that paction made
     to his people, by his laws, in framing his government agreeable
     thereunto, according to that paction which God made with Noah after
     the deluge. Hereafter, seed-time and harvest, and cold and heat,
     and summer and winter, and day and night, shall not cease while the
     earth remaineth. And therefore a king governing in a settled
     kingdom, leaves to be a king, and degenerates into a tyrant, as
     soon as he leaves off to rule according to his laws.
#/

And a little after,

/#
     Therefore all kings that are not tyrants, or perjured, will be glad
     to bound themselves within the limits of their laws; and they that
     persuade them the contrary, are vipers, and pests both against them
     and the commonwealth.
#/

Thus that learned king, who well understood the notion of things, makes
the difference betwixt a king and a tyrant to consist only in this, that
one makes the laws the bounds of his power, and the good of the public,
the end of his government; the other makes all give way to his own will
and appetite.

Sect. 201. It is a mistake, to think this fault is proper only to
monarchies; other forms of government are liable to it, as well as that:
for wherever the power, that is put in any hands for the government of
the people, and the preservation of their properties, is applied to
other ends, and made use of to impoverish, harass, or subdue them to the
arbitrary and irregular commands of those that have it; there it
presently becomes tyranny, whether those that thus use it are one or
many. Thus we read of the thirty tyrants at Athens, as well as one at
Syracuse; and the intolerable dominion of the Decemviri at Rome was
nothing better.

Sect. 202. Where-ever law ends, tyranny begins, if the law be
transgressed to another’s harm; and whosoever in authority exceeds the
power given him by the law, and makes use of the force he has under his
command, to compass that upon the subject, which the law allows not,
ceases in that to be a magistrate; and, acting without authority, may be
opposed, as any other man, who by force invades the right of another.
This is acknowledged in subordinate magistrates. He that hath authority
to seize my person in the street, may be opposed as a thief and a
robber, if he endeavours to break into my house to execute a writ,
notwithstanding that I know he has such a warrant, and such a legal
authority, as will impower him to arrest me abroad. And why this should
not hold in the highest, as well as in the most inferior magistrate, I
would gladly be informed. Is it reasonable, that the eldest brother,
because he has the greatest part of his father’s estate, should thereby
have a right to take away any of his younger brothers portions? or that
a rich man, who possessed a whole country, should from thence have a
right to seize, when he pleased, the cottage and garden of his poor
neighbour? The being rightfully possessed of great power and riches,
exceedingly beyond the greatest part of the sons of Adam, is so far from
being an excuse, much less a reason, for rapine and oppression, which
the endamaging another without authority is, that it is a great
aggravation of it: for the exceeding the bounds of authority is no more
a right in a great, than in a petty officer; no