[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Green Party (Romania)

The Green Party - The Greens (), often shortened to The Greens () is a Romanian centre-left political party that ideologically follows green politics and environmentalism. It is currently led by co-Presidents Marius Lazăr and Lavinia Cosma. The Green Party is the only political party in Romania that is a member of the European Green Party (EGP). Thus, it is a full rights member of the European Green Party (EGP), represented by the Greens–European Free Alliance in the European Parliament.

Ideology 
Partidul Verde - Verzii is a party that has a socially moderate-conservative ideology and from an economic point of view it is from the centre to the left-wing, being among the few center-left political organizations in Romania. Before the 2022 Congress, the party was economically much more center-right.

Social 
The Greens Party is supportive for environmental causes, such as reforestation and reductions in carbon emissions. It supports an extension in individual rights as well as greater separation of church and state, including a gradual removal of all state funding for religious institutions. Like the vast majority of Romanian political parties, it is supportive of European integration.

Environment and Green Economy 
The Greens consider that the budgetary and private financial flows invested in industries with high carbon dioxide emissions are today greater than the budgetary and private financial flows intended for adaptation to climate change and the successful green transition. We are basically financing our own demise!

The first step towards the success of the green transition means reversing this trend!

Today, after 33 years of market economy, in Romania we tax labor more than capital, which inhibits performance, effort, creates major social inequities, affects the social balance. We cannot place the deficit and all the black holes solely on the shoulders of the hard workers. The state can no longer subsidize the failures of big capital endlessly, while keeping social spending or investments for the green transition far below the European average. The logic in which when the profits of big capital increase, the Market is God, and when they are absent, the State is God must be completely eliminated.

The success of the green transition means money serving life, not life serving money!

They support the participation and representation of young people in democratic and decision-making processes at all levels, including by organizing debating groups in schools, high schools and universities.

He believes that children should be involved in the evaluation and formulation of policies through dialogue with experienced people.

They also support the right to vote from the age of 16 for all types of elections.

Youth politics 
Advocates for all new legislative acts and public policy projects to be approved only after assessing the impact on young people up to 30 years old. They support the introduction of a mechanism for monitoring legislation from a youth perspective, including both an impact assessment and a mechanism for consultation with youth representatives when legislation has an impact on young people.

The decrease in the number of NEETS in Romania (young people who neither work, nor study, nor participate in a professional training program) can also be done by developing a wider professional orientation process, starting from the age of 12. They want to enable young people to benefit from visits/short experiential internships to for-profit and non-profit organizations, in close cooperation between schools, local administrations and respective organizations/enterprises to allow young people to have a first contact with the professional environment .

They also support the introduction of Universal Basic Income for students over a period of 3 years.