[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stratton, Cornwall

lso Flexbury from the civil parish of Poughill, were transferred from the Rural District to the new Bude–Stratton Urban District. The remainder of the civil parishes of Stratton and Poughill were transferred to Bude–Stratton Urban District on 1 April 1934. In 1931 the parish had a population of 117.

Both the Urban District and Stratton Rural District were abolished in 1974 and became part of North Cornwall District, itself abolished in 2009 when the present Cornwall Council was formed.

Trade and industry

Trade and industry greatly affected Stratton's popularity; it had a thriving leather and agricultural trade. During medieval times it dealt in leather. Evidence of this is the road named after the trade. Poundfield area was where the animals were kept; Stratton also housed tanning pits and a rack park, where the leather was stretched. There is also evidence of farming in the milking parlours, barns and stalls that are made from cob, a traditional building material, and the Old Malt House shows where ale was produced in the church-owned brewery. During medieval times herbs and spices were also considered important for medicinal purposes as well as others, and Stratton was famous for having an abundance of wild garlic.

Trade events such as markets and fairs were a regular occurrence in Stratton and people would come from all around to attend. Much of the evidence for events and trades in Stratton is subtle, for example, street names like Market Street and Poundfield Lane. Stratton had up to 14 pubs, although some were houses where people brewed beer themselves. Many have now been knocked down or converted, but some, such as the Tree Inn, are still running, despite perhaps fewer customers than they would have expected before Bude became the main town. Although many of the shops that once lined the streets have now been converted into homes, the large front windows still hint at the lives led by the inhabitants when Stratton was the most important town in the area.

19th and 20th centuries

Trade directories allow comparison of the two towns. For example, in 1844, when Stratton had six shoemakers, Bude had only one, although Slater's Trade Directory 1852–1853 shows the period in which Bude was beginning to catch up, although Stratton was still thriving. One of the main factors which led to the demise of Stratton's influence was New Road which directed traffic away from the centre of Stratton in the early 20th century. The bypass was then built in 1950 when Stratton was well and truly defeated. Following the 1960s rail closures Stratton and Bude became the two towns most remote from the rail network in England. Despite the downfall of Stratton, it still managed to keep the hospital and surgery running although the union and workhouse from the 1830s were no longer operating.

Cornish wrestling
Cornish wrestling tournaments, for prizes, were held in Stratton in the 1700s and 1800s.

Notable people

 Richard Maynard (1832–1907), a Canadian photographer known mainly for his landscape views, born in Stratton

See also

Battle of Stratton
List of topics related to Cornwall

References

Further reading
Bere, Rennie and Stamp, Bryan Dudley (1980), The Book of Bude and Stratton. Buckingham: Barracuda Books 
Peachey, Stuart (1993), The Battle of Stratton 1643. Stuart Press

External links

Cornwall Record Office Online Catalogue for Stratton

Market towns in Cornwall
Towns in Cornwall
Manors in Cornwall
Former civil parishes in Cornwall