[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# United States National Grid

conds (DMS):   N 38°53'23.3", W 077°02'11.6"
 degrees-minutes-decimal minutes (DMM or DDM):    38°53.388' N, 077°02.193' W
 decimal degrees (DDD or DD):     38.88980°, -077.03654°

This format ambiguity has led to confusion with potentially serious consequences, particularly in emergency situations.

 References comprising only alphanumeric characters (letters and positive numbers).  (Spaces have no significance but are allowed for readability.)
 No negative numbers, hemisphere indicators (+, -, N, S, E, W), decimal points (.), or special symbols (°, ′, ″, :).
 A familiar "read right then up" convention of XY Cartesian coordinates.
 An explicit convention for shortening references (at two levels) when the local or regional area is already unambiguously known.
 A reference to a definite grid square with variable, explicit precision (size), rather than to a point with (usually) unspecified precision implicit in number of decimal places.

All of the above also lead to USNG references being typically very succinct and compact, with flexibility to convey precise location information in a short sequence of characters that is easily relayed in writing or by voice.

Limitations 

As with any projection that seeks to represent the curved Earth as a flat surface, distortions and tradeoffs will inevitably occur.  The USNG attempts to balance and minimize these, consistent with making the grid as useful as possible for its intended purpose of efficiently communicating practical locations.  Since the UTM (the basis for USNG) is not a single projection, but rather a set of 6-degree longitudinal zones, there will necessarily be a local discontinuity along each of the 'seam' meridians between zones.  However, every point continues to have a well-defined, unique geoaddress, and there are established conventions to minimize confusion near zone intersections.  The six-degree zone width of UTM strikes a balance between the frequency of these discontinuities versus distortion of scale, which would increase unacceptably if the zones were made wider.  (UTM further uses a 0.9996 scale factor at the central meridian, growing to 1.0000 at two meridians offset from the center, and increasing toward the zone boundaries, so as to minimize the overall effect of scale distortion across the zone breadth.)  The USNG is not intended for surveying, for which a higher-precision (lower-distortion) coordinate system such as SPCS would be more appropriate.  Also, since USNG north-south grid lines are (by design) a fixed distance from the zone central meridian, only the central meridian itself will be aligned with "true north".  Other grid lines establish a local "grid north", which will differ from true north by a small amount.  The amount of this deviation, which is indicated on USGS topographic maps, is typically much less than the magnetic declination (between true north and magnetic north), and is small enough that it can be disregarded in most land navigation situations.

Adoption and current applications

Standards 
Since its adoption as a national standard in 2001, the USNG has itself been incorporated into standards and operating procedures of other organizations:

 In 2011, the US Government's National Search and Rescue Committee (NSARC) released Version 1.0 of the Land Search and Rescue Addendum to the National Search and Rescue Supplement to the International Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue Manual.  This document specifies the US National Grid as the primary standard coordinate reference system to be used for all land-based search and rescue (SAR) activities in the US.
In 2015, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) issued FEMA Directive 092–5, "Use of the United States National Grid (USNG)":

"POLICY STATEMENT:  FEMA will use the United States National Grid (USNG) as its standard geographic reference system for land-based operations and will encourage use of the USNG among whole community partners."

 A number of state and local Emergency Management agencies have also adopted the USNG for their operations.
Other organizations including the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)  and the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE)  have incorporated the USNG into specific standards issued by those organizations.

Gridded maps 
The utility of almost every large or medium scale map (paper or electronic) can be greatly enhanced by having an overlaid coordinate grid.  The USNG provides such a grid that is universal, interoperable, non-proprietary, works across all jurisdictions, and can readily be used with GPS receivers and other location service applications.

In addition to providing a convenient means to identify and communicate specific locations (points and areas), an overlaid USNG grid also provides an orientation, and—because it is distance based—a scale of distance that is present across the map.