[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# New Birth of Freedom Council

The New Birth of Freedom Council is a council of the Boy Scouts of America serving South-Central Pennsylvania. The council was formed by a merger of York-Adams Area Council and Keystone Area Council on April 1, 2010.

Districts
The Council is divided into the following Districts:

Battlefield District: Adams county and Hanover. The name Battlefield reflects the Battle of Hanover and the Battle of Gettysburg, both fought during the American Civil War.
Conococheague District: Franklin and Perry Counties. The name refers to a creek in Franklin County, Pennsylvania, and a mountain of the same name in Perry County, Pennsylvania. The mountain is a significant portion of the Tuscarora State Forest, and the creek is a tributary of the Potomac River. The word Conococheague is translated from the Delaware Indian spoken language to mean water of many turns.  The area along the creek was home to the first settlement in the area which was referred to as the Conococheague Region and eventually developed into present-day Chambersburg.
Heritage Trails District: York County. Originally used by the Susquehannock, the Susquehanna Trail began common use in the colonial period as a major travel route from York to Harrisburg.
Keystone Capital District: Dauphin County. This district includes the Pennsylvania state capital city, and the name references the state nickname of the Keystone State.  Pennsylvania was called this because of its central location, and also due to its commercial and political importance among the 13 colonies.
Pioneer District: Cumberland County. The name reflects both the first pioneers to cross over the mountains to western Pennsylvania who started their journeys from this area and the name of one of the first steam locomotives running on the Cumberland Valley Railroad beginning in the 1850s.

Council Camps

The New Birth of Freedom Council owns four council camps, Camp Conewago, Camp Tuckahoe, Hidden Valley Scout Reservation, and Wizard Ranch.

Camp Conewago
Camp Conewago is located in New Oxford, PA at the “Forks” where the Little Conewago enters into the Big Conewago stream. It was formerly at the point of a traders cabin where the collection of furs and trading was done with early settlers and the Conewago Indian Tribes in the area.

In 1919, the officers of Conewago Council, which then oversaw Scouting in Hanover, Littlestown, New Oxford, Locust Grove, Abbottstown, and East Berlin, saw the need for a Boy Scout camp in their area. Along with the assistance of other civic-minded citizens, the council solicited funds in the area for a camp. On September 13, 1919, they purchased approximately 25 acres of land in Hamilton Township, Adams County, from George T. Gitt. Today, Camp Conewago is still blessed with many of the original buildings constructed over the years.

Camp Tuckahoe
Camp Tuckahoe is the largest of four camps owned by the New Birth of Freedom Council, and is currently operated for use by both Boy Scouts and Cub Scouts. The  site is located in York County, Pennsylvania, a few miles west of Dillsburg.

The site was formerly a hunting camp which the Council purchased on March 21, 1947, to replace Camp Ganoga. Construction on the property started in the spring of 1947, and the first camping season got underway the next year on June 27, 1948. Many of the later facilities where not present that first season, including the lake, troops cabins (the boys all slept in tents or lean-tos), and the memorial chapel.

From the purchase of the land until part way through the first season, the camp was referred to as "South Mountain Camp" and also "South Mountain Memorial Scout Camp" (as a tribute to WWII servicemen). During the initial camp season, a contest was held to choose between the names "South Mountain", "Tuckahoe", and "Whippoorwill", and Tuckahoe won out. The name Tuckahoe is attributed to mean "Land of the Deer and the Fawn" in a Native American language. 

The Memorial Mall and adjoining Chapels are the centerpiece of Camp Tuckahoe. The Mall is an open area lined by hemlock trees that is often used for camp ceremonies and quiet activities. Each of the hemlock trees has been dedicated to a member of the "Council Eternal" (a Scout or Scouter who has died). Additional dedications are made annually when new names are added to the Memorial Wall. Another feature of the Mall is a reflection area where Scouts can read a bronze plaque bearing the words of Rudyard Kiplings's poem If—  The recently renovated indoor chapel at the top of the mall was dedicated in memory of Rabbi Goode, one of the Four Chaplains from the troop transport .

An area of Camp Tuckahoe called "Cub World" is a special place within the camp that has programs and facilities specifically designed for boys ages 6–10.