[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Waleed Aly

ligion and ethics commentator Scott Stephens and an expert studio guest each week, and continues his role on The Project. He also writes for The Sydney Morning Herald.

Recognition and awards
At the 2005 Walkley Awards, Aly was commended in the category of Commentary, Analysis, Opinion and Critique.

In 2015, Aly and producer Tom Whitty were finalists for two Our Watch Awards (administered by the Walkley Foundation) for exemplary reporting to end violence against women, for their viral editorial, "Show Me The Money (Domestic Violence Funding)". The pair were also nominated for (and won) a United Nations Association of Australia Media Peace Award for Promotion of Climate Change Issues, with their "Renewable Energy Target" monologue. Aly and Whitty finished the year with a Walkley nomination for Excellence in Journalism in the All Media Commentary, Analysis, Opinion and Critique category, for a series of editorials including Show Me The Money, Renewable Energy Target, and Negative Gearing.

In May 2016, Aly won the Gold Logie Award for Best Personality on Australian Television, chosen by the public through an online vote.

In May 2016 Aly was Liberty Victoria's winner of the Voltaire Award for free speech. Writing in The Australian, Paul Monk has said, "In accepting his Voltaire Award, Aly needs to step up and champion freedom of speech in the Muslim world and freedom to criticise Islam itself, including the Prophet – as Voltaire himself did".

In June 2016, the Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull hosted the first Iftar dinner, at Kirribilli House for Muslim community leaders. Aly and his wife, described as the "power couple", were seated at Table No. 1, next to the Prime Minister.

In August 2016, Aly and producer Tom Whitty were again finalists for two Our Watch Awards for exemplary reporting to end violence against women, for their viral editorial, "Click Something Else". In September, the pair were also again nominated for (and won) a United Nations Association of Australia (UNAA) Media Peace Award for Social Cohesion, with their "Send Forgiveness Viral" monologue. In October, Aly and Whitty received two Walkley nominations for Excellence in Journalism. First in the Television/Audio-Visual News Reporting category, for Milked Dry, their viral editorial on Australia's dairy pricing crisis, and in the Commentary, Analysis, Opinion and Critique category, for a series of editorials: "Click Something Else", "Milked Dry", and "ISIL is Weak".

Music
Aly is the lead guitarist and principal songwriter for the Melbourne-based rock band Robot Child. The band contributed a track to the Jesuit Social Services' Just Music album, performing at the Famous Spiegeltent for its release. They were also widely praised for their cover of Pink Floyd's "Comfortably Numb" at the 2015 Walkley Awards.

Aly is a featured artist on "Surah Maryam" the 2021 Paul Kelly's Christmas Train album.

Personal life
Aly lives in  Melbourne and is married to Australian feminist author and academic Susan Carland, and they have two children. Carland converted to Islam aged 19 and holds a PhD from Monash University.

Publications

Numerous articles.

References

Further reading
 
 

1978 births
Living people
Australian Islamic community leaders
Australian Muslims
Australian non-fiction writers
Australian people of Egyptian descent
Lawyers from Melbourne
Melbourne Law School alumni
Academic staff of Monash University
Australian rock guitarists
Australian male songwriters
People educated at Wesley College (Victoria)
RMITV alumni
Gold Logie winners
21st-century guitarists
Radio personalities from Melbourne