[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Explosives shipping classification system

A matrix of the United Nations explosives shipping classification system and examples of typical materials. Each classification consists of a Sub Class Number that indicates the type of hazard and a Compatibility group suffix describing which types of product may inhabit the same means of containment.

Classes

Compatibility Groups
In some cases it may be appropriate and safe to mix explosives when transporting or storing them, certain compatibility groups may be mixed with others and still remain safe.

X Denotes compatibility groups that can be mixed in transport.

Detonators/blasting caps, may not be packaged together with any other explosive.

a. Different explosives of compatibility group A should be packaged separately

b. Explosives of compatibility group L shall only be packed with an identical explosive. 

c. Explosive articles of the compatibility group C, D, or E may be packed together, and the whole packaged shall be treated as belonging to compatibility group E.

d. Explosive articles of the compatibility group C and D may be packed together, and the whole packaged shall be treated as belonging to compatibility group D.

e. Explosive articles of the compatibility group C, D, E or N may be packed together, and the whole packaged shall be treated as belonging to compatibility group D.

f. Explosive belonging to the compatibility group G except for fireworks, may be packaged together with compatibility groups C, D, and E, provided they are not carried in the same compartment, carry box, or vehicle, and the whole packaged shall be treated as belonging to compatibility group E.

g. Explosive of compatibility group S, may be packaged together with explosives of any other group, except A or L, and the combined packaged may be treated as belonging to any of the compatibility groups most appropriate, except S.

See also 
 Air travel with firearms and ammunition
 List of UN numbers 0301 to 0400

References

Links 
INTERNATIONAL AMMUNITION TECHNICAL GUIDELINE (IATG) 01.50, UN explosive hazard classification system and codes, Second edition, 2015-02-01
Transport Canada, Transportation of Dangerous Goods Regulations
Transport Canada, Statutory Instruments (Regulations) SOR/2008-34
Australian Code for the Transport of Explosives by Road or Rail - Third Edition

Ship management