[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Gretchen Whitmer

m Michigan", Whitmer gained a greater national profile. Her response to the pandemic was the subject of the cover story of Newsweek May 1, 2020, edition. Also in May, Cecily Strong impersonated Whitmer on an episode of Saturday Night Live. Strong portrayed Whitmer on the show again in February 2021.

Whitmer was vetted by Biden's team as a potential running mate during the 2020 Democratic Party vice presidential candidate selection; Biden confirmed she was on his shortlist in March. Michigan's status as a key swing state was seen as boosting her prospects of being selected. The New York Times reported that she was one of four finalists for the position along with Kamala Harris, Susan Rice, and Elizabeth Warren; Harris was selected. According to some reports, Whitmer removed herself from consideration, urging Biden to choose a Black woman instead. Whitmer's consideration for the position further elevated her national stature.

Whitmer delivered a speech at the 2020 Democratic National Convention that praised Biden's work in rescuing the Michigan auto industry and criticized Trump's handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. Whitmer was seen as having strong prospects of being offered a position in Biden's cabinet. On January 9, 2021, she said she was not interested in leaving her role as governor.

In early January 2021, then-President-elect Biden nominated Whitmer as one of the vice chair candidates for the Democratic National Committee; the committee elected Whitmer and the rest of the slate of candidates on January 20 unopposed.

After her 2022 reelection, Whitmer was considered a possible presidential candidate in the event that Biden did not run for reelection. In an article for Vanity Fair, journalist and presidential advisor Jennifer Palmieri endorsed Whitmer as a potential presidential contender. In response to these speculations, Whitmer declared that she would not run for president, intending to serve a full second term as governor. On April 25, 2023, Whitmer was named co-chair of Biden's reelection campaign.

Kidnapping plot

On October 8, 2020, a federal indictment against six men associated with the Wolverine Watchmen, a Michigan-based militia group, was unsealed. The indictment charges the men with plotting to kidnap Whitmer and violently overthrow Michigan's government. The FBI became aware of the scheme in early 2020 after communications among the far-right group were discovered, and via an undercover agent who met with more than a dozen individuals at a meeting in Dublin, Ohio. Another seven men were charged with state crimes in relation to the plot. Facebook is cooperating with the investigation, since the federal criminal complaint detailed how the group used a private Facebook group to discuss the alleged plot.

In the wake of the unsealed indictment, Whitmer, in a livestream, thanked the law enforcement agencies involved in the investigation. She called the plotters "sick and depraved men" and blamed Trump for refusing to explicitly condemn far-right groups and for his handling of the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States. In April 2022, two men (Harris and Caserta) were acquitted on all charges on grounds of entrapment by federal authorities. In August 2022, two others (Fox and Barry Croft Jr.) were convicted of conspiracy to kidnap. In October 2022, three others (Morrison, Musico, and Bellar) were convicted of providing material support for a terrorist act. Additionally, Garbin and Franks pleaded guilty.

Policies and political positions

Abortion

During the COVID-19 pandemic, groups within the United States anti-abortion movement criticized Whitmer for allowing abortion procedures to continue in Michigan, stating that they were "life-sustaining". In September 2021, Whitmer began working with the state legislature to repeal a 90-year-old law that banned abortion in Michigan, so as to preserve abortion rights in the state in case Roe v. Wade was overturned. On April 5, 2023, Whitmer signed legislation to repeal Michigan's statutory ban on abortion procedures and drugs.

Corporate incentives 
Whitmer is in favor of using corporate incentives to attract business and manufacturing to Michigan. On December 20, 2021, she signed House Bill 4603, creating a $1 billion economic development fund to attract manufacturers to Michigan. The bill had bipartisan support. In a public Facebook post dated April 19, 2012, Whitmer criticized Governor Rick Snyder and his handing over public funds to big business. Her complaint was attached to an article by Tim Skubick.