[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

he lives of hundreds of innocent civilians so far.… We hereby ask for an immediate end to those attacks, and the solving of the dispute through negotiations.… According to latest reports, most of the victims of Israeli attacks are the Lebanese children, youngsters, women, and elderly folks.

Others 

 Afghanistan: On 27 July, the US-backed government of Afghanistan, together with Iran and Tajikistan denounced Israel's attacks against Lebanon. Afghan President Hamid Karzai stated: "We feel sad about the death of dozens of civilians in Lebanon and ask for solving the crisis through diplomatic channels."
 Bangladesh: The Foreign Ministry of Bangladesh condemned the Israeli attacks and called them State Terrorism. Bangladeshi Foreign Minister Morshed Khan urged Western nations to "restrain Israel," and accused many Western countries of applying a double standard in favor of Israel when dealing with the Middle East. Bangladesh sent Infantry battalions to Lebanon to serve as UN peacekeepers in the immediate aftermath of the war. Troops from Bangladesh and Nepal were the first to arrive in Southern Lebanon. The Bangladesh Navy has one Mod. Type 053H class FF(G) and one Sea Dragon class OPV as part of the Maritime Task Force.
 Philippines: Filipino President Arroyo had urged stranded OFWs to leave Lebanon at once. Several lawmakers had also voiced support for a ceasefire between Hezbollah and Israeli forces, indicating a condemnation to Israel.
 Vietnam: The Foreign Ministry of Vietnam condemned Israel's air strike on Qana. Le Dung, a spokesman for the Ministry, further stated that "Vietnam calls upon all related sides to cease fire immediately and to demonstrate restraint to avoid causing harm to civilians."

Europe and Oceania

Europe

Australia 
Prime Minister John Howard has stated that he is "appalled at the loss of life on both sides." However, he blamed the conflict on Hezbollah's breaches of UN resolutions and international law.

Americas

Brazil 
The foreign ministry issued a statement saying that the Brazilian government was "dismayed" at the deaths of four Brazilians from the same family, including two children, killed by an Israeli attack while vacationing in Lebanon. Brazil condemned both sides escalating into a bigger conflict. In another statement confirming the death of another Brazilian child in a separate Israeli attack, it also called Israeli actions disproportionate. It urged South Lebanon to recognize Israel's boundaries. Additionally, Brazil called for dialogue between the parties so that a cease-fire can be achieved and the kidnapped Israeli soldiers can be released.

Canada 
Prime Minister Stephen Harper said he did not favour sending Canadian troops to southern Lebanon as part of a multinational peacekeeping force, adding that countries in the area should be responsible for resolving the conflict.

At the outset of the conflict, Harper said "Israel has the right to defend itself," adding the opinion that "Israel's response under the circumstances has been measured." Harper's characterisation of Israel's response as "measured" created controversy in Canada. On 17 July 2006, the Prime Minister appeared to moderate these remarks, noting that the situation had deteriorated since his initial comments, but that it was difficult for Israel to fight "non-governmental forces" when they are embedded in the civilian population. He added that "the attack [on Israel] is the cause of this immediate conflict," and that "Israel must show restraint as part of the solution but it is essential that the attacks against Israel would stop and it is essential that Israeli soldiers be returned to Israel."

Regarding resolution to the conflict, Harper stated it is "essential that Hezbollah and Hamas release their Israeli prisoners and any countries in that area that have influence on these organizations should encourage an end to violence and recognize and encourage the recognition of Israel's right to exist." Speaking of the situation in both Lebanon and Gaza on 18 July, Harper told reporters, "We all want to encourage not just a ceasefire, but a resolution. And a resolution will only be achieved when everyone gets to the table and everyone admits that recognition of each other," referring to the refusal of Hezbollah and Hamas to recognize Israel's right to exist.

Harper laid the blame for the civilian deaths on both sides at the feet of Hezbollah:Hezbollah's objective is violence.… Hezbollah believes that through violence it can create, it can bring about the destruction of Israel. Violence will not bring about the destruction of Israel…and inevitably the result of the violence will be the deaths primarily of innocent people.Harper and his former Foreign Affairs Minister, Peter MacKay, reiterated their support for Israel's position, while urging restraint and calling for a ceasefire.