[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 87]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

-I then have thought (though I pity poor soldiers extremely,
and always give them something if I have any money in my pocket) that
they draw these mischiefs upon themselves, because they endeavour to
kill and destroy other people, and, therefore, if they suffer the same
evils in return, they can hardly complain.

_Mr Barlow._--They cannot complain of the evils to which they
voluntarily expose themselves, but they may justly complain of the
ingratitude of the people, for whom they fight, and who take no care of
them afterwards.

_Harry._--Indeed, sir, I think so. But I cannot conceive why people must
hire others to fight for them. If it is necessary to fight, why not
fight for themselves? I should be ashamed to go to another boy and say
to him, "Pray go and venture your life or limbs for me that I may stay
at home and do nothing."

_Tommy._--What if the French were to come here, as they said they were
about to do; would you go out to fight them yourself?

_Harry._--I have heard my father say that it was every man's duty to
fight for his country, if it were attacked; and if my father went out to
fight, I would go out with him. I would not willingly hurt anybody, but
if they attempt to hurt me or my countrymen, we should do right to
defend ourselves; should we not, sir?

_Mr Barlow._--This is certainly a case where men have a right to defend
themselves; no man is bound to yield his life or property to another
that has no right to take it. Among those Grecians, whom you were
talking of, every man was a soldier, and always ready to defend his
country whenever it was attacked.

_Harry._--Pray, dear sir, read to Master Tommy the story of Leonidas,
which gave me so much pleasure; I am sure he will like to hear it.

Mr Barlow accordingly read


"THE HISTORY OF LEONIDAS, KING OF SPARTA."

"The king of Persia commanded a great extent of territory, which was
inhabited by many millions of people, and not only abounded in all the
necessaries of life, but produced immense quantities of gold and silver,
and every other costly thing. Yet all this did not satisfy the haughty
mind of Xerxes, who, at that time, possessed the empire of this country.
He considered that the Grecians, his neighbours, were free, and refused
to obey his imperious orders, which he foolishly imagined all mankind
should respect; he therefore determined to make an expedition with a
mighty army into Greece, and to conquer the country. For this reason he
raised such a prodigious army, that it was almost impossible to describe
it; the number of men that composed it seemed sufficient to conquer the
whole world, and all the forces the Grecians were able to raise would
scarcely amount to a hundredth part. Nevertheless, the Grecians held
public councils to consult about their common safety, and they nobly
determined that, as they had hitherto lived free, so they would either
maintain their liberty, or bravely die in its defence.

"In the mean time Xerxes was continually marching forward, and at length
entered the territory of Greece. The Grecians had not yet been able to
assemble their troops or make their preparations, and therefore they
were struck with consternation at the approach of such an army as
attended Xerxes. Leonidas was at that time king of Sparta, and when he
considered the state of affairs, he saw one method alone by which the
ruin of his country, and all Greece, could be prevented. In order to
enter the more cultivated parts of this country, it was necessary for
the Persian army to march through a very rough and mountainous district,
called Thermopylæ. There was only one narrow road through all these
mountains, which it was possible for only a very small number of men to
defend for some time against the most numerous army. Leonidas perceived
that, if a small number of resolute men would undertake to defend this
passage, it would retard the march of the whole Persian army, and give
the Grecians time to collect their troops; but who would undertake so
desperate an enterprise, where there was scarcely any possibility of
escaping alive? For this reason, Leonidas determined to undertake the
expedition himself, with such of the Spartans as would voluntarily
attend him, and to sacrifice his own life for the preservation of his
country.

"With this design he assembled the chief persons of Sparta, and laid
before them the necessity of defending the pass of Thermopylæ. They were
equally convinced of its importance, but knew not where to find a man
of such determined valour as to undertake it. 'Then,' said Leonidas,
'since there is no more worthy man ready to perform this service, I
myself will undertake it, with those who will voluntarily accompany me.'
They were struck with admiration at his proposal, and praised the
greatness of his mind, but set before him the certain destruction which
must attend him. 'All this,' said Leonidas, 'I have already considered;
but I am