[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James J. Archer

tive from the Army of Northern Virginia since General Lee assumed command. Birkett D. Fry assumed command of Archer's Brigade and led it during Pickett's Charge, while Archer and his younger brother and aide-de-camp Robert Harris Archer (1820–1878) were sent to Fort Delaware for prisoner processing.

Archer, along with many other officers captured at Gettysburg, was eventually sent to the Johnson's Island prisoner of war camp on the coast of Lake Erie, where his health rapidly declined due to exposure to the inclement Ohio weather. He wrote a letter to the Confederate War Department in which he advocated a plot to overthrow the guards, but the conspirators would require assistance from the government to get the men back home.

After a stay of nearly a year, he was sent, along with 600 officers from various prisons, to Fort Delaware, in accordance with a scheme to reship them to Morris Island in South Carolina, a place under constant fire from Confederate cannon. Archer and the others would be hostages to prevent further shelling. Ultimately, Archer was not one of the Immortal Six Hundred who were the subjects of this event.

Archer was finally exchanged late in the summer of 1864, and rejoined the army. On August 9, he was ordered to report to the Army of Tennessee under Hood in Atlanta, but this order was revoked ten days later, possibly due to his bad health. Instead, he resumed command of his old brigade, and briefly served in the Siege of Petersburg, until his health finally collapsed after the Battle of Peebles' Farm.

Personal and family life
Archer's brother was Henry W. Archer. Archer's nephew was James J. Archer, a Maryland state senator.

Archer died in Richmond, Virginia, on October 24, 1864, and was buried in Hollywood Cemetery.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

Notes

References
 "Brigadier General James T. Archer." Confederate Veteran. Vol. 8, No. 2, 1900.
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher. Civil War High Commands. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Heidler, David S., and Jeanne T. Heidler. "James Jay Archer." In Encyclopedia of the American Civil War: A Political, Social, and Military History, edited by David S. Heidler and Jeanne T. Heidler. New York: W. W. Norton & Company, 2000. .
 Silkenat, David. Raising the White Flag: How Surrender Defined the American Civil War. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 2019. .
 Sifakis, Stewart. Who Was Who in the Civil War. New York: Facts On File, 1988. .
 Sommers, Richard J. Richmond Redeemed: The Siege at Petersburg. California: Savas Beatie, 2014. .
 Tagg, Larry. The Generals of Gettysburg. Campbell, CA: Savas Publishing, 1998. .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .

External links
 
 

1817 births
1864 deaths
People from Havre de Grace, Maryland
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
Princeton University alumni
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
People of Texas in the American Civil War
People of Tennessee in the American Civil War
American Civil War prisoners of war
Burials at Hollywood Cemetery (Richmond, Virginia)
Texas Brigade
American duellists