[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# 34th G8 summit

loans owed by African nations to multilateral lending agencies. The G8 leaders said they would extend the term of the Highly Indebted Poor Countries initiative, under which poor states can write off some of their debt. A summary of accomplishments from the three most recent G8 summits would include:

2005 summit. In Gleneagles in Scotland, the G8 leaders agreed to more than double aid to Africa by 2010; but aid agencies argued there was little new money in the pledge. They also pledged that G8 nations and other donors would increase total aid for all developing countries by about $50 billion a year by 2010. Assistance to Africa was put at the top of the 2005 summit by British Prime Minister Tony Blair; but those well-intentioned plans were thwarted because Blair was forced to return to London after terrorist bomb explosions disrupted London's public transportation. The discussion about African issues was not as fruitful as the regular G8 sessions and had a "fragmented" character. A credible analysis of the summit suggests that Gleneagles stands apart from the other G8 summits ...

It would have been a regular summit if not for the terrorist attacks on London, as odd as it may seem at first sight. Although the tragedy took away a considerable portion of attention that would have otherwise been directed to the world richest and most powerful countries ..., the attacks provided for the relative success of the summit ... due to the necessity to demonstrate the united front against terrorism and to achieve somewhat tangible results that terrorists could not prevent.

2006 summit. In Saint Petersburg in Russia, the G8 leaders agreed to a formal agenda of energy security, combating infectious diseases and promoting education—all topics held little controversy and required no financial commitment by G8 members. Assistance to Africa from the 2005 summit agenda re-appeared on the 2006 agenda; but no tangible actions ensued.

2007 summit. In Heiligendamm in Germany, the G8 leaders agreed to consider a global goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and to negotiate a new global climate pact that would extend and broaden the Kyoto Protocols. For Africa, the G8 pledged $60 billion to fight AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis; but the declaration set out no specific timetable, nor did it break down individual countries' contributions or spell out how much of the total funds had been previously promised.

Infrastructure Consortium for Africa
The Infrastructure Consortium for Africa (ICA) was established at the 31st G8 summit at Gleneagles, Scotland in the United Kingdom in 2005. Since that time, the ICA's annual meeting is traditionally hosted by the country holding the Presidency of the G8. The 2008 meeting was held in Tokyo in March 2008.

Budget

Japan spent an unprecedented amount on hosting the G8 summit.  Although a full accounting has not been announced, the estimated total budget was more than ¥60 billion:
 ¥30 billion (£283 million; $561 million) used by the National Police Agency for patrolling the venues, including taking counter-terrorism measures. When the three-day meeting ended, Japanese taxpayers faced a bill which dwarfed the estimated £1.3m Britain stumped up at Gleneagles three years prior. A foreign ministry spokesman suggested that "the number of parties attending this year is unprecedented, which has admittedly complicated the arrangements, and it's simply not fair to compare it with previous summits."
 ¥25.5 billion was spent by the Foreign Ministry.
 Approximately ¥9 billion for communications infrastructure between the summit venue in Toyako and Rusutsu, where the international media center was located.
 Approximately ¥5 billion for the media center, which was constructed on a parking lot in a ski resort and accommodated around 3,000 people from the press and governments. Inside and outside the center, cutting-edge environmental technology, including fuel cells and heat pumps, was exhibited. The center itself boasted eco-friendly features, including solar panels, "green" walls and a snow cooling system. Once the summit was over, however, the building was demolished.
 ¥1 billion each for the Defense Ministry and Japanese Coast Guard for transporting the leaders and patrolling sea areas near the venue and monitoring the 46 km no-fly zone surrounding the summit site.The Times reported that the estimated cost of the Hokkaidō summit topped $285 million.

Notable statistics
Delegates

With more than 2,000 delegates in total, it was the largest G8 summit ever. Besides the leaders of the G8 nations attending, there were the government leaders of seven African nations and representatives from the five developing countries. Also in attendance were leaders from Australia, Indonesia, and South Korea.