[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 25]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

, was a boy of extraordinary courage and agility,
ran up towards a gap which he saw the horse approaching, and just as he
made a little pause before vaulting over, caught him by the bridle, and
effectually stopped him from proceeding. In an instant another gentleman
came up, with two or three servants, who alighted from their horses,
disengaged the fallen person, and set him upon his legs. He stared
wildly around him for some time; as he was not materially hurt, he soon
recovered his senses, and the first use he made of them was to swear at
his horse, and to ask who had stopped the confounded jade. "Who?" said
his friend, "why, the very little boy you used so scandalously this
morning; had it not been for his dexterity and courage, that numskull of
yours would have had more flaws in it than it ever had before."

The Squire considered Harry with a countenance in which shame and
humiliation seemed yet to struggle with his natural insolence; but at
length, putting his hand into his pocket, he pulled out a guinea, which
he offered to Harry, telling him at the same time he was very sorry for
what had happened; but Harry, with a look of more contempt than he had
ever been seen to assume before, rejected the present, and taking up the
bundle which he had dropped at the time he had seized the Squire's
horse, walked away, accompanied by his companion.

As it was not far out of their way, they agreed to call at the poor
man's cottage, whom they found much better, as Mr Barlow had been there
the preceding night, and given him such medicines as he judged proper
for his disease. Tommy then asked for the little boy, and, on his coming
in, told him that he had now brought him some clothes which he might
wear without fear of being called a Frenchman, as well as some more for
his little brothers. The pleasure with which they were received was so
great, and the acknowledgments and blessings of the good woman and the
poor man, who had just began to sit up, were so many, that little Tommy
could not help shedding tears of compassion, in which he was joined by
Harry. As they were returning, Tommy said that he had never spent any
money with so much pleasure as that with which he had purchased clothes
for this poor family; and that for the future he would take care of all
the money that was given him for that purpose, instead of laying it out
in eatables and playthings.

Some days after this, as Mr Barlow and the two boys were walking out
together, they happened to pass near a windmill; and, on Harry's
telling Tommy what it was, Tommy desired leave to go into it and look
at it. Mr Barlow consented to this, and, being acquainted with the
miller, they all went in and examined every part of it with great
curiosity; and there little Tommy saw with astonishment that the sails
of the mill, being constantly turned round by the wind, moved a great
flat stone, which, by rubbing upon another stone, bruised all the corn
that was put between them till it became a fine powder. "Oh dear!" said
Tommy, "is this the way they make bread?" Mr Barlow told him this was
the method by which the corn was prepared for making bread; but that
many other things were necessary before it arrived at that state. "You
see that what runs from these millstones is only a fine powder, very
different from bread, which is a solid and tolerably hard substance."

As they were going home Harry said to Tommy, "So you see now, if nobody
chose to work, or do anything for himself, we should have no bread to
eat; but you could not even have the corn to make it of without a great
deal of pains and labour." _Tommy._--Why not? does not corn grow in the
ground of itself? _Harry._--Corn grows in the ground, but then first it
is necessary to plough the ground, to break it to pieces. _T._--What is
ploughing? _H._--Did you never see three or four horses drawing
something along the fields in a straight line, while one man drove, and
another walked behind holding the thing by two handles? _T._--Yes, I
have; and is that ploughing? _H._--It is; and there is a sharp iron
underneath, which runs into the ground and turns it up all the way it
goes. _T._--Well, and what then? _H._--When the ground is thus
prepared, they sow the seed all over it, and then they rake it over to
cover the seed, and then the seed begins to grow, and shoots up very
high; and at last the corn ripens, and they reap it, and carry it home.
_T._--I protest it must be very curious, and I should like to sow some
seed myself, and see it grow; do you think I could? _H._--Yes,
certainly, and if you will dig the ground to-morrow I will go home to my
father, in order to procure some seed for you.

The next morning Tommy was up almost as soon as it was light, and went
to work in a corner of the garden, where he dug with great perseverance
till breakfast; when he came in, he could not help telling Mr Barlow
what he had done, and asking him, whether he was