[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# History of the Jews in Kosovo

The history of the Jews in Kosovo largely mirrors that of the history of the Jews in Serbia, except during the Second World War, when Kosovo, as part of Kingdom of Albania, was under Italian control and later under German control. The other exception is following the Kosovo War of 1999, when the province began its political separation from Serbia.

Ottoman rule 

Prior to the Ottoman Turkish conquest of the region, documentation on the Jews of the Balkans was sketchy. The Jewish communities of the Balkans were boosted in the 15th and 16th centuries by the arrival of Jewish refugees fleeing the Spanish and Portuguese Inquisitions. Sultan Bayezid II of the Ottoman Empire welcomed the Jewish refugees into his empire. Jews became involved in trade between the various provinces in the Ottoman Empire, becoming especially important in the salt trade.

The 1455 Turkish cadastral tax census of the Branković lands (covering 80% of present-day Kosovo) recorded 1 Jewish dwelling in Vushtrri.
An Austrian statistic published in 1899 estimated:
 Albanians: (48%)
 Serbs: (44%)
 Remaining 8%: Tsintsars, Turks, Circassians, Romani, and Jews

Yugoslavian rule 
In the aftermath of World War I, Serbia merged with Montenegro, and then united with the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs to form the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, which was soon renamed Kingdom of Yugoslavia. The largely Albanian-populated Kosovo was included within Serbia. At the time, some 500 Jews resided in Kosovo.

The 1921 population census for the territories comprising modern-day Kosovo listed 439,010 inhabitants:
By religion:
 Muslims: 329,502 (75%)
 Serbian Orthodox: 93,203
 Roman Catholics: 15,785
 Jews: 427
 Greek Catholics: 26

World War II and The Holocaust 

In 1941, Kosovo was incorporated into the Italian-ruled Greater Albania. 
In July 1943, when Italy left the war, the Germans took control of Kosovo. In 1944, communist partisans recaptured Kosovo from Albania and made it part of the Democratic Federal Yugoslavia.

Deportations and death / survival figures 
Current literature indicates five sets of numerically recorded deportations from Kosovo:

1) August 1941, Mitrovica, under German occupation, 88 Jews are reported to have been sent to Sajmiste Concentration Camp near axis occupied Belgrade where they were killed. Prior to deportation all Jewish men in Mitrovica / Mitrovice are alleged to have been arrested, while women were sent to daily forced labor. In February 1942, the women are said to have been detained with their children, Jewish property taken by local collaborators, and synagogue destroyed. A 1960 report to the Administration of the State Security of NR Serbia details names of victims from 12 families shot at the camp in winter 1941.

[Source  can be crossed referenced with second generational verbal accounts of deportations from Mitrovica that can still be sourced today. Supplementary survivor testimony in the Shoah Foundation Archive also makes reference to experience of the holocaust in relation to movements through Kosvoska Mitrovica]

2) 1942, Prishtina. 250 Yugoslavian Jews, including an unknown number of native Kosovo Jews, transferred to the Albanian interior. As of 1943 historian Daniel Perez relates they made up part of 500 Jews held under house arrest or in concentration camps in the Albanian towns of Berat, Kruja and Kavaja. He also indicates movements of both native and non-native Jews from Kosovo to Albania were ongoing throughout the war period.

3) March 1942, Prishtina. Italian military police detained 51 Jewish refugees and passed them to the Nazis. According to historian Noel Malcolm they were sent to Sajmiste. Daniel Perez details that the deportation list was compiled by Italian authorities and local Albanian police and that they were first sent to a "concentration camp" [probable terminiological error - as it was a holding camp] in Prishtina before being transferred to Mitrovica.

4) May 14, 1944, Prishtina. Nazi Chief Heinrich Himmler organized the Skanderburg Unit which were commanded by the Germans to arrest 281 Jews who were sent to Bergen-Belsen via occupied Belgrade where, according to Noel Malcolm, 'more than' 200 died, or according to Martin Cüppers, 'at least' 177 died.

5) August 1944, Prishtina, An extensive list of 789 mainly non-Jewish victims including Bosniak, Albanian, Serbian, communists, partisans and activists, arrested by the SS Skanderburg division to be transported to the Reich has been published by Robert Elise. 31 people are listed as Jews, and a further 11 people, mainly children, are listed purely on the basis of belonging to a Jewish family. Their fate is unknown.