[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Raja ibn Haywa

Rajaʾ ibn Ḥaywa ibn Khanzal al-Kindī () was a prominent Muslim theological and political adviser of the Umayyad caliphs Abd al-Malik (), al-Walid I (), Sulayman () and Umar II (). He was a staunch defender of the religious conduct of the caliphs against their pious detractors. He played an important role in the construction of the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem under Abd al-Malik. He became a mentor of Sulayman during the latter's governorship of Palestine and his secretary or chief scribe during his caliphate. Raja played an influential role in securing the succession of Umar II over Sulayman's brothers or sons and continued as a secretary to the new caliph. He spent the last decade of his life in retirement, though he maintained contact with Caliph Hisham ().

Early life

Raja, known also by his kunya "Abūʾl-Miqdām" or "Abū Naṣr", was the son of Haywa ibn Khanzal. He was born in Beisan (Beit She'an), in the Jordan district, before moving south to Palestine. According to a report traced to Raja and recorded by the historian al-Suyuti (d. 1505), Raja considered himself a Jerusalemite. His approximate year of birth was , during the early reign of the first Umayyad caliph, Mu'awiya I (). 

The 9th-century historian Khalifa ibn Khayyat mentions that Raja was a mawlā (non-Arab, Muslim client or freedman) of the Kinda tribe. The modern historian Michael Lecker considers his mawla status as a reasonable possibility, but also holds there is good evidence that Raja was of actual Kindite descent, due to the existence of his full genealogy, which places him as a great-grandson of the Kindite tribesman Imru al-Qays ibn Abis, a contemporary of the first caliph Abu Bakr. Moreover, Imru al-Qays and Raja both lived in Baysan, the former in his later life and Raja in his youth. Because of his family's residence in the Palestine or Jordan district of Syria, Raja is occasionally given the nisba (epithet) of al-Filasṭīnī ("the Palestinian") or al-Urdunnī ("the Jordanian"). The family likely hailed from or settled in an area inhabited by their Kindite tribal kin or patrons, whose prominence in Syria had grown under Mu'awiya and further still under Caliph Marwan I ().

Career under the Umayyad caliphs

Association with the Dome of the Rock

It was likely through the patronage of the Kindites in the caliphs' courts in Syria that Raja gained favor with the Umayyads, particularly Marwan's son and successor, Abd al-Malik (). The latter entrusted Raja and his own Jerusalemite mawlā, Yazid ibn Sallam, with overseeing the financing of the Dome of the Rock's construction in Jerusalem. It is possible this was the reason for Raja's relocation to Palestine from the Jordan district and his new title sayyid ahl Filaṣtin (leader of the people of Palestine). Raja's role in its construction is described in the earliest known Muslim literary work specifically dedicated to the merits of Jerusalem, the Faḍāʿil al-Bayt al-Muqaddas written by the Jerusalemite preacher Ahmad al-Wasiti before 1019. Raja and Yazid were instructed by the caliph to spend generously on the building's construction and ornamentation. In an account recorded by the 15th-century Palestine-based historian Mujir ad-Din al-Ulaymi, Raja and Yazid informed Abd al-Malik that after the Dome of the Rock's completion there remained a surplus of 100,000 gold dinars in the construction budget. The caliph offered them the sum as an additional reward for their efforts, but both men refused; as a result, Abd al-Malik ordered that the coins be melted to gild the building's dome. 

The historian Nasser Rabbat speculates Raja played a greater role in the founding of the Dome of the Rock, beyond fiscally managing its construction. He proposes that Raja advised Abd al-Malik to choose the site of the Dome of the Rock on the Temple Mount and formulated the Qur'anic inscriptions which decorate the structure's interior and exterior. He bases this theory on Raja's senior position in the Umayyad court, knowledge of the Qur'an, social connection to Palestine, expertise about the holy sites of Jerusalem, and his important role in developing the early Muslim tradition about Jerusalem's sanctity.

Adviser of Abd al-Malik
Toward the end of the Dome of the Rock's completion in 691/92, Raja was assigned by Abd al-Malik to a joint embassy with the up-and-coming commander al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf to negotiate a reconciliation with Zufar ibn al-Harith al-Kilabi, the leader of a tribal rebellion in Upper Mesopotamia. Raja displayed his moderate disposition by praying alongside Zufar when al-Hajjaj refused to do so. According to al-Baladhuri, Raja later interceded with Abd al-Malik to pardon the rebels who had participated in the mass anti-Umayyad, Iraqi rebellion of Ibn al-Ash'ath, a prominent Kufa-based Kindite, in 700–701.