[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Moses in rabbinic literature

ngeon, who must have died long ago; but if he were still living he must be a just man whom God had kept alive by a miracle. Jethro went to the dungeon and called Moses, who answered immediately. As Jethro found Moses praying, he really believed that he had been saved by a miracle, and liberated him.

Jethro had planted in his garden a marvelous rod, which had been created on the sixth day of the Creation, on Friday afternoon, and had been given to Adam. This curious rod had been handed down through Enoch, Shem, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to Joseph, at whose death it came into the possession of Pharaoh's court. Jethro, who saw it there, stole it and planted it in his garden. On the rod were engraved the tetragrammaton and the initials of the ten plagues destined for Egypt. Jethro asked every one who wished to marry one of his daughters to pull up the rod; but no suitor had yet succeeded in doing so. Moses, on being set at liberty, walked in the garden, saw the rod, and read the inscription. He easily pulled it out of the ground and used it for a staff Jethro thereby recognized Moses as the deliverer of Israel, and gave him the virtuous Zipporah as wife, together with much money. Jethro stipulated that the first-born son of the marriage should adopt Jethro's pagan belief, while all the other children might be reared as Jews; and Moses agreed thereto. According to "Midrash Vayosha" l.c., one-half of the children of this marriage were to belong to Judaism and one-half to paganism. When therefore his son Gershom — who subsequently became the father of Jonathan — was born, Moses, under his agreement with Jethro, could not circumcise him.

Moses, therefore, went with his wife and child (another version says that both of his sons were then already born) to Egypt. On the way he met Satan, or Mastema, as he is called in the Book of Jubilees, in the guise of a serpent, which proceeded to swallow Moses, and had ingested the upper part of his body, when he stopped. Zipporah seeing this, concluded that the serpent's action was because her son had not been circumcised, whereupon she circumcised him and smeared some of the blood on Moses' feet. A heavenly voice was then heard commanding the serpent to disgorge the half-swallowed Moses, which it immediately did. When Moses came into Egypt he met his old enemies Dathan and Abiram, and when they asked him what he was seeking in Egypt, he immediately returned to Midian.

At the burning bush

As the shepherd of his father-in-law, he drove his sheep far into the desert , in order to prevent the sheep from grazing in fields not belonging to Jethro. Here God appeared to him and addressed him for seven consecutive days. Moses, however, refused to listen, because he would not allow himself to be disturbed in the work for which he was paid. Then God caused the flaming bush to appear, in order to divert Moses' attention from his work. The under-shepherds with Moses saw nothing of the marvelous spectacle, which Moses alone beheld. Moses then interrupted his work and stepped nearer the bush to investigate. As Moses was at this time entirely inexperienced in prophecy, God, in calling him, imitated the voice of Amram, so as not to frighten him. Moses, who thought that his father, Amram, was appearing to him, said: "What does my father wish?" God answered: "I am the God of thy father", and gave him the mission to save Israel. Moses hesitated to accept the mission chiefly because he feared that his elder brother, Aaron, who until then had been the only prophet in Israel, might feel slighted if his younger brother became the savior of the people; whereupon God assured him that Aaron would be glad of it. According to another version, Moses said to God: "You promised Jacob that You Yourself would liberate Israel, not appointing a mediator." God answered: "I myself will save them, but go thou first and announce to My children that I will do so." Moses consented, and went to his father-in-law, Jethro, to obtain permission to leave Midian, for he had promised not to leave Midian without his sanction.

Moses departed with his wife and children, and met Aaron, who told him it was not right to take them into Egypt since the attempt was being made to lead the Israelites out of that country. He therefore sent his wife and children back to Midian.

Confrontation with Pharaoh
When they went to Pharaoh, Moses went ahead, Aaron following, because Moses was more highly regarded in Egypt; otherwise Aaron and Moses were equally prominent and respected.