[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 30th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

nessee River. Here they were employed in guard duty until December 6, 1864, when they again embarked and proceeding up the Ohio River, landed at Louisville December 10, where they rejoined the balance of the regiment, with the exception of Co. I, which still remained at Fort Union, Dakota Territory.

On the December 12, 1864, the nine companies of the Thirtieth left Louisville by rail, and next day went into camp at Bowling Green, Kentucky. Here the regiment was assigned to the Second Brigade, Second Division, Military District of Kentucky. Colonel Dill took command of the Brigade, and Major Clowney that of the Regiment. On the 10th of January 10, 1865, the Regiment left Bowling green for Louisville, arriving on the 12th, where they were assigned to duty as guard to the military prison in that city. On January 20, 1865, Companies A, D and F, under command of Captain Meacham, of Company F, were detached as provost guard in Louisville. On the February 8, 1865, Companies B, E and G, under command of Major Clowney, proceeded by rail to Frankfort, Kentucky, sixty five miles from Louisville, under orders to assume the duties of permanent garrison of that city. Company B, on the March 30, moved from Frankfort to Georgetown, Kentucky, near which they were stationed as garrison, under command of Lieutenant William H. Gill.

Lieutenant Colonel Bartlett rejoined and assumed command of the Regiment at Louisville in the latter part of February, 1865, and on April 17, 1865, Colonel Dill was appointed Provost Marshal General of Kentucky. Company В rejoined the command May 27, and early in June Companies E and G returned to Louisville, where Company I also rejoined the regiment on June 22, 1865, having been relieved from duty at Fort Union, Dakota Territory on June 4 by Company B of the 1st United States Volunteer Infantry. During the service of the Regiment in Kentucky it was engaged in running down and capturing bands of guerrillas in the Department.

The regiment was mustered out of service at Louisville, Kentucky, on September 20, 1865, and immediately started for home, arriving at Madison, Wisconsin, on September 25, 1865, where it was paid and disbanded.

Casualties
The 30th Wisconsin suffered 2 enlisted men killed in action or who later died of their wounds, plus another 2 officers and 65 enlisted men who died of disease, for a total of 69 fatalities.

Commanders
 Colonel Daniel J. Dill (July 22, 1862September 20, 1865) nominally commanded the regiment for its entire service, but was detached as provost marshal of Kentucky near the end of the war.  Before joining the 30th Wisconsin Infantry, he was captain of Co. B in the 6th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment.  After the war he served in the Wisconsin State Assembly.
 Major John Clowney (February 8, 1865September 20, 1865) had command of the regiment when Colonel Dill and Lt. Colonel Edward M. Barlett were assigned to provost and court martial duty.

Notable members
 Arthur Lockard Cox, son of Charles B. Cox, was first lieutenant and later captain of Co. A.
 Cornelius A. Davenport was enlisted in Co. H for the last three years of the war.  After the war he was a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly.
 Edward M. Bartlett, brother of M. D. Bartlett, was lieutenant colonel of the regiment through most of the regiment's service.  Toward the end of the war he was detached and assigned to court martial duty at Louisville.

See also

 List of Wisconsin Civil War units
 Wisconsin in the American Civil War

References

External links
 Letters by Private Robert Richards of Co. E. to his sister Caroline
The Civil War Archive

Military units and formations established in 1862
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865
Units and formations of the Union Army from Wisconsin
1862 establishments in Wisconsin