[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John E. Herbst

e ministry. The new ministry was restructured to meet the changing political and socio-economic environment in Ukraine. During the meeting Ambassador Herbst offered the support of American law enforcement officers and noted that the U.S. is willing to provide aid to the Ministry of Internal Affairs.

Following the Orange Revolution, Ambassador Herbst facilitated funding of objective sources of news in Ukraine. His efforts led to the United States Agency of International Development funding $2.4 million to be spent towards the development of mass media in the country. Ambassador Herbst implemented his strategy by focusing on readying trainers and educators in the communications discipline, including Ukraine's Center for Ukrainian Reform Education and Kyiv non-governmental organization Telekritika. Ambassador Herbst oversaw tertiary funding including the Open Media Fund, sponsored by the International Renaissance Foundation and worked with his associates at the U.S. Embassy, including press attaché Brent Byers, to allocate $750,000 in 2005. Ambassador Herbst oversaw funding in support of independent media in Ukraine. Ambassador Herbst coordinated with the European Commission to Ukraine and effectively secured an additional 3.5 million Euros between 2003 and 2005.

Ukrainian-American Concordia University (WIUU) 
On June 14, 2019, Herbst was appointed as the Honorary President of the Ukrainian-American Concordia University (WIUU).

G-8 Global Partnership Against the Proliferation of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction

On April 23–24, 2002, Ambassador Herbst attended an international conference in Moscow to gain international support of the Global Partnership Against the Proliferation of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction. During the conference Ambassador Herbst delivered Ukrainian Foreign Minister Kostyantyn Gryshchenko a letter from Undersecretary of State for Arms Control and International Security John Bolton. The letter encouraged Ukraine to support the Global Partnership. The letter also discussed nonproliferation topics introduced at the 2002 G-8 Summit, a summit which led to the conference in Moscow discussing the Global Partnership.

Personal life  

Herbst was married to Nadezda Christoff Herbst and has five children.

References

External links

State Department Bio: John E. Herbst
Bio at Tashkent Embassy web site

Ambassadors of the United States to Uzbekistan
Ambassadors of the United States to Ukraine
Living people
1952 births
Walsh School of Foreign Service alumni
Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies alumni
People from Rockville Centre, New York
The Fletcher School at Tufts University alumni
Atlantic Council
United States Foreign Service personnel
21st-century American diplomats