[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sarath Fonseka

ka Army Volunteer Force and in 2004 he was appointed Director Infantry, Deputy Chief of Staff and then Chief of Staff of the Sri Lanka Army. In December 2005 he was appointed Commander of the Army by president Mahinda  Rajapaksa and was promoted to the rank of lieutenant general

Suicide bomb attack

On 25 April 2006, Lt. General Fonseka survived an LTTE suicide bomb attack on his unarmored staff car by a pregnant LTTE operative named Anoja Kugenthirarasah who infiltrated Army Headquarters by attending the regular maternity clinic provided for civilians at the military hospital. Fonseka was gravely wounded in the attack along with his ADC; while nine others, including members of his security detail were killed. The General was rushed to the Colombo General Hospital within minutes. This had been possible because the attack took place next to the Army Hospital and therefore an ambulance was at hand. Fonseka was conscious upon admittance and had communicated with his officers and the doctors. The general, who was unconscious following emergency surgery, was put on a ventilator and regained consciousness on 30 April 2006. He was later transferred to the military hospital at Army Headquarters and subsequently flown to Singapore for medical treatment. Years later, in 2016 Fonseka requested President Maithripala Sirisena to take steps towards releasing the person imprisoned in connection with his attempted assassination.

Eelam War IV

After recovering from his wounds, Lt. General Fonseka resumed his duties in July 2006. Fonseka has been described as the mastermind of the military strategy behind the military victory in Sri Lanka's three-decade war against terrorism.  He abandoned conventional methods, matched the ingenious tactics and strategies of the LTTE, fully utilized the superior numerical strength and fire power of the Sri Lankan armed forces and kept up pressure on the enemy. He broke tradition by insisting on the full deployment of naval and air power to aid the war on land and succeeded in getting the support of the other service commanders.

Fonseka broke army units into small groups and made these highly trained and motivated men who infiltrated Tiger-held areas, tracked down the fighting cadres of the LTTE and eliminated them. He transformed the Sri Lankan army from its defensive posture to an offence force. Along with his proactive military leadership, the battle-hardened commander changed military strategy in preparations before the war such as changing the training and ethos of the infantry and preparing the defences in the north. He empowered the frontline soldier, breaking the norms of conventional military attitude. In 2007, Fonseka introduced the Mechanized Infantry Regiment.

Fonseka changed the reactionary nature of the Army and formulated a plan that would end the war in a time frame of three years. The aim was shifted from capturing ground to destroying the enemy. He reduced operations conducted along the main roads and expanded the battlefront in order to disperse the enemy manpower and firepower. To this end he devised the strategy of introducing large numbers of four-man teams to the theater of war, there by reducing military and civilian casualties through dispersion, stealth and precision in operations and fought the war on multiple fronts. He inaugurated the northern campaign before the conclusion of the eastern campaign, thereby making it difficult for political intrusion to halt the war.

General Fonseka opted instead to attack the LTTE's strongest areas and opted for performance over seniority and selected officers with experience in the field. He restructured the Army Intelligence Units which proved vital for the Navy and the Air Force to destroy LTTE ships, commanders and other targets. Fonseka implemented strong measures to improve the discipline in the army, eradicate corruption and wastage. He also reduced the burden on the government and the citizen by the effective management of the resources at his disposal and personally ensured the unimpeded supply of ammunition. In January 2009, he was described as the best army commander in the world by India's National Security Advisor.

Defeat of the LTTE

On 18 May 2009, the Sri Lankan military completely defeated the LTTE after 26 years of civil war. Fonseka played a key role as Commander of the Army, and is considered as a national hero by the majority of Sri Lankans due to this achievement. He was soon after promoted to general, becoming the first army commander to hold a full general rank, since it was traditionally awarded to retiring Commanders of the Army.

Chief of Defence Staff

Fonseka was appointed Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) by President Rajapaksa effective 15 July 2009. He was the first person appointed CDS under the newly approved Chief of Defence Staff Act, which was supposed to give the CDS more responsibilities in co-ordinating the armed forces.

Retirement