[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 163]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ut I believe that neither of us would have escaped, if
it had not been for the poor courageous Black that came to our
assistance.

_Mr Barlow._--I see, Harry, that you are a boy of a noble and generous
spirit, and I highly approve of everything you have done; but are you
determined to forsake Tommy Merton for ever, because he has once behaved
ill?

_Harry._--I, sir! no, I am sure. But though I am poor, I do not desire
the acquaintance of anybody that despises me. Let him keep company with
his gentlemen and ladies, I am satisfied with companions in my own
station. But surely, sir, it is not _I_ that forsake him, but _he_ that
has cast me off.

_Mr Barlow._--But if he is sorry for what he has done, and only desires
to acknowledge his faults and obtain your pardon?

_Harry._--Oh dear, sir, I should forget everything in an instant. I knew
Master Tommy was always a little passionate and headstrong, but he is at
the same time generous and good-natured; nor would he, I am sure, have
treated me so ill if he had not been encouraged to it by the other young
gentlemen.

_Mr Barlow._--Well, Harry, I believe your friend is thoroughly sensible
of his faults, and that you will have little to fear for the future. He
is impatient till he sees you, and asks your forgiveness.

_Harry._--Oh, sir, I should forgive him if he had beaten me a hundred
times. But though I cannot leave the horses now, if you will be so kind
to wait a little, I daresay my father will let me go when he leaves off
ploughing.

_Mr Barlow._--No, Harry, there is no occasion for that. Tommy has indeed
used you ill, and ought to acknowledge it, otherwise he will not deserve
to be trusted again. He will call upon you, and tell you all he feels on
the occasion. In the mean time I was desired, both by him and Mr Merton,
to inquire after the poor negro that served you so materially, and saved
you from the bull.

_Harry._--He is at our house, sir, for I invited him home with me; and
when my father heard how well he had behaved, he made him up a little
bed over the stable, and gives him victuals every day, and the poor man
seems very thankful and industrious, and says he would gladly do any
kind of work to earn his subsistence.

Mr Barlow then took his leave of Harry, and after having spoken to his
father, returned to Mr Merton's.

During Mr Barlow's absence Mr Simmons had arrived there to fetch away
his niece; but when he had heard the story of the Highlander, he
perfectly recollected his name and character, and was touched with the
sincerest compassion for his sufferings. On conversing with the poor man
he found that he was extremely well acquainted with agriculture, as well
as truly industrious, and therefore instantly proposed to settle him in
a small farm of his own which happened to be vacant. The poor man
received this unexpected change in his fortune with tears of joy, and
every mark of unaffected gratitude; and Mr Merton, who never wanted
generosity, insisted upon having a share in his establishment. He was
proposing to supply him with the necessary implements of agriculture,
and a couple of horses, to begin the culture of his land, just at the
moment when Mr Barlow entered, who, when he had heard with the sincerest
pleasure the improvement of the poor man's circumstances, begged
permission to share in so benevolent an action. "I have an excellent
milch-cow," said he, "which I can very well spare, whose milk will
speedily recruit the strength of these poor children; and I have
half-a-dozen ewes and a ram, which I hope, under Mr Campbell's
management, will soon increase to a numerous flock." The poor Highlander
seemed almost frantic with such a profusion of unexpected blessings, and
said "that he wished nothing more than to pass the remainder of his days
in such a generous nation, and to be enabled to show, at least, the
sentiments which such undeserved generosity had excited."

At night Mr Merton, who was desirous by every method to support the good
impressions which had now taken possession of Tommy's mind, proposed
that Miss Simmons should favour them with the conclusion of the story
which she had begun the night before. The young lady instantly complied,
and then read them


_The Conclusion of the Story of Sophron and Tigranes._

"The venerable Chares continued his narration thus: 'I passed several
months among the Arabians, delighted with the simplicity of their life
and the innocence of their manners; and would to heaven,' added he, with
a sigh, 'that I had accepted their friendly invitations, and never
quitted the silence of their hospitable deserts! How many scenes should
I have avoided which fill these aged eyes with tears, and pierce my soul
with horror as often as I recollect them! I should not have been witness
to such a waste of human blood, nor traced the gradual ruin of my
country. I should not have seen our towns involved in flames, nor our
helpless c