[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# American Society of Radiologic Technologists

ety for Radiation Oncology. Educational courses at this conference focus on radiation therapy and medical dosimetry. In late November or early December, it conducts the ASRT@RSNA meeting, which offers educational courses for technologists who attend the Radiological Society of North America meeting.

Publications
The ASRT publishes two peer-reviewed research journals. The bimonthly journal Radiologic Technology keeps readers informed about advances in technology and patient care. It also offers ASRT members the opportunity to earn continuing education credit through its Directed Reading program. Radiation Therapist, published twice a year, focuses on technical advances in radiation oncology. It, too, features a Directed Reading program. ASRT Scanner is the society's member magazine. In addition, the ASRT operates a website which contains news, information about the profession, educational material for patients and a variety of professional resources for radiologic technologists.

•  Career Resources. The Society tracks members’ continuing education activities and maintains a CE record for each member that can be submitted as proof of continuing education. It conducts regular salary surveys of the profession, providing valuable information about income levels and trends.

•  Advocacy and Representation. The ASRT monitors and responds to all legislation that affects the profession and coordinates with other organizations to establish legal minimum standards to ensure high quality patient care. The ASRT also works to educate the public about the role of radiographers in providing quality patient care and patient safety in diagnostic imaging.  The ASRT is currently advocating for the passage of Senate Bill 2412, or the Protecting Access to Lifesaving Screening (PALS) Act of 2021. This bill will delay instructions that would restrict women under the age of 50 from receiving mammograms from the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF), which control medical payments. The PALS Act of 2021 aims to block the USPSTF from enforcing these instructions until January 1, 2028, and lower the age in which women can benefit from receiving mammograms to 40.

•  Professional Issues. The ASRT works with volunteers to develop and revise educational curricula, professional standards and practice guidelines for radiologic technologists and radiation therapists. The ASRT represents the profession in the governmental, educational and research arenas and was recently instrumental in the development of the registered radiologist assistant (R.R.A.), an advanced scope of practice for radiologic technologists.

References

Medical associations based in the United States
Non-profit organizations based in New Mexico
Medical and health organizations based in New Mexico
Radiology organizations