[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Voice for Life

, "Considering an Abortion? What are your Options?"  However, the booklets were returned to the ministry by both the New Zealand Family Planning Council and counselors at some clinics that provided abortions, although some general practitioners kept and used them. The booklet has not been reprinted.

Death With Dignity Bill 1995
In 1995, after the Northern Territory temporarily decriminalised euthanasia in that area of Australia, then-New Zealand National Party MP Michael Laws introduced an analogous voluntary euthanasia private members bill into the New Zealand Parliament. However, the Death With Dignity Bill 1995 failed to pass its first reading after opposition from SPUC, the New Zealand Conference of Catholic Bishops and other opponents. The margin of defeat was heavy (61-29).

Anti-abortion schism
In 2000, policy differences between the SPUC national leadership and the Christchurch branch led to the expulsion of the latter from the national organisation. Ken Orr, the Christchurch branch's spokesperson, wanted to push for abortion legislation but the national leadership wanted to wait for a strong anti-abortion government. According to McCulloch, tensions between Pryor and Orr dated back to 1980. In response, SPUC demanded that the Christchurch branch cease using the SPUC name in its lobbying activities and also told the media and politicians that Orr no longer represented the organisation. In September 2000, the Christchurch branch formally seceded from SPUC and became Right to Life New Zealand. In 2004, SPUC revamped itself as Voice for Life.

Death With Dignity Bill 2003
In 2003, New Zealand First Deputy Leader Peter Brown introduced a second incarnation of the Death With Dignity Bill into the New Zealand Parliament, which again sought to decriminalise euthanasia in New Zealand. As with the previous Death With Dignity Bill introduced in 1995, the private members bill was defeated at its first reading, but under a much narrower margin (60-58). Again, Voice for Life and other anti-euthanasia organisations opposed the decriminalisation bill and applauded its defeat.

Breast cancer controversy
Voice for Life in the mid-2000s ran nationwide advertisements on a questionable "abortion-breast cancer" link. In 2003 they brought to Australia Angela Lanfranchi, a private breast surgeon, who claimed that abortion increased the risk of breast cancer. The CV provided by SPUC showed that Lanfranchi has one publication to her name. The booklet she wrote on the subject is distributed by abortion foe Babette Francis of the Endeavour Forum of Australia. The National Women's Health Network, along with the American Cancer Society and the U.S. National Cancer Institute (NCI), evaluated the science on the issue and decided that the claim was unfounded. The NCI published a fact sheet on its website explaining the science and concluding that abortion did not increase the risk of breast cancer, before 2000, which was taken down after George W. Bush was elected U.S. president. A similar study early in 2003 reached the same conclusion.

Recent activities
In late July 2018, Voice for Life President Jacqui de Ruiters and other anti-abortion demonstrators laid 13,285 pairs of booties on the lawn of the New Zealand Parliament to highlight the number of abortions in New Zealand the previous year. Their presence attracted a counter-demonstration by pro-abortion rights protesters, some of whom donned handmaid's uniforms based on Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale.

Decriminalisation of abortion, March 2020

In September 2019, Voice for Life also sent a submission opposing the Labour-led coalition government's Abortion Legislation Act 2020, which would decriminalise abortion and ease restrictions on abortion access. New Zealand anti-abortionists failed to halt the decriminalisation of abortion, however, as the Abortion Legislation Act 2019 passed its third reading and became law on March 24, 2020.

Decriminalisation of euthanasia, October 2020
Voice for Life and other anti-euthanasia organisations fought the passage of the End of Life Choice Act 2020, but were unable to halt either its parliamentary passage, or its ratification within a subsequent binding referendum on the legislation held concurrently with the New Zealand general election 2020. Two-thirds of voters supported ratification of the Act, which came into force on November 6, 2021

Organisation and activities
As of 2019, Voice for Life has 30 branches across New Zealand and 4,500 members. Besides abortion, Voice for Life has also spoken out against infanticide, experimentation on embryos, cloning and euthanasia. Voice for Life's advocacy and communications activities have included stalls at public events, newspaper adverts, distributing informational material, contacts with the media, and lobbying politicians. As of 2020, the current Voice for Life President is  Kate Cormack.

See also
Abortion in New Zealand

References

Further reading

External links
 Voice for Life