[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Paddy Finucane

pilot too much attention. Nevertheless, the two maintained a cordial relationship. In his short time as wing commander of Hornchurch, Finucane made a few alterations to the formation. The most notable was to tighten flying discipline, loosen formation flying and increase low-level navigation skills.

On 15 July, Finucane was killed at the age of 21 while leading the Hornchurch Wing in a fighter "Ramrod"—ground attack—operation targeting a German Army camp at Étaples, France. Finucane took off with his wing at 11:50. The attack was timed to hit the Germans at lunchtime. Crossing the French coast at Le Touquet, they targeted machine gun positions. Finucane was hit in the radiator at 12:22. His wingman, Alan Aikman, notified him of the white plume of smoke and Finucane acknowledged it with a thumbs up. Standard regulations insisted the wing carry on the mission even if the leader was in trouble. Radio silence was maintained so the enemy radio-interception services would not know a person of importance was hit.

Finucane flew slowly out to sea, talking calmly to Aikman as he glided along in his ailing Spitfire. Finally, approximately  off Le Touquet, he broke radio silence and sent his last message. Aikman, flying alongside Finucane, saw him pull back the canopy, and before taking off his helmet, say "This is it, Butch". It was a well–executed landing, but the waves were difficult to predict and the Spitfire's nose struck the water and disappeared in a wall of spray. Before he hit the water, Aikman and Keith Chisholm of 452 Squadron saw him release, or perhaps tighten, his parachute release harness and straps. If Finucane had released them it is possible he could have been thrown forward onto the gun-sight and killed, or knocked unconscious and drowned; the circumstances remain unknown.

Memorials

Over 2,500 people attended his memorial at Westminster Cathedral. A rose was planted in the memorial garden in Baldonnel Aerodrome in Dublin (home of the Irish Air Corps) where Brendan and his brother Ray first flew. Finucane's name is also inscribed on the Air Forces Memorial at Runnymede. The memorial commemorates airmen who were lost in the Second World War and who have no known grave. The Battle of Britain Memorial on London's Embankment also includes his name as one of The Few. A number of streets in Bushey are named after Battle of Britain pilots, including Finucane Rise. There is a small estate, Finucane Court, with a plaque dedicated to him in Richmond, London. The Finucane family donated Brendan Finucane's uniform to the Royal Air Force Museum London.

Personal life
Finucane and his family worshipped at Our Lady of Loreto and St Winefride's, Kew, where he was an altar server.

He was engaged to Jean Woolford, who lived two doors away from his home in Catelgate, Richmond. She subsequently married, in 1944, another airman, Flying Office Edward Crang from New Zealand.

Summary of career

Air victories
RAF Fighter Command claims against the main British opponents in 1941 and 1942—Jagdgeschwader 26 (Fighter Wing 26) and Jagdgeschwader 2 (Fighter Wing 2) —are very difficult to verify. Only two of the 30 volumes of War Diaries produced by JG 26 survived the war. Historian Donald Caldwell has attempted to use what limited German material is available to compare losses and air victory claims but acknowledges the lack of sources leave the possibility for error. From June 1941 to the spring, 1942, Fighter Command claimed 711 enemy aircraft while losing 411. According to available German records, the loss to JG 2 and JG 26 were reportedly 103.

Awards
 13 May 1941 – "in recognition of gallantry displayed in flying operations against the enemy" Finucane was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross

 9 September 1941 – Acting Flight Lieutenant Brendan Finucane DFC (41276) of No. 452 (RAAF) Squadron is awarded a Bar to the Distinguished Flying Cross for gallantry displayed in flying operation against the enemy:

 26 September 1941 – Acting Flight Lieutenant Brendan Finucane DFC (41276) of No. 452 (RAAF) Squadron is awarded a second Bar to the Distinguished Flying Cross for gallantry displayed in flying operation against the enemy::

 21 October 1941 – Acting Flight Lieutenant Brendan Finucane DFC (41276) of No. 452 (RAAF) Squadron is awarded a Distinguished Service Order for gallantry displayed in flying operation against the enemy:

References

Notes

Citations

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Jackson, Robert. (1976). Fighter Pilots of World War II. New York: St. Martin's Press. .
 
 
 Philpott, Bryan. (1989). Famous Fighter Aces. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge. .
 
 
 
 
 
 
 . (republished Somerton, Somerset, UK: Crécy Publishing, 1992, ).

Further reading

External links
 RTÉ radio documentary on Brendan "Paddy" Finucane
 Battle of Britain Memorial – the Spitfire MkVb BM308