[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Seam Zone

mers who wish to access their land, are often only valid for a limited period. Access to the seam zone for permit holders is further limited by the specific operating regimes of the gate in question. Procedures and their opening hours differ from gate to gate and are not always entirely predictable.

According to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA), in July 2005, 38% of the applications for a permit were denied. Israeli and Palestinian human rights groups have noted that there is an increasing tendency to grant permits only to registered landowners and their direct descendants. The workforce in the labour-intensive Palestinian agricultural sector is therefore often excluded. Combined with the restrictions faced even by permit holders, there is an increasing tendency for land in the seam zone not to be cultivated. Under Israeli law, land areas not cultivated for three consecutive years can be confiscated and declared "state land". According to the UNOCHA, much of the land in the seam zone has already been declared "state land".

Criticism
Human rights groups, including those in Israel, have challenged the legality of both the separation barrier and the seam zone under international law. For example, in a petition to Israel's Supreme Court, the Israeli non-governmental organization Hamoked (Center for the Defense of the Individual) stated that, "the web of the Declaration and the Orders has spun, in the seam zone, a legal apartheid, which is intolerable, illegal and immoral. In other words, the discriminatory and oppressive topographical structure stands upon a shameful normative infrastructure, unprecedented in Israeli law."

Towns and villages in enclaves in the seam zone
As of 2010, the separation barrier is not yet completed in all areas.
According to the official map published by the Israeli government, the following Palestinian towns and villages will lie west of the completed or planned separation barrier:

 Barta'a enclave (north of Tulkarm): includes Barta'a Sharqiya, Umm ar-Rihan, Khirbet 'Abdallah al-Yunis, Khirbet Ash-Sheikh Sa'eed, Khirbet al-Muntar al-Gharbiya, Khirbet al-Muntar ash-Sharqiyya, and Dhaher al-Malik
 Bir Nabala enclave (northwest of Jerusalem), also includes Beit Hanina, al-Judeira, and al-Jib
 9 villages in the Bethlehem area: Battir, Husan, Nahalin, Wadi Fukin, Al Jab'a, Khirbit Zakariyya, Khirbit Al Ballouta, Khallet 'Afana and Al-Walaja

The localities of Khirbet Jabara (near Tulkarm), Azzoun, Ras Tira, Dab'a, Wad Rasha and Arab a-Ramadeen (all near Qalqilya) were originally planned to be west of the barrier. Subsequently, the Supreme Court of Israel ordered a re-routing of the barrier to place these localities east of the barrier.

Qalqilya and the Hableh area (including Ras Atiya and Izbat Jalud) are strictly speaking not enclaves, as narrow strips of land connect them to areas east of the barrier. Periodically the Israeli military employ checkpoints to restrict access to these areas for security reasons.

References

External links
Humanitarian Atlas - West Bank & Gaza Strip. OCHAoPt, December 2011. (95 MiB)
Displaced by the Wall: Forced Displacement as a Result of the West Bank Wall and its Associated Regime , Badil Resource Center for Palestinian Residency and Refugee Rights and The Norwegian Refugee Council/Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre, September 2006.
A study by Terry Rempel on Palestinian Refugees in the West Bank and Gaza Strip for ForcedMigration.org
Israeli Ministry of Defense website on the Israel Security Fence 
Amira Hass article on how Palestinians are now 'illegal residents'

 
Israeli West Bank barrier
Geography of the West Bank
Borders of Israel
Borders of the West Bank
Israeli-occupied territories