[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hezbollah political activities

trators amassed peacefully in downtown Beirut. Police estimated the crowd to number approximately 800,000, while Hezbollah claimed it was larger. By nighttime, several thousand protestors remained to begin a sit-in, setting up tents and vowing to not leave until Prime Minister Fouad Siniora resigns.

2008 Siniora Government
In the 2008 Government, again led by Siniora, another national unity government, Hezbollah and Amal each had two ministers in the 30-member cabinet. Muhammad Fneish was the Hezbollah minister, while Fawzi Salloukh was closely associated with Hezbollah.

2011 Mikati Government
In the 2011 Government, led by Najib Mikati, a national unity government, Hezbollah and Amal each again had two ministers in the 30-member cabinet. Hezbollah ministers were Hussein Hajj Hassan and Muhammad Fneish.

2013 Salam Government
In the April 2013 Government, led by Tammam Salam, a national unity government, Hezbollah and Amal each again had two ministers in the 24-member cabinet. Hezbollah ministers were Hussein Hajj Hassan and Muhammad Fneish.

2016 Hariri Government
In the December 2016 Government, led by Saad Hariri, a national unity government, Hezbollah had two ministers in the 30-member cabinet and Amal had three. Hezbollah ministers were Hussein Hajj Hassan and Muhammad Fneish.

2019 Hariri Government
In the January 2019 Government, again led by Hariri, a national unity government, Hezbollah had two ministers in the 30-member cabinet and Amal had three. Hezbollah ministers were Muhammad Fneish and Mahmoud Kmati. The government was forced to resign on the 29 October 2019 following mass protests

2020 Diab Government
In the January 2020 Government, led by Hassan Diab, a national unity government, Amal and Hezbollah had two ministers each in the 20-member cabine. Hamad Hasan and Imad Hoballah were the Hezbollah ministers. On 10 August 2020, the government resigned following public anger over the explosions that took place in Beirut six days earlier.

Position of Hezbollah militias
The Taif Agreement signed in October 1989 to end of the Lebanese civil war, besides other things, called for the disarmament of all national and non-national militias. Hezbollah was allowed to stay armed in its capacity as a "resistance force" rather than a militia, fighting Israel in the south, a privilege obtained – according to the Swedish academic Magnus Ranstorp – in part by using its leverage as holder of a number of Western hostages. UNSC Resolution 1559, adopted on 2 September 2004, besides other things, called on all Lebanese and non-Lebanese militias to disband. However, on 7 May 2005, Lebanese prime minister, Najib Mikati, declared: "Our terminology -- Hezbollah -- is not a militia. It's a resistance."

Hezbollah militias and Israel fought the 2006 Lebanon War, which began on 12 July 2006, precipitated by the 2006 Hezbollah cross-border raid. On 5 August 2006, Lebanese prime minister, Fouad Siniora, said that "the continued presence of Israeli occupation of Lebanese lands in the Shebaa Farms region is what contributes to the presence of Hezbollah weapons. The international community must help us in (getting) an Israeli withdrawal from Shebaa Farms so we can solve the problem of Hezbollah's arms". On 11 August 2006, the United Nations Security Council unanimously approved United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701 (UNSCR 1701) in an effort to end the hostilities. The resolution was approved by both the Lebanese and Israeli governments and also called for disarmament of Hezbollah, for withdrawal of the IDF from Lebanon, and for the deployment of the Lebanese Armed Forces in the south. The conflict ended on 14 August 2006.

In 2009, a Hezbollah commander (speaking on condition of anonymity) said, "[W]e have far more rockets and missiles [now] than we did in 2006." As at October 2019, Hezbollah has still not disarmed or disbanded its militias nor has the Lebanese army deployed to south Lebanon, on the border with Israel.

See also
 Ideology of Hezbollah
 Hezbollah military activities
 Hezbollah foreign relations
 Loyalty to the Resistance Bloc

Notes

References

External links
 Hezbollah's Democratic Demands by Mohammed Ben Jelloun, Swans Commentary, January 15, 2007.
 Hizbullah's two republics Al-Ahram Weekly, February 15–21, 2007.
 Hezbollah: Most Powerful Political Movement in Lebanon
 A Voice of Resistance: the Point of View of Hizballah - perceptions, goals and strategies of an Islamic movement in Lebanon, by Mats Wärn, Department of Political Science, Stockholm University
 Staying the Course: the "Lebanonization" of Hizbollah - the integration of an Islamist movement into a pluralist political system, by Mats Wärn, Department of Political Science, Stockholm University

P

es:Actividades políticas de Hezbolá