[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Serbian River Flotilla

an Union multinational counter-piracy operation off the Horn of Africa and in the Western Indian Ocean. Deploying as the Serbian Autonomous Vessel Protection Detachment (AVPD), where River Flotilla personnel are directly stationed on World Food Programme (WFP) ships in need of protection.

Structure

The River Flotilla is subordinated to the Serbian Army as the landlocked Serbian military doesn't possess naval branch. It is headquartered in Novi Sad, with additional units based in Belgrade and Šabac.

 Command Company (Novi Sad)
 1st River Detachment (Novi Sad)
 93rd Diving Company 
 2nd River Detachment (Belgrade)
 1st Pontoon Battalion (Šabac)
 2nd Pontoon Battalion (Novi Sad)
 Logistics Company (Novi Sad)

Equipment
The River Flotilla's surface fleet mostly date from the 1970s, but since being well maintained and subjected to periodic modest upgrades are considered to be adequate for at least another decade. Five Neštin class river minesweepers constitute the core of the fleet and although minesweepers their primary  role is that of universal vessels for the control of river ways. They are expected to be in service until the end of 2020s as are Type 22 landing crafts and Type 20 patrol boats. To supplement these vessels, the flotilla has procured a number of small civilian craft, including one Premax 39 multirole fast combat boat built domestically by Yugoimport SDPR.

In October 2013, a four-year general overhaul and modification of the flotilla's flagship ship, BPN-30 "Kozara”, was completed at "Apatin Shipyard" with the addition of new diesel-electric propulsion, giving the River Flotilla functional capabilities of a hospital ship as well as navigation and shipping training ship for cadets attending the Serbian Military Academy. In 2017, China donated 24 RIB-720 boats equipped with 150 hp Yamaha outboard motors to the Serbian Armed Forces, of which 10 boats were allocated to the River Flotilla.

Surface Fleet

Engineering Vehicles

Training 

Members of the River Flotilla are educated and trained at the Nautical Department of the Serbian Military Academy which offers courses in Serbian and English for domestic and international military and civilian students. Boat crews are trained to operate vessels for day and night operations in accordance with national standards and International Maritime Organization safety standards. The River Flotilla primarily conducts training for boat safety, navigation, night vision, communications, operator maintenance, high‐speed maneuvering, handling weapons (including crew‐served weapons) and other individual and collective skills unique to riverine craft operating in a riverine environment.

Exercises

The River Flotilla regularly conducts live-fire and manoeuvre exercises with both domestic and international military, public safety and riverine forces including, Croatia, Hungary, Bulgaria, and Romania. Exercises generally involve anti-terrorism and disaster relief scenarios and often include live firing against land and water targets.

Multinational exercises

Since 2011, the Serbian River Flotilla and the Hungarian Danube Flotilla, have jointly conducted the week-long exercise series dubbed "Iron Cat", alternating locations every year. The aim of the exercise series is to enhance bilateral cooperation and improve the application of tactics, techniques and procedures of both river units while building mutual trust. Both the Serbians and the Hungarians operate the Neštin class river minesweepers.

Iron Cat 2019 - held in Serbia at the training ground "Titel" and focused on the protection of river traffic, including mine detection, deactivating and destroying underwater mines, anti-ship actions and anti-terrorism actions.

Iron Cat 2018 - held between Budapest and Mohács, Hungary included training in explosive ordnance disposal, river policing, border surveillance and border control, patrol activities, arresting and occupying hostile vessels, escorting and protecting dignitaries and cargo, and river closures. Serbian and Hungarian vessels also conducted live-fire training against air and water targets.

Iron Cat 2017 - held near Banoštor, Serbia included training in the blockade and control of inland waterways due to migratory and terrorist threats in the region.

Iron Cat 2016 - held in Budapest, Hungary included training in protection of cargo ships from attack, securing and blockade of the river.

Iron Cat 2015 - tactival live fire exercise held at the Serbian artillery training ground "Titel" on the Tisa River.

Iron Cat 2014 - tactical live fire exercise held at the Hungarian Defence Forces Várpalota range in Hungary included joint minesweeping activities.

Iron Cat 2013 - tactical live fire exercise at the Serbian artillery training ground "Titel" on the Tisa River.

Iron Cat 2012 - tactical live fire exercise at the Hungarian Defence Forces Várpalota range included shooting ground-based targets on the using the 20mm PAV-1 and PAV-4 autocannons.