[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Phoenix Iron Works (Phoenixville, Pennsylvania)

the Army (see Field Artillery in the American Civil War). Produced by the company's unique rolling process, the  wrought iron barrels were durable and resisted bursting, unlike the cast iron gun tubes of Phoenixville's smaller competitors. At its peak, the factory was producing fifty rifles a week.

Many of these rifled guns are in private collections, municipal parks, and at battlefields across the country, including the Gettysburg Battlefield. They are distinguished by the letters PIC (for Phoenix Iron Company) stamped on the muzzle.

Phoenix column 
The Phoenix Column, patented by Samuel Reeves in 1862, was a hollow cylinder composed of four, six, or eight wrought iron segments riveted together. The resulting column was much lighter and stronger than the solid cast iron columns of the day. They allowed the construction of massive structures without brutally heavy load-bearing walls. Taller and taller buildings could now be built on narrow urban plots, helping facilitate the creation of the skyscraper and high-stress-load-bearing bridges.

Phoenix Bridge Company 
The success of the Phoenix column led to the formation of a construction subsidiary named Clarke, Reeves & Co. Later renamed the Phoenixville Bridge Works and finally the Phoenix Bridge Company,  the firm ultimately built some 4,200 bridges, primarily wrought iron truss railway bridges.  Phoenix Bridge helped build the Manhattan Bridge, the Walnut Street Bridge in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and the Calhoun Street Bridge, between Trenton, New Jersey, and Morrisville, Pennsylvania, and projects as far away as Chile, Russia and China.  In 1900, the Bridge Company was awarded the contract for the Quebec Bridge across the St. Lawrence River, which collapsed in 1907. Despite the blow to its reputation, Phoenix Bridge lived on for another half-century, ultimately closing in 1962.  A number of the company's works are listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.

Works include:
Boston University Bridge, between Cambridge, Massachusetts and Boston, Massachusetts built in 1927.
Bridge in West Fallowfield Township, Ross Fording Road over Octoraro Creek, near Steelville, West Fallowfield Township, Pennsylvania, NRHP-listed
Bridge in Upper Frederick Township, Fagleysville Rd. over Swamp Creek, Fagleysville, Pennsylvania (Phoenix Bridge Co.), NRHP-listed
Brocton Arch, jct. of Main St. with Lake and Highland Aves., Brocton, New York (Phoenix Bridge Co.), NRHP-listed
County Line Bowstring, over West Creek, Northwest of Hollis, Hollis, Kansas, and Wayne, Kansas (Phoenix Bridge Co.), NRHP-listed
Etters Bridge, Green Lane Dr. and Yellow Breeches Creek, Fairview Township, Pennsylvania, and Lower Allen Township, Pennsylvania (Phoenix Bridge Co.), NRHP-listed
Phoenix Bridge, Northwest of Eagle Rock off Virginia 615 over Craig Creek, Eagle Rock, Virginia (Phoenix Bridge Co.), NRHP-listed
Trenton City/Calhoun Street Bridge, spans Delaware River between Morrisville, Pennsylvania, and Trenton, New Jersey (Phoenix Bridge Co.), NRHP-listed
Mill City Oregon Railroad Bridge, now a pedestrian bridge.  A Phoenix Column bridge, manufactured  in 1888, moved to San Jose, CA then  Lake Oswego Oregon then to Mill City Oregon, Installed 1919. Abandoned by Southern Pacific railroad around 1967 and used as a pedestrian and bike bridge. Current restoration being undertaken by 'Save our Bridge"
Dingman's Ferry Bridge, in Dingman Township, Pennsylvania and Sandyston Township, New Jersey was built in 1900 using Phoenix columns and other steel from another Phoenix bridge 
Works in Brazil:
Complexo FEPASA, in Jundiaí, São Paulo, Brazil. The railway workshop shed structure was bought in 1890.
Recife's Bridge at Capibaribe river, was built in 1884.

Gallery

See also 
 Hayden Bridge (Springfield, Oregon)

Notes

References 
 Lemelson Center for the Study of Invention & Innovation, Smithsonian National Museum of American History
 Cole, Philip, The 3" Ordnance Rifle, CHARGE! magazine, Issue 13, 2006.
 Hazlett, James C.; Olmstead, Edwin; and Parks, M. Hume; Field Artillery Weapons of the Civil War. University of Illinois Press, 2004. .
 Martino, Vincent Jr.; Phoenixville. Arcadia Publishing, 2002. .

External links

Phoenix Bridge Company projects on Structurae
Album of designs of the Phoenixville Bridge-Works / by Clarke, Reeves & Co., 1873 
Album of designs of the Phoenix Bridge Company : successors to Clarke, Reeves & Co., Phoenixville Bridge Works., 1885