[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mercenaries in popular culture

n: Arkham City, Suicide Squad and others

Theatre
 George Bernard Shaw's 1894 play Arms and the Man, and its adaptations into the 1908 operatta The Chocolate Soldier and later films all center on the misadventures of a decidedly not soldierly Swiss mercenary in the Balkans of the later 19th century.

Films
See also List of war films: Mercenaries in the third world
 Professional Soldier (1935) - Directed by Tay Garnett, with the story written by Damon Runyon features ex-US Marine Victor McLaglen hired to kidnap young prince Freddie Bartholomew but changing his mind and giving his employers notice that their services are no longer required by mowing them down with a water cooled Maxim gun fired from the hip.
 The General Died at Dawn is a 1936 film which tells the story of a mercenary who meets a beautiful girl while trying to keep arms from getting to a vicious warlord in war-torn China. The movie was written by Charles G. Booth and Clifford Odets, and directed by Lewis Milestone. It stars Gary Cooper, Madeleine Carroll and Akim Tamiroff.
 Flying Tigers (1942) and God is My Co-Pilot (1945) based on the memoirs of Robert L. Scott concern the adventures of the American Volunteer Group of pilots who flew P-40s for China against the Japanese prior to Pearl Harbor
 For Whom the Bell Tolls (1943) - Based on the novel by Ernest Hemingway, Gary Cooper is a mercenary who finds meaning to life fighting in the Spanish Civil War alongside Ingrid Bergman
 China (1943) - Alan Ladd is a mercenary who finds meaning to life fighting against the Japanese in China before Pearl Harbor alongside Loretta Young
 The Seven Samurai (1954) and The Magnificent Seven (1960) are both fictional accounts that deal with seven unemployed samurai (gunslingers in the Western adaptation) who agree to protect an impoverished village from 40 bandits for sub-minimal wages
 Hell and High Water (1954) - Samuel Fuller's account of a former submarine commander Richard Widmark leading a team of naval mercenaries, an atomic scientist, and his daughter on a secret mission to the Arctic Circle to stop a Red Chinese plan to atomic bomb Korea using a captured American B-29. In addition to its topicality of the Soviet H-Bomb, the film was made to showcase Cinemascope being used in the confined sets of a submarine.
 Soldier of Fortune (1955) - Based on the novel by Ernest K. Gann. Clark Gable is hired by Susan Hayward to locate and free her husband from a prison in Red China.
 The Professionals (1966) - Richard Brooks' film tells a fictional tale of 4 specialists, automatic weapons (Lee Marvin), explosives (Burt Lancaster), tracker (Woody Strode), and mule skinner (Robert Ryan) who are hired by a big businessman (Ralph Bellamy) to rescue his kidnapped wife (Claudia Cardinale) from a Mexican bandit (Jack Palance) at the beginning of the 20th century.
 Africa Addio/Africa-Blood and Guts (1966)-A documentary by the team behind Mondo Cane that filmed Africa in the early 1960s and featured mercenaires in the Congo Crisis
 Dark of the Sun/The Mercenaries (1968) - Based on the novel by Wilbur Smith originally titled Last Train From Katanga about mercenaries in the Congo Crisis and Katanga excitingly directed by Jack Cardiff starring Rod Taylor and Jim Brown, a score by Jacques Loussier, and filmed in Jamaica.
 Seduto Alla Sua Destra/Black Jesus (1968) - A fictionalised story based on Patrice Lumumba, played by Woody Strode, who is captured by mercenaries.
 El Mercenario/The Last Mercenary (1968) - A fictionalised account produced by and starring Ray Danton as a mercenary who travels from the Congo to work in Brazil.
 Sette Baschi Rossi/The Red Berets/Congo Hell (1969) - Fictionalised account of mercenaries somewhere in sub-Sahara Africa that was the directing debut of Mario Siciliano.
 The Last Grenade (1970) - Fictionalised account of mercenaries beginning in Africa then travelling to the New Territories of Hong Kong and later Red China. Only the characters are based on John Sherlock's 1964 novel The Ordeal of Major Grigsby featuring a cast of Stanley Baker, Alex Cord, Richard Attenborough, John Thaw, and Honor Blackman.
 The Last Valley (1970) - A band of unemployed mercenaries take over an isolated valley during the Thirty Years' War. The film stars Michael Caine and Omar Sharif.
 High Velocity (1976) - Fictionalised account of former Vietnam War veterans played by Ben Gazzara and Paul Winfield living and working in the Philippines.
 The Wild Geese (1978) - The film, starring Richard Burton, Roger Moore, Richard Harris and Hardy Krüger, shows the recruitment, training, and deployment of a 50-man force who rescue a moderate African leader based on Moise Tshombe in an unnamed sub-Saharan African nation. Daniel Carney's book has a screenplay by Reginald Rose, an exciting score by Roy Budd, Mike Hoare acts as technical adviser and is directed by Andrew V. McLaglen, son of Victor.
 Scorticateli Vivi/The Wild Geese Attack/Skin 'Em Alive/Duri a morire/Tough To Kill (19