[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Pi Gamma Mu

ernational social sciences honor society of Pi Gamma Mu has produced many well-known scholars, diplomats, political leaders, business leaders and pioneering professionals. The list is not exhaustive and is simply intended to illustrate the breadth of scholarship and service of the society's members.

In addition to former Pi Gamma Mu presidents Charles Abram Ellwood, S. Howard Patterson and W. Leon Godshall, prominent members of the society include former U.S. president Lyndon B. Johnson, 1956 Nobel Prize winner and former Canadian prime minister Lester B. Pearson, former Philippine presidents José P. Laurel and Ferdinand Marcos, Panama Canal Treaty negotiator and former Panama president Ricardo Joaquín Alfaro Jované, leading anthropologist Margaret Mead, sociologist Pitirim Sorokin (Pi Gamma Mu national vice-president, 1937–1941) who founded Harvard University's sociology department, Edward A. Ross, a major figure in early criminology, Ernst Philip Boas, famous cardiologist and inventor of the cardiotachometer and original proponent of national health insurance, Jane Addams, 1931 Nobel Prize winner and pioneer community worker, MIT economist Charles P. Kindleberger, architect of the Marshall Plan, incumbent US Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa, incumbent Colorado Congresswoman Diana DeGette, deputy whip of the U.S. House of Representatives, groundbreaking experimental psychologist and incumbent Rockefeller Foundation president Judith Rodin - the first female president of an Ivy League university (University of Pennsylvania), incumbent commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission Michael Copps, incumbent Philippine Senators Edgardo Angara, Miriam Defensor Santiago and Juan Ponce Enrile, internationally recognized constitutionalist Henry J. Abraham, incumbent North Carolina Supreme Court senior justice Mark Martin, prominent California lawyer and former U.S. Attorney General William French Smith, banker, U.S. Secretary of the Treasury and Ambassador to NATO David M. Kennedy, 1971 Economics Nobel 
Prize winner Simon Kuznets, historian and 1949 Pulitzer Prize winner Roy Nichols, Paul Finkelstein, incumbent board chairman, president and chief executive officer of Regis Corporation, the worldwide leader in the hair salon industry and American football player Lem Burnham.

Former U.S. Transportation Secretary William Thaddeus Coleman, Jr., who was inducted into the University of Pennsylvania chapter in 1941, wrote the legal brief which won the U.S. Supreme Court's landmark decision in Brown v. Board of Education (1954) outlawing racial segregation in public education.

Another Pi Gamma Mu member, U.S. Navy Rear Admiral Richard Evelyn Byrd, the pioneering American polar explorer and famous aviator, served for a time as Honorary National President (1931–1935) of Pi Gamma Mu. In 1928, Byrd carried the society's flag during a historic expedition to the Antarctic to dramatize the spirit of adventure into the unknown, characterizing both the natural and social sciences.

In 2018, notable American Public University System alumnus and Canadian human rights activist Yasser Harrak was inducted into American Public University System's West Virginia Iota chapter.

Awards and scholarships

Pi Gamma Mu provides five named scholarships which carry stipends of $2000 or $1000 and six additional scholarships of $1,000 each to assist with the costs related to the first or second year of graduate study. These are awarded to selected members annually. Any member of the society is eligible to apply as a graduating senior or as a prospective graduate student.

Outstanding chapters of the society are eligible to receive the Roll of Distinction, Roll of Merit and the Joseph B. James chapter Incentive awards on a purely competitive basis. The Roll of Distinction is given to chapters based on their activity and effectiveness on their respective campuses as well as efficiency of operations during a school year. Local initiative in developing new activities or methods of operation is especially noted. The annual Roll of Merit is given as a form of honorable mention based on the same criteria. The Joseph B. James chapter Incentive Award, named after a long-time president (1963–1971) of the society, is presented every three years to reward the performance of a new or newly reactivated chapter, which substantially increases its focus on one or more areas, such as membership or activities. Each of the three listed chapter awards are conferred by the board of trustees after assessing the annual chapter reports with focus on their service, service projects, procedures and yearly activities.