[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 48]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

was with regard to feminine qualities,
and wondered if his preference for herself ought to be regarded as a
great compliment.

Henriette congratulated her on having been admired by the fastidious
Hubert.

"Let us hope it speaks well for me," Hadria replied with a cynical
smile, "but I have so often noticed that men who are very difficult to
please, choose for the domestic hearth the most dreary and unattractive
woman of their acquaintance! I sometimes doubt if men ever do marry the
women they most admire."

"They do, when they can win them," said Henriette.




CHAPTER XIV.


During Henriette's visit, one of the meetings of the Preposterous
Society fell due, and she expressed a strong wish to be present. She
also craved the privilege of choosing the subject of discussion.
Finally, she received a formal request from the members to give the
lecture herself. She was full of enthusiasm about the Society (such an
educating influence!), and prepared her paper with great care. There had
been a tendency among the circle, to politely disagree with Henriette.
Her ideas respecting various burning topics were at variance with the
trend of opinion at Dunaghee, and Miss Temperley was expected to take
this opportunity of enlightening the family. The family was equally
resolved not to be enlightened.

"I have chosen for my subject to-night," said the lecturer, "one that is
beginning to occupy public attention very largely: I mean the sphere of
woman in society."

The audience, among whom Hubert had been admitted at his sister's
earnest request, drew themselves together, and a little murmur of battle
ran along the line. Henriette's figure, in her well-fitting Parisian
gown, looked singularly out of place in the garret, with the crazy old
candle-holder beside her, the yellow flame of the candle flinging
fantastic shadows on the vaulted roof, preposterously distorting her
neat form, as if in wicked mockery. The moonlight streamed in, as usual
on the nights chosen by the Society for their meetings.

Henriette's paper was neatly expressed, and its sentiments were
admirable. She maintained a perfect balance between the bigotry of the
past and the violence of the present. Her phrases seemed to rock, like
a pair of scales, from excess to excess, on either side. She came to
rest in the exact middle. This led to the Johnsonian structure, or, as
Hadria afterwards said, to the style of a _Times_ leading article:
"While we remember on the one hand, we must not forget on the other----"

At the end of the lecture, the audience found themselves invited to
sympathize cautiously and circumspectly with the advancement of women,
but led, at the same time, to conclude that good taste and good feeling
forbade any really nice woman from moving a little finger to attain, or
to help others to attain, the smallest fraction more of freedom, or an
inch more of spiritual territory, than was now enjoyed by her sex. When,
at some future time, wider privileges should have been conquered by the
exertions of someone else, then the really nice woman could saunter in
and enjoy the booty. But till then, let her leave boisterous agitation
to others, and endear herself to all around her by her patience and her
loving self-sacrifice.

"That pays better for the present," Hadria was heard to mutter to an
adjacent member.

The lecturer, in her concluding remarks, gave a smile of ineffable
sweetness, sadly marred, however, by the grotesque effect of the
flickering shadows that were cast on her face by the candle. After all,
_duty_ not _right_ was the really important matter, and the lecturer
thought that it would be better if one heard the former word rather
oftener in connection with the woman's question, and the latter word
rather more seldom. Then, with new sweetness, and in a tone not to be
described, she went on to speak of the natural responsibilities and joys
of her sex, drawing a moving, if somewhat familiar picture of those
avocations, than which she was sure there could be nothing higher or
holier.

For some not easily explained cause, the construction of this sentence
gave it a peculiar unctuous force: "than which," as Fred afterwards
remarked, "would have bowled over any but the most hardened sinner."

For weeks after this memorable lecture, if any very lofty altitude had
to be ascended in conversational excursions, the aspirant invariably
smiled with ineffable tenderness and lightly scaled the height,
murmuring "than which" to a vanquished audience.

The lecture was followed by a discussion that rather took the stiffness
out of Miss Temperley's phrases. The whole party was roused. Algitha had
to whisper a remonstrance to the boys, for their solemn questions were
becoming too preposterous. The lecture was discussed with much warmth.
There was a tendency to adopt the form "than which" with some frequency.
Bursts of laughter startled a company of rats in the wai