[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Council (Poland)

g council committees.

In 1973 he Politburo of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party determined that the first secretaries of the voivodeship committees of the Polish United Workers' Party (PZPR) would serve as chairmen of the presidium of the voivodeship national councils would.

The Act of 20 July 1983 on the System of National Councils and Local Government amended albeit in a minor way the powers and tasks of the National Council, however, they did not obtain property and financial separation. Rural and urban communes were still users of private property. They had no independent income. They continued to use the provincial or central budget. Therefore, the councils could not have the financial resources to meet the needs of the residents. Provincial National Councils decided on investments in towns and communes. The councils continued to play the role of organs of state power. The National Council Presidiums were still the governing bodies of these councils, subordinated to them and accountable to them, only that the function of chairman of the presidium was no longer reserved exclusively for persons with the status of party members. Their legal position, however, was strengthened by the act through decisive participation in the process of appointing voivodes, equipping them with powers over all bodies performing the tasks of the voivodeship national council and organizational units subordinated to it, including the possibility of providing the voivode with guidelines in the form of resolutions. The Act of 16 June 1988 amending the Act on the system of national councils and local government still did not ensure independent management for cities and communes. The budget of the commune depended on the decision of the tax office regarding the amount of subsidies and shares in the income of the central budget, as well as the right to freely dispose of funds.

See also 
Soviet (council)

References

Government of Poland
Polish People's Republic
Political history of Poland
Local government in Poland