[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Blockade of Wonsan

105 to 155 millimeters, at a distance of 3,500 yards away, hit the ship with their first shot. Four more followed along with seven nearby air bursts. Eight Americans were wounded but none of them were fatal. The ship was moderately damaged but she was capable of unleashing 159 rounds of return fire.

 and USS Taylor came under fire from shore batteries in the vicinity of Hwangto-do The two vessels received an estimated twenty-one rounds of 90-millimeter and three rounds of 105-millimeter, but there was no damage. North Korean forces also bombarded Hwangto-do though their batteries were silenced by thirty-nine rounds from Jenkins. The North Koreans attacked Yo-do Island with artillery a few days later and on September 23  was attacked but her 16-inch guns quickly silenced the perpetrators. USS Taylor also silenced a battery on September 25 and Heron received 105-millimeter fire but was not damaged. Three splashes were counted near the ship.

North Korean air attack 
The first and only naval air battle at Wonsan and Hungnam occurred on October 7. MiG-15s attacked TF-77 aircraft three times, one MIG made a firing pass on two American AD planes so they returned fire. There were no damage or casualties on either side and the MiGs retired to the west. Later on four MiG-15s attacked a flight of F4Us while two others attacked eight ADs near Hungnam. In these engagements there were no casualties, but in a final attack later on that day, a single MIG-15 destroyed one of four F4Us in another action near Hungnam.

On October 16,  was shot at with four rounds from estimated 75-millimeter and 122-millimeter guns. No damage was reported as all of the shells landed splashed in the water around 1,000 yards short of the ship,  was also attacked with about forty 75-millimeter rounds. For over a month no artillery was exchanged until November 20 when  and USS Thompson received fire from 120-millimeter guns. The Thompson was hit by one round of the many which straddled her, wounding one and causing minor material damage. USS Kite fought another duel on the following day. She received fifty-five 75-millimeter rounds but again sustained no casualties.

On October 21 Lewis was furnishing gunfire support for two Republic of Korea minesweepers operating in Wonsan Harbor when they came under fire by enemy guns. Lewis moved in to assist, returning gunfire and deploying smoke to obscure the minesweepers. She was hit by two 75 mm shells. One landed topside and caused minor damage and slightly injured one man. The other pierced the hull plating of fireroom number one. The round did not detonate, but it caused a steam explosion which instantly killed six men and mortally injured a seventh. Lewis continued without assistance to return gunfire and to deploy smoke. She then disengaged and made emergency repairs in Japan. Memorial services for the men who were killed in action were held on board on October 27.

On November 25, Thompson found herself in action, this time against enemy aircraft. Jets dropped six to eight explosives over the American ship, the closest landing  away. The aircraft were heard by the Thompsons lookout but her radar showed nothing. When USS Merganser was fired upon by guns at the mouth of the Namchongang River on December 6, William Seiverling replied with 101 rounds. Seiverling was herself taken under fire by guns on Kalmagak.

On the following day, Merganser received thirty more rounds of 75-millimeter fire from Kalmagak but she was not damaged. , USS William Seiverling and UN minesweepers were fired upon by approximately seventy-five rounds on December 11. The small minesweepers were forced to slip their gear and use smoke pots to help cover themselves. That same day, USS Waxbill and USS Marshall collided west of Yo-do, Waxbill sustained topside damage to hull fittings but was still operational and otherwise unharmed.

On December 12 Marshall was attacked again, twenty rounds were fired her way but they all missed.  and William Seiverling were also attacked and they too escaped harm. About forty rounds of North Korean artillery targeted Waxbill and Marshall on December 13, while they were patrolling near the Namchongang's mouth. Though the fire was accurate, no hits were made. The closest shot splashed in the water  from Waxbill which caused shrapnel damage. Twelve shots were fired in return.