[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas Ewing Jr.

Samuel Arnold and Edmund Spangler during the trial. Ewing's efforts kept all three men from the gallows, but other conspirators were hanged.  For their roles in the assassination, Mudd, Arnold and Spangler were sentenced to federal prison at Fort Jefferson in the Dry Tortugas off Key West, Florida.

From 1865 to 1870, Ewing practiced law in Washington, D.C., helping southern interests with his influence in the Johnson Administration. The Ewing family was heavily involved in defending Andrew Johnson against radical impeachment efforts. He declined President Johnson's offers for him to become the Secretary of War during the Tenure in Office crisis. Ewing successfully lobbied the key vote against the impeachment of Andrew Johnson when he convinced his old comrade in arms, Edmund G. Ross of Kansas, to vote against impeachment.  Ewing also was successful in obtaining a pardon for Mudd at the end of Johnson's term.

In 1870, he returned to his native Lancaster, Ohio, where he practiced for the next decade and attempted several business investments in railroads and telegraph companies. Ewing was a member of the Ohio state Constitutional Convention of 1873 – 74.

Congress
In 1876, he was elected as a Democrat to the United States House of Representatives and was re-elected in 1878, serving in the 45th and 46th Congresses from 1877 until 1881. He prepared the bill establishing a Bureau of Labor Statistics, opposed the presence of U.S. soldiers at election polling places, and favored the re-monetization of silver and the continuation of the use of Greenback currency, becoming one of the leading national spokesmen for the Greenback Party.

Campaign for governor 
In 1879, Ewing was defeated for election for Governor of Ohio as the Democratic candidate in a close election. There is scholarly controversy whether the use of George Caleb Bingham's painting General Order № 11 in the anti-Ewing campaign made the difference in the election.

On March 3, 1881, Ewing closed his second term as representative in Congress and moved to New York to resume his law career. He never ran for office again.

Later career 
Ewing was founder and first president of the Ohio Society of New York, a trustee of Ohio Soldiers' and Sailors' Orphans' Home (1874–78), and a trustee of Ohio University (1878–83). He served as Vice President of the Cincinnati Law School in 1881. Ewing made a notable address before the Marietta Centennial Convention of 1887, and one before the Kansas state bar association in 1890. He also contributed an article entitled "The Struggle for Freedom in Kansas" to The Cosmopolitan in May 1894. Brown University, by special vote in 1894, gave him the bachelor's degree dating back to the class of 1856. Georgetown College gave him the degree of LL.D. in 1870. Ewing was killed when struck by a New York City omnibus driver in 1896.  He is buried in the Oakland Cemetery in Yonkers, New York.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Union)
Bleeding Kansas
Battle of Pilot Knob
General Order No. 11 (1863)
Lawrence massacre

Notes

References
 
 
 Thomas Ewing Jr. Papers, Kansas State Historical Society
 Johnson, Rossiter (ed.), The Twentieth Century Biographical Dictionary of Notable Americans. 10 vols. Boston: The Biographical Society, 1904.

External links

 Retrieved on 2008-02-12

Ewing Family History Pages
Biography
 Dr. Samuel A. Mudd Research Site

1829 births
1896 deaths
People from Lancaster, Ohio
Brown University alumni
Politicians from Leavenworth, Kansas
Bleeding Kansas
American people of Irish descent
People of Kansas in the American Civil War
People of Ohio in the American Civil War
Ohio Constitutional Convention (1873)
Union Army generals
Ohio University trustees
Pedestrian road incident deaths
Road incident deaths in New York City
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Ohio
Ohio Greenbacks
19th-century American politicians
People associated with the assassination of Abraham Lincoln
Ewing family (politics and military)
Chief Justices of the Kansas Supreme Court
19th-century American judges