[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# S.W.O.R.D.

warriors. The station's personnel are taken for hosts.

S.W.O.R.D. volume 2

S.W.O.R.D. was relaunched in December 2020 as part of "Reign of X". Written by Al Ewing and drawn by Valerio Schiti, the initial team consisted of Abigail Brand, Cable, Frenzy, Fabian Cortez, Magneto, Manifold and Wiz Kid.

S.W.O.R.D. (Sentient World Observation and Response Directorate) was restored when Abigail Brand resigned from Alpha Flight after the Alliance-Cotati conflict feeling that the space program wasn't properly utilized and when the mutant nation repowered the abandoned Peak space station. In cooperation with the Quiet Council of Krakoa, it became the mutant nation's representative to the outer universe.

With Abigail Brand as the Station Commander, S.W.O.R.D functions with a six-tier organizational structure:

 Technology/Engineering
 Station Technologist – Wiz Kid (Takeshi Matsuya)
 Logistics
 Quintician – Manifold (Eden Fesi)
 Teleport Team
 Blink (Clarice Ferguson)
 Lila Cheney
 Gateway
 Vanisher (Telford Porter)
 Voght (Amelia Voght)
 Medical/Energy Resources
 Executive Producer – Khora of the Burning Heart; Fabian Cortez (formerly)
 Diplomacy/Negotiation
 Amabassador Extraordinary – Frenzy (Joanna Cargill)
 Ambassador In Training – Armor (Hisako Ikichi)
 Galactic Ambassador – Paibok (from the Kree/Skrull Alliance)
 Security
 Security Director – Cable (Nathan Summers)
 Security Team
 Random (Marshall Stone III)
 Risque (Gloria Muñoz)
 Forearm (Michael McCain)
 Slab (Christopher Anderson)
Ruckus (Clement Wilson)
Thumbelina (Kristina Anderson)
 Observation/Analysis
 Psionic Analyst – Mentallo (Marvin Flumm)
 Analysis Team
 Peeper (Peter Quinn)

S.W.O.R.D. also formed The Six, a multiversal far-retrieval circuit, utilizing mutant technology. There are two stages require for a full retrieval:

 First Stage – Translocation: a circuit of five mid-to-long range teleporters which acts as the anchor for translocation. [Back-up: Nightcrawler and Magik]
 Second Stage – Retrieval: a circuit of six mutants with combining their protection and augmentation powers to reach different points in space.
 The Control – Wiz Kid: unify the first stage circuit of teleporters and adjust the mutant circuits in operation. [Back-up: Forge]
 The Power – Khora the Burning Heart; Fabian Cortez (formerly): provide the boost required for the circuit operation.
 The Shield – Armor: generate a protective exoskeleton that extends to the entire circuit. [Back-up: Skids]
 The Guide – Manifold: trans-locate the entirety of the second stage circuit while saving his energies for the retrieval.
 The Eye – Peeper: spot specific particles of their target. [Back-up: Doc]
 The Foundry – Risque: create a small field around their target condensing and containing it to help bring it back to Earth. [Back-up: Zorn]

Roster

Volume 1

Former Members:
Agent Deems – An autistic S.W.O.R.D. agent.
Beast
Benjamin Deeds – A mutant with transmorphing abilities.
Death's Head
Henry Peter Gyrich
Lockheed
Manifold Tyger – A tiger-like technician who secretly worked for the Providian Order.
Mindee – An alias of Irma Cuckoo of the Stepford Cuckoos.
Reilly Marshall – An ex-S.H.I.E.L.D. and S.W.O.R.D. agent who currently works for the U.N. Security Council.
Spider-Woman

Volume 2

Reception

Accolades 

 In 2019, CBR.com ranked S.W.O.R.D. 3rd in their "10 Most Powerful Secret Organizations In Marvel Comics" list.
 In 2022, CBR.com ranked S.W.O.R.D. 10th in their "The Avengers' 10 Best Allies In Marvel Comics" list.

In other media