[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# List of Shaman King characters

me members of the Patch Tribe support Hao either because they recognize his worth or for their own agenda. Among the Patch tribe's techniques is a chant called the , also known as the Song of the Patch, where the user enters a trance that increases their power and sense of duty as a Patch tribesman.

 
 
 An elderly Patch tribe leader who is the organizer of the Shaman Fight, commonly mistaken for male due to her appearance and voice. She is a god-class shaman and remains completely neutral throughout the tournament. Her spirit is a totem bird named , the first chief of the Patch Tribe, with its medium being Goldva herself. Goldva later died after Hao fully merged with the Great Spirit, remaining by his side as a spirit.

 
 
 A member of the Patch Tribe's Shaman Fight Selection Committee and overseer of the Glacier Plant whose spirit allies are the Silver Arms. Silva travels to Japan in the guise of a street vendor to test Yoh Asakura's worth to be in the Shaman Fight, hinting him on the means to manifest his Oversoul. Silva watches over Yoh afterward along with Ren and Ryu, often told that he is too emotional to be impartial despite being a capable officiant. As the descendant of Hao's second incarnation, Silva also possesses a personal desire to stop Hao in his third incarnation, which results in his attempt to discreetly aid Yoh as much as possible. But he is captured after his failed attempt to steal the Patch's remaining Elemental Spirits, brainwashed by the Patch Song into carrying out his duties as Officiant in protecting Hao before Yoh kills him. In the sequel Shaman King: Flowers, Silva is revealed to have a daughter named Alumi Niumbirch who inherited his Silver Arms spirits.

 
 
 One of Silva's best friends and organizers of the Shaman Fight, over seeing the Highland Plant. Kalim oversaw Horohoro's test in the Shaman Fight along with Team Icemen. His spirit partner is a black bull named , with his medium being a bull skull and spine bones allowing Black Sickle to merge with the lower half of his body. He mainly uses charging attacks like how real bulls attack, either striking with a frontal attack or to crush them with powerful stomps. He shares an apartment with Silva during the tournament in Tokyo, where the two constantly bicker over the heat (because they cannot afford an air conditioner and the summer is so warm and humid). Like Silva, Kalim sells handcrafted Patch goods to make somewhat of living while in Tokyo. Kalim frequently provides a voice of reason to somewhat quell Silva's desire to interfere in the Shaman Tournament. Because of his natural sense of caution, he does not suffer the same brainwashing as Silva and is able to remain one of Yoh and Horohoro's supporters, while quietly maintaining doubt towards the other officials siding with Hao. Kalim is apparently has a fear of blood. Following the trend of Patch priests being named after metals, Kalim's name derives from Kari (加里 or カリ), or Kariumu (カリウム) meaning potassium in Japanese (derived from the German language Kalium).

 
 
 The 10th priest of the Patch Tribe who oversees the Cave Plant, Nichrom inherited his position from his brother, Chrom, the previous 10th priest, was killed by Tao Ren. In order to avenge his brother, he indirectly sides with Hao in order to let Hao's followers kill Ren as he oversees the ambush on Ren's team. While taking his brother's spirit ally, a locust called Purple Kick, Nichrom's own spirit is a scorpion called , whose is medium a scorpion's tail and forms an Over Soul of a scorpion with no legs fused into Nichrom's right arm. The stinger's length can change to attack opponents from a distance, though Yellow Whip's primary tactic is to use its scorpion pincers to immobilize opponents while its stinger strikes with "Dreaming Needle", which delivers a deadly poison that won't disappear unless the one who created the Over Soul dies. Purple Kick, who takes the form of a pair of insect designed armored leggings, is said to be the fastest of all ten officiant spirit allies and can allow the user to move at speeds that even powerful experienced opponents can barely keep track of. It attacks with a powerful leg technique called "Dancing Insect".

 
 
 An official of the Patch and overseer of the Volcano Plant who took Nichrom under his wing when the young boy becomes an official. He is the official responsible for Hao and Team Flower. He openly supports Hao, and like other officials who do so, takes pleasure in intimidating some of the remaining contestants in the tournament. His spirit is a great horned owl named , with his medium being placed on his arms and legs to generate owl wings and owl claws. When the invaders reach his Plant, he faces off against Tao Ren and tried to use the volcanic gasses to attack unseen like an owl. He is eventually killed by a gigantic lightning strike created by Ren.