[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Washington State Route 240

r US 12 was extended west to replace portions of US 410. US 12 was then moved onto the newly completed I-182 in the 1985 and SR 240 was extended east to a junction with the relocated US 395 in Kennewick. The Richland Bypass was also widened from two lanes to five in 1980, at a cost of $1.83 million.

The population of the Tri-Cities region grew substantially in the late 20th century, causing increased traffic congestion on the urban sections of SR 240. A $58 million highway widening program was completed in 2007 by WSDOT, expanding SR 240 to six lanes between Stevens Drive and Columbia Center Boulevard. The Yakima River Bridge was demolished in 2004 and replaced by a set of two bridges carrying three lanes each, as well as a multi-use bicycle and pedestrian trail. The western portion of the Columbia River Trail interchange at the Richland Wye was converted into a roundabout that opened to traffic in June 2007. A separate $16 million project completed in November 2009 converted the cloverleaf interchange at US 395 into a dogbone interchange with two roundabouts to improve safety and traffic flow. Due to remaining congestion issues on the Bypass Highway, WSDOT is considering several strategies to increase capacity, including reversible lanes, high-occupancy vehicle lanes, and opening the shoulder to traffic during peak periods. Long-term plans from the City of Richland propose the conversion of the Bypass into a full freeway with interchanges and right-in/right-out access to replace existing intersections.

Major intersections

Business route

State Route 240 Business (SR 240 Bus.) is a business route of State Route 240 within the city of Richland. It travels north–south through the city's main commercial center, primarily on George Washington Way and Jadwin Avenue, from the eastern interchange with I-182 to the Stevens Drive intersection at the north end of the Richland Bypass. The northbound lanes continue on George Washington Way and travel west on McMurray Street before joining Jadwin Avenue, while the southbound lanes stay on Jadwin Avenue until it intersects George Washington Way near Howard Amon Park. Sections of George Washington Way carry a daily average of 42,000 vehicles and are also listed as part of the National Highway System.

References

External links

Highways of Washington State

240
Transportation in Benton County, Washington
Tri-Cities, Washington