[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# ITV Studios

, the company originally founded by John de Mol and co-owned by Axel Springer SE until 2015. Bildergarten Entertainment is responsible for Dickes Deutschland and the German version of Lange Leve de Liefde (The Cabins) on RTL Zwei, The Voice of Germany for ProSieben/SAT.1 and Sing Meinen Song on VOX.

Armoza Formats
Armoza Formats is an Israeli unscripted television Formats company founded in 2005 by Avi Armoza that is best known for The Four: Battle for Stardom, La'uf al HaMillion (the original version of Who's Still Standing?) and I Can Do That. At the end of July 2019, ITV Studios acquired Armoza and integrated it into their Creative Network division.

ITV Studios France
Home to a richly diverse slate of programming ranging from primetime entertainment, talent competitions and daily magazine shows to comedy, drama and documentary, ITV Studios France creates content for major broadcasters throughout France. The division has successfully adapted hit international formats for French audiences including 4 Mariages Pour 1 Lune de Miel (a French version of Four Weddings) and The Voice: la plus belle voix (a French version of The Voice) for TF1 and Les 5 anneaux d'or (a French version of 5 Gold Rings) for France 2 and also produces popular original programming such as daily magazine show Je t’aime etc for France 2, comedy series Importantissime  for Canal+ and drama feature Quand je serai grande je te tuerai (a French remake of the two-part British thriller television miniseries Undeniable) for TF1.

At the end of February 2017, ITV Studios acquired a majority stake in independent production group Tetra Media Studio, which participates in the fields of fiction (mainly television dramas such as A French Village which is the company is known for producing), documentaries, magazine series, live entertainment, animation, new media, music and distribution; however, Tetra will continue to operate independently from ITV Studios France.
In December 2021, Thierry Lachkar has been named as of CEO of ITV Studios France.

Tetra Media Studio
Tetra Media Studio is a French independent television group founded in 1990 by directors Miguel Courtois, Gilles de Maistre and Jérôme Cornuau. The company participates in the fields of fiction (mainly television dramas such as A French Village which is the company is known for producing), documentaries, magazine series and live entertainment. The group consists of:

Fiction (Tetra Media Fiction)
Beaubourg
Macondo

Documentaries, magazine series & live entertainment
Tangaro/CLC Productions

ITV Studios Nordic
ITV Studios Nordic is the division of ITV Studios in the Nordic countries, operating through five units: ITV Studios Norway, ITV Studios Finland, ITV Studios Sweden (including Elk Production) and two companies in Denmark named United Productions and Apple Tree Productions respectively.

ITV Studios Netherlands
ITV Studios Netherlands is the Dutch division of ITV Studios, created on 11 October 2018. On 1 October 2019, it absorbed Talpa Netherlands (including Talpa Global, Talpa Productions and Fictie) and also MasMedia and Vorst Media as part of ITV Studios' restructuring. ITV Studios Netherlands produces shows on both RTL 4 and SBS6, including Lang Leve de Liefde (also known as Let Love Rule or The Cabins), a format exported to the UK, Belgium, Sweden and Portugal.

Talpa Media
Talpa Media was a Dutch global television production company owned by ITV Studios and before that Talpa Network which was well known for creating the successful worldwide music reality competition franchise The Voice. The company comprised Talpa Netherlands (which consisted of Talpa Content and Talpa Productions) and Talpa Global. On 1 October 2019, founder John de Mol left Talpa when ITV Studios began restructuring.

Talpa Global
Talpa Global comprised divisions in North America, the Middle East and Germany, although other partnerships were vested in the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Portugal, the Nordic countries, Australia and Sub-Saharan Africa. The North American division was based in Los Angeles, California, the United States, while the Middle East division was based in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates and the German division has offices in Berlin and Hamburg. When ITV started restructuring on 1 October 2019, Talpa's German division was absorbed into ITV Studios Germany and the Middle East division was renamed ITV Studios Middle East.

Distribution