[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Equality and Human Rights Commission

rotected characteristics under the Equality Act 2010, as are seven other characteristics. The Human Rights Act 1998 protects all rights in a balanced and proportionate way. These are the laws that the EHRC upholds impartially and we totally refute your insinuations of bias in the areas you mention."

When asked in an interview with Holyrood if she was a transphobe, Falkner replied: "I don't know what the meaning of that word is." She said that the term was used too much, and in the same interview added: "We understand that there are strong views here, but I think we all want to get to the same end, and the end is to make life easier for trans people to live in the identity that they feel so strongly committed to. That's the end that I want to see too. It's just all we ask for, in getting to that end, is for the Scottish Government to navigate the road a little bit more carefully, because you don't improve trans people's rights by damaging another group's rights. And potentially, that can happen in this regard."

On 11 February 2022, a legal challenge was launched against the EHRC by Stonewall, with the backing of the Good Law Project and more than 20 other LGBT rights organisations. Stonewall drew up a submission to the Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions (GANHRI), calling for the EHRC to lose its "A rating" because of its treatment of trans people. This challenge was launched after the EHRC was criticised for asking the Scottish Government to pause its plans to make it easier for people to change their legal gender. The submission accused the organisation of being "excessively" influenced by the UK government in the appointments of the chair and board members. In April 2022, it was reported that the GANHRI declined the request. It will conduct a routine review in October 2022. Responding to the announcement, EHRC chief executive Marcial Boo said: "We are pleased that the Sub-Committee on Accreditation assessed evidence of our independence and effectiveness and upheld our position, declining a special review of our work." A spokesperson for Stonewall said that it and the other organisations involved in the challenge "are now focusing on this opportunity to collect and present evidence" to the upcoming review. Following the review in October 2022, conducted by the GANHRI, the EHRC retained its "A-status." Baroness Falkner, Chairwoman of EHRC said: “We are delighted that our vital work as a defender of human rights in this country has been recognised internationally again. I am proud of the powerful example we continue to set as a National Human Rights Institution on the global stage. This is a clear recognition of our status as an independent organisation with a proven track record promoting and upholding human rights.”

 Definition of sex in the Equality Act 
In 2023, Kami Badenoch, the Minister for Women and Equalities, asked the EHRC for their advice on whether to amend the Equality Act 2010 to "clarify" that "sex", a protected characteristic, refers to "biological sex". Badenoch acted on the instruction of Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, who had said in his leadership campaign that "biology is critically important as we think about some of the very practical functions, like toilets or sports". In its response, published in April 2023, the EHRC said although there "is no straightforward balance" its view is that the amendment would "bring greater legal clarity" in a number of areas. For instance, it would enable trans people to be excluded from single-sex spaces  even when they possess a gender recognition certificate (GRC).

Gender-critical campaign group Sex Matters, which petitioned to amend the act, welcomed the "measured and thoughtful analysis from the EHRC". LGBTQ+ charity Stonewall was angered, saying the move "risks opening yet another chapter in a manufactured culture war that will see little benefit to women, cis and trans alike". One former Legal Director of the EHRC described Sunak's proposed changes as "pure transphobia" and "based on misleading unevidenced transphobic assumptions".

Criticism
Conflicts of interest
Prior to David Isaac's appointment as chair of the Commission, two parliamentary committees warned that there was a potential conflict of interest because his legal firm, Pinsent Masons, carries out “significant work for the government”, after he accepted that his annual legal income of over £500,000 would dwarf the £50,000 he would earn from the EHRC. While Christian Concern called for his appointment to be blocked,  it was welcomed by The Jewish Chronicle. In May 2019, Suzanne Baxter, another EHRC board member, joined Pinsent Masons.