[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ben Thompson (lawman)

Ben Thompson (November 2, 1843 – March 11, 1884) was a gunman, gambler, and sometimes lawman of the Old West. He was a contemporary of "Buffalo" Bill Cody, Bat Masterson, John Wesley Hardin, and "Wild Bill" Hickok, some of whom considered him a friend, others an enemy.  Thompson fought for the Confederacy during the Civil War, and later for Emperor Maximilian in Mexico.  After he was hired in 1881 as marshal in Austin, Texas, the crime rate reportedly dropped sharply.  Thompson was murdered at the age of 40 in San Antonio, Texas, in the "Vaudeville Theater Ambush."

Early life
Thompson was born in Knottingley, West Yorkshire, England to William and Mary Ann [nee Baker] Thompson, in November 1843.  The family settled in Austin in late 1852.  Ben was 8 years old, William 6, and Mary Jane 4 years old at the time.

Thompson worked for the Austin Rambler as a news printer's assistant while in his teens.  Once he discovered gambling, however, Thompson began traveling and earning a living as a professional gambler.

Military service
On June 12, 1861, Thompson enlisted in the Confederate States Army at San Antonio, and became a private in the 2nd Regiment, Texas Mounted Rifles, Company H.  His brother, Billy Thompson, joined the same regiment.

On January 1–2, 1863, Thompson participated in the Battle of Galveston, where the USS Harriet Lane was captured. Thompson was wounded during the battle, and was treated for six weeks in a military hospital at Niblett's Bluff (located west of Vinton, Louisiana).

Later that same year, Thompson took part in the Battle of LaFourche Crossing (June 20, 1863), near Thibodaux, Louisiana.  The two Thompson brothers "found themselves at night separated from the living and standing among the dead."  After this battle, Thompson returned home to Austin.  He re-enlisted in Company F in September 1863, and served out the remainder of the war stationed along the banks of the Rio Grande.

Post war life

Mexico
After the conclusion of the Civil War, Thompson fought in the armed forces of Emperor Maximilian against the Mexican revolutionaries.

Imprisonment
In 1868 Thompson received word that his wife was being physically abused by her brother, Jim Moore. Soon after his return to Texas, he confronted Moore, and severely injured him.  Charged with attempted murder, the 25-year-old Thompson was convicted and sentenced to two years in prison.  He served time at Huntsville Prison, but eventually received a full pardon.

Abilene, Wild Bill, and John Wesley Hardin

In 1870, Thompson left Texas for Abilene, Kansas, which had become a boomtown due to the expanding cattle trade.  In 1871, Thompson opened the "Bulls Head Saloon" in Abilene, with friend and partner, Phil Coe. Their saloon prospered due to the many cattle drives that gave Abilene a steady stream of cowboys passing through who were anxious to drink and gamble.

It was at the Bulls Head Saloon that Thompson and Coe made the acquaintance of John Wesley Hardin, and actively recruited him in an attempt to rid the town of its marshal, "Wild" Bill Hickok.  The two entrepreneurs had painted a picture of a bull with a large erect penis on the side of their establishment as a form of advertisement.  Citizens of the town had complained to Hickok.  When Thompson and Coe refused his request to remove the bull, Hickok had altered it himself.  Infuriated, Thompson tried to incite Hardin by exclaiming to him: "He's a damn Yankee. Picks on rebels, especially Texans, to kill."  Hardin, then living under the assumed name of "Wesley Clemmons" (but better known to the townspeople by the alias, "Little Arkansas"), replied, "If Wild Bill needs killin', why don't you kill him yourself?"[sic]  Later that night, Hardin was confronted by Hickok, who told him to hand over his guns, which he did.  Hickok had no knowledge at the time of Hardin being a wanted man, and he advised "Clemmons" to avoid problems while remaining in Abilene.

Soon afterward, Thompson was injured in a fall from a horse.  While he was recuperating, Coe was involved in a fatal shootout with Hickok. Thompson never confronted Hickok over the shooting of Coe, and both men left Abilene soon afterward.

Altercation in Ellsworth 

Thompson moved to Ellsworth, Kansas, which was also prospering as a cattle boomtown.  On August 15, 1873, Thompson's younger brother, Billy, shot and killed Sheriff Chauncey Whitney.  Whitney was standing near the two Thompson brothers, who were facing off against a local police officer, John "Happy Jack" Morco, and a gambler, John Sterling.  The confrontation had developed over a gambling dispute.  Whitney was a friend to both brothers, and numerous witnesses confirmed that Whitney stated before he died that the shooting was accidental.