[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 162]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

bear any
resentment against him for what he has done; but since you speak to me
upon the subject, I shall be obliged to tell the truth.

_Mr Barlow._--Well, Harry, let me hear it; you know I shall be the last
person to condemn you, if you do not deserve it.

_Harry._--I know your constant kindness to me, sir, and I always confide
in it; however, I am not sensible that I am in fault. You know, sir,
that it was with unwillingness I went to Mr Merton's, for I thought
there would be fine gentlemen and ladies there, who would ridicule my
dress and manners; and, though Master Merton has been always very
friendly in his behaviour towards me, I could not help thinking that he
might grow ashamed of my company at his own house.

_Mr Barlow._--Do you wonder at that, Harry, considering the difference
there is in your rank and fortune?

_Harry._--No, sir, I cannot say I do, for I generally observe that those
who are rich will scarcely treat the poor with common civility. But, in
this particular case, I did not see any reason for it; I never desired
Master Merton to admit me to his company, or invite me to his house,
because I knew that I was born, and in a very inferior station. You were
so good as to take me to your house, and if I was then much in his
company, it was because he seemed to desire it himself, and I always
endeavoured to treat him with the greatest respect.

_Mr Barlow._--That is indeed true, Harry; in all your little plays and
studies I have never observed anything but the greatest mildness and
good nature on your part.

_Harry._--I hope, sir, it has never been otherwise. But though I had the
greatest affection for Master Merton, I never desired to go home with
him. What sort of a figure could a poor boy like me make at a
gentleman's table, among little masters and misses that powder their
hair, and wear buckles as big as our horses carry upon their harness? If
I attempted to speak, I was always laughed at; or if I did anything, I
was sure to hear something about clowns and rustics! And yet, I think,
though they were all gentlemen and ladies, you would not much have
approved of their conversation, for it was about nothing but plays, and
dress, and trifles of that nature. I never heard one of them mention a
single word about saying their prayers, or being dutiful to their
parents, or doing any good to the poor.

_Mr Barlow._--Well, Harry, but if you did not like their conversation,
you surely might have borne it with patience for a little while: and
then I heard something about your being quarrelsome.

_Harry._--Oh, sir! I hope not. I was, to be sure, once a little
passionate, but that I could not help, and I hope you will forgive me.
There was a modest, sensible young lady, who was the only person that
treated me with any kindness, and a bold, forward, ill-natured boy
affronted her in the grossest manner, only because she took notice of
me. Could I help taking her part? Have you not told me, too, sir, that
every person, though he should avoid quarrels, has a right to defend
himself when he is attacked?

_Mr Barlow._--Well, Harry, I do not much blame you, from the
circumstances I have heard of that affair; but why did you leave Mr
Merton's family so abruptly, without speaking to anybody, or thanking Mr
Merton himself for the civilities he had shown you? Was that right?

_Harry._--Oh dear, sir, I have cried about it several times, for I think
it must appear very rude and ungrateful to Mr Merton. But as to Master
Tommy, I did not leave him while I thought I could be of any use. He
treated me, I must say, in a very unworthy manner; he joined with all
the other fine little gentlemen in abusing me, only because I
endeavoured to persuade them not to go to a bull-baiting; and then at
last he struck me. I did not strike him again, because I loved him so
much in spite of all his unkindness; nor did I leave him till I saw he
was quite safe in the hands of his own servants; and then, how could I
go back to his house after what he had done to me? I did not choose to
complain of him to Mr Merton; and how could I behave to him as I had
done before, without being guilty of meanness and falsehood? And
therefore I thought it better to go home and desire you to speak, to Mr
Merton, and entreat him to forgive my rudeness.

_Mr Barlow._--Well, Harry, I can inform you that Mr Merton is perfectly
satisfied on that account. But there is one circumstance you have not
mentioned, my little friend, and that is your saving Tommy's life from
the fury of the enraged bull.

_Harry._--As to that, sir, I hope I should have done the same for any
human creature. But I believe that neither of us would have escaped, if
it had not been for the poor courageous Black that came to our
assistance.

_Mr Barlow._--I see, Harry, that you are a boy of a noble and generous
spirit, and I highly approve of everything you have done; but are you
determined to forsake