[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kay v Lambeth LBC

een the entry by the Maloneys on the recreation ground and the commencement by Leeds of possession proceedings the Maloneys had established "sufficient and continuous links" with the piece of land on which their caravan stood so as to constitute that singular piece of land their article 8(1) "home".

The facts therefore in the Leeds case made it "a very bad one to choose for the purpose of revisiting the correctness of Qazi since...it is grotesque to suppose that the Maloneys could claim that the commencement by Leeds of possession proceedings to recover its recreation ground was an interference with their right to respect for a "home" that they had established on Leeds' land.

Be that as it may, the Lambeth [appeal], by contrast, seems to me a very good test case.

Both Judge Bush and the Court of Appeal, following Qazi, rejected the Maloneys' reliance on article 8.— Lord Scott of Foscote at paras 128–131.

As shown above The House of Lords confirmed this rejection based on the facts themselves was the only non-absurd solution, to permit the family to re-enter would be permitting them to trespass onto a public recreation ground.

Judgment in the Lambeth appeal
In the House of Lords, Lord Bingham gave the leading 49 paragraphs of the judgment.  He held that the European Court accorded a generous margin of appreciation to the national authorities, attaching much importance to the facts of the case. Thus, it was for the courts to decide how in the first instance the principles expounded in Strasbourg should be applied in the special context of national legislation, practice and social and other considerations. To those decisions the ordinary rules of precedent should apply.

The ruling applies generally to homeless people who are being fairly treated as against other of their status and to whom a local authority fairly would find as lower priority in its duty to assist in finding housing.  If such people are granted a sub-licence by a real estate investment trust allowing them to occupy accommodation temporarily they do not, become secured (i.e. tenants) of the local authority. Any earlier transfer (by document) by a local authority is not relevant. Also irrelevant is that the licence may be interpreted in law as an assured shorthold tenancy, as against the real estate investment trust.

See also
 Ratio decidendi

Notes
References

Notes

2006 in United Kingdom case law
History of the London Borough of Lambeth
2006 in London
English land case law
House of Lords cases
London Borough of Lambeth
Squatting in the United Kingdom