[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Australia–China relations

in Afghanistan.

Military tensions
In July 2021, some Chinese ships were seen near Australia, at a time when defence force exercises were taking place. Defence minister Peter Dutton said that he was shocked to see them sailing near the country.

2021: Australia to acquire nuclear powered submarines

On 16 September 2021, Australia announced the AUKUS security partnership that includes Australia acquiring nuclear powered submarines with assistance from the United States and the United Kingdom. It is a key element of the new "AUKUS" political-military alignment. Although China was not specifically mentioned in the news announcements, critics interpreted it as a major blow to Australian-Chinese relationship, by firmly allying Australia with the United States in military terms in the region. For the first time the United States and the United Kingdom will share their top-secret nuclear submarine propulsion technology, which has a far wider range and lethal value than diesel-electric powered submarines. By making the deal, Canberra broke with Paris, canceling a deal to purchase less expensive, less effective French diesel-electric submarines. No nuclear weapons are involved, and the submarines will carry conventional weapons only.  Beijing reacted angrily. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, told the press that the deal would:seriously damage regional peace and stability, exacerbate an arms race and harm international nuclear nonproliferation agreements....This is utterly irresponsible conduct.

According to Rory Medcalf, head of the National Security College at the Australian National University, "The level of Chinese economic coercion and cyber espionage against Australia was once unimaginable, so our security agencies have learned to consider worst-case possibilities....[AUKUS] is an alignment made in Beijing."  Under AUKUS, Sheftalovich and Lau say, the three allies will share advanced technologies "including artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, quantum computing, underwater systems and long-range strike capabilities."  Michael Shoebridge, a director at the influential Australian Strategic Policy Institute (ASPI) think tank, says, "It's a remarkable collapse in Australia-China relations and a massive deterioration in Australia's security outlook that's led to this outcome."

Sino-Solomon Islands defence agreement
In late March 2022, the Australian Government criticised a draft security pact between China and the Solomon Islands that would allow Beijing to deploy military forces in the country and establish a military base. Senior Australian officials including Morrison, Defence Minister Peter Dutton, and Foreign Minister Marise Payne expressed concerns about the expansion of Chinese influence in the South Pacific region, which Australia regards as its "backyard." In  response to Australian criticism of the proposed security pact, Sogavare defended the security pact with China on national sovereignty grounds. He also criticised the leaking of the document and objecting to the Australian media coverage for sensationalising the issue. In addition, the Chinese Government defended the bilateral pact and rejected Australian criticism that Beijing was coercing the Solomon Islands.

Albanese Government: 2022–present 

The relationship between the two countries started to improve after Anthony Albanese of the Labor Party won the 2022 federal elections. In mid-June 2022, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Richard Marles met with Chinese Defence Minister Wei Fenghe at the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore. This was the highest level bilateral contact between the two countries for almost three years. Marles and Wei discussed the recent Chinese interception of a Royal Australian Air Force Boeing P-8 Poseidon over the South China Sea and Oceania. At the Shangri-La Dialogue, Marles reiterated the Albanese government's desire to pursue a "productive relationship" with China while still upholding its own national interests and regional security within a rules-based system. Marles also sought to allay Chinese concerns that  AUKUS was similar to NATO, stating that AUKUS sought to foster the sharing and development of capabilities between Australia, the United Kingdom, and United States. In November 2022, prime minister Albanese met with Chinese President Xi Jinping during the G20 summit in Bali. In December 2022, Australian Foreign Minister Penny Wong visited China, the first Australian minister to visit the country since 2019, where she met Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi.