[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Artistic depictions of the Partition of India

re the subtle questions of morality which Singh asks through his characters, such as whether or not the bad needs to be recognized to promote the good, and what constitutes a good deed. It was adapted into a Hindi film by the same name by Pamela Rooks in 1998.Train to Pakistan (1990). Grove Press; .

Tamas
Penned by Bhisham Sahni and the winner of the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1975, Tamas depicted riots in a small Indian town. The novel was later adapted into a TV series by the same name for Doordarshan, and later a one-off four-hour feature film. Tamas –  Rajkamal Prakashan Pvt. Ltd.. .

Midnight's Children
Salman Rushdie wrote this famous surrealistic fiction full of satirical references to the event of partition and independence. The "midnight" alluded to in the title is the moment at which partition and independence became official. It was later adapted into a film by the same name by Deepa Mehta.Midnight's Children (1980). New York: Knopf, 1981; .

Purbo-PaschimPurbo-Paschim (East and the West) is an epic Bengali saga by Sunil Gangopadhyay. The narrative deals with a particular family that had to migrate from East Pakistan to West Bengal, and their fight against the tide. The story stretches from a pre-independence period to early 1980s and reflects the socio-economical changes that this region went through during this long period of time.

A Fine Balance
Written by Rohinton Mistry, the story is set in 1975. However, the Partition plays a dominant role in the narrative.A Fine Balance (2001). Random House 

Ice-Candy Man
Bapsi Sidhwa's 1989 novel Ice-Candy Man, written in the backdrop of the riots in Lahore, was re-released in 1991 as Cracking India. Later the story was made into a film, called Earth by Deepa Mehta.

Interpreter of Maladies
Jhumpa Lahiri was awarded the 2000 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for Interpreter of Maladies, a collection of short stories some of which involved the aftermath of the partition.

Interpreter of Maladies (1999). Mariner Books/Houghton Mifflin.  

Kitne PakistanKitne Pakistan (How Many Pakistan?) 2000 Hindi novel by Kamleshwar, noted 20th-century Hindi writer, a pioneer of the Nayi Kahani i ("New Story") movement of the 1950s, deals with historical context on the based on the rise of communalism, the violence and bloodshed in aftermath of partition of India in 1947 and examines the nature and futility of divisive politics and religion.

Azadi
Semi-autobiographical novel by Chaman Nahal.

Azadi (Freedom). New Delhi, Arnold-Heinemann, and Boston, Houghton Mifflin, 1975; London, Deutsch, 1977  .

The Shadow LinesThe Shadow Lines is a novel by Amitav Ghosh. It is a non-linear narrative that covers several crucial periods in the history of India, Bangladesh, and Pakistan. It explored the themes of violence, memory, loss, and of the 'grand narratives' propagated by those in power, as opposed to the more individual and personal 'little narratives' seen through its central characters, Thamma, Tridib, and the unnamed narrator.

 Aangan Aangan is a Urdu-language award winning novel by Khadija Mastoor. Aangan means Courtyard, thus as the name represents it deals with the events of life inside the house walls at the time of partition and depicts the stories of its characters Chammi,  Aaliya, Tehmina and Salma from Aaliya's perspective. The novel was also adapted into a TV series with the same name by Hum TV (Pakistan).

PlaysDrawing the Line is a 2013 play by Howard Brenton, centred on Cyril Radcliffe and his part in the partition of India in 1947. It premiered from 3 December 2013 to 11 January 2014, in a production directed by Howard Davies at London's Hampstead Theatre.

Feature films

Films ordered by release date
 Meghe Dhaka Tara, directed by Ritwik Ghatak (1960), IMDb entry
 Garam Hawa, directed by M. S. Sathyu (1973), IMDb entry
 Partition, directed by Ken McMullen, adapted from Saadat Hasan Manto's story Toba Tek Singh, by Tariq Ali (1978), IMDB entry
 Earth, directed by Deepa Mehta (1998), IMDb entry
 Jinnah, directed by Jamil Dehlavi (1998), IMDb entry
 Hey Ram directed by Kamal Haasan (2000), IMDb entry
 Gadar: Ek Prem Katha, directed by Anil Sharma (2001), IMDb entry
 Kaalapaani, directed by Priyadarshan (1996), IMDb entry
 Partition, directed by Vic Sarin (2007), IMDb entry

Garam Hawa
Directed by M. S. Sathyu, Garam Hawa (1973) was Balraj Sahni's last major role.

Meghe Dhaka Tara (The Cloud-Capped Star)
Directed by Ritwik Ghatak, Meghe Dhaka Tara (1960), never explicitly mentions the Partition, but takes place in a refugee camp in the outskirts of Calcutta, and concerns an impoverished genteel Hindu bhadralok family and the problems they face because of Partition. 

Komal Gandhar (E Flat)
Directed by Ritwik Ghatak Komal Gandhar (1961), the protagonists suffer from the same anguish: the separation from their home, on the other side of the border.