[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 86]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

fering when he might have made a name that
would never be forgotten, if he pursued a more fruitful branch of
research.

Hadria remarked that Professor Theobald's last sentence had added the
crowning dignity to his eulogium.

He glanced at her, as if taking her measure.

"Fortescue," he called out, "I envy you your champion. You point, Mrs.
Temperley, to lofty altitudes. I, as a mere man, cannot pretend to scale
them."

Then he proceeded to bring down feminine loftiness with virile reason.

"In this world, where there are so many other evils to combat, one feels
that it is more rational to attack the more important first."

"Ah! there is nothing like an evil to bolster up an evil," cried
Professor Fortescue; "the argument never fails. Every abuse may find
shelter behind it. The slave trade, for instance; have we not white
slavery in our midst? How inconsistent to trouble about negroes till our
own people are truly free! Wife-beating? Sad; but then children are
often shamefully ill-used. Wait till _they_ are fully protected before
fussing about wives. Protect children? Foolish knight-errant, when you
ought to know that drunkenness is at the root of these crimes! Sweep
away _this_ curse, before thinking of the children. As for animals, how
can any rational person consider _their_ sufferings, when there are men,
women, and children with wrongs to be redressed?"

Professor Theobald laughed.

"My dear Fortescue, I knew you would have some ingenious excuse for your
amiable weaknesses."

"It is easier to find epithets than answers, Theobald," said the
Professor with a smile. "I confess I wonder at a man of your logical
power being taken in with this cheap argument, if argument it can be
called."

"It is my attachment to logic that makes me crave for consistency," said
Theobald, not over pleased at his friend's attack.

Professor Fortescue stared in surprise.

"But do you really mean to tell me that you think it logical to excuse
one abuse by pointing to another?"

"I think that while there are ill-used women and children, it is
certainly inconsistent to consider animals," said Theobald.

"It does not occur to you that the spirit in man that permits abuse of
power over animals is precisely the same devil-inspired spirit that
expresses itself in cruelty towards children. Ah," continued Professor
Fortescue, shaking his head, "then you really are one of the many who
help wrong to breed wrong, and suffering to foster suffering, all the
world over. It is you and those who reason as you reason, who give to
our miseries their terrible vitality. What arguments has evil ever given
to evil! What shelter and succour cruelty offers eternally to cruelty!"

"I can't attempt to combat this hobby of yours, Fortescue."

"Again a be-littling epithet in place of an argument! But I know of old
that on this subject your intellectual acumen deserts you, as it deserts
nearly all men. You sink suddenly to lower spiritual rank, and employ
reasoning that you would laugh to scorn in connection with every other
topic."

"You seem bent on crushing me," exclaimed Theobald. "And Mrs. Temperley
enjoys seeing me mangled. Talk about cruelty to animals! I call this
cold-blooded devilry! Mrs. Temperley, come to my rescue!"

"So long as other forms of cruelty can be instanced, Professor Theobald,
I don't see how, on your own shewing, you can expect any consistent
person to raise a finger to help you," Hadria returned. Theobald
laughed.

"But I consider myself too important and valuable to be made the subject
of this harsh treatment."

"That is for others to decide. If it affords us amusement to torment
you, and amusement benefits our nerves and digestion, how can you justly
object? We must consider the greatest good of the greatest number; and
we are twice as numerous as you."

"You are delicious!" he exclaimed. Mrs. Temperley's manner stiffened.

Acute as the Professor was in many directions, he did not appear to
notice the change.

His own manner was not above criticism.

"It is strange," said Lady Engleton, in speaking of him afterwards to
Hadria, "it is strange that his cleverness does not come to the rescue;
but so far from that, I think it leads him a wild dance over boggy
ground, like some will-o'-the-wisp, but for whose freakish allurements
the good man might have trodden a quiet and inoffensive way."

The only means of procuring the indispensable afternoon tea was to go on
to the Red House, which Mrs. Temperley proposed that they should all do.

"And is there no shaking your decision about the Priory, Professor
Theobald?" Lady Engleton asked as they descended the steps.

The Professor's quick glance sought Mrs. Temperley's before he answered.
"I confess to feeling less heroic this afternoon."

"Oh, good! We may perhaps have you for a neighbour after all."




CHAPTER XXIV.


Hadria tried to avoid Professor Theobald, but he was not