[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marin Barleti University

s degrees

1. Public Policies and Administration
2. Leadership

Law School master's degrees

1. Public Law
2. Business Law

Psychology and Sociology Degrees

1. Psychology
2. Sociology

Communication master's degrees

1. Public Communication
2. Economic Reporting

Additional qualifications (minors) 

Throughout the year, including summers, MBU offers additional qualifications (minors) in areas of great demand for social and economic development of the country and region. A minor provides sufficient qualification in one field, which can be complementary to a major (bachelor's degree). The minor is conceived in a way that its 40 credits can be calculated in respective field of master and its successful completion (grade 3 C+) is considered as completion of the first year of master.

A minor creates more chances for employment and makes the bachelor more updated to meets the demands and developments of the job market. Classes for the minor may be offered part-time, during P.M. hours, on week-ends, or during summers for those who want to complete it in 4 to 6 months.

 Each minor is made up of 6-10 modules, spread over 5-6 semesters
 As a rule, “mandatory” minor begins on second semester
 On each semester one or two minor modules are held 
 Minor modules include 4 to 8 hour periods a week
 Minor modules are delivered on a suitable time for all interested students

In accordance with the regulations of MBU, minor is delivered for groups of at least 8 students and is interrupted when the number of students becomes less than 5. Following this point of the regulation, minors in MBU are offered:

 For free to all students of MBU
 Against payment, to every interested student, who can approve through an official document that he/she is a university graduate or that he/she is attending the respective semester or is a senior.

Students can attend several minors at the same time.
o.

Finances 

To register at “Marin Barleti” University for attending the academic year, summer courses or specialised courses, the student pays special tuition fees which are obligatory and are applied according to a schedule approved by university administration. Changes can be made only in special cases in conformity with university regulation.

Marin Barleti University has a special program of scholarships, financial aid and employment for students with excellent performance and those in financial need, as well as to promote students with special vocations in art, culture, sports and journalism.

See also 
List of universities in Albania

References

Universities in Albania
Educational institutions established in 2005
2005 establishments in Albania