[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Cytoplasmic male sterility

Cytoplasmic male sterility is total or partial male sterility in hermaphrodite organisms, as the result of specific nuclear and mitochondrial interactions. Male sterility is the failure to produce functional anthers, pollen, or male gametes. Such male sterility in hermaphrodite populations leads to gynodioecious populations (populations with coexisting fully functioning hermaphrodites and male-sterile hermaphrodites).

Cytoplasmic male sterility, as the name indicates, is under extranuclear genetic control (under control of the mitochondrial or plastid genomes). It shows non-Mendelian inheritance, with male sterility inherited maternally. In general, there are two types of cytoplasm: N (normal) and aberrant S (sterile) cytoplasms. These types exhibit reciprocal differences.

History 
Joseph Gottlieb Kölreuter was the first to document male sterility in plants.  In the 18th century, he reported on anther abortion within species and specific hybrids. 

Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) is mostly found in angiosperms and has been identified in more than 140 angiosperm species.

CMS has also been identified in one animal species so far, Physa acuta, a fresh water snail. 

There is strong evidence for gynodioecy and CMS to be a transitionary step between hermaphrodites and separated sexes. 

Male sterility is more prevalent than female sterility. This could be because the male sporophyte and gametophyte are less protected from the environment than the ovule and embryo sac.  Male-sterile plants can set seed and propagate.  Female-sterile plants cannot develop seeds and will not propagate. 

Manifestation of male sterility in CMS may be controlled either entirely by cytoplasmic factors or by interactions between cytoplasmic factors and nuclear factors. Male sterility can arise spontaneously via mutations in nuclear genes and/or cytoplasmic or cytoplasmic–genetic. In this case, the trigger for CMS is in the extranuclear genome - (mitochondria or chloroplast). The extranuclear genome is only maternally inherited. Natural selection on cytoplasmic genes could also lead to low pollen production or male sterility.  

Male sterility is easy to detect because a large number of pollen grains are produced in male fertile plants. Pollen grains can be assayed through staining techniques (carmine, lactophenol or iodine).

Resource relocation 
CMS is one case of male-sterility, but this condition can also originate from nuclear genes. In the case of nuclear male sterility (when male sterility is caused by a nuclear mutation), the transmission of the male sterility allele is cut in half, since the entire male reproductive pathway is canceled. 

CMS differs from the latter case (nuclear male sterility) because most cytoplasmic genetic elements are only transmitted maternally. This entails that for a cytoplasmic genetic element, causing male sterility doesn't affect its transmission rate since it is not transmitted via the male reproductive pathway. 

Inactivation of the male reproductive pathway (sperm production, production of male reproductive organs, etc) can lead to resource relocation to the female reproductive pathway, increasing the female reproductive capabilities (female fitness), this phenomena is referred to as Female Advantage (FA). The female advantage of many gynodioecious species has been quantified (as the ratio between male-sterile's female fitness and hermaphrodites' female fitness) and is mostly comprised between 1 and 2.

In the case of nuclear male-sterility, a female advantage of at least 2 is required to make it evolutionary neutral (FA=2) or advantageous (FA > 2) since half of the transmission is cut because of the male-sterility allele.

Cytoplasmic male-sterility requires no female advantage to be evolutionary neutral (FA=1), or a small female advantage to be evolutionary advantageous (FA > 1).

As far as we know, CMS is much more common than nuclear male-sterility with results from a study of 49 gynodioecious plants found 17 species (35%) exhibiting CMS and only 7 (14%) exhibiting nuclear male-sterility (all remaining species have unknown determinism of male-sterility).