[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Du Yuesheng

onour its grand opening. It was one of Shanghai's largest celebrations, with hundreds of celebrities and political figures attending. Within months of its opening, however, the temple's private wings had been turned over to the manufacture of heroin, making it one of Shanghai's largest drug factory.

When the Second World War broke out in 1937, Du offered to fight the Japanese by scuttling his fleet of ships at the mouth of the Yangtze River, but he eventually fled. Green Gang operatives cooperating with Dai Li, Chiang's intelligence chief, continued to smuggle weapons and goods to the Nationalist forces throughout the war, and Du himself was a board member of the Chinese Red Cross. Following Japan's surrender in 1945, Du returned to Shanghai, expecting a warm welcome, but was shocked when he was not received like a hero. Many Shanghai residents felt that Du had abandoned the city.

The relationship between Du and Chiang Kai-shek soured further after the war, when corruption and crime committed by top-ranking politicians and gangsters caused great problems within the Kuomintang. Chiang Kai-shek's son, Chiang Ching-kuo, launched an anti-corruption campaign in Shanghai in the late 1940s, with Du's relatives among the first to be arrested and thrown into jail. Although Du successfully managed their release by threatening to expose the embezzlement activities of Chiang's relatives, the arrest and imprisonment of Du's sons effectively ended the partnership between Chiang and Du.

Exile in Hong Kong and death

Du escaped to Hong Kong after the Kuomintang retreated to Taiwan in 1949 following their defeat by the Communists. Tales on Du's finances and power during this period vary largely — some argued that he lived in practical squalor while others said he had built up a sizable nest egg. As he gradually became blind and possibly senile, Du decided it was safe to move back to China in 1951. However, before he could return to China  he died in Hong Kong of illness apparently caused by his addiction to opium. Allegedly, his body was taken by one of his wives to Taiwan, and buried in Xizhi District, New Taipei, though some are sceptical that his tomb actually contains his body. Following his internment the Taiwanese authorities constructed a statue of Du in Xizhi. The four-character inscription on the statue praises Du's "loyalty" and "personal integrity".

Personal life
Du Yuesheng had five wives during his lifetime: Shen Yueying, Chen Yuying, Sun Peihao, Yao Yulan and Meng Xiaodong (divorced 1951). Du had eight sons and three daughters. His eight sons are Du Weiping, Du Weishan, Du Weixi, Du Weihan, Du Weiwei, Du Weining, Du Weixin and Du Weiwei. His three daughters are Du Meiru, Du Meixia and Du Meijuan.

According to Chan Wan Hoi's radio talk show "No. 4 Mount Davis" at Commercial Radio Hong Kong, Du's eldest daughter, Du Meiru, settled with her husband in Jordan in the 1960s and operated a restaurant.

Names
Du's original name was Du Yuesheng (). Later, on the advice of Zhang Binglin, Du changed his name to Du Yong (), pseudonym Yuesheng (; same pronunciation as his original name but written differently in Chinese).

In popular culture
For many years, media on Du and his exploits were officially banned in China on the grounds that they encourage criminality. Many Chinese-language biographies of Du were banned, and writers and sellers of these books were arrested. Only until recently did critical studies on Du become more open, but the official ban has never been entirely lifted by the Chinese government.

Some depictions of Du in popular culture include: