[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Follow Through (project)

First, ANCOVA "is not a substitute for random assignment, but it has become a conventionally accepted technique for handling initial group differences in quasi-experimental data". Second, the larger the initial differences between treatment and control groups, the weaker the strength of the results.

Results 
The results of Follow Through did not show how models that showed little or no effects could be improved. But they did show which models—as suggested by the less than ideal conditions of the experiment—had some indications of success. Of these models, Siegfried Engelmann's Direct Instruction method demonstrated the highest gains in the comparative study. The most notable critique of Follow Through (described in detail below) takes issue with the fact that the models which showed positive effects were largely basic skills models. Abt Associates identified five major findings related to the question of differential model effectiveness; the principal empirical findings of the experiment were reported as follows:
"The effectiveness of each Follow Through model varied substantially from site group to site group" 
"Models that emphasize basic skills succeed better than other models in helping children gain these skills" (p. xxv)
"Where models have put their primary emphasis elsewhere than on the basic skills, the children they served have tended to score lower on tests of these skills than they would have done without Follow Through" (p. xxvi)
"No type of model was notably more successful than the others in raising scores on cognitive conceptual skills" (p. xxvi)
"Models that emphasize basic skills produced better results on tests of self-concept than did other models" (p. xxvi)
To the extent that Follow Through children have 'caught up' with their peers in arithmetic skills, they have tended to do it during the first two years of their involvement in the program" (p. xxvii)
"Follow Through has been relatively effective with the most disadvantaged children it has served" (p. xxviii)

A separate analysis examined the impact of Siegfried Engelmann's Direct Instruction method on students over several decades. This analysis suggested a long-term benefit.

Critiques 
Wisler et al, in their review of the Follow Through experience, wrote that it was likely that no other educational data has been examined more extensively, excepting the Equality of Educational Opportunity Survey. At least three major reevaluations of the Follow Through data exist in the literature:  House, et al. (1978); Bereiter and Kurland (1981); and Kennedy (1981). All largely confirm the original statistical analysis conducted by Abt Associates.  Generally, the consensus among most researchers is that structured models tended to perform better than unstructured ones, and that the Direct Instruction and Behavior Analysis models performed better on the instruments employed than did the other models.) Most critiques of the Follow Through experiment have tended to focus on the operational and design problems that plagued the experiment. In particular, these critiques note that there was more variation within a particular model than there was from model to model. This problem has largely been attributed to the problem of how to measure the effectiveness of a particular implementation; the measures used were largely qualitative and anecdotal. In some instances, sites were included in the analysis that had ceased to implement specific models, or the model sponsors had serious reservations about the way particular models were implemented.