[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mark Randall (footballer)

Mark Leonard Randall (born 28 September 1989) is an English professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for NIFL Premiership club Larne.

Randall spent his formative footballing years at Arsenal where he was touted by manager Arsène Wenger as a key Arsenal player for the future. He was released at the end of his contract in 2011 and subsequently joined Chesterfield, where he won the Football League Trophy.

Early life
Born in Milton Keynes, Randall grew up amongst a family of Tottenham Hotspur supporters, but says he is "100% a Gooner".

Career

Arsenal
After playing youth football for Northampton Town, Randall joined Arsenal's academy in 2001. Randall signed for Arsenal on schoolboy forms and played seven matches in the Premier Reserve League in 2005–06. Randall was also the only player in the team to play all 18 reserve team fixtures in the 2007–08 season. He played in Dennis Bergkamp's testimonial against Ajax Amsterdam in July 2006, and in the club's pre-season tour of Austria and the Netherlands. He made his first-team debut as a substitute for Denílson in Arsenal's League Cup third-round match against West Bromwich Albion on 24 October 2006. He also played in Arsenal's fourth-round match against Everton on 8 November 2006, again coming on for Denílson, and was on the bench for their quarter-final against Liverpool, but did not play in that match.

On 8 February 2007, he signed his first professional contract with Arsenal, and in the summer of 2007 took part in Arsenal's annual first-team pre-season training camp in Austria. However, he was out of the side for the first few months of the 2007–08 season after suffering an injury in Arsenal Reserves' opening Premier Reserve League match of the season, against Fulham in late August, but made his first start for Arsenal in the League Cup quarter-final against Blackburn Rovers on 18 December 2007, and also made his second appearance in the competition as a last-minute substitute in the first leg of the semi-finals against Tottenham Hotspur.

Randall signed for Burnley on loan, on 31 January 2008, the last day of the transfer window and made 10 league appearances for the Championship club. He returned to Arsenal following the end of the Championship season on 4 May and went on to make his Premier League debut against Sunderland on 11 May in Arsenal's final match of the season. He came on as an 81st-minute substitute and having a goal disallowed in the final moments of the match.

After playing in much of Arsenal's pre-season campaign for 2008–09, Randall made his European debut in Arsenal's UEFA Champions League third qualifying round match away to FC Twente on 13 August 2008, coming on as a substitute for Theo Walcott in the 84th minute. He also played the full 90 minutes in Arsenal's 6–0 League Cup third round victory over Sheffield United on 23 September, where he set up Arsenal's fifth goal, scored by Jack Wilshere and in the 3–0 win over Wigan Athletic, as well as starting in the defeat to Burnley at the quarter final stage. He made UEFA Champions League debut on 10 December in the 2–0 defeat to F.C. Porto replacing Alexandre Song.

At the start of the season, a loan was agreed, in principle, for Randall to move to Championship side Derby County on a season-long loan, though the club declined to sign the player after he failed to impress on trial. Randall was involved in Arsenal's win over West Bromwich Albion in the League Cup after replacing Francis Coquelin on 58 minutes and indirectly assisted Carlos Vela when his attempted lob from outside the box struck the bar. On 15 January, Randall signed on loan for Milton Keynes Dons until the end of the season. He scored his first goal for Milton Keynes Dons in the 3–1 Football League Trophy second leg semi final loss to Southampton.

Randall was once again sent on loan for the 2010–11 season, this time to a League Two side in Rotherham United. After playing just 21 minutes on his Rotherham debut against Southend United, Randall was sidelined with a broken collarbone. This injury kept him out of the team until the New Year's Day clash against Port Vale in which Randall scored his only goal for the Millers. At the end of his loan spell he returned to Arsenal where his contract was not renewed, signalling the end of his Arsenal career.

Chesterfield
Randall completed a move to League One's Chesterfield on a one-year contract during the summer of 2011. Upon signing he stated this it was a move in which he intended to use to rebuild his career and fulfil his potential after growing disillusioned with life at Arsenal and disheartening loan spells. Manager John Sheridan stated that Randall possesses great potential that he hopes will be fulfilled at the club.