[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Haplogroup L3

ost divergent African clusters L1 and L2". L3 is the haplogroup from which all modern humans outside Africa derive. However, there is a greater diversity of major L3 branches within Africa than outside of it, the two major non-African branches being the L3 offshoots M and N.

 Subclade distribution 

L3 has seven equidistant descendants: L3a, L3b'f, L3c'd, L3e'i'k'x, L3h, M, N. Five are African, while two are associated with the Out of Africa event.
 N – Eurasia possibly due to migration from Africa, and North Africa possibly due to back-migration from Eurasia.
 M – Asia, the Mediterranean Basin, and parts of Africa due to back-migration.
 L3a – East Africa. Moderate to high frequencies found among the Sanye, Samburu, Iraqw, Yaaku, El-Molo and other minor indigenous populations from the East African Rift Valley. It is infrequent to nonexistent in Sudan and the Sahel zone.
 L3a1 – Found across Eastern Africa. Estimated age of 35.8–39.3 ka.
 L3a2 – Found across Eastern Africa. Estimated age of 48.3–57.7 ka.
 L3b'f
 L3b – Spread from East Africa in the upper paleolithic to West-Central Africa. Some subclades spread from Central Africa to East Africa with the Bantu migration.
 L3b1a – Common subclade. Estimated age of 11.7-14.8 ka.
 L3b1a2 – Subclade found in Northeast Africa, the Maghreb, and Middle East. Emerged 12–14 ka.
 L3f – Northeast Africa, Sahel, Arabian peninsula, Iberia. Gaalien, Beja
 L3f1
 L3f1a – Carried by migrants from Eastern Africa into the Sahel and Central Africa.
 L3f1b – Carried by migrants from Eastern Africa into the Sahel and Central Africa.
 L3f1b1 – Carried from Central Africa into Southern and Eastern Africa with the Bantu migration.
 L3f1b1a – Settled from East-Central Africa to Central-West Africa and into North Africa and Berber regions.
 L3f1b4 – Carried from Central Africa into Southern and Eastern Africa with the Bantu migration.
 L3f1b6 – Rare, found in Iberia.
 L3f2 – Primarily distributed in East Africa. Also found in North Africa and Central Africa.
 L3f3 – Spread from Eastern Africa to Chad and the Sahel around 8–9 ka. Found in the Chad Basin.
 L3c'd
 L3c – Extremely rare lineage with only two samples found so far in Eastern Africa and the Near East.
 L3d – Spread from East Africa in the upper paleolithic to Central Africa. Some subclades spread to East Africa with the Bantu migration. Found among the Fulani, Chadians, Ethiopians, Akan people, Mozambique, Yemenites, Egyptians, Berbers
 L3d3a1 – Primarily found in Southern Africa. Supplementary data .
 L3e'i'k'x
 L3e – Suggested to have originated in the Central Africa/Sudan region about 45,000 years ago during the upper paleolithic period. It is the most common L3 sub-clade in Bantu-speaking populations. L3e is also the most common L3 subclade amongst African Americans and Afro-Brazilians.
 L3e1 – Spread from West-Central Africa to Southwest Africa with the Bantu migration. Found in Angola (6.8%). Mozambique, Kikuyu of Kenya, as well as in Yemen, and the Tikar of Cameroon, and among the Akan people of Ghana.
 L3e5 – Originated in the Chad Basin. Found in Algeria, as well as Burkina Faso, Nigeria, South Tunisia, South Morocco and Egypt
 L3i Almost exclusively found in East Africa.
 L3i1 
 L3i1b – Subclade is found in Yemen, Ethiopia, and among Gujarati Indians.
 L3i2 (former L3w) – Found in the Horn of Africa and Oman.
 L3k – Rare haplogroup primarily found in North Africa and the Sahel.
 L3x – Almost exclusively found in East Africa. Found among Ethiopian Oromos, Egyptians
 L3h – Almost exclusively found in East Africa.
 L3h1 – Primarily found in East Africa with branches of L3h1b1 sporadically found in the Sahel and North Africa.
 L3h2 – Found in Northeast Africa and Socotra. Split from other L3h branches as early as 65–69 ka during the middle paleolithic.