[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bibras Natcho

s later in the season against Lokomotiv Moscow and Krasnodar. At the end of the 2012–13 season, Natcho wasn't only named by Sports.ru as one of the top players in the Russian league, but team of the year. However, Natcho's agent revealed that Natcho had yet to reach an agreement over a new contract.

In the 2013–14 season, Natcho started his season when he scored in the second round of first leg of the Europa League, in a 3–2 win over Jagodina. Rubin Kazan would win in the return leg and would progress to the group stage. With his uncertainty of his future, as his contract with the club expires in six months time, it announced that Natcho would stay at the club for the remaining months until January. In the Europa League, Natcho played a vital role of assisting goals in the qualifying round and group stages. He would score three goals in six matches of the group stage, against Zulte Waregem and Maribor. In conclusion of the Europa League group stage, UEFA named Natcho in the Team of the Group Stage. Natcho scored a league goal, on 2 December 2013, in a 3–0 win over Amkar Perm.

Natcho was named in the Team of the Season of the Europa League in the 2013–14 season. In the comments on his inclusion, UEFA said: "Probably Rubin's top performer over the last three years, the Israeli international dominates midfield, supplying assists and delivering great set pieces".

In the winter break of the season, it was announced that Natcho would leave the club upon expiry of his contract. Natcho cited the departure of Manager Berdyev as the reason of his departure. After leaving the club, Natcho hinted playing in the Bundesliga since it fits his playing style. Natcho rejected a latest contract from Rubin Kazan despite having increase wages. During his career at Rubin Kazan, he was sometimes referred to as the 'best foreigner' in the Russian league and made 104 appearances and scored 21 times.

PAOK
On 28 January 2014, Natcho arrived in Thessaloniki, Greece, to discuss a possible contract with PAOK. As his contract with Rubin Kazan and sponsorship of 123pame expired he could move to PAOK as a free transfer. The next day Natcho joined the club, signing a six-month contract.

His first goal for the club on 5 February 2014, in a 5–0 win against Crete, followed by his second, in a 2–0 win over Atromitos on 6 April 2014. Having made a good display, Natcho was awarded Player of the Month in March. Natcho would help the club reach the final of Greek Cup, but received a yellow card during the match, which cause him to miss out for the final match.

At the end of the season, it announced that Natcho was released by the club upon expiry of his contract.

CSKA Moscow

After six months at Greece, Natcho returned to Russia, where he joined CSKA Moscow on a four-year contract.

Natcho scored his first goal for the club, which is against his former club, in a 2–1 loss on 18 August 2014. After the match, Natcho felt he owned an apology to Rubin Kazan's supporters. Natcho then scored a hat-trick on 31 August 2014, in a 6–0 win over Rostov. On 21 October 2014, Natcho scored his first Champions League goal for CSKA Moscow with a penalty in the 86th minute against Manchester City. Five days later, Natcho scored a brace, as CSKA Moscow drew 3–3 with FC Ural.

Natcho provided two assists in the 2–1 victory over Manchester City in a Champions League group stage game.

At the end of the 2014–15 season, Natcho scored 12 goals, gave 8 assists, and was placed in the "Team of the Season". He ended the season being the top scorer of CSKA.

In a game against Dynamo Moscow on 5 October 2015 he suffered a slight concussion and was bleeding. Despite that, he insisted on continuing playing (his manager substituted him despite his protests).

He left CSKA upon the expiration of his contract on 2 June 2018.

Olympiacos
After four years at Russia, Natcho returned to Greece, where he joined Olympiacos on a two-year contract. A year later he mutually ended his contract with the club.

Partizan
On 19 August 2019, Natcho signed a three-year contract with Serbian club Partizan and chose the number 6 shirt. He made his Partizan debut three days later coming on as a 73rd-minute sub in the UEFA Europa League play-off game against Molde. His first goals came on 19 September 2019 when he scored a brace in a 2–2 home draw with AZ Alkmaar in the first matchday of the Europa League group stage.

Natcho scored his first Belgrade Derby goal on 10 June 2020, in a 1-0 Serbian Cup semi-final win. He finished his first season in Partizan with 32 appearances, 11 goals and 9 assists, across three competitions.