[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# William Hawkins Polk

higs and pro-Union Democrats in hopes of stemming the rising secessionist furor led by Governor Isham G. Harris. This convention offered its gubernatorial nomination to former governor William B. Campbell, but Campbell declined. A second, smaller convention nominated Polk as a last-minute candidate.

During the campaign, Polk announced he was in favor of Tennessee joining the Confederacy. He was criticized by secessionists, nevertheless, for not speaking up in favor of separation sooner, and for earlier attacks on Confederate president Jefferson Davis. By the time the campaign had gotten underway, East Tennessee was threatening to withdraw from the state and join the Union, and Polk campaigned as the candidate best suited to reconcile East Tennessee with the rest of the state. He attacked Harris for ordering troops into East Tennessee, arguing the move only served to inflame already-heightened tensions in the region. William G. Brownlow, a leader of the state's Unionists, reluctantly endorsed Polk as a lesser of two evils. On election day, Harris won in a landslide, 74,973 votes to 43,342.

In the months following the election, Polk traveled to Washington to champion causes for the state's Unionists, including advocating the confiscation of the property of Confederates. In June 1862, after the Union Army had recaptured Nashville, he spoke at a Unionist convention in the city. In September 1862, Polk joined the staff of Union Army general Thomas L. Crittenden.

After a trip to the Northern states in late 1862, Polk fell ill while staying at the St. Cloud Hotel in Nashville. He died suddenly on December 16, 1862. His sister-in-law, former First Lady Sarah Childress Polk, arranged for his body to be taken to Columbia (which was still behind enemy lines) under a flag of truce for burial. He is interred at Columbia's Greenwood Cemetery.

Family
Polk married Belinda G. Dickenson on April 18, 1837, in Maury County, Tennessee, and she died on March 26, 1844, in Nashville, Tennessee. He married Mary Louisa Corse on June 29, 1847, in New York City. She died on April 2, 1851. He married Lucy Eugenia Williams on July 14, 1854, in Montmorenci, North Carolina. She died on January 11, 1906, in Warren County, North Carolina.

References

External links

 

1815 births
1862 deaths
Ambassadors of the United States to the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
American people convicted of assault
American proslavery activists
Members of the Aztec Club of 1847
Democratic Party members of the Tennessee House of Representatives
William Hawkins
Tennessee lawyers
University of Tennessee alumni
People from Maury County, Tennessee
People of Tennessee in the American Civil War
Southern Unionists in the American Civil War
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Tennessee
19th-century American politicians
19th-century American lawyers
19th-century American diplomats
United States Army officers
People acquitted of murder
Prisoners and detainees of Tennessee