[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Income tax in Canada

ide or ignore federal deductions in calculating the income on which provincial tax is based.

Provincial and territorial governments provide both non-refundable tax credits and refundable tax credits to taxpayers for certain expenses. They may also apply surtaxes and offer low-income tax reductions.

Canada Revenue Agency collects personal income taxes for agreeing provinces/territories and remits the revenues to the respective governments. The provincial/territorial tax forms are distributed with the federal tax forms, and the taxpayer need make only one payment—to CRA—for both types of tax. Similarly, if a taxpayer is to receive a refund, he or she receives one cheque or bank transfer for the combined federal and provincial/territorial tax refund. Information on provincial rates can be found on the Canada Revenue Agency's website.
Individuals in Canada generally pay income taxes on employment and investment income to the province in which they reside on December 31 of the tax year. This ensures that taxpayers who live in one province and work in another, or who move from one province to another in most cases only have to file a tax return for one province. Individuals with business income have to pay tax on the business income to the province in which it was earned. If it was earned in more than one province, it is allocated based on a formula in the Income Tax Regulations.
In addition to the income tax levied as a percentage of taxable income, two provinces, Prince Edward Island and Ontario, levy surtaxes as a percentage of tax over a certain threshold.

Quebec
Quebec administers its own personal income tax system, and therefore is free to determine its own definition of taxable income. To maintain simplicity for taxpayers, however, Quebec parallels many aspects of and uses many definitions found in the federal tax system.

Quebec chooses to receive part of its health and social transfers in tax points instead of cash. To compensate for this, federal personal income taxes on income earned in Quebec are reduced by 16.5% of federal tax. This is referred to as the Quebec Abatement.

Federal marginal tax rates
The following historical personal federal marginal tax rates of the Government of Canada come from the website of the Canada Revenue Agency. They do not include applicable provincial income taxes. Data on marginal tax rates from 1998 to 2018 are publicly available. Data on basic personal amounts (personal exemption taxed at 0%) can be found on a year by year basis is also available. Their values are contained on line 300 of either the document "Schedule 1 - Federal Tax", or "General Income Tax and Benefit Guide", of each year by year General Income Tax and Benefit Package listed. The personal exemption is listed as it always applies. Additional deductions may be applied depending on eligibility, see. The most common additional deductions are Canada Pension Plan (CPP), Employment Insurance (EI) and employment credit. Exempt amounts are calculated, multiplied by the lowest tax rate and the result is tax credits that reduce the total amount of tax owed.

The rates above do not account for federal surtax nor surtax reduction prior to 2001.

Income not taxed
The following types of income are not taxed in Canada (this list is not exhaustive):
 gifts and inheritances;
 death benefits paid from a life insurance policy;
 lottery winnings;
 winnings from betting or gambling for simple recreation or enjoyment;
 strike pay;
 income earned within a Tax-Free Savings Account;
 compensation paid by a province or territory to a victim of a criminal act or a motor vehicle accident;
 certain civil and military service pensions;
 income from certain international organizations of which Canada is a member, such as the United Nations and its agencies;
 war disability pensions;
 RCMP pensions or compensation paid in respect of injury, disability, or death;
 income of First Nations, if situated on a reserve;
 capital gain on the sale of a taxpayer's principal residence;
 provincial child tax credits or benefits and Québec family allowances;
 Working income tax benefit;
 the Goods and Services Tax or Harmonized Sales Tax credit (GST/HST credit), Quebec Sales Tax credit or Saskatchewan Sales Tax Credit;
 the Canada Child Tax Benefit.