[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# History of immigration to Canada

California and was approximately one third Americans, one third Chinese, and one third various Europeans and others. Nearly all had been in California for many years, including the early Canadians and Maritimers who made the journey north to the new Gold Colony, as British Columbia was often called.

One group of about 60, called the Overlanders of '62, made the journey from Canada via Rupert's Land during the Cariboo Gold Rush but was the exception to the rule. An earlier attempt to move some of the settlers of the Selkirk Colony ended in disaster at Dalles des Morts, near present-day Revelstoke. Early immigration to British Columbia was from all nations, largely via California, and included Germans, Scandinavians, Maritimers, Australians, Poles, Italians, French, Belgians, and others, as well as Chinese and Americans, who were the largest groups to arrive in the years around the time of the founding of the Mainland Colony in 1858. Most of the early Americans left in the early 1860s because of the American Civil War and their pursuit of other gold rushes in Idaho, Colorado, and Nevada, but Americans have remained a major component in the settler population ever since. I n the 1860s, in conjunction with the Cariboo Gold Rush and agitation to join Canada, more and more Canadians, including the Overlanders, who became influential, arrived and became a force in the local polity, which had been dominated by Britons favouring separate rule, and they helped contribute towards the agenda for annexation with Canada. After the opening of the CPR, a new wave of immigration led not just to the creation of Vancouver and other newer urban settlements, but also to the settlement of numerous regions in the Interior, especially the Okanagan, Boundary, Shuswap, and Kootenays.
A similar wave of settlement and development accompanied the opening of the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway (today the Canadian National Railway) through the Central Interior, which was also the impetus for the creation of the city of Prince George and the port of Prince Rupert.

Head tax and Chinese Immigration Act of 1923

The first immigrants from China to Canada came from California to the Fraser Canyon Gold Rush in British Columbia in 1858; immigrants directly from China did not arrive until 1859. The Chinese were a significant part of nearly all the British Columbia gold rushes, and most towns in BC had large Chinese populations, often a third of the total or more. Chinese labourers were hired to help with the construction of the Cariboo Wagon Road and Alexandra Bridge as well as the Douglas Road and other routes. Chinese miners, merchants, and ranchers enjoyed full rights to mineral tenure and land alienation and in some areas became the mainstay of the local economy for decades. The Chinese, for instance, owned 60% of the land in the Lillooet Land District in the 1870s and 1880s and held the majority of working claims on the Fraser River and in other areas. The next wave of immigrants from China were labourers brought in to help build the Canadian Pacific Railway, a transcontinental railway, but many defected to the goldfields of the Cariboo and other mining districts. In the year that the railway was completed, the Chinese Immigration Act of 1885 was enacted, and a head tax was levied to control the ongoing influx of labour although immigration continued as corporate interests in BC preferred to hire the cheaper labour that was made available to them by Chinese labour contractors. Chinese labour was brought in by the Dunsmuir coal interests and used to break the back of strikers at Cumberland in the Comox Valley, which then became one of British Columbia's largest Chinatowns, as white workers hsd residded there were displaced by armed force.

Indian immigration and Continuous Journey Regulation of 1908