[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# List of Shaman King characters

yoku level of 470 000, though Reiheit's furyoku is high enough only to materialize Azazel for three seconds. He dies when his Over Soul is suddenly broken by Hao, though he is later resurrected and unexpectedly proposes to his colleague, the voodoo shaman . Reiheit is named after Hi-Lite cigarettes.

Gandhara
 is a Buddhist pacifist organization that is participating in the Shaman Fight and iterate that their stance is that of neutrality. Led by Lady Sati, they are the third great faction in the current Tournament and are extremely powerful. However, because their chosen candidate became Shaman King during a fight 2500 years ago, they have no interest in winning the tournament and their ultimate goal is to prevent Hao Asakura from becoming the Shaman King. As such, they seek out the Five Grand Elemental Spirits who will wield the Five Elemental Spirits of the Patch Tribe in hopes that they will have the power to defeat Hao.

 Nyorai (Tathāgata)

 
 
 A serene and wise woman who leads the Gandhara, who revere and respect her as their princess and address her as "Her Highness."  Though Lady Sati and the Gandhara do not approve of conflict or wanton destruction of life, they will not hesitate to use sufficient force to meet their objective as a last resort.  She participates in the Shaman Fight in hopes of saving everyone and admits that she doesn't care who becomes Shaman King.  Aware that she is unable to achieve this goal on her own, Sati believes that Yoh and his friends have the power to save the world because they are neither good nor evil in their intent to achieve their dreams.  After recognizing Yoh and his friends as the Five Grand Elemental Spirits, she instructs her followers to send Ren's team to Hell to train while she personally approaches Yoh with the same intent.  As a god-class shaman, her considerable furyoku is likely the closest to Hao Asakura; she possesses the ability to resurrect others and the strength to fight the greatest of the kings of Hell, King Enma, to retrieve the Spirit of Earth before delivering the elemental spirits to Yoh and his friends.Before becoming a shaman, Sati came across a wooden statue of a thousand armed Buddha (a Senju Kannon) at the Saigan Temple when she was a child and spoke to it on the injustices of the world.  When land sharks attempted to throw her out of the temple unless she paid them, the statue broke open and Sati's spirit, Dainichi Nyorai, emerged to scare the land sharks away.  Sati's background suggests that she is , the heroine of Takei's work, Butsu Zone, who is the incarnation of the Buddha Miroku foretold to awaken in the year 1999.  She is named after the SATY supermarket.

 
 An elderly Chinese man whose wisdom allows him to serve as one of Sati's advisers. Daiei is the oldest member of the Gandhara and cares greatly for Sati's well-being, following her wherever she goes and treating her with great reverence. He enjoys tofu cuisine and recites Buddhist sutras in his spare time. He is named for The Daiei, Inc.

 
 A young girl from India with beads in her white hair. She enjoys making long beaded necklaces in her spare time. Though she is the youngest member of Gandhara, Komeri possesses great potential, often training day and night, and loyally follows Sati wherever she goes. She is named for the Komeri Co., Ltd.

Myooh
Also known as the Wisdom Kings, the Myooh is a faction of Gandhara.

 
 A Chinese monk and the team leader for the Myooh, Jackson is a fierce follower of Lady Sati, willing to do anything to protect her ideals and will not tolerate anything that stands in her way.  Unlike Yainage, he is relentless and extremely tough, regarded as one of the strongest members in Gandhara.  As a member of the Myooh, he is permitted to use punitive force against opponents and like the rest of the Gandhara, he is capable of nullifying furyoku.  After losing to Ren's team, the Myooh are assigned by Sati to send Ren's team to Hell to train and watch over their bodies until they are to be revived.  Jackson later fights and defeats Izanami, one of the four Kings of Hell, to obtain the Spirit of Thunder. He is named for JUSCO.

 
 A Buddhist monk from India, recognized as the weakest member of the Myooh, though still a considerably difficult opponent to defeat because of his furyoku nullifying abilities. A composed man with confidence in his abilities, he loses his calm only after he is overwhelmed by Ren's power. After the Myooh are defeated by Ren's team, they are assigned to send Ren's team to Hell and protect their bodies until they return. Yainage later defeats Anubis, one of the four kings of Hell, to retrieve the Spirit of Rain. He enjoys birdwatching in his spare time and is named for the Inageya supermarket.