[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Geography of Cyprus

evidence remains that this broad, central plain, open to the sea at either end, was once covered with rich forests whose timber was coveted by ancient conquerors for their sailing vessels. The now-divided capital of the island, Nicosia, lies in the middle of this central plain.

Natural vegetation 

Despite its small size, Cyprus has a variety of natural vegetation. This includes forests of conifers and broadleaved trees such as pine (Pinus brutia), cedar, cypresses and oaks. Ancient authors write that most of Cyprus, even Messaoria, was heavily forested, and there are still considerable forests on the Troodos and Kyrenia ranges, and locally at lower altitudes. About 17% of the whole island is classified as woodland. Where there is no forest, tall shrub communities of golden oak (Quercus alnifolia), strawberry tree (Arbutus andrachne), terebinth (Pistacia terebinthus), olive (Olea europaea), kermes oak (Quercus coccifera) and styrax (Styrax officinalis) are found, but such maquis is uncommon. Over most of the island untilled ground bears a grazed covering of garrigue, largely composed of low bushes of Cistus, Genista sphacelata, Calicotome villosa, Lithospermum hispidulum, Phaganalon rupestre and, locally, Pistacia lentiscus. Where grazing is excessive this covering is soon reduced, and an impoverished batha remains, consisting principally of Thymus capitatus, Sarcopoterium spinosum, and a few stunted herbs.

Climate

The Mediterranean climate, warm and rather dry, with rainfall mainly between November and March, favours agriculture. In general, the island experiences mild wet winters and dry hot summers. Variations in temperature and rainfall are governed by altitude and, to a lesser extent, distance from the coast. Hot, dry summers from mid-May to mid-September and rainy, rather changeable winters from November to mid-March are separated by short autumn and spring seasons.

Area and boundaries

Area:
Total:
9,251 km2 (of which  are under the control of the Republic of Cyprus and of which  are under the administration of the de facto Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus)
Land:
9,241 km2
Water:
10 km2

Land boundaries:
0 km

Coastline:
648 km

Maritime claims:
Territorial sea:

Continental shelf:
200 m depth or to the depth of exploitation
Exclusive Economic Zone:

Elevation extremes:
Lowest point:
Mediterranean Sea 0 m
Highest point:
Olympus 1,952 m

Resource and land use
Natural resources:
copper, pyrite, asbestos, gypsum, timber, salt, marble, clay earth pigment

Land use:
arable land:
9.90%
permanent crops:
3.24%
other:
86.86% (2012)

Irrigated land:
457.9 km2 (2007)

Total renewable water resources:
0.78 km3 (2011)

Freshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):
total:
0.18 km3/yr (10%/3%/86%)
per capital:
164.7 m3/yr (2009)

Environmental concerns
Natural hazards:
moderate earthquake activity; droughts

Environment – current issues:
water resource problems (no natural reservoir catchments, seasonal disparity in rainfall, sea water intrusion to island's largest aquifer, increased salination in the north); water pollution from sewage and industrial wastes; coastal degradation; loss of wildlife habitats from urbanization.

Environment – international agreements:
party to:
Air Pollution, Air Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Wetlands
signed, but not ratified: none

See also
Geology of Cyprus
List of Cyprus islets
List of dams and reservoirs in Cyprus
List of rivers of Cyprus

References

Official Cyprus Government Web Site 
Embassy of Greece, USA – Cyprus: Geographical and Historical Background
Attribution: