[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paper Dolls (film)

pite already being shown in a public cinema in Makati during the 2006 Cinemanila International Film Festival. The organizers of the Israeli Film Festival decided the film be shown in various universities around Metro Manila.  The Region 1 DVD of Paper Dolls was released on March 13, 2007.

Reception

Critical reception
Film critics have mostly-positive reviews on the documentary, with a 71% grade from review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes and 72% from Metacritic. Joshua Rothkopf of Time Out New York rated the documentary with 4 stars, calling it "strange and sad". Wesley Morris of The Boston Globe gave Paper Dolls 3½ out of 4 stars, lauding that the documentary does not center on drag culture but on "the discrepancy between the (subjects') self-image and their neighbors' failure to see them as more than freaks and foreigners". Ken Fox of TV Guide rated the documentary a 3 out of 4 stars, commenting that although "Heymann has a flair for drama and a way of making every scene he appears in all about him... the Paper Dolls themselves are funny and touching and their plight is relevant to any discussion about foreign workers." A.O. Scott of The New York Times stated that Paper Dolls "seeks to illuminate a subculture without allowing its curiosity to become exploitative or prurient". Michael Booth of The Denver Post gave it a 2½ star-rating out of 4, saying that the documentary underscores the subjects' role as "eternal outsiders". David Noh of Film Journal International stated that "despite Heymann's often clumsy technique and sometimes baldly opportunistic approach, a real human story emerges", and that the audience "sincerely root for these unlikely, uncomely souls". Kevin Thomas of Los Angeles Times writes that Heymann does not only bring an engaging poignancy and depth in Paper Dolls, but also a powerful universality.

Meanwhile, Russell Edwards of Variety wrote that Paper Dolls "mostly fails to transcend its ramshackle structure or penetrate the inner-lives of its subjects". Ed Gonzales of Slant Magazine gave 2 out of 4 stars, while lamenting that the documentary "only skims the surface of the Paper Dolls' personal lives, barely tapping into the dreams that motivate them on a daily basis".

Awards
Paper Dolls won three awards from independent juries in 2006 Berlin International Film Festival: Panorama Audience Award for a Feature Film; the Manfred-Salzgeber Prize; and the Siegessäule Reader's Jury Award. The documentary also received Best Cinematography and Best Music at Israeli Documentary Film Forum in 2006. That same year, it received the Audience Award at Pink Apple Film Festival held in Zurich, Switzerland, as well as the International Audience Award at Los Angeles Film Festival, and Best Documentary at Cinemanila International Film Festival held in Manila, Philippines. Paper Dolls also received the International Jury and the Audience Awards for a Documentary at 2007 Identities Queer Film Festival in Vienna, Austria, as well as the Audience Award for Best Documentary at 22nd Turin International GLBT Film Festival that same year.

Aftermath
Chiqui, Giorgio, and Jan went to London. Chiqui became a head nurse at a local hospital, while Giorgio and Jan continued to provide health care for elderly Jewish men. The three formed "Paper Dolls from Israel" and staged their performances in Filipino nightclubs. Meanwhile, Cheska was deported to the Philippines and managed a bar with her mother. As of 2013, the London Evening Standard reported: "Four of the Paper Dolls now live in London as British citizens: one is a qualified nurse working closely with a surgeon performing skin grafts, while another is married to a (male) German doctor."

After Chaim's death, Sally's visa became invalid, and she returned to the Philippines to take care of her mother, but eventually went to Sharjah, United Arab Emirates and worked as a hairdresser. On November 19, 2007, just 20 days after arriving in UAE, she was found dead on a pavement near a local mall. The reason for her death is still unknown, but her family claimed that an employee at Department of Foreign Affairs asked them if Sally was "the one who got bashed in the head". Heymann was informed of Sally's death during the Israeli Film Fest held in Manila, wherein the proceeds of the screening – as well as his own allowance – were given to Sally's family in Imus, Cavite.