[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of Roman external wars and battles

iana (16 BC) – The troops of Consul Marcus Lollius are defeated by West Germanic warriors in Gaul.
 Battle of Arbalo (11 BC) - Romans under Nero Claudius Drusus defeat the Germans
 Battle of the Lupia River (11 BC) – Roman forces under Augustus's stepson Drusus win a victory in Germany.

1st century

 Roman campaigns in Germania (12 BC – AD 16) (9–16 AD period) – Campaigns in Germania (modern day Germany and the Low Countries) against various Germanic units and coalitions with the objective of establish the border of the empire on the Elbe river.
 Battle of the Teutoburg Forest (9) – Cherusci-born Roman commander Arminius defects to a coalition Germanic rebel groups, who jointly ambush and annihilate three Roman legions under Publius Quinctilius Varus, prompting retaliation campaigns by the Romans. Germania Antiqua roman province is abandoned with all their settlements such as the Waldgirmes Forum .
 Battle at Pontes Longi (15) – Indecisive battle between a Roman army under Aulus Caecina Severus and Germanic troops led by Arminius.
 Battle of the Weser River (16) – Legions under Germanicus defeat Germanic troops of Arminius.
 Battle of the Angrivarian Wall (16) - Legions under Germanicus defeat the Germanic troops of Arminius, ending the campaigns.
 Roman conquest of Britain (43–96)
 43 – Battle of the Medway – Claudius and general Aulus Plautius defeat a confederation of British Celtic tribes. Roman invasion of Britain begins
 50 – Battle of Caer Caradoc – British chieftain Caractacus is defeated and captured by the Romans under Ostorius Scapula.
 60–61 – Boudican revolt – Roman rule secured in Britain and submission of Celtic Britons (Iceni and Trinovantes lost independence).
 60/61–77 Roman conquest of Anglesey –  Anglesey in North West is left under Roman rule, being completed the conquest of Wales and northern England.
 81 – Gnaeus Julius Agricola's planned invasion of Hibernia – Aborted Roman attempt of conquest Ireland due to other priorities.
 83/84 – Battle of Mons Graupius. Romans under Gnaeus Julius Agricola defeat the Caledonians and temporally expanded Roman rule north into Caledonia (modern Scotland), stablishing the northernmost Roman forts, like Cawdor, Tarradale and Portmahomack.  Also, the fleet sailed north and made the first known circumnavigation of Britain, whereupon it was definitely discovered to be an island. It was proclaimed that Agricola had finally subdued all the tribes of Britain, however, the costs of a drawn-out war outweighed any economic or political benefit and it was deemed more profitable to leave the Caledonians to themselves and dismantled roman fortifications after Southern Uplands.
 Roman–Parthian War of 58–63 or War of the Armenian Succession
 58 – Sack of Artaxata by Gnaeus Domitius Corbulo.
 59 – Capture of Tigranocerta by Corbulo.
 62 – Battle of Rhandeia – Romans under Lucius Caesennius Paetus are defeated by a Parthian-Armenian army under King Tiridates of Parthia.
Nero's exploration of the Nile (62–67) – Roman expeditions to Equatorial Africa with the objective to reach the origin of Nile river and recopile information for a possible Roman planned conquest of Ethiopia.
 Domitian's campaign against the Chatti across the Rhine (83)
  Domitian's Dacian War (86–88) 
 87 – Dacian King Decebalus crushes the Roman army at Tapae (today Transylvania, Romania), Legio V Alaudae and general Cornelius Fuscus perish in battle.
 88 – the Romans return and obtain a victory in the same battleground

2nd century