[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Marcia Langton

of her efforts to incorporate Aboriginal astronomical perspectives into the Australian National Curriculum
 2021: Honorary Fellow of the Australian Academy of Technology and Engineering

Personal life
Langton has a son, who lives in New Zealand, and a daughter, who works in theatre.

Selected works

Books
Langton, M. 2018. Welcome to Country: A Travel Guide to Indigenous Australia. Hardie Grant Travel.
Davis, M. and Langton M. (eds.). 2016. It's Our Country: Indigenous Arguments for Meaningful Constitutional Recognition and Reform. Melbourne University Press.
Langton M. 2013. The Quiet Revolution: Indigenous People and the Resources Boom. ABC Books.
Langton M. and J. Longbottom (eds.) 2012. Community futures, legal architecture: foundations for Indigenous peoples in the global mining boom. London: Routledge.
 Perkins, R. and Langton M. (eds). 2008. First Australians. An Illustrated History. Melbourne University Publishing, Melbourne.
Langton, M., Palmer, L., Mazel, O., K. Shain & M.Tehan (eds). 2006. Settling with Indigenous Peoples: Modern Treaty and Agreement Making. Annandale, NSW: Federation Press.
Langton, M. & M. Nakata (eds). 2005. Australian Indigenous Knowledge and Libraries. Canberra: Australian Academic and Research Libraries.
Langton, M., 2005. An Aboriginal ontology of being and place: the performance of Aboriginal property relations in the Princess Charlotte Bay area of eastern Cape York Peninsula, Australia. Unpub. PhD thesis, Human Geography/Anthropology. Sydney: Macquarie University.
Langton, M., M. Tehan, L. R. Palmer & K. Shain (eds). 2004. Honour among nations? Treaties and agreements with Indigenous peoples. Melbourne: Melbourne University Publishing. (Choice List of Outstanding Academic Titles 2006, American Libraries Association, Choice: Current Reviews for Academic Libraries)
 
Langton M. & W. Jonas., 1994. The Little Red, Yellow and Black (and Green and Blue and White) Book: a short guide to Indigenous Australia. Canberra: AIATSIS.
Langton, M., 1994. Valuing cultures: recognising Indigenous cultures as a valued part of Australian heritage. Council for Aboriginal Reconciliation. Canberra : Australian Govt. Pub. Service.
Langton, M., 1993. Well, I heard it on the radio and I saw it on the television: an essay for the Australian Film Commission on the politics and aesthetics of filmmaking by and about Aboriginal people and things. Sydney: Australian Film Commission.
Langton, M. & N. Peterson, (eds). 1983. Aborigines, Land & Land Rights. Valuing Cultures: recognising Indigenous cultures as a valued part of Australian heritage. Canberra: AGPS.
Langton, M., 1983. After the tent embassy: images of Aboriginal history in black and white photographs Sydney: Valadon Publishing.

Articles
 Langton, M., 2010. The Resource Curse. Griffith Review, no. 29.
 Langton, M., and O. Mazel. 2008. Poverty in the midst of plenty: Aboriginal people, the 'resource curse' and Australia's mining boom. Journal of Energy and Natural Resources Law. 26(1): 31–65.
 Langton, M., 2008. chapter in Manne, R. (ed.) "Dear Mr Rudd: Ideas for a Better Australia". Black Inc.
Langton, M., 2007. Trapped in the Aboriginal reality show. Griffith Review Edition 19 – Re-imagining Australia. Sydney: Griffith University.
 Langton, M., 2003. chapter "Grounded and Gendered: Aboriginal Women in Australian Cinema" in French, L. (ed.) Womenvision: Women and the Moving Image in Australia. Damned Publishing, Melbourne. pp. 43–56.

Films
Night Cries: a rural tragedy (1990 short film, with Tracey Moffatt and Penny McDonald)
Blood Brothers, a 1993 four-part Australian documentary series;
Jardiwarnpa: a Warlpiri fire (4th episode, written by Langton; with Ned Lander and Rachel Perkins)
Rachel Perkins' TV series First Australians (SBS television, 2008), features many commentaries by Langton
Here I Am, 2011 (feature fiction, directed by Beck Cole and starring Langton)

Footnotes

References

External links 

1951 births
Living people
Australian indigenous rights activists
Women human rights activists
Australian anthropologists
Australian women anthropologists
Australian geographers
Women geographers
University of Queensland alumni
Australian National University alumni
Macquarie University alumni
Bidjara (Warrego River)
Officers of the Order of Australia
Academic staff of the University of Melbourne
University of Melbourne women
Fellows of the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia
Indigenous Australian academics
Indigenous Australian women academics
Australian Buddhists