[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# On the Beach (1959 film)

oosing duty over love, he takes the Sawfish back to sea. Heartbroken, Davidson watches from a cliff as the Sawfish submerges.

Within a few days, the streets of Melbourne are empty. A Salvation Army street banner, seen multiple times before in the film, reads: "There is still time .. Brother".

Cast

 Gregory Peck as Commander Dwight Lionel Towers, USS Sawfish
 Ava Gardner as Moira Davidson, Towers' Australian love interest
 Fred Astaire as Julian Osborn, Australian scientist
 Anthony Perkins as Lieutenant Commander Peter Holmes, Royal Australian Navy
 Donna Anderson as Mary Holmes, Peter's wife
 John Tate as Admiral Bridie, Royal Australian Navy
 Harp McGuire as Lieutenant Sunderstrom (ashore in San Diego)
 Lola Brooks as Lieutenant Hosgood, Bridie's secretary
 Ken Wayne as Lieutenant Benson
 Guy Doleman as Lieutenant Commander Farrel
 Richard Meikle as Davis
 John Meillon as Sawfish crewman Ralph Swain (ashore in San Francisco)
 Joe McCormick as Ackerman, radiation sickness victim
 Lou Vernon as Bill Davidson, Moira's father
 Kevin Brennan as Dr. King, radiation diagnosis doctor
 Keith Eden as Dr. Fletcher (beach scene)
 Basil Buller-Murphy as Sir Douglas Froude
 Brian James as Royal Australian Navy officer
 John Casson as Salvation Army captain
 Paddy Moran as Stevens (club wine steward)
 Grant Taylor as Morgan (Holmes party)
 George Fairfax (Holmes party guest)
 Earl Francis (Holmes party guest)
 Pat Port (Runner on Beach)
 Cary Peck (uncredited)

Production
As in the novel, much of On the Beach takes place in Melbourne, close to the southernmost part of the Australian mainland. Principal photography took place from January 15 to March 27, 1959. The film was shot in Berwick, then a town outside Melbourne, and Frankston, described in the film as 45 minutes away from Melbourne. The scene where Peck meets Gardner as he arrives from Melbourne by rail was filmed on platform #1 of Frankston railway station, now rebuilt. A subsequent scene, where Peck and Gardner are transported by horse and buggy, was filmed in Young Street, Frankston. Some streets which were being built at the time in Berwick were named after people involved in the film. Two examples are Shute Avenue (Nevil Shute) and Kramer Drive (Stanley Kramer).

The beach scenes were filmed at Canadian Bay Beach in Mount Eliza. The exterior of Peter and Mary's house was a real house in Mount Eliza. The General Post Office was used as the Department of the Navy building. Scenes were also filmed at Queenscliff High Light, the Shell Geelong Refinery, Melbourne Public Library, Flinders Street Station and Queen Victoria Memorial Hospital.

Because Melbourne lacked conventional film studio facilities, the production leased the Melbourne Showgrounds from the Royal Agricultural Society of Victoria. The pavilions and office buildings of the complex were converted to a studio. Sets for Julian's garage, the interior of Peter and Mary's house, the lighthouse and the Sawfish submarine interiors were constructed in the Government Pavilion.

The "Australian Grand Prix" in the novel had the racing sequences filmed at Riverside Raceway in California and at Phillip Island Grand Prix Circuit, home to the present-day Australian Motorcycle Grand Prix, located near Cowes at Phillip Island. These scenes include an array of late-1950s sports cars, including examples of the Jaguar XK150 and Jaguar D-Type, Porsche 356, Mercedes-Benz 300 SL "Gullwing", AC Ace, Chevrolet Corvette, Swallow Doretti and prominent in sequences was the "Chuck Porter Special", a customized Mercedes 300SL built by Hollywood body shop owner Chuck Porter and driven by a list of notable 1950s to 1960s west-coast racers, including Ken Miles and Chuck Stevenson, who purchased and successfully raced it in the early 1960s.

The U.S. Department of Defense refused to cooperate in the production of the film, not allowing access to its nuclear-powered submarines. The British submarine HMS Andrew was used to portray the fictional United States Navy nuclear-powered submarine USS Sawfish. Additional resources were supplied by the Royal Australian Navy, including the use of HMAS Melbourne. The exteriors of the Navy base were filmed at Williamstown Naval Dockyard.

Ava Gardner's wardrobe was created for her in Rome by the Fontana Sisters, three iconic Italian fashion designers, who had previously dressed Gardner in The Barefoot Contessa and The Sun Also Rises.