[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Italian Peruvians

own Italian Peruvian in this historical period was General Francisco Bolognesi, son of an Italian who emigrated to Lima in the early 19th century, who distinguished himself in the War of the Pacific becoming a national hero of Peru. One of the main squares of the Peruvian capital is named after him.

After independence
After the independence of the Spanish colonies, which was caused by the crisis in Spain, the immigration of Italians to Peru increased considerably. Initially Ligurian sailors emigrated to Peru, who founded numerous commercial activities along the coasts of the country. Again from Liguria, many peasants fleeing poverty began to emigrate to Peru. The latter, having arrived in Peru, dedicated themselves to the cultivation of the land and to small trade. This migration of Italians began to be consistent starting from 1840 thanks to the conspicuous economic growth of Peru, which was caused by the export of guano.

Only after the unification of Italy in 1861 was there mass emigration, especially from the impoverished countryside of Veneto and broader Italy. The first wave of Italian immigration to an independent Peru occurred during the period 1840–1866 (the "Guano" Era): not less than 15,000 Italians arrived to Peru during this period (without counting the non-registered Italians) and established mainly in the coastal cities, especially, in Lima and Callao. They came, mostly, from the northern regions (Liguria, Piedmont, Tuscany and Lombardy). Giuseppe Garibaldi arrived to Peru in 1851, as well as other Italians who participated in the Milan rebellion like Giuseppe Eboli, Steban Siccoli, Antonio Raimondi and Arrigoni. Subsequently, there was a decline in them, as a result of the war between Chile and Peru. The great wave of Italian migration to Peru ended around 1880, after which Italians began to arrive in Peru in much smaller numbers. From 1880, there was in fact a drastic drop in the export of guano, a situation which continued also in the following decades without ever reaching the previous levels.

In addition to mercantile activities, the Italians later also dealt with the cultivation of grapes for the production of wine. In 1905, 83% of wine production was attributable to wineries founded and managed by Italians. In this context, some varieties of grapes imported from Italy were introduced in Peru. Other Italians devoted themselves to the cultivation of cotton.

The Italian immigrants in Peru were mostly merchants, who were joined by a small group of wealthy entrepreneurs. An Italian consul who traveled to various countries in South America said: "Italians are rich, very industrious and perhaps they are more active than in any other country in America." Again from a commercial point of view, in a document dated in 1863, it is reported that of the 650 pulperías in Lima, about 500 were owned by Italians. Furthermore, still in the 19th century, the Italians were the Peruvian ethnic group that mostly dealt with the cultivation of vegetables, so much so that almost all the fields cultivated with vegetables in the surroundings of Lima and Callao were cultivated by Italians. However, the wealthiest Italian immigrants were those who devoted themselves to maritime trade, especially guano. Some of them did amass huge wealth.

In 1872, the Sociedad de Inmigración Europea ("European Immigration Society") was founded in Peru. Its objective was promoting Old World immigration by covering the costs of their journeys and financially supporting them during their first settler years in Peru. Furthermore, many Italians came in search for a better future, upon the arrival they established themselves in small business. One such family was the Genoese Marsano family. One of its members, Tomás Marsano Gutiérrez, built a palace in 1941 which was demolished in 2002.

After the collapse of guano exports, Peru's economy veered towards new sectors, such as industry, and even in this last case, the Italians were the protagonists. As an example, between 1880 and 1925, 45 of the total 106 industries founded in this period in Peru, were founded by Italians. A document of the time reported that: "In Lima, in Callao and in the departments of Libertad, Ica and Arequipa, the Italians own the majority of factories of wool and cotton yarn, shoes, wool and straw hats, liquor factories, cigarettes, chocolate, soap, furniture, water, beer, bread, pasta and biscuits, etc." In this context, some banks were born, including the "Banco Italiano" (1889), founded by the Italians.