[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 195]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ll risk of exaggeration.

Our hero's wife is very kind to him. Many of his friends have far sadder
tales to tell. Mrs. Brown is fond of her home and family. She pats the
children on the head when they come down to dessert, and plies them with
chocolate creams, much to the detriment of their health; but it amuses
Mrs. Brown. Mr. Brown superintends the bilious attacks, which the lady
attributes to other causes. As she never finds fault with the children,
and generally remonstrates with their father, in a good-natured way,
when _he_ does so, they are devoted to the indulgent parent, and are
inclined to regard the other as second-rate.

Meal-times are often trying in this household, for Sophia is very
particular about her food; sometimes she sends it out with a rude
message to the cook. Not that John objects to this. He wishes she would
do it oftener, for the cook gets used to Mr. Brown's second-hand
version of his wife's language. He simply cannot bring himself to hint
at Mrs. Brown's robust objurgations. She _can_ express herself when it
comes to a question of her creature comforts!

John's faded cheeks, the hollow lines under the eyes, and hair out of
curl, speak of the struggle for existence as it penetrates to the
fireside. If Sophia but knew what it meant to keep going the
multitudinous details and departments of a household! Her idea of adding
housemaids and pageboys whenever there is a jolt in the machinery has
landed them in expensive disasters, time out of mind. And then, it
hopelessly cuts off all margin of income for every other purpose. It is
all rather discouraging for the hero of this petty, yet gigantic tussle,
for he works, so to speak, in a hostile camp, with no sympathy from his
entirely unconscious spouse, whom popular sentiment nevertheless regards
as the gallant protector of his manly weakness.

If incessant vigilance, tact, firmness, foresight, initiative, courage
and judgment--in short, all the qualities required for governing a
kingdom, and more--have made things go smoothly, the wife takes it as a
matter of course; if they go wrong, she naturally lays the blame on the
husband. In the same way, if the children are a credit to their parents,
that is only as it should be. But if they are naughty, and fretful, and
stupid, and untidy, is it not clear that there must be some serious flaw
in the system which could produce such results in the offspring of Mrs.
Brown? What word in the English language is too severe to describe the
man who neglects to watch with sufficient vigilance over his children's
health and moral training, who fails to see that his little boys'
sailor-suits and knickerbockers are in good repair, that their boot-lace
ends do not fly out from their ankles at every step, that their hair is
not like a hearth-brush, that they do not come down to dinner every day
with dirty hands?

To every true man, the cares of fatherhood and home are sacred and
all-sufficing. He realises, as he looks around at his little ones, that
they are his crown and recompense.

John often finds that _his_ crown-and-recompense gives him a racking
headache by war-whoops and stampedes of infinite variety, and there are
moments when he wonders in dismay if he is really a true man! He has had
the privilege of rearing and training five small crowns and recompenses,
and he feels that he could face the future if further privilege, of this
sort, were denied him. Not but that he is devoted to his family. Nobody
who understands the sacrifices he has made for them could doubt that.
Only, he feels that those parts of his nature which are said to
distinguish the human from the animal kingdom, are getting rather
effaced.

He remembers the days before his marriage, when he was so bold, in his
ignorant youth, as to cherish a passion for scientific research. He even
went so far as to make a chemical laboratory of the family box-room,
till attention was drawn to the circumstance by a series of terrific
explosions, which shaved off his eyebrows, blackened his scientific
countenance, and caused him to be turned out, neck and crop, with his
crucibles, and a sermon on the duty that lay nearest him,--which
resolved itself into that of paying innumerable afternoon calls with his
father and brothers, on acquaintances selected--as he declared in his
haste--for their phenomenal stupidity. His father pointed out how
selfish it was for a young fellow to indulge his own little fads and
fancies, when he might make himself useful in a nice manly way, at home.

When, a year later, the scapegrace Josephine, who had caused infinite
trouble and expense to all belonging to her, showed a languid interest
in chemistry, a spare room was at once fitted up for her, and an
extraordinary wealth of crucibles provided by her delighted parents; and
when explosions and smells pervaded the house, her father, with a proud
smile, would exclaim: "What genius and enthusiasm th