[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Neuland Colony

ool bus managed by the Cooperative.

Regarding university education, the Cooperative award scholarships for study in Asuncion or abroad to persons who have completed their university studies with an undertaking that when completed will give the community their work as development assistance for all.

The training is also an important aspect for Neuland, have been set up vocational training institutions, where they are farmers, tamberos, farmers, carpenters, mechanics, secretaries, accountants and others, and teacher training, where prospective teachers are prepared, subsequently can teach in primary schools in the country.

Economy

After several drawbacks Neuland has become a thriving community and beautiful
It is an agricultural area, are grown peanuts, cotton, sorghum and sesame. It is also an important area of livestock production, cattle for meat and dairy production.

Health

At the hospital, Concordia Neuland are with modern equipment and operating rooms, pharmacy and ambulance to the total provision of doctors.

For the partners of the Cooperative exists the possibility of joining a box hospital as health insurance. The hospital has guards standing to care for patients.

They develop guidance activities in health, education, family, spirituality and services to disabled, orphans, adolescents and sick.

Due to the progress of the Mennonite colony, there was migration of the indigenous population to the colonies, where they receive education, medical care and economic orientation.

References

World Gazeteer: Paraguay – World-Gazetteer.com 
 Geography Illustrated Paraguay, Distributed Arami SRL, 2007. 
 Geography of Paraguay, First Edition 1999, Publisher Hispanic Paraguay SRL

External links

 Neuland
Neuland Colony (Boquerón Department, Paraguay) at Global Anabaptist Mennonite Encyclopedia Online
Pictures of Neuland and the Gran Chaco

Populated places in the Boquerón Department
Mennonitism in Paraguay
Populated places established in 1947
1947 establishments in Paraguay
Russian Mennonite diaspora in South America