[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Rasmus Lindgren

nuary 2008, Lindgren was called up to the Sweden for the first team ahead of the match against Turkey. However, he was dropped from the squad after suffering a thigh injury while training. Three months, Lindgren was put on the standby list for the Sweden squad ahead of the UEFA Euro 2008 tournament.

Following this, he didn't receive another call up from the national team until on 12 August 2008, but did not play. After being called up once more, Lindgren made his debut for Sweden on 19 November 2008, in a 3–1 defeat to the Netherlands. He made his second international appearance in a 2-0 defeat to Serbia. Despite making only making two international appearances for the national team, Lindgren reflected, saying: "I have never been so interested in being part of the national team. It has never been important to me. The clubs I have played in have been so important to me. I have thought that it would have been fun if the national team had come, but it has never been a thing that I have been upset about. I have not felt that it has been so important to me. But without feeling that it had not been fun, I had thought it was great fun. But I got to play two international matches."

Personal life
Lindgren has two siblings. His father, Bernt Göran Lindgren, is a former professional ice hockey player. Lindgren later said in an interview that he's considered Netherlands to be his second home. Growing up, Lindgren was friends with teammate Alexander Farnerud.

Lindgren is married and together, they have two children. Lindgren said that he's announced his intention to move to coaching once his playing time comes to an end.

Career statistics

Club

International

Honours
Ajax
Eredivisie: 2010–11
 KNVB Cup: 2009–10

Red Bull Salzburg
 Austrian Bundesliga: 2011–12
 Austrian Cup: 2011–12

Groningen
KNVB Cup: 2014–15

BK Häcken

Svenska Cupen: 2018–19

References

External links

 Voetbal International profile 
 
 

1984 births
Living people
People from Landskrona Municipality
Men's association football midfielders
Swedish men's footballers
Sweden men's international footballers
Sweden men's under-21 international footballers
Landskrona BoIS players
AFC Ajax players
FC Groningen players
FC Red Bull Salzburg players
BK Häcken players
Eredivisie players
Austrian Football Bundesliga players
Allsvenskan players
Swedish expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in the Netherlands
Expatriate men's footballers in Austria
Swedish expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands
Swedish expatriate sportspeople in Austria
Footballers from Skåne County