[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Non-citizen suffrage

ranscribed into the May 1990 Municipal Code as § 13 para. 2 sentence 2. While that Municipal Code was still applicable in the five eastern German states following German reunification, the specific section about foreigner voting rights was struck down by the 1990 Federal Constitutional Court ruling.

West Germany 
In February 1989, the state of Schleswig-Holstein approved local voting rights for Danish, Irish, Norwegian, Dutch, Swedish, and Swiss 5-year residents; the state of Hamburg approved local voting for 8-year residents. Both were struck down as unconstitutional by the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany on October 31, 1990 (Ruling 83, 37), which interpreted article 28 of the Basic Law to mean only German citizen residents in the territory of that administrative unit, when it stated that "the people" must be represented by election in districts and municipalities.

United Germany 
(EU member)

Between 1995 and 1999, all states were compelled to change their legislation in order to comply with the December 19, 1994 94/80/CE EU directive regarding voting and eligibility rights for EU residents in local and district elections.

In 1998, the coalition government between the social-democrats and the Greens for the first Schröder cabinet including voting rights for all residents at the municipal and district level, but the opposition led a campaign for the February 7, 1999 regional elections in the state of Hesse against both the planned reform of the German nationality law and prospective noncitizen voting rights and won these elections.  As a result of their majority in the federal Upper House, the legislation was blocked and the government adopted a less expansive reform of the nationality law.

Greece
(EU member) EU residents have voting and eligibility rights for local and European elections.

In 2010, these rights were extended for local elections to non-EU foreigners. 12,762 foreign residents out of a potential electorate of 266,250 actually registered to vote for the November 2010 local elections.

Grenada
(CN member) Commonwealth citizens may vote and are eligible for parliamentary elections, but "allegiance to a foreign State" is a criterion for ineligibility.

Guyana
(CN member) Commonwealth citizens with domicile and residence in Guyana for a period of at least one year (same condition apply to Guyanese citizens) may vote but the Guyanese citizenship is required for eligibility to the National Assembly.

Hong Kong
Voting is a relatively recent right in Hong Kong, initiated only towards the end of the British colonial period (1842–1997) and enlarged somewhat after handover.  For this territory, the right to vote accompanies a person's permanent resident status in Hong Kong, not their citizenship.

The right of Hong Kong permanent residents to vote is guaranteed in Article 26 of the Basic Law, where nationality is not even mentioned. And as stipulated in Article 24, permanent residents include foreign persons who have taken up permanent residency in Hong Kong for more than 7 years and other persons (regardless of nationality) who have right of abode in Hong Kong only.

While voting by persons holding foreign passports has gone largely unchallenged, there is some indication that increasing appeals to patriotism may make non-citizen voting an issue of debate in the future. For those who are permanent residents of the territory but not concurrently citizens of the People's Republic of China, their permanent residency will be lost if they stay outside Hong Kong for more than 3 years.

Hungary
(EU member) In 1990, permanent residents were allowed to vote in local elections.  This was revised in 2004 to limit non-citizen voting to EU nationals.

Iceland
Voting and eligibility rights were granted to Nordic Passport Union country citizens with a 3 years residence condition for municipal elections in 1986. These rights were extended to all foreign residents in 2002 with a 5 years residence condition.

Ireland

(EU member) On April 18, 2008, Conor Lenihan, the Minister for Integration, announced that full voting rights including for the President and Dáil Éireann would be extended to all EU migrants.

Israel
In 1960, non-citizen voting rights in local elections were granted for holders of a permanent resident card ("blue card"). Most permanent residents, a status created by the 1952 Entry into Israel Law, are migrants, but other groups fall into the same category.