[Source: PubMed]

4. Child Abuse Negl. 2025 May;163:107342. doi: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2025.107342. Epub
 2025 Mar 3.

The adaptation of psychological first aid for children released from war 
captivity (PFA-CC): A qualitative evaluation.

Fennig M(1), Shorer M(2), Snir A(3), Harlev EB(4), Fennig S(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel. Electronic 
address: mayafennig@tauex.tau.ac.il.
(2)Faculty of Social and Community Sciences, Ruppin Academic Center, Israel; 
Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, Petah Tikva, Israel.
(3)Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, Petah Tikva, Israel.
(4)Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, Petah Tikva, Israel; Faculty 
of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.

BACKGROUND: The abduction of children during armed conflict is a pervasive 
problem on a global scale. However, interventions aimed at alleviating acute 
distress in children released from war captivity remain rare.
OBJECTIVE: We conducted a qualitative evaluation of PFA-CC-a Psychological First 
Aid Intervention (PFA) tailored to children and adolescents (aged 2.5-18 years) 
in Israel, administered immediately following their release from war captivity. 
The goal was to assess its feasibility, fidelity, and practitioner experiences.
METHODS: We employed an ethnographic approach to evaluation. Data collection 
methods included 250 h of participant observation and in-depth interviews with a 
subset of practitioners (n = 37)-social workers, psychologists, psychiatrists, 
nurses, and pediatricians-who delivered the intervention.
FINDINGS: Practitioners described techniques they employed for establishing 
safety, promoting calmness and fostering self-efficacy in the post-captivity 
context. Particular emphasis was placed on assisting families in delivering 
difficult news, respecting children's autonomy and free choice, following 
children's pace in processing trauma, re-establishing daily routines, and 
preparing for reintegration. Two important adaptations to the classical PFA 
model-the use of a transitional hospital setting and the adoption of a 
family-centred approach-were consistently identified as intervention strengths.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that PFA-CC is a feasible and appropriate early 
intervention for children released from war captivity. Key implications for 
early intervention include: (1) adoption of a dialectical approach that balances 
children's autonomy with boundaries; (2) creation of a dedicated, enclosed, and 
'sterile' space to foster safety; (3) implementation of a family-centered 
approach amid acute family disruption and displacement.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2025.107342
PMID: 40037181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.