[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Paris Barclay

, based on a short story by Richard Wright – which had been developed in the second year of the ASCAP Musical Theater Workshop in New York, under the tutelage of Charles Strouse and Stephen Sondheim. It was produced that year at Soho Rep, receiving a mixed review from the New York Times’ Mel Gussow.

After years of directing, Barclay returned to composing in September 2001 with the premiere of a musical based on the collection of letters Dear America: Letters Home from Vietnam. Called Letters from ‘Nam, the play featured Grammy winner Maureen McGovern, future Tony winner Levi Kreis, and David Burnham. Praised by most reviewers and opening days before the September 11 attacks in 2001, the Vietnam musical hit home emotionally with those who performed in it, produced it, or experienced it.

In 2003, Barclay wrote songs for and co-directed Order My Steps for the Cornerstone Theater Company. The musical play, with book by Tracey Scott Wilson, dealt with the African-American church's response to the AIDS epidemic. The Los Angeles Times call a "moving tale about the human toll of AIDS."

Barclay returned to Vietnam with One Red Flower: Letters from ‘Nam, a reworked version of the musical was produced at the Village Theater in Issaquah to further acclaim, with Levi Kreis and David Burnham reprising their roles. Other productions followed, with the most significant being Eric Schaeffer's "gritty and emotional" staging at the Signature Theatre in Arlington, Virginia in 2004.

In 2008, Barclay presented a reading of One Red Flower in Los Angeles to benefit New Directions, an organization that supports veterans of all wars. Maureen McGovern, Levi Kreis and David Burnham returned in featured roles, with television stars Hunter Parrish and Josh Henderson. Although it was not a full production, again it received glowing reviews, described by Beverly Cohn in the Santa Monica Mirror as an "evening that had the audience smiling with a lump in its throat."

Barclay is currently working with Brian Yorkey (Next to Normal) to develop One Red Flower as a television movie, now entitled Letters From ‘Nam.

Personal life 
Openly gay since late in his college days, he was a regular contributor to The Advocate for several years. Barclay married food-industry executive Christopher Barclay (né Mason), his partner of 10 years, in 2008. They have 2 children.

Filmography 
Directed episodes of (arranged in order from most episodes directed to least):

 In Treatment (36 episodes; also executive producer; Golden Globe nomination, 2 DGA nominations, and NAACP Image Award nomination)
 Sons of Anarchy (15 episodes, one NAACP Image Award nomination, also executive producer)
 Station 19 (14 episodes; also executive producer)
 NYPD Blue (12 episodes; 2 Emmy Awards; also supervising producer)
 Cold Case (9 episodes; also co-executive producer; NAACP Image Award)
 Glee (9 episodes, 3 Emmy nominations, 2 DGA nominations)
 The Bastard Executioner (4 episodes; also executive producer)
 City of Angels (4 episodes; NAACP Image Award for best drama series; also co-executive producer and co-creator)
 CSI: Crime Scene Investigation (4 episodes; 2 NAACP Image Award nominations)
 Pitch (4 episodes, NAACP Image Award nomination, also executive producer)
 The Shield (3 episodes; NAACP Image Award nomination)
 The West Wing (3 episodes; Emmy nomination, 3 DGA nominations)
 ER (3 episodes; DGA nomination)
 Sliders (3 episodes)
 The Watcher (2 episodes) 
 Dahmer – Monster: The Jeffrey Dahmer Story (2 episodes)
 American Horror Story: NYC (2 episodes)
 The Good Wife (2 episodes)
 Angel Street (2 episodes)
 Second Noah (2 episodes)
 Clueless (2 episodes)
 Monk (2 episodes)
 NCIS: Los Angeles (2 episodes)
 Dirt (2 episodes)
 Fastlane (2 episodes)
 Empire
 Scandal
 How to Get Away with Murder
 Diagnosis: Murder
 Brooklyn South
 American Dreams
 Huff
 Lost
 NUMB3RS
 House MD (DGA nomination)
 Weeds (DGA nomination)
 The Mentalist
 Miami Medical
 The New Normal
 Last Resort
 The Chicago Code
 Law & Order
 Silk Stalkings
 Moon Over Miami
 Rebel (ABC)

Television pilots:
 Station 19, for ABC
 Perfect Citizen, for CBS
 Pitch, for FOX
 The Bastard Executioner, for FX
 The Street Lawyer, based on the novel by John Grisham for ABC
 Dead Lawyers starring F. Murray Abraham for SyFy
 City of Angels with Blair Underwood and Viola Davis for CBS
 Hate starring Marcia Gay Harden for Showtime
 The Chang Family Saves the World written by John Ridley for ABC
 Big Mike starring Greg Grunberg for A&E
Television movies:
 The Cherokee Kid (HBO)
 The Big Time (TNT)

Feature Film:
 Don't Be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice in the Hood (Miramax)

References

External links