[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Masoud Shojaei

Masoud Soleimani Shojaei  (; born 9 June 1984) is an Iranian professional footballer who plays for Nassaji. Mainly an attacking midfielder, he can also play as a winger or forward.

After playing in his country for two clubs and with Al-Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates, he went on to spend several seasons in Spain with Osasuna, appearing in 112 official matches.

An Iranian international since 2004, Shojaei represented his country in three World Cups and four Asian Cups.

Club career

Early years
Shojaei was born in Shiraz, and lived most of his life in Abadan and Tehran. He started his career with Sanat Naft Abadan F.C. before moving to Saipa F.C. of Karaj in the Iran Pro League; having signed at the age of 19, he went on to play three seasons with the latter.

After the 2006 World Cup, Shojaei moved to the United Arab Emirates and signed for Al Sharjah SC. He scored his first goal for the club in the League on 3 October, against Emirates Club.

Osasuna
On 23 June 2008, after previous attempts from VfL Wolfsburg in Germany and Italy's S.S.C. Napoli, Shojaei signed with Spanish side CA Osasuna for three years, teaming up with compatriot Javad Nekounam. The deal included a €6 million buyout clause for the first 18 months of his contract, being reduced to €3.5 million for the remainder of his stay.

Shojaei made his La Liga debut on 31 August 2008, playing 32 minutes in a 1–1 home draw against Villarreal CF. During his first two seasons he appeared almost always as a substitute, as the Navarrese managed to maintain its division status; the player remained a regular even after the coaching change at the club, as José Ángel Ziganda was replaced by José Antonio Camacho.

Shojaei – who was addressed by his first name during his spell in Spain – appeared regularly again for Osasuna in the 2010–11 campaign, but also spent one month at the 2011 AFC Asian Cup with his national team. In late May he renewed his contract with the club for another two seasons, also having the option of an annual renewal of his link.

Shojaei spent the entire 2011–12 on the sidelines, due to injury. On 25 February 2013, in only his fourth appearance since returning, he scored a stunning goal to help Osasuna win it 2–0 at Levante UD.

Despite a solid start to his spell, Shojaei was eventually released in June 2013. Shortly after, he was linked with a move to fellow league club Real Valladolid, but nothing came of it.

Las Palmas
On 3 September 2013, Shojaei moved clubs but stayed in Spain, joining Segunda División side UD Las Palmas on a one-year contract. He found the net in his debut, in a 3–1 away victory over CE Sabadell FC for the second round of the Copa del Rey.

Shojaei scored twice and provided an assist in the first half of the league fixture against the same opponent on 15 March 2014, in an eventual 5–0 home win.

Qatar
After the 2014 World Cup, Shojaei turned down an offer from Real Zaragoza and moved to Al-Shahania Sports Club in the Qatar Stars League alongside compatriot Mehrdad Pooladi. On 14 December 2014, he scored a hat-trick in a 3–1 away win against eventual runners-up Al Sadd SC; one year later, after suffering relegation, he joined fellow league club Al-Gharafa Sports Club for $1 million.

Greece
On 22 July 2016, Shojaei joined Super League Greece side Panionios on a one-year contract. He enjoyed a successful first season, and subsequently extended his contract until June 2018; on 25 December 2017, however, he severed his link by mutual consent and agreed to a six-month deal at fellow league team AEK Athens three days later, announcing on his Instagram he would be wearing number 24 in tribute of Hadi Norouzi who died in 2015. He made his debut on 6 January, replacing Anastasios Bakasetas in the second half of the match against Panetolikos and later providing the assist for Hélder Lopes goal, in a 4–1 away win. He started his first match three days later against the same opponent, making another assist in a 1–0 victory for the Greek Football Cup's round of 16 and being named as the most valuable player of the match for his performance.

On 1 March 2018, Shojaei put the visitors ahead in their domestic cup semi-final fixture away to AEL, in an eventual 1–2 loss which marked his first goal for the club and the first loss in 26 matches for Manolo Jiménez's team. He contributed to the club's first national championship conquest in 24 years, he left the club.

Tractor

On 2 August 2018, Shojaei joined Tractor S.C. on a three-year contract. 8 days later, he made his debut in a 3–0 defeat against Esteghlal F.C. in which he was chosen as the side's first captain. On 19 April 2019, he was assaulted by a supporter of his own team who invaded the pitch after a 1–0 home defeat of Paykan FC.