[Source: PubMed]

66. Front Public Health. 2026 Feb 16;14:1754718. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2026.1754718.
 eCollection 2026.

Social prescribing for refugee populations: a protocol for a rapid realist 
review of international evidence.

Touzel V(1), Esser AL(1), Husk K(2), Reifegerste D(1).

Author information:
(1)AG4 Prevention and health promotion, Bielefeld University, Bielefeld, 
Germany.
(2)NIHR CLAHRC South West Peninsula (PenCLAHRC), Plymouth University Peninsula 
Schools of Medicine and Dentistry, Plymouth, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Social prescribing addresses complex individual health and social 
needs through person-centered referral from healthcare into community settings, 
supporting wellbeing and integrated care. While evidence for majority 
populations continues to expand, no review has yet synthesized evidence 
specifically for refugee populations, despite this group facing profound social 
and systemic barriers. As such, this protocol defines the research objectives 
for a rapid realist review that will identify what approaches to social 
interventions work for refugee populations, for whom they are effective, and 
under which circumstances.
METHODS: A rapid realist review will be conducted to identify relevant evidence 
from both social prescribing interventions and social capital-based 
interventions (where comparably operationalized), published 2014-2024. The date 
range reflects recent expansion of both social prescribing interest and forced 
migration research, with earlier intervention being less commonly documented. 
Six databases will be searched (PubMed, Web of Science, Embase, CINAHL, SCOPUS, 
PsycInfo), complemented by extensive supplementary search strategies. Two 
independent reviewers will screen and extract data using piloted criteria.
SYNTHESIS: Realist analysis will map included evidence to identify intervention 
concepts, methodologies, populations, settings, delivery structures, and 
evaluation measures. This mapping will be used to identify and group families of 
interventions that function comparably and to develop program theories using 
if-then logic (statements theorizing how social prescribing programs may be 
effective using a context-mechanism-outcome configuration). Synthesis results 
will include multiple products to transparently evidence the working process of 
the review and to illustrate the final results.
DISSEMINATION: Findings will be published in a peer-reviewed, open-access 
journal, with a briefing paper distributed to relevant research networks.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/PTKDX.

Copyright © 2026 Touzel, Esser, Husk and Reifegerste.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2026.1754718
PMCID: PMC12950807
PMID: 41778132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared that this work was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.