[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Habeas corpus petitions of Guantanamo Bay detainees

Geneva Convention. Considering detainees as detainees outside the traditional definition of prisoners also denies the protections of the Geneva Convention.  Proof of these deliberate decisions is found in the legal memoranda where President Bush actively enquired about how far they could legally go.

The scope of international human rights has been discussed in the habeas corpus cases from Guantanamo Bay. Firstly, habeas corpus is a human right of utmost importance, recognised through humanitarian law, for 'protecting one's right to physical liberty'. It has been suggested that there may almost be universal acceptance that the protections of habeas corpus are 'non-derogable'.

Habeas corpus exists outside the Geneva Convention; it is found in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Article 9; Article 9 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; Article 5 of the European Convention of Human Rights; and, in the American Convention on Human Rights, Article 7. The purpose of the European Convention on Human Rights is to create enforceable rights that States are obliged to respect. Limiting this Convention in order to conduct security operations would undermine the system.

Role of the Center for Constitutional Rights

The Center for Constitutional Rights took a lead role in helping to organize the activities of lawyers willing to offer their services, pro bono, to the Guantanamo detainees.

Submitting writs of habeas corpus was made more difficult at first, because part of the Bush detainee policy was to keep the identity of the Guantanamo captives a secret.  A writ has to be submitted by a "next friend".  Some of the detainees had family who would have authorized American lawyers to submit writs on their behalf, but they had no way of contacting them.  Some of the detainees and their relatives are totally illiterate.  Other detainees' families had no idea where they were, and had no idea that they were in Guantanamo. Some of the detainees reported that they were punished for asking for legal assistance.

Rasul v. Bush
In the summer of 2004 the United States Supreme Court ruled on the habeas corpus submission Rasul v. Bush, determining that the court had jurisdiction over Guantanamo, and that detainees had a right to an impartial tribunal to challenge their detention under habeas corpus. It was a landmark decision in detainee rights. Rasul v Bush challenged an earlier precedent set in Johnson v. Eisentrager. Rasul concluded that the U.S., as a lessee, has 'extensive proprietary rights over Guantanamo Bay' that were exclusively granted in the 1903 lease. This lease gave U.S operational sovereignty over the base and brought it within the Supreme Court's jurisdiction. A related decision was Hamdi v. Rumsfeld (2004), which ruled that United States citizens detained as suspected enemy combatants had the right to habeas corpus challenge of their detention.

Detainee Treatment Act of 2005
In response to Rasul v Bush, the U.S. government passed the Detainee Treatment Act 2005 in an attempt to prevent aliens from petitioning for habeas corpus in American courts.  Section 1005(e) states that "[N]o court, justice, or Judge shall have jurisdiction to hear or consider an application for a writ of habeas corpus filed by or on behalf of an alien detained at the Department of Defense at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba'.

The Detainee Treatment Act of 2005 prohibited US military and intelligence personnel from treating detainees in ways inconsistent with Armed Forces regulations.  Additionally, the act did not close off the habeas corpus submissions that were already in the works.

Hamdan v. Rumsfeld
In Hamdan v. Rumsfeld (2006), the Supreme Court ruled that the Bush Presidency lacked the Constitutional authority to create the Guantanamo military commissions as a system separate from the existing federal and military justice systems, and ruled that the CSRTs and military commissions were unconstitutional. It said that only Congress could authorize such a system. They confirmed in their judgement the unlawfulness of the US Government in the use of torture, cruel and humiliating treatment, and international law should limit the power of the President.

Hamdam v Rumsfeld has been acknowledged as a milestone case for Guantanamo detainees; Walter Dellinger even claimed that 'Hamdam is simply the most important decision on Presidential power and the rule of law. Ever'. It followed the passing of the Detainee Treatment Act and gave the Supreme Court an 'early opportunity to assess the nature and extent of the jurisdiction-stripping measure'. The Supreme Court held that the amendment by the new legislation would not apply to detainees who had cases already waiting to be reviewed.