[Source: Gutenberg#1232 | Part 53]
# The Republic — Plato

it did not appear wise to him to turn
back, lest the Lucchese with the example of Pisa before them should
close their gates against him. But the Lucchese, having heard of what
had happened at Pisa, availed themselves of this opportunity to demand
the liberation of Castruccio, notwithstanding that Uguccione had
arrived in their city. They first began to speak of it in private
circles, afterwards openly in the squares and streets; then they raised
a tumult, and with arms in their hands went to Uguccione and demanded
that Castruccio should be set at liberty. Uguccione, fearing that worse
might happen, released him from prison. Whereupon Castruccio gathered
his friends around him, and with the help of the people attacked
Uguccione; who, finding he had no resource but in flight, rode away
with his friends to Lombardy, to the lords of Scale, where he died in
poverty.

But Castruccio from being a prisoner became almost a prince in Lucca,
and he carried himself so discreetly with his friends and the people
that they appointed him captain of their army for one year. Having
obtained this, and wishing to gain renown in war, he planned the
recovery of the many towns which had rebelled after the departure of
Uguccione, and with the help of the Pisans, with whom he had concluded
a treaty, he marched to Serezzana. To capture this place he constructed
a fort against it, which is called to-day Zerezzanello; in the course
of two months Castruccio captured the town. With the reputation gained
at that siege, he rapidly seized Massa, Carrara, and Lavenza, and in a
short time had overrun the whole of Lunigiana. In order to close the
pass which leads from Lombardy to Lunigiana, he besieged Pontremoli and
wrested it from the hands of Messer Anastagio Palavicini, who was the
lord of it. After this victory he returned to Lucca, and was welcomed
by the whole people. And now Castruccio, deeming it imprudent any
longer to defer making himself a prince, got himself created the lord
of Lucca by the help of Pazzino del Poggio, Puccinello dal Portico,
Francesco Boccansacchi, and Cecco Guinigi, all of whom he had
corrupted; and he was afterwards solemnly and deliberately elected
prince by the people. At this time Frederick of Bavaria, the King of
the Romans, came into Italy to assume the Imperial crown, and
Castruccio, in order that he might make friends with him, met him at
the head of five hundred horsemen. Castruccio had left as his deputy in
Lucca, Pagolo Guinigi, who was held in high estimation, because of the
people’s love for the memory of his father. Castruccio was received in
great honour by Frederick, and many privileges were conferred upon him,
and he was appointed the emperor’s lieutenant in Tuscany. At this time
the Pisans were in great fear of Gaddo della Gherardesca, whom they had
driven out of Pisa, and they had recourse for assistance to Frederick.
Frederick created Castruccio the lord of Pisa, and the Pisans, in dread
of the Guelph party, and particularly of the Florentines, were
constrained to accept him as their lord.

Frederick, having appointed a governor in Rome to watch his Italian
affairs, returned to Germany. All the Tuscan and Lombardian
Ghibellines, who followed the imperial lead, had recourse to Castruccio
for help and counsel, and all promised him the governorship of his
country, if enabled to recover it with his assistance. Among these
exiles were Matteo Guidi, Nardo Scolari, Lapo Uberti, Gerozzo Nardi,
and Piero Buonaccorsi, all exiled Florentines and Ghibellines.
Castruccio had the secret intention of becoming the master of all
Tuscany by the aid of these men and of his own forces; and in order to
gain greater weight in affairs, he entered into a league with Messer
Matteo Visconti, the Prince of Milan, and organized for him the forces
of his city and the country districts. As Lucca had five gates, he
divided his own country districts into five parts, which he supplied
with arms, and enrolled the men under captains and ensigns, so that he
could quickly bring into the field twenty thousand soldiers, without
those whom he could summon to his assistance from Pisa. While he
surrounded himself with these forces and allies, it happened at Messer
Matteo Visconti was attacked by the Guelphs of Piacenza, who had driven
out the Ghibellines with the assistance of a Florentine army and the
King Ruberto. Messer Matteo called upon Castruccio to invade the
Florentines in their own territories, so that, being attacked at home,
they should be compelled to draw their army out of Lombardy in order to
defend themselves. Castruccio invaded the Valdarno, and seized
Fucecchio and San Miniato, inflicting immense damage upon the country.
Whereupon the Florentines recalled their army, which had scarcely
reached Tuscany, when Castruccio was forced by other necessities to
return to Lucca.

There resided in the city of Lucca the Poggio family, who were so
powerf