[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# Democratic Party (United States)

Arizona, New Mexico, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Washington, Alaska, Idaho, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Oklahoma, and North Carolina. Although now a small percentage of the population (virtually non-existent in some regions), most Native American precincts tend to vote for Democratic candidates.

Modern-day Democratic Native American politicians include former Congressman Brad Carson of Oklahoma as well as Principal Chief Bill John Baker of the Cherokee Nation, Governor Bill Anoatubby of the Chickasaw Nation, and Chief Gary Batton of the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma.

In 2018, Democrats Deb Haaland of New Mexico and Sharice Davids of Kansas became the first Native American women to be elected to Congress. Democrat Peggy Flanagan was also elected in 2018 and currently serves as Lieutenant Governor of Minnesota. Flanagan is the second Native American woman to be elected to statewide executive office in U.S. history and the highest-ranking Native woman to be elected to executive office.

In December 2020, Joe Biden chose Deb Haaland to serve as United States Secretary of the Interior; she became the first Native American Cabinet secretary in March 2021.

Catholics, Mainline Protestants, other Christians

Black churches, mainline Protestants, evangelicals, and Catholics contributed to Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal coalition. During the New Deal era, President Roosevelt appealed to notions of Christian charity. In explaining his philosophy, he said: "I am a Christian and a Democrat".

Catholic Americans were once a stronghold for the Democratic Party, but in recent years they have become more divided between the two major parties. Both Catholics elected to be president, John F. Kennedy and Joe Biden, have been Democrats. The most recent Democratic Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, is also Catholic and was the first female Speaker. A slight majority of Catholics voted in favor of Joe Biden over Donald Trump in the 2020 presidential election, whereas a large majority of Protestants and other Christians (including over three-quarters of White evangelical or born-again Christians) voted in favor of Trump over Biden. However, all six Republican-appointed Supreme Court Justices except possibly Neil Gorsuch are Catholics, while of the 3 Democratic-appointees only Justice Sonia Sotomayor identifies as Catholic.

During the 2020 primaries, Christians were more likely to support Joe Biden than Bernie Sanders, who was favored among religiously unaffiliated Democrats. , every Democratic president, Democratic vice president, and Democratic presidential nominee has been a Christian. According to the Pew Research Center, 78.4% of Democrats in the 116th United States Congress were Christian.  1,600 faith leaders (mostly mainline Protestants, evangelicals, and Catholics) supported Joe Biden's 2020 presidential bid. Robb Ryerse, political director at Vote Common Good, a religiously motivated anti-Trump organization, estimated that there were roughly a dozen evangelical Christians running for political office as Democrats in 2020, as opposed to two or three in 2018.

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, whose members mainly live in Utah and some neighboring states, primarily vote for Republican Party candidates rather than Democrats.

Secular Americans 

The Democratic Party receives majority support from most religious minorities, including nonreligious Americans. In the 2020 presidential election, voters who practiced a religion other than Christianity or Judaism accounted for 8% of the electorate and voted for Biden by a 69–29% margin.

The Democratic Party receives support from secular organizations such as the Secular Coalition for America and many agnostic and atheist Americans. Exit polls from the 2008 election showed that voters with a religious affiliation of "none" accounted for the 12% of the electorate and voted for Democratic candidate Barack Obama by a 75–25% margin. In his first inaugural address, Obama acknowledged atheists by saying that the United States is not just "Christians and Muslims, Jews and Hindus but non-believers as well". In the 2012 election cycle, Democratic president Barack Obama, who was running for re-election, had moderate to high ratings with the Secular Coalition for America while the majority of the Republican candidates had ratings in the low-to-failing range.

In the 2020 United States presidential election, exit polls show that voters with no religious affiliation accounted for 22% of the electorate and voted for Biden by a 65–31% margin.

Jewish Americans 

Jewish American communities tend to be a stronghold for the Democratic Party. Al Gore received 79% of the Jewish votes in 2000, and Barack Obama won about 77% of the Jewish vote in 2008. In the 2018 House of Representatives elections, 79% of Jewish Americans voted for the Democratic candidate.