[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Frank T. Caprio

Frank T. Caprio (born May 10, 1966) is an American banker, lawyer, and politician from Rhode Island. His twenty-year political career has included being elected as the 29th General Treasurer of Rhode Island from 2007 to 2011. He was the first political candidate in the United States to use on-demand television to reach voters and one of the first candidates to launch an Internet TV channel for use in a political campaign in 2006.

Caprio was the Democratic nominee in the 2010 Rhode Island gubernatorial election, losing to Independent candidate Lincoln Chafee, who won with 36 percent of the vote. He ran for the Democratic nomination for General Treasurer in 2014 elections, but lost to first-time candidate Seth Magaziner. He also is a Managing Director at Chatham Capital, a mezzanine finance firm with offices in Atlanta, Dallas and Providence.

Education and early career
Frank T. Caprio is the eldest child of Joyce and Judge Frank Caprio, and he is the brother of Rhode Island State Representative David Caprio. His paternal grandfather had immigrated from Naples, Italy. He attended public schools in Narragansett, Rhode Island, and graduated from Bishop Hendricken High School in 1984.  He earned a degree in economics from Harvard College in 1988. While at Harvard, Caprio was captain of the Harvard baseball team.  He was an All-Eastern League outfielder in 1988, and an All-Ivy League defensive back on the championship Harvard football team in 1987. He played against Roger Clemens in a 1987 exhibition game and was scouted by Boston Red Sox legend Ted Williams. Caprio earned a J.D. at Suffolk University Law School in 1991 and passed the bar exams in Rhode Island and Massachusetts.

As a lawyer, Caprio focused on corporate, tax, and finance issues. He worked as an in-house counsel at Cookson Group plc, a publicly traded company on the London Stock Exchange.

Early career

Caprio began his political career while a senior at Harvard, when he was 21 years old. He was elected a delegate from Rhode Island's Congressional District 2 and attended the 1988 Democratic National Convention in Atlanta.  In 1990, while still attending law school, Caprio was elected to the Rhode Island House of Representatives for District 14 (Providence).  He served two terms as a state representative, traveling by train between classes in Boston each morning and legislative sessions in Providence each afternoon.

Following those two terms, Caprio spent the next 12 years serving in the Rhode Island Senate, where he chaired the Senate Finance Committee in 2001–2002.  In this position, Caprio saved an annual $5 million affordable housing program from being cut by the governor in 2001.  He then proposed and implemented a plan to expand the $5 million to $10 million through an affordable housing bond.  In 2006, he co-sponsored a bill to increase the annual $10 million bond to a $50 million affordable housing fund.  The housing fund was approved by voters in 2006.

Caprio also led the debate on phasing out Rhode Island's capital gains tax, which would allow Rhode Islanders to have the nation's lowest tax rate on their stock and real estate profits.  This tax change became law in 2007.  He was removed from his chairmanship by Senate leadership in 2002 as a result of his outspoken advocacy of the Separation of Powers amendment.  After some of the Senate leaders were removed from office in 2003, the amendment passed the legislature and became law after a statewide vote.  In 2004, Caprio was named chair of the Senate  Commerce, Housing, and Municipal Government Committee.

Political career

General Treasurer of Rhode Island

2006 election
On November 7, 2006, Caprio, the endorsed candidate of the Democratic Party, was elected General Treasurer of Rhode Island, receiving 73% of the vote. He won by a larger margin than any candidate for a contested statewide office on the Rhode Island ballot in 2006.

Caprio made Rhode Island history as the first candidate in the state to officially announce his candidacy via a multimedia broadcast that included television, Web, on-demand cable television, and radio.  This was done, he explained, because he wants his "vision for the treasurer's office" to be accessible to "as many Rhode Islanders as possible in as comfortable a format as possible."

Caprio was the first political candidate in the United States to use On-Demand Television in a campaign. His television documentary, Caprio, the Biography, was available for free viewing throughout Rhode Island via Cox Communications's On-Demand program.  He also launched one of the nation's first campaign internet TV channels.  Both the website and his television ads garnered awards.