[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hebrew keyboard

be done with from the context menu Insert Unicode control character. With Windows Hebrew keyboard, RLM can be generated pressing . In Microsoft Word, the Format -> Paragraph menu can be used to change the paragraph's default direction to right-to-left. Similar setting is available in Gmail composer.

There are also ways to choose the way the text is displayed, without changing the text itself. In Internet Explorer, right-to-left display can be forced by right-clicking a webpage and selecting Encoding -> Right-To-Left Document.  In Notepad, or any Windows standard text box, directionality can be changed by right-clicking and selecting Right to left Reading order. Same effect can be achieved by pressing .  You can switch back to Left to right Reading order by unselecting the check box or pressing .  Note that this only effects presentation of the text.  Next time you open the same text in Notepad, you will need to perform the same direction switch again.

Access through the Ctrl key

Direction marks
As described above, the Hebrew keyboard setting in Microsoft Windows has a  shortcut to insert the Unicode right-to-left mark. The same effect can be achieved with . The shortcuts for left-to-right mark are  and .

Separators
The shortcut for the 'Unit Separator' control code  (caret notation ) is . The shortcut for 'Record Separator' control code  (caret notation ) is . Note that in Notepad, or any Windows standard text box, these characters can be easily inserted via the context menu Insert Unicode control character. For Linux, Ubuntu, Debian and ChromeOS, the sequence is  followed by the control code value, then  or .

Access through the AltGr key

Sheqel symbol 
The symbol "₪", which represents the sheqel sign, can be typed into Windows, Linux and ChromeOS with the Hebrew keyboard layout set, using . On Mac OS X, it can be typed as . If a US or EU layout is in use, the sequence is + for some Windows applications and  on Unix heritage systems.

Euro symbol
For a Euro sign, one would press the  (ק).

Rafe
The rafe is a niqqud that is essentially no longer used in Hebrew.  However, it used in Yiddish spelling (according to YIVO standards).  It is accessed differently from other nequddot.  On macOS, the rafe is input by pressing the desired letter (ב or פ and then the backslash \: בֿ, פֿ. On Windows, the rafe is input by pressing the AltGr key and the "-" key:

Note: The letter "O" represents whatever Hebrew letter is used.

Yiddish digraphs

These Yiddish digraphs are not used in Hebrew; if one wanted two vavs, a vav-yud, or two yuds in Hebrew, one would enter the desired keys independently.

Inaccessible punctuation

Certain Hebrew punctuation, such as the geresh, gershayim, maqaf, pesiq, sof pasuq, and cantillation marks, are not accessible through the standard Hebrew keyboard layout.  As a result, similar looking punctuation is often used instead.  For example, a quotation mark is often used for a gershayim, an apostrophe for a geresh, a hyphen for a maqaf, a comma for a pesiq, and a colon for a sof pasuq, though this depends on the platform. On iOS devices, the geresh and gershayim are actually part of the system keyboard, albeit as substitutes for the apostrophe and quotation marks.

See also
Hebrew punctuation
Keyboard layout
Hebrew alphabet

References

External links

Hebrew language
Israeli culture
Keyboard layouts