[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Chiropractic education

h Wales offering an integrated undergraduate degree course in Chiropractic.

It is a legal requirement that all chiropractors in the UK register with the GCC to practice. A minimum of 30 hours of Continuing Professional Development per year is required to remain a registered practicing chiropractor.

United States 
Graduates of chiropractic schools receive the degree Doctor of Chiropractic (DC), and are eligible to seek licensure in all jurisdictions. The Council on Chiropractic Education (CCE) sets minimum guidelines for chiropractic colleges; all 18 chiropractic institutions are accredited by the CCE. The minimum prerequisite for enrollment in a chiropractic college set forth by the CCE is 3 years (90 semester hours) of undergraduate study, and the minimum cumulative GPA for a student entering is 3.0 on a 4.0 scale. Recommended prerequisite classes may include those of the biological, chemical, and physical sciences, including: human anatomy and physiology, embryology, genetics, microbiology, immunology, cellular biology, exercise physiology, kinesiology, general chemistry, organic chemistry, analytical chemistry, biochemistry, toxicology/pharmacology, nutrition, nuclear medicine, physics, biomechanics, and statistics.

Accreditation

Chiropractic is governed internationally by the Councils on Chiropractic Education International (CCEI). This body is officially recognized by the World Federation of Chiropractic and the World Health Organization as the accrediting agency for schools of chiropractic around the world.

In 2005, in efforts to improve consistency and equivalency in chiropractic training,  the WHO published basic training and safety guidelines to provide international minimum requirements for chiropractic education and to serve as a reference for national authorities in establishing an examination and licensing system for the qualified practice of chiropractic.

References

Chiropractic schools