[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Rashidieh

anese Army issued a statement saying that they had found three rockets in the Rashidieh area, but that the discovery was not linked to the launch of a number of rockets - apparently Soviet-era short-range Grad projectiles - from the nearby coastal area belonging to the Qlaileh village a day earlier.

 Economy 
Almost half of those residents of Rashidieh who are in work do low-paid seasonal or occasional jobs on construction sites or as agricultural labourers in the banana, lime and orange orchards of the region.

 Cultural life 

Unlike most other Palestinian refugee camps in Lebanon, which also house some non-Palestinian residents and Palestinian Christian families, Rashidieh is assumed to be populated entirely by Muslim Palestinians. The two old village churches, which were both partially destroyed during the civil war, are now used for storage.

Like in other camps, Rashidieh's visual landscape reflects Palestinian nationalism, as murals, posters and flags express the hope to return homes. In this way they produce and reproduce Palestinian national identity. There have been several other art projects that focused on individual narratives rather than on general symbols. In 2014, for instance, "Humans of Al Rashidiya" portrayed ordinary residents online, inspired by the photoblog "Humans of New York", with the aim of countering clichés:"Many people think that our camps are security time bombs, while others haven’t even heard of us [..]. Stereotypes dating back to the Civil War haven’t really faded away, [..] despite the fact that most of us have always opposed all forms of violence."
Two years later, the Lebanese artist collective Dictaphone Group created the project Camp Pause, commissioned by the Beirut-based Dar El-Nimer foundation of Lebanese-Palestinian art collector Rami el-Nimer. It was exhibited at the Qalandia International Festival 2016 and at the 2017 CounterCurrent Festival in Houston, Texas. A video installation, which was contextualised by multidisciplinary research, centered on portraits of four Rashidieh residents around their everyday routes:"Along the way, they weave narratives about the history of the land, their arrival, the struggle to build, and everyday life in a camp situated away from the city, bordered by agricultural fields and the sea. [..] We are reminded through this project that the disregard of people’s pain and personal choices, the casual racism and vilification of refugees in Lebanese villages and towns, and the calls for grouping refugees in camps that are easily controlled and ultimately attacked is nothing new. While the whole world is busy discussing what they call the “refugee crisis,” we hope to remember the importance of listening to those who are really in that crisis. We also hope to remember that leaving people in limbo with few resources and rights is not a solution but an absence of one."Meanwhile, the French anthropologist Sylvain Perdigon - who lived in the Al Bass camp in 2006/2007 and has been a lecturer at the American University of Beirut (AUB) since 2013 - has researched another kind of a cultural phenomenon that he describes as "fairly ordinary" amongst many Palestinians in Lebanon: It haunts people in their dreams through different forms, interrupts their lives and is especially feared for causing miscarriages. Perdigon lays out one exemplary case of this phenomenon - which is known as Al Qreene - from Rashidieh:"I heard Abu Ali tell of a still fresh encounter with al-Qreene during a visit in 2014 to relatives in a Beirut flat. He comes from the secluded camp of Rashidiyye where he lives and works as a foot soldier in the remnants of the PLO armed forces inside the camp. The telling occurred at this point when relatives are done with the business of sharing essential family news, and the conversation starts to wander more lazily. A few months before, in his mid-forties, Abu Ali had started to have dreams of being stuck by himself in his own, emptied camp house with a cat walking in circles and mewing plaintively. There was something unsettling to this cat, yet no matter how hard Abu Ali tried, there also was no getting him out of the house. The dream returned for weeks on end and what was only irksome, even a bit funny, at first gradually turned into a liability as Abu Ali found himself perpetually tired, unfocused, and less and less capable of holding his guard duty properly. An old neighbor, upon hearing of Abu Ali’s dream from his wife, recognized al-Qreene and advised him to heap small mounds of salt in every corner of his house. Abu Ali followed her advice, the nagging cat disappeared from his dreams, and his focus returned."

 Gallery: Photos from "Camp Pause" by the Dictaphone Group 

Notable people
Samir El-Youssef (born 1965) writer and critic.

 See also 

 Armenians in Lebanon
 Palestinians in Lebanon

References

Further reading
 Robert Fisk: Pity the nation: Lebanon at war.'' (Chapter 2: Mrs Zamzam in Rashidieh recall Umm al-Faraj)