[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Torture during the Algerian War

was a "necessary evil."Torture Bigeard: " La presse en parle trop " , L'Humanité, 12 May 2000.  To the contrary, General Jacques Massu denounced it, following Aussaresses' revelations, and before his death pronounced himself in favor of an official condemnation of the use of torture during the war.

Bigeard's justification of torture has been criticized by various persons, among whom Joseph Doré, archbishop of Strasbourg, and Marc Lienhard, president of the Lutheran Church of the Augsburg Confession of Alsace and Lorraine.

In June 2000, Bigeard declared that he was based in Sidi Ferruch, known as a torture center from which many Algerians never left alive. Bigeard qualified Louisette Ighilahriz's revelations, published in Le Monde on 20 June 2000, as "lies". An ALN activist, Louisette Ighilahriz, had been tortured by General Massu. She herself called Bigeard a "liar", and criticized him for continuing to deny the use of torture 40 years later.Louisette Ighilahriz: " Massu ne pouvait plus nier l’évidence ", L'Humanité, 23 November 2000.  However, since General Massu's revelations, Bigeard has now admitted the use of torture, although he denies having personally used it. He then declared: "You are striking the heart of an 84-year-old man." Bigeard also recognized that Larbi Ben M’Hidi had been assassinated, and his death disguised as a "suicide".

Jean-Marie Le Pen

Jean-Marie Le Pen, former leader of the far-right National Front party and a lieutenant during the war, attacked Le Monde and former Prime minister Michel Rocard on charges of defamation after the newspaper accused him of having engaged in torture. However, he lost his trial, with the French justice declaring Le Monde's investigations as legitimate and credible, though Le Pen appealed. Le Pen still denies the use of torture, claiming there had been only "interrogation sessions". Le Monde produced in May 2003 the dagger he allegedly used to commit war crimes as court evidence. This affair ended in 2000 when the "Cour de cassation" (French supreme jurisdiction) concluded that it was legitimate to publish these assertions. However, because of the amnesty and the prescription, there can be no criminal proceedings against Le Pen for the crimes he is alleged to have committed in Algeria. In 1995, Le Pen unsuccessfully sued Jean Dufour, regional counselor of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur (French Communist Party) for the same reason."Un lourd silence", Le Monde, 5 May 2002. "New Revelations on Le Pen, tortionary" in L'Humanité, 4 June 2002.  Jean Dufour: "Le Pen vient d'être débouté", in L'Humanité, 26 July 1995.  
Pierre Vidal-Naquet in "Torture; Cancer of Democracy" alleges that, after being refused a drink at an already closed bar in Algiers, Le Pen had the bartender tortured to death.

Bibliography

French-language studies
 Alleg, Henri Mémoire algérienne : Souvenirs de luttes et d'espérances, Paris, Stock, 2005, 407 pp., .
 Bousselham, Hamid, "Torturés par Le Pen" sur Rebellyon.info de édité par Rahma co-édition Rahma-Anep.
 Branche, Raphaëlle "La torture et l'armée pendant la guerre d'Algérie", Gallimard septembre 2001.
 Harbi, Mohamed and Stora, Benjamin, La Guerre d'Algérie, 1954–2004. La fin de l'amnésie Paris, Laffont, 2004 . Re-edition Pluriel   (includes abstract by Raphaëlle Branche, "La torture pendant la guerre", p. 381–402)
 Le Cour Grandmaison, Olivier (2005). Coloniser, Exterminer: Sur la guerre et l'État colonial, Fayard, p. 161. 
 
 Robin, Marie-Monique, Escadrons de la mort, l'école française, 453 pages. La Découverte (15 September 2004). Collection: Cahiers libres. () Los Escuadrones De La Muerte/ the Death Squadron, 539 pages. Sudamericana; Édition : Translatio (October 2005). () "Escadrons de la mort, l’école française" présentation sur le site de la LDH de Toulon.
 Vidal-Naquet, Pierre, L'Affaire Audin (1957); La Torture dans la République : essai d'histoire et de politique contemporaine (1954–1962), Minuit, 1972.

Abstracts and collective works