[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# PlatinumGames

thing else."

Tencent Holdings supplied capital investment into Platinum in January 2020, which will allow the studio to self-publish its future titles. Platinum's CEO Kenichi Sato stated that the Tencent investment changed no aspect of Platinum's ownership and they remain an independent developer. 

On February 3, 2020, PlatinumGames launched a website titled "Platinum 4", revolving around four announcements, which included:
 The launch of a Kickstarter campaign for a remastered port of The Wonderful 101 on modern platforms. This is PlatinumGames' first self-published title, although they have stated Tencent's investment has no part in its development.
 A new game with the working title Project G.G., described as the final game of Kamiya's self-titled "hero" trilogy following Viewtiful Joe and The Wonderful 101.  Kamiya said while Viewtiful Joe was about one man transforming into a hero, and The Wonderful 101 was about a team transforming into heroes, Project G.G. involves a similar concept around a giant hero.
 The opening of PlatinumGames Tokyo, a new studio for about 100 staff to support live service games for the company. Heading the studio include staff that had formerly worked on FIFA Mobile.
 A new game titled Sol Cresta'', in collaboration with Hamster Corporation, originally announced as an April Fools' joke in 2020 was then confirmed a year later to be releasing as a digital-only title for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Windows in 2021 as the first entry of Platinum's “Neo-Classic Arcade” series.

In addition to these announcements, the research and development side of Platinum had been developing a new in-house game engine named PlatinumEngine to power its new titles. Chief technology officer Wataru Ohmori said that the need for a custom engine over other existing solutions like Unreal or Unity was needed to give them better customization and control over their games, and to improve their performance. He said, "We came to the frightening realization that if we don’t make our work more efficient, we’re simply not going to be able to keep making the games that we want to make as technology and expectations grow." For example, Bayonetta 3, one of the titles using the engine.

On January 13, 2022, former CEO Kenichi Sato stepped down from the position after five years and eight months in the role, with studio head and co-founder Atsushi Inaba succeeding him in the role.

On November 1, 2022, Platinum announced the opening of a third studio: PlatinumGames FUKUOKA.

On September 25, 2023, Kamiya announced that he would be leaving the studio on October 12.

Philosophy

According to Inaba, the core goal of the company is to make new and original intellectual property, and that taking risks is a crucial part of video game development. However, the company also worked on licensed titles later, as the team considered creating original titles "difficult", sometimes too risky, with sales that were unsatisfactory for the team. According to Minami, working on both licensed properties and original games provides the company with stability. Despite having a new focus, PlatinumGames retains their original vision of making games and the team hopes to become one of "the three top game studios in the world". While PlatinumGames is a Japanese development company, the development team also attempts to add elements to their games that will attract a large global audience. Minami says that the company is keen to work with both Japanese and Western publishers.

According to Inaba, the company values the idea of "change", and that "the people who are not looking for constant change are not necessarily welcome in what I think the company should be". According to Minami, PlatinumGames only made games that the development team were passionate about. Inaba described the studio as "loud", as every one on the development team is allowed to express their opinions on their projects and their visions will not be compromised. The studio also invites employees who are not involved in game design, such as artists and programmers, to provide creative input to their projects. Saito added that every game that company developed has a "Platinum taste". While the company developed an expertise in action games, Saito claimed that the studio learned from every project and will apply this knowledge to their new games and genres. The company also hopes to innovate by introducing new elements in both original titles or licensed games. According to PlatinumGames, a good action game should be "passive" and feature a "unique selling point"; replay value that allows players to hone their skills; a strong leading character; and should not follow conventional design philosophy.

Games developed

Produced by PlatinumGames

Development shifted to another studio

Cancelled games

References

External links