[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sutton-on-Trent

school, and charities £5.

A Board School was leased from the Church School Trustees and endowed in 1816, and Sutton Mill a stone tower windmill built in 1825, (It is now a residence) and by 1900 the area was known for its basket making. A feastival is still held on the first of November each year.

Amenities
The village has one pub, The Lord Nelson on Main Street, which is independently owned and operated by a local family. The pub has a mixed use room at the front which is often used for live music, and a restaurant at the rear. The pub also has several en-suite rooms available. The village has a busy doctors' surgery (Hounsfield Surgery), which has three resident GPs, two nurses and visiting midwives. There is a well-stocked Co-op on High Street and two independent butchers, one on Main Street and Hadley's on Great North Road.

The library has recently moved into the Methodist Church which hosts coffee mornings one Saturday per month. The Sutton on Trent Sports Club on Grassthorpe Road had a full renovation in 2019. The small village hall on the Crow Park estate (Snell Road) has a pop-up Post Office on limited days and times. A new Community Centre is planned to be built at the back of the new estate, currently being built off Grassthorpe Road, this estate will also house a new shop and additional parking for the GP surgery.

The village also has two hairdressing salons (Helen's Hairdressing and The Box), a retired greyhound sanctuary on Great North Road, and a fuel station. Marshall's Bus Company (Marshall's of Sutton on Trent) are based in the village and a large employer, having two sites - one for buses and one for coaches. Marshall's operate several regular routes around the Newark area and also provide a Retford - Newark bus service which passes through the village.

There is an industrial estate on the north side of the village has several small units. Other larger local employers are Mercia Garden Products, Project Timber (both in Sutton on Trent), JG Pears, in High Marnham, which is 2 miles away and Caledonian Modular in Carlton on Trent, which is 1.5 miles away.

Festival
An annual festival is held normally on the first weekend in September. The festival is organised by the Festival Committee with local businesses and residents. Normally the event consists of classic cars, a steam rally, morris dancing, dog agility, music by local bands and artists, food and drink. The bar is supplied and operated by The Lord Nelson pub. The festival field and parking field are kindly loaned by the Marshall and Watkinson family.

Organisations
As an extremely active village, there are many clubs and organisations which meet in the village: Morris Dancing Club; Sutton on Trent Cycling Club; Bridge Club; The W.I.; Sutton on Trent History Club; Slimming World; U11 Football Club.

Unity Magazine
A monthly magazine is published which covers the villages of Sutton on Trent, Carlton on Trent, Weston, Grassthorpe and Normanton on Trent. The magazine has remained at 50p per edition for many years and is a great source of local information.

Churches
Sutton on Trent has two churches; All Saints' Church on Church Street is part of The Beck and Trent Benefice (Church of England) and Sutton on Trent Methodist Church on High Street, which is part of Newark and Southwell Methodist. Both churches are active within the village and have regular services.

Schools
Sutton on Trent Primary School is state school feeding into Tuxford Academy. It is managed by Nottinghamshire County Council. There is a board of governors and has a Breakfast and After School Club.

Gallery

See also

Listed buildings in Sutton-on-Trent
The Great North Road

References

External links

Village website

 
Villages in Nottinghamshire
Civil parishes in Nottinghamshire
Newark and Sherwood