[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Teddy Altman

an for a medical conference, and she reminisces on her relationship with Allison, who was also her secret lover. At the end of the season, Teddy and Owen prepare for their wedding, but on the day of, Teddy accidentally sends Owen a voicemail of her and Tom having sex, and Owen postpones the wedding.

In Season 17, Owen breaks off his engagement from Teddy and is unable to forgive her for cheating. Teddy is put on Meredith's COVID-19 case, and Meredith's worsening health drains Teddy physically and mentally. As Teddy continues to overwork herself, she finds herself ostracized at the hospital, as everyone has heard about her infidelity. Teddy reaches her breaking point when she is unable to save Andrew DeLuca, who dies from a stabbing wound from a child predator. This causes Teddy to go into a catatonic state, where she experiences nightmares and "what-ifs" about her past relationships. She is eventually able to start getting better, and at the same time, Owen offers her his friendship. Towards the end of the season, Owen and Teddy begin sleeping with each other again, and in the season finale, Owen proposes to Teddy, which she accepts.

In the beginning of Season 18, Teddy and Owen got married at the Emerald City Bar after their wedding at the Park was interrupted by a bicycle accident. After Owen's near-fatal car crash, she assists him with giving illegal drugs to dying soldiers. At the end of the season, she and Owen are reported for their actions and are seen taking a plane, now on the run. In Station 19's fifth season, she guest stars to aid show lead Andy Herrera's assaulter.

Development

Casting & creation 

In October 2009, it was reported that actress Kim Raver would play the character and have a recurring role on the show's sixth season. In January 2010, Raver was promoted to a series-regular.

On May 18, 2012, the day after the season 8 finale, Grey's Anatomy creator, Shonda Rhimes, announced that it was Raver's decision to leave the show, "I know this season's finale had some surprises for viewers and the exit of Kim Raver was one of the big ones. But Kim's series option was up and she was ready to give Teddy Altman a much-needed vacation. It's been a pleasure working with someone as talented and funny and kind as Kim; everyone is going to miss her terribly. I like to imagine that Teddy is still out there in the Grey's Anatomy universe, running Army Medical Command and building a new life." When the news of the character's departure was released, Raver wrote on her Twitter, "I've had one of the best times of my creative career working on Grey's with Shonda, Betsy and the best cast on television," she wrote, adding: "I feel fortunate and grateful to have worked with such an amazing team at GA [Grey's Anatomy]. [I] am going to miss everyone!! And to the GA [Grey's Anatomy] fans, you guys rock! I am sure S9 [season 9] will be great!" 

On June 20, 2017, it was announced that Raver would be reprising her role as Teddy Altman for a guest arc during the show's 14th season. 

After recurring in Season 14, it was announced that Raver would once again be a series-regular in Season 15.

Reception 

Entertainment Weekly writer Tanner Stransky indicated that Altman had not been given a good storyline until the arrival of Henry: "I think Kim Raver has always been rather under-used on this show, until more recently."

References 
Specific

General

External links 
Teddy Altman at ABC.com

Grey's Anatomy characters
Television characters introduced in 2009
Fictional United States Army personnel
Fictional cardiothoracic surgeons
Fictional bisexual women
Fictional female doctors
Fictional LGBT characters in television
Fictional surgeons
Female characters in television