[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Protocol of Sèvres

n to the ‘English plan’ was that Israel would be branded as the aggressor while Britain and France would pose as peace-makers.
”Instead he presented a comprehensive plan, which he himself called ‘fantastic’, for the reorganization of the Middle East. Jordan, he observed, was not viable as an independent state and should therefore be divided.  Iraq would get the East Bank in return for a promise to settle the Palestinian refugees there and to make peace with Israel while the West Bank would be attached to Israel as a semi-autonomous region.  Lebanon suffered from having a large Muslim population which was concentrated in the south.  The problem could be solved by Israel’s expansion up to the Litani River, thereby helping to turn Lebanon into a more compact Christian state. The Suez Canal area should be given an international status while the Straits of Tiran in the Gulf of Aqaba should come under Israeli control to ensure freedom of navigation. A prior condition for realizing this plan was the elimination of Nasser and the replacement of his regime with a pro-Western government which would also be prepared to make peace with Israel.
Ben-Gurion argued that his plan would serve the interests of all the Western powers as well as those of Israel by destroying Nasser and the forces of Arab nationalism that he had unleashed. The Suez Canal would revert to being an international waterway. Britain would restore her hegemony in Iraq and Jordan and secure her access to the oil of the Middle East. France would consolidate her influence in the Middle East through Lebanon and Israel while her problems in Algeria would come to an end with the fall of Nasser. Even America might be persuaded to support the plan for it would promote stable, pro-Western regimes and help to check Soviet advances in the Middle East.”
Particularly noteworthy is the last point for it was included at Ben-Gurion’s specific request and it defined Israel’s territorial aims which were only tenuously related to the Suez Canal crisis:
”Israel declares its intention to keep her forces for the purpose of permanent annexation of the entire area east of the El Arish-Abu Ageila, Nakhl-Sharm el-Sheikh, in order to maintain for the long term the freedom of navigation in the Straits of Eilat and in order to free herself from the scourge of the infiltrators and from the danger posed by the Egyptian army bases in Sinai.  Britain and France are required to support or at least to commit themselves not to show opposition to these plans.  This is what Israel demands as her share in the fruits of victory.

October 24 was the third and last day of the conference. Ben-Gurion finally made up his mind to commit the IDF to the battle.  In his diary he summarized the main considerations that led to this fateful decision.  He thought that the operation had to be undertaken if Israel’s skies could be effectively defended in the day or two that would elapse until the French and the British started bombing Egypt’s airfields.  The aim of destroying Nasser had pervaded the entire conference and it was uppermost in Ben-Gurion’s mind.  ‘This is a unique opportunity’, he wrote, ‘that two not so small powers will try to topple Nasser, and we shall not stand alone against him while he becomes stronger and conquers all the Arab countries.... and maybe the whole situation in the Middle East will change according to my plan.’

‘France and Britain have a vital interest in the Suez Canal’, he said forcefully.  ‘The Straits of Tiran are the State of Israel’s Suez Canal....   We intend to capture the Straits of Tiran and we intend to stay there and thus ensure freedom of navigation to Eilat.’

The British officials then asked a number of questions about Israel’s operational plans, evidently inspired by the fear that the Israeli operation would not amount to a real act of war and that, consequently, Britain would not have a credible casus belli for military intervention.  Will Israel issue a formal declaration of war?  Ben-Gurion replied that Egypt’s repeated violations of the armistice agreement made a declaration of war superfluous.  Dayan retorted more bluntly: ‘We will not declare – we will simply strike!’

In his diary Ben-Gurion recorded the next day: ‘I told him about the discovery of oil in southern and western Sinai, and that it would be good to tear this peninsula from Egypt because it did not belong to her, rather it was the English who stole it from the Turks when they believed that Egypt was in their pocket.  I suggested laying down a pipeline from Sinai to Haifa to refine the oil and Mollet showed interest in this suggestion.’