[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1946 in the United Kingdom

Events from the year 1946 in the United Kingdom.

Incumbents
 Monarch – George VI
 Prime Minister – Clement Attlee (Labour)
 Parliament – 38th

Events

 1 January
 The first international flight from London Heathrow Airport, to Buenos Aires.
 Atomic Energy Research Establishment established at Harwell, near Oxford.
 4 January – Theodore Schurch is hanged at HM Prison Pentonville by Albert Pierrepoint, the only British soldier executed for treachery committed during World War II and the last person to be executed in Britain for an offence other than murder.
 10 January – First United Nations General Assembly convenes at Methodist Central Hall Westminster.
 17 January – The United Nations Security Council holds its first meeting at Church House in London.
 14 February – The Bank of England is nationalised.
 15 February – American dance craze, the Jitterbug, sweeps Britain.
 20 February – Royal Opera House in Covent Garden re-opens after the War with The Royal Ballet (relocated from Sadler's Wells Theatre) performing The Sleeping Beauty.
 5 March – Winston Churchill delivers his "Iron Curtain" speech at Westminster College in Fulton, Missouri, United States.
 9 March – Burnden Park disaster: A stadium disaster at Bolton Wanderers F.C.'s Burnden Park in Bolton kills 33 and injures hundreds.
 10 March – British troops begin withdrawal from Lebanon.
 15 March – Labour Prime Minister Clement Attlee announces that Britain is granting India's wish for independence. On 24 March, the 1946 Cabinet Mission to India arrives in New Delhi for discussions.
 22 March – The Treaty of London grants the British mandate of the Emirate of Transjordan its independence.
 24 March – BBC Home Service radio broadcasts Alistair Cooke's first American Letter. As Letter from America, the programme would continue until a few weeks before Cooke's death in 2004.
 27 April – 1946 FA Cup Final: the first postwar FA Cup final is won by Derby County, who beat Charlton Athletic 4–1 at Wembley Stadium.
 4 May – First-class cricket returns, having been suspended during the War.
 20 May – The House of Commons votes through the Coal Industry Nationalisation Act 1946 to nationalise British coal mines.
 23 May – Terence Rattigan's drama The Winslow Boy premieres in London.
 31 May – London Heathrow Airport opened fully for civilian use.
 1 June – television licence introduced.
 7 June – Television broadcasting by the BBC, suspended during World War II, resumes.
 8 June – A victory parade is held in London to celebrate the end of World War II.
 27 June – Government imposes bread rationing.
 July – Homeless families squat in a former Army camp at Scunthorpe.
 August – Arthur Horner, a member of the Communist Party, becomes General Secretary of the National Union of Mineworkers.
 1 August
 Finance Act receives Royal Assent, including the establishment of the National Land Fund to secure culturally significant property for the nation as a memorial to the dead of World War II.
 Atomic Energy Act of 1946 in the United States ends co-operation between the U.K. and U.S. on development of nuclear technology.
 6 August
 Family allowance introduced, a cash benefit paid to mothers.
 Free milk ( pint daily) provided in UK state schools to all pupils under the age of 18.
 9 August – Arts Council incorporated by royal charter.
 31 August – league football returns, having been suspended during World War II.
 September–November – Britain Can Make It exhibition at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, promoted by the Council of Industrial Design and the Board of Trade to show off good domestic and industrial design.
 8 September – Mass squat by homeless families at the Ivanhoe Hotel and other empty properties in London organised by the Communist Party.
 15 September – Marshal of the Royal Air Force Sir Arthur Harris, Commander-in-Chief of RAF Bomber Command, retires.
 16 September – Popular quiz show Have A Go! with Wilfred Pickles is first broadcast nationally on BBC Radio.
 29 September – BBC Third Programme begins broadcasting.
 1 October – English premiere of J. B. Priestley's drama An Inspector Calls at the New Theatre, London, starring Ralph Richardson.
 7 October – The BBC Light Programme transmits the first episode of the daily radio magazine programme Woman's Hour (initially presented by Alan Ivimey) which will still be running more than 70 years later and of the daily adventure serial Dick Barton – Special Agent.
 10 October – First community arts centre opened, at Bridgwater in Somerset.
 1 November – First Royal Command Performance at a public cinema, the Empire, Leicester Square: premiere of the Powell and Pressburger film A Matter of Life and Death starring David Niven.
 9 November – Shooting of Margaret Cook in Carnaby Street, London.
 10 November – Peter Scott opens the Slimbridge Wetland Reserve in Gloucestershire.
 11 November – Stevenage, a village in Hertfordshire, is designated by the Attlee government as Britain's first new town to relieve ove