[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Dreamfall Chapters

asn't reached. Additional platforms, such as tablet computers and SteamOS, were also under consideration. During the pre-production, the developers experimented with the Oculus Rift virtual reality technology and, by April 2015, had a beta version running on it that had never been publicly released.

Localization
The game was originally written in English, with the Norwegian, German, and French translations confirmed, although  (version 5.7.4.4), the Steam version only contains English and German voice-overs and English, German, and French subtitles. Dreamfall Chapters was translated into German by the Vienna-based studio White Rabbit Interactive, and into French, by the Parisian Words of Magic; German voice-overs were recorded by the Hamburg-based Studio Mühl. The German voice-overs for Book Three were released six weeks after the English release, partly because each episode contains 25 to 50 thousand spoken words, and partly because the developers did not lock down the dialogue until several weeks before the release. Marion von Stengel, who voiced Zoë in the German localization of the original Dreamfall, reprised her role. Initially, CDP.pl had plans to release the Polish translation, but dropped it after the game returned to the episodic format.

Releases

Dreamfall Chapters was initially announced as an episodic video game, but this idea was scrapped in favor of a full-length game when the pre-production started in 2012, because the developers felt that extended breaks between chapters would have negatively affected the story flow and pacing. However, faced with mounting production costs, RTG decided in June 2014 to return to the episodic format, and the first "book", subtitled Reborn, was released on 21 October 2014. The subtitle of Book Two was announced on 26 November 2014. The subtitle of Book Three was announced on 22 May 2015, and its release date, one month later. Book Four's subtitle was announced via Twitter and Facebook in late September, and its release date, on 30 November 2015. The subtitle and the release date of the fifth and final Book was announced via Kickstarter on 6 April and 9 June 2016, respectively.

Originally, the episodes were distributed digitally on platforms such as Steam, where the game was cleared on the Greenlight process on 17 April 2013. Individual episodes have never been sold separately, but only as part of a complete season pass. Munich-based EuroVideo Medien had released an exclusive retail PC version of the game in Germany in 2014, containing Book One and a Steam season pass key. After the release of the fifth and final episode, Red Thread Games started working on the updated and final version of the entire game. This version was released on 5 May 2017 for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One by the publisher Deep Silver, and on 21 July for Windows, OS X, and Linux, where it was subtitled The Final Cut.

A number of limited boxed editions were additionally offered as incentives to the supporters on Kickstarter, ranging from the simple Collector's Edition to the expansive "Draic Kin Edition", containing a variety of digital and physical bonus materials. These physical rewards shipped with the physical copies of The Final Cut. The master disc for the physical version was tested, approved, and sent into production in February 2018. Basic collector's editions have been shipped to backers throughout spring and summer 2018, but more expansive boxed editions could not be shipped before November 2019 due to delays in physical rewards production. The final batch of physical editions has been shipped to backers on 2 March 2020.

Reception

According to the review aggregator website Metacritic, Dreamfall Chapters has received mixed or average scores from critics on PC and PlayStation 4, but "generally favorable" reviews on Xbox One. Ragnar Tørnquist reported in April 2019 that Dreamfall Chapters had performed "very well" commercially, with sales above 500,000 units. He noted that "at least 50 per cent of the audience are women", a percentage similar to that of The Longest Journey.

Upon reviewing all five Books on PC for the Adventure Gamers website, Emily Morganti concluded that "Chapters is worth playing to see how [The Longest Journey] saga ends but doesn't hold up as a standalone adventure". While praising the game for its visuals and likeable characters, she had described the plot as "convoluted" and the gameplay, as "often dull or frustrating", and commented that the plot branching "doesn't live up to its potential".

References

External links
 
  at the publisher Deep Silver's website