[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Government House, Sydney

cellent; and the archaeological potential is good. The whole assembly is relatively intact within its 1915–17 boundaries – including house, garden, gatehouse, Chalet, courtyards, garages, greenhouses etc. – and can show the development of the site and the management and workings of Government House.

Modifications and dates 
1846-47 - Guardhouse built at entrance to the domain at the intersection of Bridge and Macquarie Streets
1854 - First coats of arms mounted on building
1863 - Deer House, Cow House and Conservatory constructed.
1873 - A porte cochere added
1879-80 - Construction of Colonnade and eastern arcade
1890-91 - Chalet commissioned and built
1899 - Ballroom extended.
1902-03 - Alterations and additions to accommodate Governor-General
-21 - Summer House in formal garden removed.
Mid 20th c. - Eastern Terrace's main axial path paved with lage rectangular stones, side paths with crazy paving (and also widened in proportion, destroying the original path hierarchy) and stylish grass borders removed.
1948-54 - Additions and Renovations for Royal Visit by Queen Elizabeth II & Prince Philip.
1979-80 - Demolition of earlier outbuildings and construction of a new group of buildings.
1990-96 - Reconstruction of Vestibule interiors, restoration of East Terrace and various other construction and restoration works.
2004 - reinstatement of the c.1840 garden layout and treatment of the Western Terrace.
2010 - replacement of Eastern Terrace side paths, new drainage, irrigation and planting of central beds.

Heritage listing 
As at 28 March 2013, Government House built in the early 1840s as the home of the monarch's representative and as the seat of power, symbolised British authority in the colony. Like the Governors themselves, the house is a powerful symbol of state.

From the time of its completion, the house and its occupants were seen as the "pinnacle" of society, and the Governor and family as social exemplars, ideas that continued well into the twentieth century. Home to twenty four governors of New South Wales and their families, and the first five Governors-General, all chosen for their various pre-eminent positions, it reflects the many changes that have taken place in public and private life. Guests and visitors ranged from citizens paying their respects or receiving awards, to the reigning monarch, Elizabeth II, other members of the Royal family and other heads of states.

The finest example of a castellated Gothic house in Australia, the house with its landscaped gardens reflected its English ties and was the model that inspired others. It is a grand ensemble of buildings, gardens and contents whose history and use are richly documented. Developments to the place over 150 years demonstrate changing tastes and social attitudes, and showcase the talents of leading architects, artists and craftsmen.

Located in Governor Phillip's domain, it provides a tangible link with the earliest years of the colony, and is associated with the development of significant public places such as the Conservatorium (formerly its stables), Royal Botanic Gardens (formerly its grounds), and the Opera House.

Government House in Sydney is significant as one of the two original official residences selected for the Governor-General following the federation of the Australian colonies in 1901. Rivalry between New South Wales and Victoria led the Commonwealth Government to designate Government House in Sydney and Melbourne Government House as official residences of equal status for the Governor-General. The Sydney Government House served as the Governor-General's Sydney Residence until 1912 when the NSW government sparked a major controversy by effectively evicting the governor-general. The place is significant for its association with the first five occupants of the high office of Governor-General from the time of federation until 1912.

A rare example of a great harbourside landscape estate virtually intact. A typical 19th century 3-part estate landscape of park, parterre and pleasure grounds. The formal grounds of sweeping annual displays, manicured lawns, exotic trees and shrubs as well as the carriageways, paths and terraces provide a strong link with Sydney's colonial and Victorian heritage

It is perhaps the last of the great harbourside estates to have survived relatively intact and to still be carrying on its original function; a combination of private residence, office complex and official function venue. The garden is one of the oldest continually maintained gardens in Australia. Whilst it has been altered to some extent over the years, it nevertheless provides an appropriately grand setting for the house.