[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Antun Augustinčić

ades, one of which can be seen in front of the Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb.

Augustinčić, together with the Serbian painter Đorđe Andrejević-Kun, also designed all of the Yugoslav orders and decorations, and he also created the coat of arms of the Socialist Republic of Croatia (with Vanja Radauš).

During his visit to Yugoslavia, the Emperor of Ethiopia Haile Selassie met Augustinčić on the Brijuni islands. The Emperor invited Augustinčić to design a monument which will commemorate victims of Italian reprisals in Addis Ababa and stated "Who better than you will be able to portray the suffering of victims of fascism?". Augustinčić accepted the invitation and called his colleague Frano Kršinić with whom he designed the Monument to the Victims of Fascism, also known as the Yekatit 12 Monument. After he completed Yekatit 12 monument, Augustinčić also constructed the Monument to the Ethiopian Partisan in Holeta Military Academy and the Monument to Ras Mӓkonnen in Harar. To provide feedback and instruction for the Harar monument, the renowned Ethiopian artist Afewerk Tekle went to Zagreb where he exchanged ideas with Augustinčić.

In 1970 Augustinčić donated his works to his native town of Klanjec, where a gallery exhibiting his works opened in 1976. His last great work was the memorial dedicated to the 1573 Peasants' Revolt and its leader Matija Gubec, which was erected near Oršić Castle in Gornja Stubica in 1973. The monument is made of bronze and stone and features a relief covering .

Gallery

References

External links

 The Antun Augustinčić Gallery official website
 Some of most famous Croatian sculptors 

1900 births
1979 deaths
People from Klanjec
People from the Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia
Academy of Fine Arts, University of Zagreb alumni
Academic staff of the University of Zagreb
Vladimir Nazor Award winners
Members of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts
Burials at Mirogoj Cemetery
20th-century Croatian politicians
20th-century Croatian sculptors
Yugoslav emigrants to the United States