[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pennsylvania Route 116

ecomes Main Street and is lined with several homes. PA 116 turns southeast onto 3rd Street, becoming the border between McSherrystown to the west and Conewago Township to the east. The route curves east fully into Conewago Township, passing several residences in the community of Midway.

York County

PA 116 crosses into the borough of Hanover in York County and continues through residential areas. The route splits from 3rd Street by heading southeast on High Street, passing homes and businesses. The road crosses a York Railway line before reaching an intersection with PA 194. At this point, PA 116 forms a concurrency with PA 194 by turning northeast onto a one-way pair that follows two-way Frederick Street eastbound and one-way Chestnut Street westbound. In the commercial center, the one-way pair crosses PA 94, with northbound PA 116/PA 194 becoming Broadway at this point. A short distance later, PA 116 splits from PA 194 by turning east onto two-way York Street and passes more homes, crossing into Penn Township. The route comes to an intersection with PA 216 and turns northeast into a mix of farmland and industry. The road crosses CSX's Hanover Subdivision railroad line in York Road, at which point it enters Heidelberg Township and becomes Hanover Road. PA 116 runs through agricultural areas with some development and woods, passing through Ambau. The route crosses the West Branch Codorus Creek into North Codorus Township and becomes York Road, passing through more rural areas with residential development, crossing another York Railway line. 

The road intersects the northern terminus of PA 516 and turns north, crossing the West Branch Codorus Creek into the borough of Spring Grove. Here, PA 116 becomes Main Street and runs through an industrial area, crossing a York Railway line. Farther north, the route heads into residential and commercial areas, crossing another York Railway line. After a roundabout at Hanover Street and Roths Church Road, the road forms the border between Spring Grove to the west and Jackson Township to the east, passing more development. PA 116 fully enters Jackson Township, where the name becomes Hanover Road, and crosses the York Railway again, continuing northeast through agricultural areas with a few housing developments as it passes through Nashville. The route continues into West Manchester Township and reaches its terminus at an intersection with US 30.

History
Fairfield Road and Hanover Road date back to the 19th century as unpaved roads leading out of Gettysburg. Fairfield Road was used in the Retreat from Gettysburg by the Confederate States Army following their loss in the Battle of Gettysburg in July 1863. When Pennsylvania legislated routes in 1911, what is now PA 116 was designated as part of Legislative Route 44 between Carroll Valley and Gettysburg, Legislative Route 231 between Gettysburg and Hanover, and Legislative Route 230 between Hanover and West Manchester Township. By 1926, the road between Gettysburg and Hanover was paved. PA 116 was designated in 1928 to run from PA 16 in Carroll Valley east through Gettysburg and Hanover to US 30 west of York, following its current alignment. At this time, the entire length of the route was paved. In the 1930s, the route was widened through Hanover. PA 116 was widened between McSherrystown and Hanover in the 1950s. By 1965, PA 116 and PA 194 were split into a one-way pair through downtown Hanover.

Major intersections

See also

References

External links

Pennsylvania Highways: PA 116

116
Transportation in Adams County, Pennsylvania
Transportation in York County, Pennsylvania