[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Greenham Common Women's Peace Camp

tribute to the protestors of the original movement, who at the time had been living outside of the Greenham RAF camp, as well as to the Seneca Women's Peace Encampment, women artists and activists created a rotating series of art installations in the store SohoZat at 307 West Broadway in Manhattan.

The Window Peace installation, created in 1986 by artist Susan Kleckner, took place in the Soho Zat storefront, located in lower Manhattan. As had been the practice of the Greenham Common movement, only women artists could participate; however, men were allowed to participate if they had been invited by a woman. Each week for an entire year, beginning 12 December 1986 until 11 November 1987, 51 women artists occupied the storefront window with their art. Among the artists were Susan Kleckner (also the originator), Ann Snitow, Dianna Moonmade, Sharon Jaddis, Tequila Minsky, Anne Meiman, Carol Jacobsen, Joyce George, Jane Winter, Marsha Grant, The Women of the Greenham and Seneca Movements, Catherine Allport, Eileen Jones, Susann Ingle, Sharon Smith, Linda Montano, Dominque Mazur, Cenen, Pamela Schumaker, Judy Trupin, Connie Samaras, E.A. Racette, Peggey Lowenberg and Maggie Ens, Kathy Constantinides, Elaine Pratt, Coco Gordon, Sally Jacque, Kay Roberts, Anna Rubin, Renee Rockoff, Harriet Glazier, Karen Marshall, Paula Allen, and others.

See also

 Anti-nuclear movement
 Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament
 Nuclear weapons of the United Kingdom
 Faslane Peace Camp
 Helen John
 Helen Thomas
 List of peace activists
 Seneca Women's Encampment for a Future of Peace and Justice
 Women Strike for Peace
 List of women pacifists and peace activists

Related works

Primary sources 

 February 1983 Greenham Women's Peace Camp Newsletter (Zine-style newsletter created by members  to mobilize new participants, circulate information about events, document their actions and create forums for cultivating ideas, demands, tactics, and analyses)

 Walking to Greenham, how the peacecamp began, by Ann Pettitt. Published by Honno.

 Greenham Women Are Everywhere, the official songbook of the Greenham Common Women's Peace Camp

Several sets of papers related to Greenham Common Women's Peace Camp are held at The Women's Library at the Library of the London School of Economics, including;

 Greenham Common Collection ref 5GCC
 Records of Greenham Common Women's Peace Camp (Yellow Gate) ref 5GCW
 Jayne and Juliet Nelson (Yellow Gate) ref 7JAN
The peace camp was also the subject of a 1983 documentary by Beeban Kidron and Amanda Richardson, Carry Greenham Home.

Secondary sources/anthologies 

Kerrow, Kate; Mordan, Rebecca (2021). Out of the Darkness: Greenham Voices 1981-2000. Foreword by Frankie Armstrong. The History Press.

Pettitt, Ann (2006). Walking to Greenham: How the peace camp began and the Cold War ended. Published by Honno.

Plays 

 Harrison,Tony.

Musicals 

 Beyond The Fence (2016) A wholly computer created musical in which computers scripted, scored, and provided lyrics to a musical about the Greenham Commons Women's Peace Camp.
 Gates of Greenham (1985) A Peace Oratorio, composed by Tony Biggin and performed by the Quaker Festival Orchestra and Chorus, subsequently recorded by the festival chorus and The London Philharmonic Orchestra

Films 

 Mothers of the Revolution (2021) – documentary narrated by Glenda Jackson

Novels

References
FootnotesBibliography

External links
 Documentary from undercurrents about the march that started Greenham Common Women's Peace Camp
 Greenham Common Women's Peace Camp website
 Greenham Common Camp Festival website
 YourGreenham.co.uk, information about Greenham from The Guardian
 Article on Greenham Common Women’s Peace Camp by the International Museum of Women.
 The Greenham Common women's peace camp. BBC World Service - Witness History.
 Greenham Common Women’s Peace Camp changed the world – and my life by Jane Powell. Published by openDemocracy on 8 November 2021.
 How the Greenham Common protest changed lives: ‘We danced on top of the nuclear silos’. The Guardian. Authors - Suzanne Moore, Homa Khaleeli, Moya Sarner, Leah Harper and Justin McCurry. Published 20 March 2017.
 Remembering Greenham Common. New Statesman. Author - Kate Hudson. Published 18 April 2013.

Peace camps
Newbury, Berkshire
1981 establishments in England
1980s in England
1990s in England
2000 disestablishments in England
Protests in England
Political history of England
Pacifism in England
Intentional communities in the United Kingdom
Nonviolent occupation
Women in England
Cold War
English female criminals
Anti-nuclear movement in England
Anti-nuclear protests
History of Berkshire
Politics of Berkshire