[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Palestinian art

lestine has remained paramount for such artists, especially in light of forced exiles, many in the diaspora have maintained cutting-edge approaches, gaining recognition for the new and innovative ways through which they approach Palestine's complex history, its current reality, and uncertain future.

Collections
The Palestinian Art Court – Al Hoash, was founded in 2004, and opened its first gallery in East Jerusalem in 2005. Al Hoash has exhibited works of Hassan Hourani, Vera Tamari, Suleiman Mansour and others.

Art market
In 2009, Steve Sabella researched the value of Palestinian art from a fiscal point of view as part of his master thesis at Sotheby's Institute of Art in London. He analysed how Palestinian artists needed to get connected with cultural institutions and influential curators to achieve international recognition and art market success outside of Palestine. They became the mediators and the connecting link between the artists and the outside world.

According to the New York Times, collectors are reaching out for Palestinian art because prices are still comparably low ranging from $500 to $10,000. Yair Rothman, an Israeli art entrepreneur, is quoted that "prices have already tripled in the last three, four years, but there is still room for an increase."

Notable artists
Umayyah Juha, Tayseer Barakat, Taysir Batniji, Abed Abdi, Abu Saymeh, Naji Al-Ali, Kamal Boullata, Nasr Abdel Aziz Eleyan, Ibrahim Ghannam, Mustafa Al-Hallaj, Hasan Hourani, Mona Hatoum, Emily Jacir, Sari Ibrahim Khoury, Bissan Rafe, Sliman Mansour, Abdul Hay Mosallam, Ismail Shammout, Sharif Waked, Hisham Zreiq, Samia Halaby, Jumana El Husseini, Sama Raena Alshaibi, Steve Sabella, Marwan Isa, Nabil Anani, Abdelrahman al Muzain, Khaled Hourani, Hani Zurob, Amer Shomali, Mirna Bamieh, Tamam al Akhal, Nicola al Saig, Laila al Shawa, Hazem Harb,mohammed Joha.

Further reading
Boullata, Kamal (2012): Between Exits: Paintings By Hani Zurob 
Makhoul, Bashir and Hon, Gordon (2013): The Origins of Palestinian Art, University of Liverpool Press 
Boullata, Kamal (2009): Palestinian Art: From 1850 to the Present 
The Palestine poster archive
Halaby, Samia (2001): "Liberation Art of Palestine: Palestinian Painting and Sculpture in the Second Half of the 20th Century" 
Farhat, Maymanah (2008): "The Unearthing of Secrets"
Farhat, Maymanah (2012): "On 'Liberation Art' and Revolutionary Aesthetics: An Interview with Samia Halaby"
Farhat, Maymanah (2009) Gaza's Artists Under Fire
Slitine, Marion (2015), "Gaza : quand l’art remplace les armes", in Revue Moyen-Orient, n°25, janvier 2015
Slitine Marion, (2013) "L’art contemporain palestinien « hors les murs ». Le cas de Londres.", in Orient XXI, 13 décembre 2013
Slitine, Marion (2013), L'art sous occupation. "Le Prix du Jeune Artiste de l'Année" [YAYA] (Palestine), in BONNEFOY Laurent, BURGAT François et CATUSSE Myriam, Jeunesses arabes du Maroc au Yémen. Loisirs, cultures et politiques, La Découverte, Paris, 2013

References

External links

Resilience & Light: Contemporary Palestinian Art an exhibition on contemporary Palestinian art, exhibiting at the Studio 3 Gallery, Canterbury.
Palestinian Performing Arts: News and Reviews at IMEU.net
Palestinian Visual Arts: News and Reviews at IMEU.net
Hagar Art Gallery
Palestinian Art at Palestine-art.com
Palestinian Art Court at Al Hoash Gallery, an independent non-profit organization, officially registered in 2004 to form a core for a future Palestinian National gallery in Jerusalem.
Reviews and discussions of Palestinian artists by Samia Halaby
Khalil Sakakini Cultural Centre, independent, non-profit arts and culture organization.
International Academy of Art Palestine, a leading institution for art education in Palestine.
Windows from Gaza, prominent artists collective from based in Gaza
Al-Ma'mal , one of the first spaces for contemporary art in Palestine, founded in 1998
A. M Qattan Foundation, cultural foundation that has spaces in both the West Bank and London (the Mosaic Rooms) and presents a number of initiatives throughout the occupied territories, especially in Gaza.
Made in Palestine , webpage for the groundbreaking exhibition "Made in Palestine," which was organized and curated by the Station Museum of Contemporary Art in Houston, Texas.
Birzeit University Virtual Gallery Virtual gallery of the Birzeit University Ethnographic and Art Museum
The Jerusalem Fund Gallery non-profit gallery in Washington, DC, devoted to Palestinian art
Umm El Fahem Gallery, gallery devoted to contemporary Palestinian art that is located just outside Haifa near the border of Israel and the West Bank.

Art
Contemporary art
Art by country