[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Taro Yamamoto

d a rosary, and gestured to offer incense to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the Liberal Democratic Party.

Liberal Party (2016–2019)
In October 2016, the People's Life Party was renamed to Liberal Party. 

In April 2019, the Liberal Party dissolved and merged into the Democratic Party for the People.

Reiwa Shinsengumi (2019–present)
In April 2019, Yamamoto formed a new party, left-liberal populist Reiwa Shinsengumi. In the first election the party contested, Yamamoto lost his seat in the House of Councillors after switching his electoral district from Tokyo to the party's National PR list, but he led his party to win two seats in the House of Councillors.

In June 2020, Yamamoto announced his candidacy for the 2020 Tokyo gubernatorial election. Yamamoto's campaign included a pledge to cancel the 2020 Summer Olympics and establish a direct cash relief handout program as a part of Tokyo's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Yamamoto came in third place in the election, winning 657,277 votes, or 10.72% of the vote. 

At the 2021 general election, Yamamoto won a seat in the House of Representatives running on the Tokyo PR list. Yamamoto resigned his seat in the House of Representatives in April 2022, and announced his intention to increase his party's representation in the House of Councillors. He was replaced in the lower house by Mari Kushibuchi. In 2023, Liberal Democratic Party lawmakers physically held Yamamoto back as he attempted to fling himself at members desks to block an anti-refugee bill in the House of Councilors. The melee lasted several minutes, with the scene being reported on by numerous news outlets.

Filmography

References

External links 

 
  

1974 births
Living people
People from Takarazuka, Hyōgo
20th-century Japanese male actors
21st-century Japanese male actors
21st-century Japanese politicians
Japanese male film actors
Japanese male television actors
Japanese actor-politicians
Japanese anti–nuclear power activists
Japanese left-wing activists
Left-wing populists
Progressivism in Japan
Members of the House of Councillors (Japan)
People's Life Party politicians
Populism in Japan
Actors from Hyōgo Prefecture
Politicians from Hyōgo Prefecture