[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Israel Music Institute

The Israel Music Institute (IMI) is a non-profit organization supported by the Israel Ministry of Education and Culture. The
institute was established in 1961 by the Public Committee for Arts and Culture, with the aim of
publishing and promoting Israeli art music at home and abroad. IMI also serves as the Israel Music
Information Center- a member of the International Association of Music Information Centers (IAMIC),
maintaining reciprocal ties with some 40 member countries.

Since its establishment, IMI has acquired
the rights to more than 3800 compositions by some 250 Israeli composers. The IMI catalogue contains a
great variety of music: orchestral, choral, chamber and educational, as well as a plethora of articles and
a number of musicological works. Both on its own label and in cooperation with several other non-profit
musical institutions in Israel, IMI is active in producing CDs of Israeli art music, which it sees as an
important tool for promoting Israeli composers’ works.

History 
The IMI was established in 1961 by the Israel Council for Culture and Arts, an adjunct of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports, with the aim of publishing and promoting Israeli concert music by all means available. The first chairman of the board of trustees was the late Eliezer Peri, and the first Director and editor in chief was William (Willy) Elias, who served in this role from 1961 to 1989. Despite having no prior experience in music publishing (Elias had been a banker and a singer in Rinat choir) he was able to build sound foundations for the prominent publishing house in Israel. He made a point of producing highly professional scores, thus raising significantly local music publishing standards common at that time. He also initiated an IMI bulletin, concerts, listening events and composers' forums as part of IMI activities.

Since 2006, production of the Israel music festival became the IMI's main focus, as the flagship event in the Israeli concert music scene. IMI's goal was to achieve synergy between the institute's activities, in publishing as well as recording, and the festival's production.

In 2019, Ohad Gabay was appointed director, with Evgeny Oslon as editor in chief. Gabay and Olson expanded the institute's collaborations with various festivals and competitions (such as TARF- the Tel Aviv recorder festival, The Israeli Conservatory's composition competition, the Ben-Haim competition and others). They also emphasized digitation of archival materials, signing of young composers and expansion of the IMI's catalogue, as well as optimizing publishing processes. In 2022, attorney Oron Schwartz was appointed chair of the board.

As the major publishing house for Israeli music, IMI has held a significant role in the development of the contemporary music scene. The international availability of some 3800 Israeli scores, the growing collection of Israeli CDs, and the existence, in the past, of IMI News, and today- the IMI website, have created the scene of local contemporary music no less than they reflect it.

Publishing house 

The Israel Music Institute is the first publicly owned music publishing house in Israel and the most influential one on the local scene. It is devoted primarily to the publication of Israeli art music, but also publishes books and booklets on Israeli music and composers, and formerly, a periodical- IMI News. It is the only local publishing house represented internationally by some ten leading European and US publishers, among them: Theodore Presser Co. (USA, Canada & Mexico), Albersen & Co B.V. (The Netherlands), Peermusic classical (Germany, Austria & Switzerland), EME (France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Spain & Portugal), Engström & Södring Musikverlag AS (Denmark), and Český hudební fond, o. p. s. (Czechia, Slovakia & Hungary).

Since its establishment, IMI has acquired the rights to more than 3800 compositions by some 250 Israeli composers. IMI publishes compositions by virtually all important contemporary classical Israeli composers working in Israel since 1920. The Institute's catalogue encompasses orchestral music, chamber music, solo instrumental music and vocal music (ranging from solo song to choral and choral-orchestral music), electronic music, several operas and ballet scores, and music for educational purposes.

CD label 

The IMI produces CDs both on its own label and in cooperation with several other non-profit musical institutions in Israel, as well as markets CDs of Israeli art music produced by other labels.