[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Council for Combating Discrimination

g against cases of discrimination and applying the law, the CNCD is also responsible for a number of initiatives and campaigns which seek to combat discrimination. Many of these initiatives are organised in collaboration with non-government organisations or members of the civil society, and include:

The "Diversity is a Gift" campaign, organised in the city of Timișoara in May and June 2006, with the support of the Timișoara Intercultural Institute. The campaign included a number of free public seminars which discussed the origins and effects of discrimination, anti-discrimination provisions in Romania, and social means of combating discrimination.
The CULTfest 2006 festival for cultural diversity, which was organised jointly with the Group for Social Initiatives, Studies and Analysis, GISAS and the Timișoara Intercultural Institute, on 18–20 August 2006. The festival took place in Sebeş, Alba County, and included a photographic exhibition, public debates on issues relating to cultural diversity, as well as traditional dance and musical performances of the various cultures and ethnicities which inhabit the area.
The Racism Breaks the Game campaign, or Rasismul Strică Fotbalul, which was organised jointly with several NGOs, with the purpose of combating racism in Romanian football. The campaign was part of pan-European Week Against Racism in Football, an initiative of the Football Against Racism in Europe organisation.

CNCD also offered a grant to Accept, Romania's largest LGBT rights organisation, for GayFest 2006, Bucharest's annual gay pride festival.

Research

The CNCD is also responsible for conducting research into social attitudes and perceptions regarding the phenomenon of discrimination in Romania, and regularly publishes reports on its findings. Additionally, the CNCD established a Documentation Centre (Centru de Documentare) which can be accessed by the public and which provides a series of publications relating to anti-discrimination, human rights, legislation, minority rights issues, etc.

References

External links
 Official site of the National Council for Combating Discrimination

Government agencies established in 2001
2001 establishments in Romania
Independent government agencies of Romania