[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 28 Weeks Later

28 Weeks Later' is a 2007  post-apocalyptic horror film directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo, who co-wrote it with Rowan Joffé, Enrique López Lavigne and Jesus Olmo. The standalone sequel to the 2002 film 28 Days Later, it stars Robert Carlyle, Rose Byrne, Jeremy Renner, Harold Perrineau, Catherine McCormack, Mackintosh Muggleton, Imogen Poots, and Idris Elba. It is set after the events of the first film, depicting the efforts of NATO military forces to salvage a safe zone in London, the consequence of two young siblings breaking protocol to find a photograph of their mother, and the resulting reintroduction of the Rage Virus to the safe zone.28 Weeks Later was theatrically released in the United Kingdom on 11 May 2007, by 20th Century Fox and by Fox Atomic in the United States. The film received positive reviews from critics, who praised the direction and atmosphere. It grossed over $65 million worldwide against a $15 million budget.

Plot
During the original outbreak of the Rage Virus, Don, his wife Alice, and four more survivors hide in a cottage on the outskirts of London. They hear a terrified boy pounding at their door and Don lets him in. Minutes later, they discover that the infected have followed the boy. Don pleads with Alice to leave the boy but she refuses so he abandons them and escapes on a boat while Alice, the boy, and the rest of the survivors are killed.

After the infected begin to die of starvation, NATO forces take control of Britain. Twenty-eight weeks after the outbreak, an American force, under the command of Brigadier General Stone, brings in settlers. Among the new arrivals are Don and Alice's children, Tammy and Andy, who were out of the country during the outbreak. They are admitted to District One, a safe zone on the Isle of Dogs, where they are reunited with their father.

That night, Tammy and Andy sneak out of the safe zone and return to their former home, where they collect old family photographs. Andy finds Alice alive in a delirious, semi-conscious state. The three are discovered by American soldiers and taken back to District One, where they are placed in isolation. Alice is taken to a quarantine room, where she is tested by Scarlet, a U.S. Army medical officer, and found to be an asymptomatic carrier of the Rage virus. Don makes an unauthorized visit to Alice, begging her to forgive him. They kiss and Don is infected. He savagely kills her and goes on a rampage.

Scarlet rescues Tammy and Andy, aware that their genetic makeup might hold the key to a cure. Don starts a domino effect of rapid rage infection. Amidst the chaos, American soldiers cannot distinguish between panicked survivors and rampaging infected, and are told to shoot everyone. One of the snipers, Sergeant Doyle, unable to keep complying with the order, escapes with Scarlet, Tammy, and Andy as the U.S. Air Force firebombs District One. Don is among the infected who survive the bombings and escape into abandoned London.

Doyle's pilot friend Flynn arrives by helicopter to pick up Doyle but tells him to leave the civilians and head to Wembley Stadium. Doyle ignores his instructions and escorts the trio to Wembley. They break into an abandoned Volvo V70 to escape nerve gas released to kill the infected but are unable to start the car. As American soldiers with flamethrowers draw near, Doyle exits the car to push-start it and is burned alive. Scarlet and the kids escape into the London Underground but Don kills Scarlet and bites Andy.

Tammy shoots Don dead. Andy remains symptom-free but a carrier of the Rage virus. They are picked up by Flynn, who flies them across the English Channel to France. Twenty-eight days later, a French-accented voice requesting help is heard from the radio in Flynn's abandoned helicopter. A group of the infected emerge at the Paris Métro Trocadéro Station with a view across the Seine to the Eiffel Tower, revealing the virus has spread to continental Europe.

Cast

Production
Development and writing
The international success of the 2002 horror film 28 Days Later influenced its creators—director Danny Boyle, producer Andrew Macdonald and screenwriter Alex Garland—to make a sequel four years following its release. Macdonald stated, "We were quite taken aback by the phenomenal success of the first film, particularly in America. We saw an opportunity to make a second film that already had a built in audience. We thought it would be a great idea to try and satisfy that audience again."