[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# October 1956

The following events occurred in October 1956:

October 1, 1956 (Monday)
 Federico Fellini ends the shooting of Nights of Cabiria.
 Former Großadmiral and Last Head of State of Nazi Germany, Karl Doenitz is released from Spandau Prison after completing his 10-year sentence for his War Crimes during The Second World War.
Born:
 Andrus Ansip, Estonian politician, 10th Prime Minister of Estonia, in Tartu
 Theresa May, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, in Eastbourne, Sussex
Died: Albert Von Tilzer, US songwriter, 78

October 2, 1956 (Tuesday)
The end of voting in the Kenyan general election; elections for other constituencies would take place the following March.
Douglas MacArthur rejects nomination as a candidate in the coming New York State election.

October 3, 1956 (Wednesday)
The opening game of the 1956 World Series of baseball is held at Ebbets Field, New York City, United States, where the Brooklyn Dodgers defeat the New York Yankees.

October 4, 1956 (Thursday)
In Italy, the United Action Pact between PCI and PSI, in force from 1934, becomes, by mutual agreement, a less binding Consultation Pact. In parallel, PSI and PSDI carry on the tractates for a future reunification of the two Italian Socialist parties.
Negev desert road ambush: Palestinian Fedayeen militants attack two Israeli jeeps on the Sodom–Beer Sheva road (Highway 25), travelling near the southern part of the Dead Sea, 7 miles west of the Jordanian border with Israel. Four passengers are killed.
Born: Christoph Waltz, Austrian actor, in Vienna

October 5, 1956 (Friday)
The Ten Commandments, starring Charlton Heston as Moses and directed by Cecil B. DeMille, is released in the United States. It becomes one of the highest-grossing films of all time.

October 6, 1956 (Saturday)
English footballer Bobby Charlton makes his first appearance for Manchester United F.C., aged 18, in a match against Charlton Athletic.
Born: Bruno Nockler, Italian skier, in Predoi (died in 1982 in a car accident).

October 7, 1956 (Sunday)
The 50th Paris–Tours cycle race is won by Albert Bouvet.
Born: Brian Sutter, Canadian ice hockey player and coach, in Viking, Alberta

October 8, 1956 (Monday)
Don Larsen's perfect game: Don Larsen, pitcher of the New York Yankees baseball team, throws the only perfect game in World Series history in Game 5 of the World Series against the Brooklyn Dodgers. The Yankees win the series in seven games and Larsen is named series MVP.

October 9, 1956 (Tuesday)
 Born: Tran Dai Quang, President of Vietnam, in Ninh Bình. (d. 2018)

October 10, 1956 (Wednesday)
In Terrazzano (Milan) two lunatics, the brothers Arturo and Egidio Santato (the first just released by a criminal madhouse) take hostage, in a primary school, 97 children and three schoolmistresses, asking for a ransom. After a day of anguish, the situation is unlocked by two volunteers, the worker Sante Zennaro and the private eye Tom Ponzi, who enter in the school. All the hostages are saved, but, for a tragic mistake, Zennaro is killed by the policemen's fire.
Finland is admitted as a member of UNESCO.
"Operation Samaria" is carried out by the Israel Defense Forces in the West Bank. The action results in the deaths of 100 Jordanian soldiers and 17 IDF soldiers.

October 11, 1956 (Thursday)
The Lockheed L-1649 Starliner prototype makes its first flight.
Born: 
Nicanor Duarte, President of Paraguay 2003-2008, in Coronel Oviedo
Edoardo Albinati, Italian writer, Premio Strega by La scuola cattolica (The catholic school), in Rome,.

October 12, 1956 (Friday)
Born: Trần Đại Quang, President of Vietnam, in Ninh Bình Province (d. 2018)
Died: Lorenzo Perosi, 83, Catholic priest and composer of religious music.

October 13, 1956 (Saturday)
In Australia, the Tasmanian state election results in the continuation of a 15-seat deadlock between the ALP and Liberal Party.

October 14, 1956 (Sunday)
In Trento, the sixth Congress of the DC, the first after the De Gasperi's death, begins; it sees the confirmation of the secretary, Amintore Fanfani, and of his statist line. The Fanfani's group, “Iniziativa democratica” (Democratic initiative) gets an almost complete grasp on the party.
Indira Kala Sangeet University, Khairagarh, India, is inaugurated by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.
Dalit Buddhist movement: B. R. Ambedkar carries out a mass religious conversion ceremony at Chandrapur, India.
Typhoon Jean forms in the Pacific Ocean.

October 15, 1956 (Monday)
The sixth Miss World competition is held at the Lyceum Ballroom in London, UK, and is won by Petra Schürmann of Germany, after an administrative error results in US representative Betty Lane Cherry being given the winner's sash just before the ceremony; she was subsequently named first runner-up.

October 16, 1956 (Tuesday)
Died: Jules Rimet, 83, French football administrator