[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 138]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

is the most singular, and, in many respects, the most
admirable of all that inhabit this globe of earth. All other nations are
subject to revolutions and the various turns of fortune; sometimes they
wage successful wars; sometimes they improve in the arts of peace; now
they are great and reverenced by their neighbours; and now, insulted and
despised, they suffer all the miseries of servitude. The Arabians alone
have never been known to vary in the smallest circumstance, either of
their internal policy or external situation. They inhabit a climate
which would be intolerable to the rest of the human species for its
burning heat, and a soil which refuses to furnish any of the necessaries
of life. Hence they neither plough the earth, nor sow, nor depend upon
corn for their subsistence, nor are acquainted with any of the mechanic
arts; they live chiefly upon the milk of their herds and flocks, and
sometimes eat their flesh. These burning deserts are stretched out to an
immense extent on every side, and these they consider as their common
country, without having any fixed or permanent abode. Arid and barren as
are these wilds in general, there are various spots which are more
productive than the rest; here are found supplies of water, and some
appearances of vegetation; and here the Arabians encamp till they have
exhausted the spontaneous products of the soil. Besides, they vary their
place of residence with the different seasons of the year. When they are
in perfect friendship with their neighbours, they advance to the very
edges of the desert, and find more ample supplies of moisture and
herbage. If they are attacked or molested, the whole tribe is in motion
in an instant, and seeks a refuge in their impenetrable recesses. Other
nations are involved in various pursuits of war, or government, or
commerce; they have made a thousand inventions of luxury necessary to
their welfare, and the enjoyment of these they call _happiness_. The
Arab is ignorant of all these things, or, if he knows them, he despises
their possession. All his wants, his passions, his desires, terminate in
one object, and that object is the preservation of his liberty. For this
purpose he contents himself with a bare sufficiency of the coarsest and
simplest food; and the small quantity of clothing which he requires in
such a climate, is fabricated by the women of the tribe, who milk the
cattle and prepare the food of their husbands, and require no other
pleasures than the pleasing interest of domestic cares. They have a
breed of horses superior to any in the rest of the globe for gentleness,
patience, and unrivalled swiftness; this is a particular passion and
pride of the Arabian tribes. These horses are necessary to them in their
warlike expeditions, and in their courses along the deserts. If they are
attacked, they mount their steeds, who bear them with the rapidity of a
tempest to avenge their injuries; or, should they be overmatched in
fight, they soon transport them beyond the possibility of pursuit. For
this reason the proudest monarchs and greatest conquerors have in vain
attempted to subdue them. Troops accustomed to the plenty of a
cultivated country, are little able to pursue these winged warriors over
the whole extent of their sandy wastes. Oppressed with heat, fainting
for want of water, and spent with the various difficulties of the way,
the most numerous armies have been destroyed in such attempts; and those
that survived the obstacles of nature were easily overcome by the
repeated attacks of the valiant natives.

"'While I was in this country I was myself witness to an embassy that
was sent from the neighbouring prince, who imagined that the fame of his
exploits had struck the Arabians with terror, and disposed them to
submission. The ambassador was introduced to the chief of the tribe, a
venerable old man, undistinguished by any mark of ostentation from the
rest, who received him sitting cross-legged at the door of his tent. He
then began to speak, and, in a long and studied harangue, described the
power of his master, the invincible courage of his armies, the vast
profusion of arms, of warlike engines, and military stores, and
concluded with a demand that the Arabians should submit to acknowledge
him as their lord, and pay a yearly tribute.

"'At this proud speech the younger part of the tribe began to frown with
indignation, and clash their weapons in token of defiance; but the chief
himself, with a calm and manly composure, made this reply: 'I expected,
from the maturity of your age, and the gravity of your countenance, to
have heard a rational discourse, befitting you to propose and us to
hear. When you dwelt so long upon the power of your master, I also
imagined that he had sent to us to propose a league of friendship and
alliance, such as might become equals, and bind man more closely to his
fellows. In this case the Arabians, although they neither wa