[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Embassy of Germany, Washington, D.C.

lic of Germany $300,000 from the earlier sale of the chancery and its furnishings, and a new chancery was occupied in Foxhall that year. The facility was constructed in a modern style and featured modern interior decor as, according to German diplomats at the time, the country "has no antiques now".

East German representation
The German Democratic Republic (GDR) and the United States began full diplomatic relations in 1974. The GDR maintained an embassy in a leased office space on Massachusetts Avenue near Dupont Circle. 

In 1990, the office space was abandoned mid-lease upon the reunification of the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and the GDR. Although the FRG agreed to assume all debts and obligations of the former East Germany, the landlord's attorney later wrote that "without disclosing any confidences, I can say that our client did not necessarily find the Federal Republic and its embassy entirely consistent in its public and private positions".

Facilities

Chancery
West Germany, along with Denmark and Switzerland, was a trailblazer in the use of modern architecture for diplomatic facilities in Washington. In 1964 it opened its new and current chancery, designed by Egon Eiermann. The building's design evoked the Bauhaus school and "was meant as a disavowal" of the Nazi architecture of Albert Speer.

The chancery building and consular building underwent a $46.5 million renovation that was completed in 2014.

Residence
The residence is located on the grounds of the chancery. It was constructed in 1994 from a design by O.M. Ungers, who aimed to "find an architectonic expression for the residence of the German ambassador that would be associative of the characteristics" of Germany.

The Washington Post has called the residence "one of the most conspicuous diplomatic pads in town" and, in 2015, described it as "a Bauhaus-inspired take on classical Washington" that did not appear dated, even more than two decades after it was built.

The entrance hall contains two paintings by Gerhard Merz as well as a series of woodcuts on canvas by Markus Lüpertz. The dining room contains paintings by Bernard Schultze and a red lacquered partition/folding screen by Simon Ungers. The ladies' sitting room has an olive green- and brown-colored carpet by Rosemarie Trockel, while the gentlemen's sitting room contains paintings by Christa Näher of the four classical elements.

Consulates 
Germany maintains consulates general in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, and San Francisco. There are honorary consuls in more than a dozen U.S. cities.

See also
Embassy of the United States, Berlin
United States Ambassador to Germany

Notes

References

External links
 
 

Washington
Germany
Embassy
German-American culture in Washington, D.C.
Embassy
Embassy