[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Operation Thunderbolt (film)

Operation Thunderbolt, known in Israel as Mivtsa Yonatan (, literally "Operation Jonathan"), also called Entebbe: Operation Thunderbolt in the US, is a 1977 Israeli film directed by Menahem Golan and stars Klaus Kinski, Yehoram Gaon and Sybil Danning. The film is based on an actual event – the hijacking of a flight by terrorists and the freeing of Israeli hostages on July 4, 1976. The operation was known as (Operation Entebbe, military code name: "Operation Thunderbolt") at Entebbe Airport in Uganda. Operation Thunderbolt follows the events following the flight's takeoff until the hostages' return to Israel.

Plot
On June 27, 1976, four terrorists belonging to a splinter group of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine under the orders of Wadie Haddad boarded and hijacked Flight 139, an Air France Airbus A300 in Athens, Greece. Two of the terrorists are West Germans named Wilfried Boese and Halima, and the other two are Palestinians.

After landing to refuel in Libya, the four hijackers force the airliner to take off once again. With President Idi Amin's permission, the terrorists divert the airliner and its hostages to Entebbe Airport in Uganda. The hijackers are joined at Entebbe by more Palestinian militants. After identifying Israeli passengers, the non-Jewish passengers are freed while a series of demands are made, including the release of 40 Palestinian militants held in Israel, in exchange for the hostages.

The Cabinet of Israel, unwilling to give in to terrorist demands, is faced with difficult decisions as their deliberations lead to a top-secret military raid. This commando operation, "Operation Thunderbolt", will be carried out over  from home and will take place on the Jewish Sabbath.

While still negotiating with the terrorists, who now numbered seven individuals, the Israeli military prepared a group of Lockheed C-130 Hercules transports for the raid. The transports landed at Entebbe Airport under the cover of darkness. The commandos led by Brigadier General Dan Shomron had to contend with a large armed Ugandan military detachment and used a ruse to overcome the defenses. A black Mercedes limousine had been carried on board and was used to fool sentries that it was the official car that President Amin used on an impromptu visit to the airport.

Nearly complete surprise was achieved but a firefight resulted, ending with all seven terrorists and 45 Ugandan soldiers killed. The hostages were gathered together and most were quickly put on the idling C-130 aircraft. During the raid, one commando (the breach unit commander Yonatan Netanyahu, brother of future Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu), and three of the hostages, died. 

With 102 hostages aboard and on their way to freedom, a group of Israeli commandos remained behind to destroy the Ugandan Air Force MiG-17 and MiG-21 fighters to prevent a retaliation. All the survivors of the attack force then joined in flying to Nairobi for refueling and then back to Israel via Sharm El Sheikh.

Cast

 Yehoram Gaon as Lt.Col. Yonatan Netanyahu
 Klaus Kinski as Wilfried Bose
 Sybil Danning as Halima
 Gila Almagor as Nurit Aviv
 Assi Dayan as Shuki (based on Muki Betser)
 Arik Lavie as Brig-Gen. Dan Shomron
 Shaike Ophir as Gadi Arnon
  as Gabriel
 Shmuel Rodensky as Dr Weissberg
  as Shlomo Bar David
  as Alma Levi
  as Dora Bloch
 Heli Goldenberg as Dalia Cohen
  as Mr. Borovitz
  as Ida Borovitz
  as Ze'ev
  as General Benny Peled, Commander of the Israel Air Force
  as Dr Avner Tal
  as Shlomo Bloch
  as Yehuda Goldstein
  as German Doctor
 Uzi Cohen as Israel soldier dressed as Idi Amin (uncredited)
 Heinz Bernard as Mr Kohan (uncredited)
  as Yitzchak Bloch
 Arie Gardus as Maj-Gen Yekutiel Adam, overall operation commander 
 Mark Heath as Idi Amin Dada
 Henry Czarniak as Michel Bacos
  as Dan Zamir, government spokesman
  as Ram Weissberg (Based on Jean-Jacques Maimoni)
 Yitzchak Rabin as himself
 Shimon Peres as himself
 Yigal Allon as himself
 Gad Yaakobi as himself

Production
Pre-production on a Hollywood film began shortly after the actual raid had taken place. With a projected large budget, and efforts to land Steve McQueen in a leading role, the project collapsed. At that point, Menahem Golan as director and co-producer, Yoram Globus also as co-producer and Ken Globus as screenwriter, took over the aborted project.

The Golan/Globus team made a decision to achieve a near-documentary feel to the proposed film. Utilizing a full-scale outdoor set consisting of control tower and terminal, the recreated Entebbe Airport also had a collection of realistic scale models of the Ugandan Air Force MiG-17 and MiG-21 fighters. Three of the four Hercules transports that were flown in the raid are seen in the film.