[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Censorship in the Federal Republic of Germany

or example a painting "depicting a couple of middle aged women talking in a sunlit street in a small town"Cultural Policy Program Artists were also restricted in which new art they were allowed to create; "OMGUS was setting explicit political limits on art and representation".Cultural Policy Program

The publication Der Ruf (The Call) was a popular literary magazine first published in 1945 by Alfred Andersch and edited by Hans Werner Richter. Der Ruf, also called Independent Pages of the New Generation, claimed to have the aim of educating the German people about democracy. In 1947 its publication was blocked by the American forces for being overly critical of occupational government. Richter attempted to print many of the controversial pieces in a volume entitled Der Skorpion (The Scorpion). The occupational government blocked publication of Der Skorpion before it began, saying that the volume was too "nihilistic".

Publication of Der Ruf resumed in 1948 under a new publisher, but Der Skorpion was blocked and not widely distributed. Unable to publish his works, Richter founded Group 47.

The Allied costs for occupation were charged to the German people. The newspaper that revealed that the charges included for example the cost for thirty thousand bras was banned by the occupation authorities for revealing this.

Constitutional protections

In May 1949, the German Grundgesetz, the new constitution, was passed and control of West Germany passed officially into German hands. Freedom of expression is granted by Article 5, with certain limits:

Every person shall have the right freely to express and disseminate his opinions in speech, writing, and pictures and to inform himself without hindrance from generally accessible sources. Freedom of the press and freedom of reporting by means of broadcasts and films shall be guaranteed. There shall be no censorship.
These rights shall find their limits in the provisions of general laws, in provisions for the protection of young persons, and in the right to personal honor.
Art and scholarship, research, and teaching shall be free. The freedom of teaching shall not release any person from allegiance to the constitution.

Main laws
The most important and sometimes controversial regulations limiting freedom of speech and freedom of the press can be found in the Criminal code:

Insult is punishable under Section 185. Satire and similar forms of art enjoy more freedom but have to respect human dignity (Article 1 of the Basic law).
Malicious Gossip and Defamation (Section 186 and 187). Utterances about facts (opposed to personal judgement) are allowed if they are true and can be proven. Yet journalists are free to investigate without evidence because they are justified by Safeguarding Legitimate Interests (Section 193).
Hate speech or "incitement of popular hatred" (Volksverhetzung) may be punishable if against segments of the population and in a manner that is capable of disturbing the public peace (Section 130 Agitation of the People), including racist agitation and antisemitism.
Holocaust denial is punishable according to Section 130 subsection 3.
Dissemination of means of propaganda of unconstitutional organizations (Section 86).
Use of symbols of unconstitutional organizations (Section 86a) as the Swastika.
Disparagement of
the federal president (Section 90).
the state and its symbols (Section 90a).
Rewarding and approving crimes (Section 140).
Casting false suspicion (Section 164).
Blasphemy in the sense of Insulting of faiths, religious societies and organizations dedicated to a philosophy of life if they could disturb public peace (Section 166)
Dissemination of pornographic writings (Section 184).
involving violence or animals (Section 184a).
involving minors (Section 184b & 184c).
Dissemination of writings depicting cruel or otherwise inhumane acts of violence in a manner that is trivializing, glorifying or otherwise injuring human dignity (Section 131).

Outdoor assemblies need no permit, but (generally) prior announcement to authorities. Assemblies can be banned, on a case-by-case basis, at memorial sites or if they endanger public security or order. The right can be ruled forfeit if used to combat the liberal democratic order; parties and other organisations that are banned do not enjoy it. The Love Parade decision (1 BvQ 28/01 and 1 BvQ 30/01 of 12 July 2001) determined that for an assembly to be protected it must comply with the concept of a constituent assembly, or the so-called narrow concept of assembly whereby the participants in the assembly must pursue a common purpose that is in the common interest.

Index of Harmful Materials