[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Highway 50 (Israel–Palestine)

Teddy Stadium with service roads on either side. This first stage was completed at the end of 2014.

Further south, past the Malha Railway Station, work continued through the neighborhood of Sharafat with the completion of the second stage and the opening of the Dov Yosef Interchange in March 2015.

The final stage of the project between Dov Yosef Boulevard and Rosmarin Street through the neighborhood of Beit Safafa went ahead despite the residents' objections and requests for a tunnel.  The highway was built as a slightly depressed roadway with a 200-meter-wide, park-covered bridge at al-Qa'ash St. connecting the southwest corner of the neighborhood with its center. Ongoing litigation between the residents and the municipality regarding the proximity of the highway to houses and the desire for additional crossing points continued during the construction process. Construction of ramps to Rosmarin Street were completed in the spring of 2016, while the underpass of Rosmarin Interchange connecting Highway 50 with Highway 60 southward was completed in September 2017. The total cost for the project was 1.1 B Shekels.

Future
In the center, a plan has been published to connect Begin Boulevard at Givat Mordechai Interchange to Highway 1 at the new Motza Interchange via the new Jerusalem Road 16. The road would travel mostly through a series of tunnels under the parking lots of Shaare Zedek Medical Center and the west Jerusalem neighborhoods of Yefeh Nof and Har Nof. In the center, the above-ground Nahal Revida Interchange would lead to Givat Shaul. This would create another entrance to Jerusalem to ease the traffic congestion at the Ben Gurion Blvd./Jaffa Road entrance and provide direct access to south Jerusalem from the west. Expected to be completed by 2018, the plan still has to pass stiff resistance on ecological grounds due to the above-ground section at Nahal Revida located in the Jerusalem Forest.

Interchanges & Junctions (South to North) 

 Upon completion, "Golomb Interchange" is expected to be renamed "Yitzhak Shamir Interchange" after Israel's 7th Prime Minister.

References

50
50
50