[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alight

Alight, formerly the American Refugee Committee (ARC), is an international nonprofit, nonsectarian organization that has provided humanitarian assistance and training to millions of beneficiaries over the last 40 years.

In 2011, Alight helped nearly 2.5 million people get essential services to regain their health and take back control of their lives. Alight works with its partners and constituencies to provide opportunities and expertise to communities of refugees and internally displaced persons in seven countries in Africa, Asia, and Europe, including Iraq, Kosovo, and in the Darfur region of Sudan and is currently providing for emergency relief and recovery in Haiti. Alight provides shelter, clean water and sanitation, health care, skills training, microcredit education, and protection to help survivors of war and natural disasters to rebuild their lives with dignity, health care, security, and self-sufficiency.

History
Moved by the plight of millions of men, women and children affected by the conflict in Southeast Asia, Chicago businessman Neal Ball founded the American Refugee Committee in 1979.

 One of ARC's first programs opened at Khao-I-Dang refugee camp in Thailand in late 1979. ARC also provided medical and public health services at Nong Samet Refugee Camp, Phanat Nikhom, Ban Vinai Refugee Camp and Site Two Refugee Camp until 1993, when the camps closed and ARC turned its attention to programs inside Cambodia. ARC later provided health, sanitation and laboratory services at Khao Phlu Refugee Camp from 1997 until 1999. ARC pioneered the treatment of tuberculosis in refugee-camp settings using an innovative program structure that other international agencies had argued was not feasible.

Alight became the organization's new name on June 21, 2019, after research found that persons who received aid preferred not to be identified as refugees forever.

Projects

Program areas

Agriculture & Food Security
Refugee and IDP Camp Management
Capacity building and Training
Community Development
Community Health Education
Community Reconciliation and Reintegration
Disaster Preparedness
Disease Prevention and Control
Emergency Health Care
Emergency Obstetrics
Gender-based violence Prevention and Response
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment
Immunizations
Income Generation
Infectious Disease Prevention
Legal Assistance
Microenterprise Development
Microfinance
Maternal-Child Health Care
Primary Health Care
Protection of Vulnerable Groups
Psychosocial Support
Rapid Emergency Response
Refugee Return and Reintegration
Reproductive Health Care
Savings and Loans Associations
Shelter Construction and Rehabilitation
Small Business and Vocational Training
Sports and Recreation Programs
Through Our Eyes Participatory Video Communication
Water supply and Sanitation Services

Alight has humanitarian programs and provides medical care, shelter, protection services, clean water, community development support, microloans, and help for women who have suffered violence, as well as other opportunities to help refugees.

In 2010, Alight had programs in Africa in Liberia, and Sierra Leone. At some time, they also had programs in Sudan, Darfur, Uganda, Rwanda

In Asia, Alight programs are concentrated in Pakistan and in Thailand. In Pakistan, Alight has recently been working with to help civilians who have fled fighting between the government and the Taliban in northwest Pakistan. Alight also responded to the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami, providing relief services in Sri Lanka and Indonesia and a Fishing Boat Project in Thailand.

Haiti

On January 12, 2010, a 7.0-magnitude earthquake struck just outside Port-au-Prince. The capital city and surrounding towns were completely destroyed and a million people were left homeless. 50,000 were reported to have died. On January 14, the first Alight emergency response team members arrived in Port-au-Prince. They started planning the response, hiring local staff, and coordinating with the United Nations and other partners. In the following days and weeks additional staff with expertise in emergency response, logistics, health, water/sanitation, shelter, and protection arrived in Haiti. Alight distributed food to 2,200 people in the Delmas district of Port-au-Prince, 1,000 hygiene and kitchen kits in the Nazon district. On January 26, Alight began managing settlement of 5,000 people in Terrain Acra district of Port-au-Prince, working with multiple relief agencies. In the next few months the camp size grew to 25,000 people. Of the 19 most crowded settlements (of 300 total), Terrain Acra was the only one with an organization overseeing and coordinating relief activities.