[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 193]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

process, than to suppose that the
whole universe is chaotic and meaningless? For what we call mind exists,
and it must be contained in the sum-total of existence, or how could it
arise out of it? Therefore, some reasonable scheme appears more likely
than a reasonless one. And then there is that other big fact that stares
us in the face and puts one's fears to shame: human goodness."

Hadria's rebellious memory recalled the fact of human cruelty and
wickedness to set against the goodness, but she was silent.

"What earthly business has such a thing as goodness or pity to appear in
a fortuitous, mindless, soulless universe? Where does it come from? What
is its origin? Whence sprang the laws that gave it birth?"

"It gives more argument to faith than any thing I know," she said, "even
if there had been but one good man or woman since the world began."

"Ah, yes; the pity and tenderness that lie in the heart of man, even of
the worst, if only they can be appealed to before they die, may teach us
to hope all things."

There was a long silence. Through the open window, they could hear the
soft cooing of the wood-pigeons. Among the big trees behind the house,
there was a populous rookery, noisy now with the squeaky voices of the
young birds, and the deeper cawing of the parent rooks.

"I have been for many years without one gleam of hope," said the
Professor slowly. "It is only lately that some of my obstinate
preconceptions have begun to yield to other suggestions and other
thoughts, which have opened up a thousand possibilities and a thousand
hopes. And I have not been false to my reason in this change; I have but
followed it more fearlessly and more faithfully."

"I have sometimes thought," said Hadria, "that when we seem to cling
most desperately to our reason, we are really refusing to accept its
guidance into unfamiliar regions. We confuse the familiar with the
reasonable."

"Exactly. And I want you to be on your guard against that intellectual
foible, which I believe has held me back in a region of sadness and
solitude that I need not have lingered in, but for that."

There was a great commotion in the rookery, and presently a flock of
rooks swept across the window, in loud controversy, and away over the
garden in a circle, and then up and up till they were a grey little
patch of changing shape, in the blue of the sky.

The dying man followed them with his eyes. He had watched such streaming
companies start forth from the old rookery, ever since his boyhood. The
memories of that time, and of the importunate thoughts that had haunted
him then, at the opening of life, returned to him now.

He had accomplished a fraction of what he had set out to attempt, with
such high hopes. His dream of personal happiness had failed; many an
illusion had been lost, many a bitterly-regretted deed had saddened him,
many an error had revenged itself upon him. He drew a deep sigh.

"And if the scheme of the universe be a reasonable one," he said half
dreamily, "then one can account better for the lives that never fulfil
themselves; the apparent failure that saddens one, in such numberless
instances, especially among women. For in that case, the failure is only
apparent, however cruel and however great. If the effort has been
sincere, and the thought bent upon the best that could be conceived by
the particular soul, then that effort and that thought must play their
part in the upward movement of the race. I cannot believe otherwise."

Hadria's head was bent. Her lips moved, as if in an effort to speak, but
no sound came.

"To believe that all the better and more generous hopes of our kind are
to be lost and ineffectual, that genius is finally wasted, and goodness
an exotic to be trampled under foot in the blind movements of
Nature--that requires more power of faith than I can muster. Once
believe that thought is the main factor, the motive force of the
universe, then everything settles into its place, and we have room for
hope; indeed it insists upon admission; it falls into the shadow of our
life like that blessed ray of sunlight."

It lay across the bed, in a bright streak.

"The hope leads me far. My training has been all against it, but it
comes to me with greater and greater force. It makes me feel that
presently, when we have bid one another farewell, it will not be for
ever. We shall meet again, dear Hadria, believe me." She was struggling
with her tears, and could answer nothing.

"I wish so much that I could leave this hope, as a legacy to you. I wish
I could leave it to Valeria. Take care of her, won't you? She is very
solitary and very sad."

"I will, I will," Hadria murmured.

"Do not turn away from the light of rational hope, if any path should
open up that leads that way. And help her to do the same. When you think
of me, let it be happily and with comfort."

Hadria was silently weeping.

"And hold fast to your own col