[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Land of Toys

ure Island. With help from Rumplestiltskin, James' biological father Robert tracked him there. Upon being led to James by Pinocchio, Robert chased after James through Pleasure Island where they ran into King George and his men who had Robert arrested as both of them are removed from Pleasure Island.

Pinocchio (2022)
Pleasure Island appears in the 2022 Pinocchio film. The film shows that young girls have also been picked up by the Coachman to go there. There, the kids overeat at "Sky's the Limit" while engaging in food fights, steal objects from "Shop 'N Lift", wreck "De Grade School", play with fireworks, hold up insulting signs while saying what's on those signs at "Contempt Corner" which gets projected onto four screens, and break clocks in "Clock Stoppers" with the latter bothering Pinocchio. The rides include "Give Me a Break" where a roller coaster car jumps over a missing track and "Sugar Mountain" which is made of candy that anyone can slide down. The Coachman is assisted by the Vapor Monsters who catch the transformed children, remove the clothes from their donkey forms, and place them in crates with the shipment in question being bound for the salt mines.

Walt Disney World Resort
There was a shopping district, with many night clubs and bars, in Disney Springs at Walt Disney World Resort under the title of Pleasure Island. Though it is never explicitly stated that the name came from Pinocchio, due to Disney's animated film it is quite plausible that this is the case. The shopping district's backstory was entirely unrelated to Pinocchio, establishing it as the reclaimed headquarters of an eccentric industrialist and explorer named Merriweather Adam Pleasure that disappeared in the 1940s.

Pinocchio and the Emperor of the Night
In the 1987 Filmation animated movie Pinocchio and the Emperor of the Night, there is a similar realm called The Land Where Dreams Come True, which is part of the larger 'Empire of the Night', home of the titular villain. Rather than a physically tangible place like the Land of Toys or Pleasure Island, it is a surreal, extra-dimensional location housed within, what seems from the outside, a decadent steam ship. The moral sentiment focuses less on the idea of the consequences of stupidity as the concept of being careful not to throw away one's freedom in pursuit of pleasures. The realm is one of illusion and surrealism, apparently able to morph itself into representations of a person's fears or wishes; in the case of Pinocchio, this is seemingly to be a famous entertainer. Similarly, children are able to drink alcohol, play with many fabulous toys, and indulge in their dearest wishes. It is revealed that the price is to be turned into a lifeless, wooden puppet and an eternal prisoner of The Emperor afterwards. Pinocchio initially surrenders his freedom via a paper contract, but, realizing the power of his choice, defies The Emperor and escapes. The Emperor and his realms are implied to be destroyed by this.

The Adventures of Pinocchio
The Land of Toys is featured in The Adventures of Pinocchio (1996) by the name "Terra Magica" (Italian for 'Magic Land'). After Pinocchio's initial adventures, he ends up wandering in the woods where he encounters the human thieves Volpe and Felinet who trick him out of his money. After this betrayal, he is then lured onto a carriage driven by a sinister-looking coachman who takes him to Terra Magica with a load of other boys (including Pinocchio's friend Lampwick). Terra Magica is actually owned by the evil Lorenzini, who is luring the boys to the place with promises of fun and then turning them into donkeys through drinking the park's cursed water while riding on a roller coaster.