[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# List of Wild Cards characters

ning Jumpers by using his darkness power to neutralize their abilities, prompting Herzenhagen to ask "how does someone with a shotgun kill a jumper without getting jumped?"

Given the abilities of the Jumpers, it is impossible to definitively state whether or not all of them have been accounted for.

Kelly Jenkins
Kelly Jenkins briefly appeared in One-Eyed Jacks, and became a more prominent character in Jokertown Shuffle and Double Solitaire. A small-town girl, she came to New York with dreams of becoming famous. Instead, after several days on the street, she fell in with a young man named David Butler and the gang of juvenile delinquents that would eventually come to be known as the Jumpers. One of several wannabes awaiting initiation by the Ace known as Prime, Kelly never received the Jumper gift to exchange bodies with their victim. Instead, she fell prey to another Jumper's use of their nearly unstoppable power. Her mind was replaced for an extended period of time with Dr. Tachyon's.

Kid Dinosaur
Kid Dinosaur (Arnie Fentner) was created by Lewis Shiner.

Arnie Fentner was a normal kid, obsessed with dinosaurs and comic books, when the dormant Wild Card virus he'd inherited from his mother turned active, altering his DNA and restructuring his body. He was one of the lucky few who did not die, and one of the one percent who gained superhuman abilities as a result; in his case, the power to restructure the molecules of his body to assume the shape of any dinosaur that he knew about. The downside was that his body's mass remained constant, so he could only become a kid-sized version of a Tyrannosaurus rex, Pteranodon, or a Triceratops, not to mention the fact that he would burst out of his clothes when transforming, leaving him naked and vulnerable to the elements when he returned to normal. Still, it gave him what he'd always dreamed of: the chance to take part in the adventures of Aces, often playing hooky from school to trail prominent Aces with little regard for his own safety.

This devil-may-care attitude would be his downfall; on one of his excursions, the Kid was captured by the Astronomer and his minions, to be used as a human sacrifice intended to forcibly induct the Ace Water Lily into their cabal. Arnie and Water Lily were ultimately rescued by the impromptu group of Aces organized by Fortunato and Dr. Tachyon to rout the Astronomer's group from their headquarters in The Cloisters. The Astronomer marked all those who had humiliated him for death, and on Wild Card Day (September 15), 1986, the Astronomer tracked down Arnie in a crowd at Jetboy's tomb, and, as Fortunato watched helplessly, the old man tore Arnie's heart out.

In answer to protests from loyal fans of the character, Wild Cards series editor George R. R. Martin noted in his afterword to the 2004 edition of Jokers Wild (the novel where Kid Dinosaur's death was depicted) that the Kid was created specifically to be a victim of the Astronomer's vengeance.

Kien Phuc
Kien Phuc is a criminal created by John J. Miller in the short story Comes a Hunter, in the first book of the series, Wild Cards.

Kien Phuc (birth name unknown) was born an ethnic Chinese in Vietnam, and was subject to prejudice and poverty during his childhood. His parents tried to teach him honor, but jealousy and greed drove him to reject his parents' simple beliefs and embrace the worst aspects of Vietnamese, and later Western, culture. He changed his name to that of a Vietnamese emperor and adopted an accent and materialistic outlook that he believed would be more acceptable to his host country. He joined the army, rising through the ranks with a combination of talent, ruthlessness, and corruption, reaching the rank of general.

An American officer named Daniel Brennan began investigating him, but Kien framed him for murder and destroyed his evidence, forcing the man to desert. Seeing that the war was not going well for the South, he abandoned the land of his birth and travelled to America, setting himself up as both a successful businessman and a powerful gang leader, ruling a set of organizations collectively known as the Shadow Fist Society.

When a number of Kien's low-ranking thugs, and then an increasing number of higher-ranking operatives, began to turn up dead with arrows in them and the ace of spades card prominently displayed, Kien knew he was being targeted, but thought it was a rival gang; he had no idea that Brennan, the man he'd dismissed from his thoughts so long ago, was now the bow-and-arrow vigilante called Yeoman. It was not until his diary was stolen by Wraith that he would come face to face with his enemy once again.