[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Confession (1970 film)

François Marthouret
 Umberto Raho
 Laszlo Szabo
 Antoine Vitez

Production
Yves Montand lost more than  to play his role. Montand had been shaken by the  1956 events in Hungary and later said of the film: "There was in what I inflicted upon myself [for this role] something of an act of expiation."

Reception and awards
Vincent Canby in The New York Times in December 1970 did not consider The Confession a better film than Z (1969), but because the subject of this film "is much more complex, much more human, I find it vastly more interesting". It is "a harrowing film of intellectual and emotional anguish, dramatized by the breathless devices of melodrama." Roger Ebert wrote in April 1971: "It is not a thriller like Z, and it couldn't be, because there is no justice to emerge at the end and no scoundrels to unmask." The director, he wrote, "has made a point of insisting that the movie is anti-Stalinist, not anti-Communist." London remained a  communist at the time the film was made. Pauline Kael wrote in The New Yorker that the film is a "thoughtful, intelligent demonstration of how strong, idealistic men of character are turned into pawns of history". Although the film is "subdued, Costa-Gavras's work has tremendous zing, but it's not until the movie is almost over that it gains resonance."

Ronald Bergan and Robyn Karney in the Bloomsbury Foreign Film Guide (1988) wrote: "the screenplay's static  and wordy nature is not sufficiently tempered by the direction or the playing. However, some of the interrogation scenes which lead to the false confession of the title cannot fail to have an impact."

The film was nominated for the Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards as Best Foreign Language Film.

References

External links 
 
The Confession: Enthralling Absurdity an essay by Dina Iordanova at the Criterion Collection

1970 films
1970 drama films
Films directed by Costa Gavras
Italian drama films
Films about capital punishment
Films about miscarriage of justice
Drama films based on actual events
Films based on non-fiction books
Films set in Prague
French drama films
Films critical of communism
Films produced by Robert Dorfmann
Films scored by Giovanni Fusco
Films set in Czechoslovakia
Films set in 1951
Films set in 1968
1970s French-language films
1970s Italian films
1970s French films