[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2009 European Parliament election

of the President of the European Commission. It had been suggested by some that political parties could run with candidates for the Commission President; with leaders now linking the post to elections and that convention having been enshrined in the Constitution, further encouraging the possibility.

In 2007, it emerged that current Commission President José Manuel Barroso would likely seek a second term, which he confirmed on 19 July 2008, and he received the backing of French President Nicolas Sarkozy. In beginning to formalise the emerging party-political nature of the office, in early 2009 the centre-right People's Party backed Barroso as their candidate and the centre-left socialists opposed, however they did not put forward their own formal candidate.

Results
The national results as of 8 June 2009 are as follows. (based on predictions, to be confirmed)

Full members
736 members with full voting rights (the groups used are the groups they had been associated with directly prior to the elections):

NB: "Adjusted" figures restate group numbers to proportionately reflect the reduction of the Parliament's size by 49, and to reflect the following political group movements announced prior to the election: DIKO (CY) from ALDE to Other; ODS (CZ) from EPP to Other; FF (IE) from UEN to ALDE; AN (IT) from UEN to EPP; PD (IT) from PES and ALDE to Other; PiS (PL) from UEN to Other; and Conservatives/UCUNF (UK) from EPP to Other.
Note:Postal votes missing from Slovenia. Complete results were supposed to be announced on 15 June

Observers
18 additional seats were designated to be filled by "observers" when the Lisbon treaty goes into force, to account for new seat distribution with the Lisbon Treaty. On 23 June an intergovernmental conference (IGC) of EU member states amended a protocol attached to the Lisbon treaty on transitional arrangements. Those transitional arrangements were originally envisaged as taking the total number of MEPs from 785 to 751 for the 2009 elections. The amended text says that the protocol "shall enter into force if possible on 1 December 2010". Germany is allowed to retain its three additional MEPs until the next elections in 2014.

The member states entitled to observer seats were supposed to make provisions before the 2009 elections for who would get the additional seats in the European Parliament. However, this was not done by France. This created a limbo for the observers elected from other countries, since all observers are supposed to start their work at the same time. In December 2011, they took their seats.

The following is a list of all observer seats

Note that this table already includes the grouping changes announced by the parties and reflected in the section below.

Group changes

Traditionally, realignment between the different political groups and European political parties occurs in the runup to the election and in the time between the election and the first sitting of the European Parliament, when the political groups are constituted; the first sitting of the EP elected in 2009 is set for 14 July 2009.

New rules regarding the minimum number of members needed for a political group will come into effect following the 2009 election.  The PES and EPP–ED had initially proposed to raise the limit for groups in the EP from 20 MEPs and one fifth of member states to 30 MEPs and a quarter of member states, which would effectively close down UEN (only MEPs from six countries) and I/D (only 22 MEPs). All five smaller groups (UEN and I/D plus ALDE, Greens–EFA and GUE–NGL) protested against these proposed changes. The proposal was voted down 15 to 14 in committee, and in an eventual compromise, new rules were approved in plenary on 9 July 2008 which require 25 MEPs from at least a quarter of the member states (i.e. seven member states). Although UEN and I/D still fail to meet the basic requirements of the new rules, the adopted compromise also included a provision allowing the continued existence of a group which had fallen below the threshold, but only if it still had members from at least a fifth of the member states and only if it had been founded at least a year before dropping below the threshold; if there is "sufficient evidence" of the abuse of this provision, it need not be applied.

Union for Europe of the Nations
The Union for Europe of the Nations (UEN) was a parliamentary group which traced its ancestry back to its origins as a Gaullist ideological alignment. It was not reconstituted following this election. The associated Alliance for Europe of the Nations (AEN) party lost MEPs to other groupings.