[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# San Francisco Chinese New Year Festival and Parade

d privately prior to 1953. The introduction of the Chinese New Year Festival in 1953 eliminated that 'mystery Chinese' feeling of people outside of the Chinese Community." Wong organized a Chinese New Year Festival committee, whose members included restaurateur Johnny Kan and businessman Paul Louie.

The 1953 parade was led by Grand Marshall Joe Wong, a blind Korean war veteran, featuring the Miss Chinatown festival queen and of course the dragon; that year marked the first modern San Francisco Chinese New Year Festival intended for the wider public. A crowd of 140,000 watched the parade. The celebrations were expanded to three days in 1954. In 1955, the Festival lasted for a week and concluded with a parade up Grant Avenue. The celebrations were shortened to three days in 1956, and the parade was moved into the afternoon so it could be televised. A new dragon the length of a city block, later stated as , was imported from Hong Kong for the 1957 parade. By 1958, the festival queen contest had been formally expanded into the pageant of Miss Chinatown USA. The festival resumed its week-long duration by 1963, including a street carnival that was held since at least 1960. The carnival was criticized for having little cultural connection to Chinese New Year traditions, and the Wah Ching attempted to burn it in 1968; the gaming booths were discontinued for the 1969 Festival.

Current celebration
The parade has since developed over the decades into one of the grandest nighttime illuminated parades in the US, and one of the largest celebrations of Asian culture outside of Asia, although it has been criticized as presenting an inauthentic "stereotypic and fossilized" or "chop suey image" of Chinese culture. The cost of tickets to the pageant and carnival meant that relatively impoverished Chinese American families could only afford to attend the crowded parade, in effect excluding those whose heritage the Festival was meant to celebrate. The 1977 Parade included a wedding procession in an attempt to introduce more "authentic" cultural content; this was the brainchild of organizer David Lei, newly hired that year by the San Francisco Convention and Visitor's Bureau, which had become a co-sponsor in 1963. 

In 1981, an estimated crowd of 250,000 watched the parade. The idea of corporate sponsorship was first broached in 1987, and parade units began to prominently display their sponsor's names. Local television stations began to broadcast the parade in 1988; the next year, it was being carried in six markets across the United States, from Honolulu to New York, and by 1994, the Travel Channel had picked up the broadcast. That year, the Gay Asian Pacific Alliance was the first gay rights group to participate in the parade; their presence was received with boisterous support. By 1996, naming rights had been sold to the San Francisco Chronicle and the event was publicized as the "San Francisco Chronicle Chinese New Year Festival and Parade"; television coverage de-emphasized the event's connection with Chinatown altogether in favor of more typical San Francisco sights, such as its skyline and the Golden Gate Bridge. As of 2017 it was considered the largest Asian event in North America, and the largest general market even in Northern California. It was also named as one of the world's top ten parades.

For several decades, the parade was organized by Chinatown activist Rose Pak, who died in 2016. Pak was known for her outspoken comments about local politicians as they were passing by the central grandstand at Jackson and Kearny streets.  As reported by the San Francisco Chronicle, Pak's quips "ranged from humorous to mean, but they were almost always pointed and pertinent to Chinatown's interests".

From 2004 on, Pak barred Falun Gong, a religious movement banned in China, from further participation for violating parade rules by distributing leaflets. The group and others, including San Francisco Supervisor Chris Daly, subsequently criticized Pak for allegedly enforcing the will of the Chinese government.

Citing the COVID-19 pandemic, the parade scheduled for 2021 was canceled in November 2020; the floats and painted ox sculptures will be on static display for the public. The parade returned on February 19, 2022.

Festival events

The two-week Chinese New Year Festival and Parade, sponsored by Southwest Airlines in recent years, includes two fairs, the Chinese New Year Flower Fair and Chinatown Community Street Fair, the Miss Chinatown USA pageant, and concludes with the parade. Miss Chinatown USA is traditionally present at the parade, as is a Golden Dragon which is more than  long and manned inside by over 100 puppeteers. The Golden Dragon and 600,000 firecrackers conclude the parade. Over 100 groups participate in the parade, which is televised by KTVU and KTSF.