[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Three Hearts and Three Lions

ch he finds himself and as a way to solve problems. For example, the Rubber Handbook, "The Burning Dagger" (made of magnesium), Bertrand Russell's Theory of Types, the experiments of Rutherford and Lawrence experiments with radioactivity, among others. Thus, it also taps into 20th-century modernism.

Other works
Holger later appears as a minor character in Anderson's A Midsummer Tempest in which he is seen in a mysterious "Inn Between the Worlds" after he managed at last to leave the 20th century and to wander the various alternate timelines by using the spells from a medieval grimoire. However, he had little control over where he would get and a small chance of locating the one that he wants. At the inn, he encounters Valeria Matuchek, a character from another Anderson book, Operation Chaos, who instructs him in the sophisticated scientific magic of her world and gives him a better chance.

In addition, Holger appears (with many other classic science fiction characters although Holger is a classic fantasy character) in the tournament at the end of Heinlein's The Number of the Beast.

In 2014, Harry Turtledove wrote, as his contribution to Multiverse: Exploring Poul Anderson's Worlds, edited by Greg Bear and Gardner Dozois,<ref>Multiverse: Exploring Poul Anderson's Worlds, </ref> a short story, "The Man who Came Late". It takes place thirty years after the events of Three Hearts and Three Lions, which is how long it has taken Holger Carlsen to get back to Alianora. Magic first took him from Nazi-occupied Denmark in 1943, when he was a member of the Resistance. After the war, it took him five years to find a medieval spell that would take him across the timelines. Then, he spent a lot of time in blundering blindly from one timeline to another. After getting better instructions from Valeria Matuchek, he still had to overcome the magical opposition of the Chaos forces, which did not want him back in their world. After he finally reached the right world, he still had to travel on foot across Europe and sought for her in town after town and village after village.

When at last they come face to face, it is too late. When he had not come back from his battle and had clearly disappeared from the face of the Earth, Alianora was deeply heartbroken but eventually accepted the proposal of a village smith, a good and solid man even if he is not very exciting, settled into the life of a rather prosperous village housewife and gave birth to two sons and a daughter, the last of whom she passed on the May Swan magic tunic. Thus, Holger became "The Man who Came Late" (the title is derived from an unrelated Anderson story, "The Man Who Came Early"). Though still having a strong feeling for him, Alianora has no intention of abandoning her family and the life that she had built. At the end of the story Morgan la Fay reappears and seems poised to catch Holger on the rebound.

Michael Moorcock cited Three Hearts and Three Lions as one of the works that greatly influenced his own fantasy, which is similarly set in a universe in which the forces of Law and Chaos are pitted in an eternal war with each other
.Librarything on Elric of Melnibone Specifically, Anderson's theme of a man snatched suddenly from our world to a fantasy world in which he is regarded as a great hero of that world's past and expected to perform new heroic acts, but he has only the vaguest memories of that past life, is shared with the 1970 Moorcock novel The Eternal Champion, which is otherwise very different.

Reception
Floyd C. Gale in 1962 rated the novel version of Three Hearts and Three Lions four stars out of five.

The novel influenced the role-playing game Dungeons & Dragons'', especially the original alignment system, which grouped all characters and creatures into "Law" and "Chaos". The game drew from the novel's depiction of the troll, whose body “regenerates”, healing itself extremely quickly when wounded. Other creatures from the game that were influenced by the novel include the swanmay and the nixie. The novel also inspired the paladin character class.

Awards
The 1953 novella is a Retro-Hugo nominee.

References

Sources

External links 
 

1961 American novels
American fantasy novels
Novels by Poul Anderson
Werewolf novels
Danish resistance movement
Matter of France
High fantasy novels
1961 fantasy novels
Doubleday (publisher) books
Novels about multiple time paths
Swan maidens
Nixies (folklore)