[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Siege of Reading

anding than previously made by parliament, the King was unconvinced and responded with demands of his own for the return of his income and military assets. Further discussion ensued, in which the King demanded more and more, and in early April parliament withdrew from the negotiation process.

Siege

The Earl of Essex, commander-in-chief of the Parliamentarian army, marched an army of over 19,000 men (16,000 foot soldiers, 3,000 cavalry plus artillery) from Windsor, and arrived at Reading on 14 April. Essex bluffed the Reading garrison, making as though to continue onto Oxford, before he established his army to the south and west of the town, where the defensive works were the weakest, and captured Caversham Bridge, cutting Reading off from the main Royalist forces in Oxford. The Parliamentarians held a council of war, in which Essex sought advice on whether to attempt to storm the town, or to be more cautious and lay siege to it. While the cavalry officers favoured an aggressive approach, the infantry commanders preferred the more cautious path. Essex agreed to be cautious, aware that he could not afford to lose many men, as he would need them for his planned subsequent attack on Oxford. Essex demanded that the town surrender, and in response, Aston said that he would rather "starve and die" than give up Reading. Accordingly, the Parliamentarians blockaded Reading, and Essex established his headquarters in Southcote.

By 16 April, the Parliamentarians had set up their artillery, and began to bombard the town. Two days later, around 700 Royalist musketeers commanded by Lieutenant General Wilmot managed to reinforce Reading via Sonning, to the east of the town. The blockade was subsequently tightened, surrounding the town on all sides. During the bombardment, falling debris struck Aston and apparently rendered him unable to speak. The Royalist historian, Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon suggested that the affliction might not have been genuine, but rather a way of maintaining his reputation in a lost cause. Command of the garrison passed to Aston's second-in-command, Colonel Richard Feilding, on the basis that he was the most senior of Aston's colonels.

On the morning of 25 April, Feilding displayed a white flag from the town walls, and established a truce in which to negotiate the town's surrender. The same day, a relief force commanded by King Charles and Prince Rupert attacked the Parliamentarian army at Caversham Bridge, but Feilding held to the truce, and the garrison did not join the battle. Feilding was pressured by some of his officers to break the truce and aid the relief force, but he refused, saying that it would be dishonourable, and that he would refuse, even "if the king himself should come and knock at the gate, and command him to do it." Essex's army was able to repel the attack, and the relief force retreated. Feilding negotiated generous terms of surrender; he and his men were granted safe passage to Oxford with flying colours. On 27 April the Royalist soldiers marched from the town to Oxford; despite the promise of safe passage, some of the Royalist soldiers were robbed and disarmed, though Essex had tried to prevent such action by promising his men a reward.  According to Morgan, Aston regained his ability to speak during the journey.

Aftermath
On 29 April, two days after leaving Reading, Feilding was court-martialled; charged with "several foul suspicious passages". At this early stage of the war, siege warfare in Britain was largely ineffective; methods that had been developed and refined in the European wars were applied without the skill and experience required. This led to additional suspicion being placed on commanders who surrendered while under siege. Feilding's trial lasted for two days, after which he was found guilty and sentenced to death. He was reprieved twice on the scaffold before the intervention of Prince Rupert led the King to pardon him. Despite his pardon, Feilding was still stripped of his regiment and position, and had thereafter had to fight as a volunteer.

The capture of Reading meant the Parliamentarians could challenge Oxford directly, but Essex and William Waller were unable to coordinate their forces for an attack. Reading was held by the Parliamentarians until October, when they evacuated the town and it was retaken by the Royalists, but they in turn evacuated in the face of a Parliamentarian army the following May, and the town remained in the hands of Parliament for the remainder of the war.

Citations

References

Further reading

Reading, Siege of
1642 in England
1643 in England
Military history of Reading, Berkshire
Military history of Berkshire
Conflicts in 1642
Conflicts in 1643
17th century in Berkshire