[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# African immigration to Europe

s to previously irregular immigrants, most notably in 2005, but this has been the subject of criticism from other EU governments, which argue that it encourages further irregular migration and that regularised migrants are likely to move within the EU to richer states once they have status in Spain.

De Haas argues that restrictive European immigration policies have generally failed to reduce migration flows from Africa because they do not address the underlying structural demand for labour in European states. Dirk Kohnert argues that EU countries' policies on migration from Africa are focused mainly on security and the closing of borders. He is also skeptical that the EU's programmes that are designed to promote economic development in West Africa will result in reduced migration. Stephen Castles argues that there is a "sedentary bias" in developed states' migration policies towards Africa. He argues that "it has become the conventional wisdom to argue that promoting economic development in the Global South has the potential to reduce migration to the North. This carries the clear implication that such migration is a bad thing, and poor people should stay put". Julien Brachet argues that while "irregular migration from sub-Saharan Africa to Europe is very limited in absolute and relative numbers", "none" of the European migration policies implemented in northern and western Africa "has ever led to a real and sustainable decrease in the number of migrants" travelling towards Europe, but they have "directly fostered the clandestine transport of migrants".

Demographics

This table takes both North Africans and Sub-Saharan Africans into account, most numbers also only account for those born in the continent, for numbers of purely Sub-Saharan Africans or Black People, and their descendants of either full or mixed-race, refer to the page Afro-European.

Statistics

The rate of immigration is projected to continue to increase in the coming decades, according to Sir Paul Collier, a development economist.

Asylum applicants in Europe
Note: Asylum applicants to Europe are first-time applicants after the removal of withdrawn applications. Sub Saharan African migrant may enter each destination by other than the means displayed in this chart. Consequently, these flow figures are incomplete and likely represent minimums. Increases in migrant stocks and inflows are not the same. Source: Pew Research Center.

Origin countries of sub-Saharan migrants living in Europe
Top countries of birth of sub-Saharan migrants living in the European Union, Norway and Switzerland in 2017. Source: Pew Research Center.

Notable individuals

Acting and the Arts
Yemi Ajibade
Sokari Douglas Camp
Tuğçe Güder
Cabral Ibacka
Hugh Quarshie
Ashley Walters

Business
Ismail Ahmed
Mo Ibrahim
Mohamed Al-Fayed

Historical
Prince Alemayehu
Michele Amatore
Sara Forbes Bonetta
Ottobah Cugoano
Olaudah Equiano
Abram Petrovich Gannibal
August Agbola O'Browne
Angelo Soliman
Ignatius Sancho
Septimius Severus

Literature
Hakim Adi
Toyin Agbetu
Yemi Ajibade
Yaba Badoe
Simi Bedford
Margaret Busby
Ottobah Cugoano
Assia Djebar
Obi Egbuna
Inua Ellams
Buchi Emecheta
Olaudah Equiano
Yasmina Khadra
Nadifa Mohamed
Ben Okri
Warsan Shire

Medicine
Bernard Ribeiro, Baron Ribeiro
Magdi Yacoub

Music
Taio Cruz
Baby Gang
Koba LaD
Aar Maanta
Morad
OBOY
Sade
Stromae
Tinchy Stryder
KSI

Politics
Ayaan Hirsi Ali
Magdi Allam
John Godson
Peter Hain
Abdi Yusuf Hassan
Hanan Ibrahim
Cécile Kyenge
Mohamed Abdullahi Omaar
Nyamko Sabuni
Mattias Tesfaye
Najat Vallaud-Belkacem
Rama Yade

Sports
Elvan Abeylegesse 
Abeba Aregawi
Polat Kemboi Arıkan
Gerald Asamoah
Alemitu Bekele Degfa
Jérôme Boateng
Derek Chisora
Didier Drogba
Eusébio 
Samuel Eto'o 
Mo Farah
Sifan Hassan
Serge Ibaka
Steve Mandanda
Francis Ngannou
Vahap Özaltay
Miriam Sylla
Samuel Umtiti
Paul Pogba 
Romelu Lukaku 
Kylian Mbappé

See also
 Emigration from Africa
 African Australians
 African New Zealanders
 African immigration to the United States
 African immigration to Canada
 African immigration to Latin America
 Black Europeans of African ancestry
 Migrants' African routes
 Threats facing illegal immigrants

References

Further reading
 Borst, Julia, and Danae Gallo González. "Narrative Constructions of Online Imagined Afro-diasporic Communities in Spain and Portugal." Open Cultural Studies 3.1 (2019): 286-307 online
 Cabre, Yolanda Aixela. "Equatorial Guinean Women's Roles after Migration to Spain: Conflicts between Women's Androcentric Socialization in Equatorial Guinea and Their Experiences after Migration." Urban anthropology and studies of cultural systems and world economic development (2013): 1-55 online.
 Deventer, Allison Crumly, and Dominic Thomas. "Afro‐European Studies: Emerging Fields and New Directions." in A companion to comparative literature (2011): 333-356.
 Maguire, Richard. Africans in East Anglia, 1467-1833 (Boydell Press, 2021), in England;online review