[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tokyo MX

2012, increasing their broadcasting footprint to cover the immediate outskirts of Tokyo city; the station also established a street-side studio in the building where variety programmes are broadcast. As a result of this, Tokyo MX stopped broadcasting its signal from the Tokyo Tower on May 12, 2013.

A second channel, Tokyo MX2, began broadcasting in April 2014. The channel operates on the second sub-channel of Tokyo MX1 and is primarily dedicated to alternative programming.

The station celebrated its 20th anniversary on November 1, 2015.

Anime on Tokyo MX
Tokyo MX is known to air most late-night anime. Previously, the station only aired anime classics such as Heidi, Girl of the Alps and Touch. When the affiliate stations of major Japanese networks serving the Kantō region started airing less late-night anime in 2006, the station discovered that such anime would give them more ratings, and started airing them in October. On weekday evenings, the Pretty Cure series, which airs on TV Asahi, aired in reruns on Tokyo MX. Since then, the station has aired many hits including the JoJo's Bizarre Adventure series,  Broken Blade, the Love Live! series, Attack on Titan and Dr. Stone. The station has also gone to air reruns of other popular anime such as Dragon Ball and Gundam. As Tokyo MX serves only Tokyo, their anime programming air elsewhere in Japan on member stations of the Japanese Association of Independent Television Stations (including KBS Kyoto, Television Kanagawa, Gunma Television, Sun Television and Television Saitama) which MX is a member of, the JNN/TBS Kansai affiliate MBS or sometimes ANN/TV Asahi Kansai affiliate Asahi Broadcasting Corporation.

Programming

Morning Flag
News Tokyo Flag
J.League BANZAI! (starts 2024 season)

See also
 Television in Japan
 JAITS
 UHF anime

References

External links
Official website
TOKYO MX Drama
TOKYO MX Variety Show
TOKYO MX NEWS
TOKYO MX anime

 
Independent television stations in Japan
Television stations in Japan
Television in Tokyo
Television channels and stations established in 1993
1993 establishments in Japan
Chiyoda, Tokyo