[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nicholas Cooke

to the Continental Congress.

In late July 1776 the legal title of the government was changed by the General Assembly to "The State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations."  The recording of the Assembly minutes closed with the words "God save the United States."

Newport captured and occupied 

The August session of the Assembly was the last to be held in Newport for the next four years, with the pending occupation of Aquidneck Island (Rhode Island) by British Forces. In December 1776 seven ships and four frigates under the command of Sir Peter Parker appeared off Block Island and went up the sound to join a fleet of 70 transports with about 6000 troops, destined for Newport. Summons went out from the colony to as far as New Hampshire for aid. Women and children in seaboard towns had already been advised to move, with their furniture, to the interior, and livestock was driven off from the larger islands. Rhode Island had about 700 troops on the island when the enemy landed at Middletown. After a night of pillaging, the British troops marched into Newport on December 8 under the command of General Clinton. The Rhode Island troops left the island, moving to Tiverton and Bristol. Assistance poured in from neighboring states, and the Americans assumed defensible positions on each side of the bay.

Providence had been given up to military occupation as well, and the college exercises were suspended, with the building being occupied as a barracks, and then later as a military hospital. General Benedict Arnold was sent by Washington to Providence in January 1777 to assist with the defense of Rhode Island, and the Marquis de Lafayette entered service at the same time, greatly facilitating the American cause.

Cooke, desperate for additional troops, ordered a new brigade be raised in Rhode Island. Washington disapproved of the move, fearing it would interfere with the enlistment of the two battalions already assigned to the state. The general wrote two earnest letters on the subject, but when Cooke presented the situation to him, Washington ultimately approved of the plan, and thanked the State for its exertions.

Late tenure 

In May 1777 the same State officers were elected except William Channing replaced Henry Marchant as Attorney General, and Marchant then became Rhode Island's third delegate to the Congress along with Hopkins and Ellery. For the next year Cooke dealt with the issues, often dire, brought about by the war. Weary of his responsibilities after serving for nearly three years as a wartime governor, Cooke retired from office in May 1778, and was replaced by William Greene, the son of former colonial Governor William Greene. In addition to Cooke, his deputy governor, William Bradford, also declined re-election in 1778, and both men were publicly thanked by the General Assembly for "their patriotic zeal, firmness, and intrepidity." Cooke's service and public record, said historian Thomas W. Bicknell, "give a high conception of the excellent good sense and wise judgment of the Governor."

Cooke died on November 14, 1782, and was buried in the North Burial Ground in Providence.

Family 

In 1740 Cooke married Hannah, the daughter of Hezekiah Sabin, with whom he had 12 children. One of his descendants was the Honorable George L. Cooke of Providence. His son Joseph S. Cooke (b. 1746) captained a ship on a number of trading voyages to Africa and the West Indies. His daughter Sarah (1755–1843) married Continental Army Colonel Jeremiah Olney on April 26, 1780. The couple had one child, Mary T. Olney (1799–1878).

See also

 List of governors of Rhode Island
 List of colonial governors of Rhode Island
 List of lieutenant governors of Rhode Island
 Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations

References

Bibliography

Further reading

External links 
Nicholas Cooke biography from Gaspee Virtual Archives
Washington's visit with Cooke

Chronological list of Rhode Island leaders
State list of governors of Rhode Island
State list of lieutenant governors of Rhode Island
Brown University Charter

1717 births
1782 deaths
18th-century American slave traders
Colonial governors of Rhode Island
Politicians from Providence, Rhode Island
People of Rhode Island in the American Revolution
Political leaders of the American Revolution
People of colonial Rhode Island
Burials at North Burying Ground (Providence)
18th-century American politicians