[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Saint-Adelphe

Saint-Adelphe () is a Parish municipality of Quebec, Canada, located in the Mékinac Regional County Municipality, in the Batiscanie area (except watershed Charest river, located in the East) and in the administrative region of Mauricie. The territory of the municipality was part of the lordship of Sainte-Anne which was owned by Mr. John Hale, and Mr. Price.

The magnificent Batiscan river in the north-south bisects the town. The main village developed on the east side of the river. In the story, on the west bank a small village formed around covered bridges spanning the Batiscan River and Pierre-Paul River.

Forestry and agriculture were the two main drivers of the economy of the 19th and 20th century. At the end of the 20th century, many SMEs (small and medium size enterprises) are located there. Since the mid-20th century, the resort has expanded significantly.

Demographics 
In the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Saint-Adelphe had a population of  living in  of its  total private dwellings, a change of  from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of  in 2021.

Population trend:

Mother tongue:
 English as first language: 4%
 French as first language: 95%
 English and French as first language: 0%
 Other as first language: 1%

Toponymy

In 1885, the settlers, who came to most of Saint-Stanislas of the two Batiscan riversides, agreed to ask the bishop to erect a Catholic Parish. At the founding of the parish of Saint-Adelphe, canonically erected in 1885, Louis-François Richer Laflèche, Bishop of Trois-Rivières wanted to pay tribute to the priest of Sainte-Anne-de-la-Pérade (1852-1882), Edward Louis-Adolphe Dupuis (1823-1893), who had marked the location of the church.

Considering that the Roman martyrology not count Saint-Adolphe, he chose Saint-Adelphe, bishop and confessor, whose religious festival is celebrated on 29 August, and whose name differs only by a vowel. This explanation, advanced by Pierre-Georges Roy, seems ill explain whereas at least one saint named Adolphe Adolf of Osnabrück (1216-1224).

The legendary Batiscan River crosses the territory of the municipality from north to south. This river is recognized as a key passage to the hinterland in Native history.

According to the French explorer Samuel de Champlain, Batiscan designation comes from an "important Indian captain." Different authors attribute the origin of the name Batiscan various interpretations, all of Indian origin "haze" or "crushed bone", "dried meat" and "rushes to the mouth."

The Post Office is itself designated since 1891 under the name of "Saint-Adelphe-de-Champlain". Saint-Adelphe was formerly known as "Pierre-Paul" sector, the name of a tributary of the Batiscan.

History 
Jeanot designated as Indian in the 1861 census of Saint-Stanislas, was one of the first residents of Saint-Adelphe. His residence was located nearby the Manitou Falls on the banks of the Batiscan River, at the limit of Saint-Stanislas and Saint-Adelphe. This sector is also the old limit of two lordship: Sainte-Anne and Batiscan. A few years later, a dozen pioneer families are established in the area. In the 1860s, a few pioneer families had settled in this area whose name was Father: Asselin, Baillargeon, Baribeau, Carpentier Charest, Gervais, Lafontaine, Lambert said Lavigueur Brouillet, Thivierge and Veillette.

During the civil foundation in 1891, the parish of Saint-Adelphe has 56 established families (in addition surnames identified in the 1860s): Ayotte, Boisvert, Bordeleau, Brosseau, Cardinal, Cossette, Side, Francoeur, Gauthier, Germain, Hamelin, Mongrain, Roberge, Sauvageau, St-Arneault, Tiffault. Subsequently, families Douville, Gagnon, Plourde and Trépanier came to settle there.

The ice bridge between Saint-Adelphe and Saint-Stanislas was in operation until the snow removal of intermunicipal roads (around 1949), or until shortly after the Second World War.

Municipal chronology

The civic erection of the parish of Saint-Adelphe was formalized on July 2, 1891. At that time, 56 families were registered in the parish.
 1891 (July 2) - Civil Erection of the municipality of Saint-Adelphe. The territory assigned to this new entity has 186 acres and 5 perches in front to a depth of 216 acres. The first Council meeting was held on September 21, 1891 and first mayor was the Narcisse Roberge.

In 1893, a tray is made to connect the two banks of the Batiscan River at a cost of $30. The ferry fare is fixed at $0.80 per family for one year and $0.10 per car for non-subscribers and non-residents or $0.01 per pedestrian.

 In 1912, construction of the first aqueduct in the village galvanized iron.
In 1912, PN Chaillez of Saint-Stanislas has built a first toll bridge on the Batiscan River.