[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# André Cailloux

n Union Admiral David Farragut captured the city of New Orleans in April 1862, the Confederate forces in and around New Orleans abandoned the city and moved north to Camp Moore.  The 1st Native Guard disbanded at this time, formally, on the grounds of the U.S. Mint at the edge of the French Quarter.

Union Army
Union General Benjamin F. Butler, military commander of the Department of the Gulf, made his headquarters in New Orleans. In September 1862 he ordered the organizing of an all-black Union Army 1st Louisiana Native Guard regiment. Unlike the Confederate unit, this regiment had a mixture of free-men and former slaves and was formed as the direct result of General Butler's requests for reinforcements for The Army of the Gulf falling on deaf ears.  In Butler's memoirs, and in the Record of the War of the Rebellion, he wrote to Secretary of War Stanton, "If you will not send me reinforcements, then I will call upon Africa to do so."

Cailloux joined the 1st regiment, which was necessary as many of those serving only spoke French, and was commissioned as captain of Company E. His company was considered one of the best drilled in the Native Guard. Cailloux gradually earned the respect of Colonel Spencer Stafford, the white officer who commanded the regiment. When General Nathaniel P. Banks replaced Butler as Commander of the Department of the Gulf in December 1862, he brought with him an additional 30,000 troops, bringing the total troop strength under his command to 42,000.

By this time, the all-black Native Guard had grown to three regiments, a mixture of free-men and former slaves.  Although the line officers (lieutenants and captains) were black, including future Governor P. B. S. Pinchback, a Company Commander of the 2nd Regiment, the commanding officers (colonels, lieutenant colonels, and majors) were white. General Banks despised the black officers and considered them an insult to the U.S. Army.  He set out to replace all black officers with white ones, and generally accomplished this with the 2nd and 3rd Regiments, but not with the 1st Regiment, in which Cailloux served and had become an officer himself.

Many members of the 1st Regiment had also been members of the Confederate 1st Native Guard, and Cailloux and the other officers were not willing to resign and leave them in the hands of the New England officers who were widely mistreating black soldiers under their command in the other two regiments. 

The 1st Regiment of the Native Guard was assigned primarily to fatigue duty (chopping wood, digging trenches) until May 1863, when General Banks moved most of his army (35,000 men) into a position to surround the Confederate fortifications at Port Hudson, Louisiana. Port Hudson was a strategically located fort on a bend in the Mississippi River just  north of Baton Rouge. At the time, the Confederacy still controlled the 200-mile stretch of the Mississippi River between Vicksburg, Mississippi, in the north and Port Hudson in the south. The Union wanted to gain control of Vicksburg, which had a strategic position on a bluff, in order to control the Mississippi.

While General Ulysses Grant laid siege to Vicksburg, General Banks conducted the siege of Port Hudson.

Siege of Port Hudson

On May 27, 1863, Banks launched a poorly coordinated attack on the well-defended, well-fortified Confederate positions at Port Hudson. As part of the attack the first day, Cailloux was ordered to lead his company of 100 men in an almost suicidal assault against a high redoubt manned by two regiments of Confederate troops with heavy artillery support. Despite his company suffering heavy casualties, Cailloux, shouting encouragement to his men in French and English, led the charge of his entire regiment, a Minié ball tore through his arm, leaving it hanging useless at his side. Severely wounded, Cailloux continued to lead the charge until a Confederate artillery shell struck him, nearly tearing him in two and killing him.  Despite stories to the contrary, there was only one charge made by the Native Guard on this most Northern set of works at Port Hudson.

His actions were described in a rather fanciful fashion by Rodolphe Desdunes, whose brother, Aristide, served under Cailloux:

The eyes of the world were indeed on this American Spartacus [Cailloux]. The hero of ancient Rome displayed no braver heroism than did this officer who ran forward to his death with a smile on his lips and crying, "Let us go forward, O comrades!" Six times he threw himself against the murderous batteries of Port Hudson, and in each assault he repeated his urgent call, "Let us go forward, for one more time!" Finally, falling under the mortal blow, he gave his last order to his attending officer, "Bacchus, take charge!" If anyone should say the knightly Bayard did better or more, according to history, he lies.