[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 6th Michigan Infantry Regiment

m its quarters. The unit's four ranking officers refused to order the unit to move. They were arrested and sent to New Orleans, leaving the regiment bereft of field officers and under the command of its fourth ranking captain, Charles Edward Clarke, on the eve of the unit's first general engagement.

For all its disciplinary woes, the sickly 6th Michigan fought tenaciously at the Battle of Baton Rouge on August 5, 1862. John C. Breckinridge assaulted Williams's brigade—which Williams declined to fortify, and scattered around the edges of town—with two divisions. Many sick Michiganders snuck out of their hospital beds to join the fight. Williams, desperate to bolster the center of his line, divided the already thin ranks of the 6th Michigan into two shorthanded battalions. One battalion, under abolitionist Captain Chauncey Bassett, fended off an entire Confederate brigade at Magnolia Cemetery long enough to keep the Union center intact. Captain Harrison Soule's Company I, with just 44 men and officers, stymied a flanking movement by the 6th Kentucky Infantry, buying critical time for artillery to engage. Soule and his company paid the steep price of nearly 60% casualties.

On the Union right, the 6th Michigan's other battalion was reduced by picket detachments to just three companies totaling about 130 men under Captain John Corden. Yet they routed the entire Confederate brigade of Henry Watkins Allen with the help of one section of guns detached from the 21st Indiana, saving the Union right flank. Corden's men, still grossly outnumbered, counterattacked in a bold bayonet charge, capturing the colors of the 9th Louisiana Battalion. The 6th Michigan's entire loss in the battle amounted to 19 killed, 40 wounded, and 6 missing, or about 17 percent of the force engaged. General Williams was shot dead toward the end of the battle. Despite all the former animosity, he and the Michiganders had been mutually impressed with each other's bravery under fire.

General Butler, spooked by the near loss of an irreplaceable brigade, reeled in his department's troops to bar the approaches to New Orleans. The 6th Michigan guarded Metairie Ridge and suffered severely from disease in a swampy setting. In October alone, 22 men died and 73 were discharged. November saw only a modest improvement, and as of December 6, the regiment, which had departed Michigan fifteen months prior with 996 men and officers, now reported a mere 191 men present for duty.

The regiment quartered in a cotton press in New Orleans and recovered sufficiently by January 1863 to join Godfrey Weitzel’s operation to capture or destroy the troublesome, partially ironclad Confederate gunboat J.A. Cotton. After some light skirmishing, the Rebels torched Cotton to prevent her capture. Weitzel let his troops loose on the march home, and foraging soon evolved into outright pillaging, including the burning of five plantation homes.

After guarding New Orleans again until March, the regiment was ordered in conjunction with fragments of other commands to destroy railroad bridges north of Ponchatoula, Louisiana, as a feint in support of a larger advance by Butler's successor, Nathaniel P. Banks. The Federals brushed aside modest resistance from Mississippi troops (20th Mississippi), and burned two railroad bridges north of town. Ponchatoula itself was sacked after an unsuccessful guerrilla attack enraged the Federals. Confederate reinforcements (1st Choctaw Battalion, 1st Mississippi, 14th Mississippi) arrived the next morning, and Clark's expedition was driven all the way back to Pass Manchac, where they constructed Fort Stevens.

On April 7, 1863, Clark led a handful of men on a raid aboard the partially ironclad USS Barataria. The ship ran aground at the mouth of the Amite River and had to be abandoned and destroyed under pressure from a small force of Confederate cavalry. Five days later, ten Michiganders set off in small boats to pursue a Rebel ship that salvaged one gun from the Barataria’s wreck. Clark's men stumbled into an ambush, and all but one were captured.

The Barataria triggered the climax of bitter disputes between the 6th Michigan's ranking officers, Thomas Clark and Edward Bacon. Clark's persistent involvement in profiteering and plundering enraged Bacon, whose difficulties in accepting military subordination triggered incessant conflicts with his superiors. Clark had Bacon court-martialed, and although Bacon was exonerated, his arrest would again cause him to miss a major battle.

The 6th Michigan, brigaded under Neal Dow with the 128th New York, 15th New Hampshire, and 26th Connecticut, joined in Banks's Siege of Port Hudson and suffered 118 casualties in the ill-fated frontal assault of May 27. Bacon returned to the regiment just in time for Banks's ill-advised second attack on June 14. This time, the Michiganders’ loss was limited to eight wounded, due only to Captain Corden's refusal to press a suicidal attack.