[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation

ontract completed as HdHV)
 CA-34 Designation used for CAC's participation in the A10 Wamira project
 CA-35 Contract for modifications to a Fokker F27 Friendship (registration VH-EWP) to install the LADS system developed by the DSTO (contract completed as HdHV)
 CA-36 Production sub-contract for the wing pylons, engine access panels, aft nozzle fairings, aircraft-mounted accessory drive gearboxes and engines for the GAF-built version of the F/A-18 Hornet; 73 airframe shipsets and 158 complete engines built, plus parts of another 17 engines (contract completed as HdHV)

Aero-engine production

Engine types produced by CAC include the:

 Pratt & Whitney R-1340 Wasp built for the Wirraway
 Pratt & Whitney R-1830 Twin Wasp built for the Boomerang, Woomera and DAP Beaufort
 Rolls-Royce Merlin built for the GAF Lincoln
 Rolls-Royce Nene built for versions of the de Havilland Vampire manufactured by de Havilland Australia
 Rolls-Royce Avon built for the Sabre and GAF Canberra
 Snecma Atar built for the Mirage
 Bristol Siddeley Viper built for the Macchi MB-326H
 General Electric F404 built for versions of the McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet manufactured by the Government Aircraft Factories/Aerospace Technologies of Australia

Bus body building
To supplement revenue and retain skilled sheet metal workers, CAC produced and bodied buses based on Bedford chassis under the brand name of Comair. CAC major shareholder in the 1950s was General Motors Holden and from 1946 until 1973, Comair produced over 3,600 bus bodies, primarily on Bedford OB, SB and VAM 70 chassis for Victorian operators. Subsequently, General Motors Holden divested its shareholding in CAC and the company signed a licensing agreement to build VöV-Standard-Bus bodies on MAN chassis. It bodied 135 MAN SL200 chassis for ACTION. It resumed production on Bedford chassis in 1977, but only a few were produced.

See also
 Fred David
 Laurence Hartnett

References

Notes

Bibliography
 Chapman, John; Goodall, Geoff & Coggan, Paul. Warbirds Worldwide Directory: An International Survey of the World's Warbird Population. Warbirds Worldwide Ltd. 
 Bell, Dana ed. The Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum Directory of Airplanes, Their Designers and Manufacturers. Smithsonian Institution. 
 Boeing Australia Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation – History
 Meggs, Keith. The Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation
 Wilson, Stewart. Spitfire, Mustang and Kittyhawk in Australian Service. Aerospace Publications Pty Ltd 
 Wilson, Stewart. Meteor, Sabre and Mirage in Australian Service. Aerospace Publications Pty Ltd 
 Wilson, Stewart. Catalina, Neptune and Orion in Australian Service. Aerospace Publications Pty Ltd 
 Wilson, Stewart. Wirraway, Boomerang & CA-15 in Australian Service. Aerospace Publications Pty Ltd 
 Wilson, Stewart. Phantom, Hornet and Skyhawk in Australian Service. Aerospace Publications Pty Ltd 
 Wilson, Stewart. Vampire, Macchi and Iroquois in Australian Service. Aerospace Publications Pty Ltd 
 Wilson, Stewart. Tiger Moth, CT-4, Wackett & Winjeel in Australian Service. Aerospace Publications Pty Ltd 
 Wilson, Stewart. Military Aircraft of Australia. Aerospace Publications Pty Ltd

External links

 ADF Serials

Australian military aviation
Bus manufacturers of Australia
Defence companies of Australia
Defunct aircraft manufacturers of Australia
Defunct manufacturing companies of Australia
Former Commonwealth Government-owned companies of Australia
Former defence companies
Manufacturing plants in Melbourne
Military history of Australia during World War II
Vehicle manufacturing companies established in 1936
Vehicle manufacturing companies disestablished in 1985
1936 establishments in Australia
1985 disestablishments in Australia