[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# List of Wild Cards characters

lled the Twisted Fists, and was responsible for numerous attacks on "Nats" (naturals, a derogatory term for those without Wild Card mutations). He refuses to talk about his past, so the details are unknown. At some point, he experienced a change of heart, choosing to put his violent past behind him.

By the time of his first appearance in the Wild Cards books, he is the only priest of the Church of Jesus Christ, Joker, a religion specifically for Jokers, located in New York's Jokertown (the first and largest Joker community in the world). The Church is a bizarre blend of Catholic traditions, Wild Card history, and ideas taken from medical science, and emphasizes the suffering and persecution that Jokers have undergone and are still undergoing. The symbol of the church is a radically deformed Joker Jesus, crucified on a DNA strand. Dr. Tachyon, the creator of the virus, but also a supporter and caregiver of Jokertown, is portrayed in Church art as similar to the Roman deity Janus, as having two heads or faces, one angelic and one demonic. It is unclear if Father Squid founded the church or simply joined it, but he is certainly the heart and soul of the Jokertown congregation. The Church is the center of Jokertown society, even for those who do not follow its faith. Almost all Joker funerals are held there: for instance, Quasiman is the part-time caretaker and sometime protector of the church.

In the novel Card Sharks, the church is burned down by an arsonist. The subsequent investigation is what leads to the eventual uncovering of the Card Sharks conspiracy to create the Black Trump, an anti-Joker virus.

Father Squid was murdered by Baba Yaga, an Ace whose saliva fatally transformed victims into horribly twisted, furniture-like forms, in the novel Lowball. True to his later life, Father Squid died saving another person from Baba Yaga.

Fortunato
Fortunato was created by Lewis Shiner. He is a pimp, but prefers to downplay, even to himself, the negative aspects of his escort business. Fortunato is also an Ace. His Wild Card virus grants him immense telepathic and telekinetic powers. These include but are not limited to: mind control, flight, force walls, mental blasts, reading the future (and the past), and subjective temporal manipulation. Dr. Tachyon believes him to be Earth's most powerful mental/telepathic Wild Card. Fortunato derives all his power from tantric sex magic. Tantric rituals feed his power reserve, which then allow him to utilize his massive powers. However, the more he uses them, the faster he runs out of power. In terms of power and strength, Fortunato is even (or nearly even) with the Astronomer; this is one of the most obvious case of opposites in the Wild Cards' universe (Fortunato gaining his power from sex—the source of life—while The Astronomer gains his powers from death).

Fortunato was an infant of unspecified age on the first Wild Card day. Son of an unnamed African-American soldier and his wife Ichiko, a Japanese woman his father brought back to New York after WWII, Fortunato was infected by the initial wave of virus-carrying spores released into the upper atmosphere during Jetboy's battle with Dr. Tod. Fortunato became a latent carrier of the virus that would not "turn his card" until many years later. His father was not so lucky, dying after drawing the Black Queen. Raised by his mother, Fortunato was subjected to various forms of discrimination, due to his mixed parentage, and grew into a handsome, but angry, young man. Graduating from petty crime to pimping, Fortunato brought home the first girl in his stable at age sixteen.