[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 400 (card game)

400 is a trick-taking card game played in two partnerships with a standard deck of 52 playing cards. The object of the game is to be the first team to reach forty-one points. The game somewhat resembles Spades, but with subtle differences. It was in the early years after the Ottoman Empire. Historically, the game is mainly played in Syria, Lebanon, Palestine, Jordan, Honduras, and The Philippines. It is similar to the game Tarneeb, which is also played in the region.

If a player does not receive a picture in their hand, the game can still proceed. 

If two players reach the winning stage of 42 points or above, a last round must be played and the players team with most points win the game

Object
To accumulate the most points at or beyond 41; points are accrued by winning at least the number of tricks bid in each hand, where each trick that is bid is worth one point. Hearts are always trump and other suits have no innate value. Cards rank: A K Q J 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2

The deal
The first dealer is chosen by a draw for high card, and thereafter the turn to deal proceeds counter clockwise. The entire deck is dealt two or three cards at a time, face down, beginning on the dealer's right (The first deal being either one card or three cards per player, in order to arrive at thirteen cards each). The players then pick up their cards and arrange them by suits.

If one player prematurely runs out of cards, that is, either extra cards were dealt elsewhere or one or more cards are missing, the hand is considered void and the deal passes to the player's right.

Bidding
Each player decides how many tricks he will be able to take. The player to the dealer's right starts the bidding and, in turn, each player states how many tricks he expects to win. There is only one round of bidding. Every player must make a bid; no player may pass. No suit is named in the bid (hearts are always trump). The minimum bid for each player is two, regardless if the player can or cannot take two tricks. Also, when a player's point total is 30-39, his minimum bid becomes three. When a player reaches 40 points, his minimum bid becomes 4. If the player reaches 50 points (one can reach 50 and not win, as discussed below), his minimum bid becomes 5, and so on.

Although 400 is played in teams, bids are not done in "partnership"; each bid is independent of the partner's bid in a hand. If partner 'A' bids four tricks and partner 'B' bids three tricks, bringing the total to seven, 'A' and 'B' are bound by their respective bids. Should partner 'A' take five tricks and partner 'B' take two, 'A' will be credited with their original bid, while 'B' will not.

Unlike Spades, in 400 a hand will be considered void if the total sum of all four bids is under eleven. Should this occur, the deal automatically goes to the player's right and a new hand will begin. This process is repeated until the total amount of bid is equal to, or greater than eleven, however if a player's score is 30-39, the total will be 12 and if the score is 40-49, the total score must equal 13 and so forth.

Bidding variation
As noted above, the total bids must equal 11 in order for a hand to begin. However, some local house rules stipulate that when a member of any team reaches 30 points, the total bids in the hand must equal 12 for the hand to begin, because the person with 30 points now has a minimum bid of 3. The same occurs when a player reaches 40 points (his/her minimum bid is now 4, therefore the minimum number of bids is 13). Should a second player reach 30, the total bids in the hand should equal to 12.
If any member opens their hand to no pictures including the Ace, the member can decide to re-deal the hand.
Another variation requires one player to bid 5 tricks equalling to 10 points, but all other players must make minimum bid of 2 tricks. This variation is commonly referred to as 'five to run'. It is a popular variation because it speeds up the flow of the game.

Note: Missing a bid of 5 tricks will result in losing 10 points, as per the table below.