[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Louis F. Schade

tear down the portion of the arsenal where the bodies lay, and on October 1, 1867, the coffins were disinterred and reburied in the basement of Warehouse No. 1 at the Arsenal. Schade, the Surratt family, and the Booth family had long asked that the remains of their loved ones be turned over to them.

Schade was particularly outraged by what he believed was the desecration of Wirz's corpse. He publicly asserted that Wirz had not been buried, but rather that the United States Department of War put his body in an old wooden rifle crate and kept it in the basement of the War Department building.  He also claimed Wirz's skull had been stolen by a U.S. Army soldier, and was on display at the Old Capitol Prison—where a soldier charged a fee to let people look at it.

After nearly four years, President Johnson agreed to turn the bodies over to Schade and the families. Wirz's body was released to Schade on February 24, 1869. When the body was disinterred, Schade was proven partially correct: Parts of the corpse were missing. U.S. Army surgeons conducted an autopsy on Wirz's body after his death. There had been claims that Wirz's neck did not snap when he was hanged, and that he'd strangled to death. Two neck vertebrae had been removed, and indeed proved that the neck had not broken. Schade and Baker had argued at trial that Wirz's right arm had been so incapacitated by a war wound that he could not have committed the murders he was accused of. After Wirz's death, surgeons also removed his right arm, which was in excellent condition and showed little of the damage witnesses claimed. Schade paid for a burial plot at Mount Olivet Cemetery in Washington, D.C., and Wirz was interred there on March 3, 1869. (The vertebrae and arm bones remain in the custody of the National Museum of Health and Medicine as of 2014.)

Post-war life
Schade practiced law and remained active in politics in the nation's capital for the rest of his life.  He became a professor of German language at Georgetown University, a position he held throughout the 1870s. He caused a major scandal in 1871 when he issued a public report accusing Secretary of War William W. Belknap of selling arms to France. President Ulysses S. Grant was forced to stop the sales.

In 1873, D.C. millionaire and Democratic Party stalwart William Wilson Corcoran provided Schade with the financial backing to found the Washington Sentinel. The first issue appeared on July 4, 1873. The newspaper was extremist in its support for the Democratic Party, radical in its call for a reduction in the size of government (which it saw infringing on civil liberties), violently opposed to the prohibition of alcohol, and an ardent advocate for lenient immigration policies. The newspaper also covered international events extensively, which was unusual at the time. Nonetheless, the paper's support for its pet policies was so extreme that its rival, the then-tiny Washington Post, called it "a scurrilous weekly sheet...to aid [Schade] in selling a patent beer-bung starter."

As editor and publisher of the Washington Sentinel, Schade played a critical role in bringing down Alexander Robey Shepherd. In 1871, Congress passed the District of Columbia Organic Act, which merged the various town, city, and county governments that controlled the District of Columbia into a single 11-member legislature led by a territorial governor. Shepherd (a Republican and close associate of President Grant's) was appointed to the new government's five-member Board of Public Works. Henry D. Cooke, the board's nominal chairman, let Shepherd run the board as he pleased. Shepherd made extensive civic improvements to the city, constructing its first sewer system, building and paving hundreds of miles of roads, laying gas pipelines, planting trees, demolishing unsightly structures (often illegally, and occasionally in the dead of night), installing street lights, building water mains, filling in the Washington City Canal, and creating an extensive streetcar system. Shepherd became Territorial Governor of the District of Columbia on September 13, 1873, and continued spending freely.  But Shepherd's improvements to the city's infrastructure were so vast that he came close to bankrupting the city. Schade campaigned vigorously to have Shepherd removed from office, and printed numerous articles exposing Shepherd's excessive spending. An outraged Congress passed legislation abolishing the territorial government and replacing it with a "temporary" three-member commission (which lasted until 1973). Shepherd was removed from office on June 20, 1874, just nine months after taking office.

The Petersen House

In 1878, Louis Schade helped to preserve a critical piece of American history.