[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Saner Wonggoun

ted the argument for voluntary manslaughter, testifying that she had never seen her father act violently or aggressively toward her mother.

The evidence, testimony, and arguments of counsel were reviewed by the proceeding's investigating officer, Colonel Steven Ehlenbeck., who found probable cause.

Court-martial
Proceeding to court-martial, Wonggoun requested a court trial as opposed to a military jury panel.  On July 28, 2008, the court martial began with Wonggoun pleading guilty to voluntary manslaughter.  Wonggoun explained that he understood the ramifications of his plea, and detailed the killing upon questioning by the presiding Judge, Colonel William Burd.

Reiterating some of his November 2006 comments, Wonggoun explained that the January 6, 1994 killing was not planned, and resulted from an argument.  According to Wonggoun, not only had his wife accrued over US$20,000 in gambling debts, but on the day of the killing, he learned that Sopha was pregnant and he was "100 percent" sure the child wasn't his.  Retrieving a claw hammer from his storage room, "... I hit her one time and she fell on the floor, and after that I realized what I did, I lost control of myself ... everything was just dark."  Wonggoun explained to Colonel Burd that it was never his intention to kill his wife, but that "I was mad.  I wanted to teach her a lesson."  Arguing for a verdict of voluntary manslaughter, defense attorneys showed that Wonggoun's own frank candidness about the killing, as well as his "[anger], being in the sudden heat of passion, [was] the only explanation."

Despite Wonggoun's plea, Air Force prosecutors proceeded with a charge of premeditated murder.  TSgt Don Osborn explained that unlike a civilian trial, "it's not like a plea bargain. He doesn't get to choose."  Major Villena argued that the couple's money problems were the motive for premeditation, and that Wonggoun had been disturbed about his wife's problems for some time beforehand: "He's not going from 0 to 100 in two seconds."  Further, Wonggoun's methodical and systematic cleanup and disposal of his wife's body evidenced calculation beyond a sudden decision to kill.

Conviction, sentencing and imprisonment
On July 30, 2008, Colonel Burd found Wonggoun guilty of voluntary manslaughter, and  imposed a sentence of 10 years military confinement, a dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances, and a reduction in rank to Airman Basic (E-1).  On April 27, 2010, a panel of the Air Force Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed the conviction and sentence; the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces later denied review.   The U.S. Bureau of Prisons Inmate Locator reports that Wonggoun was released from prison in July, 2013.

References

1947 births
Living people
Thai emigrants to the United States
United States Air Force airmen
Saner Wonggoun
American people convicted of manslaughter
American prisoners and detainees
Prisoners and detainees of the United States military
Criminals of the San Francisco Bay Area
Saner Wonggoun
United States Air Force personnel who were court-martialed