[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Syed Hussein Alatas

e image of the indolent, dull, backward and treacherous native has changed into that of a dependent one requiring assistance to climb the ladder of progress", especially with publications like the 1971 Revolusi Mental (Mental Revolution) by UMNO that succumbed to the language of colonial capitalism.

According to Bruno Fernandes, Alatas was a "sociologist, philosopher, academic and policy analyst" who  "worked out a critical and reflexive work from the point of view of the ex-colonized countries", and while Alatas was and is today well "known in the Malayan intellectual world (Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Philippines) – and (by) a "broad Malayan intellectual (Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Philippines) community", he is "broadly ignored elsewhere…." The respect for Syed Alatas and his influence is also discussed in "An Intellectual Life" in Asian Analysis by Asean Focus Group and Faculty of Asian Studies at The Australian National University: "The late Edward Wadie Said, for example, whose book Orientalism recast post-colonial scholarship, acknowledged his debt to Syed Hussein whose critique of imperialism in his Myth of the Lazy Native (1977) and of colonial historiography in Thomas Stamford Raffles: Schemer or Reformer (1971) were pioneering efforts in Third-Worldist post-colonial responses to Western social sciences. He has been regarded as one of the founders of sociological investigation in Southeast Asia and as a mentor to many in the Malaysian Social Science and academic community, more generally. In the 1950s, he was already considering the significance of the contribution of Tunisian-born Ibn Khaldun (1332–1406) to the philosophy of history and sociology. While undertaking postgraduate studies at the University of Amsterdam, Syed Hussein founded and edited the journal Progressive Islam (1954–55), fostering his links with intellectuals within the Muslim world, including Mohammad Natsir from Indonesia, Taha Husayn and Osman Amin, both from Egypt."

Citing Syed Alatas as an opponent of corruption another writer wrote, "Syed Hussein's pet domains had been Malay studies, progressive Islam and fighting corruption. Read his books if you have the time: The Democracy of Islam, Mental Revolution, Sociology of Corruption, and The Myth of the Lazy Native, among many more."; as a supporter for multiracism, "To the young, you should be reminded that Syed Hussein laid the foundation for multi-racial politics, obviously ahead of his time.....";
as an academic, Syed Hussein is remembered as a man with a sense of fairness and integrity. However, Dr. Lim Teck Ghee, who was a lecturer at Universiti Malaya when the Prof was VC, said: "His insistence on the principles of excellence, justice and fair play irrespective of a race made him unpopular in some circles. For this, he paid a heavy price.”

Death
Syed Hussein died from a pulmonary embolism at 9.30 p.m. of 23 January 2007.

Bibliography
 Reflections on the Theories of Religion (1963)
 The Sociology of Corruption (1968)
 Thomas Stamford Raffles: Schemer or Reformer? (1972)
 Modernization and Social Change in Southeast Asia (1972)
 Intellectuals in Developing Societies (1977)
 The Myth of the Lazy Native (1977)
 The Problem of Corruption (1986)
 Corruption: Its Nature, Causes and Functions (1990)
 "Corruption" in Oxford Companion to World Politics OUP New York (1993)
 "Social Sciences" in The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Modern Islamic World Vol 4 OUP New York (1995)
 Corruption and the Destiny of Asia (1999)
 Cita Sempurna Warisan Sejarah (2000)

Notes and references

Further reading
 Scores pay last respects to Syed Hussein
 

1928 births
2007 deaths
Deaths from pulmonary embolism
Indonesian emigrants to Malaysia
Malaysian people of Malay descent
Malaysian sociologists
Malaysian socialists
Malaysian Muslims
Malaysian writers
Malaysian people of Yemeni descent
Hadhrami people
People from Bogor
Members of the Dewan Negara
Parti Gerakan Rakyat Malaysia politicians
Malaysian Social Justice Party politicians
Academic staff of the National University of Malaysia
Malaysian political party founders
Naturalised citizens of Malaysia
Vice-chancellors of universities in Malaysia