[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# St. Barnabas' Episcopal Church, Leeland

St. Barnabas Church, also known as St. Barnabas' Episcopal Church, Leeland, was built in Leeland, Maryland, and was established in 1704 as the parish church of Queen Anne Parish which had been established that same year. Because of its location in one of the richest tobacco-producing regions in Colonial Maryland, the small church has been a cultural hub for southern Maryland from early colonial times, through the American Revolution, Civil War, and Reconstruction. The church holds some highly significant art and was the scene of a fiery anti-revolutionary showdown that was close to erupting in violence.

The church is located in the Brock Hall census-designated place in unincorporated Prince George's County, Maryland, and it has an Upper Marlboro postal address. Prior to the 2010 U.S. Census the U.S. Census Bureau defined it as being in Greater Upper Marlboro.

History
On December 19, 1704, St. Paul's Parish, one of the 30 original parishes of the established Anglican Church in the Province of Maryland,<ref>Middleton, the Rev. Canon Arthur Pierce, Ph.D., Anglican Maryland, 1692-1792, Virginia Beach: The Donning Company, 1992, pp. 5, 93-94, </ref>
was divided by the Maryland General Assembly and the northern part became Queen Anne Parish, while the southern part remained St. Paul's.

The original St. Paul's Parish had contained a small log chapel, in its northeast sections, on  of land owned by John and Mary Duvall. With this act, the chapel became a full-fledged congregation to meet the needs of the growing population in the area, creating the first St. Barnabas church.

Shortly thereafter, in 1706, the colonial Maryland Legislature authorized surveying and laying out of nearby "Queen Anne Town and Marlborough Town" bringing further development to the area. In 1708, Rev. Jonathan White came to Queen Anne Parish as Rector.

Old Brick Church
Col. Henry Ridgley, a prominent land-owner in Anne Arundel County and Prince George's County, was one of the first vestrymen of the parish, and pledged £10 towards the construction of a brick church in 1709 and left another £20 upon his death in 1710.
The log structure was replaced in 1710 by the first small brick church, which was the second St. Barnabas Church on the site and rather small. It is now referred to as the old Brick Church.

White remained at St. Barnabas until 1717, at which time he either died or was removed from the parish.

Henderson's Chapel and Holy Trinity
In 1713, Col. Ridgley's widow, Mary (née Duvall, née Stanton, and who would later become Henderson's wife) built a chapel on her own land near her residence. On December 17, 1717, Reverend Jacob Henderson was appointed as rector of Queen Anne Parish. About that time he acquired numerous parcels of property through his marriage to the twice widowed, Mary Ridgely. In 1737, Henderson gave  of land for the use of Queen Anne's Parish called "the Glebe whereon there is a Chapple now standing." That chapel had been built for the convenience of northern part of the parish and was known as Henderson's Chapel or Forest Chapel. Almost 100 years later, in 1836 Henderson's Chapel became an independent congregation, Holy Trinity Episcopal Church.

Henderson died on August 27, 1751, after 34 years of service at St. Barnabas.

Affluence and a new Brick Church
Because of its location in one of the richest tobacco-producing regions in Colonial Maryland, its rectorship was one of the most highly prized assignments in the Anglican Church in the province. In 1771, Jonathan Boucher came to St. Barnabas, having served as Rector of St. Anne's in Annapolis since 1768.

During this period, numerous dignitaries visited the church, including George Washington and his family, together with Royal Governor of Maryland Robert Eden, on October 4, 1772.

By 1772 the congregation had outgrown the original St. Barnabas church building and commissioned Christopher Lowndes "to make, erect, build, and set up a new Brick Church near the place where the Old Brick Church in said parish now stands, to contain sixty feet in length and forty-six feet in width."

As recorded in the Prince George's County Historic Site Summary:

Revolutionary hostilities

Boucher was an ardent Tory and opposed the revolution from the pulpit. For months, he preached with a pair of loaded pistols beside him. In a fiery farewell sermon at St. Barnabas in 1775, he declared to a hostile crowd of 200, that "no power on earth should prevent him from praying and shouting God Save the King." At the conclusion of the sermon, he seized the leader of the crowd, Osborn Sprigg of Northampton, Maryland, (uncle and adopted father of future Governor Samuel Sprigg) and with pistol in hand, they walked together to Boucher's horse. Both men were allowed to leave without harm. Boucher then fled to England.

Nineteenth Century
In the 1850s, the church was renovated and Victorianized, with stained glass windows replacing the original colonial clear glass lights.