[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cultural depictions of George Armstrong Custer

ng with other historical characters and museum pieces) and leads a charge against the villains. He is portrayed as a born leader but bumbling and unintelligent.
 The Ridiculous 6 (2015) - with David Spade playing Custer, seen attending a gambling game alongside Mark Twain (portrayed by Vanilla Ice).

Television
Whit Bissell portrayed Custer in the 1957 episode "The Broken Pledge" of Cheyenne.
 Custer was portrayed by Grant Williams in "Longhair", a 1959 episode of the TV series Yancy Derringer, in which he wrongly accused series regular Pahoo (a Pawnee) of several attempts on Custer's life during a visit to New Orleans.
 Barry Atwater played Custer in a two-part episode of the TV series Cheyenne, broadcast in 1960. The first part was titled, "Gold, Glory and Custer - Prelude"; the second was titled "Gold, Glory and Custer — Requiem".
 Custer was portrayed on the television series F Troop in 1965 by John Stephenson.
 Custer appeared in a 3-part episode of the 1965-66 TV series Branded titled "Call to Glory". He was portrayed by Robert Lansing.
 Custer was featured an episode of the 1966 TV show Time Tunnel titled "Massacre". He was portrayed by Joe Maross.
 Custer was a short-lived 1967 television series starring Wayne Maunder in the title role. The 17 episodes have been re-issued on DVD.
 Custer was portrayed by James Olson in the teleplay The Court-Martial of George Armstrong Custer (1977)
 Custer was played by Andrew Garringer (in a walk-on role) in the TV miniseries North and South (1986).
 Custer was played by Gary Cole in the two-part 1991 TV film Son of the Morning Star.
 Custer was a recurring character on the TV series Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman, a 1990s TV drama. He was first played by Taylor Nichols in the episode "Epidemic", Darren Dalton in "The Prisoner" and by Jason Leland Adams in "The Abduction", "Washita" and "For Better or Worse".
 Custer was portrayed by Jonathan Scarfe on the mini-series Into the West (2005).
 Custer was played by Toby Stephens in the 2007 BBC documentary series The Wild West.
 Custer was played by David Spade in the 2015 Netflix film The Ridiculous 6.
 Custer was played by John C. Bailey in the 2016 AMC mini-series The American West.
 Custer was played by Christopher Backus in the final episode of the TV series Hell on Wheels (2011-2016).

Literature
 Custer appears as a prominent minor character in Flashman and the Redskins – the seventh of George MacDonald Fraser's Flashman novels – in which Flashman unwillingly becomes caught up in the Battle of the Little Bighorn after being captured by Lakota warriors.
 The 1964 novel Little Big Man by Thomas Berger has Custer as a secondary character. The novel was the basis for the 1970 film by Arthur Penn.
 Custer Died for Your Sins, a 1969 book by Vine Deloria, Jr., with its title derived from a bumper sticker slogan, covers Custer and American relations with Indians in general.
 American author Michael Blake wrote his historical novel Marching To Valhalla as a first-person diary of Custer.
 Custer and the battle of the Little Bighorn are featured in Złoto Gór Czarnych (Gold of the Black Hills), a trilogy of novels told from the perspective of the Santee Dakota tribe, by Polish author Alfred Szklarski and his wife Krystyna Szklarska.

Alternate history
The mythic quality of Custer's life has made him a popular subject for several alternate history stories.