[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fast for Life

nd justice requires that non-violent actions be commensurate with the evil faced, fasting being such an action. As with all non-violent methods, suffering is taken upon oneself and not imposed on the opponent. The Fast For Life is seen as an experiment in truth, seeking change through moral suasion.

Developments through August 6, 1983
Preparations began in earnest following the June 1982 fast. The months through to the beginning of the Fast saw preparation among groups in many countries commencing one-day-a-week fasts or longer fasts while communicating as widely as possible to organizations, church leaders and individuals the approaching Fast's commencement. For many, there was the important task of connecting the link between world hunger and the arms race. Besides support being established in the U.S., Solange Fernex traveled to Japan to attend the Conference Against A and H Bombs before visits to European countries and then to India for the Non-Aligned Nations Conference in March 1983 where disarmament, survival and co-existence in the age of nuclear weapons was a chief issue on the agenda. Endorsements came from many groups, including Clergy and Laity Concerned and the War Resisters League, but the American Friends Service Committee and Fellowship of Reconciliation would not endorse. In November 1982 Gray joined an international hunger strike in Comiso, Italy, the U.S. base for Pershing and Cruise missiles. Gray later traveled to Japan and New Zealand, countries that would become involved in the Fast For Life. In January 1983, Fast headquarters in the U.S. moved from Eugene, Oregon to San Francisco. From April 12–24 an international meeting was held at the Community of the Ark near Rodez, France. The tasks were to establish goals for the Fast and consider application from fasters. The international meeting adopted an "Appeal to people, institutions and governments to take action to stop the nuclear arms race". By June 1983, Oakland and Paris had been chosen as the sites for the fasting centers. It was agreed that fasters, with advisers, would make their own decisions concerning continuation and termination to end the fast at any time, and would receive the full support of the Fast For Life. (In France the fast was called Jeûne pour la Vie.)

August 6, 1983
Thousands of people had pledged to participate in support fasts from all over the world. While many fasted one day a week, others took upon themselves longer fasts, often three to 10 day fasts. While records are incomplete, to the best knowledge of organizers, there were more than 150 fasts in 24 countries around the world, mostly in North America and Europe, but also Japan and New Zealand. Communications were not possible to establish with East Germany, but reports from individuals in the Fast movement suggest that as many as 21 people were fasting there.  In Italy alone, 44 support groups came into being to boost that country's small peace movement. 86 groups were formed in France and a Fast For Life banner was hung at the Arc de Triomphe where 328 people were arrested – France's largest civil disobedience action against nuclear weapons. Over 100 groups were born in West Germany. Former chancellor Willy Brandt visited with the fasters in Bonn and pledged to seek immediate support from his Social Democratic Party to postpone deployment of missiles in Germany. Chancellor Kohl wrote the fasters stating his appreciation of their goals.  In France, two of President Mitterrand's ministers visited with the fasters in Paris on the 35th day of the fast with a letter from the President who agreed to meet with them after the fast ended.  Didier Mainguy ended his fast on the 30th day after experiencing blood pressure problems.  On September 13 - the 38th day of the Fast - Karen Harrison met with Pierre Trudeau in Ottawa. Trudeau received a list of proposals from the IFFL and stressed that he sincerely wanted a halt to the arms race. With supporters, Harrison also met with other administration officials as well as with embassy representatives of both the Soviet Union and the United States. On October 6, the 61st day, Harrison broke her fast recognizing that the Fast For Life could continue in other positive ways. In Scotland, an Open Letter was published urging a policy of international aid and bringing an end to the escalating arms race. The letter was signed by leaders of all the major churches in Scotland and handed in to the Queen at Balmoral Castle in Aberdeenshire, and Prime Minister Thatcher in London, as well as being sent to all members of parliament.