[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stef Wertheimer

r has said, "Coexistence in the industrial park in Arab Nazareth is a good example of coexistence. When people work together, they have no time for nonsense. They're too tired at night to commit terrorist acts. They're satisfied, they engage in producing. They work together, not against each other."

Peace efforts
Wertheimer promotes the idea of a "Marshall Plan for the Middle East" – his concept for using industry to provide training, create jobs, alleviate poverty and raise the per capita income of those living in the Middle East.

In the 1990s, he drew up plans for an industrial park in Rafah, in the Gaza Strip. The Palestinian and the Israeli governments both offered support, but one week before the groundbreaking ceremony, the Second Intifada broke out and that plan was indefinitely shelved.

In 2002, he testified before the United States House of Representatives about a "new Marshall Plan" that advocates U.S. funding to revitalize the Middle East through a sustained effort to promote commerce, jobs, and a free economy in the region.

Wertheimer's vision includes building an additional 100 industrial parks that will employ Israelis and Palestinians. Wertheimer isn't confining his idea to Israel though, and has plans underway in Turkey and Jordan.

"My Marshall Plan is based on aid from Western countries for strengthening the Middle East, in order to achieve peace and tranquillity. The parks will serve as a five-year incubator for manufacturing and export companies. If aid is obtained, the parks can usher in an era in which production, exports, education, and an advanced quality of life can replace terrorism and poverty," elaborated Wertheimer on his vision.

Political career
In 1977 Wertheimer was amongst the founding members of Democratic Movement for Change, a new centrist political party. The party was highly successful, winning 15 seats in the 1977 elections, with Wertheimer taking one of the seats. When the party split up in 1978, he joined Shinui. In 1981 following an accident, he resigned from the Knesset (was replaced by Stella Levy) and returned to his business ventures. During his term in the Knesset, he was a member of the Economics Committee. He remains active in bridging gaps between the Jewish and Arab populations of Israel, particularly by boosting Arab participation in the country's high-tech sector.

Prior to 2013 elections, he took the honorary final slot on Tzipi Livni's new list, Hatnuah. He endorsed her alliance with Labor, the Zionist Union, in 2015.

Awards and recognition
In 1991, Wertheimer was awarded the Israel Prize for his special contribution to society and the State of Israel.

In 2008 he received the Buber-Rosenzweig-Medal.

He received the Oslo Business for Peace Award in 2010, which is given to leaders in the private sector who have demonstrated transformative and positive change through ethical business practices.

In 2014 he received the President's Medal (Israel)

See also
 List of Israel Prize recipients

References

External links

Stef Wertheimer's Industrial Parks

1926 births
Living people
People from Ortenaukreis
People from the Republic of Baden
Jewish emigrants from Nazi Germany to France
Jewish Israeli politicians
Democratic Movement for Change politicians
Shinui politicians
Members of the 9th Knesset (1977–1981)
Israeli billionaires
Israeli chief executives
Israeli investors
Israeli philanthropists
Palmach members
Israel Prize for special contribution to society and the State recipients
Recipients of the Presidential Medal of Distinction of Israel
Commanders Crosses of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany
Recipients of the Order of Merit of Baden-Württemberg
Royal Air Force personnel of World War II
Royal Air Force airmen