[Source: PubMed]

35. Health Policy. 2023 Jul;133:104844. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2023.104844.
Epub  2023 May 27.

The launch of the EU Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Authority 
(HERA): Improving global pandemic preparedness?

Wouters OJ(1), Forman R(2), Anderson M(2), Mossialos E(2), McKee M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
Science, Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
O.J.Wouters@lse.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Health Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
Science, Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.

The crowded global health landscape has been joined by the European Union Health 
Emergency Preparedness and Response Authority (HERA). HERA will assume four 
broad areas of responsibility: horizon scanning for major health threats; 
research and development; support for capacity to manufacture drugs, vaccines, 
and equipment; and procuring and stockpiling key medical countermeasures. In 
this Health Reform Monitor article, we outline the reform process and describe 
HERA's structure and responsibilities, explore issues that arise from the 
creation of this new organisation, and suggest options for collaboration with 
existing bodies in Europe and beyond. The COVID-19 pandemic and other infectious 
disease outbreaks have shown the need to treat health as a cross-border issue, 
and there is now a broad consensus that greater direction and coordination at 
the European level is needed. This ambition has been matched with a considerable 
increase in EU funding to tackle cross-border health threats, and HERA can be 
used to deploy this funding in an effective manner. Yet this is contingent upon 
clearly defining its role and responsibilities vis-à-vis existing agencies to 
reduce redundancies.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2023.104844
PMID: 37269803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest A grant from 
the World Health Organization Regional Office for Europe supported Dr Wouters. 
Dr McKee reports being Research Director of the European Observatory on Health 
Systems and Policies. No other disclosures were reported.