[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# C.D. Cobresal

Club de Deportes Cobresal or simply Cobresal, is a Chilean football club based in El Salvador, Atacama, a Chilean mining camp, and participates in Campeonato Nacional. The team was founded on 5 May 1979, and the name of the club comes from the local copper mine establishment. Since its inception, the club has played its home games at the El Cobre Stadium. With a capacity of approximately 12,000, the stadium is able to seat more than the entire population of the town (7,000).

During the history of Cobresal, the club has been champion once (2015 Clausura) and achieved one Copa Chile title in 1987, with players like the Chilean legend Iván Zamorano, Rubén Martínez and the club's historic top-scorer Sergio Salgado, footballers that also played in the 1986 Copa Libertadores, in the first international tournament for the club.

Cobresal's classic rival was Regional Atacama, where both teams disputed the III Region derby, but since the disappearance of that team as a result of financial problems, the team now plays the Copper derby with Cobreloa of Calama. Another important rivalry has been formed with another team from the Atacama region, Deportes Copiapó.

Club history

First seasons
On 5 May 1979, Cobresal was officially founded as an amateur club, with Luis Sugarret as the first president. The club began to play friendly matches in preparation for the first game of the club against a professional team. On 14 June, the club played the first match of its history against Incabus of Diego de Almagro, debuting with a 3–2 win, playing in August of that year against the professional team of Coquimbo Unido, where Cobresal drew 3–3, playing of very well form. On 14 December 1979, Cobresal postulated to the National Association of Professional football for play in the Second Division. For this was necessary that the Club Deportivo Hospital, a club of El Salvador, a mining camp of the Atacama Region, offered its affiliation to the ANFA. Finally, on 26 February 1980, the incorporation of Cobresal was confirmed to the Second division as a professional team.

In 1980, Cobresal kicked off its inaugural season in the Second Division at the Luis Valenzuela Hermosilla Stadium with a 2–1 away defeat to Regional Atacama on 20 April, with goals of Franklin Lobos and Rubén Gonzáles, under the guidance of Cobresal's first head coach Juan Zárate. The club's first professional victory was a 2–1 win over Ñublense for the sixth round of the tournament. Cobresal finished his first season in the 14th place with 39 points. After a regular 1981 season, finishing in 10th place of the table, the next season thanks to the 5th place achieved, Cobresal qualified to the Promotion play-offs and the club was promoted to the Chilean Primera División, under the guidance of Manuel Rodríguez Araneda.

The club debuted in the Primera División with a 1–0 win over Arturo Fernández Vial at Concepción. However, Cobresal had the best season of its history finishing in the second place of the Group A, qualifying to the Championship play-offs. In the play-offs, Cobresal was runner-up of the tournament, achieving the second place under only two points of Universidad Católica. The 1985 season, the team qualified to the 1986 Copa Libertadores liguilla, and qualify to the first international tournament in its history, having in the 1986 year the most successful season in the history of the club, the next season, Cobresal won its first Copa Chile title in 1987 with players like Iván Zamorano, Rubén Martínez and Sergio Salgado. After the success in their last seasons, in 1989 suffered the departure Zamorano and Martínez.

The complicated 1990s
Cobresal began the 1990s with the left foot, when the club was relegated to the Primera B in 1992, after an eight-year stay in the topflight. For the next season, the club signed again to Manuel Rodríguez Araneda as coach, who achieves the mission of return to Cobresal to the Chilean Primera División, but being relegated again for the poor season of the club in the 15th place, after losing the Promotion play-offs.

With the signing of Sergio Nichiporuk on replace of Rodríguez, the club after two good season in Primera B, returned to the first tier of the Chilean football in 1998, being champion of the tournament of notable form not losing any match in the 1997 season, but again lost the category of be defeated 7–5 by Provincial Osorno in the aggregate result, via the Promotion play-offs. Finally, in 2001, thanks to the coach Jorge Socías, the club returned to the Chilean Primera División.