[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ghost Brigade

ecides to not take his parole and stays with the Union Army for the duration of the war, serving under General U.S. Grant for the remainder of the Civil War.

The film ends with Harling telling the story of Strayn going back to the creek where his regiment was murdered, where he is never seen again.

Cast
 Corbin Bernsen as Colonel Nehemiah Strayn
 Martin Sheen as General Haworth
 Billy Bob Thornton as Langston
 Adrian Pasdar as Captain John Harling
 David Arquette as Murphy
 Alexis Arquette as Corporal Dawson
 Jon Beatty as Lieutenant
 Dean Cameron as Borne
 Josh Evans as Lt. Regis
 Allison 'A.J.' Langer as Thomas, the drummer boy
 Matt LeBlanc as Terhune
 Jefferson Mays as Martin Bradley
 Oliver Muirhead as Richard Bradley
 Steve Price as Captain Donnelly
 Mark Salzman as Corporal
 Cynda Williams as Rebecca
 Roger Wilson as Major Josiah Elkins
 Ray Wise as Colonel George Thalman

Release
Ghost Brigade was released on VHS by Turner Home Entertainment in May 1995. Turner later re-released the film again on VHS on August 25, 1998.
Vanguard Cinema released the film on DVD on January 1, 2005. The director's cut was released on November 1 that same year.

Reception
Richard Natale of Variety described it as "part art-house item and part mainstream horror".  Natale wrote that it has "more promise than payoff" but praised Bernsen's acting.  Nigel Floyd of Time Out London called it "an arty zombie film" that is "involving, with dark undertones". Author and film critic Leonard Maltin awarded the film 2.5 out of 4 stars, stating that the film "aspires to a Peckinpah-type brutality but generally opts for mere shock value." Charles Tatum from eFilmCritic gave the film 2/5 stars, stating that the film was entertaining, with good direction, and felt that it had an interesting idea. However, Tatum noted that the film "shows classic symptoms of post-production tampering", which greatly reduced its effectiveness.

Writing in The Zombie Movie Encyclopedia, academic Peter Dendle said, "The movie features strong conceptual underpinnings, though it's a little dragged down by the tritely over-demonized foes." TV Guide gave the film a negative 1/4 stars, writing, "wastes so much time filling in details of the cadaver squadron it seems longer than the Battle of Gettysburg. Trying for the hallucinatory atmosphere of the film version of Ambrose Bierce's OCCURRENCE AT OWL CREEK BRIDGE, this unusual chiller falls prey to mundane scripting, combat-booted direction, and inferior sound mixing."

References

External links
 
 
 

1993 films
1990s Western (genre) horror films
1990s supernatural horror films
1993 directorial debut films
1993 horror films
American Civil War films
American Western (genre) horror films
American supernatural horror films
American zombie films
Films about Voodoo
Films directed by George Hickenlooper
Films shot in California
1990s English-language films
1990s American films