[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Milk coffee

Milk coffee is a category of coffee-based drinks made with milk.
Johan Nieuhof, the Dutch ambassador to China, is credited as the first person to drink coffee with milk when he experimented with it around 1660.

Varieties

Antoccino 

An antoccino is a single shot of espresso with steamed milk in a 1:1 ratio, served in an espresso cup. Despite the name, it has no link to Italy, nor any meaning in Italian.

Breve 
Espresso made with a steamed mixture of half milk and half cream (i.e., half and half); size can vary – the name relates to the use of cream and milk.

Café au lait 

A café au lait is the French way of preparing 'coffee with milk' both at home and in Cafés in Europe. Café au lait stems from the same continental tradition as  in Italy, café con leche in Spain,  ('white coffee') in Poland,  in Hungary,  in Germany,  in Austria,  in the Netherlands, and  in Portugal and Brazil, meaning simply 'coffee with milk'. In northern Europe, café au lait is the name most often used in coffee shops for what other places is a . The term café au lait has been used for espresso and milk since the 1950s in places including the United Kingdom, Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Denmark, Norway and Sweden. In the United States, café au lait is defined as a coffee drink consisting of strong or bold coffee (sometimes espresso) mixed with scalded milk in approximately a 1:1 ratio.

Vietnamese cà phê sữa đá or 'iced milk coffee', is made with a dark roast, often with chicory, brewed with a small metal Vietnamese drip filter into a cup containing sweetened condensed milk. The condensed milk and coffee are stirred together and then poured over ice.  – literally, 'hot milk coffee' – excludes the ice.

was made popular in Valencia, Spain, and spread gradually to the rest of the country. It might have been re-created and modified to suit European tastebuds as in many parts of Asia such as Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore the same recipe for coffee which is called  (Malaysia) or   (Thailand) has already been around for decades and is very popular in  stalls and kopitiams in Malaysia. A , however, uses espresso served with sweetened condensed milk in a 1:1 ratio whereas the Asian version uses ground coffee and sweetened condensed milk at the same ratio. On the Canary Islands a variety named  or  is served using the same amount of condensed milk but a  or espresso lungo. For , the condensed milk is added to the espresso. For visual effect, a glass is used, and the condensed milk is added slowly to sink underneath the coffee and create two separate bands of contrasting colour – though these layers are customarily stirred together before consumption. Some establishments merely serve an espresso with a sachet of condensed milk for patrons to make themselves.

Cafe hafuch 
Cafe hafuch or 'upside down coffee' is a popular drink in Israel. Steamed milk is first added to the cup, then espresso is carefully added to give a layered appearance. Milk foam is sometimes spooned on to the top to finish. 'Upside down' refers to this method of adding the ingredients, as in most milk-and-coffee drinks, the coffee is first in the cup, and the milk goes in second.

Cappuccino 

Cappuccino is a coffee-based drink prepared with espresso, hot milk, and steamed milk foam. A cappuccino differs from a caffè latte in that it is prepared with much less steamed or textured milk than the caffè latte with the total of espresso and milk/foam making up between approximately . A cappuccino usually exceeds the height of the cup, making the foam visible above the side of the cup. A cappuccino is traditionally served in a porcelain cup, which has far better heat retention characteristics than glass or paper. The foam on top of the cappuccino acts as an insulator and helps retain the heat of the liquid, allowing it to stay hotter longer.

Cortado 

A cortado (also known as  or ) is an espresso "cut" (from the Spanish and Portuguese ) with warm milk to reduce the acidity. The ratio of milk to coffee is between 1:1 – 1:2, and the milk is added to the espresso. Though the steamed milk has little foam, many baristas make some microfoam to make latte art. It is popular in Spain and Portugal, in Norway as well as throughout Latin America, where it is drunk in the afternoon. In Cuba, it is known as a . It is usually served in a special glass, often with a metal ring base and a metal wire handle. There are several variations, including  (espresso with condensed milk) and  (with condensed milk and cream on top). In the United States it is sometimes known as a Gibraltar. It differs from cappuccino in having little or no milk foam, and from flat white in that the cortado's  shot of espresso is reduced in volume and caffeine content to the flat white's .

Café con leche