[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Clairemont, San Diego

Clairemont (or Clairemont Mesa) is a community within the city of San Diego, California, United States. It has a population of about 81,600 residents and an area of roughly . Clairemont Mesa is bordered by Interstate 805 on the east, Interstate 5 to the west, State Route 52 to the north, and the community of Linda Vista to the south. The community of Clairemont Mesa can be subdivided into the neighborhoods of North Clairemont, Clairemont Mesa East, Clairemont Mesa West, Bay Park, and Bay Ho.

History

Prior to in-migration by Europeans, the area was populated by the Kumeyaay people. The Spanish arrived in 1542 and founded Mission Basilica San Diego de Alcalá nearby in 1769.  Judge Hyde was one of the first settlers of Clairemont and began farming in Tecolote Canyon in 1872. Farming and ranching continued in the area until World War II.

In 1887 the Morena Subdivision was mapped. The  subdivision was bounded by streets that are known today as Morena Boulevard on the west, Milton Street on the south, Illion Street on the east, and on the north by an east-west line approximately  north of Gesner Street.

In 1887 a train depot was constructed in the vicinity of Kane Street and Morena Boulevard to accommodate potential buyers in the Morena Subdivision. It was torn down in the early 1920s.

In 1936 the Bay Park Village Subdivision was approved by the City Council. This project, located immediately south of Morena Subdivision and south of Milton Street featured  or larger lots for single-family homes.

In 1939 Bay Park Elementary School was constructed at 2433 Denver Street.

In 1950, Carlos Tavares and Lou Burgener developed what became San Diego's largest post-war subdivision. Originally dubbed "The Village Within a City", people started living in this new Clairemont subdivision in May 1951. The community was named after Tavares's wife, Claire. The design of this new subdivision represented a new concept in community living because it did not incorporate the traditional grid system of uniform blocks and streets. Instead, winding streets and scenic view lots took advantage of the canyons and bluffs overlooking Mission Bay. The first homes, built by Burgener and Tavares Construction Company, had highly customized floor plans.

The developers assembled the necessary acreage to develop Clairemont from three primary land holdings: the Peavey Cattle Ranch, Mission Bay Heights (owned by the Hazard Family), and Tecolote Heights (owned by Jack & Dan Danciger). Before any homes were built in the new development, Tavares & Burgener invested $125,000 in off-street improvements including sewers, water, and access roads; this was necessary because the proposed development was not adjacent to any developed areas. The original subdivision map that used the name “Clairemont” for the first time was approved and recorded by the County of San Diego on October 16, 1950. The map was named "Clairemont Unit #1, Map #2725". This is the area in Clairemont that includes Deerpark Drive, Burgener Boulevard, and Grandview Street from Field Street to Jellett Street. According to Burgener, "Between 1952 & 1954, seven homes were constructed a day". It is also noted that Clairemont was the largest development of its kind in the country.

Within a few years, several thousand houses had been constructed, including single family homes, duplexes and apartments. Since Clairemont was somewhat removed from the city proper, commercial business and retail shopping, schools, libraries and other city amenities were designed into the overall plan. Although the concept of suburban living is commonplace today, this approach was considered novel. Tavares' vision for Clairemont had far-reaching implications for San Diego, as it stretched the city limits outward and began the now familiar pattern of migration from city to suburb.

Marian Bear Memorial Park (aka San Clemente Canyon) and Tecolote Canyon Natural Park were officially designated as parks by the City of San Diego in the 1960s and 1970s.

Geography

Clairemont's main geographical characteristics appear as a terrain of sandstone coastal mesas with canyons eroded by seasonal streams that support riparian woodlands.  The predominant topographical features are the gently rolling mesas which are separated by canyons. These mesas are where most of the development is confined.  The main canyon system was given the name Tecolote, by Spanish speaking persons after the native owl that lives in this canyon.  Tecolote Canyon Natural Park is a protected part the City of San Diego's large parks system. Tecolote Canyon runs north-south through the center of this community, with branches to the northeast.  Tecolote Creek, a seasonal stream, runs through the canyon.  San Clemente Canyon runs east-west, bordering the community on the north side. Trails extend through both canyons for hiking or mountain biking. The geology in Clairemont is primarily sedimentary.