[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kommeno

e famous Pat Metheny jazz group. These people all visited Kommeno on the days that the Festival has been taking place. Their participation has been a tremendous help for the villagers as they became more familiar with various forms of Art, culture and mentalities coming from different civilizations.

In order to accomplish its goals, the members of the association are cooperating with other national NGO’s on matters of environment, employment, youth entrepreneurship and history. Three years before, we’ with the help of the Cultural Antenna of Preveza region implemented the program “The Europe for its citizens”, under the title “Places and Words of memory; placement and technical skills of the citizens”. The main goal of that program was to link the efforts of retaining the memory of the past with the creation of the future, centered on a democratic European society, with the absence of various social exclusions. The project was founded by the European Commission’ part of the program “The Europe for its Citizens”. The central aims of this action was to offer opportunities to the European citizens to meet each other through the sharing of common history and experiences related to the Nazi-Fascism era as well as the Second World War in order to trace the educational pillars for peace, the rights of the citizens and the founding principles of democracy.

Missions abroad

Since August 2013, for the first time after its establishment, the association is reaching out for Europe. Participating in different projects around Europe, it is expanding its mission.

In October 2013, representatives of the association participated at the project that took place in Turkey under the title “Am I a Mother, Woman or Laborer?”. The main theme of the project was the placement of the farming women in their local societies, regarding their social and political rights, as well as their relations with the opposite sex.

The association is working on new forms of action and projects. The actions that the association is centered on is the promotion of cultural heritage and the protection of the environment. Its main interests is the quality of life, the harmonic and equal coexistence between humans and nature as well as to trigger the local community.

The latest project that was launched in Copenhagen, Denmark, back in August 2013, will be implemented in August 2014 and stands under the title "The Dialogue Agents", a collaboration between Denmark, Turkey, Hungary and Greece. Its main theme will be the dialogue challenges within a sociopolitical and religious content. Both visits-along with the preparatory visit in May 2014- will take place in Erbaa city, in Turkey.

References

External links 
 H.F. Meyer - Kommeno. A narrative reconstruction of a war crime committed by the Wehrmacht in Greece
 http://www.intaktrec.ch/190-a.htm

Populated places in Arta (regional unit)
Nikolaos Skoufas (municipality)