[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Raid on Entebbe (film)

rlift Wing of the California Air National Guard to provide three C-130 Hercules transports.
Scenes were also shot at the Van Nuys Military airport, Los Angeles; these included footage of passenger jets, and the interior of a C-130 in which Bronson made his speech to the team about to attack Entebbe.

The C-130E variant used by the Israeli Air Force was the same variant that was flown by the 146th Wing. The camouflage scheme used by both the United States Air Force and IAF was virtually identical, and with the overpainting of Israeli markings, the Hercules transports became both "set dressing" for an Israeli airfield and as the aircraft used in the raid on Entebbe. The 146th Airlift Wing also supplied all the military equipment, such as M151 jeeps and weapons that would be seen at an active base.

Other aircraft used in Raid on Entebbe include an Airbus A300B2 F-BVGA (seen in archive footage); a Boeing 707, two Douglas DC-8-31s, 10 North American F-86 Sabre (1/2 scale models representing the Ugandan Air Force MiGs), North American FJ-3 Fury and Bell UH-1 Iroquois helicopter.

Principal photography on Raid on Entebbe took place in November 1976, with the training for the raid that took place using a replica of the Entebbe Airport. The actual airport had been built by an Israeli construction company and their involvement led to an accurate mockup being built to test out tactics devised for the raid.

Reception

Critical response
Raid on Entebbe received initially good reviews. Capitalizing on its strong  all-star ensemble cast, a film version was released theatrically in the UK and Europe in early 1977.

In May 1977, local Thai authorities banned the film from being shown in Thailand. They argued it presented a one-sided image of the Middle East conflict and posed a risk to the nation's relations with Arab states.

Accolades

See also
 Operation Thunderbolt
 Victory at Entebbe
 7 Days in Entebbe

References

Notes

Citations

Bibliography

 Barron, Colin N. Planes on Film: Ten Favourite Aviation Films. Stirling, UK: Extremis Publishing, 2016. .
 Solomon, Aubrey. Twentieth Century Fox: A Corporate and Financial History. Lanham, Maryland: Scarecrow Press, 1989. .

External links
 
 
 

1977 television films
1977 films
1970s action thriller films
American aviation films
American political thriller films
American action thriller films
Cultural depictions of Idi Amin
Cultural depictions of Menachem Begin
American docudrama films
Films about the Israel Defense Forces
Films about aircraft hijackings
Films about terrorism in Africa
Films directed by Irvin Kershner
Films scored by David Shire
Films set in 1976
Films set in Israel
Films set in Uganda
Films set in airports
Films set on airplanes
Films shot in the United States
Operation Entebbe
Super Bowl lead-out shows
20th Century Fox Television films
Thriller films based on actual events
Films about battles and military operations
American drama television films
1970s English-language films
1970s American films