[Source: PubMed]

45. Surg Endosc. 2025 Dec;39(12):8647-8653. doi: 10.1007/s00464-025-12290-3. Epub
 2025 Oct 14.

Timing of cholecystectomy after mild biliary pancreatitis: same-admission versus 
interval cholecystectomy.

Perry Z(1), Sadeia S(2), Krime S(2), Avital I(2), Abu-Ganim A(2).

Author information:
(1)Soroka Medical Centre, Beersheba, Israel. zperry1@gmail.com.
(2)Soroka Medical Centre, Beersheba, Israel.

INTRODUCTION: Acute pancreatitis, Inflammation of the pancreas, is a leading 
gastroenterology-related cause of hospital admissions and contributes 
significantly to morbidity and mortality in the United States. The treatment for 
acute gallstone pancreatitis, whose etiology is biliary pancreatitis, is 
cholecystectomy. It has been proven that gallbladder removal reduces the chances 
of recurrent gallstone-related complications. However, the question about the 
timing of the surgery is whether in the same hospitalization (within 72 h) or 
upon later timing. Thus, we decided to compare same-admission and interval 
cholecystectomy, hypothesizing that interval cholecystectomy would not increase 
the risk of recurrent gallstone-related complications.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective population-based cohort study. In the 
current study, we will utilize the database of Surgery A to detect and define 
biliary pancreatitis cases.
STUDY POPULATION: Patients who have undergone cholecystectomy as treatment of 
biliary pancreatitis cases treated at Soroka University Medical Center from 2017 
through 2024.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: The comparison of groups was conducted using Pearson 
Chi-square for categorical variables and Fisher's exact test for dichotomous 
variables when applicable. Quantitative variables were compared using parametric 
and a-parametric tests. The probability value has been set as P < 0.05, and a 
multiple variable analysis will be conducted using logistical regression to 
pinpoint if the timing of surgery.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: One hundred forty-one patients met the criteria and were 
entered into the analysis. Primary analysis has shown that there was no 
difference between the two groups regarding basic demographics and has shown no 
significant difference between the groups. Like that, we did not find any 
significant difference between the groups regarding hospitalization days, 
complications, and re-admission. Thus, we conclude that even though we still 
advocate for the early and same-admission protocol for treating mild acute 
pancreatitis, if needed (due to reasons like COVID, war, etc.), one can delay 
the operation with no dire consequences.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-025-12290-3
PMID: 41087575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Disclosures: Drs. Shadi Krime, MD 
and Abed Abu-Ganim, MD have no conflicts of interest or financial ties to 
disclose. Profs. Zvi Perry, MD, PhD and Itzhak Avital, MD, FACS have no 
conflicts of interest or financial ties to disclose. Sarai Sadeia, BSc has no 
conflicts of interest or financial ties to disclose.