[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Israel Democracy Institute

ate, security and the armed forces, political participation, political parties, the European Union, and many others. In 2007, the format of the journal was changed so that each issue is dedicated to a single main topic. The journal was also taken online, and is no longer published in a print format.

Human Rights and Judaism Fellowship Program 
This is a unique scholarship program for outstanding doctoral research students in the field of human rights and Judaism, which seeks to create an intellectual foundation for shaping the human rights discourse in a Jewish nation state.

Annual Statistical Report on Ultra-Orthodox Society in Israel 
This is the first publication in Israel to provide a comprehensive anthology of existing quantitative data about Haredi society in Israel. It aims to provide a full and up-to-date picture of Haredi society based on statistical information and data analysis, covering a range of subject areas including demographics, education, welfare, standard of living, employment, voting patterns in Knesset elections, and lifestyles.

The Annual Statistical Report on Ultra-Orthodox Society in Israel is produced by a team of researchers from the Jerusalem Institute for Policy Research and the Israel Democracy Institute.

Legal opinions to the Ministerial Committee on Legislation 
The Ministerial Committee on Legislation is one of Israel's most important ministerial committees. Chaired by the Minister of Justice, it meets weekly to decide the governing coalition's position on all proposed legislation, whether government-sponsored or private members' bills.

Every week, the Israel Democracy Institute submits a legal opinion on the bills being discussed by the committee, which it also shares with relevant Knesset committees. The opinion is written based on the areas of research expertise of the institute's research fellows.

Security Clearance blog 
Security Clearance is an online forum for analyzing issues relating to both national security and democracy. It aims to contribute to the public-academic debate on national security issues from a range of perspectives, including law, ethics, and social sciences.

The blog is edited by researchers at the Israel Democracy Institute, but is open to a diverse range of views, and to writers from a variety of fields related to national security who seek to participate in serious, open, and fruitful discussions. The views expressed on the blog are strictly those of the writers themselves, and do not represent the institutions or organizations to which they belong, or the views of the blog editors or the Israel Democracy Institute.

Elections and Political Parties 
This comparative tool, developed by the Israel Democracy Institute, provides an overview of Israel's elections since the founding of the state, and of the political parties that participated in each. The information provided by party includes the parties' political platform, main leaders, the number of votes and Knesset seats won at each election, and their representation in government. The information on elections includes a description of the major issues that formed the backdrop to each, and the political context in which they were held. Additionally, full lists of candidates are provided, including those parties that did not reach the electoral threshold.

Comparative International Perspective 
This tool provides in-depth political information on 50 democratic countries, including Israel. This information includes basic data on each country (population, area, language), current leaders, system of government, electoral system, type of current government, and structure of legislative authority.

In addition, it allows users to view countries' rankings according to a number of comparative indexes, such as freedom of the press, perception of corruption, percentage of female members of parliament, GINI inequality index, and more. Users can compare multiple countries on a particular index, or compare multiple index rankings for a particular country.

Constitution by Consensus 
In 2001, the Israel Democracy Institute established the Constitution by Consensus public council, chaired by former Supreme Court President Meir Shamgar, with the aim of designing a constitution for Israel that would enjoy broad public support. The council had around 100 members, including ministers and Knesset members; secular, national religious, and Haredi Jews; Arabs; right-wingers and left-wingers; and academics, jurists, religious leaders, and public figures. Over the course of five years, this public council examined the diverse range of views relating to constitutional issues in Israel, and sought to formulate the agreements and compromises that would be necessary to create a consensual constitution. The council's discussions formed the basis and inspiration for the Israel Democracy Institute's proposal for a constitution by consensus.