[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 10]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

claiming men from their vices, and winning them
over to the cause of virtue. By the severity of his own manners, he may
sufficiently evince the motives of his conduct; nor can he, by any
means, hope for more success than if he shows that he practises more
than he preaches, and uses a greater degree of indulgence to the
failings of others than he requires for his own."

"Nothing," said Mr Merton, "can be more rational or moderate than these
sentiments; why then do you persist in pleading your incapacity for an
employment which you can so well discharge?"

"Because," said Mr Barlow, "he that undertakes the education of a child,
undertakes the most important duty in society, and is severally
answerable for every voluntary omission. The same mode of reasoning,
which I have just been using, is not applicable here. It is out of the
power of any individual, however strenuous may be his endeavours, to
prevent the mass of mankind from acquiring prejudices and corruptions;
and, when he finds them in that state, he certainly may use all the
wisdom he possesses for their reformation. But this rule will never
justify him for an instant in giving false impressions where he is at
liberty to instil truth, and in losing the only opportunity which he
perhaps may ever possess, of teaching pure morality and religion. How
will such a man, if he has the least feeling, bear to see his pupil
become a slave, perhaps to the grossest vices; and to reflect with a
great degree of probability that this catastrophe has been owing to his
own inactivity and improper indulgence? May not all human characters
frequently be traced back to impressions made at so early a period, that
none but discerning eyes would ever suspect their existence? Yet nothing
is more certain; what we are at twenty depends upon what we were at
fifteen; what we are at fifteen upon what we were at ten; where shall we
then place the beginning of the series? Besides, sir, the very
prejudices and manners of society, which seem to be an excuse for the
present negligence in the early education of children, act upon my mind
with a contrary effect. Need we fear that, after every possible
precaution has been taken, our pupil should not give a sufficient loose
to his passions, or should be in danger of being too severely virtuous?
How glorious would be such a distinction, how much to be wished for, and
yet how little to be expected by any one who is moderately acquainted
with the world! The instant he makes his entrance there, he will find a
universal relaxation and indifference to everything that is serious;
everything will conspire to represent pleasure and sensuality as the
only business of human beings, and to throw a ridicule upon every
pretence to principle or restraint. This will be the doctrine that he
will learn at theatres, from his companions, from the polite circles
into which he is introduced. The ladies, too, will have their share in
the improvement of his character; they will criticise the colour of his
clothes, his method of making a bow, and of entering a room. They will
teach him that the great object of human life is to please the fair; and
that the only method of doing it is to acquire the graces. Need we fear
that, thus beset an every side, he should not attach a sufficient
importance to trifles, or grow fashionably languid in the discharge of
all his duties? Alas! sir, it seems to me that this will unavoidably
happen in spite of all our endeavours. Let us, then, not lose the
important moment of human life, when it is possible to flatter ourselves
with some hopes of success in giving good impressions; they may succeed;
they may either preserve a young man from gross immorality, or have a
tendency to reform him when the first ardour of youth is past. If we
neglect this awful moment, which can never return, with the view which,
I must confess, I have of modern manners, it appears to me like
launching a vessel in the midst of a storm, without a compass and
without a pilot."

"Sir," said Mr Merton, "I will make no other answer to what you have now
been saying, than to tell you, it adds, if possible, to my esteem of
your character; and that I will deliver my son into your hands, upon
your own conditions. And as to the terms--"

"Pardon me," replied Mr Barlow, "if I interrupt you here, and give you
another specimen of the singularity of my opinions. I am contented to
take your son for some months under my care, and to endeavour by every
means within my power to improve him. But there is one circumstance
which is indispensable, that you permit me to have the pleasure of
serving you as a friend. If you approve of my ideas and conduct, I will
keep him as long as you desire. In the mean time, as there are, I fear,
some little circumstances which have grown up, by too much tenderness
and indulgence, to be altered in his character, I think that I shall
possess more of the necessary influence an