[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Bangla Desh (song)

concert's single greatest performance by all concerned", and added that by the close of the show, the lyrics to Harrison's single were "no longer an expression of intent but of an accomplished mission – help has been given, people have been reached, an effort has been made and results will be felt".

In his album review for Melody Maker, Richard Williams wrote that the live version of "Bangla Desh" "roars and rages to a stunning close". Played at a faster tempo than the studio recording, it features what Spizer terms a "blistering" saxophone solo from Horn, and a vocal by Harrison that Leng describes as "astonishingly powerful" and "a pure act of zeal". As shown in the concert film, following his brief guitar solo towards the end of the song, Harrison repeats the line "Relieve the people of Bangla Desh" before exiting the stage to loud applause, as the band play on without him. In his book on the Beatles' first decade as solo artists, Rodriguez views this live performance as perhaps Harrison's "high water mark of public esteem". Pitchforks Quinn Moreland writes that the song title was the phrase that Harrison "hopes his audience takes away from the [concert]", and he adds:
Concise, direct, and with a killer saxophone solo, "Bangla Desh" makes a convincing argument: Yes, the '60s were done. The Manson murders terrified a nation, Altamont crashed and burned, Joplin and Hendrix were dead, and the Vietnam War raged on. Fear and doubt had poisoned the well of idealism. But right here, right now, Harrison suggests, you can honor some of the decade's lost promises by lending a hand to help a fellow man.

Although he was reportedly eager to repeat the experience of these New York shows, Harrison never played "Bangla Desh" in concert after 1971 and he did not perform live again until his 1974 North American tour with Shankar. By that point, the Bangladesh Liberation War had long ended, with the defeat of the Pakistani army in December 1971 by the allied forces of Bangladesh and India, but Bangladesh was now experiencing a devastating famine that would account for up to 1.5 million lives. During a concert in Los Angeles on 11 November, Harrison responded to requests for the song "Bangla Desh" with a suggestion that the audience instead chant "Krishna, Krishna, Krishna" and use the positive power of mantra to help the Bangladeshi population.

Cover versions
Harrison biographer Alan Clayson has written of the "triumph" of the Bangladesh concerts leading to a host of imitators and tribute acts replicating the shows' programme, among which was a French band's cover version of "Bangla Desh". Another example was the Tribe's Bangla Desh (1972), a full album of highlights from the concerts, including Harrison's "Something", "My Sweet Lord" and "Here Comes the Sun". The previous year, Stu Phillips & the Hollyridge Strings released an easy listening version of "Bangla Desh" on their Beatles tribute album The George, John, Paul & Ringo Songbook (1971). Another 1971 cover version, re-released in 2002 on the compilation When They Was Fab – A Tribute to the Solo Beatles, was recorded by the Top of the Poppers.

Following Jim Horn's prominent contribution to the original Harrison recording, Italian saxophonist Fausto Papetti recorded the song for his 1972 album 14a Raccolta. Alternative band B.A.L.L. covered "Bangla Desh" on their 1988 album Bird, as part of their parody of early 1970s rock stars such as the former Beatles.

Personnel
The following musicians are believed to have played on the studio recording of "Bangla Desh".
George Harrison – vocals, electric guitar, slide guitar, backing vocals
Leon Russell – piano
Jim Horn – tenor sax, baritone sax, horn arrangement
Billy Preston – organ
Klaus Voormann – bass
Ringo Starr – drums
Jim Keltner – drums

Chart performance

Notes

References

Sources