[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eric Roozendaal

n the Labor Party to move Roozendaal to an un-winnable position on the Party's Legislative Council ticket for the NSW election in March 2011. In February 2011, Premier Kristina Keneally announced that plans to privatise other electricity assets had been cancelled but promised support for Roozendaal.

During 2012 and 2013, the Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) investigated allegations of corruption involving Roozendaal and Eddie Obeid. A public inquiry heard allegations that Roozendaal was given an A$10,800 discount on a car. Roozendaal told the ICAC that Moses Obeid, a son of Eddie Obeid, helped facilitate the car purchase by introducing him to a car dealer, but that this was to secure a discount rather than an inappropriate benefit. The ICAC has suggested that the deal was "covered up" by various transfers of ownership. Roozendaal told the ICAC he had simply forgotten to transfer the registration to his wife's name. Opposition Leader John Robertson asked Labor's general secretary to suspend Roozendaal from the party until the ICAC released its findings. Following his appearance at the inquiry, in February 2013 Roozendaal announced that he would be separating from his wife of 15 years. He announced his resignation to the Legislative Council on 9 May 2013, in advance of his term that was due to expire in March 2019. and used his farewell speech to criticise Labor over the failure of power privatisation  an issue he said had dogged the labour movement for almost two decades. On 31 July 2013, ICAC cleared Roozendaal and Eddie Obeid of corruption over the motor vehicle transaction.

References

External links
1999 Workers Online interview with Roozendaal
 
 

|-

|-

1962 births
Living people
Independent members of the Parliament of New South Wales
Australian
Members of the New South Wales Legislative Council
Australian people of Dutch-Jewish descent
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of New South Wales
21st-century Australian politicians
Australian Labor Party officials
Treasurers of New South Wales