[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Eldzier Cortor

symbolic of the Pan-African flag, which pays homage to her African roots. The figure also resembles ancient marble sculptures, which were used in the past to celebrate someone. This painting is representative of celebrating the beauty and strength of black women, while emphasizing her African roots.

Eldzier Cortor was well known for his prints. Two of these prints being L'Abbatoire No. III and L'Abbatoire No.I. Cortor mainly used the intaglio printing process, however during the 1950s made several woodblock prints with Japanese printmaker Jun’ichiro Sekino. Woodblock printing is a form of relief printing where the parts that are not to be printed are simply cut out. L'Abbatoire was made with acid to etch the designs and Cortor used formaldehyde to prevent mold from growing on the work. These two materials are very reflective of the tone of these prints. The French word L’Abbatoire translates to a slaughterhouse in English. He was inspired to make the L’Abbatoire series by his experiences in Haiti when several of his friends were killed by François “Papa Doc” Duvalier’s dictatorial regime. He based the imagery on a slaughterhouse that he had visited while he was there. The gore is symbolic of the brutality of humanity. Looking closely, you can see hooks chains within the paintings, as well as a furnace on the right indicating a slaughterhouse. The print on the left is reminiscent of rotting meat whereas the print on the right seems slightly less grotesque. I believe this is intentional as the print on the left was made about ten years later and is reflective of how the event had been festering in Cortor's mind. On the right there appears to be human figures burning in the background. It is possible that these figures are symbolic of his friends. Both pictures include vague outlines of carcasses, and specifically within L'Abbatoire No. III, you can see what looks like ribs, a skull, and various other bones.

Exhibitions and collections
Cortor exhibited in the 1938 interracial show "An Exhibition in Defense of Peace and Democracy", which was sponsored by the Chicago Artists' Group. In 1940 he was one of the young artists exhibited at "The Exhibition of the Art of the American Negro" in Chicago. He also contributed to the 1967 City College of New York exhibition "The Evolution of Afro-American Artists: 1800 - 1950". In 1976 his painting Interior was included in the Los Angeles County Museum of Art exhibition "Two Centuries of Black American Art", curated by David Driskell, which toured the U.S in 1977. The 1988 group exhibition "Three Masters", at New York's Kenkeleba Gallery, featured Cortor's work alongside that of Hughie Lee-Smith and Archibald Motley. Michael Brenson, in The New York Times review of the show, expressed a preference for Cortor's still-life paintings, rather than his paintings of people. The solo show "Eldzier Cortor: Master Printmaker" was exhibited at the Boston Psychoanalytic Society and Institute in 2002. In 2010 his works were included in an exhibition at the Library of Congress, and a selection of his works on paper exhibited at the Indiana University Art Museum. In 2013 Cortor's prints were featured in an exhibition at the San Antonio Museum of Art

His works are held in the collections of Howard University, the Smithsonian American Art Museum and The Art Institute of Chicago, among others.

Awards and Fellowships 

 Recipient Bertha A. Florsheim award Art Institute Chicago, 1945; recipient William H. Bartels award, 1946, Carnegie Institute award, 1947; Julius Rosenwald fellow, Chicago, 1945–47; John Simon Guggenheim fellow, New York City, 1949-50.

References

Further reading