[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kazakhstan–United States relations

sm. The next session of the fourth Strategic Partnership Dialogue was held in Washington, D.C., on March 9, 2016, and covered a range of issues including: international and regional affairs, security cooperation, economic cooperation, governance, rule of law and labor and human rights in Kazakhstan.

The Fifth meeting of the U.S.-Kazakhstan Strategic Partnership Dialogue took place on September 20, 2016, in New York City, on the margins of the 71st United Nations General Assembly. Kazakhstan's FM Erlan Idrissov met with U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry. The sides assessed that the strategic partnership between the two countries has never been stronger.

Afghanistan and Regional Integration

The United States is looking to Kazakhstan to provide strategic support and regional influence in promotion of peace and security in Afghanistan in the wake of US troop withdrawal from Afghanistan.

The United States welcomes Kazakhstan's leadership role in supporting security in Afghanistan and the region, including through its assistance to the Afghan National Security Forces and contribution to the Istanbul Process. The United States values Kazakhstan's $50 million scholarship program to educate one thousand Afghan students in Kazakhstan's universities. The United States welcomes Kazakhstan's economic connectivity efforts, in particular, its investments in regional infrastructure such as the Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan railroad and the Caspian seaport of Aktau. The United States and Kazakhstan will continue to work closely together to support stability, peace, and prosperity in Afghanistan and the region.

In a June 2014 interview with KazakhTV in Almaty, Fatema Z. Sumar, the Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs, said that Kazakhstan had an important role in supporting the region, specially Afghanistan, transition towards stability and prosperity.

Nuclear Security and Nonproliferation
Then President Obama repeatedly emphasized Kazakhstan's important leadership role in global nuclear disarmament.
The United States and Kazakhstan reaffirmed their shared commitment to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction.  Threat reduction and nonproliferation remain a cornerstone of US-KZ joint efforts to ensure global and regional security. The United States welcomes Kazakhstan's efforts to establish a regional Nuclear Security Training Center in Kazakhstan. The United States supported Kazakhstan's offer to host an IAEA Low-Enriched Uranium Bank. The Obama administration worked closely with Nazarbayev administration to finalize the agreement for Kazakhstan to host the IAEA LEU Fuel Bank. In 2015, the U.S. government concluded an agreement with the IAEA to host a LEU bank in Kazakhstan.

Under the Cooperative Threat Reduction program, the United States spent $240 million to assist Kazakhstan in eliminating weapons of mass destruction and related infrastructure.

During the 2014 Nuclear Security Summit at The Hague, Presidents Obama and Nazarbayev issued a joint statement confirming their shared commitment to nonproliferation and strengthening nuclear security.

The Joint Statement went on to state:

The United States of America welcomes the Republic of Kazakhstan's activities to strengthen nuclear security and implement decisions of the Washington and Seoul Nuclear Security Summits, including by converting the VVR-K research reactor at the Institute of Nuclear Physics (INP) to low enriched uranium (LEU) fuel, downblending the INP's highly enriched uranium (HEU) material and removing the HEU spent fuel from the reactor. The United States and Kazakhstan will continue to work together to convert Kazakhstan's remaining HEU reactors to LEU fuel and eliminate all remaining HEU research reactor fuel as soon as technically feasible.

The fourth Nuclear Security Summit (NSS 2016) took place on March 31 – April 1, 2016, in Washington D.C. President Nursultan Nazarbayev addressed the Summit saying that Kazakhstan is regarded as one of the twenty countries to have the highest level of security of the nuclear facilities and materials. Within the framework of the NSS 2016, Kazakhstan and the U.S. adopted the joint statement on cooperation in the sphere of non-proliferation and nuclear security. The sides also reiterated overall commitment to continue practical cooperation in that sphere.