[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cyberbots: Full Metal Madness

win over anyone she meets, except for SHADE and Devilotte.
Bao and Mao Voiced by: Kappei Yamaguchi (Bao); Kae Araki (Mao) - They are siblings that have been caught by Earth Force. They escape and find a VA that's programmed for self-defense. Even though they have no piloting experience, the VA still operates fine due to the programming and sheer luck. Bao is very protective of his little sister. He doesn't know about the Earth Force's dealings and he doesn't care. He just wants to get away from everything safely with his sister.

Console-exclusive playable characters

Chiyomaru Kagura and Tessan Hagure Voiced by: Ryō Horikawa (Chiyomaru Kagura); Banjō Ginga (Tessan Hagure) - Chiyomaru Kagura is the head of the resistance fleet while Tessan Hagure is his guardian. The resistance forces' mission is to find and destroy the doomsday weapon created by the Weapon's Brain: G.O.D. The two once part with the Earth Forces until they left to form a resistance forces to oppose the Earth Force's experiments. Chiyomaru pilots the P-10033 Gaits.
Princess Devilotte de Deathsatan IX Voiced by: Etsuko Kozakura - Devilotte is the daughter of a dangerous and reputed pirate king. She and her two lackeys (Dave the scientist and Xavier the wizard) fly around space looking for people with VAs to steal them and add to her collection. She is not involved with either side of the dispute in the Earth Force events. She pilots the S-008 Super-8, a mecha in the shape of an octopus that was designed for underwater use. Devilotte has a crush on Gawaine. Devilotte appears in Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo as a hidden character, an assist character in Marvel vs. Capcom: Clash of Super Heroes a cameo in Doronjo's ending in Tatsunoko vs. Capcom: Ultimate All-Stars, and a Solo Unit in Project X Zone. She was also released as a playable character for the Puzzle Fighter mobile game in 2018.
SHADE Voiced by: Shōzō Iizuka - Earth Force began something similar to a 'super soldier' experiment. They needed someone who was strong and young. SHADE ended up being their candidate. They promised that he would be the perfect soldier but they needed to see if they had complete control over him, so they made him kill everyone in his unit. Earth Force writes the incident off as an accident. Shade is now a cyborg and an attack dog for Earth Force. His memories are a little scrambled and he is trying to remember who he was. Jin's last name is the first thing that starts to refresh his memory. In the end he dies saving Earth, doing one last favor for his old friend. He pilots the UVA-02 Helion.

Non-playable characters
Ken Saotome Voiced by: Tesshō Genda - Ken, Shade and Gawaine belonged to the same unit in Earth Force and the three were close. Ken was killed by Shade one year before the start of Cyberbots. Gawaine wasn't there when it happened and it was believed to be an accident. He looked like a taller, bulkier version of Jin, except he wore green instead of white.
Final Weapon's Brain - G.O.D.(Ganglions of Omniscient Disrupter) - G.O.D. is a massive brain that plans to destroy humanity. It mainly controls the mech X-0 WARLOCK, like Azrael before it, but in other storyline paths controls the RF-027 JACKAL and the FZ-900J KILLER BEE as well. The brain seems able to dominate Arieta temporarily. Ultimately, it is destroyed.
Emperor Death Satan - Emperor Death Satan is the king of Heldorado and the Milky Way Express, and Devilotte's father. More importantly, apart from owning a WARLOCK VA, he is also the owner of Z-AKUMA (Z-GOUKI in Japan), an extremely powerful mech based on the Street Fighter villain. His face is hidden behind a huge suit of armor, and his voice booms audibly, implying that he may not be human.

Ports
The Sega Saturn version of the game uses the 1 MB RAM expansion cartridge and includes a code which makes the Akuma mech playable.

Reception

In Japan, Game Machine listed Cyberbots: Full Metal Madness on their June 1, 1995 issue as being the thirteenth most-popular arcade game the previous two weeks, outperforming titles such as Virtua Fighter. Reviewing the arcade version, a Next Generation critic summarized that the game "lacks the charm, craze - and gameplay - for which [Capcom] is known." He particularly criticized the game concept and limited number of combo moves, and added that "when the bots do attack, it looks like a bad disco contest."

See also
List of fighting games

References

External links

1995 video games
Arcade video games
Capcom games
CP System II games
Sega Saturn games
PlayStation (console) games
PlayStation Network games
Fighting games
Video games about mecha
Video games developed in Japan
Video games scored by Akari Kaida
Video games scored by Masato Kouda