[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Podemos (Brazil)

Podemos (PODE; , ), previously known as the National Labour Party (, PTN) is a Brazilian political party which supports direct democracy.

Led by the Abreu family (José Masci de Abreu, Dorival de Abreu and Renata Abreu) since its foundation in 1995, the PTN changed its name to Podemos in 2016. The party claims that the inspiration for its name was the slogan of Barack Obama's campaign "Yes, we can".

In 2018, the party chose Senator Alvaro Dias as its candidate for the presidency of Brazil.

In 2022, it announced plans to merge with the Social Christian Party.

History

National Labour Party (1995–2016) 
The PTN was founded in May 1995, gaining provisional registration in the same year. In 1996, led by former congressman Dorival de Abreu, the party obtained its definitive registration. After the death of Dorival, the party was led by his brother and former congressman José de Abreu. In the presidential election of 1998 the PTN chose its secretary-general Thereza Ruiz as its candidate; she obtained 166,053 votes.

In the 2014 elections, the PTN elected four congressmen—Bacelar, Renata Abreu (daughter of José de Abreu, and currently the national president of the party), Christiane de Souza Yared and Delegate Edson Moreira—and 14 state deputies. In 2016, several politicians changed their party and some of them joined the PTN, which now has 18 congressmen and 5 senators.

The PTN was the party that had the greatest proportional growth in the local elections of 2016.

Podemos (2016–present) 
In December 2016, the then National Labour Party changed its name and was renamed Podemos. Based on research and consulting studies, the organization was renamed inspired in the chant "Yes, we can" from the 2008 Barack Obama campaign to the presidency. According to the party's leadership, Podemos was inspired by an international line of movements that propose to listen to people, defend causes of collective interest and together decide the future of the nation, a model that claims to leave the old dispute between left or right and chooses to go forward, every day dividing more the country's decisions with the population. Podemos believes it is the answer to a generation that understands that it is not the youth who does not want to know about politics, but this politics that does not know how to talk to the youth. The leadership of Podemos also understands that the party is part of a society that today is mobilized through causes related to people's daily life, contrary to what they consider as stagnant political parties in outmoded models that seek only to remain in power. Podemos arose in a historical context in which the vast majority of Brazilians have no party preference and do not believe in the old political parties and the old politics.

After the JBS plea bargain, Podemos was the first party to leave the allied base of the Michel Temer government on 18 May 2017, also leaving the party bloc of which it integrated alongside Progressive (PP) and Labour Party of Brazil (PTdoB) parties and then declaring independence in relation to government. Podemos became represented in the Federal Senate with the affiliation of Alvaro Dias (ex Green) and Romário, who left the Social Democratic Party at the end of June. In August, the party received the affiliation of José Medeiros (ex Social Democrat), senator by Mato Grosso. In November, Podemos expelled state congressmen who voted to free Jorge Picciani, the president of Alerj, Paulo Melo and Edson Albertassi from the prison, who were the target of Operação Cadeia Velha. After this episode, Podemos also expelled a congressman that accepted the position of Minister of the Cities in President Michel Temer's cabinet.

In July 2017, the party made an online poll to decide how congresswoman Renata Abreu should vote regarding the complaint of passive corruption against President Temer in the Commission of Constitution and Justice. Later, Podemos made other online polls to decide how their parliament members should vote on welfare reform and the end of legal immunity.

In the 2018 general election, Podemos formed a coalition with the Social Christian Party, the Christian Labour Party and the Progressive Republican Party in support of the candidacy of Alvaro Dias for president. Dias obtained 859,601 votes (0,80%); the party performed well in parliamentary election, electing 11 deputies and one senator. Dias endorsed Bolsonaro in the second round.

On 21 December 2018 the Humanist Party of Solidarity merged into Podemos, increasing its parliamentary representation to 17 deputies and 7 senators and turning Podemos into the third group in the Senate. Podemos later joined Bolsonaro's majority.