[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nicholas Purcell of Loughmoe

d. The garrison fired at the horses of the oncoming Jacobite soldiers and were successful in downing many. Those who did succeed in reaching the defences found themselves confronted by "a dry bank of seven-foot high at the waterside", which most of them quickly decided was impracticable for cavalry.

The commanding officer, Edmund Butler, Viscount Mountgarret's second son, "being extraordinarily well mounted", showed the way and spurring his horse, flew over the bank, only to be at once made prisoner. Colonel Nicholas who was close behind Butler, had his horse killed under him and only saved himself by quickly jumping onto the horse's hind and heaving himself backwards.

After the Siege of Derry, Colonel Nicholas was sent by the King to join the Highland forces of the "Bonnie Dundee". The London Gazette reported 300 Irish troops and 60 horses were landed in Argyllshire, having been transported there by three French men-of-war and several other vessels from Carrickfergus. Colonel Nicholas had brought with him  of powder, ball, match and flint, and was under the command of Major-General Alexander Cannon.

On the morning of 17 May 1689, 400 men of Colonel Purcell's regiment landed in small boats at Lochaber and escaped capture by Sir George Rooke by hiding in the mountains of Mull. On 12 July 1689 they landed at Duart in the Isle of Mull. During their short passage the French frigates had captured the Scottish privateer Pelican and her consort after a sharp encounter.  Purcell's Dragoon's joined Dundee's Highlanders about 16 July, as the clans were gathering to meet the Williamite forces under Lieutenant-General Hugh Mackay. On 27 July the opposing forces met at Killiecrankie, between Aldclune and Aldgirnaig.

On his extreme right flank, facing Balfour's Regiment, Dundee placed Clan Maclean, under Sir John Maclean of Duart, and Purcell's Dragoon Regiment. To their left he placed the Clanranalds, Macdonalds and Glengarrys. On the extreme left flank were the Macdonals of Sleat, and a mixed regiment under Sir Alexander Maclean. To the left center were the Camerons, under Lochiel, opposing Mackay's Regiment. The center, opposite Leven's Regiment, was left open. The Viscount Dundee commanded on the left of center with his cavalry under Sir William Wallace.

Dundee held his fire until a half-hour before sunset, at which time the Highlanders charged down from the heights of Killiecrankie whooping war cries, and finally at muzzle-point, drawing their claymores and stampeding the Williamite troops. Purcell's Dragoon Regiment participated in the charge with gallantry.

Iain Lom MacDonald, one of the Highlanders present, well expressed the outcome when he later wrote: -In the tender birch copse, Near the farm of MacGeorge, Full many a gay cloak lies torn.

Unfortunately for the Jacobite cause the "Bonnie Dundee" was mortally wounded in the battle, and the initial advantage melted away. Purcell's Dragoon Regiment returned to Ireland and joined the squadron which had stayed behind and served with Major-General Buchan before Enniskillen on 30 July.

Earlier in the summer French Marshal Conrad von Rosen had rendezvoused at Trim, while on his way to attack Enniskillen. He had written to King James II from the rendezvous on 6 June 1689 to complain that Purcell's Dragoon Regiment was not well enough equipped to fight effectively. On 29 June von Rosen noted that the Duke of Berwick was using Purcell's dragoons to fortify positions on the River Finn and later in the defence of Omagh.  The regiment received a commendation by the Duke of Berwick in action near Enniskillen, in a dispatch to Lieutenant-General Richard Hamilton.

On 29 August 1689 M. d'Escot wrote to Comte d'Avaux from Drogheda that Gormanston's Regiment had arrived that afternoon, and Purcell's Dragoon Regiment had arrived that evening, and listed Purcell's Regiment as composed of 12 troops for a total of 360 men, as recently determined by a review of troops. The regiment may have arrived from Bangor Bay with Brigadier Thomas Maxwell and a force of 500 horse and dragoons.