[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fort McKavett State Historic Site

, but by 1878, with the defeat of the Lipan Apache people of far-west Texas, the fort lost its strategic importance. In 1880, the US Army once more decided to close Fort McKavett, and on June 30, 1883, it was closed and abandoned by the 16th Infantry Regiment.

Relationship with Fort McKavett, Texas

Shortly after the establishment of Fort McKavett in the 1850s, a town was established a  to its north. Its name was to be Lehnesburg, after a German merchant, but wound up with the name Scabtown. When the fort was abandoned in 1859, most of Scabtown's residents left and those that remained, such as the Robinson family, who owned the land the fort stood on, moved into the fort's buildings. The return of the US Army to Fort McKavett also meant the return of Scabtown, which was reestablished across the river from the fort as a collection of saloons and brothels catering to the fort's garrison. That garrison, composed mostly of African American soldiers faced sometimes violent discrimination from local whites, whom the soldiers were charged with policing during Reconstruction.

When Fort McKavett was permanently closed in 1883, it was once again occupied by civilians. The fort's buildings were converted into residences and businesses, which found stability by catering to the needs of local cattle and sheep ranchers, and the civilian populace abandoned the name Scabtown for that of the fort. Fort McKavett, Texas, began a slow growth until it reached a peak of 150 residents in the late 1920s. Thereafter it began to decline until 2000, when only 15 people resided in Fort McKavett.

Preservation

Restoration of the fort began in 1967 with the purchasing of several of its buildings by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, which established the Fort McKavett State Historic Site. Archaeological digs were carried out on the site in June and July 1969 to locate lost features of the fort, the restoration of which continued for the rest the 20th century; by 1990, 17 buildings had been restored. Fort McKavett was nominated for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places on June 18, 1969, and was included on July 6, 1971. On January 1, 2008, Fort McKavett was transferred from the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department to the Texas Historical Commission.

The fort received three Recorded Texas Historic Landmarks: In 1936, marker number 4795 for the site of Fort McKavett; in 1963, marker number 1998 for Fort McKavett C.S.A.; and in 1968, marker number 4642 for the Sentry Building.

Grounds and architecture
As of October 1, 2016, the Fort McKavett State Historic Site covers .

The materials used for the construction, reconstruction, and expansion of the fort during its military operated were mostly sourced locally. Limestone was quarried from at least three sites in the vicinity of the fort. For its first year of existence, none of the completed buildings at the fort had any floors, doors, or glass windows, and materials for these things had to be brought from Fredericksburg,  away.

See also

Texas Forts Trail
List of Texas state historic sites
National Register of Historic Places listings in Menard County, Texas

References

Sources

Books and articles

Texas State Historical Association

External links

 Official website
 "The Post on the San Saba" in "Texas Beyond History", University of Texas at Austin, College of Liberal Arts

Texas state historic sites
State parks of Texas
Museums in Menard County, Texas
Open-air museums in Texas
Military and war museums in Texas
Recorded Texas Historic Landmarks
Forts on the National Register of Historic Places in Texas
Protected areas of Menard County, Texas
1852 establishments in Texas
Houses in Menard County, Texas
National Register of Historic Places in Menard County, Texas