[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dornier Do 31

ayload and range of the type compared to conventional transport aircraft. According to Dow, the German government had been frustrated by a lack of commitment forthcoming from other NATO countries, and was unwilling to contribute alone to the high funding requirement needs for full-scale development.

During a later stage of development, Dornier planned to dispense with the Do 31's outer nacelles and their engines; in their place, larger RB153 turbofan engines, each capable of generating approximately  of thrust, would have been adopted once this powerplant had become available. A further development of the Do 31, referred to as the Do 131, intended to be powered by either twelve or fourteen liftjets, was also explored by Dornier; however, no prototype of this variant was ever constructed.

Aircraft on display

Both flying prototypes have been preserved in Germany, but the fate and current location of the non-flying testbed (E2) is not known. 
 Dornier Do 31 E1, D-9530, is preserved and displayed at the Dornier Museum Friedrichshafen. 
 Dornier Do 31 E3, D-9531, was initially put into storage at Oberpfaffenhofen, then for several years on display in the open in the courtyard of the Deutsches Museum in Munich and after restoration is now on display at the Deutsches Museum Flugwerft Schleissheim at Oberschleissheim near Munich

Operators

 German Air Force (Luftwaffe)

Specifications (Do 31E)

See also

References

Notes

Citations

Bibliography
Dow, Andrew. Pegasus, The Heart of the Harrier. Pen and Sword, 2009. .
Green, William. The Observer's Book of Aircraft. London. Frederick Warne & Co. Ltd., 1968.
Jackson, Paul A. German Military Aviation 1956–1976. Hinckley, Leicestershire, UK: Midland Counties Publications, 1976. .
Hirschel, Ernst Heinrich., Horst Prem and Gero Madelung. Aeronautical Research in Germany: From Lilienthal until Today. Springer Science & Business Media, 2012. .
 .

External links

 Inside The Cockpit - Dornier Do-31 Military Aviation History

Do 031
V/STOL aircraft by thrust vectoring
1960s German experimental aircraft
Abandoned military aircraft projects of Germany
1960s German military transport aircraft
Ten-engined jet aircraft
Aircraft with auxiliary jet engines
High-wing aircraft
Aircraft first flown in 1967