[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Racism in sport

Racism in sports has been a prevalent issue throughout the world. In particular racism towards African Americans has been especially severe throughout the history of sports in the United States and around the world.

The Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission (HREOC) released a report in 2007 stating that racial abuse and vilification are commonplace in international sports, in places such as Australia, Europe, and America.

By sport

Association football 

Racism has a long history in association football, and has prompted a response from numerous political and footballing organisations. The topic of racism in association football has been widely covered by the media as well as academic studies. Scholars have described an "invisible centrality of whiteness" that permeates the upper levels of football in Europe. Non-white football players in Europe are frequently stereotyped in a racialised manner. In response to these incidents, numerous anti-racism organisations have been formed, including Show Racism the Red Card, established in 1996. Other organisations include Football Against Racism in Europe and Racism Breaks the Game.

On January 3, 2013, Italian football club Pro Patria supporters made racist comments during a match against AC Milan. Ghanaian footballer Kevin-Prince Boateng was consistently racially abused during the match:“When Boateng touched the ball for the first time, a small part of the crowd made monkey noises: Oo -- oo -- oo -- oo...Fifty or so people called him an animal. He locked eyes with them and could see the hate. He pointed to his head, to say, 'You're an idiot.' The chants went on for 20 minutes: Oo -- oo -- oo -- oo...Finally, after about twenty more minutes of the chanting, Boateng picked up the ball, kicked it into the stands and walked off the field. The team then boarded its bus and headed back to the AC Milan compound. "

During a Euro 2020 qualifier match between England and Bulgaria, the match was stopped twice after Bulgarian fans shouted racist chants at the English players, with four fans being arrested after the match. Racist incidents in 2018 rose by 67% in professional games, a sharp increase compared to other types of discrimination. Discrimination is especially targeted at referees of colour by players sent off due to bad conduct. Joel Mannix, a referee, recalls one instance of another referee telling him:"I'm just refereeing a game. I may have got it wrong, I may not have got it wrong, but is there any reason to act like that?" Josh Magennis, a striker for the Northern Ireland team, has called for a "paper trail" for football tickets after several instances of racism from fans while playing football at a professional level.

Rugby

Australia 

Anthony Mundine, a rugby league player, claimed that New South Wales was so racist that he quit rugby and took up boxing. He believed that due to his race, he was never truly appreciated for his talents in the league, being forced to sit out and play different positions, despite proving himself to be among the most talented in the league. Even as a professional boxer, Mundine still feels that there is racism in Australian sports, and he decided to sit during the national anthem before his fight against Danny Green on February 3, 2017. He believes that the national anthem is not representative of the black people, who are still being oppressed in Australia, and did not acknowledge it.

 News.com.au reports that television commentator and former rugby league great Andrew Johns had been banned for allegedly calling Greg Inglis a "black cunt" while addressing the New South Wales rugby league team. Additionally, it was alleged that Johns had referred to Timana Tahu as a "black cunt", "abo", "coon", "nigger" and "monkey".

Italy 

The Italian club Benetton Treviso suspended a player after Cherif Troare, a black Italian member of the team, received a banana as a joke "Christmas gift" and other players laughed when Troare opened the gift.

Professional baseball

Negro leagues 

As sports progressed, race relations progressed at a comparable rate. In baseball for instance, African Americans were barred from participation in the National Association of Baseball Players because of regional prejudice and unofficial color bans dating back to the 1890s. Due to this segregation, blacks worked together to create the Negro leagues. These leagues comprised mostly all African-American teams. As a whole, the Negro leagues became one of the largest and most successful enterprises run mainly by African Americans. Their founding and resilient growth stood as a testament to the determination and drive of African-Americans to battle the imposing racial segregation and social disadvantage.

Jackie Robinson