[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Michael Hayden (general)

States, and we will vote for him."

In 2020, he endorsed Joe Biden in the presidential election. He was one of the 51 former U.S. intelligence officials who signed the October 19, 2020, letter that said the Hunter Biden laptop story "has all the classic earmarks of a Russian information operation."

In October 2023, Hayden posted on social media that Senator Tommy Tuberville, who had been holding up military promotions in the Senate, should be "removed" from the human race. Hayden's comments were seen in reporting as an apparent threat or call for Tuberville's assassination. Later, Hayden appeared to double down on his comments on Tuberville being "removed" from the human race, saying that "MAGAnuts had lost their mind" over his posts. In reaction, General Michael Flynn said that Hayden should be arrested. Tuberville reported Hayden to the United States Capitol Police for the comments, saying that Hayden had called for his "politically motivated assassination".

Military career

Awards and decorations

Effective dates of promotion

Honors
In 2007, Hayden received the Golden Plate Award of the American Academy of Achievement. In 2008, in his native Northside neighborhood, the city of Pittsburgh named a part of a street going past
Heinz Field in his honor. On July 26, 2011, Hayden was inducted into the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps Distinguished Alumni in a ceremony at Maxwell AFB, Alabama, officiated by Lt. Gen. Allen G. Peck, commander, Air University. He serves as a member of the board of advisors of the Military Cyber Professionals Association (MCPA)

Bibliography

Books

Critical studies and reviews of Hayden's work
 

Playing to the Edge was one of The New York Times Book Reviews 100 Most Notable Books of 2016.

References

External links

 Official Air Force biography
 Official CIA biography
 Official NSA biography
 
 C-SPAN Q&A interview with Hayden, April 15, 2007
 
 

|-

|-

1945 births
American people of Irish descent
Commanders Crosses of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany
Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency
Directors of the National Security Agency
Duquesne University alumni
George W. Bush administration personnel
Honorary Officers of the Order of Australia
Living people
Order of National Security Merit members
Recipients of the Defense Distinguished Service Medal
Recipients of the Defense Superior Service Medal
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
United States Air Force generals
United States Deputy Directors of National Intelligence
The Washington Institute for Near East Policy