[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mary Maverick

rs, more Anglo families moved to San Antonio.  Her brothers returned to Alabama, but William came back to Texas in 1839 with another brother, Andrew, to begin farming. Mary was often left alone, as her husband spent months traveling for business or combing the Texas wilderness on surveying missions.

The Mavericks participated in the so-called Council House Fight on March 19, 1840, when half of a peace-delegation of sixty-five Comanches, consisting of men, women and children, was slaughtered and the other half taken hostage. The Comanche delegation arrived in San Antonio, a traditional safe haven for peace talks,  to negotiate a peace treaty and a demarcation line and bargain for the ransom of white captives.  The army had ordered prior to the meeting that, if not all Anglo-Texans believed to be Comanche captives at that time were  returned at the beginning of the talks, all the negotiators of the band be held until the captives were returned, and then the ransom would be paid. Maverick and a female neighbor had been watching several Indian children playing when they heard gunfire within the council house and saw Indians fleeing from the building.  She alerted her husband and brother Andrew, and, while Samuel Maverick rushed outside to chase down the Indians, Maverick and Andrew hurried outside to find the children.  They discovered three of the fugitive Indians in the back yard, while their slave cook, Jinny, tried to protect the two Maverick children and her own four children by threatening the Indians with a large rock.  Andrew Adams shot two of the three Indians and joined the main fight.  Maverick hid her children in the house and watched the battle through the windows.  At one point she was curious enough to go outside for a closer look, but was ordered to return indoors by a soldier.  The skirmish continued until all of the Indians were dead or captured.  In her diary, Maverick wrote that "'All [Indians] had a chance to surrender ... and every one who offered or agreed to give up was taken prisoner and protected.'"

Two  days after the battle, Samuel Maverick again left his wife and children alone, under the protection of her two brothers. During his business trip, Sam sold many of his lands in South Carolina and Alabama, and bought two years worth of provisions, which he had shipped to Linville, Texas.  Before he could escort the goods on to San Antonio, Linville was raided by a party led by Buffalo Hump, during the Great Raid of 1840, and all of their provisions were destroyed.

In December 1840, Maverick's aunt and uncle, John and Ann Bradley, arrived in Texas from Alabama along with their young children.  Happy to be surrounded by family again, Maverick expanded her own family in April 1841 with the birth of her daughter Agatha.  Later that year, Maverick's mother, Agatha Adams, planned a journey to visit them and to consider settling in Texas.  She fell ill days before she was scheduled to leave, however, and died on October 2.

Runaway of '42
The citizens of San Antonio received word in February 1842 that Mexican president Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna was again sending troops into Texas, which Mexico still did not recognize as a separate country.  The Mavericks left some of their possessions with Mexican neighbors and joined their other Anglo neighbors in the Runaway of '42.  With her brothers William and Andrew, Maverick and her immediate family travelled east, the first time Maverick had left San Antonio since her arrival.  For several days, she and the children boarded with a rancher outside of Seguin while her husband and brothers returned to San Antonio to fight.  On March 6, the sixth anniversary of the fall of the Alamo, Maverick received word that San Antonio had fallen to Santa Anna.  She worried about her men for several days until they appeared, having turned back before reaching San Antonio.  The Mavericks moved on to Gonzales, where they squatted in a house left empty when its residents had fled in the Runaway.

The men accompanied Texas army troops to retake San Antonio, and the Mexican army retreated without a fight, although they caused a great deal of damage to the homes of American citizens.   Samuel Maverick returned to his wife and moved her to LaGrange so that she would be farther from the threat of Indian attacks.  On April 30 he left Maverick alone there while he returned to Alabama to get her younger sister, Elizabeth, who had been living as a boarder since her mother died the previous year.