[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Garry Bocaly

y faith in the spirit of this team to be champions". His faith was justified: against a background of home supporters protesting by throwing tennis balls, toilet rolls and firecrackers onto the pitch, causing twenty minutes' worth of delays, a 2–1 win confirmed Montpellier's first ever league title.

A thigh injury in pre-season training meant Bocaly did not return to action until 1 September 2012 against Sochaux. He was in the starting eleven for Montpellier's debut in Champions League football, a 2–1 loss at home to Arsenal in the group stage, and was voted man of the match on his next league appearance, a 2–0 win away to Nancy in which the defence were returning to last season's form. Four days later, Bocaly was sent off for a foul that gave away a penalty and left Schalke's Julian Draxler with a broken arm; his team drew the game to earn their first Champions League point. He was again sent off at the end of October for a professional foul on Nice's Neal Maupay in what was Montpellier's first home win of the season.

In mid-November, Bocaly injured a hip; he underwent surgery in March 2013 which put an end to his season. A thigh injury in September delayed his recuperation, and more damage to the thigh put paid to a proposed return to the reserves in November. He finally returned to the first team on 11 April 2014, when he started and completed a 3–2 loss at home to his former club, Olympique Marseille. He played the first half in central defence before switching to right back after the break, and said that despite the disappointing result, it was a great delight to be back after 516 days out. He played twice more, and was released at the end of the season.

In a bitter interview with L'Équipe soon afterwards, Bocaly criticised the Montpellier club. He claimed that after its medical staff were unable to treat his hip problem, he had to source his own treatment at his own expense; that he was prepared to accept a contract extension on reduced terms, but then read in the press that he was being released; and that interest from other clubs was discouraged by rumours that he was no longer able to perform at a high level.

Arles-Avignon
In July 2014, Bocaly signed for Ligue 2 club Arles-Avignon. He quickly established himself in the starting eleven before his role in a post-match fracas against Nîmes earned him a three-match ban. He played just once more before an attack of appendicitis developed into peritonitis that cost him ten days in hospital,  of bodyweight, and came close to costing him his life. He returned to action in December, playing in eight more matches, but he had returned too soon, before his muscles had fully recovered from the operation, and the inflammation in his hip became intolerable. He underwent successful hip surgery in May 2015, but two weeks needed a second appendectomy on tissue not removed in the original operation. Bocaly regained fitness and resumed training with Championnat National (third-tier) club AS Béziers. Interviewed in March 2016, he was keen to get back into professional football, and believed it would be possible. By December, he had accepted that his health issues had done too much damage, and announced his retirement from football, without regrets.

Return to Martinique
He remained in football as an organiser of training camps for professional clubs, and became involved in a business marketing sparkling rum. In 2018, he resumed playing football as an amateur with Martinique Championnat National club Aiglon du Lamentin, and helped them to become the only overseas team reach the last 64 of the 2018–19 Coupe de France, in which they took Ligue 2 opponents Orléans to extra time before losing 3–2. He held ambitions of opening a soccer school to give youngsters in his native Martinique the opportunities that he had to find in mainland France, and in August 2019, he was appointed director of Paris Saint-Germain's youth academy in the country.

International career
Bocaly has appeared with all of France's youth teams beginning with the under-16s all the way to the under-21s.

He was a member of the under-19 squad that reached the semi-finals at the 2007 UEFA European Under-19 Championship.

Bocaly earned his first cap with the under-21 squad on 26 March 2008, in a match against the Czech Republic. The following year, he was called up by the under-21 squad for the Toulon Tournament in France. Bocaly helped the side reach the final, which they lost 1–0 against Chile. Bocaly made fourteen appearances for the under-21 side.

Bocaly spoke out about his possible call up from the national team for the UEFA Euro 2012 and later said in another interview that he was eligible to play for Martinique, where his family were from.

Personal life
Bocaly is married and together, they have two children, born in 2012 and 2014.

Career statistics
 All statistics are sourced to Soccerway except where individually noted.

References

External links