[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# List of Shaman King characters

s is revealed during Jun and Tamao's fight against Team Flower, where Bailong's arm is revealed to include a piston to greatly increase his punching power. Additionally, because of her knowledge in human anatomy, Jun willingly becomes the apprentice of Sati and gains the ability to resurrect people.

  
 
 Tao Yúan is the father of Tao Ren and Tao Jun. In the 2001 English anime, he is introduced as Ren and Jun's uncle. A powerful shaman who commands an army of jiangshi, he initially appears as a giant man who is both sadistic and malevolent. Because of Yuan, both Ren and Jun had extremely painful childhoods, as they were exposed to bloodshed and death on a daily basis, as well as severe physical abuse. When Jun questions his actions relating to Ren, also asking him to set Ren free, he laughs and proceeds to "punish" her by sealing her in a dungeon for the ten days it takes Ren to return home after his fight with Yoh. To meet Ren, Yúan creates an army of jiangshi from freshly killed corpses which Ren disposes of with little difficulty. Ren is unable to defeat his father in combat and is locked up and tortured alongside his sister as punishment. When Ren's friends arrive to save him, their combined efforts tear Yuan to pieces. At the verge of defeat, Yúan's concentration breaks and it is revealed that his appearance is an illusion created by his Over Soul – he actually appears as an older greatly bearded looking man very similar to Ren. He reveals the source of his obsession with the family doctrine is that he must bear the weight of two thousand years of Tao family souls (in a type of mortuary tablet armor) and reveals his second Over Soul, an oriental dragon with a head similar to his first Over Soul. Ren defeats his father and they have a small moment of revelation as Yuan passes him the Thunder Sword (Houraiken), a family heirloom. Yuan is shown much as a much more enthusiastic father afterward, such as coming to the Patch Village and cheering Ren on during his team's match, much to his son's embarrassment. When Keiko and Mikihisa Asakura approach the Tao family with the offer to teach Team Ren the secrets of the Ultra Senji Ryakketsu in order to stand a chance against Hao, Yuan refuses to accept the offer out of pride unless the Asakura can prove their strength by defeating him; Mikihisa accepts the challenge and successfully overcomes him.

  
 
 Tao Yūan's wife, the mother of Ren and Jun, an incredibly strong shaman in her own right who taught Jun how to create and control jiangshi. As the heir to the main branch of the family, she was required to find a husband. After a formal marriage interview, qualified suitors were ordered to fight Lan; losers were made into jiangshi while the winners were sent home if Lan did not like them. When Tao Yuan, a member of a branch family of the Tao challenged her, he defeated her in one strike and she fell in love at first sight. She still loves him, though she questions his brutality towards their children from his obsession to ensure the family's success in the Shaman Fight and is secretly amused by his attempt to disguise his slight jealousy towards her two personal jiangshi,  and , because they are remarkably handsome. As a member of the Tao family, she arrives in the Patch Village and accepts the Asakura's offer to impart the techniques of the Ultra Senji Ryakketsu and participates in the meeting between the families on how to deal with Hao as the end of the Shaman Fight approaches.

  
 
 Tao Ren's grandfather and former head of the family. He has a considerably more flexible and moderate attitude towards accepting help from the Asakura Family, commending Keiko's courage for approaching the Tao family although the secrets of the Ultra Senji Ryakketsu could be used against them and that the Tao family will not stray from their desire for revenge. He is later seen participating in the meetings between the Asakura and Tao families on how to deal with Hao as the end of the Shaman Tournament approaches.

The Patch Tribe
The  are a group of Native American shamans who oversee the Shaman Fights, ten officials chosen to test and observe shamans while selling food and merchandise during the tournament. But the Patch Tribe's true purpose is to guard the selected Shaman King during their purification and gradual merge with the Great Spirit, the ten officials each guarding a specific part of the path to the Great Spirit's shrine known as a Plant, which embodies an aspect of nature. Despite their neutrality, some members of the Patch Tribe support Hao either because they recognize his worth or for their own agenda. Among the Patch tribe's techniques is a chant called the , also known as the Song of the Patch, where the user enters a trance that increases their power and sense of duty as a Patch tribesman.