[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# John Rodgers Meigs

f his replacement only when Powell's cavalry rejoined the Army of the Shenandoah about June 20.

Meigs remained with the Army of the Shenandoah into August 1864. Hunter was removed as commander of the army on July 3, and Brigadier General Philip Sheridan appointed its commander.

The Valley campaign

Sheridan believed that understanding the topography of the Shenandoah Valley would give him a strategic and tactical advantage. By the summer of 1864, Meigs was recognized as one of the best mapmakers in the Union Army. At his base in Harpers Ferry, West Virginia, he spent hours being tutored by Meigs on the layout of the valley. From Meigs, Sheridan learned that the long ridges in the Shenandoah were not the great protective barriers Union commanders had assumed. The ridges had a number of gaps. Confederate forces could ride north and south, screened by the ridges, and then turn through the gaps to initiate flank attacks on Union forces. Sheridan resolved to protect his flanks from these attacks, and take advantage of the gaps himself.

Meigs quickly became one of Sheridan's favorite officers. On August 17, John Rodgers Meigs was appointed Chief Engineer of the Middle Military Division and aide-de-camp to General Sheridan.

After Hunter's retreat from the Shenandoah, Confederate Lieutenant General Jubal Early rushed north with his Army of the Valley up the Shenandoah, invaded Maryland, and threatened Washington, D.C. Sheridan was determined to wipe out Early's forces, but he needed to move cautiously so that no major defeat would occur that might imperil the re-election of President Abraham Lincoln in November. What is known as the Valley Campaign opened on August 16 in the Battle of Guard Hill, when Union forces surprised Confederate cavalry riding to reinforce Early in Maryland. Early won the initial skirmishes, but Sheridan's forces began pushing south down the Shenandoah Valley again. Early dispersed his forces to continue raiding the B&O Railroad, hoping Sheridan would follow. But Sheridan instead struck at Winchester, Virginia. In the Battle of Opequon on September 19, 1864, Meigs was again in combat.  The battle was a decisive victory for the Army of the Shenandoah, and Early took ruinous casualties. Sheridan promoted Meigs to brevet Captain the following day for his battlefield valor.

Sheridan pressed his advantage against Early immediately. On September 21, he initiated a flank attack against Early's Army of the Valley at Fisher's Hill near Strasburg, Virginia. In the Battle of Fisher's Hill (September 21–22), Meigs again saw combat. Sheridan promoted him to brevet Major on September 22.

Death
October 3, 1864, was a rainy day.  Meigs and two assistants spent the day mapping the area around Harrisonburg, Virginia, plotting routes for the movement of Sheridan's troops. As Meigs and his assistants rode at dusk along the old Swift Run Gap Road, which intersected Warm Springs Turnpike between Harrisonburg and Dayton, Virginia, (where Sheridan's headquarters were), they encountered three men in blue. Believing the men to be Union troops, Meigs rode into their midst. The men turned out to be Confederate scouts attached to a cavalry brigade commanded by Brigadier General Williams Carter Wickham. Although it is unclear who recognized who first, or who fired first, within moments Meigs lay dead, one assistant had been captured, and the other escaped. Meigs' assistant raced back to Sheridan's headquarters, where he told the general that Meigs had been killed—shot in the back—while crying "Don't shoot me!"

Initially, many in the Confederacy argued that neither Meigs nor the Confederates recognized one another. Both groups were wearing rain ponchos which covered their uniforms and made it difficult to see to which army each belongs. According to this account, each group demanded that the other surrender and each group fired.

About 1914, the papers of one of the Confederate scouts, Frank Shaver, were published. In his papers, Shaver corroborated the second Union topographer's account, including the charge that Meigs fired first. He claimed Meigs was given fair warning that they were Confederates, but charged at them. He also said that he shot Meigs in the head, while Private F.M. Campbell shot Meigs in the chest.

Legacy