[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# T. Don Hutto Residential Center

ause the defendants knew, on account of the lawsuit, that 'the hammer was coming down?" He said that he was beginning to wonder who was in charge "out there, either C.C.A. or the government. It’s very troubling to me."

The Least of These is a documentary based on the lawsuit and sub-par conditions.

"[A]fter years of controversy, media exposure, and a lawsuit", in 2009, the Obama Administration closed T. Don Hutto Family Detention Facility, the United States’ "largest family immigration detention facility." "Conditions at the T. Don Hutto Family Detention Facility, and the impact of detention on families and children, proved that family detention could not be carried out humanely." On August 6, 2009, federal officials announced that T. Don Hutto would no longer house immigrant families. Instead, only female detainees will be housed there. ICE and Williamson County entered into a new contract, changing the facility to a non-criminal women’s only detention center.  In September 2009, the last families left the facility and were moved to the much smaller Berks Family Residential Center in Pennsylvania.

In 2010 a former supervisor at T. Don Hutto was arrested on charges related to alleged sexual assault at the Detention Facility he was convicted of 5 misdemeanor charges.

In 2017 the FBI initiated a civil rights investigation against the center following allegations of guards sexually assaulting and sexually harassing detainees, and retaliation against those who filed complaints about the abuse.

Williamson County commissioners in Taylor voted 4-1 on June 25, 2018, in the wake of a crisis of immigrant detention of children separated from their mothers who had been taken into custody, to end its participation in an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with CoreCivic, in 2019. The facility was holding some of those imprisoned mothers.

References

External links
Don Hutto Family Residential Facility – Corrections Corporation of America
Don Hutto Family Residential Facility – Immigration and Customs Enforcement
ACLU-produced video containing interviews with children who were held there
TDonHutto.blogspot.com: A weblog for those in opposition to the facility

Buildings and structures in Williamson County, Texas
Prisons in Texas
Immigration detention centers and prisons in the United States
CoreCivic
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement