[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gregorio Honasan

Barrel Scam involving allegations of corrupt malversation of public funds.

During the 2016 Philippine general elections, Honasan was Jejomar Binay's running mate under the United Nationalist Alliance party. Honasan placed 6th in the vice presidential race, garnering only 788,881 or 1.92% of votes.

Information and Communications Technology Secretary 
On November 22, 2018, President Duterte appointed Honasan as secretary of Department of Information and Communications Technology. Acting Secretary Eliseo Rio Jr. held the position until the end of Honasan's Senate term. Honasan was sworn into the office on July 1, 2019 and confirmed by the Commission on Appointments on September 11, 2019.

In January 2020, the Department was flagged by the Commission on Audit of the Philippines for  worth of cash advances of confidential funds under Honasan. Undersecretary of Operations Eliseo Rio Jr. also questioned the cash advances as he resigned from his position. Secretary Honasan and Undersecretary Rio later issued a joint statement to state that the confidential expenses were "lawful and legitimate" and that "Undersecretary Rio’s resignation was due to personal reasons, and not due to any rift with the Secretary, nor to any anomaly in the Confidential Expense."

2022 Senate bid 

On October 8, 2021, Honasan filed his certificate of candidacy to run once again for senator in 2022, effectively ending his time as Secretary of Information and Communications Technology. His candidacy was endorsed by President Rodrigo Duterte, making him part of the PDP–Laban senatorial slate, although he was an independent. He was also named to the senatorial slate of tickets led by presidential aspirants Panfilo Lacson and Bongbong Marcos (under UniTeam Alliance), respectively. However, he lost his bid with 10,668,886 votes, ranking 18th out of the 12 seats up for election. He conceded from the race on May 11, 2022.

In popular culture
Parodied by veteran comedian Chiquito in the 1988 comedy film Gorio Punasan, Rebel Driver, the title being a pun on his name which literally translates as “Wipe Gorio”.
Parodied in the 1987 movie Kumander Gringa starring Roderick Paulate.
Portrayed by character actor Rez Cortez in the 1988 true to life drama TV film A Dangerous Life.
Portrayed by action star Robin Padilla in the 1994 true to life action drama film Col. Billy Bibit, RAM.
Portrayed by Moises Miclat in the 2007 comedy film Ang Cute ng Ina Mo!.

References

External links
Official campaign site of Gregorio Honasan
Gringo Honasan, Election 2016 Data

1948 births
Living people
Bicolano politicians
Candidates in the 2016 Philippine vice-presidential election
Duterte administration cabinet members
Independent politicians in the Philippines
People from Baguio
People from Marikina
People of the People Power Revolution
Philippine Army personnel
Philippine Military Academy alumni
Philippine Military Academy Class of 1971
Recipients of the Distinguished Conduct Star
Reform the Armed Forces Movement
Secretaries of Information and Communications Technology of the Philippines
Senators of the 10th Congress of the Philippines
Senators of the 11th Congress of the Philippines
Senators of the 12th Congress of the Philippines
Senators of the 14th Congress of the Philippines
Senators of the 15th Congress of the Philippines
Senators of the 16th Congress of the Philippines
Senators of the 17th Congress of the Philippines
United Nationalist Alliance politicians