[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# LGBT rights in Argentina

nst employees of the National Public Administration () on the basis of their sexual orientation has been illegal since 2006.

Hate crime law
In 2012, the Penal Code was amended to provide a penalty of up to life imprisonment for hate crimes based on sexual orientation, gender identity or expression.

Article 80(4) of the Penal Code (Delitos contra las personas, "Crime against individuals") states that life imprisonment shall be imposed to anyone who kills for pleasure, greed and hatred based on racial, religious reasons, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression.

Gender identity and expression

Discrimination and harassment on the account of gender identity remain a problem, although the transgender community has become more visible and politically organized.

In 1997, the Asociación de Lucha por la Identidad Travesti-Transsexual was created to defend the rights of transgender people. One of its first victories came in 2006 when the Supreme Court overturned a lower court's ruling that had stated that transgender people did not have a legal right to organize and campaign for their rights.

In 2007, the Supreme Court ruled that a 17-year-old had the legal right to go through the sex change process and have her legal documents changed to reflect the operation.

In 2009, Marcela Romero won the legal right to have her identity changed, and was given an honorary title by the government. She was awarded by the Honorable Congresswoman of the year. Romero remains one of the leading advocates for the human rights of transgender people in Argentina.

In 2012, the Senate unanimously approved the Gender Identity Law (). This law grants adults sex reassignment surgery and hormone therapy as a part of their public or private health care plans. The law also allows for changes to gender, image or birth name on civil registries without the approval of a doctor or a judge. In 2013, a six-year-old girl named Luana, who was designated male at birth, became the first transgender child in Argentina to have her new name officially changed on her identity documents. She is believed to be the youngest to benefit from the country's Gender Identity Law.

Mendoza Province and Santa Fe Province were the first jurisdictions in the country to allow individuals to leave their sex entry blank instead of choosing "male" or "female". On 20 July 2021, President Alberto Fernández signed a Necessity and Urgency Decree (Decreto 476/2021) mandating the National Registry of Persons (RENAPER) to allow a third gender option on all national identity cards and passports, marked as an "X". The measure applies to non-citizen permanent residents who possess Argentine identity cards as well. In compliance with the Gender Identity Law, this made Argentina one of the few countries in the world to legally recognize non-binary gender on all official documentation.

Military service
On 27 February 2009, Argentina's Parliament passed a broad military reform act. One of the provisions of the law allows gay, lesbians and bisexuals to serve in the military and bans discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation within the armed forces. The law became effective six months after passage.

Blood donation
In September 2015, Argentina abolished its ban on gay and bisexual men donating blood.

Conversion therapy
Since 2010, no diagnosis can be made in the field of mental health on the exclusive basis of "sexual choice or identity".

HIV/AIDS and sex education
Comprehensive sexual education has traditionally been and still somewhat remains a taboo topic in Argentine politics. As such, it has been difficult to implement a preventative campaign that will target youth due to religious objections from clergy, parents and local officials. Likewise, while health care is the right of each citizen, it is often elusive for people living in rural communities. Much of the funding for public education and treatment has come from private charities, NGOs and international organizations.

Argentina enacted a sex education law in 2006, though it has been criticised for not doing enough to prevent bullying of LGBT youth. In 2017, the Government launched a digital platform that informs young people of a variety of topics "in a fun, friendly and visual way". The platform touches on topics, such as gender-based violence, LGBT rights, contraception, eating disorders and drugs.

Argentina enacted an HIV/AIDS law in 1990, the 23.798 HIV/AIDS National Law, which has also been criticised. Critics pointed to its failure to cater to people living with other STDs apart from HIV/AIDS and for this reason, two different projects were presented in 2016 and 2018 with the aim of modifying the existing 1990 law.