[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 36th Iowa Infantry Regiment

ipers as it proceeded slowly on dusty roads through thick forests to the southwest. These attacks slowed Steele's progress and the Corps managed to move only 82 miles in 10 days. Facing the unexpected resistance, and growing dangerously short on supplies, Steele placed all troops on quarter-rations.

The Confederates finally attacked in force as the federals emerged into open country on the Prairie D'Ane near present-day Prescott, Arkansas. The rebels had built fortifications in depth on the prairie.  Much of the fighting at Prairie D'Ane was an artillery duel, while the 36th Iowa was brought forward to help make a flanking demonstration on the rebel right flank that convinced Marmaduke to retire from the prairie. Sweeping the rebels aside, Steele now learned from prisoners and spies that Bank's Red River expedition had been soundly beaten at Grande Ecore, and that Banks was in full retreat. With his men on 1/4 rations and now deep in enemy country, Steele changed course and made for Camden, hoping that the Navy could re-supply him there using the navigable Ouchita River.

The defeat of Banks on the Red River enabled Kirby Smith to immediately move General Dick Taylor's Texas division north into southern Arkansas—bringing additional infantry regiments with him from Louisiana and raising some newly recruited units along the way. Taylor opposed this movement, preferring to continue to chase Banks's army on its retreat to Alexandria and hopefully destroy him there. Realizing his imperiled situation, Steele prepared to abandon Camden and march back to Little Rock.

Massacre at Poison Spring 
Steele moved into Camden on 15 April with almost no resistance and discovered that the rebels had destroyed all the steam gristmills near the city except Britton's Mill some 6 miles south of town.  The 36th Iowa was ordered to seize the mill and they spent the next few days getting it back in operation and grinding what supply of corn could found by Union foraging parties into meal for the army.

Steele meanwhile sent scouts foraging for other sources of grain and food, and word soon reached his headquarters that a large cache of corn had been discovered some 18 miles northwest of Camden on the upper Washington Road near Poison Springs. On 17 April, Steele ordered Colonel James Williams of Thayer's Frontier Division to assemble a foraging patrol consisting of the 1st Kansas Colored Infantry, elements of three Kansas cavalry regiments, a battery of light artillery and 198 wagons to collect the grain. The next day as the loaded federal wagons were getting underway for the return to Camden, the escort was met by the 18th Iowa Infantry which had marched out to reinforce the party at first light. Near the road junction a few miles from Poison Spring, the advance of Williams' column was ambushed. Outnumbered nearly 8 to 1 by the forces of Generals John Marmaduke and Samuel Maxey, the federals were hit first by Maxey's troops lying in ambush in heavy thicket on their right flank. As they changed front to meet that attack, the larger force to their front assaulted and nearly encircled the federals. Cut off from their route of escape, they were driven steadily to the rear and took refuge behind sheds of a nearby plantation where efforts were made to rally the men to make a stand. The relentless rebel attack pushed them to the rear of the train which they were forced to abandon and some 900 yards further, all the way to a timber line and into a swamp. Those in the rear of the retreating federal column were scattered and in disarray and soon encircled and were shot down or were compelled to surrender. The federals suffered more than 300 casualties, including 204 wounded. True to the threats of Jefferson Davis and the Confederate Government, Negro troops received no quarter in this battle. Most of the enlisted men of the 1st Kansas Colored Infantry were killed, wounded or were summarily executed after they surrendered. Such was the savagery found in the western theater of operations during the Civil War.

The disaster at Poison Spring resulted in the loss of 198 supply wagons, a four-gun battery—which however were spiked by the federal gunners—and the horses and mules to pull them, exacerbating further Steele's supply problem.  The men of the Thirty-sixth Iowa clearly heard the sounds of the Poison Springs battle to their northwest and then discovered that Fagan had moved his mounted brigade up to within two miles of Brittons' Mills. Realizing that the rebels could attack them at first light with overwhelming numbers, and having no artillery and just a small cavalry detachment with them, the regiment loaded their wagons and made a forced march back into Camden after dark.
.