[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hoodoo Mountain

y the Stewart Highway. There is no human population within  of Hoodoo Mountain but 2,330 people live within . Forests of this ecosection grow on the lower slopes of Hoodoo Mountain except for its northeastern flank where rock and ice are dominant. Much of this forest cover lies at elevations below .

Climate
Hoodoo Mountain has a maritime glacial climate that is intermediate between fully coastal maritime and continental climates. Moist air from the Pacific Ocean brings intense precipitation over the region while simultaneously allowing cold Arctic air to pass down through the Portland Canal into the Dixon Entrance where it flows into British Columbia's North Coast. Therefore, the regional climate is mostly cool and wet with snowpacks and heavy precipitation. About  of precipitation falls during the summer months of June, July and August while up to  of precipitation can be expected during the winter months of December, January and February. In summer the average temperature is  whereas the average winter temperature sits at . The annual average temperature is .

Glaciers

Two valley glaciers wrap partially around the base of Hoodoo Mountain, both of which are actively retreating. Hoodoo Glacier surrounding its northwestern base is the source of the Hoodoo River which flows south into the Iskut River. It has lost about  of its total thickness over the last 700 years and its terminus has retreated  since the 1920s. At the terminus of Hoodoo Glacier is a roughly  and  lake which may occupy a previously drained depression. The western side of the glacier contains a small possibly drained ice-marginal lake. Twin Glacier surrounds the northwestern base of Hoodoo Mountain and is the largest of the two valley glaciers. It is the source of the Twin River which also flows south into the Iskut River. Several changes have taken place at this double-lobed glacier since the 1920s. Its terminus has retreated about , having formerly flowed around both sides of a north–south trending ridge. A small moraine-dammed lake lies along the southwestern margin of Twin Glacier.

Hoodoo Glacier and Twin Glacier are separated by a ridgeline extending north of Hoodoo Mountain. They have cut deep valleys into the older regional bedrock and have interacted with Hoodoo Mountain intermittently since the Pleistocene. Both glaciers originate from the Andrei Icefield centered  northeast of Hoodoo Mountain. This large glacial field is informally named after the son of Olav Mokievsky-Zubok, a glaciologist who carried out significant glaciological work in the Coast Mountains from the 1960s to the 1970s.

The summit of Hoodoo Mountain contains an ice cap that persists at elevations greater than . It varies from  thick and has a diameter of , attaining a minimum volume of . Its circular shape and higher elevation have made it relatively stable to climate change, having undergone minor retreat and thinning only at its very edges. It therefore maintains at least partial snow cover during all months of the year. At the north–central end of the ice cap lies a prominent nunatak called The Horn or Horn Nunatak. It consists of pyroclastic rock surrounding a core of lava.

Geology

Background
Hoodoo Mountain is part of the Northern Cordilleran Volcanic Province (NCVP), a broad area of volcanoes extending from northwestern British Columbia northwards through Yukon into easternmost Alaska. Volcanism in this geologic province can be traced as far back as 20 million years ago with the emplacement of alkali basalt in western Yukon. Several types of volcanic eruptions have since created different landforms across the NCVP, including shield volcanoes, lava domes, stratovolcanoes and cinder cones. Other volcanic landforms, notably subglacial volcanoes, take their shape from the environment they formed in regardless of the type of magma they produced. The NCVP contains more than 100 volcanoes and is the most volcanically active area in Canada; eruptions are expected to occur roughly every 100 years.

Hoodoo Mountain is part of the Stikine Subprovince of the NCVP. This subprovince, confined to the Stikine region of northwestern British Columbia, includes three other volcanic centres: Heart Peaks, Level Mountain and Mount Edziza. All four volcanic centres differ petrologically and/or volumetrically from the rest of the NCVP. Heart Peaks, Level Mountain and Mount Edziza are the largest NCVP centres by volume, the latter two of which have experienced volcanism for a much longer timespan than any other NCVP centre. Hoodoo Mountain, Level Mountain and Mount Edziza are the only NCVP centres that contain volcanic rocks of both mafic and intermediate to felsic composition. The highest of the four complexes is Mount Edziza at , followed by Level Mountain at , Heart Peaks at  and Hoodoo Mountain at .