[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lillian Alling

he next two months in Oakalla Prison, near Vancouver, as an alternative to the $25 fine for vagrancy; this also gave her temporary shelter. After her release, she spent the rest of the winter working in a Vancouver restaurant, and saved up enough money to travel again by the end of May or June 1928.

By July 19, she had reached Smithers, which meant she had averaged  per day on foot since she left Vancouver. By this time, her story had become known among the British Columbia police force, and she was asked by Sgt. Andy Fairbarn of the British Columbia Provincial Police to report to each of the cabins along the Telegraph Trail as a condition to continue her odyssey. At each cabin, she received assistance including food, clothing, and even a dog companion named Bruno at Cabin 8, when she arrived there on September 12 according to Dickie's 1972 account. She tarried there a few days, as the linemen convinced her to rest while it was snowing and gave her clothing.

Local newspaper articles indicate that Alling was ahead of Dickie's timeline: on August 31, an article in the Whitehorse Star noted that she had arrived in Whitehorse and was given the nickname "the Mystery Woman" for her taciturn nature. After leaving Whitehorse, she was spotted on September 7 east of Tahkinna; a man offered her a ride, which she declined.

Sailing on the Yukon River
When she reached Atlin, the dog had died, possibly after ingesting poison from traps meant for wolverines, but Alling was remembered for carrying its stuffed form with her, as she had vowed "he will always remain with me" when he was gifted to her. By October or November 1928, Alling had reached Dawson City, Yukon, where locals had heard of her story and were anticipating her arrival. It was estimated she had walked from Whitehorse to Dawson in just 39 days. She again spent the winter working, and saved up enough money to purchase and repair a boat, which, the next spring (1929), she intended to sail along the Yukon River into Alaska.

The following is excerpted from Calvin Rutstrum's book, The New Way of the Wilderness (1958):

According to Greenfield, Alling's journey had ended instead at Telegraph Creek in October 1928; she wrote a letter to Greenfield later that year, telling him that she never found her peripatetic boyfriend, but instead had met and married a local man; in the letter, she thanked him for delaying her arrival by a year. Pybus believes that Alling's documented inexplicably long, eight-month stay in Dawson City is better explained by Greenfield's secondhand account, speculating that she had met and become involved with a trapper in Dawson City during the winter of 1928, following him into the wild when the ice began to break up the following spring.

Into history
The Beaver reported that Alling sailed safely through Tanana to Nome, where she left the boat and began walking again. Bill and Ruth Albee, a married couple who followed Alling's route a few years later, said in their travelogue Alaska Challenge (1940) the mail carrier at Nome remembered Alling passing through the city.

The accounts from 1943 and 1949 give her last reported position outside Teller, Alaska, near North America's westernmost point, in 1929, where she reportedly was seen by an Inuk person. "She pulled a contraption like a cart, containing her few possessions. On top of the pile, the Inuk person added, rested a queer thing that looked like the body of a black-and-white dog." The Albees continued this to a sad ending, stating that her tracks ended at the edge of a swollen river and she was presumed drowned; this was echoed by the Inuk person's account. At minimum, she had walked .

An excerpt from Susan Smith-Josephy's book Lillian Alling: The Journey Home (2011) gives an alternative possibility for Lillian's fate:

In spite of strained relations between the US and the Soviet Union in 1929, the Native people of both countries still traveled regularly across the strait each year from June through November—when the water was usually ice-free—in order to trade and buy supplies. This traffic was either ignored or undetected by authorities on either side of the strait.

Travel between the two countries was common, and it would have been quite normal for someone to pay for a passage across the Strait. What happened to her once she reached Soviet Russia remained unknown until a cryptic report said she had been spotted after crossing the Bering Strait.