[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

elected in Maramureș County, and Tivadar at Soroca. Rieffer won the race in Câmpulung County after government agreed to a recount. In accordance with a previous agreement that no affiliate region would go unrepresented, Tivadar Fischer was replaced by Landau, and Ebner ceded his seat to Sami Singer.

Adolphe Stern died on October 20, 1931, with both the PER and the UER sending their representatives at his funeral. Zissu succeeded him as the PER's honorary president "about 1931", but was living abroad and, by his own account, never sought to control the group. Shortly after, parliamentary elections were scheduled for July 1932. In February, Landau, alongside Tivadar and József Fischer, were unexpectedly barred by the government authorities from speaking at an electoral meeting in Sighet; their attempt to address the Maramureș Jews from inside Talmud Tora Synagogue was also broken up by the Romanian Police. Nationally, the Jewish political body remained factionalized when it came to electing its leadership: in June 1932, the Jewish Community of Galați reelected as its president Jean Steuerman, of the local Șulem List, against PER and UER candidates. On June 30, the city welcomed Sami Singer, in preparation for the parliamentary race. At the time, Singer informed voters that an alliance with the UER would bring a "destruction of that ten-year combat we have been waging to awaken our [Jewish] national sentiment." The UER meanwhile had failed to renew its PNL alliance, and was approached by the Zionist Lazar Margulies to negotiate a merger with the PER. The talks were inconclusive. Subsequently, the UER, absorbing into its ranks dissident Zionists from the PER's Bukovina chapter, caucused with the nationwide Traders' Council.

Conflicts turned violent in Iași, where, on July 6, 1932 a PER meeting hosted by Singer and Lazăr Marcusohn was broken up by assimilated Jews, the two sides "pummeling each other for a quarter of an hour." As reported by Opinia newspaper, the intruders were angered by the announced participation of rabbis such as Yehuda Leib Tsirelson "when their place is in the synagogue". A similar incident took place on July 11 in the Chenciu Street Synagogue of Bârlad. On July 15, Filderman spoke before 3,000 of his followers in Galați, arguing that: "all accomplishments in individual, religious, and cultural emancipation are the work of the UER. The Jewish Party has accomplished absolutely nothing and has calumny as its only weapon." The PER was also shunned by Orthodox Jews in Transylvania. On July 14, the Chief Rabbi of Turda, Albert Wessel, informed PER delegates to the Orthodox Jewish congress in Băile Felix that: "The Jewry will not be able to defend its social, cultural and economic interests within a single party, even if it were the Jewish Party." By then, the PER section in Sătmar County had been deserted by "many leading Jews", who disliked the results of party primaries.

These elections, organized and won by the PNȚ government of Alexandru Vaida-Voevod, were noted as the least fraudulent of their time. The PER took 2.26% and 5 seats: Fischer and Landau were returned; Marton, Weissman, and Ebner won the other three seats. From then on, the PER was the sole Jewish party in the Assembly, the UER having failed to win sufficient votes. In Iași County, the PER had opted not to present any list for the national Senate, advising its followers to vote for PNȚ candidates. The PER's electoral basin was in Romania's "new regions", with only a slim presence in the Old Kingdom: some 40% of its total voters were from Transylvania, where over 70% of the emancipated Jewish population voted PER. Its main competitor was the Magyar Party, which took away votes from Hungarian-assimilated Jews; Jews from the less Magyarized zones, in particular the historical Maramureș, were predominantly PER voters. In the east, Landau and Tumarkin's Bessarabian constituency, comprising some of the poorest and least integrated sections of Romanian Jews, provided the PER with its other main electoral resource. Largely agricultural, Bessarabian Jews were also committed to Labor Zionism, and as such had a "very vivid political struggle" with the other Zionists. This ideology became dominant within the HeHalutz—a youth movement that offered Jews training for life on farms in Mandatory Palestine.