[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002

regarding procedures in emergency situations. It provides extensions for certain reporting deadlines during a public health emergency and expands the authority of the Secretary, in consultation with the Surgeon General to specify communicable diseases that are subject to individual detention orders.

It amends title XI of the Social Security Act to add provisions with the purpose of ensuring that during an emergency, sufficient health care items and services are available to meet the needs of individuals on welfare, and health care providers furnishing such items and services in good faith, but that are unable to comply with one or more specified requirements may be reimbursed for such items and services and exempted from sanctions for noncompliance.

Subtitle E: Additional Provisions
Subtitle E includes several provisions.

It amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to require information to be efficiently distributed to the public.

The Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration is to expand research relevant to rapid detection and identification of pathogens likely to be used in a bioterrorism attack, and the Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, is to expand research on the health and safety of workers who are at risk for bioterrorism threats.

The Secretary of Veterans Affairs is to enhance the readiness of VA medical centers to protect patients and staff from chemical or biological attack or to respond to an attack.

The Community Access to Emergency Defibrillation Act of 2002 directs the Secretary to award grants to States, political subdivisions of States, Indian tribes, and tribal organizations to develop and implement public access defibrillation programs. Authorizes appropriations.

Title II: Enhancing Controls on Dangerous Biological Agents and Toxins
Title II deals with the security of dangerous biological agents and toxins used in research and development.

Subtitle A: Department of Health and Human Services
Subtitle A amends the Public Health Service Act to enhance control of certain biological agents and toxins (select agents). DHHS is to establish and maintain a list of agents that may pose a threat to public health and safety, provide regulation of transfers, provide for enforcement of standards for their possession and use, require registration of their possession, use, and transfer, and creates security requirements for people possessing select agents commensurate with the risk the agent poses to public health and safety, and authorizes DHHS to inspect for compliance with regulations. All people in possession of select agents are to notify DHHS of possession.

It authorizes exemptions for clinical or diagnostic laboratories and other institutions who possess select agents that are contained in specimens for diagnosis, verification, or proficiency testing, provided that the identification of such agents is reported to DHHS and other authorities, and such agents or toxins are transferred or destroyed in a safe manner set forth by regulation. It authorizes exemptions for products that contain select agents and are cleared, unless DHHS determines that applying additional regulation to a specific product is necessary. It authorizes exemptions for an investigational product that contains a select agent when the product is being used in an investigation authorized under any federal act and the DHHS determines that applying additional regulation to such product is not necessary.

Subtitle B: Department of Agriculture
The Agricultural Bioterrorism Protection Act of 2002 directs the Secretary of Agriculture to establish and maintain a list of select agents that the Secretary determines has the potential to pose a threat to animal or plant health. Regulations should be established for transfers, registration and maintenance of a database of listed toxins, and security of persons possessing select agents. It requires information on registered persons to be submitted to the attorney general to determine if they are within any restricted categories. It requires prompt notification of the Secretary and law enforcement agencies of the theft or loss of listed agents and toxins.