[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# 2007 New Year Honours

Mrs. Pollitt, J.P., Member, Independent Monitoring Board. For services to H.M. Young Offenders' Institution Lancaster Farms, Lancashire.
Catherine, Mrs. Potter, Specialist Bed Co-ordinator, Medway NHS Trust. For services to the NHS.
Mary, Mrs. Potts. For services to the community in Sunderland, Tyne and Wear.
Bevan Powell, Deputy Chair, Metropolitan Black Police Association. For services to the Police.
Douglas Powell, Warden and Manager, East Mersea Youth Camp, Essex. For services to Young People. Ms Frances Mary Powell. For services to the Tourist Industry in Lincolnshire.
Marguerita, Mrs. Powlesland. For services to the community in Hertfordshire.
Bronwen, Mrs. Preece. For Charitable services to Healthcare in Swansea.
Malcolm Preece, Project Manager, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
Ms Carol Virginia Priestley, Director, International Network for the Availability of Scientific Publications. For services to Science in developing countries and emerging economies.
Captain Ronald Pritchard, lately Regional Welfare Officer, Combat Stress. For services to Ex-Servicemen and Women.
Canon Walter Patterson Quill. For services to the community in Castlederg, County Tyrone, Northern Ireland.
Brian Alfred Rae. For services to the Meteorological Office and to the community in the Isle of Man.
Gurdial Singh Rai. For services to the Sikh community in Dartford, Kent.
Miss Sybil Evelyn Ralphs, Member, Bagnall Parish Council. For services to the community in North Staffordshire.
Lillian Jane, Mrs. Ramsay, Founder and Director, The Eyeless Trust for Children and Young People Born Without Eyes. For services to Children and Families.
Donald William Randall. For services to Law Enforcement in the City of London.
Percival Rankin. For services to the Royal British Legion in Northern Ireland.
Anthony James Ratcliffe. For services to the Environment in Suffolk.
Dr. Keith Ray, County Archaeologist, Herefordshire Council. For services to Local Government.
Linda Janice, Mrs. Rees, J.P. For services to the Administration of Justice in Port Talbot.
Geraldine, Mrs. Rice, Councillor, Castlereagh Borough Council. For services to Local Government in Northern Ireland.
The Reverend William Thomas John Richardson, lately Minister, Hillhall Presbyterian Church, Lisburn. For services to the community in Northern Ireland.
Paul Christopher Ridgeon, Head of Special Projects, OYce of Government Commerce, H.M. Treasury.
Miss Nancy Elizabeth Riegen. For services to the community in Milford-on-Sea, Hampshire.
William Ritchie, Crofter Fisherman. For services to the Environment and to Sustainable Development in the Highlands and Islands.
Ann Adele Susan Maria, Mrs. Roberts. For services to the community in Edenbridge, Kent.
Anne, Mrs. Roberts, Head of Health Visiting and School Nursing, North Glamorgan NHS Trust. For services to Healthcare.
Derek Paul de Villamar Roberts. For services to the History and Sport of Cycling.
Miss Jean McHattie Roberts, Stoma Care Adviser, Sangers (NI) Ltd. For services to Stoma Care Nursing in Northern Ireland.
Christina Waters Clapperton, Mrs. Robertson, lately Head of Department of Business, Management and Computing, Dumfries and Galloway College. For services to Lifelong Learning.
Ms Suzanne Robson. For public service.
Jennifer, Mrs. Rodgers, Administrative Assistant, The Pension Service, Department for Work and Pensions. 
Emmanuel Rodriguez, Trombonist. For services to Music.
Eileen, Mrs. Roscoe, Youth Team Manager, Lancashire Learning and Skills Council. For services to Education and to Business.
Dr. Euan James Ferguson Ross, lately Administrator, Chemistry Department, University of Durham. For services to Higher Education.
Keith Raymond Roszell, Vice-Chair, Cornwall Area Committee, Fire Services National Benevolent Fund. For services to the Fire and Rescue Service.
Robert Michael Rothenberg. For services to Business and to the community in London.
Henry Rumbold. For services to Conservation and to the community in Ripon, North Yorkshire.
Philip William Russell, Management Board Member, Workers' Safety Adviser Challenge Fund. For services to Health and Safety in the Construction Industry. 
David Sanderson, Chief Executive, Derwent Training Association, North Yorkshire. For services to Young People.
Ms June Kunadu Sarpong. For services to Broadcasting and to Charity.
Laura, Mrs. Sarti, Singing Teacher. For services to Music.
Alison Marjorie Elizabeth, Mrs. Saunders. For charitable services.
David William Saunders. For charitable services. 
Derek Duncan Saunders. For services to Ex-Servicemen and Women in Norfolk.
Joseph Harry Saunders, Census Returns Indexer, National Archives and Family Records Centre. For services to Archiving.
Michael Seals, Chair, National Fallen Stock Company
Elvin Royston Sealy, J.P., lately Chair, Airlines Association of Barbados and the Airline Operators' Committee. For services to Civil Aviation.
Kenneth Seed, Principal Officer, H.M. Prison Preston, H.M. Prison Service.
Yvonne Carol, Mrs. Sessions, la