[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Popular National Union

Związek Ludowo-Narodowy (ZLN; ) was a Polish political party aligned with the National Democracy political movement during the Second Polish Republic, gathering together right-wing politicians with conservative and nationalist opinions.

Between 1919 and 1926 the ZLN achieved considerable electoral success but at no point governed alone. It could only supply individual ministers (e.g. in finance, education or foreign affairs) to successive governments after 1923 in cooperation with the National Democrats and the peasants' party (Chjeno-Piast). In the 1922 presidential elections the ZLN nominated count Maurycy Zamoyski to counter the centrist "freemason" Gabriel Narutowicz as well as the socialist Stanisław Wojciechowski from the PSL “Piast”.

After the May Coup of 1926, the ZLN gradually lost its influence and power in the wake of internal schisms and conflicts under the rule of its rivals, the Sanacja regime. In 1928 the ZLN morphed into the National Party (Stronnictwo Narodowe).

Genesis 

The ZLN origins as a political party lay in the postwar Europe of late 1918. In December of that year and shortly before the elections, an alliance arose known as the "National Election Committee of Democratic Parties" (Narodowy Komitet Wyborczy Stronnictw Demokratycznych) composed of the following: National Democracy (Narodowa Demokracja); National Unity (Zjednoczenie Narodowe); the Christian Workers' Party (Chrześcijańskie Stronnictwo Robotnicze); and the Polish Progressive Party (Polska Partia Postępowa). During the 1919 elections this alliance obtained 109 seats with most of its representatives hailing from western "Greater Poland)". Wojciech Korfanty became the president of this grouping with Stanisław Grabski, Konstanty Kowalewski and Józef Teodorowicz as vice-presidents. In February 1919 this alliance morphed into the National Parliamentary Popular Union (Związek Sejmowy Ludowo-Narodowy).

Beginnings 

The ZLN was established in May 1919 at the 1st Congress of the National Popular Union. At the beginning, the ZLN was a federation of political parties, but the summer of 1919 saw the departure of the Christian-National Workers Club (Chrześcijańsko-Narodowy Klub Robotniczy) from its ranks. This split greatly homogenized the character of the ZLN, a change evident by its second congress conference in October 1919.

In January 1919, a group of National Democrats attempted a coup d’état to bring down the leftist government of Jędrzej Moraczewski. The ZLN's Marian Januszajtis-Żegota and Eustachy Sapieha participated in this unsuccessful attempt.

On 16 January 1919, a non-aligned government arose with the cooperation of ZLN members Władysław Seyda as Minister of the “Prussian” District, Józef Englich in finance, and Reverend Antoni Stychel as Deputy Speaker of Parliament. When the situation at the front of the Polish-Soviet War became critical in spring 1920, the ZLN were prominent in their vocal criticism of Piłsudski and soon inspired the creation of the Council of National Defense (Rada Obrony Państwa) with Roman Dmowski (the de facto intellectual leader of the National Democrats).

At the time, the ZLN's political manifesto could be summarized in a few points:

 Nationalism 
 Unity of the nation
 Elimination of class divisions
 Germany as the main threat to Poland
 A policy of restraint towards expansion in the East
 Support for a private-capitalist economy, objection to government interference
 Support for worker's insurance and land reform, but opposition to coercive land redistribution
 Continuation of Polish national traditions
 The significant position of the Roman Catholic Church 
 A strong parliament and a reduction of the powers of the President

The National Democrats held a very strong position in western Poland (Wielkopolska), but considerably less so in Congress Poland (Kongresówka), which included the capital of Warsaw. Hence in January 1919, they reached a compromised with Piłsudski, and when in summer 1920 the government of Wincenty Witos came into being, it obtained the full support of the ZLN.

From the second half of 1921 and into 1922, the ZLN opposed the Chief of State as well as the centrist political parties. Before the elections in 1922, the rightist Christian National Union (Chrześcijański Związek Jedności Narodowej) included the Popular-National Union, the National Workers Party (Narodowe Stronnictwo Robotnicze), the Polish Christian-Democratic Party (Polskie Stronnictwo Chrześcijańskiej Demokracji) and the National Christian Peasant Party (Narodowo-Chrześcijańskie Stronnictwo Ludowe). It won 98 seats (22%) in the Sejm (Polish Parliament) and 29 seats (26%) in the Senate.

Later that same year, a nominee of the National Democrats, Maurycy Zamoyski, was defeated by Gabriel Narutowicz in a runoff fifth round of voting in parliament. Narutowicz would be assassinated a few days after his election by a fanatical ultra-nationalist painter, Eligiusz Niewiadomski.

1923-1928