[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anatoliy Hrytsenko

rs of the Democratic Alliance. For elections in single member constituencies, both parties participated separately. In the election the alliance failed to clear the 5% election threshold (it got 3.1% of the votes) and also both parties did not win a constituency seat and thus no parliamentary seats.

On 4 April 2018, National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine (NABU) informed that the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor Office initiated a criminal proceeding based on results of state financial audit of "Viysktorhservis" consortium. Representatives of public organizations called on the Prosecutor General to check these facts.

Hrytsenko's Civil Position nominated Hrytsenko as a candidate in the 2019 Ukrainian presidential election on 11 January 2019. Hrytsenko's candidacy was supported by the European Party of Ukraine, Native Land, Alternative, and Wave. On 1 March (2019) fellow candidates Andriy Sadovyi and Dmytro Gnap withdrew from the election and urged (their) voters to support Hrytsenko. On 7 March Dmytro Dobrodomov stepped out of the election also in favor of Hrytsenko. During the 2019 presidential election campaign Hrytsenko proposed to create a Ukrainian military reserve force and to legalize firearms (including registration of all firearms). In the election Hrytsenko did not proceed to the second round of the election; in the first round he placed fifth with 6.91% of the votes.

In the 2019 Ukrainian parliamentary election Civil Position gained 1.04% of the national vote and no parliamentary seats.

Awards
 Honorary weapon – Fort-12 pistol (25 October 2007)

Earnings
According to the declaration, in 2016, Hrytsenko earned ₴150,000. He has four apartments in Kyiv (with an area of 56.2 m², 80.2 m², 32.9 m² and 110.3 m²), a car Volvo XC90, as well as €106,000 in bank accounts.

Personal life
 From 1978 to 2002, he was married to Lyudmila. The couple had two children.
 Olexiy (born 1979) graduated from the Kyiv Polytechnic Institute, he was a forward and then vice president of the Berkut Hockey Club, director of business development at the Enran Telecom research and production company, and first deputy head of the Youth Union of Our Ukraine party. In 2006, Enran Telecom (in which Olexiy Hrytsenko was working at the moment) became one of the co-executives of the project to create a unified automated system for managing of administrative and business processes in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. About ₴100 million was allocated for the implementation of the project.
 The eldest daughter Svetlana (born 1982) graduated from school with a gold medal, received a bachelor's degree in international economics from the Kyiv National Economic University and a master's degree in international business from University of Stirling in Scotland. Svetlana worked as an expert at the Ukrainian Centre for Economic and Political Studies (UCEPS) and in the election headquarters of Viktor Yushchenko, then became the press secretary of the Berkut Hockey Club and the project manager for the Kyiv office of The PBN Company.
 Anatoliy Hrytsenko is married to Yulia Volodymyrivna Mostova, a chief editor of well known Ukrainian newspaper Dzerkalo Tyzhnia and a widow of Oleksandr Razumkov. Hrytsenko and Mostova had to celebrate the wedding seven times, most recently in June 2003, together with the then-future Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko and his wife Kateryna Chumachenko. On 6 March 2016, the couple married in the church.
 Hrytsenko and Mostova have a daughter Anna (born 2004), also Mostova have a son Hlib (born 1999) - the youngest son of Razumkov.

Notes

References

External links

 Biography by Taras Kuzio
  Personal web-site 

1957 births
Living people
People from Cherkasy Oblast
Our Ukraine (political party) politicians
Defence ministers of Ukraine
Defense Language Institute alumni
Academic staff of the National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy
Candidates in the 2010 Ukrainian presidential election
People of the Euromaidan
Batkivshchyna politicians
Sixth convocation members of the Verkhovna Rada
Seventh convocation members of the Verkhovna Rada
Leaders of political parties in Ukraine
Ukrainian colonels
Candidates in the 2014 Ukrainian presidential election
21st-century Ukrainian politicians
Candidates in the 2019 Ukrainian presidential election