[Source: PubMed]

50. Scand J Trauma Resusc Emerg Med. 2015 Nov 20;23:103. doi: 
10.1186/s13049-015-0183-2.

The Libyan civil conflict: selected case series of orthopaedic trauma managed in 
Malta in 2014.

Ng C(1), Mifsud M(2), Borg JN(3), Mizzi C(4).

Author information:
(1)Trauma and Orthopaedics Departmental Secretary, Department of Trauma and 
Orthopaedics, Mater Dei Hospital, Triq Dun Karm, MSD 2090, Msida, Malta. 
colin.ng@gov.mt.
(2)Trauma and Orthopaedics Departmental Secretary, Department of Trauma and 
Orthopaedics, Mater Dei Hospital, Triq Dun Karm, MSD 2090, Msida, Malta. 
maxmif@gmail.com.
(3)Trauma and Orthopaedics Departmental Secretary, Department of Trauma and 
Orthopaedics, Mater Dei Hospital, Triq Dun Karm, MSD 2090, Msida, Malta. 
josnborg@hotmail.com.
(4)Department of Surgery, Mater Dei Hospital, Msida, Malta. 
colinmizzi@gmail.com.

AIM: The purpose of this series of cases was to analyse our management of 
orthopaedic trauma casualties in the Libyan civil war crisis in the European 
summer of 2014. We looked at both damage control orthopaedics and for case 
variety of war trauma at a civilian hospital. Due to our geographical proximity 
to Libya, Malta was the closest European tertiary referral centre. Having only 
one Level 1 trauma care hospital in our country, our Trauma and Orthopaedics 
department played a pivotal role in the management of Libyan battlefield 
injuries. Our aims were to assess acute outcomes and short term mortality of 
surgery within the perspective of a damage control orthopaedic strategy whereby 
aggressive wound management, early fixation using relative stability principles, 
antibiotic cover with adequate soft tissue cover are paramount. We also aim to 
describe the variety of war injuries we came across, with a goal for future 
improvement in regards to service providing.
METHODS: Prospective collection of six interesting cases with severe limb and 
spinal injuries sustained in Libya during the Libyan civil war between June and 
November 2014.
CONCLUSIONS: We applied current trends in the treatment of war injuries, 
specifically in damage control orthopaedic strategy and converting to definitive 
treatment where permissible. The majority of our cases were classified as most 
severe (Type IIIB/C) according to the Gustilo-Anderson classification of open 
fractures. The injuries treated reflected the type of standard and improved 
weaponry available in modern warfare affecting both militants and civilians 
alike with increasing severity and extent of damage. Due to this fact, 
multidisciplinary team approach to patient centred care was utilised with an 
ultimate aim of swift recovery and early mobilisation. It also highlighted the 
difficulties and complex issues required on a hospital management level as a 
neighbouring country to war zone countries in transforming care of civil trauma 
to military trauma.

DOI: 10.1186/s13049-015-0183-2
PMCID: PMC4654919
PMID: 26589677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]