[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Harmonic map

opy classes, additionally showing that the convergence in the Eells−Sampson theorem is strong, without the need to select a subsequence. Eells and Sampson's result was adapted by Richard Hamilton to the setting of the Dirichlet boundary value problem, when  is instead compact with nonempty boundary.

Singularities and weak solutions
For many years after Eells and Sampson's work, it was unclear to what extent the sectional curvature assumption on  was necessary. Following the work of Kung-Ching Chang, Wei-Yue Ding, and Rugang Ye in 1992, it is widely accepted that the maximal time of existence of a harmonic map heat flow cannot "usually" be expected to be infinite. Their results strongly suggest that there are harmonic map heat flows with "finite-time blowup" even when both  and  are taken to be the two-dimensional sphere with its standard metric. Since elliptic and parabolic partial differential equations are particularly smooth when the domain is two dimensions, the Chang−Ding−Ye result is considered to be indicative of the general character of the flow.

Modeled upon the fundamental works of Sacks and Uhlenbeck, Michael Struwe considered the case where no geometric assumption on  is made. In the case that  is two-dimensional, he established the unconditional existence and uniqueness for weak solutions of the harmonic map heat flow. Moreover, he found that his weak solutions are smooth away from finitely many spacetime points at which the energy density concentrates. On microscopic levels, the flow near these points is modeled by a bubble, i.e. a smooth harmonic map from the round 2-sphere into the target. Weiyue Ding and Gang Tian were able to prove the energy quantization at singular times, meaning that the Dirichlet energy of Struwe's weak solution, at a singular time, drops by exactly the sum of the total Dirichlet energies of the bubbles corresponding to singularities at that time.

Struwe was later able to adapt his methods to higher dimensions, in the case that the domain manifold is Euclidean space; he and Yun Mei Chen also considered higher-dimensional closed manifolds. Their results achieved less than in low dimensions, only being able to prove existence of weak solutions which are smooth on open dense subsets.

The Bochner formula and rigidity
The main computational point in the proof of Eells and Sampson's theorem is an adaptation of the Bochner formula to the setting of a harmonic map heat flow . This formula says

This is also of interest in analyzing harmonic maps. Suppose  is harmonic; any harmonic map can be viewed as a constant-in- solution of the harmonic map heat flow, and so one gets from the above formula that

If the Ricci curvature of  is positive and the sectional curvature of  is nonpositive, then this implies that  is nonnegative. If  is closed, then multiplication by  and a single integration by parts shows that  must be constant, and hence zero; hence  must itself be constant. Richard Schoen and Shing-Tung Yau noted that this reasoning can be extended to noncompact  by making use of Yau's theorem asserting that nonnegative subharmonic functions which are -bounded must be constant. In summary, according to these results, one has:

In combination with the Eells−Sampson theorem, this shows (for instance) that if  is a closed Riemannian manifold with positive Ricci curvature and  is a closed Riemannian manifold with nonpositive sectional curvature, then every continuous map from  to  is homotopic to a constant.

The general idea of deforming a general map to a harmonic map, and then showing that any such harmonic map must automatically be of a highly restricted class, has found many applications. For instance, Yum-Tong Siu found an important complex-analytic version of the Bochner formula, asserting that a harmonic map between Kähler manifolds must be holomorphic, provided that the target manifold has appropriately negative curvature. As an application, by making use of the Eells−Sampson existence theorem for harmonic maps, he was able to show that if  and  are smooth and closed Kähler manifolds, and if the curvature of  is appropriately negative, then  and  must be biholomorphic or anti-biholomorphic if they are homotopic to each other; the biholomorphism (or anti-biholomorphism) is precisely the harmonic map produced as the limit of the harmonic map heat flow with initial data given by the homotopy. By an alternative formulation of the same approach, Siu was able to prove a variant of the still-unsolved Hodge conjecture, albeit in the restricted context of negative curvature.