[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 22]
# List of coups and coup attempts

led to the People Power Revolution, which did eventually result in Marcos' fall from power.
1986 Lesotho coup d'état: General Justin Lekhanya led a coup that overthrew the long-time rule of Prime Minister Leabua Jonathan.
1986 Philippine coup attempts: Two attempted coups failed in the Philippines.

1987
The Carapintada uprising in Argentina: Lieutenant Colonel Aldo Rico and Carapintada followers took up arms to make demands of the Argentine government. However, the public was sensitive to any military demands following decades of coups, and rallied around Alfonsin.
1987 Philippine coup attempts: Four attempted coups failed in the Philippines.
1987 Fijian coups d'état: Lieutenant Colonel Sitiveni Rabuka overthrew the government of Prime Minister Timoci Bavadra. After temporarily handing power to a council of ministers, in September that year, Rabuka seized control of the country again, deposed Queen Elizabeth II as head of state, and declared Fiji a republic.
1987 Burkinabé coup d'état: On 15 October, President Thomas Sankara was assassinated in a coup, and coup leader Captain Blaise Compaoré was installed as president.
1987 Tunisian coup d'état: Prime Minister Zine El Abidine Ben Ali overthrew President Habib Bourguiba.
Sierra Leone: On 23 March, police reported that a group of conspirators, including Vice President Francis Minah, was plotting to assassinate President Joseph Saidu Momoh and stage a coup after they raided a house in Freetown and discovered a cache of weapons, including rocket launchers. Minah and seventeen other alleged conspirators were convicted of treason and sentenced to death.

1988
SLORC coup in Burma: Following nationwide protests, the State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC) enacted a bloody military coup and imposed martial law.
Argentina: Aldo Rico, who had been imprisoned following a 1987 coup attempt, escaped prison and began a new attempt to overthrow President Raúl Alfonsín. Rico surrendered after a brief combat with the Argentinian army.
Argentina: Colonel Mohamed Alí Seineldín, backed by the Carapintadas, launched a coup attempt against President Alfonsin, but he and the other conspirators were jailed.
June 1988 Haitian coup d'état: Henri Namphy overthrew President Leslie Manigat and declared himself president.
September 1988 Haitian coup d'état: Prosper Avril overthrew President Namphy, who had come to power in a coup only months earlier.
Panama: In March, a coup was attempted against Manuel Noriega, but was suppressed.
1988 Maldives coup d'état attempt: A group of Maldivians, assisted by mercenaries, gained control of the capital and major government buildings, but the coup ultimately failed after intervention by Indian armed forces.

1989
1989 Philippine coup d'état attempt: Members of the Armed Forces of the Philippines belonging to the Reform the Armed Forces Movement (RAM) and soldiers loyal to former President Ferdinand Marcos nearly seized the presidential palace, but were defeated.
1989 Burkinabé coup d'état attempt: A coup was allegedly attempted by Baptiste Boukary Lingani, Henri Zongo, and others against President Blaise Compaoré. After the plot was discovered, alleged conspirators were arrested and summarily executed.
Ethiopia: On 16 May, while President Mengistu Haile Mariam was out of the country for a four-day state visit to East Germany, senior military officials attempted a coup and the Minister of Defense, Haile Giyorgis Habte Mariam, was killed. Mengistu quickly returned, and nine generals, including the air force commander and the army chief of staff, died as the coup was crushed.
1989 Paraguayan coup d'état (also known as La Noche de la Candelaria): General Andrés Rodríguez led a bloody coup against the regime of long-time leader Alfredo Stroessner.
1989 Sudanese coup d'état: Omar al-Bashir led a military coup on 30 June against the democratically elected government of Prime Minister Sadiq al-Mahdi and President Ahmed al-Mirghani.
1989 Panamanian coup d'état attempt: Major Moisés Giroldi led a failed coup attempt, supported by a group of officers who had returned from a United Nations peacekeeping mission in Namibia. Although the plotters succeeded in capturing Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega, the coup was quickly suppressed. Giroldi and nine others were executed, and another participant in the coup attempt died in prison after being tortured.

1990–1999