[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# HMS Brilliant (H84)

37, Brilliant enforced the arms blockade imposed by Britain and France on both sides by patrolling the Spanish ports on the Bay of Biscay. On 6 March 1938, Brilliant and sister-ship  were attacked by Nationalist bombers while patrolling off the coast of Southern Spain. Neither destroyer was damaged.

At the outbreak of war in September 1939, Brilliant was assigned to the 19th Destroyer Flotilla at Dover and spent the time before the Battle of France escorting convoys and minelaying operations. She collided with the breakwater at Dover on 12 September and required six weeks for repairs. On 12 May 1940, the ship took part in Operation XD, the destruction of Dutch port facilities and returned with 100 evacuees aboard. On 15 May Brilliant collided with her sister ship  en route for the Hook of Holland and was under repair at Sheerness Dockyard until 17 June. She was then transferred to the 1st Destroyer Flotilla at Dover, as the heavy losses suffered during the Dunkirk evacuation forced the disbandment of the 19th Flotilla. On 25 July, the ship engaged German E-boats off Dover Harbour together with Boreas and was badly damaged by German Junkers Ju 87 "Stuka" dive bombers after she was ordered to withdraw. Brilliant was attacked by eight "Stuka"s and the ship was hit by two bombs that passed through the hull without exploding. No one was injured, but the steering gear was disabled and she stopped and flooded by the stern. The ship was lightened by jettisoning her aft guns and depth charges and was towed back to Dover. Brilliant was under repair at Chatham Dockyard until mid-October.

Upon their completion, the ship was assigned to Home Fleet until February 1941 and was then refitted at Southampton in March. At this time she was fitted with a Type 286 short-range surface search radar. On 12 May, Brilliant was sailed for Freetown, Sierra Leone where she served as a local escort and searched for German blockade runners and supply ships until returning home in April 1942 for a refit at Chatham. On 4 and 5 June, the ship, together with the heavy cruiser London, intercepted the oil tankers  and , respectively. Both ships scuttled themselves to prevent their capture. Brilliant became leader of the 18th Destroyer Flotilla in August.

After the refit, the ship escorted a convoy to Durban, South Africa in May 1942 before returning to Freetown in August. On 9 October 1942, she rescued 321 survivors from the troopship HMT Oronsay which was torpedoed by the . The following month, Brilliant was transferred to Force H during Operation Torch, the invasion of French North Africa, in November. She was tasked to provide naval gunfire support during the landings at Oran, Algeria. When the Vichy French minesweeper  sortied to oppose the landing, Brilliant sank her and then rescued 21 survivors. The ship was transferred to the Gibraltar-based Escort Group 61 and remained with them until January 1943 when she returned home to begin her conversion into an escort destroyer. In addition to the armament changes, a Type 271 target indication radar was installed above the bridge that replaced her director-control tower and rangefinder during the conversion.

After working up, Brilliant was assigned to the 13th Destroyer Flotilla in Gibraltar in July 1943 and remained with them until September 1944 when she began a refit at Portsmouth. The ship was reassigned to the 1st Destroyer Flotilla in the English Channel in November. On 24 December 1944, Brilliant was escorting the troopship  when Leopoldville was struck by a torpedo from , 5 nautical miles off Cherbourg. Brilliant was able to rescue about 500 survivors from the damaged troopship, but due to various communication failures, no other vessels reached Leopoldville before she sank and 764 died. Brilliant collided with the Canadian corvette  in dense fog on 21 January 1945 off the Isle of Wight. Brilliants bow was badly damaged and she was transferred to Antwerp, Belgium, for permanent repairs after emergency repairs were made at Portsmouth. They were not completed until 23 April and the ship returned to Portsmouth for conversion to a submarine target and escort vessel. This was completed on 26 May and Brilliant escorted the light cruiser  with King George VI aboard as he visited the Channel Islands on 7 June. From 13 June, based at Holy Loch, Scotland, she escorted surrendered U-boats as part of Operation Deadlight before being paid off into reserve in November 1945. Her radar and communications equipment was removed before the ship was reduced to Category C reserve at Holy Loch on 29 April 1946. Brilliant was allocated to the Target Trials Committee on 11 September and was used evaluate the shock effects of a  underwater explosion in April 1947. The ship was turned over to the British Iron & Steel Corporation (BISCO) for scrapping on 21 February 1948. She was broken up beginning in April at Troon by the West of Scotland Shipbreaking Co.

Notes

References