[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Eelam War IV

were killed along with Prabhakaran.
 Charles Anthony was confirmed dead on May 18, 2009. SL Army has confirmed that the body found in Vellamullivaikkal is that of LTTE chief's son.
 Three bodies recovered by SL troops have been identified as those of Nadesan, Puleethevan and Ramesh on May 18, 2009.

Assassinations 
 Sri Lankan Foreign Minister Lakshman Kadirgamar, a Tamil who was highly respected by foreign diplomats and who had been sharply critical of the LTTE, was assassinated at his home on August 12, 2005, allegedly by an LTTE sniper. His assassination led to the marginalisation of the LTTE from the international community.
 The assassination of a well renowned Tamil diplomat,  the Deputy Peace Secretariat General for Co-ordinating the Peace Process (SCOPP) Kethesh Loganathan on August 12, 2006 at Dehiwala by shooting at around 9:30pm. He had been very keen to bring peace to the country and also participated in Thimphu peace talks in 1980s. Rajapakse condemned the murder and blamed the LTTE. 
 The assassination of the head Priest of the Santhiveli Pilleyar Kovil Selliah Parameswaran Kurukkal on February 7, 2007 in his home Batticaloa. The LTTE and the Sri Lankan Government blamed each other for this murder. TULF leader V. Anandasangaree also blamed the LTTE
 UNP Parliamentarian T. Maheshwaran. Government paramilitaries were blamed 
 A roadside bomb killed Non-cabinet Nation Building Minister D. M. Dassanayake on January 8, 2008 at Ja-Ela town, located 19 km north of Colombo city.
 A suspected LTTE suicide bomber killed cabinet Minister of Highways & Road Development Jeyaraj Fernandopulle on April 6, 2008 at Weliveriya Gampaha district.
 The 12-year-old son of Velupillai Prabhakaran was executed in May 2009.

Impact of war into civilian life
Amnesty International has also stated that increasing violence was forcing many Sri Lankans to flee the country and that more than 2,800 people had sought shelter in India this year. The state's failure to provide adequate security and to ensure that attacks against civilians are prosecuted has resulted in widespread fear and panic. Amnesty international also accused the LTTE of breaking the international law by using civilians as buffers against the army. A researcher for the organisation stated that there were cases where militants had forced people to stay in rebel-held areas to hamper army operations. The United Nations reported more than 20,000 civilians were killed in this recent war. CNN report

Since the upsurge in violence in April, nearly 40,000 people were displaced. This came amidst the government's air strikes on civilian areas in the East. Amnesty International quoted UN figures to say that a total of 39,883 people had been displaced in the north and east since April 7 adding that a total of 314,378 people were displaced by the conflict while around 325,000 people were estimated to have been displaced by the tsunami.

After the International Council of Red Cross, doctors and government officials left the war zone, only the Catholic priests remained with people until the end. One of the priests, Rev. Fr. Mariampillai Sarathjeevan who was leading the refugees to safety, also died in the war zone. The people and the priest did not have food for five days, and exhausted by months of hardship. Unconfirmed reports indicate that the priest was assaulted by soldiers when he approached them for help.

Stephen Rapp, the U.S. ambassador at large for war crimes issues, called for war crimes investigation on October 2009. His department submitted a detailed report to Congress about the incidents happened during the recent conflict in Sri Lanka.  On October 25, 2009 The Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the United Nations called for an  independent, international investigation of possible war crimes committed during the last few months of the war in Sri Lanka. Internal Displacement Monitoring Center of the Norwegian Refugee Council reported that the government of Sri Lanka was holding nearly 300,000 displaced people in military-run internment camps under questionable humanitarian conditions.

See also
 Eastern Theater of Eelam War IV
 Northern Theater of Eelam War IV

Eelam War I
Eelam War II
Eelam War III

References

56. Recapture Of Poonaryn by SL Army : http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/7730850.stm