[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Perle Systems

Perle Systems is a technology company that develops and manufactures serial to Ethernet, fiber to Ethernet, I/O connectivity, and device networking equipment. These types of products are commonly used to establish network connectivity across multiple locations, securely transmit sensitive information across a LAN, and remotely monitor and control networked devices via out-of-band management.

Perle has offices and representative offices in North America, Europe, and Asia and sells its products through distribution and OEM (original equipment manufacturer) channels worldwide.

On August 31, 2016, Phoenix Contact GmbH & Co. KG, Blomberg, Germany concluded a contract for the acquisition of Perle Systems Limited, Toronto. Thus, Perle Systems becomes an international subsidiary of the Phoenix Contact Group.

Products
5G and LTE Routers: Use to provide primary or failover back-up connectivity to remote infrastructure and assets through wireless cellular connections
Terminal Servers:  Used to connect any device with serial ports over Ethernet for access to network server applications. Examples of devices with serial ports include Cisco console ports, POS terminals, servers, modems, card readers and a wide range of industrial equipment.
Device Servers: Used to web or network enable existing equipment with RS-232, RS-422 or RS-485 serial interfaces.
Console Servers: Used to provide data center managers with secure remote management of Cisco routers, switches and firewalls, Solaris, Windows, Unix and Linux servers, PBXs or any device with a serial console port. Also referred to as out-of-band management of IT assets.
Ethernet I/O Device Servers: Used for access and control of remote digital I/O, analog I/O, pulse I/O, relays and temperature sensors on any IP network. Monitor environmental alarms, intrusion detection, relay contact closures and equipment failure.
Remote Power Switches: Used to remotely power on/off/cycle Data Center equipment.
Serial Cards: Used to add RS-232, RS-422, RS-485 serial ports to PCs or servers via PCI, PCI-X or PCI Express bus slots.
Parallel Cards: Used to add IEEE 1284 Parallel ports to PCs or servers via PCI, PCI-X or PCI Express bus slots.
Fiber Media Converters:  Used to extend copper to fiber, multimode to multimode and multimode to single mode fiber
Ethernet extenders:  Used to transparently extend 10/100/1000 Ethernet connections across copper wiring
Industrial Ethernet network switches
Small form-factor pluggable transceivers and XFP transceivers