[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tawergha

legally arrested and tortured by militiamen in Misrata. In May 2012, the UN Human Rights Council's Commission of Inquiry published a report about the violations conducted by Misratan militias against Tawerghans across Libya including killings, arbitrarily arrests and torture, calling it a war crime.

The nonprofit group Human Rights Watch reported in November 2013 that Tawerghans remain unable to return to their homes due to intimidation and violence by militias, most of which are based in Misrata, it said. The report claimed refugee camps for Tawerghans are often left without security and have been assaulted by small groups of armed men on multiple occasions, including at least twice in November 2013.

Residents of Tawergha were reportedly subjected to rapes and torture for supporting Gaddafi during the first civil war.

It became a ghost town after being ransacked by Misratans. According to Human Rights Watch about 40,000 people were displaced from Tawergha.

Resettlement

The United Nations-backed Libyan government announced on 26 December 2017 that people displaced from the town would be allowed to go back home in February 2018. The deal came after a year of negotiations. The government added it will also pay compensation to relatives of those killed or detained, those who were wounded or whose homes were destroyed. The residents were however prevented from returning home by a local militia in February 2018.

In June 2018, after the head of the Tawergha Local Council and the Mayor of Misrata signed a peace treaty that pro-Khalifa Haftar internally displaced people of Tawergha deemed as propaganda of the Muslim Brotherhood, the IDPs finally started resettling Tawergha without resistance from local militias. Despite the deals, most Tawergha IDPs have been unable to return as of January 2019 due to the mostly Misratan militias ravaging the town's infrastructure plus the IDPs feeling insecure according to Human Rights Watch. The police station of Tawergha was reopened in February 2019.

By August 2022, 45% of IDPs had returned to the town according to Marc-André Franche,
Resident Representative of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) in Libya. He also stated that the UNDP had invested over $2 million in its reconstruction.

See also
 List of cities in Libya

References

Populated places in Misrata District
Baladiyat of Libya