[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# December 1919

The following events occurred in December 1919:

December 1, 1919 (Monday) 

 Russian Civil War – The Red Army captured Semipalatinsk, Kazakhstan, frustrating the chances of the Orenburg Independent Army under Alexander Dutov from joining up with the main White Army force under Vladimir Kappel who were retreating into Siberia.
 Nancy Astor became the first woman to take her seat in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, having been the second woman elected to a Member of Parliament seat on November 28. Constance Markievicz was the first woman elected to Parliament in 1918.
 The first cabinet of the Alexandru Vaida-Voevod administration was formed in Romania.
 The first passenger train of the San Diego and Arizona Railway arrived in San Diego from El Centro, California, for the official line opening ceremony.
 The Canadian Railway War Board was reorganized as the Railway Association of Canada.
 Aircraft manufacturer Wright-Martin changed its name to Wright Aeronautical after partner Glenn L. Martin resigned from the company.
 The Kentucky Christian University was established in Grayson, Kentucky as the Christian Normal Institute.
 The first public radio station in North America began broadcasting in Montreal.
 King George of the United Kingdom, on advice from Canadian Prime Minister Robert Borden, established the Memorial Cross which was presented to widows and mothers of Canadians who were killed while serving in World War I. It is now awarded to spouses and families of members of the Canadian Armed Forces who died during peacekeeping or other international operations.
 The Portuguese language newspaper Diário de Noite began publication in Panjim, India, and served the city until it ceased operations in 1967.
 The El Dorado Times daily newspaper began publication in El Dorado, Kansas. 
 The football club Vallentuna was established in Vallentuna, Sweden.

December 2, 1919 (Tuesday) 

 Canadian theater magnate Ambrose Small disappeared following a meeting with his lawyer F. W. M. Flock in Small's office at the Grand Opera House in Toronto. Flock was discussing Small's sale of all of his theater holdings for  the previous day. Flick was the last person to see Small when he left the office at 5:30 p.m. Small had been known to disappear for weeks on end but by January Flick and Small's wife grew concerned about his long absence and reported him missing to police. There was no indication of kidnapping or robbery, or evidence of Small taking any money with him. Despite a $50,000 reward made out for information on Small's whereabouts, the reward went unclaimed. Despite numerous leads and theories, Small's disappearance was never solved. He was declared dead in 1924.
 The National Library of Lithuania was established in Kaunas.
 Born: Norma Miller, American dancer, leading promoter of the Lindy Hop, member of the Whitey's Lindy Hoppers, in New York City (d. 2019)
 Died: 
Henry Clay Frick, American industrialist, chairman of the Carnegie Steel Company, one of the architects of the formation of U.S. Steel (b. 1849)
Evelyn Wood, British army officer, noted commander in the Third Anglo-Ashanti War, Anglo-Zulu War, and First Boer War, recipient of the Victoria Cross for action during the Indian Rebellion of 1857 (b. 1838)

December 3, 1919 (Wednesday) 
 The Quebec Bridge opened to rail traffic crossing the St. Lawrence River after almost two decades of construction that cost over $23 million and 88 lives. It is  long, incorporating the longest cantilever bridge span in the world at .
 Died: Pierre-Auguste Renoir, French artist, leading developer of Impressionism, best known works included Bal du moulin de la Galette and Luncheon of the Boating Party (b. 1841)

December 4, 1919 (Thursday) 
 Australian Royal Air Force officers Captain Cedric Howell and Lieutenant George Henry Fraser left London in a Martinsyde aircraft as part of the competition to complete the England to Australia flight. However, poor weather forced them to land their aircraft in Dijon, France. They managed to get to Italy a few days later before attempting to reach Africa by way of Crete. 
 The French Opera House in New Orleans was destroyed by fire.
 The Handley Page Type W aircraft was test flown after making its debut at the Paris Air Show. 
 Born: 
Inder Kumar Gujral, Indian state leader, 12th Prime Minister of India, in Jhelum, British India (d. 2012)
Lawrence Stone, English historian, leading expert on the English Civil War, in Epsom (d. 1999)