[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Old Abe

th Wisconsin.  These reinforcements enabled the Union to win the next day's Battle of Pleasant Hill, but Banks immediately ordered a retreat to Grand Ecore, and from there, to Alexandria.  During this retreat, the regiment fought rear guard actions at Natchitoches, Monett's Ferry, and Cloutierville.

After Smith's forces arrived in Alexandria on April 26, they were temporarily deployed to prevent attacks during Joseph Bailey's attempts to get Porter's squadron over the rapids there, with the aid of Bailey's Dam and two small wing dams upstream.  After this task was completed, Banks resumed his retreat on May 13, leaving Alexandria in flames.

On May 16, Union forces reached Mansura where Taylor's army attempted to prevent them from reaching river transportation.  After heavy fighting, the Confederates fell back, and the Union troops marched toward Simmesport, where Bailey was building a bridge over the Atchafalaya River that would allow them to reach transport ships.  On the 18th, Banks learned that Taylor's force was deployed near Yellow Bayou and arranged for Mower to stop the Confederates.  After several hours of see-saw action, the ground cover caught fire and forced both sides to retire.  The next day, Smith's army embarked and reached Vicksburg on the 24th.

In early June 1864, General Smith ordered Mower to launch a forceful demonstration to deter interference with Mississippi river traffic near Lake Village, Arkansas.  This town is named for its location on Lake Chicot, an oxbow lake formed from the Mississippi.  On the evening of June 5, Mower disembarked and camped near Sunnyside Landing.  The next morning, as he marched along the south side of the lake, Confederates, led by General Colton Greene, fought a delaying action at Ditch Bayou and then withdrew.  The Union troops advanced to Lake Village, camped there overnight, and the next day, boarded transports that took them to Memphis.  At Ditch Bayou, the regiment lost 3 killed and 16 wounded.

Return to Wisconsin
On June 19, 1864, 240 reenlisted veterans left Memphis on furlough, with their eagle.  They arrived at Chicago on the 21st.  The next day, flags were displayed along the streets of Madison, the bells of the city were rung, and a national salute was fired.   At the Capitol, crowds of citizens assembled to greet the veterans and Old Abe.  Here, they were addressed by several dignitaries, including General Lucius Fairchild, Colonel Jefferson and Chauncey Abbott, who was a former mayor of Madison.

A few days later, on June 26, 56 veterans of Company C arrived at Eau Claire, with the eagle, and were greeted with booming cannons, martial music, patriotic songs, and an abundant feast.  Citizens of Chippewa Falls constructed a huge wigwam.  Here, according to Reverend Joseph O. Barrett, who spoke at the celebration, a great feast was served to Old Abe and the soldiers on July 4, 1864.  Afterwards, a procession circled through the streets, headed by a band, the eagle and the veterans.

In August 1864, the veterans and Old Abe returned from furlough to Memphis.  During their absence, the regiment had been active in northern Mississippi.  Following Forrest's victory over a large Union force at Brice's Crossroads, on June 10, 1864, Sherman vowed to track him down with forces under "two officers at Memphis who will fight all the time, A. J. Smith and J. A. Mower." A month later, Mower's four brigades overtook Forrest near Tupelo, Mississippi, repulsed a series of attacks, and inflicted hundreds of casualties, including the slight wounding of Forrest himself.  On August 13, 1864, the day after Mower had been promoted to Major General, the regiment, including the returned troops, participated in another defeat of Forrest's command at Hurricane Creek, Mississippi  This was Old Abe's last battle.

September 16, 1864, marked the end of the three years for which original members of the 8th Wisconsin had enlisted.  Consequently, the veterans headed north with the eagle, whom the regiment had agreed to give to the state of Wisconsin.  On September 21, they reached Chicago, where John Burkhardt resigned as eagle bearer and turned Old Abe over to John H. Hill, who had been disabled by a wound at Corinth.  He was the brother of Thomas J. Hill who had also served as eagle bearer.  The next day, Hill bore the eagle into Madison at the head of 70 veterans, of which 26 were from Company C.  Here, on the 26th, Captain Victor Wolf presented Old Abe to Governor James T. Lewis, who handed the eagle, with its perch, to Quartermaster General N. F. Lund.