[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wexner Foundation

ded to include top candidates for academic Jewish studies and the cantorate. By the end of 2018, over 550 outstanding Jewish professional leaders from a wide array of religious affiliations and professional groupings will have participated in the Wexner Graduate Fellowship/Davidson Scholars Program.

The Wexner Israel Fellowship Program (1989) annually selects up to 10 outstanding mid-career Israeli public officials to study for a master's degree in the mid-career program of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. The goal of the fellowship is to provide Israel's next generation of public leaders with advanced leadership and public management training. By the end of 2018, 260 Israeli public officials will have participated in the Israel Fellowship, including leaders who have gone on to become Directors General of government ministries, Generals and Commanders in the Israeli military, and top advisors to Prime Ministers.

The Wexner Service Corps (2013) is a program designed to inspire and unite Columbus-area Jewish teens to engage in service-learning. The Service Corps is open to high school juniors and seniors to participate in a week-long service trip followed by a year of monthly volunteering and Jewish learning. A select group of Corps members can return for a second year to join the Senior Leadership Cohort (SLC). The Service Corps launched in June 2013 with an inaugural service trip to New York and has since served in New Orleans, Detroit, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, and most recently Houston. Columbus Jewish teens have cumulatively put in thousands of service hours into serving both the Columbus community and the communities it visits. The Wexner Service Corps was inspired by Hannah Wexner and the mantle was taken up by her sister Sarah.

The Wexner Field Fellowship (2013) is a special opportunity to grow as a Jewish professional, deepen your leadership skills and develop a rich network of colleagues to support your career. Wexner Field Fellows Program in partnership with the Jim Joseph Foundation to provide opportunities for professional growth to promising Jewish professionals who plan to continue to pursue a career as a professional leader in the North American Jewish community. More than 60 Field Fellows have engaged in the program since its inception.

The Wexner Senior Leaders (2015) is an executive model leadership initiative and aspires to leverage The Wexner Foundation's long-established partnerships with the Israeli Government and Harvard University, with the goal of strengthening Israel's public service leadership. The program aims to strengthen skills and design strategies for leading trans-formative change, acquiring new tools for better decision-making, and developing strategies to be employed by some of Israel's most promising and influential senior leaders in the public sector. The program prepares a select cohort each year to exercise collaborative leadership within and across organizations and sectors. To date, more than 120 executives have taken part in the Senior Leaders program.

The Wexner Summits provide a space for Alumni and Network Members to work together to identify common goals and values. Commitments and work that emerge from the Summits aim to strengthen our individual and collective efforts with a goal to provide answers for controversial issue in the Jewish world.

Notable fellows 

 Marla Berkowitz

Controversy 

In April 2003, a research report for the Wexner Foundation was leaked which was entitled Wexner Analysis: Israeli Communication Priorities 2003. The document was prepared by the Luntz Research Companies and Israel Project. The document was a public relationship document which provided communication strategies for American supporters of Israel, especially those in the media, on how to sway US public opinion in favor of Israel in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, and how to link Israel's interests with those of the United States. It was considered controversial since it was seen as a covert communication campaign for swaying the American public and showed a lack of good faith in resolving the conflict.

In October 2018, Israeli reporter Erel Segal and news outlets such as mida had reported that $2.3 million had been transferred to Ehud Barak for unknown work between 2004 and 2006 by the Wexner Foundation, which had described the money transfer as payment for research.

On October 29 Maariv (through its Israeli radio station) reported that Barak had been given the funds while he was a private citizen and the fund transfer is under investigation.

However, on November 6 a call for investigation by the attorney general of Israel had been filed. The following day, it was reported that contrary to initial claims, the Wexner funds had been transferred to Barak while he may not have been a private person.