[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Fort Chaffee Maneuver Training Center

Fort Chaffee Joint Maneuver Training Center, also known as Fort Chaffee, is an Arkansas Army National Guard installation located in western Arkansas, adjacent to the city of Fort Smith. Established as Camp Chaffee in 1941, renamed to Fort Chaffee in 1956, it has served as a U.S. Army base, training camp, prisoner-of-war camp, and refugee camp. The fort was realigned following the 1995 Base Realignment and Closure Commission round. Since that time, the Arkansas National Guard has been using  as a training facility. The State of Arkansas received , about half of which have been redeveloped as of 2014. The main environmental concern has been asbestos, released during various fires.

Location
Fort Chaffee is just outside Fort Smith (Sebastian County) and Barling (Sebastian County) on Arkansas Highway 22,  southeast of Fort Smith Regional Airport. The Arkansas River flows eastward along its northern border and Interstate 40 is  to the north on the opposite side of the river.

History
Fort Chaffee was originally named Camp Chaffee. The camp was named after Major General Adna R. Chaffee Jr., an artillery officer who, in Europe during World War I, determined that the cavalry was outmoded and, unlike other cavalry officers, advocated for the use of tanks.

The groundbreaking of Camp Chaffee was held on 20 September 1941, as part of the Department of War's preparations to double the size of the U.S. Army in the face of World War II. That month, the U.S. government paid  to acquire  from 712 property owners, including families, farms, businesses, churches, schools, and other government agencies. It took only sixteen months to build the entire base. The first soldiers arrived on 7 December 1941, the day of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. The installation was activated on March 27, 1942 and from 1942 to 1946, the 6th, 14th and 16th Armored Divisions trained there. The creation of the camp caused the nearby town of Barling to experience a tremendous boom in housing and businesses. Fort Chaffee also served as a prisoner-of-war-camp during World War II, housing 3,000 German prisoners of war.

From 1948 to 1957, Chaffee was the home of the 5th Armored Division. On March 21, 1956, the name of Camp Chaffee was officially changed to Fort Chaffee in recognition of the permanent nature of the base. For four days in 1958, Chaffee was home to Elvis Presley, who as part of his induction into the Army received his first military haircut in Building 803. In 1959, the "Home of the U.S. Army Training Center, Field Artillery" moved from Fort Chaffee to Fort Sill, Oklahoma, where it remains to this day.

The Berlin Crises of the early 1960's resulted in Fort Chaffee being opened as a Basic training facility for Army recruits. The 100th Kentucky Division of WW II was activated and moved to Fort Chaffee where they ran a complete eight week basic training operation for thousands of Army recruits during the early 60's including an Advanced Infantry Training (AIT) course for those recruits assigned to combat infantry units throughout the Army.   

Fort Chaffee served as a primary center for housing refugees three times; from 1975 to 1976  it was a processing center for refugees from Southeast Asia and held Vietnamese and Cambodian refugees after the Vietnam and Cambodia wars. The facility processed 50,809 refugees of the Vietnam War, giving them medical screenings, matching them with sponsors, and arranging for their resettlement in the United States.

In 1980, Fort Chaffee became a Cuban refugee resettlement center, holding 19,000 Cubans after the Mariel boatlift and briefly making the camp the 11th largest city in Arkansas. The Cubans were brought to the fort in early May, and there were delays in processing and resettlement caused by "bureaucratic setbacks and rumors (later proven true) that Chaffee was full of Cuban criminals released from prison by Fidel Castro." On June 1, the detainees rioted, destroying four barracks and fighting with State Police officers and National Guardsmen. 62 refugees were injured and 46 others were arrested. After the riots, the previously unsecured facility was turned into a prison, encircled with miles of concertina wire and 2,000 heavily-armed federal troops. The riot was a major issue in Frank D. White's victory over Governor Bill Clinton in the November 1980 gubernatorial election. Over two years, Fort Chaffee processed 25,390 Cuban refugees.