[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Milorad Dodik

and Herzegovina, on 23 September 2021, ruled that the law's provision that the forests are the property of Republika Srpska was unconstitutional. Dodik criticized this decision, stating "In RS [Republika Srpska], everything outside the Constitution and Dayton [Dayton Agreement] should be annulled."

On 27 September, he announced that Republika Srpska will be withdrawing the approvals which it gave to the agreements on the formation of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina. He later on said that no matter what, nothing will be done "outside the Constitution." Although supporting Dodik's opinion regarding the law banning the denial of genocide, Mirko Šarović, the president of the Serb Democratic Party (SDS), the major opposition party in Republika Srpska, does not support the withdrawal of jurisdiction of the Armed Forces and other national institutions, stating "From Dodik's frivolous initiatives, Republika Srpska will become a target, we have no use of these decisions."

On 20 October 2021, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska just narrowly voted to form an entity Medicines Agency, thus withdrawing their support for the national Bosnian Medicines Agency. The opposition, including the SDS and the Party of Democratic Progress, did not attend the vote in protest against Dodik and his actions.

On 8 November 2021, Dodik announced further withdrawal from the Armed Forces, stating "We will not allow the Armed Forces to become a Muslim army" and saying that "It is good for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be demilitarized, that was our earlier proposal." Following Dodik's actions, the House of Commons of the United Kingdom organized a debate on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, during which great accusations were made against the work of Dodik, but also Serbia and Russia as countries that support his doings.

On 10 December 2021, the Republika Srpska National Assembly adopted a set of conclusions, including those regarding the Armed Forces, paving the way for the withdrawal of jurisdiction from national to entity levels. Once again, in protest, the opposition did not attend the vote and refused to support the conclusions, stating "This is a farce and a simple election campaign."

Foreign policy

In May 2021, during a flareup in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, Dodik was thanked by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for expressing his support for Israel, unlike his presidency counterparts who expressed their support for Palestine.

In June 2021, Dodik signed the SEECP Declaration in Antalya, Turkey, which among other things, incorporates talks about NATO integration.

On 6 November 2021, he met with Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orbán in Banja Luka, in process thanking him "for the understanding that Hungary has for Republika Srpska." Orbán said that "Republika Srpska is key to peace in the Balkans" and that Hungary will "expand its economic program with Republika Srpska."

On 2 December 2021, Dodik had a meeting with Russian president Vladimir Putin in Moscow, with Dodik stating "He [Putin] is familiar with the details of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina." Following Russia recognizing the Donetsk People's Republic and the Luhansk People's Republic as independent states on 21 February 2022, which are disputed territories in the Ukrainian region of Donbas, Dodik said that Republika Srpska will seek neutrality at the national level regarding the issue of Ukraine. On 24 February, Putin ordered a large-scale invasion of Ukraine, marking a dramatic escalation of the Russo-Ukrainian War that began in 2014. Regarding the invasion, Dodik said that Bosnia and Herzegovina was neutral, having stated the previous day that the "events showed it was a good decision for Bosnia and Herzegovina to not enter NATO, and that the country would not support sanctions."

European Union

Originally a big advocate and supporter of the European Union, Dodik has gradually become much more Eurosceptic and critical about the EU.

In September 2020, Dodik and his fellow Presidency members said that an EU candidate status for Bosnia and Herzegovina was possible in the year 2021 if the country "implements successful reforms."

In September 2021, Dodik went to Budapest, Hungary to attend its Demographic Summit. There he met with Slovenian prime minister Janez Janša on 22 September. On 23 September, Dodik made a speech at the summit, where he criticized the European Union, LGBT community and the handling of the previous European migrant crisis. Apart from Dodik and Janša, the summit was also attended by Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orbán, Serbian president Aleksandar Vučić, Czech prime minister Andrej Babiš, Polish prime minister Mateusz Morawiecki and former U.S. vice president Mike Pence, as well as 2022 French presidential election candidate Éric Zemmour.