[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Australia–China relations

omic slowdown would become vulnerable to buyouts by state-owned enterprises in authoritarian regimes including China. In April 2020, Australian Border Force intercepted faulty masks and other personal protective equipment kits that had been imported from China to help stop the spread of coronavirus.

Relations deteriorated further in May 2020 after Australia called for an independent investigation into the initial coronavirus outbreak in China, with Prime Minister Scott Morrison suggesting that WHO needed tough "weapons inspector" powers to investigate the cause of the outbreak. On 12 May 2020, China banned import of beef from four Australian beef processing firms, constituting about 35% of Australia's beef exports to China. A spokesman for China's foreign ministry said that the ban was to "secure the health and safety of Chinese consumers" before adding China's criticism against Australia's pursuit of an investigation into the origins COVID-19, which was first discovered in China. The spokesman, Zhao Lijian, denied that the two issues were connected.

From 19 May 2020, China instituted an 80% tariff on barley imports from Australia. China stated the tariffs were the culmination of multi-year Chinese investigations into dumping and government subsidies. The Australian government and the industry strongly rejected China's findings. The previous week, China had unfrozen barley imports from the United States. Annual estimates (dated around 2017–2018) state China grows less than  of barley per year and imports about  of barley annually. Australia grows about  per year, three times as much as the entire US.

On 25 May 2020, the Chinese government warned Australia to "distance" itself from the US amid growing tensions. Accusing the US of pushing for a "new Cold War", Beijing said that any support Australia shows for the US would deliver "a fatal blow" to the Australian economy. The Global Times said in a related report, "Australia's economic deterrent force is much smaller than the US', so China to some extent will enjoy more room to fight back against Australia with countermeasures if Canberra supports Washington... it means Australia may feel more pain than the US."

On 19 June 2020, the Australian government announced that there had been a spate of cyber-attacks on Australian businesses and government agencies from a "sophisticated state based actor", without naming China directly. However, sources familiar with the Australian government's thinking said there was a high degree of confidence that China was behind the cyber-attacks. China denied that it was involved and said it "firmly opposed all forms of cyber attacks". The average cost of cybercrime to a business in Australia is around $276,000 Australian dollars.

In June 2020, the Chinese government also issued a travel warning to Australia's Chinese diaspora and Chinese students studying in Australia, citing an increase in racial discrimination and violence against Chinese people. In 2019, more than 1.2 million Chinese tourists visited Australia, spending $12.4 billion Australian dollars in total. Additionally, fees from Chinese students contribute about $12 billion Australian dollars to the economy each year.

In November 2020, China imposed "anti-dumping" tariffs ranging from 107.1% to 212.1% on wine imported from Australia. In December 2020, after months of restrictions, China fully blocked coal imports from Australia.

In 2020, Chinese investment in Australia dropped 61% compared to the year prior amidst strained diplomatic relations. The Australian National University's Chinese Investment in Australia (CHIIA) Database recorded just over $780m (A$1bn; £550m) in investment, the lowest number in 6 years.

In March 2021, it was reported that the Australian ambassador Graham Fletcher told a China-Australia business group that China is a "vindictive" and "unreliable" trading partner as it was revealed that most Australian exports to China, including coal, wine, barley, cotton, lobsters, and wood, suffered steep declines for almost a year.

On 21 April 2021 the Federal Foreign Minister Marise Payne announced that the State of Victoria's memorandum of understanding with China regarding the Belt and Road Initiative would be cancelled.

In June 2021, the BBC reported Australia will file a formal complaint with the World Trade Organization over China imposing tariffs of 218% on its wine.

In August 2023, due to an improvement of relations, China's Ministry of Commerce announced that it would be lifting its "anti-dumping and anti-subsidy" tariffs on Australian barley.

Political relations

Whilst economic relations between China and Australia have increased significantly to the benefit of both nations, Australia under the Howard government appeared reluctant to pursue closer political/military ties with China and has maintained the role that George W. Bush controversially dubbed "America's Deputy" in the Asia-Pacific Region.