[Source: PubMed]

77. Int J Infect Dis. 2026 Apr 9;168:108675. doi: 10.1016/j.ijid.2026.108675.
Online  ahead of print.

Measuring capacities to advance global health security and bioeconomic 
development on the African continent.

Dunne MM(1), Kebede Y(2), James W(3), Asy A(4), Babigumira PA(5), Bangure D(6), 
Busuulwa IP(7), Benkhalifa R(8), Bitilinyu-Bangoh J(9), Cameron EE(3), Gasca 
C(10), Isaac CR(11), Makumbi I(5), Maruta T(12), Masuku Z(13), Mayet N(13), 
Meyer D(10), Namara G(14), Noumedem J(15), Nyenswah T(16), Ochu CL(17), Ofili 
DI(18), Okwalinga P(19), Omumbo J(20), Ondeme AM(21), Paxton NA(11), Senouci 
S(22), Severance H(11), Tandwa L(23), Yassif JM(11), Vaughan E(24), Nuzzo 
JB(25).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Brown University School of Public Health, 
Providence, RI, USA. Electronic address: margaret_dunne@brown.edu.
(2)Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, Laboratory Network and 
Systems, Biosafety and Biosecurity, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Health Services, Policy and Practice, Brown University School 
of Public Health, Providence, RI, USA; Brown University School of Public Health, 
Pandemic Center, Providence, RI, USA.
(4)Animal Health Research Institute, Agricultural Research Center, Giza, Egypt.
(5)Republic of Uganda Ministry of Health, Kampala, Central Region, Uganda.
(6)Laboratory Systems and Network Division, Africa Centres for Disease Control 
and Prevention, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(7)World Organisation for Animal Health, Nairobi, Kenya.
(8)Laboratory of Biomolecules, Venoms and Theranostic Applications, Institut 
Pasteur de Tunis, Tunis, Tunisia.
(9)Public Health Institute of Malawi, Lilongwe, Malawi.
(10)Brown University School of Public Health, Pandemic Center, Providence, RI, 
USA.
(11)Nuclear Threat Initiative, Washington, DC, USA.
(12)African Society for Laboratory Medicine, Harare, Zimbabwe.
(13)National Health Laboratory Service, National Institute for Communicable 
Diseases, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(14)World Health Organization Hub for Pandemic and Epidemic Intelligence, 
Berlin, Germany.
(15)Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(16)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg 
School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(17)Department of Planning, Research and Statistics, Nigeria Centre for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Federal Capital Territory, Nigeria; Milken Institute 
School of Public Health, The George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA.
(18)Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria, Abuja, Nigeria.
(19)Joint Clinical Research Centre, Kampala, Uganda; Biosafety and Biosecurity 
Association of Uganda, Kampala, Uganda.
(20)Science for Africa Foundation, Nairobi, Nairobi County, Kenya.
(21)International Centre of Medical Research of Franceville, Franceville, Gabon.
(22)Moroccan Biosafety Association, Rabat, Morocco.
(23)Steve Biko Centre for Bioethics, University of the Witwatersrand 
Johannesburg, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(24)Economist Impact, London, UK.
(25)Department of Epidemiology, Brown University School of Public Health, 
Providence, RI, USA; Brown University School of Public Health, Pandemic Center, 
Providence, RI, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This descriptive analysis aims to examine the current state of 
health security on the African continent to understand areas where improvements 
have been made, where gaps remain, and where future priorities can be 
identified.
DESIGN: We analyzed the health security capacities of 54 African countries using 
data abstracted from the Global Health Security Index (versions 2019 and 2021) 
and Joint External Evaluation reports published since 2021.
RESULTS: The continent's health security strengths include a high level of 
commitment to improving health security. In addition, between 2019 and 2021, 
African countries improved their epidemiology workforce and developed plans for 
the implementation of non-pharmaceutical interventions. Despite this progress, 
gaps remain, especially in areas of biosecurity, biosafety, and oversight of 
dual-use research of concern.
CONCLUSIONS: Continuing to build on improvements to health security capacities 
on the African continent is crucial to safeguarding economic and development 
achievements. Investing in health security capacities will not only strengthen 
preparedness for a variety of health hazards and risks, but it will also 
stimulate the continent's emerging bioeconomy. Improving capacities to prepare 
for and respond to health security threats on the African continent benefits 
both the continent and the rest of the world.

Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2026.108675
PMID: 41956422

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships, which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: CRI, NAP, HS, and JMY are employees 
of NTI, which received prior grant funding from the BMGF, Open Philanthropy 
Foundation, and the Rockefeller Foundation for the development of the Global 
Health Security Index. JBN contributed to the development of the Global Health 
Security Index, for which she received grant funding from NTI. EV contributed to 
the data collection of the GHS Index, for which she received grant funding from 
NTI. TN, IM, and WJ are members of the international panel of experts who, in 
their own capacity, provide nonbinding advice regarding the development of the 
Global Health Security Index. WJ served as a consultant for resilience.ai during 
the time when some of this work was completed. The present analysis was 
conducted outside of the scope and without the support of grant funding received 
for the Global Health Security Index.