[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Gheorghe Pintilie

labor: "General Dumitrașcu [...] was sending reports [on this matter] to Pantiușa (Pintilie), who was a Russian agent. Have a guess as to what effect those reports had". Pleșiță further claims that the party leadership was slow to react, since "Dej could not wrap his head around the uranium issue." 

The intended target of Apostol's critique replied with notional self-criticism, such as in December 1957, when he told other DGSS men that: "We shall need to turn our backs on the poor-quality work that we are currently providing, and that we have been providing so far". At that junction, Drăghici and Pintilie were initiating another "reeducation" experiment, centered on Aiud prison—a facility which, they spuriously claimed, had been transformed into the Iron Guard's "command center". Colonel Crăciun was assigned to lead this new stage, being reportedly instructed by Pintilie in person: "You go there and you kick their asses." During those months, Pintilie became aware that his effort to gather up Guardist informants was seen as distasteful and suspicious by a growing mass of party officials and Securitate officers. As a result, he took distance from his own "method", allowing his disciples to take more initiative—and the associated risks. Crăciun, identified as the main culprit of Aiud, found himself morally superior to the Lieutenant General: "for Pintilie, a human's life or freedom held no more significance than those of just about any living creature".

Pintilie is tentatively identified as "Comrade Penteleev", who, in March 1958, hosted in Bucharest a meeting of Eastern Bloc security services, which is only attested through a report made by Mircho Spasov (from the Bulgarian Committee for State Security). By November, he had intensified Securitate links with the KGB, the Polish Security Service, and other European communist agencies, asking them for reports on the Romanian diaspora, and considering plans for intelligence sharing. As reported by Pintilie himself, Drăghici was incensed by the "leniency and superficiality" displayed by Securitate cadres from the Magyar Autonomous Region, who had failed to anticipate any local ramifications of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. At the time, "Pantiușa" was allegedly preparing for a purge of the Hungarian minority, producing a list of some thousand ethnic-Hungarian intellectuals who were to be placed in pre-trial detention. His attempt was blocked by János Fazekas, a Hungarian member of the PCR Central Committee. From July 1, 1958, Pintilie also resumed his campaign against religious dissidence, this time by targeting the Union of Seventh-day Adventists. On his recommendation, the Adventist leaders faced a kangaroo court which convicted them on false charges, allowing the Securitate to replace them with informants. 

As Gheorghiu-Dej embarked on a political feud with the new Soviet leader, Nikita Khrushchev, and ensured steps toward independence, rumors began propagating which credited Pintilie as a Soviet loyalist. One such account is provided by novelist Marin Preda, who claims that, during Khrushchev's visit to Bucharest, "Pantiușa" (serving as junior minister under "that imbecile Drăghici") was tasked with staging a pro-Soviet coup. Also according to Preda, Khrushchev's plot never stood a chance of success, since the Securitate was being monitored by the Army and the PCR, who now formed a tactical alliance. Although mired in controversy when the Pitești Experiment was curbed by the courts, Pintilie's underlying "method" remained a staple of Securitate activity, into the mid 1960s. In the late 1950s, Dej encouraged a partial De-Stalinization of political life, turning on his former Soviet backers. In 1959, Pintilie was moved sideways from the Securitate, and assigned control of the Miliția. His contributions there included negotiating a treaty on police-force cooperation with the Hungarian People's Republic, for which task he and Drăghici traveled to Budapest in November 1960. During the period of cooperation which followed, Pintilie established a direct line of communication with József Galambos, his counterpart in the Hungarian Ministry of the Interior.