[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# LGBT rights in Mexico

ote of 39–20 with five abstentions. Eight days later, Mayor Marcelo Ebrard signed the bill into law. It took effect on 4 March 2010. The law changed the definition of marriage in the city's Civil Code to "a free union between two people". It also granted same-sex couples the right to adopt children.

In February 2010, the Supreme Court rejected constitutional challenges by six states to the Mexico City law. The Federal Attorney General, however, had separately challenged the law as unconstitutional, citing an article in the Constitution of Mexico that refers to "protecting the family". Five months later, the Supreme Court ruled 9–2 that the law did not violate the Constitution.

Civil unions by state

On 11 January 2007, the Congress of the northern state of Coahuila legalized same-sex civil unions (by a 20–13 vote) under the name pacto civil de solidaridad (PCS), giving property and inheritance rights to same-sex couples. The PCS was proposed by Congresswoman Julieta López of the centrist PRI, whose nineteen members voted for the law. Luis Alberto Mendoza, deputy of the center-right PAN (which opposed), said the new law was an "attack against the family, which is society's natural group and is formed by a man and a woman". Apart from that, the PCS drew little opposition and was notably supported by Bishop Raúl Vera. Unlike Mexico City's law, once same-sex couples have registered in Coahuila, the state protects their rights (no matter where they live in Mexico). Twenty days after the law passed, the country's first same-sex civil union took place in Saltillo, Coahuila.

On 11 April 2013, the Party of the Democratic Revolution introduced a measure to legalize civil unions in Campeche. The bill was unanimously passed on 20 December 2013, and while it covers both same-sex and opposite-sex couples, it specifically provides that it "shall not constitute a civil partnership of people living together in marriage and cohabitation." An additional distinction is that it is not filed with the Civil Registrar, but with the Public Registry of Property and Trade.

In July 2013, the Congress of Colima approved a constitutional amendment authorizing same-sex couples to legally formalize their unions by entering into marital bonds with the "same rights and obligations with respect to the contracting of civil marriage". On 5 May 2016, the civil union law was repealed in favor of same-sex marriage legislation.

In 2013, deputies of the Party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD), Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), Ecologist Green Party of Mexico (PVEM), Citizens' Movement (MC) and an independent deputy presented the Free Coexistence Act (Ley de Libre Convivencia) to the Congress of Jalisco. The Act established that same-sex civil unions can be performed in the state, as long as they are not considered marriages. It did not legalize adoption and mandated that civil unions be performed with a civil law notary. On 31 October 2013, the Jalisco Congress approved the Act in a 20–15 vote, one abstained and three were absent. The law took effect on 1 January 2014. On 13 September 2018, the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation struck down the law on procedural grounds.

On 27 August 2015, the Justice and Human Rights Committee announced it would enact a civil union law for same-sex couples in Michoacán. It was approved unanimously in a 34-0 vote by the full Michoacán Congress on 7 September 2015. The law was published on 30 September 2015 in the state's official journal.

In December 2016, the Tlaxcala Congress approved a civil union bill, in an 18-4 vote. The bill went into effect on 12 January 2017.

Same-sex marriage by state

The status of same-sex marriage in Mexico's states is complex. Currently, all states have legalized same-sex marriage. Previously, these marriages are recognized nationwide (even in states where same-sex couples could not marry) and by various federal departments and organizations. Same-sex marriage legalization has been achieved through different methods:
[1] Legislative action (as has happened in Baja California Sur, Campeche, Coahuila, Colima, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Mexico, Mexico City, Michoacán, Morelos, Nayarit, Oaxaca, Queretaro, San Luis Potosí, Sinaloa, Tabasco, Tamaulipas, Tlaxcala, Yucatán and Zacatecas)
[2] Administrative decision where the state Government or Civil Registry chose to stop enforcing its same-sex marriage ban (Baja California [later codified], Chihuahua, Durango [later codified], Quintana Roo [de facto codified] and Guanajuato)
[3] Supreme Court ruling (Aguascalientes, Chiapas, Jalisco [later codified], Nuevo León [later codified], Puebla [later codified],Querétaro [later codified], Veracruz [later codified], and Zacatecas [later codified])