[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of fictional anarchists

ys in The Face by Dean Koontz.

 Freddie "Stubby" Lynch A poor paperboy, in The Anarchist: His Dog (1912), by Susan Glaspell.

 Valentin Michael Karstev A Russian revolutionary, terrorist, and author of an anarchist treatise, The Laws of Human History, in Protect and Defend (1999), by Eric L. Harry.

 Hagbard Celine A discordian genius, computer engineer, and captain of a submarine, in The Illuminatus! Trilogy (1969), by Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson.

 Kaw-Djer A mysterious man who believes in anarchic individualism, in The Survivors of the 'Jonathan' (1897), by Jules Verne. Possibly based on Peter Kropotkin.

 Leo Gold A pessimistic, aging author and former labor organizer, in At the Anarchists' Convention (1979), by John Sayles.

 Lucian Gregory A militant terrorist who promotes chaos as the epitome of beauty and anarchy, in The Man Who Was Thursday (1908), by G. K. Chesterton. He is an allegorical figure, representing Lucifer.

 Mafile A murderous terrorist, in An Anarchist (1905), by Joseph Conrad.

 Marguerite Allard A French-Canadian anarchist in Foxhunt (2022) by Luke Francis Beirne. Foxhunt follows a group of ex-pat writers in London in the early years of the Cold War. Allard, a central character, explicitly identifies as an anarchist. She writes for and edits a London-based magazine after leaving Montreal, where she operated a radical print-shop.  

 The Mechanic (a.k.a. Crocodile & Anarchisto de Barcelona) An anonymous escaped convict, driven mad by his association with anarchists, and who never reveals his true name, in An Anarchist (1905), by Joseph Conrad. He denies being an anarchist, but is still labeled one by the narrator at the end of the story.

 Paula Mendoza An anarchist who uses unconventional methods as a diplomat to maintain peace between antagonistic political factions, in Floating Worlds 1975, by Cecelia Holland.

 Merlyn (as portrayed by the author) The Arthurian wizard, portrayed as an anarchist, anti-communist, anti-fascist, and antimilitarist, in The Book of Merlyn 1941, by T. H. White.

 Michaelis An underground terrorist, in The Secret Agent (1907), by Joseph Conrad.

 Ossipon An underground terrorist, in The Secret Agent (1907), by Joseph Conrad.

 Robert Penn An agent of the Anarchist League, in The Last of the Masters (1954), by Philip K. Dick. Robert Penn is among a trio of anarchists tasked with investigating rumors of a government in hiding near a remote mountain valley. En route his group is intercepted by spies of the state, who are ordered to kill the agents. Of the three, Penn does not survive, though the spies die with him.

 Shevek An experimental physicist and theoretician, attempting to develop a General Temporal Theory, in The Dispossessed (1974), by Ursula K. Le Guin.

 Simon A murderous terrorist, in An Anarchist (1905), by Joseph Conrad.

 Silvia Tolby An agent of the Anarchist League, in The Last of the Masters (1954), by Philip K. Dick. Silvia Tolby is among a trio of anarchists tasked with investigating rumors of a government in hiding near a remote mountain valley. She is kidnapped by military scouts after falling unconscious in a car wreck. She is taken to the government center and questioned by the head of state, the last "government robot". Her father, Edward Tolby, assassinates the robot and rescues her.

 Viceroy Wilson An anarchist and former football player in Carl Hiaasen's Tourist Season (1986)

Television/film

 Cassian Andor A rebel thief, soldier, pilot and assassin in Rogue One: A Star Wars Story (2016) and Star Wars: Andor. He is an insurrectionary anarchist.:
 Cosmo A former 1960s radical and hacker, performed by Ben Kingsley in Sneakers (1992). Cosmo, who finances his anarchist activities with a day job as a money launderer for organized crime, schemes to steal an experimental "universal decryptor", which will allow him to hack into and destroy all computerized financial records, effectively toppling the capitalist system and (he hopes) laying the groundwork for a horizontalist society.

 Dennis A peasant member of an anarcho-syndicalist commune, performed by Michael Palin in Monty Python and the Holy Grail (1975).

 Dol-Suk A knife fighter and assassin, and member of an underground terrorist cell, in Anarchists (Anakiseuteu) (2000). The role of Dol-Suk is played by Lee Bum-Soo.

 Double D A slacker and squatter. He is played by Steve Van Wormer in The Anarchist Cookbook (2002).

 Esoqq A violently independent and anti-social alien. Star Trek: The Next Generation, episode 66, "Allegiance" (1990). Reiner Schöne performed the role.

 Floren An anarcha-feminist, Mujeres Libres member, spirit medium, and militia soldier during the Spanish Civil War, in Libertarian Women (Libertarias) (1996). The role of Floren is performed by Ana Belén.

 Gin A hippie squatter. She is played by Sabine Singh in The Anarchist Cookbook (2002).