[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 28]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

you change
with her?"

"I would never have allowed my life to grow like hers."

"No," said Hadria, laughing, "you would probably have run away or killed
yourself or somebody, long before this."

Miss Du Prel could not honestly deny this possibility. After a pause she
said:

"A woman cannot afford to despise the dictates of Nature. She may escape
certain troubles in that way; but Nature is not to be cheated, she makes
her victim pay her debt in another fashion. There is no escape. The
centuries are behind one, with all their weight of heredity and habit;
the order of society adds its pressure--one's own emotional needs. Ah,
no! it does not answer to pit oneself against one's race, to bid
defiance to the fundamental laws of life."

"Such then are the alternatives," said Hadria, moving close to the
river's brink, and casting two big stones into the current. "There stand
the devil and the deep sea."

"You are too young to have come to that sad conclusion," said Miss Du
Prel.

"But I haven't," cried Hadria. "I still believe in revolt."

The other shook her head.

"And what about love? Are you going through life without the one thing
that makes it bearable?"

"I would not purchase it at such a cost. If I can't have it without
despoiling myself of everything that is worth possessing, I prefer to go
without."

"You don't know what you say!" exclaimed Miss Du Prel.

"But why? Love would be ruined and desecrated. I understand by it a
sympathy so perfect, and a reverence so complete, that the conditions of
ordinary domestic existence would be impossible, unthinkable, in
connection with it."

"So do I understand love. But it comes, perhaps, once in a century, and
if one is too fastidious, it passes by and leaves one forlorn; at best,
it comes only to open the gates of Paradise, for a moment, and to close
them again, and leave one in outer darkness."

"Always?"

"I believe always," answered Miss Du Prel.

The running of the river sounded peacefully in the pause that followed.

"Well," cried Hadria at length, raising her head with a long sigh, "one
cannot do better than follow one's own instinct and thought of the
moment. Regret may come, do what one may. One cannot escape from one's
own temperament."

"One can modify it."

"I cannot even wish to modify mine, so that I should become amenable to
these social demands. I stand in hopeless opposition to the scheme of
life that I have grown up amongst, to the universal scheme of life
indeed, as understood by the world up to this day. Audacious, is it
not?"

"I like audacity," returned Miss Du Prel. "As I understand you, you
require an altogether new dispensation!"

Hadria gave a half smile, conscious of her stupendous demand. Then she
said, with a peculiar movement of the head, as if throwing off a heavy
weight, and looking before her steadily: "Yes, I require a new
dispensation."




CHAPTER VIII.


Hubert Temperley made a point of going to the tennis-party, on Tuesday,
at Dunaghee, in order to talk to Miss Fullerton. He had not expected to
find original musical talent in this out-of-the-way place.

Hadria was in a happy mood, for her mother had so far overcome her
prejudice against Miss Du Prel, as to ask her to join the party.

The festivity had, therefore, lost its usual quality of melancholy.

It was a warm afternoon, and every one seemed cheerful "and almost
intelligent," Hadria commented. The first words that Mr. Temperley
uttered, made her turn to him, in surprise. She was so unaccustomed to
be interested in what the people about here had to say. Even intelligent
visitors usually adopted the tone of the inhabitants. Hubert Temperley's
manner was very polished. His accent denoted mental cultivation. He
spoke with eloquence of literature, and praised enthusiastically most
great names dating securely from the hallowed past. Of modern literature
he was a stern critic; of music he spoke with ardour.

"I hear that you not only perform but compose, Miss Fullerton," he said.
"As soon as I heard that, I felt that I must make your acquaintance. My
friends, the Gordons, are very charming, but they don't understand a
note of music, and I am badly off for a kindred spirit."

"My composing is a very mild affair," Hadria answered. "I suppose you
are more fortunate."

"Not much. I am pretty busy you see. I have my profession. I play a
good deal--the piano and the _'cello_ are my instruments. But my
difficulty is to find someone to accompany me. My sister does when she
can, but of course with a house and family to look after----I am
sometimes selfish enough to wish she had not married. We used to be such
good friends."

"Is that all over?"

"It is different. She always manages to be busy now," said Temperley in
a slightly ironical tone.

He plunged once more, into a musical discussion.

Hadria had reluctantly to cut it short, in order to arrange
tennis-matches.