[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Tahirih Justice Center

dressing protection gaps for individuals facing forced marriages.

Forced marriage protection

Through its Forced Marriage Initiative, Tahirih provides support and assistance to individuals in the United States who are facing or fleeing forced marriage in the U.S. or abroad.

Training and education 

Tahirih offers training and education programs to front-line professionals, including attorneys, judges, police officers, healthcare staff, and social service providers in order to help them support immigrant survivors of gender-based violence.

Organization and structure 
The Tahirih Justice Center is governed by a Board of Directors consisting of 20 independent voting members that oversee the organization's functions, establish its strategic direction, and maintain the organization's financial health. Each field office also has locally based advisory councils that provide guidance and ambassadorship for the organization. Archi Pyati is CEO and Layli Miller-Muro is Founder.

Tahirih currently has offices in Greater Washington, District of Columbia, Baltimore, Maryland, Houston, Atlanta, and the San Francisco Bay Area, California.

Criticism
International marriage broker agencies cite the alleged low levels of divorce among their clients, compared with the American national average, as proof of success. Tahirih counters that many of the men who use these brokers are repeat abusers looking for their next victim. Miller-Muro, Tahirih's Executive Director, stated that "The agencies have a financial incentive to ensure the satisfaction of their paying clients – the men – but there is no comparable incentive to safeguard the woman."

When describing the Matter of Kasinga and the associated media attention, anthropologist Charles Piot was concerned about the perpetration of possibly negative and racist stereotypes about Africa. In an analysis of several New York Times articles about the case, Piot called the "evocation of images of the immutable nature of patriarchal tradition" in Africa "extraordinary". Tahirih argues that several cultural practices in the world have adverse health effects that often go unnoticed because of poor education among the local community. Tahirih posits that many of the subjects who undergo practices such as female genital cutting are uninformed about the potential pain and other consequences that result from it. Since Tahirih views these issues as ones relating to human rights, it believes in the protection of individuals who may experience these acts.

Publications 
 Precarious Protection: How Unsettled Policy and Current Laws Harm Women and Girls Fleeing Persecution (2009)
 Forced Marriage in Immigrant Communities in the United States (2011)
 Righting the Wrong: Why Detention of Asylum-Seeking Mothers and Children in America Must End (2015)
 Understanding State Statutes on Minimum Marriage Age and Exceptions (2016)
 Falling Through the Cracks: How Laws Allow Child Marriage to Happen in Today's America (2017)

Awards and recognitions

Tahirih Justice Center 
 2016 Hispanic Bar Association of DC Hugh A. Johnson Jr. Memorial Award (Greater DC Office)
 2014 Social Impact Business Plan Exchange Competition Finalist
 2013 Night Court Pro Bono Award (Houston, Texas Office)
 2008 The Washingtonian Best Local Charities Award
 2007 Washington Post Award for Excellence in Non-Profit Management
 2002 The Washington Area Women's Foundation Leadership Award

See also
 Outline of domestic violence

Notes

References
`Abdu'l-Bahá. The Promulgation of Universal Peace. Wilmette, Illinois: Baháʼí Publishing Trust, 1982. .
Abusharaf, Rogaia Mustafa, ed. Female Circumcision: Multicultural Perspectives. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2006. .
Kassindja, Fauziya and Miller-Muro, Layli. Do They Hear You When You Cry. New York: Random House Inc., 1998. .

External links

Guidestar: Tahirih Justice Center organization details
Humantrafficking.org – Tahirih Justice Center
Iranian Paralegal from Botswana Seeks Justice for Immigrant Women in U.S.
The Meyer Foundation – Tahirih Justice Center
 A video report on Tahirih Justice Center, by Leyla Haidarian, May 29, 2007, elham.tv (11 min 39 sec). Note: A very small spoken part of this reportage is in Persian without English subtitles.

Human rights organizations based in the United States
Non-profit organizations based in Falls Church, Virginia
Organizations established in 1997
Child marriage in the United States
Women in Virginia