[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sarbat Khalsa

rganizations supported to Sarbat Khalsa attended the event and recognized the resolutions passed. The event was called by Simranjit Singh Mann and Mohkam Singh, leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) and United Akali Dal respectively. The Sikh congregation passed 13 resolutions to be implemented.

Resolutions 
 Absolves the four current Jathedars from their duties: Giani Gurbachan Singh, Giani Mal Singh, Giani Gurmukh Singh, Giani Iqbal Singh. Appoints the following interim Jathedars till Vasiakhi 2016 as follows: Bhai Jagtar Singh Hawara Jathedar (Sri Akal Takht Sahib), Bhai Dhian Singh Mand Acting Jathedar (Sri Akal Takht Sahib), Bhai Amrik Singh Ajnala Jathedar (Sri Kesgarh Sahib) and Bhai Baljit Singh Daduwal Jathedar (Sri Damdama Sahib)
 Reaffirms Akal Takht Sahib is a guru-gifted sovereign Sikh institution which must become fully independent again. A draft committee is to be constituted composed of Sikhs both from the Homeland and Diaspora by 30 Nov 2015 to report on Akal Takht Sahib system which includes Sarbat Khalsa and Jathedars governance and process. Plan to be adopted by Vaisakhi 2016 when next Sarbat Khalsa is to be held.
 Declares Kanwar Pal Singh Gill and Kuldip Singh Brar tankhaiya (chastised) for anti-Sikh genocidal campaigns and summons them at Akal Takht Sahib to present themselves by 30 Nov 2015.
 Finds Prakash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Singh Badal and Avtar Singh Makkar guilty of undermining and misusing the Sikh institutions of Panj Piare and Akal Takht Sahib. Nullifies Prakash Singh Badal's Fakhar-e-Qaum and Panth Rattan and Avtar Singh Makkar's Shiromani Sewak awards.
 Creates World Sikh Parliament to represent global Sikhs under aegis of Akal Takht Sahib. A draft committee is to be constituted of Sikhs both from the Homeland and the Diaspora by 30 Nov 2015 to report on its structure and governance. Plan to be adopted by Vaisakhi 2016.
 Calls on all Sikhs to safeguard sanctity of Guru Granth Sahib and aptly deliver justice, in accordance with the Khalsa traditions, to those disrespecting the eternal Guru.
 Recognizes the Sikh political prisoners as the Sikh nation's assets. Holds the state responsible for the resultant consequences due to Jathedar Surat Singh's struggle. Demands all political prisoners of any movement in India such as Sikhs, Naxalites, Kashmiris, Nagas, and others, be released unconditionally now.
 Revive the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbadhak Committee's democratic representation system to manage the internal Sikh affairs which have been suspended by the state over the years.
 Orders all Sikhs to fully refrain from all internal divisive doctrinal debate until the sovereignty of Akal Takht Sahib is fully restored.
 Recognizes the Sikh nation must establish a unifying independent Sikh calendar.
 Aspires for Vatican-like status for Harmandir Sahib Complex to ensure every Sikh's birthright to visit and deliberate at the Akal Takht Sahib.
 Reaffirms the resolutions adopted by the Sarbat Khalsa held on 26 Jan 1986.
 Embraces the disenfranchised fellow human beings be treated with dignity and respect; appeals to stop the construction of caste-based gurdwaras and cremation grounds.

See also
 Sarv Khap system of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh is similar to Sarbat Khalsa
 Jathedar of Akal Takht
 Gurmata, a term used to refer to resolutions passed by the Sarbat Khalsa
 Hukamnama, an injunction or edict issued by the Sikh gurus, their officiated followers, the Takhts, or taken from the Guru Granth Sahib
 Rakhi system, the protection tax implemented by the Sikh Confederacy
 1986 Sarbat Khalsa

References

Further reading
Volume 2: Evolution of Sikh Confederacies (1708-1769) by Hari Ram Gupta. Munshiram Manoharlal Publishers, 1999, , Pages: 383 pages, illustrated.
The Heritage of the Sikhs by Harbans Singh. 1994, .
Sikh Domination of the Mughal Empire. 2000, second edition. .
The Sikh Commonwealth or Rise and Fall of Sikh Misls. 2001, revised edition. .
Maharaja Ranjit Singh, Lord of the Five Rivers by Jean-Marie Lafont. Oxford University Press. 2002, .
History of Panjab by Dr L. M. Joshi and Dr Fauja Singh.

Sikh politics
History of Punjab