[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Firearms regulation in South Africa

or the carrying of the firearm.
A firearm contemplated in subsection 
 must be completely covered and the person carrying the firearm must be able to exercise effective control over such firearm (carrying firearms in public is allowed if done in that manner).

Prohibited places (Firearm-free zones) 

In South Africa, private guns are prohibited by law as per the Control of Access to Public Premises and Vehicles Act of 1985 (CAPPVA), in government buildings. The Firearms Control Act of 2000 does allow for firearm-free zones, but this must not be confused with the mandate of the CAPPVA of 1985, which has effectively made all government buildings and vehicles firearm-free by law without the input of the FCA which came about almost two decades later. According to the Firearms Control Act of 2000 under Section 140, firearm-free zones can be applied for and must be granted FFZ status by the Minister of Police. It is worth noting the difference between Gun Free Zones (GFZ) and a Firearm Free Zones (FFZ). GFZ's are more voluntary and according to Gun Free SA "It is a civil offence to contravene the Gun Free Zone status of a premises, which means that anyone found breaking that law can be prosecuted under the laws that prohibit trespassing. Signs tell people entering this type of Gun Free Zone that the space is gun free. People entering this space are not asked to declare if they are carrying a gun and are not searched for a gun. While guns are not taken away from people, they know that guns are not welcome". FFZ's on the other hand are enforced by law and carry severe penalties of up to 25 years in prison. According to Section 140 of the Firearms Control Act of 2000, police may without warrant, search any building or premises if there's reasonable suspicion that a firearm or ammunition may be present within an FFZ; search any person within an FFZ; and seize any firearm or ammunition present within an FFZ. On the 7th of May 2004, the Minister of Police issued the notice 749 of 2004 in the Government Gazette of new legislation that declared all schools and other learning institutions, including institutions for higher education, as firearm-free zones in terms of Section 140 of the Firearms Control Act of 2000, which came into operation on the 1st of July 2004. To date, there have been no firearm-free zones declared by the Minister.

Licence types

Licence to possess firearm for self-defence

This licence under chapter 6 section 13, allows the holder to possess any:
shotgun which is not fully or semi-automatic; or
handgun which is not fully automatic.
The Registrar may issue a licence under this section to any natural person who:
needs a firearm for self-defence; and
cannot reasonably satisfy that need by means other than the possession of a firearm.

Licence to possess firearm for occasional hunting and sports-shooting

This licence under chapter 6 section 15, allows the holder to possess any:
handgun which is not fully automatic;
rifle or shotgun which is not fully or semi-automatic; 
The Registrar may issue a licence in terms of this section to any:
natural person who is an occasional hunter or occasional sports person (ex. A person who participates in target shooting but is not an official member of an official target shooting club or a person who participates in hunting but is not an official member of an official hunting club)

Licence to possess firearm for dedicated hunting and dedicated sports-shooting

This licence under chapter 6 section 16, allows the holder to possess any:
handgun which is not fully automatic;
rifle which is not fully automatic;
shotgun which is not fully automatic;
semi-automatic shotgun;
The Registrar may issue a licence in terms of this section to any:
natural person who is a dedicated hunter or dedicated sports person if the application is accompanied by a sworn statement or solemn declaration from the chairperson of an accredited hunting association or sports-shooting organisation, or someone delegated in writing by him or her, stating that the applicant is a registered member of that association (ex. A person who goes target shooting and is an official member of an official target shooting club or a person who goes hunting and is an official member of an official hunting club)

Licence to possess firearm for professional hunting

This licence under chapter 6 section 16

Licence to possess firearm in private collection

Permit to possess ammunition in private collection

This permit allows the holder to possess any:
piece or pieces of firearms ammunition (NOTE: Not required for people who have licences for other guns)

Licence to possess firearm, and permit to possess ammunition, in public collection

Licence to possess firearm for business purposes