[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Francis Xavier Pierz

ez Bleiweis in the newspaper Novice, and convinced many other Slovenes to follow the Notsch family's lead.

In May 1855, the first wave of German, Luxembourger, and Slovene settlers began to arrive in large numbers, staking out claims throughout what are today Morrison, Benton, and Stearns counties.

Archbishop John Ireland later wrote of Fr. Pierz, "Wielding a facile pen, gifted with poetic fancy, skilled in description, he filled week after week the columns of German papers in America and Europe with vivid picturings of the region, beckoning thither all who craved for happy homes, who foresaw in the cultivation of the land prosperity for themselves and their children. At the call of Father Pirec (sic) there came crowds of settlers, sturdy sons of Rheinland, Westphalia, and Bavaria, until a new Germany arose in Stearns County -- a new Germany permeated to the core with that strong Catholic Faith and energy racy of the Catholic population of those historic provinces of olden Germany."

With his bishop unable to finance his work, Father Pierz had to rely on the Ludwig-Missionsverein and the Leopoldinen-Stiftung for desperately needed funds. Both European organizations had been formed to support Catholic missionaries abroad and were mainly funded by the Bavarian House of Wittelsbach and the Austro-Hungarian House of Habsburg.

Unable to care for both the settlers and the Ojibwa, Father Pierz pleaded with Bishop Crétin to send more priests to assist him. The Bishop wrote to Abbot Boniface Wimmer of Saint Vincent Archabbey in Latrobe, Pennsylvania. On May 21, 1856, a party of five Benedictine priests from Pennsylvania arrived on a steamboat at Sauk Rapids, Minnesota. They founded Saint John's Abbey. Unable to be there to greet them, Father Pierz had left a letter for the party's leader, Father Demetrius de Marogna, by which he formally transferred his missions in and around Sauk Rapids to the jurisdiction of the Benedictine Order.

The following year, he was instrumental in bringing a group of Benedictine nuns from the Abbey founded by Saint Walpurga in Eichstätt, Kingdom of Bavaria, to educate the children of the many German immigrants in Central Minnesota. They founded St. Benedict's Convent, College, and Monastery at St. Joseph.

In 1857, Fr. Pierz also invited fellow Slovenian missionary Fr. Lovrenc Lavtižar to Minnesota, where he was assigned to the Red Lake Indian Reservation. During the night of December 3, 1858, Fr. Lavtižar froze to death during a blizzard while returning across the ice of Red Lake after giving the Last Rites to a dying Ojibwe Catholic. Fr. Pierz subsequently eulogized his deceased fellow missionary in a work of Slovenian poetry, which he titled Spomenik Lovrencu Lavtižaru, bivšemu misijonarju v severni Ameriki.

Peacemaker

At the outbreak of the American Civil War in 1861, some Ojibwe had volunteered to serve in the Union Army. During an interview on White Earth in the 1920s, John Fairbanks recalled, "The Indian soldiers at Crow Wing, before leaving for the Civil War, marched to Father Pierz in solemn file. He blessed them and told them that they would come back safe and so they all did."

During the Dakota War of 1862, Chief Hole in the Day of the Mississippi Band spoke out in favor of the Ojibwe joining forces with their traditional enemies, Chief Little Crow and the Dakota people, to drive all American and European immigrants from Minnesota. His threats to attack and take control of Fort Ripley caused a great amount of terror at the fort.

To further convince other Minnesota Ojibwe to join his uprising, Chief Hole in the Day spread a false rumor that the Union Army would soon be conscripting Ojibwe men to fight in the American Civil War. Largely in reaction to this rumor and warlike coaxing by Hole in the Day, a group from the Leech Lake Ojibwe burned down the Indian Agency in Walker, Minnesota, took prisoners, and marched to Crow Wing.

The other Ojibwe chiefs, however, did not agree with the idea of going to war against the United States Federal Government and, with many Ojibwe warriors, moved into Fort Ripley to help defend the fort against a possible attack from forces incited by Hole in the Day.