[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Tsubasa Oozora

Captain Tsubasa OVAs, THEM Anime Reviews noted that while the voice actor Akari Hibino is using a high-pitched voice for Tsubasa, the voice sounded strange and comparing it with Goku, the main character of the anime Dragon Ball because both characters are played by women regardless of their growth.

According to David Martinez of Hobby Consolas, after Tsubasa's Barcelona debut, Tsubasa and his friends return to Japan to play for their country but their situation within the European clubs is more entertaining. A writer for Nippon said Tsubasa had become one of the most likable fictional characters because of his dream and career, which influenced others. Espinof wrote that one of series' most notable features is that Tsubasa's skills allow him to score goals and that his training with his teammates also appealed to readers. His passion for football and his relationship with Wakabayashi were also praised. The audience also found the character's search to become a champion appealing.

Several of Tsubasa's soccer techniques have been imitated by real-life players such as Julian Draxler and Abel Hernández. James Rodríguez said he related to the character when watching the television series, which he enjoyed because of Tsubasa's playing techniques and relationship with his father. On his Instagram account, André-Pierre Gignac also expressed a liking for Tsubasa, comparing him with himself. Japan's Hidetoshi Nakata, Italy's Alessandro Del Piero and Chile's Alexis Sánchez have also been influenced by Tsubasa. Spanish player Fernando Torres stated that he aspired to become a professional footballer because he had enjoyed seeing Tsubasa on television and wished to be like him. Tsubasa and Misaki's "ridiculous" yet appealing Twin Shot move inspired some children to try to emulate it according to EifSoccer.

References

Captain Tsubasa
Fictional association football players
Comics characters introduced in 1981
Male characters in anime and manga
Child characters in anime and manga
Teenage characters in anime and manga
Child characters in television
Teenage characters in television
Fictional Japanese people in anime and manga