[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fagatogo

1904. When the structure was restored in 1998 at the cost of $1.2 million, much work was done to replicate the original exterior design and color scheme of the building. Much of the former interior woodwork was also preserved and restored, including the skylight and central staircase.

Demographics

The population is more ethnically diverse than any other village in American Samoa. A majority of the village's residents are Samoans, attributed to the members of original families. Also, immigrants from places such as Western Samoa, the Philippines, Tonga, Fiji, South Korea, Europe, China, and mainland United States are residents of Fagatogo. The village had 1,737 inhabitants as of the 2010 U.S. census, down from 2,096 which was recorded at the 2000 U.S. census. Around 85% of the village's residents were under 50 years of age.

From 1980 to 1990, the population of Fagatogo grew from 1,944 to 2,323 inhabitants. The proportion of residents born outside of American Samoa was 23 percent in the early 1980s. This proportion increased to 41 percent between 1985 and 1990, and the proportion of residents born outside of American Samoa reached 52 percent in 1990.

As of the 2000 U.S. census, 81.6% of Fagatogo's population were of Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Island race. 12.5% were Asian, while 3.6% were white. As of 2020, Fagatogo has a Hispanic population that is higher than the rest of the island (2.3% of Fagatogo vs. less than one percent of A.S. being Hispanic).

Religion
Large churches include the Congregational Christian Church in American Samoa (CCCAS) and a Roman Catholic Church. The Methodist Church, Congregational Christian Church in Samoa, and other denominations are present on a smaller scale. Congregational Church of Jesus in Samoa (CCJS)

Economy

Fagatogo is the most developed village on Tutuila Island and the center of trade. Most of the village's original families carry on with traditional ways and depend on land and sea for daily needs. Others are employed with the Government of American Samoa or have positions within the legislature, executive or judicial branches. Homes are located on hills and mountain slopes where the land is fertile and ideal for planting fruit trees and vegetables. All types of produce are available at the Fagatogo Market.

Fagatogo Square houses private businesses and government offices, as well as eateries and shops. This mall is next-door to the Fagatogo Market, which is located in an area known as the center of Pago Pago. It is home to several restaurants, shops, bars, and often live entertainment and music. Souvenirs are often sold at the market when cruise ships are visiting town. Locals also sell handmade crafts at the dock and on the main street. Mount ʻAlava, the canneries in Atu'u, Rainmaker Mountain (Mount Pioa), and Pago Pago Harbor are all visible from the market. The main bus station is located immediately behind the market. The Luman’ai Building houses the Pago Pago Post Office and various business offices. Pago Pago's museum, movie theater, bars, and taxi services are all located in Fagatogo, which is known as Downtown Pago Pago.

Sadie Thompson Inn, which is named for a character in Rain (1921), is also in Fagatogo (Malaloa). This was the site where English author W. Somerset Maugham resided during his visit to Pago Pago in December 1916. It is currently a bed and breakfast inn. It was listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places in 2003.

Sports
The Fagatogo Blues Rugby Team has held the main shield for the American Samoa Rugby Union’s Annual Tournament for a number of years. Fagatogo is a regular competitor in the yearly Fautasi Race, held during the Flag Day celebrations and Moso'oi Festival. Female residents established the Fagatogo Teine o le Malaeoletalu cricket team. The team held the championship title in women's cricket for numerous seasons.

Places of interest

 High Court of American Samoa, designated historic district and listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places
 Fagatogo Square
 Fagatogo Market
 U.S. Naval Station Tutuila Historic District
 Navy Building 38, listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places
 Jean P. Haydon Museum, listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places
 Sadie Thompson Inn, listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places
 Co-Cathedral of St. Joseph the Worker

Notable people
Bob Apisa
Lutu T. S. Fuimaono
Mike Gabbard
John Kneubuhl
Tuiasosopo Mariota
Sa'eu Scanlan
Faoa Aitofele Sunia
Tauese Sunia
Napoleon Andrew Tuiteleleapaga

See also
 Pago Pago
 Utulei

References

Capitals in Oceania
Villages in American Samoa
Pago Pago