[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kattradhu Thamizh

life, Prabhakar comes in contact with Anandhi who has turned into a prostitute. He rescues her from the pimps after holding them at gunpoint. He plans to leave the city to his hometown along with Anandhi. He leaves her at a women's hostel after which the encounter with the television anchor happens.

The police get wind of Prabhakar and try to catch him in his hometown. Both Prabhakar and Anandhi hold hands and run towards an oncoming train committing suicide at the same place where Prabhakar's dog died during his childhood.

Cast
 Jiiva as Prabhakar
 Sree Raam as Young Prabhakar
 Anjali as Anandhi
 Venba as Young Anandhi
 Aravind Raj as Evra
 Karunas as Yuvaan-Suang
 Azhagam Perumal as Poobaal Raavar / Tamil Aiyaa
 Mari Selvaraj as George

Production
By mid-2006, Ram an erstwhile assistant of Balu Mahendra began working on his directorial debut, initially being titled as Tamil M.A., which was later changed to Kattradhu Thamizh to get exempted from the entertainment taxation. Ram told that the film would revolve around a young man, who gets into trouble because of his education, quoting that it would show the "pathetic state of our mother tongue [Tamil] in today's society". He selected Jiiva to essay the lead character in his film, after he had seen Raam (2005) and been impressed by the actor's performance, while a newcomer Anupama from Mumbai was tipped to play the lead female character of Anandhi first, however she was later replaced by Anjali, who debuted in Tamil cinema with this film. The film was shot for nearly a year across Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Chennai, and gained high anticipation in its finishing stage, mainly due to Jeeva's looks in the promotional stills, and Ram's controversial statements at the film's soundtrack release, who cited that he had killed everyone who had hurt him during earlier days through the screenplay of the film. Jeeva had grown a full length beard for the character and cited the hardships during the shoots of the film, which he considered as his most painful experience and a "torturous affair". He revealed that he even had to undergo therapy to "come out of the character" as it was "too emotional". Ram denied that the film was his autobiography, clarifying that, unlike the protagonist in the film, he went on to work as a media consultant and that the film is a biography of a fictional character named Prabhakar.

Soundtrack

The soundtrack was composed by noted music composer Yuvan Shankar Raja to the lyrics written by Na. Muthukumar, which was released on 10 September 2007 under the film's previous title, Tamil MA. It features five tracks, including one sung by his father, Ilaiyaraaja, which was hailed mostly as the pick of the album. Noticeably, the album comprises only solo numbers and doesn't feature any female vocals.

Yuvan Shankar Raja won accolades and high praise as the soundtrack received universal critical acclaim and was described as a "musical sensation", a "must-listen for all musical freaks", a "fascinating album"  and "a solid and stirring triumph of Yuvan’s composing skills".

Critical reception
The film gained highly positive reviews and met with critical acclaim upon its release. Aspects as direction, writing, performance, music, cinematography and editing were immensely lauded and appreciated and expected to bag a bunch of awards.

Behindwoods gave the film 4 out of 5, describing it as a "Kurinji flower in Indian cinema", depicting that such a film seldom gets filmed in Indian Cinema and a "must-see film". It praised the direction and the acting and technical department, which were of "higher order", pointing out the cinematographer, S. R. Kadhir's and music composer Yuvan Shankar Raja's work. Concerning the performances, actor Jeeva, it is said, came up with a "performance of his lifetime", while newcomer Anjali was a "delight to watch and spellbinds the viewer with her beautiful fresh look and her performance". Equally impressed was Pavithra Srinivasan of Rediff, who wrote that Kattradhu Thamizh was a "hard-hitting film", while giving it 3.5 out of 5. She praised debutant director Ram and actor Jeeva's performance as Prabhakar, who she says, "leads you through dimensions that are frankly amazing".

Awards
Filmfare Best Debut Actress Anjali

2nd Vijay Awards
 Best Debut Actress - Anjali
 Best Editor - A. Sreekar Prasad
 Best Actor - Jiiva (Nominated)
 Best Director - Ram (Nominated)
 Best Story, Screenplay Writer - Ram (Nominated)
 Best Cinematographer - S. R. Kathir (Nominated)
 Best Find of the Year - Ram (Nominated)

Film Critics Awards
 Best Writer Award - Ram
 Best Music Director - Yuvan Shankar 
 Best Cinematographer Award - S. R. Kathir
 Best Lyricist - Na. Muthukumar

References

External links