[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# André Milongo

ling several, and called for Milongo's resignation. Milongo went into hiding and called for international assistance. Gangouo then resigned from his position and Milongo appointed a new Minister of Defense who was supported by the army; however, he also placed himself in supreme command of the army.

Municipal elections were held on 3 May 1992, and Milongo's government was widely criticized for its handling of these elections. The CSR told Milongo to form a new, national unity government. Interior Minister Alexis Gabou was particularly criticized for his role in the elections, and the CSR asked that he be replaced. Milongo named a new and much smaller government on 21 May. The CSR also transferred responsibility for handling the parliamentary and presidential elections scheduled for later that year from Milongo's government to an electoral commission.

In the August 1992 presidential election, Milongo ran as a presidential candidate, placing fourth with 10.18% of the vote. He received his strongest support in Brazzaville and Pool Region, with 21.6% and 16.5% respectively. The transitional period ended with the swearing-in of the election winner, Pascal Lissouba, on 31 August 1992.

Milongo founded a political party, the Union for Democracy and the Republic (UDR-Mwinda: Union pour la Démocratie et la République; Mwinda means light in the Lari language), which he headed for the rest of his life. In the 1993 parliamentary election, he was elected to the National Assembly as the UDR candidate in Boko constituency, becoming one of two UDR deputies in the National Assembly. On 22 June 1993, Milongo was elected as the President of the National Assembly, remaining in that position until 1997. During the political violence of 1993, Milongo requested and obtained a ceasefire from both parties involved in the conflict, President Pascal Lissouba and opposition leader Bernard Kolélas.

After the June–October 1997 civil war, in which Denis Sassou Nguesso returned to power, Milongo remained in the Congo,  stating that he had nothing to fear from the Sassou Nguesso's leadership.  He asserted that the Republic of Congo belonged to all Congolese nationals.  After the war, he was a member of the National Transitional Council (CNT).

On 24 September 2001, Milongo's candidacy for the next presidential election was announced by the Alliance for Democracy and Progress (ADP), a grouping of parties that supported him. Milongo accused the government of fraud in the January 2002 constitutional referendum, claiming that the "No" vote had actually won, and said that if he won the presidential election, he would initiate a "new political order" with a peace pact to end political violence and would allow all exiled politicians to return. On 8 March 2002, two days before the presidential election on 10 March, Milongo withdrew his candidacy, accusing Sassou Nguesso of rigging the vote. He said that party members were not allowed to observe the voting process, that there were areas where half of the ballot papers omitted his name, and that he had requested that the election be delayed. In the May 2002 parliamentary election, Milongo was elected to the National Assembly as the UDR-Mwinda's candidate in Boko constituency; he won the seat in the first round with 59.65% of the vote. Due to his status as the oldest deputy, he presided over the National Assembly's first meeting of the new parliamentary term, at which the bureau of the National Assembly was elected, on 10 August 2002. In the National Assembly, he became President of the UDR-Mwinda Parliamentary Group on 24 August 2002. 
 
In addition to heading the UDR-Mwinda, Milongo was the chairman of a coalition of 11 political parties (Front pour une Commission Electorale independante), an assembly of political parties calling for transparency and independence in the management of all future elections.

Milongo ran for re-election to the National Assembly in the 2007 parliamentary election, but was defeated in the first round, held on 24 June. Following an illness, he died in a hospital in Paris on 23 July 2007, aged 71. In a statement on 24 July, Sassou Nguesso described Milongo's death as "a great loss for the Congolese nation" and praised Milongo for his service as Prime Minister from 1991 to 1992. Milongo was laid in state at the Parliament building, where politicians paid tribute to him and Sassou Nguesso bestowed a posthumous high honor on him, before being buried at his residence on 20 August.

References

Prime Ministers of the Republic of the Congo
École nationale d'administration alumni
Presidents of the National Assembly (Republic of the Congo)
Members of the National Assembly (Republic of the Congo)
1935 births
2007 deaths
Union for Democracy and the Republic (Republic of the Congo) politicians
Nancy-Université alumni
People from Pool Department
20th-century Republic of the Congo politicians
21st-century Republic of the Congo politicians