[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rowland Laugharne

red Pembrokeshire by his victory at Colby Moor, then set about reducing the remaining Royalist garrisons in South Wales, a process mostly completed by early 1646. When Charles surrendered in June 1646, Laugharne was commander-in-chief for Pembrokeshire, Cardiganshire, Carmarthenshire, and Glamorgan.

Second English Civil War; 1648
Arguments over the settlement with Charles led to conflict between Parliamentarian moderates, mostly Presbyterians like Laugharne, and religious Independents, many of whom were also members of the New Model. The moderates held a majority in Parliament, with military backing from the London Trained Bands, the Western Association under Edward Massey, Laugharne and Poyer in Wales, as well as elements of the Royal Navy. They were opposed by more radical MPs, supported by the Army Council, which included Sir Thomas Fairfax and Oliver Cromwell.     

In April 1647, Parliament confirmed Laugharne as commander in South Wales, but only by a margin of three votes, and appointed a New Model officer as his deputy. Many viewed Poyer and Laugharne with suspicion, particularly since Charles continued to negotiate with the Irish Confederacy for military support, making it vital to control ports like Cardiff and Milford Haven. In July, another experienced New Model officer, Colonel Thomas Horton, was sent to replace Laugharne, and secure these positions. 

The economic cost of the war, a poor 1646 harvest, and recurrence of the plague meant Parliament could not meet all of its obligations; by March 1647, the troops in Wales had not been paid for eighteen months, while the New Model was owed over £3 million, an enormous sum at the time. Parliament ordered it to Ireland, stating only those who agreed would be paid; when their representatives demanded full payment for all in advance, it was disbanded. 

The Army Council responded by seizing control of London, which meant Laugharne's troops now faced disbandment without pay. In March 1648, he visited London to meet with sympathetic MPs; he was arrested returning to Wales, but soon escaped. Poyer and Rice Powell refused to hand over Pembroke Castle to their replacements, and were joined there by Laugharne.  

It was now clear the only way to keep control of their mutinous troops was to ensure they were paid; in April, the three leaders declared their support for restoring Charles, in line with the terms being discussed with Parliamentary moderates. They assembled an army of around 8,000, but most were untrained and poorly armed, and were easily defeated by Horton's experienced troops at St Fagans in May. Laugharne withdrew to Pembroke Castle, which was besieged by a force under Cromwell, and surrendered in July 1648.

Post 1648
The war had become increasingly bitter, and participants in the Second Civil War were often harshly treated; after St Fagans, Horton executed four of Laugharne's officers for treason. Laugharne, Poyer and Powell were sentenced to death, but Fairfax decreed only one should die, to be decided by lots drawn by a child. Poyer drew the blank, and was executed by firing squad in April 1649; his two colleagues were sent into exile.

Although Laugharne later claimed to have spent most of the 1650s in prison, he seemed to have been treated with relative leniency by the Protectorate, although his Slebech estates were confiscated in October 1649, and given to Colonel Horton and others. After the 1660 Restoration, he was elected to the Cavalier Parliament in 1661 for Pembroke, a constituency controlled by his cousin, Sir John Owen. 

He never recovered his financial losses, and played little part in politics; shortly before his death in November 1675, his wife claimed he had been obliged ‘to pawn his cloak and sword, and has only 3 shillings in the world’.

References

Sources

Bibliography
 Philips, J. R., Memoirs of the Civil War in Wales and the Marches 1642–49 (London, 1874).
 Leach, A. L., History of the Civil War (1642–49) in Pembrokshire and on its Borders (London, 1937).
 Rees, J. F., Studies in Welsh History – collected papers, lectures and reviews (Cardiff, 1947).

1607 births
1675 deaths
People from Pembrokeshire
Parliamentarian military personnel of the English Civil War
Members of the Parliament of England (pre-1707) for constituencies in Wales
17th-century Welsh military personnel
English MPs 1661–1679
Royalist military personnel of the English Civil War
English generals