[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# William J. Burns (diplomat)

me the American ambassador to Russia, recounted that Patrushev was undeterred, "supremely confident". Upon his return to Washington, Burns informed Biden that Putin had all but made up his mind to take over Ukraine, Burns told him, and the Russians had absolute confidence victory would come swiftly.

On March 31, 2022, Burns tested positive for COVID-19, a day after meeting with President Biden during a socially distanced meeting at the White House while wearing an N95 mask.

In April 2022, Burns warned that Vladimir Putin's "desperation" over Russia's failures in Ukraine could result in the use of tactical nuclear weapons or "low-yield nuclear weapons." That same month, Burns traveled to Saudi Arabia to meet with the Saudi crown prince, asking him to increase the country’s oil production. They also discussed Saudi weapons purchases from China. As director of the CIA, Burns oversaw the hunt for terrorist leader Ayman al-Zawahiri, and played a key role in the operation that killed him on July 31, 2022. In May 2023, Burns made a secret visit to China to ease tensions between China and the United States.

Publications
His memoir, The Back Channel: A Memoir of American Diplomacy and the Case for Its Renewal, was published by Random House in 2019. It was published in conjunction with an archive of nearly 100 declassified diplomatic cables. International Relations scholars who reviewed the book were mostly positive.

Burns’ dissertation was published in 1985 as Economic Aid and American Policy Toward Egypt, 1955–1981.

Awards 
Burns is the recipient of three Presidential Distinguished Service Awards and several Department of State awards, including three Secretary's Distinguished Service Awards, the Secretary's Career Achievement Award, the Charles E. Cobb Jr. Award for Initiative and Success in Trade Development (2006), the Robert C. Frasure Memorial Award (2005), and the James Clement Dunn Award (1991). He also received the Department of Defense Award for Distinguished Public Service (2014), the U.S. Intelligence Community Medallion (2014), and the Central Intelligence Agency's Agency Seal Medal (2014).

In 1994, Burns was named to Time's lists of "50 Most Promising American Leaders Under Age 40" and "100 Most Promising Global Leaders Under Age 40". He was named Foreign Policy's "Diplomat of the Year" in 2013. He is the recipient of Anti-Defamation League's Distinguished Statesman Award (2014), the Middle East Institute's Lifetime Achievement Award (2014), and the American Academy of Diplomacy's Annenberg Award for Diplomatic Excellence (2015). Burns received the American Academy of Achievement’s Golden Plate Award (2022).

Burns holds four honorary doctoral degrees and is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He is also an honorary Fellow, St. John's College, Oxford, (from 2012).

Foreign government decorations
 Commandeur, Legion of Honour (France)
 Knight Commander, Order of Merit (Germany)
 Grand Cordon, Order of the Rising Sun (Japan)
 Marshall Medal (UK)
 Commendatore, Order of Merit (Italy)
 First Order, Al Kawkab Medal (Jordan)
 Commander with star, Royal Order of St Olav (Norway)

Jeffrey Epstein meetings 
In 2023, The Wall Street Journal reported that Burns allegedly had three scheduled meetings with Jeffrey Epstein in 2014, according to 'documents' and 'calendars' in their possession. At the time, Burns was deputy secretary of state, and Epstein had already plead guilty to the charge of procuring for prostitution a girl below age 18. The Wall Street Journal has not disclosed these alleged documents and calendars to the public.

Personal life 
Burns is married to Lisa Carty, a former diplomat and current UN OCHA senior official, and has two daughters. He speaks English, French, Russian, and Arabic.

References

Further reading 
 
Notes

External links

 
 
 United States Embassy in Moscow: Biography of the Ambassador

1956 births
Acting United States Secretaries of State
Alumni of St John's College, Oxford
Ambassadors of the United States to Jordan
Ambassadors of the United States to Russia
Assistant Secretaries of State for the Near East and North Africa
Biden administration cabinet members
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency
La Salle University alumni
Living people
Marshall Scholars
Obama administration cabinet members
People from Fort Liberty, North Carolina
Under Secretaries of State for Political Affairs
United States Career Ambassadors
United States Deputy Secretaries of State