[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Helmut Zemo

Helmut Zemo is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, most commonly as an adversary of the superhero Captain America and the Avengers. He is the son of Baron Heinrich Zemo and the thirteenth Baron Zemo in his family lineage. The character first appeared in Captain America #168 (Dec. 1973) and was created by Roy Thomas, Tony Isabella and Sal Buscema.

Daniel Brühl portrays the character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, appearing in the film Captain America: Civil War (2016) and the Disney+ series The Falcon and the Winter Soldier (2021). In 2009, Helmut Zemo was ranked as IGN's 40th Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time.

Fictional character biography
In the comics, Helmut Zemo (aka the 13th Baron Zemo) is Heinrich Zemo's son, born in Leipzig, Germany. Helmut was originally an engineer until he became enraged when reading a report about the return of Captain America and his father's death. Helmut would ultimately follow in his father's footsteps, using his family's money and his own scientific know-how to recreate his father's work.

Helmut first surfaced under the alias of the Phoenix, and captured Captain America to get revenge upon him for the death of his father. He was presumed deceased when he fell into a vat of boiling, specially-treated Adhesive X (a chemical created by his father Heinrich, which was a universal adhesive and was practically indissolvable). In a battle with Captain America, spilt Adhesive X permanently attached Heinrich's hood to his face, preventing him from ever removing it; in a dramatic echo, Helmut's face was hideously scarred by the boiling Adhesive X, giving his face the appearance of molten wax.

He resurfaced years later in the comics as Baron Zemo, first allied with Arnim Zola's mutates. He allied with Primus I and the half-rat/half human mutate Vermin, and kidnapped Captain America's childhood friend Arnie Roth in order to lure Captain America into a trap. He forced the Captain to battle hordes of mutates before revealing that he knew Captain America's secret identity.

Zemo later encountered Mother Superior and the Red Skull. Zemo underwent tutelage by Mother Superior and Red Skull, and then kidnapped Captain America's friend David Cox and brainwashed him to battle Captain America. Zemo then kidnapped Roth again, and directed a shared mental reenactment of Heinrich Zemo's last World War II encounter with Captain America. Zemo then battled Mother Superior, but was psychically overpowered.

Most notably, he formed a new incarnation of the Masters of Evil. This fourth Masters of Evil was formed to strike at Captain America through the Avengers; they invaded and occupied Avengers Mansion and crippled Hercules and the Avengers' butler Edwin Jarvis. Zemo captured Captain America and the Black Knight. Zemo battled Captain America, but fell off the mansion roof.

Zemo later hired Batroc's Brigade and psychic detective Tristram Micawber to help him locate the five fragments of the Bloodstone in hopes of restoring his father to life. Fighting Captain America and Diamondback, Zemo's plan backfired, as he instead turned his father's corpse into a vessel for the demonic forces that lurk inside of the Bloodstone. The reanimated corpse was destroyed by Crossbones (who sought to steal the Bloodstone for Red Skull) and a distraught Zemo fell down an inactive volcano in Japan trying to retrieve it.

Zemo survived the fall, though his right hand (which was not protected by a glove) was horrifically burnt and mangled. Driven insane by the destruction of his father's body, Helmut took control of an army of mutates and tried to re-enslave Vermin. He was defeated by Spider-Man and Vermin was freed.