[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Gerak Khas (Malaysian Army unit)

ajor Zahir Bin Armaya (killed in Kota Kinabalu during demonstration on 5 September 2019)

 Notable members 
Many Gerak Khas commandos have received decorations for bravery and gallantry. Aside from that, some Gerak Khas commandos have done many notable things that have etched their names in history.

 Ahmad Abdul Rashid – Ahmad bin Abdul Rashid (Service number: 410336) was awarded the Star of the Commander of Valour ( — PGB), Malaysia's second highest valour award. In 1975, the King of Malaysia awarded him the PGB for his role in Operation Murai. During the operation, he is tasked with leading an Intelligence Corp's (now known as the Royal Intelligence Corp) combat intelligence team. He died in an accident on his way back to Eskine Camp from Sungai Udang Camp in 1985. He was the Commander of the 2nd Para Commando Regiment (now known as the 22nd Commando Regiment), with the rank of Lieutenant Colonel at the time.
 Ahmed Abdul Rahman – Ahmed is one of 20 Malaysians who took part in an expedition that made Malaysia the first Asian country to perform a freefall parachute jump at the North Pole. On April 21, 1998, he and 19 other skydivers, mostly commandos from the Malaysian Armed Forces and the Royal Malaysia Police, jumped out of a plane with a Proton Wira. Gerak Khas was represented by only Ahmed Abdul Rahman (Lieutenant at the time) and Maznan Mat Isa. The expedition is a collaboration between the Malaysian Armed Forces, the Royal Malaysia Police, and a Proton-sponsored adventure club. There is one female skydiver who is a mother of five children, and the youngest skydiver is 21 years old.
 Md Ali Ahmad – Md. Ali bin Ahmad (Service number: 23852) is a recipient of the PGB. He received the PGB in 1974 for his role in Operation Gonzales in Perak. He was a Trooper at the time, and Corporal Zaki Nordin received a PGB for their bravery in the same operation. He was a sergeant when he retired from the military. He was still the youngest PGB recipient in 2003.
 Baharin Abd Jalil – Baharin bin Abd Jalil (Service number: 410560) is one of the PGB recipients. He was awarded the PGB in 1971 for his role in Operation Hentam. He later became a member of Gerak Khas. He was a Major when he retired from the military.
 Borhan Ahmad – He is the only commando in the Malaysian Armed Forces to have attained the highest professional position. He was appointed the 12th Chief of Defence Forces on 1 January 1994. He retired from the military with the rank of General in 1995.
 Clarence Tan – Tan is a Singapore army officer who founded the Singapore Armed Forces Commando Formation. In 1960, he volunteered for the Singapore Military Force (The predecessor of the Singapore Armed Forces) and was selected to attend the Officer Cadet Course at Malaysia's Royal Military College, where he was promoted to Second Lieutenant. In 1965, he went through commando training with the Royal Marines and joined the Malaysian Special Service Unit. He was a member of the MSSU until 1969, when he was approached by the Director of the Singapore Armed Forces Training Institute about forming a commando unit in the Singapore Armed Forces. He was appointed as the first Commanding Officer of the Singaporean 1st Commando Battalion, but due to slow recruitment to the new commando unit, he was assigned to the Malaysian Special Service Regiment, where he served in Sabah and Taiping, Perak during Malaysia's Communist insurgency. He returned to the Singapore Armed Forces in 1974 and has remained there ever since. In 1992, he retired from the military with the rank of Lieutenant Colonel.
 Mahmor Said – Mahmor bin Said (Service number: 14812) is a recipient of the PGB. He received the PGB for his participation in a military operation in Sarawak. He was a Warrant Officer Class II when he retired from the military.
 Mathew Medan – Mathew anak Medan received the PGB posthumously in 2002. During the Al-Mau'nah armed rebellion, he was a member of Gerak Khas' reconnaissance team at Sauk. While gathering intelligence, he was caught by a member of the rebel forces. Mathew was tortured after his identity was revealed, including being shot at his feet and hanging upside down from a tree before being killed. The rebels, on the other hand, lie to the government, claiming that Mathew has been taken hostage rather than killed. Posthumously, he was promoted to the rank of Sergeant.
 Maznan Mat Isa – Maznan is one of 20 Malaysians who took part in an expedition that made Malaysia the first Asian country to perform a freefall parachute jump at the North Pole. On April 21, 1998, he and 19 other skydivers, mostly commandos from the Malaysian Armed Forces and the Royal Malaysia Police, jumped out of a plane with a Proton Wira. Gerak Khas was represented by only Ahmed Abdul Rahman and Maznan Mat Isa (Warrant Officer Class II at the time). The expedition is a collaboration between the Malaysian Armed Forces, the Royal Malaysia Police, and a Proton-sponsored adventure club. There is one femal