[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Economy of South India

grown on the slopes of the Western Ghats in the district of Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru and Hassana. Karnataka produces 70% of India's coffee, of which about 50% is exported. The black soil in the northwest of the state, is hospitable for the growth of cotton, onion, course cereal, sunflower and peanuts.

The forests of the Malenadu region produce timber, bamboo and sandalwood. Karnataka is the only exporter of sandalwood in the country. Most of the world's sandalwood oil is produced in Karnataka. All of India's gold comes from the Kolar district of Karnataka.  Karnataka is also rich in minerals which form the bulk of the raw materials for iron and steel industries in the state such as the one at Bhadravati. All of India's Iron ore comes from the Malnad region. The first power station in Asia was set up in Karnataka at Shivanasamudra in 1902 to produce hydroelectric power. Karnataka has 18 power stations which generate annually 16,513 million units. The state, however generates insufficient power and is forced to buy electricity from neighbouring states.

Mangaluru 

One of the biggest business centres & the fastest growing cities in India. It is the best city to do business, after the capital Bangalore in Karnataka. It is the major & the fastest growing city in Karnataka only after Bangalore. It is the largest city in the Coastal and Malnad regions of Karnataka, besides being a leading commercial, industrial, educational, healthcare and petrochemical hub on the West Coast. It is also the 13th best business destination in India and 2nd best in Karnataka. One of the largest SEZ's in India, the ONGC MSEZ is in Mangalore. The way in which the city is growing can be gauged by pace of growth of real estate industry. Mangalore's economy is dominated by the industrial, commercial, agricultural processing and port-related activities. Karnataka's 2nd biggest industrial area-Baikampady is in Mangalore. The New Mangalore Port is India's seventh largest port, in terms of cargo handling. It handles 75 per cent of India's coffee exports and the bulk of its cashew nuts. The city's major enterprises include Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. (MCF), Kudremukh Iron Ore Company Ltd. (KIOCL), Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL), BASF, Bharati Shipyard Limited and TotalEnergies India Limited (ELF Gas). Mangalore is one among the only 5 cities in the country to have both a Major Port and an International Airport. Mangalore also has an IT Park called Soorya IT Park in Mudipu. Mangalore is also home to the National Institute of Technology, Karnataka. Major information technology (IT) and outsourcing companies like Infosys, Cognizant Technology Solutions, MphasiS BPO, Thomson Reuters, Endurance International Group have established a presence in Mangalore. Plans to create three dedicated I.T. parks are underway, with two parks (Export Promotion Industrial park (EPIP) at Ganjimutt and Special Economic Zone (SEZ) near Mangalore University) currently under construction. A third IT SEZ is being proposed at Ganjimutt. Another IT SEZ, sponsored by the BA group, is under construction at Thumbe and spans 2 million square feet (180,000 m2).

The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) plans to invest over ₹35000 crore (US$5.15 billion) in a new 15 million tonne refinery, petrochemical plant and power, as well as LNG plants at the Mangalore Special Economic Zone. Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Ltd, a special purpose vehicle under the Oil Industry Development Board, is developing strategic crude oil reserves in Mangalore and two other places in India. Out of the proposed 5 million metric tonnes (MMT) storage, 1.5 MMT would be at Mangalore. According to an International edition of India Today (28 November – 4 December 2006), Mangalore is the fastest growing non-metro in South India.

Corporation Bank, Canara Bank, and Vijaya Bank were the three nationalised banks established in Mangalore during the first half of the 20th century. Karnataka Bank, founded in Mangalore, was one of the largest banks to have not been taken over by the Government. The Mangalore Catholic Co-operative Bank (MCC Bank) Ltd. and SCDCC Bank were the scheduled banks established in Mangalore. Mangalore city is the one of the best connected cities in South India with 4 National Highways (17,48,13 & 169; all old numbers), apart from other roadways, railways, waterways and airways. Udupi the temple city is contributing towards the higher education with large number of professional colleges in Manipal. It is also the home of the software company Robosoft Technologies.