[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Liam Trotter

irst team regular for the side, establishing himself in the midfield position throughout his time there. His performance saw him get his loan spell at Nottingham Forest extended until January. Having made nine appearances and scoring once for the side, Trotter returned to his parent club in January.

AFC Wimbledon
On 21 July 2017, Trotter joined AFC Wimbledon on an undisclosed-length contract. He revealed that many clubs were interested in signing Trotter before he chose to join AFC Wimbledon.

Trotter made his debut for AFC Wimbledon in a 1–1 draw at Scunthorpe United on 5 August 2017 in the opening game of the season. However, he soon suffered a knee injury that saw him miss two matches. Trotter then made his return from injury, coming on as a substitute in the 71st minute, in a 2–1 loss against Fleetwood Town on 19 August 2017. Since returning to the first team, he established himself in the starting eleven for the side. His number of appearances for the side earned him praise by Manager Neal Ardley throughout the season. He scored his first goal for the club on 1 January 2018 against Southend United. Two weeks later on 20 January 2018, Trotter scored again and set up the second goal in the game, in a 2–0 win over Blackpool. He scored his third goal two weeks later on 6 February 2018, in a 2–1 loss against Bury. However, Trotter suffered a knock that saw him sidelined for the rest of the season. Despite this, Trotter went on to make forty–five appearances and scoring three times in his first season at Wimbledon.

Ahead of the 2018–19 season, Trotter was appointed as the club's vice–captain, with Deji Oshilaja appointed as captain. He then continued to regain his first team for the side at the start of the season, playing in the midfield position. In the absence of Oshilaja, Trotter captained the side for the first time, starting the whole game, as AFC Wimbledon lost 2–1 against Walsall on 21 August 2018. It wasn't until on 15 September 2018 when he scored his first goal of the season, in a 3–2 loss against Scunthorpe United, which was followed up by setting up the club's only goal in the game, in a 2–1 loss against Accrington Stanley. Trotter was at fault when he missed a penalty, which would have seen AFC Wimbledon equalise, as the side lost 1–0 against Peterborough United on 30 November 2018. However, by December, Trotter soon found his first team opportunities limited under the management of Wally Downes, Ardley's successor. By the time he departed Wimbledon in February, Trotter went on to make twenty–five appearances and scoring once in all competitions.

Orange County SC
On 19 February 2019, Wimbledon and Trotter mutually agreed to terminate his contract so he could sign for USL Championship side Orange County SC.

Trotter made his Orange County SC debut, coming on as a substitute in the 53rd minute, and set up an equaliser to help the side draw 2–2 against New Mexico United on 24 March 2019. After the match, website Orange and Black Soccer Cast praised his performance, saying that: "Trotter's presence was a positive for the team, and his assist in the equalizing goal was first class." Two weeks later on 7 April 2019, he set up the first goal of the game, in a 2–0 win over Colorado Springs Switchbacks. Trotter became a first team regular for the side, playing in the midfield position. At some point, he played in the centre–back position when needed. However, he suffered a knee injury in July that saw him sidelined for the rest of the 2019 season. Trotter went on to make sixteen appearances in his first season at Orange County SC.

Bromley
On 2 September 2020, Trotter returned to England to join National League side Bromley. On 10 October, Trotter made his debut for the club when he came off of the bench in the 27th minute of a late 2–1 defeat to Torquay United. On 1 December 2020, Trotter scored his first goal for the club, scoring the third in a 4–1 demolition of King's Lynn Town. On 22 May 2022, Trotter made his final appearance for Bromley, coming on as a substitute in Bromley's 1–0 win against Wrexham in the 2022 FA Trophy Final.

Chelmsford City
On 3 June 2022, Trotter signed for National League South club Chelmsford City. Following the culmination of the 2022–23 season, during which he helped Chelmsford to the FA Cup first round and a fifth placed finish, as well as winning Chelmsford's player of the season award, Trotter retired from football.

Personal life
Born and raised in Ipswich, Trotter was educated at St Helen's Primary School and Northgate High School, in Ipswich, which he left in 2004. There he was a member of the school football team, and also studied P.E. to GCSE level.

During his time at Millwall, Trotter earned a nickname from his teammates: Del Boy from Only Fools and Horses. Growing up, he idolised Iván Campo and Eric Cantona.

Career statistics

Honours
Ipswich Town
FA Youth Cup: 2004–05

Millwall
Football League One play-offs: 2010

Bromley
FA Trophy: 2021–22

References