[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Bletchley Park

n Hill Y Station in Norfolkgathered raw signals for processing at Bletchley. Coded messages were taken down by hand and sent to Bletchley on paper by motorcycle despatch riders or (later) by teleprinter.

Additional buildings
The wartime needs required the building of additional accommodation.

Huts

Often a hut's number became so strongly associated with the work performed inside that even when the work was moved to another building it was still referred to by the original "Hut" designation.
 Hut 1: The first hut, built in 1939 used to house the Wireless Station for a short time, later administrative functions such as transport, typing, and Bombe maintenance. The first Bombe, "Victory", was initially housed here.
 Hut 2: A recreational hut for "beer, tea, and relaxation".
 Hut 3: Intelligence: translation and analysis of Army and Air Force decrypts
 Hut 4: Naval intelligence: analysis of Naval Enigma and Hagelin decrypts
 Hut 5: Military intelligence including Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese ciphers and German police codes.
 Hut 6: Cryptanalysis of Army and Air Force Enigma
 Hut 7: Cryptanalysis of Japanese naval codes and intelligence.
 Hut 8: Cryptanalysis of Naval Enigma.
 Hut 9: ISOS (Intelligence Section Oliver Strachey).
 Hut 10: Secret Intelligence Service (SIS or MI6) codes, Air and Meteorological sections.
 Hut 11: Bombe building.
 Hut 14: Communications centre.
 Hut 15: SIXTA (Signals Intelligence and Traffic Analysis).
 Hut 16: ISK (Intelligence Service Knox) Abwehr ciphers.
 Hut 18: ISOS (Intelligence Section Oliver Strachey).

 Hut 23: Primarily used to house the engineering department. After February 1943, Hut 3 was renamed Hut 23.

Blocks
In addition to the wooden huts, there were a number of brick-built "blocks".
 Block A: Naval Intelligence.
 Block B: Italian Air and Naval, and Japanese code breaking.
 Block C: Stored the substantial punch-card indexes.
 Block D: From February 1943 it housed those from Hut 3, who synthesised intelligence from multiple sources, Huts 6 and 8 and SIXTA.
 Block E: Incoming and outgoing Radio Transmission and TypeX.
 Block F: Included the Newmanry and Testery, and Japanese Military Air Section. It has since been demolished.
 Block G: Traffic analysis and deception operations.
 Block H: Tunny and Colossus (now The National Museum of Computing).

Work on specific countries' signals

German signals

Most German messages decrypted at Bletchley were produced by one or another version of the Enigma cipher machine, but an important minority were produced by the even more complicated twelve-rotor Lorenz SZ42 on-line teleprinter cipher machine used for high command messages, known as Fish.

Five weeks before the outbreak of war, Warsaw's Cipher Bureau revealed its achievements in breaking Enigma to astonished French and British personnel. The British used the Poles' information and techniques, and the Enigma clone sent to them in August 1939, which greatly increased their (previously very limited) success in decrypting Enigma messages.

The bombe was an electromechanical device whose function was to discover some of the daily settings of the Enigma machines on the various German military networks. Its pioneering design was developed by Alan Turing (with an important contribution from Gordon Welchman) and the machine was engineered by Harold 'Doc' Keen of the British Tabulating Machine Company. Each machine was about  high and wide,  deep and weighed about a ton.

At its peak, GC&CS was reading approximately 4,000 messages per day. As a hedge against enemy attack most bombes were dispersed to installations at Adstock and Wavendon (both later supplanted by installations at Stanmore and Eastcote), and Gayhurst.

Luftwaffe messages were the first to be read in quantity. The German navy had much tighter procedures, and the capture of code books was needed before they could be broken. When, in February 1942, the German navy introduced the four-rotor Enigma for communications with its Atlantic U-boats, this traffic became unreadable for a period of ten months. Britain produced modified bombes, but it was the success of the US Navy Bombe that was the main source of reading messages from this version of Enigma for the rest of the war. Messages were sent to and fro across the Atlantic by enciphered teleprinter links.