[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# State Seal of Myanmar

ouncil enacted a law which replaces the expression "Socialist Republic of the Union of Myanmar" with the expression "Union of Myanmar". The State Seal was modified as the country name in State Seal Law had been replaced: the words  ("Socialist Republic") were removed.

Changes to current State Seal 

In 2008, the Constitution of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar for Burma was approved by a referendum. In this new constitution, changes have been made to the State Seal. The new State Seal uses the colours red and gold/yellow. Also, the pinion and paddy ears have been removed and replaced with Eugenia sprigs and the words on the ribbon have been changed to  which translates "Republic of the Union of Myanmar" . The new Laws and Principles for State Seal were passed on 21 October 2010 (but were not enforced immediately) and the new State Seal was displayed on the television on that day's afternoon. But the new state seal had not been adopted yet until 2011.
It was adopted on the day the 2008 Constitution came into force, on 31 January 2011.

Symbolism (historical and current)

Peafowl 

Peafowl symbolizes the race of the sun.

Lion (Leograph) 

The reason of the inclusion of 3 lions in the State Seal was given as follow:
 In the traditional view of ancient sages, the nature of lion gives the natures of bravery, diligence, extinguishing any size of danger with the same effort, purity and virtue. Such characteristics can make Myanmar honoured and they are the ones that Myanmar citizens should imitate.
 Being surrounded by three lions means defending and protecting Myanmar. In the view of astrologist monks and persons, number three means "divisible by three" (end of all evil events).
 Lion and Myanmar are regarded as compatible paring according to astrology.
 Lion and traditional floral arabesques are inserted and decorated, so it is assumed as giving respect to an ancient traditional Myanmar culture appropriate for the modern Union of Myanmar.

State Motto on the Circle 

 (samaggānaṃ tapo sukho), which can be translated to "Happy is the practice of those in harmony," is from Verse 194 of the Buddhavagga in the Dhammapada.

Ears of Paddy 

Ears of paddy are the symbol for cultivating class.

Pinion 

Pinion (cogwheel) is the symbol for working class.

Five-Pointed Star (Mullet) 

Five-pointed star represents the revolution/resistance and the struggle for independence of Myanmar against colonialist and fascists.

Sprigs of Eugenia 

Eugenia sprig symbolizes victory.

Map of Myanmar 

The map of Myanmar in the State Seal symbolizes the principal that the Sovereign power of the State is derived from the citizens and is in force in the entire country.

Myanmar traditional floral arabesques  

Myanmar traditional floral arabesques are included to decorate the State seal as representation of ancient Myanmar traditions which are appropriate for modern Union of Myanmar.

State Name 

The then conventional long names of the State are included in the State Seals,
 The 1948 State Seal included the name "ပြည်ထောင်စု သမတ-မြန်မာ နိုင်ငံတော်။", which is the de facto long name sometimes appeared in some official documents, longer than the then official conventional long name "ပြည်ထောင်စုမြန်မာနိုင်ငံတော်".
For each words, "ပြည်ထောင်စု" means "union"; "သမတ" (old spelling of "သမ္မတ") means "president"; "မြန်မာ" means "Burma/Myanmar"; and "နိုင်ငံတော်" means "State".
When "သမတ/သမ္မတ" (president) and "နိုင်ငံတော်" (State) are put together, this combination means "republic".
 The 1974 State Seal included the then conventional long name "ပြည်ထောင်စု ဆိုရှယ်လစ်သမ္မတ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံတော်". 
For each words, "ပြည်ထောင်စု" means "union"; "ဆိုရှယ်လစ်" means "socialist"; "သမ္မတ" means "president"; "မြန်မာ" means "Burma/Myanmar"; and "နိုင်ငံတော်" means "State".
When "သမ္မတ" (president) and "နိုင်ငံတော်" (State) are put together, this combination means "republic".
 The 1988 State Seal included the then conventional long name "ပြည်ထောင်စု မြန်မာ နိုင်ငံတော်".
For each words, "ပြည်ထောင်စု" means "union"; "မြန်မာ" means "Burma/Myanmar"; and "နိုင်ငံတော်" means "State".
 Current State Seal includes the current conventional long name "ပြည်ထောင်စု သမ္မတ မြန်မာနိုင်ငံတော်".
For each words, "ပြည်ထောင်စု" means "union"; "သမ္မတ" means "president"; "မြန်မာ" means "Burma/Myanmar"; and "နိုင်ငံတော်" means "State".
When "သမ္မတ" (president) and "နိုင်ငံတော်" (State) are put together, this combination means "republic".

Gallery

See also

 State Flag of Myanmar

References
http://www.hubert-herald.nl/Myanmar1.htm

Myanmar
National symbols of Myanmar
Burma
Burma
Burma