[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Edward Burd Grubb Jr.

Edward Burd Grubb Jr. (known as E. Burd Grubb) (November 13, 1841 – July 7, 1913) was a Union Army colonel and regimental commander in the American Civil War. He served in three regiments and commanded two of them. In recognition of his service, in 1866, he was nominated and confirmed for appointment to the grade of brevet brigadier general of volunteers, to rank from March 13, 1865. He was later appointed by President Benjamin Harrison as United States Ambassador to Spain. He was also a noted foundryman, business owner and New Jersey politician who was close to Woodrow Wilson.

Biography
Grubb was born in Burlington, New Jersey, to a fourth-generation member of the Grubb Family Iron Dynasty, Edward Burd Grubb Sr. and his wife Euphemia Parker.  The Grubb family was descended from John Grubb who came from Cornwall, England and settled in Delaware in the early 1680s.  He was educated at Burlington College, later named St. Mary's Hall-Doane Academy and graduated in 1860, just five months before Abraham Lincoln was elected as President.

War service
In May 1861, he enlisted in the 3rd New Jersey Volunteer Infantry. Commissioned as a first lieutenant, he would ultimately be promoted to captain and served as an aide to Brig. Gen. George W. Taylor during the 1862 Peninsula Campaign, where he contracted typhoid and was confined to a hospital ship shortly after the Battle of Malvern Hill. He would not rejoin the brigade until shortly before their successful assault on Crampton's Gap, during the lead-up to Battle of Antietam. The VI Corps (ACW) was mostly held in reserve during the battle, though Edward later wrote that his men were convinced they could have finished Lee's army if properly employed.
   
In November 1862, Grubb was promoted to major, and was transferred to the 23rd New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, a nine-month enlistment unit made up of men from his hometown of Burlington and various parts of Burlington County.  In March 1863, despite his youth, he was promoted to colonel and commander of the regiment when its previous leader, Col. Henry O. Ryerson, left to take command of the 10th New Jersey Volunteer Infantry. He led his regiment, nicknamed "The Yahoos", as it participated in his brigade's assault on Confederate positions at Salem Church during the May 1863 Battle of Chancellorsville. Wounded in action, he was mustered out when his regiment's enlistment expired by law in June 1863.

After a year spent in recruitment and recruit training, Grubb was re-commissioned as colonel and appointed commander of the 37th New Jersey Volunteer Infantry, a 100-day enlistment unit. The new regiment then served in the trenches of Petersburg, Virginia, and in garrison duty until it was mustered out in October 1864. One night after arriving in the trenches, with few arms and little ammunition, the regiment came under fire and took some casualties. Their helplessness in this situation gave rise to the nickname they would bear in the New York Times, "Grubb's Game Chickens". His younger brother, Parker Grubb, serving as the 37th New Jersey's regimental adjutant, died of disease during the regiment's service.

In recognition of his service, on July 9, 1866, President Andrew Johnson nominated Grubb for appointment to the grade of brevet brigadier general of volunteers, to rank from March 13, 1865, for "gallant and meritorious services during the war" and the United States Senate confirmed the appointment on July 23, 1866.