[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Libertarian Party of New Hampshire

o be recognized as a caucus and a room in the capitol. On June 27, the Libertarian Party announced at a press conference that Brandon Phinney, a Republican member of the state house, had changed his political affiliation to Libertarian. Stallcop later resigned from the state house on August 6, 2018.

The New Hampshire Secretary of State advised all town clerks that voters could register as members of the Libertarian Party on January 5, 2017, after the party had gained qualified status in the 2016 elections. During the 2018 elections both Libertarian gubernatorial candidates, Jiletta Jarvis and Aaron Day, alleged that Libertarians were being disenfranchised at polling places.

The party failed to receive 4% of the vote in the 2018 New Hampshire gubernatorial election causing it to lose its status in the state. Also both of the party's members in the state house lost reelection.

2020s

During the 2020 presidential election the party administered its own primary independent of the state, which was won by Vermin Supreme. Forty-four ballots were cast in the party's presidential primary.

The Mises Caucus, which is opposed to the Pragmatist Caucus which was in control of the Libertarian Party, planned a takeover of the Libertarian Party and had gained control over twenty-five of the state parties. In 2021, the party's Twitter account voiced support for ending child labor laws and repealing the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which were criticized by Gary Johnson, the party's former presidential nominee. The tweets were written by Jeremy Kauffman, a member of the New Hampshire Libertarian Party's state executive committee. Joe Bishop-Henchman, the chair of the national Libertarian Party, alleged that Kauffman wrote about black people having lower IQs" and murdering transgender people being "a good trade-off for lower taxes".

On June 12, Jarvis formed a new Libertarian Party of New Hampshire, took control of the old party's digital assets, and attempted to regain control of the party's Twitter account. Jarvis claimed support from Bishop-Henchman based on a letter he wrote her on June 7 recognizing her as chair of the Libertarian Party of New Hampshire. Bishop-Henchman denied supporting Jarvis' actions, pointing to the letter having been written several days before the dispute. The Libertarian National Committee voted twelve to two, with three abstaining, against a motion supported by Bishop-Henchman to disaffiliate the Libertarian Party of New Hampshire. Bishop-Henchman and two members of the Libertarian National Committee resigned after the motion failed. Jarvis returned control of the party's website and other digital assets on June 17. Former vice-presidential candidate Spike Cohen and former Representative Justin Amash criticized Jarvis' attempted takeover.

On Martin Luther King Day, the account claimed that black people are "in debt" to the United States because they "receive special federal funding due to race and are first-in-line for every college and every job." The tweet also referenced a false claim made by Donald Trump that authorities denied white people access to the COVID-19 vaccine because of their race. The tweet was deleted after it received criticism. In August and September 2022, the party tweeted a number of antisemitic remarks including "6 million dollar minimum wage or you’re antisemitic." They also compared Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky, who is Jewish, to Adolf Hitler. The party's account also posted tweets stating that "January 6th didn’t go far enough" and a variant of the white nationalist Fourteen Words that substituted white with libertarian.

On July 18, in response to a tweet from Nina Turner advocating for free insulin and medicine, the party's Twitter account responded with a quote tweet stating, "Nina Turner picking crops should be free." Turner characterized this tweet as "racist and anti-Black." In two follow-up tweets, they stated that "'Insulin should be free' is equally offensive as calling for someone to be compelled to pick crops" and asserted that Turner "should pick crops as reparations for the rights you violated as a politician."

On the fourth anniversary of John McCain's death, the party's Twitter account posted a picture of his daughter Meghan crying at his funeral with the caption "Happy Holidays." In a follow-up tweet, they advocated for "dancing on the graves of war criminals" like John McCain. Meghan called the tweet "hideous" and said the photo represented the worst pain she had ever been in. Amash agreed with her and called the tweet "horrible" and "disgusting." The party's account responded by saying "Wait until you see what we tweet when the Clintons finally kick the bucket." Governor Chris Sununu stated on CNN that the tweets "should pretty much be the end of the Libertarian Party in New Hampshire".