[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Andre Boucaud

ned for newly relegated National League club Barnet on 28 June 2018 on a two-year contract for an undisclosed fee. He left Barnet on 9 January 2020 before signing for National League South club Maidstone United on 17 January, making seven appearances before leaving the club at the end of the season.

International career
Although born in England, Boucaud qualifies to play for Trinidad and Tobago through his parents, with his father born in Port of Spain and his mother born in Princes Town. Aged 19, his international debut came as a 61st-minute substitute in a 2–0 friendly victory over Iraq at the Hawthorns on 23 May 2004. A week later, he played in a 4–1 away defeat against Scotland on 30 May 2004, in which he forced goalkeeper Craig Gordon into making a save from a powerful shot. His first start for Trinidad was in a 3–0 home defeat to Northern Ireland on 6 June 2004. He played in three 2006 FIFA World Cup qualifiers for Trinidad, playing against Saint Kitts and Nevis once and Mexico twice.

Boucaud was called up by Trinidad for the first time since 2004 for a friendly against Haiti on 10 August 2011, although the match was postponed due to a lack of funds. This was followed by a call-up for Trinidad's 2014 FIFA World Cup qualifiers against Bermuda and Barbados. He was named on the bench for both of these matches. Boucaud was not capped again until 4 June 2013, when he started in Trinidad's 4–0 friendly defeat away to Romania. He scored his first international goal in a 3–1 win over Saudi Arabia at the King Fahd International Stadium in the 2013 OSN Cup on 9 September 2013.

Style of play
Boucaud is primarily a central midfielder and can also play in attacking and defensive midfield positions. He is described as a "stylish player with a deft touch" who has "the ability to create chances as well as provide a shield to the [defence]". He describes himself as "a player who loves football, I like to get it down and pass". After signing for Wycombe in 2007, he was described by manager Paul Lambert as a "gritty competitor who is also very good on the ball".

Career statistics

Club

International

As of match played 28 March 2017. Trinidad and Tobago score listed first, score column indicates score after each Boucaud goal.

References

External links

Profile at the Maidstone United F.C. website

1984 births
Living people
Footballers from Enfield, London
English men's footballers
Citizens of Trinidad and Tobago through descent
Trinidad and Tobago men's footballers
Trinidad and Tobago men's international footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Queens Park Rangers F.C. players
Reading F.C. players
Peterborough United F.C. players
Aldershot Town F.C. players
Kettering Town F.C. players
Wycombe Wanderers F.C. players
York City F.C. players
Luton Town F.C. players
Notts County F.C. players
Dagenham & Redbridge F.C. players
Barnet F.C. players
Maidstone United F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
2013 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
2015 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
Black British sportsmen
English sportspeople of Trinidad and Tobago descent