[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Clark Masters

Clark John Masters (born 31 May 1987) is an English  goalkeeper who currently plays for  side Billericay Town.

Starting his career with Brentford in 2004, he moved on to Southend United four years later, and Aldershot Town in 2009. He has had several loan spells at non-league clubs.

Early life
As a youngster, Masters attended William Parker School in Hastings, the same school that produced England midfielder Gareth Barry.

Playing career

Brentford
After a youth career with Brighton & Hove Albion and Gillingham, Masters began a scholarship with Brentford in 2003. In 2005 and 2006 he had loan spells with non-league clubs Redbridge and Slough Town. He signed professional forms with Brentford in June 2006.

He made his Brentford debut against Blackpool in the first game of the 2006–07 season, stepping in for Stuart Nelson, who was suspended. On his third appearance, a 2–2 draw with Gillingham on 21 October, he was sent off for "denial of an obvious goalscoring opportunity". Though the club successfully appealed the suspension. Rumours circulated that the young keeper would be signed up by Premier League side Arsenal. In March 2007, Masters joined AFC Wimbledon in a one-month loan deal. He played five games for the Dons, keeping two clean sheets, before returning to Brentford.

Signing a new two-year deal in July 2007, he embarked on another loan spell the next month, this time with Welling United. He played four games.

Southend United
Masters joined Football League One side Southend United on 11 January 2008, and was immediately loaned out to Conference National side Stevenage Borough. He never played a competitive game for Southend, and had a trial with Grimsby Town, in an attempt to find regular football.

Aldershot Town
In July 2009, Masters joined Aldershot Town on a one-year deal, as a replacement for outgoing Nikki Bull. On 1 February, Masters was released by Aldershot Town and immediately signed for Conference National side Hayes & Yeading United.

Barrow
On 5 November 2010, Masters joined Barrow on non-contract terms. He was injured while trialling with Millwall, but returned to action a few weeks later. He was Barrow's first-choice keeper for the remainder of the season. He left in May 2011, however, due to the travelling distance between his home and Barrow.

Eastbourne Borough
Masters joined Eastbourne Borough on 16 June 2011.

Havant & Waterlooville
At the end of July 2012 he joined Havant & Waterlooville after a trial period with the club. He signed for fellow Conference South team Tonbridge Angels in May 2013 to replace longtime Angels' goalkeeper Lee Worgan.

Sidley United
In September 2021, Masters made an appearance for Mid-Sussex League Premier Division club Sidley United.

Billericay Town
On 26 November 2021, Masters signed for National League South side Billericay Town.

References

External links
Clark Masters player profile at Aldershot Town official website

Scouting report: Clark Masters by Steve Claridge at guardian.co.uk

1987 births
Brentford F.C. players
Redbridge F.C. players
Slough Town F.C. players
AFC Wimbledon players
Welling United F.C. players
Southend United F.C. players
Stevenage F.C. players
Aldershot Town F.C. players
Hayes & Yeading United F.C. players
Hastings United F.C. players
Barrow A.F.C. players
Eastbourne Borough F.C. players
Havant & Waterlooville F.C. players
Tonbridge Angels F.C. players
Billericay Town F.C. players
Living people
English men's footballers
English Football League players
Men's association football goalkeepers
Sportspeople from Hastings