[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Brunswick News

in section 2.a) the creation of new legislation that would "require the break-up of regional monopolies, such as that of the Irving family in New Brunswick, by prohibiting the ownership of two or more newspapers having 75% or more of the circulation, in one language, in a defined geographical area".

A 2006 Senate report on media ownership in Canada also singled out New Brunswick because of the Irving companies' ownership of all English-language daily newspapers in the province. Senator Joan Fraser, co-author of the Standing Committee on Transport and Communications Final report on the Canadian News Media stated, "We didn't find anywhere else in the developed world a situation like the situation in New Brunswick." The report went further, stating that "the Irvings' corporate interests form an industrial-media complex that dominates the province" to a degree "unique in developed countries." At the Senate hearing, journalists and academics cited Irving newspapers' lack of critical reporting on the family's influential businesses.

In late June 2019, BNI made news for terminating the contract of political cartoonist Michael de Adder, who created a cartoon unflattering to U.S. President Donald Trump. BNI claimed they had planned to replace de Adder with a reader favourite before the controversial cartoon surfaced.

Support of journalism studies

In 2005, with a donation of $2 million, Brunswick News Inc. endowed two chairs of journalism in New Brunswick: the Irving Chair in Journalism at St. Thomas University in Fredericton and the Roméo LeBlanc Chair in Journalism at Université de Moncton. In 2016 the Moncton chair was replaced by the Roméo LeBlanc Scholarship Fund
for the Advancement of Excellence in Journalism, which provides $15,000 annually to a journalism student in his or her third and fourth years.

References

External links

Postmedia Network publications
Irving Group of Companies
Newspaper companies of Canada
Companies based in Saint John, New Brunswick
Companies established in 1998
1998 establishments in New Brunswick
Mass media in New Brunswick