[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mallaah

The Mallaah are the traditional boatmen and fishermen tribes or communities of North India, East India, Northeastern India and Pakistan. A significant number of Mallah are also found in Nepal and Bangladesh. In the Indian state of Bihar, the term Nishad includes the Mallah and refers to communities whose traditional occupation centred on rivers.

History
The Mallah who are also referred to as "Nishad" were a community of boatman and fisherman. Earliest reference for these people comes from   the Hindu scriptures like Ramayana and the Mahabharata. Nishad claim to have descended from Veda Vyasa who composed Mahabharata, and was a son of Satyawati. They also claim many other mythological characters like Eklavya and Nishadraja, a leader of the forest tribe who helped lord Rama . Mallah however is a term used to describe someone who rode a boat and is derived from an Arabic word Mallah (ملاح) which means "to move its wing like a bird". However the word is purely an occupational term according to Crooke which was used for the large community associated with the water centric occupation primarily boating and fishing.

There are many subcastes of the Mallah community in which Kewat, Bind, Nishad, Dhimak, Karabak, Sahani are notable. The Mallah community was recognised as backward caste initially though socially and economically they were much behind the backward castes and were more close to Dalits. But they are not dalit caste instead they are Kshatriya since mahabharat has mentioned it. Some of the state governments to include them in SC category which was preceded by movement and unrest led by the various caste organisation of the community for the purpose of seeking benefits accruing due to reservation provided to the Scheduled Caste groups.

In the first half of 20th century the rising educated middle class among the community urged for the unification of various subcastes of the larger Mallah community for the purpose of their socio-economic empowerment. Consequently, in 1918 Nishad Mahasabha came into existence, as the largest organisation of the Mallahs and their subcastes. The Nishad Mahasabha was spearheaded by Ram Chandr Vakil and Pyarelal Chaudhary, amongst whom the former was selected to legislative council of United Province in 1936 and voiced support for the political representation of Nishad and its subcastes.

The various caste based organisation and the umbrella organisation Nishad Mahasabha sought to mobilise the people belonging to subcastes of Mallah under a common term called 'Nishad', which symbolised the attempt of the community to discover their past in the mythological heroes whom they considered their progenitor. The attempts of Nishad Sabhas to do so with their Ekta Sammelans and other ways of sensitization and mobilisation of a common member of the community was later spearheaded by political parties based on the ideology of Hindutva.

In 1990s when Lal Krishna Advani was organising his Ram Rath Yatra to garner the support of Hindus all over India for the establishment of Ram Temple at a disputed site in Ayodhya. Mulayam Singh Yadav's government took serious steps to prevent the Karsewaks (volunteers of the Temple movement) in a bid to stop the communal clashes in the state . The proponents of the Ram Temple movement then sought the help of Nishad community to transport the Karsewaks through water route invoking the tale from Ramayana, when Nishadraja Guhya, a mythological character from the holy epic helped lord Rama to cross the river. According to social historian Badri Narayan Tiwari: 

The wooing of Mallah community in 1990s by the Hindutva ideologue was resented by other political parties who mobilised the community through the tale of Eklavya who in his devotion to his Guru Dronacharya sacrificed his finger though earlier he was ill-treated by him and his request for learning archery from him was denied by the Guru because of his low ritual status.

However according to Badri Narayan, the ideology of Ram Rajya, an idyllic time of the past when lower and upper caste lived together in harmony was just invoked to counter the politics of Dalit mobilisation based on the report of Mandal Commission which sought reservation in the government jobs and educational institutions for socially and economically backward communities.