[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# José Zalaquett

visionary leaders in Latin America to promote the welfare of the region by strengthening democracy and improving the quality of life of its citizens ".

From 2014, he conducted free online courses on Human Rights at the MOOC Chile project, from the Ford Foundation and the Universidad Diego Portales.

Publications
 The Human Rights Issue and The Human Rights Movement. World Council of Churches, Geneva. (1982)
 Derechos Humanos y Limitaciones Politicas en las Transiciones Democraticas del Conosur. Colección Estudios Cieplan, Santiago. (1991)
 "Moral Reconstruction in the Wake of Human Rights Violations and War Crimes". In: Hard Choices: Moral Dilemmas Relating to Humanitarian Intervention. Edited by Jonathan Moore of the John F. Kennedy School of Government, University of Harvard, and sponsored by the International Committee of the Red Cross. Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, USA. (1998)
 Los Límites de la Tolerancia. Libertad de Expresion y Debate Publico en Chile. LOM Ediciones, Santiago de Chile. (1998)
 "Truth, Justice and Reconciliation: Lessons For The International Community". In: Comparative Peace Processes In Latin America. José Zalaquett Daher. Cynthia Arnson. Woodrow Wilson Center Press/Stanford University Press, Washington, D.C. (1999)
 Procesos de Transición a la Democracia y Políticas de Derechos Humanos en América Latina (1998)
 La reconstrucción de la unidad nacional y el legado de violaciones de los derechos humanos. (1999)
 La Mesa de Diálogo sobre Derechos Humanos y el proceso de transición política en Chile. (2000)
 "No hay mañana sin ayer”: Análisis de la propuesta del presidente Lagos sobre Derechos Humanos. (2003)
 Transparencia, rendición de cuentas y lucha contra la corrupción en América 2004. (2004)

References

Sources
The earliest version of this article was translated, with minor adaptations, from the corresponding article on the Spanish-language Wikipedia.

External links
 Human Rights Centre, Law Faculty, University of Chile 
 Brief biography of Prof. Zalaquett (International Center for Transitional Justice)

1942 births
2020 deaths
Chilean human rights activists
Chilean people of Palestinian descent
University of Notre Dame people
MacArthur Fellows
20th-century Chilean lawyers
21st-century Chilean lawyers