[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Howard Zehr

s Center for Restorative Justice and Peacemaking, the Community Justice Institute at Florida Atlantic University, the Center for Peacemaking and Conflict Studies at Fresno Pacific University in California, and the Centre for Restorative Justice at Simon Fraser University in British Columbia, Canada.

In the afterword to the third edition of Changing Lenses, Zehr acknowledges the debt that restorative justice owes to many indigenous traditions. "Two peoples have made very specific and profound contributions to practices in the field – the First Nations people of Canada and the U.S., and the Maori of New Zealand... [I]n many ways, restorative justice represents a validation of values and practices that were characteristic of many indigenous groups," whose traditions were "often discounted and repressed by western colonial powers."

Zehr has raised awareness that judicial punishment is a social choice, rather than being the only possible response to crime, and that a more socially productive, healing choice can emerge through the application of restorative justice. Zehr argues that punishment – or inflicting suffering as repayment for harm done – rarely results in healing for anybody and often makes matters worse.

Congruent with his Mennonite Church USA tradition, Zehr links restorative justice practices to the Judeo-Christian concept of Shalom: "Emphasizing 'right relationships' between individuals, between groups of people, between people and the earth, and between people and the divine, Shalom declares an ultimate allegiance to respecting life in all its forms... [It] encourages us to see the nurturing of this sacred relational web as our ultimate calling."<ref>Dyck, David. "Reaching toward a structurally responsive training and practice of restorative justice" in Handbook of Restorative Justice," edited by Dennis Sullivan and Larry Tifft. London: Routledge, 2008: 536.</ref>

Rejoinder: justice that is not

Restorative justice is, according to Zehr, a practice defined solely from the perspective of 'what it is not', whereby most of its potentialities are deviated from its intentions and end controversially by reinforcing the established mode of justice. Hence, among the maxims often associated to a 'Zehrist' way of defining restorative justice by the negative there are: 
 "RJ's main objective is not to pardon nor to make amends”
 "RJ is not mediation”
 "RJ is not intended to reduce recidivism or serial offending”
 "RJ is not a program or specific project”
 "RJ is not an alternative to criminal justice”
 "RJ is not an alternative to imprisonment”
 "RJ is not antithetical to criminal justice".

Thus, in spite of its allegedly "transformative element, restorative justice is not conceived [as] a real alternative to the ongoing model of justice". It is the reason why, from a 'Zehrist' point of view, restorative justice "does not succeed in reconstructing the traditional legal theory, nor build a new theory of criminal intervention as a whole” - it is rather proposed as an analog of justice as we know it (Juliana Tonche, 'Justiça restaurativa e racionalidade penal moderna', Revista de Estudos Empíricos em Direito, vol. 3, n. 1, jan 2016, p. 129-143).

Quotes
How is restorative justice defined? "Restorative justice is a process to involve, to the extent possible, those who have a stake in a specific offence and to collectively identify and address harms, needs and obligations, in order to heal and put things as right as possible." Howard Zehr in The Little Book of Restorative JusticeWhat does restorative justice try to do? "Restorative justice requires, at minimum, that we address victims' harms and needs, hold offenders accountable to put right those harms, and involve victims, offenders, and communities in this process." Howard Zehr in The Little Book of Restorative JusticeHonors
Selected awards and honors:
 University of Alabama Birmingham, Ireland Distinguished Visiting Scholar Award, 2015 
 Gandhi Center of James Madison University, co-recipient of its "Community Service Award" (the third award conferred by the Gandhi Center, after "global nonviolence awards" to Desmond Tutu in 2007 and Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter in 2009), 2013
 International Peace Award from the Community of Christ, 2006
 Lifetime Achievement Award, Journal of Law and Religion, Hamline University,  St. Paul, Minn., 2006
 The Restorative Justice Association of Virginia (the first annual Howard Zehr Award), 2005
 The New York Dispute Resolution Association's annual Peacebuilder Award, 2003
 Prison Fellowship International's Restorative Justice Prize, 2003
 Michael Sattler Peace Prize (awarded by the German Mennonite Peace Committee), 2010