[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# European Green Belt

n November 2010, the Binding Award for outstanding contributions to nature conservation was awarded to five individuals for their continuous engagement in protecting the Green Belt.

For several years there have been considerations to nominate the European Green Belt as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

Organisational structure 
The initiative's network consists of official representatives for the three regions named above (Regional Coordinators) and for each country (National Focal Points) appointed during the first European Green Belt meeting in 2003: 
Fennoscandian Green Belt: Association of Reserves and National Parks of Russian North-West (Baltic Fund for Nature)
Central European Green Belt: Bund Naturschutz Bayern (Friends of the Earth Germany)
Balkan or South Eastern European Green Belt: Euronatur
The implementation of the Green Belt vision in the regions is carried out by several hundred stakeholders from nature conservation and sustainable development who contribute either on a project or voluntary basis.

Ecological values
Observations by biologists revealed that the military practice along the borderline led to wildlife conservation in numerous ways:
 A ban on pesticide spraying has preserved many rare insects.
 Keeping the vegetation cut so border guards can see across easily, stopped the area from becoming continuous forest and thus preserved wildlife that needs open land.
 One peculiar occurrence noticed was that in a forested part of this belt on the frontier between Bavaria and Bohemia, 18 years after the border barrier was removed, forest deer still refused to cross the frontier: compare hefting of livestock.
 Old landmine explosion craters have become wildlife ponds.
 In the Bulgaria/Greece section there are many eastern imperial eagle nests.
 Where the River Drava is the frontier between Hungary and Croatia: mutual mistrust prevented river development works, so the river and its banks are still natural, including the river creating sand cliffs where sand martins nest. The Drava has cut off meanders, leaving many bits of each nation's territory on the wrong side of the river; these areas are not farmed and have become wildlife areas.
 Along the coast of the Mecklenburg area, restricted access to the coast, to stop people from crossing over by boat or swimming, helped to preserve coastal wildlife.

Cultural values
It has been proposed to develop not only the natural but also the cultural heritage of the Soviet period: following the idea to link the numerous historical initiatives, installations, projects and relics in the Green Belt with the natural heritage, in order to turn the European Green Belt into living historical monument of the Cold War during the 20th century. In the context of the European Green Belt, cultural heritage has been assessed and/ or developed in several places already: 

 The permanent exhibition at the Borderland Museum Eichsfeld in Central Germany provides information about the European Green Belt. A hiking trail leads along the former Iron Curtain, where the visitors can take a look at preserved parts of the original border facilities.
 On mount Brocken, Germany, the former border patrol path has been turned into a hiking route called the "Harz border path"
 In the Slovenian Nature Park Goričko, border stones with information plates have been set up which inform visitors, about the history of the Iron Curtain and the natural values in place due to this history
 Military heritage along the Latvian Green Belt has been assessed and compiled in a data base and map for visitors, including almost 100 stories of contemporary witnesses

See also
German Green Belt
Iron Curtain Trail, a project to complete a long-distance cycling route in the EGB corridor.
Korean DMZ Nature Reserve; the DMZ between the two Koreas has created an involuntary park, and since 1966 there have been proposals to turn it into a proper nature reserve

References

External links 
 European Green Belt
 Green Belt of Fennoscandia at Natural Heritage Protection Fund
 Central European Green Belt
 Baltic Green Belt project
 Green Belt @ Bund Naturschutz Bayern 
 Sensitive Transport Development along the Central European Green Belt

European Union and the environment
Ecological connectivity
Conservation projects
Green belts