[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Point Pleasant High School (West Virginia)

resignation of Mr. Steenbergen, plans for a building to accommodate the increased high school attendance were carried out and the cement block building in Central Grad schoolyard were erected.  Here the high school was housed until the fall of 1918 when the present high school building was occupied.

The plans for the present high school building were prepared and the building was begun with the following in charge of the schools: Board of Education: Peter H. Steenbergen, President, J.W.C. Heslop, and George P. Gardner, Commissioners.  The building was completed with Peter H. Steenbergen, President, and C.K. Blackwood and R.E. Somerville, Commissioners.  Joseph C. Vance was superintendent and W.O. Snarr was principal of the high school.  There were approximately seventy-five students enrolled in the high school, which grew slowly but steadily.

During the period 1922-1933, under the leadership of Superintendent A.T. Stanforth and his successors, Mercer L. Williams and Peter H. Steenbergen the high school enrollment was very materially increased until practically every magisterial district in the county was represented by from two to fifty six students.  The largest enrollment was 324 in the year 1928-29.  Special attention was given to the library and the services of Miss Emma Clark were secured as full-time librarian in 1926.  While the library is not large (2,000) the material has been very carefully selected.  The Dewey Decimal library system is used.

In the spring of 1926 an excellent gymnasium was ready for use.  It was built through the cooperation of Mrs. Sarah A. McCulloch, a group of forward-looking citizens, the City Council and Board of Education.  It was paid for in the course of five years through rentals.  The work was done under the advice of the Attorney General of West Virginia.

The first cottage for the use of Domestic Science to be constructed in West Virginia was opened at Point Pleasant in 1924.  The cottage was built and equipped with the idea of placing the work in Domestic Science and Art under conditions as similar to the house surroundings as possible.  The work is organized under the provisions of the Smith-Hughes Act.

Point Pleasant High School has a highly developed co-curricular program.  The Literary Societies have the oldest history of any activity in this field.  In 1898, the Irving Literary Society was formed by Lida Chambers (Mrs. Harris).  Bertha Steinbach (Mrs. Filson), and Neida Bowyer (Mrs. C.R. McCulloch).  In 1917 the Irving Literary Society was divided into two smaller societies, the Athenian and the Olympian, as it was felt that friendly rivalry was necessary to secure the best results in literary work.  The activities of the literary societies, which have been under the supervision of Miss Mary McCulloch for a period of thirty years, have won for the school the following honors in state contest work.

1920- first place in extemporaneous speech was won by Ada Barnett (Mrs. Donald P. Stough)

1920- second place in an essay was won by Theresa Dower (Mrs. Lloyd Jones)

1920- third place in oration won by Mabel Shaw (Mrs. Bartlett)

1921- second place in extemporaneous speech was won by Ada Barnett (Mrs. Stough)

1922- first place in oration was won by Stephen K. Vaught

1922- first place in debate was won by Ada Barnett (Mrs. Stough)

1923- first place in debate was won by Stephen K. Vaught

1923- first place in oration was won by Nedra Wilhelm (Mrs. E.B. Jones)

1923- first place in extemporaneous speech was won by George A. Wilson in the district  contest.

1924- the first place in extemporaneous speech was won by George A. Wilson

1925- second place in extemporaneous speech was won by Jack C. Burdette

1926- second place in extemporaneous speech was won by Jack C. Burdette

1926- first place in the district contest was won by Nedra Wilhelm (Mrs. E.B. Jones)

The Girl Reserves form a most active organization in the high school under the leadership of Miss Phyllis Brownell.  The Hi-Y Club, which is supervised by Mr. N.N. Powell, takes an active part in school activities.  The purpose of the Bible Club, which is advised by Miss Leta Ball, is expressed in the motto, “We would know the Bible.”

The Dramatic Club presents a member of first class plays each year under the guidance of Miss Edith Jordan.  This club, with the help of the senior class and the radio fund, has presented the school with the red velvet curtain and the gray cyclorama that adorn the stage.

The purpose of the Speech Club, which was organized in 1980, is to promote the work of the school in the State Literary contests.  Under the direction of Miss Edith Jordan the club has won first place in the state contest at Morgantown, Peggy McCulloch having first in essay.  Edith Kenny and Elaine Burdette won two first places in debate in the district contest held at Huntington.