[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Peter Lacy

Lacy's force, however, was poorly supplied and he was forced to withdraw to St Petersburg. The following year he rallied his forces and proceeded to capture Hamina, Porvoo and Hämeenlinna, by August encircling more than 17,000 Swedes near Helsinki and effectively bringing the hostilities to an end.

The war over, Lacy withdrew to Riga and resumed the command of the Russian forces stationed in Livland. He administered what is now Northern Latvia and Southern Estonia until his death on 30 April 1751 in Riga. His son Franz Moritz von Lacy had entered the Austrian service in 1743 and became one of the most successful imperial commanders of the 18th century.

Marriage and children
Count Peter married Baltic German noblewoman Maret Philippine ("Martha") von Funcken from Liezere, widow of the young Count Hannes Kristof Frölich (d 1710), and daughter of general Remmert von Funcken, lord of Liezere, and his second wife baroness Helena Üksküla. They had 5 daughters and 2 sons.

One son was Count Franz Moritz von Lacy, the famous Austrian field marshal who was also a Count of the Holy Roman Empire.

Nothing is known about the other, supposedly older, son and in some references, he is incorrectly attributed with accolades that belong to his father Count Peter and/or his brother Count Franz.

Ancestry

Orders 
Order of St. Andrew
Order of St. Alexander Nevsky granted 1725 during Coronation ceremonies of the Czarina, Catherine I
Order of the White Eagle (Poland)

See also 
Irish military diaspora
Irish regiments

References

Sources
 

1678 births
1751 deaths
Irish generals
Military personnel from County Limerick
Nobility from the Russian Empire
Field marshals of Russia
Russian military personnel of the War of the Polish Succession
Irish emigrants
Immigrants to the Russian Empire
Wild Geese (soldiers)
Irish soldiers in the French Army
Irish soldiers in the Austrian Army
Irish soldiers in the army of James II of England
17th-century Irish military personnel
18th-century Irish military personnel
Irish people of French descent
18th-century military personnel from the Russian Empire
People of the Russo-Swedish War (1741–1743)