[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Uranium mining

2011.

The world's largest deposits of uranium are found in three countries.
Australia has just over 30% of the world's reasonably assured resources and inferred resources of uranium – about .
Kazakhstan has about 12% of the world's reserves, or about .
Canada has  of uranium, representing about 9%.

Undiscovered conventional resources 
Undiscovered conventional resources are resources that are thought to exist but have not been mined.
It will take a significant exploration and development effort to locate the remaining deposits and begin mining them. However, since the entire earth's geography has not been explored for uranium at this time, there is still the potential to discover exploitable resources.
The OECD Redbook cites areas still open to exploration throughout the world. Many countries are conducting complete aeromagnetic gradiometer radiometric surveys to get an estimate the size of their undiscovered mineral resources. Combined with a gamma-ray survey, these methods can locate undiscovered uranium and thorium deposits.
The U.S. Department of Energy conducted the first and only national uranium assessment in 1980 – the National Uranium Resource Evaluation (NURE) program.

Secondary resources 
Secondary uranium resources are recovered from other sources such as nuclear weapons, inventories, reprocessing and re-enrichment. Since secondary resources have exceedingly low discovery costs and very low production costs, they have displaced a significant portion of primary production.
In 2017, about 7% of uranium demand was met from secondary resources.

Due to reduction in nuclear weapons stockpiles, a large amount of former weapons uranium was released for use in civilian nuclear reactors. As a result, starting in 1990, a significant portion of uranium nuclear power requirements were supplied by former weapons uranium, rather than newly mined uranium. In 2002, mined uranium supplied only 54 percent of nuclear power requirements. But as the supply of former weapons uranium has been used up, mining has increased, so that in 2012, mining provided 95 percent of reactor requirements, and the OCED Nuclear Energy Agency and the International Atomic Energy Agency projected that the gap in supply would be completely erased in 2013.

Inventories 
Inventories are kept by a variety of organizations – government, commercial and others.

The US DOE keeps inventories for security of supply in order to cover for emergencies where uranium is not available at any price.

Decommissioning nuclear weapons 

Both the US and Russia have committed to recycle their nuclear weapons into fuel for electricity production. This program is known as the Megatons to Megawatts Program.
Down blending  of Russian weapons high enriched uranium (HEU) will result in about  of low enriched uranium (LEU) over 20 years. This is equivalent to about  of natural U, or just over twice annual world demand. Since 2000,  of military HEU is displacing about  of uranium oxide mine production per year which represents some 13% of world reactor requirements.
The Megatons to Megawatts program came to an end in 2013.

Plutonium recovered from nuclear weapons or other sources can be blended with uranium fuel to produce a mixed-oxide fuel. In June 2000, the US and Russia agreed to dispose of  each of weapons-grade plutonium by 2014. The US undertook to pursue a self-funded dual track program (immobilization and MOX). The G-7 nations provided US$1 billion to set up Russia's program. The latter was initially MOX specifically designed for VVER reactors, the Russian version of the Pressurized Water Reactor (PWR), the high cost being because this was not part of Russia's fuel cycle policy. This MOX fuel for both countries is equivalent to about  of natural uranium.
The U.S. also has commitments to dispose of  of non-waste HEU.

Reprocessing and recycling 

Nuclear reprocessing (or recycling) can increase the supply of uranium by separating the uranium from spent nuclear fuel.
Spent nuclear fuel is primarily composed of uranium, with a typical concentration of around 96% by mass.
The composition of reprocessed uranium depends on the time the fuel has been in the reactor, but it is mostly uranium-238, with about 1% uranium-235, 1% uranium-236 and smaller amounts of other isotopes including uranium-232.

Currently, there are eleven reprocessing plants in the world. Of these, two are large-scale commercially operated plants for the reprocessing of spent fuel elements from light water reactors with throughputs of more than  of uranium per year. These are La Hague, France with a capacity of  per year and Sellafield, England at  uranium per year.
The rest are small experimental plants.
The two large-scale commercial reprocessing plants together can reprocess 2,800 tonnes of uranium waste annually.
The United States had reprocessing plants in the past but banned reprocessing in the late 1970s due to the high costs and the risk of nuclear proliferation via plutonium.