[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nagasaki Peace Park

8; the plaque reads: "It is preserved here as an expression of the aspiration for perpetual world peace embraced by the people of Brazil."
 "Infinity" from Ankara, Republic of Turkey, 1991; the plaque reads: "The figure of a man and woman joined hand in hand symbolize peace and harmony among the entire human race."
 "Constellation Earth" from St. Paul, Minnesota, USA (Nagasaki's sister city), 1992; the plaque reads: "The seven human figures represent continents. The interdependence of the figures symbolizes global peace and solidarity."
 "Triumph of Peace over War" from San Isidro, Argentina, 1996; the plaque reads: "The parts of the sculpture other than the red sphere symbolize the chaos and death of war, while the red sphere at the top signifies the ultimate triumph of life."
 "Cloak of Peace (Te Korowai Rangimarie)", by Kingsley Baird from New Zealand, 2006.; the plaque reads: "The statue symbolizes consolation, protection, and solidarity. It also expresses ambivalence, reflecting conflicting interpretations of historical events."
 "Tree of Life: Gift of Peace" (Punu Wankalpainya: Kalypa Nyinanytjaku) from Australia, unveiled 18 April 2016; the sculpture of a bronze tree cradling a ceremonial piti (dish) originates in the Anangu communities of Yalata and Oak Valley/Maralinga in South Australia. The plaques which are in Pitjantjatjara, Japanese and English, read "The tree gives life to make the piti (dish) that is used for carrying food, water, and babies. It represents the sharing of resources between families, communities and nations for peace and harmony." The sculpture also recognises atomic survivors worldwide.
Monument to Commemorate Chinese Victims of the Atomic Bombing
Monument for Korean Atomic Victims
The Monument for Korean Atomic Victims is located in Nagasaki Peace Park in Nagasaki, Japan.  At the time of the atomic bombing in Nagasaki, there were many people of nationalities other than Japanese that were living in the area.  There were an estimated 12,000 to 14,000 Koreans living in Nagasaki during the bombing.  It is believed that up to 2,000 of them died because of the atomic bomb. At the time, many of those Koreans were being used as forced labor as a part of the Japanese war effort. This monument commemorates the Korean victims and serves as a message asking for peace in the world, an abolition of nuclear weapons, and a peaceful reunification of the Korean nation.  The Monument for Korean Atomic Victims was unveiled on August 9, 1979.

Photos

In film 
The park was shown in the 1991 Akira Kurosawa film Rhapsody in August, in which a Japanese child points out that there is no sculpture in the Peace Symbols Zone from the United States. "Constellation Earth" was donated in 1992, a year after the film's release, after this omission was noted by St. Paul mayor James Schiebel during a trip to Nagasaki in 1990.

References

Monuments and memorials concerning the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki
Monuments and memorials in Japan
Parks and gardens in Nagasaki
Peace parks
Atomic tourism