[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Miķelis Valters

Miķelis Valters (born May 7, 1874, April 24 O.S., died March 25, 1968) was the first Latvian Minister of the Interior (1918—1919), member of the  New Current intellectual movement, lawyer, politician, diplomat, social activist, and one of the authors of the Latvian Constitution. He was the first social activist who publicly advocated for a sovereign Latvian state. In the 1903 journal "Proletārietis" (The Proletarian) he wrote the article "Patvaldību nost! Krieviju nost!" (Off with the Monarchy! Off with Russia!) Recipient of the Order of the Three Stars Commander Grand Cross (1st class).

Early life and education 

Valters was born May 7, 1874, in Liepāja into the family of dockworker Pēteris Valters and wife Zane. He received his basic education at Liepāja's Church of St. Anne elementary school, subsequently at the Liepāja City School, while working as a typesetter's apprentice. In 1889 he began working at the Jaunliepāja railroad workshops, and graduated the Liepāja Realschule.

Early career 

Taken with the concepts of socialism, Valters landed a position at the "Dienas Lapa" (Daily Sheet) editorial office in Rīga. In May 1897 he was sent to jail for 15 months for his participation in the Jaunā Strāva (New Current) movement. While imprisoned, he entertained his first thoughts about a Latvian nation as a sovereign state. At the same time, he distanced himself from the Marxist generalizations and simplifications he felt had come to characterize Jaunā Strāva, and dedicated himself while in jail to more serious philosophical and political studies.

In 1898, a large number of Jaunā Strāva participants were released from jail and dispersed to various of Russia's gubernias. Valters luckily managed to cross the border with the German Empire at Palanga, subsequently settling in Switzerland. He studied at the University of Berne, and in 1907 completed his doctorate in political science at the University of Zurich. He then continued studies at the Sorbonne in Paris.

Political activism 

In 1900, along with his associates Ernests Rolavs and Emīls Skubiķis, he founded Vakareiropas latviešu sociāldemokrātu savienība (the Western European Latvian Social-Democratic Union). From 1903 through 1904, Valters published the Union's newspaper, "Proletārietis" (The Proletarian).

Valters returned to Latvia during the 1905 Revolution to become the editor of the journal "Revolucionārā Baltija" (Revolutionary Baltics). Contrary to socialist revolutionary parties in Russia, Valters, Rolavs and Skubiķis lead the party wing which pushed national interests to the forefront, with proletarian-related interests relegated to a secondary role.

In 1906, Valters fled into exile through Finland back to Switzerland, then on to London. Along with his revolutionary oriented activities, he also busied himself with writing, publishing several collections of poetry: "Tantris" (1908), "Ēnas uz akmeņiem" (1910, Shadows on Stones) and "Mūžība" (1914, Eternity).

After the February Revolution, he returned to Latvia in May 1917 and was elected to the Vidzeme Land Council, and was one of the founders of the Latvian Farmers' Union (LZS). At this time, he cut himself off from the social-democrats and formed a closed friendship with Kārlis Ulmanis. (According to legend, he was the only Latvian politician who, after the Ulmanis coup, had the temerity to address Ulmanis as "Tu", the familiar "you.") During the German occupation (after WWI, during the War of Independence), Valters was one of the organizers and leaders of the Democratic Bloc in Rīga. On October 19, 1918m Valters and Esvards Traubergs submitted their petition to Germany's Chancellor Maximilian, requesting he support the aspirations to achieve independence for their nation.

Shortly thereafter, in November 1918, Valters was one of the founders and members of the People's Council, and participated in the proclamation of the Latvian State on November 18, 1918. After the establishment of the Latvian Provisional Council he was appointed the first Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Latvia. He also became co-publisher of the newspaper "Latvijas Sargs" (Latvia's Guardian) (1919—1922).

During the German's April putsch (1919), Valters was briefly arrested on April 16.

Diplomatic career 

In September 1818, Valters began working at the newly founded University of Latvia. However, the following month, October, he was appointed to head the Latvian diplomatic delegation in Rome, then subsequently in Paris. He was one of the closest assistants to the first Foreign Minister of Latvia, Zigfrīds Anna Meierovics, working on Latvia's de jure recognition internationally and its admission to the League of Nations.