[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Civilian casualties during Operation Allied Force

ern Kosovo, killing seventy-three civilians and injuring thirty-six others Human Rights Watch (HRW) could document. The attack began at 1:29 and persisted for about two hours, causing civilian deaths in numerous locations on the convoy route near the villages of Bistrazin, Gradis, Madanaj, and Meja.

April 21, 1999: Second bombing of refugee camp
On April 21, 1999, a Serbian refugee camp in Majino Naselje of Gjakova was struck by heavy airstrikes. The Los Angeles Times reported that four civilians were killed, however a Belgrade-based bulletin listed the names of five individuals who were killed in the attack. NATO spokesman Mike Phillips denied that NATO was responsible for the bombing of Majino Naselje.

April 23, 1999: Radio Television Serbia (RTS) headquarters bombing 

One of the largest incidents of civilian deaths, and certainly the largest in Belgrade, was the bombing of state TV headquarters in Belgrade on April 23. As a consequence, sixteen RTS civilian technicians and workers were killed and sixteen were wounded. Dragoljub Milanovic was the director general of Serbian Radio and Television and belonged to former Yugoslav leader Slobodan Milosevic's Socialist Party of Serbia. He was found guilty and jailed for 10 years for intentional withholding information from his employees about the eventual bombing, which had a direct effect on the number of dead.

April 27, 1999: First bombing of Surdulica 
On April 27, 1999, NATO missiles struck several houses in the southern town of Surdulica. A CNN journalist named Alessio Vinci subsequently visited the local morgue, where he reported 16 civilians killed as a result of the attack. One of Serbia's public broadcasters, RTS, reported that 20 civilians were killed in Surdulica on April 27, 1999. Many of the victims had been killed in a single house on Zmaj Jova street, owned by Vojislav Milić. Milić's family and several neighbors took refuge in Milić's basement when his house was struck by two bombs, after which nine people were killed in his house alone.

April 29–May 1, 1999: Bombings in Montenegro and Kosovo

On April 29, 1999, one woman was killed and three more people were injured from shrapnel during the bombing of Tuzi. On April 30, 1999, NATO bombs struck Murino, a village located near Plav, killing six civilians of whom three were under the age of 16.

On May 1, 1999, a Niš-Ekspres bus taking passengers to Kosovo was hit by NATO missiles when it crossed a bridge in the village of Lužane near Podujevo. The number of casualties reported from the Niš-Ekspres bombing vary, with Human Rights Watch recording 39 civilians killed whereas the Minister of Health Leposava Milićević reported that 47 civilians killed in the bus bombing had been identified.

In a separate attack, also on May 1, 1999, at least 12 civilians were killed when a Romani neighborhood in Prizren was struck by NATO bombs.

May 4, 1999: Bus bombing in Savine Vode
On May 4, 1999, a bus was destroyed in the village of Savine Vode near Peć, with 17 civilian deaths. NATO denied responsibility, however a remnant of a bomb found in Savine Vode after the attack had the markings of Magnavox, an American electronics manufacturer. The Yugoslav government submitted further evidence to Human Rights Watch, after which Human Rights Watch counted the casualties as those inflicted by NATO.

May 7, 1999

Cluster bombing of Niš

On May 7, 1999, cluster munitions were dropped on Niš. Human Rights Watch recorded 14 civilians killed whereas Serbian sources reported 16 civilians killed.

Chinese embassy bombing

A salvo of US JDAM GPS-guided bombs struck the embassy of the People's Republic of China in Belgrade, killing three Chinese diplomats and injuring 20 others. CIA director George Tenet later admitted in congressional testimony that the CIA had organised the strike and that it was the only strike of the campaign organised by his agency, though he still claimed it was accidental. China has never accepted the US explanation for the incident.

May 14, 1999: Bombing of Koriša