[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cound

ee warren' was enacted and was still in operation in 1298. The medieval hunting park included stocks of free ranging deer together with wild boar and seems to have lain in the area of Longdole Coppice, north of the present day Cound Hall and the main road near the western banks of the River Severn."

In the 13th century the high quality of Shropshire wool brought prosperity to Ludlow, Shrewsbury, and Bridgnorth, as the main centres. Shrewsbury in particular became the principal market for an extensive area including much of North Wales and the Shropshire plains. The original Cound Manor House is thought to have been built around this time. The farm buildings of the present Cound Hall lie just to the south of the walled kitchen garden and are believed to be standing on the site of the first medieval manor house. If this identification is correct the farm buildings may represent part of the surviving plan elements of the earlier manorial enclosure. They may have stood on the then main road, with the manor house set back to the north behind them. There is some map evidence, however, to suggest that the road formerly followed a slightly southerly route, diverging from the modern alignment (and at that time passing north of the former Cound Lodge Inn, now the Riverside) to pass adjacent to Cound Cottage (formerly Cound Villa) and then running along the northern side of the lake at Cound Hall. The Victoria County History suggests relic bridge abutments were present on the Cound Brook slightly south of the modern A458 bridge over the brook but these are not visible today. If there was a bridge alignment in that position then it is possible that the road joined back with the modern A458 alignment near the modern day junction at Cound Arbour, but that is conjecture, and a southerly alignment of the road remains uncertain.

Iron bridges
The dispersed settlement of Cound is split in two by the Coundmoor Brook and the earliest part of the village is considered to be where the church still stands. Coundarbour bridge was built over the Cound Brook immediately downstream of its confluence with the Coundmoor Brook by the renowned engineer Thomas Telford in 1797, and remains the oldest iron bridge still in vehicular use anywhere in the world. The confluence of the Severn and the Cound Brook is upstream of Ironbridge Gorge and it is not surprising that when Telford, then Road Engineer to Shropshire County, designed two bridges to cross the brook he also used the latest materials, from a local industry, to build them. The Coundarbour bridge with its stone buttresses is found by approaching Cound along the A458. (Telford's second and much later bridge across the Cound Brook, the Cantlop bridge is a few miles away in Berrington parish, built in 1820 and no longer in use but maintained as a monument by English Heritage.)

Cound Hall

The surviving manor house of Cound Hall is a Grade I listed building and a large vernacular Baroque house, with a basement and two storeys of tall slender windows topped by a half-storey, built of red brick with stone dressings. The house was built in 1703-04 for Edward Cressett by a John Prince. Historian Howard Colvin in his book A Biographical Dictionary of British Architects, 1600–1840, 3rd ed. 1995, p 781, suggests that this Prince is the same John Prince of Shrewsbury who acted as agent and surveyor to Edward Harley in the designing of the Harley estate in Marylebone, London.

The house is most notable for its large stop-fluted Corinthian pilasters with richly carved capitals, which have been described as "ambitious but inept" and suggestions are that the inspiration was the King William block at Greenwich Hospital that was designed by Christopher Wren.

One outstanding feature of the interior is the staircase, a fascinating alteration which has been dated to the late 18th century. The concept of the staircase was to gain more room where the original staircase had been, thus creating a feeling of greater space in the hallway. The staircase has a delicate metal handrail and runs through both storeys along three sides of an open well. The staircase rests on two beautiful fluted columns. There is light Neo-Elizabethan plaster work on the underside of the staircase.

There is a Grade II listed dovecote built in the 18th century and still standing in the grounds of the hall. The dovecote was originally sited as the main focus at the end of the grand entrance driveway.

Ownership of Cound Hall passed from the Cressett family to the Thursby-Pelham family by marriage and inheritance; then to the McCorquodale family - into which the young Barbara Cartland married; she lived at the Hall for some years in the late 1920s/early 1930s whilst married to Alexander McCorquodale.