[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War

cal. On October 23, Lebanese police reported the "most intensive [Israeli] overflights" of Lebanon after the ceasefire. Two jets flew low over Beirut, while four more aircraft conducted sonic boom raid in Tyre. France, who leads UNIFIL troops, called the continuing overflights "extremely dangerous."

Six Israeli F-16's flew over a German vessel patrolling off Israel's coast just south of the Lebanese border on October 24. The German Defence Ministry said that the planes had given off infrared decoys and one of the aircraft had fired two shots into the air, which had not been specifically aimed. The Israeli military said that a German helicopter took off from the vessel without having coordinated this with Israel, and denied vehemently having fired any shots at the vessel and said "as of now" it also had no knowledge of the jets launching flares over it. Israeli Defence Minister Amir Peretz telephoned his German counterpart Franz Josef Jung to clarify that 'Israel has no intention to carry out any aggressive actions' against the German peacekeeping forces in Lebanon, who are there as part of UNIFIL to enforce an arms embargo against Hezbollah. Germany confirmed the consultations, and that both sides were interested in maintaining good cooperation.

On October 31, 2006, eight Israeli F-15s flew over many areas of Lebanon, including Beirut. The IAF jets also flew over a French peacekeeper position in Lebanon. According to the French Defense Minister Michele Alliot-Marie, the planes came in at what was interpreted as an attack position, and the peacekeepers were "seconds away" from firing at the jets.

After one month, on December 1, 2006, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan submitted a report to the Security Council president maintaining "there were no serious incidents or confrontations" since the cease-fire in August 2006. He did, however, note that peacekeepers reported air violations by Israel "almost on a daily basis", which Israel maintained were a security measure related to continuing Syrian and Iranian arms shipments to Hezbollah, and evidence of the presence of unauthorized armed personnel, assets, and weapons in Lebanon. In one case, a UNIFIL demining team was challenged by two Hezbollah members in combat uniforms armed with AK-47 rifles. UNIFIL notified the Lebanese army, who arrested three suspects the next day. There were also "13 instances where UNIFIL came across unauthorized arms or related material in its area of operation", including the discovery of 17 katyusha rockets and several improvised explosive devices in Rachaiya El-Foukhar, and the discovery of a weapons cache containing seven missiles, three rocket launchers, and a substantial amount of ammunition in the area of Bourhoz. Annan also reported that as of November 20, 2006, 822 cluster bomb strike sites had been recorded, with 60,000 cluster bomblets having been cleared by the UN Mine Action Coordination Center.

Then on January 17, 2007, Israeli IDF Chief of General Staff Dan Halutz resigned. The resignation came shortly after work on a governmental investigation on the conflict was announced complete.

On February 1, 2007, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert told the Winograd Commission, formed to inquire into the Israeli-Lebanese war, that the attack was planned four months in advance based upon an earlier target list drawn up by former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. Based on prior Hezbollah abduction of IDF soldiers in the North of Israel, Olmert ordered the IDF to put an end to it.

In April 2007, Olmert vowed not to resign despite findings from a comprehensive report which noted his "severe failure" in handling the war.

On June 17, 2007, an unknown militant group fired two rockets from Lebanon into northern Israel, an action which the UN condemned as a serious violation of the ceasefire. Hezbollah denied involvement in the incident, and Israel emphasized that it would restrain itself from responding by force. Saniora pledged that "The state [...] will spare no effort in uncovering those who stand behind this incident."

Israeli jets entered Syrian airspace on September 6, 2007, claiming to search for Syrian weapons shipments to Hezbollah. Iran and North Korea condemned the Israeli action, but the incident provoked little international response otherwise.

See also
 Military operations of the 2006 Lebanon War
 Ceasefire attempts during the 2006 Lebanon War
 International incidents during the 2006 Lebanon War

References

External links

 BBC News:Day-by-day: Lebanon crisis - week one, two, three, four, five
 Israel at war - Ynetnews
 Video covering background details
 Day-by-day: Lebanon crisis BBC

Battles involving Israel
Battles involving Hezbollah