[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Jean Lee (murderer)

5, all of Woollahra, Sydney".  The Coroner committed the three prisoners for trial.  On December 14 the counsel for the defence successfully applied for an adjournment of the trial until February as the three accused "required time to raise funds and arrange other matters for their defence".

Trials

The trial of Clayton, Andrews and Lee, charged with Kent's murder, commenced on Monday, 20 March 1950, in the Melbourne Criminal Court before Justice Gavan Duffy.  On days three and four of the trial, each of the defendants took the stand and denied they had done anything violent to Kent or had robbed him.  They claimed Kent was well when they left him.  When Lee was asked about the bloodstained coat and skirt found in her room, she said she had had a nose-bleed earlier that day.  When Clayton was asked why he had made a statement when first arrested implicating Lee, a person he claimed to love, in the murder, he replied, "I suppose I turned like yellow dog".  He admitted he made the statement "to get himself out of trouble" and he did not think it would hurt the others "because they were all innocent".  The trial concluded on Saturday morning, March 25.  After retiring for two-and-a-half hours the jury returned guilty verdicts for each of the accused prisoners.  Lee collapsed into Clayton's arms on being proclaimed guilty.  When Justice Gavan Duffy passed sentences of death on all three, Lee sobbed, "I didn't do it.  I didn't do it", and collapsed screaming.  When Clayton was asked if he had anything to say as to why sentence of death should not be passed upon him, he advanced to the rail of the dock and shouted at the judge, "What I could say would fill a book", before turning to the jury and crying out, "You pack of idiots".  When Andrews was asked if he had anything to say, he turned to Justice Gavan Duffy and replied: "Not at this juncture, no".  Clayton, who was attending to Lee, then turned to the jury and shouted, "May your next meal choke you, you swine".  After further outbursts he leaned over the rail of the dock and spat at the jury.  The judge then directed that the three prisoners be removed from the court.

On 19 May 1950 the Court of Criminal Appeal, by a majority decision, quashed the convictions of Lee, Clayton and Andrews and ordered a re-trial so that the admissibility of statements made to the police by the accused could be reviewed.  Two of the three judges criticised police methods of interrogation and held that some of the statements were obtained by improper methods.  When the decision was announced, in the dock Lee "violently embraced" Clayton.

In June 1950 the Crown appealed to the High Court and the convictions were upheld by a unanimous decision.  The three convicted murderers then sought to appeal to the Privy Council and requested State financial aid to do so.  This was refused by the State Cabinet on July 17.

On 12 December 1950 the State Cabinet of the Country Party government confirmed the sentence of death imposed on the three prisoners and a date was set for their executions.  On the following day a deputation of the Labor Women's Organising Committee met with the Victorian Premier, John McDonald, to protest against the decision, in particular seeking a reprieve for Lee.

Executions

Lee's mental state declined after this, and she alternated between violently attacking her prison guards and begging for mercy, while stating repeatedly that she was innocent and that they had never meant to kill anyone. Lee also commented that she did not believe a woman would be hanged. As the date for her execution drew near, she grew increasingly erratic.

Lee received her last visit on the Saturday before her execution, when three friends from Sydney spent half an hour with her before flying back home.  Andrew's wife and Clayton's mother, both from Sydney, visited the two condemned men on Sunday afternoon.

Jean Lee was hanged at Pentridge Prison at 8 o'clock on Monday morning, 19 February 1951.  She was carried from her cell to the gallows by the executioner and his assistant.  Wearing a hood, with her hands handcuffed in front of her, she was placed on a chair before the sentence was carried out.  One report stated that Lee "appeared to be unconscious when she was executed".

Robert Clayton and Norman Andrews were hanged together two hours after Lee's execution.  The two men were reported to have "met their deaths calmly and steadily".  As they were seated together on the scaffold, Andrews said in a firm voice: "Goodbye Robert".  Clayton replied softly: "Goodbye Charlie" (his nickname for Andrews).