[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# S-class destroyer (1917)

ower of ; on trials, Tobago made  with , on a displacement of 979 tons. The first two were ordered in April 1917 and the last three in June 1917. The 18-inch torpedoes under the bridge were fixed athwartship, rather than being rotating mounts as was the case in the Admiralty S-class.

Yarrow S class

Yarrow & Company, Limited, based at Scotstoun in the west of Glasgow, were another firm specializing in construction of destroyers and similar vessels. These seven vessels were built to Yarrow's own design, based on a modified version of Ulleswater (Yarrow R class). By reducing the weights of both hull and machinery, Yarrows were able to produce much faster vessels. In order to save weight, they had direct-dive Brown-Curtis turbines rated at only ; however on trials Tyrian made  with  on 786 tons displacement.

Initially five were to be ordered in April 1917, however two more (Torch and Tomahawk) were added, replacing previous orders for two W-class destroyers (Wayfarer and Woodpecker).  This change was made at the request of Sir Alfred Yarrow to streamline production; otherwise, his yard would have had three different designs under construction at the same time.

Operational service
These vessels saw comparatively little action, most being completed in the closing stages or after the end of the First World War, and scrapped before the start of Second World War.

First World War
The first S-class destroyer to be completed, Simoom, joined the Grand Fleet in April 1918. The Commodore(F) commanding the Grand Fleet destroyer flotillas did not approve of the design, largely because of the 18-inch torpedoes, which were considered useless.  The C-in-C, Admiral David Beatty, concurred; he had only consented to the design on the understanding that they would be employed at Harwich or Dover, while the Grand Fleet got W-class ships with six 21-inch torpedo tubes. However, despite his wishes, most of them were allocated to the Grand Fleet on completion.  Senator and Sikh were with the Dover Patrol from June–August 1918, before going to the Mediterranean, where Shark, Tilbury and Tribune followed. At the time of the armistice in November 1918, there were 27 vessels were in commission, allocated as follows

 5th Destroyer Flotilla (Mudros): Senator, Sikh, Shark, Tilbury, Tribune.
 10th Destroyer Flotilla (Harwich Force): Swallow.
 12th Destroyer Flotilla (Grand Fleet): Scimitar, Scotsman, Scout, Scythe, Seabear, Sepoy, Simoom, Sirdar, Speedy, Tomahawk, Torch, Trinidad, Tryphon.
 14th Destroyer Flotilla (Grand Fleet): Sabre, Seafire, Seraph, Somme, Sparrowhawk, Splendid, Tactician, Tobago (to join: Searcher, Sportive, Tara, Trojan, Tumult).

Post-war service, 1919–1932
The Royal Navy was re-organized in March and April 1919 into three principal fleets: the Atlantic Fleet (comprising the newest battleships and battlecruisers, with supporting cruisers and destroyers in home waters), the Home Fleet (which comprised slightly less modern ships at lower complement; it was renamed the Reserve Fleet on 1 November 1919) and the Mediterranean Fleet; In addition, there were various overseas squadrons for policing the Empire (Africa Station, East Indies Station, China Station and North America and West Indies Station), the Dominion Naval Forces, and commands based at the principal naval bases in the United Kingdom (i.e. Portsmouth, Plymouth, Chatham (The Nore) and Rosyth), which included large numbers of decommissioned vessels held in reserve with skeleton crews. Under this scheme, the destroyer flotillas were completely re-organized, with a standard composition of two leaders and 16 destroyers. The 1st, 2nd and 3rd flotillas (V/W-class destroyers), were in the Atlantic Fleet; The Home Fleet had two flotillas (4th and 5th) of R-class vessels; The 6th Flotilla, comprising S-class destroyers, was sent to the Mediterranean Fleet, while the 7th Flotilla, also of S-class destroyers, formed a ready reserve at Rosyth.