[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John Faso

ro tolerance” immigration policy under which children were removed from their parents at the Mexican border. On June 24, 2018, Faso told NPR that he supported a Republican compromise bill that would provide legal status for undocumented immigrants that were illegally brought to the U.S. as children.

Social programs 
In 2018, Faso pushed for stricter work requirements on recipients of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (also known as the Food Stamps program), claiming that SNAP was an easy target for fraudsters and drug dealers. Studies show that SNAP fraud is rare and that fraud represents a small fraction of the SNAP program.

Legal and consulting career
Following his loss in the state comptroller election in 2002, Faso joined the firm of Manatt, Phelps & Phillips as a lobbyist/partner; he took a leave of absence to run for governor in 2006, then rejoined the firm. Manatt, Phelps & Phillips agreed to a settlement in 2010 in response to a corruption probe in which the firm was investigated for its "efforts to serve as a "placement agent" for public pension funds in New York and California without a state or federal license."  According to the Wall Street Journal, some "of Manatt's efforts to secure investments were made by John Faso".

From 2003 to 2006, Faso served as a member of the Buffalo Fiscal Stability Authority control board.

From 2012 to 2015, Faso worked as a public affairs consultant for the Constitution Pipeline Co., an energy company that was attempting to build a pipeline to carry natural gas from Pennsylvania to New York State. The pipeline was controversial because the pipeline would have transported gas extracted from hydraulic fracturing (fracking). Construction of the pipeline was ultimately blocked by the state.

Personal life
Faso is married to Mary Frances Faso; they have two children, Nicholas and Margaret. Faso is a Roman Catholic.

Further reading
Paterson, David "Black, Blind, & In Charge: A Story of Visionary Leadership and Overcoming Adversity." New York, New York, 2020

References

External links

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1952 births
20th-century American politicians
21st-century American politicians
American people of Irish descent
American people of Italian descent
Archbishop Molloy High School alumni
Candidates in the 2002 United States elections
Candidates in the 2006 United States elections
Candidates in the 2010 United States elections
Catholics from New York (state)
Catholic politicians from New York (state)
Georgetown University Law Center alumni
Living people
Republican Party members of the New York State Assembly
People from Kinderhook, New York
Politicians from Queens, New York
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from New York (state)
State University of New York at Brockport alumni