[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1931 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1931 in New Zealand.

Population
 Estimated population as of 31 December: 1,522,800.
 Increase since previous 31 December 1930: 16,000 (1.06%).
 Males per 100 females: 103.8.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
Head of state - George V
Governor-General - The Lord Bledisloe GCMG KBE PC

Government

The 23rd New Zealand Parliament continued with the coalition of the United Party and the Labour Party with the Reform Party in opposition. During the year the agreement between United and Labour collapsed due to differing opinions on how to counter the Great Depression. The Reform Party, fearing that the Depression would give Labour a substantial boost, reluctantly agreed to form a coalition with United to avert elections. By forming a coalition, United and Reform were able to blunt Labour's advantage, ending the possibility of the anti-Labour vote being split and the general election in December saw the United–Reform Coalition winning a majority.

Speaker of the House - Charles Statham (Independent)
Prime Minister - George Forbes
Minister of Finance - George Forbes (United) until 22 September, then William Downie Stewart (Reform)
Minister of Foreign Affairs - George Forbes
Attor - Thomas Sidey until 22 September, then William Downie Stewart
Chief Justice — Sir Michael Myers

Parliamentary opposition
 Leader of the Opposition - Gordon Coates (Reform) until 22 September, then Harry Holland (Labour).

Main centre leaders
Mayor of Auckland - George Baildon, succeeded by George Hutchison
Mayor of Wellington - George Troup, succeeded by Thomas Hislop
Mayor of Christchurch - John Archer, succeeded by Dan Sullivan
Mayor of Dunedin - Robert Black

Events 

 7 January – Australian aviator Guy Menzies makes the first solo flight across the Tasman sea, starting from Sydney and ending 11 hours 45 minutes later with a crash landing in a swamp near Harihari on the West Coast
 January – Chancellor Hut finishes construction.
 3 February – The Hawkes Bay earthquake, New Zealand's worst, kills 256 people, mainly in Napier and Hastings
 8 February – A Desoutter aircraft of Dominion Airline crashed near Wairoa, killing all three people aboard. This is the first fatality on a scheduled air service in New Zealand.
 27 February – Oscar Garden lands his Gipsy Moth aircraft at Horseshoe Bay on Stewart Island/Rakiura, the first aircraft to land on the island.

Arts and literature

See 1931 in art, 1931 in literature, :Category:1931 books

Music

See: 1931 in music

Radio

See: Public broadcasting in New Zealand

Film

See: :Category:1931 film awards, 1931 in film, List of New Zealand feature films, Cinema of New Zealand, :Category:1931 films

Sport

Chess
 The 40th National Chess Championship was held in Rotorua, and was won by A.W. Gyles of Wellington.

Golf
 The 21st New Zealand Open championship was won by Andrew Shaw, his 4th win.
 The 35th National Amateur Championships were held in Christchurch 
 Men: Rana Wagg (Hutt)
 Women: Miss B. Gaisford

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup – Harold Logan
 Auckland Trotting Cup – Royal Silk

Thoroughbred racing
 New Zealand Cup – Spearful
 Avondale Gold Cup – Little Doubt
 Auckland Cup – Admiral Drake
 Wellington Cup – Stanchion
 New Zealand Derby – Bronze Eagle

Lawn bowls
The national outdoor lawn bowls championships are held in Auckland.
 Men's singles champion – N.C. Bell (Hamilton Bowling Club)
 Men's pair champions – H.G. Loveridge, R.N. Pilkington (skip) (Hamilton Bowling Club)
 Men's fours champions – J.D. Best, A.J.H. Gregory, H. Gardiner, G.A. Deare (skip) (Dunedin Bowling Club)

Rugby league
New Zealand national rugby league team

Rugby Union
:Category:Rugby union in New Zealand, :Category:All Blacks
 Ranfurly Shield

Soccer
 1931 Chatham Cup won by Tramurewa (Auckland)
 Provincial league champions: 
	Auckland:	Thistle
	Canterbury:	Rangers, Nomads (shared)
	Hawke's Bay:	National Tobacco
	Nelson:	Hospital
	Otago:	HSOB
	Southland:	Rangers
	Taranaki:	Hawera, Albion (shared)
	Waikato:	Rotowaro
	Wanganui:	KP's
	Wellington:	Petone

Births

January
 1 January – Inez Kingi, health advocate
 2 January – Ritchie Johnston, cyclist
 12 January – Bert Ormond, association footballer
 14 January – Norm Wilson, cricketer
 19 January – Pat Hunt, politician
 20 January – Allan Tong, rower
 23 January – Gordon McLauchlan, author
 30 January – Doug Wilson, rugby union player

February
 1 February – Nicholas Tarling, historian
 10 February – Keith Bagley, rugby union player
 14 February – Peter Wardle, botanist
 15 February – Lloyd Ashby, rugby union player
 21 February
 Warren Dibble, poet, playwright
 Te Paekiomeka Joy Ruha, Māori leader
 22 February – Bryce Postles, cricketer