[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 40]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

'There the rascals are; let us knock them down!' which
frightened the remaining man so much that he ran away, and his companion
followed him. The little boy then looked up, and saw it was the sailor
whom he had relieved in the morning, carried upon the shoulders of the
blind man whom he had helped out of the pond. 'There, my little dear,'
said the sailor, 'God be thanked! we have come in time to do you a
service, in return for what you did us in the morning. As I lay under a
hedge I heard these villains talk of robbing a little boy, who, from the
description, I concluded must be you; but I was so lame that I should
not have been able to come time enough to help you, if I had not meet
this honest blind man, who took me upon his back while I showed him the
way.'

"The little boy thanked him very sincerely for thus defending him; and
they went all together to his father's house, which was not far off,
where they were all kindly entertained with a supper and a bed. The
little boy took care of his faithful dog as long as he lived, and never
forgot the importance and necessity of doing good to others, if we wish
them to do the same to us."

"Upon my word," said Tommy, when he had finished, "I am vastly pleased
with this story, and I think that it may very likely be true, for I have
myself observed that everything seems to love little Harry here, merely
because he is good-natured to it. I was much surprised to see the great
dog the other day, which I have never dared to touch for fear of being
bitten, fawning upon him and licking him all over; it put me in mind of
the story of Androcles and the lion." "That dog," said Mr Barlow, "will
be equally fond of you, if you are kind to him; for nothing equals the
sagacity and gratitude of a dog. But since you have read a story about a
good-natured boy, Harry shall read you another concerning a boy of a
contrary disposition."

Harry read the following story of


"THE ILL-NATURED BOY."

"There was once a little boy who was so unfortunate as to have a very
bad man for his father, who was always surly and ill-tempered, and
never gave his children either good instructions or good example; in
consequence of which this little boy, who might otherwise have been
happier and better, became ill-natured, quarrelsome, and disagreeable to
everybody. He very often was severely beaten for his impertinence by
boys that were bigger than himself, and sometimes by boys that were
less; for, though he was very abusive and quarrelsome, he did not much
like fighting, and generally trusted more to his heels than his courage,
when he had engaged himself in a quarrel. This little boy had a cur-dog
that was the exact image of himself; he was the most troublesome, surly
creature imaginable,--always barking at the heels of every horse he came
near, and worrying every sheep he could meet with--for which reason both
the dog and the boy were disliked by all the neighbourhood.

"One morning his father got up early to go to the alehouse, where he
intended to stay till night, as it was a holiday; but before he went out
he gave his son some bread and cold meat and sixpence, and told him he
might go and divert himself as he would the whole day. The little boy
was much pleased with this liberty; and, as it was a very fine morning,
he called his dog Tiger to follow him, and began his walk.

"He had not proceeded far before he met a little boy that was driving a
flock of sheep towards a gate that he wanted them to enter. 'Pray,
master,' said the little boy, 'stand still and keep your dog close to
you, for fear you frighten my sheep.' 'Oh yes, to be sure!' answered the
ill-natured boy, 'I am to wait here all the morning till you and your
sheep have passed, I suppose! Here, Tiger, seize them, boy!' Tiger at
this sprang forth into the middle of the flock, barking and biting on
every side, and the sheep, in a general consternation, hurried each a
separate way. Tiger seemed to enjoy this sport equally with his master;
but in the midst of his triumph he happened unguardedly to attack an old
ram that had more courage than the rest of the flock; he, instead of
running away, faced about, and aimed a blow with his forehead at his
enemy, with so much force and dexterity, that he knocked Tiger over and
over, and, butting him several times while he was down, obliged him to
limp howling away.

"The ill-natured little boy, who was not capable of loving anything, had
been much diverted with the trepidation of the sheep; but now he laughed
heartily at the misfortune of his dog; and he would have laughed much
longer, had not the other little boy, provoked beyond his patience at
this treatment thrown a stone at him, which hit him full upon the
temples, and almost knocked him down. He immediately began to cry, in
concert with his dog, and perceiving a man coming towards them, who he
fancied might be the owner of the sheep, he thought it most prudent to