[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Origin of the Azerbaijanis

abriz. Even the Ottoman Turkish explorer Evliya Çelebi (1611–1682) mentions this in his Seyahatname. He also reports that the elite and learned people of Nakhichevan and Maragheh spoke Pahlavi, during his tours of the region. Additionally, the old Pahlavi-based language of Azerbaijan is now extinct.

Also, the Brockhaus and Efron Encyclopedic Dictionary, published in 1890, writes that Azerbaijani's are only linguistically Turkic and Iranians by race. The book Man, published in 1901, comes to the same conclusion.

Modern Opinions
Professor Karl Kaser wrote, 

Historian Grigorii Filippovich Chursin said that, 

Professor Richard Frye also states:

According to Professor Xavier De Planhol:

Prof. Gernot Windfuhr states that "the majority of those who now speak Kurdish most likely were formerly speakers of a Median dialect."

Professor. Tadeusz Swietochowski states: "According to the most widely accepted etymology, the name "Azerbaijan" is derived from Atropates, the name of a Persian satrap of the late fourth century b.c. Another theory traces the origin of the name to the Persian word azar ("fire"') - hence Azerbaijan, "the Land of Fire", because of Zoroastrian temples, with their fires fueled by plentiful supplies of oil.
Azerbaijan maintained its national character after its conquest by the Arabs in the mid-seventh century a.d. and its subsequent conversion to Islam. At this time it became a province in the early Muslim empire. Only in the 11th century, when Oghuz Turkic tribes under the Seljuk dynasty entered the country, did Azerbaijan acquire a significant number of Turkic inhabitants. The original Persian population became fused with the Turks, and gradually the Persian language was supplanted by a Turkic dialect that evolved into the distinct Azerbaijani language. The process of Turkification was long and complex, sustained by successive waves of incoming nomads from Central Asia.

Place names, culture, and archaeological evidence

The terms "Azerbaijani" and "Azerbaijani" were born only in the 20th century upon the formation of the short-lived Republic of Azerbaijan in 1918, prior to which Azerbaijanis were referred to as Tatars.

Many place names in the present-day Republic of Azerbaijan and Iranian Azerbaijan have Persian roots. Tabriz, Baku, Absheron, Ganja, and the country (as well as people) name itself Azerbaijan, are just a few examples. Also, many of the cities in these regions were founded before Turkic tribes reached the area. The first mention of Baku was in 885, before the Turkic invasions of the 10th and 11th centuries.

Archaeological evidence from these regions shows a large influence of Zoroastrianism, a monotheistic Iranian religion, along with an Iranian presence of more than 3000 years, starting with the settlement of the Medes in the area, both of which shaped the Iranian identity of the region that lasted until the Turkic invasions. However, no evidence has been discovered that the Huns ever created permanent settlements in the area, as some Turkish historians claim.

Scholars see cultural similarities between modern Persians and Azerbaijanis as evidence of an ancient Iranian influence. Azerbaijani's celebrate a number of Iranian holidays, most notably Norouz. Researchers also describe the lives of Azerbaijani villagers and Persian villagers to be very similar in terms of tradition and culture. The literature of the region was also written in Persian, with writers such as Qatran Tabrizi, Shams Tabrizi, Nezami, and Khaghani, writing in Persian prior to and during the Oghuz invasions.

Also, remnants of former Iranian tribes that survived Turkification also provides evidence of the Iranian character of Azerbaijani's. The Talyshs and Tats are both an Iranian people who speak Iranian languages, with Tats speaking a dialect of Persian.

Genetics

Some new genetic studies suggest that recent erosion of human population structure might not be as important as previously thought, and overall genetic structure of human populations may not change with the immigration events and thus in the Azerbaijanis' case; the Azerbaijanis of the Azerbaijan Republic most of all genetically resemble to other Caucasian people like Armenians, and the people of the Iranian Azerbaijan region to other Iranians.

A study from 2007 demonstrated a "strong genetic tie between Kurds and Azerbaijanis of Iran", with the results of the analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) from the same study having "revealed no significant difference between these two populations and other major ethnic groups of Iran."