[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# De Oratore

natural skill, young orators listened and learned from Greek orators and teachers, and soon were much more enthusiastic for eloquence.
Young orators learned, through practice, the importance of variety and frequency of speech.
In the end, orators were awarded with popularity, wealth, and reputation.

But Cicero warns that oratory fits into more arts and areas of study than people might think.
This is the reason why this particular subject is such a difficult one to pursue.
Students of oratory must have a knowledge of many matters to have successful rhetoric.
They must also form a certain style through word choice and arrangement. Students must also learn to understand human emotion so as to appeal to their audience.
This means that the student must, through his style, bring in humor and charm—as well as the readiness to deliver and respond to an attack.

Moreover, a student must have a significant capacity for memory—they must remember complete histories of the past, as well as of the law.
Cicero reminds us of another difficult skill required for a good orator: a speaker must deliver with control—using gestures, playing and expressing with features, and changing the intonation of the voice.
In summary, oratory is a combination of many things, and to succeed in maintaining all of these qualities is a great achievement.
This section marks Cicero's standard canons for the rhetorical composing process.

Responsibility of the orator; argument of the work
Orators must have a knowledge in all important subjects and arts. Without this, his speech would be empty, without beauty and fullness. The term "orator" in itself holds a responsibility for the person to profess eloquence, in such a way that he should be able to treat every subject with distinction and knowledge. Cicero acknowledges that this is a practically impossible task, nevertheless it is at least a moral duty for the orator.
The Greeks, after dividing the arts, paid more attention to the portion of oratory that is concerned with the law, courts, and debate, and therefore left these subjects for orators in Rome.
Indeed, all that the Greeks have written in their treaties of eloquence or taught by the masters thereof, but Cicero prefers to report the moral authority of these Roman orators. Cicero announces that he will not expose a series of prescriptions but some principles, that he learnt to have been discussed once by excellent Roman orators.

Date, scene, and persons
Cicero exposes a dialogue, reported to him by Cotta, among a group of excellent political men and orators, who came together to discuss the crisis and general decline of politics. They met in the garden of Lucius Licinius Crassus' villa in Tusculum, during the tribunate of Marcus Livius Drusus (91 BCE). Thereto also gathered Lucius Licinius Crassus, Quintus Mucius Scaevola, Marcus Antonius, Gaius Aurelius Cotta and Publius Sulpicius Rufus. One member, Scaevola, wants to imitate Socrates as he appears in Plato's Phaedrus. Crassus replies that, instead, they will find a better solution, and calls for cushions so that this group can discuss it more comfortably.

Thesis: the importance of oratory to society and the state
Crassus states that oratory is one of the greatest accomplishments that a nation can have. He extols the power that oratory can give to a person, including the ability to maintain personal rights, words to defend oneself, and the ability to revenge oneself on a wicked person. The ability to converse is what gives mankind our advantage over other animals and nature. It is what creates civilization. Since speech is so important, why should we not use it to the benefit of oneself, other individuals, and even the entire State?

Thesis challenged
Scaevola agrees with Crassus's points except for two. Scaevola does not feel that orators are what created social communities and he questions the superiority of the orator if there were no assemblies, courts, etc. It was good decision making and laws that formed society, not eloquence. Was Romulus an orator? Scaevola says that there are more examples of damage done by orators than good, and he could cite many instances.  There are other factors of civilization that are more important than orator:  ancient ordinances, traditions, augury, religious rites and laws, private individual laws.  Had Scaevola not been in Crassus's domain, Scaevola would take Crassus to court and argue over his assertions, a place where oratory belongs. Courts, assemblies and the Senate are where oratory should remain, and Crassus should not extend the scope of oratory beyond these places. That is too sweeping for the profession of oratory.