[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Meštrović Pavilion

pace and constructed new walls to hide its circular form. All of Richter’s additions were designed to attach to the original structure, so that they could be removed without harming the building’s interior. The Museum of the Revolution officially opened on April 15, 1955.

Restoration and renovation

By the mid-1980s, discussions about the function of the pavilion had resumed, and in 1988, the curators of the Museum of the Revolution invited architects Ivan Crnković and Dubravka Kisić to draw up a study on the feasibility of restoring the pavilion to its original form. In May 1990, the Croatian Association of Artists (HDLU), headed by Ante Rašić, organized the exhibition Dokumenti-Argumenti to present the history of the building. In 1993, the City Council of Zagreb granted permission to the Croatian Association of Artists to move their seat back to the pavilion.

Renovation of the pavilion began in 2001 according to the plans of architect Andrija Mutnjaković. The first phase of construction included the removal of all non-original layers and structures and was completed in 2003. In 2006, parts of the cellar and ground floor were renovated following the plans of architect Branko Silađin.

The Meštrović Pavilion today

The pavilion presently serves as the official seat of the Croatian Association of Artists (HDLU), a union of professional artists established in 1868. The aims of the association are to support and encourage contemporary visual expression, to improve and protect the freedom of visual expression, and to influence legislation regulating visual arts production and the social rights of artists.

Additionally, HDLU organizes over 40 exhibitions and events annually, held in the pavilion’s three exhibition spaces: the Ring Gallery, the Barrel Gallery, and the Extended Media (PM) Gallery. A fourth exhibition space, Karas Gallery, is located on Praška Street near Ban Jelačić Square.

The pavilion is also one of the founding members of The 360° Project, an international network of round arts venues in Europe and Canada.

Croatia to the World Exhibition
In February 2021, the HDLU, in collaboration with Večernji list and the Academy of Fine Arts, compiled a list of the 38 Croatians (ethnically Croat or connected to Croatia) who gave most to the world, influencing global history. They organized an exhibition held at the Meštrović Pavilion, entitled "Croatia to the World" (Hrvatska svijetu), including over a thousand items connected to the thirty-eight masterminds. 
The first twelve names were chosen in 2019, but the list was then extended to 38 greats by February 2021. The 38 great Croatians in the list are: Ivo Andrić, Giorgio Baglivi, Josip Belušić, Roger Joseph Boscovich, Ivana Brlić-Mažuranić, Ivan Česmički, Marin Getaldić, Franjo Hanaman, Jerome, Marcel Kiepach, Julije Klović, Slavko Kopač, Benedikt Kotruljević, Zinka Kunc-Milanov, Antun Lučić, Giovanni Luppis, Dora Maar, Marko Marulić, Ivan Meštrović, Andrija Mohorovičić, Franciscus Patricius, Slavoljub Eduard Penkala, Marco Polo, Herman Potočnik, Vladimir Prelog, Mario Puratić, Lavoslav Ružan, Andrea Schiavone, David Schwarz, Pope Sixtus V, Mia Slavenska, Andrija Štampar, Rudolf Steiner, Nikola Tesla, Milka Trnina, Faust Vrančić, Ivan Vučetić, and Nikola IV Zrinski.

Notes

Sources

Further reading

External links

The 360° Project

Art museums and galleries in Zagreb
Donji grad, Zagreb
Buildings and structures completed in 1938
Art museums established in 1938
1938 establishments in Croatia
Mosques completed in 1941
1941 establishments in Croatia
Former mosques
Former religious buildings and structures in Croatia
Islam in Croatia
Religious buildings and structures in Zagreb
Museums established in 1949
1949 establishments in Croatia
History of Zagreb
Art museums established in 1990
1990 establishments in Croatia
Modernist architecture in Croatia
Rotundas in Europe
Ivan Meštrović