[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Right-wing terrorism

email asked if they could meet up for coffee or beer in Vienna; another asked the former to send the latter a link to his English language YouTube channel. In August 2020, the gunman was sentenced to life in prison without parole for the attacks, the first such sentence in New Zealand history.

Asia

India 
In 1992, the 16th-century Babri Masjid in the city of Ayodhya, in Uttar Pradesh was demolished by the far-right Hindu nationalist Vishva Hindu Parishad. The demolition resulted in intercommunal rioting between India's Hindu and Muslim communities, causing the death of at least 2,000 people.

Israel
A number of right-wing Revisionist Zionist groups have been designated as terrorist organisations. Lehi, known as the Stern Gang, was a Zionist paramilitary and terrorist organization founded in Mandatory Palestine in 1940, professing National Bolshevism and influenced by Italian fascism. It carried out assassinations and alleged massacres until it was disbanded in 1949. The Jewish Underground was a radical right-wing organization considered terrorist by Israel. It plotted and carried out car and bus bombings, and attacks on students and on religious sites in the early 1980s until the arrest of its main activists in 1984. Kach and its splinter group Kahane Chai were a right-wing Orthodox Jewish, ultranationalist political party in Israel, formed in 1971 and designated as terrorist from the 1990s by Israel, Canada, the European Union, Japan, and the United States.

Syria & Lebanon
See Falangist militancy in Lebanon. and Fascist militancy in Syria and Lebanon.

See also

 Alt-right links to violence and terrorism
 Anti-communist mass killings
 Eco-terrorism
 Environmental terrorism
 Ethnic violence
 Far-left politics
 Far-right politics
 Left-wing terrorism 
 Misogynist terrorism
 Narcoterrorism
 Nationalist terrorism
 Political violence
 Radical right (Europe)
 Radical right (United States)
 Religious terrorism
 Religious violence
 State terrorism
 Terrorgram
 Ultranationalism

References
Notes

Bibliography

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Michael, George. 2010. The Enemy of My Enemy: The Alarming Convergence of Militant Islam and the Extreme Right. University Press of Kansas. .  
 
 

Further reading
 Right-wing terrorism and violence in Western Europe: the RTV dataset. C-REX - Center for Research on Extremism.
 
 Florian Hartleb: Lone wolves. The New Terrorism of Right-Wing Single Actors, Heidelberg et al. 2020, Springer, .

Anti-communist terrorism
1970s establishments in Europe
Hate crime
Right-wing terrorism