[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# André Bikey

orters, however he was targeted for racist abuse to the extent that he felt it necessary to carry a gun whilst out in Moscow to protect himself from racist gangs. He was allowed to leave by head coach Slavoljub Muslin in August 2006, who said "he is a good player, he just doesn’t fit into our team".

Reading
Bikey joined English Premier League club Reading for an initial trial period during their pre-season trip to Sweden in 2006, where he impressed manager Steve Coppell despite being sent off in his final trial match for head-butting an Örgryte IS player. After much negotiation with Lokomotiv, a season-long loan deal was agreed on 26 August 2006, giving Reading the option to purchase the player at the end of the loan. He was sent off for receiving two yellow cards in only his second Premier League appearance, after pulling Didier Drogba's shirt in a 1–0 defeat to Chelsea at the Madejski Stadium on 14 October. He scored his first goal for the club in his return to action 11 days later, as Reading were knocked out of the League Cup after being beaten 4–3 by Liverpool at Anfield. He expressed a desire to obtain a permanent deal, and following improving performances, it was announced on 24 April 2007 that Bikey had signed a three-year contract with Reading for a transfer fee in excess of £1 million.

Bikey scored his first league goal for Reading in a 2–1 home defeat to Chelsea on 15 August 2007, which he celebrated with a triple somersault. He scored two more goals in a 2–1 home win over Birmingham City on 22 March. He ended the 2007–08 season with 24 appearances to his name, but was unable to prevent the "Royals" from being relegated. Speaking in September 2008, Coppell bemoaned the fact that Bikey's international commitments had left him only able to train with the club on six days within a three-month period. He scored three goals in 25 Championship games during the 2008–09 campaign as Reading qualified for the play-offs. However, he was sent off for stamping on Robbie Blake during the play-off semi-final first leg at Burnley on 9 May, having earlier conceded the winning penalty taken by Graham Alexander. He aggravated the situation by ripping off his shirt and stamping around the pitch, resulting in the extension of his ban to five games and a charge for improper conduct.

Burnley
Having beaten Reading in the play-offs, Burnley went on to win promotion into the Premier League, and manager Owen Coyle signed Bikey to a three-year deal on 18 August 2009. The fee was undisclosed, but was reported as being around £2.8 million. He scored his first goal for the "Clarets" in a 2–1 win over Birmingham City at Turf Moor on 3 October. He ended the 2009–10 season with 31 appearances to his name, playing mostly in midfield, as Burnley were relegated into the Championship. Speaking in August 2010, manager Brian Laws said that Bikey would be played at centre-half as he was more comfortable there and "could be one of outstanding centre halves in the division". Laws reportedly turned down an approach for Bikey from "a major European club" on transfer deadline day. Bikey went on to score two goals in 30 appearances across the 2010–11 campaign.

He was dropped by manager Eddie Howe at the start of the 2011–12 season. On 22 March, he secured a loan move to Championship rivals Bristol City until the end of the season. Manager Derek McInnes said he was "delighted" with his performances, and Bikey played in seven of the "Robins" last eight fixtures, in which City remained unbeaten, to help the club retain their Championship status. However, after returning from Ashton Gate to Burnley he learned that he would be released upon the expiry of his contract.

Middlesbrough
On 11 September 2012, Bikey signed for Middlesbrough on a free transfer after impressing manager Tony Mowbray on trial, who wanted cover for injured captain Rhys Williams. He made his debut in a 2–0 home win over Ipswich Town four days later, and was praised by Mowbray after the match. He scored his first goal for "Boro" with a header in a 4–1 defeat away to Blackpool. He made 37 appearances throughout the 2012–13 season, but left the Riverside Stadium after he was released in the summer.

Later career
In July 2013, he trained with the Spanish Segunda División team Sabadell. On 16 September 2013, Bikey signed a one-year contract with Greek Superleague side Panetolikos. On 10 November, he scored both goals in the "Canaries" 2–1 win over Levadiakos at Panetolikos Stadium. He made a total of 26 appearances for Panetolikos over the course of the 2013–14 season.