[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Germans of Yugoslavia

ncentration camps, another 31,000 died serving in the German armed forces, and about 31,000 disappeared, mostly likely dead, with another 37,000 still unaccounted for. Thus the total victims of the war and subsequent ethnic cleansing and killings comprised about 30% of the pre-war German population.

Current situation
There are currently approx 8,300 people in former Yugoslavia who acknowledge some German heritage. Many residents actively practice their German cultural heritage, and some still speak the local form of the German dialect, Shwovish.  This dialect is a mixture of old German from the eighteenth century with many Magyar and Serbo-Croatian words,  similar to what was spoken in Yugoslavia before the Second World War.

Geography

Croatia

In Croatia around 2,800 people identify themselves as part of the  German and Austrian Minority, the majority of whom are Danube Swabians.  The “German and Austrian Minority,” as they are officially called, holds a permanent seat in the Croatian Parliament (Sabor).

Serbia

The largest German minority in the former Yugoslavia is found in Serbia. The majority of the remaining population of German origin lives in the northern Serbia in Vojvodina, an area that also has a sizeable Hungarian minority. The Hungarian and Serbian populations also refer to them as Swabian as well. They are known as the Danube Swabians or Banat Swabians.

The Serbian census from 2002 records 3,901 Germans in Serbia, of which 3,154 in the province of Vojvodina. In December 2007 they formed their own minority council in Novi Sad, which they were entitled to with 3,000 voter signatures. The president, Andreas Biegermeier, stated that the council will focus on property restitution, and marking of mass graves and camp sites. He estimated the total number of remaining Danube Swabians in Serbia and their descents at 5,000–8,000.

Bosnia and Herzegovina
The first Germans here were Saxon miners from Transylvania and northern Hungary (modern Slovakia) in the late 13th century. They assimilated into the local Roman Catholic population.

More recent German immigration started here following the Habsburg occupation of 1878. Some agricultural colonists came from Germany proper but most were Danube Swabians from nearby Bačka. The first settlers came from Silesia and the Rhineland, and created a settlement called Windthorst near the Croatian frontier. After the 1888 visit by Rudolf, Crown Prince of Austria an offshoot colony was established and named Rudolfstal. Protestant Danube Swabians set up Franzjosefsfeld in 1886. "The government looked favourably on these farmers and gave them tax concessions; and in 1890 is passed a special law on 'agrarian colonies', offering up to twelve hectares per family, rent-free for the first three years and then on a low mortgage which would end after ten years if they took Bosnian citizenship. Altogether fifty-four such colonies were established, with a population of nearly 10,000."

Following the collapse of internal security during World War II the Nazis decided to evacuate the Volksdeutsche population from Bosnia and a treaty to this effect was signed on 30 September 1942. The Hauptamt Volksdeutsche Mittelstelle (VoMi) organised an SS commando from Belgrade under Otto Lackman and "...went from village to village, accompanied by the military. They found the communities already victims of partisan raids and even came under attack themselves. By the end of November, VoMi's commandos had evacuated some 18,000 Volksdeutsche from Bosnia."

Areas formerly settled by Germans include:
 Dubrava (Königsfeld)
 Nova Topola (Windthorst)
 Bosanski Aleksandrovac (Rudolfstal)
 Franzjosefsfeld
 Prosara (Hohenberg / Hindenburg)
 Zenica (Senitza)
 Zepce (Scheptsche)

Slovenia
There are two German-speaking minorities in Slovenia. One consists of around 1,600 people, centred on Maribor (German: Marburg). The other is smaller in size and are the Gottscheer Germans, who live in the Kočevje (German: Gottschee) region. They are both Austrian in origin, and are unrelated to the other German minorities in Yugoslavia.

Notable people 
 Đorđe Vajfert or Georg Weifert (1850–1937), Serbian industrialist, Governor of the National Bank of Serbia and later Yugoslavia
 Heinrich Knirr (1862–1944), German painter
 Robert Zollitsch (born 1938), German prelate

See also
 Ernst Thälmann Company
Danube Swabians
Germans of Hungary
Germans of Romania
Germany–Yugoslavia relations

References 

Yugoslavia
Demographics of Yugoslavia
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Germany–Yugoslavia relations