[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1990–1999 world oil market chronology

separately would not be surmountable.
December 5: Iraq announces willingness to speak with U.S. about resolving the Persian Gulf crisis.
December 13: Secretary of State Baker questions Iraq's seriousness about Middle East peace.
December 18: Bush reiterates his "no concessions" stance against Iraq.

1991
January 4: Reports Iraq will accept U.S. offer for talks in Geneva.
January 7: Saddam Hussein prepares his troops for what he says will be a long violent war against the U.S.
January 9-January 14: At Geneva talks, Baker says that "regrettably" Iraqi Foreign Minister Aziz has indicated no softening in Iraq's position. Peace talks break down, but there is still talk of a peaceful solution to the crisis.
January 15: Report that Iraq has a new peace initiative.
January 16: U.S. begins air attack against Iraqi military targets. President Bush directs drawdown of Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR). U.S. Secretary of Energy James Watkins orders  drawdown. Crude oil prices drop $9–10 per barrel in one day after having risen $3–5 per barrel during the first half of January.
January 17: Reports of early U.S. and allied success against Iraqi forces. DOE issues SPR sales notice.
January 18: Iraqi Scud missiles land in Israel.
January 22: Some Kuwaiti oil facilities are destroyed by Iraq and more Iraqi missile attacks on Saudi Arabia.
January 30: United States Department of Energy selects 13 firms to purchase  of SPR crude oil.
February: Surplus of unsold oil held by oil producers reaches  to .
February 5: First SPR oil delivered to commercial buyers.
February 15: Daily market volatility as Hussein mentions withdrawal, but U.S. President George H. W. Bush calls his offer a "cruel hoax."
February 26: Signs of Iran crude now an option for U.S. refiners, but no imports from Iran likely in near future.
February 28: War ends. United Nations troops move into Kuwait City. Saddam Hussein orders troops out of Kuwait. Iraqi soldiers ignite Kuwaiti oil fields during their retreat.
March 1: News that Kuwait will need to import crude in the short term.
March 12: OPEC announces production cut to .
March 13: API reports a  weekly domestic crude inventory draw; Saudi Arabia and Iran say OPEC production cuts will take effect April 1.
March 19: Gorbachev says the Soviet Union will cut its oil exports by nearly half.
March 25: Nigerian crude becomes competitive in U.S. Gulf Coast as Nigeria cuts crude prices.
April 25: Iraq expects to resume crude and product exports by July.
June 3: Kuwait asks GCC members to produce  of oil on its behalf.
Aug: Unsuccessful coup attempt against Soviet President Gorbachev has minimal effect on oil markets.
Oct: Soviet Union suspends petroleum product exports as its fuel shortages grow. NYMEX futures price for WTI climbs nearly $2, ending at $24 per barrel.
November: Last of Kuwait oil well fires extinguished by well control teams.
November: U.S. Senate filibuster causes withdrawal of an Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) pro-leasing bill.
December: Soviet Union collapses as a series of events precipitated by Ukrainian vote for independence leads to formation of Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).

1992
January: Kuwait reports oil production of ; insists on restoration of its pre-invasion OPEC quota of .
March: UN threatens sanctions against Libya for its refusal to extradite suspected terrorists.
March: CIS announces that 1991 crude exports dropped by 52%.
May: Saudi Arabia supports a crude oil price hike during a late-month OPEC meeting. NYMEX Futures prices exceed $22 per barrel.
Oct: OPEC production reaches highest level in more than a decade at .
December: U.S., Mexico, and Canada sign the North American Free Trade Agreement, a multi-lateral free trade agreement.

1993
July: Oil prices plunge on speculation that Iraq will accept U.N. missile test site inspections and receive approval to resume oil exports.
November: Combination of OPEC overproduction, surging North Sea output, and weak demand lowers the price of Brent to near $15 per barrel.

1994
April: Oil Prices firm on strength of institutional shifting of U.S. investment funds from equity and bond markets to cash and commodities.
Apr-September:   Nigerian production disrupted by oil workers' strike in response to imprisonment of apparent winner of presidential elections.