[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Yosef Qafih

urce of publication):
 הערות אחדות על שני תרגומים מערבית לעברית (originally published in 1994).
Material not collected therein (but listed in the bibliography)
 Shavuoth in Yemen.
 Portions of three unknown early Judeo-Arabic commentaries to the Bible and a Judeo-Arabic commentary to Sefer Yetzira. 

 המקרא ברמב"ם (index to the verses of the Bible in the Rambam).
 Halikhoth Teiman: Jewish Life in Sanà (first edition published in 1961; second edition in 1963; third edition in 1987 ). Posthumously, a repaginated and newly typeset edition has been published.
 Shivath Tsiyyon (1950s), a new edition of the Baladi Yemenite prayer book.
 Yemenite Passover Aggadta with four Yemenite commentaries, the Arabic among them translated into Hebrew.
 Siaḥ Yerushalayim (1993), the newest edition of the Baladi Yemenite prayer book.
 First published posthumously:
 Rabbi Yosef Kafiḥ's Notebook on the Plants of the Mishna (published by Dr. Zohar Amar).
 קונדריס שיחת דקלים (published by Rabbi Dr. Uri Melammed).
 In volume 8 of Masorah L'Yosef: לתקופת הימים; a paper that Rabbi Yosef Kapach wrote about Rabbi Moshe Tsarum; and speeches for Bar Mitzvahs.
 Responsa of Rabbi Yosef Qafih (posthumously published):
 עדות ביהוסף (collected beth din rulings).
 שו"ת הריב"ד (with commentary by Rabbi Avraham Ḥamami) in multiple volumes.
 Responsa related to laws of family purity: appended to Taharath Moshe (2015) by Rabbi Tzfanya Arusi.
 ספר תשובות הרב קאפח (with extensive commentary by Rabbi Shalom Nagar) in multiple volumes.

Recorded Lectures
Posthumously, Machon Mishnat HaRambam has, to date, put out the following CDs (in MP3 format) with Rabbi Yosef Kapach's recorded lectures (Hebrew: שיעורים מפי הרה"ג יוסף קאפח):
 רס"ג
 הנבחר באמונות ובדעות (four CDs)
 רבנו בחיי
 תורת חובות הלבבות (five CDs)
 רבנו נתנאל בירב פיומי
 גן השכלים (two CDs)
 רמב"ם
 הקדמה לפירוש המשנה (one CD)
 פירוש המשנה
 פירוש לפרק עשירי – מסכת סנהדרין - פרק "חלק" (one CD)
 הקדמה למסכת אבות המכונה "שמונה פרקים" (one CD)
 מורה הנבוכים (eleven CDs)
 אגרות (one CD)
Based on the above, the following has been published in book form:
 Lectures of Rabbi Yosef Qafih:
 Volume 1: Maimonides' Introduction to the Mishnah Commentary
 Volume 2: Maimonides' Introduction to Perek HelekAwards and recognition
 In both 1962 and 1973, Qafiḥ was awarded the Bialik Prize for Jewish thought.
 In 1969, he was awarded the Israel Prize for Jewish studies. His wife, Rabbanit Bracha Qafih, was also awarded the Israel Prize for her special contributions to society and the State in 1999, in recognition of her extensive charitable work (this was the only occasion on which a married couple have both been awarded the Israel Prize).
 Qafiḥ has also won the Rabbi Kook Prize, and was awarded an honorary doctorate by Bar Ilan University.

Further reading
 Avivit Levi, הולך תמים: מורשתו, חייו ופועלו של הרב יוסף קאפח (Hebrew; Holekh Tamim: The Legacy, Life and Work of Rabbi Yosef Qafih), 2003.
 Ester Muchawsky-Schnapper, The Contribution of Rabbi Yosef Qāfiḥ to the Knowledge of Yemenite Material Culture: A Personal Account in Tema (Journal of Judeo-Yemenite Studies), #8 (Netanya, 2004), p. 15-24.
 Y. Tzvi Langermann, "Mori Yusuf": Rabbi Yosef Kafah (Qāfiḥ) (1917–2000) in Aleph (Historical Studies in Science & Judaism), #1 (2001), p. 333-340.
 Y. Tzvi Langermann, Rabbi Yosef Qafih's Modern Medieval Translation of the Guide'' in Maimonides' Guide of the Perplexed in Translation (2019), p. 257-278.

See also
List of Israel Prize recipients
List of Bialik Prize recipients

References

External links
 The Friedberg Jewish Manuscript Society's Judeo-Arabic Corpus (accessible with free login) makes available the body of numerous Judeo-Arabic works translated and published by Rabbi Qafih (sans independent Hebrew material like editor introductions), with a choice of viewing the original page images alongside a transcription of the printed Arabic text–the latter of which is fully searchable through the website.
 Selected comments of Rabbi Yosef Kafach
 Color picture of Rabbi Yosef Qafih (posted at ).
 English translation of Sefer Hamitzvot based on Rabbi Kapach's Hebrew translation by Rabbi Berel Bell (sans Maimonides' Introduction and Principles).
 Rabbi Ovadia Yosef's transcribed speech (Hebrew)
 Rabbi Mordechai Eliyahu's transcribed speech (Hebrew)
 Rabbi Yosef Kafach: A Life Fulfilled, English obituary by Rabbi Matis Greenblatt, Jewish Action Winter 5761 issue (fall 2000).

Yemenite Orthodox rabbis
Religious Zionist Orthodox rabbis
Mercaz HaRav alumni
Israel Prize in Jewish studies recipients
Israel Prize Rabbi recipients
Yemeni emigrants to Mandatory Palestine
Israeli Orthodox rabbis
1917 births
2000 deaths
Orthodox rabbis in Mandatory Palestine
Exponents of Jewish law
Researchers of Yemenite Jewry
Authors of books on Jewish law
Burials at Har HaMenuchot