[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mushahid Hussain

Mushahid Hussain Syed (Punjabi, ; born 2 November 1952) is a Pakistani politician, and journalist who is currently the Pakistan Senator from the Islamabad Capital Territory on the platform of the Pakistan Muslim League (N), since 3 March 2018.

A political journalist by profession, Hussain briefly served in the Sharif administrations in 1990s and is known for his political positions that reflects the national conservatism towards supporting the idea of civilian control of the military. After playing a crucial role in the support of the decision-making towards the nuclear weapons-testing in response to India's in 1998, Hussain's tenure was abrupted by the staged martial law by Pakistan Army Chief Gen. Pervez Musharraf and was held in prison on treason conspiracy in 1999.  In 2003, he later defected to the forward block supporting the presidential campaign of Pervez Musharraf and was elected the Pakistan Senator of the Senate.

Despite his support for the PML(Q), the forward block supporting Musharraf for several years, Hussain remained sympathetics towards the PML(N) and eventually joined his original party after being ousted by the forward block in 2016. He is known as a proponent for strengthening the foreign relations with China and Central Asia, having served the Chairman of the China-Pakistan Institute, a lobbying firm based in Islamabad.

Biography

Early life and career in journalism

Mushahid Hussain Syed was born in Sialkot, Punjab in Pakistan into a Military Punjabi family on 2 November 1952. His father, Amjad Hussain Syed, was an army officer in the Pakistan Army, retiring with rank of army colonel; his mother, Sameen Sayed, was a social activist. Hussain is the fourth of five children, and both his parents were activists in the Pakistan Movement prior to 1947. His mother, Sameen, died at the age of 83 in 2010.

After his matriculation from Lahore, Hussain went to attend the Forman Christian College University, where he graduated with B.A. in journalism in 1974. During this time, he went to the United States under the Fulbright Program to attend the School of Foreign Service of the Georgetown University in Washington D.C. and graduated with the M.S. in foreign service, and briefly interned at the United States Congress. While studying in the United States, he was president of the Pakistan Students Association and was awarded a Congressional Internship to work in the United States Congress.

After completing his education, Hussain returned to Pakistan and joined the directing Staff of the Administrative Staff College in Lahore to instruct courses on international relations to the civil servants prior to their joining of the Pakistan Foreign Service. He also served as the visiting professor on the topics of international relations at the Punjab University but was terminated from his employment when he spoke on a rally to oppose the martial law government in October 1979. After his termination, he begin writing syndicated political columns on conservatism and joined the English daily The Muslim, of which, he became its editor-in-chief in 1982. He also joined The Hindustan Times where he wrote the syndicated column.

In 1983, he joined the Non-Aligned News Agencies which he co-chaired in New Delhi. In 1985–86, Hussain had established himself as a journalist and had enjoyed considerable fame when he wrote articles on politics and security.

In 1988, he reportedly lost his job as a journalist when he published an interview in The Muslim on the issue of the country's covert atomic bomb program when President Zia-ul-Haq froze the funding of the news correspondent

Authorship
Hussain also written three political books covering the issues of civilian control of the military, geostrategy, and governance.

Public service in Pakistan

Information minister in Sharif administrations and imprisonment

After covering the nationwide general elections held in 1990, Hussain joined the IDA government led by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and was inducted as an adviser on External Publicity and Foreign Affairs in the first administration, which he served until 1993. He advised the Prime Minister Sharif on the issues relating to the foreign relations with the United States, India, and the geostrategy in Central Asia, and was later elevated as the Minister of Communications. In 1994, he was appointed as the information secretary of the PML(N) while he continued to write columns and articles on the issue of national conservatism and security in country's major news and political correspondents.