[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Speech codes theory

of the nature of all speech codes.  It contains a general answer to the question of how an observer might systematically try to learn about the particularities of particulars, local ways of speaking.  It presents a general answer to the question of how speech codes relate to communicative conduct."

According to Gerry Philipsen, the Speech Codes Theory is a historically enacted, socially constructed system of terms, meanings, premises, and rules, pertaining to communicative conduct. One of his six general propositions is that wherever there is a distinctive culture, there is to be found a distinctive speech code. For example, when we are immersed in a new community with a culture that is unfamiliar to us, we often find certain patterns of speech to be strange. Because we are an outsider, we pick up on these differences initially. Yet over time, we grow accustomed to these patterns and no longer notice a difference in pronunciation and/or grammar. Speech codes are seen in the way a group determines when to communicate and what is appropriate to say at a particular time.

Criticisms 

Philipsen addresses the criticisms of Speech Code Theory by saying that:

1.  "Speech Codes Theory does not account for manifestations of power in discourse.  This is a matter of omission in the theoretical assumptions, methodological framework, and examination of fieldwork materials.

2.  Speech Codes Theory treats culture as overly deterministic.  A corollary to this is that it reifies culture as a static entity."

This is a strong force of conduct within communication.  It has a social perspective that directly addresses the issue of "a universal possibility in any body of discourse of manifestations of power, solidarity, intimacy" and other important aspects of social life.

Examples of places and situations with speech codes 

Within cultures
In workplaces (note that workplaces often also have official speech codes in the legal sense)
Within social groups such as special-interest clubs and organizations.
Bilingual speech codes
Between country culture
Certain geographic subcultures.

References 

Griffin, E. (2008). "Speech Codes Theory." Introduction to Communication II. New York: McGraw-Hill Primis.
Downs, Donald (1993). Codes say darnedest things. Quill; Vol. 81 Issue 8, p19, October.
Gregory and Williams (2003). Literacy; Nov 2006, Vol. 40 Issue 3, p137-145, 9p, 5 Diagrams, 2 Charts

Communication theory