[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 229]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

chap. 21.22.) "If I will that he tarry till I come, what is
that to thee?" upon which was grounded a report that hee should not dye:
Neverthelesse the truth of that report was neither confirmed, as well
grounded; nor refuted, as ill grounded on those words; but left as a
saying not understood. The same difficulty is also in the place of St.
Marke. And if it be lawfull to conjecture at their meaning, by that
which immediately followes, both here, and in St. Luke, where the same
is againe repeated, it is not unprobable, to say they have relation
to the Transfiguration, which is described in the verses immediately
following; where it is said, that "After six dayes Jesus taketh with
him Peter, and James, and John (not all, but some of his Disciples)
and leadeth them up into an high mountaine apart by themselves, and
was transfigured before them. And his rayment became shining, exceeding
white as snow; so as no Fuller on earth can white them. And there
appeared unto them Elias with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus,
&c." So that they saw Christ in Glory and Majestie, as he is to come;
insomuch as "They were sore afraid." And thus the promise of our Saviour
was accomplished by way of Vision: For it was a Vision, as may probably
bee inferred out of St. Luke, that reciteth the same story (ch. 9. ve.
28.) and saith, that Peter and they that were with him, were heavy with
sleep; But most certainly out of Matth. 17.9. (where the same is again
related;) for our Saviour charged them, saying, "Tell no man the Vision
untill the Son of man be Risen from the dead." Howsoever it be, yet
there can from thence be taken no argument, to prove that the Kingdome
of God taketh beginning till the day of Judgement.




Abuse Of Some Other Texts In Defence Of The Power Of The Pope

As for some other texts, to prove the Popes Power over civill
Soveraignes (besides those of Bellarmine;) as that the two Swords that
Christ and his Apostles had amongst them, were the Spirituall and the
Temporall Sword, which they say St. Peter had given him by Christ: And,
that of the two Luminaries, the greater signifies the Pope, and the
lesser the King; One might as well inferre out of the first verse of the
Bible, that by Heaven is meant the Pope, and by Earth the King: Which
is not arguing from Scripture, but a wanton insulting over Princes, that
came in fashion after the time the Popes were growne so secure of their
greatnesse, as to contemne all Christian Kings; and Treading on the
necks of Emperours, to mocke both them, and the Scripture, in the words
of the 91. Psalm, "Thou shalt Tread upon the Lion and the Adder, the
young Lion and the Dragon thou shalt Trample under thy feet."




The Manner Of Consecrations In The Scripture, Was Without Exorcisms

As for the rites of Consecration, though they depend for the most part
upon the discretion and judgement of the governors of the Church,
and not upon the Scriptures; yet those governors are obliged to such
direction, as the nature of the action it selfe requireth; as that the
ceremonies, words, and gestures, be both decent, and significant, or at
least conformable to the action. When Moses consecrated the Tabernacle,
the Altar, and the Vessels belonging to them (Exod. 40.) he anointed
them with the Oyle which God had commanded to bee made for that
purpose; and they were holy; There was nothing Exorcised, to drive away
Phantasmes. The same Moses (the civill Soveraigne of Israel) when he
consecrated Aaron (the High Priest,) and his Sons, did wash them with
Water, (not Exorcised water,) put their Garments upon them, and anointed
them with Oyle; and they were sanctified, to minister unto the Lord
in the Priests office; which was a simple and decent cleansing, and
adorning them, before hee presented them to God, to be his servants.
When King Solomon, (the civill Soveraigne of Israel) consecrated the
Temple hee had built, (2 Kings 8.) he stood before all the Congregation
of Israel; and having blessed them, he gave thanks to God, for putting
into the heart of his father, to build it; and for giving to himselfe
the grace to accomplish the same; and then prayed unto him, first,
to accept that House, though it were not sutable to his infinite
Greatnesse; and to hear the prayers of his Servants that should pray
therein, or (if they were absent) towards it; and lastly, he offered a
sacrifice of Peace-offering, and the House was dedicated. Here was no
Procession; the King stood still in his first place; no Exorcised Water;
no Asperges Me, nor other impertinent application of words spoken upon
another occasion; but a decent, and rationall speech, and such as in
making to God a present of his new built House, was most conformable
to the occasion. We read not that St. John did Exorcise the Water
of Jordan; nor Philip the Water of the river wherein he baptized the
Eunuch; nor that any Pastor in the time of the Apostles, did take his