[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# United States National Grid

receivers and other location service applications.

In addition to providing a convenient means to identify and communicate specific locations (points and areas), an overlaid USNG grid also provides an orientation, and—because it is distance based—a scale of distance that is present across the map.

USGS topographic maps have for decades been published with 1000-meter UTM tick marks in the map collar, and sometimes with full grid lines across the map.  Recent editions of these maps (those referenced to the North American datum of 1983, or NAD83) are compatible with USNG, and current editions also contain a standard USNG information box in the collar which identifies the GZD(s) (Grid Zone Designator(s) and the 100 km Grid Square ID(s) covering the area of the particular map.  USNG can now be found on various pre-printed and custom-printed maps available for purchase, or generated from various mapping software packages.

Software applications 
A growing number of software applications incorporate or refer to the US National Grid.  See the External Links section below for links to some of these, including The National Map (USGS).  These applications include conventional mapping applications with overlaid USNG grid and/or coordinate readouts, and several 'you-are-here' mobile applications which give the user's current USNG coordinates, such as USNGapp.org and FindMeSAR.com.

Mission Manager, the most widely used incident management software tool for first responders, integrates the USNG in its functionality.

Search and rescue (SAR) 
As noted above under Standards, since 2011 the USNG has been designated by the US Government's National Search and Rescue Committee (NSARC) as the primary coordinate reference system to be used for all land-based search and rescue (SAR) activities in the US.  (Latitude and longitude [DMM variant] may be used as the secondary system for land responders; especially when coordinating with air and sea based responders who may use it as their primary system, and USNG as secondary.)

The National Association for Search and Rescue (NASAR) is moving its education and certification testing programming towards USNG.  Other organizations such as the National Alliance for Public Safety GIS (NAPSG) also provide USNG SAR training.

FEMA Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) task forces including Florida Task Force 4 (FL-TF4)  and Iowa Task Force 1 (IA-TF1)  have incorporated the USNG into their training and operations.

Emergency Location Marker (ELM) 
Responders are often faced with significant geolocation issues when a responding to an emergency without a street address.  This is particularly true in the recreational trail environment:

 34% of U.S. response calls go to a location without a street address – recreational trails are a leading category.
 Trails with location signs typically employ an approach unique to that park or trail system, and
 Locally unique marking systems have no value to responders unless those locations are readily available via dispatch and response systems.

In response to these issues, in 2009, a project funded by the nonprofit SharedGeo and University of Minnesota/Minnesota Department of Transportation Local Operational Research Assistance (OPERA) grant program got underway which had the following objectives:

 Develop a standardized Emergency Location Marker (ELM) which can be used anywhere in the nation in a variety of scenarios,
 Align the marking system with established federal and state cartographic and signage standards,
 Ensure the format leverages GPS instead of requiring constant updating of Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) systems,
 Use a consistent approach which over time will become instantly recognizable by the public, and
 Involve multiple stakeholders during development to ensure a "Best Practices" outcome.

After three years of field research and vetting by multiple focus groups of trail users, responders, and geospatial experts, a design based on USNG was adopted.

This format, which can be used anywhere in the United States, was originally offered in three sizes to conform to federal, state and local signage standards:

 6" x 9" (15 cm x 23 cm) -- for non-motorized trails
 9" x 12" (23 cm x 30 cm) --  for motorized trails
12" x 12" (30 cm x 30 cm) -- for trail heads and huts

In the years since introduction, the USNG ELM program now includes vertical ELM versions for breakaway scenarios (e.g. mountain bike trails), ELM information signs, ELM stickers to retrofit trail posts, and corresponding apps such as USNGapp.org.

USNG ELM implementations can be found in Minnesota, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Michigan, and other states.