[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Belfast

lomat and politician, and President of the Weizmann Institute of Science
 Chaim Herzog, former President of Israel
 Mary McAleese, former President of Ireland
 Peter Robinson, former First Minister of Northern Ireland
 Lord Trimble, former First Minister of Northern Ireland, Nobel Peace Prize winner

Sports
 Paddy Barnes, boxer, Olympic Games Bronze Medalist
 George Best, football player, Ballon D'or winner
 Danny Blanchflower, football player and manager
 Jackie Blanchflower, football player
 Chris Brunt, football player
 Ryan Burnett, boxer
 Anthony Cacace, boxer
 Craig Cathcart, football player
 Michael Conlan, boxer
 P. J. Conlon, baseball player
 Killian Dain, professional wrestler
 Mal Donaghy, football player
 Corry Evans, football player
 Jonny Evans, football player
 Dave Finlay, professional wrestler
 Carl Frampton, boxer
 Craig Gilroy, rugby union player
 Alex Higgins, snooker player
 Paddy Jackson, rugby union player
 Wayne McCullough, WBC World Champion Boxer, Olympic Games Silver Medalist
 Alan McDonald, football player
 Rory McIlroy, golfer
 Sammy McIlroy, football player and manager
 Eamon Magee, boxer
 Brian Magee, boxer
 Jim Magilton, football player and manager
 Rinty Monaghan, World Flyweight boxing champion
 Steve Morrow, football player and manager
 Owen Nolan, hockey player, Olympic gold medalist
 Lady Mary Peters, Olympic gold medalist athlete
 Tommy Robb, Grand Prix motorcycle road racer
 Anton Rogan, Football player
 Pat Rice, football player and coach
 Joe Swail, snooker player
 Gary Wilson, cricketer

Other
 Patrick Carlin, Victoria Cross recipient
 Shaw Clifton, former General of The Salvation Army
 Dame Rotha Johnston, entrepreneur
 James Joseph Magennis, Victoria Cross recipient
 Jonathan Simms, victim of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (vCJD), noted for unprecedented survival rate of a decade with the disease
 Rosemary Church, newsanchor

Education

Belfast has two universities. Queen's University Belfast was founded in 1845 and is a member of the Russell Group, an association of 24 leading research-intensive universities in the UK. It is one of the largest universities in the UK with 25,231 undergraduate and postgraduate students spread over 250 buildings, 120 of which are listed as being of architectural merit.

Ulster University, created in its current form in 1984, is a multi-centre university with a campus in the Cathedral Quarter of Belfast. The Belfast campus has a specific focus on Art and Design and Architecture, and is currently undergoing major redevelopment. The Jordanstown campus, just  from Belfast city centre concentrates on engineering, health and social science. The Coleraine campus, about  from Belfast city centre concentrates on a broad range of subjects. Course provision is broad – biomedical sciences, environmental science and geography, psychology, business, the humanities and languages, film and journalism, travel and tourism, teacher training and computing are among the campus strengths. The Magee campus, about  from Belfast city centre has many teaching strengths; including business, computing, creative technologies, nursing, Irish language and literature, social sciences, law, psychology, peace and conflict studies and the performing arts. The Conflict Archive on the Internet (CAIN) Web Service receives funding from both universities and is a rich source of information and source material on the Troubles as well as society and politics in Northern Ireland.

Belfast Metropolitan College is a large further education college with three main campuses around the city, including several smaller buildings. Formerly known as Belfast Institute of Further and Higher Education, it specialises in vocational education. The college has over 53,000 students enrolled on full-time and part-time courses, making it one of the largest further education colleges in the UK and the largest in the island of Ireland.

The Belfast Education and Library Board was established in 1973 as the local council responsible for education, youth and library services within the city. In 2006, this board became part of the Education Authority for Northern Ireland. There are 184 primary, secondary and grammar schools in the city.

Tourism

Belfast is one of the most visited cities in the UK, and the second most visited on the island of Ireland. In 2008, 7.1 million tourists visited the city. Numerous tour bus companies and boat tours run there throughout the year, including tours based on the series Game of Thrones, which has had various filming locations around Northern Ireland.

Twin towns – sister cities
Belfast City Council takes part in the twinning scheme, and is twinned with the following sister cities:
 Nashville, Tennessee, United States (since 1994)
 Hefei, Anhui Province, China (since 2005)
 Boston, Massachusetts, United States (since 2014)
 Shenyang, Liaoning Province, China (since 2016)
 Melbourne, Victoria, Australia