[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Universities and antisemitism

Antisemitism in universities has taken place in many countries at various times. Antisemitism has been manifested in various policies and practices, such as restricting the admission of Jewish students by a Jewish quota, or ostracism, intimidation or violence against Jewish students, as well as in the hiring, retention and treatment of Jewish staff. In some instances, universities have supported antisemitic government or social policies and condoned the development of antisemitic cultures on campus. In many jurisdictions, especially since World War II, discriminatory practices, including within the context of a university, are in breach of anti-discrimination laws, though antisemitic cultural values still persists on many campuses.

In recent years, accusations of antisemitism have sometimes been made in relation to the activities of cultural leftist or pro-Palestinian organizations on university campuses. These accusations are controversial and have almost always been rejected by the organizations in question.

Middle Ages to Early Modern Period 
In the early Middle Ages, higher education in Europe largely centered around the monastery, and was therefore dominated by Catholic Christian men. Jews were rarely admitted to these universities, and faced a hostile environment when they were, as much of the writings authored by university faculty were against Judaism and Jews.

In 1264, a man named "Jacob the Jew" sold land for the purpose of establishing Merton College, one of the first colleges to be incorporated in Oxford. Although a Jewish man facilitated the founding of the College, Jews were strictly prohibited from studying at Oxford, a prohibition that would remain in effect for more than 500 years. One exception was later given to Jacob Wolfgang who matriculated in 1608 after formally professing that he embraced Christianity. Wolfgang endured years of antisemitic bullying and violence at the college. One witness described students and tutors making fun of Wolfgang’s Greek pronunciation and throwing rotten eggs at him during class.

On September 7, 1434, the Roman Catholic church placed a ban on conferring any university degree upon Jews, according to the 24th canon of the Council of Basel. However, some ignored this decree, with the Senate of Venice in Italy bypassing the papal ban by empowering an official to confer degrees in higher education without regard to religion. As a result, some Jews in the 16th century managed to obtain doctoral degrees from Italian universities, including Bologna, Ferrara, Pavia, Perugia, Pisa, Rome, and Siena. Notably, between 1517 and 1721, the University of Padua conferred 228 doctorates upon Jews.

However, even when admitted to a university, Jews faced challenges, stemming from both their religious principles and discriminatory treatment. An example of the former was Jewish students having to resort to various devices to avoid desecration of the Sabbath and holidays in connection with examinations. An example of the discrimination included Jews having to pay higher graduation fees than did the Christian students. In the 15th century, Jews were required to invite all the students to dinner. Additionally, Jewish physicians in the 16th century had few, if any, opportunities for medical research, teaching, or for admission to the leading hospitals.

18th and 19th century 
Moving into the 18th and 19th centuries, Johann Jakob Schudt, an author from Frankfurt, expressed concern over the Italian universities' disregard for the canon law of the Council of Basel. He criticized institutions such as the University of Padua for allowing "ignoramuses and even the despised Jews" to obtain degrees. Johann Heinrich Schuette later asserted in 1745 that awarding a medical doctorate to a Jew was inconsistent with Christian beliefs. As a result, Jews were largely excluded from the majority of European universities during this period.

The 19th century saw the tide of liberalism sweeping across England and academia, leading to the partial dismantling of old barriers. Beginning in 1856, openly Jewish students were permitted to study at Oxford University. However, pervasive snobbery and prejudice persisted, resulting in a notably low number of openly Jewish students.

20th century

Canada
Historian Gerald Tulchinsky has written that Canadian universities were "rife with antisemitism" in the early 20th century. Some universities restricted Jewish admission, Jews were banned from many fraternities and sororities, and many Jewish medical students were unable to find placements in Canada after graduation. (Despite this, Tulchinsky has also written that Canadian universities were "not hotbeds of antisemitism" in general and, indeed, that they played a significant role in the development of a Canadian Jewish culture.)