[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alexander Long

diately and roundly denounced by several congressmen including Speaker of the House Schuyler Colfax who wanted to expel Long from the House. Speaker Colfax could not muster the votes to expel Long, so on April 9, 1864, Long was censured by Congress for "treasonable utterances" by a vote of 80 to 69.

The pro-peace Democrats sought to nominate Long as a candidate for president in 1864, but he declined the candidacy. Long refused to back either President Abraham Lincoln or the Democratic candidate for president, General George B. McClellan, in the 1864 election; so, Long refused to vote for a presidential candidate in 1864 just as he had refused to vote for a presidential candidate in 1860. In fact, Long refused to vote for any presidential candidate until 1876 because the candidates had all supported the war. Regarding his own political career, Long did make an unsuccessful bid for reelection to the 39th Congress in 1864.

Postbellum years 

After his failed run for the House in 1864, Long was nominated by the "states' rights" faction of the Ohio Democratic Party to make a run for governor of Ohio. Long ran against fellow Democratic candidate General George W. Morgan and "Unionist" (Republican) Jacob D. Cox. Long, with only 360 votes, was soundly defeated by Cox. Without political office, Long resumed his successful  law practice in Cincinnati. Nevertheless, Long did remain active in politics and served as a delegate, or in other capacities, to the Democratic National Conventions in 1864, 1868, 1872, and 1876.

In 1868, Long worked diligently to reorganize the Democratic Party, and he sought out Salmon P. Chase to be the Democratic nominee for president. Chase accepted. One issue that helped Long settle on Chase as a candidate was that both men were "hard money" men; hence, both men opposed further reliance on the "Greenback" policy that had funded the Union's war effort.  Further, both men were against continuing the military governance—deemed "military despotism" by Long—of the South, and both men regarded suffrage as a "states' rights" issue.  Both men could champion the principle of universal suffrage sought by Northerners while acquiescing to the very real possibility that the South would continue to disenfranchise blacks with state laws. Long was one of Chase's men working behind the scenes at the 1868 Democratic National Convention. Political maneuvering during the convention left Chase and his men out in the cold, and the Democratic nomination went to the chairman of the convention, who was also the governor of New York: Horatio Seymour.

Long died on November 28, 1886, and he is interred in Spring Grove Cemetery in Cincinnati.

See also
List of United States representatives expelled, censured, or reprimanded

Notes

References 

1816 births
1886 deaths
19th-century American politicians
19th-century American lawyers
Activists from Ohio
American anti-war activists
Burials at Spring Grove Cemetery
Censured or reprimanded members of the United States House of Representatives
Copperheads (politics)
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Ohio
Democratic Party members of the Ohio House of Representatives
Ohio lawyers
People from Greenville, Pennsylvania
Politicians from Cincinnati