[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Government of South Korea

of the Republic of Korea specifies in details 17 categories including budgetary and military matters, which necessitates the resolution of the Cabinet in addition to the President's approval, and in this regard the Korean Cabinet is similar to those cabinets in strict parliamentary cabinet systems.

The official residence and office of the President of the Republic of Korea is Cheongwadae, located in Jongno-gu, Seoul. The name "Cheongwadae" literally means "the house with blue-tiled roof" and is named as such due to its appearance. In addition to the Office of the President, Cheongwadae also houses the Office of National Security and the Presidential Security Service to assist the President.

Ministries

Currently, 18 ministries exist in the South Korean government. The 18 ministers are appointed by the President and report to the Prime Minister. Also, some ministries have affiliated agencies (listed below), which report both to the Prime Minister and to the minister of the affiliated ministry. Each affiliated agency is headed by a vice-minister-level commissioner except Prosecution Service which is led by a minister-level Prosecutor General.

The Minister of Strategy and Finance and the Minister of Education, by law, automatically assume the positions of Deputy Prime Ministers of the Republic of Korea.

The respective ministers of the below ministries assume the President's position in the below order, if the President cannot perform his/her duty and the Prime Minister cannot assume the President's position. Also note that the Constitution and the affiliated laws of the Republic of Korea stipulates only so far as the Prime Minister and the 17 ministers as those who can assume the President's position. Moreover, if the Prime Minister cannot perform his/her duty the Vice Prime Minister will assume the Prime Minister's position, and if both the Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister cannot perform the Prime Minister's role the President can either pick one of the 17 ministers to assume the Prime Minister's position or let the 17 ministers assume the position according to the below order.

The commissioner of National Tax Service, a vice-minister-level official by law, is customarily considered to be a minister-level official due to the importance of National Tax Service. For example, the vice-commissioner of the agency will attend meetings where other agencies would send their commissioners, and the commissioner of the agency will attend meetings where minister-level officials convene.

 Ministry of Economy and Finance ()
 National Tax Service ()
 Korea Customs Service ()
 Public Procurement Service ()
 Statistics Korea ()
 Ministry of Education ()
 Ministry of Science and ICT ()
 Ministry of Foreign Affairs ()
 Overseas Koreans Agency ()
 Ministry of Unification ()
 Ministry of Justice ()
 Supreme Prosecutors' Office ()
 Ministry of National Defense ()
 Military Manpower Administration ()
 Defense Acquisition Program Administration ()
 Ministry of the Interior and Safety ()
 National Police Agency ()
 National Fire Agency ()
 Ministry of Patriots and Veterans Affairs ()
 Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism ()
 Cultural Heritage Administration ()
 Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs ()
 Rural Development Administration ()
 Korea Forest Service ()
 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy ()
 Korean Intellectual Property Office ()
 Ministry of Health and Welfare ()
 Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency ()
 Ministry of Environment ()
 Korea Meteorological Administration ()
 Ministry of Employment and Labor ()
 Ministry of Gender Equality and Family ()
 Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport ()
 National Agency for Administrative City Construction ()
 Saemangeum Development and Investment Agency ()
 Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries ()
 Korea Coast Guard ()
 Ministry of SMEs and Startups ()