[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# India–Iran relations

in India. India provides 67 scholarships every year to Iranian students under ITEC, ICCR, Colombo Plan and IOR-ARC schemes. Every year around 40,000 Iranians visit India for various purposes.

Kendriya Vidyalaya Tehran, the Embassy of India School, serves Indian citizens living in Tehran.

Religion

The world's largest population of Zoroastrians are the Parsi community in India. During the Arab conquest of Persia, many Zoroastrians moved to the western coast of India and as a result the country has the largest population of Zoroastrians in the world. In the modern era, the Parsi community have contributed significantly to India in the areas of politics, industry, science and culture. Prominent Indian Parsis include Dadabhai Naoroji (three times president of Indian National Congress), Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw, nuclear energy scientist Homi Bhabha, industrialist JRD Tata and the Tata family. The rock star Freddie Mercury (lead singer of the band Queen) was an Indian Parsi born in Zanzibar. Zubin Mehta, a conductor of Western classical music orchestras, is also a Parsi originally from Mumbai.

See also

 Foreign Relations of Iran
 Foreign relations of India
 Iran-Pakistan-India gas pipeline
 Ibn Sina Academy of Medieval Medicine and Sciences
 Indo-Persian culture
 Buddhism in Iran
 Hinduism in Iran
 Zoroastrianism in India
 Irani

References

Further reading
Chopra, R.M. Indo-Iranian Cultural Relations through the Ages. published by Iran Society, Kolkata.
Chopra, R.M. Indo-Iranian Cultural Relations in the 20th century. Indo-Iranica Vol.57 (1–4)
Clawson, Patrick. (2005). Eternal Iran: Continuity and Chaos. . 2005. MacMillan.
  (series of entries that cover Indian history and its relations with Iran)
Keddie, Nikki; Matthee, Rudolph P. (ed.). (2002). Iran and the Surrounding World: Interactions in Culture and Cultural Politics. University of Washington Press. .
Tikku, G.L. (1971). Persian poetry in Kashmir 1339–1846. 
Section on Persian literature in India: Jan Rypka, January (1968). History of Iranian Literature. Reidel Publishing Company. . 
Chopra, R.M., "The Rise Growth And Decline of Indo-Persian Literature", 2012, published by Iran Culture House, New Delhi and Iran Society, Kolkata. 2nd Edition published in 2013.
Maini,T.S., Sachdeva, S. What Does Iran’s Changing Foreign Policy Mean for India?, IndraStra Global Vol. 003, Issue No: 09 (2017), Article No: 0024, ISSN 2381-3652

External links
Official Embassy of India, Tehran
US concerns not to sway India-Iran relations
India-Iran Relations Cannot Be Hostage To US 
India-Iran Relations: Key Security Implications

 
Iran
Bilateral relations of Iran