[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Immigration to Turkey

ey have been detained and deported. As of December 31, 1994, an estimated 20,000 Bosniaks were living in Turkey, mostly in the Istanbul area. About 2,600 were living in camps, the rest were dispersed in private residences. More recent estimates put the number of Bosniaks in Turkey at 3 to 5 million.

Turkey's Migration Crisis 
Turkey's migrant crisis or Turkey's refugee crisis is a period during the 2010s characterized by high numbers of people arriving in Turkey. As reported by UNHCR in 2018, Turkey is hosting 63.4% of all the refugees (from Syria, Africa, and Afghanistan) in the world. As of 2019, Refugees of the Syrian Civil War in Turkey (3.6 million) are the highest "registered" refugees. Turkey has traditionally been a major transit port for illegal immigrants to enter the European Union, but as Turkey has grown in wealth, it now finds itself a major focal point in illegal immigration.

As of August 2023, the number of refugees of the Syrian civil war in Turkey was estimated to be 3,307,882 people. The number of Syrians had decreased by 205,894 people since the beginning of the year.

As of May 2023, approximately 96,000 Ukrainian refugees of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine have sought refuge in Turkey.  In 2022, nearly 100 000 Russian citizens migrated to Turkey, becoming the first in the list of foreigners who moved to Turkey, meaning an increase of more than 218% from 2021.

Citizenship 
Turkish nationality law is based primarily on the principle of jus sanguinis. Children who are born to a Turkish mother or a Turkish father (in or out of marriage) are Turkish citizens from birth. The intention to renounce Turkish citizenship (or acquire citizenship from another state) is submitted in Turkey by a petition to the highest administrative official in the concerned person's place of residence, and when overseas to the Turkish consulate. Documents processed by these authorities are forwarded to the Ministry of Interior (Turkey) for appropriate action.

Turkey Citizenship by Investment Program 
In 2016, Turkey implemented a Golden Visa program that allows foreign investors to obtain a Turkish passport typically within six months. Citizenship can be acquired after a formal citizenship application along with an investment requirement, such as purchasing real estate worth at least $250,000, purchasing $500,000 worth of government bonds and holding them for at least three years or making a capital investment of at least $500,000, among other options. The relevant law governing the program was amended on 13 May 2022 to raise the capital requirements for real estate investment to $400,000 USD from the previous $250,000. In July 2022, the Directorate General of Migration Management announced that foreigners are prohibited to obtain residency in a total of 1169 neighbourhoods. This brings a further restriction to citizenship by real estate investment program.

Protections 
Turkey is part of the executive committee of UNHCR and a member state of the IOM.

Conventions that are applicable in Turkey:
United Nations Convention relating to the Status of Refugees,
Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons,
United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child 
International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families
Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children
Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings
Conventions that are not applicable in Turkey:
International Labour Organization (ILO) Migration for Employment Convention
United Nations Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness, 
Migrant Workers (Supplementary Provisions) Convention, 1975

Regulations 
see: Law on Foreigners and International Protection and the Temporary Protection

Regulations on refugees, asylum seekers, transit migrants available from the website:

Bi-and multi-lateral dialog 

Turkey was chair of the Global Forum on Migration and Development. Turkey hosted the World Humanitarian Summit in 2016. Turkey participates in bilateral migration negotiations, discussions and consultations, in particular with EU member states. Examples are:
Budapest Process
Prague Process
Almaty Process
Bali Process.