[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 17th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

d 11 wounded here.  After several days of stalemate, in which they suffered an additional 1 killed and 3 wounded, on July 2, the 17th Wisconsin, with its corps, was assigned to the flanking maneuver which went around the south end of the Confederate line and forced Johnston to evacuate his position.

They crossed the Chattahoochee River with their division on July 17, and marched around the north of Atlanta, arriving at Decatur, Georgia, on July 20.  The division then marched west toward Atlanta, and seized a Confederate position on Bald Hill on July 21, while the 17th Wisconsin was in reserve.  The 17th Wisconsin and its brigade then joined their division and fortified the hill, which was near the center of the Union line.  As the Union left fell back after skirmishes that day, Bald Hill was near the pivot of the L-shaped Union line in the Battle of Atlanta, July 22.  During the battle, the hill came under assault from Carter L. Stevenson's division, but the division held their ground.  The 17th Wisconsin suffered 4 killed and 11 wounded.

On August 24, Lieutenant Colonel McMahan was discharged, and Major Donald D. Scott was promoted to lieutenant colonel, taking over as the acting commander of the 17th Wisconsin Infantry.

The 17th Wisconsin, with XVII Corps, maintained the siege of Atlanta until August 26, when they moved to the south of the city to cut the last remaining supply lines for the Confederate defenders.  XVII Corps was in reserve during the Battle of Jonesboro, but after the Confederate evacuation of Atlanta, the 17th Wisconsin engaged in skirmishing around Lovejoy Station, suffering 11 killed.

Savannah and the Carolinas (Fall 1864Spring 1865)

The 17th Wisconsin briefly participated in pursuit of the Confederate army after they abandoned Atlanta, but returned to Marietta, then camped in that area with XVII Corps until November 16, when General Sherman began his famous march to the sea (Savannah campaign).  The 17th Wisconsin went with the column along the southern route to Savannah, Georgia, and did not engage in fighting during the march.  Their commanders, Colonel Malloy and Lt. Colonel Scott, were on furlough when the march began and while on their way back, they were diverted to command a provisional brigade through other operations in Tennessee and Alabama.  They did not rejoin the army until their provisional division merged back with Sherman's army at Goldsboro, North Carolina, on March 23, 1865.

The 17th Wisconsin, meanwhile, was under the command of Major Patrick H. McCauley, and continued with Sherman in his Campaign of the Carolinas, leaving Savannah in January 1865.  They camped near Beaufort, South Carolina, then marched with their Corps to the vicinity of Columbia, South Carolina.  At the Battle of Rivers' Bridge, their brigade was part of the rapid crossing which forced the enemy to evacuate their defensive position.  They then held the bridge until the remainder of their force could arrive and cross.

They proceeded to North Carolina, arriving at Goldsboro on March 23.  There, Colonel Malloy resumed command of the 17th Wisconsin Infantry.  They joined the march to Raleigh, North Carolina.  While there, they received word of the surrender of Confederate general Joseph E. Johnston's army and Robert E. Lee's surrender to Grant in Virginia around the same time; the war was effectively over.  They marched to the Confederate capitol, Richmond, Virginia, then proceeded to Washington, D.C., where they participated in the Grand Review of the Armies.

The regiment was sent to Louisville, Kentucky, and mustered out.  Then returned to Madison, Wisconsin, on July 17, where the regiment was paid and disbanded.

For meritorious services during the war, Col. Malloy was brevetted Brigadier General.

Casualties 
The 17th Wisconsin Infantry suffered 41 men killed in action or died of wounds, plus another 220 who died of disease, and 14 who died in accidents, for a total of 275 fatalities.