[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cypress Bay High School

chool.

In 2015, rapper Flo Rida collaborated with then-school principal Charles Neely to create a spin-off rap video based upon his song G.D.F.R (Goin' Down for Real). The video features the principal rapping with several students and staff, and was a congratulatory message to the graduating class.

In early 2019, construction began on a new building at Cypress Bay High School to alleviate the overcrowding issue. Construction continued throughout the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, and is estimated to be completed no later than 2022. This building was intended to be three stories, and in the shape of a lightning bolt ("Lightning" is the school's mascot); however, unforeseen issues including a lack of stairwells, hallways, elevators, and bathrooms in the initial construction plan and pricing underestimates may have required that these ideas be altered. The new building was also the source of criticism  by school board members for going over budget $10 million, while other schools received "renovations, repairs and retrofits," despite apparently needing those upgrades more.

Demographics
As of the 2021–22 school year, the total student enrollment was 4,852. The ethnic makeup of the school was 85.8% White, 4.4% Black, 64.2% Hispanic, 6.8% Asian, 2.6% Multiracial, 0.3% Native American or Native Alaskan, and 0.1% Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander.

Notable alumni

 Daniel Bluman (born 1990), Colombian-born Israeli Olympic show jumping rider
 Steven Bohlemann,  Paralympic soccer player
 Matthew Dayes, American football player
 Danny Isidora, American football player
 Buddy Jackson, Canadian football player
 Nico Marley, American football player and grandson of reggae musician Bob Marley
 Andrew Meyer, University of Florida student involved in a police incident in 2007 which earned him the trademark for the phrase, "Don't tase me, bro!"
 Jake Miller, Rapper, singer, and songwriter

See also
 The Paper

References

External links
 Cypress Bay High School website
 The Circuit newspaper website
 Cypress Bay TV website

Broward County Public Schools
Educational institutions established in 2002
High schools in Broward County, Florida
Public high schools in Florida
Weston, Florida
2002 establishments in Florida