[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abduction and killing of Nachshon Wachsman

ftermath
In a news conference a few hours after the failed rescue attempt, Rabin, who had authorized it, took full responsibility for it and sent his condolences to the Wachsman and Poraz families. He justified his decision by stating that Israel should do no less than what it expected the PA to do:

"I could not conceive that we would not do what I believe the State of Israel in its war against terror must do; what we actually demanded of the PA and of Arafat, in his capacity as its chairman, during the last week, when the reports were that Wachsman was in the Gaza Strip. Therefore, this is a policy of fighting terror to the bitter end."

Israeli leaders commended Arafat and the PA for their cooperation in trying to locate Wachsman and praised its work. Peres stated in a televised speech on the night of Wachsman's funeral that

"it's clear Hamas is against the two of us [Israel and the PA] because the two of us are for peace... Over the last two or three days I believe that Mr. Arafat and the Palestinian Authority did show a readiness to counteract the danger of Hamas."

Environment Minister Yossi Sarid, referring to the PAs crackdown on Hamas, commented that "in the last few days the Palestinian Authority in Gaza has made considerable efforts." Even Israeli hawks such as Gideon Ezra admitted to being impressed by Palestinian Security Chief Jibril Rajoub even as he remained wary of him.

On October 20, senior Hamas leader Imad Falouji declared that Hamas would continue fighting until Israel withdrew from the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Days later, however, Hamas offered Israel a ceasefire.

The abduction caused the PA to clamp down on Hamas military activity with Israeli cooperation. In early 1995, more than a hundred Islamic militants were arrested.

Nachson Wachsman

Sergeant Nachshon Mordechai Wachsman (, born April 3, 1975, died October 14, 1994) was an IDF soldier who was abducted and held hostage by Hamas for a period of 6 days.

A dual citizen of Israel and the United States, Wachsman was raised in Jerusalem. He was the third of seven sons born to Yehuda and Esther Wachsman. His father was Israeli-born, while his mother was born in a German displaced persons camp and immigrated to Israel from Brooklyn. Wachsman volunteered for an elite commando unit of the Golani Brigade, serving in the Orev Golani.

Funeral
Wachsman was buried on Saturday night October 15, 1994 in the Mount Herzl military cemetery.

Wachsman's Rosh Yeshiva, Rabbi Mordechai Elon, gave his eulogy. At the request of Wachsman's bereaved father, the rabbi told the crowd of mourners that God did listen to their prayers, and that just as a father would always like to say "yes" to all of his children's requests, sometimes he must say "no" though the child might not understand why. "So too our Father in Heaven heard our prayers, and though we don't understand why, His answer was 'no.'"

Beit Nachshon
Today "Beit Nachshon" at the SHALVA Center in Jerusalem, an association for mentally and physically challenged children, is dedicated to Wachsman's memory.

Jihad Yarmur 
Jihad Yarmur was convicted of the killing of Nachshon Wachsman. He was released in October 2011 as one of 1,027 prisoners exchanged for captive Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit.

See also
 2006 Gaza cross-border raid
 2014 kidnapping and murder of Israeli teenagers
 Abduction and killing of Yaron Chen
 Abduction and killing of Nissim Toledano
 Killing of Avi Sasportas and Ilan Saadon

References

External links
 Kidnapping of Soldier Leads Israel to Halt P.L.O. Talks – published on The New York Times on October 12, 1994
 Mrs. Esther Wachhsman, mother of kidnapped soldier, recalls events of her son's kidnapping – published on ShalomTV
 Israel Holding Arafat Accountable For The Fate Of Kidnapped Soldier – published on the Milwaukee Journal on October 11, 1994
 US Is Pressing Arafat Over Kidnapped Israeli Soldier – published on The New York Times on October 14, 1994
 Israeli hostage slain during rescue attempt 3 Hamas captors, 1 soldier killed in firefight  – published on the Boston Herald on October 15, 1994

1994 crimes in Israel
October 1994 events in Asia
October 1994 crimes
Kidnappings in Israel
Central District (Israel)
Hamas attacks
American Jews
Israeli military casualties
Israeli soldiers
Israeli terrorism victims
Murders of IDF soldiers
Israeli people taken hostage
Israeli prisoners of war
Israeli torture victims
People from Jerusalem
Operations involving Israeli special forces
People of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict
Kidnapped Israeli people