[Source: PubMed]

1. Brain Behav. 2024 Sep;14(9):e70029. doi: 10.1002/brb3.70029.

An epigenome-wide study of a needs-based family intervention for offspring of 
trauma-exposed mothers in Kosovo.

Ryan J(1), Phyo AZZ(1), Krasniqi SP(2), Carkaxhiu SI(2), Fransquet P(3), 
Kaas-Petersen SH(4), Limani DA(2), Xhemaili VD(2), Salihu M(2), Prapashtica 
Q(2), Zekaj N(2), Turjaka V(2), Wang SJ(#)(4), Rushiti F(#)(2), Hjort 
L(#)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Biological Neuropsychiatry and Dementia Unit, School of Public Health and 
Preventative Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
(2)Kosovo Rehabilitation Center for Torture Victims (KRCT), Pristina Kosovo, 
Australia.
(3)Faculty of Health, School of Psychology, Centre for Social & Early Emotional 
Development, Deakin University, Geelong, Victoria, Australia.
(4)The Danish Institute Against Torture (DIGNITY), Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Metabolic 
Epigenetics Group, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)Department of Obstetrics, Center for Pregnant Women with Diabetes, Copenhagen 
University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Maternal stress and trauma during pregnancy have been shown to 
influence cortisol levels and epigenetic patterns, including DNA methylation, in 
the offspring. This study aimed to determine whether a tailor-made family 
intervention could help reduce cortisol levels in children born to traumatized 
mothers, and to determine whether it effected offspring DNA methylation. The 
secondary aim was to determine whether the family intervention influenced DNA 
methylation aging, a marker of biological aging.
METHODS: A needs-based family intervention was designed to help address 
relational difficulties and family functioning, and included a focus on family 
strengths and problem-solving patterns. Women survivors of sexual violence 
during the Kosovar war in 1998-1999, and their families (children with or 
without partners) were randomly assigned to 10 sessions of a family therapy over 
a 3-5-month period, or to a waitlist control group. Both mothers and children 
completed assessments prior to and after the intervention phase. Children's 
blood samples collected at these two time points were used to measure cortisol 
and epigenome-wide DNA methylation patterns (Illumina EPIC array). Cortisol 
levels, and genome-wide DNA methylation changes pre-/postintervention were 
compared between children in the intervention and the waitlist groups. DNA 
methylation age and accelerated biological aging were calculated.
RESULTS: Sixty-two women-child dyads completed the study, 30 were assigned first 
to the intervention group, and 32 to the waitlist control group. In adjusted 
linear regression, the family intervention was associated with a significant 
decline in cortisol levels compared to the waitlist control (β = -124.72, 95% 
confidence interval [CI]: -197.4 to -52.1, p = .001). Children in the 
intervention group, compared to the waitlist control group, showed >1% 
differential methylation degree at 5819 CpG (5'-C-phosphate-G-3') sites across 
the genome (p < .01), with the largest methylation difference being 21%. 
However, none of these differences reached genome-wide significant levels. There 
was no significant difference in DNA methylation aging between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: We find evidence that a tailored family-based intervention reduced 
stress levels in the children (based on cortisol levels), and modified DNA 
methylation levels at a number of sites across the genome. This study provides 
some preliminary evidence to suggest the potential for tailored interventions to 
help break the intergenerational transmission of trauma, however, large studies 
powered to detect associations at genome-wide significant levels are needed.

© 2024 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/brb3.70029
PMCID: PMC11391026
PMID: 39262181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.