[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Return of the Living Dead: Necropolis

Return of the Living Dead: Necropolis is a 2005 made-for-television action horror film directed by Ellory Elkayem, starring Aimee Lynn Chadwick, Cory Hardrict, John Keefe, Jana Kramer, and Peter Coyote. It is the fourth film in the Return of the Living Dead film series.

An edited version of the film aired on the Sci-Fi Channel on . The R-rated version of the film was released on DVD on .

Plot

Set 10 years after the events of Return of the Living Dead 3, the film starts with Charles Garrison traveling to Chernobyl, Ukraine (site of the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster) to collect the last six canisters of Trioxin 5. Two Russian sellers take him to an empty power station which contains the Trioxin. One of the Russians gets Trioxin on his hands, turning him into a zombie. Upon hearing screams, Garrison runs to see the zombie eating the other Russian partner. Garrison promptly shoots the zombie in the head.

It is then revealed Julian and Jake "Pyro" Garrison, Charles's nephews, were living with him since their parents were volunteers who died a year earlier at Hybra Tech. Julian spends a day at school while Charles experiments with the Trioxin, reanimating an arm. The next day, Julian leaves the house to go motorbiking with his friends, Cody, Becky, Carlos, Zeke, and Darren. During a stunt, Zeke falls and gets knocked unconscious.

Meanwhile, Charles is experimenting with the Trioxin. He manages to reanimate a corpse, and feeds it brains to keep it docile. However, some of the gas manages to escape through the pipes into one of the lower levels of the building and reanimates a dead rat that two homeless men, Crusty and Joey, were eating and it proceeds to attack them. During this, Julian travels to the hospital he was told Zeke would be taken to, and was told by a doctor that Zeke had an unexplained reaction to the painkillers and was pronounced dead on arrival.

Meanwhile, one of Julian’s other friends, Katie, Zeke's ex-girlfriend, was working security at Hybra Tech and noticed Zeke being brought in. She informed the others, and Cody hacked into the Hybra Tech website, where they discovered that Zeke was going to be used as a test subject, so they decided to break in and rescue him.

They manage to get into Hybra Tech using fake IDs, with Katie at the security center giving them advice over walkie-talkies. At the same time, their promiscuous friend, Mimi, distracts her partner, Hector. Along the way, Carlos dispatches the zombified Crusty and Joey with a gun he had brought.

They sneak through the ventilation shaft and find out that Jake has followed them inside. They get out of the vent and find themselves in an armory. After some searching they are found pretty quickly by Charles, who reluctantly agrees to show them where Zeke is.

Charles, at gunpoint, leads them through the facility hallways, where they discover holding cells full of zombies. They manage to find Zeke in a holding cell. Carlos shoots the lock, allowing them to free Zeke, but also setting off an alarm that Katie tries to deactivate.

Cody then leads them into a room of zombie clones in test tubes, and Charles explains that they are to be the new test subjects. At Cody and Carlos' insistence, Charles also reveals that Julian’s parents are alive and being tested on there, before they get distracted by a live test tube zombie. He uses the distraction to escape and lock them in the room.

Katie manages to deactivate the alarm, but Carlos shoots the panel to escape the room, causing it to turn on again. This time, when Katie tries to turn off the alarm, it causes a security failure that releases all the zombies in the complex. Darren gets the back of his head eaten during the chaos, and Zeke is bitten on the neck by a zombie before they reach the armory. They grab some guns for defense and climb back into the vents to escape.

Katie learns of the outbreak through the monitors she is watching, and goes off to find Mimi and Hector so they can escape. While going through the vents, a zombie breaks the floor out, separating Julian, Carlos, and Cody from Zeke, Becky, and Jake. The three of them go off to find a car to escape in while Julian, Carlos, and Cody resolve to try to find Julian’s parents.

Katie finds Mimi and Hector and tries to get them to escape, but the two of them are swarmed by zombies, forcing her to leave them behind. Julian, Cody, and Carlos reach the building where Julian's parents are being held, fighting through the zombies in their way. When they run out of ammo, they are forced to go hand-to-hand with the zombies, and successfully dispatch the remaining zombies in their way. However, when the three are running for the elevator, Carlos takes too long dispatching his zombie. Another one pops out before he can get into the elevator, and Julian and Cody watch in horror as his head is eaten while the elevator doors close.