[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Josh Walker (footballer, born 1989)

Aberdeen, scoring once, before returning to his parent club in May 2008.

On 19 November 2009, Walker joined Northampton Town on loan until January 2010, but this was cut short due to injury. He made just one appearance for the club, playing the whole match in a 2–2 draw at home to Crewe Alexandra.

In February 2010, Walker was loaned to League Two side Rotherham United on an initial month's loan, making his debut in a 1–0 win against Burton Albion at the Pirelli Stadium. He scored his first goal for Rotherham from 25 yards in the club's 2–1 away defeat to Accrington Stanley. Four days later, he was on the scoresheet again, this time scoring the only goal of the game from 25 yards as Rotherham beat Bury 1–0. On 25 March 2010, his loan deal was extended until the end of the 2009–10 season. Walker played 15 times for Rotherham, scoring three goals. He played his last game for the club in a 0–0 draw with Crewe Alexandra, before returning to his parent club in May 2010.

Watford
In August 2010, Walker signed for Watford on a free transfer, signing a two-year contract, with Watford having the option on a third year. He made his Watford debut a day after joining the club, coming on as a 76th-minute substitute in a 0–0 draw away at Hull City. Walker also came on as a late substitute in three more games in September 2010, including in Watford's 3–1 victory against his former employers, Middlesbrough. Having made just four substitute appearances for Watford, Walker said "If I'm being honest, I expected to do more than I have done at Watford, I still believe I should have played a lot more than I have so far".

Walker returned to Watford ahead of the 2011–12 season, under new management in the form of Sean Dyche. He made his first appearance of the season in Watford's 0–0 away draw against Coventry City, coming on as an 89th-minute substitute. Three days later, on 23 August, Walker started in the club's 1–1 League Cup fixture against Bristol Rovers, a game which the club lost on penalties.

Loan moves
In November 2010, Walker joined League Two side Stevenage on loan until January 2011. He made his club debut just a day after signing for the club, starting in Stevenage's televised FA Cup tie away at AFC Wimbledon. It was to be a scoring debut for Walker, scoring a free-kick that went in off the post to give Stevenage the lead in a 2–0 victory. He made his first league appearance for Stevenage in the club's 1–0 home loss to Northampton Town in December 2010, a game in which Walker hit the crossbar from a free-kick. Despite being due to stay at Stevenage until the beginning of January 2011, Walker was recalled by his parent club Watford on 23 December, in order to provide cover for the injured Stephen McGinn. Walker made two appearances for Stevenage, scoring one goal, as his loan spell at the club was disrupted by fixture postponements.

Walker re-joined League Two side Northampton Town on loan until the end of the 2010–11 season in January 2011. He had previously played for Northampton during the 2009–10 campaign. He made his second debut for the club on 1 February, playing the whole game as Northampton beat Crewe Alexandra 6–2 at Sixfields. Walker made 19 appearances for Northampton as the club narrowly avoided relegation, finishing five points above the relegation zone.

A week after Walker's first starting appearance of the 2011–12 season, he signed for Stevenage on loan until January 2012. It was announced that Walker's loan deal was made with a view to a permanent move come the January transfer window. He made his second debut for the club on 3 September, coming on as a substitute in a 4–2 home win against Rochdale. Walker scored his first goal for Stevenage during his second spell at the club on 1 October, coming on as a 90th-minute substitute and scoring two minutes later in a 2–1 defeat to F.C. Notts County. After making just six substitute appearances for Stevenage in all competitions, Walker's loan spell with the club was cut short, with the player returning to Watford on 17 November 2011. After returning to Watford, manager Graham Westley said Walker's loan spell at Stevenage was the best option for both clubs, saying:

"It didn't really work out for Josh as he would have liked, as I would have liked, He has got a lot of talent as a footballer. He came in and I knew he wasn't going to walk straight into the side but I was hoping he was going to develop and evolve and give us another option down the right-hand side.However, it hasn't quite worked out and he has gone back to his parent club which is the best thing for everybody."