[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign

, 2008, the founders and staff of the University of the Poor resigned from the Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign (PPEHRC). The  University of the Poor was reconstituted as an independent organization, one no longer affiliated with the Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign (PPEHRC).

Events
The Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign and its member organizations have held many events to raise awareness of and draw attention to the systematic denial of economic human rights in the United States.  These events also seek to highlight those who benefit from this denial of economic human rights.   Included in these events are:
 1998– New Freedom Bus Tour
 1999– March of the Americas: representatives from Central and South America and Canada joined PPEHRC organizations on a march from Washington, D.C. to the United Nations in New York City; the march started in October, lasted a month, and concluded with a conference focused on education and organization for building the movement.
 2000– March for Economic Human Rights
 2000– March on the opening day of the Republican National Convention in Philadelphia, PA that was attended by thousands of people
 2001– March for Compassion and Spiritual Renewal
 2001– Poor People's Summit to End Poverty
 2002– National Freedom Bus Tour: crossed the country between November 10 and December 10.
 2002– March for Our Lives
 2003– Poor People's March for Economic Human Rights through the South: held in August to commemorate the thirty-fifth anniversary of the 1968 Poor People's March which Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was organizing when he was assassinated.
2004– March on the opening day of the Republican National Convention in New York City
 2005– Week-long University of the Poor Leadership School: classes, workshops, and other activities held at Bryn Mawr College in July, which brought together more than a hundred leaders of PPEHRC member organizations from across the United States.
 2006– National Truth Commission: held in Cleveland, Ohio in July; brought people together from across the United States and around the world to bring attention to the indisputable suffering of people living in extreme poverty; a panel of domestic and international commissioners and social leaders heard and evaluated testimonies of violations on the rights to health, education, housing, water, and other basic needs, as well as on the removal of children from or the failure to return children to their homes as a result of failure by the government to meet the economic human rights of families.

References

External links
Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign Official Site
University of the Poor website

Economic advocacy groups in the United States
Human rights organizations based in the United States