[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Silwad

eir farming lands when under escort from peace activists; these lands cannot be entered directly from the village itself but only via the Israeli settlement of Ofra. The incident occurred after they had obtained permission to enter it, under escort from volunteers of Yesh Din.

3 March 2002 incident

A 22-year-old Silwad bricklayer, Thaer Hamad, according to a local report, used his grandfather's WW2 Jordanian army bolt action Mauser and 30 rounds to fire from a nearby hill, at Wadi Haramiya, on an Israeli checkpoint, near the settlements of Ofra and Shilo,  killing 7 soldiers and three civilian settlers. He let one settler woman and her two children pass unharmed. He told one person of his deed, word leaked out and he was eventually arrested in October 2004, put on trial and sentenced to 11 life sentences. Thaer had seen one of his uncle's (Nabil Hammad) killed when he was a child, during the First Intifada, and another shot dead by Israeli forces during the Al-Aqsa Intifada.  Robi Danelin, the mother of one of the dead soldiers, who said her son had served reluctantly in the West Bank, wrote a letter of reconciliation to Hamad's family. Her letter was rebuffed by Thaer, who brusquely dismissed what he described as an equation between casualties among soldiers in an army of occupation and martyrs killed in the course of their struggle for freedom. The episode formed the basis for the plot of Najwa Najjar's 2014 film, Eyes of a Thief.

24 October 2014 incident
Orwa Abd al-Wahhab Hammad (14/17), a US citizen who came from New Orleans to the West Bank when he was 6, and was a cousin of Thaer Hamad, was shot dead with a bullet to the neck which exited from his head during a demonstration in the village, reportedly by an Israeli sniper. He was the second such teenager killed by IDF live fire in the West Bank in 8 days, the 10th since the beginning of 2014, adding to the total of 34 Palestinian victims of IDF gunfire at civilians in the West Bank since mid-June. In various reports IDF sources state he was shot when he threw a bomb, or that an adult was shot when he lit a molotov cocktail fuse and was readying himself to throw it on Route 60. His cousin said he was among a group of rock-throwing Palestinians.

Demographics

According to the estimates of Silwad Association in Jordan the population of the people of Silwad in Diaspora exceeds 25,000 (1996 estimates). Among these, 8,000 reside in Silwad. There are about 8,000 Palestinians from Silwad in Kuwait, and there are also some in North and South America, especially Brazil.

Notable people from Silwad
Mufid Abdulqader, an activist with the Holy Land Foundation
Qadura Fares, Political leader of Fatah
Khaled Mashal, leader of Hamas

References

Bibliography

External links
Welcome to the City of Silwad
Silwad, Welcome to Palestine
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 14:  IAA, Wikimedia commons 
Silwad town (including Silwad camp) (fact sheet),  Applied Research Institute–Jerusalem (ARIJ)
 Silwad town profile (including Silwad camp), ARIJ
Silwad aerial photo, ARIJ
Silwad camp aerial photo, ARIJ
Silwad.com
 Deir Jarir & Silwad: Two Palestinian villages Hammered by the Israeli Occupation 15, March, 2008, POICA

Towns in the West Bank
Ramallah and al-Bireh Governorate
Municipalities of the State of Palestine