[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Maghen Abraham Synagogue

ship and its restoration is welcome." Also, Hussain Rahal, a spokesman for Hezbollah, said his group also supported the restoration of the synagogue: "We respect the Jewish religion just like we do Christianity. The Jews have always lived among us. We have an issue with Israel's occupation of land."

Fundings had already been received by the 65-year-old leader of the minute Jewish community, Isaac Arazi. Arazi estimated that the synagogue would require up to $1 million for renovation. He managed to raise up to $40,000 for the project, promising more to come. Solidere SAL, civil-engineering company owned by the Hariri family, had also given $150,000 to each of 14 religious organizations that are restoring places of worship in Lebanon, about $2.1 million in all. "We help all the communities," said Solidere chairman Nasser Chammaa. Also, in Switzerland, a couple of banks, whose owners were of Lebanese-Jewish roots, had agreed to provide financing. One offered a sum of $100,000, but Arazi declined to mention its name.

The restoration was due to have started in November 2008, but the global financial crisis delayed those plans. However, renovation has started, as other construction projects around the area are being executed. As of October 2010, the Renovations were nearing completion. Haaretz reported that "synagogue restored to glory" and "has been renovated beautifully". The synagogue reopened, but was slightly damaged in the 2020 Beirut explosions.

See also
Zaki Cohen, Beirut Chief Rabbi
Deir el Qamar Synagogue (Mount Lebanon)
Jewish Cemetery (Beirut)
History of the Jews in Lebanon
Wadi Abu Jamil
Congregation Maghen Abraham (Montreal)

Footnotes

References
 Karam, Dima (October 2003), Beirut Synagogue is a Reminder of a Departed People, Daily Star.
 Hendler, Sefi (August 19, 2006), Beirut’s last Jews, Ynetnews.

External links
Corporation of Lebanese Jews in Canada
Photographs
Beirut Maghen Abraham Synagogue in 360 (before restoration)

Buildings and structures in Beirut
Jewish Lebanese history
Jews and Judaism in Beirut
Orthodox synagogues
Religious buildings and structures in Beirut
Rundbogenstil synagogues
Sephardi Jewish culture in Asia
Sephardi synagogues
Synagogues in Lebanon
Orthodox Judaism in the Arab world
Orthodox Judaism in the Middle East
Jewish organizations established in 1925