[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sylvia Mathews Burwell

ees and the management of several agencies and programs including Medicare and Medicaid, the National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug Administration, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. At the end of her tenure, Burwell received praise from Democratic and Republican senators.

Ebola epidemic response 
With an Ebola epidemic devastating West Africa, Burwell began holding daily meetings on July 28, 2014, as part of the efforts of the United States government, including the Department of HHS, to prevent the further spread of the disease. Starting on September 30, other Obama administration officials began giving daily public briefings while Burwell took less of a public role, although she did take part in a number of public meetings. In the fall of 2014, the first known death from Ebola in the United States occurred. The Obama administration proposed devoting $6billion to fight the spread of Ebola, including $2billion for the State Department and USAID. The plan included provisions to help U.S. hospitals become better prepared and to support global health initiatives aimed at containing the disease in Africa. Congress allocated $5.4billion to fight Ebola in response to the Obama administration request. Burwell and other Obama administration officials sought to assure the public that the American health system was prepared to deal with Ebola cases and that the chances of a full outbreak in the United States were low.

Zika response 
In February 2016, in response to the spread of the Zika virus, the Obama administration requested that Congress appropriate $1.9billion to fight the spread of the disease. Congress did not initially take action, leaving Burwell to direct the Department of Health and Human Services to reprogram $589million in funds previously designated as part of the response to Ebola, to fight the spread of the Zika virus.

Of the initial Zika funding, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) received $222million to lead the domestic fight against the virus with the National Institutes of Health and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority splitting $152million for the domestic effort. In response to Congressional complaints that the money was not being spent fast enough, Burwell informed Congress that without further funding, the CDC would deplete its budget to fight Zika by September 30, 2016. After Burwell moved funding from other HHS programs, Congress finally appropriated $1.1billion to fight the spread of Zika in the United States. By the end of September 2016, the United States reported 23,000 cases in the territory of Puerto Rico, 3,000 cases in the states, and 21babies born in the United States with microcephaly testing positive for Zika.

The Affordable Care Act 

Burwell's tenure as HHS secretary began ahead of the Affordable Care Act's second open-enrollment period for healthcare insurance in November 2014. In preparation for the enrollment period, Burwell hired additional staff to coordinate operations. The first open-enrollment period, which had occurred during Secretary Sebelius' tenure, was marred by technical difficulties with the Healthcare.gov website. In preparation for the second enrollment period, the HealthCare.gov website underwent various testing actions. The Secretary noted the website had been reconfigured, reducing the number of screens from over seventy to just over a dozen website pages to make the application process smoother.

Because of her position as Secretary of HHS, Burwell was the named party in multiple lawsuits related to the Affordable Care Act. One month into her tenure, the Supreme Court decided Burwell vs. Hobby Lobby, where the court struck down the implementation of the Affordable Care Act's contraception mandate as violating Hobby Lobby's religious freedom. The Supreme Court also decided King v. Burwell, a case in which the Court upheld the Affordable Care Act's subsidies for healthcare plans purchased on federal exchanges.

In July 2016, ahead of the 2016 elections, Burwell began touring, giving speeches on the success of the Affordable Care Act and its potential for the future. The election resulted in Republicans winning control of the Presidency and Congress, having campaigned to repeal the law. Burwell continued to advocate for the Affordable Care Act, arguing it was "woven into the fabric of our nation". Since its inception, the law had led to coverage for 20million more people, and Burwell argued the complexity of the law meant that repealing any part would have effects throughout the healthcare system. Burwell and the Department of HHS devised the "Coverage Matters" campaign to increase public support for the law and to boost enrollment.