[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Culture of Assam

or cover the scriptures. An object of reverence is never placed on the bare ground, but always on a gamosa.  One can, therefore, very well say that the gamosa symbolizes the life and culture of Assam.

Significantly the gamosa is used equally by all irrespective of religious and ethnic backgrounds.

At par with Gamosa, there are beautifully woven symbolic clothes with attractive graphic designs being used by different cultural ethno-cultural groups as well.

There were various other traditional symbolic elements and designs in use, which are now found only in literature, art, sculpture, architecture, etc. or used for only religious purposes (in particular occasions). The typical designs of assamese-lion, dragon, flying-lion, etc. were used for symbolising various purposes and occasions.

Festivals 

There are several important indigenous traditional festivals in Assam. Bihu/Bwisagu(for Kacharis) is the most celebrated festival among all. There are various Indigenous traditional festivals as well as belonging to different indigenous communities which are celebrated every year around different corners of Assam.

Bihu 

Bihu is a series of three prominent festivals of Assam. Primarily a festival celebrated to mark the seasons and the significant points of a cultivator's life over a yearly cycle, in recent times the form and nature of celebration have changed with the growth of urban centers. Three Bihus are celebrated: Rongali, celebrated with the coming of spring and the beginning of the sowing season; Kongali, the barren Bihu when the fields are lush but the barns are empty; and the Bhogali, the thanksgiving when the crops have been harvested and the barns are full. Rongali, Kongali & Bhogali Bihu are also known as 'Bohag Bihu', 'Kati Bihu' & 'Magh Bihu' respectively. The day before each Bihu is known as uruka. There are unique features of each Bihu. The first day of 'Rongali Bihu' is called 'Goru Bihu' (the Bihu of the cows). On this day the cows are taken to the nearby rivers or ponds to be bathed with special care. Traditionally, cows are respected as sacred animals by the people of Assam. Bihu songs and Bihu dance are associated with rongali bihu.

Baisagu 

Bwisagu is a very popular seasonal festival of the Bodo of Assam. Bwisagu means the start of the new year. Bwisagu is a Boro word which originated from the word "Bwisa" which means year or age, and "Agu" that means New Year.

Chunbîl Melâ (Jonbeel Mela) 
Jonbeel Mela (pron:ˈʤɒnˌbi:l ˈmeɪlə) (Tiwa: Chunbîl Melâ) is a three-day annual indigenous Tiwa Community fair held the weekend of Magh Bihu at a historic place known as Dayang Belguri at Joonbeel. It is 3 km from Jagiroad in Morigaon district of Assam and 32 km from Guwahati. The National Highway connecting the mela is NH 37. The Joonbeel (Joon and Beel are Assamese terms for the Moon and a wetland respectively) is so-called because a large natural water body is shaped like a crescent moon.

Beshoma 
Beshoma is a festival of Deshi people. It is a celebration of sowing crop. The Beshoma starts on the last day of Chaitra and goes on until the sixth of Baisakh. With varying locations it is also called Bishma or Chait-Boishne.

Ali Ai Ligang 

Ali-Ai-Ligang is the spring festival of the Mising people of Assam, India. The name of the festival is made up of three terms, 'Ali', root and seed, 'Ai', fruit and 'Ligang', to sow.

Bohuwa dance 

Bohuwa dance is festival of Sonowal Kacharis of Assam, India.

Music

Assam, being the home to many ethnic groups and different cultures, is rich in folk music.  The indigenous folk music has in turn influenced the growth of a modern idiom, that finds expression in the music of such artists are Jyoti Prasad Agarwala, Bishnuprasad Rabha, Parvati Prasad Baruva, Bhupen Hazarika, Nirmalendu Choudhury & Utpalendu Choudhury, Pratima Barua Pandey, Luit Konwar Rudra Baruah, Parvati Prasad Baruva, Jayanta Hazarika, Khagen Mahanta, Beauty Sarma Baruah. Among the new generation Zubeen Garg, Angaraag Mahanta, Kalpana Patowary, Joi Barua, Jitul Sonowal and Manoj Borah are well known.

And other than traditional Assamese music Assam's capital city Guwahati has become the country's capital for rock music other than Shillong. A number of talented rock bands have formed showcasing their talents around the world.

Traditional crafts

Assam has maintained a rich tradition of various traditional crafts for more than two thousand years. Presently, Cane and bamboo craft, bell metal and brass craft, silk and cotton weaving, toy and mask making, pottery and terracotta work, wood craft, jewellery making, musical instruments making, etc. are remained as major traditions. Historically, Assam also excelled in making boats, traditional guns and gunpowder, colours and paints, articles of lac, traditional building materials, utilities from iron, etc.