[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mayo A. Shattuck III

f profitability in check. The Maryland General Assembly ultimately put up a temporary measure to limit price increases to 15%.

Other affiliations 

In 1997, Mayo Shattuck was made trustee of the Seagram Company, Ltd. Shattuck also serves as an independent director at several corporations including:

 Capital One
 Gap
 Alarm.com
Previously, he served as co-chairman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Commission on Nuclear Policy in the United States.

Philanthropy
During and after his tenure as the head of Alex. Brown & Sons, Shattuck served as the president of the Alex. Brown & Sons Charitable Foundation. Alongside seven other trustees, Shattuck managed the endowment and gave donations to institutions in the Baltimore area. Notable among these activities were million dollar grants given to the Baltimore Museum of Art, the Baltimore Zoo, and Johns Hopkins Hospital (alongside other similar Baltimore institutions).

Since joining Constellation Energy in 2001, Shattuck focused much of his philanthropy on Johns Hopkins University (JHU). In 2004, he was elected to the board of trustees of Johns Hopkins Medicine. In 2007, he donated $1 million to a new burn unit in the Children's Center at the Johns Hopkins University Hospital. Resulting from this donation, the hospital will construct The Shattuck Family Pediatric Burn Unit, which consists of 205 private treatment rooms. In addition to the rooms for patient care, the burn unit will include facilities used for education of students, fellows, and residents at The Johns Hopkins Hospital. Presently, he serves as co-chair of the JHU Capital Campaign. Shattuck has played a large part in leading this effort to raise funds from donors to support the academic mission of the Johns Hopkins University, especially through the "Rising to the Challenge" campaign.

Outside of Johns Hopkins, Shattuck is also a trustee of First Tee, an organization focused on bringing "affordable junior golf programs to communities that do not have them, especially in economically disadvantaged areas."

He also established the Shattuck family internship at University of Maryland Baltimore County. This internship provides support and education to students interested in entrepreneurship and business leadership.

Personal life
Mayo Shattuck married Jennifer W. Budge in 1976. The couple had two children, Mayo Shattuck IV and Kathleen Shattuck. They divorced in 1995.

In 1997, Shattuck  married Molly Shattuck (née George), They have three children: Spencer, Wyatt and Lillian. In March 2014, Molly Shattuck said she was separated from her husband. On September 29, 2014, Mayo Shattuck filed for divorce. On November 3, 2014, the Shattucks were officially divorced in Baltimore County, Maryland. Prior to the divorce, Molly Shattuck was charged and convicted of having an inappropriate sexual relationship with a 15-year-old boy.

References

External links 
 Exelon Corp bio
 Rosenwald, Michael S. Contrarian Shattuck Took Constellation To the Top, Washington Post, 9 January 2006.
 http://www.topix.net/com/ceg
 http://www.marketwatch.com/quotes/ceg

1954 births
Living people
People from Norfolk County, Massachusetts
European-American culture in Baltimore
Businesspeople from Massachusetts
Businesspeople from Baltimore
American chief executives of energy companies
Williams College alumni
Stanford University alumni
Exelon people
Noble and Greenough School alumni
Gap Inc. people