[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Europatriotism

an integration often appeal to the 'common heritage', notably in discussions on the European Constitution, its exact nature is disputed. It does not create a uniform perspective on politics and current affairs: Europeans continue to disagree with each other, as they have done for thousands of years.

The European heritage and values, in this typical form, is very similar to the supposed common history and heritage of the Western World. Countries with a European-immigrant majority can equally claim it, and secular conservatives in the United States emphasise it strongly. Maurits van der Veen comments:
"Some have argued that there is a shared European history and culture that all European share and whose particular contents and facts – from Charlemagne to Erasmus, from Napoleon to Hitler, from Dante to Shakespeare, etc. – help provide a shared consciousness. Of course, one may question to what degree this culture marks us as European rather than Western: more Australians and Americans probably read Shakespeare than do Germans or Italians, for example."

The 'common heritage' also includes some controversial elements, above all Christianity. The European Convention rejected inclusion of a reference in the proposed European Constitution to Christianity and/or God. The text finally adopted in the Preamble reads:
DRAWING INSPIRATION from the cultural, religious and humanist inheritance of Europe, from which have developed the universal values of the inviolable and inalienable rights of the human person, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law,...

Pan-European identity in popular culture

The common cultural heritage is commonly seen in terms of high culture.  Examples of a contemporary pan-European culture are limited to some forms of popular culture:

Football: as Europe's most popular sport, modern European footballers can be found plying their trade across the continent. Notable examples include France's Thierry Henry (Arsenal) and Patrick Vieira (Internazionale), England's David Beckham (Real Madrid), Germany's Michael Ballack (Chelsea) and Jens Lehmann (Arsenal), Italy's Gianluca Zambrotta (FC Barcelona) and the Netherlands' Arjen Robben (Chelsea)(Bayern Munich), Robin van Persie (Arsenal) and Ruud van Nistelrooy (Real Madrid). Top European clubs also regularly compete against each other in UEFA-run tournaments.
Music: Eurodance and electronic dance music, including elements of house, trance, techno and europop, European themes with uptake amongst mainly younger people. European bands and artists who have enjoyed success across the continent over the last decade include Robbie Williams (British), Air and Daft Punk (French) and Aqua (Scandinavian).
The Eurovision Song Contest is one of the oldest identifiably 'pan-European'  elements in popular culture. The contest is not run by the EU, but by European Broadcasting Union, and in fact it pre-dates the European Economic Community. It is also open to some non-European countries which are members of the EBU. Although it attracts a huge audience (hundreds of millions) and extensive media coverage, it is widely regarded as kitsch, at least in western Europe. In eastern Europe it is taken more seriously, and participation is seen as a sign of 'belonging to Europe', and even as a preliminary step to accession to the EU.
Electronic Arts Battlefield 2 introduced the 'Euro Force' booster pack. A fictive army modelled after a possible future version of Eufor fighting under the European Flag using European build weaponry such as the Eurofighter Typhoon

Deliberate attempts to use popular culture to promote identification with the EU have been controversial. In 1997, the European Commission distributed a comic strip titled The Raspberry Ice Cream War, aimed at children in schools. The EU office in London declined to distribute this in the UK, due to an expected unsympathetic reception for such views. Also see:

European teams in sport

Almost all sport in Europe is organised on either a national or sub-national basis. 'European teams' are rare, one example being the Ryder Cup, a Europe vs. United States golf tournament. There is a proposal to create a European Olympic Team. According to Eurobarometer surveys, only 5% of respondents think this would make them feel more of a 'European citizen'.

European symbols