[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Quintus Labienus

Quintus Labienus Parthicus (died 39 BC) was a Roman general in the Late Republic period. The son of Titus Labienus, he made an alliance with Parthia and invaded the Roman provinces in the eastern Mediterranean which were under the control of Mark Antony. He occupied the Roman province of Syria together with the Parthians in 40 BC. He then pushed into southern Anatolia, still with Parthian support. The main Parthian force took charge of Syria and invaded Judea. Both Labienus and the Parthians were defeated by Publius Ventidius Bassus, who recovered these provinces for Mark Antony.

Liberators' Civil War
After the assassination of Julius Caesar in 44 BC, there was a civil war between the Caesarians, the supporters of Caesar, and the Pompeians, the supporters of Pompey, who had led the forces of the Roman senate against Caesar during Caesar's Civil War (49-45 BC). In this civil war, the Liberators' Civil War (43-42 BC), the Pompeians were led by Gaius Cassius Longinus and Marcus Junius Brutus the Younger, the leaders of the conspiracy to murder Caesar. They fought against Octavian and Mark Antony, two members of the Second Triumvirate, an alliance between the three leaders of the Caesarians. Cassius and Brutus were defeated at the Battle of Phillipi in October 42 BC. Labienus tried to resurrect the Pompeian cause with the help of the Parthians.

Continuing the Pompeian cause
According to Festus, Labienus fled to Persia. However, according to Cassius Dio, he was instead sent by Brutus and Cassius to Orodes II, the king of Parthia, to obtain reinforcements before the Battle of Phillipi. He was kept there for a long time as Orodes was waiting to see how things would turn out. Labienus remained in Parthia when he heard of the defeat at Phillipi for fear of reprisals by the victors. When he saw that Mark Antony misruled his provinces in the east and that he went to Egypt, he persuaded Orodes to attack the Romans. He told him that some of their armies had been destroyed or impaired in the battle and other armies were mutinous. He advised him to invade Syria while Mark Antony was in Egypt and told him that many Roman provinces would welcome him as they had been alienated by Antony's mistreatment. He offered to take the command of his troops. Orodes was persuaded to wage war and entrusted a large force to Labienus and his son Pacorus I. Plutarch, instead, wrote that the Parthian generals appointed Labienus commander-in‑chief of a Parthian army which was hovering in Mesopotamia and was about to invade Syria. According to Justin, it was Pacorus who had the leadership of the invading force.

Justin thought the Parthians took the side of the Pompeians and allied with Labienus because they had formed a friendship with Pompey in the Third Mithridatic war (73-63 BC) and because they had defeated and killed Marcus Licinius Crassus, who was an ally of Caesar, at the Battle of Carrhae (53 BC). The son of Crassus was in the Caesarian party. Thus, they thought that if the Caesarians won, they would want to avenge the death of Crassus. Justin also wrote that they had already sent assistance to Cassius and Brutus, which is in contrast with Cassius Dio's account. Appian thought that it was the actions of Mark Antony which caused this Parthian invasion. When Antony fell in love with Cleopatra, he lost his interest in public affairs and did Cleopatra's bidding. After Caesar's death on 44 BC there was civil strife in Syria and local tyrants took over the Syrian cities with the help of the Parthians. Antony expelled these tyrants, who took refuge in Parthia. He then imposed heavy tributes. He sent a cavalry force to plunder Palmyra, a rich city, but this was foiled by the townsfolk. He garrisoned Syria. This was the mistreatment Cassius Dio referred to. After this Antony went to Egypt to join Cleopatra.

Pompeian-Parthian invasion of 40BC