[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cobra Verde (band)

" and called the album "a stunning display of everything that makes rock music vital."

Nightlife received comparisons to glam-rock, in part because of Rock's artwork, but also because the album cover features model Lisa Ronson, the daughter of glam-rock guitarist and Bowie collaborator Mick Ronson.

A Magnet magazine article, "The Last Rock Star," attributed the band's over-the-top sensibilities to "growing up all wrong," which included Petkovic's parents taking him to nude beaches in Europe when he was a child.

Easy Listening

Recorded by Depew, the album's cover is an homage to the 1974 French softcore pornographic film, Emmanuelle. The album features guitar contributions by J Mascis, who joined Cobra Verde for a United States tour. A video for the opening track, "Riot Industry," starring Mike Watt, George Wendt, and Rudy Ray Moore was acclaimed by Entertainment Weekly, Pitchfork, and Billboard.

Resembling the easy listening genre not at all, Easy Listening is all "powerhouse guitar riffs and wham-bam choruses". The album followed up on the success of Nightlife and became a breakthrough for the group. It was acclaimed in Playboy, the Chicago Tribune, the Boston Globe, FHM, Blender, and the Village Voice. All Music Guide gave it an "A−" and called the album "nothing less than a masterpiece of glammed-up sexual obsession, agit-pop antics and indie rock glitter." The New York Times wrote: "The dangerous, ironic aura of glam-rock fascinates Cobra Verde, a band from Cleveland that folds new paradoxes into the anthems and angles of the 1970's style. Its new album, Easy Listening (MuscleTone), slightly smooths out its music but not its barbed wit."

The song "Modified Frankenstein" appeared in the 2003 film Carolina, starring Julia Stiles. It was released on MC5 guitarist Wayne Kramer's Muscletone Records.

Copycat Killers

Released in 2005, the all-covers disc was originally meant as an experiment in recording techniques—applying ideas to covers that would then be applied to an album of all originals. The album included covers ranging from "I Feel Love" (Donna Summer) to "Urban Guerilla" (Hawkwind). Never intended to be released at first, it yielded a number of songs that were featured on TV shows, including "I Want You," which appeared as the musical backdrop to a clumsy sex scene in the Denis Leary FX Network show, Rescue Me.

In a Rolling Stone review of Copycat Killers, David Fricke wrote: "It helps to know a little about Cobra Verde's roots in Cleveland underground-rock lore to appreciate the breadth of repertoire on this all-covers album. But the fun is obvious, as Cobra Verde remake Pink's "Get the Party Started" and the Fall's "The Dice Man" in their own glam-devil image and play the Troggs, Undertones, and Mott the Hoople songs here like they wish they'd written them."

Haven't Slept All Year

Released in 2008 (after one-year delay while the band was on hiatus), Haven't Slept All Year was recorded by Klein at his Noise Floor Studio, in Bedford, Ohio. Two of the songs on the album were premiered on TV shows before it was officially released. The opening track, "World Can't Have Her," appeared on the HBO series Entourage, while "Riot in the Foodcourt" appeared on the FX Networks drama Sons of Anarchy. Songs on "Haven't Slept All Year" also ended up being featured in shows such as the MTV reality show The City (2010) and the MTV horror comedy Death Valley (2011). "World Can't Have Her" ended up in the Showtime series Shameless (2012).

Alternative Press, in a review of "Haven't Slept All Year," wrote, "Glamorous decay and excessive partying has never sounded sexier, dirtier or more fun." Pitchfork wrote: "Cobra Verde's music has always simmered with nocturnal menace and seedy suggestion, but on Haven't Slept All Year, there's a greater awareness of the price for staying up all night: Having to make amends in the morning."

Dusted Magazine put "Haven't Slept All Year" in context with the band's history and the musical landscape: "The only thing more surprising than Cobra Verde's existence this far into the new millennium is the quality of its recordings. Fifteen years since Viva La Muerte, their debut on Scat Records, Petkovic and Co. continue to rock hard in the face of the impending cultural apocalypse. With that in mind, Haven't Slept All Year is an ideal soundtrack for the current trash heap that is our society. Cobra Verde cast their net wide and work with whatever comes slithering back, compressing it all into a weighty chunk of glittering pop-rock smite to be hurdled at whoever needs a knock on the head.

In September 2014, Cobra Verde announced on cobraverde.com that they would be touring again and returning to the studio to record its next album.

Appearances
The OC