[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rugby union in Romania

yers playing in the domestic Romanian championship. They played in the European Shield in 2004−05, and have played in every single Challenge Cup between 2005 and 2014, when the team was ultimately dissolved in favour for the champions of Romania to represent Romania in European competitions instead.

Popularity
In the 1980s, the country reached its peak in the sport as the national team managed to defeat teams such as Wales, Scotland and France who all played in the Five Nations Championship.

Not only that, the national team would become more and more popular among Romanians and as a result, the country had more than 12,000 players playing rugby and 110 rugby clubs.
 
Yet, after the fall of Communism, Romanian rugby union suffered a drastic financial shortfall. Although its popularity – which has never been comparable with that of football or handball – had not diminished however.

According to World Rugby, Romania has 113 rugby union clubs and approximately 25,000 rugby players, 9,810 of which are registered players (most of these players are male and only a small fraction of these players are female).

See also
 Romania national rugby union team
 List of Romania national rugby union players
 Romania national under-20 rugby union team
 Romania national rugby sevens team
 Romania women's national rugby sevens team
 CEC Bank SuperLiga
 Cupa României
 București Wolves
 Sport in Romania

References

Bibliography
 Bath, Richard (ed.) The Complete Book of Rugby (Seven Oaks Ltd, 1997 )
 Richards, Huw A Game for Hooligans: The History of Rugby Union (Mainstream Publishing, Edinburgh, 2007, )

Further reading
 Barbu, Aurel, Stama, Tiberiu, File din istoria rugbiului românesc, Editura Consiliului Național pentru Educație Fizică și Sport, București, 1969. 
 Manoileanu, Dumitru, Rugby: Mică enciclopedie, Editura Sport-Turism, București, 1982 
 Moldoveanu, Traian Rugby: istorie românească: povestită de un griviţean, Vol. I, Editura Scripta, București, 2016, )

External links
 Romanian Rugby Federation (official website) 
 Asociația Internaționalilor de Rugby din România 
 PlanetaOvala.ro – Romanian Rugby News  
 Planet-Rugby news for Romania
 Weathered Oak: Romanian rugby (from BBC News)
 From riches to rags (from BBC News)
 No Hanging Up the Boots

Rugby union in Romania