[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Navigation Company

had the support of the Standard Oil Company for his new steamship line.  INC ordered its first steamer as a combined passenger ship/tanker, but she probably only carried oil on one voyage after it was realized that the fire hazard with tankers was too great to also carry passengers on the same ship.

In 1872, Griscom and Thompson concluded that International Navigation should seek a terminus on the continent.  According to his son, Griscom marked all of the principle manufacturing towns in England, Belgium, France and Germany and determined that the center was Antwerp Belgium.  Griscom immediately left for Europe and met with Antwerp officials about the necessary improvements to modernize the old port into the terminus for a steamship line.  When he was told that Leopold II must also approve, Griscom left for Brussels where he received the King's strong support including a postal subsidy and port improvements.  On September 27, 1872, the Red Star Line was chartered in Belgium as the “Societe Anonyme de Navigation Belge-Americaine”.  In addition to Griscom, the board included Thomas Scott, who in two years would become President of the Pennsylvania Railroad.

Red Star's Antwerp–Philadelphia Service started in January 1873.  Red Star took delivery of three new steamers built in England and supplemented its fleet with chartered tonnage.   Red Star was in better position to survive the depression of 1873 than the US-flagged American “Keystone” Line because operating as a US carrier resulted in about 30% higher costs.  At the end of 1873, Griscom took over management of the American Keystone Line. In 1874, Red Star also started an Antwerp-New York service under a mail contract from the Belgian Government.

Red Star thrived and by 1881 carried over 40,000 passengers.  At the same time, the American Keystone Line was not profitable because of its higher cost structure.  When the hoped for subsidy never came from Congress, PRR decided to reorganize American Steamship.  In 1884, PRR offered to purchase 14,500 new shares in International Navigation for $725,000 to finance INC's purchase of American Steamship's four vessels as well as its name and good will.  The money never actually left PRR's account because it was used to repay the railroad for the American Steamship bonds it guaranteed.  When the transaction was completed, the American Keystone Line became INC's second operating subsidiary.

1884–93

International Navigation's Liverpool agent was Richardson and Spence, who was also the agent for the Inman Line, one of the big three British flagged companies on the Liverpool–New York route.   INC became a major creditor of Inman when that company suffered financial difficulties in the early 1880s.  In 1886, with the backing of the Pennsylvania Railroad, Griscom offered £205,000 for Inman's five liners and name.  Under the deal, Griscom was able to deduct the debt owed INC from the purchase price.  With no real alternative, Inman's directors accepted the offer.

Griscom realized that the renamed Inman and International Line required a new express steamer to compete against its rivals, the Cunard Line and White Star.  He sailed for Europe with a commitment of $2 million from the Pennsylvania Railroad to finance the new ship. Scottish shipbuilders were suffering a depression at the time and offered to build two liners at the bargain price of $1,850,000 apiece.  The PRR agreed and Griscom ordered what were to become the two largest and fastest ships on the Atlantic, the 20 knot City of New York and City of Paris.  He also ordered a large new liner for Red Star, the Friesland.

The intent was to continue Inman as a British-flagged company.  However, considerable opposition developed over Inman's change in ownership, and the British Government transferred Inman's mail contract to the Guion Line.  Under the Postal Aid Act of 1891, the US Government offered to pay $12,500 per round-trip voyage to any American-flagged carrier offering 20-knot steamship service to the UK.  However, this amount was not sufficient to attract firms to acquire the liners required under the act, and Griscom's two new 20-knot Atlantic speedsters could not qualify, because they were built in the UK.  Therefore, Griscom and the Pennsylvania Railroad lobbied Congress to allow the reflagging of Inman's two record-breakers.  Griscom also offered to build a second pair of 20-knot liners in a US yard so that Inman would have the four ships required for a weekly service.  In May 1892, Congress enacted the necessary legislation.  Five months later, the post office department agreed to contract with INC for a weekly New York–Southampton mail service.  On February 22, 1893, President Benjamin Harrison personally raised the American flag on the newly renamed New York, and the Inman and International Line was officially merged into the American Line.

1893–1902