[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# People's Alliance for Democracy

re than five people.  The Navy was assigned to aid police at Suvarnabhumi, while the Air Force was assigned to aid police at Don Muang.  The Army's spokesman noted, "The army disagrees with using troops to resolve the problem. The army does not want to do that, and it is not appropriate to do that."

The PAD was defiant.  PAD leader Suriyasai Katasila announced that the PAD would fight off police.  "If the government wants to clear the protesters, let it try. The PAD will protect all locations because we are using our rights to demonstrate peacefully without causing damages to state properties or rioting," Suriyasai said.  Suriyasai also threatened to use human shields if police attempted to disperse the PAD.  Human shields of 300-400 women were assigned to physically surround each PAD leader.  Foreign journalists reported that the PAD was paying people to join them at the airport, with extra payment being given to parents bringing babies and children.

On the morning of 28 November, PAD leader Chamlong Srimuang announced to PAD forces that he had received a call from an unspecified "senior person" (ผู้ใหญ่ท่านหนึ่ง) telling him to end the rallies.  But he refused to do what the senior person told him.  "For the past 108 days, the Alliance has protested together under hardship, while another group of people has remained in comfort.  They can't just suddenly ask us to stop protesting," he told the assembled forces.  Addressing supporters on ASTV, Sondhi said, "If we have to die today, I am willing to die. This is a fight for dignity."

Police manned checkpoints on roads leading to the airport.  At one checkpoint, police found 15 home-made guns, an axe and other weapons in a Dharma Army six-wheel truck taking 20 protesters to Suvarnabhumi airport.  Another checkpoint found an Uzi submachine gun, homemade guns, ammunition, sling shots, bullet-proof vests and metal rods.  The vehicle had the universally recognised Red Cross signs on its exterior to give the impression it was being used for medical emergencies.  At another checkpoint, about 2 kilometers from the airport, was attacked by armed PAD forces in vehicles, causing the police to withdraw.  Police Senior Sgt Maj Sompop Nathee, an officer from the Border Patrol Police Region 1, later returned to the scene of the clash and was detained by PAD forces.  He was interrogated by Samran Rodphet, a PAD leader, and then detained inside the airport.  Reporters and photographers tried to follow Sompop to his interrogation, but PAD forces did not allow them.  PAD supporters were moved from Government House to the airport.

The airport remained closed due to the PAD seizure as of 2 December.  With the exception of one airplane leaving for the Hajj, no flights were allowed.  The PAD has been apologetic to inconvenienced foreigners in the airports and offered them food.

End of the siege 
Shortly after the Constitutional Court dissolved the three parties of the government coalition on 2 December 2008, the PAD held a press conference where they announced that they were ending all of  their protests as of 10 AM on 3 December 2008.  "We have won a victory and achieved our aims," said Sondhi Limthongkul.

Views on the siege 
Democrat Party MP for Sukhothai, Samphan Benchaphon, said of the airport seizure that the PAD "have the right to do it."  Democrat Party MP for Bangkok, Thawil Praison, said that the PAD "could seize the airport and doing so is not excessive.  The entire world understands that this is a normal matter in the struggle of democratic countries."  

The governments of China, France, Italy, Germany, New Zealand, Singapore, Britain, the United States, Australia and Japan warned their citizens to avoid Thailand and steer clear of protesters at the airport.

The European Union urged the protesters to peacefully leave the airports. EU ambassadors to Thailand write in a joint statement that the demonstrators are hurting Thailand's image and economy, continuing "While respecting the right of protesting and without interfering in any way with the internal political debate in Thailand, the EU considers that these actions are totally inappropriate".

US State Department spokesman Gordon Duguid said that occupying the airports was "not an appropriate means of protest" and that the PAD should "walk away from the airports peacefully."

Closure of Bangkok Don Muang Airport 
On the night of 26 November 2008, the services at the Don Mueang Airport were stopped after the People's Alliance for Democracy seized control of the domestic passenger terminal.

A bomb exploded near a bunker made of tyres near the main entrance to the passenger terminal at Don Muang Airport at 3:55 AM on 30 November.  Before the explosion occurred, about 7 gunshots were heard from the direction of a warehouse deeper inside the airport compound.  No one was injured in the explosion.  It was not clear who or what set the bomb off.