[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yussef al-Shihri

Yussef Mohammed Mubarak al-Shihri (1985–2009) was a citizen of Saudi Arabia who was held in extrajudicial detention in the United States's Guantanamo Bay detention camps, in Cuba.
He was born on September 8, 1985, in Riyadh Saudi Arabia.

At the age of sixteen, he was captured along with his older cousin as part of a large group of 120 soldiers near Kunduz, and transferred to Shiberghan prison for six weeks, before being flown to Guantanamo on January 16, 2002.

On June 15, 2005, human rights lawyer Clive Stafford Smith identified al-Shihri as one of a dozen teenage boys held in the adult portion of the prison.
According to Smith, al-Shihri was 13 years old when captured.  
Smith observed that official US documents referred to this dozen minors solely by their initials, because US law prohibits identifying minors.  Official documents referred to Al Shihri as "YAS".

An October 2009 article in the Saudi Gazette asserts his older brother Saad Muhammad Al-Shehri took him to Afghanistan after he finished "intermediate school".
Yussef Al-Shehri passed through the Saudi militant rehabilitation program following his repatriation from Guantanamo. He was named on Saudi Arabia's list of most wanted terrorist suspects on February 3, 2009. He was killed in a shootout with Saudi police, while apparently preparing to commit a suicide attack wearing an explosive belt on October 18, 2009.

Combatant Status Review 

A Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for the tribunal, listing the allegations that led to his detainment. His memo accused him of the following:

Administrative Review Board 

Detainees whose Combatant Status Review Tribunal labeled them "enemy combatants" were scheduled for annual Administrative Review Board hearings.  These hearings were designed to assess the threat a detainee might pose if released or transferred, and whether there were other factors that warranted his continued detention.

Second annual Administrative Review Board

A Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for 
Yusef M Modaray's
second annual
Administrative Review Board, 
on October 12, 2006.
The memo listed factors for and against his continued detention.

Repatriation 

On November 25, 2008, the Department of Defense published a list of when captives left Guantanamo.
According to that list he was repatriated to Saudi custody on November 9, 2007, with thirteen other men.
The records published from the captives' annual Administrative Reviews show his repatriation was not the outcome of the formal internal review procedures.
The records show his detention was not reviewed in 2007.

At least ten other men in his release group were not repatriated through the formal review procedure.

Peter Taylor writing for the BBC News called the Saudis repatriated on November 9, 2007, with al-Shihri, "batch 10".
He wrote that the BBC's research had found this batch to be a problematic cohort, and that four other men from this batch were named on the Saudi most wanted list.

Allegations of family connections with other suspected terrorists

After another former Saudi captive, Sa'id Ali Jabir Al Khathim Al Shihri, appeared in internet videos that threatened further attacks, an article in the Saudi Gazette reported that he had a brother-in-law, named "Yusuf al-Shihri", who was also a former Guantanamo captive.
Said Ali Al Shihri married Yussef Al Shiri's sister after their repatriation from Guantanamo.
Yussef's sister had two previous husbands.  In a child custody dispute her first husband sought custody claiming the sister was a takfiri.  He claimed her second husband had also been a militant, and that he was killed in a shootout with security officials in 2004.

During his CSR Tribunal, the allegations stated Yussef Mohammed Mubarak al-Shihri was captured with his cousin, in Kunduz, in northern Afghanistan.

After his death, the Saudi Gazette reported that two of his brothers, Faisal and Mustafa, and a cousin, Abdul Ghani Al-Shehri were imprisoned in at the Hai’er Prison on suspicion of terrorism.

Named on Saudi Arabia's most wanted list

Yusuf al-Shihri, his brother-in-law Said al-Shihri, and a sixteen-year-old cousin, Abdullah al-Shihri, were named on a Saudi most wanted list on February 3, 2009.

Reported the death of Fahd Al Jutayli

The Yemen Post reported on September 27 that Othman Al-Ghamedi and Yousuf al-Shahri had 
contacted their families requesting that they pass on news to the family of Fahd Saleh Sulaiman Al-Jatili that he had died during a military action by Yemeni security officials.

Killed