[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Pandit Karuppan

ore to help students hailing from his community through education by providing them concessions in fees. The Maharaja promptly sanctioned a half-fee concession to all students of Dheevara community in Travancore State in appreciation of Karuppan's struggle for the betterment of backward communities.

The poem Udyanavirunnu was penned by Karuppan to reflect his angst at being not invited to a garden party that the Maharaja hosted for a visiting Governor of Madras in which all other MLCs except him was invited. Karuppan was left out on account of his low caste. The poem deals with the wounded self-respect of the excluded and when it was brought to the Maharaja's notice by T K Krishna Menon, the Maharaja decreed that all MLCs irrespective of caste or religion would be invited to official parties in the future.

The Maharaja of Cochin honoured Karuppan with the title Kavithilakan or Great Poet. Impressed by Karuppan, Kerala Varma Valiya Koil Thampuran of Travancore, known as Kerala Kalidasan for his translation of Shakunthalam into Malayalam, conferred the title of Vidwan upon him in 1913.

Social reforms

Karuppan decided to quit his teaching job to spend more time and energy spearheading social reforms. With this purpose, he organised the people of his own community into regional groups called sabhās. The main agenda of the sabhās was to persuade people to fight ignorance and superstitions. He put strong pressure on his fellow countrymen to become better educated and accept a healthier lifestyle. He organised the first Sabhā, Kalyanadayini Sabhā, at Anapuzha, Kodungalloor. Another Sabhā was Sudharma Sooryodaya Sabhā (Thevara), Prabodha Chandrodayam Sabhā (North Paravur), Araya Vamsodharani Sabhā (Engandiyoor), and Sanmarga Pradeepa Sabhā (Kumbalam) are other sabhās that Pandit Karuppan patronised. All these sabhas aimed to achieve the upliftment of the subaltern dalit castes.

He gave equal emphasis to the emancipation of other communities too as seen through the formation of the Cochin Pulaya Maha Sabhā for the uplift of the Pulaya community in 1913. Treated as untouchables by the upper caste Hindus, they were not allowed to assemble in any common place for meetings. To keep such meetings away from the eyes of the landlords, Karuppan asked the Pulayas to come in rowboats to the expanse of the Ernakulam backwaters and tie their boats together. There, he addressed them on a wooden-planked platform and charted out strategies for their emancipation by forming a Sabhā. This is known as 'Kayal Sammelanam'. Subsequently, Karuppan persuaded other communities like Velas, Sambavas, Ulladas and Kudumbis to form similar Sabhās to give momentum to their fight against social evils and discrimination.

The caste system in Cochin State barred the Pulayas were prohibited from entering the streets of Ernakulam or walking on important public roads. Karuppan waited for a favourable opportunity to tackle the issue. The Government organised an exhibition of agricultural products in which the Diwan, W.H. Bhore, was the guest of honour. Karuppan, during his speech, brought to the attention of the Diwan that the Pulayas, who had laboured hard to cultivate the agricultural products showcased in the exhibition, were not allowed to see the exhibition. Touched by the words of Karuppan, the Diwan ordered the organizers to allow the Pulayas to enter the grounds. Karuppan then took them to the exhibition site in a procession, having already asked them to arrive and wait in their country boats on the Vembanad lake. From that day, the Pulayas could enter Ernakulam Town and Karuppan had secured the right to walk on public roads for the Pulayas and other depressed classes.

Personal life

Pandit Karuppan had a special appreciation for Christianity whose missionaries had helped in Kerala's education by starting a number of educational institutions that admitted students without discrimination of religion or caste. When His Grace Alexis Henry Leppeesier (the representative of the Pope from the Vatican) visited Cochin in 1925, Karuppan wrote a welcome poem. Karuppan had also written poems highlighting the greatness of the Buddha and Prophet Mohammed. Aggrieved by the death of Sree Chattambi Swamikal, Karuppan wrote a condolence poem titled Samadhi Sapthakam.

Pandit Karuppan's wife Kunhamma hailed from Panambukad and the couple lived in Sahithyakudeeram, a house near the St. Teresa's College, Ernakulam, with their only daughter Parvathy.

Pandit Karuppan died of pleurisy on 23 March 1938 at the age of 53.