[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Phil McGuire (footballer)

Philip McGuire (born 4 March 1980) is a Scottish former professional footballer. He is currently the manager of Carnoustie Panmure in the SJFA East Superleague.

Playing career

Aberdeen
McGuire, a central defender or sometime midfielder, started his career with Aberdeen where he made 181 appearances, scoring 10 goals. He joined Aberdeen in 1996 and came through the ranks into the first team. McGuire was part of the 2000 Scottish Cup Final and 2000 Scottish League Cup Final teams, both of which Aberdeen lost. In 2001–02 and 2002–03 he was voted into the SPL Team of the Year. In 2002 there was major speculation that McGuire would leave Aberdeen to join Celtic, but after discussions the deal broke down. McGuire then signed a three-year deal in October 2002 to remain at Aberdeen.

Doncaster Rovers
He joined Doncaster Rovers in July 2005 on a free transfer. McGuire played 18 games for the English League One club. He was injured in a match with Nottingham Forest in which he missed four months of the season. He managed to come back early and captained the reserves to the League and Cup double on his comeback trail.

Return to Scotland
McGuire returned to Scotland in July 2006, signing a two-year deal with Dunfermline Athletic, who paid a six figure fee to take him back. McGuire helped Dunfermline reach the 2007 Scottish Cup Final which they lost to Celtic. Dunfermline were relegated from the SPL that season. On 31 August 2007, he signed for Inverness Caledonian Thistle on loan and became one of the first players to move back up the divisions on a loan agreement until 13 January. After the loan spell expired, McGuire signed a -year deal with Inverness after Caley Thistle and the Pars agreed a fee.

McGuire was a regular at Inverness and finished the 2007-08 season in a respected position. In October 2008, with Inverness Caledonian Thistle going well in the League campaign, McGuire suffered an ankle injury which ruled him out for nine weeks. McGuire returned early to help Inverness Caledonian Thistle, who at this stage had slipped down to bottom of the table. Within weeks, Inverness parted company with manager Craig Brewster. Terry Butcher and Maurice Malpas took over the mantle at Inverness Caledonian Thistle. McGuire found his first team games rare and he decided at the end of that season to leave the club, which had been relegated to the First Division, despite having a year remaining on his contract.

McGuire turned down several clubs in Britain as he was looking to move abroad and explore different options with coaching and options outside football. He almost joined the New York Red Bulls in the MLS as a coach but decided it was the wrong time. On Friday, 25 September 2009 he signed for Formartine United on a one-year deal to help raise the profile of the new club and raise the awareness of the Highland League. McGuire teamed up with the Scottish Sun to write a weekly diary about his time with the club and created media interest in the small football club. McGuire left Formartine United at the end of January 2010. He finished off the season with Arbroath. McGuire headed to Cyprus with AEK Larnaca and was offered a two-year deal, but after a short period of time returned to the UK due to financial problems with the club.

In 2011, McGuire signed for Lochee United. The following season, McGuire then signed for Montrose for the 2012-13 season.

In August 2013, McGuire signed for Jeanfield Swifts in the East Region Premier League as a Player/Assistant Manager. In October 2013, McGuire transferred to St Andrews United in the East Region Super League as a Player/Coach.

International
During his Aberdeen spell, McGuire was capped at under-21 and B level. He was selected for Scotland squads by Berti Vogts, but did not play in a full international.

Career statistics

Club

Appearances and goals by club, season and competition

Managerial career
In June 2014 McGuire was named manager of Junior team St Andrews United. He was sacked from this position on 5 December 2015. He was also part of the St Andrews University F.C. coaching staff.

McGuire took up the managerial position at Brechin Victoria in June 2017, before joining Carnoustie Panmure in September 2018.

References

External links
 

Living people
1980 births
Aberdeen F.C. players
Arbroath F.C. players
Men's association football central defenders
Doncaster Rovers F.C. players
Dunfermline Athletic F.C. players
Formartine United F.C. players
Inverness Caledonian Thistle F.C. players
Jeanfield Swifts F.C. players
Lochee United F.C. players
Montrose F.C. players
Scotland men's under-21 international footballers
Scottish Football League players
Scottish men's footballers
Scottish Premier League players
Footballers from Glasgow
English Football League players
Scottish football managers
Highland Football League players
Scottish Junior Football Association players
St Andrews United F.C. players
Scottish Junior Football Association managers