[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Max Valentiner

th the Knight's Cross with Swords of the Royal House Order of Hohenzollern on 14 May 1916.

On 3 December 1916 Valentiner took U-38 into the Funchal harbor on Madeira and sank three enemy ships. For this accomplishment, he became the sixth U-boat commander awarded the Pour le Mérite, on December 26.

On 15 September 1917 Valentiner left U-38 and Cattaro and returned to Kiel to take command of the new . Kapitänleutnant Rabe von Pappenhein was to have taken this command, but for unknown reasons, this was changed. With U-157, Valentiner undertook the longest cruise of the war, from 27 November 1917 to 15 April 1918, a total of 139 days. This cruise came to be his last. In total, he sank 150 ships with a tonnage of about 300,000 tons.

Valentiner returned to the U-boat school to teach new submariners his techniques. His experience and advice were taken into account in the construction of the new boat U-143, which was faster and had a much improved dive time, but it was never finished.

Interbellum
Valentiner was accused of "cruel and inhuman treatment of crews" in fifteen different incidents involving French, British, and Italian ships. The Allies demanded all war criminals be extradited, but most simply resigned quietly and disappeared for a while, including Valentiner.

He went first to Berlin, was removed from the list of naval officers, and acquired a new passport under the name Carl Schmidt. Valentiner then traveled to East Prussia and lived at Kadinen, an estate that his father managed, where he waited for the extraditions to proceed. He eventually became impatient and returned to Kiel. The peace negotiations were eventually completed, and per the Treaty of Versailles, all U-boats were dismantled. On his promotion to Korvettenkapitän, Valentiner was relieved of duty.

The German Navy had argued that the Royal Navy's use of Q-ships and false flag attacks had changed the nature of the war, making it impossible for German submarines to surface and give a targeted ship the chance to surrender.

World War II
In January 1940, Valentiner was appointed group commander for U-Boots-Abnahmekommission (UAK) in Kiel-Danzig, a position he held until March 1945. Meanwhile, on 1 January 1941, he was promoted to Kapitän zur See. On 31 March 1945 he was discharged from the Kriegsmarine.

Last years
On 19 June 1949 Valentiner died in Sønderborg hospital from lung disease, likely precipitated by the inhalation of toxic vapors from the engines in his first U-boats, U-10 and U-3.

Footnotes

1883 births
1949 deaths
People from Tønder Municipality
Military personnel from the Province of Schleswig-Holstein
U-boat commanders (Imperial German Navy)
Recipients of the Pour le Mérite (military class)
Imperial German Navy personnel of World War I