[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Energy Charter Treaty

anner, harmful environmental impacts arising from energy use. The Secretariat monitors the enforcement of these obligations in the contracting parties of the treaty and creates various publicly available reports on each of the contracting parties such as energy efficiency and the investment climate.

Legal support
The Energy Charter Treaty contains a comprehensive system for settling disputes on matters covered by the treaty. The two primary forms of binding dispute settlement are state-state arbitration on the interpretation or application of almost all aspects of the treaty (except for competition and environmental issues), and investor-state arbitration (Article 26) for investment disputes. There are special provisions, based on the WTO model, for the resolution of inter-state trade issues and the treaty also offers a conciliation procedure for transit disputes. The Secretariat maintains legal advice to these arbitrations as well as has responsibility for maintaining the Travaux préparatoires used to clarify the intentions of the treaty by Article 32 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties.

The Secretariat maintains a publicly available list of cases that have been brought by investors to international arbitration. These cases have been litigated under the arbitration regulations of the ICSID, Arbitration Institute of the SCC, and UNCITRAL. The Arbitration Awards or Settlements are sometimes in the hundred of millions of dollars. Disputes concerning competition (Article 6) and environmental issues (Article 19) the Secretariat provides for bilateral (in the case of competition) or multilateral (in the case of environmental protection) non-binding consultation mechanisms.

Criticism 
The Energy Charter Treaty has come under heavy criticism for being an obstacle to the transition to renewable energy. Transnational corporations who have invested in fossil fuel production and nuclear power can sue national governments for loss of profit on their investments as a consequence of the transition to renewable energy. Critics argue that the Energy Charter Treaty has a chilling effect on energy-related legislation. Russia and Norway refused to ratify the treaty, and Italy left in 2016, over environmental concerns about ECT. For example, the German energy company RWE has sued the Dutch government for €1.4billion in compensation for the phasing out of coal power plants. In October 2020, the European Parliament voted to end fossil fuel protection under the ECT.

In late2022, the European Commission was seeking to clarify that the ECT does not apply within the European Union. The Commission says "the risk of legal conflict is such as to render an international agreement incompatible with EU law" and adds that EU [member] states should thus "confirm that the ECT does not apply, and has never applied to intraEU relations".

A joint investigation by The Guardian, the Transnational Institute, and Berlinbased Powershift, made public in midNovember 2022, revealed opaque proceedings, inadequate controls on conflicts of interest for key personnel, including arbitrators, and potential bias in favor of fossil fuel interests.

Calls and plans for withdrawal 
Several countries and organisations have proposed withdrawing from the ECT. However, the Treaty  has a "sunset clause" that allows lawsuits to be filed for 20 years after the departure of a member; Italy left the ECT in 2015, but was successfully sued in 2022.

In 2020, Julia Steinberger and Yamina Saheb (both co-authors of the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report) initiated an open letter that calls for the withdrawal from the ECT. They justify the call with the claim that the ECT is an obstacle to the Paris Agreement and the European Green Deal. The letter has been signed, for example, by Sandrine Dixson-Declève, Connie Hedegaard, James K. Galbraith, Helga Kromp-Kolb, Rachel Kyte, Thomas Piketty, Olivier de Schutter and Jean-Pascal van Ypersele. 
On 15 December 2020, the Spanish minister for ecological transition, Teresa Ribera, supported the idea of withdrawing from it if it was not possible to reach an agreement to make the Energy Charter Treaty compatible with the Paris Agreement. The International Institute for Sustainable Development describes the possibility of a withdrawal with neutralization of the survival clause.

The UK government  announced in September 2023 that it would consider leaving the "outdated" treaty if modernisation was not agreed by that November.

Announced withdrawals