[Source: PubMed]

21. Public Health. 2021 Mar;192:3-7. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2021.01.001. Epub 2021
Jan  16.

The right to health, public health and COVID-19: a discourse on the importance 
of the enforcement of humanitarian and human rights law in conflict settings for 
the future management of zoonotic pandemic diseases.

Van Hout MC(1), Wells JSG(2).

Author information:
(1)Public Health Institute, Liverpool John Moores University, United Kingdom. 
Electronic address: m.c.vanhout@ljmu.ac.uk.
(2)School of Health Sciences, Waterford Institute of Technology, Ireland. 
Electronic address: j.s.wells@wit.ie.

OBJECTIVES: The catastrophic effects of armed conflict, particularly prolonged 
armed conflict, on individual and public health are well established. The 
'right' to healthcare during armed conflict and its lack of enforcement despite 
a range of United Nations mandated requirements regarding health and healthcare 
provisions is likely to be a significant feature in future conflicts, as 
zoonotic-induced pandemics become a more common global public health challenge. 
The issue of enforcement of health rights assurance and its implications for the 
public health management of global pandemics such as coronavirus disease 2019 
(COVID-19) in and between countries and regions in conflict is the objective of 
this Review.
STUDY DESIGN: A narrative review was conducted.
METHODS: Referenced to the framework of International humanitarian law (IHL) and 
International human rights law (IHRL) to explore and discuss the deficits in 
health rights assurances in conflict settings and illustrate how gaps in 
protection and lack of enforcement compounds the disease response. Both IHL, and 
IHRL can be leveraged to ensure human and health rights are assured in conflict 
settings. There is a distinct lack of international criteria with regard to 
standards of healthcare coverage, infrastructure and service preservation to the 
civilian population during times of armed conflict. This has far reaching 
consequences when confounded by a pandemic or even localised disease outbreak.
RESULTS: We illustrate how in a pandemic disease emergency, such as COVID-19, 
all life is threatened; and how leaving the citizen population exposed to this 
contagion is a human rights breach and an indirect method of warfare. The 
consequences of failure to effectively address such pandemic infections, (i.e. 
COVID-19), in a conflict setting are potentially catastrophic as prevention and 
containment responses are severely constrained by state insecurity, political 
instability, terrorism, repression, rights abuses, and displacement of citizens. 
Neglect by State actors potentially constitutes a breach of the universal right 
to life. States cannot justify their failures to mitigate disease based on 
claims of lack of resources, even when available resources are minimal. Where 
discrimination of people with a disease, such as COVID-19, or minority groups at 
the point of access to health facilities occurs, this further breaches the 
principle of medical neutrality.
CONCLUSIONS: The example of the COVID-19 response may offer a viable route to 
leverage greater access and coverage of healthcare in conflict and humanitarian 
settings. A radicalised partnership approach during these times of emergency is 
warranted, based on an ethical 'humanitarian intervention' approach to provide 
care to all affected by contagious disease in conflict settings.

Copyright © 2021 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2021.01.001
PMCID: PMC7834498
PMID: 33601306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]