[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of smoking bans

restaurants and bars. The bill was approved by the Senate on 19 January 2017, and signed by the President Miloš Zeman on 14 February 2017. It came into effect on 31 May 2017.

Democratic Republic of the Congo
The Democratic Republic of the Congo has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.

England
Since 15 August 2007, smoking in hospitality facilities, restaurants, bars, clubs, public transport, and all private and public workplaces has been forbidden. Exemptions to the law are bars with a floor space of less than 40m2. Separate smoking rooms are allowed in hospitality facilities as long as no food or beverage is served there. The law's initially controversial reception was accompanied by variable enforcement. As of 1 July 2014, smoking is prohibited in train stations including the platforms (whether inside or out), it is however poorly enforced, and smoking is seen on both inside and outside platforms regularly. In 2017, a lot of different sectors grouped in order to work on a mobile app to combat underage smoking in Denmark. In the municipality of Randers, politicians are preparing to implement outdoor anti-smoking recommendations, which will advise people not to smoke and without any fines applied.

In 2018 the municipality of Copenhagen introduced "smoke-free school time" in all of their schools, meaning that it became forbidden for all students in pre-highschool to smoke during schoolhours, both inside and outside the school site. From 1 January 2021 the concept was introduced to all pre-highschools and youthcentres in Denmark. From 31 July 2021, the law would include all schools having students under 18 years old, meaning that students of e.g. high schools are not allowed to smoke before the school day ending no matter their location.

Greenland
Since 2010 there has been a smoking ban in hospitality facilities, restaurants, bars, clubs, public transport, and all private and public workplaces.

Djibouti
Djibouti has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.

Ecuador

Smoking is more common among men and younger people in Ecuador. Smoking is common in bars and dance clubs, but non-smoking signs in restaurants in Quito are generally respected.
A national law has forbidden smoking in bars. A bill was passed in 2006 that prohibits smoking in indoor workplaces, public transportation and public places. In 2011, Ecuador Parliament implemented a new tobacco control, that witnessed the addition of smoking ban in sport facilities and on all health or educational institutions. In addition, the sponsorships and advertisements were prohibited. And finally a ban on tobacco vending machines

El Salvador
El Salvador has a smoking ban in indoor workplaces and public places.

Eritrea
Eritrea has a smoking ban in public places, indoor workspaces and public transport. There is an exception for bars.Estonia

Smoking has been restricted in indoor public areas and workplaces since 4 June 2005, except in restaurants. Subsequently, a ban on smoking in bars, restaurants, coffee shops and nightclubs started on 5 June 2007 (although smoking is still allowed in isolated smoking rooms). Water pipe and cigar smoking is allowed in special clubs with a license.

Smoking was banned in all prisons on 1 October 2017.

Ethiopia

Ethiopia's 2019 law bans smoking in all indoor workplaces and on public transport. Tobacco packaging must contain clearly visible health warnings in Ethiopia.

Falkland Islands
Smoking has been prohibited in all enclosed public places (including pubs, restaurants, social clubs, hotels and shops), enclosed workplaces, and public vehicles (taxis and buses) since 1 February 2011.

Faroe Islands
As of 1 July 2008, smoking ban applied on all public and private workplaces. The ban also included public areas and transport.

Fiji
Fiji has a smoking ban in public places, indoor workspaces and public transport. Designated smoking rooms are allowed in bars, pubs, and nightclubs, airport terminals, and private offices.

Finland