[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Constitutional Court of Korea

s the labor and resources of the local government. Local governments may lodge a competence-dispute lawsuit with the Constitutional Court to challenge the constitutionality of the delegation, citing their lack of constitutional competence to undertake the delegated tasks.

Constitutional complaints 

According to article 111(1), 5. of the Constitution and article 68(1) of Constitutional Court Act, the Court may review whether basic right of the plaintiff is infringed by any public authorities. Influenced by German institution called Verfassungsbeschwerde, this Adjudication on Constitutional complaint () system is designed as last resort for defending basic rights under the Constitution. Thus basically, the Court can adjudicate the complaint only if when other possible remedies are exhausted. Yet the Adjudication on Constitutional complaint is not accompanied with lawsuits on civil liability, since judgment on civil liability is role of ordinary courts. The Court only reviews whether the basic right of the plaintiff is infringed or not in this adjudication process. Detailed issues on calculation of damage and compensation is out of the Court's jurisdiction. This type of adjudications are usually dismissed in Prior review due to lack of preliminary conditions.

In addition, there's another unique type of constitutional complaint under article 68(2) of the Act, as discussed above in paragraph of 'on Constitutionality of statutes'. This constitutional complaint by article 68(2) of the Act is detour for Adjudication on the constitutionality of statutes (or judicial review) denied by ordinary courts. It is usually called as '' in Korean, which means constitutional complaint especially on statutes. As this type of constitutional complaint is designed as detour for judicial review, the preliminary conditions required in Prior review for constitutional complaint under article 68(2) is different from the complaints under article 68(1) of the Act. It does not require any possible remedies to be exhausted already, but requires the plaintiff was dismissed of claim for judicial review from the ordinary court about on-going case of the plaintiff. It is notifiable that on-going case is not automatically sustained during Adjudication on Constitutional complaint by article 68(2) of the Act.

Statistics 
Below are the aggregated statistics as of 09 Feb 2021.

International relations 
 Venice Commission : As the Republic of Korea is a member state of the Venice Commission, one of associate Justices in Constitutional Court of Korea becomes member for the commission. Substitute members are conventionally designated in following two positions; Deputy Secretary General at the Court's Department of Court Administration, and Deputy Minister of Ministry of Justice. Current member is Justice Lee Suk-Tae.
 Association of Asian Constitutional Courts and Equivalent Institutions : The Republic of Korea is founding member state of the Association of Asian Constitutional Courts & Equivalent Institutions (AACC), and seat for permanent secretariat of the AACC. President of the Constitutional Court of Korea attends the Board of AACC as representing the Republic of Korea.

Criticism and Issues 
According to Article 113(1) of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court is required to have at least six justices present in order to issue a ruling, but there is no contingency plan for in case the quorum is not met. Articles 6(4) and (5) of the Constitutional Court Act simply require that the vacancy be filled within 30 days, without any meaningful backup plan for when the deadline is not met, which exposes the Constitutional Court to potential political instability or gridlock, particularly between the President and the National Assembly. Although the Supreme Court of Korea similarly lacks contingency measures to address a potential vacancy, there is a key difference since the Constitutional Court needs a supermajority to issue a ruling, but the Supreme Court needs only a simple majority.

Relationship with Supreme Court 
The relationship between the Constitutional Court of Korea and the Supreme Court of Korea is a hotly-debated topic among Korean jurists. The Constitution does not establish a clear hierarchy between the two highest courts, and the ranks of the respective chief justices are equal under the Constitutional Court Act. Since the co-equal relationship of the courts relies on a piece of legislation, the National Assembly could pass an amendment and rank the heads of the courts differently, which would resolve this issue. However, as it stands, there is no remedy if the two highest courts disagree on a constitutional case.