[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Project Mercy

Project Mercy, Inc.  is a Christian, non profit organization located in Yetebon, Ethiopia, founded in 1977 by Marta Gabre-Tsadick and Deme Tekle-Wold. Over the past 18 years, Project Mercy's original mission has been expanded to include community development and self-help programs.

The international ministry of Project Mercy was started to provide emergency relief and relocation assistance to Ethiopian refugees.  The ministry has expanded to reach to a number of additional countries including Ivory Coast, Djibouti, Guinea, Iraq, Kenya, Malawi and Sudan.  In 1993, the organization shifted its focus to creating a relief and development model that can be used by others to help break the cycle of famine and poverty in communities.  They have taken a holistic community development approach in aiding the Yetebon community (a farming district in Central Ethiopia) With a variety of programs to aid both the physical and spiritual needs of the area.

Yetebon, Ethiopia 

Yetebon is a small village located 9 km from Butajira, and is about a two-hour drive south of Addis Ababa. It has a population of about 70,000 people. Yetebon is the home of the Gurahge people who are tradesmen, herdsmen, and farmers. Project Mercy sits on  of land, donated by the elders of Yetebon. The people Project Mercy serves in Yetebon are predominantly Muslim believers. There are many mosques and Ethiopian Orthodox churches in the area.

History 
In 1974, Marta Gabre-Tsadick, her husband, Demeke Tekle-Wold, and their children were all forced to flee Ethiopia, barely escaping the chaos of the emerging Marxist government.  Marta, the first woman senator in the Ethiopian government, had been identified as a supporter of Emperor Haile Selassie, and because of this, her execution was assured. After hearing this news, Marta and Deme made the decision to flee to Kenya. After first finding help there, the family soon moved to the United States. Eventually, they all became U.S. citizens,  but Marta and Deme intended to return to help the people in Ethiopia. So, in 1977, they established Project Mercy in Yetebon, the birthplace of Marta's father. It was started to provide emergency relief and relocation help to refugees. They wanted to "one day return to their homeland to do everything they could to educate its future leaders in restoring its rich heritage" (casefoundation.org). Marta eventually had the opportunity to return to Ethiopia. She received word that a few of the elders of Yetebon wanted to meet with her. The elders expressed to her how they feared for their children's future because there was no hope (people were dying from preventable diseases, the community was illiterate, and there was no clean water or usable roads). Project Mercy is affiliated with Share Our Strength (SOS). Share Our Strength works with organizations like Project Mercy to identify the most efficient ways of expanding existing social services, and to replicate exemplary models. Project Mercy was originally started as a school for children, grades K-10. In December 2002 Project Mercy used a US$20,000 donation from SOS to feed 600 people for six weeks, focusing on severely malnourished children and their parents. In 1983, Marta wrote and published a book, Sheltered by the King, which describes the hardships she and Demeke, along with their children, endured while fleeing Ethiopia to find safety in the U.S., and eventually establish Project Mercy.

Programs 

When it started, Project Mercy provided emergency relief and relocation assistance to African refugees. Project Mercy enlarged its initial focus and, for nearly two decades, it not only provided emergency relief aid, but has expanded its help to educational assistance and support for refugee evangelists. Project Mercy provides social services, including emergency feeding, job training, health care, including HIV/AIDS education, irrigation systems, agricultural development, orphan support, and education. Project Mercy not only responds to crises, but also focuses on self-sufficiency, sustainability and measurable impact.

"In order to fight against poverty you have to attack it from many different directions and then pluck it out," said Marta in 2009 as she described the community development model of Project Mercy.  "We cannot educate children if the only outcome is to make them discontented with the limited job opportunities currently available to them.  We cannot just treat symptoms of malnutrition in the clinic and not also improve nutrition and agricultural production.  We cannot teach good hygiene practices if people still need to bathe and drink from the same contaminated water supply.  Clean water piped into each home is possible but only if economic conditions are improved for the entire community.  Project Mercy is involved in all these things in order to be a means of transformation through which God's love can renew the heart of the nation."

Childcare Programs