[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Scholars at Risk

ndia
 Hatoon Al-Fassi, Saudi Arabia
Ilham Tohti, China
 Khalil Al-Halwachi, Bahrain
 Sivasubramaniam Raveendranath, Sri Lanka
 Niloufar Bayani, Iran
 Nasser bin Ghaith, United Arab Emirates
 Omid Kokabee, Iran
 Patrick George Zaki, Egypt
 Rahile Dawut, China
 Tashpolat Tiyip, China
 Xiyue Wang, Iran

Structure 
In 2003, the network headquarters relocated from the University of Chicago to the New York City campus of New York University. In 2018 a European office was opened in Ireland at Maynooth University. SAR has sections in different countries which coordinate activities of SAR members in that country.

SAR Sections 
In 2005, SAR and partners began organizing SAR 'sections' and 'partner networks' around the world, building a global community pledged to help scholars and promote academic freedom everywhere. SAR sections were established in Israel (2005, now dormant), the United Kingdom (2006, with CARA), the Netherlands (2009, with UAF), Ireland (2009, with Universities Ireland), Norway (2011), Canada (2012), Switzerland (2015), Sweden (2016), Germany (2016), Finland (2017), United States (2018), Denmark (2019), Italy (2019), and Slovakia (2019), while partner networks were formed with pre-existing higher education networks in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.

Affiliations and partnerships 
Scholars at Risk maintains affiliations and partnerships with other associations and organizations with related objectives.

To date, SAR has formed the following Partner Networks:

EUA-SAR Partner Network: With 850 members across 47 countries, the European University Association is the largest and most comprehensive organisation representing universities in Europe. 17 million students are enrolled at EUA member universities. As the voice of Europe's universities, EUA supports and takes forward the interests of individual institutions and the higher education sector as a whole.

Magna Charta Observatory: In September 2015, Scholars at Risk and Magna Charta agreed to create a formal partner network including 802 universities in 85 countries.

UNICA-SAR Partner Network: UNICA is a network of 46 universities from 35 capital cities of Europe. Its role is to promote academic excellence, integration and cooperation between member universities throughout Europe. It seeks also to be a driving force in the development of the Bologna process and to facilitate the integration of universities from Central and Eastern Europe into the European Higher Education Area.

Compostela Group of Universities: Founded in 1993, the Compostela Group of Universities is an international nonprofit association that now consists of more than 60 universities in 27 countries. CGU seeks to strengthen the channels of communication between its member universities; organize events for the study and discussion of different issues related to international higher education; and promote mobility and collaboration between members as a basis for enhancing the knowledge of cultures and languages.

Communauté Université Grenoble Alpes: The Communauté Université Grenoble Alpes (COMUE) joined SAR as a partner network in January 2017. COMUE was formed in France in December 2014 and is composed of six member and four associated higher education institutions. Its mission is to create a multidisciplinary research university with a high international profile and strong local connection that creatively serves society.

swissuniversities: In 2012, universities, universities of applied sciences and universities of teacher education across Switzerland founded swissuniversities, a body dedicated to strengthening and enhancing collaboration among Swiss institutions of higher education and promoting a common voice on educational issues. swissuniversities also coordinates tasks and acts on the international level as the Swiss national rectors' conference for its 30-plus members..

Swiss Academies of Arts and Sciences: The academies engage themselves specifically for an equitable dialogue between science and society, and they advise politics and society in science-based issues that are relevant to society. They represent sciences across institutions and disciplines. Established in the scientific community, they have access to expertise and excellence and can therefore contribute specific knowledge to important political questions

Consortium for North American Higher Education Collaboration: The Consortium for North American Higher Education (CONAHEC) fosters collaboration among institutions, organizations and agencies of higher education in Canada, Mexico, the United States, and around the world. CONAHEC develops programs and educational opportunities to prepare globally knowledgeable professionals able to contribute to the region's continued success and a better world.