[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Pennsylvania Route 150

Pennsylvania Route 150 (PA 150) is a  highway in Central Pennsylvania. Its southern terminus is at PA 26 in Dale Summit, Pennsylvania near State College, at the location of the Nittany Mall. Its northern terminus is at U.S. Route 220 (US 220) in Avis. 

Since the construction of Interstate 99 (I-99) in the area north of State College, the major use the southernmost portion of PA 150 is to connect traffic from the expressway to downtown State College and Pennsylvania State University (via a section of PA 26).

The names of this road include Benner Pike, Main Street, Willowbank Street, Water Street, Bald Eagle Valley Road, High Street, Bellefonte Avenue, Church Street, and Woodward Avenue. The route is also concurrent with PA 144 between Bellefonte and Milesburg, in addition to PA 550 briefly in Bellefonte.

The route was signed in 1928 and in 1930, the route was paved from Hublersburg to Howard.

Route description

Centre County
PA 150 begins at an intersection with PA 26/PA 144 Truck in College Township, Centre County, heading northeast on Benner Pike, a five-lane road with a center left-turn lane. The route runs through shopping areas, passing to the west of Nittany Mall. Past the Shiloh Road intersection, the road becomes a three-lane road with a center left-turn lane, heading into farmland with some development and crossing into Benner Township. At this point, PA 150 runs through agricultural areas on the grounds of State Correctional Institution – Rockview and becomes a two-lane road. The route heads north and reaches an interchange with I-99/US 220 before leaving the state prison grounds and gaining a center left-turn lane again, heading past farmland before running near commercial establishments. The road curves to the north-northwest as it runs through a mix of farmland and woodland with some businesses, becoming a two-lane road again. PA 150 crosses into Spring Township and turns northeast, heading into residential areas, becoming Willowbank Street.

PA 150 intersects PA 550, with that route forming a concurrency with PA 150, heading into the borough of Bellefonte. The road becomes South Water Street and passes residences and a few businesses, crossing a Nittany and Bald Eagle Railroad line and curving to the north. PA 550 splits from PA 150 by heading east on West High Street, and PA 150 continues through more commercial areas along the east bank of Spring Creek on North Water Street. The route comes to an intersection with PA 144, where that route turns north to join PA 150, with the road heading north into areas of homes and businesses. PA 144/PA 150 enters Spring Township again and becomes Pleasantview Boulevard, heading into wooded areas with some commercial development, curving to the northeast before heading to the northwest. The road passes through a gap in forested Bald Eagle Mountain and crosses into Boggs Township, turning to the north again. PA 144/PA 150 heads into the borough of Milesburg and becomes Turnpike Street, passing homes. The two route turn northwest onto Mill Street and pass businesses, crossing Bald Eagle Creek. Past this, the road becomes a divided highway, soon widening to four lanes as it crosses over a Nittany and Bald Eagle Railroad line and comes to an interchange with US 220 Alternate.

At this point, PA 144 turns southwest to join US 220 Alternate and PA 150 turns northeast to join US 220 Alternate on Eagle Valley Road, a four-lane divided highway. The road crosses back into Boggs Township and runs through wooded areas to the north of the railroad line, coming to an interchange with I-80. At this interchange, US 220 Alternate heads east on I-80 and PA 150 continues northeast on North Eagle Valley Road, passing businesses and narrowing into a two-lane undivided road. The route heads into a mix of farmland and woodland with some homes, running to the northwest of Bald Eagle Creek. The road heads into Howard Township, where it heads into more forested areas and forms the northwestern boundary of Bald Eagle State Park. PA 150 comes to an intersection with the northern terminus of PA 26 and runs along the northwestern shore of Foster Joseph Sayers Reservoir. The route enters Liberty Township and passes through more of the state park. After leaving the park boundaries, the road heads into agricultural areas and passes near the residential community of Blanchard.

Clinton County