[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Britannia (board game)

pher, the designer.  This was published in 2020 by PSC Games.  It includes a two-player 'Duel Britannia' game.
 
Pulsipher is said to be working on 'Epic Britannia', an extension to include the Isle of Man and six areas in Ireland. Other possible options include extra Welsh leaders and Danish Burhs.

Changes between versions
At each stage of development and publication of Britannia changes were made to the rules of the game, as well as to the scenario and materials:
 Map  On the hand-drawn map in the original Invasions prototype there was just one Mercia area, and several areas had different names, such as Somerset, which would later be Avalon, and Berkshire, which would later become Downlands.  The Gibsons version introduced North and South Mercia, and rearranged the connection of areas around the Pennines, while changing marshy Somerset into lowlands and lowland Berkshire into highlands. This map, painted in dark shades of green and blue, was retained for later versions until the Fantasy Flight Games (FFG) version, which slightly changed the Pennines area again and cleared up the sea area connections in the Skye region.  The Avalon Hill mapboard incorporated the Turn Record Chart down each side of the board. In previous versions the events of the game were listed on a card for each of the four players. The onboard Timeline was reimplemented by FFG, and their artwork for the land changed to predominantly yellow, with a rather enlarged map compared to previous versions.
 Colours  The original prototype used Blue, Red, Green and Yellow for the different player pieces.  The first Gibsons version had Purple, Brown, Red and Blue, with the Brown pieces becoming Black in their later version and in the Welt der Spiele version.  Avalon Hill changed these counters to Green.  This led to players of the different versions calling this coalition 'BBG' or Brown-Black-Green.  FFG then changed the Purple counters to Yellow.
 Scenario  In the prototype the Irish were allied to the Romans, and this was changed to the Irish joining the Red coalition in the Gibsons version, and all subsequent versions. For the non-standard games every version had slight changes to which nations were controlled by which player.  Gibsons introduced a short game.  Small changes were made to many of the forces arriving in the game between the prototype and the Gibsons version, and later for FFG's version, which also added more leaders. In FFG's version Round V became a Victory Point counting turn instead of Turn 4.  The FFG version also includes several two-player games and a changed version of the short game.
 Rules  In 1983 the Invasions prototype was submitted by Lewis Pulsipher to Gibsons for evaluation and testing, and most development work was done by Roger Heyworth without referring back to the designer.  This had been Pulsipher's last design before effectively retiring from game design.  This led to a number of areas being confused and not entirely in line with the designer's intention.  By 2004 when Pulsipher first saw the published version of Britannia being played at a convention he was surprised by some of the tactics that were allowed by the rules, especially in terms of their historicity.  One major area of change between the intention of the prototype and the Gibsons and Avalon Hill versions was how raiding worked.  In these games raiders could 'hang around forever' at sea without committing to landing.  These and other areas in the rules were cleared up with the advent of the FFG version, reducing the need for players to clarify rules amongst themselves, as had been the case during the period between the Avalon Hill and FFG versions.  The 2008 version removed any lingering detailed issues with the 2005 version, including the nation turn order listed on the map.
 New concepts  FFG's Britannia II has introduced the new concepts of Roman Roads and Roman Reinforcements, Belgae submission and the Boudiccan Rebellion, and a four kings ending instead of three, with the addition of Svein Estrithsson.  Britannia II also includes rules for players to bid amongst themselves to take particular sides in an auction, in part to address any perceived imbalance between the colours.

Reimplementation
The game Maharaja, also published by Avalon Hill, reimplemented the same system, on the Indian subcontinent.

Other published designs using systems developed from the Britannia pattern with additional complexity include Hispania, covering the Iberian peninsula and Italia, covering Italy.

List of leaders

 Angles: Ida, Oswiu, Offa
 Belgae: Boudicca
 Brigantes: Urien
 Danes: Ivar & Halfdan (as one leader), Cnut, Svein Estrithsson
 Dubliners: Olaf Guthfrithson
 Normans: William
 Norwegians: Harald Hardrada
 Norsemen: Ketil Flatnose
 Romano-British: Arthur
 Saxons: Aelle, Egbert, Alfred, Edgar, Harold
 Scots: Fergus Mor Mac Erc

List of areas

England