[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Insurgency in the Preševo Valley

ians from Kosovo illegally cut down the forest in this area. To steal the forest, as the residents of the sparsely populated Kuršumlija villages in this area point out, forest thieves usually come armed.

During 2021 alone, 56 occurrences of illegal logging have been recorded by Serbian authorities.

Reactions 
  – Prime Minister of Albania Ilir Meta said that the problem in the Preševo Valley should be solved through "dialogue and democratic means" and not violence. The dialogue should begin soon so that the Albanians are assured internationally recognized standards of human rights. Albanian political leaders have called for expansion of the NATO buffer zone and an internationally supervised demilitarization of the valley, essentially extending Kosovo's protected status to southern Serbia. The Albanian government has condemned the violence and appealed to Kosovo's Albanian political leaders to distance themselves.
  – The Yugoslav president, Vojislav Koštunica, warned that fresh fighting would erupt if KFOR units did not act to prevent the attacks coming from the UÇPMB.
 Albanian politicians in Serbia – Jonuz Musliu, head of Political Council for Preševo said that they are against armed confrontation with Serbian government.
  Kosovo Liberation Army – Hashim Thaçi has accused Belgrade of genocide against the ethnic Albanian majority in three Serbian towns.
  ICTY – Chief Prosecutor Carla Del Ponte announced the investigation on activities of PMBLA in Preševo Valley.
  – NATO allowed Serb forces to enter Ground Safety Zone. NATO spokesman Jamie Shea said the alliance had spoken to leaders of the ethnic Albanian community in Kosovo about the situation, and warned them it would not tolerate any action that made it worse. Secretary General of NATO George Robertson denounced ethnic Albanian insurgents operating in the five-kilometer wide "ground safety zone" along southern Serbia's boundary with Kosovo. Robertson describes the insurgent Liberation Army of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac as "a handful of extremists who are trying to seek an over-action." But he says they won't get far.
  – Russian Foreign Minister, Igor Ivanov, described the situation in the area as very critical; he said urgent steps were needed to stop the violence from spreading.
  – UN secretary general Kofi Annan stated: "It is clear that it is the Albanians who are now the cause of these provocations". United Nations Security Council condemned Albanian extremists violence in Southern Serbia. The Security Council called ethnic Albanian extremists from Kosovo to withdraw immediately from the boundary zone.
  – The United States was against the possible secession of Preševo Valley. US officials also warned the rebels that there would be no repeat of NATO's intervention in Kosovo. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said it was very important that extremists from both sides not be allowed to disrupt the situation further.

See also 
2000 unrest in Kosovo
2001 insurgency in the Republic of Macedonia
2004 unrest in Kosovo
Kosovo independence precedent
Battle of Oraovica
List of conflicts involving Albanian rebel groups in the post-Cold War era

References

External links

1999 in Albania
1999 in Serbia
1999 in Yugoslavia
Albanian nationalism in Serbia
Conflicts in 1999
Conflicts in 2000
Conflicts in 2001
Preševo Valley
Serbia and Montenegro
Wars involving Serbia
Wars involving Yugoslavia
Yugoslav Wars
2000 in Yugoslavia
2001 in Yugoslavia