[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# American Task Force on Palestine

Industry
Mr. Jesse Aweida
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Scholarship
Dr. Mujid Kazimi

2007:
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Government Service
Ambassador Theodore Kattouf
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Commerce and Industry
Mr. Farouk Shami
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Medicine
Theodore Baramki, M.D.

2008:
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Government Service
T.H. George Salem, Esq.
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Business & Science
Dr. Adnan Mjalli
ATFP Award for Excellence in the Arts
Mr. Simon Shaheen
Special Welcome
Mr. Rami Kashou

2009:
 ATFP Award for Lifetime Achievement
Dr. Najat Arafat Khelil
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Scholarship
Dr. Shibley Telhami
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Science and Medical Education
Dr. Fuad Jubran
Special Recognition: 20 Years of U.S.-Palestinian Diplomacy
T.H. Robert H. Pelletreau Jr.

2010:
 ATFP Award for Distinguished National Service
Dr. Peter Mansour
 ATFP Award for Excellence in the Arts
Ms. Naomi Shihab Nye
 ATFP Award for Excellence in the Performing Arts
Ms. Betty Shamieh
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Business
Mr. Ghassan Salameh

2011
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Arts Scholarship
Hanan Karaman Munayyer
 ATFP Award for Distinguished Service in Philanthropy
Maha Freij
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Fine Arts
Nawaf Soliman
 ATFP Award for Excellence in the Performing Arts
Maysoon Zayid

Positions

Right of return
Regarding the Palestinian Right of Return, the ATFP states on its website that "The right of return is an integral part of international humanitarian law, and cannot be renounced by any parties. There is no Palestinian constituency of consequence that would agree to the renunciation of this right. There is also no Jewish constituency of consequence in Israel that would accept the return of millions of Palestinian refugees... The challenge for the Israeli and Palestinian national leaderships is to arrive at a formula that recognizes refugee rights but which does not contradict the basis of a two-state solution and an end to the conflict."

Humanitarian efforts
ATFP launched the Palestinian Humanitarian Fund appeal in May 2006.  On January 23, 2007, ATFP launched a humanitarian medical program in the West Bank.

American charities for Palestine
In June 2007, members of the ATFP Board of Directors established a sister organization, American Charities for Palestine (ACP). ACP is pioneering a new approach for distributing secure donations to worthy causes that will help build both peace and Palestine. ACP is designated by the IRS as 501 (c) (3) nonprofit organization.

In August 2008, ACP signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the United States Agency for International Development  (USAID) ensuring that all recipients of ACP donations in Palestine are fully vetted and approved by USAID. This is the first such agreement between USAID and any private organization, and it was described by USAID Administrator Henrietta Fore as a “historic step.” ACP donors are therefore assured that their generosity will be distributed in full compliance with US law as well as reaching truly deserving recipients.

ACP focuses primarily on the fields of health and education. These two sectors are not only central to the immediate improvement of the quality of life for Palestinians, but also indispensable for laying the foundations of a viable future Palestinian state to live alongside Israel. In targeting these two sectors, ACP hopes to advance the cause of peace based on two states – Israel and Palestine – and to support efforts by the United States government to realize this crucial policy goal. In its humanitarian projects, ACP works directly with Palestinian and international charities, as well as USAID and Palestinian Authority agencies.

Since signing its partnership agreement with USAID, ACP has started three charitable initiatives benefiting Palestinians in the West Bank, with amounts totaling $605,000 in contributions.

ACP is committed to making a strategic impact on the quality of education and health care delivery to Palestinians. ACP's partnership with USAID has created a mechanism that reassures donors, vets recipients and provides accountability and transparency. This unique package of safeguards, partnerships and services is particularly suited to attract donors who have an interest in promoting peace and security.  ACP believes there is an intimate connection between improving living conditions and providing hope and the reality of a secure peace between Israel and Palestine.