[Source: PubMed]

20. BMC Oral Health. 2023 Apr 29;23(1):251. doi: 10.1186/s12903-023-02906-2.

Indicators of integrating oral health care within universal health coverage and 
general health care in low-, middle-, and high-income countries: a scoping 
review.

Jashni YK(1), Emari F(2), Morris M(3), Allison P(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dental Medicine and Oral Health Sciences, McGill University, 
Montréal, Canada.
(2)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, McGill University, Montréal, Canada.
(3)Schulich Library of Physical Sciences, Life Sciences and Engineering, McGill 
University, Montréal, Canada.
(4)Faculty of Dental Medicine and Oral Health Sciences, McGill University, 
Montréal, Canada. paul.allison@mcgill.ca.

BACKGROUND: The World Health Organization (WHO) has recently devoted special 
attention to oral health and oral health care recommending the latter becoming 
part of universal health coverage (UHC) so as to reduce oral health inequalities 
across the globe. In this context, as countries consider acting on this 
recommendation, it is essential to develop a monitoring framework to measure the 
progress of integrating oral health/health care into UHC. This study aimed to 
identify existing measures in the literature that could be used to indicate oral 
health/health care integration within UHC across a range of low-, middle- and 
high-income countries.
METHODS: A scoping review was conducted by searching MEDLINE via Ovid, CINAHL, 
and Ovid Global Health databases. There were no quality or publication date 
restrictions in the search strategy. An initial search by an academic librarian 
was followed by the independent reviewing of all identified articles by two 
authors for inclusion or exclusion based on the relevance of the work in the 
articles to the review topic. The included articles were all published in 
English. Articles concerning which the reviewers disagreed on inclusion or 
exclusion were reviewed by a third author, and subsequent discussion resulted in 
agreement on which articles were to be included and excluded. The included 
articles were reviewed to identify relevant indicators and the results were 
descriptively mapped using a simple frequency count of the indicators.
RESULTS: The 83 included articles included work from a wide range of 32 
countries and were published between 1995 and 2021. The review identified 54 
indicators divided into 15 categories. The most frequently reported indicators 
were in the following categories: dental service utilization, oral health 
status, cost/service/population coverage, finances, health facility access, and 
workforce and human resources. This study was limited by the databases searched 
and the use of English-language publications only.
CONCLUSIONS: This scoping review identified 54 indicators in a wide range of 15 
categories of indicators that have the potential to be used to evaluate the 
integration of oral health/health care into UHC across a wide range of 
countries.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12903-023-02906-2
PMCID: PMC10149008
PMID: 37120527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Not applicable.