[Source: PubMed]

65. Environ Health Perspect. 2011 Jun;119(6):765-70. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1003000.
Epub  2011 Jan 27.

Impacts of climate change on public health in India: future research directions.

Bush KF(1), Luber G, Kotha SR, Dhaliwal RS, Kapil V, Pascual M, Brown DG, 
Frumkin H, Dhiman RC, Hess J, Wilson ML, Balakrishnan K, Eisenberg J, Kaur T, 
Rood R, Batterman S, Joseph A, Gronlund CJ, Agrawal A, Hu H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2029, USA. kfbush@umich.edu

BACKGROUND: Climate change and associated increases in climate variability will 
likely further exacerbate global health disparities. More research is needed, 
particularly in developing countries, to accurately predict the anticipated 
impacts and inform effective interventions.
OBJECTIVES: Building on the information presented at the 2009 Joint Indo-U.S. 
Workshop on Climate Change and Health in Goa, India, we reviewed relevant 
literature and data, addressed gaps in knowledge, and identified priorities and 
strategies for future research in India.
DISCUSSION: The scope of the problem in India is enormous, based on the 
potential for climate change and variability to exacerbate endemic malaria, 
dengue, yellow fever, cholera, and chikungunya, as well as chronic diseases, 
particularly among the millions of people who already experience poor 
sanitation, pollution, malnutrition, and a shortage of drinking water. Ongoing 
efforts to study these risks were discussed but remain scant. A universal theme 
of the recommendations developed was the importance of improving the 
surveillance, monitoring, and integration of meteorological, environmental, 
geospatial, and health data while working in parallel to implement adaptation 
strategies.
CONCLUSIONS: It will be critical for India to invest in improvements in 
information infrastructure that are innovative and that promote 
interdisciplinary collaborations while embarking on adaptation strategies. This 
will require unprecedented levels of collaboration across diverse institutions 
in India and abroad. The data can be used in research on the likely impacts of 
climate change on health that reflect India's diverse climates and populations. 
Local human and technical capacities for risk communication and promoting 
adaptive behavior must also be enhanced.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1003000
PMCID: PMC3114809
PMID: 21273162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]