[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mud motor

drilled with motors using diamond or polycrystalline diamond compact (PDC) bits.
 High penetration rates can be achieved since rotation speeds are high.
 Will allow circulation of the borehole regardless of the horsepower or torque produced by the motor.

Major disadvantage in oilfield applications

The PCPD stator, which is a major component of the pump, is usually lined with an elastomer. Most of PCPD pump failures are due to this elastomer part. However, the operating conditions and environment should not degrade or induce mechanical failure of the elastomer part for the life of the equipment. Unfortunately, the industry does not have elastomers that can last longer, resisting abrasive fluids and solids, and withstand deflections in operating temperatures. The most common elastomer grades used for this application are the NBR (nitrile or acrylonitrile butadiene rubber) grades, which perform moderately well. There is definitely a need for better elastomer compounds to reach areas which are not currently accessible by PCPDs and also improve the life of current products.

 Bit speeds can be very high as such bit selection is important. The high speeds may limit the use of certain types of bits.
 Special pump requirements may be needed as particular pressures and flow rates may be needed to maintain proper and efficient motor operation.
 If used for directional control the down-hole assembly may be long and this may take time to assemble on the rig floor.
 The mud motor may be sensitive to fouling agents. This means that certain types of drilling fluids or additives may ruin the motor or lower its performance. One particular example, as mentioned above, would be the use of oil based mud with the mud motor. Over time the oil degrades the elastomers and the seals in the motor.

Failure mechanisms

Chunking – where the rubber across the top of the stator has been worn away.

Debonding - failure in the steel tube to bonding agent; failure in the elastomers to bonding agent of bonding agent to bonding agent.

Poor rotor/stator fit – improper tolerances due to degradation with time. Also if the fit is wrong then the differential pressure may be either too high or too low. Too high and it may damage the motor; too low and the motor will be weak and stall which may lead to stator chunking.

The down-hole and mud temperatures may cause thermal fatigue of the stator. Care must be taken to compensate for stator swelling.

Certain drilling fluids may cause the stator elastomers to swell. Consideration of this and the bottom hole temperatures is also a factor.

Lost Circulation Material (LCM) can plug the motor and sharp edged objects can wear the motor internals.

See also
Logging while drilling (LWD)
Measurement while drilling (MWD)

References

External links
Mud motor description - Kalsi Engineering
Positive Displacement Motor (PDM) - 2D-Animation - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=evOkkE0nPYo

Drilling fluid