[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Simon Gillett

vers debut five days later on 17 October 2009, in a 1–0 loss against Barnsley. His good performance saw Doncaster Rovers keen on signing him on a free transfer. However, this never happened and returned to his parent club the following month, where he made a total of eleven appearances for the club.

On 5 July 2010, Gillett agreed to join Doncaster Rovers subject to a medical, with the deal being completed on the evening of 7 July. Gillett signed a 2-year contract with Doncaster, and was assigned the shirt number 18. His second Doncaster debut came in a 2–0 win away to Preston North End; Gillett however, was sent off late on in the match, for two bookable offences. On 18 September 2010, he scored his first goal for Doncaster Rovers in a 2–2 draw with Watford. However, Gillett missed the most of the season with twenty–two appearances, due to injury.

The 2011–12 season saw Gillett regained his first team place at the start of the season and scored his first Doncaster Rovers goal on 27 September 2011 against Hull City. Gillett then scored his second goal for the club on Portsmouth on 22 October 2011. On 3 December 2011, Gillett played against Southampton for the first time in his career, as Doncaster Rovers won 1–0. Gillett later scored the third goal of the season on 21 April 2012, in a 2–0 win over Coventry City. The 2011–12 season saw Gillett established himself in the first team at Doncaster Rovers and played every match throughout the season, as the club were relegated to League One. Despite Doncaster Rovers' relegation, Gillett was awarded for the South Yorkshire Writers' Player of the Season. However, Gillett was released by the club.

After leaving the club, Gillett returned to Doncaster Rovers when he went to training for the pre-season friendly. However, Gillett stated he ruled out on re-joining Doncaster Rovers.

Nottingham Forest
On 4 August 2012 it was announced he joined Nottingham Forest to team up with former Manager Sean O'Driscoll.

After missing out, due to injury, Gillett made his Nottingham Forest debut, making first start and playing 90 minutes, in a 1–0 win over Bristol City. Gillett established himself in the first team at Nottingham Forest under the management of Sean O'Driscoll until his sacking in late-December. Gillett soon lost his first team place under the management of Alex McLeish and Billy Davies later in the season, as he made twenty–five appearances for the club.

In the 2013–14 season, Gillett was rarely in the first team at Nottingham Forest, having been frozen out and made his first appearance of the season, in a 2–1 win over Millwall in the second round of the League Cup after the game went extra time. At the end of the season, Gillett was released by the club upon expiry to his contract.

Bristol City
With first team opportunities at Nottingham Forest increasingly limited, it was announced on 31 October 2013, Gillett signed for League One side Bristol City on loan until 28 January 2014

Gillett made his Bristol City debut on 2 November 2013, where he came on as a substitute for Ryan Taylor, in a 1–1 draw Oldham Athletic. His playing time at Bristol City would subsequently extended to the end of the season. Gillett went on to score his first Bristol City goal from a wonder strike on 1 March 2014, in a 2–1 win over Gillingham. After the match, Gillett described this as "his best goal yet". After serving a two match ban, Gillett returned to the first team and scored his second Bristol City goal in the last game of the season, in a 1– 1 draw against Crawley Town. At the end of the season, Gillett returned to his parent club.

Yeovil Town
On 7 August 2014, Gillett re-signed for Yeovil Town on a two-year contract, who just recently relegated from the Championship.

Gillett made his Yeovil Town debut in the opening game of the season, making his first start and playing 90 minutes, in a 3–0 loss against his former club, Doncaster Rovers. Three days later, Gillett scored his first Yeovil Town goal in the first round of League Cup, in a 2–1 loss against Gillingham. However, Gillett suffered an injury that kept him out throughout September. After making his first team return in a 2–0 against Milton Keynes Dons on 4 October 2014, Gillett then scored his first league goal on 13 December 2014, in a 4–0 win over Oldham Athletic and three days later, on 16 December 2014, Gillett scored again in the second round replay, in a 2–0 win over Accrington Stanley Gillett continued to be in the first team until he suffered a knee injury that kept him out for the rest of the season.