[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 182]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

se
presence seemed to comfort him more than anything else, as he assured
her, in his quaint dialect.

Sometimes, returning through the Craddock Woods, Hadria would pass
through the churchyard on her way home, after her walk, and there she
would come upon Dodge patiently at work upon some new grave, the sound
of his pickaxe breaking the autumn silence, ominously. His head was more
bent than of yore, and his hair was whiter. His old face would brighten
up when he heard Hadria's footstep, and he would pause, a moment or two,
for a gossip. The conversation generally turned upon his old "missus,"
who was buried under a yew tree, near the wicket gate. Then he would ask
after Hadria's belongings; about her father and mother, about Hubert,
and the boys. Mr. Fullerton had made the gravedigger's acquaintance, and
won his hearty regard by many a chat and many a little kindness. Dodge
had never ceased to regret that Martha had been taken away from
Craddock. The place seemed as if it had gone to sleep, he said. Things
weren't as they used to be.

Hadria would often go to see the old man, trying to cheer him and
minister to his growing ailments. His shrewdness was remarkable. Mr.
Fullerton quoted Dodge as an authority on matters of practical
philosophy, and the old gravedigger became a sort of oracle at the
Cottage. Wilfrid Burton complained that he was incessantly confronted
with some saying of Dodge, and from this there was no appeal.

The news from Italy was still far from reassuring. Valeria was terribly
anxious. But she felt thankful, she said, to be with the invalid and
able to look after him. The doctors would not hear of his returning to
England at the approach of winter. It would be sheer suicide. He must go
further south. Valeria had met some old friends, among them Madame
Bertaux, and they had decided to go on together, perhaps to Naples or
Sorrento. Her friends had all fallen in love with the Professor, as
every one did. They were a great help and comfort to her. If it were not
for the terrible foreboding, Valeria said she would be perfectly happy.
The Professor's presence seemed to change the very atmosphere. He spoke
often about Hadria, and over and over again asked Valeria to watch over
her and help her. And he spoke often about his wife. Valeria confessed
that, at one time, she used to be horribly and shamefully jealous of
this wife, whom he worshipped so faithfully, but now that feeling had
left her. She was thankful for the great privilege of his friendship. A
new tone had come over Valeria's letters, of late; the desperate, almost
bitter element had passed away, and something approaching serenity had
taken its place.

No one, she said, could be in the Professor's presence every day, and
remain exactly the same as before. She saw his potent, silent influence
upon every creature who crossed his path. He came and went among his
fellows, quietly, beneficently, and each was the better for having met
him, more or less, according to the fineness and sensitiveness of the
nature.

"My love for him," said Valeria, "used at one time to be a great trouble
to me. It made me restless and unhappy. Now I am glad of it, and though
there must be an element of pain in a hopeless love, yet I hold myself
fortunate to have cherished it."

Hadria received this letter from the postman when she was coming out of
Dodge's cottage.

It threw her into a conflict of strong and painful feeling: foreboding,
heart-sickness, a longing so strong to see her friends that it seemed as
if she must pack up instantly and go to them, and through it all, a
sense of loneliness that was almost unbearable. How she envied Valeria!
To love with her whole heart, without a shadow of doubt; to have that
element of warmth in her life which could never fail her, like sunshine
to the earth. Among the cruelest elements of Hadria's experience had
been that emptying of her heart; the rebuff to the need for love, the
conviction that she was to go through life without its supreme emotion.
Professor Theobald had thrown away what might have been a
master-passion. The outlook was so blank and cold, so unutterably
lonely! She looked back to the days at Dunaghee, as if several lifetimes
had passed between her and them. What illusions they had all harboured
in those strange old days!

"Do you remember our famous discussion on Emerson in the garret?" she
said to Algitha.

"Do I? It is one of the episodes of our youth that stands out most
distinctly."

"And how about Emerson's doctrine? _Are_ we the makers of our
circumstances? _Does_ our fate 'fit us like a glove?'"

Algitha looked thoughtful. "I doubt it," she said.

"Yet you have brilliantly done what you meant to do."

"My own experience does not overshadow my judgment entirely, I hope,"
said Algitha. "I have seen too much of a certain tragic side of life to
be able to lay down a law of that sort. I can't believe, for instanc