[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1968 Israeli raid on Lebanon

the military area of the airport, where several planes were being serviced, so as to avoid a confrontation with the Lebanese military. After completing their task, the commandos proceeded towards the evacuation point, the location where the two main runways intersected, which was codenamed "London".

Digli Force, with 20 soldiers, landed to the south and moved northward, establishing a perimeter and isolating the emergency services building. They spotted four airliners. Three of them were positively identified as Lebanese, wired with explosives, and destroyed. While destroying the aircraft, they came under sporadic small-arms fire from the terminal building, likely pistol fire from airport security guards who were firing through the smokescreen. They responded with warning shots with heavy weapons, after which the firing ceased. They then proceeded towards the evacuation point.

Negbi Force, which consisted of 22 soldiers, moved towards the airport's east ramp and found numerous airliners. Four airliners which were confirmed to be Arab, three parked on the runway and one in a hangar, were wired with explosives and destroyed. The commandos then moved towards the evacuation point. On the way there, they spotted the airport's fuel depot and requested but were denied permission to destroy it.

After half an hour, all of the commandos had assembled at the evacuation point and were picked up by the helicopters. After a headcount, the commandos and the command element took off and returned to Israel. After the naval force standing by off the Lebanese coast received a report that the commandos had been successfully evacuated, it withdrew and returned to Haifa naval base.

According to a legend told among Israeli special forces soldiers, during the closing stages of the raid, Rafael Eitan entered the terminal building after the small arms fire had ceased. Observing it in a state of disorder and with no security guards present, he walked to a coffee shop, ordered a coffee, drank it quickly, and paid for it in Israeli currency before leaving.

Expenses
Of the 14 aircraft destroyed, 8 (1 Vickers VC-10 (on lease from Ghana Airways), 1 Boeing 707-320C, 2 Caravelle VIN, 3 Comet 4C and 1 Vickers Viscount) belonged to MEA, which was 30% owned by Air France, 5% by Lebanese individuals and 65% by the Intra Investment Company. Intra was an inter-governmental corporation constituted by the Kuwaiti, Qatari, Lebanese and American governments. The US was represented by the Commodity Credit Corporation, which was owed money by Intra Bank, the predecessor of Intra Company, for wheat sales.

Lebanese International Airways owned 4 of the destroyed aircraft (2 Douglas DC-7 and 2 Convair 990 Coronado) which were 58% American owned.

Trans-Mediterranean Airways lost 2 planes (1 Douglas DC-4 and 1 Douglas DC-6) owned by private Lebanese individuals.

The total value of the planes was estimated to be $43.8 million, of which British insurers initially agreed to pay $18 million, excluding all policies that did not cover acts of war.

Criticism
The attack drew widespread international condemnation. The United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 262 on 31 December 1968, which condemned Israel for the "premeditated military action in violation of its obligations under the Charter and the cease-fire resolutions", issued a "solemn warning to Israel that if such acts were to be repeated, the Council would have to consider further steps to give effect to its decisions", and stated that Lebanon was entitled to appropriate redress. The resolution was adopted unanimously.

The raid resulted in a sharp rebuke from the United States, which stated that nothing suggested that the Lebanese authorities had anything to do with the  El Al Flight 253 attack.
 
France, which had a historic association with Lebanon, reacted sharply to the attack. President Charles de Gaulle considered it a personal affront and diplomatic provocation. The French government recalled its ambassador to Israel and subsequently imposed an arms embargo, with the Israeli use of French-built helicopters in the raid cited as a factor.

Notes

References

External links
Israelis attack Beirut's airport, by Dana Adams Schmidt,  December 29, 1968, The New York Times
, link inactive

1968 in Israel
Battles and conflicts without fatalities
Israeli raid
Israeli raid
Operations involving Israeli special forces
Palestinian insurgency in South Lebanon
Attacks on airports