[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National Crime Records Bureau

The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) is an Indian government agency responsible for collecting and analyzing, crime data as defined by the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Special and Local Laws (SLL). NCRB is headquartered in New Delhi and is part of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Government of India. Vivek Gogia (IPS) is current Director of National Crime Record Bureau.

NCRB was set-up in 1986 to function as a repository of information on crime and criminals so as to assist the investigators in linking crime to the perpetrators. It was set up based on the recommendation of the Task force, 1985 and National Police Commission, 1977 by merging the Directorate of Coordination and Police Computer (DCPC), Inter State Criminals Data Branch of CBI and Central Finger Print Bureau of CBI, Earlier Statistical Branch of Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D) was also merged with NCRB, but was later de-merged.

Mission

 To provide Indian Police with Information Technology and Criminal Intelligence to enable them to uphold law and protect people. 
 To provide leadership and excellence in crime analysis particularly on serious and organized crime.

Objectives
 Create and maintain secure sharable National Databases on crimes and criminals for law enforcement agencies and promote their use for public service delivery.
 Collect and process crime statistics at the national level and clearing house of information on crime and criminals both at National and International levels.
 Lead and coordinate development of IT applications and create an enabling IT environment  for Police organizations.
 National repository of fingerprints of all criminals.
 To evaluate, modernize and promote automation in State Crime Records Bureau and State Finger Print Bureau.
 Training and capacity building in Police Forces in Information Technology and Finger Print Science.

Evolution of NCRB

Crime and criminal tracking network and systems  

Crime and Criminal Information System (CCIS) was implemented at district level during the period 1995–2004. Common Integrated Police Application (CIPA) was implemented at  police station level  during the period 2004–2009  in three phases. Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) is approved by Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on 19.06.2009.

Objectives 
 Creating State and Central level databases on crime and criminals.
 Enable easy sharing of real-time information/ intelligence across police stations, districts and States.
 Improved investigation and crime prevention.
 Improved service delivery to the public/ stakeholders through Citizen Portals.

Current Status

Citizen Portal 
Various services as enlisted below are being provided/ proposed to be provided in the Citizen Portals of CCTNS. 
 Filing of Complaints 
 Obtaining the copies of FIRs.
 Obtaining the status of the complaint/ FIR.
 Details of arrested persons/ wanted criminals & their illegal activities.
 Details of missing/ kidnapped persons and their matching with arrested, unidentified persons and dead bodies. 
 Details of stolen/ recovered vehicles, arms and other properties. 
 Verification requests for servants, employment, passport, senior citizen registrations etc. 
 Requests for issue/renewal of various NOCs / Permits/ Clearances
 Portal for sharing information and enabling citizens to down load required forms.

Inter-operable Criminal Justice System (ICJS) 
ICJS has been mandated for integrating CCTNS (Police) with e-Courts, e-prisons, Forensics, Finger Print Bureaux and Prosecution, which are the key components of the Criminal Justice System. Implementation of ICJS will ensure quick data transfer among different pillars of criminal justice system.

Crime records matching