[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cultural depictions of George Armstrong Custer

zarnych (Gold of the Black Hills), a trilogy of novels told from the perspective of the Santee Dakota tribe, by Polish author Alfred Szklarski and his wife Krystyna Szklarska.

Alternate history
The mythic quality of Custer's life has made him a popular subject for several alternate history stories.

 Custer at the Alamo is an alternate history novel by Gregory Urbach.  Sent 40 years in the past by a spell cast by Chief Sitting Bull, George Armstrong Custer and the 7th Cavalry join Davy Crockett to defend the Alamo against Mexican forces under the command of General Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna.
 In the "Fallen Cloud Saga," a series of five novels by Kurt R.A. Giambastiani, George Armstrong Custer survives an alternate campaign against the Plains Indians, becomes President of the United States, and confronts his own son as the two sides battle toward a resolution.
 The Court-Martial of George Armstrong Custer, a novel by Douglas C. Jones, is set in an alternate history built on the premise that George Armstrong Custer did not die at the Battle of Little Bighorn. Instead, he was found close to death at the scene of the defeat and was brought to trial for his actions. Blending fact and fiction, the novel portrays what might have happened at that trial. It was made into a TV movie in 1977 with James Olson as Custer and Blythe Danner as his wife Libbie.
 The short story "Custer's Last Jump" by Howard Waldrop and Steven Utley is set in a steampunk version of the Sioux War that takes as its point of divergence the introduction of aircraft during the Civil War.
 In Harry Turtledove's Southern Victory Series alternate history novels, the Little Bighorn did not take place, and Custer is a full colonel in Kansas in 1881, chasing Indians and then doing battle with rebel Mormons in Utah Territory and joining Theodore Roosevelt's "Unauthorized Regiment" in order to defeat an Anglo-Canadian column invading Montana during the Second Mexican War, becoming a war hero. Eventually, Custer becomes the commanding general of the US First Army in the Great War, fighting against the Confederates. Despite failing many times, he brings about the war's first breakthrough using tanks. After the war, he is appointed as governor of Occupied Canada and then forced into retirement under a new administration. He later dies in 1930.
 In the short story "How the South Preserved the Union" by Ralph Roberts in the anthology "Alternate Presidents" edited by Mike Resnick, George Custer was elected President in or prior to 1888. He is named as the victor at the Battle of the Little Big Horn (June 25–26, 1876).
 In the novel "1882: Custer in Chains" by Robert Conroy, Custer survives and wins the Battle of Little Big Horn. As a result, he is elected president in 1880 and later provokes a war with Spain two years later after a ship heading to Cuba is massacred.
 Wes Anderson satirizes such portrayals of Custer-as-survivor in his film The Royal Tenenbaums, in which the character Eli Cash writes a book called “Old Custer".
 In the collection of short alternate history stories Drakas!, Custer became persona non grata after refusing to lead troops against apparently overwhelming Indian forces. Drummed out of the military in America, he responded to the invitation of an old associate to go to Africa where the Draka empire was looking for experienced field officers.
 In Percival Everett's novel God's Country, Custer is portrayed as a cross-dressing homosexual who eats raw meat.
 A 1960 episode of Peabody's Improbable History has the General surviving the battle. When his boy Sherman questions Peabody about this historical twist, the dog points out a vendor's pushcart as being the actual Custer's Last "Stand".
 In the alternate history short story Bloodstained Ground by Brian Thomsen in the anthology Alternate Generals	edited by Harry Turtledove, Roland J. Green and Martin H. Greenberg, George Armstrong Custer survives and wins the Battle of Little Big Horn and is eventually elected as the President of the United States, only to later be assassinated. Following Custer's death, journalist Samuel Clemens is assigned to write a memorial, but his interviews with Custer's nephew Henry Armstrong Reed and Captain Marcus Reno reveal some sickening facts about Custer.