[Source: PubMed]

15. Confl Health. 2023 Dec 20;17(1):60. doi: 10.1186/s13031-023-00556-3.

Post-migration stressors, mental health and well-being in resettled refugees 
from Syria: Do individuals' coping strategies matter?

Solberg Ø(1), Nissen A(2)(3), Saboonchi F(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, The Swedish Red Cross University College, 
Huddinge, Sweden.
(2)Department of Health Sciences, The Swedish Red Cross University College, 
Huddinge, Sweden. a.f.w.nissen@nkvts.no.
(3)Division for Forced Migration and Refugee Health, Norwegian Centre for 
Violence and Traumatic Stress Studies, Oslo, Norway. a.f.w.nissen@nkvts.no.
(4)Department of Health Sciences, The Swedish Red Cross University College, 
Huddinge, Sweden. saboonchi@gmail.com.
(5)Division of Insurance Medicine, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, 
Karolinska Institutet, 171 77, Stockholm, Sweden. saboonchi@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The evidence is mixed as to whether individuals' coping strategies 
may mitigate the adverse mental health effects of post-displacement stressors in 
refugee populations, with some indications that the buffering effects of coping 
strategies are context dependent. The present study examined if problem-solving 
and acceptance coping strategies were effect modifiers between post-migration 
stressors and mental health in adult refugees from Syria resettled in Sweden.
METHODS: Study aims were investigated using cross-sectional survey data from a 
nationwide, randomly sampled group of adult refugees from Syria granted 
permanent residency in Sweden between 2011 and 2013 (Nsample = 4000, 
nrespondents = 1215, response rate 30.4%). Post-migration stressors examined 
included: financial strain, social strain, host-country competency strain and 
discrimination. Two mental health outcomes were used: anxiety/depression, 
measured with the Hopkins Symptom Checklist-25; and well-being, measured with 
the WHO-5 Well-being Index. Both outcomes were modelled continuously. Coping 
strategies were measured using the BRIEF Cope scale. Interactions between coping 
strategies and post-migration stressors were tested in fully adjusted linear 
regression models using Wald test for interaction, corrected for multiple 
testing using the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure.
RESULTS: Both problem-solving and acceptance coping strategies buffered the 
adverse association between financial strain and symptoms of anxiety/depression, 
and problem-solving coping strategies buffered the adverse association between 
host-country competency strain and anxiety/depression.
CONCLUSIONS: The study suggests that individuals' coping strategies may to some 
degree buffer the adverse mental health effects of financial strain and 
host-country competency strain experienced by refugees in the resettlement 
phase. Although this pattern was only found in regard to anxiety/depression and 
not subjective well-being, the findings show that individual-level coping skills 
among refugees may contribute to adaptation in the face of post-settlement 
adversities. Notwithstanding the importance of attending to refugees' 
psychosocial conditions, refugees residing in refugee camps and newly resettled 
refugees might benefit from interventions aiming at enhancing individual coping 
resources and skills. The potential effect of increased controllability and 
decreased conflict-proximity also warrants further exploration in future 
studies.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13031-023-00556-3
PMCID: PMC10731857
PMID: 38124118

Conflict of interest statement: On behalf of all authors, the corresponding 
author states that there is no conflict of interest/competing interests.