[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1946 in poetry

ng of Parts"
 Vita Sackville-West, The Garden
 Sydney Goodsir Smith, The Devil's Waltz
 Bernard Spencer, Aegean Islands and Other Poems
 Dylan Thomas, Deaths and Entrances, including "Fern Hill" and "A Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London"
 R. S. Thomas, The Stones of the Fields

United States
 Stephen Vincent Benét, The Last Circle (Houghton Mifflin)
 Elizabeth Bishop, North & South (Houghton Mifflin)
 Owen Dodson, Powerful Long Ladder
 H.D., "The Flowering of the Rod", the final part of Trilogy, a  three-part poem on the experience of the blitz in wartime London
 John Gould Fletcher, The Burning Mountain
 Denise Levertov, The Double Image
 Robert Lowell, Lord Weary's Castle, New York: Harcourt, Brace
 Phyllis McGinley, Stones from a Glass House
 James Merrill, The Black Swan (won Glascock Prize)
 Josephine Miles, Local Measures
 Howard Moss, The Wound and the Weather
 Lorine Niedecker, New Goose, her first poetry collection
 Kenneth Patchen, Sleepers Awake
 Edouard Roditi, translator, Young Cherry Trees Secured Against Hares, translated from the original French of André Breton; publisher: View
 Mark Van Doren, The Country New Year
 William Carlos Williams, Paterson, Book I
 Reed Whittemore, Heroes & Heroines

Other in English
 Roy Campbell, Talking Bronco, South African native published in the United Kingdom
 Denis Devlin, Lough Derg and Other Poems, Irish poet published in the United States
 James McAuley, Under Aldebaran, Australia

Works published in other languages
Listed by nation where the work was first published and again by the poet's native land, if different; substantially revised works listed separately:

France
 Yves Bonnefoy, Traité du pianiste
 Jean Cayrol, Poems de la nuit et du brouillard
 Aimé Césaire, Les armes miraculeuses, Martinique poet published in France; Paris: Gallimard
 René Char, Feuillets d'Hypnos
 Paul Éluard, Le dur désir de durer
 Léon-Paul Fargue, Méandres
 Jean Hervé, Jour, winner of the Prix Apollinaire
 Francis Jammes, La Grâce
 Pierre Jean Jouve, La Vierge de Paris poems from The Resistance
 Alphonse Métérié, Vétiver
 Jacques Prévert, Paroles
 Saint-John Perse:
 Exil, suivi de Poème à l'etrangère, Pluies, Neiges
 Vents, Paris: Gallimard
 Philippe Soupault, L'Arme secrète
 Jules Supervielle, 1939–1945
 Tristan Tzara, pen name of Sami Rosenstock, Terre sur Terre

Indian subcontinent
Including all of the British colonies that later became India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka. And also from the country Nepal. Listed alphabetically by first name, regardless of surname:

Hindi
 Girija Kumar Mathur, Nas aur Nirman, poems of the Pragativadi school
 Ramadhari Singh Dinkar, Kuruksetra, narrative poem based on the Santi Parva of the Mahabharata
 Rangeya Raghava, Pighlate Patthar, poems with a strong Marxist influence

Kannada
 G. B. Joshi, Dattavani, critical appraisal of the poems of Kannada poet D. R. Bendre
 K. V. Puttappa, Prema Kasmira, 56 love poems
 V. K. Gokak, Indina Kannada Kavyada Gottugurialu, critical survey of modern poetry in Kannada

Kashmiri
 Mirza Arif, Laila Wa Mustafa, a masnavi
 Shamas-ud Din Kafoor, Nendre Lotuyae Yoot Koetah, a vatsun poem on the poverty of Kashmiri peasants; the work first appeared in Hamdard, a weekly periodical, and was later included in Payame Kafoor
 Abdul Ahad Azad, Shikwa-e-Iblis, a complaint about unquestioning social conformity

Tamil
 P. S. Subrahmaniya Shastri, Vatamoli Nul Varalaru, literary history of Sanskrit literature, written in Tamil
 R. P. Sethu Pillai, Kiristuvat Tamilttontar, Tamil-language literary history on the contributions of Christian scholars, including Beschi, Pope, Caldwell and Vitanayakam Pillai to that language's literature and culture
 V. R. M. Chettiyar, Nanku Kavimanikal, Tamil biographical and critical study of Percy Bysshe Shelley, John Keats, Rabindranath Tagore and the Tamil poet Kambar (poet), also known as "Kampan" (1180–1250)