[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Across Five Aprils

er he idolizes. Yale plans to marry Jenny and return east, taking Jethro with them for schooling. He gives Jethro his books and encourages him to read and study while he is away. He asks him to study the battles in the newspapers as they will soon be in the history books Jethro will study in school.

In March 1862, with all the other boys gone to war, Jethro drives the wagon to Newton for supplies. He is fearful because he must pass the Burdow house. He arrives in town safely, but is accosted in the general store by Guy Wortman regarding his brother Bill. “Is yore pa good and down on Bill? Does he teach you yore brother is a skunk that deserves shootin’ fer goin’ against his country?” Jethro defends his brother which angers Wortman. The newspaper editor Ross Milton intervenes and the store owner Sam Gardiner calls out Wortman for attacking Creighton rather than going to fight. Milton gives Jethro a book on improving his dialect and encourages him to leave for home immediately. Dave Burdow is waiting for Jethro on his way home. He asks for a ride, telling him "There be things that's evil in these woods tonight." Burdow takes the reins and is able to control the team when a man runs out and whips the horses. After Jethro reaches homes and tells the family of the attack, Matt Creighton prepares to go into town to learn more about Wortman. Ellen encourages him to speak with Burdow as well. “We’ve held it against him that his boy stuck a knife in our hearts; now he's grabbed a second knife that was aimed at us.” Creighton suffers an attack that takes his strength and health. Jethro is suddenly thrust into a role of responsibility far beyond his years. He must tend not only his family's farm but his brother John's as well. He must do work with only the help of his sister and neighbors here and there that was done by six men the year before. Jethro and Jenny work hard but still find time to keep up their studies as Shad requested.

Several weeks later, Jethro wakes to the smell of smoke. The vigilantes angered at Bill's disaffection to the South have set the barn on fire and poured coal oil into the well. The Creighton's receive support from all over the county after the attack, including from Dave Burdow. 

Summer brings news of a battle at a place called Shiloh and an influx of wounded soldiers returning home. One of the soldiers reports the death of Tom Creighton. Ross Milton prints a letter in the newspaper to those who attacked the Creightons. He calls them out for attacking an ailing man and asks, “Has this man suffered enough to satisfy your patriotic zeal?

By December 1862, deserters are becoming a problem in southern Illinois. In February, three Federal Registrars visit the Creighton farm, searching for Eb. He has deserted the army. In early March, Jethro finds Eb hiding in the woods. He is sickly and thin, regretting the moment of weakness when he deserted. Jethro agonizes over what to do. He knows the family could be punished for harboring Eb but he also cannot send his cousin off to die of starvation and deprivation. He considers telling his father but realizes that only puts the problem on Matthew's shoulders. One night when he can't sleep, he pens a letter to Abraham Lincoln asking him for guidance. To his surprise, Jethro receives a letter from the President, informing him that Lincoln also has been agonizing over this issue and has decided to allow any deserter the opportunity to return to the army by April 1 without punishment.

In July 1863 a letter comes from Shadrach Yale's aunt in Washington. He was severely wounded at Gettysburg. She asks for Jenny to come. Matt allows her to go to him and Shad improves under her care. Matt gives permission and they are married at Shad's bedside.

In December 1864, Nancy receives a letter from John. He found Bill among prisoners in a Nashville camp. They talked as brothers and Bill asked for all the news of home. Upon leaving, Bill asked John to convey a message to their mother Ellen. Bill was not present at Pittsburgh Landing. It was not his bullet that killed Tom.

1865 arrives with the final limping days of battles. Lincoln's plan for reunification is universally disliked: in the South for being too harsh, in the North for being too soft. Jethro is 13 and knows the reality of war now. He is beginning to realize that peace too will be different than his expectations. The fifth April of the war finally arrives and with it the sound of guns silenced. The armistice is signed.

Jethro enjoys the celebration with Ross Milton in Newton. Jethro thinks of the lined face of President Lincoln. “How I'd like to shake hands with him tonight,” he thinks. Following the celebration, he returns to working the fields and enjoying the beautiful colors of spring. Until the day he sees Nancy running toward him in the field. “Jeth, it's the President—they've killed the President.”