[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Greater omentum

were originally to the stomach's right. Consequently, the blind-ended sac (also called the lesser sac) formed by the dorsal mesentery is brought inferiorly, where it assumes its final position as the greater omentum. It grows to the point that it covers the majority of the small and large intestine.

Functions
The functions of the greater omentum are:
Fat deposition, having varying amounts of adipose tissue
Immune contribution, having milky spots of macrophage collections
Infection and wound isolation; It may also physically limit the spread of intraperitoneal infections. The greater omentum can often be found wrapped around areas of infection and trauma.

Clinical significance

Surgical removal
Omentectomy refers to the surgical removal of the omentum, a relatively simple procedure with no documented major side effects, that is performed in cases where there is concern that there may be spread of cancerous tissue into the omentum. Examples for this are ovarian cancer and advanced or aggressive endometrial cancer as well as intestinal cancer and also appendix cancer. The procedure is generally done as an add-on when the primary lesion is removed.

Omental flap 
The greater omentum may be surgically harvested for reconstruction of the thoracic wall. It has also been used experimentally to reinforce bioengineered tissues transplanted to the surface of the heart for cardiac regeneration.

Use in brain surgery 

The greater omentum may be surgically harvested to provide revascularization of brain tissue after a stroke.

History 
The greater omentum is also known as the great omentum, the omentum majus, the gastrocolic omentum, the epiploon, and the caul.

In 1906, the greater omentum was described as the "abdominal policeman" by the surgeon James Rutherford Morrison. This is due to its immunological function, whereby omental tissue seems to "surveil" the abdomen for infection and cover areas of infection when found - walling it off with immunologically active tissue.

Additional images

See also

 Caul fat
 Omental cake
 Omental infarction
 Right gastroepiploic vein
 Omental bursa (Lesser sac)
 Greater sac
 Omental foramen (Epiploic foramen, Foramen of Winslow)
 Lesser omentum
 Peritoneum

Notes and references

External links
  
  
  
 
  ()
 Diagram at Tn.edu 
 Photo of model at Waynesburg College digirep/greateromentum
 Learn about living without an Omentum at The Omentum Project: https://www.theomentumproject.org/

Abdomen