[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gia Lam Airport

anoi, killing five Vietnamese military pilots. The plane took off from Gia Lam Airport, and crashed on its way back. The cause of the accident was unknown. A Vietnamese military official who declined to be named said the plane belonged to Vietnam's 918 Air Transport Regiment.

Cancelled renovations 

Because of its proximity to the center of Hanoi compared to Noi Bai International Airport, part of Gia Lam Airport was expected to become a civilian airport in the near future, reserved for regional domestic airlines. This would've allowed passengers flying on short-haul flights, such as from Hanoi to Điện Biên, Vinh, or Nà Sản Airport in the northern province of Sơn La, to depart from Gia Lam airport, only 10 minutes away from the centre of Hanoi, rather than Noi Bai, which is located about an hour's drive away from the city.

Gia Lam's 2000m by 45m runway is suitable for small, short-haul aircraft such as ATR 72 twin-turboprops or Fokker 70 jets, which are already operated by Vietnam Airlines as part of their fleet. Under the development plan, the parking yard will be upgraded to receive three ATR 72 or Fokker 70 aircraft by 2015, increasing to five by 2025. Its annual capacity was projected to be 162,000 passengers in 2015, increasing further to 300,000 passengers by 2025. The airport is about the same size as Nà Sản and Điện Biên airports, and will not be able to receive larger Airbus or Boeing aircraft, which will continue to be received at Noi Bai.

The renovations, which would've allow the airport to meet the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization, were estimated to cost VND 287 billion (US$17.3 million). These included: building a new parking yard covering  in 2015 and  by 2025; building the new terminal, which was expected to serve 270 passengers an hour during peak hours; and other adjustments such as the expansion of Nguyen Son road, which is the main route into the airport from the city. The renovated airport would've been managed by the Northern Airport Administration.

On February 23, 2018, the Prime Minister issued Decision No. 236/QĐ-TTg on adjusting the air transport development plan up to 2020, in which Gia Lam Airport was not part of the national airport network system. On April 3, 2023, Decision No. 980/QĐ-BGTVT formally abolished the airport master plan and renovation work stopped indefinitely. The airport would continue to host military flights.

References 

Buildings and structures in Hanoi
Airports in Vietnam
Installations of the Vietnam People's Air Force
Transport in Hanoi