[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Emblem of the Kirghiz Soviet Socialist Republic

- is found especially often in appliqués on koshmas. The white edge of the ornamental stalk in the socket imitates the technique of Kyrgyz embroidery. Inside the arch there are lilac, sunlit peaks of Ala-Too mountain ranges. The coat of arms embody the republic's desire for progress.

Third version 

In 1937, in connection with the preparation for the publication of the collection "The Constitution of the USSR and the Constitutions of the Union Republics", a special commission was created under the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the USSR, whose members were to check and clarify the inscriptions and their translation on the arms of the Union republics. According to the commission, the motto "Proletarians of all countries, unite!" in the arms of the Kirghiz, Turkmen, Tajik and Kazakh SSR was translated into the title languages inaccurately and literally read: "Workers of the whole world, unite!". The corrected version of the motto in Kyrgyz was: "BARDЬQ ӨLKӨLӨRDYN PROLETARLARЬ, BIRIKKILE!".

Fourth version 
According to the Decree of the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the USSR of 11 July 1939 on the translation of the alphabets of a number of Union and autonomous republics from Latin into Russian, in 1940 the Kyrgyz language was switched from Latin script to Cyrillic script. This caused the inscription of the coat of arms changed.

Fifth version 
In 1948, by the Law of the Kirghiz SSR, in Article 115 of the Constitution of the Kirghiz SSR in 1937, the description of the state emblem was amended. The words "At the top of the emblem there is a five-pointed star" were added. This was confirmed by the Regulations on the State Emblem of the Kyrgyz Soviet Socialist Republic, approved by the Decree of the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the Kirghiz SSR.

Sixth version 
In the new spelling rules of the Kirghiz language in 1956, abbreviated letters are not separated by dots, therefore the second part of the name of the republic (the abbreviation "ССР") began to be written without them.

In Chapter IX of the new Constitution (Basic Law) of the Kirghiz SSR adopted on April 20, 1978, by the extraordinary eighth session of the Supreme Council of the Kirghiz SSR of the ninth convocation, the arms were described as follows:

The image of the emblem did not change at the same time and was confirmed by a new edition of the Regulations on the State Emblem of the Kyrgyz Soviet Socialist Republic, approved by the Decree of the Presidium of the Supreme Council of the Kirghiz SSR.

Gallery

References 

Kyrgyz SSR
Kirghiz Soviet Socialist Republic
National symbols of Kyrgyzstan
Kirghiz SSR
Kirghiz SSR
Kirghiz SSR
Kirghiz SSR
Kirghiz SSR
Kirghiz SSR
Kirghiz SFSR