[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Neelan Tiruchelvam

all but name. The plan, which was released on 3 August 1995, was generally welcomed both in Sri Lanka and abroad but was attacked by Sinhalese nationalists and Tamil militants. The plan was subsequently watered down so much that even the TULF refused to support it and the plan was never implemented.

Death
On the morning of 29 July 1999, Tiruchelvam was on his way to office at Kynsey Terrace, Colombo when, around 9.10 a.m., a man threw himself onto Tiruchelvam's car near the Kynsey Road-Rosemead Place Junction, detonating an explosive, killing Tiruchelvam and the suspect himself. Thiruchelvam's driver, bodyguard and three policemen in an escort jeep behind the car were also injured. The militant Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) was widely blamed for the assassination. The LTTE's spokesman Anton Balasingham confirmed to Erik Solheim that they had killed Tiruchelvam, and said it was due to him betraying Tamil interests by supporting the government's watered down devolution package, despite them giving him prior warnings to quit. The assassination received condemnation from around the world.

Legacy
In 2001 Tiruchelvam was posthumously awarded the Law and Society Association first International Prize for "his distinguished scholarship in legal pluralism, human rights, constitutionalism, ethnic conflict, and the capacity of law to contain violence". He has also received posthumous recognition by the Train Foundation's Civil Courage Prize.

Tiruchelvam was notable for his research into constitutional law and theory and is considered to be pioneering researchers into the field in Sri Lanka.

The Neelan Tiruchelvam Trust (NTT) was established in 2001, to continue his work in promoting democracy, good governance, social justice, institution building and promote  human rights in Sri Lanka.

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 
 Amnesty International condemns killing of Neelan Thiruchelvam MP

1944 births
1999 deaths
Academic staff of the University of Sri Lanka (Colombo)
Alumni of Royal College, Colombo
Alumni of the University of Ceylon (Colombo)
Assassinated Sri Lankan activists
Assassinated Sri Lankan politicians
Ceylonese advocates
Harvard Law School alumni
Harvard Law School faculty
Members of the 8th Parliament of Sri Lanka
Members of the 10th Parliament of Sri Lanka
People from Colombo
People killed during the Sri Lankan Civil War
People from British Ceylon
President's Counsels (Sri Lanka)
Sri Lankan Hindus
Sri Lankan Tamil academics
Sri Lankan Tamil activists
Sri Lankan Tamil people
Sri Lankan lawyers
Tamil politicians
Tamil United Liberation Front politicians
Yale Law School faculty
1990s assassinated politicians