[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# American English

ose that do not pronounce  except before a vowel, such as some Eastern New England, New York, a specific few (often older) Southern, and African American vernacular accents, are often quickly noticed by General American listeners and perceived to sound especially ethnic, regional or "old-fashioned".

Rhoticity is common in most American accents, although it is now rare in England, because during the 17th-century British colonization nearly all dialects of English were rhotic, and most North American English simply remained that way. The preservation of rhoticity in North America was also supported by continuing waves of rhotic-accented Scotch-Irish immigrants, most intensely during the 18th century (and moderately during the following two centuries) when the Scotch-Irish eventually made up one-seventh of the colonial population. Scotch-Irish settlers spread from Delaware and Pennsylvania throughout the larger Mid-Atlantic region, the inland regions of both the South and North and throughout the West: American dialect areas that were all uninfluenced by upper-class non-rhoticity and that consequently have remained consistently rhotic. The pronunciation of  is a postalveolar approximant  or retroflex approximant , but a unique "bunched tongue" variant of the approximant r sound is also associated with the United States, perhaps mostly in the Midwest and the South.

American accents that have not undergone the cot–caught merger (the lexical sets  and ) have instead retained a – split: a 17th-century distinction in which certain words (labeled as the  lexical set) separated away from the  set. The split, which has now reversed in most British English, simultaneously shifts this relatively recent  set into a merger with the  (caught) set. Having taken place prior to the unrounding of the cot vowel, it results in lengthening and perhaps raising, merging the more recently separated vowel into the  vowel in the following environments: before many instances of , , and particularly  (as in Austria, cloth, cost, loss, off, often, etc.), a few instances before  (as in strong, long, wrong), and variably by region or speaker in gone, on, and certain other words.

The standard accent of southern England, Received Pronunciation (RP), has evolved in other ways compared to which General American has remained relatively conservative. Examples include the modern RP features of a  trap–bath split and the fronting of , neither of which is typical of General American accents. Moreover, American dialects do not participate in H-dropping, an innovative feature that now characterizes perhaps a majority of the regional dialects of England.