[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Abd Al Aziz Awda

abroad frequently to garner support, with destinations including Iran, the United Arab Emirates, and Chicago, Illinois, the latter of which he traveled to multiple times in order to attend and speak at conferences of the Islamic Concern Project, a nonprofit headed by fellow PIJ member Sami Al-Arian.

Despite Awda's activity in support of the PIJ, he along with other founding members became increasingly frustrated with Shaqaqi's style of leadership in the 1990s. In 1993, Awda supported a statement from another member, Salih 'Abd al-'Al, condemning Shaqaqi's leadership abilities. In a column in al-Mujahid, a PIJ-produced periodical, published on 12 March 1993, Awda indirectly criticized Shaqaqi's sidelining of other founding members, referencing how Muhammad's companions were involved in his decision-making, making the whole group feel like equals. The PIJ's poor finances were a major point of contention, with Awda being convinced by PIJ treasurer Taysir al-Khatib not to send money to Shaqaqi when the latter requested it. However, Musa Abu Samir, the PIJ's leader in Lebanon, has alleged that the main source of the dispute between Awda and Shaqaqi was the latter's attempt to include Palestinian Christians in the organization; Awda wished the PIJ to be Muslim-only, resulting in his suspension from the organization. On 26 October 1995, Shaqaqi was assassinated in Malta by Mossad agents, and was replaced as secretary-general of the PIJ by Ramadan Shalah. According to Abu Samir, Awda's relationship with Shalah, a supporter of Shaqaqi, was similarly poor, and the new secretary-general expelled Awda entirely from the organization almost immediately after taking office. This is denied by the FBI, which states that Awda is still involved with the PIJ. Awda was allowed to return to Gaza by the Palestinian Authority in April 1999, with Israel consenting to the decision in March 2000. After his return, Awda resumed his position as imam at the al-Qassam Mosque.

Terrorist designation and criminal charges

The indictment of Omar Abdel-Rahman and eleven others issued by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York referred to Awda as a co-conspirator in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing and New York City landmark bomb plot, having met with indicted and later convicted plotters Mahmud Abouhalima, Clement Rodney Hampton-El, and El Sayyid Nosair on 3 January 1989, and Abdel-Rahman himself at Kennedy International Airport whilst traveling to a conference in Chicago in 1990. Awda was not indicted despite the allegation.

Awda was among the first group of people to be listed as Specially Designated Terrorists (SDTs) by the OFAC, having been named in the list of SDTs prepared on 23 January 1995, the same day that the category was created.  The search warrant issued to justify the FBI raid of the SAAR Foundation on 21 March 2002 claimed that SAAR was providing money to the PIJ, listing Awda among other high-ranking PIJ members like Shalah and designated terrorists such as Osama bin Laden.

On 20 February 2003, Awda was one of eight people, including Al-Arian, al-Khatib, and Shalah, charged under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act for their roles in the PIJ. The indictment issued by the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida accused the eight of coordinating and engaging in various racketeering activities, such as bombings, extortion, and money laundering, beginning in 1984. In addition to one count of racketeering, Awda was charged with one count of conspiracy to murder, maim, or injure persons outside the United States, one count of conspiracy to provide material support to terrorists, and 40 counts of Travel Act violation. Awda and Shalah were added to the FBI Most Wanted Terrorists list on 24 February 2006.

See also
Gaza–Israel conflict
Islam in Palestine
Palestinian political violence

Notes and references

Notes

References

General sources

External links
 Awda's wanted poster
 Indictment of the eight PIJ members, including Awda, for racketeering

Year of birth uncertain
FBI Most Wanted Terrorists
Fugitives wanted by the United States
Fugitives wanted on terrorism charges
Living people
Palestinian imams
Palestinian Islamists
People from the Gaza Strip