[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# LGBT rights in Argentina

IDS law in 1990, the 23.798 HIV/AIDS National Law, which has also been criticised. Critics pointed to its failure to cater to people living with other STDs apart from HIV/AIDS and for this reason, two different projects were presented in 2016 and 2018 with the aim of modifying the existing 1990 law.

In Article 1, the 23.798 HIV/AIDS National Law declares a national interest in the fight against Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), which involves the detection and investigation of its causal agents, the diagnosis and treatment of the disease, its prevention, assistance and rehabilitation, as well as measures taken to prevent its propagation. Moreover, it establishes the National Ministry of Health and Social Action as the national body which will be in charge of enforcing the law. Also, it states that the respective sanitary authorities of each jurisdiction will be in charge of the implementation of the law. Further, the law states that it is compulsory to detect HIV and its antibodies present in the human blood destined for blood transfusions and plasma. It also makes it compulsory to test donors whose organs will be transplanted and discard the blood samples and organs for transplantation that show positivity for HIV.

Towards the end of the year 2015, the National Ministry of Health, together with representatives of 35 organizations of civil society, including scientific institutions, organizations working in the field and people living with HIV, finished their long-term project through introduce modifications to the 1990 law, and created the HIV/AIDS law project (E6139-D-16), which they presented to Congress in 2016.

According to this project, the law should be modified to declare a national interest not only in the fight against, prevention, diagnoses, investigation, control and integral treatment for AIDS, but also for hepatitis and other sexually transmitted diseases. The project also aims to end the discrimination against and stigmatization of people living with these diseases. In addition, it declares of national interest the medicines, vaccines and products for the treatment of HIV, hepatitis and other sexually transmitted diseases, as well as the investigation and the development of local technologies for the national public production of such supplies which guarantee the sustainability of public policies and the defense of the national sanitary sovereignty.

The project also involved the creation of the National Commission of HIV, Hepatitis and STD, composed of representatives of state agencies, Argentine citizens from organizations of people living with HIV and STDs, and scientific institutions, among others. Further, the project promotes both the setting up of a special fund aimed at strengthening organizations of people living with HIV and hepatitis, whose purpose would be to guarantee the observance of the new law, and the creation of a national body concerned with stigma and discrimination associated with HIV, hepatitis and STDs with the purpose of making the issues visible and combating the violation of human rights that people living with HIV and AIDS suffer.

Other important innovations included in the 2016 project are making it compulsory both the offering of HIV tests diagnoses in every medical visit and the detection not only of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), but also of hepatitis and other STD, and their antibodies present in the human blood that will be eventually used for blood or plasma transfusions. Regarding what the 1990s law stated about the investigation of donors whose organs will be transplanted, this new project holds the same view while also including the previously mentioned diseases.

When it comes to HIV and AIDS in the fields of work and education, the 2016 project aims to advance the protection of the rights of workers and students who may face discrimination and hostility regarding their HIV/AIDS status by, for example, forbidding companies and schools to require workers and students to disclose their HIV status as a prerequisite for admission.

The 2016 law project was presented twice in 2016 and 2017. In 2016 it was successfully approved in the Health Commission but it eventually failed to become a law. The following year, it was presented again but Congress gave priority to the discussion of the Argentine Labour Reform, and so the treatment of the project was delayed.

In 2018, two years after the 2016 law project was presented to Congress, a new project (3550-D-2018) was taken to Congress with aims similar to those of the previous one. This represented a second attempt at updating the 1990 HIV/AIDS National Law, and it did not succeed either. Furthermore, the 2018 Law project was rejected again in the year 2019.

Living conditions