[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Content-addressable storage

umerous cryptographic functions such as Merkle trees to enforce data integrity between users and allow for multiple versions of files with minimal disk and network usage. Around this time, individual users of public-key cryptography used CAS to store their public keys on systems such as key servers.

The rise of mobile computing and high capacity mobile broadband networks in the 2010s, coupled with increasing reliance on web applications for everyday computing tasks, strained the existing location-addressed client–server model commonplace among Internet services, leading to an accelerated pace of link rot and an increased reliance on centralized cloud hosting. Furthermore, growing concerns about the centralization of computing power in the hands of large technology companies, potential monopoly power abuses, and privacy concerns led to a number of projects created with the goal of creating more decentralized systems. Bitcoin uses CAS and public/private key pairs to manage wallet addresses, as do most other cryptocurrencies. IPFS uses CAS to identify and address communally hosted files on its network. Numerous other peer-to-peer systems designed to run on smartphones, which often access the Internet from varying locations, utilize CAS to store and access user data for both convenience and data privacy purposes, such as secure instant messaging.

Implementations

Proprietary 
The Centera CAS system consists of a series of networked nodes (typically large servers running Linux), divided between storage nodes and access nodes.  The access nodes maintain a synchronized directory of content addresses, and the corresponding storage node where each address can be found.  When a new data element, or blob, is added, the device calculates a hash of the content and returns this hash as the blob's content address. As mentioned above, the hash is searched to verify that identical content is not already present.  If the content already exists, the device does not need to perform any additional steps; the content address already points to the proper content.  Otherwise, the data is passed off to a storage node and written to the physical media.

When a content address is provided to the device, it first queries the directory for the physical location of the specified content address.  The information is then retrieved from a storage node, and the actual hash of the data recomputed and verified.  Once this is complete, the device can supply the requested data to the client.  Within the Centera system, each content address actually represents a number of distinct data blobs, as well as optional metadata.  Whenever a client adds an additional blob to an existing content block, the system recomputes the content address.

To provide additional data security, the Centera access nodes, when no read or write operation is in progress, constantly communicate with the storage nodes, checking the presence of at least two copies of each blob as well as their integrity. Additionally, they can be configured to exchange data with a different, e.g., off-site, Centera system, thereby strengthening the precautions against accidental data loss.

IBM has another flavor of CAS which can be software-based, Tivoli Storage manager 5.3, or hardware-based, the IBM DR550.  The architecture is different in that it is based on hierarchical storage management (HSM) design which provides some additional flexibility such as being able to support not only WORM disk but WORM tape and the migration of data from WORM disk to WORM tape and vice versa.  This provides for additional flexibility in disaster recovery situations as well as the ability to reduce storage costs by moving data off the disk to tape.

Another typical implementation is iCAS from iTernity. The concept of iCAS is based on containers. Each container is addressed by its hash value. A container holds different numbers of fixed content documents. The container is not changeable, and the hash value is fixed after the write process.

Open-source 
One of the first content-addressed storage servers, Venti, was originally developed for Plan 9 from Bell Labs and is now also available for Unix-like systems as part of Plan 9 from User Space.

The first step towards an open-source CAS+ implementation is Twisted Storage.

Tahoe Least-Authority File Store is an open source implementation of CAS.

Git is a userspace CAS filesystem. Git is primarily used as a source code control system.

git-annex is a distributed file synchronization system that uses content-addressable storage for files it manages. It relies on Git and symbolic links to index their filesystem location.

Project Honeycomb is an open-source API for CAS systems.

The XAM interface was developed under the auspices of the Storage Networking Industry Association. It provides a standard interface for archiving CAS (and CAS like) products and projects.