[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lewis Hayden

15 years, five years for each slave he helped to freedom. After four years he was pardoned when Hayden, in effect, ransomed him. Hayden's previous owner agreed to a pardon for Fairbank if paid $650. Hayden by then was living in Boston and quickly raised the money from 160 people to pay this amount.

From Canada, the Haydens moved in 1845 to Detroit in the free state of Michigan. As a gateway to Canada, it was a major center of fugitive slaves. While there Hayden founded a school for black children, as well as the brick church of the Colored Methodist Society (now Bethel Church). Deciding he wanted to be at the center of anti-slavery activity, by January 1846 Hayden and his family moved to Boston, Massachusetts, which had many residents who strongly supported abolitionism. After getting settled, Hayden owned and ran a clothing store on Cambridge Street.

Anti-slavery efforts

Lecturer
In Massachusetts, Hayden began work as an agent, or traveling speaker and organizer, for the American Anti-Slavery Society.

Hayden worked with abolitionist Erasmus Darwin Hudson and John M. Brown. In February 1848, Hayden responded to a letter from the society informing him of "his agency being stopped." He had already spent about two months' income to establish his family and himself for the lecture tour; he did not have the fare for his return home. He wrote to the society: "You all know it is me jest three years from slavery ... if I am not Wendell Phillips now, it ought not to appear what shall be. I shall do all I can to make myself a man."

In his history of that period, writer Stephen Kantrowitz wrote of Hayden:

We do not know what route he took home from western New York to Detroit, nor what hardships he endured on the way. We do know that he was able to move past his disappointment and self-doubt and to assert himself as a self-confident citizen among equals. Slavery had taught him to expect trials and rebukes, and they did not break him.

The Boston City Directory for 1849–50 lists Hayden as a lecturer.

Underground Railroad

The Haydens routinely cared for fugitive slaves at their home, which served as a boarding house. Guests included Ellen and William Craft, who escaped from slavery in 1848. Hayden prevented slave catchers from taking the Crafts by threatening to blow up his home with gunpowder if they tried to reclaim the pair. Records from the Boston Vigilance Committee, of which he was a member, indicate that scores of people received aid and safe shelter at the Hayden home between 1850 and 1860.

Hayden and his wife were visited by the author Harriet Beecher Stowe:

Merchant
Hayden opened a clothing store in 1849 at 107 Cambridge Street. It became the second-largest business owned by a black man in Boston. The financial crisis of 1857 caused a decline in sales, so Hayden closed that shop and set up business in a smaller store. When that store was burned out, he went bankrupt and "took to peddling jewelry".

Vigilance Committee
Hayden served on the Boston Vigilance Committee, which had 207 members; 5 were black. He was elected to the executive committee and worked closely with William Lloyd Garrison. Hayden conducted "daring acts of defiance against the Fugitive Slave Law" of 1850. At a meeting at Samuel Snowden's [May Street Church], which included reading of the act, Hayden said: "... safety was to be obtained only by an united and persevering resistance of this ungodly law ..."

In American National Biography, Roy E. Finkenbine wrote:
After the passage of the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, Hayden worked tirelessly to fight its enforcement ... As a member of the executive board of the Boston Vigilance Committee, which was created to aid and protect fugitive slaves in the city, he often functioned as a liaison between white and black activists, including members of the Twelfth Baptist Church, to which he belonged. He personally fed and housed hundreds of runaways and used his clothing store to outfit many more.

Hayden was one of the men who helped rescue fugitive slave Shadrach Minkins from federal custody in 1851. For that action, he was arrested and tried, but his prosecution resulted in a hung jury. He played significant roles in the attempted rescue of Anthony Burns and in resisting legal authorities in the case of Thomas Sims.

In addition, Hayden contributed money to abolitionist John Brown, in preparation for his raid on Harper's Ferry.

Political activities
Hayden was a longtime supporter of John A. Andrew, who became governor in 1861. In his book, The Negro in the Civil War, Benjamin Quarles noted the men's relationship:

Hayden had been the first to suggest to John A. Andrew that he run for governor; on Thanksgiving Day in 1862 Governor Andrew was to come down from Beacon Hill and have turkey dinner at the Haydens.

Hayden was appointed to a patronage position as a messenger in the Secretary of State's office.