[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Armenian national movement

ayee groups to defend Armenian villages from widespread oppression, attacks and persecution of the Armenians. It being seen as the only solution to save the people from Ottoman oppression and massacres. its initial aim was to guarantee reforms in the Armenian provinces and to gain eventual autonomy.

During 1880-1890 the local communication channels were developed. The organizations were fully functional under Ankara, Amasya, Çorum, Diyarbakır, Yozgat, and Tokat. In 1893 they began to use wall newspapers (newspapers like billboards) directed toward the non Armenian subjects.  The main theme of these materials were people should take control of their own life against the oppressors. These ideological communicants did not have any effect on the Muslims. These activities ended with clashes between revolutionaries and Ottoman police. Generally resulted with the jail time. Sultan panicked, and local authorities act against them as they were cutting telegraph wires, bombing the odd government buildings. Britain or European powers concluded that however if there would be more interference these would end with religious fanaticism, and a civil war (massacres) would occur.

Notable figures 

The partisan movement was established by these leaders.

 ARF: Stepan Zorian, Christapor Mikaelian, Simon Zavarian
 Armenakan: Mekertich Portukalian
 Hentchak: Avetis Nazarbekian, Mariam Vardanian, Gevorg Gharadjian, Ruben Khan-Azat, Christopher Ohanian, Gabriel Kafian and Manuel Manuelian

There were many notables besides the "founding leaders" listed. The classifications given below refer to the titles for which they are mostly remembered today. They served in multiple duties and ranks.
 Aram Manukian, "key figure", politician, general.
 Andranik Ozanian, "key figure", military commander, fedayee leader
 Drastamat Kanayan, "key figure"
 Karekin Pastermadjian,  "key figure," politician , military commander, fedayee leader
 Aghbiur Serob, military commander
 Arabo, fedayee leader
 Sose Mayrig, fedayee leader
 Garegin Nzhdeh, politician, military commander
 Kevork Chavush, fedayee leader
 Sebastatsi Murad, fedayee leader
 Paramaz, fedayee,  political activist
 Armenak Yekarian, fedayee leader,  political activist
 Panos Terlemezian, fedayee leader
 Krikor Amirian
 Alexander Khatisian, politician, journalist
 Hovhannes Katchaznouni,  political activist, politician
 Simon Vratsian, political activist, politician
 Movses Silikyan, military commander,
 Hovsep Aivazian, key figure", military commander, fedayee leader

The Church 

Armenian nationalism and Armenian religion (the Armenian Apostolic Church, a non-Chalcedonian church, which is also the world's oldest national church) is intertwined.

The main voices of the movement were secular, as close to the turn of the century, Massis (published in the capitol), the Hiusissapile and Ardzvi Vaspurkan (published in the Van) became the main national organs (journals).  These publications were secular. Major Armenian writers of the era, Mikael Nalbandian and Raphael Patkanian can be counted among the influential.

Beginning with 1863, Armenian Patriarch of Constantinople began to share his powers with the Armenian National Assembly and his powers were limited by the Armenian National Constitution. He perceived the changes as erosion of his community. Armenian religious leaders played a key roles in the revolutionary movement. The Patriarch of Constantinople Mkrtich Khrimian was an important figure. Mkrtich Khrimian transferred to Jerusalem in his later years, although this was actually an exile.

Great Powers, Russo-Turkish War 

Beginning in the mid-19th century, the Great Powers took issue with the Empire's treatment of its Christian minorities and increasingly pressured extend equal rights to all its citizens. Following the violent suppression of Christians in the uprisings in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria and Serbia in 1875, the Great Powers invoked the 1856 Treaty of Paris by claiming that it gave them the right to intervene and protect the Ottoman Empire's Christian minorities. By the late 1870s, the Greeks, along with several other Christian nations in the Balkans, frustrated with their conditions, had, with the help of the Powers, broken free of Ottoman rule. The Armenians, on the other hand, received less interest and no support that wasn't later withdrawn from the Great Powers and remained, by and large, stagnant during these years, earning them the title of 'millet-i sadika' or the "loyal millet".