[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# John Comyn, Earl of Buchan

was made a member of the council of regency under the new English governor, John of Brittany, Earl of Richmond; and in September 1305 he was one of the commissioners who attended the union Parliament at Westminster to accept Edward's Ordinances for the government of Scotland.

Murder and blood feud

By 1306 it was plain to all that John Balliol, now in retirement on his French estates, would never return to Scotland.  His kingship was dead but the Balliol claim was not.  It was best represented by Edward Balliol, the former king's son, but he was still in English captivity and would be for some time to come.  The next best candidate was the Red Comyn, King John's nephew.  His greatest competitor was, of course, Robert Bruce, who had submitted to the English as long ago as 1302, but had never fully abandoned his own royal ambitions.  Since 1286 the threat of civil war between the houses of Bruce and Balliol had haunted and shaped Scottish politics.  On 10 February 1306 Bruce and his associates murdered Comyn and his uncle in Dumfries; the threat now became a reality.

We will never know for certain the reasons behind the killing of the Red Comyn: for the Scottish sources it was the justified fate of a traitor and a spy; for the English it was a bloody and premeditated crime.  The one thing they both agree on is that the Comyn family in general, and the Red Comyn in particular, was a major obstacle on the path of Bruce's ambition.  The killing of 1306 was thus rewriting the judgement of 1292.  Seizing the political high ground, Bruce was crowned at Scone on 25 March in an improvised ceremony.  The Stone of Scone was missing; so too was the Earl of Fife, who by custom placed all new kings on the throne as the foremost of the Scottish earls.  In a surprise move Isabella MacDuff, his sister, who also happened to be Buchan's wife, arrived bringing her husband's war horses and claimed the right for herself.  Accordingly, another ceremony was held two days after the first.  We have no insight into the precise reasons why she took a different view of matters from her husband.  Buchan, as far as we know, took no action to save Isabella from the fate that her actions were shortly to bring upon her, though as Edward's chief Scottish adherent his views on the matter would certainly have carried some weight. Some sources say that he wanted her executed.

With Bruce having gone one way it was inevitable that Buchan and his associates would go the other: men, in other words, whose patriotic credentials had hitherto been impressive were now guaranteed to fight on the side of the English.  Setting aside Bruce's obvious skills as a soldier and a political strategist, this was the key to the ultimate failure of the Comyns: people who took no position on the murder in Dumfries would identify themselves with a new and successful King of Scots against a party invariably ranged on the side of the national enemy.

War and terror

At the outset, the combination of forces ranged against Bruce were formidable but widely scattered.  He was to deal with them piece by piece, a task made all the easier by the death of Edward I in July 1307 and the accession of the far less capable Edward II. With the main English army absent from the scene Bruce dealt with his enemies in Scotland with ruthless determination.  Following successful campaigns in Galloway and Argyll he concentrated all his efforts and resources against the earl of Buchan, his principal domestic enemy.

The campaign against Comyn was to last from late 1307 right through to the spring of 1308, prolonged after the king was overtaken by a bout of serious illness.  This was, perhaps, the best opportunity for Comyn to destroy his enemy.  With Bruce incapacitated, and the royal army reduced in numbers, an attack was mounted against his camp at Slioch near Huntly; but it was pressed with no great determination, and Buchan withdrew after some desultory arrow fire.  Unfortunately the only sources we have for the whole campaign in the north-east are uniformly hostile to Comyn.  There are two possibilities here: either Buchan's talents as a soldier were limited, or he could not fully rely on the forces at his disposal.  The evidence suggests a combination of both factors.  The campaign concluded in December 1307 or May 1308, depending on which source is correct, when Buchan's army collapsed at the Battle of Inverurie.  Eventually, Buchan fled to England after his earldom was subjected to systematic devastation.