[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# David D'Or

) of more than four octaves. His vocal range in head voice is from G3 in scientific pitch notation, up to a well-defined G5 (as heard in one of the final notes in the "Phantom of the Opera" track in his album David D'Or and the Philharmonic''), thus making him a "mezzo-soprano" type of countertenor.

D'Or's voice is unusually versatile and flexible, and notable for its unique tone and color, and for having a very recognizable sound. His voice is characterized by powerful fullness and richness, making it seem as though it is his natural singing voice, created without use of the falsetto technique. However, despite its richness his voice cannot be compared to the color of a contralto, unlike singers such as David Daniels, given that D'Or has a unique, male-sounding timbre. When he sings in modern fashion, he employs his speaking—or chest—voice, instead of his singing, alto voice. D'Or has been compared to Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli ( but with a Middle Eastern flavor), and his voice has been described as having the smoothness of Jack Johnson overlaid with the falsetto style of Jeff Buckley.

Performances
In addition to singing for two Popes, D'Or has also sung for Israeli President Shimon Peres, Italian President Giorgio Napolitano, King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand, the King and Queen of Sweden at the Swedish Royal Palace in Stockholm, Nelson Mandela, Tony Blair, and Bill Clinton.

D’Or has performed with the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, the Jerusalem Symphony Orchestra, the Rome Philharmonic, the London Symphony, the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, the Budapest Philharmonic, the China Philharmonic Orchestra, the Singapore Symphony Orchestra, the Belgrade Philharmonic Orchestra, the New York Symphony Orchestra, the Las Vegas Philharmonic Orchestra, and the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra.

D'Or has performed across the world, including in the United States, England, the Canary Islands, Sweden, Germany, Poland, Austria, Hungary, Serbia, Italy, Turkey, India, Thailand, Australia, China, Taiwan, Singapore, the Philippines, Morocco, and Israel. He sang before audiences of 55,000 people in Trafalgar Square in London, and 40,000 in Paris.

Pseudonym meaning
D'Or means "golden" or "of gold" in French, and in Francophone countries he is referred to as "golden David" or "David of gold".

Discography

Albums

See also
Music of Israel

References

External links

 David D'Or's official site
 http://mooma.mako.co.il/Biography.asp?ArtistId=1533 
 David D'Or bio at E! Online 

 Cattan, Olivia, "Rencontre avec David d’Or; «Il faut essayer de modifier la vision que les Français ont d’Israël et la musique est un bon moyen de le faire»" Interview with David D'Or, Communauté On Line 
 Bingham, Walter, "David D'Or interview," Israel Beat Jewish Music Podcast – 6/6/06
 Kohn, Rachel, "The Spirit of Things:  Singing the Tradition", David D'Or interview, ABC Radio National – 2/24/08
 Pavey, Sasha, "David D'Or interview; WOMADelaide Festival 2008", SBS World View Program – 6/13/08

1965 births
Living people
People from Holon
Countertenors
English-language singers from Israel
Eurovision Song Contest entrants of 2004
Israeli composers
Eurovision Song Contest entrants for Israel
21st-century Israeli male singers
20th-century Israeli male singers
Israeli people of Libyan-Jewish descent
Israeli pop singers
Jewish composers
Jewish singers
Jewish songwriters
Israeli male singer-songwriters
Israeli singer-songwriters