[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abu Omar al-Baghdadi

were released throughout 2009 and 2010.

Death 
On 18 April 2010, al-Baghdadi was killed when a joint operation of US and Iraqi forces rocketed a safe house  southwest of Tikrit. ISI Minister of War Abu Ayyub al-Masri and al-Baghdadi's son were also killed in the attack and 16 others were arrested.

Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki announced the killings of al-Baghdadi and al-Masri at a news conference in Baghdad and showed reporters photographs of their corpses. "The attack was carried out by ground forces which surrounded the house, and also through the use of missiles", al-Maliki said. "During the operation computers were seized with e-mails and messages to the two biggest terrorists, Osama bin Laden and [his deputy] Ayman al-Zawahiri", al-Maliki added. U.S. forces commander Gen. Raymond Odierno praised the operation. "The death of these terrorists is potentially the most significant blow to al-Qaida in Iraq since the beginning of the insurgency", he said. "There is still work to do but this is a significant step forward in ridding Iraq of terrorists".

Vice President Joe Biden said that the killings were "potentially devastating" blows to the terror network there and proof that Iraqi security forces are gaining ground. On 25 April 2010, a four-page statement by the Islamic State of Iraq was posted on a militant website early Sunday confirmed the death of al-Masri and Al-Baghdadi, saying "After a long journey filled with sacrifices and fighting falsehood and its representatives, two knights have dismounted to join the group of martyrs," the statement said. "We announce that the Muslim nation has lost two of the leaders of jihad, and two of its men, who are only known as heroes on the path of jihad." The ISI sharia minister, Abu al-Walid Abd al-Wahhab al-Mashadani, said the two leaders were attending a meeting when enemy forces engaged them in battle and launched an airstrike on their location.

He was succeeded by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who became the caliph of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).

See also 
 23 April 2009 Iraqi suicide attacks
 Abu Suleiman al-Naser

References

External links 

1959 births
2010 deaths
Assassinated al-Qaeda leaders
Fugitives wanted by Iraq
Iraqi al-Qaeda members
Iraqi Islamists
Iraqi Sunni Muslims
Leaders of Islamic terror groups
Members of al-Qaeda in Iraq
People from Al Anbar Governorate