[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Neo-Zionism

t-Zionism. If post-Zionism is the theory that Israel was created and the project is now finished, then neo-Zionism states that we are far from done with the project. The Jewish people are not yet back home, and we have yet to educate Jews to the concept of living a Torah life in the land of Israel."

Some associations in Israel, such as Im Tirtzu, defend Neo-Zionist ideology. Ronen Shoval, founder of the association states that "We need every Jewish heart and Zionist soul. Coordinators and activists of Im Tirtzu are hereby called to the flag. (...) [W]e will turn the Hebrew University into a Zionist society, and continue the second Zionist revolution!" His aims are "to restore Zionism to the center - for poets to poetize Zionism, for the writers to write Zionism, for academia to support Zionism and for the Ari Folmans (...) to make films about our ethos. Just as there are movies about gladiators, we will have movies about Judah Maccabee. What's wrong with that?"

Critics

According to Uri Ram, "Neo-Zionism (...) is an exclusionary, nationalist, even racist, and antidemocratic political-cultural trend, striving to heighten the fence encasing Israeli identity"; a point of view also reported by Gilbert Achcar.

According to Dana Eyal, "[her] country is hijacked by a group of racist religious Jews, who are much more of a threat to Israel than any Arab or Muslim country, including Iran". She gives the example of children of illegal immigrants born and living in Israel for years and that neo-Zionist groups want to see expelled because their presence is un-Zionistic. She thinks that "[t]his very narrow definition of Zionism dictates that Israel is and will remain a racist Jewish state" but also "that in Israel itself there is a (lazy) majority that is far from this. Zionism for us equals patriotism much like it does to Americans; wanting the best for your country, believing in its principals and defending it when necessary. Only we don't believe in many of the neo-orthodox principals popping out like mushrooms in the rain. For that matter, we no longer feel very Zionistic in an environment that embraces totality and purity of race (a calamitous similarity to things that should not be named)".

Post-Zionists have argued that Israel must choose between a Post-Zionist future and a Neo-Zionist future. Today, Israeli centrists have come to view both "Post-Zionism" and "Neo-Zionism" positions as threats to their position.

See also

New antisemitism
 Political ideology
 Self hating Jew
 Kahanism
 Religious Zionism
 Chardal
 Revisionist Zionism
 Zionist political violence

References

Further reading

Journalistic views about Neo-Zionism 
 Gershon Baskin, "Neo-Zionism, Religion, and Citizenship" Foreign Policy in Focus, September 26, 2007.
 
 David Breakstone, "Zionism isn't what it used to be" The Jerusalem Post, June 21, 2009
 Dana Agmon, "Neo-Zionism -- Israel's True Threat" The Huffington Post, October 12, 2010.

Neo-Zionist authors 
 Eliezer Don-Yehiya: "Memory and Political Culture: Israeli Society and the Holocaust". ;;Studies in Contemporary Jewry 9, 1993.
 Eitan Dor-Shav: Israel Museum and the Loss of National Memory, Tkhelet, 1998.
 Avraham Levit: Israeli Art on the Way to Somewhere Else. Tkhelet 3, 1998.
 Hillel Weiss: Defamation: Israeli Literature of Elimination''. Beit El, 1992.

Neo-Zionist lobbies 
 Kumah
 Im Tirtzu

 
Religious Zionism
Far-right politics in Israel
Right-wing populism in Israel
Types of Zionism
Six-Day War
Anti-Arabism in Israel