[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Introducing Joss Stone

anked number 38 on Radio & Recordss urban AC year-end chart of 2007 with 9,049 plays. "Baby Baby Baby" was released on 23 December 2007 as the album's third and final single. The song reached number eight on the UK R&B Singles Chart, but failed to chart on any other major charts.

Critical reception

Introducing Joss Stone received generally positive reviews from music critics. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalised rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream publications, the album received an average score of 64, based on 22 reviews. Rolling Stones Christian Hoard felt that "[t]here are a couple of moments on Stone's third album when she clobbers a melody with enough showy vocal oomph to make even Christina Aguilera fans squirm. But for the most part, Stone employs her remarkable instrument with focus and nuance on Introducing, and the result is an album full of solid pop-wise R&B." Mike Joseph of PopMatters commented that "[i]t's certainly the first great R&B album I've heard this year. While there's still the occasional affectation that I wish she would get rid of, Stone has grown into her music quite a bit."

Tim Perlich of Canadian newspaper Now noted, "With the fast-maturing Stone gaining greater control of her powerful pipes and a recent breakup adding to the underlying sexual tension while stoking the creative fire, the craftily reconstituted 70s R&B concept works exceptionally well." Blender critic David Browne wrote, "Nearly every song is a souped-up retro-funk tornado, pushed along by blaxploitation-soundtrack guitars, scenery-chewing backup singers and, of course, Stone's husky pipes." Both Billboard and Entertainment Weekly praised Saadiq's production; the former called it "brimming with horns and seriously in-the-pocket rhythm sections, but there are also enough hip-hop touches and contemporary arrangements to keep the tracks in the now", while the latter opined that "[h]e brings a strong focus to Introducing Joss Stone, blending the digital crispness of modern R&B with Stone's preferred flavors of retro: swooping Motown-style strings, girl-group background vocals, gutbucket soul guitar." In a review for AllMusic, Stephen Thomas Erlewine found that "Introducing does sound brighter, fresher than her other two albums, pitched partway between Amy Winehouse and Back to Basics Christina yet sounding very much like Texas at their prime, but it's all surface change."

Commercial performance
Introducing Joss Stone debuted at number 12 on the UK Albums Chart, selling 27,000 copies in its first week. The album was certified silver by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) on 22 July 2013, denoting shipments in excess of 60,000 copies. The album debuted on the US Billboard 200 at number two with first-week sales of over 118,000 copies, becoming Stone's highest-peaking album in the United States to date and the highest-charting debut for a British female solo artist on the Billboard 200 in the Nielsen SoundScan era, beating the record previously held by Amy Winehouse, whose album Back to Black had debuted at number seven the week before. This record was eventually broken by Leona Lewis's Spirit, which debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 in April 2008. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) certified the album gold on 1 May 2007, within two months of release. As of July 2011, it had sold 652,000 copies in the US.

The album debuted at number six on the Canadian Albums Chart and at number one on the R&B albums chart. It was certified gold by the Canadian Recording Industry Association (CRIA) on 11 April 2007 for sales in excess of 50,000 copies. In mainland Europe, Introducing Joss Stone peaked at number one in the Netherlands, and charted within the top five in Belgium and Switzerland, and the top 10 in Austria, Germany, Italy and Portugal. It was less successful in Nordic countries, peaking at number 27 in Norway, number 31 in Sweden and number 38 in Denmark, while failing to chart at all in Finland. Across Oceania, the album charted at number 15 in Australia and at number 17 in New Zealand. In March 2007, EMI reported that Introducing Joss Stone had sold 1.3 million copies worldwide.

Track listing

Notes
 "Music (Outro)" ends at 1:40, followed by silence until 3:10, when a hidden track consisting of a short song performed by Stone and Vinnie Jones begins.

Sample credits
 "Headturner" contains an interpolation of "Respect" by Otis Redding.
 "Music" contains an interpolation of "The Mask" by the Fugees.
 "Proper Nice" contains an interpolation of "Catch Me (I'm Falling)" by Pretty Poison.

Personnel
Credits adapted from the liner notes of Introducing Joss Stone.

Musicians