[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Otto Hahn Peace Medal

The Otto Hahn Peace Medal in Gold is named after the German nuclear chemist and 1944 Nobel Laureate Otto Hahn, an honorary citizen of Berlin.

The medal is in memory of his worldwide involvement in the politics of peace and humanitarian causes, in particular since the dropping of the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945 by the United States Army Air Forces.

It was established by his grandson Dietrich Hahn in 1988 and is awarded by the United Nations Association of Germany  (Deutsche Gesellschaft für die Vereinten Nationen, DGVN, Berlin-Brandenburg) to persons or institutions that have rendered "outstanding services to peace and international understanding". By tradition, the gold medal, together with a leather-bound diploma inlaid in gold, is presented in Berlin at a biennial ceremony on 17 December by the Governing Mayor of Berlin and the President of the DGVN.

On 17 December 1938, in Berlin-Dahlem, Otto Hahn and his assistant Fritz Strassmann discovered a new reaction in uranium (which exiled Lise Meitner and her nephew Otto Frisch two weeks later correctly interpreted as "nuclear fission") thus laying the scientific and technical foundations of nuclear energy. This 17 December 1938 therefore marks the beginning of the Atomic age, which from the scientific, political, economic, social and philosophical point of view has fundamentally changed the world.

Previous prizewinners
Source:

 

1988: Sandro Pertini – Italian politician, former President of the Republic of Italy, Rome, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially for his political ethics and practical humanity."
1989: Mikhail Gorbachev – Russian politician, President of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Moscow, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially for his contributions to nuclear disarmament of the great powers and the creation of a fundamentally new political order in Europe."
1991: Simon Wiesenthal – Austrian writer and founder of the Jewish Documentation Centre, Vienna, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially for his exemplary work for truth and justice, dignity and tolerance, and for reconciliation."
1993: Sir Karl R. Popper – British philosopher and theoretician of science, Kenley near London, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially for his achievements in social philosophy, which laid the theoretical foundations for the humane evolution of democratic societies."
1995: Hans Koschnick – German politician (SPD) and EU Administrator in Mostar, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bremen, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially for his humanitarian efforts in Bosnia-Herzegovina, which demonstrate in exemplary fashion how personal responsibility for the peace mission of the United Nations should be exercised."
1997: Lord Yehudi Menuhin – British violin virtuoso and conductor, London, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially for his unwavering and exemplary belief, demonstrated in his life, that music is in all circumstances a force for understanding and for peace."
1999: Gerd Ruge – German journalist and television documentary maker, Munich, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially for his commitment to the encouragement of objective reporting and for his exemplary work in promoting a better understanding of China, the Soviet Union and Russia."
2001: Miriam Makeba – South African singer, composer and human rights activist, Johannesburg, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially for her decades of opposition to racism and apartheid in South Africa, which made her a role model in the struggle for human rights, human dignity and tolerance."
2003: Mary Robinson – Irish politician, former President of the Republic of Ireland and UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Dublin, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially for her political leadership, which was marked by high humanitarian ideals, and her tireless and courageous efforts for the worldwide promotion and defence of human rights."
2005: Muhammad Ali – US American boxer, civil rights campaigner and UN Messenger of Peace, Berrien Springs, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially for his lifelong commitment to the American civil rights movement and the cultural and spiritual emancipation of black people throughout the world."
2008: Hans Küng – Swiss theologian, founder and President of the Global Ethic Foundation (Stiftung Weltethos), Tübingen, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially for his exemplary employment for humanity, tolerance and the dialogue between the great world religions."
2010: Daniel Barenboim – Argentine-Israeli pianist, conductor and UN Messenger of Peace, Ber