[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Cassano (1705)

The Battle of Cassano took place on 16 August 1705, during the War of the Spanish Succession, near Cassano d'Adda, in Lombardy, Italy. It was fought between a French army of 22,000 commanded by the duc de Vendôme and an Imperial force of 24,000 under Prince Eugene of Savoy.

In October 1703, Victor Amadeus II repudiated his treaty with France and joined the Grand Alliance. By August 1705, the French had occupied most of the Savoyard state, with the exception of its capital Turin. With Savoy on the brink of defeat, Imperial general Prince Eugene tried to relieve the pressure on Turin by crossing the River Adda at Cassano, and threatening Milan. Although taken by surprise, the French managed to hold the bridge after several hours of combat, both sides suffering heavy casualties.

The battle is generally viewed as inconclusive since while Vendôme prevented him crossing the Adda, Prince Eugene achieved his primary aim of delaying their assault on Turin until 1706. Vendôme and many of his troops were recalled to France after the Battle of Ramillies in May 1706, allowing the Imperialists to break the Siege of Turin in September; fighting in Northern Italy ended with the March 1707 Convention of Milan.

Background
The War of the Spanish Succession was triggered by the death in November 1700 of the childless Charles II of Spain. He named his heir as Philip of Anjou, grandson of Louis XIV of France, who on 16 November 1700 became ruler of the Spanish Empire. In addition to mainland Spain, this included the Spanish Netherlands, large parts of Italy, and much of Central and South America. In July 1701, disputes over territorial and commercial rights led to war between the Bourbon-led kingdoms of France and Spain, and the Grand Alliance, whose candidate was Charles, younger son of Leopold I, Holy Roman Emperor.

The war in Northern Italy centred on the Spanish-controlled Duchies of Milan and Mantua, which Leopold considered essential for the security of Austria's southern borders. In March 1701, both cities were occupied by French troops in alliance with Victor Amadeus II, ruler of Savoy, in return for which his daughter Maria Luisa of Savoy married Philip V. Following a series of British naval victories in the Mediterranean, Victor Amadeus switched sides in October 1703. During 1704, French forces under de La Feuillade captured Savoyard territories north of the Alps in Villefranche and the County of Savoy. By May 1705, Victor Amadeus controlled only the city of Nice, his capital of Turin, and parts of Southern Piedmont. 
 

Despite their alliance, Leopold mis-trusted Victor Amadeus, whose ultimate goal was to gain possession of Milan, while his resources were focused on suppressing an uprising in Hungary. However, with Savoy close to defeat, he sent his best general, Prince Eugene, to assume command in Italy, along with men and money, a policy continued after his death in May by Emperor Joseph. These Imperial troops were reinforced by 8,000 Prussians under Leopold of Anhalt-Dessau, who were funded by England and the Dutch Republic.

At the beginning of 1705, French troops in Lombardy were holding a line along the Oglio river, under the command of Philippe de Vendôme, younger brother of the duc de Vendôme and known as the "Grand Prior". The Imperial army quickly reached Brescia, forcing them to abandon these positions and retreat to the Adda. Leaving his deputy Louis d'Aubusson de La Feuillade to complete the capture of Nice, in July Vendôme moved to reinforce his brother, capturing the Savoyard fortresses at Crescentino and Chivasso as he did so. In order to relieve the pressure on Turin, Prince Eugene began marching along the left bank of the Adda, which allowed him to threaten Milan. With Philippe and 10,000 men blocking the closest suitable crossing point at Cassano d'Adda, Vendôme led a mobile reserve along the right bank tracking the Imperialists on the left.

When the Imperial army reached Iveza in the Brianza, they constructed a pontoon bridge under cover of artillery fire and Vendôme prepared to defend the crossing. This was a feint; after a perfunctory attempt to cross, Prince Eugene burned the bridge and headed towards Mantua. He then doubled back, hoping to catch the detachment at Cassano by surprise before they could be reinforced by the main French army, and on 14 August reached Romanengo, about 40 kilometres away.

Battle

A deep and fast-flowing river, the Adda had limited crossing points, especially for large bodies of men. The town of Cassano was on the right bank, with a stone bridge protected by a small fortification or redoubt. The area was also divided by numerous small streams and irrigation channels, the most significant being the Retorto, an irrigation canal running parallel to the Adda. This was connected to the left bank by another bridge, protected by another strongpoint.