[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Great Green Wall (Africa)

nt of the wall was complete with significant gains made in Nigeria, Senegal and Ethiopia. In Senegal, over 11 million trees had been planted. Nigeria has restored 4.9 million ha (12 million acres; 49,000 km2) of degraded land and Ethiopia has reclaimed 15 million ha (37 million acres; 150,000 km2). 

On the occasion of the fifteenth anniversary of the launch of the program, a report is commissioned by the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) and published on September 7, 2020. It was reported that the Great Green Wall had only covered 4% of the planned area, with only 4 million hectares (9.8 million acres) planted. Ethiopia has had the most success with 5.5 billion seedlings planted, but Chad has only planted 1.1 million. Doubt was raised over the survival rate of the 12 million trees planted in Senegal.

In January 2021, the project received a boost at the One Planet Summit, where its partners pledged USD 14.3 billion to launch the Great Green Wall Accelerator, aimed at facilitating the collaboration and coordination among donors and involved stakeholders across 11 countries. As of March 2023, $2.5 billion of that pledge had been disbursed. 

According to the second edition of the Global Land Outlook (GLO2) published by the (UNCCD) in April of 2022 one reason the project has experienced implementation challenges is the political risk associated with investing in more fragile nations as well as the fact that many "GGW projects generate low economic returns compared to the significant environmental and social benefits accrued that often have little or no market value." Furthermore, international donors seem to favor investing in more stable nations picking and choosing which projects they will fund and leaving nations with less stable governments behind.

As of 2023, about 18 million hectares or 18% of the target had been restored. The estimated $33 billion to fund the project experienced unfulfilled promises, delays and poor coordination.

Non-profit Tree Aid partnered with the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to grow an “Olympic forest” in Mali and Senegal to grow more than 589,000 trees. The team selected 55 woody/herbaceous indigenous species with economic value, including baobab (Adansonia digitata) balanite (Balanites aegyptiaca), African crabwood (Carapa procera); gum acacia (Senegalia senegal); tamarind (Tamarindus indica), and African grape (Lannea microcarpa). Pilot restorers planted 2,235 hectares, creating opportunities for sustainable income for 32,000 people. Wild-collected seeds were added to the seed.

Monitoring 
Little monitoring and record keeping has been conducted, including even where projects occurred.

The Sudan and Southern Sudan insurgencies further complicated monitoring. Locusts have damaged multiple projects.

Partners
The Initiative brings together more than 20 countries, including Algeria, Burkina Faso, Benin, Chad, Cape Verde, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, The Gambia and Tunisia. 

Regional and international partners include:

 African Forest Forum (AFF) 
 African Union Commission (AUC)
 Association for the promotion of education and training abroad (APEFE)
 Arab Maghreb Union (UMA)
 Community of Sahel-Saharan States (CEN-SAD)
 Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) 
 European Union (EU)
 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
 Global Mechanism of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (GM-UNCCD)
 Intergovernmental Authority on Development in Eastern Africa (IGAD)
 MDG Center for West and Central Africa (MDG-WCA)
 Pan African Farmers Organization (PAFO)
 Panafrican Agency of the Great Green Wall (PAGGW)
 Permanent Interstate Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel (CILSS)
 Sahara and Sahel Observatory (OSS)
 Secretariat of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD-Secretariat)
 United Nations Development Programme–Drylands, Development Center (UNDP-DDC)
 United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP)
 United Nations Environment Programme–World Conservation Monitoring Center (UNEP-WCMC) 
 Walloon Region of Belgium, Wallonie-Bruxelles International
 World Agroforestry Centre (ICRAF)
 World Overview of Conservation Approaches and Technologies (WOCAT)
 The World Bank

Major principles
The project encompasses the Saharan strip, north and south borders, including Saharan oases and enclaves.

The GGWSSI intends to strengthen existing mechanisms (such as Comprehensive African Agricultural Development Program, Environmental Program (CAADP) of New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), regional, sub-regional, and national action programmes to combat desertification) to improve their efficiency through synergy and coordination activities.