[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Canadian passport

.

Certificate of Identity (grey cover)
 These documents are issued to individuals in Canada in accordance to the 1954 Convention Relating to the Status of Stateless Persons. Which grants individuals who are stateless or permanent residents of Canada to obtain a national passport or travel document.

Physical appearance 
Regular passports are deep navy blue, with the Royal Coat of Arms of Canada and a Canadian maple leaf emblazoned on the bottom left. The words "PASSPORT•" are inscribed above the coat of arms, with "CANADA" above.  and the international e-passport symbol () is located on the bottom right corner. The bilingual cover is indicative of the textual portions of Canadian passports being printed in both English and French, Canada's two official languages. The standard passport contains 36 pages, with 29 available for entry/exit stamps and visas. The size dimensions of a closed Canadian passport are 8.89 cm (3.5") by 12.7 cm (5").

New security features, similar to those on banknotes, have been added with increasing frequency since 2001. Microprinting, holographic images, UV-visible imaging, watermarks and other details have been implemented, particularly on the photo page. As well, the photo is now digitally printed directly on the paper (in both standard and UV-reactive ink); previously, the actual photo had been laminated inside the document.

Data page 
 Photo of the passport holder
 Type (Type): P
 Issuing Country (Pays émetteur): listed as "CAN" for "Canada"
 Passport No. (Nº de passeport): 2 letters and 6 numbers
 Surname (Nom)
 Given Names (Prénoms)
 Nationality (Nationalité): Canadian nationality marked as "Canadian/Canadienne" in both English and French
 Date of Birth (Date de naissance)
 Sex (Sexe): "F" for female, "M" for male, "X" for another gender
 Place of Birth (Lieu de naissance): the city and three-letter country code are listed, even if born inside Canada
 Note: Province or State is required on the application form, if applicable, but is not listed in the passport.
 Date of Issue (Date de délivrance)
 Issuing Authority (Autorité de délivrance)
 Date of Expiry (Date d'expiration)

The information page ends with the Machine Readable Zone.

Signature 
From 2002 until May 2015, all Canadian passports contained two signature spaces: one is on the data page where a scanned signature is printed along with other personal details, the other is a blank signature block on page 3. After the applicants have received the passport, those over 16 must also sign in the signature block in ink.

Since May 2015, the passport bearer's scanned signature has not been printed on the data page. Adult applicants, however, must still sign page 3 in the passport book when they receive it.

Sex 
On 24 August 2017 the Canadian government announced that it would implement procedures for Canadians who wish to have their sex given as X (unspecified) on Canadian passports, which is one of the three permitted sex designations for machine-readable passports along with M (male) and F (female) specified by the International Civil Aviation Organization. As an interim measure until IRCC became able to print passports with X sex designations, effective 31 August 2017 IRCC offered passports with a note on the Observations page indicating that the passport holder should be identified as X rather than the printed sex designation on the data page. Since 11 July 2019, the X designation has been printed on the data page, although travellers are warned that other countries may insist on a male or female designation.

Passport note 
The passports contain a note from the issuing authority addressed to the authorities of all other states, identifying the bearer as a citizen of that state and requesting that they be allowed to pass and be treated according to international norms. The textual portions of Canadian passports are printed in English and French, the official languages of Canada. The note inside of Canadian passports states, in English:

The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Canada requests, in the name of His Majesty the King, all those whom it may concern to allow the bearer to pass freely, without delay or hindrance, and to afford the bearer such assistance and protection as may be necessary.

And in French:

Passports issued before May 2023 are issued in the name of Her late Majesty the Queen will remain valid until they expire.