[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# The Settlers II

ty to debug code as we do today. It was just not working as we wanted it to work". When The Settlers III went into development in 1997, Blue Byte again sought feedback from fans, and one of the most requested aspects for the new game was that the shipping system from The Settlers II be reprogrammed.

Mac OS version
In August 1997, Blue Byte announced that they would be releasing the game for Mac OS later that year. Häuser explained: "We could not and would not ignore any longer the constant requests from Mac users. However, converting such a complex game as The Settlers II over to the Macintosh meant breaking new ground, not only for ourselves, but also for the industry. It was not easy to find programmers capable of not only replicating The Settlers high quality, but also meeting the reputed demands of Mac users". Alexander B. Christof of Austrian conversion specialists, Similis, stated, "because the Mac has a completely different processor structure, the complex Settlers animation - with its thousands of animation phases - have had to be totally redesigned. The landscape routines which have been optimised for Intel processors have also had to be reconstructed". However, in April 1998, Blue Byte CEO and producer of The Settlers II, Thomas Hertzler, announced that the company would not be releasing any further titles on Mac, citing poor sales and lack of support from Apple Inc.: "We have recently reviewed the situation and feel that due to the small number of sales for The Settlers II on Macintosh, it would not be beneficial for Blue Byte to continue developing and publishing titles for the Macintosh. As a huge Mac fan, I was disappointed that we didn't receive support from Apple when working on this title".

Nintendo DS version

In July 2006, Ubisoft, who had acquired Blue Byte in February 2001, announced they would be releasing The Settlers II for Nintendo DS, the first time any game in the series had been released for a system other than a home computer. Whilst the press release referred to the game as The Settlers, the description of the port clarified that it was The Settlers II: Gold Edition, with references to "Roman or World Campaigns". Although Ubisoft and Blue Byte were simultaneously working on a remake of The Settlers II for Microsoft Windows, The Settlers II (10th Anniversary), The Settlers for Nintendo DS would rather be a 1:1 re-release of the original Settlers II, with updated controls and a slightly modified interface. For example, the game uses one of the DS's screens for the various menu functions and Activity Windows, and the other displays the main action. Players are able to swap which screen displayed what, whilst the game is completely touch controlled, with the DS stylus substituting for the mouse on both views.

Although the idea of doing a straight re-release of the game initially seemed like a straightforward task, the implementation proved somewhat more complicated, due to the different architectures of a PC and a DS. For example, to get the graphics to look identical to their 1996 incarnation, they had to be completely rewritten for the new device; behind the replication of the original's 2D isometric graphics, a 3D game engine is running, which must convert the graphics in real time.

In March 2007, German gaming website Gameswelt published an interview with Blue Byte in which they discussed adapting the game to a handheld device. Speaking of the logistics of the port, they stated:

Explaining why they had chosen the DS as the platform to which to port the game, they explained:

They also pointed out that aside from the use of the stylus and the two screens, the gameplay and graphics were unaltered from the original.