[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kabiye language

Kabiye (; also rendered Kabiyé, Kabiyè, Kabye, Kabyé, Kabyè, Cabrai or Cabrais) is an Eastern Gurunsi Gur language spoken primarily in northern Togo. Throughout the 20th century, there was extensive migration to the centre and south of Togo and also to Ghana and Benin. Kabiye speakers made up over 23% of the Togolese population in 1999.

Status
Kabiye is one of two national languages of Togo (along with Ewe). In the Togolese context, national language currently means that the language is promoted in national media and, in the formal education sector, as an optional exam subject in grades 9 and 10.

Linguistic research
The missionary-linguist Jacques Delord published the first descriptive grammar of Kabiye in 1976. This was followed by Kezié Lébikaza's descriptive grammar in 1999, which remains the key reference work in Kabiye linguistics. There is also a Kabiye-French dictionary. Other topics that have been the focus of research include: Comparative linguistics, Discourse analysis, Language contact, Lexicology,  Morphology, Phonology,  Sociolinguistics, Syntax, Tone orthography, Tonology, and the verb system.

Publications
The earliest known publications in Kabiye appeared in the 1930s. Altogether there have been about 200 publications in Kabiye, though not all of these are still in print or easily available for purchase. For an inventory up to the turn of the century see Pouwili, 1999. Publications include two books of proverbs, folktales, poetry, medical booklets, agricultural booklets, translations of the Bible, political tracts, religious tracts, a short novel, primers, and other pedagogical materials.

Kabiye Wikipedia
The Kabiye Wikipedia was initiated in June 2014 by Gnasse Atinèdi, the secretary of the Académie Kabiye. It currently (July 2017) has 1185 articles on a wide range of international subjects.

Phonology

Consonants

The five voiced consonant sounds  only occur either word-medially or as allophones. 

The retroflex sound  can occur as voiced allophones of , , or  in medial position.

Vowels

Short vowels

Long vowels

The long back unrounded vowels only occur at morpheme boundaries.

Tones
Kabiye is a tonal language, meaning that pitch differences are used to distinguish one word from another. These contrasts may be lexical (e.g. ɖálʊ́ "elder brother" ~ ɖálʊ̀ "intestinal worm") or grammatical (e.g. ɛɛkɔŋ́ "he isn't coming" ~ ɛɛ́kɔŋ "(when) he comes" ~ ɛ́ɛkɔ́ŋ "if he doesn't come).

There are two tones, high (H) and low (L). Six tone contours are possible on mono- and disyllabic nouns (H, L, HL, LH, HLH, LHL) and three on the imperative form of the verb (H, L, HL).

Kabiye also has automatic downstep, where a H following a L is always pronounced on a lower pitch than the preceding H within the same phonological phrase. Numerous tonal processes occur once words are placed in context.

The contour HLH always surfaces as HꜜHH ~ HHꜜH (depending on the consonant–vowel structure that it associates to). This is a postlexical process that occurs wherever the context permits, within words and across word boundaries.

There is lexical L tone spreading in the verb phrase and the associative noun phrase.

Vowel harmony
Kabiye has vowel harmony, meaning that the quality of the vowel in an affix is determined by that of the root vowel. There are two kinds:

 ATR vowel harmony, in which words contain either the −ATR vowels  (e.g. ɛ-ñɩmɩ́-yɛ "his key") or the +ATR vowels  (e-kalími-yé "his chicken"). The vowel  is unspecified for ATR and can occur in either set.

 Lip rounding vowel harmony, in which some affixes contains either unrounded vowels  or rounded vowels . This process is much more limited, occurring in some TAM suffixes (e.g. è-kpéz-íɣ́ "he coughs" / è-ɖóz-ùù "he dreams") and some adjectival prefixes (e.g. kɩ́-kpɛ̀d-ʊ̀ʊ́ "black", kʊ́-hʊ̀lʊ̀m-ʊ́ʊ̀ "white"). Again, the vowel  is unspecified for ATR and can occur in either set.

A limited number of prefixes undergo both vowel harmony processes, e.g. the first person plural subject pronoun: pà-kpàzá-à "they coughed", pɛ̀-wɛ̀ɛ́tà-à "they whispered", pè-wèlìsàá "they listened", pɔ̀-cɔ́nà-à "they looked", pò-ɖòzà-á "they dreamt".

Orthography
Kabiye was first written in the 1930s, but it was in the early 1980s that the Comité de Langue Nationale Kabiyè (now the Académie Kabiyè), an organ of the Togolese Ministry of Education, standardized the orthography. Kabiye is written in modified Roman script based on the character inventory of the African reference alphabet. An alternative orthography, devised and promoted by R.P. Adjola Raphaël, is widely used among Catholics; it uses the same letters but with different spelling rules. The following tables show the grapheme-phoneme correspondences in the Standard orthography.

Consonants

The orthography contains a significant amount of overspecification, since the 5 voiced obstruent graphemes b, g, gb, v, j are superfluous from a strictly phonemic point of view.

The grapheme  is reserved for loanwords.