[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Economy of the Middle East

expatriate labor.  To take its first steps in economic independence it has signed a Free Trade Agreement with the United States and is seeking to do the same with the European Union, China, and Japan.  It is currently maneuvering itself into the re-export and heavy-manufacturing markets.

Palestine

The economy of Palestine has been severely depressed by the ongoing occupation of Israel. Production has dropped since the beginning of the Second Intifada in 2000. The Gaza Strip has been blockaded by Israel and Egypt since June 2007 after Hamas took control of Gaza in the course of a conflict with rival Palestinian group Fatah. In May 2010, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs stated that the formal economy in Gaza has collapsed since the imposition of the blockade. The West Bank has fared significantly better since the split in the Palestinian power structure, and Fatah took power in the West Bank. The official GDP per capita of the West Bank was more than double that of the Gaza Strip in 2015. Palestine remains almost entirely dependent on foreign aid. Collectively, Palestine had a per capita GDP of $4,300 in 2014.

Qatar

Qatar currently enjoys the region's highest per capita GDP at $128,000.  It has derived its wealth from exploiting its natural gas reserves.  With the revenues from its hydrocarbon industries Qatar has established a rentier economy.  Qatar has also established the largest per capita sovereign wealth fund in the world.  With a population under one million, the government has not found it necessary to diversify its economy.

Saudi Arabia

The economy of Saudi Arabia is one of the top twenty economies in the world, and the largest economy in the Arab world and the Middle East. Saudi Arabia is part of the G20 group of countries.

With a total worth of $34.4 trillion, Saudi Arabia has the second most valuable natural resources in the world.
The country has the second-largest proven petroleum reserves, and is the largest exporter of petroleum in the world.
It also has the fifth-largest proven natural gas reserves and is considered an "Energy Superpower".

The economy of Saudi Arabia is heavily dependent on oil, and is a member of OPEC. In 2016 the Saudi Government launched its Saudi Vision 2030 to reduce the country's dependency on oil and diversify its economic resources. In the first quarter of 2019, Saudi Arabia's budget has accomplished its first surplus since 2014. This surplus that is accounted for $10.40 billion has been achieved due to the increase of the oil and non-oil revenues.

Syria

Stemming from a 1960s nationalization effort most of the Syrian economy is run by the government.  However, an inefficient public sector, significant domestic subsidies, and considerable intervention investment in Lebanon have led to significant problems of inflation and external debt.  Consequently, the Syrian government has undertaken modest privatization reform in preparation for the opening of the Damascus Stock Exchange in 2009.  Modest oil production and an agriculture sector lead Syria's production while most of its employment is in the service sector.  Its per capita GDP stands at $4,900.

Turkey

Turkey is the largest economy in the Middle East followed by Saudi Arabia, Iran and the UAE. Turkey has the world's 15th largest GDP-PPP and 15th largest Nominal GDP. The country is a founding member of the OECD (1961) and the G-20 major economies (1999). Turkey has been part of the EU Customs Union since 31 December 1995.

Turkey is often classified as a newly industrialized country by economists and political scientists; while Merrill Lynch, the World Bank and The Economist magazine describe Turkey as an emerging market economy.

Turkey is restructuring its economy in an attempt to gain full European Union membership.  It began this policy in the early 1970s, abandoning its previous import substitution industrialization policy.  As privatization has taken hold in Turkey it has brought with it significant foreign direct investment.  Additionally, the Baku–Tbilisi–Ceyhan pipeline has brought revenue to Turkey and enabled it to share in some of the regional hydrocarbon wealth.  Turkey's economy is currently led by its automobile, agricultural, construction and textile sectors.  It has a per capita GDP of $11,200, supplemented by some 1.2 million Turks working abroad.