[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Helen Lundeberg

rt of the permanent collection of the Nevada Museum of Art.

Lundeberg's work with the WPA in Southern California is noteworthy both because her works were well-received and because she was one of only three women artists in Southern California making public artwork for the WPA.

Move to abstraction

During the 1950s, Lundeberg moved towards geometric abstraction and Hard Edge painting and away from the representational sensibility that had informed her early work. Though always based in reality, Lundeberg created mysterious images that exist somewhere between abstraction and figuration. Repeatedly described as formal and lyrical, Lundeberg's paintings rely on precise compositions that utilize various restricted palettes. Paintings from this period employ the idea of "mood entity", a concept in Post Surrealism that was concerned with evoking states of mind, moods and emotional content unique to each work. Lundeberg and Feitelson were part of a loose group of Post-Surrealists that also included the artists Grace Clements, Philip Guston, Reuben Kadish, Harold Lehman, Lucien Labaudt, Knud Merrild, and Etienne Ret. During this period, Lundeberg was one of the most prolific painters working in Southern California.

In the 1960s and 1970s, Lundeberg continued her journey through abstraction, exploring imagery associated with landscapes, interiors, still life, planetary forms and intuitive compositions.  She often revisited compositions or themes in various palettes.  In the 1980s, Lundeberg created a series of paintings that deal with landscapes and architectural elements. Her love of the 15th Century Italian Classicists is reflected in many of these works.  Throughout her 60-year career, Lundeberg imbued her work with a strong personal vision and a nuanced palette.  She created her last known work, the painting Two Mountains, in 1990. In 1999, at the age of 91, Lundeberg died from complications from pneumonia.

Notable achievements 

Helen was gifted child since high school, and was among one of the few children to be selected to take part in a study ran by Dr. Lewis Terman from Stanford University. 

In 1949, Lundeberg was awarded first purchase prize for The Clouds in the "Ninth Invitational Purchase Prize Art Exhibition", sponsored by the Chaffey Community Art Association, California. In 1950, she received $1,000 First Purchase Award for Spring in the "1950 Annual Exhibition/Artists of Los Angeles and Vicinity." Los Angeles County Museum.

Helen Lundeberg's paintings have been exhibited widely in prominent museums, including the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, Whitney Museum of American Art in New York, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the Brooklyn Museum, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Nora Eccles Harrison Museum of Art at Utah State University and the National Museum of American Art in Washington, D.C. Her work was most recently included in the J. Paul Getty Museum's Pacific Standard Time: Crosscurrents in L.A. Painting and Sculpture, 1950–1970, and in the Los Angeles County Museum of Art exhibition titled In Wonderland: The Surrealist Adventures of Women Artists in Mexico and the United States.

The American band, Sonic Youth have a song called "Helen Lundeberg" on their 2006 album Rather Ripped, whose lyrics list the titles of Lundeberg's paintings included in her exhibition Illusory Landscape at Louis Stern Fine Arts.

References

External links 
Interview of Helen Lundeberg, part of Los Angeles Art Community – Group Portrait, Center for Oral History Research, UCLA Library Special Collections, University of California, Los Angeles.
 Louis Stern Fine Arts
 The Feitelson / Lundeberg Art Foundation website for Helen Lundeberg

1908 births
1999 deaths
American women painters
Painters from Chicago
Painters from California
Art in Greater Los Angeles
American muralists
Federal Art Project artists
20th-century American women artists
20th-century American painters
American people of Swedish descent
Artists from Pasadena, California
American women muralists
Deaths from pneumonia in California