[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Bint Jbeil

The Battle of Bint Jbeil was one of the main battles of the 2006 Lebanon War. Bint Jbeil (, Bint Jubayl) is a major town of some 20,000 (mainly Shia) inhabitants in Southern Lebanon. Although Brig.-Gen. Gal Hirsch announced on 25 July that the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) had "complete control" of Bint Jbeil, this statement was later discredited. In spite of three sustained attempts by the IDF to conquer the town, it remained in the hands of Hezbollah until the end of the war. The town was the scene of some of the fiercest fighting of the war, with both sides taking heavy losses. Three senior Israeli officers, including Major Roi Klein, were killed in the battle. Hezbollah similarly lost several commanders, most notably Khalid Bazzi, commander of the Bint Jbeil area.

Background
Bint Jbeil was a major center for the Lebanese resistance during the 18 years of Israeli occupation. Following Israel's withdrawal from South Lebanon in 2000 the town became an important base for Hezbollah. Hezbollah Secretary General Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah held his victory speech in Bint Jbeil after the Israeli withdrawal, in front of a joyful audience of more than 100 000 people, Muslims and Christians, where he belittled Israeli power:
Barak is today calling on Lebanon to consider the withdrawal as a token of peace. This is treachery. He left having no other option... Barak still holds our prisoners in his jails, occupies territory dear to us – namely the Shebaa Farms... every prisoner in Israeli jails will soon, God willing, be back home among you. Barak and his government have no choice: I advice him to leave the Shebaa farms... he has no other choice... I tell you: the Israel that owns nuclear weapons and has the strongest air force in the region is weaker than a spider's web.

The spider's web (, bayt al-'ankabout). lit. "the house of the spider"), has a special significance in Islam. In Ayah 29:41 of the Quran, the unbelievers choice of other protectors than God, is compared to the spider's choice of nest: "the weakest nest of all, is the spider's web".

According to Israeli journalist Amir Rapaport Nasrallah's speech infuriated the IDF Command which over time developed a "cobwebs complex". The 2006 Lebanon war finally presented an opportunity to get even. Senior IDF officers, such as Chief of Staff Dan Halutz and Chief of Operations Gadi Eisenkot claimed that Bint Jbeil was an important "symbol". They hoped to capture the town and bring an Israeli leader to hold a victory speech at the same place where Nasrallah held his speech in 2000. Instead, according to Rapaport, Bint Jbeil would come to symbolize failure.

According to IDF estimates Bint Jbeil and the nearby town of Aynata was defended by 100-140 fighters, about 60 of whom belonged to the local garrison and around 40 belonged to the Hezbollah Special Force. The primary aim of the Hezbollah forces in the string of positions along the border was not to hold territory but to bleed the Israelis and slow down their advance.

Operation Webs of Steel 2 (23–29 July)

Initially, Israel had no intention of capturing Bint Jbeil. Rather, the IDF sought to control the city from outside. Brig.-Gen. Shuky Shachrur, the Northern Command's chief of staff, said the plan was to raid specific targets based on intelligence. Brig.-Gen. Gal Hirsch told a Table News Network correspondent that "We can direct precise fire at every point that is needed [within the town] and bring the forces to a situation of minimum risk".

However, as the war went on, the Israeli leadership changed its position on Bint Jbeil. Despite the claims of progress there was "nothing tangible to put on display" to show for it, and a clear victory at Bint Jbeil could well be the watershed in the war. A Hezbollah surrender here was hoped to create a "ripple effect" on the other strongholds in South Lebanon.

The IDF, however, was divided over exactly how to deal with the town. Some proposed an outright occupation of the town while others a more subtle approach, surrounding it and raiding Hezbollah positions in it. Brig.-Gen. Gal Hirsch of the 91st Division wanted to conquer Bint Jbeil, not just to raid it. It was his division headquarters that came up with the name "Operation Webs of Steel" ().

The operation was planned as a pincer movement with the Golani Brigade approaching the town from the east and the Paratroopers Brigade from the west. The paratroopers however set out too late and were ordered to halt before reaching their designated positions. Since the painful experiences of the Maglan at Maroun ar-Ras, Israeli forces were not allowed to advance in daylight. The northern side of the town was intentionally left open, apparently to provide an escape route for the town's defenders. Instead Hezbollah used the opportunity to send in reinforcements to the town. According to the orders issued by the IDF Northern Command on 22 July, the IDF should not enter Bint Jbeil. The town was to be encircled but not occupied.