[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# Andrew Johnson

s by such historians as Fawn Brodie, the former president was depicted as a successful saboteur of efforts to better the freedman's lot. These volumes included major biographies of Stevens and Stanton. Reconstruction was increasingly seen as a noble effort to integrate the freed slaves into society.

In the early 21st century, Johnson is among those commonly mentioned as the worst presidents in U.S. history. According to historian Glenn W. Lafantasie, who believes James Buchanan the worst president, "Johnson is a particular favorite for the bottom of the pile because of his impeachment ... his complete mishandling of Reconstruction policy ... his bristling personality, and his enormous sense of self-importance." Tolson suggests that "Johnson is now scorned for having resisted Radical Republican policies aimed at securing the rights and well-being of the newly emancipated African-Americans." Gordon-Reed notes that Johnson, along with his contemporaries Pierce and Buchanan, is generally listed among the five worst presidents, but states "there have never been more difficult times in the life of this nation. The problems these men had to confront were enormous. It would have taken a succession of Lincolns to do them justice."

Trefousse considers Johnson's legacy to be "the maintenance of white supremacy. His boost to Southern conservatives by undermining Reconstruction was his legacy to the nation, one that would trouble the country for generations to come." Gordon-Reed states of Johnson:

See also

 Efforts to impeach Andrew Johnson
 Lincoln–Johnson ledger-removal allegation
 Andrew Johnson alcoholism debate
 
 Amphitheatrum Johnsonianum – 1867 illustration
 Tennessee Johnson – 1942 film

Notes

References

Citations

Works cited

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  vol 5 1864–66 online and vol 6 1866–72 online
 
 
 
 
 Swanson, Ryan A. "Andrew Johnson and His Governors: An Examination of Failed Reconstruction Leadership." Tennessee Historical Quarterly 71.1 (2012): 16–45. online

Primary sources

Further reading 

 Foner, Eric. The Dunning School: Historians, Race, and the Meaning of Reconstruction (University Press of Kentucky, 2013).
 Hardison, Edwin T. "In the toils of war: Andrew Johnson and the federal occupation of Tennessee, 1862-1865" (PhD thesis; . The University of Tennessee, 1981).
 
  excerpt
  McGuire, Tom. "Andrew Johnson and the northern revolution" (PhD thesis, Columbia University; ProQuest Dissertations Publishing,  2007. 3266640).
 Miller, Zachary A. "False Idol: The Memory of Andrew Johnson and Reconstruction in Greeneville, Tennessee 1869-2022" (MA thesis, East Tennessee State University ProQuest Dissertations Publishing,  2022. 29384020).
 O'Brien, John J., III. "The Mechanic Statesman and the Military Chieftain: Andrew Johnson, William B. Campbell and the Meaning of Liberty and Union in Antebellum Tennessee" (PhD thesis, Saint Louis University; ProQuest Dissertations Publishing, 2017. 10277975).
 Wedge, Lucius. "Andrew Johnson and the ministers of Nashville: A study in the relationship between war, politics, and morality" (PhD thesis, University of Akron; ProQuest Dissertations Publishing,  2013. 3671127).

External links 

 
 Andrew Johnson National Historic Site
 Andrew Johnson: A Resource Guide – Library of Congress
 Essays on Andrew Johnson and his presidency from the Miller Center of Public Affairs
 "Life Portrait of Andrew Johnson", from C-SPAN's American Presidents: Life Portraits, July 9, 1999
 Text of a number of Johnson's speeches at the Miller Center of Public Affairs
 Andrew Johnson Personal Manuscripts and Letters – Shapell Manuscript Foundation
 Resolutions of Impeachment from the National Archives
 Tennessee State Library and Archives/Tennessee Virtual Archive/Andrew Johnson Collection/Andrew Johnson Bicentennial, 1808–2008