[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Andy Carvin

rs in the past, Mark Stencel, NPR's managing editor for digital news, granted the request, saying that Carvin was "uniquely suited" for the role.

Carvin was a recipient of the Journalism Awards: Special Distinction Award, Knight-Batten Award for Innovation for his Twitter reporting, July 2011. Link

On August 21, 2011, as armed fighters rolled into the city of Tripoli, Libya, in a bid to oust Muammar Gaddafi from his 42-year rule of the country, cable news stations in the U.S. appeared unprepared to cover the breaking news event, but Carvin tweeted over 800 times, "recording the oral history in real time." He was profiled in Britain's The Guardian newspaper as "the man who tweets revolutions".

The Daily Dot recognized Carvin as second only to online hacktivist group Anonymous in his influence on Twitter in the year 2011. In its writeup of Carvin, the Dot compared him to Edward R. Murrow, whose radio coverage of the London Blitz established him as a household name in the United States during World War II.

On January 25, 2013, Carvin conducted an AMA on Reddit to promote his new book, Distant Witness.

Carvin donated the iPhone he used to tweet during the Arab Spring to the American History Museum.

Notes and references

External links
 Andy Carvin's personal website
 Digital Divide Network
 PBS learning.now  (blog)
 EdWeb: Exploring Technology & School Reform
 The Gates @ Central Park
 Mobcasting (blog)
 Katrina Aftermath (blog)
 TsunamiHelp (blog)
 Mind the Gap: The Digital Divide as the Civil Rights Issue of the New Millennium 1999 essay by Andy Carvin, Multimedia Schools magazine
 Andy Carvin's Twitter feed

1971 births
Digital divide activists
Living people
NPR personalities
Non-profit technology
Northwestern University alumni
Journalists from Boston
Journalists from Florida
American reporters and correspondents
Video bloggers
American male bloggers
American bloggers
People from Silver Spring, Maryland
21st-century American non-fiction writers
American YouTubers
Shorty Award winners