[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zero field NMR

polarization techniques, which are chemical and physical methods to generate nuclear spin polarization. Examples include parahydrogen-induced polarization, spin-exchange optical pumping of noble gas atoms, dissolution dynamic nuclear polarization, and chemically-induced dynamic nuclear polarization.

Excitation and spin manipulation
NMR experiments require creating a transient non-stationary state of the spin system. In conventional high-field experiments, radio frequency pulses tilt the magnetization from along the main magnetic field direction to the transverse plan. Once in the transverse plan, the magnetization is no longer in a stationary state (or eigenstate) and so it begins to precess about the main magnetic field creating a detectable oscillating magnetic field.

In ZULF experiments, constant magnetic field pulses are used to induce non-stationary states of the spin system. The two main strategies consist of (1) switching of the magnetic field from pseudo-high field to zero (or ultra-low) field, or (2) of ramping down the magnetic field experienced by the spins to zero field in order to convert the Zeeman populations into zero-field eigenstates adiabatically and subsequently in applying a constant magnetic field pulse to induce a coherence between the zero-field eigenstates. In the simple case of a heteronuclear pair of J-coupled spins, both these excitation schemes induce a transition between the singlet and triplet-0 states, which generates a detectable oscillatory magnetic field.
More sophisticated pulse sequences have been reported including selective pulses, two-dimensional experiments and decoupling schemes.

Signal detection
NMR signals are usually detected inductively, but the low frequencies of the electromagnetic radiation emitted by samples in a ZULF experiment makes inductive detection impractical at low fields. Hence, the earliest approach for measuring zero-field NMR in solid samples was via field-cycling techniques. The field cycling involves three steps: preparation, evolution and detection.  In the preparation stage, a field is applied in order to magnetize the nuclear spins. Then the field is suddenly switched to zero to initiate the evolution interval and the magnetization evolves under the zero-field Hamiltonian. After a time period, the field is again switched on and the signal is detected inductively at high field. In a single field cycle, the magnetization observed corresponds only to a single value of the zero-field evolution time. The time-varying magnetization can be detected by repeating the field cycle with incremented lengths of the zero-field interval, and hence the evolution and decay of the magnetization is measured point by point. The Fourier transform of this magnetization will result to the zero-field absorption spectrum.

The emergence of highly sensitive magnetometry techniques has allowed for the detection of zero-field NMR signals in situ. Examples include superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs), magnetoresistive sensors, and SERF atomic magnetometers. SQUIDs have high sensitivity, but require cryogenic conditions to operate, which makes them practically somewhat difficult to employ for the detection of chemical or biological samples. Magnetoresistive sensors are less sensitive, but are much easier to handle and to bring close to the NMR sample which is advantageous since proximity improves sensitivity. The most common sensors employed in ZULF NMR experiments are optically-pumped magnetometers, which have high sensitivity and can be placed in close proximity to an NMR sample.

Definition of the ZULF regime

The boundaries between zero-, ultralow-, low- and high-field NMR are not rigorously defined, although approximate working definitions are in routine use for experiments involving small molecules in solution. The boundary between zero and ultralow field is usually defined as the field at which the nuclear spin precession frequency matches the spin relaxation rate, i.e., at zero field the nuclear spins relax faster than they precess about the external field. The boundary between ultralow and low field is usually defined as the field at which Larmor frequency differences between different nuclear spin species match the spin-spin (J or dipolar) couplings, i.e., at ultralow field spin-spin couplings dominate and the Zeeman interaction is a perturbation. The boundary between low and high field is more ambiguous and these terms are used differently depending on the application or research topic. In the context of ZULF NMR, the boundary is defined as the field at which chemical shift differences between nuclei of the same isotopic species in a sample match the spin-spin couplings.

Note that these definitions strongly depend on the sample being studied, and the field regime boundaries can vary by orders of magnitude depending on sample parameters such as the nuclear spin species, spin-spin coupling strengths, and spin relaxation times.