[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 184]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

d, by her actions, to proclaim her belief
in dogmas that meant nothing to her, except as interesting products of
the human mind? She had not enough faith to make it worth while to stand
alone.

Lord Engleton said he thought it right to go to church regularly, for
the sake of setting an example to the masses, a sentiment which always
used to afford Hadria more amusement than many intentional witticisms.

She went often to the later service, when the autumn twilight lay heavy
and sad upon the churchyard, and the peace of evening stole in through
the windows of the church. Then, as the sublime poetry of psalmist or
prophet rolled through the Norman arches, or the notes of the organ
stole out of the shadowed chancel, a spirit of repose would creep into
the heart of the listener, and the tired thoughts would take a more
rhythmic march. She felt nearer to her fellows, at such moments, than at
any other. Her heart went out to them, in wistful sympathy. They seemed
to be standing together then, one and all, at the threshold of the great
Mystery, and though they might be parted ever so widely by circumstance,
temperament, mental endowment, manner of thought, yet after all, they
were brethren and fellow sufferers; they shared the weakness, the
longing, the struggle of life; they all had affections, ambitions,
heart-breakings, sins, and victories; the differences were slight and
transient, in the presence of the vast unknown, the Ultimate Reality for
which they were all groping in the darkness. This sense of brotherhood
was strongest with regard to the poorer members of the congregation: the
labourers with their toil-stained hands and bent heads, the wives, the
weary mothers, their faces seamed with the ceaseless strain of
child-bearing, and hard work, and care and worry. In their prematurely
ageing faces, in their furrowed brows, Hadria could trace the marks of
Life's bare and ruthless hand, which had pressed so heavily on those
whose task it had been to bestow the terrible gift. Here the burden had
crushed soul and flesh; here that insensate spirit of Life had worked
its will, gratified its rage to produce and reproduce, it mattered not
what in the semblance of the human, so long only as that wretched
semblance repeated itself, and repeated itself again, _ad nauseam_,
while it destroyed the creatures which it used for its wild purpose----

And the same savage story was written, once more, on the faces of the
better dressed women: worry, weariness, apathy, strain; these were
marked unmistakeably, after the first freshness of youth had been driven
away, and the features began to take the mould of the habitual thoughts
and the habitual impressions.

And on these faces, there was a certain pettiness and coldness not
observable on those of the poorer women.

Often, when one of the neighbours called and found Hadria alone, some
chance word of womanly sympathy would touch a spring, and then a sad,
narrow little story of trouble and difficulty would be poured out; a
revelation of the bewildered, toiling, futile existences that were being
passed beneath a smooth appearance; of the heart-ache and heroism and
misplaced sacrifice, of the ruined lives that a little common sense and
common kindness might have saved; the unending pain and trouble about
matters entirely trivial, entirely absurd; the ceaseless travail to
bring forth new elements of trouble for those who must inherit the deeds
of to-day; the burdened existences agonizing to give birth to new
existences, equally burdened, which in their turn, were to repeat the
ceaseless oblation to the gods of Life.

"Futile?" said Lady Engleton. "I think women are generally fools, _entre
nous_; that is why they so often fill their lives with sound and fury,
accomplishing nothing."

Hadria felt that this was a description of her own life, as well as that
of most of her neighbours.

"I can understand so well how it is that women become conventional," she
said, apparently without direct reference to the last remark, "it is so
useless to take the trouble to act on one's own initiative. It annoys
everybody frightfully, and it accomplishes nothing, as you say."

"My dear Hadria, you alarm me!" cried Lady Engleton, laughing. "You must
really be very ill indeed, if you have come to this conclusion!"

In looking over some old papers and books, one afternoon, Hadria came
upon the little composition called _Futility_, which a mood had called
forth at Dunaghee, years ago. She had almost forgotten about it, and in
trying it over, she found that it was like trying over the work of some
other person.

It expressed with great exactness the feelings that overwhelmed her now,
whenever she let her imagination dwell upon the lives of women, of
whatever class and whatever kind. Futility! The mournful composition,
with its strange modern character, its suggestion of striving and
confusion and pain, expressed as only musi