[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# 1929 Bahamas hurricane

Sebring. Free travel on railroads was arranged for Pahokee residents evacuating to Fort Myers, Tampa, and Sebring. Evacuees also left West Palm Beach for points farther north. Residents lining the coasts of Lake Okeechobee evacuated for higher ground, with Sebring serving as their most common haven.

Public buildings in the Fort Lauderdale area, such as the courthouse and public schools, were repurposed as shelters. Schools in the area dismissed at noon on September 26. Employees in both private businesses and municipal government were released early to allow individuals to prepare their personal property. In Miami, water reservoirs were filled to ensure adequate water supplies following the storm. Boats were moved into safer areas of harbor or out of the water, including ferries operating between West Palm Beach and Palm Beach. An emergency organization chaired by the American Red Cross and made of several committees was convened at the Comeau Building in West Palm Beach. Florida Power & Light increased its electricity supply to meet potential emergency demands for the West Palm Beach area. The municipal water and electricity plants in Lake Worth Beach suspended their operations during the storm's duration. Six hundred members of the American Legion around West Palm Beach were directed to convene and aid in emergency efforts under the supervision of the Red Cross. Another joint effort between the American Legion, Red Cross, and other volunteer groups was established in Miami. Similar units were formed in Jupiter and Lake Worth. The Red Cross designated the lobby of a hotel in West Palm Beach as an emergency hospital to process all medical and surgical cases during the storm.

Preparations in parts of mainland Florida were scaled back once it became evident that the storm would mostly affect the Florida Keys, with many businesses reopening after two days of closure. Schools were reopened in Broward County on September 27. The Weather Bureau advised evacuees from the Everglades that it was potentially safe to return home. With the storm's threat now magnified farther south, the United States Coast Guard cutter Tallapoosa was dispatched to Key West to render aid to ships in the area. Ferry service between Matecumbe Key and No Name Key was discontinued. For the hurricane's landfall in the Florida panhandle, the Weather Bureau recommended the evacuation of residents living along the coast in the Pensacola area.

 Florida 

The hurricane's track through the southernmost regions of Florida spared the more densely populated Gold Coast from the storm's worst effects. The resulting damage was "remarkably small for a storm of this character" according to the Weather Bureau, with the state incurring $676,000 in losses; other accounts estimated $821,000, while a figure of $1 million was published in the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. Property losses stemmed from both agricultural and utility interests, with damage maximized near the storm's center. Damage to highways accounted for an estimated $300,000 of the toll. Many miles of the Florida East Coast Railway were damaged. Three deaths occurred in Florida, with one each in Marathon, Panama City, and Wewahitchka. Another eight deaths occurred offshore due to the loss of the fishing schooner Mercia Montgomery, which departed from Apalachicola on September 28. The storm's slow forward motion contributed to torrential rainfall over South Florida, peaking at 10.63 in (270 mm) in Miami on September 28. Low-lying areas of the city were flooded. Inundation as deep as  occurred in Homestead.