[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Australia men's national under-20 soccer team

saved and was later sent off for two yellow cards. The game finished 0–0 and Australia were eliminated from the tournament. As a consequence, they also failed to qualify for the 2017 FIFA U-20 World Cup. This is the first time that Australia has failed to qualify for two consecutive U-20 World Cups.

2018 AFC U-19 Championship
The 2018 AFC U-19 Championship was hosted by Indonesia in October and November. Australia commenced their qualification for the tournament in Vietnam. The matches had originally been scheduled to be played in Shepparton, Victoria however the Australian government refused entry to the North Korean squad. As a result, the matches were moved to neutral Vietnam although the costs associated with the shift in venue saw Northern Mariana Islands withdraw. This left just two opponents in the group, North Korea and Hong Kong. In Australia's first match against Hong Kong, Ramy Najjarine scored early and then a late double from Moudi Najjar gave Australia a 3–0 win. They then defeated North Korea 4–1 with goals again to Najjarine and Najjar as well as Fabian Monge and Denis Genreau.

With Ante Milicic now in charge, Australia started the tournament against South Korea in Bekasi. The Koreans scored first in the 55th minute however Najjarine curled in an 89th-minute equaliser to share the points. The second match was against Vietnam which Australia won 2–1 through goals to Angus Thurgate and Ben Folami. Reports emerged after the game that many of the Australian squad had been suffering from illness. In their last group match against Jordan, Australia needed at least a draw to advance and they finished 1–1, with Oliver Puflett scoring the goal in the 10th minute. In the quarter-final, Australia lost 3–1 to Saudi Arabia, with Nathaniel Atkinson scoring their only goal. Elimination at the quarter-final stage meant that Australia failed to qualify for the Under-20 World Cup for a record third consecutive time.

Players

Current squad
The following 23 players were called up for the Marbella Week of Football U-18 International Tournament from 12 to 17 October 2023.

Caps and goals correct as of the Portugal Sub-18 International Tournament game against Norway on 13 June 2023.

Recent call-ups
The following players have been called up within the last 12 months and remain eligible for selection.

 INJ Withdrew due to an injury.

Recent results and fixtures

2023

Records

Players with most appearances

Players in bold are still available for selection.

Players with most Goals Scored

Players in bold are still available for selection.

Competitive record

FIFA U-20 World Cup

OFC U-20 Championship

AFC U-20 Asian Cup

AFF U-19 Youth Championship

Notes

References

External links
 
Oz Football Young Socceroos Archive

Asian national under-20 association football teams
National youth sports teams of Australia