[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# HMS Swiftsure (1903)

HMS Swiftsure, originally known as Constitución, was the lead ship of the  pre-dreadnought battleships. The ship was ordered by the Chilean Navy, but she was purchased by the United Kingdom as part of ending the Argentine–Chilean naval arms race. In British service, Swiftsure was initially assigned to the Home Fleet and Channel Fleets before being transferred to the Mediterranean Fleet in 1909. She rejoined Home Fleet in 1912 and was transferred to the East Indies Station in 1913, to act as its flagship.

After the beginning of World War I in August 1914, Swiftsure escorted troop convoys in the Indian Ocean until she was transferred to the Suez Canal Patrol in December. After defending the Canal in early 1915 from Ottoman attacks, the ship was then transferred to the Dardanelles in February and saw action in the Dardanelles Campaign bombarding Ottoman fortifications. Swiftsure was assigned to convoy escort duties in the Atlantic from early 1916 until she was paid off in April 1917 to provide crews for anti-submarine vessels. In mid-1918, the ship was disarmed to be used as a blockship during a proposed second raid on Ostend. Swiftsure was sold for scrap in 1920.

Design and description

Swiftsure was ordered by Chile, with the name of Constitución, in response to the Argentine purchase of two armoured cruisers from Italy during a time of heightened tensions with Argentina. After the crisis subsided, financial problems forced Chile to put the ship up for sale in early 1903; concerned that Russia might buy them, the United Kingdom stepped in and purchased the still-incomplete ships from Chile on 3 December 1903 for £2,432,000. The ship was designed to Chilean specifications, particularly the requirement to fit in the graving dock at Talcahuano, and was regarded by the British as a second-class battleship.

General characteristics
Swiftsure had an overall length of , a beam of , and a draught of  at deep load. She displaced  at standard load and  at deep load. At deep load she had a metacentric height of . In 1906, the crew numbered 729 officers and ratings.

Propulsion
The ship was powered by two four-cylinder inverted vertical triple-expansion steam engines, each driving one propeller. A dozen Yarrow water-tube boilers provided steam to the engines which produced a total of  which was intended to allow them to reach a speed of . The engines proved to be more powerful than anticipated and Swiftsure exceeded  during sea trials. She carried a maximum of  of coal, enough to steam  at . In service she and her sister proved to be more economical than first thought with an estimated range of  at 10 knots.

Armament

The ship was armed with four 45-calibre BL 10-inch Mk VI guns in two twin gun turrets, one each fore and aft of the superstructure. The guns fired  projectiles at a muzzle velocity of ; this provided a maximum range of  at the gun's maximum elevation of 13.5°. The firing cycle of the Mk VI guns was claimed to be 15 seconds. Each gun was provided with 90 shells.

Swiftsures secondary armament consisted of fourteen 50-calibre 7.5-inch Mk III guns. Ten of the guns were mounted in a central battery on the main deck; the other four were in casemates abreast the fore- and mainmasts on the upper deck. A major problem with the guns on the main deck was that they were mounted low in the ship—only about  above water at deep load—and were unusable at high speed or in heavy weather as they dipped their muzzles in the sea when rolling more than 14°. The guns fired  projectiles at a muzzle velocity of  at a rate of four rounds per minute. At their maximum elevation of 15° they had a maximum range of about . The ship carried 150 rounds per gun.

Defence against torpedo boats was provided by fourteen QF 14-pounder Mk I guns, the guns were modified  to use the standard  shell used by the QF 12 pounder 18 cwt gun in British service. They fired , 12.5-lb projectiles at a muzzle velocity of . Their maximum range and rate of fire is unknown. 200 rounds per gun was carried by Swiftsure. The ship also mounted four QF 6 pounder Hotchkiss guns in the fighting tops, although these were removed in 1906–08.

The ship was also armed with a pair of 18-inch (450 mm) submerged torpedo tubes, one on each broadside. She was provided with nine torpedoes.