[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zonta International

ave a Public Service program. Stopchildmarriages.org to educate citizens the USA about the prevalence of child marriage, in collaboration with the non profit Unchained at Last. In addition, Zonta USA sits on the Steering committee of the National Coalition to End Child Marriage in the United States.

Zonta Says NO - Ending Violence Against Women 
Since 2012, Zonta has expanded its international Campaign, Zonta Says NO, an international campaign to raise awareness of and increase actions to end violence against women and girls around the world.  This signature campaign features actions to prevent and end violence against women and girls  in the communities of Zonta International’s more than 62 countries worldwide.  

Over the past five years Zonta has contributed more than USD 3 million towards UN Women efforts to end violence against women and girls around the world.

“Around the world, foundations and businesses are prioritizing efforts to advance gender equality and women’s rights for they recognize that this is the key to development. Zonta International’s support on this front is exemplary,” said Lakshmi Puri, Deputy Executive Director of UN Women. “Zonta’s partnership with UN Women comes as a result of their long and solid history in the global effort to end violence against women and girls. Their support of programmes being implemented by UN Women and the UN Trust Fund to End Violence against Women has made an enormous impact on the safety of women and girls in many countries.”   Zonta International joined forces with UN women to End Violence Against women thru their Safe Cities projects.

Zonta Says NOW! Climate Action with a Gender Lens. 
in 2022 Zonta adopted Gender equal climate action with a new International program "Zonta Says NOW".  Introduced at convention, and further unveiled to the world at CSW67 side event "Zonta Says NOW to Gender Equality and Climate Action",  in line with UN focus that "the climate crisis is a human rights crisis" - Antonino Guterres. Empowering Girls on Climate Change: In 2022, Zonta began supporting Engaging Girls on Climate Change in Madagascar.

Equal Access to Education 
Zonta International's literacy programs in the 1980's underscored their commitment to equal access to education. (for current work see Educational Programs and Awards below)

Ratifying the Equal Rights Amendment 
Zonta Clubs and Members in the USA are members of the ERA Coalition, continuing to advocate for constitutional equality for Women in the USA, even after 100 years.

End Human Trafficking 
Trafficking in Persons is a human rights abuse. Eliminating human trafficking is critical to enabling women to achieve their full potential and live without fear of exploitation and violence.  Zonta clubs around the world educate and collaborate in their communities with law enforcement and survivors of human trafficking.

Educational programs and awards
Zonta International, through its Foundation: Zonta Foundation for Women (formerly the Zonta International Foundation), seeks to provide opportunities for women through a number of educational programs and awards.

Amelia Earhart Fellowship
Established in 1938 in honor of famed pilot and ZontianAmelia Earhart, the Amelia Earhart Fellowship is awarded annually to women pursuing Ph.D./doctoral degrees in aerospace-related sciences or aerospace-related engineering. The Fellowship of US$10,000, awarded to 35 Fellows around the globe each year, may be used at any university or college offering accredited post-graduate courses and degrees in these fields.  Since its inception, Zonta International has awarded 1,473 Amelia Earhart Fellowships to 1,044 women from 70 countries across the globe.

Amelia Earhart Fellowship recipients include:
 Noël Bakhtian
 Sallie Baliunas
 Tanya Harrison
 Nikhil Koratkar
 Diane Lemaire
 Wendy Okolo

Jane M. Klausman Women in Business Scholarship
The Jane M. Klausman Women in Business Scholarship program helps women to pursue undergraduate and master's degrees in business  management and to overcome gender barriers from the classroom to the boardroom. Since the program's inception, Zonta has awarded 357 scholarships to women from 47 countries.

Recipients include:

Tressa Lacy

Young Women in Public Affairs Award Program
Zonta International's Young Women in Public Affairs Award honors young women aged from 16 to 19 with a scholarship.  Awardees are selected from applicants who demonstrate a commitment to leadership in public policy, government and volunteer organizations, particularly on behalf of women and girls.

Z and Golden Z Clubs
Established in 1948, the Z Club and Golden Z Club program is one of Zonta International's longest-running programs. Z clubs and Golden Z clubs help high-school, college and university students develop leadership skills, promote career exploration and encourage members to participate in community, school and international service projects.

References