[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Israel Space Agency

ential for developing an economy based on knowledge; and the central attraction for scientific and qualified human resources."

The vision is "to preserve and broaden the comparative advantage of Israel and to place it among the group of leading countries in the space research and exploration area."

The main goals for vision realization are:
 To build and to support satellite systems for space research and for Earth research from space.
 To develop technologies, knowledge and scientific infrastructure (including laboratories and human resources) required for space research.
 To promote international cooperation in space research and exploration, and for strengthening the national interests of Israel.
 To promote ties between Israeli society, space research, and exploration.

ISA has signed cooperation agreements with the space agencies of: United States (NASA), France (CNES), Canada (CSA), India (ISRO),  Italy (ASI),  Germany (DLR), Ukraine (NSAU), Russia (RKA), Netherlands (NIVR) and Brazil (AEB).

Budget 
In 2010, the budget of the Israel Space Agency was increased to US $80 million to boost the agency's space activities in research and development. The budget does not include launch vehicle development and most satellite programs. Typically such programs get funded on a project-by-project basis. For example, Project Venus, a cooperative program by Israel (ISA) and France (CNES) which is set to launch in 2014 has a $50 million budget. The Spaceborne Hyperspectral Applicative Land and Ocean Mission (SHALOM), a joint mission by Israel (ISA) and the Italy Space Agency (ASI) has a budget of $116 million.

The budget allocated annually for the Israeli military program as well as commercial programs are managed on different budgets.

Satellite programs

The Israel Space Agency has had a long history of satellite programs both for reconnaissance and commercial purposes. Its first satellite, the Ofeq-1 was launched on September 19, 1988, from Palmachim Airbase in Israel. Since the launching of that first satellite, Israel has developed into a significant player in the commercial space arena. Today, the ISA satellite launches include:
 Ofeq – Series of reconnaissance satellites. The first of these was launched from the Palmachim site on September 19, 1988.
 AMOS – Series of communications satellites
 Eros – Series of observation satellites
 Techsat – Researching satellite launched by the Technion
 TechSAR – a SAR-based observation satellite.

Ofeq satellite series

After the successful launch of the Ofeq-1 in 1988, additional satellites were developed. In 1989, the ISA launched the Ofeq-2; in April 1995, it took a leap forward with the launch of Ofeq-3, which carried an advanced electro-optical payload built by Israeli industry for local purposes. Ofeq-3 has been functioning without a hitch. Following a setback with Ofeq-4, Ofeq-5 was successfully launched in May 2002.

To date, twelve such satellites in the Ofeq reconnaissance satellites series were developed and launched to Low Earth Orbit. The most recent, Ofek 16, was launched July 6, 2020.

AMOS satellite series

The AMOS is a series of communications satellites. The AMOS satellites are by the Israel Aerospace Industries and are operated by Spacecom once in orbit. The AMOS-1, the first satellite in the series, was launched on May 16, 1996, using a French-built vehicle. Since then, 4 more satellites were launched. The most recent AMOS satellite is the AMOS-5 which was launched on December 11, 2011.

The AMOS is distinguished for its light weight and sophisticated technology. The AMOS-6 was due to be launched in 2016 in order to replace the AMOS-2 which was then ceasing operation, but it was destroyed in a launchpad explosion.

EROS satellite series

The Earth Resources Observation Satellite (EROS) is a series of commercial observation satellites. The first satellite, the EROS A, was launched on December 5, 2000, from Svobodny Launch Complex using a Russian Start-1. A second satellite, the EROS B, was launched on April 25, 2006.

The EROS series are set to be launched once every 6 to 8 years. The EROS C is set to be launched in late 2014.

TechSAR Satellite

The TechSAR satellite is a reconnaissance satellite equipped with a synthetic aperture radar. The satellite is designed penetrate thick clouds by being fitted with a large dish-like antenna to transmit and receive radar signals. The satellite was successfully launched on January 21, 2008.

Launch capabilities

The Israel Space Agency is one of only seven countries that both build their own satellites and launch their own launchers. The Shavit is a space launch vehicle capable of sending payload into low Earth orbit. The Shavit launcher has been used to send every Ofeq satellite to date.