[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Best Value

d statutorily determined Best Value performance indicators (BVPIs), and disseminated annually through Performance Plans (BVPPs).

The fourth defining element of Best Value outlined the consequence of performance: government intervention in cases of Best Value failure, and reward in cases of success.

In turn these four aspects of Best Value are bound by adherence to twelve principles of Best Value mentioned above. The answer to the question of what method of service delivery, precisely, the government expected to arise from Best Value seemed to centre on local interpretation as satisfactory. The lack of clear definition, in the context of housing services, was explained as follows:

Therefore, while the message was unequivocally that compulsory competitive tendering was to be withdrawn, the replacement was to be less prescribed, with the intention that local authorities follow a responsive and locally determined method of service provision within a centrally defined framework. Best Value was not, therefore, about what local authorities should do: it was a framework that prescribed how they should decide what to do.

Specifically Best Value would differ from compulsory competitive tendering in three respects: organisation performance, organisation process, and the relationship between process and performance (Boyne 1999, p. 2).

Measuring Best Value 
For councils and authorities to be measured against Best Value, performance indicators, known as BVPIs (Best Value Performance Indicators) were introduced. They are a statutory set of 90 indicators developed by government departments to measure the performance of local authorities, that is, all local authorities must measure themselves against BVPIs. The data is collected and audited annually by the Audit Commission.

There Were 90 BVPIs, which cover many, but not all aspects of services provided by local councils. These were withdrawn in 2008.

In order to get a balanced view of performance the BVPIs cover four dimensions of performance:
Strategic objectives — why the service exists and what it seeks to achieve
Service delivery outcomes – how well the service is being operated in order to achieve the strategic objectives
Quality – the quality of the services delivered, explicitly reflecting users' experience of services, and
Fair access – ease and equality of access to services

Each year government departments work with each other to set indicators for the next year. BVPIs are set in line with the financial year (1 April to 31 March).

Many of the BVPIs have been in effect since the start of Best Value in April 2000, but some new indicators have been set, and some existing indicators were revised either to improve their definition or to be aligned with central government policy. Where a BVPI has a target attached to it, these targets are reviewed each year, in light of the most recent performance data provide by a local council.

As far as possible the government has tried to limit the number of changes. In fact, there were no amendments of additions to the BVPI set last year, and government has agreed to make no amendments to the present BVPIs until 2008/09.

Consequences of failing Best Value 
Where a council fails to meet a statutory target, the Secretary of State is at liberty to take action, particularly where an authority is not meeting its duty of continuous improvement. In practice, the Secretary of State can direct the council to take specific action to secure improvement, or, in extreme cases, remove the functions concerned from its control altogether.

Scotland
The duty of Best Value in relation to Scotland applies to all public bodies. It is a statutory duty for Scottish local authorities and a formal duty for the Scottish Police Authority and its Chief Constable and the Scottish Fire and Rescue Authority and Chief Fire Officer. Elsewhere in the public sector it is a formal duty placed on Accountable Officers, such as the chief executives of NHS bodies and further education colleges.

See also
 Privatisation

References

Sources 
 Boyne G (1999) in Boyne G (ed) Managing Local Services: From CCT to Best Value London: Frank Cass and Co. Ltd.
 Department of the Environment (1997) The Principles of Best Value London: DoE.
 Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions (1997a) Criteria for project selection London: DETR
 Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions (1998) Improving local services through best value: Consultation Paper London, DETR
 Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions (1998a) Modernising local government: Improving local services through best value London: DETR
 Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions (1999) Best Value in Housing Framework Consultation Paper London: DETR
 LGA 1999 Local Government Act 1999 available at: https://web.archive.org/web/20060228014729/http://www.opsi.gov.uk/acts/acts1999/19990027.htm
 

Local government in England
Local government in Wales