[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Maraga massacre

eaker of the British Parliament's House of Lords Caroline Cox, who visited Maraga, gave a testimony, stating that she, along with a team from Christian Solidarity International, arrived within hours to find "homes still smoldering, decapitated corpses, charred human remains, and survivors in shock."

Then, Amnesty International reported that over 100 residents of the village were "slain, while their bodies were profaned and disfigured." According to Amnesty International, forty-five residents of the village were taken hostage. It also reported that the Azerbaijani forces attacked the village again weeks later and its population was deported, adding that the houses were pillaged and then most of them were burnt down. The bodies of the dead were later buried in a mass grave near the village. Besides those killed about 57 people, among them 30 men, 21 women men and 6 children, had gunshot wounds. Those hostages who were later exchanged had suffered humiliation, torture and psychological traumas. The fates of other hostages remain unknown.

Investigations

Human rights groups
Accounts differ on precisely how many people were killed in the attack. A 1993 Country Dossier Report by Amnesty International gave 45 killed. According to Gevorg Petrossian, Chairman of the Parliament of Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, 53 civilians were killed, although the 1992 report by HRW expressed uncertainty as to whether those reported killed were civilians or combatants. It assumed, however, that the figure included the 43 Armenians who were killed by the Azerbaijanis. In 1992, HRW received a report that 50 Armenians had been taken hostage in the attack on Maraga.

Baroness Cox and Christian Solidarity International
Baroness Caroline Cox, an advocate of the Armenian cause in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, who led a delegation that observed the damage and interviewed eyewitnesses, stated that after Azerbaijani forces attacked Maraga, they decapitated about forty-five villagers, burned and looted much of the town, and kidnapped about one hundred women and children. A more detailed report of the findings of Cox and Christian Solidarity International was published in 1993.

Baroness Cox has called the Maraga Massacre "an apparent crime against humanity" and urged the international community to hold Azerbaijan accountable for that.

Aftermath
The Azerbaijani officers directly involved in the massacre were never held responsible or tried for the crimes they committed in Maraga. At the same time the Azerbaijani side has not responded to the accusations of Maraga massacre.

The events in Maraga were not covered by international media and there is little awareness in the world about the events in this village, despite the severity of the actions. Cox explained that she hadn't brought journalists together with her to Maraga on those days because it was dangerous, but she made many photographs which are printed in her book Ethnic Cleansing in Progress. Cox also said in her interview that English newspaper Daily Telegraph had agreed to print her report on Maraga massacre but then they refused to do so.

Maraga village is currently controlled by the Azerbaijani army. The former residents of the village now live in Russia, Armenia and other parts of Nagorno-Karabakh. Those living in Russia are unable to return to Karabakh because of the lack of funds to cover travel expenses. The residents of Maraga who stayed in Karabakh have rebuilt another village on the ruins of another village in Nagorno-Karabakh, not far from Maraga. This new village is now called Nor Maraga (New Maraga). There has been a monument erected in New Maraga commemorating the victims of the massacre.    

Caroline Cox said:
The suffering of your people [should] somehow [be] recognized and they will therefore receive justice and the right to live in peace and freedom in their land… [I]t is impossible for the Armenians who live in Artsakh (Nagorno-Karabakh) ever again to accept Azeri sovereignty.

See also
 List of massacres in Azerbaijan
 Anti-Armenianism
 Anti-Armenian sentiment in Azerbaijan 
 Sumgait pogrom
 Baku pogrom
 Kirovabad pogrom
 Shelling of Stepanakert
 First Nagorno-Karabakh War

Notes

External links

 Maragha.org
 Marghar.nk
 Photographs of the Maraga massacre
 Ethnic cleansing in Nagorno-Karabakh Conflict
 UK House of Commons report
 Survivors of Maraghar massacre: It was truly like a contemporary Golgotha many times over
 Interview with Caroline Cox on YouTube
 Ordinary Genocide: Maraga- documentary

Azerbaijani war crimes
1992 in Armenia
Massacres of Armenians
April 1992 events in Asia
Conflicts in 1992
Massacres in 1992
Massacres in Azerbaijan
First Nagorno-Karabakh War
Persecution of Oriental Orthodox Christians
War crimes in Azerbaijan
1992 disasters in Armenia