[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Sustainable Development Strategy in Canada

change your used paperbacks, magazines and newspapers with colleagues;
Business travel is minimized through the use of teleconferencing; and
Employees are encouraged to walk, bicycle, carpool or use public transit as a mode of transportation to and from work as well as to attend meetings and events.

Checklist for meetings
For many organizations, sustainable development is a goal that impacts on all of their activities. The checklist is designed to help meeting organizers plan and implement meetings that are as environmentally responsible as possible.
All promotional material is kept short and to the point;
All documents are printed on recycled paper;
The registration form is on only 1/2 or 1/3 of a page;
It may be printed with the letter of introduction and cut or torn-off for mailing;
Registration is confirmed by phone or electronically rather than by fax;
Exhibitors, presenters, and participants are advised in advance that the conference will be "green";
Participants are asked to bring their own paper and writing instruments (additional pens and paper are provided on-site for those who forget);
The registration package is distributed at the event rather than mailed out. The program and other registration materials are informative but concise. Tourist information is available on request;
The registration package is provided in a reusable holder - perhaps a durable binder or folder made from recycled plastic or paper, or a reusable cotton shopping bag; and
Reusable plastic name cardholders with paper inserts are used and participants are asked to return them at the end of the sessions. Receptacles are provided at convenient spots such as hotel check-out, registration desk or outside the final meeting room.

Checklist exhibits and presentations
Signage is durable, generic and undated so that it can be reused;
Prominent, well-signed recycling bins for waste paper are placed in convenient locations throughout the conference area. Separate bins for newspaper recycling provided;
Exhibit components are reusable and perhaps even made from used or recycled material.
Exhibitors are asked to use recycled and recyclable handouts;
As part of session introductions or wrap-ups, attendees are reminded of the recycling and waste reduction opportunities;
Recycling bins are numerous, conveniently located, and well-marked;
Presenters use 35mm slides or overheads rather than paper flip charts (consider drymark erasable boards or blackboards if needed);
Distribution of brochures, handouts and session notes is limited to those with a genuine need or interest;
A sign-up sheet is provided, or business cards are collected for subsequent mailings;
Copies of session notes may be placed at the front of the room, rather than near the door; and
All gifts and prizes are in keeping with the "green" theme - practical gift certificates, durable items made from recycled materials, donations to environmental organizations, unbleached cotton T-shirts or shopping bags, books etc..

Checklist of food and beverages
All tableware is reusable, including coffee mugs, water glasses, cutlery, dishes, and cloth napkins and tablecloths;
Water and juice are served in pitchers. Soft drinks are served in returnable bottles. Straws are not provided;
Cream and milk are provided in jugs. Sugar is provided in bulk dispensers with lids, or loose or cubed in bowls and teaspoons are provided for stirring beverages;
Condiments, spreads, and jams are served in bowls or jars rather than in individually wrapped servings; and
Bulk coffee is used instead of single packets to reduce packaging waste; and
Food leftovers are donated to a food bank or local charitable organization. Organic foods are composted.

Key success factors

The organization should take note of five 'key success factors' and attempt to contribute to them in some of the following ways:

i. Sustaining natural resources - sustainable jobs, communities, and industries.
ii. Protecting the health of Canadians and of ecosystems.
iii. Meeting international obligations.
iv. Promoting equity.
v. Improving our quality of life and well-being.

Public relations

Sustainable Development makes for good public relations and international relations. The organization can help its clients and other stakeholders reduce the economic and environmental costs of doing business. Examples would be to increase electronic options and reducing the amount of paper which is consumed in transferring information from one source to another.

Action plan