[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Survival Under Atomic Attack

ctive poisoning or disease, select your food and water with care. When there is reason to believe they may be contaminated, stick to canned and bottled things if possible.
6. Don't Start Rumors In the confusion that follows a bombing, a single rumor might touch off a panic that could cost your life.

Five Keys To Household Safety (18) 
1. Strive For "Fireproof Housekeeping" Don't let trash pile up, and keep waste paper in covered containers. When an alert sounds, do all you can to eliminate sparks by shutting off the oil burner and covering all open flames.
2. Know Your Own Home Know which is the safest part of your cellar, learn how to turn off your oil burner and what to do about utilities.
3. Have Emergency Equipment And Supplies Handy Always have a good flashlight, a radio, first-aid equipment and a supply of canned goods in the house.
4. Close All Windows And Doors And Draw The Blinds If you have time when an alert sounds, close the house up tight in order to keep out fire sparks and radioactive dusts and to lessen the chances of being cut by flying glass. Keep the house closed until all danger is past.
5. Use the Telephone Only For True Emergencies Do not use the phone unless absolutely necessary. Leave the lines open for real emergency traffic.

See also 
 List of books about nuclear issues
 Continuity of government
 Duck and Cover (film)
 Fallout Protection
 Nuclear warfare
 Protect and Survive
 Survivalism
 United States Civil Defense
 Nuclear War Survival Skills

References

External links 
  Survival under Atomic Attack, (PDF-3 Mb). 1951, Reprint by City of  Boston, Department of Civil Defense via us.archive.org 
 Shelter from Atomic Attack in Existing Buildings, 1952, archive.org 
 Ten for Survival : Survive Nuclear Attack, 1961, archive.org

1950 non-fiction books
Disaster preparedness in the United States
Publications of the United States government
Works about the Cold War
Nuclear warfare
Books about nuclear issues
Cold War history of the United States
United States civil defense