[Source: PubMed]

35. BMC Med Res Methodol. 2023 Nov 24;23(1):278. doi: 10.1186/s12874-023-02088-z.

Promoting data harmonization to evaluate vaccine hesitancy in LMICs: approach 
and applications.

Rego RT(#)(1)(2), Zhukov Y(#)(3)(4), Reneau KA(5), Pienta A(5), Rice KL(6), 
Brady P(7), Siwo GH(6)(7), Wachira PW(8), Abubakar A(8), Kollman K(#)(3)(9), 
Waljee AK(#)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Center for Global Health Equity, Michigan Medicine, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA. ryanregoph@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA. ryanregoph@gmail.com.
(3)Center for Political Studies, Institute for Social Research, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(4)Edmund A Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, Washington, 
DC, USA.
(5)Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research, Institute for 
Social Research, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(6)Center for Global Health Equity, Michigan Medicine, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(7)Department of Learning Health Sciences, Michigan Medicine, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(8)Institute for Human Development, Aga Khan University, Nairobi, Kenya.
(9)Department of Political Science, College of Letters, Sciences, and Arts, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Factors influencing the health of populations are subjects of 
interdisciplinary study. However, datasets relevant to public health often lack 
interdisciplinary breath. It is difficult to combine data on health outcomes 
with datasets on potentially important contextual factors, like political 
violence or development, due to incompatible levels of geographic support; 
differing data formats and structures; differences in sampling procedures and 
wording; and the stability of temporal trends. We present a computational 
package to combine spatially misaligned datasets, and provide an illustrative 
analysis of multi-dimensional factors in health outcomes.
METHODS: We rely on a new software toolkit, Sub-National Geospatial Data Archive 
(SUNGEO), to combine data across disciplinary domains and demonstrate a use case 
on vaccine hesitancy in Low and Middle-Income Countries (LMICs). We use data 
from the World Bank's High Frequency Phone Surveys (HFPS) from Kenya, Indonesia, 
and Malawi. We curate and combine these surveys with data on political violence, 
elections, economic development, and other contextual factors, using SUNGEO. We 
then develop a stochastic model to analyze the integrated data and evaluate 1) 
the stability of vaccination preferences in all three countries over time, and 
2) the association between local contextual factors and vaccination preferences.
RESULTS: In all three countries, vaccine-acceptance is more persistent than 
vaccine-hesitancy from round to round: the long-run probability of staying 
vaccine-acceptant (hesitant) was 0.96 (0.65) in Indonesia, 0.89 (0.21) in Kenya, 
and 0.76 (0.40) in Malawi. However, vaccine acceptance was significantly less 
durable in areas exposed to political violence, with percentage point 
differences (ppd) in vaccine acceptance of -10 (Indonesia), -5 (Kenya), and -64 
(Malawi). In Indonesia and Kenya, although not Malawi, vaccine acceptance was 
also significantly less durable in locations without competitive elections (-19 
and -6 ppd, respectively) and in locations with more limited transportation 
infrastructure (-11 and -8 ppd).
CONCLUSION: With SUNGEO, researchers can combine spatially misaligned and 
incompatible datasets. As an illustrative example, we find that vaccination 
hesitancy is correlated with political violence, electoral uncompetitiveness and 
limited access to public goods, consistent with past results that vaccination 
hesitancy is associated with government distrust.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12874-023-02088-z
PMCID: PMC10668461
PMID: 38001442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: GHS is a founder of Anza Biotechnologies and 
holds equity in Helix Nanotechnologies. All other authors have no competing 
interests.