[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Traiskirchen

Traiskirchen is a city and Municipality in the district of Baden in Lower Austria in Austria. It is 20 km south of Vienna, in the Thermenlinie region, known for its wine and heurigers. Traiskirchen is home to the Traiskirchen Lions basketball team. The town has the oldest public astronomical observatory in Lower Austria. The city is also known for its refugee camp the "Bundesbetreuungsstelle für Asylwerber".

Municipality
The municipality of Traiskirchen comprise five towns (Population numbers as of 28 February 2023):
 Traiskirchen (7,777)
 Möllersdorf (5,177)
 Wienersdorf (3,427)
 Tribuswinkel (4,295)
 Oeynhausen (1,413)

Population
The below population numbers include the total of the municipality of Traiskirchen, not just the city itself.

Refugee Camp (Bundesbetreuungsstelle für Asylwerber)

Traiskirchen is home of the largest refugee camp in Austria and one of the largest of these camps in the EU. The refugee camp is based in the centre of Traiskirchen on the area of the former Imperial Artillery Cadet School which was built in 1900. The Traiskirchen Cadet School could accommodate up to 340 cadets, 160 staff and 110 horses (for riding lessons).

During the time of the Allied-occupied Austria, a Soviet army barracks of (about 2,000 Soviet armored troops) and a hospital were housed in the former buildings until the autumn of 1955.

The buildings were first used by the government as a refugee camp between 1956 and 1960. The camp was first used as a shelter for Hungarian refugees, who had left their country as a result of the Hungarian Revolution in November 1956. 113,810 people came to Austria on the 5th of November, and 6,000 were taken to the camp in Traiskirchen. This was the first large use as a refugee camp, and following this it was decided to host further refugees from around the world. On 8 March 1957 the Federal Ministry of the Interior assigned 20 million Schillings (€1.45 million) for the renovation of the  building structures. After the Prague Spring (1968) Czech and Slovak refugees were brought here. In the 1970s and 1980s more refugees – mainly from Eastern Europe, but also from Uganda, Chile, Iran, Iraq and  Vietnam – were accommodated. Many prominent refugees were initially received here, including the later Vienna State Opera Director Ioan Holender and the journalist  Paul Lendvai.

In May 1990 it was announced by the Mayor of Traiskirchen that, in line with the promise by the Minister of the Interior, the institute would be closed permanently. However this plan was rejected, because only a few refugees could be accommodated elsewhere in 1990; also it was expected that accommodation for new refugees from the Soviet Union would be needed in January 1991.

In 1993 the refugee camp was renamed the Asylum Office of the Federal Ministry of the Interior ("Bundesbetreuungsstelle für Asylwerber").

In 2015, as a result of the European migrant crisis, the Asylum Office had to admit an increasing number of illegal immigrants. Following strong criticism from the press and the public, Amnesty International inspected the facility on 6 August 2015.
  
By the end of July 2015 more than 4,500 people were being accommodated. On 5 August, the day before the inspection, the authorities declared a stop to further admissions. Nevertheless at the time of the inspection around 1,500 people were unsheltered, among them more than 500 unattended children and teenagers.

According to the Amnesty report the conditions at the refugee camp were inhumane and unworthy of any human being: lack of staff and translators, lack of organization, food supply problems (two hours wait), terrible sanitary conditions, no separate sections for women and men, and a point system for punishment for fighting but also for complaints, resulting in spending several nights outside the facility.

Issues
Traiskirchen refugee camp is frequently subject to political and media debate in Austria. Refugees' poor living conditions have been criticized, and the inmates have been associated with drug dealing, theft and  violent crime. The police are often accused of conducting semi-legal actions in raids both inside and outside the camp.

In 2003, the Interior Minister, Ernst Strasser, outsourced the camp to the German company European Home Care. This (criticized) contract was cancelled by the company in 2010 because of low occupancy.

Education

Kindergarten
 Kindergarten Möllersdorf Pestalozzi-Gasse
 Kindergarten Möllesdorf Schlössl
 Kindergarten Traiskirchen Bärenhöhle
 Kindergarten Traiskirchen Biberburg
 Kindergarten Traiskirchen Alfons Petzold
 Kindergarten Tribuswinkel Schloss
 Kindergarten Tribuswinkel Badner Straße
 Kindergarten Wienersdorf 
 Oeynhausen Pfarrkindergarten from the church

Schools

Primary school
 Volksschule Möllersdorf
 Volksschule Tribuswinkel
 Volksschule Traiskirchen
The primary school in Traiskirchen is encircled by a fence for security purposes.

Secondary school
 Sport Middleschool Traiskirchen