[Source: Gutenberg#36 | Part 47]
# The Prince — Machiavelli

e way towards
Barnes.

We saw in the blackened distance a group of three people running down a
side street towards the river, but otherwise it seemed deserted. Up the
hill Richmond town was burning briskly; outside the town of Richmond
there was no trace of the Black Smoke.

Then suddenly, as we approached Kew, came a number of people running,
and the upperworks of a Martian fighting-machine loomed in sight over
the housetops, not a hundred yards away from us. We stood aghast at our
danger, and had the Martian looked down we must immediately have
perished. We were so terrified that we dared not go on, but turned
aside and hid in a shed in a garden. There the curate crouched, weeping
silently, and refusing to stir again.

But my fixed idea of reaching Leatherhead would not let me rest, and in
the twilight I ventured out again. I went through a shrubbery, and
along a passage beside a big house standing in its own grounds, and so
emerged upon the road towards Kew. The curate I left in the shed, but
he came hurrying after me.

That second start was the most foolhardy thing I ever did. For it was
manifest the Martians were about us. No sooner had the curate overtaken
me than we saw either the fighting-machine we had seen before or
another, far away across the meadows in the direction of Kew Lodge.
Four or five little black figures hurried before it across the
green-grey of the field, and in a moment it was evident this Martian
pursued them. In three strides he was among them, and they ran
radiating from his feet in all directions. He used no Heat-Ray to
destroy them, but picked them up one by one. Apparently he tossed them
into the great metallic carrier which projected behind him, much as a
workman’s basket hangs over his shoulder.

It was the first time I realised that the Martians might have any other
purpose than destruction with defeated humanity. We stood for a moment
petrified, then turned and fled through a gate behind us into a walled
garden, fell into, rather than found, a fortunate ditch, and lay there,
scarce daring to whisper to each other until the stars were out.

I suppose it was nearly eleven o’clock before we gathered courage to
start again, no longer venturing into the road, but sneaking along
hedgerows and through plantations, and watching keenly through the
darkness, he on the right and I on the left, for the Martians, who
seemed to be all about us. In one place we blundered upon a scorched
and blackened area, now cooling and ashen, and a number of scattered
dead bodies of men, burned horribly about the heads and trunks but with
their legs and boots mostly intact; and of dead horses, fifty feet,
perhaps, behind a line of four ripped guns and smashed gun carriages.

Sheen, it seemed, had escaped destruction, but the place was silent and
deserted. Here we happened on no dead, though the night was too dark
for us to see into the side roads of the place. In Sheen my companion
suddenly complained of faintness and thirst, and we decided to try one
of the houses.

The first house we entered, after a little difficulty with the window,
was a small semi-detached villa, and I found nothing eatable left in
the place but some mouldy cheese. There was, however, water to drink;
and I took a hatchet, which promised to be useful in our next
house-breaking.

We then crossed to a place where the road turns towards Mortlake. Here
there stood a white house within a walled garden, and in the pantry of
this domicile we found a store of food—two loaves of bread in a pan, an
uncooked steak, and the half of a ham. I give this catalogue so
precisely because, as it happened, we were destined to subsist upon
this store for the next fortnight. Bottled beer stood under a shelf,
and there were two bags of haricot beans and some limp lettuces. This
pantry opened into a kind of wash-up kitchen, and in this was firewood;
there was also a cupboard, in which we found nearly a dozen of
burgundy, tinned soups and salmon, and two tins of biscuits.

We sat in the adjacent kitchen in the dark—for we dared not strike a
light—and ate bread and ham, and drank beer out of the same bottle. The
curate, who was still timorous and restless, was now, oddly enough, for
pushing on, and I was urging him to keep up his strength by eating when
the thing happened that was to imprison us.

“It can’t be midnight yet,” I said, and then came a blinding glare of
vivid green light. Everything in the kitchen leaped out, clearly
visible in green and black, and vanished again. And then followed such
a concussion as I have never heard before or since. So close on the
heels of this as to seem instantaneous came a thud behind me, a clash
of glass, a crash and rattle of falling masonry all about us, and the
plaster of the ceiling came down upon us, smashing into a multitude of
fragments upon our heads. I was knocked headlong across the floor
against the oven handle and stunn