[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 175]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

t part, that no longer than they saw great miracles,
or (which is equivalent to a miracle) great abilities, or great felicity
in the enterprises of their Governours, gave sufficient credit, either
to the fame of Moses, or to the Colloquies between God and the Priests;
they took occasion as oft as their Governours displeased them, by
blaming sometimes the Policy, sometimes the Religion, to change the
Government, or revolt from their Obedience at their pleasure: And from
thence proceeded from time to time the civill troubles, divisions, and
calamities of the Nation. As for example, after the death of Eleazar and
Joshua, the next generation which had not seen the wonders of God, but
were left to their own weak reason, not knowing themselves obliged
by the Covenant of a Sacerdotall Kingdome, regarded no more the
Commandement of the Priest, nor any law of Moses, but did every man that
which was right in his own eyes; and obeyed in Civill affairs, such
men, as from time to time they thought able to deliver them from the
neighbour Nations that oppressed them; and consulted not with God (as
they ought to doe,) but with such men, or women, as they guessed to bee
Prophets by their Praedictions of things to come; and thought they had
an Idol in their Chappel, yet if they had a Levite for their Chaplain,
they made account they worshipped the God of Israel.

And afterwards when they demanded a King, after the manner of the
nations; yet it was not with a design to depart from the worship of God
their King; but despairing of the justice of the sons of Samuel, they
would have a King to judg them in Civill actions; but not that they
would allow their King to change the Religion which they thought was
recommended to them by Moses. So that they alwaies kept in store a
pretext, either of Justice, or Religion, to discharge themselves of
their obedience, whensoever they had hope to prevaile. Samuel was
displeased with the people, for that they desired a King, (for God was
their King already, and Samuel had but an authority under him); yet did
Samuel, when Saul observed not his counsell, in destroying Agag as God
had commanded, anoint another King, namely David, to take the succession
from his heirs. Rehoboam was no Idolater; but when the people thought
him an Oppressor; that Civil pretence carried from him ten Tribes to
Jeroboam an Idolater. And generally through the whole History of the
Kings, as well of Judah, as of Israel, there were Prophets that alwaies
controlled the Kings, for transgressing the Religion; and sometimes also
for Errours of State; (2 Chro. 19. 2.) as Jehosaphat was reproved by
the Prophet Jehu, for aiding the King of Israel against the Syrians;
and Hezekiah, by Isaiah, for shewing his treasures to the Ambassadors of
Babylon. By all which it appeareth, that though the power both of State
and Religion were in the Kings; yet none of them were uncontrolled
in the use of it, but such as were gracious for their own naturall
abilities, or felicities. So that from the practise of those times,
there can no argument be drawn, that the right of Supremacy in Religion
was not in the Kings, unlesse we place it in the Prophets; and conclude,
that because Hezekiah praying to the Lord before the Cherubins, was not
answered from thence, nor then, but afterwards by the Prophet Isaiah,
therefore Isaiah was supreme Head of the Church; or because Josiah
consulted Hulda the Prophetesse, concerning the Book of the Law, that
therefore neither he, nor the High Priest, but Hulda the Prophetesse had
the Supreme authority in matter of Religion; which I thinke is not the
opinion of any Doctor.




After The Captivity The Jews Had No Setled Common-wealth

During the Captivity, the Jews had no Common-wealth at all: And after
their return, though they renewed their Covenant with God, yet there
was no promise made of obedience, neither to Esdras, nor to any other;
And presently after they became subjects to the Greeks (from whose
Customes, and Daemonology, and from the doctrine of the Cabalists,
their Religion became much corrupted): In such sort as nothing can be
gathered from their confusion, both in State and Religion, concerning
the Supremacy in either. And therefore so far forth as concerneth the
Old Testament, we may conclude, that whosoever had the Soveraignty of
the Common-wealth amongst the Jews, the same had also the Supreme
Authority in matter of Gods externall worship; and represented Gods
Person; that is the person of God the Father; though he were not called
by the name of Father, till such time as he sent into the world his Son
Jesus Christ, to redeem mankind from their sins, and bring them into
his Everlasting Kingdome, to be saved for evermore. Of which we are to
speak in the Chapter following.



CHAPTER XLI. OF THE OFFICE OF OUR BLESSED SAVIOUR




Three Parts Of The Office Of Christ

We find in Holy Scripture three parts of the Office of