[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Armenia–France relations

Relations between Armenia and France have existed since the French and the Armenians established contact in the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia in the 12th century. Formal diplomatic relations between Armenia and France were established on 24 February 1992. Relations are regarded as excellent, with both countries cooperating on the aspects of diplomacy, culture and military. Due to the good relations between the two countries, 2006 was proclaimed the Year of Armenia in France.

France has the third largest Armenian diaspora community in the world behind Russia and the United States, and has by far the largest Armenian community in the European Union with estimates ranging from 250,000 to 750,000.

History

During the Middle Ages 

Prior to the 11th century, the Franks and the Armenians had limited contact due to the physical distance between the two nations.  However, there were earlier contacts between Armenians and Franks by way of the Roman Empire.  In 554 during the Battle of Casilinum the Armenian general Narses of the Eastern Roman Empire drove out the Franks and their allies the Alemanni from the Italian peninsula.

Towards the 11th century, the Armenians established the Principality and then Kingdom of Cilicia, which was located on the Mediterranean coast and thus accessible to the Franks and other Europeans who were participating in the Crusades. Armenia was the last Christian safe haven for the Crusaders before facing the Islamic armies of Syria and Palestine.  Unlike the Turkic arrival into the area, the Frankish arrival was interpreted positively by Armenian writers and other intellectuals.

In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, continuous contact with Western Europe, most notably with the Frankish Kingdom made way for major social, cultural, and political change in Cilician Armenia. Armenians, who have their own branch of Christianity, came in contact with (and were influenced by) Catholic ideals.

The last dynasty (the Lusignans) to rule Cilician Armenia was of Frankish origin. The last king, Leo VI of Armenia, was buried in Saint Denis Basilica alongside notable French kings such as Charles Martel, Louis XIV, and many others. He was in fact the only foreigner who was buried there.

Contact within the Ottoman Empire 

During the reign of Louis XIV, a large number of Armenian manuscripts were taken into the National Library of France. Armenia and Armenian characters are often featured in classical French literature. Authors such as Montesquieu, Voltaire, Rousseau, and many others often talked about the contact of their main characters with Armenian secondary characters.

Armenian studies would start to develop in France after the creation of the Armenian department of the School of Oriental languages with the initiative of Napoleon I.

Modern diplomatic relations
Diplomatic relations between Armenia and France were established on 24 February 1992.
On 2 October 2009, Vigen Chitechian was appointed Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Armenia to France. On 5 November 2010, Henri Reynaud, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the French Republic to Armenia, presented his credentials to the President of Armenia, Serzh Sargsyan. Also on 1 December 2011 Vardan Sirmakes was appointed Consul General of Armenia in Marseille.

On January 7, 2015, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Armenia Eduard Nalbandyan issued a press release on the Charlie Hebdo shooting, saying, "We strongly condemn terrorist act committed at the office of 'Charlie Hebdo' magazine in Paris" and added that "such appalling actions of extremists has no justification whatsoever and once again prove the necessity of wider solidarity in the international community's fight against terrorism." The Armenian Government also expressed their "condolences and support to the people, authorities of friendly France, editorial staff of 'Charlie Hebdo' magazine, and the relatives of the victims."

Though it has a very small French-speaking population, as a result of its historical ties to France, Armenia was selected to host the biennial Francophonie summit in 2018. French is taught at the Fondation Université Française en Arménie in Yerevan.

Armenian genocide recognition

During the Armenian genocide, France took in tens of thousands of Armenian refugees escaping the genocide. France was also one of few countries to send rescue boats for the Armenians. After a 53-day resistance by Armenian citizens against Ottoman attacks, the population of Musa Dagh was rescued by the French Navy. The population of which would eventually settle in Lebanon, mainly in the town of Anjar. 

In 1998, a resolution by the French National Assembly regarding the recognition of the Armenian genocide was passed.

In 2001, France became the first European country to officially recognize the Armenian genocide.

In 2006, the French National Assembly voted in favor of a bill which makes Armenian genocide denial illegal.

Armenians in France