[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Abdul Jalilul Jabbar

Abdul Jalilul Jabbar ibni Abdul Jalilul Akbar (Jawi: عبد الجليل الجبار; died 1660) was briefly the twelfth Sultan of Brunei. He was renowned for his justice, harmony, and peace before the breakout of the Brunei Civil War in the late 17th century, which caused the territories of Brunei to fragment in many places.

Reign (1659–1660)

Succession 
Prior to his succession to the throne, he was known as Raja Tengah Aliuddin. After Sultan Abdul Jalilul Akbar's death, there was a civil war and disputed succession between Raja Besar Pangiran Abdul (Abdullah), the eldest son, who may have reigned briefly but was not recognized in the Sisilah, and Raja Tengah Aliuddin, the second son. The latter overthrew the former and assumed the title of Sultan Abdul Jalilul Jabbar. Although the Sisilah does not prove dates for these events, the history of Sulu at this period does. 

Sultan Muwallil Wasit I consented to attend talks with Sebastián Hurtado de Corcuera, the Spanish Commander-in-Chief, in Zamboanga in 1637, before the decisive battle between the Spanish and the Sulu. This shows that Sultan Muwalil Wasit supported his senior nephew, Raja Besar, by interfering in the civil war in Brunei. He would go on to order the assassination of Raja Besar Pangiran Abdul in which was successfully carried out at Madang-Madang, Labuan. It was suggested by Sultan Abdul Jalilul Jabbar that Sultan Muwalil Wasit's Sulu wasn't worth attacking. Yet, the Sultan of Sulu couldn't have like the new Sultan, who had threatened to attack him while the Spanish were harassing him.

Testament 
The Sultan Hasan's Canons (Syariah Penal Code) was left intact by his father in his testament for him.

Death 
Sultan Abdul Jalilul Jabbar ruled only for a year from 1659 to 1660, before passing away and succeeded by his uncle Muhammad Ali, despite having two issues.

Personal life 
Sultan Abdul Jalilul Jabbar had two children whom were:

 Raja Muda Ahmad
 Pangiran Muda Muhammad Shamsuddin

See also
 List of Sultans of Brunei

References

17th-century Sultans of Brunei
Year of birth missing
Year of death missing