[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Typhoon Durian

Typhoon Durian, known in the Philippines as Typhoon Reming, was a deadly tropical cyclone that wreaked havoc in the Philippines and later crossed the Malay Peninsula in late November 2006, causing massive loss of life when mudflows from the Mayon Volcano buried many villages.

Durian first made landfall in the Philippines, packing strong winds and heavy rains that caused mudflows near Mayon Volcano. After causing massive damage in the Philippines, it exited into the South China Sea and weakened slightly, before managing to reorganise and restrengthen into a typhoon shortly before its second landfall, this time in Vietnam near Ho Chi Minh City, causing further damage of more than US$450 million. In all, Durian killed almost 2,000 people, and left hundreds more missing. Damages in the Philippines from the typhoon amounted to 5.086 billion PHP (US$130 million).

Meteorological history

Typhoon Durian formed as a tropical depression on November 24, 2006 near Chuuk State. Situated south of a ridge, the system tracked west-northwest through a region of low wind shear and good upper-level divergence. Late on November 26, the depression intensified into a tropical storm and was named Durian by the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA) Steady strengthening took place over the following two days as the system approached the Philippines. After attaining typhoon status on November 29, Durian underwent a period of rapid intensification, culminating with it attaining peak 10 minute maximum sustained winds of  and a central barometric pressure of 915 mbar (hPa; 27.02 inHg). Durian brushed the southern coast of the Catanduanes at this intensity on November 30, where a record gust of  was observed.

Slight weakening took place before the storm made landfall in the Bicol Region. Land interaction precipitated further degradation of storm, though it retained typhoon status upon emerging over the South China Sea on December 1, having passed just  south of Metro Manila. Some re-intensification occurred, with Durian reaching a secondary peak on December 3. Subsequently, increasingly hostile conditions caused the system to weaken to a severe tropical storm as it turned southwest. The storm had initial intensifies before struck southern Vietnam early on December 5 as a minimal typhoon before diminishing to a tropical depression. The system turned westward once again and crossed the Malay Peninsula. The JMA ceased tracking the storm on December 6 when it crossed west of 100° E and into the North Indian Ocean basin, although the Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) continued tracking it through the Bay of Bengal. Failing to reorganize, Durian degenerated into a remnant low on December 6, before ultimately dissipating three days later off the coast of Andhra Pradesh, India, on December 9.

Preparations

Philippines

The Bicol region, where Durian first struck, is located at the southeastern portion of the Philippine island of Luzon, and is affected by an average of 8.4 tropical cyclones per year. Before Durian made its damaging landfall in the Philippines, the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) issued various tropical cyclone warnings and watches, including Public Storm Warning Signal #4 for Catanduanes, Albay, and both Camarines Sur and Norte provinces; this is the highest warning signal, in which winds of over 100 km/h (60 mph) were expected. PAGASA turned off its weather radar in Virac to prevent damage. The Philippines' National Disaster Coordinating Council issued severe weather bulletins and advisories, and overall, 25 provinces in the archipelago were placed on storm alert. Residents in warning areas were advised of the potential for storm surge, flash flooding, and landslides.

The severe threat of the typhoon prompted over 1.3 million people to evacuate their homes, many of whom stayed in the 909 storm shelters. Officials advised residents in low-lying areas to seek higher grounds. School classes in Sorsogon and in Northern and Eastern Samar were suspended, and many buildings opened up as storm shelters. In Naga City, about 1,500 citizens left for emergency shelters. 1,000 were evacuated elsewhere in the region, including 120 in the capital city of Manila and more than 800 in Legazpi City. The threat of the typhoon caused ferry, bus, and airline services to be canceled, stranding thousands of people for several days. All shipping traffic was halted in the Mimaropa region. The Philippine Coast Guard grounded all vessels on open waters, stranding around 4,000 ferry passengers in Quezon province. PAGASA turned off its weather radar in Virac to prevent damage.

Vietnam