[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Grand Street station (IND Sixth Avenue Line)

nnection, the Manhattan Bridge north tracks, Fourth Avenue Line express tracks, and the West End Line. D trains were rerouted from the Culver Line to run to Coney Island via the new Sixth Avenue express tracks, the Chrystie Street Connection, the Manhattan Bridge north tracks, and the Brighton Line.

Manhattan Bridge closures 
The north Manhattan Bridge tracks were closed for repairs from April 1986 to December 1988. During this time, this station was served by the Grand Street Shuttle to the Sixth Avenue Line, and there was no subway service from the station to Brooklyn. The Grand Street Shuttle also operated when the north tracks were closed again from April to November 1995; the closure caused nearby vendors' business to decline. A third entrance was added in 1999 to accommodate the station's growing ridership, which in turn was spurred by the growth of the Chinese population in New York City. At the time, the Grand Street station was one of two subway stations in Manhattan's Chinatown, with subway service running directly to the Chinatowns in Brooklyn.

The MTA proposed closing the Manhattan Bridge's northern tracks again in 2000, running a shuttle between Broadway–Lafayette Street and Grand Street. Many Chinese New Yorkers expressed opposition to the plans, as there would no longer be direct subway service between Grand Street and Brooklyn. The New York Times wrote that many of the station's 27,000 daily riders were "Chinese- Americans who live in Brooklyn, come for fresh fish and produce, herbal medicines and household supplies", and that community members feared a decline in business when the Manhattan Bridge's north tracks closed. The Grand Street Shuttle began operating again when the north tracks were closed in July 2001. The MTA also agreed to operate a shuttle bus to the Canal Street station when the bridge's northern tracks were closed in 2001. Regular service was restored in February 2004.

Station layout

The station has two tracks and two narrow side platforms, located approximately  below ground. They are column-less, except at staircases, and have a blue trim line with "GRAND ST" in white sans-serif font on it at regular intervals. In the original plan for the station, this would have been a four-track, two-island platform station; the Second Avenue Subway would have served the outer tracks while the Sixth Avenue Line served the inner tracks, providing a cross-platform interchange between these two lines. Although the connection only served Sixth Avenue Line trains, it was essentially the first part of the Second Avenue line that had been constructed. There is a sole mezzanine at the center of the station which has two staircases to each platform, a turnstile bank, token booth, and access to the street exits.On the Brooklyn-bound side, there is a small sign reading "Change Radio Channel to B1", indicating that train operators must change the channel on the route destination box from B2 (IND) to B1 (BMT) before crossing the Manhattan Bridge. Southbound trains leaving this station cross over the north side of the bridge and arrive at DeKalb Avenue or Atlantic Avenue–Barclays Center (via the DeKalb Avenue bypass tracks). As the tracks curve onto the bridge, trackways from Canal Street on the Manhattan Bridge branch of the BMT Broadway Line are visible. The north side of the bridge originally led to that station before the current alignment was completed in 1967.

Artwork 
A painted frieze called Trains of Thought by Andrea Gardner and Sally Heller was installed at the mezzanine and platforms in the late 1990s as the "Creative Stations" program sponsored by the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council. It features red clay models of R62s and R62As mounted on wood.

Exits
There are three staircase exits: two going up to the northeastern corner of the intersection of Grand and Chrystie Streets, and one going up to the northwestern corner. The station originally only had the two street stairs to the northeastern corner of the intersection, but due to growing ridership over the years—mainly by commuters from various Brooklyn neighborhoods to Manhattan's Chinatown—the third staircase to the northwestern corner was added in 1999.

Second Avenue Subway plans