[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mohamed Haji Mukhtar

, teaching The History of Islamic Civilization in Africa, and the Arabic Language. He held Fellowships from the Istituto Italiano per L’Africa, Rome 1979; the Arab League's Education, Culture and Science Organization ALECSO 1980-1982, as well as the National Endowment for the Humanities NEH in 2002.

Dr. Mukhtar's research focuses on the history of the Islamic World, Northeast Africa, and Southern Arabia. His areas of publication and conferences are conflict resolutions and reconciliation, and Muslim experiences in the United States of America. He has recently published a chapter titled: “The Rise and Expansion of Islam.” In The Middle East: Its History and Culture, edited by Jason Tatlock (University of Maryland Press, 2012), 47-64. In 2010, he published “Language Marginalization, Ethnic Nationalism and Cultural Crisis in Somalia.” In Milk and Peace, Drought and War: Somali Culture Society and Politics, edited by Virginia Luling and Markus Hohne (London: Hurst, 2010), 281-300. Coauthored a language dictionary titled: English-Maay Dictionary (London: Adonis & Abbey, 2007); and in 2003, Historical Dictionary of Somalia, New Edition (Lanham, Maryland: The Scarecrow Press, Inc., 2003).

Dr. Mukhtar has long been a producer and correspondent of British Broadcasting Corporation BBC, African and Arabic Service as well as the Voice of America VOA. From 1989 to 2003, he is a founding member of Ergada Wadatashiga Somalia (Somali Peace, and Consultation Committee), Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, USA, and chaired this committee from 1996 to 2010. The Ergada is a group of Somali scholars and professionals actively pursued a peaceful settlement through direct discussions with protagonists as well indirectly through consultations with United Nations and international institutions. From 2007 to present, he is the founder and President of the Center for Peace-Building Initiative CPBI, Savannah, Georgia, USA,  and from 1992 to present, a founding member and chair of the Inter-Riverine Studies Association ISA, Detroit, Michigan, USA. The ISA is an academic organization found in 1993 to reexamine the assumptions upon which the sociocultural, economic and identity formations of the Somali society is based.

From 2000 to present Dr. Mukhtar is a board member of the Savannah Council on World Affairs SCWA, Savannah, Georgia, USA, as well as board member of Global Advisory Board for Human Dignity and Humiliation Studies, Paris, France. He is also member of the American Association of Teachers of Arabic (AATA), he is Editorial and Advisory Board member for AFRICA, Rivista Semestrale di Studi e Richerche, Universita di Pavia, Italy. From 1996-2002, Dr. Mukhtar served Chief Editor, Demenedung, Newsletter for the Inter-Riverine Studies Association (ISA), Detroit, Michigan, and from 1988-1994, He was a contributing editor to Islamyyat, Journal of the Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia. Dr. Mukhtar, works closely with the

International institutions that are engaged in crisis and conflict areas of the world, including the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees UNHCR, The Swedish Life and Peace Institute LPI, the Canadian Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies CIPCS, The U.S. Institute of Peace just to mention some. He led peace and reconciliation missions and wrote reports on conflict areas in the Horn of Africa, particularly on Somalia, Ethiopia, Kenya and the Diaspora.

Dr. Mukhtar has long been a producer and correspondent of the BBC African Service, and is presently the chairperson of the Somalia Committee for Peace and Reconciliation (Ergada) as well as the Inter-Riverine Studies Association (ISA).

He is currently a professor of African & Middle Eastern History at Savannah State University in Savannah, Georgia.

Bibliography 
Mukhtar has written numerous scholarly works on the history and sociology of Somalia and Islam.

 History and Historiography

 'Arabic Sources on Somalia', History in Africa 14 (1987).
 Somalia: World Bibliographical Series. With Mark W. Delancey, Vol. 92, (Santa Barbara: CA. Clio Press, 1989).
 Historical Dictionary of Somalia, New Edition (2003).
 'Somali Responses to Colonial Occupation (The Inter-Riverine Case)' in Putting the Cart Before the Horse: Contested Nationalism and the Crisis of the Nation-State in Somalia, edited by Abdi Kusow (2004).
 'A Remembrance of Salah Mohamed Ali and Aw Jama Umar Isse: The Passing of A Generation in Somali Studies.' Northeast African Studies 15:1, (2014).
 'Al-Masadir al-Arabiyyah fi Tarikh al-Sumal. [Arabic Sources on the History of Somalia]. In ALECSO Monthly, No. 16 (Mogadishu: 1982).
 Habka Cilmiga ee Baarista Taariikhda. [Methodology of Writing History], (Lafoole: Somalia, Lafoole College Press, 1978).