[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James Fairman Fielder

lf. On Election Day, he won a secure plurality of 32,850 votes in a three way race against Republican Edward C. Stokes and Progressive Everett Colby.

Term in office (1914–17) 
Fielder took office for a full term as Governor on January 20, 1914 and served until his term expired on January 15, 1917. 

By the beginning of his term, the Smith–Nugent machine had recovered from its nadir during the Wilson administration, and the Democratic majority Fielder needed to pass progressive legislation had evaporated, with most progressives returning to the Republican ranks. Instead, Fielder formed an alliance with Frank Hague, the new boss of the Hudson County political machine. He secured repeal of the Hillery Maximum Tax law, which protected railroads from equal corporate taxation. Fielder also signed legislation to impose an inheritance tax, reform municipal and county primary elections, strengthen pure food laws, reform the penal system, increase funding for agricultural research, tax bank stocks, and establish a Legislative Reference Bureau.  

Nevertheless, the first legislative session was disappointing to Fielder, who wrote to Joseph P. Tumulty, "I have been up against some difficult legislative situations ... but this is the worst that I ever encountered. There are several factions of Democrats and at least two of the Republicans with outside influences constantly at work on each and ... the Democratic Assemblymen, for the most part, are the most unreliable lot of men we ever had to deal with. One never knows upon whom he count to assist in legislation." In the fall 1914 elections, Republicans won both houses of the legislature, and they increased their majorities in 1915. Fielder signed some progressive legislation in his final two years in office, including a reduction in the number of boards, departments and commissions in state government; the creation of a central purchasing bureau for the state government; a requirement for advance announcement of proposed expenditures to permit public review and comment; protections for factory workers and a ten-hour work day for women. A coalition of Democrats and Republicans overrode his veto to overturn many of Wilson's reforms to the state corporation laws. 

In October 1915, three constitutional amendments were subject to public referendum; Fielder opposed the amendment to grant women suffrage which, along with the amendments to simplify the amendment process and expand municipal authority to condemn land, failed. 

By the end of his term, Fielder was largely sidelined by the legislature, whom he denounced and vowed to retire from politics for life.

Personal life 
Fielder married Mabel Cholwell Miller of Norwalk, Connecticut on June 4, 1895.

Later life and death
Fielder served as the State Food Administrator to aid the American war effort in 1917.

In 1919, Fielder was named vice chancellor of the New Jersey Court of Chancery, a post he retained for twenty-nine years.

Fiedler died on December 2, 1954, of a heart attack at Mountainside Hospital. He was buried in the mausoleum in Fairmount Cemetery, Newark.

See also

List of governors of New Jersey

References

External links

Dead Governors of New Jersey – James F. Fielder
James Fairman Fielder entry at The Political Graveyard

1867 births
1954 deaths
Episcopalians from New Jersey
Burials at Fairmount Cemetery (Newark, New Jersey)
Democratic Party governors of New Jersey
Democratic Party members of the New Jersey General Assembly
Democratic Party New Jersey state senators
Politicians from Jersey City, New Jersey
Presidents of the New Jersey Senate