[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tina Karol

version of Tina Karol's musical concert Intonatsii.

August 27, the premiere of the album Intonatsii (Live).

In the fall of 2018, Tina Karol again took part in the project Shchyrі-2018 from Elle Ukraine.

On November 13, Tina Karol's Big European Tour began (Israel, Italy, Czech Republic, Moldova).

In winter 2018 she became the star coach in the 9th season of The Voice of Ukraine.

On December 7, the premiere of the new song "Sila vysoty" ("The Power of Heights").

On December 14, The Crashes won at the Best Shorts Competition International Film Festival in the nomination Best Short Film 2018.

2019 
April 4, Tina Karol and Boombox released "Bezodnya" ("The Abyss"), which became their first joint work. The idea of a sudden creative tandem belongs to the leader of the band Andriy Khlyvniuk.

On  August  22,Tina Karol is back with a brand new single and video clip. The song is entitled "Vabyty" (Attract).

On August 24, Tina Karol took part in the "Procession of Dignity" on the Independence Day of Ukraine. The singer performed a fragment of the national anthem of Ukraine on the roof of the Ukrainian National Tchaikovsky Academy of Music.

In the same month she was the host of “Dancing with the stars” Tantsi z zirkamy. In October, together with the Moldovan singer Dan Balan, she presented the single “Domoy” (Home)  at Dancing with the Stars.

In November, Tina Karol became the face and Ambassador of the Ukrainian jewelry brand Ukrzoloto. In the same month she presented a new video for the song " Idi na zhizn " ("Go to the life").

On November 30 Tina Karol and Dan Balan performed the single “Domoy”  at the M1 Music Awards.

On December 12, Tina Karol and soloist of The Hardkiss band Julia Sanina presented a duet song “Vilna”  (Free) and music video(clip) for it.  This single became the soundtrack to the film “Viddana”.

In December 2019, Tina Karol was included in the list of the 100 most influential Ukrainians by Focus, taking the 85th place.

2020 - 2021 

In winter 2020, she came back as a coach on  The Voice of Ukraine. 

On February 8, Tina Karol  became a judge at Vidbir, Ukraine's National Selection for the Eurovision Song Contest. "I am glad to become a member of the jury of the national selection of the Eurovision Song Contest, to be part of a large team of a historical event. Definitely we are a singing nation, we can make world-class music. I'm definitely against setting sports standards for creative people and erasing their personality with the desire of a gold medal. As a result of a long creative journey, music always wins. Together we write history today." On April 26 Tina Karol and Dan Balan on The Voice of Ukraine. presented the song "Pomnish" ( Remember) .  As a coach of Roman Sasanchin, she won The Voice of Ukraine 10 season 

On July 7, President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky awarded Tina Karol with the Order of Princess Olga III degree on the occasion of the Constitution Day of Ukraine. 

On August 24, Tina, together with Monatik, Irina Bilyk, Oleh Vinnik, Potap and others, took part in the show dedicated to the Independence Day of Ukraine on Sofia Square In the same month, together with Yuri Gorbunov, she again became the host of the show  Tantsi z zirkamy (Dancing with the Stars).

In September, Karol released the album "Nayti svoikh"  (Find Your Own)  and the trilogy-clip of the same name In the same month, Tina Karol was awarded her star plate at the "Star Square" near the Gulliver shopping center in Kyiv .

In November, Tina Karol appeared on the cover of the exclusive edition of the "Ukrainian Women in Vogue" book, published by Vogue Ukraine and dedicated to successful Ukrainian businesswomen.

In December, she released her first shoe collection. It was a collaboration with a Ukrainian brand "Kachorovska", which included three items - open toe shoes, clogs  and micro bags 

On February 12, 2021, she released a music video for the song "Scandal" introducing a whole new repertoire. Later, in winter, she acted as a star coach in a vocal TV-show "The Voice of Ukraine " (Season 11)" on 1+1. In March 2021, together with Potap she became the host at the Lipsync Battle show.

On April 25, during the finale of "The Voice of Ukraine  (Season 11)", Tina Karol declared that she did not plan to be a mentor in the 12th season of the show.

On April 2, she released her eighth album "Krasivo", which included 7 new songs. That same month she presented the live-session "Krasivo" both on her YouTube channel and on 1+1.

On May 12, at the national music awards "YUNA" she was presented a "Special Achievements in Music" award as well as won in two nominations: "Best Movie Soundtrack" (together with Julia Sanina ) and "Best Duet/Collaboration".

On June 16, Tina Karol visited Almaty (Kazakhstan) as part of her promotional tour for the album "Krasivo". There the singer gave several interviews and visited various radio stations.