[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Energy security

wable biofuels for transport represent a key source of diversification from petroleum products.
As the finite resources that have been so crucial to survival in the world decline day by day, countries will begin to realize that the need for renewable fuel sources will be more vital than ever before.

With greater production of renewable energy, less overall energy production is on-demand. The electrical grid does not store energy. The grid only distributes electricity on-demand. Lack of control with regards to timing of energy production necessitates very large batteries. Before renewables, fuel-fired turbines could be spun up whenever needed, day or night, rain or shine. Solar panels can't be told to turn on at night, so energy needs to stored from what is captured during the day, so that the energy can be released at night. Wind power fluctuates uncontrollably, so it also needs storage capacity. Nuclear can be operational whenever needed, so it does not need storage capacity. Basically, if a method of power generation absolutely cannot function 24/7, or there is more electricity generated than being used at any point in time, batteries are needed to collect and provide a controlled release of electricity.

Renewable energy is not the same as clean energy. Renewable energy comes from solar, geothermal, hydro-electric, biofuel (optimally crude oil from algae and ethanol from switchgrass), and wind power. Clean energy is all those methods of energy production, but also nuclear (nuclear resources, like coal, oil, and natural gas, are very finite and not quickly renewable). In sixty minutes there is enough solar energy hitting Earth to power the world for one year.  With the addition of solar panels, wind turbines, and diverse types of batteries all around the world, a little pressure is taken off the need to produce more oil.

Geothermal (renewable and clean energy) can indirectly reduce the need for other sources of fuel. By using the heat from the outer core of the Earth to heat water, steam created from the heated water can not only power electricity-generating turbines, but also eliminate the need for consuming electricity to create hot water for showers, washing machines, dishwashers, sterilizers, and more; geothermal is one of the cleanest and most efficient options, needing fuel to dig deep holes, hot water pumps, and tubing to distribute the hot water. Geothermal not only helps energy security, but also food security via year-round heated greenhouses.

Hydroelectric, already incorporated into many dams around the world, produces a lot of energy, usually on demand, and is very easy to produce energy as the dams control the gravity-fed water allowed through gates which spin up turbines located inside of the dam.
Biofuels have been researched relatively thoroughly, using several different sources such as sugary corn (very inefficient) and cellulose-rich switchgrass (more efficient) to produce ethanol, and fat-rich algae to produce a synthetic crude oil (or algae-derived ethanol, which is very, very inefficient), these options are substantially cleaner than the consumption of petroleum. "Most life cycle analysis results for perennial and ligno-cellulosic crops conclude that biofuels can supplement anthropogenic energy demands and mitigate green house gas emissions to the atmosphere".
Using net-carbon-positive oil to fuel transportation is a major source of green house gases, any one of these developments could replace the energy we derive from oil. Traditional fossil fuel exporters (e.g. Russia) who built their country's wealth from memorialized plant remains (fossil fuels) and have not yet diversified their energy portfolio to include renewable energy have greater national energy insecurity.

In 2021, global renewable energy capacity made record-breaking growth, increasing by 295 gigawatts (295 billion Watts, equivalent to 295,000,000,000 Watts, or a third of a trillion Watts) despite supply chain issues and high raw material prices. The European Union was especially impactful—its annual additions increased nearly 30% to 36 gigawatts in 2021.

The International Energy Agency's 2022 Renewable Energy Market Update predicts that the global capacity of renewables would increase an additional 320 gigawatts. For context, that would almost entirely cover the electricity demand of Germany. However, the report cautioned that current public policies are a threat to future renewable energy growth: "the amount of renewable power capacity added worldwide is expected to plateau in 2023, as continued progress for solar is offset by a 40% decline in hydropower expansion and little change in wind additions."

See also

By area

 :Category:Energy policy by country
 Cebu Declaration on East Asian Energy Security
 Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007
 Energy Security Act
 Energy security of Afghanistan
 Energy security of the People's Republic of China
 U.S. Energy Independence

Economic