[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# 2007 New Year Honours

y in Lincolnshire.
Moses, Trustee, Brent Community Transport. For services to the community in North London.
David Rhodri Mugridge, Inspector, Metropolitan Police Service. For services to the Police.
Christine, Mrs. Mullen, Associate Director, Workforce Strategy NHS North West. For services to the NHS. 
Miss Sandra Mullin. For services to the community in Earlesfield Estate, Grantham, Lincolnshire. 
Councillor Ronald Munby. For services to the community in Keswick, Cumbria.
Susan Mrs. Murrell. For services to the Civil Service Benevolent Fund, Home Office.
Miss Eileen Myers, Executive Officer, Health and Safety Executive, Department for Work and Pensions.
Dr. Frank Edward Neal, Chair, Rotherham Hospice Trust. For services to Healthcare.
Brian Needham. For services to the Duke of Edinburgh Award and to Young People.
Ronald Beattie Neill. For public service.
Miss Hazel Catherine Newberry. For services to Ballroom Dancing.
Jean Diana, Mrs. Newman. For services to the community in South Somerset.
Lilian, Mrs. Newman, lately Chair, Inverclyde Tourist Group. For services to the Tourist Industry in Scotland.
Roger Edward Newman. For charitable services.
Dr. Jennifer Margaret Newton. For services to Conservation in North Lancashire.
Andrew James Nisbet, Works Manager, Historic Scotland, Scottish Executive.
Kathleen, Mrs. Nisbet, Councillor, Blyth Valley District Council. For services to Local Government in Blyth, Northumberland.
Peter Noot, Woodland Officer, West Sussex, Forestry Commission.
David Norman, Retained Sub-Officer, Gloucestershire Fire and Rescue Service. For services to Fire Safety. 
Yvonne Mary, Mrs. Norton, Chair, West Midlands Lupus Group. For services to Healthcare.
Daniel Terrence O'Connell. For services to Youth Justice and to the community in Cumbria.
Carmen Winifred, Mrs. O'Hagan, Teacher, Northern Ireland Prison Service.
John O'Leary, Councillor, Staffordshire County Council. For services to Local Government.
Audrey, Mrs. O'Neill. For services to the Sport of Baton Twirling.
Miss Linda Joyce Oakley, Director, Ideas21. For services to Invention and Innovation.
Peter William Ogles. For services to the Royal Mail and to St. John Ambulance Brigade in Chipping Norton, Oxfordshire.
Jean, Mrs. Oliver, Vice-Chair, Parkfield and Mill Lane Neighbourhood Management Pathfinder Board. For services to the community in Stockton-on-Tees.
Peter James Stephen Olney. For services to Zoos and to Conservation.
Comfort, Mrs. Omoko, Senior Catering Manager, Metropolitan Police Service. For services to the Police. 
Mary, Mrs. Ord. For services to the Huntly and District Macmillan Cancer Research Branch, Aberdeen. 
Keith Stuart Osborn, lately Chief Scientist, United Utilities plc. For services to Business and to Public Health.
Ronald Frederick Osborn, lately Director, Osborn and Simmons Ltd. For services to Surgical Instruments Manufacture.
Jean Ellen, Mrs. Outhwaite. For services to the Cub Scouts in Lancashire and Cheshire.
Bridget Carlile, Mrs. Overton, lately Manager, Maidstone Volunteer Bureau. For services to the community in Kent.
Theresa Josephine, Mrs. Owen, Volunteer Services Manager, Aintree University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust. For services to the NHS in Merseyside.
William Robert Palmer, T.D., Corporation Tax Manager, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
Charles Edgar Park. For services to Raptor Conservation in South West Scotland.
George Parker. For services to the community in Barford St. Michael, Oxfordshire.
Dr. John Merfyn Hywell Lloyd Parry. For services to Sports Medicine.
Raymond Harold Parry, Emergency Planning Manager, London Underground. For services to Public Transport.
Geoffrey Lloyd Parsons, Teacher, Vyners School, Ickenham, Hillingdon, London. For services to Education.
Richard John Patterson, lately Chairman, Dorset ME Support Group. For charitable services to those with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome and Myalgic Encephalomyelitis.
Michael Norman Pearn. For services to the community in Torpoint, Cornwall.
Ann, Mrs. Pearse. For services to the community in Somerset.
Thomas Perrett, Chair, Walsall New Deal for Communities. For services to the community in the West Midlands.
Miss Eve Pettinger, Ballet Teacher, Arts Educational School, Tring. For services to Dance.
Patricia Jane, Mrs. Phillips. For services to the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge.
Miss Zara Anne Elizabeth Phillips, Individual Three-Day Event World Champion. For services to Equestrianism.
Stanley William Pike, lately Deputy Headteacher, Bosmere Junior School, Hampshire. For services to Education.
Ms Julia Lucille Plaine, Co-ordinator, Sex Workers' Empowerment, Education and Training Project, Huddersfield. For services to Women.
Sheila, Mrs. Pollitt, J.P., Member, Independent Monitoring Board. For services to H.M. Young Offenders' Institution Lancaster Farms, Lancashire.
Catherine, Mrs. Potter, Specialist Bed Co-ordinator, Medway NHS Trust. For services to the NHS.
Mary, Mrs. Potts. For services to the community in Sunderland, Tyn