[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 61]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

the
faults of an animal than to destroy it. Besides, I have a particular
affection for this cat, because I found her when she was a kitten, and
have bred her up so tame and gentle that she will follow me about like a
dog. She comes every morning to my chamber-door and mews till she is let
in; and she sits upon the table at breakfast and dinner as grave and
polite as a visitor, without offering to touch the meat. Indeed, before
she was guilty of this offence, I have often seen you stroke and caress
her with great affection; and puss, who is by no means of an ungrateful
temper, would always pur and arch her tail, as if she was sensible of
your attention.

In a few days after this conversation another robin, suffering like the
former from the inclemency of the season, flew into the house, and
commenced acquaintance with Tommy. But he, who recollected the mournful
fate of his former bird, would not encourage it to any familiarity,
till he had claimed the promise of Mr Barlow, in order to preserve it
from danger. Mr Barlow, therefore, enticed the new guest into a small
wire-cage, and, as soon as he had entered it, shut the door, in order to
prevent his escaping. He then took a small gridiron, such as is used to
broil meat upon, and, having almost heated it red hot, placed it erect
upon the ground, before the cage in which the bird was confined. He then
contrived to entice the cat into the room, and observing that she fixed
her eye upon the bird, which she destined to become her prey, he
withdrew the two little boys, in order to leave her unrestrained in her
operations. They did not retire far, but observed her from the door fix
her eyes upon the cage, and begin to approach it in silence, bending her
body to the ground, and almost touching it as she crawled along. When
she judged herself within a proper distance, she exerted all her agility
in a violent spring, which would probably have been fatal to the bird,
had not the gridiron, placed before the cage, received the impression of
her attack. Nor was the disappointment the only punishment she was
destined to undergo; the bars of the gridiron had been so thoroughly
heated that, in rushing against them, she felt herself burned in several
parts of her body, and retired from the field of battle mewing
dreadfully and full of pain; and such was the impression which this
adventure produced, that, from this time, she was never again known to
attempt to destroy birds.

The coldness of the weather still continuing, all the wild animals began
to perceive the effects, and, compelled by hunger, approached nearer to
the habitations of man and the places they had been accustomed to
avoid. A multitude of hares--the most timorous of all animals--were
frequently seen scudding about the garden in search of the scanty
vegetables which the severity of the season had spared. In a short time
they had devoured all the green herbs which could be found, and, hunger
still oppressing them, they began to gnaw the very bark of the trees for
food. One day, as Tommy was walking in the garden, he found that even
the beloved tree which he had planted with his own hands, and from which
he had promised himself so plentiful a produce of fruit, had not escaped
the general depredation, but had been gnawed round at the root and
killed.

Tommy, who could ill brook disappointment, was so enraged to see his
labours prove abortive, that he ran with tears in his eyes to Mr Barlow,
to demand vengeance against the devouring hares. "Indeed," said Mr
Barlow, "I am sorry for what they have done, but it is now too late to
prevent it." "Yes," answered Tommy, "but you may have all those
mischievous creatures shot, that they may do no further damage." "A
little while ago," replied Mr Barlow, "you wanted to destroy the cat,
because she was cruel and preyed upon living animals, and now you would
murder all the hares, merely because they are innocent, inoffensive
animals that subsist upon vegetables." Tommy looked a little foolish,
but said, "he did not want to hurt them for living upon vegetables, but
for destroying his tree." "But," said Mr Barlow, "how can you expect the
animal to distinguish your trees from any other? You should therefore
have fenced them round in such a manner as might have prevented the
hares from reaching them; besides, in such extreme distress as animals
now suffer from the want of food, I think they may be forgiven if they
trespass a little more than usual."

Mr Barlow then took Tommy by the hand and led him into a field at some
distance, which belonged to him, and which was sown with turnips.
Scarcely had they entered the field before a flock of larks rose up in
such innumerable quantities as almost darkened the air. "See," said Mr
Barlow, "these little fellows are trespassing upon my turnips in such
numbers, that in a short time they will destroy every bit of green about
the field; yet I would not hurt them on any