[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 73]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

the pursuit, so that the man met him about half-way
from his own house. As soon as Mr Barlow heard the good news, he
determined to return with the man, and reached his house just as Tommy
Merton had finished one of the heartiest meals he had ever made.

The little boys rose up to meet Mr Barlow, and thanked him for his
kindness, and the pains he had taken to look after them, expressing
their concern for the accident which had happened, and the uneasiness
which, without designing it, they had occasioned; but he, with the
greatest good-nature, advised them to be more cautious for the future,
and not to extend their walks so far; then, thanking the worthy people
of the house, he offered to conduct them, and they all three set out
together in a very cold, but fine and star-light evening.

As they went home Mr Barlow renewed his caution, and told them the
dangers they had incurred. "Many people," said he, "in your situation,
have been surprised by an unexpected storm, and, losing their way, have
perished with cold. Sometimes, both men and beasts, not being able to
discern their accustomed track, have fallen into deep pits filled up and
covered with the snow, where they have been found buried several feet
deep, and frozen to death." "And is it impossible," said Tommy, "in such
a case to escape?" "In general it is," said Mr Barlow; "but there have
been some extraordinary instances of persons who have lived several days
in that condition, and yet have been taken out alive; to-morrow you
shall read a remarkable story to that purpose."

As they were walking on, Tommy looked up at the sky, where all the stars
glimmered with unusual brightness, and said, "What an innumerable number
of stars is here! I think I never observed so many before in all my
life!" "Innumerable as they appear to you," said Mr Barlow, "there are
persons that have not only counted all you now see, but thousands more,
which are at present invisible to your eye." "How can that be?" inquired
Tommy, "for there is neither beginning nor end; they are scattered so
confusedly about the sky, that I should think it as impossible to number
them, as the flakes of snow that fell to-day while we were in the wood."

At this Mr Barlow smiled, and said, that he believed Harry could give
him a different account, although perhaps he could not number them all.
"Harry," said he, "cannot you show your companion some of the
constellations?" "Yes," answered Harry, "I believe I remember some that
you have been so good as to teach me." "But pray, sir," said Tommy,
"what is a constellation?"

"Those," answered Mr Barlow, "who first began to observe the heavens as
you do now, have observed certain stars, remarkable either for their
brightness or position. To these they have given a particular name that
they might the more easily know them again, and discourse of them to
others; and these particular clusters of stars, thus joined together and
named, they call _constellations_. But come, Harry, you are a little
farmer, and can certainly point out to us Charles' Wain."

Harry then looked up to the sky, and pointed out seven very bright
stars towards the north. "You are right," said Mr Barlow; "four of these
stars have put the common people in mind of the four wheels of a waggon,
and the three others of the horses, therefore they have called them by
this name. Now, Tommy, look well at these, and see if you can find any
seven stars in the whole sky that resemble them in their position."

_Tommy._--Indeed, sir, I do not think I can.

_Mr Barlow._--Do you not think, then, that you can find them again?

_Tommy._--I will try, sir. Now, I will take my eye off, and look another
way. I protest I cannot find them again. Oh! I believe, there they are.
Pray, sir (pointing with his finger), is not that Charles' Wain?

_Mr Barlow._--You are right; and, by remembering these stars, you may
very easily observe those which are next to them, and learn their names
too, till you are acquainted with the whole face of the heavens.

_Tommy._--That is indeed very clever and very surprising. I will show my
mother Charles' Wain the first time I go home; I daresay she has never
observed it.

_Mr Barlow._--But look on the two stars which compose the hinder wheel
of the waggon, and raise your eye up towards the top of the sky; do you
not see a very bright star, that seems to be almost, but not quite, in a
line with the two others?

_Tommy._--Yes, sir; I see it plainly.

_Mr Barlow._--That is called the Pole-star; it never moves from its
place, and by looking full at it, you may always find the north.

_Tommy._--Then if I turn my face towards that star, I always look to the
north.

_Mr Barlow._--You are right.

_Tommy._--Then I shall turn my back to the south.

_Mr Barlow._--You are right again; and now cannot you find the east and
the west?

_Tommy._--Is it not the east where the sun rises?

_Mr Barlow._--Yes; b