[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Francis Lewis High School

Francis Lewis High School (FLHS) is a selective public high school located in Fresh Meadows, in the New York City borough of Queens. It is one of the most-applied-to public high schools in New York City with 9,468 applicants in 2016. Operated by the New York City Department of Education, the school serves students of grades 912. The school is named after Francis Lewis, who signed the United States Declaration of Independence as a representative of New York.

The school has several competitive and high-performing academic programs. Students are admitted to the school, either as zoned applicants from the surrounding area, or through these programs, whose acceptance rate are below 3% in the 2019 admissions statistics, some being as low as 1%.

The school has a 93% attendance rate, compared to 89% citywide. The school's graduation rate is 88% in four years, compared to 76% citywide. Of the graduating class, 82% of graduates enrolled in college or other post-secondary program within six months of graduation, compared to 59% citywide.

Student body 
Francis Lewis is one of the most selective and applied to public high schools in New York City. In March 2016, Francis Lewis had 9,468 applicants applying for a seat in the school. During the 2019–2020 school year, Francis Lewis had 4,418 students enrolled. For the 2019–2020 academic year, the student body was 56% Asian, 22% Hispanic, 16% Caucasian, and 6% African American. Ten percent of the students were learning English as a second language. Fourteen percent of the students had special needs.

Francis Lewis is also one of the most overcrowded; it has a capacity of 2,300, and the 2019–2020 enrollment figures exceeded that capacity by 176 percent. In 2019, the New York City School Construction Authority started constructing an annex with 500 seats and amenities such as a culinary arts room, a science lab, and a greenhouse. The annex is scheduled to be completed by September 2022.

The school has an alumni association for graduates.

Special programs and enrollment
Eighth and ninth graders applying to Francis Lewis can be admitted through its specialized academic programs which include the following.
 The Jacob K. Javits Law Institute for law studies. Students take semesters studying American law, analyzing the court system, and participating in mock trials and moot court. The program is a three-year program. The school's team won the New York City Moot Court Championships in December 1997. 
 The University Scholars Program, a program which gives its students an accelerated humanities program including Mythology for freshman year and Philosophy for sophomore year. Students are required to take AP English Language and Composition during junior year, and they have the choice of taking either Ancient Greek or AP English Literature and Composition during senior year. Students are required to take two foreign languages as well. The program is a four-year program.
 The Math and Science Research Program offers advanced studies of math, science and statistics. Students analyze scientific articles, write scientific papers, design and conduct experiments, and participate in science fairs. The program is a four-year program. The program has garnered various Siemens Competition and Intel Science Talent Search finalists and winners. For example, Francis Lewis had three semifinalists in 2010, more than any other high school in New York City.
 Math Team is a program that allows students to participate in citywide math competitions in addition to required math courses. In April 1999, the senior math team came in first place in the New York State Interscholastic Math Competition. In 2016, the program's math magazine received a gold medal from Columbia Scholastic Press Association, a Columbia University group.
 The Robotics and Engineering Program offers students education in engineering. Students learn how to construct and program their own robots and compete in citywide competitions. 
 The International Relations Program allows students to take an accelerated class in international relations including conflicts and trade. Students take field trips to the United Nations building to analyze relations between different country leaders.
 The Computer Science Program allows students to learn how to code on a computer and improve their programming skills.

In May 1995, the debate team won the New York City Championship in the annual Lincoln-Douglas debates for the first time in school history.