[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2nd Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

econstruction, but was chased out of the state by White terrorism in the 1870s.  He later wrote a memoir of his experiences.
 Patrick Henry Ray was a private in Co. K but was transferred to the 1st Wisconsin Heavy Artillery Regiment in December 1861.  He rose to the rank of captain in the 1st Wisconsin Heavy Artillery and remained in the U.S. Army after the war, and achieved the rank of brigadier general in 1906.
 George G. Symes was a private in Co. B but was wounded and discharged after First Bull Run.  He later returned to service and was commissioned colonel of the 44th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment. After the war he became a U.S. congressman from Colorado.
 William H. Upham was a private in Co. F and was wounded and captured at First Bull Run.  He resigned in May 1862 to enroll in the United States Military Academy.  After the war he was elected the 18th Governor of Wisconsin.
 Samuel K. Vaughan was 2nd lieutenant in Co. G, but resigned after just a few months and re-enlisted with the 19th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment.  He rose to become lieutenant colonel of the 19th Wisconsin Infantry and received an honorary brevet to brigadier general. 
 Gilbert M. Woodward was enlisted and later 1st lieutenant in Co. B.  In 1863, he was appointed adjutant of the regiment and served on the brigade staff of General Solomon Meredith.  He was wounded at Gettysburg.  After the war he became a U.S. congressman.

See also

 Iron Brigade
 List of Wisconsin Civil War units
 Wisconsin in the American Civil War
 2nd Wisconsin Infantry Regiment (1898)

References

Further reading
 
 
 
 The Civil War Archive

External links
Second Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry - A large website with comprehensive information on the 2nd Wisconsin, as well as many other Wisconsin-based Civil War regiments and civilian life in the state during the period.
Wisconsin Battle Flags- A website by the Wisconsin Veterans Museum Foundation showcasing the battle flags of Wisconsin regiments, including the 2nd Wisconsin.

Military units and formations established in 1861
Military units and formations disestablished in 1864
Units and formations of the Union Army from Wisconsin
Iron Brigade
1861 establishments in Wisconsin