[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Otomat

ls are four foldable steerable main wings, and four tail control winglets. Structure is made of light alloys, mainly aluminium. The Radar active seeker has a range, in the Italian version, of around  with a medium-sized target, but usually it is activated at a shorter distance (see typical mission).

The warhead is in the front, behind the radar section and in front of the radio-altimeter and some other electronic systems. The HE warhead is of the semi-armor-piercing type and has a  Hertol type filler (for comparison, Kormoran missiles have  warheads,  is the HE main charge, plus 16 radial small charges to explode well inside the ship after the main explosion, and the armor-piercing capability is around ).

In a typical layout, there are 4–8 fiberglass boxes, with the missile inside, held by a rail in the roof. The overall weight is .

Data-links are included in the TESEO or ERATO control systems. ERATO has computerized consoles CLIO, while TESEO has MM/OJ-791 consoles, weighing  with  electric power requirement. The Data-link is called the PRT400 system, and the components are the PTR402 designation for missile (as receiver), PRT401 designation for the transmitter (shipborn) or PTR403 (carried by helicopter). Other systems that can be fitted include the PRT404 system for light ships and the PRT405 system for helicopters.

Overall strengths of this missile are long range, speed, sea-skimming capabilities and a powerful warhead.

Weakness are the need for a helicopter for mid-course guidance and a quite difficult uplink in the TESEO system (at least in the original model), big dimensions (affecting radar cross section RCS and IR signature), the lack of complex manoeuvres (synchronization of attacks, re-engagement capabilities, ECCM capability not up to current standards and never publicized), and the availability of surface versions only: no submarine and aircraft versions were developed.

This caused problems to the services that acquired these anti-ship missiles: Italian forces use Otomat (ships), Marte (helicopters), Kormoran (Tornados), Harpoons (not confirmed for submarines). Given the necessity to buy other totally different missile systems, many customers simply bought a 'family of missile systems' as in the Harpoon series  and the Exocet family with obvious operative and economic advantages.

Typical mission
In terms of technology and operability, this missile presents a very powerful anti-ship weapon and perhaps the most powerful of all modern western anti-ship missiles that have a mid course data-link.

No particular maneuvers are required by the ship; the missiles are capable of changing course after the launch up to 200° so all the missiles in the ship could be used against the same target in one attack.

This allows for quick reaction times, as the ship does not need to change direction to reveal the missile batteries. This allows the ship to fire all missiles against a target regardless of where they are placed aboard.

Flight
The boosters made by ROXEL are positioned at the flanks. They give enough speed to allow the turbojet to start, while the wings open. Four seconds later, once the missile reaches a 250 m/s speed and 200 m height, it stabilizes its flight and descends to 20 m, cruising at low altitude. At this time, the auto-pilot and the altimeter hold the right directions to the target. The missile flies at around 1,000 km/h, controlled with the four cross winglets in the aft, which are behind the main fixed wings to stabilize the weapon.

Mid-course update is possible with several systems. This weapon system is called TESEO (only the missile is called Otomat) in the Italian Navy, and the course correction is given by two channels: by the ship itself (TG-1) and with external sources, available in the Agusta Bell AB-212 ASW helicopter's final production batch (TG-2).

While the missiles flies it receive the input at mid-course. Then, at only 6 km from the target, it activates the onboard radar to reduce reaction time from the target. There are two models: the simpler ST-2 made by SMA (Italian missiles) and the more complex and ambitious CSF 'Col vert', for French made missiles. The CSF is only for export, since the French Navy has not adopted them. There is a large difference in the seekers. The first is a one axis, two dimensional radar system: the weapon simply continues to fly to the ship, with the altitude falling from 20 m to, in good sea conditions, 2-3m. The warhead is heavy, weighing 210 kg (Exocet 165, Harpoon 227) and the explosive blast is focused downward, attempting to blast a hole in the ship's bottom sinking rather than just damaging the vessel. The Col Vert version of the missile performs pop up flight to 180 m at around 2 km from the target and then dives on the ship, aiming at the decks to maximize damage.