[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Friends of the Israel Defense Forces

uchers, special grants, and holiday gift coupons that help the soldiers through difficult economic times. In 2013, Friends of the Israel Defense Forces provided over 8,000 soldiers in-need with necessities such as furniture and appliances, Special Aid, Chanukah Friendship Vouchers and Food Vouchers.

Lone soldiers 
Friends of the Israel Defense Forces' Lone Soldiers Program supports soldiers who chose to leave behind their homes and families in their countries of origin to serve the State of Israel. The program provides financial assistance, flights to visit family in their countries of origin, academic scholarships, adoptive families, a 24/7 call center, Shabbat and holiday meals, social programming, grants and a Lone Soldiers Center, and guidance. In 2013, Friends of the Israel Defense Forces helped over 2,500 soldiers during their service in the Israel Defense Forces. Friends of the Israel Defense Forces has completed building two Lone Soldiers homes in Israel and is currently in the process of building a third.

Bereaved families 
The LEGACY Program supports bereaved family members. Support includes wedding gifts, bereaved sibling workshops, Rosh Hashanah gifts, relaxing vacations, and Bar and Bat Mitzvah summer camps in the United States. In 2013, Friends of the Israel Defense Forces brought 78 Bar and Bat Mitzvah children on a trip to the U.S., presented Rosh Hashana gifts to 5,200 widows, hosted about 750 widows at rest and recreation centers in Israel and funded workshops for 300 bereaved siblings.

Wounded veterans
Friends of the Israel Defense Forces' Wounded Veterans Programs aim to fulfill the well-being needs and provide recreational activities for veterans suffering from a severe wound, injury, or trauma. In 2013, Friends of the Israel Defense Forces sponsored the cost of sports prostheses and athletic training for nine Israel Defense Forces' amputees.

Construction projects 
Friends of the Israel Defense Forces builds, refurbishes, and maintains recreation and sports centers, cultural and educational facilities, synagogues, memorial rooms, auditoriums, and "soldiers' homes" for soldiers throughout Israel. In 2013, fourteen well-being facilities and infirmaries were constructed by Friends of the Israel Defense Forces, eleven additional projects have been under construction, and nine more are being designed.

In 2013, a new home for Lone Soldiers in Israel was opened in Ramat Gan with a special ceremony marking the completion of the $5 million project launched by Friends of the Israel Defense Forces and headed by Elias and Lila Kalimian and family of Great Neck, New York.

Missions to Israel 

Friends of the Israel Defense Forces organizes several yearly missions to Israel in which delegates interact directly with the beneficiaries of Friends of the Israel Defense Forces' support and meet with high-level Israeli government representatives. 
FIDF National Leadership Mission to Israel takes place annually in November. In 2014, this delegation included 160 delegates with VIP events such as meetings with Israel's newly elected President, Reuven Rivlin, and the Israel Defense Forces' Chief of the General Staff, Benny Gantz, as well as a briefing by Israel’s senior official on Arab Affairs, Avi Melamed.
FIDF Delegation to Poland and Israel: From Holocaust to Independence takes place annually in April. The delegates begin the trip in Poland with visits to sites such as the Auschwitz-Birkenau camps and then fly to Israel on an Israeli Air Force plane. The Israel portion of the trip includes meetings with Israel's leaders and ceremonies commemorating Israel's Memorial Day and Independence Day.
FIDF National Young Leadership Mission to Israel takes place annually in the summer. The eleven-day trip traces the path of an Israel Defense Forces' soldier from the soldier's first day at the military induction center (Bakum) to the daily routine of different soldiers' positions at training bases around the country and unit posts on the borders.

Mitzvah projects

Friends of the Israel Defense Forces Mitzvah Projects allow Bar and Bat Mitzvah children to contribute to Israeli soldiers by supporting the Friends of the Israel Defense Forces program of their choice through making phone calls, starting an online campaign, sending emails, or hosting events.

Planned giving
Friends of the Israel Defense Forces' Planned Giving allows donors to realize their philanthropic goals while simultaneously securing their financial future and the future welfare of Israel's soldiers. Planned giving options include gift annuities, charitable remainder trusts, bequests, endowments and other planned gifts.

Organization
In addition to its national headquarters in New York and its office in Israel, Friends of the Israel Defense Forces has fifteen chapters in the United States.