[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Globovisión

o con Montenegro – Sunday morning turistic program hosted by Alvaro Montenegro
Yo Prometo – A Sunday news show hosted by Nitu Pérez Osuna.
El Rostro sin máscara – conducido por el criminalista Juan Manuel Mayorca.
El Mundo, Economía y Negocios – A Sunday news magazine of economy.
Fun Race – A documentary series on 4X4s hosted by Sabrina Salvador and Goizeder Azúa.

Relationship with government

Globovisión was critical of the Chavista movement. Along with other private television stations, it supported opposition protests against President Hugo Chávez, supporting leaders of the 2002 coup attempt and censoring reports of countercoup action that placed Chávez back into office. 

Globovision is able to broadcast outside of Venezuela, and does so through satellite television. Microwave equipment, which allows for live transmissions, has been seized by the Government.

In May 2007, President Chávez claimed during a speech that Globovision had been actively encouraging civil unrest in Venezuela, as well as his assassination. His claim on the latter was based on broadcast footage of the attempted murder of Pope John Paul II (which was part of a series of pictures showing RCTV's historical news coverage) in combination with a song titled "Esto no termina aquí" ("This does not end here"). The Venezuelan government filed a complaint against Globovision with the Attorney General Office on this matter. Venezuelan students marched in the streets to protest the closure of RCTV and threats to Globovision. Globovision's director, Alberto Ravell, said, "We are not going to change our editorial line that we are not afraid of the threats from this government."

In information published through WikiLeaks from the United States Embassy in Venezuela, after "60 allegations" against Globovisión in Venezuelan court, the Venezuelan government pressured a partner, banker Nelson Mezerhane, to buy all the shares of Globovisión in order to fire Ravell.

After the 2013 sale of Globovisión to Juan Domingo Cordero, Globovisión's managerial staff stated that the editorial line would be changed and would be forced to move to the "centre".

Investigation
In 2009, Venezuela's telecommunications regulator launched four different investigations into Globovisión. Reporting about an earthquake before an official report later made on the official government channel and not paying $2.3 million tax for giving free airtime to anti-government groups during the 2002 oil strike were two of the accusations in the investigations. Chávez demanded sanctions against Globovisión, calling station director Alberto Federico Ravell "a crazy man with a cannon". This action was criticized by two officials who monitor freedom of speech, Frank La Rue of the United Nations and Catalina Botero of the OAS.

On March 25, 2010, network owner Guillermo Zuloaga was briefly arrested, then released pending investigation, by Venezuelan military intelligence.  The country's Attorney General Luisa Ortega Diaz stated that the arrest was for speech by Zuloaga that President Hugo Chávez deemed false and "offensive."

Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, the Human Rights Foundation, the Inter American Press Association, the International Press Institute, the United States Department of State, Reporters without Borders, representatives of the Catholic Church, and others have protested the investigation and Chavez's infringement on press freedom in Venezuela.

References

External links
Globovisión 

 
24-hour television news channels
Censorship in Venezuela
Television channels and stations established in 1994
Television stations in Venezuela
Television networks in Venezuela
Spanish-language television stations
1994 establishments in Venezuela
Media of the Crisis in Venezuela