[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Uthayan

Uthayan ( Utayaṉ, ) is a Tamil language Sri Lankan daily newspaper published by New Uthayan Publication (Private) Limited, part of the Uthayan Group of Newspapers. It was founded in 1985 and is published from Jaffna. Its sister newspapers is the Colombo based Sudar Oli. Uthayan was the only newspaper published from Jaffna which did not cease publication due to the civil war. The newspaper has been attacked several times, a number of its staff have been murdered by paramilitary groups and other forces, and it regularly receives threats.

History

Uthayan was founded in 1985 by E. Saravanapavan with the first edition being published on 27 November 1985. At that time there were two other newspapers published from Jaffna: the Tamil language Eelamurasu and Eelanadu. Murasoli began publishing from Jaffna in 1986.

As the civil war escalated newspapers published from Jaffna came under pressure from both government forces and the rebel militant groups. Eelamurasu and Eelanadu were taken over by the rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in 1987 and 1994 respectively.

In October 1995, as the Sri Lankan military launched a military offensive to recapture the Jaffna peninsula from the LTTE, virtually the entire population of the Valikamam region fled to other parts of the peninsula and the Vanni. Uthayan staff fled from their Jaffna offices, taking printing machine, a generator and newsprint on a truck. They set up a temporary office in Sarasalai, Thenmarachchi from where they published the paper until April 1996. Then the paper returned to Jaffna after the military had recaptured most of the peninsula including Jaffna city. By 1996 the Uthayan was the only newspaper published from Jaffna.

Uthayan was shut down by the Sri Lankan government on 19 May 2000 using the recently passed draconian law – the Emergency (Miscellaneous Provisions and Powers) Regulation No.1 of 2000. The Sri Lanka Army cut off the phone lines, locked the offices and took away the keys. The newspaper re-opened 45 days later on 4 July 2000 after the government lifted its ban.

Sub-editor N. Vithyatharan was interrogated by the police for two hours at his offices 20 January 2001 regarding an interview with Anton Balasingham, the LTTE's chief negotiator and political advisor.

After the civil war resumed the Sri Lankan military closed the A9 road which was the main road link between the Jaffna peninsula and the rest of the country. This resulted in an acute shortage of food, fuel, medicine and other supplies, including newsprint and printing ink, on the peninsula. Uthayan was forced to drastically cut its number of pages and the copies printed – it went from 20,000 copies of a 12-page paper to 7,500 copies of a 4-page paper.

Editor N. Vithyatharan was arrested by the police without a warrant on 26 February 2009 as he attended a funeral in Mount Lavinia without a warrant and allegedly beaten in custody. As international criticism of the arrest intensified the Sri Lankan government claimed Vithyatharan had been arrested in connections with the LTTE air raid on Colombo. Vithyatharan was released on 24 April 2009 after the Colombo Crimes Division informed the court that there was no evidence connecting him to the air raid. Vithyatharan alleged that he had been detained in order to prevent him highlighting the plight of the civilians in the Vanni.

Attacks

The Uthayan and its employees have been subject to numerous attacks during its existence. In 1987, the Sri Lankan security forces attacked the Navalar Road in Jaffna, where the Uthayan offices were located, using artillery. Two Uthayan employees were injured and 40 others in the area were killed. In 1990, the Uthayan's offices were hit by an air raid killing one employee and injuring five.

A Journalist named Velupillai Thavachelvam was attacked on 29 August 1998 at his home in Sembianpattu, Vadamarachchi. Thavachelvam had written a report critical of the local authority. The following year, two grenades were thrown into the newspaper's offices, exploding near the printing machines and injuring security guard S. Selvarajah. The Eelam People's Democratic Party (EPDP), a government backed paramilitary group, was blamed for the attack. The Uthayan had recently criticised government-backed paramilitary groups.

On 20 August 2005, two grenades were thrown into the advertising office of the Uthayan and Sudar Oli in Wellawatte, but failed to explode.

Suresh Kumar (B. G. Sahayathasan) and Ranjith Kumar, two employees of the newspaper, were killed on 2 May 2006 when armed men burst into the newspaper's offices and opened fire indiscriminately. The attack followed the newspaper publishing a cartoon mocking Douglas Devananda, the leader of the EPDP.