[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# David Palmer (24)

David Palmer is a fictional character, portrayed by Dennis Haysbert in the television series 24. A U.S. Senator and, later in the series, President of the United States, Palmer serves as the show's second-most prominent protagonist, after Jack Bauer, being forced to make hard decisions as president while also facing opposing elements within his own administration. Throughout the series, Palmer's ex-wife Sherry and brother Wayne are both key figures in his administration.  He has two children: a son, Keith, and a daughter, Nicole. Palmer is a member of the Democratic Party. He is in the fourth highest number of episodes of any character in the series behind Tony Almeida (115), Chloe O'Brian (125) and main character Jack Bauer (192), portrayed by Carlos Bernard, Mary Lynn Rajskub and Kiefer Sutherland, respectively.

Characterization
David Palmer graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Economy from Georgetown University and obtained his Juris Doctor from the University of Maryland School of Law. Prior to his presidency, he served as a Congressman (Representing Baltimore) and senator from Maryland. Season One also includes a reference to Palmer being a college basketball star, hitting a game-winning shot against DePaul in the Final Four.  In 1979 DePaul lost to Indiana St. in the Final Four by a score of 76 – 74.

Appearances
David Palmer is a United States Senator from Maryland who runs for President. He is elected after the assassination attempts against him on the day of the California primary election are foiled by CTU agent Jack Bauer. Although he initially seeks a second term, he is blackmailed to bow out of the race after the opposing candidate learns that David has lied to the chief of police in order to protect his ex-wife, Sherry Palmer, who is under suspicion for involvement in the death of one of his key supporters. When Wayne secures evidence against David he changes his mind and wants to continue running. However upon learning of the death  of his ex wife, he again decides to not seek a 2nd term.

Throughout the series, Palmer's role as president is often vital to the successful foiling of terrorist plots. Palmer is seen as a good leader who makes difficult decisions without much hesitation. On several occasions, his intervention as president and the execution of his presidential powers helps the Counter Terrorist Unit.

24: Season 1
David Palmer has had many difficulties due to his political life. In the first season, Palmer is the frontrunner in the race for nomination as Democratic candidate for President of the United States. His life is threatened during the course of Day 1. His political life is threatened on other fronts. His son, Keith, is shown to be a viable suspect in the murder of the man who raped his daughter. Palmer investigates, but finds that telling the truth is preferable to covering it up with lies, and takes a stand in favor of his son. However, he finds out his wife, Sherry, is trying to manipulate him, both in that potential scandal, and the one Sherry tries to create. David becomes furious with Sherry, and divorces her.

David Palmer also confronts Jack Bauer in person over the events of the first ten hours, demanding a private, unrecorded interview with Bauer. Palmer, believing that Bauer wants payback for the deaths of his covert operations team, starts by demanding that Jack tell him of the other people involved in the assassination attempt on his life. Jack says he is trying to protect Palmer's life, which ultimately leads Palmer to realize he was wrong about Jack and his motives. The failed covert mission is implied to be the cause of Bauer's marital problems preceding the season, Palmer goes on to defeat his Democratic primary opponent Governor Hodges, a University of Toledo College of Law alumnus, and incumbent president Harold Barnes in the general election.

24: Season 2
Over a year later, David Palmer is now U.S. president. He is alerted to the threat of a nuclear bomb detonating in the U.S. He also is informed that Bauer, now an inactive agent, has contacts with people who could lead them to the bomb. Jack ignores calls from CTU, but responds to the call from President Palmer. Jack becomes an active agent again, eventually finding the bomb and detonating it in a remote area. Palmer orders attacks on the three nations responsible, as revealed by an audio known as the Cyprus Recording. Palmer then reverses course, stating that he believes the recordings to be fake, as advised by Jack, but Mike Novick, his Chief of Staff, and the vice president, Jim Prescott deem this sudden reluctance to attack as an incapability to hold the office. Prescott gathers the Cabinet members, and by one vote, David Palmer is removed from office under the provisions of the 25th Amendment. He sits in a room as a prisoner for the rest of the day, until Jack provides CTU with the evidence that the Cyprus Recording is a forgery, and the attacks are called off by Prescott.