[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Korean Canadians

t also has a growing number of Koreans residing in this area. This area first appeared in the 1990s and acceleration in the late 1990s onwards. In the 2000s the  community has expanded into York Region with the area centred along Yonge Street in what is referred to as Thornhill (Vaughan and Markham)

In Coquitlam and Vancouver
Korean communities in both Vancouver and Coquitlam are not officially designated as Koreatown, however their abundant population business districts do represent a developing Korean community. British Columbia and Vancouver represent the second largest Korean community in Canada with 53,770, 49,880 of those living in Vancouver and the surrounding area. The Korean community in Vancouver is located between Nicola and Denman Street and consists of numerous Korean restaurants as well as other businesses. Recently several residents have been promoting the Vancouver Community arguing that it should be called Koreatown and officially designated as such.

In addition to the community in Vancouver proper, the city of Coquitlam also fosters a growing Korean community. As of 2011 the population of Koreans in Coquitlam was approximately 7,900, therefore does not service the same populations as Vancouver or Toronto. However the community at North Road and Lougheed Highway does consist of many Korean fried chicken houses, large grocery stores, and other small salons, most of which have large amounts of Korean signage.

Demographics

2007 figures from the South Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade showed 86,084 Canadian citizens, 72,077 permanent residents, 20,738 people on student visas, and 19,271 other temporary residents. The Canada 2001 Census recorded 101,715 Canadians of Korean descent, but Korean community leaders and media organisations suspected that it undercounted the population, especially mobile short-term residents such as English as a Foreign Language students. According to the Canada 1996 Census, 53.6% of Korean immigrants to Canada had attended a four-year tertiary institution, as compared to 23% of the general population. However, because their qualifications and technical certifications are often not recognised by Canadian employers, Korean immigrants often take jobs not commensurate with their education; 40% worked in family-owned businesses, and their average personal income is only 67% that of the average Canadian resident.

Notable individuals

See also

List of Korean Canadians
Koreatown, Toronto
East Asian Canadians
Korean diaspora

Notes

References

External links
Multicultural Canada website includes digitized issues of Minjoong Shinmoon newspaper

 
Ethnic groups in Canada
Asian Canadian
Korean diaspora in Canada
Canada
East Asian Canadian
Canada