[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Campaign in the Eastern Foothills of the Funiu Mountains

t a fight, thus successfully retreated before the enemy besieged the town.  After entering the town, the communist force with strict discipline discredited the negative nationalist propaganda about the communists and consequently, the local popular support drastically switched to the communist side.

The initial communist success was totally unexpected by the nationalists, who was completely shocked by the rapid territorial expansion of the enemy.  Chiang Kai-shek immediately ordered the commander-in-chief of the 5th Corps Li Tiejun (李铁军) to personally lead the nationalist Reorganized 3rd Division and the 20th Division totaling seven brigades to pursuit the communists for the subsequent elimination.  The communists held a conference in the town of Nanzhao (南召) on November 8, 1947, and decided not to engage the technically superior nationalist adversary.  Instead, the nationalists would be lured into the Funiu Mountains and tricked into dispersing themselves into smaller fragments first, and then when the situation allowed, the communists would annihilate these small fragments one by one.  While some communist units would fake as the main force to lure the nationalists into the mountains, the actual main force would take advantage of the overstretched nationalist defense by establishing new communist bases in the remote and rural regions.

Second stage
The communist 13th Brigade of the 4th Column and the 25th Brigade of the 9th Column under the political commissar Huang Zhen (黄镇) and the deputy commander-in-chief Huang Xiyou (黄新友, unrelated to the political commissar Huang Zhen 黄镇) of the communist 9th Column had successfully tricked the nationalists in believing that they were the main communist force by faking as a much larger force on their attack toward Zhenping (镇平), Internal Township (Nei Xiang, 内乡) and Western Gorge Entrance (Xi Xia Kou, 西峡口) regions.  The nationalists were tricked to deploy the 3rd Reorganized Division and the 125th Brigade of the 41st Division to pursuit the fake enemy main force, and after wasting more than half a month at Summer Hotel (Xia Guang, 夏馆) and (Xi Xia Kou, 西峡口) regions, the nationalist force not only failed to annihilate the enemy, but was also incapable of stopping the enemy from cutting the communication / transportation line between (Xi Xia Kou, 西峡口) and Jingzi Pass (Jing Zi Guang, 荆紫关).  The enemy had planned to lure the nationalists into the Funiu Mountains and then annihilate them in ambushes when the opportunity presented itself, but due to the lack of supplies, the nationalists was forced to withdraw and thus escaped unscratched.  The enemy did, however, successfully establish two new bases in the regions: the sixth military district by the communist 39th Regiment of the 13th Brigade in the region of Li Qing's Hotel (Li Qing Dian, 李青店) of Nanzhao (南召) county, under the command of the deputy commander of the communist 13th Brigade, Li Xifu (黎锡福), and the seventh military district by the communist 33rd Regiment of the 11th Brigade under the command of the political commissar of the 11th Brigade, Hu Rungui (胡荣贵).   Meanwhile, the main force of the communist 9th Column and the 22nd Brigade of the communist 4th Column threatened Luoyang by penetrating into the vicinity of the city, forcing the nationalist 206th Division to be redeployed to strengthen the defensive of the city.  The 10th Brigade and the 11th Brigade of the communist 4th Column penetrated into regions of Wuyang (舞阳), Square City (Fang Cheng, 方城), and Miyang (泌阳), forcing the nationalist Reorganized 10th Division and the 124th Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 41st Division to be redeployed to east of Beijing-Hankou railroad.