[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# SOBT

The Specialized Counter Terrorism Unit (SOBT) () is the police tactical unit of the Bulgarian Ministry of Interior. Its main task is to react against critical acts of terrorism that are aimed at the national security and safety of the citizens.

History
After the Bulgarian Communist Party came to power on September 9, 1944, one of the first acts of the government was to form a new law enforcement agency - the People's Militia (Bulgarian: Народна милиция). In the ideological leanings of the new regime, terrorism was understood mainly as acts of industrial sabotage and ideological subversion by small groups organized and infiltrated by the countries of the capitalist world - the Socialist Bloc's main adversary during the Cold War. As such, the main counter-terror force of the People's Republic of Bulgaria was the Internal Troops of the Ministry of the Interior. They were organized similarly to the Soviet Union's Interior Troops as a light infantry military force. As such, they were deemed inadequate to provide the Ministry of the Interior with the rapid and flexible response needed to counter the highly trained terror organizations that emerged in the global terror wave of the 1970s.

The Minister of the Interior at that time Colonel General Dimitar Stoyanov issued an order on December 14, 1978, for the formation of a Specialized Operational Militia Unit (Bulgarian abbreviation SOMP, or Специално оперативно милиционерско поделение (СОМП)), which is the forerunner of the SOBT. The unit was based in Sofia and was subordinated to the regional Sofia City Headquarters of the People's Militia (the police department of the capitol). The SOMP was organized into 3 assault companies, a signals platoon, and a support group (combining combat and combat service support specialists such as snipers, sappers, martial arts instructors, paratroopers, repair technicians, etc.).

Shortly after the formation of the unit, it was deployed on May 24, 1981, when a Turkish McDonnell Douglas DC-9 airliner on a regular flight from Ankara to Istanbul was hijacked by four Turkish nationals and forced to land at the Burgas Airport. In the combined assault mounted by Bulgarian and Turkish commandos, one hijacker was shot dead and the other three were arrested with no casualties among the hostages.

On March 7, 1983, four Bulgarian nationals hijacked a Balkan Bulgarian Airlines Antonov An-24 on a scheduled flight from Sofia to Varna and demanded that the airplane is diverted to Vienna. The Bulgarian authorities ordered the pilots to fly to Varna while assuring the hijackers that their demands are met and they were en route to the Austrian capital. In the meantime, a Yakovlev Yak-40 business jet with an assault group of the SOMP takes off from Sofia and overtakes the An-24 landing at the final destination ahead of it. As the flight takes place at night the local police authorities shut down the electricity in the city during the approach of the hijacked airplane to make it harder for the terrorists on board to spot the Black Sea - a highly observable indicator that this was not Vienna. In the subsequent assault, the hijackers were apprehended and the hostages were freed unharmed.