[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2nd Maine Infantry Regiment

son, a lumber merchant from Old Town, who later became a brigadier general, was wounded in battle, and died of camp fever.  Jameson's successor was Col. Charles W. Roberts of Bangor, who had a horse shot out from under him at the Second Battle of Bull Run.  The last commander was Col. George Varney.

The Ex-Tigers were led by Capt. Daniel Sargent of Brewer, Maine, who would be promoted to lieutenant colonel and second in command under Varney.  

Augustus Choate Hamlin of Bangor, nephew of Vice President Hannibal Hamlin, was the regiment's Assistant Surgeon, and later Surgeon. After the war, he wrote books about Andersonville Prison and the Battle of Chancellorsville.

Quartermaster Sergeant Luther H. Peirce became a wealthy Bangor lumber merchant and funded a monument to the 2nd Maine at Mount Hope Cemetery.

Private J. Sumner Rogers later served as an officer and went on to found Michigan Military Academy.

Casualties
The regiment lost 69 men killed in action or died of wounds received in battle and an additional 70 men died of disease and 15 men executed for mutiny.

According to the History of Penobscot County, Maine, the regiment suffered 47 killed or wounded in the First Battle of Bull Run and over 100 missing in action (presumably including those taken prisoner).

See also

 List of Maine Civil War units
 Maine in the American Civil War

References

James H. Mundy, Second to None: The Story of the Second Maine Volunteers, "The Bangor Regiment" (Scarborough, Me.: Harp Publishing, 1993)

External links

State of Maine Civil War Records Website
Photograph of the 2nd Maine Infantry on Christmas day, 1861 from the Maine Memory Network
"The 2nd Maine Infantry charges onto Henry House Hill at Manassas"
"William Deane carried the California-flag-into-battle-at-manassas"
http://civilwardata.com/active/hdsquery.dll?RegimentHistory?1047&U

Units and formations of the Union Army from Maine
History of Bangor, Maine
1861 establishments in Maine
Military units and formations established in 1861
Military units and formations disestablished in 1863