[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# History of the Tlingit

er of well-known and obscure Europeans explored Lingít Aaní and encountered the Tlingit. Most of the exchanges were peaceful, despite European fears to the contrary. The Tlingit quickly appreciated the trading potential of valuable European goods and resources, exploiting it in their early contacts.

Although early European explorers were generally impressed with Tlingit wealth, they felt the people had poor hygiene; most visited during the summer months, however, when the Tlingit lived in temporary camps. The few explorers who were forced to winter with the Tlingit noted the cleanliness of their homes and villages. Expeditions were:
Bering and Chirikov (1741): Vitus Bering was separated from Aleksei Chirikov, and only reached Kayak Island; Chirikov, however, traveled to the western shores of the Alexander Archipelago. He lost two boats of men around Lisianski Strait, at the northern end of Chichagof Island. Chirikov then encountered hostile Tlingit, and returned west.
First Bucareli Expedition (1774): Juan Josef Pérez Hernández was sent by Antonio María de Bucareli y Ursúa, Viceroy of New Spain, to explore to 60° north latitude in 1774 with Juan Crespí and Tomás de la Peña Suria (or Savaria). Suria made a number of drawings of Tlingit life in the pre-colonial period.
Second Bucareli Expedition (1775): Bruno de Hezeta (or Heceta) commanded the expedition aboard the Santiago, with Juan Francisco de la Bodega y Quadra leading the Sonora as de Hezeta's second-in-command. Hezeta returned to Mexico shortly after a massacre by the Quinault near the Quinault River in present-day Washington state, but Bodega y Quadra insisted upon completing the mission to reach 60° north. He nearly reached Sitka, Alaska (59° north), claimed the lands he encountered for Spain, and named Mt. Edgecumbe Mount Jacinto. It is unclear if the expedition  encountered the Tlingit.
James Cook (1778): James Cook acquired the journals of Bodega y Quadra's second commander, Francisco Antonio Mourelle, and maps made from the first two Bucareli expeditions. This inspired him to explore the northwest coast of America on his third voyage in a search for the Northwest Passage.
Third Bucareli Expedition (1779): Although Ignacia de Arteaga officially led the expedition on the Princesa, Bodega y Quadra (a more-experienced explorer) accompanied him aboard the Favorita. They made contact (and traded with) the Tlingit around Bucareli Bay (Puerto de Bucareli), and named Mount Saint Elias.
Potap Zaikov
La Pérouse (1786)
George Dixon (1787)
James Colnett (1788)
Ismailov and Bocharov (1788)
William Douglas (1788)
Alessandro Malaspina (1791): Malaspina, for whom the Malaspina Glacier is named, explored the Alaskan coast as far north as Prince William Sound. His expedition contacted the Laxhaayík Khwáan of the Yakutat region when it reached Yakutat Bay.
George Vancouver (1794)

Fur-trade era 

Russian settlement in Tlingit lands (1790s onwards) involved both peaceful trade and periodic violent clashes - notably the Battle of Sitka in 1804, the culmination of the  of 1802-1805.

Chilkat Tlingit warriors attacked and burned Fort Selkirk, the Hudson's Bay Company post at the juncture of the Yukon and Pelly Rivers, in 1852. The Chilkat had been middlemen between the company and the Athapaskan people of the interior (on preexisting trade routes), and were unwilling to be excluded from the arrangement.

In 1855, an alliance of Tongass Tlingit (Stikines) and Haida raided Puget Sound on an enslavement expedition. Confronted at Port Gamble, Washington Territory by the  and other naval vessels, the raiders suffered casualties, included a Haida chief. A return expedition by the alliance the following year was punitive, with Isaac N. Ebey chosen at random as a high-ranking white man whose death would avenge the chief's death the previous year. Although the territorial government pressed the colonial government of Vancouver Island to apprehend Ebey's killer, the colonial authorities lacked a sufficient military capability to mount an expedition capable of defeating the Haida-Tlingit alliance, and Ebey's killer was never identified or captured.

American military rule
In March 1867, the United States purchased Alaska from Russia. The formal transfer of the Russian colony to the U.S. took place in October in Sitka. Called the Department of Alaska, the territory was assigned to the Army for occupation and government. Military rule by the Army and Navy, which lasted until 1884, was characterized by inconsistency, violence, and legal ambiguity. Historian Bobby Lain described Alaska at this time as "an insular colony, acquired before the United States was ready for overseas colonies."