[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Derick Brassard

QMJHL season with 25 goals and 76 points in 69 regular season games, as well as one goal and six points in six playoff games. He was awarded both the Michel Bergeron Trophy for the offensive rookie of the year and the RDS Cup for the Rookie of the Year, and he was named to the QMJHL All-Rookie Team.

Brassard had a hot start to the 2005–06 season, with 18 points through the first week of October. He missed most of November with a broken wrist but returned once the cast was removed, recording two assists in his first game back. During the year, he was named both to the Canadian roster for the ADT Canada–Russia Challenge and to Team Cherry at the CHL/NHL Top Prospects Game. Brassard doubled his offensive output between the 2004–05 and 2005–06 seasons, finishing with 44 goals and 116 points in 58 games for the Voltigeurs. At the end of the season, he was named to the QMJHL First All-Star Team and was awarded the Michael Bossy Trophy for the best prospect in the QMJHL. That June, the Columbus Blue Jackets of the NHL selected Brassard in the first round, sixth overall, in the 2006 NHL Entry Draft. He signed a three-year, entry-level contract with Columbus in September.

During the Voltigeurs' 2006 preseason training camp, Brassard suffered a subluxated shoulder after a check from Bryan Main of the Gatineau Olympiques. The injury kept him from attending the Blue Jackets' training camp and potentially gaining a place on their opening night roster. The injury required surgery that would keep Brassard out of both the Blue Jackets' and Voltigeurs' line-up until at least March. At that point, he would be eligible to finish out Drummondville's season before joining the Syracuse Crunch, the American Hockey League (AHL) affiliate of the Blue Jackets. Doctors cleared him to play for Drummondville on February 15, 2007, with just over one month remaining in the QMJHL season. He missed a total of 56 games with the injury but began scoring as soon as he returned, with 17 points in his first nine games of the season. In 14 regular-season games after his return, Brassard scored six goals and recorded 25 points. He added nine goals and 15 assists in 12 postseason games before the Voltigeurs were eliminated by the Rouyn-Noranda Huskies in the second round of QMJHL playoffs. Brassard finished his junior ice hockey career with 218 points in 151 games, and the Voltigeurs retired his No. 61 jersey in 2016.

Professional

Columbus Blue Jackets (2007–2013) 

After spending training camp and the NHL preseason with Columbus, Brassard was assigned to the Syracuse Crunch, the Blue Jackets' AHL affiliate, to begin the  season. On November 13, he suffered a fractured mandible after colliding with Derek Dorsett during a practice skate, and he spent six weeks recovering from the injury. Despite this setback, Brassard scored five goals and 20 assists in his first 21 games with Syracuse, and he received an invitation to play in the 2008 AHL All-Star Game shortly before being called up to Columbus on January 10, 2008. He made his NHL debut that night, wearing No. 16 and centering the fourth line with Jody Shelley and Jared Boll for a game against the St. Louis Blues. He recorded his first NHL point on January 20 with an assist on Fredrik Modin's late-game goal against the Colorado Avalanche. On February 7, Brassard scored his first NHL goal in a 4–1 loss to the Minnesota Wild. Those were his only points in 17 games for Columbus, and he was sent back down to Syracuse on February 26. Brassard played a total of 46 games for the Crunch, recording 15 goals and 36 assists for a team that fell to the Toronto Marlies in the second round of Calder Cup playoffs.

Brassard was one of several rookies named to the Blue Jackets' opening night roster for the  season, part of a new core of young players that also included Nikita Filatov and Jakub Voráček. He primarily skated on a productive rookie line with Voráček and Jason Chimera. Through the first seven games of the 2008–09 season, Brassard had two goals and four assists, while Chimera and Voráček combined for an additional three goals and three assists. He took home the NHL Rookie of the Month title that October after leading all freshman players with four goals and five assists through the first 10 games of the season, and seemed poised for a break-out season by December. On December 19, 2008, however, Brassard suffered a separated shoulder during a fight with Dallas Stars forward James Neal. The injury ultimately required a season-ending surgery, bringing Brassard's break-out season to a premature end. At the time, he continued to lead all rookies in scoring with 10 goals and 15 assists through 31 games.