[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Chester Adgate Congdon

Chester Adgate Congdon (June 12, 1853 – November 21, 1916) was a lawyer and capitalist. He was a prominent figure in the development of the mining industry in northern Minnesota, and served as a member of the Minnesota House of Representatives from 1909 until 1913. The Congdon name is indelibly linked with the Glensheen Historic Estate in Duluth, Minnesota.

Early life
Chester Congdon was born in Rochester, New York, on June 12, 1853, as the son of Sylvester Laurentius and Laura Jane () Congdon. On his paternal side, Chester was the sixth in descent from James Congdon, a Quaker from England who settled in Rhode Island in the first half of the 17th century. All his paternal ancestors were English, while his maternal ancestors were English and Dutch. All his ancestry had been in North America since the early colonial period.

In the public schools of Elmira and Corning, New York, Congdon acquired his preliminary education, which was supplemented by study in the East Genesee Conference Seminary at Ovid, New York. His collegiate work was done at Syracuse University, from which he graduated in 1875 with the degree of Bachelor of Arts. He studied law under the preceptorship of Hiscock, Gifford & Doheny in Syracuse, and in 1877 was admitted to the New York bar. After admission to the bar, Congdon taught school for about a year in Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin. In 1879, he went to Saint Paul, Minnesota, where he was admitted to the Minnesota bar and there established himself in the practice of law.

On September 29, 1881, in Syracuse, New York, Chester Congdon was married to Clara Hesperia, a daughter of the Rev. Edward Bannister, a clergyman of San Francisco, California. Together they had seven children: Walter Bannister Congdon, Edward Chester Congdon, Marjorie, Helen, John, Robert, and Elisabeth Congdon. Chester and Clara would later bring Clara's nephew Alfred Bannister to live with them after he was orphaned at the age of six.

Business
In 1892, Congdon moved from St. Paul to Duluth and partnered with William W. Billson to form the law firm Billson & Congdon. In 1893, they were joined by judge Daniel A. Dickinson and the firm style of Billson, Congdon & Dickinson was adopted. On the death of the judge in 1902, the surviving partners resumed their original title and continued thus until 1904, when both retired from active practice.

In the meantime, Congdon had extended his efforts to various lines of commercial, industrial, and financial enterprise in Duluth. He became a prominent figure in connection with the development of the iron and copper mining resources of the Lake Superior country, and at the same time, his advice and assistance were sought by many business and financial institutions on the directorate of which his name never appeared. He was the general counsel of the Oliver Mining Company before its consolidation with other companies (now forming the United States Steel Corporation), the president of the Chemung Iron Company and the Canisteo Mining Company, and the vice-president of the American Exchange National Bank of Duluth. Additionally, he was a director in the Calumet & Arizona Mining Company of Bisbee, Arizona, the Hedley Gold Mining Company, William Cornell Greene's Greene Cananea Copper Company, the Marshall-Wells Hardware Company, the Gowan-Lenning-Brown Company, and various other banking, mining and jobbing enterprises which claimed his attention and profited by his cooperation and direction. He also became interested in agricultural pursuits, making extensive investments in farmlands in the northwest.

Estate

In May 1905, construction of the family estate began on a  tract of land along the shore of Lake Superior. Named "Glensheen", its construction came with a hefty price tag of $854,000 ($ in  dollars) and was finished in February 1908—the family had moved in a few months prior. The estate featured a turn-of-the-century mansion, hot water, electricity, and grounds irrigated from nearby Tischer Creek.

Glensheen Historic Estate is now owned by the University of Minnesota-Duluth and is open to the public year-round for tours.

Politics
Congdon held several offices throughout his life, serving as assistant United States attorney for the district of Minnesota from 1881 until 1886, as a member of the Minnesota House of Representatives from 1909 until 1913, and as a member of the Duluth charter commission from 1903 until his death.

The 1909 Legislature was dominated by the tonnage tax, which would place a tax on all iron ore shipped out of state by companies that did not manufacture steel in Minnesota. Opponents, led by Congdon, argued that such a tax would inhibit the development of lower-grade iron ore properties, something Congdon was heavily invested in. The opposition succeeded in stopping the legislation, but Minnesota would eventually pass a tonnage tax in 1921.