[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Little Women (musical)

s to grow upset by his words. He tells her that she will marry, but Jo tells him that she will never marry; Laurie, on the contrary, says she will, but not to him. Jo then ponders her future, which is changing significantly. She vows to find another way to achieve her future ("Astonishing").

Act II

At Mrs. Kirk's boarding house at New York City, she is holding a telegram for Jo from Mrs. March. Jo runs in, looking for the professor. She then realizes that the professor is right in front of her. She tells them her fantastic news: she made her first sale as an author ("The Weekly Volcano Press").  She tells them the story of the sale as well, that thanks to Professor Bhaer's advice, she embellished the story. But the news is disturbed when Jo reads the telegram. She is notified that her sister Beth contracted scarlet fever and immediately packs her bags to return to Concord.

Jo, after a few days, sends a letter to Professor Bhaer, asking him what's new in New York. The professor struggles to write a decent response ("How I Am"). Due to her new earnings, Jo takes Marmee and Beth to Cape Cod. When Marmee leaves to write to her husband, Beth and Jo put together a kite that Jo had got for her and they fly it in the air. As the kite flies in the air, Beth tells Jo that she is not afraid to die, but she says that the hardest part, is leaving Jo ("Some Things Are Meant To Be"). Beth dies soon after.

Amy, who is now a poised and elegant woman, and Aunt March return home from Europe. Laurie also returns home from Europe and sees Jo for the first time in a long time. Jo tells Laurie that she has missed him and that she sold a story and Laurie tells her that she was always meant to "fly on golden wings", her was not. Amy comes back to them and Amy and Laurie struggle to tell Jo of their pending marriage because they do not wish for Jo to be upset ("The Most Amazing Thing").

Jo has been having the hardest time grieving with Beth's death, being unable to write another story. Marmee tells Jo of how she copes with Beth's death: she tells Jo that she cannot be defeated by Beth's death, and that she must move forward for Beth's sake ("Days of Plenty"). Jo reminisces while her sisters are still with her. She finds that her family and friends are themselves astonishing and this encourages her to write her novel, 'Little Women' ("The Fire Within Me").

On the day of Laurie and Amy's wedding, Professor Bhaer comes to Concord to see Jo. Jo is very surprised to see him because she "never thought he would do it." He then proceeds to tell Jo of his feelings for her saying "Though we are not at all alike, you make me feel alive." ("Small Umbrella In The Rain"). He then proposes and Jo accepts his proposal. The professor tells Jo that he sent the manuscript of her novel 'Little Women' to Henry Dashwood, the editor of The Weekly Volcano Press. He tells Jo that the publisher agreed to publish it, and Jo proclaims her happiness. As Marmee comes outside and brings Professor Bhaer in, Jo takes a moment to reflect on her life ("Volcano (Reprise)"). Professor Bhaer then comes back out and says to Jo, "We're all waiting for you." Jo goes to Bhaer, takes his hand, then goes inside the house.

Characters

Doubling of roles

The show was written to be performed by a cast of ten who played 18 individual roles.

Women:
1 – Jo
2 – Marmee, Hag
3 – Beth, Rodrigo II
4 – Meg, Clarissa
5 – Amy, Troll
6 – Aunt March, Mrs. Kirk

Men:
1 – Professor Bhaer
2 – Laurie, Rodrigo
3 – Mr. John Brooke, Sir Braxton Prendergast
4 – Mr. Laurence, The Knight

In the Operatic Tragedy

Optional Chorus

The script and score include notations for the addition of a chorus to include:

Dancers at the ball
Ice-skaters
Chorus of Hags
Chorus of Trolls
Chorus of Monks
Beachcombers

Song list

Act I
 Overture
 An Operatic Tragedy- Jo, Clarissa, Braxton, Rodrigo
 Better- Jo
 Our Finest Dreams- Jo, Beth, Amy, and Meg
 Here Alone- Marmee
 Could You?- Aunt March and Jo
 Delighted- Marmee, Meg, Beth, and Jo
 Take a Chance on Me- Laurie
 Better (Reprise)- Jo
 Off to Massachusetts- Beth and Mr. Laurence
 Five Forever- Jo, Beth, Meg, Amy, and Laurie
 More Than I Am- Mr. Brooke and Meg
 Take A Chance on Me (Reprise)- Laurie
 Astonishing- Jo

Act II
 The Weekly Volcano Press- Jo, Professor Bhaer, Mrs. Kirk, Clarissa, Braxton, Rodrigo, Hag, Troll, Knight, Rodrigo II, optional chorus of Hags, Trolls and Monks
 Off To Massachusetts (Reprise)- Mr. Laurence, Beth, Jo, Marmee, Meg, Mr. Brooke
 How I Am- Professor Bhaer
 Some Things Are Meant to Be- Beth and Jo
 The Most Amazing Thing- Amy and Laurie
 Days of Plenty- Marmee
 The Fire Within Me- Jo
 Small Umbrella in the Rain- Jo and Professor Bhaer
 Sometimes When You Dream (Reprise) – Jo

Note: Better (Reprise), Take A Chance on Me (Reprise), and Off To Massachusetts (Reprise) are excluded from the cast recording.

Cast and characters