[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# History of submarines

roven to be probable causes of sinking, most notably a battery malfunction causing a torpedo to detonate internally, and the loss of the Russian Kursk on 12 August 2000 probably due to a torpedo explosion. An example of the latter was the incident between the Russian K-276 and the  in February 1992.

Since 2000, there have been 9 major naval incidents involving submarines. There were three Russian submarine incidents, in two of which the submarines in question were lost, along with three United States submarine incidents, one Chinese incident, one Canadian, and one Australian incident. In August 2005, AS-28, a Russian Priz-class rescue submarine, was trapped by cables and/or nets off of Petropavlovsk, and saved when a British ROV cut them free in a massive international effort.

See also
 List of submarine actions
 List of submarine museums
 List of sunken nuclear submarines
 Depth charge and Depth charge (cocktail)
 Nuclear navy
 Nuclear submarine
 Attack submarine
 List of countries with submarines

Vessels
 Nerwin (NR-1)
 Vesikko (museum submarine)
 ORP Orzeł
 Ships named Nautilus
 List of submarines of the Royal Navy
 List of submarines of the United States Navy
 List of Soviet submarines
 List of U-boats of Germany
 Kaikō ROV (deepest submarine dive)
 Bathyscaphe Trieste (deepest manned dive)

Classes
List of submarine classes
List of submarine classes of the Royal Navy
List of Soviet and Russian submarine classes
List of United States submarine classes

References

Further reading
Blair, Clay Jr., Silent Victory: The U.S. Submarine War Against Japan, 
Compton-Hall, Richard. Submarine Boats, the beginnings of underwater warfare, Windward, 1983. 
Fontenoy, Paul. Submarines: An Illustrated History of Their Impact. ABC-CLIO, 2007. 
Harris, Brayton (Captain, USN ret.). The Navy Times Book of Submarines: A Political, Social, and Military History. Berkley Books, 1997 
Jentschura, Hansgeorg; Dieter Jung, Peter Mickel. Warships of the Imperial Japanese Navy, 1869–1945. United States Naval Institute, 1977. Annapolis, Maryland. .
Lockwood, Charles A. (VAdm, USN ret.), Sink 'Em All: Submarine Warfare in the Pacific, (1951) 
Polmar, Norman & Kenneth Moore. Cold War Submarines: The Design and Construction of U. S. and Soviet Submarines. Brassey's, Washington DC, 2004. 
Preston, Antony. The World's Greatest Submarines Greenwich Editions 2005. 
Showell, Jak. The U-Boat Century-German Submarine Warfare 1906–2006. Great Britain; Chatham Publishing, 2006. .

External links 

 John Holland
 German Submarines of WWII
 Submarine Simulations
 Seehund – German Midget Submarine
 Submarines of WWI
 Molch – German Midget Submarine
  Developed for the NOVA television series.
 Role of the Modern Submarine
 Submariners of WWII – World War II Submarine Veterans History Project
 German submarines using peroxide
 record-breaking Japanese Submarines
 German U-Boats 1935–1945
 U.S. ship photo archive
 Israeli missile trials
 The Sub Report
 The Invention of the Submarine
 Submersibles and Technology  by Graham Hawkes 
 Submarine of Karl Shilder 
 Royal Navy submarine history
 A century of Royal Navy submarine operations
 Royal Navy submarines 
 Still floating submarine Lembit (1936)
 Submarines, the Enemy Unseen, History Today

 American Society of Safety Engineers. Journal of Professional Safety. Submarine Accidents: A 60-Year Statistical Assessment. C. Tingle. September 2009. pp. 31–39. Ordering full article: https://www.asse.org/professionalsafety/indexes/2009.php; or Reproduction fewer graphics/tables: http://www.allbusiness.com/government/government-bodies-offices-government/12939133-1.html.

Submarine
Submarines
Submarines
Dutch inventions