[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Eli Rosenbaum

Eli M. Rosenbaum (born May 8, 1955) is an American lawyer and the former Director of the United States Department of Justice, Office of Special Investigations (OSI), which was primarily responsible for identifying, denaturalizing, and deporting Nazi war criminals, from 1994 to 2010, when OSI was merged into the new Human Rights and Special Prosecutions Section. He is now the Director of Human Rights Enforcement Strategy and Policy in that section. He has been termed a "legendary Nazi hunter."

Early life
Eli Rosenbaum was born in Westbury, New York on May 8, 1955, to parents Irving and Hanni Rosenbaum. His father, who was Jewish and escaped the Nazi regime in 1938, was a World War II veteran of the North African and European Theaters. After the war, while still serving in the U.S. Army, he questioned former Nazis and collaborators (such as the filmmaker Leni Riefenstahl), some of whom were subsequently tried at Nuremberg and elsewhere. Later, Irving Rosenbaum was a Manhattan-based philanthropist and the Chairman of the former S.E. Nichols Corp. Co-founded by Irving's father, Nichols Corp. was a pioneering owner and operator of discount department stores in the United States, competing with Kmart, Walmart, and other companies that later entered that retailing sector. The company, which opened its first store in 1960 (in Lancaster, Pennsylvania), two years before the first Wal-Mart, Kmart, Target, and Woolco stores opened, went public via an IPO in 1969, and by 1977 it was the 33rd largest discount retailer in the United States as measured by annual sales ($204 million).

Eli grew up in Westbury, New York, and attended W. Tresper Clarke High School. He graduated summa cum laude in 1976 from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, from which he also received his MBA degree. He became employed by the United States Justice Department through the Honors Program after his graduation from Harvard Law School in 1980.

Nazi hunter
Rosenbaum was a trial attorney with OSI from 1980 to 1984. In 1984, he left the Department of Justice to work as a corporate litigator with the Manhattan law firm of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett and then as General Counsel of the World Jewish Congress. He later returned to OSI in 1988 where he was appointed Principal Deputy Director and then Director.  In introducing the Human Rights Enforcement Act of 2009 on July 20, 2009, Senator Richard Durbin (D-IL) stated on the floor of the Senate: "Due to OSI’s outstanding work, the U.S. is the only country in the world to receive an ‘‘A’’ rating from the Simon Wiesenthal Center for bringing Nazi war criminals to justice. I especially want to commend Eli Rosenbaum, who has worked at OSI for more than two decades and has been OSI’s director since 1995. OSI’s success is due in large measure to Mr. Rosenbaum’s leadership and personal dedication to holding Nazi perpetrators accountable." On June 19, 1997, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato (R-NY) praised Rosenbaum's work, and that of others, in connection with the then-ongoing Senate Banking Committee inquiry into looted Holocaust-era assets.

Rosenbaum has been described as a "Nazi hunter" by historians for his professional career work both in the government and with private organizations.  British historian Guy Walters has termed Rosenbaum “the world’s most successful Nazi hunter,” adding that because of the extensive self-promotion activities of self-styled “private” Nazi-hunters, “It is telling that most readers will not have heard of [him] despite the fact that he and his organization have more than one hundred Nazi ‘scalps’ –  which is considerably more than the combined total of Simon Wiesenthal and every other Nazi hunter.”  In his book Useful Enemies: John Demjanjuk and America's Open-Door Policy for Nazi War Criminals, Richard Rashke wrote: "As new revelations about Nazi war criminals and their collaborators find their way into the media, Americans who do care will have Eli Rosenbaum and [former U.S. congresswoman] Elizabeth Holtzman to thank."

In an early television appearance in Britain, in 1987 Rosenbaum joined the After Dark discussion programme alongside Neal Ascherson, Gena Turgel, Philippe Daudy and Paul Oestreicher to debate Jacques Verges, Klaus Barbie's defense attorney.