[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# John Wilde

rtist portfolio, "AGB Encore." He later collaborated with the atelier on an aquatint and dry-point print with selective hand-coloring for the "Wisconsin Sesquicentennial Portfolio".

He also collaborated with Colescott on designing the state poster for the Wisconsin Sesquicentennial in 1998.

Honors

Wilde was elected to the Wisconsin Academy of Sciences and Letters in 1982 and to the National Academy of Design in New York City in 1993.  He was also honored as the Alfred Sessler Distinguished Professor of Art, University of Wisconsin Art Department.

Public collections

Wilde's artwork is in the collections of museums throughout the United States, including the Art Institute of Chicago, the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in Philadelphia, Santa Barbara Museum of Art, Smithsonian American Art Museum, Walker Art Center in Minneapolis and the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York. In his home state of Wisconsin, Wilde is represented by work in many collections, including the Madison Museum of Contemporary Art, the Chazen Museum of Art at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, the Milwaukee Art Museum, the Racine Art Museum, and the Leigh Yawkey Woodson Art Museum in Wausau, Wisconsin.

Personal

John Wilde and his wife Helen had two children, Jonathan and Phoebe Wilde. After Helen's death in 1966, Wilde married the former Shirley Grilley. His stepchildren are Robert, Dorian and Rinalda Grilley. He lived in or near Evansville and Cooksville, Rock County, Wisconsin most of his adult life. The Tory Folliard Gallery in Milwaukee has represented John Wilde since 1993. Since 2015 the Tory Folliard Gallery has been the exclusive representative of works by John Wilde from the John and Shirley Wilde Estate.

References 

1919 births
2006 deaths
20th-century American painters
American male painters
21st-century American painters
Artists from Milwaukee
Trompe-l'œil artists
University of Wisconsin–Madison College of Letters and Science alumni
People from Evansville, Wisconsin
20th-century American male artists