[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Evergreen (software)

a, 110 libraries and growing)
 SPRUCE (Manitoba, Canada, 8 libraries)
 Traverse Area District Library (Michigan, 6 libraries)
 Westchester County Library System (New York, 43 libraries)

Features
Development priorities for Evergreen are that it be stable, robust, flexible, secure, and user-friendly.

Evergreen's features include:
 Circulation: for staff to check items in and out to patrons
 Cataloging: to add items to the library's collection and input information, classifying and indexing those items.  Evergreen is known for an extremely flexible indexing system that allows for a high level of customization and by default uses Library of Congress MODS as its standard.
 Online public access catalog: a public catalog, or discovery interface, for patrons to find and request books, view their account information, and save book information in Evergreen lists. There is also an optional Children's catalog.  Various patron services such as paying bills by PayPal and Stripe, optional retaining of circulation history, book lists and more.
 Self Service - Evergreen comes with self checkout and registration options that can be activated by the libraries.
 The public catalog exposes structured web data by schema.org standards to aid discovery by major search engines.
 Acquisitions:  for staff to keep track of those materials purchased; invoices, purchase orders, selection lists, etc.
 Authorities
 Serials
 Web based staff client that is OS independent
 Added Content services Chillifresh, Content Cafe, Novelist, OpenLibrary and Syndetics natively supported with others supportable.
 Native APIs for writing custom clients.
 Statistical Reporting: flexible, powerful reporting for retrieval of any statistical information stored in the database.
 SIP 2.0 support: for interaction with computer management software, self-check machines, and other applications.
 Search/Retrieve via URL and Z39.50 servers

Evergreen also features the Open Scalable Request Framework (OpenSRF, pronounced 'open surf'), a stateful, decentralized service architecture that allows developers to create applications for Evergreen with a minimum of knowledge of its structure.

Languages
The business logic of Evergreen is written primarily in Perl and PostgreSQL, with a few optimized sections rewritten in C.  The catalog interface is primarily constructed using Template Toolkit with some JavaScript.  The staff client user interface is written in Mozilla's XUL (XML + JavaScript) before 3.0 and is a web based staff client built using AngularJS and related technologies as of 3.0.  Python is used for the internationalization build infrastructure. EDI functionality for the acquisitions system prior to 3.0 depended upon Ruby but no longer does.  AngularJS interfaces are now being transitioned to Angular and all new interface work is being done in Angular.

Requirements
Evergreen runs on Linux servers and uses PostgreSQL for its backend database.  The staff client used in day-to-day operations by library staff runs on Microsoft Windows, Macintosh, or Linux computers and is built on XULRunner, a Mozilla-based runtime that uses the same technology stack as Firefox and allows for a browser-independent offline mode.  The online public access catalog (OPAC) used by library patrons is accessed in a Web browser.  As of version 3.0 the web based staff client was promoted to production use and the XUL based staff client that required local machine installation began being phased out.

Other open-source integrated library systems
 BiblioteQ
 Koha
 Invenio
 PMB
 OpenBiblio
 OPALS
 FOLIO

See also 

 List of free and open-source software packages

References

External links
 
 Evergreen source code repositories
 
 "Evergreen: Your Homegrown ILS - An in-house team successfully competes with commercial vendors in the library automation sphere" Library Journal article
 "Librarians stake their future on open source"

Science software for macOS
Science software for Windows
Free library and information science software
Free software programmed in Perl