[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# List of concentration and internment camps

h it also resulted in the successful curtailment of communist activity in the country, if only for a time. The North Vietnamese government claimed that over 65,000 individuals were incarcerated and 2,148 individuals were killed in the process by November 1957, but these estimates may be exaggerated.

The Strategic Hamlet Program was a plan to stop the spread of Communism which was implemented between 1961 and 1963 by the government of South Vietnam and US military advisors, the Strategic Hamlet Program was implemented during the Vietnam War. In an attempt to isolate the communists by preventing them from influencing the rural South Vietnamese population, the South Vietnamese government and Us military advisors constructed thousands of new, tightly controlled protected villages or "strategic hamlets". In some cases, people voluntarily moved into these settlements, but in most cases, people were forcibly relocated, and as a result, these settlements have been described as internment camps. The rural peasants would be provided with protection, economic support, and aid by the government, thereby strengthening their relationship with the South Vietnamese government (GVN). It was hoped that this program would convince the peasants to become increasingly loyal to the South Vietnamese government, however, the Strategic Hamlet Program was a failure, it alienated many and after it was canceled, the Viet Cong's influence increased and rural peasants moved back to their old homes or they moved to larger cities.

In the years which followed the North Vietnamese conquest of South Vietnam, up to 300,000 South Vietnamese were sent to re-education camps, where many of them were forced to perform hard labor, tortured, starved, and exposed to diseases.

Yugoslavia

Nazi camps

During the Axis occupation of Yugoslavia (1941–1944), as many as 70 Nazi concentration camps were formed in Yugoslavia. The main victims in these camps were ethnic Serbs, Jews and Roma. It is estimated that between 1 million and 1.7 million people perished as victims of the Nazi occupation of Yugoslavia.

List of the camps:

 Sajmište
 Sremska Mitrovica
 Đakovo
 Vinkovci
 Osijek
 Tenjski Antunovac
 Slavonska Požega
 Stara Gradiška
 Jablanac
 Mlaka
 Jasenovac
 Bodegraj
 Lađevac
 Rajići
 Paklenica
 Grabovac
 Garešnica
 Sisak
 Caprag (camp for children)
 Gospić
 Jadovo
 Slana (camp for women)
 Slana (camp for men)
 Ogulin
 Cerovljani
 Prijedor
 Kruščica
 Zenica
 Sarajevo
 Vlasenica – Han Pijesak
 Podromanija – Kasarna
 Rogatica
 Višegrad
 Pale
 Modriča
 Doboj
 Maglaj
 Šekovići
 Jastrebarsko
 Gacko
 Belgrade – Banjica
 Niš – Crveni Krst
 Trepča
 Šabac
 Bor
 Petrovgrad (Zrenjanin)
 Skopje
 Bačka Palanka
 Sombor
 Bečej
 Novi Sad
 Bačka Topola
 Subotica
 Rab
 Molat
 Kraljevica
 Bakar
 Činglinj
 Bar
 Mamula
 Prevlaka
 Zabjelo
 Maribor
 Ljubljana
 Begunjski Dvor – Bled
 Celje
 Kruševac
 Smederevska Palanka
 Petrovac na Mlavi
 Žagubica

Communist camps
In 1931, 499,969 citizens of Yugoslavia listed their native language as German and they comprised 3.6% of population of the country. In 1944, an unknown and disputed number of the Danube Swabians left the country, together with the defeated German army. As a result of the decisions of the Anti-fascist Council of national liberation of Yugoslavia ("Antifašističko veće narodnog oslobođenja Jugoslavije" – AVNOJ) in Jajce on 21 November 1943 and on 21 November 1944 in Belgrade all legal rights and citizenship were collectively canceled for about 168,000 civilian members of the Danube Swabian minority who remained in Yugoslavia (mostly in the Bačka and Banat regions) after military defeat of the German army. Furthermore, they were fully dispossessed of all property. About 7,000 German-speaking citizens were killed by the local Yugoslav partisans in the autumn of 1944. Most of the other Danube Swabian civilians were interned and driven into numerous labor camps and at least eight additional prison camps were built for those who were unable to work: the old, the sick, and children under the age of 14 and mothers with small children under the age of 2 or 3.

These camps for the sick, the elderly, children, and those who were unable to work were:

In the Bačka:
 Bački Jarak with 7,000 deaths
 Gakovo with 8,500 deaths
 Kruševlje with 3,000 to 3,500 deaths

In the Banat:
 Molin with 3,000 deaths
 Knićanin with 11,000 deaths

In Syrmia:
 "Svilara", silk factory in Sremska Mitrovica with 2,000 deaths

In Slavonia:
 Valpovo with 1,000 to 2,000 deaths
 Krndija with 500 to 1,500 deaths