[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kay v Lambeth LBC

Kay v Lambeth London Borough Council; Price and others and others v Leeds City Council [2006] were two, conjoined appeals in the final court of appeal relevant for English property law, UK human rights and English tort law (trespass). It involved claims for possession by two landlords (in each case local authorities) against former short-term occupiers, heavily placing reliance in their defence on article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, with circumstances outwith the other laws.

The European Court of Human Rights accorded a generous margin of appreciation to the national authorities, attaching much importance to the facts of the case. Thus, it was for the courts to decide how in the first instance the principles expounded in Strasbourg should be applied in the special context of national legislation, practice and social and other considerations. To those decisions the ordinary rules of precedent should apply.

Facts
Lambeth and Leeds Councils owned flats and a park (respectively) with differing, successive short-term residential occupiers.

The facts, essentially unchanged, at the time of the hearings of the Leeds first hearing, appeal and final appeal – two days of possession – fell so far short of the threshold for establishing article 8 rights laid down in the binding appeal decision, Harrow LBC v Qazi and jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, that its facts and its decision against the squatters/trespassers were closely interwoven in all the final judgments (therefore presented together in one section below).

Lambeth Council
The homes were scheduled for demolition or redevelopment. The Council did not have sufficient funds to redevelop them. For more than two decades they made informal arrangements with a housing Trust ("the Trust") under which the Trust was able to make the properties available for occupation, inter alia: by homeless persons to whom the authority owed no existing duty (to rehouse or assist in finding accommodation). The Trust on the face of it granted sub-licences (as opposed to sub-leases) to such people as occupiers.

The Council and the Trust made between each other agreements a few years into the arrangements, intended to formalise the terms: the Council granted the Trust licences of all the properties.

The 1999 ruling in Bruton v London & Quadrant Housing Trust [2000] UKHL meant that all standard, typical professed "licences" granted by such a trust/entity to individuals as their home such as by the Trust – including those granted to the defendant occupiers – were, in law, tenancies (short leases).

During or after Bruton, the Council replaced its licences with leases, but with break clauses permitting termination by either party on written notice. The Council exercised these by serving notice and the Trust did not contest their validity which left the Council to seek possession against the occupiers on the ground that, on termination of the leases, they (the defendants) had become trespassers; they were never its tenants, nor its licensees.

The defendants (now appellants) contended, foremost, that even if they had become trespassers, they could remain by reference to their human rights as the owners had to apply article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Their arguments were struck down in the county court and appeals to the Court of Appeal. They appealed to the (European) Convention of Human Rights, arguing that there had been a violation of the Article as there had been no determination by the court of the proportionality of the interference. They argued that the approach of the majority who decided the earlier legal decision as to the "width" of "gateway (b)" was incompatible with the Article.

Facts and judgment in the Leeds appeal
Lord Scott combined the fact pattern and legal consequences, as others in their opinions did. Concatenating his paragraphs 123-128: