[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# High-speed rail in Canada

nd transportation (UHSGT) system would connect people and communities increase economic competitiveness, and improve quality of life across the Cascadia megaregion. This fast, safe predictable way to travel would connect the metro areas of Vancouver, Seattle, and Portland.

Montreal–Boston/New York 

In 2000, the United States Federal Railroad Administration proposed an accelerated line running at speeds of  between Boston and Montreal in order to link with the Acela Express and Northeast Regional service from Washington, D.C., to Boston and to serve northern New England communities along the route. The first phase of the study, which included public hearings, was conducted in 2002 with the participation of the states of Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Vermont. The second phase of the study was cancelled after New Hampshire withdrew its support.

In the 1970s, the Mayor of Montreal, Jean Drapeau, announced his project to build a TGV (high-speed line) to New York in order to replace the slow and unreliable Adirondack service operated by Amtrak. In 2001, Mayor Pierre Bourque tried to revive the TGV to New York project. The topic has also been discussed between the governor of New York and the premier of Quebec, but no progress was made after a pre-feasibility study in 2003. The line is problematic because most of the investment would need to be made through the sparsely populated Adirondack Mountains north of Albany. Between Albany and New York, relatively fast and frequent rail service is already available.

See also
 Proposed high-speed rail by country

References

Further reading

External links
 High Speed Rail Canada, an educational resource centre for high speed rail. All available past and present high speed rail studies are available for free to access on their website.
 Library of Parliament HillNote Number 2012-06E “High-Speed Rail in Canada” (Internet Archive)
 Bibliothèque du Parlement Notes de la Colline no 2012-06F Le train à grande vitesse au Canada  (Internet Archive)
 Library of Parliament Publication No. 2015-55-E Via Rail Canada Inc. and the Future of Passenger Rail in Canada, 5.1 High-speed rail
 Bibliothèque du Parlement Publication no 2015-55-F Via Rail Canada Inc. et l'avenir du transport ferroviaire de voyageurs au Canada, 5.1 Le train à grande vitesse
 High Speed Rail Canada - UAC CN Turbo Train Archives
Prairie Link

 
Railway electrification in Canada