[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1907 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1907 in New Zealand.

There are celebrations throughout the country this year as New Zealand changes from colony to independent dominion status by proclamation of Edward VII on 26 September. In Wellington on 11 December there is a great sensation when the tinder-dry Parliament buildings burn to the ground.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
Head of State – Edward VII
Governor – The Lord Plunket GCMG KCVO

Government
The 16th New Zealand Parliament
Speaker of the House – Sir Arthur Guinness
Prime Minister – Joseph Ward
Minister of Finance – Joseph Ward
Attorney-General – John Findlay
Chief Justice – Sir Robert Stout

Parliamentary opposition
 Leader of the Opposition – William Massey, (Independent).

Main centre leaders
Mayor of Auckland – Arthur Myers
Mayor of Wellington – Thomas Hislop
Mayor of Christchurch – John Hall followed by George Payling
Mayor of Dunedin – John Loudon

Dominion  
With the attaining of Dominion status, the Colonial Treasurer became the Minister of Finance and the Colonial Secretary's Office was renamed the Department of Internal Affairs. The Royal Proclamation of 10 September also designated members of the House of Representatives as "M.P." (Member of Parliament). Previously they were designated "M.H.R." (Member of the House of Representatives).

Events 
The Tohunga Suppression Act is passed by parliament, sponsored by Māui Pōmare.
Rua Kenana, a self-proclaimed prophet, establishes a religious community at the foot of Maungapōhatu, the sacred Tūhoe mountain in the Ureweras.
St Paul's Church in Dunedin is consecrated by Bishop Churchill Julius.
Highest ever recorded flooding along the Taupo, Tongariro, Waipa, and Waikato river systems.
Prime Minister Joseph Ward is appointed to the Privy Council.

Health
Dr Sir Frederick Truby King establishes the Royal New Zealand Society for the Health of Women and Children which later becomes The Royal New Zealand Plunket Society, known simply as Plunket. The society established Plunket Rooms throughout the country and provides specially trained nurses to advise and assist New Zealand mothers free of charge.
The first Home of Compassion is opened, at Island Bay in Wellington, by Mother Suzanne Aubert who had founded the congregation of the Sisters of Compassion in Jerusalem on the Whanganui River in 1892.
The country's first dental school opens at Otago University. The first dean is Sir Henry Percy Pickerill, a pioneer of reconstructive surgery of the jaw and face.

Arts and literature
The New Zealand School Journal, an education resource distributed to schools throughout New Zealand, is introduced.
Frances Hodgkins holds her first solo exhibition, in London.
Publishing firm A.H. & A.W. Reed is established in Dunedin.
The House of Royal Doulton produces Kia Ora, a ceramic series of New Zealand themes, which become a collectors' item.

The sciences
Thames astronomer John Grigg discovers his third comet, all of which are named after him.
Pioneer aircraft designer Richard Pearse finally patents details for his wings and aircraft controls.

Flora and fauna
The now extinct huia bird which was endemic to New Zealand, is last seen in the Tararua Ranges on 28 December.
Full protection is promulgated for the tūī, kākā, paradise duck and oystercatcher.
Chamois deer, six does and two bucks from Neuberg in Austria, are introduced to the country and released in the Aoraki/Mount Cook area as a hunting resource.
This is the peak year in the country's history for milling for export of the rapidly disappearing native kauri.

Media
26 September: The first issue of The Dominion newspaper (now The Dominion Post) is published in Wellington to mark the occasion of New Zealand becoming a Dominion.
After 36 years of publication, the authoritative weekly paper, the New Zealand Mail, closes.

Transport
December: The Maori II, a triple-screw steamer which is the first purpose-built, inter-island ferry in the country, makes its first run between Lyttelton and Wellington.

Sport

Boxing (amateur)
National amateur champions
Heavyweight – J. Lloyd (Christchurch)
Middleweight – J. Gilmour (Christchurch)
Lightweight – R. Mayze (Christchurch)
Featherweight – E. Sanderson (Auckland)
Bantamweight – B. Tracy (Wellington)

Cricket
Inaugural year of Plunket Shield, won by Canterbury.
The MCC tour the country, losing to New Zealand at the Basin Reserve, but winning at Lancaster Park.

Chess
The 20th National Chess Championship was held in Christchurch, and was won by W.S. Viner of Perth (overseas players were allowed until 1934)

Golf
The first New Zealand Open championship is held at the Napier Golf Club at Waiohiki and is won by amateur Arthur Duncan.
 The 15th National Amateur Championships were held in Napier
 Men: Arthur Duncan (Wellington) – 5th title
 Women: Mrs G. Williams

Hockey
 The Challenge Shield is introduced.

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup: Marian
 Auckland Trotting Cup: All Night