[Source: PubMed]

28. J Clim Chang Health. 2024 Sep 20;20:100347. doi:
10.1016/j.joclim.2024.100347.  eCollection 2024 Nov-Dec.

Health risks of climate change in Australia: An umbrella review.

Tong M(1)(2), Okokon E(2)(3), Vardoulakis S(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health, The Australian 
National University, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.
(2)Healthy Environments and Lives (HEAL) National Research Network, Australia.
(3)HEAL Global Research Centre, Health Research Institute, University of 
Canberra, Bruce, ACT 2617, Australia.

INTRODUCTION: The impact of climate change on population health has been 
extensively studied in Australia, but no comprehensive review of the impact of 
climate change on health in Australia has been performed. This review summarizes 
the most up-to-date, high-level evidence exploring the health risks of climate 
change in Australia, identifies evidence gaps in the scientific literature, and 
lays the groundwork for an in-depth national climate change and health risk 
assessment in Australia.
METHODS: Electronic database PubMed was searched for systematic reviews of the 
impact of climate change on health outcomes in Australia. Narrative synthesis 
was conducted to summarize findings.
RESULTS: The most frequently reported climate change related risks in Australia 
were heat and bushfires, followed by floods and droughts, with a limited number 
of studies on cyclones and rising sea levels. The impacts on health included 
all-cause mortality and morbidity, heat-related illnesses, vector-, food- and 
water-borne diseases, negative mental health effects, cardiovascular, 
respiratory, and renal diseases, injuries and adverse birth outcomes. These 
impacts were unevenly distributed across Australia's geographical regions and 
population groups, particularly affecting young children, people with health 
conditions or disabilities, the elderly, and pregnant women. There were notable 
gaps concerning First Nations, culturally and linguistically diverse groups, 
ethnic minorities, and refugees in the context of climate change and health in 
Australia.
CONCLUSIONS: Further research is needed to deepen our understanding of the 
associations between climate change and health outcomes in Australia, especially 
among disadvantaged communities and sensitive population groups. Future risk 
assessments using standardized methodologies to estimate exposure-response 
functions for specific health outcomes are warranted. At-risk populations need 
to be adequately supported by a national adaptation plan that will reduce their 
vulnerability to climate extremes and prevent adverse health impacts of climate 
change in Australia.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.joclim.2024.100347
PMCID: PMC12851267
PMID: 41647118

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.