[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Central University of Finance and Economics

ina. According to 2018 China College Rankings By Salary, the average salaries of CUFE graduates is ranked No.9 in China. In the Assessments of Ministry of Education, the Applied Economics of CUFE is ranked as No. 1 in China, accompanying with the Peking University and the Renmin University of China.

As of 2022, Central University of Finance and Economics ranked the best in Beijing and 2nd nationwide among universities specialized in finance, business, and economics in the recognized Best Chinese Universities Ranking.  CUFE ranks in the global top # 76 in "Finance", top # 201 in "Economics", top # 301 in "Business Administration", and top # 401 in "Management" by the Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU) by Subjects. The U.S. News & World Report Best Global University Ranking ranked CUFE at #201 globally and 25th in Asia in "Economics and Business" subject.

Notable alumni

International cooperation 
As of 2017, Central University of Finance and Economics has cooperation with 126 universities, governments, international organizations and companies abroad.

Started in 2006, asked to help the China's Central Government, CUFE has trained thousands of senior administration officials from 91 developing countries.

CUFE has cooperation with many universities all over the world, such as University of Waterloo, University of Birmingham, Tilburg University, Stevens Institute of Technology, Victoria University, Academy of Finance of the Russian Federation, St. Petersburg State Economic University, Ukraine Kiev National University of Economics, Chung-Ang University, Tunghai University, Ming Chuan University, Kyungnam University, Soochow University, University of Pernambuco.

CUFE has cooperation with international organizations as well, such as the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (IFoA), the Chartered Insurance Institute, the Australian and New Zealand Institute of Insurance and Finance.

CUFE also has many cooperations with some international companies, such as Zurich Financial Services Group, AXA, National Union Life and Limb Insurance Company.

In 2013, CUFE has launched a Confucius Institute in the University of Pernambuco, Brazil.

Courses

Grades

References

External links

 Central University of Finance and Economics Official Website
 Research for China Science Evaluation Official Website

 
Business schools in China
Universities and colleges established in 1949
Universities and colleges in Beijing
1949 establishments in China
Plan 111
Universities and colleges in Haidian District