[Source: Gutenberg#7370 | Part 45]
# The Social Contract — Jean-Jacques Rousseau

ns, flourishing mighty cities come to ruin, and prove
in times neglected desolate corners, whilst other unfrequented places
grow into populous countries, filled with wealth and inhabitants. But
things not always changing equally, and private interest often keeping
up customs and privileges, when the reasons of them are ceased, it often
comes to pass, that in governments, where part of the legislative
consists of representatives chosen by the people, that in tract of time
this representation becomes very unequal and disproportionate to the
reasons it was at first established upon. To what gross absurdities the
following of custom, when reason has left it, may lead, we may be
satisfied, when we see the bare name of a town, of which there remains
not so much as the ruins, where scarce so much housing as a sheepcote,
or more inhabitants than a shepherd is to be found, sends as many
representatives to the grand assembly of law-makers, as a whole county
numerous in people, and powerful in riches. This strangers stand amazed
at, and every one must confess needs a remedy; tho’ most think it hard
to find one, because the constitution of the legislative being the
original and supreme act of the society, antecedent to all positive laws
in it, and depending wholly on the people, no inferior power can alter
it. And therefore the people, when the legislative is once constituted,
having, in such a government as we have been speaking of, no power to
act as long as the government stands; this inconvenience is thought
incapable of a remedy.

Sect. 158. Salus populi suprema lex, is certainly so just and
fundamental a rule, that he, who sincerely follows it, cannot
dangerously err. If therefore the executive, who has the power of
convoking the legislative, observing rather the true proportion, than
fashion of representation, regulates, not by old custom, but true
reason, the number of members, in all places that have a right to be
distinctly represented, which no part of the people however incorporated
can pretend to, but in proportion to the assistance which it affords to
the public, it cannot be judged to have set up a new legislative, but to
have restored the old and true one, and to have rectified the disorders
which succession of time had insensibly, as well as inevitably
introduced: For it being the interest as well as intention of the
people, to have a fair and equal representative; whoever brings it
nearest to that, is an undoubted friend to, and establisher of the
government, and cannot miss the consent and approbation of the
community; prerogative being nothing but a power, in the hands of the
prince, to provide for the public good, in such cases, which depending
upon unforeseen and uncertain occurrences, certain and unalterable laws
could not safely direct; whatsoever shall be done manifestly for the
good of the people, and the establishing the government upon its true
foundations, is, and always will be, just prerogative, The power of
erecting new corporations, and therewith new representatives, carries
with it a supposition, that in time the measures of representation might
vary, and those places have a just right to be represented which before
had none; and by the same reason, those cease to have a right, and be
too inconsiderable for such a privilege, which before had it. ’Tis not a
change from the present state, which perhaps corruption or decay has
introduced, that makes an inroad upon the government, but the tendency
of it to injure or oppress the people, and to set up one part or party,
with a distinction from, and an unequal subjection of the rest.
Whatsoever cannot but be acknowledged to be of advantage to the society,
and people in general, upon just and lasting measures, will always, when
done, justify itself; and whenever the people shall chuse their
representatives upon just and undeniably equal measures, suitable to the
original frame of the government, it cannot be doubted to be the will
and act of the society, whoever permitted or caused them so to do.




CHAPTER. XIV.

OF PREROGATIVE.


Sect. 159. WHERE the legislative and executive power are in distinct
hands, (as they are in all moderated monarchies, and well-framed
governments) there the good of the society requires, that several things
should be left to the discretion of him that has the executive power:
for the legislators not being able to foresee, and provide by laws, for
all that may be useful to the community, the executor of the laws having
the power in his hands, has by the common law of nature a right to make
use of it for the good of the society, in many cases, where the
municipal law has given no direction, till the legislative can
conveniently be assembled to provide for it. Many things there are,
which the law can by no means provide for; and those must necessarily be
left to the discretion of him that has the executive power in his hands,
to be ordere