[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jeffries Wyman

Jeffries Wyman (August 11, 1814 – September 4, 1874) was an American  naturalist and anatomist, born in Chelmsford, Massachusetts.    Wyman died in Bethlehem, New Hampshire of a pulmonary hemorrhage.

Career
He graduated Harvard College in 1833 and Harvard Medical School in 1837.  He was made curator at Lowell Institute, Boston, in 1839 and remained affiliated there until 1842.  Fees from Lowell Institute lectures enabled him to study in Europe, from 1841-1842, where he had the opportunity to study under anatomist Richard Owen in London. Upon his return to the United States, he had hoped to gain a professorship at Harvard College but the position went to Asa Gray.  In 1843, he was elected professor of anatomy and physiology at Hampden-Sydney College, Richmond, Virginia.  A series of letters written between 1843 and 1848 to his Boston friend and fellow M.D., David Humphreys Storer, reveal his unhappiness with the quality of the school, the treatment of the professors, and life in the South, writing "as soon as circumstances will permit I shall make my way back to the glorious city of Boston, the like of which exists not on the face of the earth." In 1847, he got his wish when he became Hersey Professor of Anatomy at Harvard College, where he remained until his death, becoming the first curator of the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology there in 1866.  He made extensive and valuable collections in comparative anatomy and archæology, and he published nearly 70 scientific papers. He was the president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1858.  Although he did not achieve the fame of some of his contemporaries, he was respected by peers: "In his special branches his authority was recognized the world over."  In 1866, he was elected as a member to the American Philosophical Society. Wyman was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1868.

Colleagues
In addition to studying with Richard Owen in London in 1842, Wyman also attended lectures by Achille Valenciennes, Isidore Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, Marie Jean Pierre Flourens, and Etienne Serres in Paris.  At Harvard, his colleagues included Oliver Wendell Holmes, Asa Gray, and Louis Agassiz. He also, with American physician and missionary Thomas Staughton Savage, first scientifically described the gorilla. Holmes also testified in the Parkman-Webster Murder Case.  After Wyman's death, his former student Burt G. Wilder eulogized him as "regarded by all as the highest anatomical authority in America, and the compeer of Owen, Huxley, and Gegenbauer in the Old World."

Parkman-Webster murder case

In 1850, Wyman was called to testify for the prosecution in the trial of Dr. John White Webster, on trial for the murder of Dr. George Parkman.  His recognized authority as a comparative anatomist caused the coroner, Jabez Pratt, to call upon him to examine the bones when they were found in November 1849.  His testimony concerned the fragments of bones found in the furnace.  He cataloged them as to the parts of the body to which they belonged (noting that no bones were duplicates so that the fragments belonged to a single body), and his testimony regarding the jawbone contributed to the belief that the bones belonged to Dr. Parkman.  Wyman also testified as to the alleged bloodstains found on pantaloons and slippers belonging to Dr. Webster.

Parkman's gaunt figure was known on the streets of Boston.  A sketch of Dr. Parkman as he was last seen was published in the New York Globe's account of the trial.  While the bones could not be definitively identified as Dr. Parkman, Wyman contributed to the belief that they were Parkman's by providing the court with a "diagram, exhibiting the position in the skeleton, of the bones found and showing, (in some degree,) what would be necessary to complete the body."  This rendering was remarkably similar in stance to the sketch of Parkman striding and was labeled "Restoration of Dr. Parkman's Skeleton," no doubt influencing the jury.

Coincidentally, Wyman's brother, Dr. Morrill Wyman, and his wife, had spent the evening of Parkman's disappearance with Webster and his  wife at the home of Harvard professor Daniel Treadwell.