[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet

Nathalie Geneviève Marie Kosciusko-Morizet () (born 14 May 1973), often referred to by her initials NKM, is an engineer and former politician.

She was a Member of Parliament, returned to the National Assembly from the Essonne 4th constituency for three consecutive mandates from 2002 to 2017, mayor of Longjumeau from 2008 to 2013, and an unsuccessful mayoral candidate for Paris in 2014. She has held positions of Regional Councillor for Île-de-France. She was twice a member of the French government and Minister of Ecology, Sustainable Development, Transport and Housing. She was also Assistant General Secretary of then majority party UMP and spokesperson for Nicolas Sarkozy in the 2012 presidential election. Since standing for mayor of Paris in March 2014, she had been leader of the opposition of the Council of Paris until her withdrawal from politics. From December 2014 to December 2015 she was Vice President of then opposition party UMP (renamed The Republicans).

Early life
Kosciusko-Morizet was born on 14 May 1973. She is of Polish Jewish descent but was raised Roman Catholic. She comes from a political family, the Kosciusko-Morizets. Her grandfather, Jacques Kosciusko (1913–1994) was an academic, a member of the French Resistance during the war, a Gaullist politician and former French ambassador in the US whose father-in-law, André Morizet, was a socialist senator and mayor of Boulogne-Billancourt. Her father François Kosciusko-Morizet (1940–2015) was the mayor of Sèvres. She is also the sister of Pierre Kosciusko-Morizet (b. 1977), one of the founders of Priceminister.com, the third ranked e-commerce site in France. According to genealogists, she is also related to Lucrezia Borgia from her mother's side, the Treuille family.

Kosciusko-Morizet graduated from the École Polytechnique and the Collège des Ingénieurs.

Career

Local elections
As a twenty-nine-year-old, Kosciusko-Morizet was elected a member of the French National Assembly in 2002, representing the department of Essonne, to the south of Paris, serving out the term for Pierre-André Wiltzer who was appointed deputy minister. She was reelected in 2007 and 2012. In parliament, she served on the Committee on Legal Affairs. In addition to her committee assignments, she was part of the French-Polish Parliamentary Friendship Group.

In the 2008 French municipal elections, Kosciusko-Morizet was elected mayor of Longjumeau (Essonne).

Member of cabinets
In the government of Prime Minister François Fillon, Kosciusko-Morizet became a state secretary in the French government responsible for the environment in 2007, serving under Minister of Ecology, Energy, Sustainable Development and the Sea Jean-Louis Borloo. Then in 2009 she became state secretary with responsibility for Forward Planning, Assessment of Public Policies and Development of the Digital Economy, before eventually succeeding Borloo as Minister for Ecology, Sustainable Development, Transport and Housing in November 2010. In this capacity, she chaired the meetings of G8 energy ministers when France held the group's rotating presidency in 2011.

In 2012, Kosciusko-Morizet left her position as minister to become spokesperson for Nicolas Sarkozy during his presidential reelection campaign.

Municipal candidacy for Paris
In February 2013, Kosciusko-Morizet announced she would be a candidate for the Mayor of Paris in the 2014 local elections. She faced among others Rachida Dati in the UMP primary election. The polls had Kosciusko-Morizet as a favourite to win the primary. She was endorsed by François Fillon.

On 3 June 2013 Kosciusko-Morizet won UMP's primaries for the office of Mayor of Paris with 58.16% of the vote.

In the Mayoral elections held on 23 March and 30 March 2014, Kosciusko-Morizet's UMP lists were defeated by the lists led by Socialist Deputy Mayor Anne Hidalgo, who was elected Mayor of Paris on 4 April 2015. The Socialist, Green and Communist parties created a coalition with 91 councillors, while the UMP and UDI-Modem parties were relegated to the opposition with 71 councillors.

Candidacy for The Republicans primary
After Nicolas Sarkozy's return in politics in 2014, Kosciusko-Morizet was appointed vice-president of the UMP (since 2015 The Republicans) to represent the moderate fringe of the party, while her rival Laurent Wauquiez represented the hardline part. After the 2015 regional elections, during which Wauquiez successfully ran in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, she was ousted by Sarkozy for criticizing his strategy and was replaced by Wauquiez.

Then, Kosciusko-Morizet announced her candidacy for the primary. Despite some difficulties, she got the sufficient number of supports to run. She finished fourth with only 2.6% of the vote, far behind Sarkozy (20.1%). She endorsed Alain Juppé for the second round.