[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Government of Oklahoma

ule by decree. State, county, and local officers and personnel become subject to the governor during the emergency and must obey the governor's directions. With the exception of the members of the state legislature, any official who fails to obey any order may be removed from office by the governor.

However, in normal times, the governor may not enact legislation or directly control the county and local agencies. The governor may issue executive orders (when empowered to do so by a specific provision of the Oklahoma Constitution or an act of the legislature) which are binding throughout the state. Such executive orders do not have the force of law and may only be issued when related directly to the governor's duties.

In order to be elected governor, any gubernatorial candidate is required to obtain a statewide plurality of votes cast in their election. Given the dominance of the two-party system, in Oklahoma (between the Democrats and the Republicans), the plurality is often a majority as well. However, in case the event that two or more candidates have an equal number of votes, the state legislature, by joint ballot, elects one of those candidates governor.

The constitution names the governor the state's chief magistrate and vested in him the supreme executive power. As a consequence, the governor is the preeminent figure in Oklahoma politics. The governor makes appointments when a vacancy exists in the executive branch. The governor appoints the heads of state departments and agencies as well as the members of most state commissioners and boards. However, these appointments do require Senate approval. Some appointments serve at the pleasure of the governor while others serve fixed terms.

Other elected officials
The Lieutenant Governor of Oklahoma is the second-highest official in the Oklahoma government and the first in line to succeed the governor in the event of a vacancy. Though both the governor and lieutenant governor are elected in the same year, the two are not running mates. In the absence of the governor, the lieutenant governor assumes the powers and duties of the office of governor. However, as long as the governor remains in the state and is capable of discharging his or her duties, the lieutenant governor's main role is that of the president of the Oklahoma Senate, a position of limited de jure influence. The lieutenant governor's de facto power is based primarily upon the individual holding the office. When the governor and lieutenant governor are of the same political party, the governor often uses the lieutenant governor as a chief adviser or appointee. However, when they are of two different political parties, the lieutenant governor's influence is minimal.

Oklahoma also has nine other independent executive offices that do not owe loyalty to the governor as they are elected statewide and exercise authority outside the control of the governor. The general rule is that, while independent of the governor, the other statewide executive officers are at the disposal of the governor as he is the chief executive. This is enforced through statutory restriction on the independent offices' authority to act without the governor's approval and the ability of the governor to force the independent offices to act according to his will. The greatest power of the governor over the independent executive offices is the governor's ability to determine each office's annual budget.

These executive officers have some specialized regulatory power, some executive power, and some quasi-judicial power. The governor and state legislature often consult them on matters before enacting new laws.