[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jason Dunham

n Scio on March 23, 2007, Navy Secretary Donald C. Winter officially announced the naming of DDG-109 after Dunham. The keel was laid at a ceremony on April 11, 2008, at Bath Iron Works in Bath, Maine. The ship was christened on August 1, 2009, with Dunham's mother Debra acting as the ship's sponsor.

Among family members and officials present at the christening, also in attendance were Dunham's Kilo Company commander, Major Trent Gibson, as well as Sergeant Bill Hampton and Corporal Kelly Miller, whose lives he saved, and retired General Hagee. A piece of Dunham's helmet is encased in the mast. The Jason Dunham was commissioned on November 13, 2010. The ship's galley, named "Jason's Dugout", is decorated with memorabilia from Dunham's favorite baseball team, the New York Yankees.

Other namesakes

The Marine Corps Security Force Barracks at Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay was renamed the Cpl Jason Dunham Barracks in late June 2007.

The Cpl Dunham room is located at the Corporals Course at Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort, South Carolina.

A Crucible warrior's station at the Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island, South Carolina and Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego, California was named in his honor. When recruits arrive at this station, they will read Cpl Dunham's Medal of Honor citation, and then perform ground-fighting techniques reflecting those Dunham used to defend himself and his fellow Marines leading to his nomination for the Medal of Honor.

A bill to rename the Scio post office, located at 4422 West Sciota Street in Scio, New York, as the Corporal Jason L. Dunham Post Office was submitted to the House of Representatives in December 2005 by Congressman Randy Kuhl. The bill was immediately passed in the House with support from all New York delegation members. With the support of both New York Senators Chuck Schumer and Hillary Clinton, the bill passed the Senate. On March 14, 2006, President Bush signed the bill. He also met with Dunham's family, who gave him a copy of The Gift of Valor.

See also

List of Medal of Honor recipients
Rafael Peralta – another US marine who died while shielding others from a grenade

References
Specific

General

External links

1981 births
2004 deaths
Deaths by hand grenade
People from Allegany County, New York
United States Marine Corps non-commissioned officers
United States Marine Corps Medal of Honor recipients
American military personnel killed in the Iraq War
Iraq War recipients of the Medal of Honor
United States Marine Corps personnel of the Iraq War