[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Worldwar: In the Balance

industrial and commercial resources. Furthermore, Atvar rationalizes that most of the radioactive fallout will drift harmlessly out into the Atlantic. Instead of breaking the human will to resist, the attacks inspire both nations to fight harder and to hasten production of their own atomic weapons.

Meanwhile, in the United States, Jens Larssen is forced to travel to White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, where the US government has set up a temporary capital after the bombing of Washington, DC. Larssen warns the Army Chief of Staff, General George C. Marshall, that the US Army must defend Chicago at all costs since the metallurgical laboratory stationed at the University of Chicago is working feverishly to develop atomic power, which might be the only chance of humanity to defeat the Race. Marshall assures Larssen that holding Chicago is a key component of the army's strategy. Satisfied, Larssen makes his way back to the university.

On his way back, Larssen finds that the Race has captured most of Ohio and Indiana. He carefully makes his way through and around enemy lines. In the process, he spends several weeks in one of the Race's prison camps but manages to convince it that he is no threat to them. Found by US  troops, Larssen explains that he is a physicist on important government business. After several interrogations, Larssen is granted an audience with General George S. Patton, who explains that a major military operation is currently being planned to keep the Race out of Chicago. Since he is so valuable to the war effort and because of the dangers involved, Patton refuses to allow Larssen to proceed to Chicago until the Americans have secured the city.

As the winter of 1942 begins, the Race's attacks begin to lose momentum. On their home planet, snow is extraordinarily rare outside the laboratory, and much of the land is sandy desert, leaving Race forces totally unprepared for the harsh winters often found on Earth. As soon as the first blizzard hits Illinois, a handful of American fighters and bombers, hoarded for the last desperate strike, move against the Race's positions in western Indiana and southern Wisconsin. Massive artillery barrages follow. Finally, American infantry and tank units, under Patton in the east and General Omar Bradley in the north, move toward their objective, Bloomington, Illinois. Although human M4 Shermans and P-51 Mustangs are no match for the Race's landcruisers and killercraft, the alien forces are so badly outnumbered and the weather so inhospitable that they are beaten into a retreat. Under Patton's tremendously energetic, aggressive leadership, US troops move rapidly and manage to encircle some of the Race's slower formations in a ring of armor and destroy them in detail. Mankind scores its first major victory against the nemesis from the stars.

Fleetlord Atvar and the Conquest Fleet's Shiplords begin to grow worried about the war's progress, having lost control of all of northern Illinois. When the invasion began, they were confident that their technological superiority would guarantee a rapid victory, even in the face of expansive human industrial power. While it has managed to subdue South America, Africa, and Australia, the Race still faces stiff resistance in North America, Europe, and Asia six months after the attack started, and faces the prospect of losing ground in all three theatres.

Having expected a quick and easy victory, the Conquest Fleet finds itself living a logistical nightmare as the humans continue to fight: the Race's more advanced weaponry, such as guided missiles, anti-armor rockets, landcruisers, killercraft, and helicopters, are being destroyed in ever greater numbers, and munitions are rapidly being spent. While simple weapons, such as rifles, bullets, artillery shells, and mortars, can be replicated in captured human factories, the advanced machines and more complex munitions cannot be replaced. Worse still, the Race has already seen humans are alarmingly adaptable and quick to learn, meaning that the longer the war lasts, the faster the technological gap between the two sides will shrink. Atvar is informed by his intelligence officers that human vehicles are dependent upon petroleum for fuel and that striking at refineries that process oil might reduce the combat effectiveness of humanity's armies. Atvar orders an airborne attack upon the Romanian oilfields at Ploiești, but the bombing raid meets with limited success and costs the Race valuable killercraft.

As 1942 nears its end, Patton and Bradley march their forces into Bloomington, and Jens Larssen arrives in Chicago to find the city in ruins. He makes his way through the rubble, encounters a civilian populace in severe disarray, and heads for the University of Chicago. There, Larssen is informed by a custodian that the metallurgical laboratory has evacuated the campus and is relocating to Denver. Like the war, Larssen's journey has a long way to go.

Characters

See also