[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tom Gores

xpansion, further work with Pistons, and other business dealings 

In April 2016, Gores and Cleveland Cavaliers owner, Dan Gilbert, announced their intention to bring a Major League Soccer franchise to Detroit, although that deal is currently in limbo as the MLS considers multiple expansion options.

Later in 2016, Gores reached an agreement with the Ilitches (who own Olympia Entertainment and the Detroit Red Wings and Tigers) to allow the Pistons to share the new Little Caesars Arena in downtown Detroit with the Red Wings. The deal went into effect at the beginning of the 2017 season and marked the first time the Pistons regularly played in the city of Detroit proper since 1978. Gores and the Ilitches entered into another joint venture with their businesses (PS&E and Olympia Entertainment) called "313 Presents." The new business schedules shows and handles production, marketing, and media for the six Detroit-area venues owned between the two companies.

As of February 2018, the Pistons were valued at $1.1 billion, a gain of $775 million since Gores' purchase in 2011. In June 2018, Gores hired former Toronto Raptors head coach and the reigning NBA Coach of the Year, Dwane Casey. Outside of sports, he has also acquired numerous properties usually in the Los Angeles area, including 301 North Carolwood Drive in Holmby Hills.

Philanthropy 
In 2016, Gores launched FlintNOW, an organization designed to raise up to $10 million to provide relief to residents of Flint, Michigan, affected by the city's water crisis. Since 2009, Gores has donated toys to children in Detroit and Flint through the Toys for Tots program. Other Detroit area organizations to which Gores has given substantial support include the Jalen Rose Leadership Academy and S.A.Y Detroit. At the conclusion of the Pistons 2018–2019 season he made a donation of $255,000 to S.A.Y Detroit which was the result of a pledge Gores made during the annual radiothon to donate $5,000 for every Pistons win during the regular season and a $50,000 bonus for making the Playoffs.

Gores supports several philanthropic and charitable organizations. He served on the board of trustees of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA) until October 2020 and was also a member of the board of directors at both St. Joseph's Hospital and the UCLA Medical Center. Gores and his family help to support Children's Hospital Los Angeles and, in particular, the Division of Clinical Immunology and Allergy. In 2016, Gores and his wife Holly donated $5 million to the hospital to establish the Gores Family Allergy center, which helps provide comprehensive care and research in allergy studies.

In 2022, Gores gifted $20 million in order to construct a community center in Detroit's River Rouge Park. The announcement came as one of the first in a run of initiatives for the Gores Family Foundation. The Center is a 25,000-square-foot multi-use facility and will be the hosting location for a diverse range of programming for the area. The foundation worked with Detroit's Parks and Recreation Department.

Personal life 
Gores lives in Beverly Hills, California, with his wife Holly and three children. He also has a condo in Birmingham, Michigan.

In 2016, Gores purchased the former Disney Estate, a contemporary-style mansion in the Holmby Hills area of LA. The property worth $100 million is on 3.2 acres of land and is over 30,000 square feet of interior space with ten bedrooms and twenty bathrooms across both the main and guest house. The property also includes a wine room, lounge, theatre complex, spa, pool, and steam rooms.

References

External links 

Platinum Equity profile of Tom Gores

1964 births
Living people
20th-century American businesspeople
21st-century American businesspeople
American billionaires
American financiers
American money managers
American people of Greek descent
American people of Lebanese descent
American philanthropists
Businesspeople from Los Angeles
Detroit Pistons owners
Israeli emigrants to the United States
Israeli people of Greek descent
Israeli people of Lebanese descent
Michigan State University alumni
National Basketball Association owners
Businesspeople from Beverly Hills, California
People from Nazareth
Private equity and venture capital investors
Catholics from California
Janitors