[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Saffin

on (in this case, that of Connecticut) over the disputed land.  Rhode Island confiscated his titles, and he spent some time in prison. Saffin received revenge when in 1687 Joseph Dudley, also an Atherton Trading Company principal and then president of the Dominion of New England, restored his claim.

Judicial and political career
In Boston Saffin served for several years in the colonial assembly of the Massachusetts Bay Colony.  He served as the speaker of that colony's assembly in 1684, the year in which the colonial charter was revoked.  With the arrival of Joseph Dudley in 1686 and the establishment of the Dominion of New England, Saffin moved to Bristol (then part of the Plymouth Colony, now part of Rhode Island) in 1687.  Following the Glorious Revolution in England in 1688, there was a revolt against the Dominion rule of Andros; Saffin sided with the rebels, and sat on the Plymouth Colony councils during the interregnum years from 1689 to 1692.  This stance is likely responsible for a political estrangement between him and Dudley, who was among those imprisoned and sent to England.

In 1692, when the Province of Massachusetts Bay was chartered, Saffin was made a judge of the court of common pleas for Bristol County.  He served on the governor's councils of the province from 1693 to 1702.

The case of Adam

Saffin was well known for his pugnacious style, because of which he often ended up in court as a litigant.  The most notorious of these disputes involved a black indentured servant named Adam that Saffin had hired out on a seven-year contract in 1694.  When the term was coming to an end in 1701 it became clear that Saffin, who like many of the time held racist views, was not going to honour its terms, and maintain Adam in servitude. The issue prompted Samuel Sewall to write The Selling of Joseph in 1700, a pamphlet that argued generally against slavery. In addition to rejoinders to Sewall in verse, he published A Brief and Candid Answer, in which he sought to answer Sewall's charges and also catalogued his grievances against Adam. Events, however, soon became litigious, because Adam escaped from the farm on which he was working in March 1701.  Sewall and Saffin had a confrontation at Sewall's house, in which an agreement was made between them that a case for Saffin's claim to possession of Adam would be heard in Bristol County.

On 1 August 1701, Saffin convinced the governor's council to appoint him to the Superior Court of Judicature, the province's highest court, in the wake of the passing of Chief Justice and Acting Governor William Stoughton. The standard process for hearing cases at that time was that one or more of the superior court justices would ride circuit to hear cases in conjunction with lower court judges.  Saffin consequently was on the bench in Bristol County when Adam's case came up.  He furthermore may have tampered with the jury; it is alleged that he bribed the foreman to put one of his tenants on the panel.

The court heard evidence claiming that Adam had failed to "chearfully quietly and industriously" fulfil the terms of the indenture, and he was found guilty. The verdict was appealed at the instigation of Sewall, and Adam also filed a countersuit against Saffin for his freedom.  Saffin's case was eventually stayed until Adam's was heard in 1703.  In the meantime, Joseph Dudley, newly appointed governor, refused to reappoint Saffin to the high court in 1702, noting others "might have served the Queen better than they did". He also vetoed Saffin's appointment to the governor's council after Saffin used his position on that seat to renew his petition for custody of Adam.  The full superior court heard the case November 1703, and ruled decisively in favour of Adam's freedom.

Saffin died at Bristol on 29 July 1710, and was buried in Boston.

Bibliography
 
  First publication of Saffin's poetry.

Notes

References

Washburn, Emory.  Sketches of the Judicial History of Massachusetts from 1630

1626 births
1710 deaths
English emigrants to British North America
Justices of the Massachusetts Superior Court of Judicature
People of colonial Massachusetts
Speakers of the Massachusetts House of Representatives (colonial period)