[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Maisie Williams

ion teen superhero thriller film iBoy. Tristram Fane Saunders of the Daily Telegraph wrote that she brought "depth, humour and honesty to the role." Also in 2017, Williams appeared as Isabel Baxter in Mary Shelley a romantic period-drama film directed by Haifaa al-Mansour and written by Emma Jensen.

In 2018, she voiced the character Goona, a Bronze Age fearless rebel tomboy football enthusiast in Nick Park's animated prehistoric comedy sports film Early Man which also featured Eddie Redmayne and Tom Hiddleston, though both Gwilym Mumford of The Guardian and Kate Stables of the British Film Institute noted that Williams' accent varied during the film. From 18 October to 24 November 2018, Williams starred as Caroline in the stage play I and You, which was written by Lauren Gunderson. The play premiered at the Hampstead Theatre in London. The play did well at the box office and Williams' stage performance was regarded a critical success, with the production later being broadcast free on Instagram from 30 November to 3 December 2018 and again during the last week of March 2020. She also starred in the eleven-minute short film Corvidae, a dark fairy tale filmed in 2013 and released in 2018, of which Craig Holton of flickfeast commented that Williams brought "an undeniably ethereal quality to this short film, helping it make the leap from grounded realism to eldritch bucolic fantasy".

In 2019, Williams starred alongside Asa Butterfield and Nina Dobrev in the coming of age romantic comedy-drama film Then Came You, in which she played a teenager with a terminal illness. Frank Scheck of the Hollywood Reporter felt that Williams made her "sprightly character appealingly vulnerable". The film premiered at the Woodstock Film Festival on 12 October 2018 and was released nationwide in 2019. From 2019 to 2021 Williams has voiced the role Cammie MacCloud, a mischievous Scottish hacker, in the U.S. animated web series Gen:Lock that is set in a dystopian future, which is broadcast on the Rooster Teeth subscription service. On 4 November 2021, the second season of nine episodes premiered on HBO Max first before it is released on Rooster Teeth three months later.

2020: The New Mutants, Two Weeks to Live, and The Owners
Originally set for release in April 2018, in late August 2020, Williams co-starred in the delayed Disney/Fox superhero horror film The New Mutants. The New York Times said Williams portrayed the Marvel superhero Rahne Sinclair / Wolfsbane—a Scottish mutant who can turn into a wolf, but struggles to reconcile this with her religious beliefs -- "with endearing sincerity". Though the film received mixed to negative reviews her performance was regarded as good by The Hollywood Reporter, including adding "layers of panache and emotion" to her character. The film was released in "in theatres" which were partly open, with reduced capacity, due to the worldwide COVID-19 pandemic, in August 2020 (despite many other major Disney films being further delayed). Written and directed by Josh Boone, the film also stars Anya Taylor-Joy, Blu Hunt, Charlie Heaton, Alice Braga and Henry Zaga. The Los Angeles Times described the same sex romantic relationship between Williams' Rahne and Hunt's Danielle Moonstar as feeling honest and a central part of the story that grounded the film with "a sense of humanity", which also made the New Mutants both a rare LGBTQ inclusive superhero film and groundbreaking for a Disney release.

Released in September 2020, Williams was the lead in Two Weeks to Live, a six-part dark, deadpan comedy revenge drama. Williams plays Kim Noakes, who (following the murder of her father) has been raised in total isolation, living off the grid in the wilderness, by her overprotective doomsday prepping badass survivalist mother, Tina (played by Sian Clifford). Action is set in motion following a seemingly harmless prank played on Kim of a fake video that makes her believe that everybody in the world has just two weeks to live. Kim – raised to believe the end times were close – sets off to kill the man who murdered her father in front of her when she was a child. The Guardian considers that Williams "excels in her fish-out-of-water role, flitting between hapless and determined, worldly and childlike". Two Weeks To Live lets Williams flex comedy muscles while also showing off her stunt fighting and stunt skills. The NME described the action drama as also genuinely funny. The UK series, written by Gaby Hull and produced by Kudos for Sky UK, debuted on 2 September 2020, and premiered in the U.S. on HBO Max on 5 November. The six part first series also starred Sean Knopp, Mawaan Rizwan and Taheen Modak.