[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Saurabh Kalia

Saurabh Kalia (;  – ) was an officer of the Indian Army who was killed during the Kargil War while being held as a prisoner of war by the Pakistan Army. He and five soldiers in his patrol group were captured by Pakistani troops following a gunfight at the Line of Control and allegedly tortured prior to their execution; the Government of Pakistan has rejected all allegations of Indian military personnel being tortured while in Pakistani custody.

Early years
Saurabh Kalia was born on 29 June 1976 in Amritsar, Punjab, India, to Vijaya and N. K. Kalia. He attended D. A. V. Public School in Palampur, Himachal Pradesh, and then graduated from Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University in 1997 with a First-Class BSc-Med degree. He won various scholarships throughout his academic career.

Military career
Kalia was selected for the Indian Military Academy in August 1997 through the Combined Defence Services Examination and was commissioned on 12 December 1998. He was posted to the 4th battalion Jat Regiment in the Kargil Sector, where he arrived in mid-January 1999 after reporting at the Jat Regimental Centre, Bareilly, on 31 December 1998.

Kargil war
In the first two weeks of May 1999, several patrols were conducted in the Kaksar Langpa area of Kargil district to see if snow had receded enough for the area to be re-occupied. Kalia, who then held the rank of lieutenant, was the first Indian army officer to observe and report large-scale intrusion of Pakistani Army and foreign mercenaries on the Indian side of the Line of Control (LoC) at Kargil. He assumed guard of Bajrang Post at 13,000–14,000 feet to check infiltration in the Kaksar area.

On 15 May 1999, Kalia and five other soldiers – Sepoys Arjun Ram, Bhanwar Lal Bagaria, Bhika Ram, Moola Ram and Naresh Singh of the 4th Jat Regiment - were on a routine patrol of the Bajrang Post in the Kaksar sector in the Ladakh mountains when they engaged in a firefight with Pakistani forces across the LOC. The patrol out of ammunition, were encircled by a platoon of Pakistani rangers, and captured before Indian reinforcements could reach them. Radio Skardu of Pakistan announced the capture.

Indian officials claimed that Kalia and his men were held captive from May 15, 1999, to June 7, 1999, and were subjected to torture. They stated that the evidence of torture was apparent from the injuries on their bodies when they were handed over by the Pakistani Army on June 9, 1999. Post-mortem examinations conducted by India reported that the prisoners variously had cigarette burns, ear-drums pierced with hot rods, many broken teeth and bones, fractured skulls, eyes that had been punctured before being removed, cut lips, chipped noses, and amputated limbs and genitalia. According to the examinations, these injuries preceded the captives being shot dead in the head. However, The Guardian noted that there was no independent international observer at the post-mortem.

Reaction
On 15 June 1999, India served Pakistan with a notice of breach of the Geneva Convention for the torture and killing of the prisoners of war. The Minister of External Affairs, Jaswant Singh, raised the issue with Sartaj Aziz, the Foreign Minister of Pakistan, seeking identification and punishment of those responsible, but Pakistan denied the charges of torture.

On 14 December 2012 Pakistan's Interior Minister, Rehman Malik, said that he had just recently heard of the case and that it was not known whether Kalia was killed with a Pakistani bullet or died because of the weather. He also said he would like to meet Kalia's father to find out what exactly had happened with his son. The same day, the Supreme Court of India ordered the Government of India to respond within ten weeks to a petition filed by Kalia's father.

Efforts by family
Kalia's family has campaigned to have the alleged acts declared a war crime by the United Nations and the people responsible punished in accordance with the Geneva Convention. 

Kalia's father approached various national and international organisations to put pressure on Pakistan to identify and punish the persons allegedly responsible. As of 2004, Britain had responded by saying that it had unsuccessfully sought a full report from the Indian army, while Israel noted it had no diplomatic relations with Pakistan. Germany said it had no response to enquiries made to the Ministry of External Affairs, and Pakistan rejected the allegations.

The father stated in 2009 that he has failed to achieve his goals despite