[Source: PubMed]

51. Annu Rev Popul Law. 1988;15:189, 582-4.

Resolution of October 1987.

Inter-Parliamentary Union.

PIP: This document contains portions of a 1987 Resolution, approved at the 78th 
Inter-Parliamentary Conference, relating to "the respect for the fundamental 
principles, treaties and obligations governing relations among nations, in order 
to solve the problem of refugees and displaced persons." The resolution urges 
all governments to help find a lasting solution to the problem of refugees and 
displaced persons. All parliamentarians and governments should fulfill their 
responsibility to protect refugees. Governments should ratify international 
instruments regarding refugees and displaced persons and withdraw any 
reservations limiting their obligations. Bilateral agreements which aim to 
restrict the rights or asylum and freedom of movement are denounced. Better 
efforts of coordination of asylum procedures are called for as is the conclusion 
of a "Convention on Territorial Asylum" to improve the legal status of refugees. 
In addition, consideration should be given to redefining the terms "refugee" and 
"country of first asylum." Parliaments are asked to make formal determinations 
of refugee status, states are asked to share the burden and to help receiving 
countries, and the international community is asked to assist whole populations 
which have been dispossessed in order to reduce the number of refugees and 
displaced persons. Parliaments are asked to help create conditions in countries 
of origin which will help refugees return. State are asked to consider drafting 
international legal instruments to protect refugees and to find ways to protect 
prisoners of war, detainees, and civilian populations in war zones. The 
international humanitarian organizations are commended for their work as are 
nongovernmental organizations which provide relief. States are asked to increase 
their support for such organizations.

PMID: 12289358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]