[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War

This is a timeline of events related to the 2006 Lebanon War.

July 12–19

Wednesday, July 12
The conflict began on July 12 when 8 Israeli soldiers were killed and a further two were captured during a cross-border attack. At approximately 9am local time, Hezbollah's military wing launched a barrage of rockets and mortars on the northern Israeli town of Shlomi, apparently as a diversion.

An Israeli border patrol consisting of two armored IDF Humvees patrolling on the Israeli side of the border near the village of Zar'it was attacked with anti-tank rockets killing three soldiers, wounding three, and abducting two into Lebanon's territory. Hezbollah has named this operation "True Promise.".  The IDF confirmed that two Israeli soldiers were abducted from Israeli territory by Hezbollah, and identified them as Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad Regev. An Israeli Merkava Mark II tank was damaged by a 300 kg improvised explosive device as it crossed the border in Lebanon, attempting to pursue Hezbollah. All four of the crew members were killed. Another Israeli soldier was killed when he came under heavy fire during an attempted recovery of the bodies from the tank.  In all, 8 soldiers were killed, 2 captured and 6 wounded. Israel's Foreign Ministry Spokesman Mark Regev claims the Hezbollah unit that captured the two soldiers is trying to transfer them to Iran. However, the spokesman did not disclose his source. Israel attacked Hezbollah's TV station Al-Manar and radio station Al-Nour in Haret Hreyk (Harat Hurayk), a southern suburb of Beirut, and in Baalbeck.

Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah later declared that "No military operation will return them [the captured soldiers]... The prisoners will not be returned except through one way: indirect negotiations and a trade [of prisoners]."

The attacks came two weeks after the beginning of the Gaza Strip-focused Operation Summer Rains by the Israel Defense Forces whose objective was to free the Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit captured on June 25, 2006, by Hamas militants in an earlier cross-border attack organized by Hamas that left two Israeli soldiers dead.

In negotiations for the 2004 prisoner exchange, Hezbollah had sought the release of Lebanese prisoners held by Israel. While many were released, Hezbollah failed to achieve the release of Samir Kuntar. Having failed to achieve this objective, Hassan Nasrallah declared that the organization would carry out further operations at a later date to gain the release of the remaining prisoners. The Hezbollah leader later called for talks on prisoner exchange which was officially rejected by Olmert. However it was widely believed that negotiations were underway with Egypt as mediator.

Israel called together an emergency cabinet meeting, during which Prime Minister Olmert said that it held the Beirut government responsible for the attack, vowing that it would pay a "heavy price" for the attacks, adding "The Lebanese government, of which Hezbollah is a part, is trying to shake regional stability". Plans to locate "thousands" of reserve troops were also announced. Israeli Defence Minister Amir Peretz also said that  "the State of Israel sees itself free to use all measures that it finds it needs, and the [Israeli Forces] have been given orders in that direction." The United Nations envoy to the region, Geir Pedrson, condemned the Hezbollah action and called on Hezbollah to release the soldiers.

Lebanese Prime Minister Fuad Siniora denied any knowledge of the raid and stated that he did not condone it.  An emergency meeting of the Lebanese government reaffirmed this position. Hezbollah's action aroused varying reactions among Lebanese political forces. It was harshly criticised by many members of the largely anti-Syrian parliamentary majority, while Michel Aoun, despite his understanding with the party, declared that he supported the government's position.

In response, the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) launched a series of air and artillery strikes at positions in southern Lebanon, generally seen as the support base for Hezbollah. Israeli General Dan Halutz threatened to "turn Lebanon's clock back 20 years" in a reference to the destruction Lebanon suffered in its bloody civil war. Israeli troops later bombed a main road in the south of Lebanon leaving two civilians dead, and a series of air-raids followed during the night which also targeted the civilian infrastructure. Israel said that they were trying to prevent the captured soldiers from being removed to Iran.

Thursday, July 13

On Thursday, July 13, Israel began implementing a land and sea blockade on Lebanon.  The Beirut International Airport (the sole international airport in Lebanon) was bombed, forcing all international flights to be diverted to Cyprus.  The Israeli army said the airport had been used to smuggle in weapons to Hezbollah.