[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Central American crisis

apart from the actions of the paramilitary group of the Popular Liberation Movement-Cinchonero and other organizations there were no major attempts. This was due to the military reformism of the military junta governments of the 1960s and 1970s led by Oswaldo López Arellano and Juan Alberto Melgar.

Nevertheless, fears that the civil wars wracking its neighbors might spread to the country led to the murder, torture, and disappearances of any individual identified as a dissident, spearheaded by the Honduran army's death squad Battalion 3-16, who received training and support from Central Intelligence Agency of the United States. Honduras became a key base for the Reagan administration's response to the crisis, making the Honduran territory a huge US army base to maintain military control in Central America.

US troops held large military exercises in Honduras during the 1980s, and trained thousands of Salvadorans in the country. The nation also hosted bases for the Nicaraguan Contras. In 1986, they began to see armed conflicts on the border with Nicaragua, which ended in the aerial bombardment of two Nicaraguan towns by the Honduran Air Force. By 1998, Hurricane Mitch left more than 2 million Hondurans without a home or job, a good portion of the infrastructure that was totally damaged, dragging Honduras into more poverty.

United States response
Operation Condor
Caribbean Basin Initiative
 Central American migrant caravans
Reagan Doctrine
Foreign interventions by the United States
United States involvement in regime change in Latin America
Latin America–United States relations
Zapatista Crisis

Legacy
By the late 1980s, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras all implemented reforms pushing their economies into the neoliberal model, such as privatizing state companies, liberalizing trade, weakening labor laws, and increasing consumption taxes in attempts to stabilize their economies. , violence still reigns over Central America. A common legacy of the Central American crisis was the displacement and destruction of indigenous communities, especially in Guatemala where they were considered potential supporters of both the government and guerrilla forces.

Peace efforts 
Several Latin American nations formed the Contadora Group to work for a resolution to the region's wars. Later, Costa Rican President Óscar Arias succeeded in convincing the other Central American leaders to sign the Esquipulas Peace Agreement, which eventually provided the framework for ending the civil wars.

See also

 Operation Condor
 CIA activities in Nicaragua
 CIA activities in Honduras
 Proxy war
 Oliver North
 Northern Triangle of Central America

References

Bibliography

External links
Central American Crisis from the Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives

Cold War conflicts
Cold War in Latin America
Dirty wars
El Salvador–United States relations
Guatemala–United States relations
History of Central America
Revolutionary waves
United States–Central American relations
State-sponsored terrorism
Proxy wars
CIA activities in the Americas
1970s in North America
1980s in North America
1990s in North America
History of Honduras