[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Little Women (musical)

he best Christmas there ever was. ("Our Finest Dreams"). Marmee, their mother, comes in with a letter from Mr. March who is away as a Union Army chaplain in the American Civil War. As she writes a response, she reflects on how hard it is to be the pillar of strength in the March home ("Here Alone").

Aunt March, the wealthy aunt of the March sisters, asks Jo to change from being a tomboy to a model lady of society. She tells Jo of an idle thought to bring her along to Europe. Jo begs to go with her, but Aunt March reasons that she will take her only if she changes. Jo, who has always dreamed of seeing Europe, agrees ("Could You?"). Meanwhile, Meg has one of her own dreams realized: she and Jo are invited to Annie Moffat's Valentine's Day Ball. But on the day of the ball, while the two sisters are rushing around for their finishing touches, Meg announces that she cannot go. She asks Marmee what to say when one of her potential suitors asks her to dance. Marmee tells Meg to just smile and say "I'd be delighted" ("Delighted"). Amy, who cares about society and fine things more than Jo, rushes down in Jo's old ball gown to join them in going to the ball, but Jo stops her, as she is not invited. Spiteful of her sister, Amy burns Jo's manuscript in the fireplace and then happily goes off to bed.

At the ball, Jo accidentally sits on Laurie, who is a neighbor of the Marches' along with his grumpy grandfather, Mr. Laurence. Laurie's tutor, Mr. John Brooke, then comes in and scolds Laurie for not meeting important people, which would make Mr. Laurence furious. Mr. Brooke accidentally takes Meg's dance card, but when he returns it, he finally looks at Meg to see how beautiful she is. Mr. Brooke asks Meg to dance and Meg agrees. Meg and Mr. Brooke are smitten at first sight. Laurie confesses to Jo his need for friends and asks Jo to dance with him. Jo replies that she doesn't dance but Laurie keeps on trying to make an impression ("Take A Chance On Me").

Back at the March's after the ball, Jo and Amy have a confrontation after Jo discovers what Amy has done to her story. Marmee sends Amy off to her bed and apologizes to Jo, but tells her that Amy is just a child and wants to be like her. Jo then rushes up to her attic to rewrite her story ("Better (Reprise)"). Laurie invites Jo to a skating match, which she at first refuses but eventually agrees to. Amy wants to go with them but she already outgrown her pair of skates. Beth, who intends to stay home, offers Amy her old skates.

Beth is sitting at the family's old piano when Mr. Laurence comes in looking for Laurie. Mr. Laurence discovers Beth's talent at the piano and they sing a duet ("Off to Massachusetts"). Jo and Laurie come in from the skating race with Amy in Laurie's arms because she had fallen through the ice while skating. Jo and Amy reconcile, and Jo makes Laurie an honorary member of the March family ("Five Forever").

Marmee receives a letter informing her that her husband has contracted pneumonia and she must go to Washington to be with him. As Marmee prepares to leave and Amy packs her things to stay with Aunt March, Jo returns with money for Marmee to travel, but she confesses that she did not go to Aunt March. She tried to sell her stories in the town common, but she ended up cutting and selling her hair. When Aunt March arrives to pick up Amy, she sees Jo and is furious. Jo has a confrontation with Aunt March, ending with Aunt March cutting her bargain with Jo with taking her to Europe. Aunt March then turns her focus to Amy, molding her to be the society lady that she envisioned for Jo. Mr. Brooke excuses Meg for a while to tell her of his enlistment in the Union Army. He then asks Meg her hand in marriage, and she accepts ("More Than I Am").

Months later, Laurie returns back to Concord and visits Jo, who is happy to see him. Laurie tells her that his grandfather has enlisted him in college and he will be leaving in time for the summer session. Then, Laurie begins to confess his feelings for Jo by kissing her ("Take A Chance On Me (Reprise)"). He put out a ring and tells Jo he loves her. Jo does not accept his marriage proposal and begins to grow upset by his words. He tells her that she will marry, but Jo tells him that she will never marry; Laurie, on the contrary, says she will, but not to him. Jo then ponders her future, which is changing significantly. She vows to find another way to achieve her future ("Astonishing").

Act II