[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Yujiro Takahashi

ntal Championship rivalry with MVP, which built to a tag team match on January 4, 2012, at Wrestle Kingdom VI in Tokyo Dome, where Takahashi and Tanaka were defeated by MVP and Shelton Benjamin. On March 11, Takahashi unsuccessfully challenged Hirooki Goto for the IWGP Intercontinental Championship.

On May 10, 2012, Takahashi returned to Mexico for another tour with CMLL. During his first month back in Mexico, Takahashi mainly feuded with CMLL World Light Heavyweight Champion Rush, which built to a match on June 5, where Takahashi unsuccessfully challenged Rush for his title. Takahashi then transitioned into feuding with CMLL World Heavyweight Champion El Terrible, but again was unsuccessful in his title challenge on June 24. Takahashi ended his two-month excursion and returned to Japan on July 6. On September 17, Takahashi picked up a major win by pinning IWGP Heavyweight Champion Hiroshi Tanahashi in an eight-man tag team main event. On October 8, Takahashi defeated Tetsuya Naito via referee stoppage, after taking advantage of his injured knee, after which he was named the number one contender to the IWGP Heavyweight Championship. On October 21, Takahashi again pinned Tanahashi in a six-man tag team main event. On November 11 at Power Struggle, Takahashi received his first shot at the IWGP Heavyweight Championship, but was defeated by Tanahashi. On November 15, Takahashi participated in the NEVER Openweight Championship tournament, but was eliminated in his first round match by Karl Anderson. From November 20 to December 1, Takahashi took part in the round-robin portion of the 2012 World Tag League, alongside Complete Players stablemate Masato Tanaka. The team finished with a record of three wins and three losses, failing to advance from their block. On January 4, 2013, at Wrestle Kingdom 7 in Tokyo Dome, Takahashi represented Chaos in an eight-man tag team match, where he, Bob Sapp, Takashi Iizuka and Toru Yano were defeated by Akebono, Manabu Nakanishi, MVP and Strong Man. Later that same event, Takahashi also helped Masato Tanaka retain the NEVER Openweight Championship against Shelton Benjamin.

The following month, Takahashi started a new rivalry with Togi Makabe. The two first met each other in a singles match on February 10 at The New Beginning, where Makabe was victorious. On March 11, Takahashi avenged the loss by defeating Makabe in the first round of the 2013 New Japan Cup. Six days later, Takahashi, debuting a new "ladies' man" gimmick, was eliminated from the tournament in the second round by Davey Boy Smith Jr. On March 23, Tomoaki Honma returned to New Japan to support Makabe in his war with Takahashi and Chaos. Takahashi and Makabe faced off in another singles match on May 3 at Wrestling Dontaku 2013, where Makabe was victorious. On June 22, Takahashi was defeated in another grudge match by former partner Tetsuya Naito, who was making his return to the ring from an eight-month break due to a knee injury. The two had a rematch on August 1 on the opening day of the 2013 G1 Climax, where Takahashi was victorious. When the tournament concluded on August 11, Takahashi finished in the middle of the block with a record of four wins and five losses, failing to advance to the finals. On October 14 at King of Pro-Wrestling, Takahashi unsuccessfully challenged former partner Tetsuya Naito for the NEVER Openweight Championship and the number one contendership to the IWGP Heavyweight Championship.

Bullet Club (2014–2021)