[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# European Association for Evolutionary Political Economy

iters as diverse as John Commons, Nicholas Kaldor, Michał Kalecki, William Kapp, John Maynard Keynes, Alfred Marshall, Karl Marx, François Perroux, Karl Polanyi, Joan Robinson, Joseph Schumpeter, Adam Smith, Thorstein Veblen and Max Weber to institutionalist and evolutionary thought.

Research areas

EAEPE's research is organised around Research Areas (RAs) that include: Methodology of economics (A), Economic sociology (B), Institutional change (C), Innovation and technological change (D), Industrial Policy and Development (E1), Entrepreneurship and Theory of the Firm (E2), Environment-economy interactions (F), Macroeconomic regulation and Institutions (G), Effective Demand, Income Distribution and Finance (H), Comparative Political Economy (I), Monetary economics, finance and financial institutions (J), Gender economics and social identity (K), Labour economics (L), Social economics (M), Human development and institutions (N), Territory and migration (O), Economic history (P), Evolutionary economic simulations (S), History of political economy (T), Conceptions of Evolutionary Political Economy (V), Global political economy (W), Networks (X), Co-operative economy and collective ownership (Z).

Awards
The association runs three prizes: 
 The EAEPE William Kapp Prize awarded annually for the best published journal article on a theme broadly in accord with the EAEPE theoretical perspectives.
 The EAEPE Joan Robinson Prize (formerly known as the Gunnar Myrdal Prize) awarded biennially for the best monograph on a theme broadly in accord with the EAEPE theoretical perspectives.   
 The EAEPE Herbert Simon Young Scholar Prize awarded annually for the best conference paper by a young scholar.

Publications
 EAEPE's international journal Review of Evolutionary Political Economy (REPE) has been running since 2020. REPE publishes high-quality conceptual and review articles and cutting-edge methodological and empirical studies from evolutionary and international political economy, institutionalist, heterodox, computational and complexity economics and economic sociology.
 EAEPE has regularly published a series of conference volumes, several more focused volumes on specific topics as well as readers on institutional and evolutionary economics (see selected list below). Since 2006, EAEPE has sponsored a new 'Studies in Evolutionary Political Economy' edited volume series. 
 In collaboration with the Association for Evolutionary Economics (AFEE), EAEPE has published a major 2-volume reference work on institutional and evolutionary economics (Hodgson, Samuels and Tool, eds, 1994).
 A newsletter was published between 1989 and 2005. A new series was released in July 2012. 
 EAEPE sponsors a periodical, Journal of Institutional Economics (JOIE), devoted to the study of the nature, role and evolution of institutions in the economy. The first issue was published in 2005. There are currently 4 issues per volume. In 2012, JOIE received a high impact factor for a new journal.