[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Automotive industry in India

requirements of AIS-140 devices. eSIM4Things is fully compatible with all AIS-140 devices and with a connectivity manager and a range of tariff plans.

Driverless Technology in India

While there is controversy on possibility of driverless cars in India, many startups are working on this technology:

 Flux Auto
 FishEyeBox
 Hi Tech Robotic Systemz
 EC Mobility Pvt. Ltd.
 ATImotors
 Netradyne
 Swaayat Robots
 Auro Robotics
 OmniPresent Robotics
 Mahindra &  Mahindra
 SeDrica 1.0

In Auto Expo 2018, Hi Tech Robotic Systemz launched an artificial intelligence-based driver behaviour sensor technology called Novus Aware in partnership with Daimler India Commercial Vehicles (DICV).

Performance-linked incentives scheme for future tech 

Automotive sector is part of 13 sectors that GoI has introduced Rs 1.97 lakh cr (US$28 b) performance-linked incentives (PLI) schemes for five years in 2021-22 budget. In Sept 2021, to boost the automotive industry with the newer and green technology the Government of India (GoI) launched 3 PLI schemes, a Rs. 26,000 cr (US$3.61 b) scheme for production of electric vehicles and hydrogen fuel vehicles (PEVHV), the Rs 18,000 crore (US$2.5 b) "Advanced Chemistry Cell" (ACC) scheme for new generation advance storage technologies which are useful for the electric vehicles, and Rs 10,000 crore (US$1.4 b) "Faster Adaption of Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles" (FAME) scheme to go green by expediting production of more electronic vehicles and replacement of other types of existing vehicles with the greener vehicles. The Rs. 26,000 cr (US$3.61 b) PLI scheme to boost automotive sector to boost the production of electric vehicles and hydrogen fuel vehicles will also generate 750,000 direct jobs in auto sector. These schemes will reduce pollution, climate change, carbon footprint, reduce oil and fuel import bill through domestic alternative substitution, boost job creation and economy. Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers welcomed this as it will enhance the competitiveness and boost growth.

See also
Automobile industry
Automotive Industry Standards, the automotive regulations of India
Electric vehicle industry in India
Electronics and semiconductor manufacturing industry in India
Hydrogen economy in India
Hydrogen internal combustion engine vehicle
Lists of automobile-related articles
List of car brands
List of truck manufacturers
List of motorcycle manufacturers (Category)
List of scooters - List of scooter manufacturers
List of countries by motor vehicle production
List of countries by vehicles per capita
List of Asian cars
List of automobile manufacturers of China
List of Japanese cars
List of vehicle plants in India
List of car magazines

References

Bibliography
 
 Black, Anthony, et al. "The political economy of automotive industry development policy in middle income countries: A comparative analysis of Egypt, India, South Africa and Turkey." (2020). online
 Dhawan, Rajat, et al. "The auto component industry in India: Preparing for the future." (McKinsey & Company, (Sep 2018). online
 
 Haneesh, Gaddipati Raama, and Abhishek Venkteshwar. "The Impact of Covid-19 on the Automotive Industry in India." International Journal of Management (IJM) 12.4 (2021). online
 Kamala, T.N. & Doreswamy, A.G. (2007). Strategies for Enhancing Competitiveness of Indian Auto Component Industries . Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode.
 
 Remesh, Babu P. "Re-reading the ‘Auto-revolution’in India with a Labour Lens: Shifting Roles and Positions of State, Industry and Workers." in Changing Contexts and Shifting Roles of the Indian State (Springer, Singapore, 2019) pp. 175-189.
 Rengamani, J. "A Study On The Factors Influencing The Job Stress Of Production Engineers In The Automobile Companies In Chennai." International Journal of Mechanical and ProductionEngineering Research and Development (IJMPERD) 8#5 (2018) pp. 427-436 online
 Saha, Priya, And Aruna Sharma. "Creating Value Through Customer Relationship Management In The Automotive Industry In India." CLEAR International Journal of Research in Commerce & Management 11.9 (2020).
 Shrestha, Shahadave. "Supplier development in Indian auto industry: Case of Maruti Suzuki India Limited." The Bulletin of the Graduate School, Soka University 39 (2019): 1-15. online
 Sureshkrishna, G., and D. Simanchala. "Occupational stress and job satisfaction: A Study of Automotive Industry in India." International Journal of Mechanical Engineering and Technology (IJMET) 9.2 (2018): 690-97.
 
 Uppal, Nishant. "CEO narcissism, CEO duality, TMT agreeableness and firm performance: An empirical investigation in auto industry in India." European Business Review'' (2020). online

External links