[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Air transports of heads of state and government

ates two Embraer business jets. For long haul flights the Prime Minister and other officials used one of the Airbus A340-300s of the government owned Olympic Airlines when they were still in service. The A340 aircraft were used for the official visit of the Greek Prime Minister to Australia in 2007.

Two other aircraft used over the last two decades for the same purpose raised controversy. A Dassault Falcon 900 had a range of technical problems culminating in an accident that cost the life of the deputy minister of foreign affairs Giannos Kranidiotis and five other people due to severe in-flight pitch oscillations 20 minutes before landing at Bucharest on 9 September 1999.

Under executive order 2954/28-8-12, the Greek government bestowed the 30-seat Embraer to the Hellenic Air Force to be used for pilot training, patient airlift and organ transplant transportation.

In 2021 the Hellenic Air Force added a Falcon 7X to its fleet for VIP transport duties.

The planes fly under normal Hellenic Air Force callsigns.

Hungary 
The Hungarian government uses two Dassault Falcon 7X and two Airbus A319 airliners, which are operated by the Hungarian Air Force and fly under HUAF (Hungarian Air Force) callsigns.

Iceland 
The government uses commercial aircraft and private aircraft for travel.

Ireland

The Irish Ministerial Air Transport Service (MATS) is part of the Irish Air Corps, it provides secure transport to the President of Ireland, the Taoiseach, the Tánaiste, and members of the government and their staff, both within and outside Ireland.

A Learjet 45 is currently used. Until recently, a Gulfstream IV was also part of the fleet. The Air Corps AW139 helicopters are also used as government transport. The planes fly under an Irish Air Corps callsign.

Italy

The Italian Air Force operates three Airbus A319 Corporate Jets, three Dassault Falcon 900s and two Dassault Falcon 50s for government transport. Two AgustaWestland AW139 are operated for use by the President and government officials, and are also used by the Pope. An Airbus A340-500 was leased for longer-distance trips in 2016 and phased out in 2018. All aircraft and helicopters are operated by the 31st Wing based in Rome Ciampino Airport.

The planes fly under the callsign "IAM9001" when transporting the Head of State.

Liechtenstein
The government tends to not travel a lot, however, commercial aircraft is used if necessary.

Lithuania

The president and the government of Lithuania use one of the three Alenia C-27J Spartans of the Lithuanian Air Force in a passenger configuration, which flies under a Lithuanian Air Force callsign. For longer trips, commercial aircraft are used.

Luxembourg

A private Cessna 550 Citation II, a Learjet 35A or even a 737-700 chartered from the flag carrier Luxair are sometimes used for governmental flights. Other than that, commercial aircraft is used, for example the Prime Minister used a Vietnam Airlines plane to travel to Vietnam for a working visit.

Malta
The government uses a Learjet for travel, which flies under the callsign "JLN".

Moldova
In the 1990s, the Moldovan government operated a single Tupolev TU-134 for use by the government. In the 2000s, it was retired, and the Moldovan government leased an Air Moldova Yakovlev Yak-40 for VIP use. That was retired too, and the most recent aircraft used by the President or Prime Minister is an Air Moldova Airbus A320 family jet, which uses an Air Moldova callsign. Current President Maia Sandu was spotted taking low-cost carrier Wizz Air on a flight to Brussels.

Monaco

The Prince and the Monegasque government (including the Minister of State) use a Dassault Falcon 7X based in the French airport of Nice Côte d'Azur Airport.

Since 2018 the prince and the government of Monaco uses a Dassault Falcon 8X with the same registration - 3A-MGA, which replaced a Dassault Falcon 900 also. The aircraft uses its registration as a callsign.

Montenegro
The Government of Montenegro operates one Learjet 45 for VIP transport. registration 4O-MNE. It uses its registration as a callsign.

Netherlands

The government of the Netherlands operates a Boeing 737 BBJ as a means of transport for the Dutch Royal family and government officials such as the prime minister and other ministers. It is used not only to attend international conferences but also for private trips by the King Willem Alexander (who is a licensed commercial pilot type rated to fly the 737) and Queen Maxima. This aircraft, registered PH-GOV (GOVernment), was introduced in 2019 at a cost of 89m euros. A Fokker 70 registered PH-KBX (Koningin Beatrix) had been operated, but was retired in May 2017 in line with the withdrawal of the Fokker 70 from the fleet of KLM Cityhopper which had maintained the aircraft. Prior to the introduction of the Fokker 70, a Fokker F28 Fellowship registered PH-PBX (Princess BeatriX) had been used.

A Gulfstream IV of the Royal Netherlands Air Force (RNLAF) is also available.