[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# July 1976

July 1, 1976 (Thursday)
Carlos Arias Navarro, who had been Prime Minister of Spain  since his appointment by Francisco Franco in 1974, resigned at the request of Franco's successor, King Juan Carlos I. Arias, who had blocked the King's attempts at reform, was given the concession of a title of nobility the next day.
The day after freeing 47 hostages, the hijackers of Air France Flight 139 freed another 101 passengers from captivity and extended their deadline for release of 53 prisoners to 2:00 in the afternoon for Sunday, as Israel continued to negotiate for the safety of the remaining 110 people on board.  After the June 27 hijacking, the group from the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine had set a July 1 ultimatum for their demands to be met or for the hostages to be killed.  Israel's cabinet of ministers had voted to open negotiations with the terrorists, reversing a long-held policy after members of the hostages' families had forced their way into Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's office.
Mrs. Dora Bloch, a 74-year old retiree and one of the hostages held at the Entebbe Airport in Uganda after the hijacking of Air France 139, became choked while eating lunch and was taken to a hospital in Kampala for treatment.  She had dual Israeli and British citizenship after having married a Briton, and had been on her way to New York City to attend her son's wedding when the airplane was hijacked by terrorists, and was not at the airport when the Israeli rescue of hostages took place.  After the other hostages were flown back to Israel in a rescue mission, Mrs. Bloch was taken from her hospital bed on July 4 by Ugandan soldiers and murdered.
Tina Turner escaped her abusive husband and singing partner Ike Turner after he had beaten her on their way to the Statler Hilton Hotel in Dallas, where they were scheduled to perform as a duo.  Tina Turner would go on to launch a successful solo career, with more success than she had had as half of the duo of Ike and Tina Turner.
Born: 
Patrick Kluivert, Dutch national soccer football team striker; in Amsterdam
Ruud van Nistelrooy, Dutch national soccer football team striker; in Oss
Justin Lo, American-born Hong Kong singer; in Syracuse, New York
Haaz Sleiman, Lebanese-born American actor; in Beirut
Kellie Bright, English soap opera actress known for EastEnders; in Brentwood, Essex
Died: 
Zhang Wentian, 75, former General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party from 1935 to 1943, later persecuted during the Cultural Revolution
Anneliese Michel, 23, West German woman who died from malnutrition after her parents asked two Roman Catholic priests to treat her for psychosis by exorcism