[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sustainable Development Strategy in Canada

ganization should focus on four key goals:
Reduce the effects of their operations on land, air, and water;
Programs should demonstrate sustainable service delivery;
All employees apply Sustainable Development in their jobs; and
Employ modern systems that support and maintain Sustainable Development.

Environment policy
The organization should define the organization's environmental policy and ensure that it is appropriate to the nature, scale, and environmental impacts of its activities, products, and services.  That it includes a commitment to continual improvement and prevention of pollution.  It provides a commitment to comply with relevant environmental legislation and regulations and with other requirements to which the organization subscribes.  Create a framework for setting and reviewing environmental objectives and targets.  A documented audit trail that reflects implementation and maintenance of the policy and have it communicated to all employees with availability to the public.

Environmental aspects
The organization should establish and maintain procedures to identify the environmental aspects of its activities, products, and services that it can control and over which it can be expected to have an influence, in order to determine those, which have or can have significant impacts on the environment. The organization should ensure that the aspects related to these significant impacts are considered in setting its environmental objectives. The organization must keep this information up-to-date.

Legal and other requirements

The organization should establish and maintain a procedure to identify and have access to legal and other requirements to which the organization subscribes, that are applicable to the environmental aspects of its activities, products or services and the relevant Acts.

Environmental objectives and targets

The organization should establish and maintain documented environmental objectives and targets, at each relevant function and level within the organization.  When establishing and reviewing its objectives, the organization must consider the legal and other requirements, its significant environmental aspects, its technological options and its financial, operational, and business requirements and views of interested parties.  The objectives and targets should be consistent with the environmental policy, including the commitment to prevent pollution.

Organizational structure and responsibility

The roles, responsibility and authorities should be defined, documented, and communicated in order to facilitate effective environmental management.  The organization should provide resources essential to the implementation and control of the EMS.  Resources available should include human resources with specialized skills, technology, and financial resources.  The organization's top management should appoint specific management representatives who, irrespective of other responsibilities, have defined roles, responsibilities, and authority for:

Ensuring that EMS requirements are established, implemented and maintained in accordance with this standard; and
Reporting on the performance of the EMS to top management for review and as a basis for improvement of the EMS.

Communication

With regard to its environmental aspects and environmental management system, the organization should establish and maintain procedures for internal communication between the various levels and functions of the organization and the receiving, documenting and responding to relevant communication from external interested parties,.  The organization should consider processes for external communication on its significant environmental aspects and record its decisions.

Document control

Documentation should be legible, dated, and readily identifiable, maintained in an orderly manner, and retained for a specified period.  Procedures and responsibilities should be established and maintained concerning the creation and modification of the various types of documents.  The organization should establish and maintain procedures for controlling all documents required for their Sustainable Development as follows:

They must be periodically reviewed, revised as necessary and approved for adequacy by authorized personnel;
The current versions of relevant documents made available at all locations where operations essential to the effective functioning of the environmental management system are performed;
Obsolete documents need to be promptly removed from all points of issue and points of use, or otherwise assured against unintended use; and
The obsolete documents should be retained for legal and/or knowledge preservation purposes are suitably identified.

Operational control