[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paul Drayson, Baron Drayson

ster", he has owned an Aston Martin Vanquish, his wife an Aston Martin DB9, and his collection includes a Lotus Elan. He has also raced a bio-ethanol powered Aston Martin DBRS9 GT3-spec race car for Barwell Motorsport in the British GT Championship. He competed in the American Le Mans Series (ALMS).

Drayson was born blind in one eye which, under FIA rules, prevented him from acquiring an international racing licence for participation in the Le Mans 24 Hours. In light of his performance during the 2008 ALMS season and FIA rule changes, he was granted an international licence to allow him the chance of competing in the 2009 24 Hours of Le Mans. Drayson finished 37th overall and 12th in class at the race. He also competed at the 2010 event but failed to finish.

Drayson has currently competed in two seasons of the ALMS with a best finish of a win at the 2010 Road America race in a LMP Lola B09/60. For 2011, Drayson made the switch to the EV Cup, a new championship for electric cars. He will drive a Westfield iRACER.

24 Hours of Le Mans results

Honours
Drayson was elevated to the House of Lords on 1 June 2004, made a working peer titled Baron Drayson, of Kensington in the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea. In July 2011, Drayson was elected as Fellow of The Royal Academy of Engineering, the UK's national academy for engineering.

Arms

References

External links

Britain buys up stocks of smallpox vaccine – April 2002
Labour claims unravel over vaccine deal – April 2002
Driving force, Profile of Lord Drayson FREng, Ingenia, Issue 50, Mar 2012
Drayson Racing Technology

|-

|-

1960 births
Living people
People from Meopham
People educated at St Dunstan's College
People from the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea
Alumni of Aston University
American Le Mans Series drivers
British GT Championship drivers
English racing drivers
Labour Party (UK) life peers
European Le Mans Series drivers
24 Hours of Le Mans drivers
Members of the Privy Council of the United Kingdom
Formula E people
Asian Le Mans Series drivers
Life peers created by Elizabeth II