[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brady Poppinga

ial pass-rushing role played to Poppinga's strengths and allowed him to post two sacks during the 2005 season. His best single-game performance was an October 23 contest against the Minnesota Vikings, in which he accumulated five tackles (3 solo) and one sack of Vikings quarterback Daunte Culpepper.

Green Bay's coaching staff was impressed by Poppinga's high motor and relentlessness on every play. He displayed both in one of the few Packer victories of the season, a 33–25 contest against the Atlanta Falcons. Though the play resulted in an Atlanta touchdown, Poppinga displayed his range and quickness by nearly running down superstar quarterback Michael Vick on a one-yard scramble into the end-zone. Poppinga's pursuit forced Vick to stretch the play all the way to the right sideline, and only Vick's speed allowed him to dive past Poppinga and over the end zone pylon. The fact that Poppinga had begun the play at the left side of the formation displayed his unrelenting attitude and sharp instincts.  In August 2006 packers' linebackers coach Winston Moss said "I'll bet he sleeps with his eyes open,", referring to Poppinga's endless energy.

Poppinga's season was cut short by an ACL tear on December 11 in a game against the Detroit Lions. He received surgery for the injury on December 26, and participated in the August 2006 training camp. Though some athletes who suffer this particular injury never regain their former speed or mobility, doctors who performed surgery on Poppinga and those working on his rehabilitation were optimistic about his chances for a full recovery.

Poppinga won a starting job despite limited action in training camp due to his continuing rehabilitation from injury in 2006. He played at strong side linebacker in the 2006 season opener, alongside fellow linebackers Nick Barnett and A. J. Hawk.

In his fifth start of the 2007 season, during a 27–20 loss to the Chicago Bears on October 7, 2007 Poppinga intercepted a Brian Griese pass in the fourth quarter, extending the streak of at least one Packer interception per game for the 11th consecutive game. This matched the longest streak in team history, which occurred during an 11-game stretch in 1984–1985.

On July 24, 2008, the Packers signed Poppinga to a five-year $17 million extension that ran through the 2012 season. Poppinga was scheduled to make $927,000 in 2008 under the terms of the four-year deal he signed in 2005. According to his agent, four years were added beyond this year.

In 2008, Poppinga played all 16 games with 12 starts and recorded 68 tackles. He was released on July 28, 2011.

St. Louis Rams
On August 2, 2011, Poppinga signed with the St. Louis Rams. He wasn't re-signed after the season.

Dallas Cowboys
On November 25, 2012, Poppinga was signed by the Dallas Cowboys to replace an injured Bruce Carter. He was not re-signed after the season.

NFL career statistics

Broadcasting career
Poppinga currently works as an NFL sideline reporter and analyst for Fox Deportes, utilizing his fluency in Spanish. In February 2014, he was a part of the team providing commentary for the first U.S. Spanish-language network televised Super Bowl.

Personal life

Poppinga comes from a very athletic family. His father, Dennis, played as a tight end at BYU from 1968 to 1971; his brother, Casey, played the same position at Utah State University (USU) and appeared on the practice squads of the Seattle Seahawks, Kansas City Chiefs, and Philadelphia Eagles during the 2004 NFL season; his brother Kelly played linebacker at BYU, signed with the St. Louis Rams, and now is the special teams coordinator at BYU; and his older sister, Tara, played volleyball at USU.

Poppinga received a bachelor's degree in business management at BYU. While in college he did some work as a motivational speaker at a school for troubled teenagers, and taught Sunday School in his LDS Church congregation in Provo, Utah. He is bilingual (English and Spanish) as a result of his missionary service in Uruguay.

He married Brooke Hubbard in 2002; the couple has 3 daughters and a son.

On February 15, 2008, Poppinga appeared with Senator Barack Obama in support of his presidential campaign in Green Bay, Wisconsin.

Charity
Poppinga was the Packers' 2007 nominee, and one of 32 finalists, for the Walter Payton Man of the Year Award, honoring contributions for both humanitarianism and performance on the field.

Poppinga is extremely involved in the LDS Church. He postponed his college football career for two seasons while serving as a missionary in Uruguay. He currently acts as a youth leader, giving hour-long motivational and moral lessons weekly as well as supporting other youth activities. He has given a devotional on faith, family and football, an event that was open to the entire community.