[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# January 1973

ve and philanthropist; in Tbilisi, Georgian SSR, Soviet Union
Died: Alexander Onassis, 24, Greek businessman, heir to the Aristotle Onassis fortune and chairman of Olympic Airways, died one day after being fatally injured in the crash of his single-engine airplane on takeoff from the Athens airport.

January 24, 1973 (Wednesday)
SAIL, the Steel Authority of India, Ltd., was incorporated by the government of India as a state-owned steel producer administered from New Delhi by India's Ministry of Steel and Mines.
Advanced Chemical Industries Ltd. was incorporated in Bangladesh as Imperial Chemical Industries Bangladesh after the government purchased the assets of the company from its British owners. 
U.S. Ambassador to Haiti Clinton E. Knox and Consul General Ward L. Christensen were taken hostage by terrorists who invaded Knox's home at Port-au-Prince and demanded the release of 12 political prisoners, a ransom of $70,000 and safe conduct to Mexico.  Knox and Christensen were safely released in Mexico after the terrorists' demands were met.
Ajax Amsterdam of the Netherlands won European football's first Super Cup, defeating Rangers F.C. of Glasgow in Scotland on the second leg of the home-and-away series.  The winner of the series, contested between the winners 1971–72 season for the European Cup (Ajax) and the European Cup Winners' Cup (Rangers), was determined on an aggregate of the two matches, and Ajax had beaten Rangers, 3 to 1, in Glasgow on January 16 in front of 57,000 people at Ibrox Stadium.  On the second game, Ajax won, 3–2, in front of 26,168 people at Olympic Stadium, for an aggregate of 6 to 3.
The second section of the Autostrada A56 opened in Italy.
Died: 
J. Carrol Naish, 77, American film, stage, TV and radio actor known for Sahara and A Medal for Benny, as well as the star of the radio series Life With Luigi.  The Associated Press noted that during the 1940s, "Naish was making 30 movies a year and played virtually every nationality in film— Italians, Japanese, Hindus, Arabs, Chinese, Jews and Mexicans— every nationality in fact except his own: Irish."
Anthony Sagar, 52, British character actor on film and television 
Ali Haydar Yıldız, 19, Turkish Kurdish activist, was killed in a shootout in a raid by the Turkish Army in the village of Vartinik upon the Communist Party of Turkey/Marxist–Leninist (TKP/ML).  The party's leader, İbrahim Kaypakkaya, was wounded but escaped, only to be turned over to police a few days later for execution.

January 25, 1973 (Thursday)
A state funeral in Washington, D.C. for former U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson took place at the National City Christian Church.  Johnson had died three days earlier in Texas, after which his flag-draped casket was flown to Washington to "lie in state" in the U.S. Capitol building.  Following the funeral, the later president's body was flown back to Texas and buried in a cemetery two miles from the LBJ Ranch.
National Lampoon: Lemmings, an off-Broadway comedy and music show at the Village Gate nightclub in New York City's Greenwich Village, began the first of 350 performances and launched the careers of John Belushi, Cornelius "Chevy" Chase and Christopher Guest. Belushi was praised by a critic for The New York Times for his portrayals of Pontius Pilate and Marlon Brando in parodies of Jesus Christ Superstar and The Godfather, "Chevy Chase's aping of President Nixon" in a skit called "Mrs. Agnew's Diary" (the show's "attempt at political satire") was described as piddling.
English actor Derren Nesbitt was convicted of assaulting his wife, Anne Aubrey.
Born: Oren Harman, Israeli science writer; in Jerusalem
Died: 
William J. Staunton, 46, Northern Irish magistrate judge, from gunshot wounds sustained in an October 11 attack by two IRA members.
Ada Mackenzie, 81, Canadian golfer and enshrinee in the Canada Sports Hall of Fame