[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Laws and customs of the Land of Israel in Judaism

Laws and customs of the Land of Israel in Judaism are those Jewish laws that apply only to the Land of Israel. These include the commandments dependent on the Land (; translit. Mitzvot Ha'teluyot Be'aretz), as well as various customs.

Classification
According to a standard view, 26 of the 613 mitzvot apply only in the Land of Israel. Overall, the laws and customs may be classified as follows:

Laws that were in force at the time of the Temple in Jerusalem and in connection with the Temple service. These relate to the Paschal lamb during the Passover festival, the bringing of the First fruits to Jerusalem, the tri-annual pilgrimage to Jerusalem; the test applied to the wife suspected of faithlessness ("sotah"); all the sacrifices, and the priestly Levitical services.
Laws in connection with Jewish civil and military government, as those relating to the king, to covenants with foreign countries, to taking the census, and to military affairs.
Laws concerning the produce of the land: the heave-offering for the priests; the tithes to the Levites; the poor man's right to the gleanings, the forgotten sheaf, and the unreaped grain in the corners of the field; the use of young trees (prohibited during the first three years); the mixing of different kinds of vegetables (kil'ayim); the Sabbatical year.
Health laws: the quarantine regulations; the defilement and purification of persons, dwellings, and garments, and their examination by a qualified priest.
Laws connected with the functions of the Sanhedrin in the Jewish state: Ordination; Sanctification of the New Moon and the arrangement of the calendar; the laws of the Jubilee and the blowing of the shofar on Yom Kippur to announce the Jubilee; the laws of Jewish servants; the right to sell a thief should he fail to make restitution for his theft; the regulations for the cities of refuge; corporal punishments and fines (capital punishment ceased seventy years prior to the destruction of the Second Temple, owing to the encroachments of the Roman rule, which began to assert its influence in Judea).

Priestly gifts
 Bikkurim (First-fruits)
 Separation of dough-portion (ḥallah)
 Terumah (separated by Israel and given to the priests of Aaron's lineage)
 First tithe (separated by Israel and given to the Levites)
 Terumat hamaaser (separated by Levites and given to the priests of Aaron's lineage)

Poor man's gifts
 Gleanings (leḳeṭ)
 Forgotten sheaves (shiḫḥah)
 Unharvested corners (pe'ah)
 Fallen grapes (pereṭ)
 Clusters of grapes that are poorly formed (ʻolelot)
 Poor man's tithe (ma'aser ʻanī) – separated by Israel from produce and given to the poor twice in a seven-year cycle

Sanctity ascribed to the Land of Israel
 Prohibition of diverse kinds (kila'ei zeraʻim)
 Prohibition of eating the new grain crop until after the first-day of Passover (ḥadash)
 Three-year abstinence from eating fruit of young trees, until tree has entered its fourth year (ʻorlah)
 Fourth-year tree plantings, fruits of which eaten in Jerusalem (netaʻ revaʻī), or redeemed before they can be eaten in the Land of Israel
 Second tithe, eaten by Israel within the walls of Jerusalem (maʻaser shenī)
 Sabbatical Year, not only includes the cessation of labour in the fields, but laws governing aftergrowths, and biur (shmiṭa)
 Jubilee (yovel) – Yovel means that every 50 years the land goes back to original owners give them an opportunity to start over and get the chance to turn their life around (Leviticus, 25). "A jubilee shall that fiftieth year be unto you; ye shall not sow, neither reap that which growth of itself in it, nor gather the grapes in it of the undressed vines. For it is a jubilee; it shall be holy unto you; ye shall eat the increase thereof out of the field. In this year of jubilee ye shall return every man unto his possession. And if thou sell aught unto thy neighbor, or buy of thy neighbor's hand, ye shall not wrong one another. According to the number of years after the jubilee thou shalt buy of thy neighbor, and according unto the number of years of the crops he shall sell unto thee." Leviticus: Chapter 25

Rabbinical distinctions
The Rabbis distinguish between those laws that must be upheld in the land and which are dependent upon the boundaries of the country at the time of the return of Jews from the Babylonian captivity () (for a delineation of its border, see Mosaic of Rehob), as opposed to a set of different laws which apply to the country that extends beyond the one just named, and which was settled in its entirety by the people who departed Egypt in the days of Moses (). The laws pertaining to the Seventh Year apply only to that territory formerly occupied by Jews who returned from the Babylonian captivity in the days of Ezra.