[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Neanderthal genome project

ed for a mtDNA sequence showed 3.48% divergence from that of the Feldhofer Neanderthal, some 2,500 km to the west in Germany and in 2011 Phylogenetic analysis placed the two in a clade distinct from modern humans, suggesting that their mtDNA types have not contributed to the modern human mtDNA pool.

In 2015, Israel Hershkovitz of Tel Aviv University reported that a skull found in a cave in northern Israel, is "probably a woman, who lived and died in the region about 55,000 years ago, placing modern humans there and then for the first time ever",  pointing to a potential time and location when modern humans first interbred with Neanderthals.
 
In 2016, the project found that Neanderthals bred with modern humans multiple times, and that Neanderthals interbred with Denisovans only once, as evidenced in the genome of modern-day Melanesians.

In 2006, two research teams working on the same Neanderthal sample published their results, Richard Green and his team in Nature, and James Noonan's team in Science. The results were received with some scepticism, mainly surrounding the issue of a possible admixture of Neanderthals into the modern human genome. 

In 2006, Richard Green's team had used a then new sequencing technique developed by 454 Life Sciences that amplifies single molecules for characterization and obtained over a quarter of a million unique short sequences ("reads"). The technique delivers randomly located reads, so that sequences of interest – genes that differ between modern humans and Neanderthals – show up at random as well. However, this form of direct sequencing destroys the original sample so to obtain new reads more samples must be destructively sequenced.

Noonan's team, led by Edward Rubin, used a different technique, one in which the Neanderthal DNA is inserted into bacteria, which make multiple copies of a single fragment. They demonstrated that Neanderthal genomic sequences can be recovered using a metagenomic library-based approach. All of the DNA in the sample is "immortalized" into metagenomic libraries. A DNA fragment is selected, then propagated in microbes. The resulting Neanderthal DNA sequences can then be sequenced or specific sequences can be studied.

Overall, their results were remarkably similar. One group suggested there was a hint of mixing between human and Neanderthal genomes, while the other found none, but both teams recognized that the data set was not large enough to give a definitive answer.

The publication by Noonan, and his team revealed Neanderthal DNA sequences matching chimpanzee DNA, but not modern human DNA, at multiple locations, thus enabling the first accurate calculation of the date of the most recent common ancestor of H. sapiens and H. neanderthalensis. The research team estimates the most recent common ancestor of their H. neanderthalensis samples and their H. sapiens reference sequence lived 706,000 years ago (divergence time), estimating the separation of the human and Neanderthal ancestral populations to 370,000 years ago (split time).

Based on the analysis of mitochondrial DNA, the split of the Neanderthal and H. sapiens lineages is estimated to date to between 
760,000 and 550,000 years ago (95% CI).

Mutations of the speech-related gene FOXP2 identical to those in modern humans were discovered in Neanderthal DNA from the El Sidrón 1253 and 1351c specimens, suggesting Neanderthals might have shared some basic language capabilities with modern humans.

See also

General:

References

Further reading

External links
 "The Neandertal Genome Project Website"
 
 "Genetic algorithm model shows that modern humans out-competed the Neanderthal" Short summary of a peer review paper 2008
 "Last of the Neanderthals" National Geographic, October 2008
 MSNBC "Neanderthal genome project launches" 22 November 2006.
 BBC News Paul Rincon, "Neanderthal DNA secrets unlocked" 15 November 2006
 "Welcome to Neanderthal genomics" 17 November 2006
 "Neanderthal Genome Sequencing Yields Surprising Results and Opens a New Door to Future Studies"  15 November 2006

Ancient DNA (human)
Ancient human genetic history
Genetics in Germany
Genome projects
Human evolution
Genome