[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iggwilv

Natasha, Hura, then Tasha, and finally Iggwilv".

5th edition 

In the Forgotten Realms adventure Waterdeep: Dragon Heist, it is noted that Tasha's hideous laughter is commonly used throughout Waterdeep as a security measure against burglars, usually coupled with a glyph of warding cast on rooftops.

Iggwilv is the narrator of the supplemental sourcebook Tasha's Cauldron of Everything (2020), however, the book "focuses on the wizard before her Iggwilv transformation, with some input from her time as the Witch Queen". "In a call with media [...], lead rules designer Jeremy Crawford pushed back on the idea that Tasha could be described by a single type of alignment, stating that her alignment was whatever suited her current plans best. That's a definite change from her previous depiction as a 'chaotic evil' sort of character, and reflects a further development of her character beyond that of the oftentimes stereotypical scheming seductress that Iggwilv was portrayed as in past adventures". In another interview, Crawford said that "Tasha is a person who is unfazed by beings of many sorts—in addition to having consorted with darker beings, she also has consorted with, you know, beings of the upper planes. Basically, Tasha, in her brilliant curiosity, is untroubled by the various moral variations in the planes of existence. If there is knowledge to be learned and  power to possibly be gained, Tasha is unafraid to face it. [...] Tasha is whatever alignment suits her for the day, so I guess in that sense she is true neutral".

This book also added three new spells to the game that are attributed to Tasha: Tasha's Caustic Brew, Tasha's Mind Whip and Tasha's Otherworldly Guise.

Publication
Iggwilv has been mentioned in a variety of sourcebook and articles for the Dungeons & Dragons game. Some of her more significant appearances include:

The module Castle Greyhawk (TSR, 1988)
The module Iuz the Evil (TSR, 1993)
Living Greyhawk Gazetteer (Wizards, 2000)
A series entitled "The Demonomicon of Iggwilv" from Dragon (2005–2007)
Fiendish Codex I: Hordes of the Abyss (Wizards, 2006)
"Enemies of my Enemy." Dungeon #149 (Paizo, 2007)
Expedition to the Ruins of Greyhawk. (Wizards, 2007)
"Unsolved Mysteries of D&D." from Dragon #359 (Paizo, 2007)
"Iggwilv's Legacy: The Lost Caverns of Tsojcanth" from Dungeon #151. (Wizards, 2007)
"Treasures of Greyhawk: Magic of the Company of Seven." from Dragon #359. (Paizo, 2007)
Demonomicon (Wizards, 2010) 
"History Check: The Iggwilv-Graz'zt Affair" from Dragon #414. (Wizards, 2012)
Tasha's Cauldron of Everything (Wizards, 2020)
The Wild Beyond the Witchlight (Wizards, 2021)

In-universe character biography

Description 
Iggwilv is said to have two forms, one of which is that of an old crone (said to be her true form), and the other, a human female of dark beauty. In the latter form, Iggwilv has long black hair and pale skin. It is said none who have seen her in her true form still live.

She has many alternate names. On Oerth she has been called the Witch Queen of Perrenland and the Mother of Witches. She is known as Louhi on one alternate Prime Material Plane world, and as Ychbilch on another. Those close to her sometimes address her as Wilva.

In the adventure Lost Caverns Of Tsojcanth, it was said that the long-dead archmage Iggwilv left her heavily guarded treasures in the caverns.

Related characters
A number of relationships exist between Iggwilv and the major characters of Greyhawk:

 Iggwilv is the adopted daughter of Baba Yaga. 
 She imprisoned and seduced the demon lord Graz'zt, who sired her a son, Iuz. 
 She is also the mother of the destroyed vampiress Drelzna. 
 She is notorious for dealing with demons from the Abyss.
 She was at one time the apprentice of Zagig Yragerne, and a member of the Company of Seven (as Tasha).
 Iggwilv is a fierce enemy of the Circle of Eight.

History 
According to published background, Iggwilv is said to have once been named Natasha, and it is under this name that she was "adopted" as a child by the witch Baba Yaga. Under Baba Yaga's tutelage, Natasha grew into a talented spellcaster, and soon became known as "Natasha the Dark," perhaps in contrast to another adopted daughter of Baba Yaga, Iggwilv's "sister," Elena the Fair.