[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Bessarabian Peasants' Party

raudulent support from the PNL government, Inculeț repeated some his 1919 success in the contest for the Assembly. The PȚB obtained 22 deputy seats and the fourth position nationally, while, in Bessarabia, Halippa's PȚ chapter only won 7 seats (the Averescu party registered less than 2% regionally).

On March 12, the PNL, PȚB and PDU formed a governing coalition supporting Brătianu. Inculeț, having retaken his post of Minister for Bessarabia, set up a new Central Committee, with members such as Pântea and Bârcă, in October 1922. Consequently, Pelivan and Crihan reestablished the old CC, and voted to expel the others, accusing them of sabotage, and to sever all links with the government. The Inculeț group joined the PNL on January 20, 1923, and, alongside Ciugureanu's group, established the historically strong National Liberal chapter in Chișinău. The two prominent leaders headed a distinct and marginalized faction within the larger party, often critical of the PNL's selection of cadres. They also had a long-standing conflict with each other. A minor PȚB, with Pelivan at its helm, caucused with the PȚ within a "Bessarabian Bloc", which, in March 1923, signed up to a protest against the PNL's "attempt at enslaving an entire people". At the time, there were six PȚB parliamentarians: Bivol, Crihan, Pelivan, Vladimir Cazacliu, Porfirie Fală, and Constantin Morariu. The group only survived independently until September of that year, when Pelivan himself signed up with the opposition PNR.

Electoral history

Legislative elections

Notes

References
 Gheorghe Brătianu, Basarabia. Drepturi naționale și istorice. Bucharest: Editura Semne, 1995.  
 Andrei Cemârtan, "Le Parti des Paysans de Bessarabie et la rivalité entre Pantelimon Halippa et Ion Inculeț", in Codrul Cosminului, Vol. XVII, Issue 2, 2011, pp. 121–145.
 Charles Upson Clark, Bessarabia. Russia and Roumania on the Black Sea. New York City: Dodd, Mead and Company, 1927.  
 Ion Constantin, Ion Negrei, Gheorghe Negru, Ion Pelivan, părinte al mișcării naționale din Basarabia. Bucharest: Editura Biblioteca Bucureștilor, 2011.  
 Roumen Daskalov, "Agrarian Ideologies and Peasant Movements in the Balkans", in  Roumen Daskalov, Diana Mishkova (eds.), Entangled Histories of the Balkans, Volume Two: Transfers of Political Ideologies and Institutions, pp. 281–355. Leiden & Boston: Brill Publishers, 2014.  
 Ileana-Stanca Desa, Dulciu Morărescu, Ioana Patriche, Adriana Raliade, Iliana Sulică, Publicațiile periodice românești (ziare, gazete, reviste). Vol. III: Catalog alfabetic 1919–1924. Bucharest: Editura Academiei, 1987.
 Armin Heinen, Legiunea 'Arhanghelul Mihail': o contribuție la problema fascismului internațional. Bucharest: Humanitas, 2006.  
 Nicolae Iorga, Memorii. Vol. III: Tristețea și sfârșitul unei domnii. Bucharest: Editura Națională Ciornei, 1931.  
 Dinu Poștarencu et al., "Basarabia", in Bogdan Murgescu, Andrei Florin Sora (eds.), România Mare votează. Alegerile parlamentare din 1919 "la firul ierbii", pp. 61–92. Iași: Polirom, 2019.  
 Sorin Radu, "Semnele electorale ale partidelor politice în perioada interbelică", in Anuarul Apulum, Vol. XXXIX, 2002, pp. 573–586.
 Svetlana Suveică, Basarabia în primul deceniu interbelic (1918–1928): modernizare prin reforme. Monografii ANTIM VII. Chișinău: Editura Pontos, 2010.  

Political parties established in 1918
Political parties disestablished in 1923
1918 establishments in Romania
1923 disestablishments in Romania
Agrarian parties in Romania
Anti-communist parties
Nationalist parties in Romania
Romanian nationalist parties
Left-wing nationalist parties
Regionalist parties in Romania
Defunct agrarian political parties
Defunct political parties in Romania
Defunct political parties in Moldova
Peasants' Party
Political parties of the Russian Revolution