[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Montfort Castle

uter ward several auxiliary structures were discovered, including the stables.

Related structures

Mill and guest house below the castle
A building containing a water mill with its upper floor converted into a guest house during the 13th century is located in the Kziv River valley below the castle.

Tarphile
A fortified courtyard building with a tower at a stone quarry used for building Montfort Castle at less than 1 km of the castle towards Mi'ilya/Castellum Regis. This might be the rabad (faubourg) mentioned in Arab chronicles as being the first fortification taken by Baibars in 1271. It appears in Crusader sources as Tarphile, Trefile, or Tertille.

Castellum Regis
The former royal castle, later residence of the de Milly family before the purchase of their property by the Teutonic Order in 1220 and known from Crusader sources as Mhalia or Castellum Novum Regis. Its ruins are located today in the Christian Arab village of Mi'ilya, where modern houses have been built against some of its outer walls.

Excavations
The castle was surveyed in 1877 by Horatio H. Kitchener for the British Survey of Western Palestine.

Archaeological excavations at Montfort occurred in 1926 in an expedition organised by Bashford Dean, curator of the Arms and Armour Department of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. William L. Calver was chosen by Dean to head the excavation.

A four-week season of excavations was conducted in the summer of 2011, organised by Professor Adrian Boas from the University of Haifa and supported by the Society for the Study of the Crusades and the Latin East. Excavations have continued every summer since then. In August 2015 and 2016 the excavations were aided by students from Royal Holloway, University of London.

In 2017, board games and a luxury dining room were discovered at Montfort Castle. In 2018, a decorated Gothic hall was located under the castle. A year later, evidence of Mamluk destruction was found, dates back to the Baibars' campaign in 1266.

References

Further reading
 Biller, Thomas; Burger, Daniel; Radt, Timm: Montfort und der frühe Burgenbau des Deutschen Ordens. Herausgegeben von Thomas Biller (Forschungen zu Burgen und Schlössern, Sonderband 5), Michael Imhof Verlag, Petersberg 2015, .
 Boas, Adrian,  "Montfort Castle Project" (website)
  
  
 
 Shlomo Lotan "The 'River Structure' at the Montfort Castle in the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem", Analecta Theutonica, Studies for the History of the Teutonic Order 1, 2014, pp. 63–75
 Shlomo Lotan "The Transfer of the Armenian Crown to the Holy Land – A Text Case for the Strength of the Teutonic Military Order in the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem", Quaestiones Medii Aevii Novae 15, 2010, pp. 323–334

External links
 

Archaeological sites in Israel
Buildings and structures in Northern District (Israel)
Castles of the Teutonic Knights
Castles in Israel
Crusader castles
13th-century establishments in the Kingdom of Jerusalem
Castles and fortifications of the Kingdom of Jerusalem
National parks of Israel
Tourist attractions in Northern District (Israel)
Disestablishments in the Kingdom of Jerusalem