[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Professor Ivo

th great speed and heat-based abilities.
 Tomorrow Woman - An artificial life-form with telekinetic powers, artificial respiration and pulse, and false memories of a human life; co-created by T.O. Morrow and originally designed to infiltrate and eventually destroy the Justice League.

In other media

Television
 Anthony Ivo appears in Young Justice, voiced by Peter MacNicol. This version is a member of the Light who is assisted by a legion of monkey-like robots dubbed M.O.N.Q.I.s and an android duplicate who is serving time in Belle Reve in his place.
 Anthony Ivo appears in the "Vibe" segment of DC Nation Shorts, voiced by Jason Marsden.
 Anthony Ivo appears in flashbacks depicted in the second season of Arrow, portrayed by Dylan Neal. In his quest to find a sunken Japanese submarine containing the Mirakuru serum and save his wife Jessica from an unspecified, worsening illness, he employed the crew of the ship, the Amazo, traveled to the island of Lian Yu, and rescued Sara Lance from the sinking Queen's Gambit yacht. While on the island, Ivo encountered the stranded Oliver Queen and claimed that he intended to "save the human race" before forcing him to choose between whether Lance or Shado dies by his hand. After killing Shado and losing his right hand and the Amazo to a crazed Slade Wilson, Ivo started to suffer from blood poisoning and is eventually killed by Queen.
 Anthony Ivo appears in My Adventures with Superman, voiced by Jake Green. This version is the CEO of AmazoTech who is suspected of being involved in illegal activities, is served by a personal assistant named Alex (voiced by Max Mittelman), and is wary of Superman's intentions. Additionally, he utilizes the energy-draining Parasite armor and joins Task Force X later in the series.

Film
Anthony Ivo makes a cameo appearance in Justice League: War as a S.T.A.R. Labs scientist.

Video games
Anthony Ivo appears in a picture depicted in Lego DC Super-Villains.

Miscellaneous
 Anthony Ivo appears in DC Super Friends #1. This version intended to become famous via his robotics genius, but was overshadowed by the Super Friends.
 Anthony Ivo appears in Smallville Season 11 #10 as a S.T.A.R. Labs scientist.
 Anthony Ivo appears in the Injustice 2 prequel comic. After the League of Assassins kidnap his family, he builds a powerful version of Amazo for Ra's al Ghul. Upon learning from Jason Todd his family was murdered, Ivo retakes control of Amazo and allows the Justice League Task Force and Supergirl to destroy it. For his betrayal, Ivo is executed by Batman and Talia al Ghul's daughter, Athanasia al Ghul.

References

Characters created by Gardner Fox
Characters created by Mike Sekowsky
Comics characters introduced in 1960
DC Comics characters with immortality
DC Comics metahumans
DC Comics scientists
DC Comics supervillains
Fictional biologists
Fictional engineers
Fictional geneticists
Fictional mad scientists
Fictional roboticists