[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1983 in New Zealand

se – Space Case Two
Phil Broadhurst – Sustenance
COUNTRY RECORD OF THE YEAR  Suzanne Prentice – When I Dream
Patsy Riggir – Are You Lonely
Brendan Duggan – Hands on the Wheel

See 1983 in music

Performing arts
 Benny Award presented by the Variety Artists Club of New Zealand to Russell Middlebrook.

Radio and television
Te Karere becomes a regular Māori language news program.
Northern Television ceases transmission.  
Feltex Television Awards:
Best Television Entertainer: Howard Morrison
Best Actor: Michael on Gliding On
Best Actress: Sarah Peirse on A Woman of Good Character
Best Drama: Gliding On
Best New Talent: Heath Lees on Opus and Kaleidoscope
Best Entertainment: McPhail and Gadsby
Best Documentary: Wild South – Black Robin
Best Information: Country Calendar
Best Speciality: Kaleidoscope
Best News and Current Affairs: Close Up
Best Script: Protesters
Steve Hosgood Award for Allied Craft: Errol Samuelson, film sound operator on	National History Programmes

See: 1983 in New Zealand television, 1983 in television, List of TVNZ television programming, :Category:Television in New Zealand, :Category:New Zealand television shows, Public broadcasting in New Zealand

Film
Bad Blood
Hang on a Minute Mate!
Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence
Patu!
Strata
Savage Islands
Utu

See: :Category:1983 film awards, 1983 in film, List of New Zealand feature films, Cinema of New Zealand, :Category:1983 films

Sport

Athletics
 Graham Macky wins his first national title in the men's marathon, clocking 2:21:22 in Mosgiel, while Val Lindsay does the same in the women's championship (3:11:35).

Basketball
 NBL won by Auckland

Cricket
 World Series Cup, New Zealand finished first in the preliminary stages of this annual triangular one-day competition in Australia, which in 1982/83 received unprecedented interest and record television audiences. England missed out on a finals berth, with Australia coming qualifying second.

New Zealand's star allrounder, Richard Hadlee, tore a hamstring on the eve of the lucrative and much anticipated finals series with Australia and was forced out of the side. A demoralised New Zealand were then well beaten by the rejuvenated Australians, 2–0. Lance Cairns hit his memorable 6 sixes in front of 71, 000 in the second final at the MCG.

Glenn Turner made his long-awaited international comeback in this series after six years of self-imposed exile from the New Zealand team due to a financial disagreement with the NZCC.

In February, New Zealand whitewashed England 3–0 in the Rothmans Cup one-day series in Christchurch, Wellington and Auckland, witnessed by sell-out crowds. Sri Lanka was then convincingly beaten in both the test and one-day series at home to cap off a memorable summer of cricket.

In July history was made when the Geoff Howarth-led side won their first test match against England in England, with a five wicket victory in the second test at Headingley in Leeds. However, they lost the four match series 1–3. Prior to this series, New Zealand played in the 1983 World Cup. In a tough group with both England and Pakistan, New Zealand narrowly missed out on a semi-final place at the World Cup for the first time, after being successful in the two prior tournaments in 1975 and 1979. Glenn Turner retired from international cricket after New Zealand's exit.

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup: Steel Jaw
 Auckland Trotting Cup: Armalight

Thoroughbred racing
Kiwi wins a memorable 1983 Melbourne Cup at Flemington in a last-to-first finish in the home straight.

Netball
 The 6th Netball World Championships were held in Singapore. New Zealand lost to Australia in the final.

Shooting
Ballinger Belt – Rex Chilcott (Clevedon)

Soccer
 New Zealand National Soccer League won by Manurewa
 The Chatham Cup is won by Mount Wellington who beat Gisborne City 2–0 in the final.