[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Busby's Bore

er the underground workings.' This is not surprising given the working conditions. The prisoners were often up to their waists in water. Most of the work was by pick through rock. Gunpowder was used occasionally, but when this occurred the blast fouled the air in the tunnel and filled it with smoke.

Work started at the Hyde Park end and progressed along South Head Road, now Oxford Street, turning west of that road at Dowling Street, then across the west corner of Victoria Barracks to Moore Park Road. The route traversed several springs and low lying basins which drained into the bore. Thus by 1830, with the tunnel well short of the Lachlan Swamp, a pipe at Hyde Park began to supply pure, filtered water and the supply increased with the length of the bore. Offcuts from the tunnel also trapped sources of ground water.

In 1833, pipes were laid to the Port to allow ships to be supplied. In 1837 the tunnel reached a point near what is now the corner of Cook and Lang Roads. The only work outstanding was an open cut into the swamp itself and the construction of reservoirs or holding dams at each end. There is no evidence that these were ever built, though some sort of channel seems to have been cut at the south end of the tunnel. Major Barney, Commander of the Royal Engineers, was called to inspect the work. Although critical of the site of the tunnel Barney considered the structure to be of professional merit and fairly done. Starting in 1844, reticulation pipes were laid, allowing houses to be connected, as well as the establishment of a number of public fountains. In 1854, supply was supplemented with the installation of a small pumping station at the lower end of the swamp, as well as a number of small dams. In 1872, the Bore was cleaned and some irregularities removed, increasing the tunnel flow to about  per day.

Busby, then 72 years old, retired to his property, Kirkton, between Branxton and Singleton in the Hunter Valley where he died in 1857.

The creation of a municipal water supply in the form of Busby's Bore highlighted the need for an administration to control its use. Municipal instructions were discussed for the colony in the early 1830s but met with fears in the community that such institutions would impose a burden of taxes or levies.

In 1842 the Sydney Corporation was formed. The Sydney Corporation endeavoured to squeeze as much revenue as possible from Busby's Bore and ignored public demands for planning towards the development of new and more suitable sources. In 1851 Sydney manufacturers expressed a total lack of confidence in the Sydney Corporation after its failure to fulfil its contracts with new industrial developments such as Tooth's Brewery and Sugar Company.

The length of time to complete the bore, that it relied on the simple mechanism of mechanical feed and that it and its successor, the Botany Bay Swamps Scheme, tied up land suitable for industrial development in water reserves had a significant impact on the shape and development of Sydney. The bore can also be seen as having a critical role in forcing the creation of municipal administration in the colony.

Description
The Bore was built by convict labour, mostly through solid sandstone. It averaged  high by  wide, though it varied from  by  to  high. The completed Bore delivered about  water per day. Not all went to plan as there were injuries.

Starting in 1859, Busby's Bore was supplemented and later supplanted by water pumped from Botany Swamps. In 1934, part of the Bore under Oxford Street was filled with sand to remove the risk of subsidence under the tram lines.

The Bore remains under the ownership of Sydney Water. It is listed on the New South Wales Heritage Register and the former Register of the National Estate and is protected by a Permanent Conservation Order.

Condition 
As at 30 July 1997, the archaeological potential is good. It is an intact example of its type.

Chronology 
Key dates include:
1827Work started at Hyde Park
1830First water from springs encountered
1833Pipes from Hyde Park to supply shipping
1837Tunnel completed:  per day to water carts
1844General pipe reticulation
1872Refurbishment and cleanout of tunnel:  per day
1881Some pipes laid inside tunnel in Oxford Street to reduce tainting from coal tar laid on road surface
1890Superseded by other schemes
1902Botanic Gardens supply only
1934Oxford Street section backfilled with sand when the weight of tram traffic caused stone slabs under Oxford Street to collapse
2004Proposal to reactivate Bore to supply city parks and gardens
2006NSW Government allocates funds for restoration of the Bore to supply parks of Sydney central business district.