[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ali Mohamed (double agent)

planning ended, Ali moved to Nairobi where he helped set up a terrorist cell. He funded the cell by creating companies in the fishing and car business. After setting up, he moved back to Afghanistan where bin Laden and other members of al-Qaeda discussed plans for the bombings and other information.

In the United States 
Mohamed was an Egyptian Army intelligence colonel until 1984. He served with Khalid al-Islambouli, an Islamist terrorist who carried out the assassination of Anwar el-Sadat in 1981. After the assassination Mohamed was discharged on suspicion of fundamentalism. In 1984, Mohamed offered his services to the CIA in Cairo station, which believed he was sent by Egypt as a mole but informed other stations of his interest. He was ultimately transferred to the station dedicated to espionage on Iran in Frankfurt, West Germany, and was stationed to infiltrate a Hezbollah-affiliated mosque in Hamburg. According to Lawrence Wright he "immediately told the Iranian cleric in charge that he was an American spy assigned to infiltrate the community." The mosque had already been penetrated and his announcement was passed on to the CIA, which "terminated Mohamed" and "sent out cables labeling him highly untrustworthy." By this "time, however, Mohamed was already in California on a visa-waiver program that was sponsored by the agency itself, one designed to shield valuable assets or those who have performed important services for the country."

In America he married an American woman from Santa Clara, California, after a 6-week courtship and became a U.S. citizen. He enlisted in the U.S. Army and managed to get stationed at the John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, until 1989. "His awed superiors found him 'beyond reproach' and 'consistently accomplished'."

According to Cooperative Research, Mohamed was a drill sergeant at Fort Bragg, and was hired to teach courses on Arabic culture at the John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School. During his time he was open about his religious beliefs, cooking his own meals to ensure they were halal and listening to the Quran on his Walkman during morning runs.

In 1988, Mohamed informed his superior officers in the U.S. Army that he was taking some leave time to fight Soviets in Afghanistan. "A month later, he returned, boasting that he had killed two Soviet soldiers and giving away as souvenirs what he claimed were their uniform belts."

Mohamed's commanding officer, Lt. Col. Robert Anderson, said he wrote detailed reports aimed at getting the Military Intelligence Corps to investigate Mohamed—and have him court-martialed—but the reports were ignored.

"I think you or I would have a better chance of winning Powerball, than an Egyptian major in the unit that assassinated Sadat would have getting a visa, getting to California ... getting into the Army and getting assigned to a Special Forces unit," he said. "That just doesn't happen."

It was equally unthinkable that an ordinary American GI would go unpunished after fighting in a foreign war, he said.

Anderson said all this convinced him that Mohamed was "sponsored" by a U.S. intelligence service. "I assumed the CIA," he said.

Mohamed also took maps and training manuals off base to downsize and copy at Kinko's and used them to write al-Qaeda's multivolume terrorist training guide.

In 1989, he transferred from active duty to the U.S. Army Reserve, taking a job as a security guard at a defense contractor manufacturing components of Trident missiles.

Mohamed also conducted clandestine military and demolition training through the Al Kifah Refugee Center in Brooklyn and Jersey City.  While in the United States, he helped train a number of jihadis, including El Sayyid Nosair, who went on in November 1990 to assassinate militant Rabbi Meir Kahane in New York,  and Mahmud Abouhalima, who assisted Ramzi Yousef in his 1993 terrorist truck bomb attack on the World Trade Center in New York.

In the early 1990s, Mohamed returned to Afghanistan, where "he trained the first al-Qaeda volunteers in techniques of unconventional warfare including kidnappings, assassinations, and hijacking planes, which he had learned from the American Special Forces." According to FBI special agent Jack Cloonan, in one of Mohamed's first classes were Osama bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahiri, and other al-Qaeda leaders.