[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# Project Excalibur

jectory, both characteristics intended to complicate space-based sensor acquisition and interception. The Topol fires its engine for only 150 seconds, about half the time of the SS-18, and has no bus, the warhead is released seconds after the engine stops. This makes it far more difficult to attack.

In 1976, the organization now known as NPO Energia began development of two space-based platforms not unlike the SDI concepts; Skif was armed with a CO2 laser while Kaskad used missiles. These were abandoned, but with the announcement of SDI they were repurposed as anti-satellite weapons, with Skif being used against low-orbit objects and Kaskad against higher altitude and geostationary targets.

Some of these systems were tested in 1987 on the Polyus spacecraft. What was mounted on this spacecraft remains unclear, but either a prototype Skif-DF or a mockup was part of the system. According to interviews conducted years later, mounting the Skif laser on the Polyus was more for propaganda purposes than as an effective defense technology, as the phrase "space based laser" carried political capital. One of the statements is that Polyus would be the basis for deployment of nuclear "mines" which might be fired from outside the range of the SDI components and reach the United States within six minutes.

In popular culture
A similar laser weapon, also named Excalibur, appears in the video games Ace Combat Zero: The Belkan War and Ace Combat Infinity''. In both of its appearances, Excalibur is presented as a gigantic, ground-based laser system that utilises mirror satellites to direct its laser beam; the device was originally designed to counter ICBMs, but was repurposed into an anti-aircraft weapon.

See also

 Directed-energy weapon

Explanatory notes

References

Citations

Bibliography

Further reading

 OTA-ISC-285.

External links

Anti-ballistic weapons
Cold War weapons of the United States
Directed-energy weapons
Nuclear weapons program of the United States
Strategic Defense Initiative