[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Principles of Political Economy

s through the Commercial World
 XXII Influence of the Currency on the Exchanges and on Foreign Trade
 XXIII Of the Rate of Interest
 XXIV Of the Regulation of a Convertible Paper Currency
 XXV Of the Competition of Different Countries in the same Market
 XXVI Of Distribution, as affected by Exchange

Book IV Influence of the Progress of Society on Production and Distribution
In his fourth book Mill set out a number of possible future outcomes, rather than predicting one in particular. The first followed the Malthusian line that population grew quicker than supplies, leading to falling wages and rising profits. The second, per Smith, said if capital accumulated faster than population grew then real wages would rise. Third, echoing David Ricardo, should capital accumulate and population increase at the same rate, yet technology stay stable, there would be no change in real wages because supply and demand for labour would be the same. However growing populations would require more land use, increasing food production costs and therefore decreasing profits. The fourth alternative was that technology advanced faster than population and capital stock increased. The result would be a prospering economy. Mill felt the third scenario most likely, and he assumed technology advanced would have to end at some point. But on the prospect of ever intensifying economic activity, Mill was more ambivalent.

"I confess I am not charmed with the ideal of life held out by those who think that the normal state of human beings is that of struggling to get on; that the trampling, crushing, elbowing, and treading on each other's heels, which form the existing type of social life, are the most desirable lot of human kind, or anything but the disagreeable symptoms of one of the phases of industrial progress.
 I General characteristics of a Progressive State of Wealth
 II Influence of the Progress of Industry and Population on Values and Prices
 III Influence of the Progress of Industry and Population on Rents, Profits, and Wages
 IV Of the Tendency of Profits to a Minimum
 V Consequences of the Tendency of Profits to a Minimum
 VI Of the Stationary State
 VII On the Probable Futurity of the Labouring Classes

Book V on the Influence of Government
In his fifth book, Mill outlined the government’s role in upholding liberty within society through necessary tasks, those that are fundamental to the government’s existence, and optional tasks, those that would arguably benefit the public if implemented. The necessary tasks mentioned include the protection of citizens from invasion, the safety of domestic life, and regulations on private property and the resources it produces. He states that the government must be cautious when intervening in economic issues to avoid disrupting the natural demand for freedom between consumers and producers to trade, he mentions this again when referring to the long-run negative impact of protectionism. However, he also notes the potential benefits of government intervention, including the expansion and maintenance of markets through subsidized exploration and the construction of lighthouses. These are examples of public goods and externalities in modern economics. Mill states that while the market fails to solve certain societal issues, the government must uphold both progress and liberty in its intervention within the market. Like his other work, specifically On Liberty (1859), Mill claims that government activity is justified so long as it is beneficial to society and does not infringe upon any individual’s freedom, other than limits on conduct to prevent harm to others, or on conduct which would affect prejudicially the interests of others.

Mill discusses his ideal system of taxation, promoting a tweaked version of proportional taxation that at a lower limit gives exemption to those earning less than the limit. Book V touches on the outdated idea of “double taxation,” which has turned into a debate on the usefulness of the expenditure tax in contemporary tax reform debates.
 I Of the Functions of Government in General
 II On the General Principles of Taxation
 III Of Direct Taxes
 IV Of Taxes on Commodities
 V Of some other Taxes
 VI Comparison between Direct and Indirect Taxation
 VII Of a National Debt
 VIII Of the Ordinary Functions of Government, considered as to their Economical Effects
 IX The same subject continued
 X Of Interferences of Government grounded on Erroneous Theories
 XI Of the Grounds and Limits of the Laisser-faire or Non-Interference Principle

Reception 
In 1856, this book was included in the Index Librorum Prohibitorum, thus being banned by the Catholic Church.

See also
 Essays on Some Unsettled Questions of Political Economy (1844) John Stuart Mill
Critique of political economy

Notes