[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Meital Dohan

Meital Dohan () is an Israeli actress and musician. As an actress, she began her career on Israeli television, appearing on Dancing with the Stars, Esti HaMekho'eret (Ugly Betty), and in Romeo and Juliet. Her work on US-television began when she appeared as Yael Hoffman on the Showtime series Weeds. She went on to have roles in The Sopranos and as Aurora in the Sony Pictures web-comedy Woke Up Dead. Dohan has starred in the film Foreclosure and in the thriller Monogamy, which won the Best Narrative Feature at the Tribeca Film Festival. Her roles in TV and film have led to two including two Israeli Oscar nominations and an Israeli Tony Award.

Dohan became involved in music from 2012 onwards, when she started to work with hip-hop producer, Che Pope. She and Pope recorded her debut album, I'm in Hate With Love. Dohan then received international recognition for her first single "Yummy" and its viral video, which trended at No. 1 on ReverbNation. The single "On Ya" with Sean Kingston charted No. 5 on the UK Club Pop Charts and No. 31 on the Billboard Club Chart. The tracks were remixed by numerous DJs including R3hab and Sidney Samson.

Early life
In 1994 Dohan joined the Israel Defense Forces and served in the I.D.F theater, later studying at Nissan Nativ acting school. During her studies, she received scholarships from the America Israel Cultural Foundation. In her first year of studies, she wrote, directed, and acted in an original theatre movement production. During the second year of studies, she began working in a variety of television productions and performed in two feature films in her third year. Before graduating, Dohan had signed a contract with Israel's Cameri Theater.

Career

Acting in Israel & move to United States (1998-2005)
Dohan graduated from the Tel Aviv-based acting school Nissan Nativ in 1998. After graduating, Dohan held numerous acting roles at two major theatres in Israel. This began with the Cameri Theater, before also acting at the Haifa Theatre. While at the Cameri Theater, she played several roles which kickstarted her career. She starred in the role of Juliet in Romeo and Juliet at the theatre, but most notably won an Israeli Theater Award in 2000, the equivalent of a Tony, for her role in "Best Friends." The Theatrical award was in the 'Most Promising New Actress' category. A couple of years later, Israeli playwright Edna Mazia wrote a part into her play "Bad Children" specifically for Dohan. The role performance in Bad Children lead to another Best Actress award at the Israeli Tony's.

After working in theatre for 2 years, Dohan secured her first major film role in the Hebrew-language film, Giraffes, which was released in 2001. Prior to the release of Giraffes, Dohan also had roles in The Legend of the Silent Man in 1998 and Instructions Not Included in 1999. Dohan played the role of Efrat in the 2001 film, one of three women who cross paths after a dramatic evening means they cross paths. Her role in Giraffes led to her first Israeli Oscar nomination, known as a Ophir Award, in 2002. For her role in Giraffes she studied French. The film also later won at the 2003 Scottsdale Arizona Film Festival. Her next film was God's Sandbox, where a successful author looks for her daughter in the Sinai desert. The film went onto win at the 2002 Manchester film festival.

Dohan returned to theater in 2003, where she sang and acted in Moving Flesh at the Cameri Theater. She also began directing at the Tmu-na Theater and co-wrote the original Revue Love Sex on the High Holidays, along with Israeli singer Ivri Lider. Aside from theater work, Dohan secured a major TV role, in the Israeli-Version of Ugly Betty. She played the central comedic role of Nataly. The series was a big hit in Israel, winning a number of awards. It won the Israeli Oscar Best Comedy Series award in 2003, and Dohan won an Israeli Tony Award for her work in the series for her lead role. Later in the same year, Dohan co-wrote a movie script, Orgy by Heart, along with Maayan Keret.