[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Tim Mahoney

spent $2,756,453 on the race. However, in the November election, Mahoney was soundly defeated by former assistant state Attorney General Tom Rooney. Mahoney won only 40 percent of the vote to Rooney's 60 percent, the largest margin of defeat for an incumbent in the 2008 cycle.

Political positions 

Mahoney was generally considered to be a moderate Democrat, and he considered himself to be a conservative Democrat. His positions are described below:
 Homeland Security: Supports screening of all cargo containers entering American ports, and increased funding for first responders.
 Immigration: Supports increased border security.
 Seniors: Opposed to Social Security Privatization. Supports reforming Medicare's Part D Prescription Drug Program.
 Environment: Advocate of preserving Florida Everglades from unregulated development. Supports Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Project.
 Insurance: Supports guaranteed disaster insurance for high-risk areas. Advocate of national catastrophic fund on Financial Services Committee.
 Supported the Farm, Nutrition and Bioenergy Act of 2007.

He was a member of the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of Democratic members of Congress known for moderate to conservative stances, especially on fiscal issues. Mahoney also was a member of the New Democrat Coalition, a centrist group of Democrats in Congress.

On September 29, 2008, Mahoney voted for the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.

Committee assignments 
 Committee on Financial Services
 Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government-Sponsored Enterprises
 Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit
 Committee on Agriculture
 Subcommittee on Horticulture and Organic Agriculture
 Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy, and Poultry

Caucus memberships 
 Blue Dog Coalition
 New Democrat Coalition

Electoral history

Post-congressional career 
Mahoney hinted at a potential run for his former seat in the 2010 elections against Tom Rooney, stating that he was "seriously thinking about doing it" and that he "learned a lot of lessons". However, Mahoney ultimately decided not to run, stating that he would instead work with the Democratic Party to "elect moderate Democrats who will work for the people of Florida" and defeat Republicans in the state. Rooney was re-elected against Democrat Jim Horn in 2010 by a margin of 33.7%.

In March 2013, Mahoney, along with fellow Congressmen Allen Boyd and Mike Arcuri, formed Cannae Policy Group, LLC, a government affairs firm located in Washington, D.C. The firm takes its name from the Cannae Tactic, a strategic military move which involves a double pincer movement that was originally used in the Battle of Cannae. Mahoney also is owner and founder of Caribou, LLC, an advisory firm which he founded in 2009, and has served on the board of directors of Agrify, a developer of growing solutions for indoor cannabis & hemp cultivation, since December 17, 2020.

In 2021, Mahoney wrote an op-ed published in the Treasure Coast Newspapers in which he stated that congressmen Bill Posey, Brian Mast, and other Republicans in Congress should apologize and resign for "sedition" related to attempts to overturn the 2020 United States presidential election and the 2021 storming of the United States Capitol. Regarding former president Donald Trump's residency at Mar-a-Lago, Mahoney stated that Trump should "live up to his agreement" set in 1993, which prohibited permanent residence at the club.

Personal life 
Mahoney has a home in Palm Beach Gardens, though he was described in the official House roll as residing in Venus. He also owns a cattle ranch in southern Highlands County. He is divorced and has a daughter named Bailey Mahoney, a former scholarship equestrian athlete at Oklahoma State University who now practices law in Denver, Colorado after earning a Juris Doctor degree from the University of Denver College of Law, as well as 2 other children, Vivian and JJ. Mahoney, a Methodist, describes himself as a "fundamental Christian". Mahoney and his wife Terry were members of the Venus United Methodist Church, located in Venus.

Divorce 
After news of his extramarital affair was revealed, Mahoney's wife, Terry Ellen Mahoney, filed for divorce on October 20, 2008, less than a month before Mahoney lost re-election to Congress. The divorce was finalized in 2010, with Mahoney and his wife splitting $2.83 million in assets, and Mahoney keeping their property in the PGA National Resort and Spa, which he used as his residence while in Congress, with his wife keeping their property in Oklahoma.

Controversies