[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# André Cailloux

André Cailloux (August 25, 1825May 27, 1863) was an African American army captain, one of the first black officers of any North American military unit. He was also one of the first black soldiers to die in combat during the American Civil War. He was killed during the unsuccessful first attack on the Confederate fortifications during the Siege of Port Hudson. Accounts of his heroism were widely reported in the press, and became a rallying cry for the recruitment of African Americans into the Union Army.

His reputation as a patriot and martyr long outlived him. In an 1890 collection of interviews, Civil War veteran Colonel Douglass Wilson said, "If ever patriotic heroism deserved to be honored in stately marble or in brass that of Captain Caillioux deserves to be, and the American people will have never redeemed their gratitude to genuine patriotism until that debt is paid."

Biography

Early life
Born enslaved in Louisiana in 1825, Cailloux lived his entire life in and around New Orleans. As a young man, Cailloux had been apprenticed in the cigar-making trade. He was owned by members of the Duvernay family until 1846. His petition at age 21 for manumission was supported by his master and was granted by an all-white police jury in the city of New Orleans.

There was an established community of free people of color in New Orleans, who were descended from both European and African Creoles (born in North America). This group became established during the French colonial years and enjoyed some rights as a third class between the white colonists and the majority of enslaved Africans. In New Orleans culture under the plaçage system, white men took women of color as common-law wives. Sometimes they acknowledged their mixed-race children and paid for their education, especially of sons, or arranged apprenticeships for adult skills. Sometimes they settled property on them.

In 1847, Cailloux married Félicie Coulon, a free Creole of color. Although born into slavery, she had been freed by her mother paying her purchase price to her master. Cailloux and Coulon had four children born free, three of whom survived to adulthood. Félicie's mother Feliciana had been an enslaved mulatto woman. for several years, after she had already borne Félicie, she was held by and served as the common-law wife of her master Valentin Encalada, a white planter. Félicie was Encalada's "property" as the child of her mother. (This was according to the principle of partus sequitur ventrem in slave law.) Feliciana bought her daughter's freedom from Encalada in 1842.

Freedman
Upon gaining his freedom, Cailloux earned his living as a cigar maker. Prior to the beginning of the Civil War, he established his own cigar-making business. Though his financial circumstances were modest, Cailloux became recognized as a leader within the community of free people of color in New Orleans.

An avid sportsman, Cailloux was admired as one of the best boxers in the city. He was also an active supporter of the Institute Catholique, a school for orphaned black children. It also taught the children of free people of color. After his manumission, Cailloux learned to read, probably with the assistance of the teachers at the Institute Catholique. He became fluent in both English and French.

By 1860, Cailloux was a well-respected member of the 10,000 "free men of color" community in New Orleans. At the time, New Orleans was the largest city in the South, and the sixth-largest city in the United States, with a population of about 100,000.

American Civil War service

Confederate States Army
At the outbreak of the Civil War in 1861, Cailloux was commissioned as a lieutenant in the Native Guard, a state militia organized to defend the city of New Orleans. Free men of color had participated in the local militia since the time of French colonial rule. He was one of the first black officers of any North American unit.

The Native Guard was made up entirely of free men of color who resided in and around New Orleans.  Through articles in local New Orleans' newspapers, approximately 1,500 free men of color volunteered for the regiment and petitioned the governor for inclusion in Louisiana's regular militia, which was approved.  Under the command of a white officer, all the companies of the Confederate Native Guard were led by free men of color and all officers were elected by the all-volunteer force.  The Confederate government of the state of Louisiana provided no allowance for uniforms or equipment.  Cailloux took his responsibilities seriously. His unit was observed to be well drilled and well trained.

The Confederate Native Guard were never called to active duty.  When Union Admiral David Farragut captured the city of New Orleans in April 1862, the Confederate forces in and around New Orleans abandoned the city and moved north to Camp Moore.  The 1st Native Guard disbanded at this time, formally, on the grounds of the U.S. Mint at the edge of the French Quarter.