[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hisao Tani

Japan to deter possible landings of Allied forces in the San'yo region of western Honshū and consisted mostly of poorly trained reservists, conscripted students and home guard militia. The IJA 59th Army was officially demobilized after the surrender of Japan on August 15, 1945.

Trial and execution

In February 1946, Tani was arrested on orders of the American occupation authorities and charged with Class B and Class C war crimes. At the request of the Chinese government, he was extradited to China to stand trial at the Nanjing War Crimes Tribunal in August 1946. Tani denied all charges at the trial, stating that his troops kept discipline, and the area of Nanjing assigned to his division had been largely evacuated due to the ferocity of the battle. Furthermore, none of the witnesses against him could identify his unit numbers, and indeed the evidence presented to the court pertained to troops and areas of the city under General Kesago Nakajima and General Shigeharu Suematsu. However, the presiding judge refused Tani's request to call on his chief of staff and surviving junior officers as witnesses, and stated that since the various atrocities which occurred in Nanjing were testified to by hundreds of surviving witness as well as several foreigners from Nanking Safety Zone, he was unwilling and unable to divide responsibility. According to the ruling of the court, all of the Japanese commanders involved in the Battle of Nanjing had an equally shared responsibility for atrocities which occurred during the Rape of Nanjing, and this included Generals Iwane Matsui, Heisuke Yanagawa and Sadao Ushijima as well as Nakajima, Suematsu and Tani. He was consequently sentenced to death as a BC-class war criminal. On 26 April 1947 he was escorted to his execution spot at Mount Yuhuatai and publicly executed by shooting. The crowds of Chinese civilians who witnessed the execution were cursing at him for the atrocities he committed.

Family
Tani's son, Hayao Tani, was also an officer in the Imperial Japanese Army. A graduate of the 49th class of the Imperial Japanese Army Academy and the 58th class of the Army Staff College, he was a colonel on the staff of the IJA 34th Army and was killed in combat in November 1944.

Decorations
 1939 –  Grand Cordon of the Order of the Sacred Treasure 
 1939 –  Order of the Golden Kite, 5th class
 1940 –  Grand Cordon of the Order of the Rising Sun

References

 Hsu Long-hsuen & Chang Ming-kai, History of The Sino-Japanese War (1937-1945), 2nd edition (1971); translated by Wen Ha-hsiung, Chung Wu Publishing (address #33 140th Lane, Tung-hwa Street, Taipei, Taiwan)
 Higashinakano, Shūdō. The Nanking Massacre: Fact Versus Fiction (2005), Sekai Shuppan, Inc.; / (original Japanese edition: Nankin gyakusatsu no tettei kensho (1998), Tendensha, ; C0021)
 Yoshida Hiroshi Tennou no guntai to Nankin jiken'', 1998, Aoki shoten; .

Footnotes

External links

1882 births
1947 deaths
20th-century executions by China
Executed Japanese mass murderers
Executed military leaders
Grand Cordons of the Order of the Rising Sun
Imperial Japanese Army generals of World War II
Japanese military attachés
Japanese military personnel of the Russo-Japanese War
Japanese people convicted of crimes against humanity
Japanese people executed abroad
Japanese people executed for war crimes
Nanjing Massacre perpetrators
People executed for crimes against humanity
People executed by the Republic of China by firearm
People from Okayama Prefecture
Recipients of the Order of the Golden Kite
Recipients of the Order of the Sacred Treasure, 1st class