[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Električni Orgazam

f Radio B92. On 11 January the following year, the band celebrated their 30th anniversary at the Belgrade Akademija club, featuring the premiere of the new single, the song "Nemaš nikome ništa da daš" ("You Have Nothing To Share"), with the entire concert being available for live Internet streaming.

Eight years since the release of the previous studio album, the album To što vidiš to i jeste (What You See Is What You Get), was released in early September 2010, under the Belgrade Dom Omladine label, with Telekom Srbija as the main distributor for the first two months. Produced by Vojislav Aralica, who also recorded percussion sections, the album featured seven songs, including "Pokaži mi" ("Show me") and "Nikad ne znam" ("I never Know") on which as guest guitarist appeared the former Katarina II member Dragomir Mihajlović "Gagi". In a month's period during which the promotion had lasted, the album was sold in 50,000 copies. On 1 November of the same year, the single "Nemaš nikome ništa da daš" appeared on the first place of the Jelen Top Ten list, remaining on the first place for two weeks. The following month, the Croatian record label Dallas Records released an expanded edition of the album for the former Yugoslav territory, featuring three new studio tracks, "Mister Ministar" ("Mister Minister"), "Gde god odem" ("Wherever I Go") and "Da, da, da, da" ("Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes"), and the band went on a tour across Slovenia and Croatia. In January 2011, To što vidiš to i jeste was voted No. 7 on the list of Best Domestic Albums in 2010 by the readers of online magazine Popboks and No. 9 according to the Popboks critics. The following month, on 2 February, the band got the Oskar popularnosti award for the Best Serbian Rock Act in 2010. In May 2010, a deluxe edition of the album was released, containing a new song entitled "Sedam dana (je nekad dovoljno)" ("Seven Days (Is Enough Sometimes)"), live versions of the songs "Mentalno" ("Mentally"), "Ja želim promene (baby, baby, baby)" ("I Want Changes (Baby, Baby, Baby)") and "Kako bubanj kaže" ("As the Lot Says"), a cover of the Ekatarina Velika song "Krug" and edited versions of the songs "Nemaš nikom ništa da daš", "Mister Ministar", "Ti to možeš" and "Bliži suncu" with music videos for the same songs.

In 2013, the band released the double live album Warszawa '81/Warszawa '13 for the Polish market only. The first disc of the album represents the reissue of Warszawa '81 live album, and the second the recording of the band's 2013 concert in Warszawa.

In November 2015, the band released the single "Bio sam loš" ("I Was Bad"), in order to mark their 35th anniversary, at the same time announcing their new studio album, Gde smo sad? (Where Are We Now?). The band celebrated 35 years of activity with a Serbian tour, starting on 26 December with a concert in Belgrade Youth Center. On April 22, 2016, the band performed, alongside Riblja Čorba, Van Gogh, Piloti and Galija, on the opening of renovated Tašmajdan Stadium. At the end of 2016, Električni Orgazam released the live album Puštaj muziku! (Play the Music!), featuring the recordings from their 35th anniversary concert in Belgrade Youth Center. The album was released on vinyl only, in a limited number of copies. At the same time the band celebrated the 30th anniversary of Distorzija with a number of concerts in Serbia.

At the beginning of June 2018, the band released their twelfth studio album, entitled Gde smo sad? (Where Are We Now?, through Mascom. The album was previously announced by singles "Bio sam loš", "Kamerom snimam sve" ("I'm Recording Everything with My Camera"), released in May 2016, "Istok, zapad, sever, jug" ("East, West, North, South"), released in October 2016, "Bila si kao san" ("You Were Like a Dream"), released in May 2017 and "Duga, topla noć", described by Gojković as "the first real blues track Električni Orgazam recorded", released in June 2017.

Legacy
The book YU 100: najbolji albumi jugoslovenske rok i pop muzike (YU 100: The Best albums of Yugoslav pop and rock music) features two Električni Orgazam albums: Distorzija, ranked No. 24, and Kako bubanj kaže, ranked No. 73. In the same book, Paket aranžman was ranked No. 2. In 1987, in YU legende uživo (YU Legends Live), a special publication by Rock magazine, Braćo i sestre was pronounced one of 12 best Yugoslav live albums.

The Rock Express Top 100 Yugoslav Rock Songs of All Times list featured two songs by Električni Orgazam, "Igra rock 'n' roll cela Jugoslavija" (polled No.9) and "Nebo" (polled No.42). The B92 Top 100 Domestic Songs list features two songs by Električni Orgazam: "Nebo", ranked No. 26, and "Krokodili dolaze", ranked No. 72. In 2011, the song "Igra rock 'n' roll cela Jugoslavija" was polled, by the listeners of Radio 202, one of 60 greatest songs released by PGP-RTB/PGP-RTS during the sixty years of the label's existence.