[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lutheran Church in Malaysia

The Lutheran Church in Malaysia or LCM () is one of four Lutheran bodies in Malaysia. It currently has 52  congregations nationwide with a total of 6,736 baptised members and is the largest entirely Lutheran body in the country. Until 2012, the body was known as the Lutheran Church in Malaysia and Singapore.

The current bishop of the Lutheran Church in Malaysia is Thomas Low Kok Chan was installed on 4 December 2021.

History

Early history
The first Lutherans to arrive in what is now Malaysia were Hakka Taiping Rebellion refugees from China closely linked to Theodore Hamberg and Rudolph Lechler of the Basel Mission Society. While it is not certain when they first arrived in British North Borneo, there was already a significant Chinese presence at the founding of the town of Sandakan in 1874. These refugees eventually organised themselves into what is today known as the Basel Christian Church of Malaysia.

The LCM traces its history to the eviction of foreign Christian missionaries from mainland China in 1953 after the establishment of the People's Republic of China. Some missionaries from the United Lutheran Church in America were stationed to northern Malaya and worked among the ethnic Chinese community that were relocated to the New Villages as part of an attempt to stem the influence of the Communist Party of Malaya during the Malayan Emergency.

The Lutheran mission in Malaya
In 1952, the Lutheran World Federation's Commission on Younger Churches and Orphaned Missions (CYCOM) requested Bishop Johannes Sandegren of the Tamil Evangelical Lutheran Church to convene a joint Lutheran consultative conference to investigate the feasibility of establishing organised Lutheran work among the ethnic Chinese community in the New Villages in Malaya. The meeting was convened as the First Southeast Asia Lutheran Consultative Conference from the 26th to 29 March 1952 at the Wesley Methodist Church in Penang.

The Board of Foreign Missions of the United Lutheran Church in America (BFM-ULCA) responded to the decision of the conference by sending Dr. Paul Anspace, a former missionary to China, to conduct a field assessment of Malaya. Missionary work formally began in 1953 with Anspach appointed as the Staff Secretary of the Malayan mission. Apart from missionaries from the BFM-ULCA, the mission was also reinforced by evangelists from Hong Kong and China at the suggestion of Dr. Peng Fu, the exiled president of the Lutheran Church of China.

Upon consultation with the Malayan Christian Council, work was first established in the New Villages of Semenyih, Cheras 11th Mile and Balakong. Mission work expanded to other New Villages in Perak, particularly in Ipoh and Gerik. Mission work in urban areas was initiated in Petaling Jaya in 1954.

Towards autonomy
In 1957, the Administrative Council of Missionaries of the United Lutheran Church in America and Malaya (Administrative Council) was established to more effectively administer the Lutheran mission in Malaya. As early as 1958, efforts were made to make the mission self-supporting to prepare it for autonomy and independence from the American church. This resulted in fewer mission areas being opened and the curtailment of employment of new workers from Hong Kong. On the other hand, it helped the nascent Lutheran mission achieve self-sufficiency in a much shorter period compared to other mission groups in Malaya then.

Attempts to establish a national church
In 1962, at the initiative of Bertil Envall of the Church of Sweden Mission, representatives of the Tamil Lutherans and the Administrative Council met for negotiations in a Joint Constitution Committee to set up a national Lutheran Church for Malaya. Representatives from the Batak Lutheran community supported by the Huria Kristen Batak Protestant were also invited but declined to participate.

Despite agreeing on organisation and stewardship in general, disagreements arose upon the form of church government for the proposed national church. While the Swedish mission and the Tamil Lutherans was partial to an episcopal polity, it was not accepted by the representatives of the Administrative Council who felt that the local Chinese Lutherans would not be familiar with that form of government. There were also disagreements on the nature of apostolic succession as well as the significant differences in the culture, language and origins between the Tamils and Chinese who were ministered by the respective missions, the former consisting mainly of established Tamil Lutheran families while the latter consisted mainly of congregations of young individual Chinese who were first generation Christians.