[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2006 Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta leadership election

Ed Stelmach - headed for a second round held on December 2. Lyle Oberg, Dave Hancock, and Mark Norris threw their support behind Ed Stelmach after failing to advance to the second round. McPherson threw his support to Dinning, and Doerksen chose not to endorse any of the three remaining candidates.

Voters indicated their first and second choice on a preferential ballot. As no candidate received 50% plus one of votes cast after first preferences were counted, the third place candidate, Morton, was dropped and the second choices of his voters were apportioned to the two remaining candidates. These second choices overwhelmingly favoured Stelmach, making him leader of the party and incoming premier of Alberta.

Instant runoff results

Withdrawn candidates

Alana DeLong
Alana DeLong was a Calgary member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA), and the only woman in the race. She dropped out before handing in her nomination papers on October 11 and endorsed Dinning.

Timeline
March 14, 2006 - Premier Klein announces that he intends to tender his resignation on October 31, 2007, but remain premier until early 2008.
March 15 - Klein orders all cabinet ministers who intend to run in the leadership election to succeed him to resign from cabinet by June 1, 2006.
March 22 - Transport Minister Lyle Oberg, a possible contender for the party's leadership, is ousted from Cabinet and suspended from caucus for six months after making critical comments about Klein to his riding association and saying he won't ask delegates from his riding to support Klein in the March 31 leadership review.
March 31 - 1,500 delegates to the Alberta Progressive Conservative Party convention vote on Klein's leadership in a secret ballot. Klein had indicated he'd resign immediately if he does not receive a "substantial majority" in the leadership review. Klein's leadership is endorsed by only 55.4% of delegates, described as a "crushing blow" to the Premier who asks for a few days to decide whether to submit his resignation.
April 4 - In a press conference, Klein announces that he will write party officials a formal letter in September asking them to commence a leadership election. He stated that he expects a new leader will be chosen in October or November 2006 and that he would leave office in December.
May 17 - Former Reform Party of Canada leader Preston Manning announces he will not be a candidate. Manning had been widely expected to be the frontrunner in the race.
July 25 - Leadership candidate Oberg is re-admitted to caucus.
August 15 - Innovation and Science Minister Victor Doerksen resigns from the Cabinet.
August 17 - Former Innovation and Science Minister Doerksen announces his candidacy.  Premier Klein confirms he will tender his resignation as leader on or around September 14, and that he will resign as the MLA for Calgary Elbow upon leaving the premiership.
August 18 - Former chair of the Premier's Council on the Status of Persons with Disabilities, Gary McPherson, announces his candidacy.
September 20 - Klein resigns as leader of the party, officially opening the Conservative leadership election.
October 16 - Nominations close at 5:00pm MST.
November 25 - First ballot of the leadership election.  Because no candidate received greater than 50% plus one of the votes, a second ballot will be held;  Dinning, Morton and Stelmach will be on the second ballot.
December 2 - Second ballot of the leadership election. Polls were open between 9:00am and 7:00pm MST. The election was between Dinning, Morton, and Stelmach. Stelmach finished first followed by Dinning. After the second choices of Morton's supporters were factored in Stelmach was declared the winner.
December 14 - Klein formally tenders his resignation as Premier to Albertan Lieutenant Governor Norman Kwong, who then invites Stelmach to form a government.

Trivia

 The Progressive Conservatives are the first party in Albertan history to have had four premiers.  All of the previous governing parties (the Liberals, United Farmers and Social Credit) were defeated in the elections immediately following their third premiers' assuming the office.

See also
Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta leadership elections

References

Further reading

External links
Leadership Election Details (PDF)
Daveberta, tracking leadership endorsements by PC MLAs.
Project Alberta's discussion forum on the PC Leadership Race

2006
Alberta Progressive Conservative
Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta leadership election