[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Robert Rantoul Jr.

. . . . The judge makes law, by extorting from precedents something which they do not contain. He extends his precedents, which were themselves the extension of others, till, by this accommodating principle, a whole system of law is built up without the authority or interference of the legislator."

The Massachusetts Legislature eventually established a committee, chaired by Justice Joseph Story, to consider the expediency of codifying the common law of Massachusetts. Although the legal profession of the time continued the historical preference for the common law, one sees echoes of Rantoul's sentiments even today through efforts like the Restatements (summations of common law standards widely adopted by state legislatures as statute) and the judicial trend toward textualist interpretations.

Lyceums
Rantoul was also deeply committed to public education. In the winter of 1828–1829, Rantoul established the first Lyceum in New England. These Lyceums served as a center for debate and the exchange of ideas, with the goal of educating the public on matters of wide public significance. At these Lyceums, Rantoul displayed "that remarkable aptitude for debate, that keen logical acuteness in argument, and those ready and ample resources of wit and learning which afterwards so distinguished him in the courts of law and the halls of legislation." Rantoul's ultimate ambition in these Lyceums, however, was not to dazzle crowds with oration for oration's sake, but to begin a discourse on important matters and convince the public of what he believed to be right and true.  In 1833, Rantoul published An Address to the Workingmen of the United States of America as one of the first numbers of a series of tracts published by the Committee of the Middlesex County Lyceum.

Capital punishment
Owing to the influence of his father, who was himself strongly against the death penalty, Rantoul was from his earliest days a strong advocate for the abolishment of capital punishment. In 1835, Rantoul formed a committee in the Massachusetts State Legislature to propose the repeal of all capital punishment laws in the state. On March 31, 1835, Rantoul delivered a speech in support of the proposed repeal of the death penalty, leading all but 13 members of the house to vote in favor of the proposal. His floor speeches on the subject of capital punishment were printed, and eventually became so widely distributed that they became regarded as authoritative in France, Belgium, Germany, and Italy. Years later, upon learning of Rantoul's death, U.S. Senator Charles Sumner stated in Congress: "Some of [Rantoul's] most devoted labors, commencing in the legislature of Massachusetts, were for the abolition of capital punishment.  Perhaps no person since the consummate jurist, Edward Livingston, has done so much by reports, articles, letters, and speeches, to commend this reform to the country. With its final triumph, in the progress of civilization, his name will be indissolubly connected."

Death
On August 7, 1852, Rantoul died unexpectedly due to complications with erysipelas. a few days before his 47th birthday  In announcing his death, the Taunton Democrat printed, "Mr. Rantoul stood in the front rank of the legal profession. As a forensic speaker, he had few equals, and scarcely a superior. . . . He was equally in his element, whether at the bar or in the forum,--before the people or in the halls of legislation. . . .  His was one of the progressive minds of the age. To the cause of free education, he gave his earliest influence and support; to temperance, his voice and his example. Of the abolition of the death penalty, it may be said that he was its ablest advocate, and that he died, like John Quincy Adams, clothed in the armor of compromising hostility to what he deemed the encroachments of the institution of southern slavery. . . . His death is no common loss; to his family, a loss we cannot realize; to his constituents, which none can supply; and to his party and country, a deprivation like the deaths of Silas Wright and Levi Woodbury, tenfold more afflicting for the suddenness of its occurrence."

Tributes
Rantoul was the subject of a bust by the self-taught Massachusetts sculptor Joanna Quiner, cast in plaster and presented to the Boston Athenaeum in 1842; it was the first sculpture by a woman to be shown there when it was exhibited in 1846, and remains in the collection.

See also

List of United States Congress members who died in office (1790–1899)
 Rantoul, Kansas

References

External links

1805 births
1852 deaths
Harvard University alumni
Democratic Party members of the Massachusetts House of Representatives
United States Attorneys for the District of Massachusetts
People from Beverly, Massachusetts
Democratic Party United States senators from Massachusetts
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Massachusetts
19th-century American legislators