[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of markets in Bangkok

outdoor market with a focus on seafood stalls, there is a large outdoor cinema. The market is popular with Asian and Western tourists. The market connects to Rama 9 MRT Station.

Wet markets

A wet market (; ; lit: 'fresh market') is where raw or perishable foodstuffs are sold; a fresh-food market.

 Pak Khlong Market: By the Chao Phraya River. Fresh flowers and vegetables.
 Trok Mo Market, or Thesa Market: A lively morning (05:00–11:00) market in Rattanakosin Island, or Bangkok's old town zone. It is in Trok Thesa (Thesa Lane), which connects Bamrung Mueang and Ratchabophit Roads between Wat Ratchabophit and Sao Chingcha (Giant Swing) near Wat Suthat. Originally, it was in what is now the Bangkok City Hall and moved here after the construction of city hall in 1973. Fresh food, seafood, fresh fruits, vegetables, ready to meal.
 Khlong Toei Market: In Khlong Toei District.
 Bang Khae Market: In Bang Khae District, Thonburi, by the Khlong Phraya Ratcha Montri
 Talat Phlu Market: One of Bangkok's oldest markets in Thonburi. Nowadays, it is well known for street food
 Tha Din Daeng Market: Like the Talat Phlu, it is across the Chao Phraya River from Sampheng.
 Wongwian Yai Market: Near Wongwian Yai and Wongwian Yai Railway Station.
 Bang Khun Si Market: Near Charansanitwong Halt and Taling Chan Floating Market
 Bang Kapi Market: On the end of Lat Phrao Road opposite to The Mall Bangkapi, Bang Kapi District
Sala Nam Ron Market and Sala Nam Yen Market: Two adjacent markets on Sutthawat Road between Bangkok Noi Railway Station and Charansanitwong Halt.
Saphan Pla Krung Thep Market: The only fish market in Bangkok, on Charoen Krung 58 Alley in Yannawa area of Sathon District, operated by the Fish Marketing Organization.
Bangkok Noi and Phran Nok Markets: Two adjacent markets on Itsaraphap Road near Phran Nok and Ban Noen intersections including Bangkok Noi railway station
Sri Yan Market: On Nakhon Chai Si Road in Dusit District between Thewet and Bang Krabue intersections and near Ratchawat intersection
Bang Bon Market or Ekkachai Market and Sirichai Market: Two adjacent markets on Ekkachai Road. 
Maha Nak Market or Saphan Khao Market: A wholesale fruit market diagonally from Bobae Market.
Talat Kao or Old Market: An ancient wet market of Yaowarat and Sampheng areas, located in Soi Yaowarat 11. It will be very popular especially during Chinese festivals such as Chinese New Year, Ghost Festival, Vegetarian Festival etc.
Talat Mai or Leng Buai Ia Market: A wet market opposite Talat Kao, located in Soi Yaowarat 6 or Soi Charoen Krung 16 (Trok Issaranuphap), a narrow lane about  wide, its name after Leng Buai Ia Shrine, the oldest Chinese joss house in Thailand which is in the market area. It is as popular as Talat Kao.
Talat Krom Phutharet: Another wet market hidden itself in Talat Mai.
Ying Charoen Market: A large wet market in the area of Saphan Mai in Bang Khen District, Bangkok north side, fresh food, dried food, 24-hour food court
Thewet Market or Thewarat Market: A large wet market near Thewet Narumitr Bridge, the first bridge that over Khlong Phadung Krung Kasem on Samsen Road overlap between Wat Sam Phraya, Phra Nakhon District and Dusit, Dusit District close to Sri Yan Market. Fresh and dried food, vegetables, seafood, clothing, ready to eat, as well as living fish for release for making merit and potted plants and flowers.
Simum Muang Market: A large wholesale fruit and vegetables in Khu Khot area near Don Mueang International Airport.
Tai Market: Wholesale agricultural products 24 hours to start trading since 1995 before the official opening in 1997, most greengrocers move from Pak Khlong Market in 1995 like Simum Muang Market. Near Rangsit

Floating markets

 Taling Chan Floating Market
 Khlong Lat Mayom Floating Market
 Bang Namphueng Floating Market
 Kwan Riam Floating Market
 Or Tor Kor Floating Market: A new fake floating market is set up in Klong Bang Sue within Or Tor Kor Market, Chatuchak District.