[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Universal Primary Education

al mobilization and legal accountability, looking to focus on the legal challenges to the right to education.
To ensure continued relevance and engagement with activists and the academic community the Project also undertakes comparative research to advance an understanding of the right to education.

UNICEF
UNICEF believes that in treating education as a basic human right, it will address the basic inequalities in our society, especially gender inequalities. It advocates high-quality, child-friendly basic education for all, with an emphasis on gender equality and eliminating disparities of all kinds through a range of innovative programs and initiatives. In working with local, national and international partners, UNICEF's work supports the attainment of universal primary education.

Oxfam International
This organization is a confederation of 12 organizations that are dedicated to reducing poverty and eliminating injustices in the world. Oxfam works on a grassroots level in countries around the world to ensure that all people have access to the basic human rights, including education.

Save the Children
This organization advocates education as a way for individuals to escape poverty. They are running a campaign entitled "Rewrite the Future" to encouraging American citizens, in positions of power and wealth, to take action against the injustices in education systems around the world. Save the Children also operates education programs in 30 countries all over the world.

Peace Corps
This United States government organization has volunteers on the ground in 75 countries.  Many of the volunteers are working as teachers in rural areas or working to promote and improve access to education in the areas in which they are stationed.

United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNESCO works to improve education through projects, advice, capacity-building and networking.  UNESCO's Education for All Campaign by 2015 is the driving force in UNESCO's work in the field of education at the moment.

World Bank
This organization provides financial and technical assistance to developing countries.  Loans and grants from the World Bank provide much of the funding for educational projects around the world, including but not limited to school feeding programs.

Child Aid
Child Aid conducts school- and library-based reading programs in over 50 indigenous villages in Guatemala, where literacy rates are lower than anywhere in Latin America. Through its literacy development programing it trains teachers and librarians, creates and improves community libraries and delivers tens of thousands of children's books annually.

World Food Program
This organization provides food relief in areas that need it most and is one of the major funders of school feeding programs.

Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
This organization runs a campaign entitled Education for Rural People in which they work to ensure education for rural people as the key to reduction of poverty, food security and sustainable development.

Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN)
This organization is a hub for organizations committed to ending vitamin and mineral deficiencies.  GAIN works with other international organizations, governments and the private sector to implement large-scale food fortification programs as well as targeted ones including school feeding projects aimed at the most at risk of malnutrition. Home Page

Global Partnership for Education (Formerly the Fast Track Initiative (FTI))
The Fast Track Initiative (FTI) was launched in 2002. It was designed as a major initiative to help countries achieve the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) of Universal Primary Education (UPE) by 2015. It was endorsed by the Development Committee of the World Bank as a 'process that would provide quick and incremental technical and financial support to countries that have policies but are not on track to attain Universal Primary Completion by 2015' (World Bank Development Committee, 2003). In 2011, the organization re-committed to achieving education for all children through their transformation into the Global Partnership for Education, reflecting the importance of uniting worldwide to achieve this goal.

The Walking School Bus 
The Walking School Bus (TWSB) was launched in 2015. TWSB empower educational attainment through mutually beneficial partnerships that promote: access, nutrition, and curriculum. TWSB mission is to empower students in developing countries to access education, thereby breaking down cultural and faith-based barriers, creating academic partnerships between both local and international schools and their respective communities, while helping provide sustainable and adequate nutrition for their partnered beneficiaries. TWSB currently work across North America, Uganda, South Africa, Greece, and India.  To find out more about their work, visit: http://thewalkingschoolbus.com/