[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gunhed (film)

ron-5 core room, while Seven stayed with Brooklyn to complete repairs on GUNHED and used it to escape Kyron-5. Brooklyn has personal anxieties about piloting, but he had to overcome it to survive. It was while during her leave that the droid found her and retaken the Texmexium to aid Kyron-5's plan.

With the aid of GUNHED, Brooklyn is able to clear the various deadly obstacles and defenses of Kyron-5. However, Aerobot remains at large. Brooklyn fights with GUNHED to take down Aerobot, but the unit defeats GUNHED. Brooklyn escapes from the tank and rigs a part of its functional gun to manually shoot Aerobot, with which she manages to finally destroy Aerobot once and for all. In between, Nim realized Eleven was part of Kyron-5's plan as it had actually inserted a special activation code within her (the source of her muteness); she would uncontrollably help Kyron-5 execute its plans, however, Nim intervened and prevented her from launching the code. The Bio-Droid returns to stop everyone, but Babe realizes she cannot escape being trapped inside and decides to detonate a grenade within the droid's body to help the four escape; both the droid and Babe are destroyed.

Kyron-5's plans have failed and now it activates the self-destruction sequence to detonate 8JO. Originally only having 10 seconds, the mangled GUNHED activates its boosters to ram Kyron-5 to give them a chance to escape within 15 minutes. With just enough time to escape, the four escape on board the Mary Ann and fly away. While flying away GUNHED passes its final message to Brooklyn, that the GUNHED Battalion has completed its mission.

Cast
 Masahiro Takashima as Brooklyn
 Brenda Bakke as Sergeant Nim, Texas Air Ranger
 Aya Enjōji as Bebe
 Eugene Harada as Seven
 Kaori Mizushima as Eleven
 Brewster Thompson as Barabbas James
 Doll Nguyen as Boomerang
 Jay Kabira as Bombbay
 Randy Reyes as Gunhed (Voice)
 Mickey Curtis as Bansho, the captain of the Mary Ann
  as Boxer
 Michael Yancy as the Narrator

Release
Gunhed was released theatrically on July 22, 1989, in Japan where it was distributed by Toho. In the Philippines, the film was released as Killer Tank on December 17, 1992. It was released in the United Kingdom in 1994. Gunhed was released in the United States by ADV Films in both an English dub and English subtitled format on November 30, 2004.

Reception
In a contemporary review, Derek Elley wrote in Variety that the film was "derivative of films by Ridley Scott and James Cameron" and described Gunhed as "hokey" and critiqued "cheesy dialogue", "unflashy f/x" and "a bland pop-synth soundtrack" while noting "good model work". Elley concluded that in Gunhed, "Things pick up in the final half-hour, which eventually delivers the action goods without springing any major surprises."

From retrospective reviews, Donald C. Willis wrote about the film in his book Horror and Science Fiction Film IV, specifying that Gunhed was a "exuberant action/effects spectacular" with "an effect-a-second pace and an Alien, lost-in-technology feel to its human interaction." The Time Out Film Guide referred the film as "impenetrable tosh (at least in the English version)".

Video games
There are two video games based on Gunhed:

Blazing Lazers (Gunhed), released for the PC Engine (TurboGrafx-16) in 1989.
Gunhed: The New Battle, released for the Famicom (Nintendo Entertainment System) in 1990.
 The Gunhed and Brooklyn were featured as downloadable content in Super Robot Wars X-Ω, the 2015 IOS Android installment of Bandai Namco Entertainment's tactical role-playing crossover Mecha game franchise, Super Robot Wars.

Footnotes

References

External links
 

Mecha films
1980s science fiction action films
1980s monster movies
1989 films
Cyberpunk films
Cyborg films
Films credited to Alan Smithee
Films directed by Masato Harada
Films set in 2005
Films set in 2038
Japanese science fiction action films
1980s Japanese-language films
Robot films
Sunrise (company)
Toho tokusatsu films
1980s Japanese films