[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 180]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

prays over the porch and creeping up round the windows, even
threatening to cover them with a ruddy screen, since now the bright
little face no longer looked out of the latticed panes, and the cottage
was given over to dust and spiders.

Mrs. Temperley was often seen by the villagers passing along the road
towards Craddock. She would sometimes pause at the cottage, to gather a
few of the flowers that still came up in the tiny garden. It was said
that she gathered them to lay on Ellen Jervis's grave.

"Dear, dear, she do take on about that child!" Dodge used to say, as she
passed up the street of Craddock. And Mrs. Gullick, good soul, would
shake her head and express her sympathy, in spite of not "holding" with
Mrs. Temperley's "ways."

Her poorer neighbours understood far more than the others could
understand, how sorely she was grieving about the child. Because she
said nothing on the subject, it was generally supposed that she had
ceased to care. After all, it was an act of charity that she had
undertaken, on an impulse, and it was quite as well that she should be
relieved of the responsibility.

Hannah used to write regularly, to let her know how Martha was.
Professor Theobald had directed Hannah to do this. The nurse had to
admit that he was very good and very devoted to the child. She throve in
her new home, and seemed perfectly happy.

Hadria was now delivered over to the tender mercies of her own thoughts.
Her memories burnt, as corrosive acids, in her brain. She could find no
shadow of protection from her own contempt. There was not one nook or
cranny into which that ruthless self-knowledge could not throw its cruel
glare. In the hours of darkness, in the haunted hours of the early
morning, she and her memories played horrible games with one another.
She was hunted, they the hunters. There was no thought on which she
could rest, no consoling remembrance. She often wished that she had
followed her frequent impulse to tell Miss Du Prel the whole wretched
story. But she could not force herself to touch the subject through the
painful medium of speech. Valeria knew that Hadria was capable of any
outward law-breaking, but she would never be prepared for the breaking
of her own inner law, the real canon on which she had always laid so
much stress. And then she had shrunk from the idea of betraying a secret
not solely her own. If she told the story, Valeria would certainly guess
the name. She felt a still greater longing that Professor Fortescue
should know the facts; he would be able to help her to face it all, and
to take the memory into her life and let its pain eat out what was base
and evil in her soul. He would give her hope; his experience, his
extraordinary sympathy, would enable him to understand it all, better
than she did herself. If he would look at this miserable episode
unflinchingly, and still hold out his hand to her, as she knew he would,
and still believe in her, then she might believe still in herself, in
her power of rising after this lost illusion, this shock of
self-detection, and of going on again, sadder, and perhaps stronger; but
if he thought that since she was capable of a real treason against her
gods, that she was radically unsound at heart, and a mass of
sophistication, then--Hadria buried her face in the pillow. She went
through so often now, these paroxysms of agony. Do what she would, look
where she might, she saw no relief. She was afraid to trust herself. She
was afraid to accept her own suggestions of comfort, if ever a ray of it
came to her, lest it should be but another form of self-deception,
another proof of moral instability. In her eternal tossing to and fro,
in mental anguish, the despairing idea often assailed her: that after
all, it did not matter what she did or thought. She was but an atom of
the vast whole, a drop in the ocean of human life.

She had no end or motive in anything. She could go on doing what had to
be done to the last, glad if she might bring a little pleasure in so
acting, but beyond that, what was there to consider? The wounds to her
vanity and her pride ached a little, at times, but the infinitely deeper
hurt of disillusion overwhelmed the lesser feeling. She was too
profoundly sad to care for that trivial mortification.

Sometimes, Professor Fortescue used to write to Hadria, and she looked
forward to these letters as to nothing else. She heard from Valeria
also, who had met the Professor at Siena. She said he did not look as
well as she had hoped to find him. She could not see that he had gained
at all, since leaving England. He was cheerful, and enjoying sunny Italy
as much as his strength would allow. Valeria was shocked to notice how
very weak he was. He had a look in his face that she could not bear to
see. If he did not improve soon, she thought of trying to persuade him
to return home to see his doctor again. When one was ill, home was the
best place afte