[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ian Iqbal Rashid

ure and Making a Difference:Canadian Multicultural Literature.

He wrote and read his short story "Muscular Bridges" for BBC Radio 4's 50th HMT Windrush Anniversary, which later evolved into the feature film Touch of Pink

Rashid has also written song lyrics, most notably for his film Touch of Pink.

Journalism 
In the late 1980s, Rashid was a regular contributor to the Canadian LGBT magazine Rites, and the cultural journals Fuse and TSAR Publications. In 1995, he was the Guest Editor for Rungh magazine's Queer Special Issue. His curatorial catalogue essay for "Beyond Destinations", a show he curated for Ikon Gallery in 1993, was reprinted in Rungh in December 2019. He was also assistant editor of Bazaar Magazine, a quarterly journal covering South Asian arts in the UK in the early 1990s. Ian's personal essays have also been published in Wasafiri, Third Text and The Globe and Mail.

Curating and festivals 
Rashid has also curated film programmes and exhibitions for venues such as the National Film Theatre, the Institute of Contemporary Arts and Experimenta. He was the founder and first director of Desh Pardesh, Canada's first arts festival focusing on diasporic South Asian arts and culture.

Awards 
Amongst many awards and festival prizes, Rashid has received the Writer's Guild of Great Britain Award for Television Series Writing and the Aga Khan Award for Excellence in the Arts. He was selected as one of 2010's Breakthrough Brits on the prestigious UK Film Council (BFI) programme alongside Riz Ahmed, Yann Demange, Daniel Kaluuya and others. His film and TV career began when he won a place on the prestigious BBC internship scheme Black Screen, alongside writers such as playwright Tanika Gupta.

In 2022, Ian was awarded a fellowship on the CBC-BIPOC TV & Film Showrunner Catalyst in partnership with the Canadian Film Centre as an emerging television/streaming Show Runner.

His poetry has been nominated for the Gerald Lampert Memorial Award.

His work as an executive producer on the show  Sort Of earned him a nomination for a Peabody Award in 2022.

References

External links
 Ian Iqbal Rashid on IMDb

1971 births
20th-century Canadian male writers
20th-century Canadian poets
21st-century Canadian screenwriters
British film directors
British male screenwriters
British male television writers
British male writers
British poets
Canadian male poets
Canadian male screenwriters
Canadian writers of Asian descent
Canadian gay writers
Canadian LGBT film directors
Canadian LGBT poets
Tanzanian LGBT writers
British LGBT writers
Living people
People from Dar es Salaam
Film directors from Toronto
Tanzanian emigrants to Canada
Canadian emigrants to the United Kingdom
Tanzanian people of Indian descent
Tanzanian Ismailis
British people of Indian descent
British writers of Indian descent
British people of Gujarati descent
British Ismailis
Canadian people of Indian descent
Canadian Ismailis
Indian Ismailis
Khoja Ismailism
Gay poets
Gay screenwriters
21st-century Canadian LGBT people
20th-century Canadian LGBT people