[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rejoice in the Lamb

matic canonical passage follows, echoing the Hallelujah passage from earlier in the piece, setting the text "For I am in twelve hardships". William Kumbier describes the canon as "dark" and writes that it shows the "pathetic prolongation and dismantling of the persecution figure".

IV. Mystic Praise

 For H is a spirit and therefore he is God (Bass soloist) – The text of this section is from what Riddles describes as "the most esoteric" lines of Jubilate Agno. Smart depicts God in all 26 letters of the alphabet and Britten sets a selection of these lines as a bass recitative, including "For H is a spirit and therefore he is God. For K is king and therefore he is God..."
 For the instruments are by their rhimes (Chorus) – This section, marked very gay and fast, is characterised by a "grandeur and spaciousness", repeating and transforming an F major trumpet fanfare-like motif first heard in the organ. The text is about various instruments and "their rhimes" (rhymes) ("For the Shawm rhimes are lawn fawn moon boon and the like..."), drawing comparisons to the concept of the Music of the Spheres. The chorus climaxes with a final declamation of "and the like", followed by a two-against-three rhythmic passage praising God's "blessed intelligence".

V. Closing Hymn

 For at that time malignity ceases – The chorus sings a unison, hymn-like passage in F major. Riddles writes that the passage recalls the "sweet peace" of Jeoffrey the cat from earlier in the piece, or the concept of axis mundi.
 Hallelujah from the heart of God (Chorus) – Britten closes the piece with a reprise of the Hallelujah section from the start of the piece.

Critical response 
Rejoice in the Lamb has widely been recognised for its uniqueness and creativity, especially within the realm of Church music. In British Music of Our Time (1946), Scott Goddard writes that Rejoice in the Lamb "has about it a freshness unlike anything in our music". Imogen Holst similarly writes that it is "as unlike conventional church music as it could possibly be". The poet Peter Porter writes that Rejoice in the Lamb "enshrines some of the purest responses ever made by a musician to the very heart of that mystery which we know as poetry". On 22 September 1943, the day after the premier of Rejoice in the Lamb, The Times published a piece about the jubilee celebrations of St Matthew's Church and a review of Britten's cantata which also praised the text-setting: "Mr Britten has a way of choosing recondite texts for setting to music ... The spirit of the curious, vivid poem has been caught and a work not to be placed in any of the usual categories..." A 1943 review in the journal Music & Letters claims that although Britten did not necessarily transform "the ridiculous [text] into the sublime", he succeeded in recognising the "picturesque" value of the text. Furthermore, according to the review, Britten handles the more bizarre passages of the text, just as "For I shall consider my cat", with admirable restraint.

Arrangements 
A version of Rejoice in the Lamb for chorus, solos and orchestral accompaniment was arranged by Imogen Holst and published by Boosey & Hawkes. Holst conducted the first performance on 20 June 1952 in Aldeburgh Parish Church for the Aldeburgh Festival, which was co-founded by Britten in 1948. Among the performers were Alfred Deller as the counter-tenor soloist, Peter Pears as the tenor soloist and Ralph Downes on organ. Another version for SSAA choir and organ was arranged by Edmund Walters and published by Boosey & Hawkes in 1973. It was first performed on 3 July 1966 in Mossley Hill Church in Liverpool and first broadcast by the BBC on 19 December 1966.

References

Citations

Bibliography 

Brett, Philip. "Britten, Benjamin", Grove Music Online, ed. L. Macy (accessed March 12, 2007), grovemusic.com (subscription access).
Britten, Benjamin. Rejoice in the Lamb. Op. 30. New York; Boosey & Hawkes, 1943.
Britten, Benjamin. Saint Nicolas (Peter Pears, tenor; Aldeburgh Festival Choir and Orchestra under Britten); Rejoice in the Lamb (George Malcolm, organ; The Purcell Singers under Britten).  London 425 714–2 (CD)

Compositions by Benjamin Britten
Church cantatas
1943 cantatas