[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Cerberus Capital Management

Company, and CalSTRS announced its divestment from Cerberus' gun holdings in June 2015. In March 2018, Freedom Group, now known as Remington Outdoor Company sought chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.In re Remington Outdoor Company Inc., 18-10684, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Delaware)

Entertainment
Acquired a group of seven television stations, Four Points Media Group, from  CBS Corporation in 2007. On September 8, 2011, Cerberus announced the sale of these same seven stations to the Sinclair Broadcast Group for $200 million; this sale was completed on January 1, 2012.
 Spyglass Entertainment, an American film and production company, is also owned by Cerberus.
 In 2007, Cerberus bought Corvest a promotional products company based in Largo, Florida with branches in Simi Valley, California & Thorofare, New Jersey.

Other sectors

 In 2007, Cerberus sold a holding in Formica, Inc.

 Broken deal for United Rentals 

In the summer of 2007, Cerberus agreed to buy United Rentals, the world's largest equipment rental company that was traded on the NYSE. After the credit markets began to tighten in August, Cerberus decided not to make the acquisition, agreeing to pay United Rentals a $100 million "reverse termination fee" that the parties had negotiated and included in their agreement.  United Rentals sued in the Delaware Court of Chancery for specific performance (i.e., a court mandate that Cerberus complete the deal). Cerberus cited the clear language contained in the deal agreement that capped its liability for not completing the transaction at $100 million. After a two-day trial, Delaware Chancellor William B. Chandler, III, ruled in favor of Cerberus, writing in his ruling that "URI knew or should have known what Cerberus' understanding of the merger agreement was."  In a statement, Cerberus said it was "gratified" by the court's ruling and was "pleased that the court chose to decide the case on the merits and confirm that Cerberus acted in accordance with its rights and obligations."

 See also 
 Top 100 US Federal Contractors

 Notes and references 
Notes

References

 Kelley, Matt. "The Congressman and the hedge fund." USA Today. January 19, 2006.
 Thornton, Emily. "What's Bigger Than Cisco, Coke, Or McDonald's?" Business Week October 2005.
 Stringer, Kortney. "Car Rental Companies are sold." Wall Street Journal. October 16, 2003.
 "Acquisition of LNR Property Corporation Completed" Business Wire. February 3, 2005.
 "Hirsch, Jerry. "Albertsons To Be Sold, Divided Into 3." Los Angeles Times''. January 24, 2006.
 Bushmaster Continues to Grow with New Owner
 "Acquisition of debis AirFinance Completed," press release from AerCap, July 4, 2005.
 "Cerberus Takes Over Majority Interest in Chrysler Group for $7.4B," press release from DaimlerChrysler AG.

External links 
 Cerberus Capital Management home page

 
1992 establishments in New York City
Drexel Burnham Lambert
Financial services companies based in New York City
Financial services companies established in 1992
Hedge fund firms in New York City
Private equity firms of the United States