[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kellie Bright

Bright took part in the BBC's Children in Need appeal in 2014 along with Danny Dyer and the rest of the EastEnders cast who performed a Grease medley titled "Grease Enders". Bright appears as Linda though dressed up as Sandy Olsen.  She performed in "You're the One That I Want" and "We Go Together".

In September 2015, Bright joined the thirteenth series of Strictly Come Dancing on BBC One. Bright chose to continue playing Linda Carter on EastEnders while competing on Strictly Come Dancing, working all day at EastEnders and rehearsing for Strictly in the evening. Paired with professional dancer Kevin Clifton, she was described by head judge Len Goodman as a "great all round dancer". On 19 December the pair reached the final three and topped the leaderboard with a score of 119. Their score including two maximum scores of 40 for their tango to "You Really Got Me" by The Kinks and their showdance to "The Ding-Dong Daddy of the D-Car Line" by Cherry Poppin' Daddies. Their final dance, a Charleston to "Cantina Band" from Star Wars'', scored 39, but the public voted Jay McGuiness and Aliona Vilani as the competition winners.

Personal life
In December 2011, Bright gave birth to her first son. 
Bright married her long-term partner and father of her children, Paul Stocker, in Trelill, Cornwall on 5th of July 2014.
She gave birth to her second son on 21 November 2016. Her second son was conceived through IVF, and following his birth, the couple froze three embryos. After two failed attempts at conceiving in 2020, Bright announced in 
March 2021 that she was pregnant with the couple's third son, who was born on 22 July.

Filmography

Film

Television

Radio

Video games

Web

Theatre credits

Awards and nominations

References

External links

 

1976 births
Living people
Alumni of the Sylvia Young Theatre School
British Soap Award for Best Actress winners
English child actresses
English television actresses
English radio actresses
English soap opera actresses
English video game actresses
People from Brentwood, Essex
Actresses from Essex
20th-century English actresses
21st-century English actresses