[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Venezia Giulia Police Force

cemen.	In his memories, Col. Richardson gave this account of the shooting at Piazza Unità d'Italia, in front of the government house, "... Mr Williams was told to go to Piazza Unità d'Italia at the Government house, with a Riot Squad. When there he ordered his men to remain into the vehicles. He went, alone, to remonstrate with the crowd, and in Italian, he appealed to them, but his attempt was unsuccessful. As he went back to his men, several stone struck him, and at that point, since the situation was quickly deteriorating, he gave orders to his men, to unsling carbines and prepare to face the crowd. He led a charge against the mob, meanwhile the Police was under a heavy stone volley. After he had run ahead few yards, he heard shots being fired behind him, but he had given no order to fire.. He immediately turned back and shouted in Italian " Enough, enough! Stop firing!!!"
The victims of the riots were: Francesco Paglia (Trieste, 1929), student at the local University, and former bersagliere of the Repubblica Sociale Italiana; Leonardo "Nardino" Manzi (Fiume now Rijeka, 1938), student, a Fiume refugee; Saverio Montano (Bari, 1903), former partisan; Erminio Bassa (Trieste, 1902), Dockworker; Antonio Zavadil (Trieste, 1889), Dockworker; Pietro Addobbati (Zara now Zadar, 1938), student, a Dalmatian region refugee.

Aftermath 

Clement Attlee, at the time leader of the opposition, (by Private Notice) asked the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Sir Anthony Eden, whether he could make any statement regarding the disturbances in Trieste. Police reports indicated that disorders were deliberately provoked and at least partly organized from outside Zone A, by people defined as "Irresponsible elements" who had evidently planned to exploit certain national Italian anniversaries in order to provoke incidents in Trieste. The demonstrations seemed to be aimed at causing a breakdown of law and order and the disruption of the local security forces. Italian sources however labeled the action as a, deliberate repression put into being by the Anglo-American Allied Military Government Authorities, to suppress the Italian sentiment of the local population, and obstruct the process of reunion of Trieste with the motherland. Her Majesty's Government took a grave view of these events, and sincerely deplored the loss of life, the injuries suffered and the destruction of property in Trieste. However, the sole responsibility for these tragic results was given to those extremist elements who deliberately provoked and organized these disorders. In note exchanging the British government made its views quite clear to the Italian Government and urged that they should do all in their power to curb those elements who have been responsible for provoking the disturbances in Trieste and the subsequent anti-allied demonstrations in Italy.

Assignment of provisional civil Administration of Trieste to Italy 

Approximately at 10:00 hrs of October 26, 1954 the Venezia-Giulia Police Force Commissioner, Col. Gerald Richardson, handed over responsibilities to Lt. Col. Diamante the acting Chief Public Safety Officer nominated by the Italian authorities. The V.G.P.F. was placed under the authority of the Italian State Police Force, at the time a paramilitary branch of the Italian Security Forces, and renamed, "Gruppo Polizia Civile" or "Civil Police Group", retaining its uniforms and ranks. This was an unusual status, because the V.G. Police Force was conceived as a Civil Police Force, while Italy had a long tradition, still enduring, of National Police Forces with a Military Status. Deputy Supervisor, Santo Del Piccolo was appointed as Commanding Officer of the "Civil Police Group". The Force, continued to operate as semi-distinct branch of Service of the Italian State Police Force, until law number 1600 was passed on December 22, 1960. The law came into effect on July 18, 1961, definitively dissolving the V.G. Police Force. Its personnel was given the choice to join the Italian State Police Force, acquiring a Military status, join the City of Trieste Municipal Force, or entering into the state administration. Some of the V.G.P.F. Personnel, mostly those with English skills, took the chance offered by the Allied, to emigrate under a special program, in USA, Canada, Australia or United Kingdom.

References

Aftermath of World War II
History of Trieste
History of Friuli-Venezia Giulia
Law enforcement in Italy
1947 establishments in Italy
Free Territory of Trieste