[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fortunato Benavides

e to the Augean stables.

Court of Appeals Judge Jerry Edwin Smith has since called the Supreme Court's Tennard opinion an unfair "tongue-lashing" that singled out the Fifth Circuit for abuse when the Court of Appeals was only trying to honestly apply the Supreme Court's own "sundry pronouncements."

TDP v. Benkiser
In TDP v. Benkiser, Benavides weighed in on a controversial election-year ballot dispute. After Congressman Tom DeLay resigned from Congress, the Republican Party of Texas sought to replace him with another candidate on the ballot shortly before the 2006 election. Texas law, however, forbids candidates from being replaced in the months leading up to an election unless they are ruled ineligible. The Texas Democratic Party sued the Republican Party to stop the switch. In court, the Republican Party argued that Tom DeLay was in fact ineligible to run for Congress in Texas because he had recently moved to Virginia.

Benavides, writing for a unanimous three-judge panel of the Fifth Circuit that included conservative Republican appointee Edith Brown Clement, ruled in favor of the Democrats. According to Benavides, the plain language of the Constitution says that candidates for Congress only need be residents of the requisite state, in this case Texas, as of election day. Since Tom DeLay had not yet failed to reside in Texas on election day (because that day had not yet come), he remained eligible.

Benavides' opinion was hailed both by academics and by the press. Professor Rick Hasen called the opinion's reasoning "solid." The Houston Chronicle wrote, "The laudable impartiality by the judges making these politically sensitive rulings should strengthen the confidence of all parties that they can get a fair day in federal court." The Washington Post applauded Benavides' ruling as both correct as a matter of constitutional law and preferable as a matter of public policy.

Death
Benavides died on May 5, 2023, at the age of 76. He was survived by his wife, Evelyn  Benavides, daughters Amanda Laura Carter and Adelaide Pilar Benavides, and grandsons Noah George Carter and Milo Harrison Carter.

See also
List of Hispanic and Latino American jurists

Notes

References
 

1947 births
2023 deaths
20th-century American judges
20th-century American lawyers
21st-century American judges
Hispanic and Latino American judges
Hispanic and Latino American lawyers
Judges of the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals
Judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
Lawyers from Austin, Texas
People from McAllen, Texas
People from Mission, Texas
United States court of appeals judges appointed by Bill Clinton
University of Houston Law Center alumni