[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Space art

outer details of the solar corona.  An able and observant artist can record aspects of their surroundings beyond the design limitations of any particular camera system.

Performance art has also occurred in space, as with Chris Hadfield's edited performance of David Bowie's 1969 song "Space Oddity."

Sojourner 2020 project onboard the International Space Station
In the 2020 Sojourner 2020 project from MIT, the Space Exploration Initiative took nine selected artists to develop art projects on board the International Space Station. The Sojourner 2020 was a 1.5U size unit (100mm x 100mm x 152.4mm) that was launched into low Earth orbit between March 7 and April 7 during the COVID-19 pandemic. It featured a three-layer telescoping structure that created three different "gravities": zero gravity, lunar gravity, and Martian gravity. Each layer of the structure rotated independently. The top layer remained still in weightlessness, while the middle and bottom layers spun at different speeds to produce centripetal accelerations that mimicked lunar gravity and Martian gravity, respectively. Each layer carried six pockets that held the projects. Each pocket was a container with a diameter of 10 mm and a depth of 12 mm. The artist proposed and accomplished artworks in a variety of different mediums, including carved stone sculptures by Erin Genia, liquid pigment experiments by Andrea Ling and Levi Cai, sculptures made of transgender hormone replacement medicines by Adriana Knouf, and living organisms, like marine diatoms of the genus Phaeodactylum Tricornutum, by Luis Guzmán.

The nine artist groups selected onboard Sojourner 2020 were:

· Luis Bernardo Guzmán - bio architectures (Cosmobiology) - Chile

· Xin Liu, Lucia Monge - Unearthing the Futures - China and Peru

· Levi Cai & Andrea Ling - Abiogenetic Triptych - USA, Canada

· Kat Kohl - Memory Chain: A Pas de Deux of Artifact - USA

· Henry Tan - Pearl of Lunar - Thai

· Janet Biggs - Finding Equilibrium - USA

· Masahito Ono - Nothing, Something, Everything - Japan

· Adriana Knouf - TX-1 - USA

· Erin Genia - Canupa Inyan: Falling Star Woman - American Sisseton Wahpeton Oyate Artworks launched into outer space 
 The Contour of Presence by Nahum
 Orbital Reflector by Trevor Paglen
 Enoch by Tavares Strachan
 Moon Gallery by the Moon Gallery Foundation

Space art organizations

International Association of Astronomical Artists

The premier organization and only guild in the world dedicated to the creation of space art is the International Association of Astronomical Artists (IAAA). Composed of over 120 members, artists of the IAAA depict the wonders of the universe in ways to inspire the greater human population and raise awareness of space. Members of the IAAA have been creating space art in all of its myriad forms since its founding in 1982, from traditional painting to digital works to 3-D zero-gravity sculpture. Numerous book and magazine covers, movie effects, or artistic images illustrating the newest astronomical discoveries are done by an IAAA member. 

 KOSMICA Institute 
KOSMICA is an institute that runs poetical, artistic, cultural, and critical projects about outer space activities and their impact on the Earth. KOSMICA's central activity is a series of festivals worldwide, with over 20 editions in various countries. Also, KOSMICA constantly develops further activities, such as educational programs and publishing. It has local offices in several cities as well as partner organizations.

See also
List of space artists
List of space art related books
Time capsule

References

 Further reading 
 Space Art, Ron Miller, Starlog Magazine Visions of Space, David A. Hardy, Paper Tiger 1989
 Worlds Beyond: The Art of Chesley Bonestell, Ron Miller & Frederick C. Durant, III
 Star Struck: One Thousand Years of the art of Science and Astronomy, Ronald Brashear & Daniel Lewis, 2001 Univ. of Washington Press
 Futures: 50 Years in Space, David A. Hardy & Patrick Moore, AAPPL 2004Out of the Cradle: Exploring the Frontiers beyond Earth, William K. Hartmann, Ron Miller and Pamela Lee (Workman Publishing, 1984)
 Space Art: How to Draw and Paint Planets, Moons, and Landscapes of Alien Worlds, Michael Carroll, 2007 Watson Guptill/Random House
 The Impact of American and Russian Cosmism on the Representation of Space Exploration in 20th Century American and Soviet Space Art'', Kornelia Boczkowska, Wydawnictwo Naukowe UAM, 2016

External links 

International Association of Astronomical Artists
 numerous space art site links

 
Space advocacy
Spaceflight
Visual arts genres