[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# 34th G8 summit

2,000 delegates in total, it was the largest G8 summit ever. Besides the leaders of the G8 nations attending, there were the government leaders of seven African nations and representatives from the five developing countries. Also in attendance were leaders from Australia, Indonesia, and South Korea.

Logistics
 Media: There were approximately 4,000 journalists covering the summit from a specially built ¥2.8-billion ($25.92-million), media center. One hundred antennas were put up for mobile phones.
 Site: The world leaders stayed at Windsor Hotel Toya Resort, located on the peak of the 625m tall Mount Poromoi, overlooking Lake Tōya.
 Security: There were more than 20,000 police providing ground-based security. Military security included 4 fighter jets, AWACS reconnaissance, 12 warships, and Patriot surface-to-air-missiles.
 Human rights: Over 40 dissidents were arrested before the summit started. At least 4 people were arrested, including a Reuters cameraman, during what a legal observer claimed was a "non-violent demonstration where no acts against property or people took place."
 Freedom of speech: Nineteen or twenty Koreans critical of the G8 leadership and expected to participate in citizens' debates were detained by the Japanese authorities at New Chitose Airport for at least 24 hours and were expected to be deported.
 Cost: The total cost of the three-day summit has been estimated at ¥60-billion.
 Food: Fifty chefs from 23 local hotels created special meals using 105 different local products; and the first night banquet featured 19 dishes. Expressed differently, the summit leaders enjoyed a six-course lunch followed by an eight-course dinner.
 NGOs: More than 140 non-government organizations are holding an alternative summit in the prefectural capital of Sapporo.

Business opportunity
For some, the G8 summit became a profit-generating event; as for example, the G8 Summit magazine which has been published under the auspices of the host nations for distribution to all attendees since 1998.

Hokkaido's small businesses which were located near the summit site discovered that most of their customers were policemen during the event; and the tourist trade was virtually dead." The Guardian reported one shop owner's terse point of view: "I just want to get this summit over and done with so we can get back to normal."

In contrast, a foreign ministry spokesman focused on the exposure Toyako [Lake Toya] received in the international media; and he argued that the short-term sacrifice would prove to be worthwhile in terms of long-term business opportunities.

Gallery
Core G8 participants

See also

 Cool Earth 50
 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
 The Monster X Strikes Back/Attack the G8 Summit'', a Japanese kaiju comedy film depicting a monster attack on the summit
 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change

References

Further reading

External links

 Official municipal website:  Toyako-cho Summit Promotion
 University of Toronto: G8 Research Group, G8 Information Centre
  G8 2008, delegations & documents

G8 summit
G8 summit
G8 summit 2008
G8 summit 2008
2008
G8 summit 2008
July 2008 events in Japan