[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abuna Takla Haymanot

nnouncement of his death kept the Coptic Church from recognizing any other person as head of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church.  Although the two churches continued in communion with each other, formal ties were severed and the Coptic Patriarchate refused to recognize Abune Takla Haymanot as legitimate.

Abune Takla Haymanot presided over the church during a tumult filled period of Ethiopian history.  The Derg launched a vicious and bloody campaign against its opponents known as the Ethiopian Red Terror.  Countless of people from every political, social, economic and religious grouping, were imprisoned, tortured, or killed, and thousands fled the country as a hard line Communist and officially atheist regime imposed itself on the ancient empire.  Later during his tenure, Ethiopia would fall victim to the worst famine in its recorded history when millions are believed to have been affected directly.  During these hard times, church attendance exploded to all time highs, and unlike the other Communist countries of the world, actually grew during this period.  Although his legitimacy had been called into question, Abune Takla Haymanot through his personal devoutness and dignity, would become the most popular of all the men to have sat on the Patriarchal throne in Ethiopia.  Upon his enthronement, he had refused to don the black robes traditional to high-ranking hierarchs of the Orthodox churches.  Instead he adopted robes that were bright yellow, the color of the bahitawi hermits, and a color which in Ethiopian tradition symbolized penance and suffering.  Indeed, the Patriarch spent the entire 11 years of his reign in almost constant penance.  He prayed constantly, refused to eat anything but the simplest boiled and roasted grains and beans, slept on the bare floor and wore the thinnest of sandals, in an act of constant self-mortification.  Every penny of his personal allowance was spent on educating a group of famine orphans that he was personally raising in the Patriarchate itself.  Although never directly confronting the communist government for fear of increasing the persecution of his flock, Patriarch Abune Takla Haymanot preached to his people to be strong and to pray, joining them in this endeavor with all his heart.  Eventually, the Derg realized that instead of having a pliant, easily manipulated country bumpkin, they were dealing with a formidable, deeply conservative, rigid and uncompromising man at the head of the church.  He increasingly refused to accept incursions on his office by the government appointed administrator, and eventually had the man removed from office.

There are reports, that there was a final rupture between President Mengistu Haile Mariam and the Patriarch following the napalm and cluster bombing of rebel held areas of Eritrea and the Tigray Region in the north in 1988.  It is said that the Patriarch had protested against such measures being carried out on innocent civilian populations, and that Col. Mengistu had angrily demanded that he stop interfering in state affairs.  The Patriarch, already in poor health and a weakened state thanks to his constant fasting and penance, then began an even more rigorous fast (basically a hunger strike in protest) and refused to make any more public appearances other than to attend the Divine Liturgy at the church within the Patriarchate.  He made one final public appearance at the inauguration of a new church in Wollaita, and visited the cave where he had once lived.  He returned to Addis Ababa and was almost immediately admitted to the hospital, where he died.

The Ethiopian government ordered a full state funeral for Patriarch Abune Takla Haymanot, complete with military escort, gun salutes and flags at half staff throughout Ethiopia.  The open casket was carried from St. Mary's church in the Patriarchate, to Holy Trinity Cathedral, on the same carriage that was once used by the fallen Imperial regime for royal funerals.  The Patriarch lay in his coffin wearing a Patriarchal crown and in his robes of office, draped with the Ethiopian flag.  Tens of thousands of weeping faithful packed the streets to see the body pass on the way to the Cathedral. He was buried at the Cathedral after lying in state for three days.  His burial was attended by the entire diplomatic corps in Addis Ababa as well as most of the high-ranking members of the government and the Workers' Party of Ethiopia (WPE).

Abune Takla Haymanot was succeeded by Patriarch Abuna Merkorios.

See also
List of abunas of Ethiopia

References

External links
Patriarch Tekle Haimanot

1918 births
1988 deaths
Patriarchs of Ethiopia
Ethiopian anti-communists
20th-century Oriental Orthodox archbishops