[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ron Unz

focus on fundraising for Proposition 25, which was ultimately defeated in the March 2000 primary election.

In 2012 and 2014, Unz worked on a ballot initiative to raise the Californian minimum wage from $10 to $12, but his campaign failed. His proposal was supported by economist James K. Galbraith.

In 2016, Unz organized the "Free Harvard, Fair Harvard" campaign, a slate of five candidates campaigning for spots on the Harvard Board of Overseers, the governing board of Harvard University. The slate included himself, journalist Stuart Taylor Jr., physicist Stephen Hsu, consumer advocate Ralph Nader, and lawyer Lee C. Cheng. The campaign sought for tuition fees at Harvard to be abolished and for greater transparency in the admissions process. None of the five candidates were elected to the 30-person board.

Unz campaigned on a Republican ticket in California in the 2016 primaries for election to the US Senate intending to succeed Democrat Barbara Boxer. Having previously supported immigration, he now proposed it "should be sharply reduced, probably by 50% or more." Though not hoping to win the nomination, he put himself forward in an attempt to challenge the then proposed repeal of Proposition 227. He was endorsed by former U.S. Representative Ron Paul. In the final result, he gained 64,698 votes (1.3%).

Writing and publishing

The American Conservative and the "Asian quota" controversy
An investor in The American Conservative, he was its publisher from 2007 to 2013. He also contributed opinion articles on topics such as immigration, the minimum wage, and urban crime. In an email leaked to National Review magazine, editor Daniel McCarthy wrote that Unz was acting as if he was the editor of The American Conservative and threatened to resign if the publication's board did not support him over Unz.

In 2012 Unz published an article in The American Conservative entitled "The Myth of American Meritocracy". He argued Ivy League universities held an unspoken admissions quota for granting spots to Asian/Asian American applicants an Asian quota similar to earlier Jewish quotas, and that Jewish students are over-represented than merit would suggest, which he claimed was caused by unconscious Jewish bias among administrators. The article said that the “massive apparent bias” could be attributed to Jewish administrators at those universities. His argument for existence of Asian race-based quota was reproduced in a subsequent New York Times special debate feature, "Fears of an Asian Quota in the Ivy League". Unz's admissions analysis was contested by academics at Yale, who showed that his data "grossly underestimates the proportion of Asian-Americans". Unz's writings on Ivy League admissions were praised by white supremacist David Duke who said it confirmed Harvard was "now under powerful Jewish influence". Antisemitic conspiracy theorist Kevin B. MacDonald said it was similar to his own view that Jews are "at odds with the values of the great majority of non-Jewish White Americans."

The Unz Archive
Unz also compiled the Unz Archive (UNZ.org), a searchable online collection of periodicals, books, and video, that by 2012 held around 25,000 issues of over 120 publications, including The American Mercury, The Literary Digest, Inquiry, Collier's, Marxism Today, New Politics, and various pulp fiction and romance magazines. Nick Gillespie of Reason called it "one of the Web's great archive projects".

The Unz Review 
In November 2013, Unz launched the website The Unz Review for which he serves as editor-in-chief and publisher.

The Unz Review describes itself as presenting "controversial perspectives largely excluded from the American mainstream media." Unz says he mostly posts articles that have already been published, and "I don't even read most of the articles I publish, and I certainly don't edit them. I'm busy."  It has been described by the Associated Press as "a hodgepodge of views from corners of both the left and right" and by the New York Times as "far right". According to the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) in 2014, the webzine is an "outlet for certain writers to attack Israel and Jews". The Southern Poverty Law Center has labeled it a white nationalist publication. In 2016, a research fellow at the ADL said "I haven't seen Ron Unz write anything anti-Semitic himself, but he really gives a platform to anti-Semites."

In 2017, The Unz Review received public attention when former CIA operative Valerie Plame was criticized after tweeting an article by a columnist, counter-terrorism specialist Philip Giraldi, titled "America's Jews Are Driving America's Wars" published in the webzine.