[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nodocephalosaurus

ulbous, ridge-like loreal caputegulum, a quadratojugal horn with an anteriorly positioned apex, conical frontonasal caputegulae with circular bases, lacks V-shaped upraised area of frontals, and a lacrimal caputegulum that is smaller, more square than in Ankylosaurus, Anodontosaurus, Euoplocephalus.

Cranium
 
The skull of Nodocephalosaurus is incomplete, partially crushed and consists mostly of the left half. The skull has an estimated length of 39 cm from the left nasal to the rear of the skull. The snout is directed anteroventrally and the skull is highly arched in profile. The skull is fractured with most of the breaks occurring along cranial sutures and the premaxilla is not preserved. Numerous disarticulated fragments that are presumably from the right side were recovered. The basicranium is deformed on the dorsal region due to post-mortem crushing and cementation of cranial elements, while the ventral region is better preserved. The basioccipital and basisphenoid are partially fused and are compressed towards the left side of the skull. The right exoccipital is not preserved, while the left exoccipital is lodged between the left side of the squamosal region, skull roof, basioccipital, and basisphenoid. The occipital condyle is large, ovoid in shape, and both portions of the condyle are fused. The supraoccipital cannot be distinguished as it is presumably part of a large mass of bone that lies between the skull roof and the occipital condyle. The parasphenoid is obscured by a parasagittal bony mass that represents part of the skull roof and associated osteoderms of the frontal region. Due to the overlying osteoderms that are fused to the skull roof, the frontals are not visible in dorsal view. The jugal has a smooth inner surface that differs from the rugose outer surface, which is a characteristic of osteodermal sculpturing. The lacrimal is mostly obscured by osteoderms and rises up within the inner lateral orbital region. The maxilla, in left lateral aspect, forms a distinct arc. The end of the maxilla ends in a "foot" that has a flattened ovoid surface. Both above and behind the "foot" lies an irregular sub-ovoid osteoderm. An ascending maxillary process forms the internal wall of the external naris. The maxilla preserves only 19 alveoli, although no teeth are preserved. The posterior extent of the nasal cannot be described precisely due to the osteodermal covering. The anterior part has large dermal ossifications and covers most of the nasal. A separate dermal ossification is visible on the left lateral side of the posterior part. The left nasal terminates in a "foot" that tapers ventrally to a V-shape. The palatine is bordered medially by the vomer and behind the palatine lies a matrix-filled area that corresponds to the palatal foramen of Pinacosaurus. The right palatine has a ventral surface that is lightly pitted, with a rugose texture on the posteromedial part. The upper side of the parietals are covered with a thin osteodermal covering and a large plate-like osteoderm occupies the front part of the parietal table which contacts the posterior-most lateral frontal osteoderm.