[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Australia ICOMOS

ences in Australia, and has been in publication for over 30 years. The journal aims to bring together ... dynamic, critical interdisciplinary research in the field of cultural heritage and heritage conservation.  The journal has an editorial committee of five with lead editor Dr. Tim Winter in 2013.

The journal is accessed online via State Library of New South Wales, and indexed through various index services including RMIT's Australian Heritage Bibliography and the Australian Public Affairs Information Service (APAIS). It is held in over 80 libraries worldwide including all of the Australian State Libraries and major Australian and New Zealand university libraries, and was ranked 'A' by the Australian Research Council Excellence in Research for Australia classification scheme. Australia ICOMOS also publishes the Australia ICOMOS Newsletter (ISSN 0155-3534) on a regular basis.

Mentoring

Australia ICOMOS provides a mentoring program for cultural heritage students as well as architectural students who have completed subjects in architectural conservation and the Australia ICOMOS Victorian Scholarships. Australia ICOMOS projects extend to providing expertise and fundraising for restoration projects in the wider Asia and Pacific region, including the Streetwise Asia School Restoration Project in the Philippines. Australia ICOMOS, and in particular, Richard Mackay AM, have been involved in conservation management advice for the World Heritage Listing of Ankor Wat in Cambodia for many years.

References

External links 
 
 A volume revisited: a retrospective review of Historic Environment Volume 11 Nos. 2 & 3: managing a shared heritage (1995) Australia ICOMOS E-Newsletter, 243 . pp. 3–5.

Organizations established in 1976
Heritage organizations
Conservation and restoration organizations
1976 establishments in Australia
History journals
Triannual journals
English-language journals
Academic journals established in 1982
Historiography of Australia
Academic journals published by learned and professional societies
History organisations based in Australia