[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation International

The Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation International (), widely known as LBCI, is a private television station in Lebanon. LBCI was founded in 1992 by acquiring the assets, liabilities and logo of LBC, an entity founded in 1985 during the Lebanese Civil War by the Lebanese Forces militia. LBCI went global in 1996 when it launched its satellite channel LBC Al-Fadha'iya Al-Lubnaniya () covering Lebanon, the Arab world, Europe, America, Australia and Africa.

History

Post-war era
The Lebanese Forces, a Lebanese militia that had founded LBC in 1985, was militarily and financially weakened by Lebanese civil war which ended in 1990 and its leader Samir Geagea was imprisoned in 1994. In 1992, Pierre El Daher had founded LBCI along with other shareholders and registered it at the Commercial Register of Baabda.

In April 1996, El Daher and other shareholders launched LBCsat, a free satellite channel. The new channel was a success, especially to the Lebanese diaspora, disseminated throughout the world.

In 2003, as a result of an agreement between Saleh Kamel, founder of LMH company (Lebanese Media Holding, owner of 49% of LBC SAT and Pac's shares) and Saudi prince Al Waleed bin Talal, the latter, through Kingdom, replaced Kamel in LMH.

By the end of 2008, it was decided to increase the capital of LMH considerably. Accordingly, Al-Waleed Bin Talal became the largest shareholder after acquiring the absolute majority in PAC (a content provider for both LBCI and LBC SAT) and LBC SAT, based on an understanding that the capital increase would be invested to improve the programs’ network and upgrade productivity under the supervision of Sheikh Pierre Daher.

In 2010, Rupert Murdoch joined the group and PAC and LBC SAT were merged with Rotana. Rumor was that this merger would improve and develop the group, which seemed an obvious result of the cooperation between the Saudi prince and the owner of the biggest media empire in the world, Rupert Murdoch. These expectations did not materialize.

Al Hayat and LBC SAT merger
At the end of the year 2002, LBC SAT and the London-based Al Hayat newspaper owned by Saudis, merged their news programs. LBC SAT daily news bulletin was called the "Al Hayat-LBC SAT news bulletin". The cooperation ended in 2010.

Television channels

Domestic
 LBCI – a local channel for Lebanese viewers broadcasting a variety of programs of different genres.
 LB2 (formerly known as LBCI Drama) – a local channel dedicated to around the clock reruns of entertainment shows and series.

International
 LBC Europe – an international version of LBCI targeted to Lebanese citizens in Europe.
 LBC America – the international version of LBCI is targeted at Lebanese citizens in America.

In December 2019, LBCI announced that the LDC brand will be discontinued by the beginning of the year 2020 and that all programs will be broadcast via LBCI. The main reason behind the decision is that the LDC branding is no longer needed since the battle for the LBC brand and channels with Al Walid Bin Talal has been resolved and won by LBCI current owner, Pierre El Daher.

Defunct
 Lebanese Diaspora Channel (LDC) – an international version of LBCI targeted to Lebanese in diaspora countries.
 LBCI News – local channel that focuses on broadcasting the most actual news.
 LBCI HD – Lebanon's first HD channel, broadcasting LBCI programs in high definition.
 LBC Australia – the international version of LBCI is targeted at Lebanese citizens in Australia.
 LBC Africa – the international version of LBCI is targeted at Lebanese in Africa.
 LBC Maghreb – international version of LBCI targeted at Lebanese citizens in the Middle East and North Africa.

Logos

Popular programs
LBCI has produced many popular shows including: Little Big Stars (), Star Academy Arab World, Ya Katel Ya Maktoul (Arabic version of Greed), Miss Lebanon, Hellha wo Ehtalha (Arabic version of French TV Show Fort Boyard), Survivor Middle East, El Wadi (Arabic version of The Farm), The Perfect Bride and Mission Fashion.

Its most famous talk show is Kalam Ennas () hosted by Marcel Ghanem. The show, which originally aired on C33, moved to LBC after C33 was shut down in the mid-1990s. Another famous show is BassMat Watan   (); a pun in Lebanese for either "The smiles of the homeland" or "When the nation died", depending on how people see the joke of this title), a sketch-comedy show that deals with politics and current events.