[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Pakistan–United States relations

to Russia and responded to a rally, he said "Are we your slaves? What do you think of us? That we are your slaves and that we will do whatever you ask of us? We are friends of Russia, and we are also friends of the United States. We are friends of China and Europe. We are not part of any alliance."

In a statement released at the end of the "Fourth Annual US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue", the United States and India call on Pakistan to take "irreversible action" to ensure that its soil is not used for terrorist attacks against any other country.

In October 2022, U.S. President Joe Biden called Pakistan "one of the most dangerous nations in the world" during an address in California while speaking about the changing global geopolitical situation. Pakistani Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif and Foreign Minister Bilawal Bhutto Zardari rejected the statement as baseless, and the country's acting foreign secretary summoned the U.S. ambassador for an explanation of Biden's remarks.

Since Pakistani government decided to import Russian oil in 2023, Dawn claimed the United states had demonstrated positive relations with Pakistan by allowing them to purchase oil from Russia at a discounted price, despite not signing a Washington-backed price cap on Russian petroleum products.

Strategic competition between China and the United States exacerbates already existing  geopolitical conflict between the U.S. and Pakistan, Pakistani Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Hina Rabbani Khar calls for prioritizing ties with China over appeasing the U.S. in a leaked secret memo.

In response to the crackdown on former Prime Minister Imran Khan, Pakistani-American advocacy groups were mobilizing members of the US Congress to issue statements against human rights abuses in Pakistan, further estranged the bilateral relationship.

In August 2023, according to a leaked diplomatic cable at the March 7, 2022 meeting from Pakistan received by The Intercept, US State department encouraged removal of Imran Khan owing to his neutral stance on the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Meetings between Pakistani and U.S. leaders

Visits by leaders of Pakistan

Visits by Presidents of the United States

Military science programs

Pakistan and atomic weapons
In 1955, after Prime Minister Huseyn Suhrawardy established nuclear power to ease of the electricity crises, with U.S. offering grant of US$350,000 to acquire a commercial nuclear power plant. Following this year, the PAEC signed an agreement with counterpart, the United States Atomic Energy Commission, where the research on nuclear power and training was started initially by the United States. During the 1960s, the U.S. opens doors to Pakistan's scientists and engineers to conduct research on leading institutions of the U.S., notably ANL, ORNL, and LLNL. In 1965, Abdus Salam went to U.S. and convinced the U.S. government to help establish a national institute of nuclear research in Pakistan (PINSTECH) and a research reactor Parr-I. The PINSTECH building was designed by leading American architect Edward Durrell Stone; American nuclear engineer Peter Karter designed the reactor, which was then supplied by the contractor American Machine and Foundry. Years later, the U.S. helped Pakistan to acquire its first commercial nuclear power plant, Kanupp-I, from GE Canada in 1965. All this nuclear infrastructure was established by the U.S. throughout the 1960s, as part of the Congressional Atoms for Peace program.

This was changed after Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and democratic socialists under him decided to build nuclear weapons for the sake of their national security and survival. In 1974, U.S. imposed embargo and restriction on Pakistan to limit its nuclear weapons program. The ban was lifted in early 1975, a decision that was protested by the government of Afghanistan. In the 1980s, the American concerns of Pakistan's role in nuclear proliferation eventually turned out to be true after the exposure of nuclear programs of Iran, North Korea, Saudi Arabia and Libya. Although the atomic program was effectively peaceful and devoted for economical usage, the nuclear policy change in the 1970s and till the present, with Pakistan maintaining its program as part of the strategic deterrence.