[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Franz Schwede

Franz Reinhold Schwede (5 March 1888 – 19 October 1960) was a Nazi German politician, Oberbürgermeister (Lord Mayor) of Coburg and both Gauleiter and Oberpräsident of Pomerania. An early supporter of Adolf Hitler in Coburg, Schwede used intimidation and propaganda to help elect the first Nazi-majority local government in Germany. This contributed to a personality cult surrounding Schwede and he became known as "Franz Schwede-Coburg." During World War II he ordered secret executions of the infirm and mass deportations of Jews. He also played a key role in abandoning the Pomeranian civilian population to the advancing Red Army, while escaping their fate himself. In 1945 he was captured by the British Army and in 1948 he was tried and convicted of war crimes.

Early years
Franz Schwede was born in the small town of Drawöhnen near Memel, East Prussia (now Dreverna in Klaipėda District Municipality, Lithuania) in 1888, when it was part of the German Empire. After attending volksschule, he worked briefly as a forester, then trained as a millwright and in 1907 joined the Imperial German Navy as a machinist in the Wilhelmshaven shipyard. He served throughout the First World War aboard many warships including the battleship SMS Prinzregent Luitpold and the light cruiser SMS Dresden. By the end of the war he had risen to the rank of technical deck officer (Deckoffizier) and had been awarded the Iron Cross 1st and 2nd class. After the Scuttling of the German fleet in Scapa Flow in 1919, Schwede wound up in British custody as a prisoner of war. 

Upon his release on 1 February 1920 he immediately joined the Reichsmarine and was assigned as an instructor at a naval school in Wilhelmshaven. However, he was discharged at the end of March 1921 when personnel limits imposed by the Versailles Treaty were reached. He then took a job as operations manager at a sawmill in Sankt Andreasberg in the Prussian Province of Hanover, before being hired as foreman at the Coburg Municipal Electrical Works in March 1922. During this period, Schwede became active in the Deutschvölkischer Schutz und Trutzbund, a "völkisch" anti-Semitic organization.

Rise to power in Coburg

In November 1922 Schwede joined the Nazi Party (membership number 1,581) and in April 1923 co-founded a Local Group () in Coburg, a historic city in northeastern Bavaria. Under Schwede's guidance, anti-Semitic demonstrations and street battles instigated by the Sturmabteilung became commonplace in the city. After the Party was banned in the wake of the Beer Hall Putsch, Schwede became Kreisführer (County Leader) in Coburg for the Völkischer Block, a Nazi front organization active in Bavaria. He also joined the National Socialist Freedom Movement, another front organization, that in the 1924 Coburg city council elections managed to get 14.3% of the vote. This entitled them to 3 seats on the Council and Schwede took one of them. Shortly after the NSDAP ban lifted, Schwede rejoined on 30 March 1925, becoming the Party Ortsgruppenleiter (Local Group Leader) in Coburg, where there were about 800 members at that time, and the Bezirksleiter (District Leader) in 1928. That year he also secured a seat on the Kreistag (District Council) of Upper Franconia.

In 1926, Schede founded Der Weckruf ("The Wake-Up Call"), the first Nazi propaganda newspaper at the local level in Germany. Here he ran an extra-parliamentary opposition with lurid articles about alleged "scandals" designed to destabilize the political system of the Weimar Republic. In 1928, the paper began a slander and harassment campaign against Abraham Friedmann, the Jewish General Director of the Coburg meat company Großmann AG. Friedmann was initially successful in fighting these attacks and managed to get the City Council to fire Schwede from his job at the Municipal Works in 1929. The outraged Nazis demanded Schwede's immediate reinstatement and when the city refused a petition began circulating to dissolve the City Council. On 5 May 1929 the recall passed with 67% of the vote. In the ensuing re-election campaign, which included public speeches in Coburg by Adolf Hitler himself, the Nazis won 43.1% of the popular vote and 13 of the 25 seats in June 1929. This was the first instance where the NSDAP held an absolute majority in a local government in Germany. At the newly elected Council's opening session, Schwede was promptly rehired to the Municipal Works.