[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pentomic

d his career was loath to criticise it. Westmoreland also briefed all officers in the division that "Our job is not to determine whether it will work—our job is to make it work". Following the end of Westmoreland's command of the 101st in 1960 he recommended that the pentomic structure be abolished.

Lineages
When the U.S. Army division was reorganized under the pentomic structure in 1957, the traditional regimental organization employed by the Army was to be eliminated. This raised questions as to what the new units were to be called, how they were to be numbered, and what their relationship to former organizations was to be. Many of the Army's senior officers were determined to perpetuate the historic lineages of the Army, unlike the situation after the Civil War when the Grand Army of the Republic persuaded Congress to forbid the linkage between the Civil War era Union Army Corps and the new Corps organized for the Spanish–American War.

On 24 January 1957, the Secretary of the Army approved the U.S. Army Combat Arms Regimental System (CARS) concept, as devised by the Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel, which was designed to provide a flexible regimental structure that would permit perpetuation of unit history and tradition in the new tactical organization of divisions, without restricting the organizational trends of the future.

Separate brigades were organized with two or three battle groups. The 2nd Infantry Brigade was organized as follows:
 Headquarters & Headquarters Company 
 1st Battle Group, 4th Infantry
 2nd Battle Group, 60th Infantry
 3rd Battalion, 4th Artillery
 1st Battalion, 76th Artillery
 Troop F, 5th Cavalry
 Company F, 34th Armor
 Company G, 34th Armor 
 Brigade Trains 
 232nd Engineer Company (Combat)
 712th Engineer Company (Combat)

End of  Reorganization of the Current Infantry Division (ROCID)
In December 1960, the Army began studying proposals to reorganize again that was hastened by newly elected President John F. Kennedy's "Doctrine of Flexible Response". This led to the Reorganization Objective Army Division (ROAD) initiative by 1963.

Organization
The infantry and airborne division structures commonly known as pentomic divisions are actually two related organizations, officially known as Reorganization of The Airborne Division (ROTAD) and Reorganization of the Current Infantry Division (ROCID). The pentomic structure was a reaction to the perceived threat of nuclear weapons on the modern battlefield and a chance for the Army to secure additional funding.

Earlier, the US Army had fought World War I with the "square" organisation, each division having two brigades, each with two infantry regiments. Prior to American participation in World War II, the organization was changed to "triangular" with each division directly controlling three regiments and eliminating the brigade echelon from the division.

The ROTAD was implemented first, with the 101st Airborne Division reorganizing under test tables of organization published on 10 August 1956. The core of the division was five infantry battle groups, each containing five infantry companies, a headquarters and service company, and a mortar battery. A headquarters and headquarters battalion contained a headquarters and service company, an administration company, an aviation company and a reconnaissance troop. The division artillery contained a headquarters and headquarters battery, five 105mm howitzer firing batteries, and an Honest John missile battery. A support group contained a headquarters and service company, a maintenance battalion, a quartermaster parachute company, a supply and transportation company and a medical company. Separate signal and engineer battalions completed the organization, which required a total of 11,486 men. After a series of tests by the 101st Airborne Division, the Continental Army Command (CONARC) approved slightly modified tables of organization, and all three airborne divisions (the 11th, 82nd and 101st) were reorganized during 1957.