[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Japan–North Korea Pyongyang Declaration

l nuclear programming for further aid including food.

2013
North Korea carried out rocket-launch nuclear tests in February 2013, violating UN resolutions.

2017
Following a three year hiatus, North Korea announced its sixth nuclear test. This led to six-party talks with North Korea's participation.

Further developments
Diplomatic relations between North Korea and Japan are neutral; sections of the Pyongyang Declaration have been upheld by the two parties. The United States has introduced economic sanctions because of North Korea's ongoing nuclear program. In July 2006, North Korea contentiously fired ballistic missiles.

Stockholm Agreement
In May 2014, Japan and North Korea instigated the Stockholm Agreement. Kim Jong-un and the North Korean government dedicated a special investigation committee regarding remaining abductees.

Kim Jong-un has expanded missile testing and nuclear programs, stalling the diplomatic measures created under Kim Jong-il.

2019
In 2019, North Korea staged a series of short-range missile testing. This led to a January summit which resulted in Kim Jong-un canceling the Pyongyang Declaration. In March 2019, Japan declined to sign a UN motion condemning North Korea human rights record. This motion was deemed an olive branch by Japan to North Korea for the sake of establishing an agreement regarding remaining abductees. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe stated:In order to resolve this abductions issue, we should not miss out any single opportunity and I, myself, have to meet face-to-face with Chairman Kim Jong Un, and meet with him without attaching any conditions. I intend to work to resolve this issue, with the determination that we will not miss out any single opportunity.Shinzo Abe, May 6, 2019.

See also
2006 North Korean missile test
Japan–North Korea relations

References

External links
Text of the Pyongyang declaration at the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website

Japan–North Korea relations
2002 in Japan
2002 in North Korea
2002 in international relations
2002 documents
Nuclear program of North Korea