[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Inca Civil War

The Inca Civil War, also known as the Inca Dynastic War, the Inca War of Succession, or, sometimes,  the War of the Two Brothers, was fought between half-brothers Huáscar and Atahualpa, sons of Huayna Capac, over succession to the throne of the Inca Empire. The war followed Huayna Capac's death.

It began in 1529, and lasted until 1532. Huáscar initiated the war; appointed as king and claiming the throne, he wanted to defeat Atahualpa's competition. Atahualpa was tactically superior to his brother in warcraft and to the mighty armies of Cuzco, which their father had stationed in the north part of the empire during the military campaign. Accounts from sources all vary in the exact details. Following Atahualpa's victory, Spanish forces led by Francisco Pizarro invaded this region. He ultimately captured and killed Atahualpa, after receiving a ransom that was purportedly to free him.

Causes of the division of the empire 

In 1524-1526, the Spaniards under the command of Francisco Pizarro, explored South America.  There were 62 horsemen and 106 foot soldiers. They are believed to have carried smallpox to the continent, as it had been endemic among Europeans for centuries. The new infectious disease erupted in epidemics and caused high mortality and disaster for the Inca and other indigenous peoples, who had no immunity.

Atahualpa was the favorite son of Huayna Capac. The prince accompanied his father on every military expedition in the north. Huayna Capac wanting to test his military capabilities, he sent him on a military expedition to conquer the Pasto people. However Atahualpa fled and received harsh treatment on his return.

Huayna Capac, who was in Tumebamba, heard news of the strangers arriving at Tumbes. Although he did not personally encounter any Spaniards, he contracted smallpox and died in 1527. He named Ninan Cuyochi as his successor. A group of nobles was sent to Cusco to inform Ninan Cuyochi. However Huayna Capac later rather appointed Huáscar as his heir. Since the auguries were negative, the great priest (Villaq Umu) returned to Tumebamba for Huayna Capac to make a new choice. But at his arrival, the Sapa Inca was already dead. Meanwhile the group of nobles sent to Cusco learned of the death Ninan Cuyochi. It was uncertain who should be the next Inca king; they had no clear rules of succession.   Two sons of Huayna Capac, Huáscar and Atahualpa, born of different mothers, both claimed the position.

If the sovereign and his successor both died, then a new king was elected by the Inca nobles. And so Huascar was supported by the nobility in Cuzco, by religious and political authorities and other main figures. He was, through his mother, a part of Capac Ayllu, the panaka of Topa Inca. His parents, Huayna Capac and Chincha Ocllo, were siblings. As in some other cultures, the Inca violated incest rules to keep religious and political authority limited among a small elite. As to Atahualpa, sources disagree on his ascent. According to some sources, mainly Inca Garcilaso de la Vega, he was the son of a woman from Quito. Juan de Velasco says his mother was Paccha, the queen of Quito. However the large majority of reliable sources say that Atahualpa was the son of a woman from the panaka of Pachacuti. Therefore the conflict was most likely a conflict between the panakas. According to the french historian Henri Favre the panaka of Topa Inca was in the Hurin (low) part of Cusco. According to him the conflict was not just opposing the two panakas but all the panakas of Cusco, depending on rather they were Hurin or Hanan (high). Huascar was described as ill-tempered, suspicious, and disrespectful of laws and customs. This made him unpopular with the Inca nobles in Cusco. Atahualpa, who already had got the support of the Inca armies stationed north, was now plotting against his brother.

Movements during the war 
Soon after Huáscar claimed the throne, he expected all subjects to swear him allegiance.  To announce his loyalty, Atahualpa sent his most trusted captains to Cuzco, along with generous gifts of gold and silver (as was customary). Suspicious, Huáscar refused Atahualpa's offering. Accusing the half-brother of rebellion, he ordered some of his messengers killed, and sent back his captains dressed as women. Atahualpa declared war against his brother.

Just before the Spaniards arrived in Cajamarca, Atahualpa had sent troops to Cusco to capture Huáscar, and headed south himself to execute him. (Later Francisco Pizarro used this as one of the excuses to execute Atahualpa after Pizarro collected the ransom of gold and silver promised to him for his freedom.)