[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Barry Long

dren from birth in justice and truth not just love. In response to the September 2001 terrorist attacks in the US, an extract on terrorism from his Origins book written in 1983 was published separately as well as a new book A Prayer for Life: The Cause and Cure of Terrorism, War and Human Suffering.

Influences
Barry Long acknowledged his respect for J. Krishnamurti and his teachings, nonetheless he considered himself to be an original teacher.

He recommended abandoning religious tradition in favour of direct experience and asked his audience not to believe anything he said, but to listen for the "ring of truth" in it.

He himself had an influence on a number of other teachers, writers and therapists. The most prominent of these is Eckhart Tolle, best-selling author of The Power of Now, who met him in person and is on record as saying he loved Barry Long's teaching.

Marital and relationship history 
Long married or lived monogamously with five women; Betty, his first wife; Julie, whom he married in England and lived with for 13 years until her death from cancer; Kathy with whom he moved to Australia with his stepson Simon; Jade who was his partner when he was travelling the world and then Sara, who was with him when he died.

His marital and relationship history was described by Clive Tempest in the foreword to Making Love: Sexual Love The Divine Way as such: "All this time Barry Long's love of woman has remained constant. She is always by his side. Through deep and lasting partnerships he has made his realisations of love real in the midst of everyday living."

Partial bibliography

 The Origins of Man and the Universe (1st edition Routledge & Kegan Paul 1984)  (Barry Long Books, revised edition 1998) ,  (excerpts)
 Meditation: A Foundation Course, (The Barry Long Foundation, 1996) 
 Stillness Is the Way (Barry Long Books, 1996) 
 Knowing Yourself: The True in the False (Barry Long Books, 1996)  (excerpt)
 Only Fear Dies (Barry Long Books, 1996)  (excerpt)
 To Woman in Love: A Book of Letters (Barry Long Books, 1996)  
 Making Love: Sexual Love the Divine Way (Barry Long Books, revised edition 1998)  (excerpt)
 Raising Children in Love, Justice and Truth (Barry Long Books, 1998) 
 To Man in Truth: Enlightening Letters (Barry Long Books, 1999)  (excerpt)
 The Way In: A Book of Self-Discovery (Barry Long Books, 2000)  (excerpt)
 A Prayer for Life: The Cause and Cure of Terrorism, War and Human Suffering, (Barry Long Books, 2002) 
 Where the Spirit Speaks to its Own: The Passion of Spiritual Awakening, (Barry Long Books, 2003)  (excerpts)
 Start Meditating Now, How to stop thinking (audiobook – Barry Long Books 2007) 
 A Journey in Consciousness, Exploring the truth behind existence (audiobook – Barry Long Books 2007) 
 Seeing through Death, Facing the fact without fear (audiobook – Barry Long Books 2007) 
 Making Love, Sexual love the divine way (audiobook – Barry Long Books 2007) 
 How to Live Joyously, Being true to the law of life (audiobook – Barry Long Books 2007) 
 Behind Life and Death; The Boundless Reality, (The Barry Long Foundation 2008)  (excerpt)
 My Life of Love and Truth: A Spiritual Autobiography (The Barry Long Foundation 2013) 
 From Here to Reality: My Spiritual Teaching (Barry Long Books 2015)

References

External links

 The Barry Long Foundation International
 Quotes by Barry Long (wikiquote)
 Barry Long Bulletin

1926 births
2003 deaths
Australian spiritual teachers
Australian spiritual writers
Relationships and sexuality writers
20th-century mystics