[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# OneVoice Movement

nalysis from Netanya College, the Molad Center, and the Adva Center. "Peace, It Also Pays Off" highlighted the positive impact an agreement with the Palestinians will have on the daily economic issues Israelis care about most—from affordable housing to food prices, from the job market to healthcare.

Prior to "Peace, It Also Pays Off," OVI reacted to the January announcement of 1,400 settlement units with  a campaign to urge Finance Minister Yair Lapid to back up his rhetorical support for peace with real action—ending financial transfers to the settlements and sending the money instead to deprived communities inside Israel. OneVoice Israel activists distributed 10,000 shekel notes with Lapid's face, and called on him to stop financial transfers for settlement construction. This grassroots outreach was paired with an aggressive social media campaign, juxtaposing Lapid's public comments in support of negotiations with a call to back those pledges with action.

Wake Up! What is Your Role? (2013–2014) 
"Wake Up: What is Your Role?" seeks to mobilize the Palestinian mainstream to embrace their national responsibilities and support the Palestinian negotiators to secure an independent state. OneVoice Palestine kicked off the campaign with a 1,000 meter banner unveiling in the Jordan Valley in November 2013.

The "Wake Up" campaign was composed of youth initiatives, town hall meetings, political roundtables, and issue-based discussions. OVP also partnered with Wattan TV to broadcast debates on taboo and sensitive topics around the West Bank, and OVP youth leaders took part in radio shows to explain why they joined the movement and how their work is beneficial to the Palestinian cause. "Wake Up: What is Your Role?" aimed to break the state of apathy about negotiations and demonstrate that non-violent resistance can be successful in securing Palestinian rights while connecting everyday Palestinians to their leaders.

V15 (2015) 
In 2015, OneVoice supported V15, also known as Victory 15, a group which sought to replace Israeli governmental leadership in the 2015 Israeli legislative election, although without advocating for a particular candidate or party. In February 2015, the United States Senate Homeland Security Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, began an inquiry to determine what connection, if any, existed between a United States State Department grant of more than $300,000 to OneVoice and its subsequent involvement with V15. In July 2016, the Subcommittee's report was published, concluding that "OneVoice Israel's conduct fully complied with the terms of its agreements with the State Department and governing grant guidelines" and that "the Subcommittee found no evidence that OneVoice spent grant funds to influence the 2015 Israeli elections." However, in the Subcommittee's report also stated that State Department "failed to take any steps to guard against the risk that OneVoice could engage in political activities using State-funded grassroots campaign infrastructure after the grant period" when OneVoice deployed in Israel its social media platform, "which more than doubled during the State Department grant period."

Criticism 
OneVoice has been criticized for claiming their preferred process, peaceful negotiations toward a two-state outcome, are representative of a "silent majority", when survey data on Palestinian preferences do not reveal such a clear majority.

See also 
 Israeli–Palestinian conflict

References

External links 
 Official site
 New York Times interviews Ezeldeen Masri, OneVoice Palestine-Gaza, April 16,2014

Non-governmental organizations involved in the Israeli–Palestinian peace process
Organizations established in 2002
Organizations based in New York City