[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Zichyújfalu

gan to leave the settlement. This was a steady process and giving out new building sites did not improve the situation.

In the period after the changing of the political system this tendency slowed down, since it became increasingly difficult for people to find jobs in the industrial plants nearby.

Transport was also increasingly problematic and the inhabitants had difficulties in reaching the administrative centre or the mayor's office. Local inhabitants were increasingly confined to the area of Zichyújfalu. This is why they were more and more aware of the fact that the joint local government of Gárdony and Zichyújfalu did not pay enough attention to the well being of Zichyújfalu and did not spend enough money on them. No capital was invested in this part of the settlement and no new projects were initiated. The opinion of the local inhabitants was that they could benefit from a new local government, the representatives of which would consider Zichyújfalu's needs.

In addition to these changes the economic preconditions for becoming independent were also present in the village. Considering the settlement's real needs and interests the inhabitants of Zichyújfalu decided to secure an independent status for their settlement.

Zichyújfalu was granted an independent status on 15 December 1997.

Landmarks

Zichy Mansion 
Zichy family mansion in 1784 raised Zichyújfalu. It was called the Little Castle, which became the farm manager's apartment after the construction of a large mansion. The palace Zichy John Nepomuk was built between 1891 and 1894 in eclectic style. He once was a U-shaped building, but the right wing of the II. World War II was destroyed. It used to be surrounded by 28 acres of parkland. In front of the main facade is based on 14 double-column porch that runs along the center based on two pillars, culminating episode comes out.

Education

The István Fekete Primary School the community's elementary school has carried the name of the writer István Fekete since 1992. The school is provided for by the Velence Lake Multipurpose Kistréségi Society. The school is a member of the Agárd Chernel István Elementary School, High School, Dormitory, and Basic Educational Institutions.

Gallery

References

External links 

 Street map 
 Zichyújfalu in Google Maps

Populated places in Fejér County
Zichy family