[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ezequiel Lavezzi

ted a huge backlash on social media, with Chinese people and others accusing Lavezzi of racism. Lavezzi later apologized for this incident.

On 27 November 2019, Lavezzi scored his last goal for the club in a 3–1 loss against Guangzhou Evergrande. He announced his retirement shortly after the match.

International career

Lavezzi made his international debut for the Argentina national team against Chile on 18 April 2007.

In 2008, Lavezzi was selected to the Olympic football team, which represented Argentina at the 2008 Olympics. During the Olympic games, he scored two goals, one against Australia on 10 August 2008 and a penalty against Serbia on 13 August 2008. Lavezzi also appeared in the final minutes of extra time of the gold-medal match against Nigeria, which Argentina won 1–0.

Lavezzi's club form was not enough to see him included in Diego Maradona's 2010 FIFA World Cup squad, a surprise exclusion along with Newcastle United defender Fabricio Coloccini. On 17 November 2010, Argentina faced Brazil in a friendly match in Qatar, in which Argentina won by a goal from Lionel Messi in injury time after a superb one-two play with Lavezzi.

He has since become a regular member for the senior national team under Sergio Batista, who managed Lavezzi at the 2008 Olympics. He was named in Argentina's 2011 Copa América squad by Batista. In Argentina's final pre-tournament warm-up game, he scored the opening goal in a friendly match played against Albania on 21 June 2011 – the match ended 4–0 in favour of Argentina and was Lavezzi's first goal for the national side. In the final tournament on home soil, Lavezzi made three appearances in the group stage, but was suspended for the quarter-final match, in which the hosts were knocked out by the eventual champions Uruguay on penalties.

Lavezzi was chosen by new manager Alejandro Sabella for Argentina's 23-man 2014 FIFA World Cup squad. He made six appearances throughout the tournament, setting up Messi's match-winning goal against Iran after coming off the bench, as well as Rojo's goal against Nigeria. In the final against Germany he set up a goal for Higuaín, but it was correctly ruled off-side; Lavezzi was replaced by Sergio Agüero at half-time, and Argentina were defeated 1–0 in extra time.

Lavezzi was a member of the Argentina squad that reached the final of the 2015 Copa América, only to be defeated by hosts Chile on penalties.

In May 2016, Lavezzi was included in Gerardo Martino's final 23-man Argentina squad for the Copa América Centenario. Lavezzi made his first start of the tournament in Argentina's final group match against Bolivia on 14 June, scoring a goal and setting up another in a 3–0 win; he was named Man of the Match. In the semi-finals of the tournament, a 4–0 win against the hosts United States, Lavezzi opened the scoring in the third minute of play and later set up Gonzalo Higuaín's first goal, although he broke his left elbow after he tumbled over the advertisement boarding while chasing the ball. Due to this injury he was ruled out of the final against Chile where Argentina were defeated 2–4 on penalties following a 0–0 draw after extra time.

Style of play
Lavezzi is known for his pace, acceleration, energy, sturdy physique, movement, and hardworking style of play, as well as his technique, creativity, quick feet, dribbling ability, and sharpness around the box; he is also a good shooter. ESPN has described Lavezzi as being "excellent at roaming and finding space in the gap between the opposition's midfield and defence. He has excellent pace and crossing ability and is also adept at beating an opponent or drawing a foul in dangerous areas. He is considered a quality player physically, tactically and technically." A versatile forward, although he is usually deployed as a winger on either flank, due to his ability with either foot, he has also been used as a second striker or as an attacking midfielder on occasion, due to his ability to both score goals and create chances for his teammates. He has also been used as a centre-forward, in a role which is known as a centravanti di manovra in Italian football jargon (literally "maneuvering centre-forward"), which is similar to the modern false 9 role, due to his ability to drop deep and open up defences. In spite of his skill and abilities as a footballer, he has been accused of being overly temperamental on the pitch at times, and has been criticised for arguing with officials.

Personal life
Lavezzi is of Italian origin, from Pavia. He is Catholic and has a tattoo of Jesus on his chest, a tattoo of the Virgin Mary on his right arm and a tattoo of a pair of rosary beads on his right abdomen. Lavezzi's nephew, Agustín, is also a professional footballer.

Career statistics

Club

International

Scores and results list Templatonia's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Lavezzi goal.

Honours
San Lorenzo
 Argentine Primera División: 2007 Clausura

Napoli
 Coppa Italia: 2011–12