[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Dental education throughout the world

s of study and 1-year compulsory internship. As of 2010, there were a total of 291 colleges (39 run by the government and 252 in the private sector) offering dental education. This amounts to an annual intake of 23,690 graduates. Dental education in India is regulated by the Dental Council of India.

In most states, 15% of seats in state run Dental Colleges are filled through a national examination conducted by the CBSE (Central Board for Secondary Education). The remaining seats are filled up by the respective state's designated authority. Some autonomous universities conduct their own selection tests. Selection to privately run Dental Colleges vary and usually require payment of higher fees.

Post graduate training is for three years in the concerned specialty. Master of Dental Surgery (MDS) is offered in the following subjects -
Prosthodontics
Periodontics
Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
Conservative Dentistry & Endodontics
Orthodontics & Dentofacial Orthopaedics
Oral Pathology & Microbiology
Public Health Dentistry
Pedodontics and Preventive Dentistry
Oral Medicine Diagnosis and Radiology.

Since 2016, NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) has started for all aspirants – Indian & Foreign. No Autonomous University can conduct its own exam anymore.

Selection to postgraduate courses are through national / state entrance examinations (NEET) and are very competitive. In addition, certificate courses of 2 years duration are offered in Dental Mechanics and Dental Hygiene.

List of dental colleges in India – (lisi of dental colleges)

Malaysia 
The first dental degree program in Malaysia was offered by University of Malaya. The qualification was moderated and recognised by the Malaysian Dental Council and one of the leading associations representing dental surgeons of Malaysia is the Malaysian Dental Association.

Dental surgeries (or better known as dental clinics) in Malaysia are required to be registered and approved by the Ministry of Health Malaysia under the Healthcare Facilities And Services Act 1998. It is a requirement that all dental surgeons hold a valid Annual Practising Certificate. Foreign dentists, that is, qualified dentists from other countries are not allowed to hold an annual practising certificate unless they are studying or lecturing at a higher-learning institute.

New Zealand 
New Zealand dentistry is overseen by the Dental Council, while specialization is also overseen by the Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons.

University of Otago is New Zealand's only dental school that offers the required academic training.
Entry into New Zealand's only dental school requires the student to compete into the second year dentistry course via the Health Sciences First Year course. Once in the course, students will start their dental education in their second year of university study. The total time to complete the course, including the first-year competitive course, is 5 years of full-time academic study.

Pakistan 

The history of dentistry in Pakistan started before the country's independence. Pakistan's premier and oldest dental institution De'Montmorency College of Dentistry was established in 1934 at Lahore by then Governor of Punjab Sir Jeff Fitz Harway de' Montmorency. Later in 1974, Nishtar Institute of Dentistry joined the list. De'Montmorency College of Dentistry has a very rich heritage of academic and clinical excellence both before and after independence. The history of dentistry in Pakistan is in fact the story of progress of de'Montmorency College of Dentistry.  At present there are 32 dental schools (public & private) throughout Pakistan, according to the Pakistan Medical and Dental Council the state regulatory body has upwards of 11500 registered dentists. The four-year training culminates in achieving a Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) degree, which requires a further one year compulsory internship to be a registered dentist in Pakistan. As per recent stats, According to the Pakistan Medical Commission, there are almost 28,561 registered BDS doctors in January 2021.

Philippines 

Most Filipino Dentists must earn a total of 6 years of dental school (2 years preparatory; 4 years proper) to obtain the degree Doctor of Dental Medicine (D.M.D.). Presently, the country has a total of 25 dental schools, in which the board licensing is administered and regulated by the Board of Dentistry of the Professional Regulation Commission.