[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vijaypat Singhania

Alexandria across the Mediterranean Sea; he has a fear of deep water, and flew that leg wearing a life jacket and with a can of shark repellent in his lap. When he got bored in the air, he would pass the time by carrying on pretend conversations with a photo of his two-year-old granddaughter Ananya.

He and his American co-pilot Daniel Brown won the gold medal in an international around-the-world air race held by the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale in 1994, to mark its 50th anniversary. They flew a Cessna Conquest painted to look like a tiger in honor of India; Singhania was the only Indian in the race. They made a flight time of 56 hours and 4 minutes, passing through nine countries in 23 days, leaving from and returning to Montreal. Singhania's older son Madhupati Singhania poured champagne over Singhania's head on the tarmac when he arrived back in Montreal with the win.

Singhania holds the world record for altitude in a hot air balloon as of 2023, about 69,000 ft, which he set in November 2005 at the age of 67. He flew with a balloon as tall as a 22-storey building and equipped with 18 burners, travelling in a pressurized aluminium capsule in place of the traditional basket to ward off high-altitude hypoxia. Liftoff was from a racecourse in Mumbai, accompanied by much fanfare—there was a brass band playing, a crowd of hundreds of spectators to see him off, and international media there to report. Aloft he encountered temperatures as low as -93 °C, "screamed quite loudly" according to him when he broke the record, then returned to the ground near the village of Panchale in Nashik district, in the space of about five hours total. After landing he gave prayers at a local shrine. The Fédération Aéronautique Internationale verified his record using an altimeter, GPS, and barograph which were attached to the capsule and sealed in advance to rule out tampering.

Family feud 

In 1998, Singhania was weighing the possibility of dividing the Raymond Group between his two sons, Madhupati Singania and Gautam Singhania, who were both on the board of directors at that time. As of the summer of that year, there was reportedly a tentative plan for Madhupati Singhania to relocate to Singapore with control of Raymond's international divisions, including J.K. England and Raymond Woolen Mills Kenya. However, in December, Madhupati Singhania and his wife Anuradha instead signed an agreement with Singhania relinquishing their stake in Raymond, as well as some other family assets such as real estate holdings. They then moved to Singapore with their four children, including Singhania's granddaughter Ananya, and cut ties acrimoniously with the Singhania family. Reportedly Madhupati Singhania had disagreements with his father about management technique. As of 2007 he had obtained Singaporean citizenship and was running a lucrative consulting firm.

In the wake of Madhupati Singhania's split with the family, Singhania instead chose to hand control of the Raymond Group wholly over to Gautam Singhania, staying on as Chairman-Emeritus. Then in February 2015, Madhupati Singhania's four children sued Singhania in the Bombay High Court, claiming the 1998 agreement between their parents and him did not take their rights into account. They wanted to have the agreement annulled and their stake in the relinquished holdings reaffirmed, including in Raymond. Five days after their initial filing, Singhania transferred all of his shares in Raymond, a 37.17% stake worth around ₹1000 crore, to Gautam Singhania. As part of the court proceedings, his grandchildren tried to have the court intervene to stop this transfer, but the judge dismissed their motion. Ultimately they did not prevail in their case.

Trouble soon developed between Singhania and Gautaum Singhania, however. Back in 2007, Raymond had decided to renovate its 37-storey property J.K. House in Breach Candy. Singhania was living in a flat there at the time. As part of the development agreement, all the tenants, including Singhania, were promised flats following the renovations at the rate of ₹9000 per sq. ft. Singhania had moved back into his childhood home of Kamla Cottage in Juhu to wait out the renovation.

Later in 2015, though, Madhupati Singhania filed a complaint with the Bombay High Court alleging that Singhania was not honoring a 2008 arbitration agreement over possession of Kamla Cottage and had to leave it. Singhania agreed to leave and rented a duplex in Breach Candy. The J.K. House flats were ready the following year. However, the rates on them had increased to over ₹1 lakh per sq. ft, according to sources at Raymond. Considering all the flats in total, they said, the difference was around ₹650 crore. Madhupati Singhania decided to consult with the board over whether they should still honor the agreement given the increased rates, and they decided to put it to the shareholders, who overwhelmingly voted against it.