[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Nicolas Schöffer

on a city scale. During this last period he created graphic works, which he carried out with his left hand or with the computer. This was not a return to the ideas of the first period, which is also characterized by graphic and painterly work, but rather a synthesis of the entire career.

Main works

CYSP1 
With CYSP1 Schöffer created the first cybernetic sculpture in art history in 1956. The name CYSP1 refers to the cybernetic and spatiodynamic features of the sculpture  that had total autonomy of movement (travel in all directions at two speeds) as well as axial and eccentric rotation setting in motion its 16 pivoting poly-chromed plates. The sculpture made use of electronic computations developed by the Philips Company. It was set on a base mounted on four rollers, which contained the mechanism and the electronic brain. The plates were operated by small motors located under their axis. Phototubes and a microphone built into the sculpture caught all the variations in the fields of color, light and sound intensity. All these changes occasioned reactions on the part of the responsive sculpture.

The sculpture was first presented in 1956 at the Sarah Bernhardt Theater in Paris during the Night of Poetry. That same year, on the occasion of the Avant-garde Art Festival, the dancers of Maurice Béjart's ballet company performed a ballet with CYSP1 on the terrace of Le Corbusier's Cité Radieuse complex in Marseille. The sculpture reacted to the movements of the dancers. The spectacle was accompanied by concrete music by Pierre Henry. Further performances followed in the studio of the artist at the Villa des Arts in Paris.

SCAM1 
SCAM1 was the first automobile sculpture of the art history. Traditionally, sculptures were site-specific immobile works of art. At the beginning of the 20th century the kinetic artists created sculptures with moving parts but these still remained at the same place. CYSP1 moved around in a confinement that was marked by a black circle on the ground but could not leave it. SCAM1 was liberated of every confinement and could travel around the city at notable speed because the 3.93 m high sculpture was mounted on a custom made auto-mobile financed by the gallery owner Denise René and produced by the Renault Company.  SCAM1 appeared on the streets of Milan and Paris in 1973 and the spectacle attracted considerable attention. It does not exists any more. It had to be dismantled due to difficulties of parking and storage.

TLC Paris 
Numerous smaller towers have been realized in cities in Europe and America. The first 25 m high spatiodynamic tower was built in 1950 in Biot (France) as part of the Exposition du Groupe Espace. The first spatiodynamic, cybernetic and acoustic tower was built in 1954 for the International Exhibition of Public Works in the Parc de Saint Cloud near Paris and reached a height of 50 m. The sound structure was composed by Pierre Henry. These first towers were dismantled after the exhibition.

The tallest tower to date is 52 m high and was built in Liège in 1961 in front of the Congress Palace. At the same time, Schöffer realized a 1500 m2 light façade on the Congress Palace. Other towers followed in 1968 in Washington (Spatiodynamique 17), 1969 in Montevideo (Chronos 8), 1974 in San Francisco at the Embarcadero Center (Chronos 14), 1977 in Bonn (Chronos 15), 1980 in Munich (Chronos 10B), in Paris (Chronos 10), 1982 in Kalocsa (Chronos 8), 1988 Tour d'Ain at Pont-d'Ain (Lux 16) and Lyoneon in Lyon.

These towers differ from the tower that Schöffer planned for La Défense district in Paris not only in terms of their size, but above all in terms of their category. The smaller ones are regarded as sculptures. The towers in Liège and Kalocsa can be categorized as architectural sculpture, since in this case the use of the architectural form of a tower implies that all the abstract concepts associated with this architectural type over the centuries are automatically included in the meaning of the work. The tower as an architectural type has taken various forms and functions throughout architectural history, but it has always been closely linked to the abstract concepts of power, surveillance and control. This is exactly what these two cybernetic light towers do. They express the power of human intellect and interactively observe and control their environment. Since the spiral of galaxies can be deduced from the golden section, the basic principle of the structure, Schöffer regarded these towers as the symbol of the Universe.