[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Norsefire

heir own fate. By the end of the novel, every top government official and notable figure in Norsefire has died, except for Lewis Prothero who is driven insane by V and incapacitated by Norsefire early on in the novel, and Eric Finch who leaves Norsefire after he kills V and when Norsefire collapses.

In the 2005 film adaptation, amidst worldwide turmoil, members of what would later become Norsefire launch a plan to seize power by releasing a virus on the British populace and blaming it on their enemies. After the virus devastates Britain, the party wins an overwhelming victory in that year's general election and subsequently markets a cure through a pharmaceutical company under the control of its top-ranking members, who become extremely wealthy as a result.

In the film, in addition to its White Supremacist and Christian Nationalist views, Norsefire also expresses Anti-Americanism, shown when Prothero mocks the United States (which is said to be devastated by the virus and a second civil war), calling it the "Ulcered Sphincter of Arse-erica". He gloats at the current state of the country and suggests that cargo coming from America in a bid for aid be dumped as revenge for the Boston Tea Party. Prothero then claims that the United States has fallen as "judgement" for "godlessness". It is later shown that the United States fought a disastrous war in the Middle East, which may have contributed to Anti-American sentiment in the United Kingdom. 

The party is also shown to be extremely anti-Muslim and intolerant of any criticism of its top leadership. Popular talk show host Gordon Deitrich is arrested for airing a sketch that mocks Adam Sutler, the leader of Norsefire in the film, and is subsequently executed after a copy of the Quran is found at his home.

Anti-Irish sentiment is implied to be an element of party policy in the film, Prothero mocks a member of the technical staff on his show as "that Paddy" and Creedy views Finch with suspicion on the grounds that Finch's mother was Irish and then gloats about the death toll in Ireland from the "St. Mary's Virus", although the outbreak in Ireland may have been an unintended result of infected British citizens travelling to the Irish Republic.

In the film, V, after killing Prothero and other high-ranking party officials, persuades Creedy to betray Sutler, arguing that Sutler would turn on him eventually, in exchange for him surrendering. Creedy kidnaps and executes Sutler, only for V to subsequently kill him and his entire team, though he is fatally wounded in the process. Evey places his body inside a train loaded with explosives, which V intended to use to bomb Parliament. Finch arrives, only to let her activate the train, having grown disillusioned and disgusted with Norsefire. The bomb-filled train explodes, destroying Parliament (and presumably the party along with it) as hundreds of V's supporters watch.

Motto 
A common recurring motto is "Strength Through Purity, Purity Through Faith" (or in the film, "Strength Through Unity, Unity Through Faith"). Another maxim often used by Norsefire as a salute is "England Prevails".

Symbols 
In the book, a blue "N" on a black flag is the symbol of the party. An "N" or "NF" are the only party symbols shown. 

In the film, the Norsefire symbol is the Cross of Saint George combined with a Nordic cross in red and black, with the black possibly taken from the flag of Saint David and the Nordic cross representing Scotland. The symbol is shown on flags, police badges, coat of arms, government vehicles, and army beret badges. Two versions exist, one with a red cross on a black background and another with a black cross on a red background.

See also 
 British Union of Fascists
 Ingsoc
 National Front

Notes and references

External links 
 V for Vendetta Analysis – V and Terrorism

V for Vendetta
Characters created by Alan Moore
DC Comics organizations
Fictional governments
Fictional organized crime groups
Fictional political parties
Norsefire