[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 26]
# List of Shaman King characters

ost is as yet unknown.  Both children are resurrected at the conclusion of the series and are adopted into the Asakura family by Mikihisa.  Redseb eventually becomes a florist and the siblings are close to Yoh's son Hana.  Redseb and Seyram are named for Mild Seven and Salem cigarettes respectively.

 
 
 The father of Redseb and Seryam and a close friend of Mikihisa. Upon the death of the professor, Mikihisa took the responsibility of looking after Redseb and Seyram and formed Team Kabbalahers to ensure the Golem created by Professor Munzer did not fall into the wrong hands after learning about its destructive capabilities.  Professor Munzer becomes (in certain respects) his daughter's spirit ally, possessing her from time to time and giving her the massive amounts of furyoku it takes to power the Golem.  He is named for Camel cigarettes.

Other characters

 
 
 Horohoro's little sister, who trains him in a similar manner to Anna's training of Yoh. Because Yoh defeated her brother, Pirika calls him a jerk upon meeting him, which upsets Yoh when he thinks about how people will hate him for destroying their chances of achieving their own dreams. Pirika has a lively and outgoing personality and is accomplished at domestic chores.  Despite often expressing her irritation for her brother, she genuinely cares about him and supports his dream, being one of the few people aware that Horohoro's actual reasons for wanting to create a vast field of butterbur leaves are for the sake of his first love Damuko.  Pirika later becomes friends with Anna and Tamao. "Pirika" means "pretty" and "pirka" means "good" in the Ainu language. She is born on February 9, 1987.  Though not shown in the manga or anime, the author has stated that Pirika's partner spirit is Torara, a Marimo or Torasanpe as said in the Ainu language. Torara was said to have saved Pirika from drowning at an early age, and since then they became partners.  Torara can manipulate water but is very shy, and for that reason, he did not make a debut in the manga or anime.

 
 Mansumi, age 55, is the father of Manta Oyamada and the owner of Oyamada Enterprises, a famous energy development company. He is extremely wealthy and ambitious, hoping eventually to expand his business into outer space. Mansumi's first appearance is relatively minor when he expresses harsh disapproval with Manta's determination to remain friends with Yoh after both Manta and Yoh are hospitalized following Yoh's fight against Faust.  In a much later appearance it is revealed that he has been using Manta to track down the shamans, eventually bringing a large fleet of ships to the Shaman Fight's isolated island location to find the lost continent of Mu. The situation leads to a temporary union between the teams of Yoh and Hao, which ends when Hao single-handedly destroys nearly all the ships except the one Mansumi is on board due to a moment of weakness from Hao realizing he was facing people who are parents. After his defeat, Mansumi is captured and held hostage by Anna, who agrees to let him talk to Manta in private. Manta manages to convince Mansumi to allow him to remain on the island with his friends as everyone waits for the outcome of the plan to defeat Hao.

 
 
 Keiko, age 37, is the mother of Manta Oyamada and the wife of Mansumi Oyamada. She has a slim build and average height, but possesses a shallow and superficial attitude; Manta rejects her when she asks Manta not to remain friends with Yoh because it would hurt the family's reputation to be seen with a spiritualist.

 
 
 Mannoko is the daughter of Mansumi and Keiko Oyamada and Manta's sister, a severe girl who enjoys mocking Manta and, despite being only five years old, is a master with computers who runs the Oyamada Enterprises' software department. Both Mansumi and Mannoko share Manta's short stature.

 
 
 One of the Oyamada family's employees, who is assigned to accompany Manta to America. While Tamurazaki does as Manta asks, his loyalties actually belong to Mansumi and he stays with Manta to spy and gather information on shamans for his employer in preparation for invading the deserted island of Tokyo where the Shaman Fight is taking place.  He is cool and calculating even before most of Hao's followers, gunning down several of them with an M134 Vulcan after revealing that because he does not believe in souls he is not affected by the forbidden killing curse from the Ultra Senji Ryakketsu.  He manages to disappear after Mansumi is captured by Anna.