[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Canal Street station (New York City Subway)

eighborhoods, including Chinatown, Little Italy, SoHo, and Tribeca. Some relative depths of the stations in the Canal Street complex are as follows:
 IRT Lexington Avenue Line,  below street
 BMT Broadway Line, main line, 
 BMT Nassau Street Line, 
 BMT Broadway Line, Manhattan Bridge branch,

Exits

The complex has a total of 13 staircase entrances and two separate elevator entrances for the Lexington Avenue Line's platforms. From the Broadway main line platforms, there are two staircases to each of the northwestern, southeastern, and southwestern corners. There is also a staircase to the northeastern corner of Broadway and Canal Street. There is a staircase from the Nassau Street Line to the southwestern corner of Centre Street and Canal Street. The Manhattan Bridge branch platforms' exits are also used by the Lexington Avenue Line platforms. Three staircases from the northbound Lexington Avenue Line platform lead to the eastern corners of Lafayette Street and Canal Street, with one to the northeast corner and two to the southeast corner. From the southbound Lexington Avenue Line platform there are staircases to the western corners of Lafayette Street and Canal Street.

Two elevators at the intersection of Canal and Lafayette Streets make the Lexington Avenue Line station accessible as part of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). The northbound platform's elevator is at the northeastern corner, while the southbound platform's elevator is at the northwestern corner. None of the other platforms in the complex are ADA-accessible.

There are a number of closed exits in the Canal Street complex. One such exit led to a building at the northeastern corner of Canal Street and Centre Street; during the 1996 renovation, this became an emergency exit. Two stairs at the southeastern corner of the same intersection (serving only the northbound platform) are shown in a 1995 neighborhood map, but they had been removed by 1999. At the intersection of Canal and Lafayette Streets, there were additional staircases at the northeastern corner, the northwestern corner, and the southwestern corner.

IRT Lexington Avenue Line platforms 

The Canal Street station on the IRT Lexington Avenue Line is a local station that has four tracks and two side platforms. The 6 stops here at all times, rush-hour and midday <6> trains stop here in the peak direction; and the 4 stops here during late nights. The two express tracks are used by the 4 and 5 trains during daytime hours. The station is between  to the north and  to the south. When the subway opened, the next local stop to the south was ; that station closed in 1962. The platforms were originally  long, like at other local stations on the original IRT, but, as a result of the 1959 platform extensions, became  long. The platform extensions are at the north ends of the original platforms.

As with other stations built as part of the original IRT, the station was constructed using a cut-and-cover method. The tunnel is covered by a "U"-shaped trough that contains utility pipes and wires. The bottom of this trough contains a foundation of concrete no less than  thick. Each platform consists of  concrete slabs, beneath which are drainage basins. The platforms contain columns with white glazed tiles,  spaced every . Additional columns between the tracks, spaced every , support the jack-arched concrete station roofs. There is a  gap between the trough wall and the platform walls, which are made of -thick brick covered over by a tiled finish. During the late 1910s, contractors waterproofed the station, placing a  layer of brick and a  layer of concrete under the trackbeds. Retaining walls of brick and asphalt concrete were built on either side of the Bridge Line platforms, underneath the Lexington Avenue Line station, and new roof girders were built to carry the Lexington Avenue Line above the Bridge Line.

The original decorative scheme consisted of blue/green tile station-name tablets, green tile bands, a buff terracotta cornice, and green terracotta plaques. The mosaic tiles at all original IRT stations were manufactured by the American Encaustic Tile Company, which subcontracted the installations at each station. The terracotta plaques depict a small house next to a bridge above a creek. The decorative work was performed by tile contractor Manhattan Glass Tile Company and terracotta contractor Atlantic Terra Cotta Company. The ceilings of the original platforms and fare control areas contain plaster molding. The newer portion has 1950s green tile at the end of the platforms. There are also Independent Subway System (IND)-type "To Canal Street" signs. New lights were installed. Non-original name tables and small "C" mosaics exist.

Image gallery

BMT Nassau Street Line platforms