[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 154]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

e thick,
gloomy country, without meeting the least appearance of a human
creature, and at night I cut, with a hatchet that I had about me, some
boughs, with which I erected a temporary shelter. The next day, as I was
pursuing my march, I saw a deer bound by me, upon whose shoulders was
fixed a fierce and destructive animal resembling a tiger. This creature,
which is about the size of a moderate dog, ascends the trees and hides
himself among the branches till a deer, or any other animal that he can
master, passes within his reach. He then darts himself with a sudden
spring full upon the neck or shoulder of the unfortunate animal, which
he continues tearing with so much violence that he soon despatches him.
This was actually the case with the poor deer that passed me; for he had
not run a hundred yards before he fell down in the agonies of death, and
his destroyer began to regale himself upon the prey. I instantly saw
that this was a lucky opportunity of supplying myself with food for
several days. I therefore ran towards the animal, and by a violent shout
made him abandon his victim and retire growling into the woods. I then
kindled a fire with leaves and sticks, and, cutting off a large slice of
venison, I plentifully refreshed myself for my journey. I then packed up
as much of the most fleshy parts of the body as I could conveniently
carry, and abandoned the rest to wild beasts.

"In this manner did I march for several days without wanting food, or
seeing any probable end of my fatigues. At length I found a lofty
mountain before me, which I determined to ascend, imagining that such an
elevation might enable me to make some useful discoveries in respect to
the nature of the country I had to traverse, and perhaps present me with
some appearances of cultivation or inhabitants. I therefore ascended
with infinite fatigue a rough and stony ascent of several miles, in
which I was frequently obliged to clamber up pointed rocks, and work my
way along the edge of dangerous precipices. I, however, arrived without
any accident at the top, which was entirely bare of trees, and, looking
round me, I beheld a wild and desert country, extending to a prodigious
distance. Far as my eye could reach I discovered nothing but forests on
every side but one; there the country seemed to be more open, though
equally uncultivated, and I saw meadows and savannahs opening one beyond
another, bounded at length by a spacious river, whose end and beginning
were equally concealed from my eye. I was now so weary of this solitary
kind of life, that I began to consider the inhabitants themselves with
less apprehension; besides, I thought myself out of danger of meeting
with the hostile tribes; and all these people, unless irritated by
injuries or stimulated by revenge, are perhaps less strangers to the
rights of hospitality than any civilised nation. I therefore reflected,
that by directing my course to the river, and following the direction of
its waters, I should have the greatest probability of meeting with some
of my fellow-creatures, as the natives build their villages near lakes
and streams, and choose their banks as a residence when they are
employed in hunting. I therefore descended the mountain, and entered the
level district which I saw before me; and then marched along an open
champaign country for several hours, covered over with a species of rank
grass, and beheld numerous herds of buffaloes grazing all around.

"It was here that an accident befel me, which I will relate for its
singularity, both in respect to the dangers I incurred and my method of
escape. As I was thus journeying on, I discovered a prodigious light
that seemed to efface the sun itself, and streak the skies with an angry
kind of illumination. I looked round me to discover the cause of this
strange appearance, and beheld, with equal horror and astonishment, that
the whole country behind was in flames. In order to explain this event,
I must observe, that all the plains in America produce a rank, luxuriant
vegetation, the juices of which are exhausted by the heat of the
summer's sun; it is then as inflammable as straw or fodder, and when a
casual spark of fire communicates with it, the flame frequently drives
before the wind for miles together, and consumes everything it meets.
This was actually the case at present; far as my eye could reach, the
country was all in flames, a powerful wind added fresh fury to the fire,
and drove it on with a degree of swiftness which precluded all
possibility of flight. I must confess that I was struck with horror at
the sudden approach of a death so new, so dreadful, so unexpected! I saw
it was in vain to fly, the flaming line extended for several miles on
every side, and advanced with such velocity that I considered my fate as
inevitable. I looked round me with a kind of mute despair, and began to
envy the fate of my comrades who had fallen by honourable wound