[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of Terminator video games

game but praised its driving levels.

Mobile game

A mobile game, The Terminator, was released in 2003. It is a shoot 'em up developed and published by In-Fusio.

Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991 film) games
Several video games based on Terminator 2: Judgment Day were released between 1991 and 1993.

 Terminator 2 (computer game), an action game with side-scrolling and top-down perspective levels. Published by Ocean Software and developed by Dementia. It was first released in August 1991 for the ZX Spectrum. It was subsequently published for the Amiga, Amstrad CPC, Atari ST, Commodore 64, and DOS.
 Terminator 2: Judgment Day (arcade), a shooter game produced by Midway Manufacturing Company for arcades and released in October 1991.
 Terminator 2 (Game Boy video game), an action-adventure game developed by Bits Studios for the Game Boy. It was published by LJN in November 1991, and includes six levels.
 Terminator 2 (8-bit video game), a side-scrolling action game. Originally released on NES in 1992, it was ported to the Sega Game Gear and Master System in 1993. It was developed by Software Creations and published by LJN on NES and by Flying Edge on Sega systems. The NES version consists of five levels, including a motorcycle level which is omitted from the Sega versions.
 Terminator 2 (16-bit video game), an action-adventure game developed by Bits Studios for the Sega Genesis and Super NES. Both versions were released in 1993; the Genesis version was published by Flying Edge, while the Super NES version was published by LJN. The game includes a mix of side-scrolling levels and driving levels, the latter viewed from an overhead perspective.

Pinball game

A pinball game designed by Steve Ritchie and released by Williams Electronics in 1991.

Terminator 2: Judgment Day - Chess Wars

A chess game developed by IntraCorp and published by Capstone Software for MS-DOS in 1993. Characters from Terminator 2: Judgment Day act as chess pieces. White is the "human" side, with the T-800 as king, Sarah Connor as queen, two John Connors as bishops, two Miles Dysons as knights, and soldiers in green uniforms as rooks and pawns. Black is the "machines" side: gray-colored robots with metal skeletons, without the T-1000. The pieces are not taken on the chess board but in futuristic battlefield settings resembling the scenes of the man-machine war from the movie. The player can choose from several game types and difficulty settings. The game rates the player in accordance with the United States Chess Federation scale.

Computer Gaming World stated in 1994 that Chess Wars was one of "a host of imitations and look-alikes" of Battle Chess. The magazine reported that it crashed so often that the chess engine could not be evaluated because no game was completed, the SVGA graphics were "unimpressive", transitioning between the board and battles was "painfully slow" and the pieces were poorly animated, and falsely claimed to have 4500 chess openings when it lacked an opening library. Computer Gaming World concluded that T2 Chess Wars and Star Wars Chess "are examples of marketing at its best (or worst, depending on your point of view)".

Slot game

Developed by Isle of Man-based betting software developer Microgaming and released in June 2014, this video slot game is a 5-reel online slot machine with a free spins bonus feature and a T-1000 theme. Microgaming CEO Roger Raatgever said, "We've taken the core elements of the iconic Terminator 2 film to create an online slot that does the brand justice. Visually it is stunning and it has a fitting game mechanic that is completely unique to the online gaming market. Our operators and their players will be awestruck by our creation; we are incredibly excited about the game launch today."

Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines (2003 film) games
Several games are based on Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines. The first game, titled after the film, was released in 2003. It is a first-person shooter game with elements of hand-to-hand combat in the third-person perspective. It was developed by Black Ops and published by Atari for PlayStation 2 and Xbox.

Another first-person shooter game, Terminator 3: War of the Machines, was also released in 2003, for Microsoft Windows. In 2004, Terminator 3: The Redemption was released for several consoles.

A pinball game was also manufactured by Stern Pinball for release in 2003. It was designed by Steve Ritchie and includes voice acting by Arnold Schwarzenegger as the Terminator. It is similar to the pinball game Terminator 2: Judgment Day, also by Ritchie.

Terminator Salvation (2009 film) games
A third-person shooter action game titled Terminator Salvation, based on the film of the same name, was released in 2009.