[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Medical Assistant (Royal Navy)

s and a peaked cap. This was known as 'fore and aft' rig, and issued to 'all ratings not dressed as seamen. This uniform was also issued to tradesmen known as "Artificers", who were collectively known as "Tiffies". So it was natural that sick berth attendants were also known as "Sick Berth Tiffies".

In 1903 the Saint John Ambulance Brigade provided staff to create the Royal Navy Auxiliary Sick Berth Reserve (R.N.A.S.B.R.). Initially suggested in 1899, the Lord Commissioners of the Admiralty expressed their desire for the Brigade to provide and auxiliary sick berth reserve for ships at war, hospital ships and naval hospitals at home and abroad. Regulations for this reserve were issued to every Corps division. The Chief Commissioner requested that the officer in charge of every ambulance unit of the Brigade will be good enough to assemble members without delay.
The reserve was formed for the purpose of supplementing Sick Berth staff of the Royal Navy in time of national emergency and maritime war only and would be subject to the Naval Discipline act when activated. Volunteers were issued the same uniforms as their regular SBA counterparts, but wore an arm badge indicating that they belonged to the Auxiliary Sick Berth Reserve. There were two grades of ratings, junior and senior Auxiliary Royal Navy Sick Berth Attendants. However they would be able to become Sick Berth Stewards and even reserve Ward masters, if qualified and on a vacancy arising. During peace time they would be required to attend one annual inspection. Special First Aid courses and nursing instruction were provided to the auxiliaries, normally carried out at the nearest Royal Naval Hospital. The auxiliaries would serve with distinction in the Great War at sea, in hospitals, and with the Royal Naval Divisions on land. In World War 2 they again served with honour in Dunkirk, at sea, on the raid at Loften islands, during the withdrawal of Polish Forces from France 1940, the attack on Dieppe, the battle of Crete, the capture of sciliy, and in the Far Eastern theatre of war.

On 16 December 1914 Royal Marine Medical Units were formed to support the RM Brigade of the RN Divisions that were to fight on land during WW1 as there were not enough SBAs or RNASBR ratings to fulfill this role. They were trained at Crystal Palace. The majority made up the Field Ambulance sections for the RN divisions. The medical unit was borne on the strength of the Royal Marine Depot, Deal. And were allotted the service number: Depot (S) and entered on same register as Engineer and Army Service Corps unit. The excerpt form 'OFFICIAL HISTORY OF THE MEDICAL UNIT OF THE ROYAL NAVAL DIVISION FROM ITS INCEPTION TO THE EVACUATION OF GAILIPOLI.' by Arthur Gaskell: "The position then was that the A.D.M.S. knew exactly what personnel he wanted, and Mr. Darvil-Smith knew exactly how to get them. The G.0.U. of the Division referred the matter to the Administrative Headquarters, and here unforeseen difficulties and delays arose as to how these men should be entered. Should they be Sick Berth ratings or Royal Marines? Should they be Royal Marines ashore or Royal Marines afloat? Should they be under the Army Act or under the Naval Discipline Act? what rate of pay should they receive'? What allowances were they entitled to, more especially should they have separation allowance? This last point was especially insisted upon by Mr. Darvil-Smith. At last a round-table discussion among Mr. Darvil-Smith, Lieutenant-Colonel Blumberg, R.M.L.I., Fleet Surgeon Stewart and the A.D.1\f.S. (Fleet Surgeon Gaskell), with the D.A.D.M.S. (Captain Casement, R.A.M.C.), settled all these knotty points." They would see action in France on the Western front and Gallipoli. At the end of the great war the Royal Marine Medical Units were disbanded along with a reduction of the Sick Berth Branch. 

In 1920, the term Steward was dropped in favour of Petty Officer. Another major change took place in 1965 which affected the Royal Navy as a whole when the "Fore and Aft" rig was abolished in favour of the "Square Rig". Also in 1965 the term Medical Assistant replaced Sick Berth, and so it remains to this day.