[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument (Cleveland)

“These Are My Jewels” which now resides on the property of the Ohio Statehouse in Columbus. In 1975, the maquettes were donated by Douglas F. Schofield II, Levi Scofield's grandson to the citizens of Cuyahoga County, and they are currently on display in Courtroom 2 of the Cuyahoga County Courthouse.

As this work progressed, Elizabeth Scofield, the wife of Levi T. Scofield, was tasked with compiling the names of the veterans who would be honored in marble. Due to the fact that the State of Ohio did not complete its official roster of Civil War veterans until the mid-1890s, the names of those who served from the county had to be obtained manually. Using the incomplete records of the Adjutant General of the State of Ohio, Elizabeth Scofield compiled preliminary lists of eligible veterans. From 1889 to 1891, the Commission produced copies of these lists to be disseminated to Civil War veterans and Grand Army of the Republic posts for corrections and verification. With this process complete, work on producing the marble tablets for the memorial room, made from Amherst sandstone, was begun in the latter half of 1891.

The Monument Commission, wishing to break ground prior to March 1891, requested that the Cleveland Board of Park Commissioners remove the Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry statue, which sat on the site, pursuant to the act passed by the Ohio State Legislature granting them authority over the Southeast quadrant. These efforts were stonewalled by the city while various interests attempted to persuade the Monument Commissioners to relocate the structure elsewhere.

An injunction was filed by the Monument Commission against the City of Cleveland on April 15, 1891, in the Court of Common Pleas demanding relief from the Board of Park Commissioners's efforts to stymie construction. Judge Samuel E. Williamson joined in this suit on the side of the Park Commissioners alleging damages to the value of his nearby property which would result from the presence of the monument. His attorneys were Judge W. W. Boynton, Director and Attorney of the East Cleveland Street Railway Corporation, and Messrs. Estep, Dickey, Carr & Goff. The Court ruled against the Monument Commission. The Commissioners, who referred to this loss as their “Bull Run,” immediately filed an appeal to the Supreme Court of Ohio.

Gleason et al. v. Cleveland was decided on June 21, 1892. Relying on the language of the original charter for Public Square from the Connecticut Land Company, it was deemed that the Monument Commission did not need permission from the city government to commence construction. This established the Monument Commission's control over the Southeast Quadrant. The circuit court judgment was reversed and the Monument Commission was given the authority to commence construction. Gleason wrote, “Our Gettysburg had been fought and won!” This cost the taxpayers $2,900 in legal fees.

The city again offered any of the other three quadrants of the square to the commission on the basis that obstructing Euclid Avenue may not be desirable considering the city's rapid growth and potential future traffic issues. Other alternative locations presented included Lake View Cemetery, Wade Park, and the corner of Erie and Summit Streets which is approximately the location of modern-day Willard Park. The commission maintained that the Southeast quadrant was the only suitable and appropriate location for the yet unbuilt monument, although they continued to consider other options.

A last-ditch legal action was taken by the city to stymie the construction of the monument in late September 1892. An injunction was requested by the city to the United States Circuit Court. In October, the judges in the case determined that the decision of the Ohio Supreme Court was binding and that the authority granted by the State Legislature to the Monument Commission was in keeping with the original land grant which stipulated that Public Square be preserved for “public use.” With this decision, the legal options to prevent the construction of the monument on the Southeast quadrant of Public Square had been fully exhausted.