[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Nicholas Purcell of Loughmoe

delegates asked for a French general to command the Irish Army. On 9 May 1691, a French convoy reached Limerick with General Charles St. Ruth, two lieutenant-generals, d'Usson and de Tessé, and Brigadier Luttrell and Colonel Purcell, and also a considerable quantity of arms, ammunition and supplies.

There was confusion over who was now in charge of the army. St Ruth claimed command while Tyrconnell still claimed viceroy authority and ultimate control of the army. According to an account in the Life of James, Tyrconnell eventually submitted and left the management of the army to St. Ruth, who was superficially on good terms with him but at bottom was prejudiced against him, influenced by Luttrell and Purcell.

General St. Ruth reviewed the Irish regiments on 18 and 19 May. On 2 June John Stevens noted, "Purcell's Regiment of Horse marched out of Limerick toward the camp". With a force of , 3000 horse, and 2,000 dragoons St. Ruth had his first encounter with the Williamite forces of 18,000, commanded by Baron de Ginkel, on 21 June 1691, at Athlone. This proved to be a Jacobite defeat. St. Ruth fell back to Ballinasloe, then decided to give battle on the high ground near Aughrim, about five miles (8 km) southwest of Ballinasloe.

St. Ruth took up his position on the eastern slopes of Kilcommodon Hill on 8 July. It was a good position, protected by a belt of bog along the whole front, behind which he placed his infantry. His right flank was anchored at Tristaum bridge at Urraghry Pass, and guarded by cavalry regiments of the Duke of Tyrconnell, Earl of Abercorn, and Colonel Edward Prendergast. His left flank was secured by Colonel Walter Bourk and  in position in the Aughrim Castle ruin, and also guarded by the cavalry regiments of the Earl of Lucan, Brigadier Henry Luttrell and Colonel John Parker, and Colonel Purcell's Dragoon Regiment near the castle, all under the command of Major-General Dominick Sheldon. His command was subsequently weakened during the course of battle through transfer of elements of his cavalry and dragoons to the right flank.  Purcell's dragoons evidently fought piecemeal, some trooper on the left flank and some on the right flank, mounted or dismounted, depending on the situation. Major Sir John Everard was killed in this action.

At the beginning of the battle, elements of Sheldon's cavalry repulsed four battalions of Williamite infantry working south of the causeway. Later the Marquis de Ruvigny, leading about 14 squadrons of Williamite horse, rode up the causeway, two by two, into the fire of Irish Infantry and Purcell's dragoons in trenches, and Bourk's infantrymen in the castle ruin; passed within thirty yards of the castle; forded the stream and forced the pass, and thus enfiladed the Irish left flank. Apparently, Sheldon's cavalry was unable to turn the enemy horse. General St. Ruth was killed in battle and the Irish Army was in complete route by 9 o'clock at night.

After the Battle of Aughrim, Purcell's Dragoon Regiment participated in the defence of Limerick for the second time. With the approval of Queen Mary, General Ginkel sent a communication to Tyrconnell in late July 1691 attempting to settle the battle of Limerick. Ginkel seems to have thought Tyrconnell more likely to compromise that Sarsfield "who with Luttrell and Purcell are the drivers and certainly have pensions from France". General Ginkel's gunners started the bombardment on 8 September 1691. On the night of 15 September Ginkel's forces crossed the main stream of the Shannon above Limerick. The Irish dragoons and infantry pulled back to Limerick over the Thomond bridge. The Irish cavalry rode back to Ennis.

On 22 September the Williamites moved along the Clare bank of the Shannon, and up to the Irish works at the approaches to the Thomond bridge. The Irish troops were pushed back to the bridge. A French Major ordered the drawbridge pulled up, shutting out the retreating troops. Almost everyone on the bridge was killed, including Colonel Redmond (or Redmund) Stapleton of Thurlesbegg and Major Thomas Purcell, Colonel Purcell's younger brother.

Siege of Limerick 
Limerick, now under siege on all sides, beat a parley on 24 September, and the news was sent to the Irish Cavalry near Ennis. Several delegates arrived for a parley with General Ginkel; they included the Archbishop of Cashel, the Earl of Westmeath, the Lord Dillon, the Lord Galmoy, Major-General Sheldon and Colonel Nicholas Purcell. They dined with General Ginkel, then rode on to Limerick.