[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# 2007 New Year Honours

s to the community in Ilkley, West Yorkshire.
Gwendoline May, Mrs. Timmins. For services to the community in Kingswinford, West Midlands. 
Michael John Tombs, Volunteer Co-ordinator, Volunteer Recognition, National Trust. For services to Heritage. 
Simon Manville Topman, Chair, Aston New Deal for Communities and Chief Executive, Acme Whistle Company. For services to Business and to the community in Birmingham.
Edward Traynor. For services to the community in Easterhouse, Glasgow.
Peter Quintrell Treloar. For services to the community in Calne, Wiltshire.
Robert John Trevatt. For services to Homeless People in South Devon.
Dr. John Kenneth Trigg, Vice-Principal, Tomlinscote School and Sixth Form College, Frimley, Surrey. For services to Education.
Miss Florence Irene Tristram, Governor, Oliver Goldsmith Primary School, Southwark, London. For services to Education.
Peter Troy, Head of Humanitarian Response Team. 
Paul Keith Trumble. For services to the community in Thanet, Kent.
Fiona, Mrs. Tunstall, Clerical Assistant, St. Brigid's Primary School, Glasgow. For services to Special Needs Education.
William Richard Turnbull, President, Network Russia Scout Fellowship. For services to International Scouting.
Joseph Turner, Grade C2, Ministry of Defence.
Reta Hodge, Mrs. Tweddle. For services to the community in Rowlands Gill, Tyne and Wear. 
Maureen Winifred, Mrs. Tweney. For services to the community in Oxford.
Dr. Paul Anthony Twomey, General Medical Practitioner, Grimsby, North Lincolnshire. For services to Healthcare.
Michael Tyler, Chair of Governors, Osmani Primary School, Tower Hamlets, London. For services to Education.
Miss Mary Norah Barclay Tyrrell, Honorary Secretary, League of Friends, Gosport War Memorial Hospital, Hampshire. For charitable services.
Ms Sylvia Sanderson Usher, Honorary Secretary, Development Education Centre, Hull. For services to Children and to Young People.
Josephine, Mrs. Vary, Senior Youth and Community Learning Worker, Young Women's Outreach Project, Gateshead. For services to Young People.
Derek Reed Varnals, Technical Adviser, British Phonographic Industry. For services to the Music Industry.
Barry Vernon, Senior Physical Education Officer, H.M. Prison Kirklevington Grange, Yarm, Cleveland. 
Leslie Vince. For services to the Marfan Trust Charity. 
Marion, Mrs. Vincent. For services to the community in Rothley, Leicester.
Susan, Mrs. Wade, Teaching Assistant, Hethersett High School, Norfolk. For services to Education.
Audrey, Mrs. Wales, lately President, Ballymena Borough Chamber of Commerce and Industry. For services to Business and to the community in Ballymena, Northern Ireland.
Michael Walker, General Engineering Manager, SERCO Defence and Aerospace. For services to the Defence Industry.
Peter George Wallis, Non-Executive Director, former Thurrock Primary Care Trust. For services to the NHS.
Lavinia, Mrs. Wallop, Trustee, NSPCC and President, NSPCC Chelsea Branch. For services to Children and Families.
Patricia Eleanor, Mrs. Walls, Chair, Cats Protection Charity. For services to Animal Welfare.
Edith Hazel, Mrs. Ward, Founder, Take Heart Support Group. For charitable services.
Stella Maria, Mrs. Wardell. For services to the community in South West Surrey.
Gillian, Mrs. Waterhouse, Head of Patient and PublicInvolvement, Heart of England NHS Trust. For services to the NHS.
Anne Marie, Mrs. Waters, Watch Manager, RDS, Oxfordshire Fire and Rescue Service. For services to Fire Safety.
Susan, Mrs. Watkin, lately Chair, Huntington's Disease Association. For charitable services.
Bronwen, Mrs. Watson, Family Learning Co-ordinator, Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council. For services to Adult Learning.
Marion, Mrs. Watson, T.D., Member, Scottish Community Care Forum Management Committee. For services to the community in Helensburgh and Lomond.
Robert John Frank Watson, Founder, Sobriety Boating Project for Ex-Offenders. For services to Young People.
Nigel John Maple Way, Proprietor, Royal Castle Hotel. For services to the Hospitality Industry in Dartmouth, Devon.
Miss Pearl Wheatley, Chair, Society for Lincolnshire History and Archaeology. For services to Heritage. 
Ann Denise, Mrs. White, Communications Higher Executive Officer and Chair, Charities Committee, Home Office.
Ms Faye White, Captain, Arsenal Ladies' Football Club and England. For services to Sport.
Raymond White, lately Principal Scientific Officer, National Gallery. For services to Museums.
Audrey Maire, Mrs. Whitehead. For services to the community in Portsmouth.
Barry Whitelock. For services to Inland Waterways in the North.
Mervyn Whyte. For services to Motorcycle Racing in Northern Ireland.
Willard Wigan, Micro Sculptor. For services to Art. 
Terry Wiggins, Sous Chef, House of Commons.
John Henry Wilding. For services to Clock Making. 
Gwynneth, Mrs. Wilkes, Head, Diplomatic Team, Valuation Office Agency, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
John Green-Wilkinson, M.C. For services to the community in Winchester.
Marlene, M