[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lord's Resistance Army insurgency (1994–2002)

a massacre of victims.  Government attempts to destroy the rebels are thus viewed as another cause for grievance by the Acholi. The moral ambiguity of this situation, in which abducted young rebels are both the victims and perpetrators of brutal acts, is vital in understanding the current conflict.

In response the continued insurgencies by the LRA, as well as other pro-Sudanese rebel factions, the Ugandan government aided "Operation Thunderbolt" in early 1997, a large-scale offensive by the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA). The SPLA had long fought against the Sudanese government, and was also hostile toward the pro-Sudanese Ugandan rebels. The Ugandan government hoped that it could weaken its enemies by supporting Operation Thunderbolt with tanks, artillery, other ground forces, and supplies. The Ugandan military, along with the SPLA and other allies, consequently attacked LRA bases during this offensive. Though Operation Thunderbolt did not make a tangible impact on the LRA itself, it greatly weakened other Ugandan insurgent factions as well as the Sudanese government. The Sudanese government of the National Islamic Front consequently began to back away from its previous hard-line stance. This also was prompted by the leadership of new President Omar al-Bashir, who wanted to ensure export of the oil from the newly developed fields being wrested from SPLA control. The U.S. had also taken a more proactive stance against the National Islamic Front government.  U.S. pressure on Sudan intensified following the 1998 bombing of the American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania by al-Qaeda operatives with links to Sudan.  Over the next several years, Khartoum is believed to have substantially curtailed aid to the LRA. In 1999 the Carter Center mediated the Nairobi Agreement between Uganda and Sudan, which restored diplomatic relations in 2001.

In 2000, the Parliament of Uganda passed the Amnesty Act.  This act pardons rebels who give themselves up to the Amnesty Commission and renounce violence.  While it did not end the insurgency, it proved effective enough in some of the other regions of the country that had experienced rebellion to be maintained.

The sudden appearance of LRA units in June 2001 who contacted local government officials to discuss the possibility of dialogue created a flurry of speculation that the LRA was tiring of their insurgency. The Uganda People's Defense Force – the renamed NRA – created a demilitarized zone for the talks, a measure that had the implicit approval of President Museveni. The talks were exploratory in nature and the LRA units eventually returned to Sudan.  However, analysts believed that they were initiated at the behest of Kony and indicated the most promising diplomatic environment since the collapse of the Bigombe talks in 1994.

In 1999 Joseph Kony had one of his leading commanders Alex Otti-Lagony executed accusing him of betrayal. The killing appears to have weakened the LRA by depriving it of one of its more effective commanders and spreading paranoia in its ranks.

Following the al-Qaeda attacks in 2001 upon the World Trade Center and The Pentagon in the U.S., the relationship between Sudan and Uganda abruptly changed.  The NIF government was anxious to avoid any blame that may be attached to them for their offering of sanctuary to al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden for several years in the 1990s.  Also, following the LRA's designation as a terrorist organization by the U.S. State Department on 5 December 2001, Sudan agreed to stop supplying aid to the LRA.

Cross-border tensions were dialed down as support to proxy forces fell.  The LRA itself appeared settled into their Sudanese base camps and only periodically crossed the border.  Some of the hundreds of thousands of civilians displaced by the war began to return to their homes.  The number of people displaced by the conflict declined to about half a million, and people began to talk openly of the day when the "protected camps" would be disbanded.

See also 
 Lord's Resistance Army insurgency (2002–2005)

Notes and references

Works cited 

Lord's Resistance Army

ar:الحرب الأهلية السودانية الثانية#جيش الرب للمقاومة (1994-2002)