[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Massimo Bontempelli

Massimo Bontempelli (12 May 1878 – 21 July 1960) was an Italian poet, playwright, novelist and composer. He was influential in developing and promoting the literary style known as magical realism.

Life
Massimo Bontempelli was born in Como to Alfonso Bontempelli and Maria Cislaghi. His father was a train engineer on the State Railways and frequently moved with his family to other cities for work reasons. Massimo attended the R. Liceo Ginnasio Giuseppe Parini in Milan, where his literature teacher was Alfredo Panzini, and in 1897 graduated in Alessandria.

Bontempelli graduated from the University of Turin, where he was a pupil of Arturo Graf and Giuseppe Fraccaroli. He taught literature in Cherasco and then in Ancona for seven years, doing his writing on the side. Starting from 1904 he published a series of collections of poems and short stories, as well as a tragedy in verse, Costanza, and a comedy, Santa Teresa, all works of a classicist character. He then abandoned teaching when he could not secure a position at a secondary school. 

After leaving teaching in 1910 and settling in Florence, Bontempelli worked as a journalist for Il Marzocco, La Nazione, the Nuova Antologia, the weekly Le Cronache literarie, Il Nuovo Giornale, Il Fieramosca and Corriere della Sera, as well as for the Sansoni publishing house. An adherent of Giosuè Carducci in the debates with followers of Benedetto Croce, he published essays in the field of literary criticism as well as a volume of stories Sette Savi.

In 1915 he began as cultural manager of the Italian Publishing Institute and moved to Milan, overseeing the publication of classics of Italian literature. At the same time he was a collaborator of the Milanese newspaper Secolo and a war correspondent for the Roman newspaper Il Messaggero. A convinced interventionist, in 1917 he enlisted as an artillery officer, while also collaborating on the military newspaper Il Montello and obtaining two medals for valor and three war crosses.

Discharged in 1919, he published a volume of poems written between 1916 and 1918, Il Purosangue. He then published the novels La vita intense (1920), which he had already published in installments in Ardita, the monthly supplement of Il Popolo d'Italia, and La vita operosa in 1921. 

It was his time as a journalist in Paris in the years 1921 and 1922 that put him in contact with the new French avant-gardes and profoundly changed his image of the modern artist. In the short novels The chessboard in front of the mirror (1922) and Eva ultima (1923) he employed a style inspired by the irrational arbitrariness and the apparent randomness of dreams, a writing approach that largely coincides with the pronouncements of the Surrealist Manifesto by André Breton (1924). Alongside his friends Alberto Savinio and Giorgio de Chirico, he pioneered surrealistic experiments in Italian art, which he defined as magical realism.

Settling in Rome, he became part of the Teatro degli Undici, founded by Luigi Pirandello's son Stefano and Orio Vergani, and made friends with Luigi Pirandello, who pushed him to write plays for his company. The results were Nostra Dea (1925) and Minnie la candida (1927), perhaps Bontempelli's theatrical masterpiece, a fairy-tale drama, albeit plausible, that takes place in an atmosphere that always oscillates between nightmare and play.

On 8 August 1926, in the villa of Pirandello, near Sant'Agnese, he was challenged to a duel by Giuseppe Ungaretti, due to a controversy that arose in the Roman newspaper Il Tevere. Ungaretti was slightly wounded in the right arm and the duel ended in a reconciliation.

In 1926, he, along with Curzio Malaparte, founded the journal "900". James Joyce, Max Jacob, and Rainer Maria Rilke sat on the editorial committee and Virginia Woolf and Blaise Cendrars were among the contributors. The magazine ceased publication in 1929.

In March 1927 Bontempelli, who had separated from his wife, began a relationship with Paola Masino, who was thirty years younger. Masino worked with Bontempelli on "900" and together they wrote the unreleased drama, "The Sinking of the Titanic", then moved with him to Paris, where they encountered artists and intellectuals such as Ilya Ehrenburg, Paul Valéry, Max Jacob, André Maurois, André Gide, Emil Ludwig, Giorgio de Chirico, Alberto Savinio, and Pirandello.

During the 1920s and early 1930s, Bontempelli had ties to fascism. In 1924 he joined the P.N.F., together with Luigi Pirandello. He served as a secretary of the fascist writers' union from 1928 and spent time abroad lecturing on Italian culture. A convinced supporter of fascism, which he saw as the most suitable political means to support the birth of a modern society in Italy, Bontempelli was made a member of the  Royal Academy of Italy on 23 October 1930. Back in Milan in 1931, he published My life, death and miracles. The following year he moved to Frascati and in 1933 he and Pier Maria Bardi founded the art magazine Quadrante.