[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Square-free word

efree word

Generating infinite squarefree words 
Infinite squarefree words can be generated by squarefree morphism. A morphism is called squarefree if the image of every squarefree word is squarefree. A morphism is called k–squarefree if the image of every squarefree word of length k is squarefree.

Crochemore proves that a uniform morphism  is squarefree if and only if it is 3-squarefree. In other words,  is squarefree if and only if  is squarefree for all squarefree  of length 3. It is possible to find a squarefree morphism by brute-force search.
 algorithm squarefree_morphism is
     output: a squarefree morphism with the lowest possible rank .
 
     set 
     while True do
         set k_sf_words to the list of all squarefree words of length  over a ternary alphabet
         for each  in k_sf_words do
             for each  in k_sf_words do
                 for each  in k_sf_words do
                     if  then
                         break from the current loop (advance to next )
                     if  and  then
                         if  is squarefree for all squarefree  of length  then
                             return 
         increment  by 
Over a ternary alphabet, there are exactly 144 uniform squarefree morphisms of rank 11 and no uniform squarefree morphisms with a lower rank than 11.

To obtain an infinite squarefree words, start with any squarefree word such as , and successively apply a squarefree morphism  to it. The resulting words preserve the property of squarefreeness.  For example, let  be a squarefree morphism, then as ,  is an infinite squarefree word.

Note that, if a morphism over a ternary alphabet is not uniform, then this morphism is squarefree if and only if it is 5-squarefree.

Letter combinations in squarefree words

Avoid two-letter combinations 
Over a ternary alphabet, a squarefree word of length more than 13 contains all the squarefree two-letter combinations.

This can be proved by constructing a squarefree word without the two-letter combination . As a result,  is the longest squarefree word without the combination  and its length is equal to 13.

Note that over a more than three-letter alphabet there are squarefree words of any length without an arbitrary two-letter combination.

Avoid three-letter combinations 
Over a ternary alphabet, a squarefree word of length more than 36 contains all the squarefree three-letter combinations.

However, there are squarefree words of any length without the three-letter combination .

Note that over a more than three-letter alphabet there are squarefree words of any length without an arbitrary three-letter combination.

Density of a letter 
The density of a letter  in a finite word  is  defined as  where  is the number of occurrences of  in  and  is the length of the word. The density of a letter  in an infinite word is  where  is the prefix of the word  of length .

The minimal density of a letter  in an infinite ternary squarefree word is equal to .

The maximum density of a letter  in an infinite ternary squarefree word is equal to .

Notes

References 

 
 .
 
 

Formal languages
Combinatorics on words