[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Isaac P. Gray

ty, and the Democrats were soon overwhelmed. Six-hundred Republicans then beat down the door of the Senate Chamber and dragged out the Democratic Senators, threatening to kill them. Gray ordered police and other officials to break up the fight, which ended after nearly a full four hours of fighting.

The Republicans refused to return to the Senate, and the House refused to continue communications with the Senate, effectively ending the legislative session. Despite all the fighting, Robertson was not seated. Gray dropped his attempt to be elected to the Senate, and the situation fueled the public's support of an amendment to make senators elected by popular vote. Gray only achieved three of his campaign goals while governor. He was able to have funds appropriated to begin construction of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument. He also successfully advocated the switch from a short ballot to a long ballot following several years of high voter fraud. He also successfully had the White Caps, a group involved in vigilantism in the southern part of the state, investigated and broken up.

Barred by the Constitution of Indiana from serving a consecutive term, Gray retired from office and returned to his law practice.

Sisyphus of the Wabash
Gray was one of the Democratic Vice Presidential candidates in 1888, but he lost the nomination to Allen G. Thurman, primarily because his enemies again brought up his actions while a Republican.  He returned to his law practice, and because of all of the situations he found himself in, he gained the derisive nickname "Sisyphus of the Wabash."  He was again almost nominated to run for vice president again in 1892, but was defeated again after his opponent ascended the podium to retell the story of his actions in the amendment ratification twenty years earlier.

President Grover Cleveland nominated Gray to serve as Minister to Mexico in 1893. He remained at the post until his death from double pneumonia in Mexico City on February 14, 1895. The President of Mexico ordered all the flags flown at half staff in Gray's honor and a full division of the Mexican Army escorted Gray's body back to the border where he was transferred to Indianapolis to lie in state. His funeral was held in Union City and was buried in a nearby cemetery.

Electoral history

See also

List of governors of Indiana

References
Notes

Bibliography

External links
Biography and portrait from Indiana Historical Bureau
Isaac Gray at FindAGrave

American Quakers
Governors of Indiana
Indiana Democrats
Indiana Republicans
Indiana state senators
People of Indiana in the American Civil War
Ambassadors of the United States to Mexico
1888 United States vice-presidential candidates
1828 births
1895 deaths
Indiana Whigs
19th-century American politicians
Indiana Liberal Republicans
Democratic Party governors of Indiana
19th-century American diplomats
Politicians from Chester County, Pennsylvania
People from New Madison, Ohio
People from Union City, Indiana
People from Urbana, Ohio