[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Russian Empire–United States relations

cially neutral during the Revolution and never openly picked sides during the war. On an unofficial basis, however, she acted favorably towards the American colonists by offering to provide them all that she could without compromising Russia's neutrality and her eventual desire to act as a mediator.

In March 1780, the Russian ministry released a "Declaration of Armed Neutrality." That set out Russia's international stance on the American Revolution and focused on the importance of allowing neutral vessels to travel freely to any Russian port without them being searched or harassed by the Navigation Acts. While the declaration kept Russia officially neutral, it supported many of France's own pro-American policies and resisted Britain's efforts to strangle America through a naval blockade. The declaration also gave the American rebels an emotional lift, as they realized Russia was not solidly aligned with Britain. With Russia as a potential, powerful friend, Russian-American connections and communications continued to improve. Nevertheless, Catherine refused to recognize the United States openly as an independent nation until the war had ended.

Britain's requests for assistance
As the Revolutionary War continued into the late 1770s, a growing list of European powers took sides against Britain. The British saw a need to solidify an alliance with Russia to bolster its American war. As a world power that had allied with Britain, Russia was an obvious choice to assist with logistical and military support, as well as diplomatic efforts.

While Catherine seems to have admired the British people and culture, she disliked George III and his ministry. She was particularly disturbed by the Seven Years' War during which Catherine observed Britain's efforts to exit the conflict discreetly and to leave Russia's ally Prussia vulnerable to defeat. She considered those efforts immoral and disloyal and saw Britain as an unreliable ally. She also viewed the American Revolution as Britain's fault. Citing the constant change in Britain's ministries as a major reason, Catherine understood the American grievances.

Despite Russia's official neutrality, Catherine's negative opinions of British rule and her view that Britain had caused the revolution weighed on her decisions when Britain began to request Russian support.
In the summer of 1775, Britain sent diplomats to Russia in an attempt to learn whether Catherine would agree to send troops to America to aid British forces. Although her initial response seemed positive, Catherine denied George's formal request for support. While her dislike of the British ministry likely influenced her decision, Catherine formally cited the fact that her army needed rest after it had just finished more than six years of war.

In November 1779, Britain made another plea for Russian assistance. Swallowing their pride, the British acknowledged to Catherine the collective power of Britain's enemies, as well as the King's desire for peace. The British letter to Catherine explained those concerns and offered to "commit her Britain's interests to the hand of the Empress." The British included a specific request for Russia to use force against all British enemies, including other European countries, to stop the American Revolution. After waiting several months, Catherine decided to refuse Britain's request.

In 1781, Britain attempted to bribe Russia to gain its assistance. Distressed and realizing that the British were close to losing the war, James Harris asked if a piece of British territory could convince Russia to join the fight. Offering the island of Minorca, Harris did not request soldiers in exchange. This time, Britain simply asked for Russia to convince France to exit the war and to force the American rebels to fight alone.  Perhaps revealing her secret desire to have the Americans gain their independence, Catherine used Harris's proposal to embarrass Britain. She declined Harris's offer and published Britain's attempts at bribery to the French and the Spanish.