[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bina Agarwal

d Equality (co-edited, Oxford University Press, Delhi, 2006). Her most recently authored book is Gender and Green Governance (Oxford University Press, Oxford and Delhi, 2010) which has been widely cited and favourably reviewed in both academic journals and the popular press (EPW and Indian Express).

Positions and awards 
Bina Agarwal has held distinguished positions at many international universities, including Harvard University, where she was the first Daniel Ingalls Visiting professor, the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Michigan, the University of Minnesota, where she held the Winton Chair, and the New York University School of Law. In 2006–07, Agarwal was also a visiting research fellow at Harvard Kennedy School at Harvard University.  In addition, she has been vice-president of the International Economic Association, president of the International Association for Feminist Economics, and on the board of the Global Development Network. Agarwal is a founding member of the Indian Society for Ecological economics. She is one of only two women who served on the Commission for the Measurement of Economic Performance and Social Progress, chaired by Nobel Laureate Joseph Stiglitz and set up by President Sarkozy. She has also been consultant to the Planning Commission of India and is on the editorial boards of several international academic journals.

In 2009, Agarwal was nominated to the board of the United Nations Research Institute for Social Development (UNRISD) – such nominations are approved by the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). On 29 March 2010 the Global Development and Environment Institute (GDAE) awarded her the 2010 Leontief Prize – an annual award named after Nobel Laureate Wassily Leontief.  GDAE Co-director Neva Goodwin wrote: "Bina Agarwal embodies the kind of theoretically rigorous, empirically grounded, and policy-oriented economics that the Leontief Prize was created to recognize," and "Her contributions to both scholarship and policy on economic development, the environment, well-being, and gender have been an inspiration to GDAE for many years." She is the currently president-elect of the International Society for Ecological Economics. She also heads a "Working Group on Disadvantaged Farmers, including Women" for India's 12th Five Year Plan, and is on the Indian Prime Minister's Panel on Land Reform. Additionally, Agarwal is on the advisory board for Academics Stand Against Poverty (ASAP).

In 2017, she received the Balzan Prize for Gender Studies in recognition of her work in studying women's contribution to agriculture in India.

Additional honours 
 First Ramesh Chandra Agrawal Award 2005 for Outstanding Contributions to Agricultural Economics.
 Malcolm Adiseshiah Award 2002 for Distinguished Contributions to Development Studies. 
 AWARDS for A Field of One's Own: Gender and Land Rights in South Asia:
 Ananda Kentish Coomaraswamy Book Prize 1996, given by the Association for Asian Studies (USA) (First South Asian to win the prize.) 
 Edgar Graham Book Prize 1996, given every two years by The University of London's the Department of Development Studies, School of Oriental and African Studies. 
 The K. H. Batheja Award 1995–96 given every two years by Bombay University and the Batheja Trust awarding the most deserving works about India and Development. 
 The Institute of Social Studies (ISS) awarded Agarwal with an honorary doctorate in 2007 and the University of Antwerp gave her an Honorary Doctorate in April 2011.
 Padma Shri awarded by the President of India in 2008

Selected works

Books

Chapters in books

Journals 
 
 
 
  Pdf.
  Pdf.

See also 
 Feminist economics
 List of feminist economists

References 

 Agarwal, Bina and Panda Pradeep (9/7/2003) "Home and the World: Revisiting Violence" in The Indian Express
 Agarwal, Bina (25 September 2005) "Landmark Step to Gender Equality" in The Hindu

External links
 http://www.binaagarwal.com 

Feminist economists
Indian development economists
20th-century Indian economists
Living people
Delhi University alumni
Harvard University staff
University of Michigan faculty
Recipients of the Padma Shri in literature & education
1951 births
Ecological economists
Indian women academics
Indian women economists
20th-century Indian educators
20th-century Indian women scientists
20th-century Indian women writers
20th-century Indian non-fiction writers
Indian political writers
Indian women political writers
20th-century Indian educational theorists
20th-century Indian women educational theorists
21st-century Indian women scientists
Women scientists from Delhi
Women writers from Delhi
Women educators from Delhi
Educators from Delhi
21st-century Indian economists
21st-century Indian women writers
21st-century Indian writers
Presidents of the International Association for Feminist Economics