[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo

quite a notorious and infamous torture camp located in Quetta Cantt. Other Baloch leaders like Mir Gul Khan Nasir and Faiz Mohammad Yousafzai were also imprisoned and put in the "Quli Camp".

Here they were subjected to inhumane torture and abuse. Ataullah Mengal quotes Mir Gul Khan Nasir as saying:

"They kept Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo separate from us and tortured him so much that when he was brought back I didn't recognize him. He used to shave but now the guards were bringing an old man with a beard."

National Awami Party government 
In the 1970 General Election in Pakistan, the NAP came out as a majority party in North-West Frontier Province and Balochistan. Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo was elected from the Lyari Town area of Karachi with the help of another notable politician of Pakistan - Mahmoud Haroon. In 1972, NAP formed its governments in both the provinces. In Balochistan Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo became the Governor of Balochistan and Sardar Ataullah Khan Mengal became the first Chief Minister of Balochistan. Mir Gul Khan Nasir was a Senior Minister in this Government and held the portfolios of Education and Health. Nawab Khair Bakhsh Marri, Sardar Ahmed Nawaz Bugti and Sardar Abdul Rehman Baloch of KECH were other Members of the Provincial Assembly from NAP. Dr. Abdul Hai Baloch was a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan.

Constitutional Committee 
Pakistan ran under the remnant of Martial Law LFO (Legal Framework Order) without any proper constitution.  It was obligatory on the Legislature to frame a new constitution for a country, so it appointed a 25-member Constitutional committee composed of all the political parties represented in the parliament according to their strength on 17 April 1972, to prepare a draft of the permanent Constitution of Pakistan.

Khan Amirzadah Khan and Mir Ghous Bux Bizenjo were representing National Awami Party. This Constitutional Committee headed Abdul Hafiz Pirzada of Pakistan Peoples Party work day and night for many months and framed a draft constitution which was presented in the parliament and adopted as the well-known 1973 constitution.

Khan Amirzadah Khan deliberated and delivered his famous speech of 5 hours and 35 minutes on this constitution, this speech is still holding the record of the longest extempore speech of the National Assembly of Pakistan.

According to this constitution, no person could hold membership of more than 1 Assembly at a time. Hence, Khan Abdul Wali Khan resigned from the membership of NWFP assembly and retained the seat of National Assembly of Pakistan. On the advice of the party leadership, Khan Amirzadah Khan resigned from the National Assembly and retained the membership of NWFP assembly seat. Where Khan Amirzadah Khan was elected as leader of the opposition, which he retained till the end of the tenure of the assembly.

Dismissal of NAP government and arrest 
In 1973, the Bhutto regime citing Nawab Akbar Bugti's claim that the NAP Leaders were trying to disintegrate Pakistan as a basis, dismissed the NAP Government. Mir Ghaus Bakhsh resigned in protest. Mir Gul Khan Nasir and Sardar Abdul Rehman were arrested. A few days later Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo, Ataullah Mengal, Khair Bakhsh Marri, Mir Ghaus Bakhsh's son Bizen and Colonel (R) Sultan Mohammad Khan (the head of Balochistan Reserve Police) were arrested. They spent more than four years in jail.

Hyderabad tribunal 

Later, a commission known as Hyderabad tribunal, was set up and Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo, Sardar Ataullah Mengal, Mir Gul Khan Nasir, Khair Bakhsh Marri, Khan Abdul Wali Khan, Khan Amirzadah Khan, Syed Muhammad Kaswar Gardezi, Habib Jalib and many others had to defend themselves in a treason case in front of the tribunal.

After the ouster of Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto's government by General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, negotiations for the winding up of the Hyderabad tribunal and the release of all detainees was initiated leading to their eventual release in 1979.

NDP and PNP parties 
After their release Khair Bakhsh Marri and Sherof Marri decided to opt out of Parliamentary politics while Mir Ghaus Bakhsh, Mir Gul Khan Nasir and Ataullah Mengal joined Wali Khan's National Democratic Party or NDP. But after the Saur Revolution, Mir Ghaus Bakhsh and Wali Khan developed differences and Mir Ghaus Bakhsh along with Mir Gul Khan formed the Pakistan National Party (PNP) while Ataullah Mengal went into exile in London.

After some time, Mir Ghaus Bakhsh and Mir Gul Khan Nasir had a falling out due to which Gul Khan (who was the President of PNP Balochistan) resigned from his post in the party.

On 14 August 1986, Benazir Bhutto led an Independence Day march in Karachi against the General Zia Ul-Haq's regime and addressed nearly 10,000 people in that protest march, after which she was arrested by the police. Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo as head of Pakistan National Party had also tried to reach the protest meeting to make a speech, but was also arrested.