[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Robert Nimmo

ng "dashingly". Later that day the 5th Light Horse Regiment attacked the Tel Abu Dilakh ridge, covering the  to the ridge at a gallop under heavy artillery fire. While the regiment was held up by guns firing from a distant village, they pushed forward in the morning and captured the enemy artillery.

After this concentrated period of heavy fighting, Nimmo's regiment was rested on the coast for three days before rejoining the force that pursued the Ottoman forces north along the coast. In late November and early December, the 5th Light Horse Regiment held a defensive position along the Auja river, before the entire brigade received a week's rest. The 5th Light Horse Regiment then helped capture Jerusalem. The wet winter made operations impossible over the period from late December 1917, and Nimmo's regiment was sent further south to Esdud to continue its rest and recuperation, which continued until mid-March 1918 when they broke camp and rode to Jerusalem. From there the brigade rode to the Jordan River and crossed at Hajla on 23/24 March as part of the raid on Amman. They crossed the Jordan Valley and climbed the plateau a few hour's ride from their objective. On 26 March, two squadrons of the 5th Light Horse Regimentone of which was Nimmo'sattacked a convoy on the Amman-Es Salt road, and captured two dozen vehicles and 12 prisoners, and on the following day cut the railway to the north of Amman by blowing up a bridge. During the stealthy approach march to the railway line, Nimmo's squadron was the advance guard and his handling of his squadron was described by the commander of the raid as "masterly". The 2nd Light Horse Brigade then engaged in a demonstration on the left flank of a night attack on Amman by the rest of the raiding force. Like the two daylight attempts that preceded it, this attack was also a failure. The 2nd Light Horse Brigade withdrew to Es Salt. 

The 5th Light Horse Regiment then spent most of the next three months securing the west bank of the Jordan. On 26 April, Nimmo accompanied his commanding officer on a reconnaissance of fords along the Jordan, and the following day Nimmo's squadron was the advance guard for the crossing of the river. The brigade then joined the Australian Mounted Division near Es Salt on 1 May. The 5th Light Horse Regiment took up positions near Es Salt, which had been captured by the 3rd Light Horse Brigade on 30 April, and fought off an Ottoman attack on 3 May, after which the regiment withdrew to a bivouac area south of Jericho. While these two raids were unsuccessful at the tactical level, they contributed to the Ottoman commanders becoming convinced that the next major Allied offensive would involve them crossing the Jordan.

The regiment rotated in and out of the outpost line from 22 May, and from 11 June Nimmo spent two weeks acting as brigade major of the 2nd Light Horse Brigade while the incumbent was on leave, followed by six weeks at the senior officers' school near Cairo. On 17 September he was appointed as brigade major of the 1st Light Horse Brigade, which was conducting operations near Es Salt. Nimmo prepared the orders for the key role the brigade played in the capture of Amman on 25 September and a follow-up operation on 28 September at Kirb Es Samra and El Mafrak, in which it took more than eight hundred Ottoman and four German prisoners and captured 16 artillery pieces. From 7 October Nimmo spent two weeks in hospital with malaria followed by two weeks' sick leave, rejoining the 1st Light Horse Brigade on 12 November after the Ottoman Empire had signed the Armistice of Mudros, ending the fighting in the Middle East. On 21 January 1919 Nimmo's mention in despatches was announced in the London Gazette for his services during the period from 16 March to 18 September 1918. A month later he embarked at Suez aboard the Novgorod to return to Australia.

Nimmo's record with the 5th Light Horse Regiment was described by his commanding officer, Lieutenant Colonel Donald Cameron, as "a particularly fine one", and he was also described by Cameron as possessing "personal qualifications of the highest order" and as "a most gallant and able leader". His commanding officer's report on his performance was endorsed by the commander of the 1st Light Horse Brigade, Brigadier General Charles Frederick Cox, who described him as "an excellent brigade major", and by the commander of the ANZAC Mounted Division, Major General Edward Chaytor.  Nimmo's AIF appointment was terminated on 19 June 1919, and he was transferred to the Australian Staff Corps, the small corps of officers of the Permanent Military Forces responsible for the training of the part-time forces. For his service in World War I, he was entitled to the 1914–15 Star, British War Medal and Victory Medal. Upon his return to Australia, Nimmo was presented the 1915 Sword of Honour, an award for the cadet in each Duntroon graduating class who displays the most exemplary conduct and performance of duties.