[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kharkiv National University of Economics

authorities, practitioners, scholars and the Research Centre for Industrial Problems (under the guidance of M.Dobkin) presented Scientific and practical report "Basis for sustainable development of the Kharkiv region up to 2020". The report was adopted by the regional parliament on 23 December 2010.

International conferences and business forums 
KhNEU is the venue for representative business forums of both regional and national scale. These were the International scientific and practical conference for the development of the socio-economic development program for the Kharkiv region (2001, 2004, 2010), the International Conference of Regional and Local Economic Development (2001), the Ukrainian-Russian Investment Forum (2003), the International economic Forum "Regional Cooperation" (2003), Environmental Forum (2004, 2006), International Tourism Forum "Kharkiv: Partnership in Tourism" (2010) and others. Every year the university held or provides a platform for about ten scientific conferences.

Scientific Journals 
The acts as a publisher or cofounder of three scientific journals.

"Economics of Development" ("" ISSN 1683-1942) is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal established in 2002. It publishes original research papers in relatively wide range of fields of economics.

"Management of development" ("" specializes on students' papers and conference proceedings.

"Business Inform" ("" ISSN 2222-4459) is a co-founded peer-reviewed academic journal established in 1992 and edited by KhNUE and the Research Centre for Industrial Development Problems.

Library 

KhNUE Library housed in the renovated scientific library building of 4000 sq m. The library consists of 5 sections with 12 reading rooms for 460 seats and 12 subscriptions. Since 2009, readers have open access to full-text documents.
The librarian complex operates with automated cataloging literature system and its reading rooms are provided with up-to-date computer systems supplying unlimited Internet and specialized database access. Particularly in the library operate centers of Innovative Knowledge of the World Bank and EU Information Center. By means of the Centers readers can access the information and analytical resources of these organizations.

International Partnership 
KNUE is a member of the Magna Charta Universitatum (2004), Association of Economic Universities of South and Eastern Europe and the Black Sea Region (2008), Agence universitaire de la Francophonie (2009) European University Association (2009). Agreements on cooperation and partnership relations established with more than 40 universities in the EU, Russia and the CIS countries, USA and Canada, the countries of East Asia (2010).

The university has collaborative master's "double diploma" programs with the Lumière University Lyon 2 (France) and the University of Applied Sciences Technikum Wien (Austria). French-Ukrainian MBA program “Business-Informatics” has worked successfully since 2005. In 2010 the program obtained the highest mark A+ of the Association on assessment of research and higher education (AERES, France). According to research of SMBG Consulting Group the program is included in top 10 best MBA programs Business Intelligence in France in 2013 and 2014. From 2015 a part of students of the program “Business-informatics” will undergo one-year training in the University Monpellier 2 on the joint MBA program “Creating new innovative companies”.

Students' life 
KhNUE promoted actively the students' social, public, cultural and voluntary activity. The university has the Youth Organization, Youth Center, and more than thirty amateur groups. There were established traditional festivals named "Student Spring", "Debut", KVN, "Mister" and "Miss KhNUE", KVN (the university's version of "Club of the Funny and Inventive" show), Debate and oratorical tournaments, "The Golden Compass" competition and others. Rich cultural life along with wide range of cultural and social opportunities for students are one of the distinctive features distinguishing KhNUE among universities of Ukraine.

Youth Organization 
The Youth Organization founded in 1999 traditionally occupies leading position in Kharkiv region as an area of many colleges and universities (the 1st largest educational center of Ukraine) and in Ukraine as a whole. The Youth Organization is an active participant in regional and Ukrainian actions: All-Ukrainian School of Young Leaders, Ukrainian festival "Students' republic", the Students' mayor of Kharkiv (nominations 2004, 2005. It is the co-founder of Kharkiv Student Youth Union, Regional Coordinator of Ukrainian Students Rada (USR) in Kharkiv; KhNEU's students Vladimir Shemaev and  Natalia Yakunina were the USR's elected leaders in 2006-2007 and in 2008-2010 respectively.