[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of coups and coup attempts

r killing three of his rivals.
751, Umayyad Caliphate: Abu Muslim Khorasani stormed Damascus and massacred the ruling Banu Umayyad family. As-Saffah became the first ruler of the Abbasid Caliphate.
839, Silla: Jang Bogo of Silla overthrew King Minae and installed King Sinmu on the throne.

1000–1699

1010, Goryeo: General Gang Jo of Goryeo staged a coup that overthrew King Mokjong.
1126, Goryeo: Yi Ja-gyeom of Goryeo made a failed attempt to overthrow King Injong.
1170, Goryeo: General Jeong Jung-bu of Goryeo led a military coup that deposed King Uijong and installed puppet king Myeongjong under military regime.
1197, Goryeo: Choe Chung-heon of Goryeo staged a military coup that ousted and killed military dictator Yi Ui-Min, and deposed King Myeongjong.
1258, Goryeo: General Kim Jun of Goryeo overthrew and killed then-military dictator Choe Ui.
1284, Ilkhanate: The Ilkhanate ruler Tekuder was overthrown by Arghun.
1327, England: Isabella of France overthrew her husband, Edward II, and became regent for their son, Edward III, with her lover and co-regent, Roger Mortimer.
1330, England: Edward III assumed royal power, arrested Isabella of France and executed Roger Mortimer.
1388, Goryeo: General Yi Seong-gye of Goryeo led a military coup that deposed King U, murdered General Choe Young, and installed puppet ruler King Chang and eventually King Gongyang. Yi later crowned himself, starting the Joseon Dynasty.
1452, Aq Qoyunlu: Uzun Hasan seized Diyarbakir in a coup while sultan Jahangir was away on a military expedition.
1398, Joseon dynasty (Korea): Prince Yi Bangwon of Joseon led a coup that murdered Prime Minister Jeong Dojeon and two other princes.
1455, Joseon dynasty (Korea): Prince Suyang of Joseon led a coup that ousted the government of Prime Minister Hwangbo In and Kim Jong Seo, who were killed during the coup.
1459, Đại Việt: Prince Lê Nghi Dân led a coup that killed Emperor Lê Nhân Tông. Lê Nghi Dân later crowned himself.
1459, Đại Việt: Đỗ Bí and Lê Thụ led a coup that overthrew Emperor Lê Nghi Dân.
1506, Joseon dynasty (Korea): A coup d'état in Joseon overthrew Prince Yeonsan and placed King Jungjong on the throne.
1512, Ottoman Empire: Selim I rebelled against his father Bayezid II and took the throne of Ottoman Empire.
1541, Peru: Juan de Rada led a coup that ousted and killed Spanish conquistador and governor of Peru, Francisco Pizarro, and installed Diego de Almagro II as governor.
1567, Scotland: Protestant rebels arrested Mary Queen of Scots and forced her to sign the Abdicate on 24 July 1567 in favour of the infant James VI and to appoint her illegitimate half-brother, James Stewart, Earl of Moray, as regent.
1569, 1569 Plot in Sweden: Courtiers of the imprisoned Eric XIV attempted to free and reinstate him, deposing John III of Sweden. The plot was exposed and prevented, and the conspirators were executed.
 1574, Mornay Plot in Sweden: A plot to depose John III of Sweden and reinstate Eric XIV was discovered in Sweden.
1605, Gunpowder Plot in England: On 5 November, a group of provincial English Catholics led by Guy Fawkes attempted to kill King James I and much of the Protestant aristocracy by blowing up the Houses of Parliament during the State Opening of Parliament.
1622, Janissaries' Revolt in the Ottoman Empire: Janissaries revolted against Osman II and imprisoned him in the Seven Towers. He was murdered shortly afterwards.
1623, Joseon dynasty (Korea): A coup d'état in Joseon overthrew Prince Gwanghae and placed King Injo on the throne.
1648, Pride's Purge in England: Members of Parliament who wished to continue political negotiations with Charles I were ejected from the House of Commons.  Those remaining—known as the Rump—went on to agree that the king should be put on trial for his life.
1653, England: On 20 April, Oliver Cromwell and forty musketeers under the command of Charles Worsley entered the House of Commons and forcibly dissolved the Rump Parliament, leading to Cromwell becoming Lord Protector and instigating military rule.
1660, Denmark: Frederick III of Denmark staged a coup in Copenhagen that instituted absolute monarchy in the country.
1688, Glorious Revolution in the British Isles: The Catholic James II was deposed by a faction favourable to the Protestant William of Orange.
1689, Boston Revolt in the Dominion of New England: In an action described by some as a "putsch", the Puritan militia, assisted by a Bostonian mob, arrested the unpopular governor, Sir Edmund Andros.

1700–1799