[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Congress of Local and Regional Authorities

onference of European Regional Legislative Assemblies (CALRE). The Congress can be represented at meetings or events of these organizations and makes its policies and priorities known, in particular when they fall within the scope of these organisations' fields of activities.

National associations 

National (and European) associations of local and regional authorities play a role in promoting local democracy which is vital to the work of the Congress of the Council of Europe. They deliver information about Congress activities across to their countries, particularly by lobbying in their governments. They also, in some cases, play a part in the procedure whereby their country's national delegation to the Congress is designated. National associations play an active part in implementation of the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, denouncing abuses and possible violations and thus acting as an "early warning system"and a peaceful counterweight. The site of the Congress contains more information on national associations.

Observer status 
International associations of local and regional authorities which have a consultative status with the Council of Europe also have observer status with the Congress. Observer status may also be granted to other associations on application to the Bureau of the Congress.. This status gives them the right to take part in the work of the Congress, submit memoranda and comment on issues discussed at plenary sessions, but not to vote. One or more representatives of organizations with observer status may be invited to attend meetings of the Statutory Forum, the Bureau, the Committees or ad hoc working groups.

References

Sources
Official website of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities
Official website of the Council of Europe
Official website of the ALDA
Official website of the NALAS
Official website of the ENTO
Official website of the Roma Alliance
Official website of the ONE in FIVE Campaign
Official website of the Committee of the Regions
Official website of the AER
Official website of the CEMR
Official website of the AEBR
Official website of the CALRE
Priorities of the Congress 2013–2016
Statutary Resolution 94(3)
Statutary Resolution (2011)2 and the revised Charter of the Congress
Rules of Procedure
Resolution 307(2010)on the monitoring procedure
Resolution 306(2010) on the observation of elections
Resolution 353(2013)on post-monitoring and post-observation dialogue

Council of Europe
Congress of the Council of Europe
International political organizations
Organizations based in Strasbourg
Politics of Europe