[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ryuichi Shimoda v. The State

1923 (which detailed regulations for aerial warfare, but never came into force), and was therefore illegal.

It was reported in the Hanrei Jiho (Law Cases Report), vol. 355, p. 17; translated in The Japanese Annual of International Law, vol. 8, 1964, p. 231. that the facts were that

And it was held

Aerial bombardment
Although no international treaty governing air warfare existed at the time of the bombings, the court issued its obiter dictum judgment based on several distinctions which were pertinent to both conventional and atomic aerial bombardment. Relying on the Hague Convention of 1907 IV - The Laws and Customs of War on Land and IX - Bombardment by Naval Forces in Time of War, and the Hague Draft Rules of Air Warfare of 1922–1923, the court drew a distinction between "Targeted Aerial Bombardment" and indiscriminate area bombardment, that the court called "Blind Aerial Bombardment" and a distinction between a defended and an undefended city. "In principle, a defended city is a city which resists an attempt at occupation by land forces. A city even with defence installations and armed forces cannot be said to be a defended city if it is far away from the battlefield and is not in immediate danger of occupation by the enemy."

The court ruled that blind aerial bombardment was permitted only in the immediate vicinity of the operations of land forces and that only targeted aerial bombardment of military installations was permitted further from the front. It also ruled that the incidental death of civilians and the destruction of civilian property during targeted aerial bombardment was not unlawful. The court acknowledged that the concept of a military objective was enlarged under conditions of total war, but stated that the distinction between the two did not disappear.

The court also ruled that when military targets were concentrated in a comparatively small area, and where defense installations against air raids were very strong, that when the destruction of non-military objectives was small in proportion to the large military interests, or necessity, such destruction was lawful. Thus, because of the immense power of the atom bombs and the distance from enemy land forces, the atomic bombings of both Hiroshima and Nagasaki "was an illegal act of hostilities under international law as it existed at that time, as an indiscriminate bombardment of undefended cities".

Aftermath
One of the main arguments of the court in the Shimoda case, that the waiver of claims in the San Francisco peace treaty precluded any actions for damages by Japanese citizens against the US government, was also used in the US legal system. In the case of Mitsubishi Materials Corporation et al. v. Frank H. Dillman et al., dealing with a lawsuit by a former US prisoner of war against Mitsubishi for its part in the forced labor that he performed during the Second World War, the Superior Court of Orange County rejected the motion and referred to the Shimoda case as follows:

References

Further reading

 Judge T. Koseki (Toshimasa Koseki), Judge Y. Mibuchi (Yoshiko Mibuchi), Judge A. Takakuwa (Akira Takakuwa) (Civil Affairs Division No. 24, Tokyo District Court).  Shimoda et al. v. The State , Tokyo District Court, 7 December 1963. Source:  Hanrei Jiho, vol. 355, p. 17; translated in The Japanese Annual of International Law, vol. 8, 1964, p. 231. Copy on the website of the  International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC).
原爆裁判・下田事件判決
日本反核法律家協会　【資料】　オスロ会議に向けての提言集

1963 in Japan
Japanese case law
Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki
1963 in case law
1963 in the environment