[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

ponse as Israel's retaliation towards Hezbollah. In particular, an Indian blogger writes:
"The unanimity, determination and the promptness involved in their arriving at the decision to root out Hizbollah ... deserves accolades!! [It is the] sharpest of contrasts to the callousness of Indian polity."

The post attracted pages of responses, including many comparing Indian politicians unfavorably to Israelis. Similarly, editorialists in The Pioneer, one of India's newspapers, argued that Delhi should follow Israel's example and attack Pakistan to show that it "cannot escape blame for its surrogates' actions", alluding to accusations made by the Indian Government and media of Pakistan's involvement in Terrorism in Kashmir.

Indonesia
On 16 July Thousands of protesters have rallied in Jakarta to condemn the Israeli attacks on the Palestinian territories and Lebanon. On 28 July thousands of demonstrators gathered in several cities with banners portraying Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and American President George W. Bush as "the real terrorists".  During a protest outside the US embassy in Jakarta a speaker stated:"It's ironic that America shouts about peace and democracy, and then supports Israel when it kills innocent Muslims. How can they stop terrorism against the west if they always make Muslims angry?"

Iraq
Thousands of Iraqis demonstrated in Baghdad on 14 July, praising the leader of Hezbollah and denouncing Israel and the United States for attacks against Lebanon. Some protesters said they were ready to fight the Israelis.

On 26 July, volunteers willing to fight alongside Hezbollah in Lebanon were recruited at a Shiite party headquarters in Basra. The party's Secretary General Yousif al Mousawi said about 200 people signed up within two hours. One recruit was quoted as saying: "We cannot stand by and watch our Hezbollah brothers fight alone.. If we are to die in Lebanon, then we will go to heaven. It is our duty as Muslims to fight."

On 4 August 200,000+ Iraqi Shiites filled the streets of the Shiite dominated Sadr City following calls to attend a rally in support of Hezbollah's resistance.  The calls were made by cleric Muqtada al-Sadr.  The crowd reportedly chanted: "Death to Israel, death to America!!"

Iran
On 18 July, thousands of Iranians poured into the streets of Tehran and staged a mass rally to condemn the attacks by Israel on Gaza and Lebanon.

Ireland
On 31 July, a Trócaire organised peace rally took place outside the United States embassy in Dublin. The rally attended by hundreds of people, including Lebanese citizens, demanded an end to the present conflict.

On 31 July, the Irish Film Institute canceled the sponsorship provided by the Embassy of Israel in Ireland for 'Walk on Water', one of the films being screened at the Dublin Gay and Lesbian Film Festival, due to the current Israeli activities in the Lebanon.

Israel
On 12 July 2006, just a few hours following the Israeli attack on Lebanon started, about 100-200 people in Tel Aviv protested in front of the Israeli Ministry of Defense against the attack. On 16 July, about 1,000 people demonstrated in Tel Aviv against the war. On 22 July 2,500 people, including both Jews and Arabs, gathered in Tel Aviv to demonstrate against the war. A demonstration was also held in Haifa on the same date but was called off after air raid sirens sounded. On 28 July, a "die-in" demonstration, with red paint being put on demonstrators' shirts and demonstrators lying on the ground to dramatise their point of view, took place in Tel Aviv.

On Saturday 5 August, nearly 10,000 (according to organizers) people demonstrated in Tel Aviv against the war in Lebanon. Participating organisations included Gush Shalom, the Women's Coalition for Peace, Ta'ayush, Anarchists Against the Wall, Yesh Gvul, the Israeli Palestinian Bereaved Families for Peace, and political parties Hadash, Balad and the United Arab List.

A poll taken 28 July by the Dahuf Institute for the newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth found that seven in ten (71%) supported using more military force in Lebanon. Asked what Israel’s next step should be, 48 percent said fight until Hezbollah is destroyed, 30 percent said drive the militia away from the border, and 21 percent said to negotiate with Hezbollah.

On 31 August, mass rally of tens of thousands of people in Rabin Square called for the release of the three kidnapped IDF soldiers.

Jordan
Various demonstrations were also held in Jordan, most were in front of the UN headquarters, embassies, and other influential organizations.

Kuwait
The day after Hezbollah's 12 July attack on Israel, Sheik Hamid al-Ali issued an informal statement titled "The Sharia position on what is going on." In it, the Kuwaiti based cleric condemned the imperial ambitions of Iran regarding Hezbollah's cross border raid.

Also on the National Flag grounds in Kuwait City hundreds gathered to express support to Hezbollah.