[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Javanese culture

Javanese culture is the culture of the Javanese people.
Javanese culture is centered in the provinces of Central Java, Yogyakarta and East Java in Indonesia. Due to various migrations, it can also be found in other parts of the world, such as Suriname (where 15% of the population are of Javanese descent), the broader Indonesian archipelago region, Cape Malay, Malaysia, Singapore, Netherlands and other countries. The migrants bring with them various aspects of Javanese cultures such as  music, traditional dances and art of  shadow play.

The migration of Javanese people westward has created the coastal Javanese culture that is distinct from inland Sundanese culture in West Java and Banten. Being the largest ethnic group, the Javanese culture and people influence Indonesian politics and culture, a process sometimes described as Javanisation.

Literature

Javanese literature tradition is among the earliest and the oldest surviving literature traditions in Indonesia. The translations of Hindu epic Ramayana and Mahabharata into old Javanese language took place during the era of Mataram Kingdom and Kediri kingdom around 9th to 11th century. The  is also composed during Kediri kingdom, and it became the prelude of later Panji cycles that spread as far as Siam and Cambodia. Other literary works include  and , based upon Pararaton, the story of the orphan who usurped his king, and married the queen of the ancient Javanese kingdom.

During the reign of Majapahit several notable works was produced.  describes Majapahit during its height.  explained the mythical origin of the island and its volcanic nature. , written by Mpu Tantular during the reign of the Majapahit. It is the source of the motto of Indonesia, , which is usually translated as Unity in Diversity, although literally it means '(Although) in pieces, yet One'. The kakawin teaches religious tolerance, specifically between the Hindu and Buddhist religions.

Other works includes  is a literature which relates to the spread of Islam in Java and  which tells the story of Prince Diponegoro.

Spirituality

Religion

Majapahit empire
Historically, Javanese follow a syncretic form of Hinduism, Buddhism and Kebatinan. The Majapahit empire religious tolerance in their society can be summed as  ('They are indeed different, but they are of the same kind, as there is no duality in Truth').

Starting from the 15th century, Islam and Christianity came to Java and slowly spread. Due to internal and external conflicts, Majapahit collapsed in the 16th century. Islam spread quickly under the new Islamic monarchs. While the spread of Christianity was supervised by colonial powers.

All the new religions were not taken literally but instead interpreted by the Javanese according to the Javanese traditional values, creating a new set of religious beliefs unique to local culture.

Islam
Islam first came in contact with Java during Majapahit periods, when they traded or made tributary relations with various states like Perlak and Samudra Pasai in modern-day Aceh. Sufism played a major role in affecting the Islamic understanding of Javanese in the fourteenth century and affected the local understanding of afterlife and spirits, such as jinn, demons and ghosts.

The introduction of Islam to the island by the new Muslim monarchs was not always peaceful however, Javanese nobles and peasants who rejected the new rulers were either conquered or fled to neighboring Bali where they contributed heavily to the Balinese Hindu religion and culture. Some Hindus who remained in Java retreated themself to more remote area such as Tenger near the Mount Bromo to avoid proselytization. During the Islamization of Java, Sunan Kalijaga was one of the  which was active in promoting a more moderate form of Islam in Java, he was later appointed as advisor in the new Mataram Sultanate. Most Javanese follow the Shafi‘ite tradition of Sunnism (97%).

Christianity
A minority of Javanese also follow Christianity of branch Protestantism and Catholicism (2,5%), which are rather concentrated in Central Java particularly Semarang, Surakarta, Salatiga, and Magelang. Also in Yogyakarta for Catholicism.

Hindu-Buddhist
Another minority are Hindus and Buddhists, they are mostly found in East Java (also some in parts of Central Java and Yogyakarta). The Javanese Tengger tribe is still practicing Javanese-Hindu until today. There are also many new recent converts of Javanese to Hinduism and Buddhism.