[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Astrotactin

nection of neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases to ASTN1. While ASTN2 has a high correlation to various neurodevelopmental disorders such as: ASDs, ADHD, speech delays, general anxiety, and obsessive compulsive disorder ASTN1 appears to be less mutated and impactful to these disorders. 

Hepatocellular carcinoma, HCC, has some connection to decreased ASTN1 levels. Within HCC tissues ASTN1 is downregulated compared to controls, with lower levels of ASTN1 mRNA expression in tumor tissues. Further, lower levels of ASTN1 are associated with more advanced clinical stages of hepatocellular carcinoma. More generally decreased levels of ASTN1 in tissues are associated with cancer along with; presence of microscopic satellite nodules, vascular invasion, tumor size, encapsulation, and Tumor-Node-Metastasis stage. 

ASTN1 downregulates several downstream genes of the Wnt/β-catenin signal transduction pathway, which is excessively activated in human liver cancer tissues. The results suggest that ASTN1 may function via the Wnt/β-catenin signal transduction pathway and could potentially serve as a tumor-suppressor gene in liver cancer. 

Interestingly, as many of the genes are mutated in both early and late stage tumors, ASTN1 mutations are present in stages II–IV tumors but not in stage I tumors. This suggests that ASTN1 plays a role in tumor progression rather than tumor initiation in small cell lung cancers. ASTN1 mutations seemingly play a role across tumor stages II to IV and not in stage I possibly indicating ASTN1 role as a tumor progressor in some cancer such as lung.

Potential connections between ASTN1 and Ritscher-Schinzel Syndrome 1, an autosomal recessive disease featuring developmental malformations characterized by craniofacial abnormalities, heart defects, and brain malformations within the cerebellum are some of the more current avenues of study.

Intramembrane cleavage potential

Familial proteins Astn1 and Astn2 found in mouse cells were observed to feature intramembrane cleavage. Confirmed by the joining of one or more disulfide bonds within the second transmembrane region via cysteine-to-serine mutagenesis. Cleavage for the ASTN1 protein is undetermined as a determinant cleavage site is yet to be reported.

References

Glycoproteins