[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 159]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ad and
ungrateful boy, and I am afraid you no longer have the same affection
for me."

_Mr Barlow._--If you are sensible of your faults, my little friend, that
is a very great step towards amending them. Let me therefore know what
it is, the recollection of which distresses you so much; and if it is
in my power to assist in making you easy, there is nothing, I am sure,
which I shall be inclined to refuse you.

_Tommy._--Oh sir! your speaking to me with so much goodness hurts me a
great deal more than if you were to be very angry; for when people are
angry and passionate, one does not so much mind what they say; but when
you speak with so much kindness, it seems to pierce me to the very
heart, because I know I have not deserved it.

_Mr Barlow._--But if you are sensible of having committed any faults,
you may resolve to behave so well for the future that you may deserve
everybody's friendship and esteem; few people are so perfect as not to
err sometimes, and if you are convinced of your errors, you will be more
cautious how you give way to them a second time.

_Tommy._--Indeed, sir, I am very happy to hear you say so. I will, then,
tell you everything which lies so heavy upon my mind. You must know
then, sir, that although I have lived so long with you, and during all
that time you have taken so much pains to improve me in everything, and
teach me to act well to everybody, I had no sooner quitted your sight
than I became, I think, a worse boy than ever I was before.

_Mr Barlow._--But why do you judge so severely of yourself as to think
you were become worse than ever. Perhaps you have been a little
thoughtless and giddy; and these are faults which I cannot with truth
say you were ever free from.

_Tommy._--No, sir; what I have been guilty of is infinitely worse than
ever. I have always been very giddy and very thoughtless, but I never
imagined I could have been the most insolent and ungrateful boy in the
world.

_Mr Barlow._--You frighten me, my little friend. Is it possible you can
have committed actions that deserve so harsh a name?

_Tommy._--You shall judge yourself, sir, for, now I have begun, I am
determined to tell you all. You know, sir, that when I first came to
you, I had a high opinion of myself for being born a gentleman, and a
very great contempt for everybody in an inferior station.

_Mr Barlow._--I must confess you have always had some tendency to both
these follies.

_Tommy._--Yes, sir; but you have so often laughed at me upon the
subject, and shown me the folly of people's imagining themselves better
than others, without any merit of their own, that I was grown a little
wiser. Besides, I have so often observed, that those I despised could do
a variety of things which I was ignorant of, while those who are vain of
being gentlemen can do nothing useful or ingenious; so that I had begun
to be ashamed of my folly. But since I came home I have kept company
with a great many fine young gentlemen and ladies, who thought
themselves superior to all the rest of the world, and used to despise
every one else; and they have made me forget everything I learned
before.

_Mr Barlow._--Perhaps, then, I was mistaken when I taught you that the
greatest merit any person could have is to be good and useful. These
fine young gentlemen and ladies may be wiser, and have given you better
lessons; if that is the case, you will have great reason to rejoice that
you have changed so much for the better.

_Tommy._--No, sir, no; I never thought them either good or wise, for
they know nothing but how to dress their hair and buckle their shoes;
but they persuaded me that it was necessary to be polite, and talked to
me so often upon the subject, that I could not help believing them.

_Mr Barlow._--I am glad to hear that; it is necessary for everybody to
be polite; they therefore, I suppose, instructed you to be more obliging
and civil in your manners than ever you were before. Instead of doing
you any hurt, this will be the greatest improvement you can receive.

_Tommy._--No, sir, quite the contrary. Instead of teaching me to be
civil and obliging, they have made me ruder and worse behaved than ever
I was before.

_Mr Barlow._--If that is the case, I fear these fine young gentlemen and
ladies undertook to teach you more than they understood themselves.

_Tommy._--Indeed, sir, I am of the same opinion myself. But I did not
think so then, and therefore I did whatever I observed them do, and
talked in the same manner as I heard them talk. They used to be always
laughing at Harry Sandford, and I grew so foolish that I did not choose
to keep company with him any longer.

_Mr Barlow._--That was a pity, because I am convinced he really loves
you. However, it is of no great consequence, for he has employment
enough at home; and however ingenious you may be, I do not think that he
will learn how to manage his land, or raise food, from your