[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Santaji Ghorpade

Santaji Ghorpade (1660–1696) was a Maratha general and held the esteemed position of the 7th Senapati within the Maratha Empire during the reign of Chattrapati Rajaram I. He is widely regarded as one of the foremost experts in Guerrilla warfare. Santaji Ghorpade, in collaboration with Dhanaji Jadhav, conducted a series of successful campaigns against the Mughals from 1689 to 1696. His strategic acumen was demonstrated through the adept utilization of tactics such as guerrilla warfare, ambushes, and swift mobility, ultimately resulting in effective defeats of the Mughal Army. In recognition of his valor, Rajaram bestowed upon him the title of Mamlakat-Madar in 1690.

Early life
Santaji belonged to the Ghorpade clan, a senior branch of the Bhosale clan. The Ghorpades were initially known as Bhosales. Santaji was the eldest son of Mhaloji Ghorpade of Kapshi, who served as the Senapati during the reign of Chhatrapati Sambhaji for a brief period following the unexpected demise of Hambirrao Mohite. Santaji had two younger brothers named Bahirji and Maloji. His father was the half-brother of Baji Ghorpade of Mudhol, who was executed by Chhatrapati Shivaji for betraying Shahaji when Afzal Khan imprisoned him.

In the initial stages of his career, Santaji ascended through the ranks under the guidance of Hambirrao Mohite. Santaji and his younger brother Bahirji accompanied Shivaji in his campaign of Jalna in 1679. Subsequently, Santaji assumed a prominent role as a commander during the reign of Sambhaji. In 1686, Sambhaji dispatched Santaji and Keshav Pingale with an army of 12,000 cavalry to procure food supplies from the Jinji region. In 1689, Santaji found himself in the company of his father when Sambhaji was captured by the Mughals. Instead of making an escape, Mhaloji met his demise while protecting Sambhaji at Sangameshwar. Santaji received orders to proceed ahead, while Sambhaji devised a plan to divert the invading Mughal Army. Following the untimely and unceremonious demise of Mhaloji, his sons and brothers steadfastly remained loyal to Chhatrapati Rajaram I, ultimately securing the future of the Maratha Empire.

Role in Maratha-Mughal War

In the beginning of the Rajaram's reign in 1689, Santaji had attained the rank of Pancha Hajari officer i.e. commander of 5,000 soldiers. In September 1689, along with Dhanaji, Santaji attacked Aurangzeb's General Sheikh Nizam who had placed a siege around the fort of Panhala. Nizam's army was severely beaten and his treasure, horses and elephants were captured. Then during 1689–1690 period, Santaji and Dhanaji were directed to prevent Mughal army in Maharashtra from chasing and entering Karnataka after Rajaram's flight to Jinji. They succeeded in this task and were able to slow down and engage the Mughals in harassing skirmishes. In December 1690, Santaji and Dhanaji were promoted as leading Maratha generals, and were placed respectively under the supervision of Ramchandra Pant Amatya and Shankraji Narayan Sacheev.

On 25 May 1690, Sarzakhan alias Rustamkhan, a Mughal nobleman and commander, was soundly defeated and captured near Satara jointly by Ramchandra Pant Amatya, Shankraji Narayan, Santaji and Dhanaji and this proved to be a major setback to emperor Aurangzeb. In July 1692, for his great victory, Rajaram rewarded him with the Deshmukhi (fiefdom) of Miraj.

In the last quarter of 1692, Santaji and Dhanaji were sent south to alleviate the Mughal pressure on Jinjee. And on the way there they managed to capture Dharwad on 8 October 1692, Dharwad with an army consisting of 7000 Maratha foot soldiers under the duo's command.

On 14 December 1692, Santaji defeated Aurangzeb's General Ali Mardan Khan, captured him and brought him back to fort Jinjee. In December 1692, the Mughal army under Zulfikhar Ali Khan around fort Jinjee was blocked and beaten by Santaji and Dhanaji as a result of which Zulfikar Khan had to sue King Rajaram for peace and was forced to compromise. Then on 5 January 1693, Santaji attacked the Mughal camp at Desur and looted their treasure, weapons and livestock.

Santaji was praised for his bravery by Queen Tarabai as he attacked Aurangzeb's camp and sacked it completely. Maratha troops thought that Aurangzeb died in this attack, but Aurangzeb escaped by spending night with his daughter in a Tent. A drama 'Bhangale Swapn Maharashtra' written by Bashir Momin Kavathekar depicts the thrill and adventures raid on Aurangzeb's camp at Tulapur and also brings out how stringently the guidlines laid down by Shivaji Maharaj were being followed by maratha soldiers (which spared Aurngajeb's life because he was offering religious prayers).

Attacking Aurangzeb's camp was really hard task, but Santaji's motivational speech gave Maratha troops will to do so, Santaji told that-