[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Buck Danny

a plot twist Charlier would be proud of however the real culprit is an international ring of criminals run – again – by Lady X. Unlike Charlier, this time they are in cahoots with criminal elements on the Navy aircraft carrier  who use their supply aircraft to fly the drugs from Managuay to the US.

In 'Ghost Squadron', Bergèse also introduced a new recurring character: the female Navy pilot: Cindy McPherson. Cindy resurfaced in the Managuay albums as a pilot in the same transport squadron of the traffickers and played an important part in unmasking the plot. She has cameos and minor roles in all of the following adventures and could be considered the fourth 'man' on the team in a way Susan Holmes was in the 'Black Dragon' adventures. However even as Cindy will occasionally get into trouble and have to be rescued by Buck, she is an accomplished pilot and definitely capable of taking care of herself.

After the Managuay adventure four more albums followed, each a closed adventure and each again situated against the backdrop of real-life events and so from 2000 to 2008 Buck and his friends have to rescue a downed pilot from South Korea, uncover sabotage and political power play in the F22 testing program, uncover illegal mining in the Antarctic and find a CIA agent investigating a ring of gun-runners in Afghanistan.

Apart from skirting today's hot-button topics and naming states and events by name, something that would be absolutely taboo in a scenario by Jean-Michel Charlier, there are several other differences between the two authors: Under Bergèse, both Buck Danny and Jerry Tumbler seem to mellow a bit and on several occasions Buck actually shows genuine caring, if not fatherly, feelings for Cindy McPherson. The most important change is however in the behavior of Sonny Tuckson who more than often reacts with outrage to perceived injustice. In this he has become the inner voice of Bergèse himself: When Sony asks in 'Ghost Squadron' "Why isn't the world doing anything?" it is Bergese's question to the reader just as much as it is Sonny's question to Buck.

7 albums between 1996 and 2008 make for a bit less than two years per album. About twice as long as Charlier and Hubinon took. This shows in the artwork: planes, ships and other technical details are as realistic as ever and the characters, especially Buck, do not only seem to be realistically drawn but also lifelike, compared to the sometimes wooden face and straight-as-a-rod postures drawn by Hubinon.
In 2008, after writing his 12th Buck Danny album, (Porté disparu / Reported Missing) the 52nd in the series), Francis Bergèse, now 67 announced his retirement.

Winis & Zumbiehl 2013- 
In May 2010 it was announced that the Buck Danny series will continue with an all new team of writer Frédéric Zumbiehl and artist Fabrice Lamy. Lamy is known up to now for drawing the realistic western comic strip Colt Walker while Zumbiehl bursted into the scene in 2007 with the one-shot album Team Rafale: a yarn about industrial espionage and economic warfare surrounding the Rafale fighter. In lay-out, Rafale closely follows the later Bergese albums with their combination of flying, crime and politics and, a part of the flying taking part in a French plane for the French military, similarities between this album and Buck Danny abound.

As per December 2013 publisher Dupuis announced that album no. 53 was made available in Belgium and the Netherlands. It is written by Frederic Zumbiehl and artist is Francis Winis, who apparently has taken over from Lamy. Reasons for this are unknown.

Realism
Except for smaller oversights – for example, the early WWII episodes use "Zero" as a generic term for all manners of Japanese fighter aircraft rather than the Mitsubishi A6M Zero – the series aims to depict aircraft very realistically, and often includes the most recent technological developments, such as VTOL (Vertical Take Off and Landing) aircraft, stealth aircraft, the newest Soviet/Russian aircraft, the effects of low-flying, etc.