[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Paranoid Style in American Politics

yle in American Politics" was "one of the most important and most influential articles published in the 155–year history of the magazine." Thomas Frank, in a 2014 essay for Harper's, was more critical, suggesting that Hofstadter's method had popularized a "pseudopsychological approach to politics." 

Journalists continue to draw on the essay to analyze 21st-century public affairs. Laura Miller wrote in Salon.com in 2011 that  "'The Paranoid Style in American Politics' reads like a playbook for the career of Glenn Beck, right down to the paranoid's 'quality of pedantry' and 'heroic strivings for 'evidence'..." Economist Paul Krugman titled a 2018 op-ed in The New York Times "The Paranoid Style in G.O.P. Politics" and explicitly referred to the 1964 essay. Researcher Travis View, writing in The Washington Post in 2019, described the QAnon conspiracy as an example of "the paranoid style as described by Hofstadter."

Critics have argued that Hofstadter erred in confining conspiracy theories to the political fringe. Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick has observed that Hofstadter's essay assumes "a presumptive 'we'—apparently still practically everyone," who regard conspiracy theories "from a calm, understanding, and encompassing middle ground." Sedgwick, and later Gordon Fraser, argued that conspiracy theories after the middle of the twentieth century proliferated to such a degree that Hofstadter's imagined, rationally liberal audience no longer exists, if it ever existed in the first place.

See also
 Among the Truthers
 Conspiracy: How the Paranoid Style Flourishes and Where It Comes From

References

External links
 Full text of "The Paranoid Style in American Politics." Harper's Magazine (Nov. 1964).

Political science books
Political history of the United States
Books about the far right
Books about politics of the United States
Harper's Magazine articles
Conspiracy theories in the United States
Patriot movement
1964 essays
Books of lectures