[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Caroline Cox, Baroness Cox

uses as a member of the World Committee on Disability.  In 2004 she was a judge for the Franklin Delano Roosevelt International Disability Award, distributed annually at the United Nations in New York to a nation that has met the goals of the UN World Programme of Action Concerning Disabled Persons.

Syria controversy
Cox has been a supporter of Syria's President Bashar Assad. She visited him during the Syrian Civil War, during the siege of Aleppo, along with Michael Nazir-Ali, fellow crossbench peer Lord Hylton, and Andrew Ashdown, an Anglican vicar.  She was widely condemned. Labour MP John Woodcock, vice-president of the All Party Parliamentary Group on Syria, said: "It is shocking to see a British parliamentarian giving international pariah al-Assad a photo opportunity to distract from the brutal and ongoing slaughter he is perpetrating on Syrian families. Whatever good intentions this British delegation has will fail; their presence at this man's side can only strengthen him as his campaign of terror continues." Liberal Democrat peer Baroness Hussein-Ece said it was "shameful" for members of the House of Lords to "sit down for a chat with a mass murderer and a war criminal". Russian state media claimed Cox said that Assad had an “openness for the development of civil society, democracy and change”. After her visit, in early 2017, she went to the US to lobby for president Assad's government. While there, she expressed doubt that Syrian government forces were responsible for Khan Shaykhun chemical attack.

In late 2017, she returned to Syria again, along with former Archbishop of Canterbury, George Carey. She reportedly met with an Assad advisor named on American and European Union sanctions lists as complicit in Syrian government war crimes. Again, the visit was widely condemned by politicians and human rights groups in the UK, and described by analysts as a “propaganda coup” for the Assad government. In a subsequent parliamentary debate, she referred to Syrian rebels as "jihadists".

Media appearances

Baroness Cox regularly appears on the BBC Daily Politics television programme and has presented the "Soap Box" with "A Moral Maze". She also appears on Russia TV and other channels associated with the Russian government, as she feels they are more frank about Islam's threat to Western traditions.

Honours
Cox has been honoured with the Wilberforce Award.

Bibliography
 A Sociology of Medical Practice (1975)
 Rape of Reason: The Corruption of the Polytechnic of North London (Keith Jacka, with Caroline Cox and John Marks, jt au 1975)
 The Right to Learn (jt au 1982)
 Sociology: A Guide for Nurses, Midwives and Health Visitors (jt au 1983)
 Choosing a State School: how to find the best education for your child (jt au 1989)
 Trajectories of Despair; misdiagnosis and maltreatment of Soviet orphans (with John Eibner 1991)
 Ethnic Cleansing in Progress: war in Nagorno Karabakh (1993)
 Islam, Islamism and the West: Is ideological Islam compatible with liberal democracy? (2005)
 Made to Care: the case for residential and village communities for people with a mental handicap
 Baroness Cox: A voice for the voiceless. (1999) Boyd, A. Lion Books.

Published Biographies

Lady Cox has been the subject of two published biographies, Baroness Cox: A Voice for the Voiceless by Andrew Boyd; and Baroness Cox: Eyewitness to a Broken World by Lela Gilbert.

References

External links
 Office in UK Parliament
Caroline Cox Personal Website

Further reading
 "The Feisty Baroness Defending Voiceless Muslim Women", Telegraph
 Survivors of Maraghar massacre: 'It was truly like a contemporary Golgotha many times over' - Caroline Cox 

1937 births
Living people
Academics of the University of North London
British critics of Islam
Alumni of the University of Westminster
Alumni of the University of London
Alumni of Newcastle University
British nurses
Counter-jihad activists
Crossbench life peers
Fellows of the Royal College of Nursing
Life peeresses created by Elizabeth II
Members of the Freedom Association
Nurses from London
People associated with Bournemouth University
People associated with Liverpool Hope University
People from Highgate