[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fear Agent

ggs he becomes the planet's greatest threat.

Issues 12–15: "The Last Goodbye" 
Picking up at the end of the "My War" arc, Heath, after finding out that Charlotte has remarried, drunkenly reflects on the graves of his fallen comrades, leading to an interlude depicting the origins of the Fear Agents.

During an alien invasion of Earth, the entire population of Earth is seemingly decimated. Heath, a trucker, loses his entire family with the exception of his wife, Charlotte. The couple join a handful of survivors seeking refuge in the bomb shelter of a neighbor named Pete Timberson, where they are caught in the crossfire of a skirmish between a race of humanoid amoeba called the Dressites and a race of robots called the Tetaldians. Heath rallies the survivors to fight the invaders, and show them the meaning of the word "Fear", and thus, the Fear Agents are born. The Fear Agents scavenge advanced weaponry from defeated soldiers on both sides of the conflict, including rocket packs, powerful energy weapons, and conveyances that permit interstellar space travel and teleportation through  wormholes. The Fear Agents amass an army of survivors and invade the Dressite base on the Moon. As this occurs, the Fear Agents on Earth discover one of their own is a traitor who used the wormhole teleportation technology to lead the Dressites to the Moon base, allowing them to set a trap with which they eradicate the agents invading the base. Heath is left believing that he is one of a few remaining resistance members.

Enraged at the loss of his comrades, Heath takes a bomb to the Dressite homeworld, despite his close friend Otto's dying wish that Heath not commit genocide of the entire Dressite race. Heath goes through with his plan.  Later, after awakening back on Earth, Heath learns that the Dressites have left. A representative from the United Systems lands on Earth, and explains that the Dressite military was serving as their peace keeping force, and is very unpopular on their homeworld. Resentful of being ostracized at home and forced to protect other species far from home, the Dressites unfairly took out their frustrations on humanity.  The representative believes that the Tetaldians carried out the genocide, but Charlotte realizes with horror that it was in fact her husband that killed trillions of innocent Dressites. Horrified at this, Charlotte leaves him. A bounty is then placed on Heath's head by the Dressites.

Issue 16: "Tales of the Fear Agent: Twelve Steps in One"
Heath works through a drunken haze to stop alien exploiters from endangering innocent lives in the name of profit.

Issues: 17–21: "Hatchet Job"
Mara's past is revealed in this story. A space pirate named Levi sells her and her family to a cannibalistic race looking for a foothold on Earth, sparking a lifelong desire for revenge on Mara's part.

Heath goes to the Feeders' homeworld to find their natural predator, a task in which he is reluctantly partnered with Charlotte's new husband. The Feeders capture them and force them to battle to the death, but even as Heath is losing, Charlotte's husband impales himself on Heath's weapon, revealing that the daughter he raised as his own is actually Heath's. Heath is sent free.

Meanwhile, Charlotte learns that the Dressites have promised to give her Levi's location in exchange for Mara's help in capturing the surviving Fear Agents. Charlotte's team ends up stranded on a planet whose inhabitants conducted an experiment that turned them into soul-eating ghouls. After some members of their team are killed, Mara sends a message to Heath the past but the Heath in the past disregards her message.

Heath makes his way to the planet and saves Charlotte, while Mara goes to Levi's pirate ship. She witnesses a Dressite telling one of his fellow pirates about Heath's bounty, but kills the pirate before he can tell his comrades. Heath tries to convince Mara not to kill Levi since it will spiral into more Galactic civil war. Levi fatally shoots Mara, and throws Heath out the airlock. Facing certain death, Heath admits to himself that he saw Levi taking the gun and let him shoot Mara anyway.

Issues 22–27: "I Against I"
After being travelling the other side of a black hole, Heath finds himself in another universe, and marooned on the desolate Planet Westx. A stranger in a strange place, the last Fear Agent enters a world populated by gun-slinging robots and venomous mutants in this six-part sci-fi Western.

Issues 28–32: "Out of Step"
The final storyline. Heath Huston is the only remaining human in a universe that has been totally amalgamated by Tetaldian robotic conquerors. As the Tetaldians continue to hunt him, Heath uncovers the history of the robot hordes and their secret co conspirators. His body aged and broken, he is finally presented with one final opportunity for redemption.

Collected editions

Initial TPB Collections
The series was collected into a number of trade paperbacks: