[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1976 World Snooker Championship

it 11–9 up. He was one frame from victory at 14–12, but Spencer took the next two frames to force a deciding frame; it was won by Higgins. Charlton led Davis 5–1, 8–7 and 11–9 at the close of their first three sessions. They were level at 13–13, before Charlton added the next two frames for victory.

Semi-finals
The semi-finals were played from 16 to 18 April at Middlesbrough, and from 17 to 19 April at Manchester, as the best of 39 frames. Mans was known to be a skilled potter and  exponent, but lacked ; he had made only two breaks of 50 or more in reaching the semi-finals. According to Everton, Mans's "limitations were drastically exposed", as Reardon took the first session 4–2 and went on to win 20–10 with a top break of 133. After the match, Mans accepted Reardon's offer of a 30-minute session of advice about shot selection.

All but one of the six frames in first session of the match between Higgins and Charlton went to Higgins, and he finished the first day leading 8–5. By the close of day two, Higgins was 14–12 ahead, having made a break of 121 in the 22nd frame. Charlton was only one frame behind at 16–17. but Higgins took the next two frames, and Charlton took the two after that. Higgins won 20–18, to progress to his first world championship final since his victory in 1972.

Final

The final was played as the best of 53 frames from 20 to 23 April at Wythenshawe Forum, meaning that Reardon had travelled to where Higgins had been playing. Higgins had the better of the earlier exchanges, and led 4–2 after the first session. After the session, Reardon complained to the organisers that he could not see the balls properly due to the bright lighting that had been installed for television, and the lighting levels were reduced. He won five successive frames during the second session, and led 8–5 after the first day. Reardon complained about the quality of the snooker table during the afternoon session on the second day. Everton endorsed Reardon's complaints about the table, later detailing how it was extremely difficult to pot balls along one side , while balls were holding close to the opposite cushion, and the ball did not rebound off cushions as expected. Higgins had taken a one frame lead at 10–9 before the table was attended to by fitters during the interval.

Reardon took six of the seven evening frames for 15–11 lead going into the last day. During the evening session, referee Bill Timms declared that Higgins had failed to hit the  after being  by Reardon. Higgins told Timms that "I'll have to accept it, but you're wrong." Reardon, by exercising his right to have Higgins play the next shot rather than accept a , demonstrated his agreement with Higgins rather than with the referee. With both players making playing errors, Reardon played tactically and won five successive frames, the last with a break of 87, to lead 15–11 after two days.

Higgins won the first two frames of the fifth session, but Reardon took the next three for 18–13. In the 29th frame, Reardon recovered from 68 points behind to take the frame. He won the 31st frame after . In frame 32, with Reardon well ahead on points, Timms awarded Higgins a free ball, a decision disputed by Reardon. Reardon won that frame to increase his lead to 19–13, but complained about Timms's refereeing to the organisers. It was subsequently announced that Timms was ill, and John Williams would referee the rest of the final. With Higgins conceding several frames while there were still  on the table during the sixth session, Reardon ended the third day leading 24–15. Reardon won three of the first frames on the fourth morning to secure his fifth title victory at 27–16, with a . Writing in The Guardian, Everton felt that Reardon "won without ever displaying his most dominating form", and that he "looks in a class of his own and there is no obvious successor in sight. Similarly, The Times report of the final session concluded that "Reardon looked a class above the rest." Part of the final was shown on BBC Television.