[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of S.H.I.E.L.D. members

Delta program, the catalyst for Deltite Affair.
 Natasha Romanova (Black Widow) – First known Black Widow. Was a level 10 agent before S.H.I.E.L.D. was restructured. One of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s top agents.
 Colonel Michael "Mickey" Rossi – Former lover of Carol Danvers.
 Gail Runciter – Trained alongside Wendell Vaughn. She was temporarily replaced by a Deltite.
 Sam – Stationed at Central's barbershop entrance.
 Ayna Sareva – Assisted Khanata in the Scorpion affair.
 Constance Seagrum – Pilot of Unit 6's Air Cavalry.
 Tia Senyaka – Investigated the death of Agent Harlan, who had died in a car accident.
 Gerald "Silcon" Simms – A member of the Elite Agents, with liquid-metal cybernetic arms.
 Simon – Communication officer on the Helicarrier.
 Captain Simon
 Jakuna Singh – Brother of Sarapha. Killed by Damiru.
 Jasper Sitwell – Interrogator. Former interim executive director and former liaison to Tony Stark and Iron Man. Nick Fury's "Secret Files" in Secret War lists Sitwell as a Level 5 interrogator and a Level 5 agent in most transcripts. For two, he is listed as Level 8.
 Carla Smith – Nick Fury's appointment secretary.
 Rosalind Solomon - Agent E-23. An environmental agent.
 Dwight Rollin Stanford – Rank L-3.
 Michael Stevenson – Infiltrated the City of the Space Gods. He was reduced to basic matter. Rank L-6
 Angel Tarnaki – Air Cavalry. She brought in X-Force to reveal history of Dr. Constantin Racal and Niles Roman.
 Kimberly Taylor – One of the last agents trained by Nick Fury. Assigned by G. W. Bridge to protect the Rev. William Connover.
 Teresa – Fury's personal secretary.
 Colonel Nate Thurman – Chief administration officer for Helicarrier repairs. Among group of renegade agents attempting to take over Helicarrier for impromptu war crimes trial of KGB agent.
 Agent Todd - Direct report to Pandora Peters, Holder of the Mouth of Madness and Mismemory which allows him to reshape people's memories as a personal power.
 Jack Truman (Agent 18/Deathlok) – Fourth known Deathlok cyborg.
 Samantha Twotrees – Turncoat working with rogue agent Inali Redpath.
 Steven Tyler – Infiltrated the City of the Space Gods. He was reduced to basic matter. Rank L-6
 Wendell Vaughn (Quasar) – Became the superhero Quasar during a security assignment.
 Kali Vries – Former lover of John Walker. She infiltrated S.T.A.R.S. (Superhuman Tactical Activities Response Squad).
 John Warden – Lead ESP telepath stationed at telepathic amplifier.
 Seth Waters – Administrator for Washington, D.C.'s bureau.
 Commander Jonas Williams – Led task-force to apprehend AWOL agent, Sharon Carter.
 Sam Wilson (Falcon) – Superhero and Avengers member the Falcon.
 Annie Wong - Agent from S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Hong Kong branch. 
 Jimmy Woo (Yellow Claw) – Former FBI agent who fought Yellow Claw and later hunted Godzilla. Level 3 interrogator and Level 5 agent (two transcripts of Nick Fury's "Secret Files" in Secret War list Jimmy Woo as a Level 8 agent).
 Larry Young – S.H.I.E.L.D. Air Cavalry officer. Later, fifth known Deathlok cyborg.

Notable Agents (Post-Civil War)

After the Civil War, all super-heroes that fought on the Pro-registration side of the conflict are now agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.