[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Disabled parking permit

iously impairs their mobility.

Great Britain's Blue Badge scheme does not apply to parking away from public roads and local authority car parks, with the general concessions often not recognised at ports, airports and railway stations unless the operators have provided voluntary parking privileges.

Until 2010 Directgov provided a service that covered country-wide customised maps for Blue Badge Holders with different base colours reflecting councils' policies on Blue Badge parking. In addition to council policies this service also pinpointed the location of different features specific to disabled community. There are a few dedicated Blue Badge sat-navs available, mainly from the specialist company Navevo. Since the cessation of the directgov service maps have been provided by online services.

Some local authorities may use their own information and resources to help provide information for Blue Badges users. Nottingham City uses a popular map base.

Misuse and abuse of Blue Badges in the UK can incur fines of up to £1,000. Between 1 April 2020 and 31 March 2021, prosecutions for misuse of the blue badge scheme were supported by specific or general policies in 74% of local authorities (110 authorities) in England. Of those without a policy, 50% are planning on implementing one in the future. In England, there were 698 reported prosecutions in the year ending March 2021. A drop of 49% in prosecuted badges may have related to the effects of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on citizen behaviour, local authority enforcement practices, and resources availability. In England, 4,396 badges in the year ending March 2021 were reported to be lost or stolen. Of these, 76% were reported to be lost, and 24% were stolen.

England and Wales 
In England and Wales, Blue Badge holders are required (unless signs show otherwise) to display a disabled person's parking disc ("clock"). When parking on yellow lines or in other places where there is a time restriction, a clock showing the time of arrival should be displayed. When parking on a no waiting restriction (yellow lines etc.) a maximum of three hours is permitted. The clock should be sent to together with the Blue Badge. If not, a clock can be obtained from the same council that issued the badge.

The time clock must be displayed on the vehicle's dashboard or facia panel, so that the time can be seen clearly through the front windscreen. The clock should be set to show the quarter hour period during which the car was parked. If there is no dashboard or facia panel in the vehicle, the clock must still be displayed in a place where it can be clearly read from outside the vehicle.

Badge holders from elsewhere in the European Union will need to obtain a clock (obtainable from their issuing office in the UK) to validate their badge otherwise the vehicle will be treated as if no badge were displayed.

Local differences in parking rules
In London, the volume of traffic has led to restrictions upon the national scheme in some areas with local colour schemes used to restrict standard concessions to local residents, for example the permits are green in Camden, white in Westminster, purple in Kensington and Chelsea, and red in the City of London. In these cities and boroughs special rules and parking spaces are provided for Blue Badge holders.

Similar local schemes operate in other large towns or cities in the UK, for example Norwich operates a 'green badge scheme'.

Northern Ireland
The standard scheme only generally applies to on-street parking and is outlined on the Roads Service Northern Ireland website. A "White Badge" is required for access to Pedestrian Zones.

Scotland 
In Scotland, a local authority Parking Attendant (in addition to police and traffic wardens) has the power to inspect a Blue Badge; failure to allow this inspection is an offence. There are also proposals to extend the issue of badges to small children and a wider range of (temporarily or permanently) disabled people.

Oceania

Australia
In Australia, disabled parking permits are provided under the Australian Disability Parking Scheme, which was established in September 2010 to harmonise disability permits across Australia. Disabled parking permits are applied for through state and territory organisations, and rules for eligibility differ among jurisdictions. If someone else parks in a disabled zone, they will be fined by either police or the council.

See also 
 Adapted automobile
Parking violation

References

External links

BlueBadgeParking.com—a worldwide, crowd-sourced map of disabled parking locations with SatNav downloads]
Federation Internationale de l'Automobile—information about disabled parking schemes around the world

Identifiers
Disability rights
Parking law
Vehicle registration plates