[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tiran Island

ccording to Egypt's representative at the 659th UN Security Council meeting on 15 February 1954. In the same meeting, Egypt's representative considered Tiran and Sinafir islands an integral part of the territory of Egypt since they have been under Egypt's administration since 1906.

Israeli passage 

In March 1949, Israeli forces took control of the area around the coastal village of Umm al-Rashrash, later renamed Eilat, as part of Operation Uvda. The uninhabited islands of Tiran and Sanafir gained strategic importance since they controlled all shipping to Eilat, Israel's only access to the Red Sea. In May 1948, Egypt blocked passage through the Suez Canal to Israeli-registered ships and to ships (Israeli or otherwise) carrying cargo to and from all Israeli ports. Since all land trade routes were blocked by other Arab states, Israel's ability to trade with East Africa and Asia, mainly to import oil from the Persian Gulf, was severely hampered.

In December 1949 Egypt started to erect military installations on Tiran, Sanafir and the Sinai coast opposite the islands to control the straits. Soon after, the Egyptian Government officially denied an intention to interfere with peaceful navigation, communicating its accord with Saudi Arabia to the UK and the US on 30 January and 28 February 1950 respectively:

In the same accord, Egypt claimed its right to the islands as well as possible right for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia:

2016–22 transfer 

As Saudi media explained in 2016, Saudi King Abdel Aziz al-Saud granted Egypt permission to defend the islands since he was afraid of possible Israeli expansion while his kingdom lacked a suitable naval force to protect them.

According to a 2016 statement by the Egyptian Cabinet Information and Decision Support Centre, the Egyptian Chief Delegate to the UN had denied any territorial claims on the islands in May 1967, after the then Egyptian President Gamal Abd al-Nasser closed the Straits of Tiran to Israeli shipping (which was considered as a casus belli by Israel to initiate the Six-Day War): "Egypt did not seek at any time to claim that the sovereignty of the two islands has been transferred to it. Rather Egypt sought only to take over defending the two islands." Shortly thereafter Tiran Island was captured by Israeli Defence Forces troops during the Six-Day War. In January 1968, the US government stood behind a failed attempt to induce Israeli withdrawal from that island as an opening move to a larger peace process.

Tiran remained under Israeli control until its return to Egypt in 1982 in fulfilment of the 1979 peace treaty signed by Egypt and Israel. The treaty includes a guarantee of freedom of Israeli shipping through the Straits of Tiran.

The agreement by Egypt to handover the islands of Tiran and Sanafir to Saudi Arabia required the approval of Israel to modify the military annex to the peace treaty. Israel was notified in writing about the transfer weeks before it was made public, and gave its approval in writing to Egypt and, indirectly, to Saudi Arabia. Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir publicly stated that his country would honour the Egypt–Israel peace treaty's terms as regards the island and the continued stationing of the Multinational Force and Observers (MFO) forces on the island. Israel also agreed to the construction of the Saudi–Egypt Causeway between the Egyptian and Saudi mainlands which would pass through Tiran.

However, an Egyptian court issued a final ruling, rejecting the transfer of the islands to Saudi Arabia after a team of lawyers have presented historical documents in support of Egypt’s ownership of the islands, both historically and geographically, before the court. The court confirmed Egypt's sovereignty over the two islands and stated that the government failed to provide evidence that the islands belonged to Saudi Arabia.

On 14 June 2017, Egypt's House Committee on Defence and National Security unanimously approved the transfer of Tiran and Sanafir islands to Saudi Arabia and the plan was passed by the Egyptian Parliament later the same day. On Wednesday 21 June 2017, Egypt’s top court temporarily halted all court verdicts on the agreement to transfer the two Red Sea islands to Saudi Arabia. Finally, on Saturday 24 June 2017, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt ratified the agreement that cedes sovereignty over the two Red Sea islands, Tiran and Sanafir, to Saudi Arabia. On 14 July 2022, Israel agreed to the deal between Saudi Arabia and Egypt.

Transport 

The planned Saudi-Egypt Causeway would pass through Tiran Island.

See also 

 Sanafir Island
 Straits of Tiran

Notes

External links 

 Observation Post 3-11, Tiran Island, GlobalSecurity.org
 BirdLife Factsheet - Tiran Island
 Tiran Island , Tourist info

Catholic titular sees in Asia
Egypt–Saudi Arabia relations
Former disputed land areas
Islands of the Red Sea
Uninhabited islands of Saudi Arabia