[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mass in the Catholic Church

ities, which became associated with the Last Supper, to second and third-century rites mentioned by Pliny the Younger and Ignatius of Antioch and described by Justin Martyr and others, in which passages from Scripture were read and the use of bread and wine was no longer associated with a full meal.

When in the fourth century Christianity was granted the status of a legal religion and was even viewed with favour by the Roman Emperors, the Christian celebrations took on a more formal appearance and were embellished by the use of vestments, lights and incense. Ex tempore prayers by the presider gave way to texts previously approved by synods of bishops as a guarantee of the orthodoxy of the content, leading to the formation of liturgical forms or "rites" generally associated with influential episcopal sees.

The Catholic Church encompasses a considerable number of such liturgical rites. Apart from the Latin liturgical rites, Mass in the Catholic Church is celebrated according to the Byzantine Rite in various languages based on Greek texts of the Church of Constantinople; the Alexandrian Rite used by the Coptic Catholic Church, the Eritrean Catholic Church and the Ethiopian Catholic Church; the Antiochene Rite used by the Maronite Church, the Syriac Catholic Church and the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church; the East Syriac Rite used by the Chaldean Catholic Church and the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church; and the Armenian Rite used by the Armenian Catholic Church.

Mass in the Roman Rite 

Within the Latin Church, the Roman Rite Mass is by far the most widely used liturgical rite. The history of the development of the Mass of this rite comprises the Pre-Tridentine Mass, the Tridentine Mass and the post-Vatican II Mass.

The Pre-Tridentine Mass of the Roman Rite was adopted even north of the Alps (but often modified by non-Roman influences) even before the time of Charlemagne, who wished it to be used throughout his empire, but the text actually distributed incorporated many Gallican additions. Roman missionaries, such as Boniface and Augustine of Canterbury introduced the Roman Mass to Germany and England. It was accepted also in Ireland, but met greater opposition in Spain and Milan. 

In accordance with the decrees of the Council of Trent (1545–1563), Pope Pius V in 1570 enforced use of the Tridentine Mass in the Latin Church. Before the invention of printing, each diocese of the Latin Church could and often did have its own particular Rite of Mass, generally but not necessarily based on the Roman Rite; but Pius V made his revision of the Roman Missal mandatory throughout the Latin Church, permitting continuance of other rites only if they had been in existence for at least 200 years.

The Second Vatican Council also decreed a revision of the Roman Missal, which was put into effect by Pope Paul VI in 1969.

Roman Rite of the Mass in modernity 
 

The following description of the celebration of Mass, usually in the local vernacular language, is limited to the form of the Roman Rite promulgated after the Second Vatican Council (1962–1965) by Pope Paul VI in 1969 and revised by Pope John Paul II in 2002, largely replacing the usage of the Tridentine Mass form originally promulgated in 1570 in accordance with decrees of the Council of Trent in its closing session (1545–46). The 1962 form of the Tridentine Mass, in the Latin language alone, may be employed where authorized by the Holy See or, in the circumstances indicated in the 2021 document Traditionis custodes, by the diocesan bishop.

In the modern form the priest usually (though not obligatorily) faces the people (versus populum); in the earlier form the priest most often faces in the same direction as the people, towards the apse of the church, a stance that since the twentieth century is often called ad orientem, although not necessarily eastward. 

As mentioned, the Eucharistic liturgy is celebrated in the Catholic Church also in other Latin liturgical rites and in those of the Eastern Catholic Churches.

The Catechism of the Catholic Church discusses the importance of the Mass in the Catholic tradition under the headings:
I. The Eucharist - Source and Summit of Ecclesial Life
II. What is This Sacrament Called?
III. The Eucharist in the Economy of Salvation
IV. The Liturgical Celebration of the Eucharist
V. The Sacramental Sacrifice Thanksgiving, Memorial, Presence
VI. The Paschal Banquet
VII. The Eucharist - "Pledge of the Glory To Come"

Liturgical books
The Roman Missal contains the prayers, antiphons and rubrics of the Mass.