[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Flashman and the Redskins

Flashman and the Redskins is a 1982 novel by George MacDonald Fraser. It is the seventh of the Flashman novels.

Plot introduction
Presented within the frame of the supposed discovery of a trunkful of papers detailing the long life and career of a Victorian officer, this series centres around Flashman, the bully from Tom Brown's School Days.  The papers are attributed to him, who has grown from the schoolboy of Thomas Hughes's novel into a well-known and much decorated military hero.  The book begins with an explanatory note detailing the discovery of these papers.

The story proper begins with Flashman fleeing with Susie Willinck (a New Orleans madam, aka "Miss Susie"), as described at the end of Flash for Freedom!. They cross the continent  to join the  California Gold Rush, meeting several well-known personalities of the American West in 1849 and 1850. The story resumes in 1875, when he takes part in the Battle of the Little Bighorn the following year.  It also contains a number of notes by Fraser, in the guise of editor, giving additional historical information on the events described.

Plot summary
In his haste to leave New Orleans and the threat of imprisonment, Flashman agrees to shepherd Susie Willinck and her company of prostitutes to Sacramento, where she intends to set up shop and make a bundle from gold miners.  As wagon captain, Flashman is nominally in charge of his and Susie's (now his wife) collection of women, supplies, sex toys and the other forty-niners and invalids looking for a better life but he depends on the guidance of Richens Lacey Wootton to see them through.  Unfortunately, Wootton becomes stricken with cholera.  Flashman is left to get everyone to Bent's Fort in safety, which Comanches make difficult for him.  Eventually, they reach Santa Fe, New Mexico, where Flashman absconds with two thousand dollars made from selling one of the prostitutes, Cleonie, to Navajos.

For safety in the wilderness, Flashman falls in with a group of travellers but he discovers them to be scalp-hunters, when they attack a band of Apaches.  Flashman joins in but refuses to take any scalps or rape captive women, which saves him when the scalp-hunters are killed by the rest of the tribe on their return.  He ends up marrying Sonsee-Array, the daughter of chief Mangas Coloradas, and becoming friends with Geronimo.  He eventually escapes and is saved by Kit Carson on the Jornada del Muerto.

In 1875 Flashman returns to America with his wife, Elspeth.  He meets George Armstrong Custer (whom Flashman had met during the US Civil War) and businesswoman Mrs. Arthur B. Candy, and later travels to Bismarck, North Dakota, to meet with Mrs. Candy and pursue a carnal relationship. However Mrs Candy is revealed to be Cleonie, the former slave girl, who is intent on revenge and at her connivance, he is kidnapped by Sioux and kept captive at Greasy Grass.  He escapes just in time to see the defeat and death of Custer—possibly being the one who kills Custer—and to be partly scalped himself by his own illegitimate son from Cleonie, Frank Grouard, who by choice has been living  as an Indian.  The book ends with Flashman and his son travelling to Deadwood where Flashman meets another former acquaintance, Wild Bill Hickok prior to returning home.

Characters

Fictional characters
Harry Paget Flashman - The hero or anti-hero
Elspeth - His loving and possibly unfaithful wife.
Susie B. Willinck - A brothel owner and former prostitute. One of Flashman's "wives".
Cleonie Grouard/Mrs. Arthur B. Candy - One of Susie Willinck's prostitutes.
Sonsee-Array - Daughter of Apache chief Mangas Colorado and Flashman's "wife".
Grattan Nugent-Hare - A member of Susie's wagon train, he absconds with two thousand dollars. Flashman later runs into him, discovering that he is one of Gallantin's scalp hunters, and that Susie had an affair with him. Flashman eventually gets into a fight with him over Sonsee-Array, which leads to Flashman accidentally killing him.