[Source: PubMed]

54. BMJ Open. 2023 Jul 27;13(7):e073960. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-073960.

Multilevel interventions as climate change adaptation response to protect 
maternal and child health: a scoping review protocol.

Lokmic-Tomkins Z(1), Bhandari D(2), Watterson J(3)(4), Pollock WE(2), Cochrane 
L(5), Robinson E(2), Su TT(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Monash University Faculty of Medicine 
Nursing and Health Sciences, Clayton, Victoria, Australia 
zerina.tomkins@monash.edu.
(2)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Monash University Faculty of Medicine 
Nursing and Health Sciences, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Department of Human-Centred Computing, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, 
Australia.
(4)Jeffrey Cheah School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Monash University 
Malaysia, Bandar Sunway, Selangor, Malaysia.
(5)Brownless Biomedical Library, The University of Melbourne - Parkville Campus, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(6)South East Asia Community Observatory (SEACO), Jeffrey Cheah School of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Monash University - Malaysia Campus, Bandar 
Sunway, Selangor, Malaysia.

INTRODUCTION: Growing evidence suggests that climate change-related extreme 
weather events adversely impact maternal and child health (MCH) outcomes, which 
requires effective, sustainable and culturally appropriate interventions at 
individual, community and policy levels to minimise these impacts. This scoping 
review proposes to map the evidence available on the type, characteristics and 
outcomes of multilevel interventions implemented as adaptational strategies to 
protect MCH from the possible adverse effects of climate change.
METHODS: The following databases will be searched: Embase, MEDLINE, Emcare, 
EPPI-Centre database of health promotion research (BiblioMap) EPPI-Centre 
Database for promoting Health Effectiveness Reviews (DoPHER), Global Health, 
CINAHL, Joanna Briggs Institute EBP Database, Maternity and Infant Care 
Database, Education Resource Information Center, PsycINFO, Scopus, Web of 
Science and Global Index Medicus, which indexes Latin America and the Caribbean, 
Index Medicus for the South-East Asia Region, African Index Medicus, Western 
Pacific Region Index Medicus. Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, 
WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, ClinicalTrials.gov, 
conference proceedings, thesis and dissertations, policy and guidelines and 
their reference lists will also be searched. Two reviewers will independently 
screen titles and abstracts and full text based on predefined eligibility 
criteria. The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses 
Extension for Scoping Reviews using the Population, Concept and Context 
framework and the Template for Intervention Description and Replication 
checklist will be used to structure and report the findings.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethics permission to conduct the scoping review is not 
required as the information collected is publicly available through databases. 
Findings will be disseminated through a peer-reviewed publication and conference 
presentations.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-073960
PMCID: PMC10387736
PMID: 37500279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.