[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Yuwen Shu

or Yang would have the Lis executed anyway, and that she should save herself.  Yuwen Eying thus wrote a confession implicating both Li Hun and Li Min.  Li Hun, Li Min, and 32 of their clansmen were executed, and their other relatives were exiled.  Several months later, Yuwen Eying was also poisoned.

In fall 615, Yuwen accompanied Emperor Yang on a tour of the northern frontier. The Eastern Turk leader Shibi Khan took the opportunity to launch a surprise attack against Yanmen Commandery in reprisal against various offenses by the emperor. His Chinese wife, the princess Yicheng, secretly sent a warning of the Turkish plans to Emperor Yang, who took refuge at the commandery seat in present-day Daixian, Shanxi. The Turks began their siege of the town on September 11. Yuwen suggested Emperor Yang select a few thousand elite cavalry soldiers to attempt a break out, but Su Wei and Fan Zigai (樊子蓋) persuaded Emperor Yang not to attempt this. Instead, at the suggestion of his brother-in-law Xiao Yu, the emperor sought more help from Princess Yicheng, who was one of his relatives but—according to Turkish custom—was in charge of managing military affairs at home in her husband's absence. She sent Shibi Khan a false report of a northern attack on the Khaganate; hearing this and learning of Chinese reinforcements on their way to the emperor's relief, the khan abandoned the siege and returned north. Su subsequently suggested to Emperor Yang that he return to Chang'an, but at Yuwen's suggestion, Emperor Yang went to Luoyang instead.

In fall 616, while Emperor Yang was inquiring about the status of agrarian rebellions (by this point, most of Sui territory was in fact engulfed in agrarian rebellions), Yuwen, in order to placate him, informed him that the rebellions had largely been suppressed.  Su, however, truthfully informed Emperor Yang that the rebellions were causing major problems for Sui rule.  Emperor Yang, not happy about the news, soon considered putting Su to death, but eventually only reduced Su to commoner rank.

Soon thereafter, seeing that Emperor Yang wanted to go back to Jiangdu, the capital of Yang Province, Yuwen formally suggested that he does so, and Emperor Yang agreed.  Yuwen followed Emperor Yang there, and became ill at Jiangdu.  He died in winter 616.  Pursuant to his dying wishes, Emperor Yang pardoned Yuwen Huaji and Yuwen Zhiji, returning them to governmental service.

See also
 Goguryeo-Sui Wars
 Emperor Yang of Sui
 Yuwen Huaji
 Collapse of the Sui

Notes

References

Citations

Bibliography
 Book of Sui, vol. 61.
 .
 Zizhi Tongjian, vols. 174, 177, 179, 180, 181, 182, 183.

616 deaths
Year of birth unknown
Northern Zhou generals
Sui dynasty generals
Sui dynasty government officials
Transition from Sui to Tang
Shu