[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Energoatom

ce. On 31 March 2022, the Board of Governors of the WANO at its meeting supported the application of Energoatom and made a decision regarding the transfer of the company, together with all its plants and nuclear power units, to the Paris Center of the WANO.

The separated subdivisions of Energoatom 

 Zaporizhzhya NPP.
 Rivne NPP.
 South Ukraine NPP.
 Khmelnytskyi NPP.
 SS "Atomremontservice".
 SS "Atomenergomash'.
 SS "Centralized purchasing".
 SS "Atomprojectengineering".
 SS "Emergency Technical Center".
 SS "Scientific&Technical Center".
 SS "Warehouse".
 SS "DO "Atomprylad".
 SS "Automation&Mechanical Engineering".
 SS "Energoatom-Trading".
 SS "Administrative Department".
 SS "Donuzlavska WPP" (located in the temporarily occupied territory).

Nuclear power stations

Zaporizhzhya NPP 

 Start of construction – 1979.
 The commissioning of the first power unit – 1984.
 6 VVER-1000 units with a total installed capacity of 6000 MW.
 Satellite city – Energodar, Zaporizhzhia region.

The largest nuclear power plant in Ukraine and Europe. It is located near the steppe zone on the shore of the Kakhovka Reservoir. Over the years of its existence, it has produced more than 1.1 trillion kWh of electricity. It has its own dry storage facility for spent nuclear fuel (Dry SFSF).

Rivne NPP 
 Start of construction – 1973.
 The commissioning of the first power unit – 1980.
 2 VVER-440 units та 2 VVER-1000 units with a total installed capacity of 2835 MW.
 Satellite city – Varash, Rivne region.

The first nuclear power plant in Ukraine with power water-cooled reactors of the VVER type. The annual production of electricity is about 20 billion kWh. The RNPP operates an automated radiation monitoring system (ARMS) equipped with seismic monitoring systems and RODOS (Real Time Online Decision Support) decision support system. This energy complex is unique for Ukraine and one of the best in the world in terms of the accuracy of parameters and characteristics.

Khmelnytskyi NPP 
 Start of construction – 1981. 
 The commissioning of the first power unit – 1987.
 2 VVER-1000 units with a total installed capacity of 2000 MW.
 Satellite city – Netishyn, Khmelnytskyi region.

The most promising Ukrainian nuclear power plant in terms of realizing Ukraine's export potential on the European energy market. It is located near the central part of Western Ukraine, on the border of three regions - Khmelnytskyi, Rivne and Ternopil. The power plant generates almost 15 billion kWh of electricity per year.

South Ukrainian Energy Complex

South Ukraine NPP 
 Start of construction – 1975.
 The commissioning of the first power unit – 1982.
 3 VVER-1000 units with a total installed capacity of 3000 MW.
 Satellite city – Yuzhnoukrainsk, Mykolaiv region.

Oleksandrivska Hydroelectric Plant 
 2 hydroelectric units with the installed capacity of 25 MW

Tashlyk Pumped-Storage Power Plant 
 3 hydroelectric units with the installed capacity of 453 MW

The South Ukrainian Energy Complex uses basic nuclear as well as flexible hydro and hydro-storage capacities. It is located in the north of the Mykolaiv region, on the banks of the South Bug River. The complex produces 17-20 billion kWh of electricity per year. For the first time in Ukraine, the SUNPP was loaded with fresh nuclear fuel produced by the American company Westinghouse. This fuel load has paved the way for Ukraine's successful diversification of nuclear fuel supplies. Since 2018, power unit No. 3, and since 2020, power unit No. 2 of the SUNPP have been operating on Westinghouse fuel only.

Safety of NPPs 
The policy of Energoatom prioritizes the issues of security over economic, technical, scientific and other objectives. The objective of increasing and maintaining the current level of operating power units' safety has the highest priority in the activities of the operating organization. Energoatom's nuclear power plants use the nuclear and radiation technologies; therefore, the main mission of the company is an unconditional observance of nuclear and radiation safety with cost-effective generation and reliable supply of electricity and heat to consumers.

In the NPP surveillance zones, the Automated Radiation Monitoring Systems (ARMS) have been created for continuous monitoring of the radiation situation.

International experts have monitored the safety of Ukrainian nuclear power plants for many years: the periodic meetings are held at the IAEA to comply with the provisions of the Convention on Nuclear Safety; there is a safety monitoring by international experts (OSART, ASSET, WANO missions) organized within the framework of cooperation.