[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jamia Hamdard

Jamia Hamdard  () is an institute of higher education deemed to be university located in New Delhi, India. Established in 1989, it is a government-funded university and was formally inaugurated by then Indian prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. In 2019, it was awarded Institute of Eminence status by Ministry of Human Resource Development.

Campus

Library

The library system consists of a central library and six faculty libraries: the faculties of science, medicine, pharmacy, nursing, Islamic studies, and management studies and information technology. The central library is named ‘Hakim Mohammed Said Central Library’, after the younger brother of the founder.

Computer centre

The university has a computer centre which serves as a lab for the Department of Computer Science, containing computing facilities, system analysis units, and all necessary peripherals and requisite software. There are five laboratories in the computer centre, with facilities for their respective development fields.

Scholars' House

The Scholars' House is a guest house for scholars, university guests, outside examiners, members of the selection board, and residential conferences.

It has 12 double-bed rooms, 27 single-bed rooms, and 4 flats.

Convention Centre 
The university has a convention centre seating 200.

Faculties
Schools of Studies:
Pharmacy: The School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (erstwhile Faculty of Pharmacy) is one of the oldest pharmacy institutes in India. It was awarded the number one rank in India in the year 2017,2019,2020,2021,2022 by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India via its National Institute Ranking Framework. The school offers diploma, undergraduate, graduate and Ph.D. programs in pharmacy and pharmaceutical sciences. The institute is research intensive and has numerous notable alumni in the pharmaceutical industry in both India and abroad. The School retained its top position amongst Indian Pharmacy Colleges for the year 2022 in NIRF rankings.
Hamdard Institute of Legal Studies and Research: which offers BA.LLB(5 years integrated course) for undergraduates.
Interdisciplinary Sciences and Technology: which offers the Food technology program for undergraduate and postgraduate students
Management Studies & Information Technology
Engineering Sciences and technology
Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences and Research ( HIMSR ) & Associated Hakeem Abdul Hameed Centenary Hospital
School of Unani Medical Education and Research (Unani)
School of Nursing and Allied Health Sciences
Islamic Studies & Social Sciences.
Science
 Biotechnology
 Biochemistry   
 Botany
 Toxicology
 Chemistry
 Clinical Research

Central Instrumentation Facility (CIF)

Central Instrumentation Facility was established in the Faculty of Pharmacy in July 1990 with the installation of L7 Backman Ultra-centrifuge, Sorval Rt-6000 low-speed centrifuge, DU-64 Backman UV-VIS Spectrometer, Perkin-Elmer 8700 Gas Chromatograph, Perkin-Elmer HPLC and Mettler electronic balance. In the year 1992, gamma-counter, beta-counter and DNA Electrophoresis systems were added to the CIF. Perkin-Elmer Lambda-20 Double-beam UV-VIS spectrophotometer, Perkin-Elmer LS-50 luminescence spectrometer, Bio-rad FT-IR spectrometers and mini-computer facility comprising eight computers, Internet and e-mail facilities are also available in CIF.

The objective of CIF is to provide an instrumentation facility to the researchers of Jamia Hamdard, in addition, to train the Ph.D. and M.Pharm/M.Sc. students on various equipment. Jamia Hamdard research students operate instruments themselves for their experiments. Ph.D. students, use CIF during late hours and on weekends to complete their experiments. Several M.Pharm. and Ph.D. scholars have used the CIF for their research.

Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (HIMSR) & Hakim Abdul Hameed Centenary Hospital
The founder of the university Janab Hakeem Abdul Hameed had conceived of starting a medical college in 1953 alongside the Unani system of medicine. HIMSR is one of the top-ranked Private Medical College in North India. In July 2012 the Medical Council of India gave permission to Jamia Hamdard to start a medical college on its campus. Before that, the university renamed the erstwhile Majeedia Hospital to Hakeem Abdul Hameed Centenary Hospital (HAH Centenary Hospital) and to attach this to a newly established medical Institute - Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences of Research (HIMSR). HAH Centenary Hospital has 650 teaching beds currently housing all broad clinical disciplines with blood bank and hospital laboratory services. HIMSR was the sixth medical college in National Capital Territory of Delhi, and the first model hospital in the public-private sector in the capital city of Delhi. The first batch of MBBS students was taken in August 2012.