[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jens Frahm

intact living brain. Techniques range from high-resolution 3D MRI studies of brain morphology and localized proton MRS of brain metabolism to fiber tractography of the axonal connectivity via diffusion tensor imaging and mapping of the functional architecture of cortical networks by functional MRI.

Current methodologic projects focus on the use of iterative image reconstruction techniques for non-cartesian MRI (e.g., undersampled radial MRI) and parallel MRI that define the reconstruction process as a nonlinear inverse problem. Other developments address the possibility of real-time MRI in order to overcome the motion sensitivity of conventional MRI acquisitions and to monitor organ movements in real time. Most recent achievements in real-time MRI are based on FLASH techniques with highly undersampled radial data encodings. When combined with image reconstruction by nonlinear inversion with temporal regularization, they allow for movies of the human heart with image acquisition times as short as 10 to 30 milliseconds, which correspond to MRI movies with up to 100 frames per second. Such real-time movies may continuously be recorded during free breathing, without ECG synchronization, and without motion artifacts. Apart from cardiac applications and quantitative measurements of blood flow in real time, novel possibilities range from studies of joint movements, bowel motility and swallowing mechanics (e.g., dysphagia and reflux disorders) to speech generation and brass playing. Interactive real-time MRI will also revitalize "interventional" MRI which refers to MRI monitoring of minimally invasive procedures. A selection of example MRI videos can be found here: Biomedizinische NMR. The development of a high-quality and robust real-time MRI technique must be considered another breakthrough in MRI that promises to shape its future. Real-time MRI will again broaden the diagnostic potential of MRI by adding completely new, hitherto impossible scientific and clinical applications as well as by simplifying and shortening existing procedures.

More recently, the algorithm for regularized nonlinear inversion (NLINV) has been extended to allow for model-based reconstructions of quantitative parametric maps directly from suitable sets of MRI raw data. Relevant physical or physiological parameters are, for example, T1 relaxation times of water protons in various body tissues and the velocities of blood flow or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow. These novel approaches include a corresponding signal model into the MRI signal equation and therefore always pose a nonlinear inverse reconstruction problem. However, as already demonstrated for real-time MRI, the computational demand is met by a user-invisible GPU-based bypass computer which may be retrofitted to an existing MRI system. The results offer fundamental advantages in comparison to conventional mapping methods which are based on serial image reconstructions followed by pixelwise fitting.

Publications

The list of Frahm's publications exhibits more than 550 entries comprising patents, scientific articles, review articles, and book chapters (as of July 2023), see Jens Frahm. His Hirsch index is 106 as determined by Google Scholar).

Awards
1989   European MRI Award, German Roentgen Society
1990   European Magnetic Resonance Award, European Workshop on NMR in Medicine
1991   Gold Medal Award, International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine
1992  	Hans-Meyer-Award, Roentgen Society of Lower Saxony 
1993   Karl-Heinz-Beckurts-Award, Beckurts-Foundation
1996   Niedersachsenpreis, President of the State of Lower Saxony 
2005 	Research Award of the Sobek-Foundation
2006	Biomedizinische NMR Forschungs GmbH
2013   Science Award (Stifterverband Award) of the Donors' Association for the Promotion of the Sciences and Humanities
2015   Niedersachsenprofessur 2016–2019
2016   Hall of Fame of German Research
2017   Jacob-Henle-Medal 2016
2018   European Inventor Award in Research category for "Improved magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)" especially in Fast low angle shot magnetic resonance imaging (FLASH MRI).
2020   Werner von Siemens Ring

Memberships 
 1995 Fellow of the Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine
 2005 Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Göttingen
 2020 acatech (German Academy for Technical Sciences)

References

External links

Biomedizinische NMR: Detailed information about scientific projects and recent results 
Max Planck Institute for Multidisciplinary Sciences: Further general information

1951 births
Living people
20th-century German physicists
20th-century German biologists
German physical chemists
21st-century German physicists