[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paul Myners, Baron Myners

me for private sector workers on low and moderate incomes. He resigned this position on his appointment as a minister. PADA morphed into NEST, the National Employment Savings Trust, the national workplace pension scheme established by the Government which will become the UK's largest pension scheme.

Myners also served as chairman of the Low Pay Commission from 2006 until 2008, as a member of the Commission on English Prisons, established by the Howard League for Penal Reform, and the Green Fiscal Commission, and was a member of the Commission on Vulnerable Employment sponsored by the TUC, and a trustee of the Smith Institute, an education and public policy think tank. He was Chairman of the Trustees of the Tate, a past trustee at the National Gallery and the Royal Academy Trust, trustee of the Charity Aid Foundation and served on the Advisory Council of St. Paul's Cathedral Institute. Myners resigned from these posts when he became a Minister.

Government minister
On 3 October 2008 Myners was appointed Financial Services Secretary to the Treasury (a position commonly referred to as City Minister) in HM Treasury, in Prime Minister Gordon Brown's ministry. He was created a Life Peer on 16 October 2008, gazetted as "Baron Myners, of Truro in the County of Cornwall". Although never active in politics before his appointment as a finance minister, The Independent reported that  "a Labour Cabinet insider" said of him that "for a City grandee he has a genuine instinct for social justice." Myners never donated to the Labour Party, but in 2007 he offered £12,700 to Gordon Brown's leadership campaign.

As City Minister Myners had responsibility for leading the £500bn 2008 United Kingdom bank rescue package in the aftermath of the global financial crisis, as well as for a number of major agencies sponsored by the Treasury including The Debt Management Office, National Savings & Investment, UK Financial Investments and the Asset Protection Agency. Myners also handled the routine ministerial interface between the Treasury and the Financial Services Authority.

In February 2009 Lord Myners was at the centre of controversy concerning the amount of pension paid to Fred Goodwin, the former chairman of the Royal Bank of Scotland. Myners said that he did not approve the details of Goodwin's pension settlement when it was arranged the previous autumn as part of the government's bailout of RBS, pointing out that this was a matter for the Board of RBS. However, former RBS chairman Sir Tom McKillop disputed Myners' account in later evidence to the Treasury Select Committee, insisting that "every element" of Goodwin's financial compensation on leaving the bank had been fully discussed with Myners. The Treasury Committee concluded in their report that  "…it would have been far better if Lord Myners had given a stronger, clearer direction of Government requirements for a bank in receipt of public funds and had assured himself by demanding to be kept informed of the detailed negotiations that were taking place…. It would, we believe, have been open to Lord Myners to insist that Goodwin should have been dismissed…. The RBS Board had shown itself to be incompetent in the management of the bank, steering it towards catastrophe… We suspect that Lord Myners' City background, and naiveté as to the public perception of these matters, may have led him to place too much trust in an RBS Board."
The report of the Treasury Select Committee was criticised by many.  The respected commentator Hugo Dixon wrote in the Daily Telegraph and the Breaking Views website that the committee should have got ‘a sense of proportion’.  He wrote that during the same weekend of the Goodwin pension issue Myners and two Treasury Civil Servants – John Kingman and Tom Scholar – ‘managed to pull off a remarkable feat in pretty much every way.  Every other item in that list was ticked off.  None was a trivial exercise.  All items required attention to complex details; most required negotiations with third parties and banging heads together.   Few other Ministers would have been able to accomplish what Myners did that weekend.’  In a separate paper to the Treasury Select Committee, Slaughter and May partner Charles Randell, who accompanied Myners at meetings with RBS noted that Myners had insisted that Goodwin should not be rewarded for failure and all action should be taken to mitigate cost.  The RBS representatives at that meeting on 11 October did not indicate that the Board of RBS had significantly enhanced Goodwin's pension entitlement 24hrs earlier as a reward for his contribution to the Bank.

After government
After the Labour Party's loss in the 2010 general election in May 2010, Myners remained in the House of Lords. Until 2014 Myners served as a backbench Labour peer, before resigning to sit as a non-affiliated member and from 7 July 2015 as a crossbencher.