[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bridget of York

the final decision of the king. In 1492, the princess, who was not yet twelve years old, briefly left the monastery to attend her mother's funeral: Bridget, among other mourners, accompanied her mother's body by water to Windsor, where she attended Mass, after which she returned to Dartford Priory.

Dartford Priory as the monastic life of the princess was not chosen by chance. The monastery was founded by Edward III and developed under his grandson Richard II, and for some time was used by members of the nobility from all over England for both teaching and religious life. The monastery several times passed from one monastic order to another –Dominicans and Augustinians; during Bridget' stay in the monastery Dartford belonged to the Augustinian Order. The nuns were dedicated to a contemplative life, meaning that they spent their time in prayer and spiritual recreation, such as devotional reading; indeed, when in 1495 Cecily Neville, Duchess of York (Bridget's grandmother and godmother) made her will, she left three books to the princess: two were lives of holy women, St Catherine of Siena and Hilda of Whitby, and the third was a popular compendium of saints lives, the Legenda Aurea or Golden Legend, undoubtedly in the form of a translation.

The monastery was closed, and with the exception of the funeral of her mother, there is no evidence that Bridget ever left Dartford Priory. Modern records of Bridget about her are extremely short and few. Thomas More wrote: "Bridget represented the same virtue as the one whose name she bore, professing and observing the canons of religious life in Dartford". Throughout her life, Bridget maintained a regular correspondence with her sister, the queen, who paid for her sister's petty expenses and maintenance in the amount of 20 marks. From time to time, Bridget received additional payments from her sister the queen, although undisputed evidence of these survives only for the last year of the queen's life: for example, on 6 July 1502, the queen sent by messenger to the prioress of Dartford £3 6s 8d a quarter (that is, a total of twenty marks per year) to cover Bridget's expenses and the same amount to herself; it seems likely, however, that this was an arrangement of long standing. The last payment from the queen to Bridget was made a few months before Elizabeth's death in 1503. On 24 September 1502, Bridget received a letter from her sister from Windsor, in which the queen inquired about her sister's health and asked her to pray for her.

Death and burial
Bridget died and was buried in Dartford Priory; the cause of her death is unknown. The exact date of the princess' death is also unknown: according to various sources, this happened before 1513 or approximately in 1517. However, recent research proved that neither date is correct: Bridget was already dead by December 1507, when her brother-in-law King Henry VII paid for a stone to cover her grave.

Bridget was laid to rest in the choir of the priory church. The tombstone, a ledger stone laid on the floor of the choir, was probably destroyed or reused in 1541, when Dartford Priory, during the English Reformation, was largely demolished and remodelled as a royal manor house for her nephew King Henry VIII, although the residence wasn't used for the next ten years.

Notes

Citations

References

External links
 

1507 deaths
15th-century English nuns
15th-century English nobility
16th-century English nobility
16th-century English nuns
16th-century Christian nuns
English princesses
House of York
People from Eltham
1480 births in England
Children of Edward IV of England
Daughters of kings