[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# New York City ethnic enclaves

fter the immigration quota for individual countries was lifted in 1965. , the New York City metropolitan area contains the largest Asian Indian population in North America.

Japanese

As of the 2000 Census, over half of the 37,279 people of Japanese ancestry in New York State lived in New York City.

 within the city the largest groups of Japanese residents are in Astoria, Queens and Yorkville in the Upper East Side of Manhattan. As of the 2010 U.S. Census there are about 1,300 Japanese in Astoria and about 1,100 Japanese in Yorkville. 500 Japanese people lived in East Village. As of the same year, there are about 6,000 Japanese in Bergen County, New Jersey and 5,000 Japanese in Westchester County, New York. As of that year most short-term Japanese business executives in Greater New York City reside in Midtown Manhattan or in New York City suburbs. In 2011 Dolnick and Semple wrote that while other ethnic groups in the New York City region cluster in specific areas, the Japanese were distributed "thinly" and "without a focal point" such as Chinatown for the Chinese.

Korean

New York City is home to the second largest population of ethnic Koreans outside of Korea. Koreans started immigrating with the signing of the Korean-American Treaty of Amity and Commerce, which allowed them to do so freely.  The first wave of Korean immigration lasted from 1903 to 1905, when 7,000 Koreans came to the United States. After this first wave, the 1907 "Gentlemen's Agreement" of President Theodore Roosevelt restricted Korean immigration to the United States.  President Harry Truman repealed this in 1948.  and from 1951 to 1964, another wave of Koreans migrated to the United States, and a third wave lasted from 1969 to 1987.  As economic conditions improved in Korea, many Koreans chose to stay.

Korean communities in New York include Koreatown in Manhattan; Bedford Park in the Bronx as a small number, outplacing Puerto Ricans and Dominicans; and Sunnyside, Woodside, Elmhurst, Flushing, Murray Hill, Bayside, and Douglaston–Little Neck, in Queens. The Korean enclave in Flushing spread eastward across Queens and into Nassau County, forming a large Long Island Koreatown—. In Murray Hill—part of the large Long Island Koreatown—the station of the same name on the Long Island Rail Road is close to a row of Korean-owned businesses and a mainly Korean-speaking community; the neighborhood culminates with Meokjagolmok (Restaurant Street) with two dozen restaurants, bars, cafes, a bakery, and some karaoke establishments.

Pakistani
Pakistani Americans have a large presence in New York, with the city (along with New Jersey) hosting the largest Pakistani population of any region in the United States. The population of Pakistanis in New York City is estimated at around 54,335; they are settled primarily in the boroughs of Brooklyn (specifically the neighborhoods of Kensington and Midwood) and Queens (more specifically Jackson Heights and Fresh Meadows). These numbers make Pakistani Americans the fifth largest Asian American group in New York City. , more than 50,000 people of Pakistani descent were said to be living in New York City. This figure rises to between 60,000 and 70,000 when illegal immigrants are also included. Pakistani migration to New York has occurred heavily only since the past two to three decades, reflecting the history of Pakistani migration elsewhere in the country; "Little Pakistans" or ethnic enclaves populated by Pakistanis tend to be characterized and populated by other South Asian Americans as well, including Indians and thus are dominated by South Asian culture. Pakistani restaurants, grocery markets and halal shops are abound in such areas.

Sri Lankan
Many Sri Lankan people settle in Tompkinsville, Staten Island, which has one of the highest concentrations of Sri Lankans outside of their native country. More than 5,000 Sri Lankans live in Staten Island. The Sri Lankan commercial center is at the corner of Victory Boulevard and Cebra Avenue. They often hold festive New Year celebrations on Staten Island, including a traditional oil-lighting ceremony, live baila music, and competitive events like coconut-scraping and bun-eating contests.

Vietnamese
There is a community of Vietnamese at the Bowery in an area unofficially known as "Little Saigon".  The area is overshadowed by neighboring Chinatown in that it is relatively indistinguishable.  The area, however, is marked by an abundance of Vietnamese restaurants.

European
Many European ethnic groups have formed enclaves in New York. These include Albanian, Croatian, German, Scandinavian, Hungarian, Greek, Irish, Italian, Jewish (see Jewish enclaves in New York City), Polish, Russian, Serbian and Ukrainian. There are British and French expatriate communities in New York City.