[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# Constructive set theory

e a choice function , i.e. . A collection of sets holding  and its elements and which is closed by taking indexed sums and products (see dependent type) is called -closed. While the axiom that all sets in the smallest -closed class are a base does need some work to formulate, it is the strongest choice principle over  that holds in the type theoretical interpretation .
 Axiom of choice : This is the "full" choice function postulate concerning domains that are general sets  containing inhabited sets, with the codomain given as their general union. Given a collection of sets such that the logic allows to make a choice in each, the axiom grants that there exists a set function that jointly captures a choice in all. It is typically formulated for all sets but has also been studied in classical formulations for sets only up to any particular cardinality. A standard example is choice in all inhabited subsets of the reals, which classically equals the domain . For this collection there can be no uniform element selection prescription that provably consistutes a choice function on the base of . Also, when restricted to the Borel algebra of the reals,  alone does not prove the existence of a function selecting a member from each non-empty such Lebesgue-measurable subset. (The set  is the σ-algebra generated by the finite intervals . It strictly includes those intervals, in the sense of , but in  also only has the cardinality of the reals itself.) Striking existence claims implied by the axiom are abound.  proves  exists and then the axiom of choice also implies dependent choice. Critically in the present context, it moreover also implies instances of  via Diaconescu's theorem. For  or theories extending it, this means full choice at the very least proves  for all -formulas, a non-constructive consequence not acceptable, for example, from a computability standpoint.

Diaconescu's theorem
To highlight the strength of full Choice and its relation to matters of intentionality, one should consider the classes

from the proof of Diaconescu's theorem. They are as contingent as the proposition  involved in their definition and they are not proven finite. Nonetheless, the setup entails several consequences. Referring back to the introductory elaboration on the meaning of such convenient class notation, as well as to the principle of distributivity, . So unconditionally,  as well as , and in particular they are inhabited. As  in any model of Heyting arithmetic, using the disjunctive syllogism both  and  each imply . The two statements are indeed equivalent to the proposition, as clearly . The latter also says that validity of  means  and  share all members, and there are two of these. As  are  are then sets, also  by extensionality. Conversely, assuming they are equal means  for any , validating all membership statements. So both the membership statements as well as the equalities are found to be equivalent to . Using the contrapositive results in the weaker equivalence of disjuncts . Of course, explicitly  and so one actually finds in which way the sets can end up being different. As functions preserves equality by definition,  indeed holds for any  with domain .

In the following assume a context in which  are indeed established to be sets, and thus subfinite sets. The general axiom of choice claims existence of a function  with . It is important that the elements  of the function's domain are different than the natural numbers  in the sense that a priori less is known about the former. When forming then union of the two classes,  is a necessary but then also sufficient condition. Thus  and one is dealing with functions  into a set of two distinguishable values. With choice come the conjunction  in the codomain of the function, but the possible function return values are known to be just  or . Using the distributivity, there arises a list of conditions, another disjunction. Expanding what is then established, one finds that either both  as well as the sets equality holds, or that the return values are different and  can be rejected. The conclusion is that the choice postulate actually implies  whenever a Separation axiom allows for set comprehension using undecidable proposition .