[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

, and the surrounding urban neighborhoods of Wilmington that lie west of downtown. Westbound (outbound) lanes of MLK Jr. Boulevard terminate at, and merge directly with I-95, providing a direct link between city and highway only. Wilmington Boulevard was renamed Martin Luther King Boulevard in 1989.

Florida
 Bonifay:  Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue is a four-block long residential street on the northeast side of Bonifay.
 Brooksville: Martin Luther King Junior Boulevard (formerly Summit Street) is entirely former County Road 581A (Hernando County, Florida) from US 41 to US 98/State Road 50A.
 Chipley: Martin Luther King Drive is in the northern part of Chipley.
 Clearwater: Martin Luther King Jr Avenue runs north–south in Downtown Clearwater, from Harbor Drive to Jasper Street. North of the Cleveland Street intersection, it is North Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue and south of the intersection it is South Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue.
 Crestview: Martin Luther King Jr Avenue runs east–west in Downtown Crestview, from Lloyd Street to Main Street. The street turns into Chestnut Ave, once east of Main Street.
 Dade City: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard was originally East Main Avenue from 14th Street to the Moore-Mickens Education Center.
 Fort Myers: Dr. Martin Luther King Boulevard (formerly Anderson Avenue) is Florida State Road 82, from US 41 near the Caloosahatchee River bridge east to I-75.
 Fort Walton Beach:  Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard loops around the west side of Fort Walton Beach, ending near Northwest Florida State College.
 Gretna: Gadsden County Road 270 is Martin Luther King Boulevard for five blocks as it passes through Gretna.
 Jacksonville: The Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway is a freeway bypass around downtown Jacksonville, carrying US 1 Alternate.
 Lakeland: Martin L. King Jr. Avenue replaced North Dakota Avenue, and is designated Florida State Road 563 between Sikes Road at Florida State Road 539 and U.S. Route 92.
 Miami area: North 62nd Street (East 9th Street in Hialeah) is called Martin Luther King Boulevard since he gave speeches all across the South, including the city of Miami. It is unknown when the road got this name. But some Hialeah residents say it was in the middle of the 1970s.
 Panama City: Martin Luther King Boulevard replaces parts of Cove Boulevard and State Road 77.
 Port St. Joe: In the northern part of Port St. Joe, Martin Luther King Boulevard is a residential street running north–south nine blocks.  It forms an extension of David Langston Drive.
 Punta Gorda: In the most eastern portion of the town running north to south Featuring the Blanchard House Museum.
 Riviera Beach, Florida: In 1994, Riviera Beach City Councilwoman Bertha Orange, led the original effort to rename Blue Heron Blvd. as Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., by collecting more than 2,500 signed petitions. Ultimately, the decision was made to rename 8th Street. On April 2, 1994, a ceremony was held to rename 8th Street to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. Since 2015, the highway intersects with renamed, President Barack Obama Highway. This marks the first intersection of these roadway names in America.
 Safety Harbor: 4th Street in Safety Harbor has been renamed Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Street North, although it is an east–west street running about a mile across town.
 Sanford: Bevier Road in Sanford was renamed to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard in 2008.
 St. Augustine: Martin Luther King Avenue runs from north to south through southwestern St. Augustine.
 St. Petersburg: The St. Petersburg City Council gave Ninth Street the additional name of M.L. King Jr. Street in 1987; in 2003, the street was fully renamed Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Street.
 Sarasota: Martin Luther King Boulevard runs east from North Tamiami Trail to Tuttle Avenue.
 Springfield: 18th Street in Springfield is named Martin Luther King Jr. Drive.  It runs north south through about two-thirds of Springfield from Washington Street on the north, to Morgan Avenue at its south end.
 Tampa: On April 11, 1968, one week after the assassination, Tampa became the first city to rename a street, with the city council voting unanimously "to change the name of Main Street, between North Boulevard and MacDill Avenue to Dr. Martin Luther King Boulevard in honor of the assassinated Negro leader."  In 1989, the name was extended further eastward to include the entire stretch of Buffalo Avenue from Drew Park to Plant City was renamed "Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard", also designated as State Road 574. Notable attractions include Raymond James Stadium.
 Tallahassee: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard runs north and south through Tallahassee, Florida. A portion of S. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard runs just blocks west of the State Capitol.
 Tarpon Springs: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive runs across Tarpon Springs, from US 19 west to Whitcomb Bayou.