[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# One Million Signatures

One Million Signatures for the Repeal of Discriminatory Laws (Persian:   ), also known as Change for Equality, is a campaign by women in Iran to collect one million signatures in support of changing discriminatory laws against women in their country.

Activists of the movement have been attacked and jailed by the government, and the campaign has had to extend its two-year target to collect the full number of signatures.

The campaign has received wide international recognition. Prominent journalistic, human rights and pro-democracy organizations have awarded important prizes, to both the organization and some of its members.

Origins 
Iranian women's rights activists in Iran started the campaign to follow up a peaceful protest with the same aim in 2006 in Haft-e Tir Square in Tehran. Preparation started immediately in June, and the campaign was officially launched on August 28, at a seminar entitled The Effect of Laws on Women’s Lives, (Persian:  ).

Goals 
As well as collecting a million signatures to support reform of the law, the campaign, in its own words, also aims to achieve the following:

 Promotion of collaboration and cooperation for social change
 Identification of women’s needs and priorities
 Amplifying women’s voices
 Increasing knowledge, promoting democratic action
 Paying dues
 The power of numbers
 Power in diversity

The campaign seeks to secure equal rights in marriage and inheritance, an end to polygamy, and stricter punishments for honour killings and other forms of violence.

The organizers of the campaign consider that its demands conform to Islamic principles, and are in line with Iran’s international commitments. As a signatory to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Iran has committed to eliminate all forms of discrimination, and needs to take specific action in reforming laws that promote discrimination. These demands are in no way contradictory to the foundations of Islam, and have been discussed among Islamic jurists and scholars for some time.

The organizers hope that a million-signature petition will demonstrate, to decision-makers and the general public, that the desire to change discriminatory laws against women is not limited to a small segment of society, but widespread among diverse parts of the Iranian population.

Strategy
Similar signature campaigns have been held in other countries. Specifically, women in Morocco held a "One Million Signature" campaign for women's rights in 1992. The Million Signatures campaign was initiated solely by Iranian women in Iran without any support from any foreign countries. However, it has been active in collecting signatures both from Iranian citizens who live in Iran, and from those who are residents of other countries.

The campaign has been described as a way to take advantage of the "figurative walls" of privacy in Iran. A political demonstration may find little publicity and its participants may be beaten and arrested—as happened at the 12 June 2006 demonstration. However, signature seekers "fan out in ones and twos, to small towns and villages, going into shops, beauty salons, schools and offices, or stand at bus stops explaining 'face to face' how the Iranian interpretation of Sharia law is stacked against half the population. They ask men and women to sign their petition."

Successes

Olof Palme Prize 2008 

Journalist and activist Parvin Ardalan should have been in Stockholm on March 6, 2008. She was to receive the 2007 Olof Palme Prize in recognition of her leading role in the One Million Signatures campaign for women's equality in Iran. However, on March 3, airport security officials removed her from a flight about to take off from Tehran's international airport, seized her passport, and served her with a summons to appear in court.

Reporters Without Borders/Deutsche Welle 
In 2008, the prize of Reporters Without Borders and Deutsche Welle was awarded to the campaign's website (which is called Change For Equality).

Simone de Beauvoir prize 
In January 2009, the campaign was awarded the Simone De Beauvoir Prize for Women's Freedom () in recognition of its significant impact on Iranian society.

Anna Politkovskaya Award 
In 2009 Editing One Million Signatures received the Anna Politkovskaya Award.

Global Women's Rights award 

The Feminist Majority Foundation honored the One Million Signatures Campaign as a recipient of the 2009 Global Women's Rights Award. This award was presented to the Campaign,"in special recognition of their groundbreaking work to demand an end to discriminatory laws in Iran against women."