[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# S.W.O.R.D.

.N. Security Council.
Spider-Woman

Volume 2

Reception

Accolades 

 In 2019, CBR.com ranked S.W.O.R.D. 3rd in their "10 Most Powerful Secret Organizations In Marvel Comics" list.
 In 2022, CBR.com ranked S.W.O.R.D. 10th in their "The Avengers' 10 Best Allies In Marvel Comics" list.

In other media

Television
 S.W.O.R.D. appears in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes. Introduced in the episode "Welcome to the Kree Empire", this version of the organization operates out of Kang the Conqueror's captured spaceship, the Damocles. When Kree soldiers attack, Agents Carol Danvers and Abigail Brand mobilize to fend them off, with assistance from government agent Henry Peter Gyrich and the Kree's slave Sydren. Once S.W.O.R.D. retakes the Damocles, Sydren joins the organization. In the episode "Secret Invasion", a Skrull posing as Gyrich attempts to place a bomb on the Damocles, but Sydren detects it and evacuates the ship in time before it explodes.
 The creative team behind the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) TV series Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. intended to incorporate S.W.O.R.D., but were refused permission by Marvel Studios. 
 S.W.O.R.D. appears in the Disney+ / MCU miniseries WandaVision. This version of the organization's full name is the Sentient Weapon Observation and Response Division and was founded by Maria Rambeau. Following the events of the film Avengers: Infinity War, S.W.O.R.D. recovered Vision's body from Wakanda and under acting director Tyler Hayward, investigate Westview, New Jersey after Wanda Maximoff places it under a hex. Under Hayward's orders, they use a drone empowered by Maximoff to reactivate Vision. When she opens the hex to allow Westview's residents to escape, she inadvertently allows Hayward, the original Vision, and several S.W.O.R.D. agents in. However, Wanda's sons Billy and Tommy disarm them while a fictional Vision that Wanda created causes the original Vision to flee. Additionally, former S.W.O.R.D. agent and Maria's daughter, Monica Rambeau, and astrophysicist Dr. Darcy Lewis confront Hayward, who is later arrested by the FBI.

Film
S.W.O.R.D. was originally intended to appear in the MCU film Thor via a deleted post-credits scene wherein Erik Selvig tells Jane Foster and Darcy Lewis to "cross reference... with the S.W.O.R.D. database". Due to complications with 20th Century Fox, which owned the film rights to S.W.O.R.D. members Lockheed and Abigail Brand at the time however, the scene was cut.

Video games
 An alternate universe incarnation of S.W.O.R.D. appears in Marvel Super Hero Squad. This version of the organization is an evil version of S.H.I.E.L.D. that the Silver Surfer encounters while in an alternate universe.
 S.W.O.R.D. appears in Marvel Avengers Alliance Tactics.

Collected editions

Volume 1

Volume 2

See also
S.W.O.R.D. (Marvel Cinematic Universe)
List of government agencies in Marvel Comics

References

External links
S.W.O.R.D. at Marvel Database Project
S.W.O.R.D. at Comic Vine

S.W.O.R.D. at Runaways.mergingminds

X-Men supporting characters