[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tanks in the Cold War

Tank development both evolved considerably from World War II and played a key role during the Cold War (1945–1990). The period pitted the nations of the Eastern Bloc (organized under the Warsaw Pact in 1955) and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO (since 1949) against each other.

After World War II, tank design budgets were cut and engineering staff was often scattered. Many war planners believed that with the advent of nuclear weapons the tank was obsolete, given that a tactical nuclear weapon could destroy any brigade or regiment, whether it was armoured or not. 

In spite of this, tanks would not only continue to be produced in huge numbers, but the technology advanced dramatically as well. Tanks became larger and advances in armour made it much more effective. Aspects of gun technology changed significantly as well, with advances in shell design and terminal effectiveness. 

Soviet domination of the Warsaw Pact led to effective standardization on a few tank designs. Oppositely, the key NATO nations – the US, UK, France, and West Germany – all developed their own tank designs. These had little in common, with smaller NATO nations purchasing or adapting one or more of these designs.

The Korean War proved that tanks were still useful on the battlefield, given the hesitation of the great powers to use nuclear weapons. In the 1950s, many nations' tanks were equipped with NBC (nuclear, biologic, and chemical) protection, allowing mechanized units to defend against all three types of weapon, or to conduct breakthroughs by exploiting battlefield nuclear strikes.

The decades since have seen continual improvements in tank design, but no fundamental change. Among these have been larger yet guns, correspondingly improved armor systems, and refinements to targeting and ranging (fire control), gun stabilisation, communications and crew comfort.

Transition to main battle tanks
During and after World War II some medium tanks designs, such as the American M26 and Soviet T-44, were mass produced before the concept of a main battle tank idea had evolved. These were highly similar to early main battle tanks, with powerful guns, moderate armor, and decent mobility. Their successors, the M46 Patton and T-54, followed suit before the main battle tank doctrine was fully accepted.

Development of the main battle tank

Medium tanks gradually evolved into the new concept of the main battle tank. This transition happened gradually in the 1950s, as it was realized that medium tanks could carry guns (such as the US 90 mm gun, Soviet 100mm D-10 tank gun, and especially the British L7 105 mm gun) that could penetrate any practical level of armour at long range. The World War II concept of heavy tanks, armed with the most powerful guns and heaviest armour, became obsolete since they were just as vulnerable as other vehicles to the new medium tanks. Likewise, World War II had shown that lightly armed, lightly armoured tanks were of little value in most roles. Even reconnaissance vehicles had shown a trend towards heavier weight and greater firepower during World War II; speed was not a substitute for armor and firepower.

An increasing variety of anti-tank weapons and the perceived threat of a nuclear war prioritized the need for additional armor. The additional armour prompted the design of even more powerful guns.  The main battle tank thus took on the role the British had once called the 'Universal tank', filling almost all battlefield roles. Typical main battle tanks were well armed and highly mobile, but cheap enough to be built in large numbers. The classic main battle tanks of the 1950s were the British Centurion, the Soviet T-55 series, and the US M46 thru the M48 series, which saw continuous updates throughout the Cold war. For example, the Centurion began life with the highly effective 17-pounder (76.2 mm) gun, but was upgraded to 20 pounder (84 mm) and then 105 mm main armament by 1959, with improved fire control and new engines.

The Soviet T-55 started with a 100 mm gun, but has been upgraded with both 115 mm and 125 mm guns, much improved fire control systems, new engines, track, etc. The M46 series evolved through to the M60 series. The first Soviet main battle tank was the T-64 while the first American MBT was the M60 combat tank.
 
These vehicles and their derivatives formed the bulk of the armoured forces of NATO and the Warsaw Pact throughout the Cold War; many remain in use in the 21st century.

Light tanks