[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arbëresh language

, it has preserved certain syllable-initial consonant clusters which have been simplified in Standard Albanian (cf. Arbëresh   ('language/tongue'), vs. Standard Albanian  ). Arbëresh most resembles the dialect of Albanian spoken in the south-central region of Albania, and also that of Çam Albanians.

Arbëresh was commonly called 'Albanese' ('Albanian' in the Italian language) in Italy until the 1990s. Arbëresh speakers used to have only very vague notions about how related or unrelated their language was to Albanian. Until the 1980s Arbëresh was exclusively a spoken language, except for its written form used in the Italo-Albanian Byzantine Church, and Arbëreshë people had no practical connection with the Standard Albanian language used in Albania, as they did not use this form in writing or in media. When a large number of immigrants from Albania began to enter Italy in the 1990s and came into contact with local Arbëreshë communities, the differences and similarities were for the first time made apparent. 

Since the 1980s, some efforts have been organized to preserve the cultural and linguistic heritage of the language.

Arbëresh has been replaced by local Romance languages and by Italian in several villages, and in others is experiencing contact-induced language shift. Many scholars have produced language learning materials for communities, including those by Zef Skirò Di Maxho (Giuseppe Schirò Di Modica) who has written two books,  and , both used in schools in the village of Piana degli Albanesi, Sicily. Gaetano Gerbino wrote  (Arbëresh dictionary). Other authors include Matteo Mandalà, and Zef Chiaramonte. The only book written in English for the U.S. and U.K. Arbëresh diaspora is Everyday Arberesh by Martin H. Di Maggio (2013).

Language or dialect
Arberesh evolved separately from other forms of Albanian since the 13th century when its first speakers emigrated to Morea from central Albania. A dialect is also defined linguistically as closely related and, despite their differences, by mutual intelligibility. In the absence of rigorous linguistic intelligibility tests, the claim cannot be made that Arberesh and Albanian are mutually intelligible, and thus this criterion cannot be used to define the former as a dialect of the latter. Furthermore, the views of its speakers are an important criterion, and to date there have been several studies whereby Arberesh speakers define their language as a language -and not as a dialect- and have resisted moves to implement Standard Albanian language as a language of instruction in their communities.

Varieties 

The varieties of Arbëresh largely correspond with the regions where they are spoken, while some settlements have distinctive features that result in greater or lesser degrees of mutual intelligibility.

The Siculo-Arbëresh variety is spoken exclusively in the Province of Palermo and in three villages: Piana degli Albanesi, Santa Cristina Gela and Contessa Entellina; while the varieties of Piana and Santa Cristina Gela are similar enough to be entirely mutually intelligible, the variety of Contessa Entellina is not entirely intelligible. Therefore a further dialect within Siculo-Arbëresh known as the Palermitan-Arbëresh variety can be identified, as well as a Cosenza variety, a Basilicata variety, and a Campania variety represented by the speech of one single settlement of Greci. There is also a Molisan-Arbëresh and an Apulio-Arbëresh.

Within the Cosenza Calabrian varieties of Arbëresh, the dialect of Vaccarizzo Albanese is particularly distinct. Spoken in the villages of Vaccarizzo Albanese and San Giorgio Albanese in Calabria by approximately 3,000 people, Vaccarizzo Albanian has retained many archaic features of both Gheg and Tosk dialects.

Phonology 

Some features of Arbëresh distinguish it considerably from standard Albanian. In some cases these are retentions of older pronunciations.

Vowels 
Ë

The letter  is pronounced as either a mid central vowel  or as a close back unrounded vowel . So the word  is pronounced either  or  depending on the dialect.

Y to I

Arbëresh lacks the close front rounded vowel  of Albanian, which is replaced by the close front unrounded vowel . For example  ('you') becomes , and  ('enter') becomes .

Consonants 

GJ, Q

The letters  and  are pronounced as a palatalized voiced velar plosive  and a palatalized voiceless velar plosive , rather than a voiced palatal plosive  and a voiceless palatal plosive  as in standard Albanian. E.g. the word  ('all') is pronounced  rather than ,  ('heaven') is pronounced  rather than , and  ('Albanian') is pronounced .

GL, KL

In some words, Arbëresh has preserved the consonant clusters  and . In Standard Albanian these have mostly become the palatal stops gj and q, e.g.  not  ('s/he looks like ... '),  not  ('milk'), and  instead of  ('church').

H, HJ