[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2006 in the Philippines

December 27 – Khadaffy Janjalani's remains are recovered near Patikul, Sulu, by the Philippine military. 
 December 30 – Convicted American serviceman Lance Corporal Daniel Smith is freed from a Makati jail late evening Friday and transferred to the US Embassy on orders of the Philippine government.

Holidays

On November 13, 2002, Republic Act No. 9177 declares Eidul Fitr as a regular holiday. The EDSA Revolution Anniversary was proclaimed since 2002 as a special non-working holiday.  Note that in the list, holidays in bold are "regular holidays" and those in italics are "nationwide special days".

 January 1 – New Year's Day
 February 25 – EDSA Revolution Anniversary
 April 9 – Araw ng Kagitingan (Day of Valor)
 April 13 – Maundy Thursday
 April 14 – Good Friday
 May 1 – Labor Day
 June 12 – Independence Day 
 August 21 – Ninoy Aquino Day
 August 27 – National Heroes Day
 October 23 – Eidul Fitr
 November 1 –  All Saints Day
 November 30 – Bonifacio Day
 December 25 – Christmas Day
 December 30 – Rizal Day
 December 31 – Last Day of the Year

In addition, several other places observe local holidays, such as the foundation of their town. These are also "special days."

Sports

 January 21, Boxing – Manny Pacquiao defeated Mexican Erik Morales in a tenth-round technical knockout at the Thomas & Mack Center, Las Vegas. The victory caused jubilation in the country wracked by poverty and political instability.
 February 19, Basketball – Red Bull Barako wins the Philippine Basketball Association 2005–06 Fiesta Conference after defeating the Purefoods Chunkee Giants in six games.
 February 24–25, Wrestling – The World Wrestling Entertainment RAW Live Tour made its stop at Araneta Coliseum, featuring matches for the WWE Championship, the WWE Intercontinental Championship, and the WWE Women's Championship, among others. John Cena, Shelton Benjamin and Trish Stratus retained their title belts on the two-night event amidst an overflowing crowd at the Araneta Coliseum.
 July 2, Boxing – Manny Pacquiao wins a 12-round unanimous decision over Mexican Óscar Larios in front of his hometown fans at the Araneta Coliseum.
 July 21, Basketball – The Purefoods Chunkee Giants defeated the Red Bull Barako at the Philippine Basketball Association 2006 Philippine Cup Finals, 4–2 at the Araneta Coliseum.
 August 19, Softball – A Junior League softball team from Bacolod was beaten by a team from Naples, Florida, 8–0, at the Junior League World Series held at Kirkland, Washington
 September 11, Billiards –  Efren Reyes wins the World 8-Ball Open Championship at Reno, Nevada, beating Rodney Morris, 8–6.
 September 22, Collegiate Basketball – San Beda College win the 82nd NCAA seniors' basketball tournament, beating the Philippine Christian University (PCU). San Sebastian College-Recoletos defeated the PCU High School to win the juniors' championship.
 October 2, Collegiate Basketball – The University of Santo Tomas defeated the Ateneo de Manila University, 76–74, in overtime, at the deciding third game of the 69th UAAP men's basketball tournament. Their women's counterpart won the Women's championship while the Ateneo juniors team won the Juniors championship.
 October 21–22, Wrestling – The WWE SmackDown! Survivor Series Tour makes it stop at the Araneta Coliseum.
 November 12, Billiards – Pool player Ronato Alcano defeated Ralf Souquet in the 2006 WPA Men's World Nine-ball Championship in Pasay, 17 racks to 11.
 November 18, Boxing – Manny Pacquiao knocked out Erik Morales at their boxing bout held at the Thomas & Mack Center, Las Vegas. (AP via Yahoo! Sports)

Television

 December 10 – Mau Marcelo was declared the first Philippine Idol at the final results show was held in the Araneta Coliseum. (INQ7.net)

Births

January
 January 19 – JB Agustin, actor, socialite and philanthropist
 January 27 – Niana Guerrero, dancer

March
 March 4 – JM Canlas, actor (d. 2023)
 March 15 – Bryce Eusebio, actor

April
 April 10 – Sofia Pablo, actress
 April 11 – Jana Indanan, actress and dancer

May
 May 3 – Mutya Orquia, actress

June
 June 22 – Francis Concepcion, actor
 June 23 – CX Navarro, actor

July
 July 7 – John Clifford, actor

August
 August 5 – James David Graham, actor
 August 23 – Aiyana Waggoner, actress and model

September
 September 2 – Josh de Guzman, actor
 September 14 – Hannah Lopez Vito, actress and host of Team Yey!

October
 October 24 – Allyson McBride, actress

December
 December 3 – Krystal Brimner, singer and actress
 December 15 – Kenneth Gutierrez, actor
 December 30 – David Remo, actor