[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charleston in the American Civil War

modern-day James Island, South Carolina, resulted in Union forces being repulsed by a much smaller Confederate force.  The victory provided the city with a propaganda coup and saved it from the threat of land invasion.  Not until the latter stage of the war would the city be under such threat again.

Later war years

As many Southern port cities had been closed off by the Union blockade, Charleston became an important center for blockade running. Repeated attempts by the Union Navy to take Charleston and/or batter its defenses into the ground proved fruitless, including the Stone Fleet.  The city resisted military occupation for the majority of the war's four years.

In 1863, the Union began an offensive campaign against the defenses of Charleston Harbor, beginning with a combined sea-land engagement.  The naval bombardment accomplished little however, and the land forces were never put ashore.  By summer of 1863, the Union turned its attention to Battery Wagner on Morris Island, which guarded the harbor entrance from the southwest.  In the First and Second battles of Fort Wagner, Union forces suffered heavy losses in a failed attempt to capture the fort.  A siege however resulted in Confederate abandonment of Fort Wagner by September of that year.  An attempt to recapture Fort Sumter by a naval raiding party also failed badly, but Ft. Sumter was gradually reduced to rubble via bombardment from shore batteries, after the capture of Morris Island.

With the development of newer, longer-range artillery, and as Union forces were able to place batteries even closer to the city, the city was subjected to increasing bombardment. In November 1863, Jefferson Davis visited the city and noted it was better the city be reduced to "a heap of ruins" than surrender. The bombardment that began in late 1863 continued on and off for 587 days and destroyed much of the city that had survived the fire.  A coordinated series of attacks on the city were launched in early July 1864, including an amphibious assault on Fort Johnson and an invasion of Johns Island.  These attacks failed, but they continued to wear down the city's defenders.  The defenders were finally beaten back and the Union was able to capture the city, only a month and a half before the war ended.

Charleston Harbor was also the site of the first successful submarine attack in history on February 17, 1864, when the H.L. Hunley made a daring night attack on the USS Housatonic.  Although the Hunley survived the attack, she foundered and sank while returning from her mission, thus ending the threat to the Union blockade.

As Gen. Sherman marched through South Carolina, the situation for Charleston became ever more precarious. On February 15, 1865, Gen. Beauregard ordered the evacuation of remaining Confederate forces. On February 18, the mayor surrendered the city to General Alexander Schimmelfennig, and Union troops moved in, taking control of key sites. The first soldiers to enter the city were members of the 21st Infantry Regiment of the US Colored Troops and the 55th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment, another Black regiment, singing "John Brown's Body".

Union celebrations

The retaking of Charleston was the cause of celebration throughout the free states. The flag lowered at the surrender of Fort Sumter in 1861, at the outset of the Civil War, had been treated as an heirloom, housed in a specially-made case and exhibited at patriotic events to assist in fundraising. Now the same officer who had lowered it was sent to Charleston to raise it back up. Chartered boats brought hundreds of attendees from as far as New York. (Blacks were on a separate boat, with a Black captain.) Keynote speaker was America's most famous clergyman, Henry Ward Beecher, brother of Harriet Beecher Stowe. William Lloyd Garrison and many reporters also attended. The episode has been largely forgotten because that night, April 14, President Lincoln was assassinated.

Federal forces remained in Charleston during the city's reconstruction.

See also
Columbia, South Carolina, in the American Civil War
South Carolina in the American Civil War

Notes

References
 Cauthen, Charles Edward. South Carolina Goes to War 1860-1865. (1950) 
 Rosen, Robert 1997. A Short History of Charleston. University of South Carolina Press. .

South Carolina in the American Civil War
U.S. cities in the American Civil War
History of Charleston, South Carolina
19th-century in Charleston, South Carolina