[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Test Pilot School

aught at the US Air Force Test Pilot School.  The content was divided among three major components - performance, flying qualities, and systems flight testing, with the flow of the course always was executed in that sequence.  Due to customer feedback, that content and sequence were changed in 1999.

The majority of the professional course students came from foreign military organizations.  These organizations generally had need for testing modifications to aircraft rather than testing of entirely new types of aircraft.  As a consequence, avionics systems testing became more important and NTPS essentially broke the course into two major components - P&FQ testing, and  avionic systems testing.  A realization that one component did not, by itself, prepare students for the other component, a course flow was adopted that allowed students to take either half first, or to only take the half that was most relevant to the sponsoring organization.   This school schedules avionic systems always in the first half of the year and P&FQ in the second half.  With an introductory module preceding each six-month segment. students can join a year-long course either in January or July and carry through the entire course or simply stay for the chosen segment.  A positive outcome of this approach is that every class has a combination of junior and senior students working together.

Degrees
In 1995, the NTPS was approved by the State of California to award master’s degrees in flight test and evaluation.  Since 2004, graduates meeting all of the requirements have been eligible for an accredited Master of Science degree in flight test engineering.  This degree is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology.

Staff
The NTPS staff is highly experienced, both in flight testing and in instructing. About 15 full-time instructors and another 10 part-time, contract instructors are used.  The typical instructor is a retired military officer, a graduate of a formal test pilot school, has a master's degree or higher, with over 15 years of flight test experience and 7+ years instructing experience with 5–10 years employment at the NTPS.  Roughly half of the staff members are US citizens and half are international.  The international backgrounds include Australia, Canada, France, Italy, Israel, South Africa, and the United Kingdom.
The president and CEO of the school is James Brown.  The chairman of the board of trustees is Tom Morgenfeld.

Aircraft
The NTPS routinely uses a fleet of 34 aircraft (23 different types) located at the school's campus at the Mojave Air and Space Port in Mojave, California. The aircraft types are:

 Aero L-39 Albatross
 Aermacchi MB-326 Impala
 Beechcraft Duchess (BE-76)
 Airbus EC-145
 Augusta 109A
 Bell OH-58 Kiowa
 Bell UH-1N Twin Huey
 Cessna 150
 Cessna 172 Skyhawk
 Cessna 182 Skylane
 Beech C-90 King Air
 Cirrus SR22
 de Havilland DHC-1 Chipmunk
 Gippsland GA8 Airvan
 MBB BO-105
 Mig-21 Fishbed
 North American Sabreliner
 Northop T-38 Talon
 Piper PA-34 Seneca II
 Swearingen Merlin III

Additionally, the school leases other, outside aircraft as needed.  Professional course student test pilots typically fly 24 different types of aircraft during their one-year program, including four one-time qualitative evaluations in nonschool aircraft after the PF&Q phase.  All professional course students get a final project in an unfamiliar aircraft at the end of their course as a graduation exercise and capstone project for their master's degree.

Students

Students who have attended the professional course or subsets of the full course at NTPS include pilots and engineers from more than 29 different organizations, including:
Aerospace Industrial Development Corporation
American Eurocopter
Agusta
Australian Army
Belgian Ministry of Defence
British Ministry of Defence
Civil Aviation Administration of China
Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China
Dornier-Fairchild
European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (EADS)
Eurocopter Group
German Aerospace Center (DLR)
German Military (BWB)
Indonesian Aerospace
Israeli Air Force
Israeli Aircraft Industries
Italian Air Force
Korean Aerospace Industries
Pilatus Aircraft Company
Portuguese Air Force
Republic of Korea Air Force
Royal Australian Air Force
Royal Canadian Air Force
Royal Danish Air Force
Royal Malaysian Air Force
Royal Thai Air Force
Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation
Singapore Technologies Aerospace
United Arab Emirates Presidential Guard Command