[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Malaysian passport

tside of Malaysia, for them to be able to have a proper document while still staying in those countries and going back to Malaysia. 

It is only valid for a single journey to Malaysia, with valid countries follows the departing countries, transiting countries (if any), and Malaysia immigration only.

Discontinued passport types
Previously, a restricted passport was issued for travel to Singapore. From 1 January 2005, the Immigration Department stopped issuing and renewing the restricted passport to Singapore, with existing passports to remain valid until 31 December 2006. However, as Singapore requires travel documents to be valid for a minimum of six months, Singapore announced it would stop accepting Malaysian restricted passports from 1 July 2006. Following a meeting between the home affairs ministers of both countries, Singapore agreed to extend the deadline to 1 November 2006. Malaysian citizens travelling to Singapore now use the regular international passport.

The green cover Hajj passport (pasport haji) was formerly issued to Malaysian Muslim citizens for a Hajj pilgrimage to Mecca, Saudi Arabia. Applications were made through Tabung Haji, the Malaysian Hajj pilgrims fund board. Hajj passports were discontinued in 2009 and pilgrims now use the regular international passport.

The British-era Federation of Malaya passports were issued when Malaysia was Malaya and under British rule.

Passport note
The passports contain a note, written in Malay and English, from the issuing state that is addressed to the authorities of all other states, identifying the bearer as a citizen of that state and requesting that he or she be allowed to pass and be treated according to international norms. In Malay, the note inside Malaysian passports reads:

and in English, the note reads:

Languages
The data page/information page are printed in Malay and English.

Identity information page
The Malaysian passport includes the following data:
 Type/Jenis ('P' for Passport)
 Country code/Kod Negara ('MYS' for Malaysia)
 Passport number/Nombor Pasport
 Name of bearer/Nama (see below for details of the naming scheme)
 Nationality ('Malaysia')
 Identity number (see below for more information) or Birth certificate number (for minors under 12 only)
 Place of birth (State of birth for citizens born in Malaysia)
 Date of birth (in DD-MMM-YYYY format, such as 24-JUN-1988)
 Sex ('M' or 'F')
 Date of issue (in DD-MMM-YYYY format)
 Date of expiry (in DD-MMM-YYYY format, 5 years from date of issue, or a maximum of 5 years 6 months for renewals)
 Issuing office
 Height/Tinggi (in centimetres)

Passport number
The passport number is the serial number that uniquely identifies a passport. The passport number changes every time a person is issued a new passport, with the previous passport number noted in an endorsement on the last page of the new passport.

The passport number is alphanumeric, with a letter followed by an eight-digit number, e.g. A00000000. The letter prefix depends on the residency status of the bearer: "A" for Peninsular Malaysia and Labuan, "H" for Sabah and "K" for Sarawak. From 1964 to 1965, when Singapore was a part of Malaysia, Singapore citizens were issued Malaysian passports with the prefix "E".

Naming scheme
Due to Malaysia's heterogeneous ethnic demographic, including substantial Chinese and Indian minorities as well as Malays, the name of the bearer on the Malaysian passport is displayed using that person's customary naming practice as it is on the person's identity card (MyKad) or birth certificate (with exception of ethnic Indian and Thai names). Surname and given name fields are not differentiated on the passport, and this can cause difficulties or confusion in some countries as the placement of the surname is not consistent.

Technically speaking, every Malaysian name regardless of the ethnicity is of this type: SURNAME, FIRST NAME UNKNOWN (FNU) when only the Machine Readable Zone (MRZ) area of the Passport Biodata Page is considered. There is no '<<' to isolate what is technically a 'Surname' from the 'Given Name' (Please note that ICAO standards require that the name that immediately follows the three-letters country code in the Machine Readable Zone (MRZ) to be the surname of the passport holder). When swiped at international airports for border security purposes, for example: the Advanced Passenger Information System (APIS) for countries such as Australia, New Zealand and United States, the name of a Malaysian passport holder in its entirety will be captured in the 'Surname' field of the border security system, and this can sometimes cause a mismatch with how the passport holder's name is captured in the country of destination's visa system or electronic travel authority protocol. Examples of Malaysian names as printed on the Machine Readable Zone (MRZ) of the passport: