[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# World Forum of Fish Harvesters and Fish Workers

a simple majority (50 + 1%) of the countries which are represented by delegates at the General Assembly. All other decisions of the General Assembly shall be made by simple majority of the number of votes cast. However, a consensus should always be tried to be reached in the decision-making process.

Coordination Committee
The Coordination Committee acts under the authority of the General Assembly to represents the WFF. The mandate for the members of the Coordination Committee lasts for the period until the next General Assembly, which will normally be for three years. Each member of the Coordination Committee has the right to one vote. Decisions by the Committee are taken by simple majority.

Other than the duties that may be delegated by the General Assembly, the Coordination Committee is also in charge of promoting the creation of regional councils, planning and managing the activities of the WFF, organizing the General Assembly, proposing recommendations to the General Assembly, implement measures decided upon by the General Assembly, representing the WFF with other organizations, admitting new members, reporting on its activities to the General Assembly, maintaining close links among members of the WFF during periods in which the General Assembly is not in session and taking any measures deemed necessary to accomplish the objectives set out by the organization.

Executive committee
The Executive Committee acts under the authority of the Coordination Committee and is in charge of handling all administrative and financial matters of the WFF. It shall be composed of five representatives elected from among the members of the coordination committee. There shall be one president, two vice-presidents, one secretary, and one treasurer.  The mandate of the Executive Committee members shall be for a maximum term of three years. Meetings may be called by the President or Secretary without previous notice and should be held in the time and place that they determine.

Regional Councils
The WFF recognizes any regional council which complies with the objectives of the WFF. The main goal of the regional councils is to ensure the coordination and the consultation of the regional members from the countries representing the regions and continents.

Membership 

The WFF currently represents 48 national organizations of traditional small-scale fishing communities in 42 nations located all over the world, whose livelihoods depend directly on the sustainable management of fisheries resources. Such organizations must be democratically constituted and represent one of the following groups: Fish harvesters, crewmembers of fishing units, organizations of women engaged in work in support of the fishery, and fish workers who are engaged in activities related to the processing, sale (excluding merchants) or transport of fish. The Coordination Committee is the one in charge of admitting active members to the organization.

Stated objectives 

The WFF works towards the establishment and upholding of fundamental human rights, social justice and culture of fish harvesters and fish workers, affirming the sea as source of all life and committing themselves to sustain fisheries and aquatic resources from the present and future generations, to protect their livelihood. The objectives of the WFF are the ones that follow: