[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert Blair (moderator)

peace presented by Charles I on 8 November 1641. After the Irish Rebellion of 1641 he once more went to Ireland with several other clergymen of the Scottish kirk, the Irish general assembly (presbyterian) having petitioned for supplies for their vacant charges. He afterwards returned to St. Andrews.

In 1645 he attended the lord president Robert Spottiswoode and others to the scaffold. In the same year, he was one of the Scottish ministers who went to Newcastle to speak very plainly to the king. In 1646 he was elected Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland (3 June). Later, on the death of Alexander Henderson, he was appointed chaplain-in-ordinary to the king, supported by the revenues of the Chapel Royal. The Commission of the General Assembly, in 1648, named him one of those for 'endeavouring to get Cromwell to establish a uniformity of religion in England.'

At the division of the church, in 1650, into Resolutioners and Protesters, he leaned to the former, but lamented the strife. Summoned with others to London in 1654, that 'a method might be devised for settling affairs of the church', he pleaded ill-health and declined to go. In the same year he was appointed by the council of England 'one of those for the admission to the ministry in Perth, Fife, and Angus.'

At the Restoration, he came under the notice of Archbishop James Sharp, had to resign his charge in September 1661, and was confined to certain places, first of all to Musselburgh, afterwards to Kirkcaldy (where he remained three and a half years), and finally to Meikle Couston near Aberdour. As a Covenanter he preached outdoors. He died at Aberdour on 27 August 1666, and was buried in the parish churchyard.

Works
Autobiography was published by the Wodrow Society (1848); fragments were published in 1754.
Preface to Durham's Treatise on Scandal. 
Commentary on the Book of Proverbs, (ready but not published)
Answer to Bishop Hall's Remonstrance, ready for the Press, but these were never published.

Bibliography
Edin. Guild. Reg. ; 
Edin. Marr. Reg. ; 
Reg. Sec. Sig. ; 
G. R. Sas., iii. 164, ix. 106; 
Lamont's Diary; 
Tombst. ; 
Baillie's Letters ; 
Hill's Life of Hugh Blair ; 
Reid's Ireland, i., 101 et seq. ; 
Dictionary Nat. Biog. 
Reed's Presbyterianism of Ireland, i.; 
Row and Stevenson's Hist.; 
Rutherford's and Baillie's Letters; 
Kirkcaldy Presb. Reg.; 
Connolly's Fifeshire; 
Chambers's Biogr.; 
Scott's Fasti, ii. 91; 
Hill's Life of Hugh Blair

Family
He married first Beatrix, daughter of Robert Hamilton, merchant, in right of whom he became a burgess of Edinburgh on 16 July 1626; she died in July 1632, aged 27. Their issue were two sons and a daughter: James, one of the ministers of Dysart, Robert, and Jean, who married William Row, minister of Ceres. His second wife was Katherine, daughter of Hugh Montgomerie of Braidstane, afterwards Viscount Airds. Their issue were seven sons and a daughter. One of these sons, David, was the father of Robert Blair, the poet of the Grave, and another, Hugh, grandfather of Dr. Hugh Blair.

He married (1) on 16 July 1626, Beatrix (died July 1632, aged 27), daugh. of Robert Hamilton, merchant, burgess of Edinburgh, and had issue – James, min. of Dysart; Robert; Jean (marr. William Row, min. of Ceres). He married (2) Katherine, daugh. of Hugh Montgomerie of Braidstane, Viscount Airds, and had issue – William; David, min. of Old Kirk Parish, Edinburgh [father of Robert B., min. of Athelstane-ford, author of The Grave]; Samuel; John, writer, Edinburgh, born 1640; Archibald; Alexander in Edinburgh; Andrew, born 1644; Montgomery, born 1646; Hugh, merchant, Edinburgh; Catherine (marr. George Campbell, min. of Old Kirk, Edinburgh, and Professor of Divinity).

References
Citations

Sources

1593 births
1666 deaths
Moderators of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland
Scottish Commissioners at the Westminster Assembly
People from Irvine, North Ayrshire
Alumni of the University of Glasgow
17th-century Irish Presbyterian ministers
People from Bangor, County Down