[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Phoenix Peak

The Battle of Phoenix Peak (Feng Huang Ding) is also called the Battle to Check Enemy's Advance at Phoenix Peak (Feng Huang Ding Zu Ji Zhan) by the Chinese Communist Party, and it was a  battle fought during Laiyang Campaign between the nationalists and the communists during the Chinese Civil War in the post World War II era.

Prelude
After Laiyang was besieged by the communist 7th Column, the nationalist planned to reinforce the city first and then annihilate the local communists in a decisive battle by luring them out to fight in the open at the gate of the city, in conditions that favored the nationalists.  The nationalists managed to gather a total of eight brigades from different divisions to reinforce the Laiyang and the overall command of the reinforcement was put under the command of the nationalist 64th Division, Huang Guoliang 黄国梁.  The communist 2nd Column was tasked to stop the nationalist reinforcement at the several key locations and one of them was Phoenix Peak (Feng Huang Ding, 凤凰顶).  The 3rd Battalion of the 13th Regiment of the 5th Division of the communist 2nd Column was tasked to defend Phoenix Peak (Feng Huang Ding, 凤凰顶) with following deployments:  the battalion headquarters was located at north side of the peak, the 7th Company with two heavy machine guns held the left flank, the 9th Company in the northwest of the peak as reserve.  The communist 8th Company was at the front while the communist mortar company was behind the 8th Company.  On December 6, 1947, the communist 3rd Battalion entered its pre-designated positions.  Two lines of obstacles were built and mines in the form of hand grenades and dynamite sticks were laid. Antitank teams included bazooka teams were also deployed.

Battle
At 7:00 am on December 8, 1947, the nationalists begun their push toward Phoenix Peak (Feng Huang Ding, 凤凰顶), and a total of five battalions from the nationalist 54th Army was committed.  The nationalists attacked the positions held by the 5th Division of the communist 2nd Column from Greater Po (Da Po, 大泊) and Lesser Po (Xiao Po, 小泊) in three fronts.  On December 9, 1947, the nationalist aircraft attacked the positions at the Phoenix Peak (Feng Huang Ding, 凤凰顶) held by the communist 7th Company and the 8th Company in conjunction with the nationalist shelling.  With the exception of observers and patrols, majority of the defenders were forced to take cover in the fortifications.  3rd Squad of the communist 8th Company discovered six or seven nationalist plain-cloth scouts approaching the communist positions, and a short burst of machine gun fire was enough to turn them back.  Soon after, the defenders discovered that a nationalist tank approached within 300 metres of the position held by the communist 1st Platoon.  The defenders opened up with everything they had, and thus exposed their positions.  Ten minutes later, three more tanks joined the original one in shelling the communist positions 200 meters away, but failed to inflict any heavy casualties on the defenders, but they did manage to destroy some of the defenders’ fortifications.

At 9:15 am, two nationalist companies attacked the position held by the 3rd Squad of the communist 8th Company by following a tank that provided cover.  The defenders concentrated their fire on the infantry behind the tank while a communist soldier jumped out of trench and approached the nationalist tank, and then inserted hand grenades between the tracks and wheels of the tank, successfully blowing up the tank.  Losing their armor cover, the follow on nationalist attacks were beaten back for three time consecutively before the nationalist were forced to abandon any further attacks.  The At 10:30 am, a nationalist platoon attacked the junction of the 2nd Squad and the 6th Squad of the communist 8th Company, while a nationalist company attacked the left flank of the communist 3rd Squad.  The 2nd Squad and the 6th Squad of the communist 8th Company driven back the attackers and the communist company commander also redeployed the heavy machine gun to the right flank of the communist 1st Platoon, and successfully checked the third nationalist assault on the positions held by the 3rd Platoon of the communist 8th Company.  The nationalist attackers made a brief gain when they took the positions held by communist 3rd Squad, but the victory was short-lived: the communist company commander personally led the 8th Squad to counterattack immediately from the flank and wiped out every surviving nationalist attacker and destroyed a nationalist tank in the process.  After failing repeatedly in their attacks on the positions held by the communist 8th Company, the nationalists changed their objective by attacking the position held by the communist 7th Company from 11:30 am on, but the battalion sized assaulting force was driven back every time due to heavy enemy fire.