[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 263]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

d others; which makes their Testimonies insufficient. Fourthly,
such Opinions as are taken onely upon Credit of Antiquity, are not
intrinsically the Judgment of those that cite them, but Words that
passe (like gaping) from mouth to mouth. Fiftly, it is many times with a
fraudulent Designe that men stick their corrupt Doctrine with the Cloves
of other mens Wit. Sixtly, I find not that the Ancients they cite, took
it for an Ornament, to doe the like with those that wrote before them.
Seventhly, it is an argument of Indigestion, when Greek and Latine
Sentences unchewed come up again, as they use to doe, unchanged. Lastly,
though I reverence those men of Ancient time, that either have written
Truth perspicuously, or set us in a better way to find it out our
selves; yet to the Antiquity it self I think nothing due: For if we will
reverence the Age, the Present is the Oldest. If the Antiquity of the
Writer, I am not sure, that generally they to whom such honor is given,
were more Ancient when they wrote, than I am that am Writing: But if it
bee well considered, the praise of Ancient Authors, proceeds not from
the reverence of the Dead, but from the competition, and mutuall envy of
the Living.

To conclude, there is nothing in this whole Discourse, nor in that I
writ before of the same Subject in Latine, as far as I can perceive,
contrary either to the Word of God, or to good Manners; or to the
disturbance of the Publique Tranquillity. Therefore I think it may be
profitably printed, and more profitably taught in the Universities, in
case they also think so, to whom the judgment of the same belongeth.
For seeing the Universities are the Fountains of Civill, and Morall
Doctrine, from whence the Preachers, and the Gentry, drawing such water
as they find, use to sprinkle the same (both from the Pulpit, and in
their Conversation) upon the People, there ought certainly to be
great care taken, to have it pure, both from the Venime of Heathen
Politicians, and from the Incantation of Deceiving Spirits. And by that
means the most men, knowing their Duties, will be the less subject to
serve the Ambition of a few discontented persons, in their purposes
against the State; and be the lesse grieved with the Contributions
necessary for their Peace, and Defence; and the Governours themselves
have the lesse cause, to maintain at the Common charge any greater
Army, than is necessary to make good the Publique Liberty, against the
Invasions and Encroachments of forraign Enemies.

And thus I have brought to an end my Discourse of Civill and
Ecclesiasticall Government, occasioned by the disorders of the present
time, without partiality, without application, and without other
designe, than to set before mens eyes the mutuall Relation between
Protection and Obedience; of which the condition of Humane Nature, and
the Laws Divine, (both Naturall and Positive) require an inviolable
observation. And though in the revolution of States, there can be no
very good Constellation for Truths of this nature to be born under, (as
having an angry aspect from the dissolvers of an old Government, and
seeing but the backs of them that erect a new;) yet I cannot think
it will be condemned at this time, either by the Publique Judge of
Doctrine, or by any that desires the continuance of Publique Peace. And
in this hope I return to my interrupted Speculation of Bodies Naturall;
wherein, (if God give me health to finish it,) I hope the Novelty will
as much please, as in the Doctrine of this Artificiall Body it useth to
offend. For such Truth, as opposeth no man profit, nor pleasure, is to
all men welcome.



FINIS