[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Andrew Karney

he was a member of the UK National Electronics Council, an independent nongovernmental organisation, originally set up in July, 1964, under the chairmanship of Earl Mountbatten of Burma seeking to coordinate pure and applied research in electronics, and later chaired by Prince Edward, Duke of Kent.

On leaving Logica in 1994, Karney became a director of NASDAQ quoted Integrated Micro Products, later acquired by Sun Microsystems (now part of Oracle Corporation) and chairman of Language Line Ltd, a telephone interpreting and language resources company founded by Lord Michael Young (politician), who also conceived the Consumers' Association Which? in the UK and the Open University, the first of its kind in the world. In 1997, he became an independent director of the Guardian Media Group plc and Guardian News and Media, publishers of the Guardian and Observer newspapers, chairing the IT steering board - responsible for the development of all the news and commercial platforms for the newspapers and websites. He was a director of Baronsmead Second Venture Trust from 2001–2016, a venture capital company, investing in a number of high technology and business services companies. In 2005 he was appointed chairman of the trustees of the international NGO, Integrity Action (formerly Tiri), which seeks practical solutions to making integrity work in governments, civil society and business. From 2009 to 2018, he was a trustee of Medical Aid for Palestinians which works for the health and dignity of Palestinians living under occupation and as refugees. He then became a trustee of the Welfare Association (UK) works to support some of the most marginalised Palestinian families and communities in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip and in the refugee camps in Lebanon. From January 2020, he was a director of Helix Technologies, a specialist developer of compact, high-performance, dielectric-loaded ceramic antennas for demanding telecommunications and navigation applications until the completion of a significant Venture Capital funding round in November 2021. 

He is a chartered engineer, fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Technology, a Freeman of the City of London, a fellow of the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures & Commerce. He is a member of Chatham House (The Royal Institute of International Affairs), The Council for Arab-British Understanding and an expert on contemporary Middle Eastern affairs, particularly Palestine and Syria.

In 2020 he wrote one of the essays in the book "I Found Myself in Palestine: Stories from around the Globe"  which is a collection of personal reflections on the experience of being a foreigner in Palestine edited by Nora Murad Lester. , in which he describes his experiences in Gaza in 1964.

Personal life
Karney is one of six children. His father was Gilbert Henry Peter Karney, vicar of Embleton, Northumberland, his grandfather was Bishop Arthur Karney, the first bishop of Johannesburg. His mother was Celia Karney (née Richardson), granddaughter of John Wigham Richardson, a Quaker Victorian shipbuilder and founder of Swan Hunter and Wigham Richardson shipbuilders on Tyneside, who built the RMS Mauretania (1906). Karney was a talented amateur photographer in the 1960s specialising in ballet photography published in various dance magazines and national newspapers.    He also took some of the iconic photographs of the 1968 demonstrations in Paris against the Gaullist government. It was his photography that led him into contact with the celebrated prima ballerina Beryl Goldwyn whom he married in 1969 and with whom he had one son Peter Karney born 1972.

References

External links
Andrew Karney

English businesspeople
English electrical engineers
People from Northumberland
Living people
People educated at Rugby School
Alumni of Trinity College, Cambridge
Fellows of the Institution of Engineering and Technology
1942 births
Chatham House people