[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Giorgio La Pira

the Italian Constitution. Despite sometimes intense criticism, La Pira paid several visits to Moscow and China and even Hanoi throughout the Cold War era. Until his death he promoted issues such as disarmament and the importance of third world development, as well as tolerance among world religions.

He hosted five Conferences for Peace and Christian Civilization in the Palazzo Vecchio from 1952 until 1956 and later in 1967 was elected as the President of the World Federation of United Cities. He also invited the President of the World Zionist Organization Nahum Goldmann to hold the World Jewish Congress in Florence in 1964. In August 1959 he made a visit to the Soviet Union and later visited North Vietnam in 1965 where he travelled to Ho Chi Minh and presented an outline for a peace plan. This laid the groundwork for the accord that later ended the Vietnam War – a war which troubled La Pira. In his 1959 visit to Russia he visited the Zagorsk Monastery on the outskirts of Moscow and said: "I have come to pray for peace and unity for all people of the world". La Pira supported the decision of Pope John XXIII to convoke the Second Vatican Council and said of it that the pope "has opened his arms to all Christians and all peoples of the world". He also spoke with Metropolitan Nikolai and told him that he visited as a "Marian bridge of prayer between Fátima and Moscow – the Churches of East and West". La Pira had visited Fátima before this visit. He visited Zagorsk Monastery once more in 1973 and met with Patriarch Pimen and Archbishop Nikodim for dialogue on peace.

La Pira never married and he lived in a bare and unheated cell in the San Marco basilica since 3 June 1935; he had cell number six. In the cold weather he would bunk in the office of a doctor friend. The Florentine people held him in high regard and esteem and often called him "the saint". But there was one opposition group who named him "La Pirata" (the pirate) as a play on his name. On 15 May 1956 he travelled to Venice for a conference and the Patriarch of Venice Angelo Roncalli – future Pope John XXIII – invited him to dinner. The cardinal realized it had grown late and allowed La Pira to spend the night in the patriarchate. Roncalli did this in great secret since he had La Pira sleep in the bed that had been that of Pope Pius X when he was the patriarch. Roncalli noted in his journal of that event that he came to "esteem and venerate" La Pira. In 1957 he went on a pilgrimage to Israel as well as to Jordan and Egypt while also visiting Paris, Rabat, Tunis and Beirut. On 24 January 1960 he was en route back from Cairo and made a stopover in Istanbul where he met with the Patriarch of Constantinople Athenagoras, who gave him a box of sweetmeats to give to John XXIII. Between 1971 and 1973 he travelled across the globe to places such as Warsaw, Budapest, Jerusalem, Quebec and New York, amongst others. He went to Chile and attempted to stop a coup threatening President Salvador Allende, and in Houston he participated in a seminar.

Death

He died on 5 November 1977 in the Clinic of the English Sisters in via Cherubini. Cardinal Giovanni Benelli blessed his remains not long after La Pira had died and a Mass was later said in the death room. His good friend Giulio Andreotti learned on 5 February that his health had worsened and so set off at once for Florence to be with La Pira. Paul VI honored La Pira in his Angelus address in Saint Peter's Square on 6 November.

Legacies

Birth centennial
The centennial of La Pira's birth was celebrated at the palace of Montecittorio on 25 February 2004, in which former Prime Minister (and La Pira's good friend) Giulio Andreotti gave an address to those gathered. Andreotti said that the former King of Morocco Hassan II had asked him whether – as a Muslim – he could give witness in La Pira's canonization cause since the king had been fascinated with La Pira's long-sightedness. The king had met La Pira at his cell in San Marco and La Pira's humble nature fascinated Hassan II more so. Andreotti was once in China on the banks of the River Kwai at a convent where a nun had asked him: "How is La Pira?"

Also in attendance at this celebration was the President Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, as well as Cardinals Carlo Maria Martini and Ennio Antonelli.

Renzi's homage
Matteo Renzi was elected as a successor to La Pira on 22 June 2009 and his first official visit was to La Pira's grave.

Praise
Cardinal Stanisław Ryłko hailed La Pira for his courage to express and show witness to his faith in the exercise of a public office. The cardinal referred to La Pira as "a Christian of unsurpassable coherence", whose faith was "the axis of all of his life".