[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kurt Saxon

Kurt Saxon (born Donald Eugene Sisco; March 6, 1932 – August 16, 2021) was an American writer, radio host, survivalist and the author of The Poor Man's James Bond, a series of books on improvised weapons and munitions.

History
During the 1960s, Saxon drifted into and out of several political organizations and new religious movements, including the American Nazi Party, the John Birch Society, the Minutemen, and the Church of Scientology.  In August 1970, he appeared before a Senate Investigations subcommittee holding hearings on bombings and terrorism.  According to newspaper accounts, he suggested police and "concerned citizens" use bombs to wipe out "leftists," and recommended that student demonstrators be machine-gunned in the streets.

By the early 1970s he came to reject the political and religious groups of the 1960s, and began writing on homesteading and preparedness issues. He claims to have coined the term "survivalism" to refer to making preparations for a future collapse of society and/or a major disaster.

Saxon claimed that David Letterman had once invited him to appear on his show to demonstrate recipes from his book Granddad’s Wonderful Book of Chemistry, but later cancelled Saxon's appearance after a rehearsal went badly.

In the early 1990s, Saxon had a shortwave radio program over WRNO, New Orleans, Louisiana.

Books and periodicals
Saxon is the author, under his birth name "Don Sisco," of The Militant's Formulary.  After his legal name change to Kurt Saxon, he authored the biker book Wheels of Rage, a partially fictitious, but mostly factual account of the San Fernando, California based Iron Cross M.C., an Outlaw motorcycle club; the Poor Man's James Bond series of books on improvised weaponry; and Granddad's Wonderful Book of Chemistry as well as Granddad's Wonderful Book of Electricity, which are compilations of several out of print hobbyist booklets on home brew chemistry and electronics projects.

In 1976 he began publishing The Survivor to celebrate forgotten pioneer skills. These newsletters combined Saxon's articles with reprints of articles on 19th century technology of interest to the survivalist movement. He later compiled the material into a series of books by the same name.

As his own publisher, Saxon advertised his work in such publications as the Berkeley Barb.

During the early 1990s when the American militia movement was at its peak in the United States, Saxon published a short-lived magazine called U.S. Militia.

Saxon also wrote at least one article for Mel Tappan's P.S. Letter.

Reception
From his earliest works, Saxon's writing has been cited and recommended in more mainstream publications. How to Cut Your Food Bill by Half or More was acknowledged in both survivalist and money management fields. His 1976 book Medicines Like Granddad Used to Make was included in a U.S. Department of Health bibliography of medical history.

Selected works