[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Keith Bostic (American football)

ayoff run the Oilers fired their defensive backs coach, Tom Bettis who had taken over from Ken Houston.  Bostic earned All-Pro honorable mention in 1988.  That season, he finished tied for the third and final AFC safety Pro Bowl spot with David Fulcher and missed being invited due to the tiebreaker.

With all the rebuilding turnover Bostic was one of the four longest tenured Oilers by his sixth season with the team.  He started 88 consecutive non-strike games for the Oilers.  He was replaced by Bubba McDowell as the Oilers' starting strong safety. In 1989, the Oilers became fed up with Bostic for his untimely penalties and his moody and unpredictable personality. The Indianapolis Colts signed Bostic as a plan B free agent to a two-year $900,000 contract, but released him during training camp. They released him during the second week of training camp and it was rumored he might head to the Los Angeles Raiders. The Oilers lost a league high fifteen plan B free agents that season.  In 1990, the Cleveland Browns signed Bostic as a free agent.  However, they waived him during the season.

Overall reputation 
Bostic's physical style of play was respected by his peers: Lester Hayes said Raider tight end Todd Christensen is the best receiving tight end and that "The only guy I've ever seen cover Todd is my son, Keith Bostic...Bostic's the only guy I've ever seen pulverize him. I mean he really pulverized him. I call Bostic and Frank Minnifield (Cleveland cornerback) my sons, my sons of dirt." Hayes meant that Bostic and Minnifield played a physical style, just like Hayes.  Bostic is known as a big hitter blessed with athletic ability.  He combined strength and speed to play his physical style according to Ozzie Newsome: "He's as strong as any linebacker and can run like any of the guys on the corner."  Bostic earned the nickname "Batman" for his style of play.  Instead of instructing his team to elect captains, Glanville instructed his team to "...pick the three toughest guys. If somebody throws a grenade into a room, they're the ones who'll jump on it."  Bostic was the player chosen from the Oilers' defense.  Although much is made of his strength and toughness, it should also be mentioned that he once collared Tony Dorsett from behind in a footrace.  At one point in Bostic's career, while Glanville was still defensive coordinator, the Oilers considered moving him to cornerback because of his speed.

NFL Single Season Record 
Fewest interception return yards (1987): -14

Personal 
During the offseasons, Bostic was a regular on the Oilers' summer basketball team that traveled around the state raising money for charities by playing various local All-star teams. After the team's twelfth season, Bostic had a reputation as the best player ever to play for the team.  During one NFL training camp Bostic played with tape over his mouth to try to win a $20 bet with Steve Brown over who could keep from talking the longest.

His son, Tony Bostic, played running back for the New Mexico State Aggies as a non-recruited walk-on.  His younger son, William, followed his father's footsteps and played linebacker for his alma mater, the University of Michigan.

Notes. 

1961 births
African-American players of American football
American Conference Pro Bowl players
American football safeties
Cleveland Browns players
Houston Oilers players
Living people
Michigan Wolverines football players
Players of American football from Ann Arbor, Michigan
21st-century African-American people
20th-century African-American sportspeople