[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 20th Armoured Brigade Combat Team (United Kingdom)

ations mandate. Based at Gornji Vakuf in central Bosnia and Herzegovina, the commander was responsible for a large multi-national UN force as well as having responsibility for all forces in FRY. The end of the tour coincided with a declaration of peace and a shift in emphasis to a larger NATO force.

In October 1996, the Brigade returned to FRY as part of Multi-National Division (South-West). It was initially based at Šipovo, moving to Banja Luka in December 1996, whilst overseeing the transition from IFOR to SFOR and Operation RESOLUTE to Operation LODESTAR. The Brigade returned to Paderborn in April 1997.

In August 1999, the Brigade again deployed to Banja Luka on Operation PALATINE. It returned to Paderborn in December 1999, and moved to their current location in Antwerp Barracks, Sennelager on 20 August 2001.

Operation Telic (Iraq)
In October 2003, the Brigade first deployed to southern Iraq on Operation Telic 3, where it was based at Basra Palace. The Brigade's first two-months of the deployment was dominated by low-level battles against fanatical Fedayeen and foreign fighters infiltrating across the border with Iran who were actively supported by Iranian Al Quds forces, post-operational reports also mention former Ba'athist regime loyalists. Before their deployment, United Nations Security Council Resolution 1511 was passed, which set the basis for rebuilding Iraq and establishing security. The aim was to eventually transfer authority from the Coalition Provisional Authority to an Iraqi Transitional National Assembly. The middle two months of the Brigade's tour was dominated by security sector reform, to achieve this aim meant the building of capacity in the Iraqi Security Forces (especially the paramilitary Iraqi Civil Defence Corps and police) and civilian Iraqi institutions. Security sector reform would remain an objective for the rest of the tour. The final two months of Operation Telic 3 were dominated by high-intensity operations against resurgent Shia militias (notably the Jaish al Mahdi (JAM).

20th Armoured Brigade was awarded the Freedom of the City of Paderborn by the town council on 28 May 2005. The right to exercise the freedom was presented "as a contribution for consolidation of the Anglo-German friendship, the joint solidarity in NATO and a further element for the building of the joint house Europe".

The Brigade returned to southern Iraq again in April 2006 during Operation TELIC 8, and was situated in Basra, Al Amarah and Al Muthanna Provinces. During the seven month summer tour, the troops contributed to the successful handover of security in two of the four Iraqi Provinces within the Multinational Division (South East) [MND(SE)].

The Iron Fist returned to Basra for a third time in 2008 for Operation TELIC 13. It became the last British brigade to serve in Iraq at the end of the UK's 6-year combat mission in the country on 30 April 2009.

Operation Herrick (Afghanistan)
20th Armoured Brigade took over command of Task Force Helmand in Afghanistan from 3 Commando Brigade Royal Marines on 9 October 2011, officially marking the start of Operation Herrick 15.

Future
Under the Army's new 2020 structure, in January 2015 the Brigade was retitled to 20th Armoured Infantry Brigade incorporating three armoured infantry battle groups. In 2016 the Brigade began its high readiness training in preparation for becoming NATO's lead for the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force Land [VJTF(L)] in 2017.

The Brigade Headquarters moved to Wing Barracks, Bulford, in 2019.

Under the Future Soldier programme, the brigade has been redesignated as the 20th Armoured Brigade Combat Team, and in the future will control a reconnaissance regiment equipped with the General Dynamics Ajax.  The current armoured regiment (QRH) will be re-equipped with the Challenger 3 MBT and the armoured infantry battalions with the Warrior IFV re-equipped with the Boxer AFV.

Structure
The brigade is based at Bulford Camp. It will form as part of the Reaction Force.

The current organisation of the brigade under the Defence in a Competitive Age is:

 20th Armoured Infantry Brigade Headquarters, at Wing Barracks, Bulford Camp
 Royal Dragoon Guards, in Warminster (Armoured Cavalry)
 Queen's Royal Hussars, at Assaye Barracks, Tidworth Camp (Armoured)
 1st Battalion, Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, at Mooltan Barrack, Tidworth Camp (Armoured Infantry)
 5th Battalion, Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, in Newcastle upon Tyne (Army Reserve – Armoured Infantry, paired with 1 R Fusiliers)
 5th Battalion, The Rifles, at Ward Barracks, Bulford Garrison (Armoured Infantry)
 7th Battalion, The Rifles, in Reading (Army Reserve – Armoured Infantry, paired with 5 Rifles)
 3 Armoured Close Support Battalion, Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers, in Tidworth (Armoured Close Support)

Alliances 
  Germany - Panzerbrigade 21 (21st Panzer Brigade)

Brigade commanders
Recent commanders have included: