[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Indonesian passport

l to the destined country. The latest version of the Indonesian diplomatic passport is issued in a black colored-cover.

On 19 August 2021, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs launched  a new version of the diplomatic e-passport, which complies with the Document 9303 ICAO standard.

Service passports ()

Issued by Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Indonesian subject(s) who is serving as civil servant on official travel. This type of passport is also issued to the immediate family member of the main passport bearer. The latest version of the service passport is issued in a blue colored-cover.

On 19 August 2021, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs launched a new version of the service e-passport, which complies with the Document 9303 ICAO standard.

Hajj passports (obsolete)

The Ministry of Religious Affairs formerly issued hajj passports for the hajj pilgrimage to Mecca under Article 29(1)(d) and Article 33 of the Immigration Act of 1992. However, new government regulations in 2009 deleted the relevant portions of the legislation. As of Hajj 2009, all hajj pilgrims from Indonesia use ordinary passports. The use of ordinary passports is a requirement of the Saudi Arabian government.

Passport Note

The passports contain a note from the issuing state that is addressed to the authorities of all other states, identifying the bearer as a citizen of that state and requesting that he or she be allowed to pass and be treated according to international norms. The note is found on the first page of the passport, which is on the other side of the identity page.
The note inside the latest version of Indonesian passports states:
In Indonesian:   
In English:  The Government of the Republic of Indonesia requests to all whom it may concern to allow the bearer to pass freely without let or hindrance and afford him/her such assistance and protection. This passport is valid for all countries and areas unless otherwise endorsed The English translation only makes sense if the phrase 'as may be necessary' follows 'protection' at the end of the sentence.

In case of diplomatic and service passports, those are not formally valid for visits to Israel and Taiwan, since there are no formal diplomatic ties with those countries, requiring diplomats and servicemens to use ordinary passports and to obtain appropriate visa or entry clearance from the immigration authority of the destined countries.

There is slight difference as appears on page number three, which is immediately next to the identity page, between the ordinary non-electronic passport and the electronic version. The ordinary non-electronic passport depicts signatures of both the bearer of the passport and the issuing authority, both are manually done at the immigration office during the interview by the immigration officer. Official later stamp of the corresponding issuing authority logo on the same page with the signatures.

The ordinary electronic passport no longer bears the signature or of the issuing authority as such information has been embedded in the digital information system. However, the signature of the bearer is still manually done during the interview by the immigration officer although digital signature of the holder is also included in the digital information embedded on the electronic chip along with the ten-fingerprints and digital face photograph. Above the signature, reminder of the inclusion of the chip on the passport can be found requesting appropriate treatment of the passport to avoid chip disturbance as such passport should not be bent and/or exposed to extreme radioactivity devices.

Third page of the latest (2014) version of Indonesian ordinary passport (both electronic and non-electronic versions) contains 'warning' () that would typically be printed on the interior side of the back cover of its predecessor version.

Issues with Absence of Signature Column
In 2019 (shortly  before the COVID-19 Pandemic), the Indonesian Directorate General of Immigration removed the bearer’s signature column in both ordinary and electronic Indonesian passports for efficiency reasons. On 11 August 2022, the German Embassy in Jakarta announced that Indonesian passports without a signature column cannot be processed for visa applications; citing inconsistency with International norms. 

On 13 August 2022, the Directorate General of Immigration issued a statement saying that Indonesian passport holders who are affected by the problem can apply for an endorsement signature in immigration offices and that they are communicating with the Indonesian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to discuss the issue with the German Embassy in Jakarta. However, the German Embassy in Jakarta has stated that it does not recognize an endorsement as a valid replacement of the signature column and is therefore unable to accept passports with such endorsements for the processing of a visa application.