[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of Cuban Americans

founder of Klout
Raul J. Fernandez, co-owner of the NBA Washington Wizards, NHL Washington Capitals and WNBA Washington Mystics
Jorge Figueredo, Senior Vice President of Dow Jones
Ella Fontanals-Cisneros, Cuban-born art collector and the founder and president of the Cisneros Fontanals Art Foundation

Roberto C. Goizueta, former CEO of the Coca-Cola Company
Sara Del Carmen Jofre González (1935-2008), President and CEO of the Georgia Hispanic Chamber of Commerce (1996–2008)
Nelson Gonzalez, co-founder of Alienware
Efraim Grinberg, CEO of Movado watches
Gedalio Grinberg, founder and former CEO of Movado watches
Carlos Gutierrez, former CEO of Kellogg Company
Armando Gutierrez,  Cuban-born American banker, political consultant, and entrepreneur
Bobby Maduro, baseball entrepreneur; owner of Havana Sugar Kings
Alex Meruelo, CEO of the Muruelo Group
Alvaro de Molina, Chief Financial Officer of Bank of America Corporation
Antonio Luis Navarro, former vice president of W. R. Grace and Company
Jesús Permuy, architect, urban planner, and human rights advocate
Joe Quesada, CCO of Marvel Entertainment; former editor-in-chief of Marvel Comics
George Reyes, Chief Financial Officer of Google
Marcos A. Rodriguez, entrepreneur, broadcaster, movie producer
Felix Sabates, entrepreneur, philanthropist, holds ownership in NASCAR, Charlotte Bobcats
Ralph Sanchez, autoracing promoter, developer, responsible for Grand Prix of Miami and Homestead-Miami Speedway
Alberto Vilar, a.k.a. Albert Vilar, American former investment manager who became particularly known for donating tens of millions as a patron of opera

Education

 Alejandro Anreus, art historian and curator, William Paterson University
 Ruth Behar, anthropologist, poet, and filmmaker; first Latina recipient of a MacArthur award, University of Michigan
 George J. Borjas, Robert W. Scrivner Professor of Economics and Social Policy, Harvard University
 Ingrid Brioso Rieumont, Assistant Professor of Cuban and Caribbean Studies, Dartmouth College
 Odette Casamayor-Cisneros, Associate Professor of Latin American and Caribbean Cultural Studies, University of Pennsylvania
 Ana Mari Cauce, President of the University of Washington, Seattle
 Frederick A. de Armas, Andrew W. Mellon Distinguished Service Professor in Romance Languages and Literatures and Comparative Literature University of Chicago
 Alejandro de la Fuente, Robert Woods Professor of Latin American History and Economics, Harvard University
 Miguel A. De La Torre, prolific author on Hispanic religiosity, Iliff School of Theology
 Jorge I. Dominguez, Antonio Madero Professor of Mexican and Latin American Politics and Economics, former Chairman of the Harvard Academy for International and Area Studies, Harvard University
 Roberto González Echevarría, Sterling Professor of Hispanic and Comparative Literature, Yale University
 Carlos M. N. Eire, T. Lawrason Riggs Professor of History and Religious Studies at Yale University; his memoir of the Cuban Revolution, Waiting for Snow in Havana (Free Press, 2003), won the National Book Award for non-fiction
 Maria Cristina Garcia, Howard A. Newman Professor of American Studies at Cornell University; historian of immigration
 Jorge J. E. Gracia, Samuel P. Capen Chair in Philosophy, University at Buffalo
 Robert Lima, Knight Commander, Order of Queen Isabel of Spain; academician ANLE; Corr. Member RAE; Emeritus Professor and Emeritus Fellow, IAH (Penn State University)
 William Luis, Gertrude Conaway Vanderbilt Professor of Spanish, Vanderbilt University
 Modesto A. Maidique, former President of Florida International University
 Juan A. Martínez, Florida International University
 Miguel Martinez-Saenz, President of St. Francis College in Brooklyn, NY
 Elsa A. Murano, Former President of Texas A&M University, Former Vice Chancellor of Agriculture & Life Sciences of Texas A&M University, current Director of the Norman E. Borlaug Institute for International Agriculture of Texas A&M University
 Eduardo J. Padrón, President of Miami Dade College, immediate past chair of the board of directors of the American Council on Education (ACE)
 Luis G Pedraja, President Quinsigamond Community College, educator, philosopher and theologian
 Gustavo Pérez Firmat, David Feinson Professor in the Humanities, Columbia University
 Alejandro Portes, Professor of Sociology, Director of the Center for Migration and Development, Princeton University
 Gregory Rabassa, literary translator and Distinguished Professor in the Department of Languages and Literatures at Queens College, City University of New York and in the Ph.D. Program in Hispanic and Luso-Brazilian Literatures of the Graduate School and University Center of the CUNY Graduate Center
 Carmen Reinhart, Minos A. Zombanakis Professor of the International Financial System, Harvard Kennedy School
 Teofilo Ruiz, Distinguished Professor of History, UCLA and recipient of the National Humanities Medal at the White House 
 Rubén G. Rumbaut, Professor of Sociol