[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nuclear flask

fire environments."
"For safety and risk analysis, casks should be physically tested to destruction."
"NRC should release all thermal calculations; Holtec is withholding allegedly proprietary information."

NRC
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission released a report in November 2006. It concluded:

The results of this evaluation also strongly indicate that neither spent nuclear fuel (SNF) particles nor fission products would be released from a spent fuel transportation package carrying intact spent fuel involved in a severe tunnel fire such as the Baltimore tunnel fire. None of the three package designs analyzed for the Baltimore tunnel fire scenario (TN-68, HI-STAR 100, and NAC LWT) experienced internal temperatures that would result in rupture of the fuel cladding. Therefore, radioactive material (i.e., SNF particles or fission products) would be retained within the fuel rods.
There would be no release from the HI-STAR 100, because the inner welded canister remains leak tight. While a release is unlikely, the potential releases calculated for the TN-68 rail package and the NAC LWT truck package indicate that any release of CRUD from either package would be very small - less than an A2 quantity.

Canada
By comparison there has been limited spent nuclear fuel transport in Canada. Transportation casks have been designed for truck and rail transport and Canada's regulatory body, the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission, granted approval for casks, which may be used for barge shipments as well. The commission's regulations prohibit the disclosure of location, routing and timing of shipments of nuclear materials, such as spent fuel.

International maritime transport
Nuclear flasks containing spent nuclear fuel are sometimes transported by sea for the purposes of reprocessing or relocation to a storage facility. Vessels receiving these cargoes are variously classified INF-1, INF-2 or INF-3 by the International Maritime Organisation. The code was introduced as a voluntary system in 1993 and became mandatory in 2001. The "INF" acronym stands for "Irradiated Nuclear Fuel" though the classification also covers "plutonium and high-level waste" cargoes. In order to receive these classifications, vessels must meet a range of structural and safety standards. Vessels used for the transportation of spent nuclear fuel are typically purpose built and are commonly referred to as Nuclear Fuel Carriers. The global fleet includes vessels under flags of the United Kingdom, Japan, Russian Federation, China and Sweden.

See also
Dry cask storage
Nuclear reprocessing
Radioactive waste
Safeguards Transporter
Spent fuel pool

References

External links 

Nuclear Transports in Britain (1999), Cumbrians Opposed to a Radioactive Environment
Crash! Pictures of the 1984 train-crash test
Train test crash 1984 BBC News footage of the 1984 train-crash test.
Operation Smash Hit Publicity film made for the CEGB (subsequently Magnox Electric Ltd) about the train-crash test
Risks of transporting of irradiated fuel and nuclear materials in the UK, Large & Associates, for Greenpeace (2007)
Background Report on the Basic Issues to be Addressed, QuantSci Limited, for the Greater London Authority (2001)
U.S. Transport Council
Nuclear Regulatory Commission "Safety of Spent Fuel Transportation" (NUREG/BR-0292)
Nuclear Regulatory Commission Backgrounder on Transportation of Spent Fuel and Radioactive Materials
Pro-nuclear group's summary
Fuel Solutions Inc.(BFS), the world’s largest shippers of nuclear materials
World Nuclear Transport Institute

Radioactive waste
Shipping containers
Hazardous materials