[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dru Onyx

th Ireland and in the UK. After an over one-year reign as North American Heavyweight Champion, he lost the title to Damien Waynes on August 24, 2007 in Las Vegas, Nevada. On October 26, 2007 in St. Albans, Vermont, Onyx defeated Paul Tracey to once again become the NWA British Commonwealth Champion.

NJPW
In October 2005, Dru Onyx lived and trained at New Japan Pro-Wrestling's dojo in Los Angeles, California, where he trained in pro wrestling alongside Fergal Devitt, Rocky Romero, Alex Koslov and Daniel Puder.

Top Of The World Wrestling
March 5, 2010, Onyx made his T.O.W. debut at the T.O.W. 5 in the main event, a 3-Way casket match in March 2010 for Montreal promotion TOW against Darkko and Sylvain Grenier; the match was won by Grenier. July 19, 2010 Dru Onyx fought Sylvain Grenier at T.O.W. 6 in a losing effort. September 24, 2010 T.O.W. 7 in the main event Sylvain Grenier & Hurricane Helms defeated Dru Onyx & Shelton Benjamin. Jun 3, 2011 T.O.W. 8.25 Dru Onyx & Carl Leduc defeated Sex Factor & the Flatliners for the T.O.W. Tag Team Championship. May 5, 2012 T.O.W. 9 Dru Onyx & Eric Mastrocola defeated Thomas Dubois & Mathieu St.Jacques.

North Shore Pro Wrestling
In 2010, Onyx wrestled mostly for NSPW, starting the year by losing the NWA British Commonwealth Heavyweight title to Adam Pearce on January 23 a title he had defended against Kevin Steen. In late February during the Weekend of Excellence, Onyx wrestled as Soa Amin against Darkko in a match that ended with a double countout, and on the night after Amin won a match against Pauly Platinum. For his next three NSPW appearances, he reverted to his Dru Onyx persona, winning a match against Michael Style on March 20. The month after he teamed up with Kevin Skully to take on James Stone and Michael Style on April 24 (a loss).

On May 8 Onyx participated in a 4-way match for the NSPW Heavyweight title against champion Kevin Skully, Michael Style and Mathieu St-Jacques. The match was won by St-Jacques. In July the Soa Amin character returned, teaming up with Giovanni to face the team of veteran Sunny War Cloud and Pee-Wee in a losing effort.  On August 6, Onyx got another shot at the NSPW Heavyweight title again St-Jacques, once again coming up short in his bid for the championship.  He bounced back with a win over Michael Style on September 8 and finished off 2010 with a loss in a chain match against Ismael.

As Soa Amin he got his revenge on Ismael, defeating him on February 5, 2011 in a falls count anywhere match. Onyx wrestled one more time for NSPW in 2011, losing to Damien Steele at NSPW Fifty on October 22.  In July 2012, Onyx made a return to the company as Soa Amin, losing to Matt Falco.  In late 2012 he participated in the Standing 8 Tournament, winning in the first round against Franky The Mobster before getting eliminated in the second round by Giovanni.

Montreal Wrestling Federation
Throughout 2011 and 2012, Onyx worked in the Montreal Wrestling Federation (MWF) as Soa Amin. After a loss against Franky The Mobster in September 2011, Amin defeated Jason Starr, Shayne Hawke, HC Ryder and then HC Ryder & Chris Cruze in a tag-team match where he teamed up with Hawke. In early 2012, he won against Bryan Kevins on January 14 before participating in a match with Jake Matthews that would end in a no contest on January 28.  Soa Amin and Green Phantom teamed up on February 4 defeating the team of Stew Ramjattan and Jake Matthews.  Later on in the same month Amin and Pat Guénette wrestled to a no contest. On March 17 at MWF No Remorse, Amin lost to Jake Matthews in a Last Man Standing match.  On March 31, Amin and Darkko teamed up in a match for the MWF Tag Team titles against champions Stew Ramjattan and Pauly Platinum, losing the match by disqualification.

Northern Championship Wrestling

In Northern Championship Wrestling (NCW), Onyx held the NCW Québec title for 11 months from June 2012 to May 2013 where he lost it to Pat Guénette. During his reign as champion, Onyx successfully defended the title against Jay Phenomenon, Handsome JF, Guénette, Gorgeous Mike, Pitbull Brando, William Brady, James Stone and Alextreme. He feuded with Pat Guénette, and they competed in a no disqualification match on June 22 at Fight Nationale for the Québec championship.

Other promotions

Victory Ring

On November 13, 2015, in Wickham, Qc, Dru Onyx became the second Victory Ring champion after defeating Alex North who held and defended the title for over a year.

In April 2010 he wrestled to a no contest against Gran Apolo for an NWA on Fire event held in Maine. Onyx along with Derek Platinum lost to the GCW-NS champions the Hillbullies (Jeff Black and Cousin Eddie) on February 4, 2012 in Oshawa.

In 2011, Onyx received in invitation to train at WWE's developmental camp in Florida and wrestle at several of their house shows. He used his "Son of Abdullah" gimmick at the camp.