[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mittelstand

corporate landscape. In the past several years, an increase of very small units can be observed: the so-called "solo self-employed." These are business start-ups that are not designed to grow into a small or larger business over time. Instead, such entrepreneurs will act permanently as individuals.

New forms of cooperation ("changing networks") have also emerged in the recent past. Depending on the project requirements, teams of independent agents form, each contributing their own specific skills and competences and thus work together efficiently. However, these entrepreneurs usually do not feel like they apply to the term "Mittelstand," as do start-ups that have not been on the market for at least three years. 
On the other hand, the affinity of small and medium-sized enterprises for one another increases with company size and age; the older and larger the companies, the more they identify themselves as small and medium-sized enterprises. However, among those companies that consider themselves to be medium-sized, according to the IfM Bonn (Institute for Management in Bonn) definition, one in seven is no longer included because they no longer fulfill the criterion of "ownership and management in one hand."

As a result of continuing globalization and worldwide corporations, SMEs in Germany were increasingly under competitive pressure. In order to compensate for the resulting disadvantages, more and more medium-sized companies have joined forces in recent decades to form co-operative partnerships. As a single member of a group of companies, the respective family-owned company retains entrepreneurial independence, but through joint inter-company activities it can gain a market position that only large companies could otherwise offer. Today's groups are regional, national and even international. The inter-company cooperation of the group is usually organized from a legally independent center and covers a variety of areas such as purchasing, marketing, logistics, IT solutions, financing services, consulting or training and so on. In Germany, around 250,000 companies from around 45 different branches of trade, craft trades and the service industry are currently grouped together, resulting in around 400 groups. 320 of these groups were formed through the Central Federation of Industrial Associations e.V. () based in Berlin, Brussels and Cologne.
 
The importance of small and medium-sized enterprises is also evident from the fact that more than 160,000 small and medium-sized enterprises with about 4.3 million employees have organized themselves in the Federal Association of SMEs (BVMW). The focus of the association's work is creating network, organizing events and political advocacy.

Defining the term 'Mittelstand'
The German word Stand refers to an estate, from the medieval model of society, under which a person's position was defined by birth or occupation. There were three principal levels: the upper one being the aristocracy, the middle one (the Mittelstand) the free bourgeoisie of the cities and the lower one the peasants. Today, the term is used with two meanings. The first refers to small and medium-sized enterprises (SME; German, kleine und mittlere Unternehmen or KMU), as defined by number of employees and turnover. The second meaning refers to any family-run or -owned business (not necessarily a SME).(Note that the correct term to describe households of middling income would be Mittelschicht, with the English translation middle class.)

As Stand or estate addresses a group, single Mittelstand-companies are often called Mittelständler.

 Geographical distribution 
According to an article published in the journal,  (The German Economy), the most important medium-sized enterprises—using absolute figures—are in North Rhine Westphalia at over 22%, followed by Bavaria (21%) and Baden-Württemberg (17%). The lowest ranking performers are Bremen, Saarland and Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, each with an approximate share of 1%.
However, when assessed based on size by population, the city states of Hamburg and Bremen lead with 185 and 182 large medium-sized enterprises per 1 million inhabitants, respectively. The larger states of Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg follow close behind with 163 and 159 major medium-sized enterprises, respectively.
The article also mentions the cities of Hamburg (329 enterprises), Berlin (227) and Munich (188) with the highest so-called "top middle class enterprises" ranking.