[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Birmingham Small Arms Company

r the BSA Chairman, Sir Bernard Docker, was removed from the BSA Board. Jack Sangster who had joined the BSA Board in 1951 following the purchase of his company Triumph Motorcycles became chairman. The bicycle manufacturing business BSA Cycles Ltd was sold to Raleigh Industries in 1957.

Motorcycles

BSA Motorcycles were made by BSA Cycles Ltd, under the BSA parent, until 1953 when the motorcycle business was moved into holding BSA Motorcycles Ltd. The first instance of intention to produce motorcycles was reported in The Motor Cycle, a British motorcycling journal, in July 1906. The first wholly BSA motorcycle, the  H.P. was built in 1910 and displayed at the first Olympia Show, London on 21 November in that year. Sir Hallewell Rogers, BSA Chairman, had informed the shareholders at the company's 1910 AGM in Birmingham "We have decided to put a motor-bicycle on the market for the coming season .... These machines will be on exhibit at the Cycle and Motor Show on November 21st, after which date we look forward to commencing delivery". The machines were available for the 1911 season and entire production sold out. BSA had previously acquired a commercially available engine in 1905 and fitted it to one of their bicycle frames and discovered at first hand the problems that needed to be overcome. BSA Cycles Ltd was set up as a subsidiary company in 1919 under Managing Director Charles Hyde to manufacture both bicycles and motorcycles.

Civilian firearms
 The 1906 war office pattern rifle
 The Sportsman series of .22 Long Rifle bolt-action rifles
 Various Martini action target .22lr rifles
 The Ralock and Armatic semi automatic .22lr rifles
 Various bolt action hunting rifles

Trademarks
Rights to the motorcycle brand went to Norton Villiers Triumph and on its liquidation were purchased by BSA Company. Rights to the guns brand were acquired by Gamo for its new subsidiary, BSA Guns (UK) Limited.

See also 
 List of modern armament manufacturers

Notes

References

External links 

 BSA History from the Days of the Crimea (1918)
 Catalogue of the BSA archives, held at the Modern Records Centre, University of Warwick
 

British brands
BSA motorcycles
Defunct companies based in Birmingham, West Midlands
British companies established in 1861
Manufacturing companies established in 1861
Defunct cycle manufacturers of the United Kingdom
Defunct firearms manufacturers of the United Kingdom
Machine tool builders
Manufacturing companies based in Birmingham, West Midlands
Military vehicle manufacturers
Defunct motor vehicle manufacturers of the United Kingdom
Motorcycle manufacturers of the United Kingdom
Scooter manufacturers
World War I vehicles of the United Kingdom
Small Heath, Birmingham
1861 establishments in England