[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Traitor and the Jew

oned in her doctoral thesis on which her book is based. She acknowledges that she cannot prove that the Closse article was written by Groulx, but says that Groulx is known to have been involved in publishing the book in which it appeared. She also corrected some of the citations noted as inaccurate.

The historian Gérard Bouchard also criticized Delisle for her methodology in his book on Groulx, Les Deux Chanoines – Contradiction et ambivalence dans la pensée de Lionel Groulx published in 2003. Bouchard wrote that he chose not to use Delisle's history as a source  because, according to his own process of verification, it contains too many errors in the citations of references. He said that of Delisle's 57 references to texts by Groulx published in L'Action nationale between 1933 and 1939, he was unable to find 23 and that 5 others were not accurately cited.

Esther Delisle contested his conclusions in a letter published in Le Devoir on April 11, 2003. She had her lawyer submit a formal notice to have Bouchard withdraw the assertions he made on page 19 of his book. The letter from her lawyer to Bouchard provided her clarifications on the sources she used in her work and recognized 13 irregularities in her references.

Bouchard wrote a letter to Le Devoir, published on May 1, 2003, relating the results of his second review of Delisle's methodology. He further criticized Deilise's citation practices. 

However, Bouchard and Caldwell both acknowledge that Groulx expressed antisemitic opinions. They argue that such opinions do not discredit his scholarship or secular Quebec nationalism, either because the antisemitism arises from Groulx' Catholic beliefs or because it is a personal bias unrelated or peripheral to his academic work. Delisle, by contrast, argues that antisemitism is an integral component of Groulx' race-based nationalism and his enthusiasm for right-wing authoritarian governments.

Representation in other media
2002, Eric R. Scott directed and produced the documentary, Je me souviens, about Delisle's book. It was shown on Canal D television. The title is the motto of the province of Quebec.

See also
None Is Too Many: Canada and the Jews of Europe 1933-1948 (1983)

References

 Gary Caldwell, "La controverse Delisle-Richler: Le discours sur l'antisémitisme au Québec et l'orthodoxie néo-libérale au Canada" in L'Agora, June, 1994
 Luc Chartrand, "Le mythe du Québec fasciste," l'Actualité, March 1, 1997, Volume 22, Issue 3
 David Lazarus, "Canal D asked to re-broadcast film on anti-Semitism," Canadian Jewish News, May 23, 2002
 Gérard Bouchard, Les deux chanoines. Contradiction et ambivalence dans la pensée de Lionel Groulx, Montréal, Boréal, 2003, 313 pages

1993 non-fiction books
20th-century history books
History books about Jews and Judaism
History books about Quebec
Antisemitism in Quebec
Jewish Canadian history
Jews and Judaism in Quebec
Non-fiction books adapted into films