[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 17]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

grew more active and fond of exercise. The first shower he was in
he ran away as he had been accustomed to do, and sneaked to the
fire-side; but the farmer's wife soon drove him out of doors, and
compelled him to bear the rigour of the weather. In consequence of this
he daily became more vigorous and hardy, and, in a few months, regarded
cold and rain no more than if he had been brought up in the country.

"Changed as he already was in many respects for the better, he still
retained an insurmountable dread of wild beasts; till one day, as he was
wandering through a wood alone, he was attacked by a large and fierce
wolf, who, jumping out of a thicket, seized him by the neck with fury.
Jowler would fain have run, but his enemy was too swift and violent to
suffer him to escape. Necessity makes even cowards brave. Jowler being
thus stopped in his retreat, turned upon his enemy, and, very luckily
seizing him by the throat, strangled him in an instant. His master then
coming up, and being witness of his exploit, praised him, and stroked
him with a degree of fondness he had never done before. Animated by this
victory, and by the approbation of his master, Jowler, from that time,
became as brave as he had before been pusillanimous; and there was very
soon no dog in the country who was so great a terror to beasts of prey.

"In the mean time Keeper, instead of hunting wild beasts, or looking
after sheep, did nothing but eat and sleep, which he was permitted to
do, from a remembrance of his past services. As all qualities both of
mind and body are lost if not continually exercised, he soon ceased to
be that hardy, courageous animal he was before, and acquired all the
faults which are the consequences of idleness and gluttony.

"About this time the gentleman went again into the country, and, taking
his dog with him, was willing that he should exercise his prowess once
more against his ancient enemies the wolves. Accordingly, the country
people having quickly found one in a neighbouring wood, the gentleman
went thither with Keeper, expecting to see him behave as he had done the
year before. But how great was his surprise when, at the first onset, he
saw his beloved dog run away with every mark of timidity! At this moment
another dog sprang forward, and seizing the wolf with the greatest
intrepidity, after a bloody contest, left him dead upon the ground. The
gentleman could not help lamenting the cowardice of his favourite, and
admiring the noble spirit of the other dog, whom, to his infinite
surprise, he found to be the same Jowler that he had discarded the year
before. 'I now see,' said he to the farmer, 'that it is in vain to
expect courage in those who live a life of indolence and repose, and
that constant exercise and proper discipline are frequently able to
change contemptible characters into good ones.'"

"Indeed," said Mr Barlow, when the story was ended, "I am sincerely glad
to find that Tommy has made this acquisition. He will now depend upon
nobody, but be able to divert himself whenever he pleases. All that has
ever been written in our own language will be from this time in his
power, whether he chooses to read little entertaining stories like what
we have heard to-day, or to read the actions of great and good men in
history, or to make himself acquainted with the nature of wild beasts
and birds, which are found in other countries, and have been described
in books; in short, I scarcely know of anything which from this moment
will not be in his power; and I do not despair of one day seeing him a
very sensible man, capable of teaching and instructing others."

"Yes," said Tommy, something elated by all this praise, "I am determined
to make myself as clever as anybody; and I don't doubt, though I am such
a little fellow, that I know more already than many grown-up people; and
I am sure, though there are no less than six blacks in our house, that
there is not one of them who can read a story like me." Mr Barlow looked
a little grave at this sudden display of vanity, and said rather coolly,
"Pray, who has attempted to teach them anything?" "Nobody, I believe,"
said Tommy. "Where is the great wonder, then, if they are ignorant?"
replied Mr Barlow; "you would probably have never known anything had you
not been assisted; and even now you know very little."




CHAPTER II.

     Tommy and the Ragged Boy--Story of Androcles and the
     Lion--Conversation on Slavery--Conversation about an Ass--Tommy's
     Present and its consequences--The story of Cyrus--Squire Chase
     beats Harry--Harry saves the Squire's life--Making Bread--Story of
     the Two Brothers--Story of the Sailors on the Island of
     Spitzbergen.


In this manner did Mr Barlow begin the education of Tommy Merton, who
had naturally very good dispositions, although he had been suffered to
acquire many bad habits, that sometimes prevented them from appearing.
He was, i