[Source: PubMed]

11. Vaccine. 2019 Sep 20;37(40):5909-5919. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2019.07.088.
Epub  2019 Aug 22.

The art of partnerships for vaccines.

Pagliusi S(1), Che Y(2), Dong S(3).

Author information:
(1)DCVMN International, Route de Crassier 7, 1262 Eysins-Nyon, Switzerland. 
Electronic address: s.pagliusi@dcvmn.net.
(2)Institute for Medical Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 
China. Electronic address: cheyanchun@imbcams.com.cn.
(3)Institute for Medical Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 
China. Electronic address: dsz@imbcams.com.cn.

The Developing Countries Vaccine Manufacturers Network (DCVMN) convened vaccine 
manufacturing experts and leaders from local and global public health 
organizations for its 19th Annual General Meeting. Lectures and panel 
discussions centered on international cooperation for better access to vaccines, 
and partnerships in areas ranging from vaccine research and process development, 
to clinical studies, regulatory, supply chain and emergency preparedness and 
response. Global vaccine market trends and changes that will impact vaccine 
financing and procurement methods were discussed as well as capital sources, 
including funding, for the development of new or improved vaccines. DCVMN 
members presented their progress in developing novel Hexavalent, Meningitis, 
Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine, Shigella, Mumps, Rotavirus, Yellow Fever, Polio, 
Hepatitis E and Dengue vaccines, and a novel monoclonal antibody cocktail for 
post-bite prophylaxis against rabies infections. Access to and availability of 
vaccines is enhanced through sharing of best practices for vaccine quality 
control, reducing redundant testing and promoting development of harmonized 
common standards. Eligible stakeholders were encouraged to join the WHO-National 
Control Laboratory Network for Biologicals which serves as a platform for 
collaboration and technical exchange in this area. Increasing regulatory 
convergence at the regional and global levels through mechanisms such as joint 
dossier review and the WHO Collaborative Registration Procedure can help to 
accelerate vaccine access globally. Additionally, four proposals for 
streamlining procedures and alignment of dossiers were discussed. Successful 
partnerships between a broad range of stakeholders, including international 
organizations, manufacturers, academic research institutes and regulators have 
provided support for, and in some cases accelerated, vaccine innovation, 
clinical trials and registration, WHO prequalification, vaccine introduction and 
access. Strong partnerships, based on experience and trust, help leverage 
opportunities and are critically important to advancing the shared goal of 
providing quality vaccines for all people.

Copyright © 2019.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2019.07.088
PMCID: PMC6739625
PMID: 31447125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.