[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Solomon Bayley

wrote about their faith in their last days.

Emigration to Africa
Bayley learned about Paul Cuffee, a wealthy African-American shipbuilder in Boston, Massachusetts, who promoted free blacks emigrating to Africa. This idea appealed to Bayley but Cuffee died before the project could get well underway.

In this period the American Colonization Society was established in 1817, to encourage free blacks to emigrate to a colony it established as Liberia in West Africa in the antebellum years. It was supported by both slaveholders and abolitionists, who thought for different reasons that free blacks might have more opportunity in their own society in Africa. Its members helped to support transportation costs for free blacks, and in the early years states such as Virginia and Maryland contributed to resettlement. While most free African Americans wanted to make their lives in the United States with rights that recognized their citizenship, some did emigrate.

Bayley and his wife Thamar were among them, going in 1827 after their children were grown. He served as a Methodist missionary and worked as a farmer. They lived near the main settlement of Monrovia. In 1833 he published a book about the colony, describing its products and society. In it he expressed an ambivalent attitude toward the African natives, describing them as "benighted" and in need of Christianity, but he was also hopeful about potential autonomy for African Americans in the colony.

Slaves using the courts
In the 19th century, African Americans petitioned various levels of government on a variety of issues. When necessary, they used the courts. Numerous individuals addressed the topics of personal freedom and economic discrimination in their appeals. To explain his thinking about using the legal avenues open to him, Solomon Bayley wrote: "I thought where the law made liberty the right of any man, he could not be wrong in trying to recover it." Bayley threatened to take his master to court for transporting his family out of state and immediately selling them on arrival in Virginia. He was successful in gaining an out-of-court settlement that included his master's accepting an arrangement whereby he could buy his freedom over time.

Other African Americans were also sometimes successful in petitioning the courts to right wrongs if their masters  violated the law. Particularly in areas on the western frontier between slave and free states, for instance in St. Louis, Missouri and in Louisiana, hundreds of slaves filed freedom suits, challenging the grounds of their enslavement and sometimes winning freedom. The legal justifications for the institution of slavery included exceptions. Slaves claimed the right to freedom based on Native American ancestry (where Native American slavery had been prohibited), or on masters knowingly holding them in free states past the limits set by those states' laws. For decades before the Civil War, state courts often observed a precedent of "once free, always free", until the Dred Scott ruling by the United States Supreme Court.

Works
Bayley's memoir, A Narrative of Some Remarkable Incidents in the Life of Solomon Bayley (1825), is one of the earliest of the genre known as slave narratives. Published in London in 1825, it is forty-eight pages in length. It was based in part on correspondence between Bayley and Hurnard. Bayley expresses his religious faith throughout, in his escape, his efforts to buy freedom for himself and his family, and other trials. He was a Methodist who saw his life through a Christian perspective. His escape and recapture are covered in detail.

Yolanda N. Pierce has explored Bayley's memoir and four other slave narratives from the standpoint of slave agency. A.J. Raboteau noted that she said the plot line of most of them "constitutes a picaresque journey of incredible incidents, ... all governed by Divine Providence". Referring to Pierce's account, Raboteau notes that "These narratives describe a double journey from slavery to freedom, spiritual and physical. Their rhetorical structure frequently oscillates between an interpretive perspective that is (sometimes in the same paragraph) both African and Western." Pierce says that Bayley's narrative merges African and Western belief, creating a “liminal space” for Bayley “in which he does not have to abandon one to adopt the other”.

Raboteau noted that Bayley was inspired to compassion by his Christian faith, drawing from it to grapple with challenges in slavery and as a free man. For instance, he belonged to the same Methodist class meeting as his wife's master, who threatened to see Thamar and Bayley's infant daughter. Bayley wrote in his memoir that it was extremely difficult