[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Capital punishment in Israel

nd sentenced to death after being identified as the guard nicknamed "Ivan the Terrible" by inmates for his brutality, but his identification, conviction and sentence were later overturned on appeal. In the mid-1990s the practice of seeking the death penalty for those facing terrorism charges ceased.

In the aftermath of the Itamar attack in 2011, the issue of the death penalty briefly came up again. Israeli military prosecutors were expected to seek the death penalty for the perpetrators, but in the end did not. Even so, the judges seriously considered imposing the death penalty when determining the sentence of one of the perpetrators, but decided not to, as the prosecution had not requested it.

In the March 2015 election, the Yisrael Beiteinu party ran on a platform that included death sentences for terrorists; in July of the same year a bill was proposed, and sponsored by one of the party's members, to allow a majority of presiding judges to sentence a terrorist to death. By a vote of 94–6 the bill was rejected in its first reading.

Calls for imposition of the death penalty
Israeli politicians have sometimes called for the imposition of the death penalty on specific criminals. In 2010 Member of the Knesset Ayoub Kara called for the imposition of the death penalty on the perpetrator of the Tapuah Junction stabbing (2010).  In 2017 political figures including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called for the penalty to be imposed on the perpetrator of the 2017 Halamish stabbing attack. Representatives in the government plan to introduce to the Knesset a bill which would allow the death penalty for terrorism. In January 2018, a bill making it easier for military courts to hand down death sentences was approved by the Knesset in a preliminary vote of 52-49. Prime Minister Netanyahu voted in favor, but later said the bill required "deeper discussion" among the ministers before being voted on again. Netanyahu stated that he would be supporting a bill that would make the death penalty a common punishment. If the proposed bill becomes law, it would allow the IDF military court martial in the West Bank (including East Jerusalem) to sentence those convicted of terrorism charges to the death penalty, only with the approval of the majority of a panel of judges.

Avigdor Lieberman and his Yisrael Beiteinu party are strongly supportive of the death penalty for terrorists.

In March 2023, a bill for the death penalty against terrorism offences was passed in the Knesset in a preliminary vote by 55-9. The bill was supported and pushed by Itamar Ben-Gvir and Jewish Power party.

Public opinion
A 2017 poll found that close to 70% of Israelis would support giving death penalty after a trial to Palestinians who murdered Israeli citizens.

Executed people

See also 
 Capital and corporal punishment in Judaism
 Human rights in Israel
 Israeli targeted killings
 List of capital crimes in the Torah
 Religion and capital punishment

References

External links 
 JewishEncyclopedia.com - CAPITAL PUNISHMENT
 Religious Action Center - Death Penalty

Israel
Penal system in Israel
Judaism and capital punishment
Death in Israel
1954 disestablishments in Israel
Human rights abuses in Israel