[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Right of abode in the United Kingdom

The right of abode (ROA) is an immigration status in the United Kingdom that gives a person the  right to enter and live in the UK. It was introduced by the Immigration Act 1971 which went into effect on 1 January 1973. This status is held by British citizens, certain British subjects, as well as certain Commonwealth citizens with specific connections to the UK before 1983. Since 1983, it is not possible for a person to acquire this status without being a British citizen.

The right of abode is the most common immigration status in the UK due to its association with British citizenship. However, it should not be confused with the indefinite leave to remain (ILR), another form of long-term residency status in the UK which is more comparable to other countries' permanent residence status.

Rights and privileges of the right of abode

All individuals who have the right of abode in the UK (regardless of whether they are a British citizen, British subject or Commonwealth citizen) enjoy the following rights and privileges:

 an unconditional right to enter, live, work and study in the United Kingdom
 an entitlement to use the UK/EEA/Switzerland immigration channel at United Kingdom ports of entry
 an entitlement to apply for United Kingdom social security and welfare benefits (although those with indefinite leave to enter may also apply)
 a right to vote and to stand for public office in the United Kingdom (since everyone with the right of abode is a Commonwealth citizen; these rights are conditional upon living in the United Kingdom).

Unlike indefinite leave to remain, a person's right of abode is normally valid for life and will not lapse regardless how long they stay outside the UK (or whether they have ever set foot in the UK) and cannot be revoked unless they lose their Commonwealth or British citizenship, or, for Commonwealth citizens, when the Home Secretary deemed it necessary for "the public good". In comparison, a person's ILR status will automatically lapse if they are absent from the UK for two or more consecutive years. If they wish to resume their residency, they may wish to consider applying for a Returning Resident Visa which will grant them indefinite leave to enter the UK if the application is approved.

In addition, those with the right of abode who are not yet British citizens may apply for British citizenship by naturalisation (or registration for British subjects or Commonwealth citizens with British-born mothers). Children born in the United Kingdom, British Crown Dependencies and British Overseas Territories to those with the right of abode in the UK will normally be British citizens by birth automatically.

History of right of abode before 1983

Prior to the enactment of British Nationality Act 1981, right of abode in the UK was mainly determined by a mix of one's connection with the UK and their nationality status.

The Immigration Act 1971 limited the right to enter and live in the United Kingdom to certain subsets of Citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies with ties to the UK itself.

The following two categories of persons had right of abode:

 Citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies (CUKCs)
CUKCs who met any of the following requirements acquired right of abode between 1973 and 1983.

  born in a part of the British Islands (note that birth in the UK or the islands would automatically confer CUKC status in most circumstances);
  born to or legally adopted by a CUKC parent born in the British Islands;
  born to or legally adopted by a parent who, in turn, was born to or legally adopted by a CUKC parent born in the British Islands;
  had settled in the British Islands and remained for at least five years before 31 December 1982, providing that all entry conditions had been removed by the end of that period;
  was a female CUKC married to a CUKC man with right of abode.

 Commonwealth citizens
Any Commonwealth citizens who met one of the requirements below would also acquire right of abode between 1973 and 1983.
  born to or legally adopted by a CUKC parent born in the British Islands (note that this provision primarily applied to persons born to UK-born CUKC mothers as women could not pass down CUKC status);
  was a female Commonwealth citizen married to a CUKC man who had right of abode. The person they were married to must not have a living ex-partner who had acquired right of abode in the UK at any given time. (This restriction does not apply if the applicant entered the UK at any time prior to 1 August 1988 and was the only wife of the husband who had been allowed to enter the UK.)