[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# ICGV Ægir

hin Iceland's EEZ. In March Ægir fired upon the trawlers Brucella and St Leger in separate incidents. By 17 May, the ICG vessels had fired upon the trawlers 12 more times, which led them to demand Royal Navy assistance. The Royal Navy entered the area and the trawlers began to fish in boxes of four.

On the morning of 26 May, Ægir, captained by Guðmundur Kjærnested, caught the trawler Everton, captained by George Mussell, fishing within the 50-nautical mile zone and demanded that it stopped to be boarded. Captain Mussell rejected the Coast Guards demands and steamed away. Ægir pursued and fired several warning shots, first blanks and then solid shots across Evertons bow. When that had no effect, Ægir fired a total of eight shots into Evertons hull. Despite the violent act, the communication between the two captains remained cordial during the shooting with Guðmundur stating his intentions ahead of the shootings and asking Mussell to move his crew to the back of the ship. After each shot, Ægir waited until the engineer of Everton inspected the damage, which Mussell then reported to the Coast Guard ship, before commencing shooting. One of the shots hit Everton just above waterline and as it speed away it took on water and started to list. As it neared other British trawlers, Ægir ceased its pursuit. The trawler was repaired by crewmen from the tug Statesman and , despite recommendations to otherwise, went back to fishing the day after. In 2004, declassified documents showed that the incident nearly caused an escalation of the dispute as Captain Jock Slater of Jupiter had requested permission from London to fire at Ægir if it was still attempting to seize Everton upon its arrival. By the evening of the day, officials in London seriously discussed ordering Ægir to be seized by any means necessary but did not follow through due to the repercussions those actions could bring, mainly the potential loss of life, as the Coast Guard crew was unlikely to give the ship up without a fight, and the likelihood of Iceland abandoning NATO as a response.

With the arrival of the Royal Navy, the ICG vessels began interactions with the frigates and Ægir had three separate significant collisions with British frigates; on 1 June with  on 17 July with  and on 29 August with . Following the final collision, the 2nd engineer on Týr, Halldór Halfreðsson, died in an accident while working on repairs, becoming the only fatality of the Cod Wars. He had been electric welding holes on the port side of the ship when a wave swept over the ship as it tried to evade the tug Statesman.

On 3 October, Ægir collided with the frigate Lincoln again, this time recorded by a television crew. The Icelandic government threatened to break off diplomatic ties with the United Kingdom, which led to the withdrawal of Royal Navy vessels from the area on 3 October. The de-escalation led to a treaty that allowed access to the area for British fishermen, but only in smaller trawlers.

The Third Cod War began after Iceland extended its EEZ to  in November 1975. ICG vessels began net cutting operations again, with Ægir cutting the nets of Wilber Wilberforce on 25 November and Boston Comanche on 3 December. On 3 January, even with a Royal Navy presence in the area, Ægir managed to cut the nets of two trawlers. The Third Cod War became the most hazardous as the Royal Navy moved to prevent the ICG vessels from cutting nets or arresting trawlers, such as the case of Ægir and the fishing vessel Primella. There were 50 collisions, with the last being Ægir with the frigate  on 26 May. The ICG vessels managed to cut 41 nets. The Third Cod War ended on 31 May.

Modernisation
In 1994, a crane was fitted in Ægir forward of the helicopter deck on the starboard side. In 1997, the ship underwent a refit that extended its helicopter deck and installed a radome atop the ship. In 2005, Ægir underwent a refit in Poland that improved the bridge and accommodations along with the installation of in-flight refuelling equipment for the helicopters.

End of service 
On 1 November 2020, the Icelandic Central Public Procurement agency Ríkiskaup announced that Ægir will be auctioned because of its age and prolonged inactivity in the recent years. Ríkiskaup opened an online platform that allowed people to submit suggestions about the future of the vessel and the deadline was set for 6 January 2021. In August 2022, Ægir, along with Týr, was sold to Fagur ehf..

Notes

Citations

References

External links 
 Icelandic Coast Guard website

Ægir-class offshore patrol vessels
Ships built in Aalborg
1967 ships
Patrol vessels of Iceland