[Source: PubMed]

5. Psychiatry Res. 2024 Dec;342:116248. doi: 10.1016/j.psychres.2024.116248. Epub
 2024 Oct 25.

The mental health toll of the Russian-Ukraine war across 11 countries: 
Cross-sectional data on war-related stressors, PTSD and CPTSD symptoms.

Kalaitzaki A(1), Goodwin R(2), Kurapov A(3), Vintila M(4), Lazarescu G(5), 
Lytvyn S(6), Tsouvelas G(7), Tamiolaki A(8), Danyliuk I(9), Ramos-Diaz J(10), 
Gnisci A(11), Sergi I(11), Mottola F(11), Stulnikova L(12), Lopez-Calle C(13), 
Salas G(14), Helmy M(15), Chen YL(16), Yen CF(17), Czepczor-Bernat K(18), 
Samekin A(19), Topanova G(20), Zhamuldinov VN(21).

Author information:
(1)Social Work Department, School of Health Sciences, Hellenic Mediterranean 
University, Laboratory of Interdisciplinary Approaches to the Enhancement of 
Quality of Life, University Research Centre 'Institute of AgriFood and Life 
Sciences', Heraklion, Crete, Greece. Electronic address: akalaitzaki@hmu.gr.
(2)Department of Psychology, The University of Warwick, UK.
(3)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, Paris Lodron 
University of Salzburg, Austria; Assistant Professor, Department of Experimental 
and Applied Psychology, Faculty of Psychology, Taras Shevchenko National 
University of Kyiv, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(4)Psychology Department, West University of Timisoara, Head of master studies 
in Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Timisoara, Romania.
(5)Department of Psychology, West University of Timișoara, Timișoara, Romania.
(6)Department of Experimental and Applied Psychology, Faculty of Psychology, 
Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv, Ukraine.
(7)Research Fellow, Department of Psychology, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, Greece; Laboratory of Interdisciplinary Approaches for the 
Enhancement of Quality of Life, Hellenic Mediterranean University, Greece.
(8)Social Work Department, School of Health Sciences, Laboratory of 
Interdisciplinary Approaches to the Enhancement of Quality of Life, Hellenic 
Mediterranean University, Heraklion, Crete, Greece.
(9)Doctor of Psychological Science, Full Professor, Dean, Department of 
Experimental and Applied Psychology, Taras Shevchenko National University of 
Kyiv, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(10)Head of Research, Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad Privada del 
Norte, Peru.
(11)Department of Psychology, University of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", 
Caserta, Italy.
(12)Department of Social Work, Faculty of Psychology, Taras Shevchenko National 
University of Kyiv. Ukraine.
(13)Faculty of Psychology, University of Cuenca, Ecuador.
(14)Department of Psychology, Universidad Católica del Maule, Talca, Chile.
(15)Psychology department, College of education, Sultan Qaboos University, 
Muscat, Oman; Psychology department, Faculty of Arts, Menoufia University, 
Egypt, Oman.
(16)Department of Healthcare Administration, Department of Psychology, College 
of Medical and Health Science, Asia University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(17)Department of Psychiatry, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 
Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; Department of Psychiatry, School of 
Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan; 
College of Professional Studies, National Pingtung University of Science and 
Technology, Pingtung, Taiwan.
(18)Department of Pediatrics, Pediatric Obesity and Metabolic Bone Diseases, 
Faculty of Medical Sciences in Katowice, Medical University of Silesia, 
Katowice, Poland.
(19)M. Narikbayev KAZGUU University, Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan.
(20)Kazakh National Women's Teacher Training University, Almaty, Kazakhstan.
(21)Toraighyrov University, Pavlodar, Kazakhstan.

Exposure to war is a severe traumatic experience with disastrous mental health 
effects. This study examined the mental health among 5,560 residents in 11 
countries worldwide at different geographic distances from the epicenter of the 
Russian-Ukrainian War (RUW). An online questionnaire assessed war-related 
variables (e.g., personal experiences with RUW, perceived concern and threat), 
previous life stress experiences, and mental health (i.e., resilience, anxiety, 
depression, perceived stress, ICD-11 PTSD, and CPTSD). Results showed regional 
differences. Ukrainians had the worst mental health indices, followed by 
participants in the bordering countries, and then by those in the distal ones. 
War-related variables were associated with worse mental health. The common 
predictors for PTSD and CPTSD were previous mental disorder, anxiety, and 
perceived stress, whereas unique predictors were also found (PTSD: female gender 
and impact of news on mental health; CPTSD: being single, overall impact of war 
on mental health, sum of lifetime traumatic experiences, resilience (inversely), 
and depression). Given the continuing uncertainty about the threat of war for 
many of the nations in this study, findings suggest the need for practitioners 
to support concerned populations.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psychres.2024.116248
PMID: 39476454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have nothing to declare.