[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Castan Centre for Human Rights Law

annual conference is the only dedicated human rights conference in Australia and has become a vital source of the latest information on Australian and international human rights issues. The conference is widely attended both in person and online and is a key fixture on the Australian legal calendar.

The Castan Centre frequently utilises social media to run innovative public education campaigns on human rights to reach new audience. The 'Have You Got That Right?' video series was particularly successful in generating widespread interest and understanding of human rights concepts, particularly with younger viewers. The Centre also manages publishes up-to-date and accessible short-form blog posts on the Castan Centre Human Rights Blog, which receives contributions from prominent Australian human rights experts.

Policy development 
The Castan Centre utilises its world-class human rights expertise to influence public debate and government policy by providing impartial and independent views on human rights issues to government, the media, and through its own social media channels.

The Castan Centre has a long history of contributing to law reform through its submissions to parliamentary committees. Globally, the Castan Centre utilises this expertise by providing submissions to international bodies, including United Nations bodies. This includes advice relating to local human rights issues, as well as advice on global events.

Another way the Castan Centre influences policy development in Australia is its engagement with the media. Through its media engagements, the Castan Centre reaches wider audience by providing expert advice on public issues relating to human rights. The Centre's experts are regularly the first point of contact for journalists on topical human rights issues.

Past activities

Academic programs 
The Castan Centre's previous academic programs have included

 Global Internship Program
 Human Rights Moot Competition 
 Human Rights Essay Competition 
 Native Title Internships.

Staff and governance

Governance 
The current Director of the Castan Centre is human rights scholar and educator, Associate Professor Melissa Castan, who has worked with the Centre since its inception. Associate Professor Castan recently succeeded Professor the Hon Kevin Bell AM QC who previously served as a Justice of the Supreme Court of Victoria for 15 years and departed the Castan Centre to take up a position as Commissioner of the Yoorrook Justice Commission.
The current governance structure of the Castan Centre is as follows:

 Director: Associate Professor Melissa Castan
 Deputy Director (Research): Associate Professor Maria O'Sullivan
 Deputy Director (Education): Dr Ronli Sifris.

Membership 
Members of the Castan Centre are 

 Governance office holders
 Academic Members, who consist of academics from the Faculty of Law at Monash University and from other Faculties or Institutions
 Affiliate Members, who consist of higher degree by research students within the Monash University Faculty of Law
 Castan Centre Staff.

References

External links
 Castan Centre webpage
 Monash Law Faculty webpage
 Justice Kirby's Speech on the Launch of the Centre
 Dr Joseph replaces Dr Kinley as Director
 Dr Joseph talks about torture, ABC Radio National Feb 2005

Monash University
Human rights organisations based in Australia
Legal research institutes