[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Adam Susan

cter is named Adam Sutler - a portmanteau of "Susan" and "Hitler" - and is portrayed by John Hurt. His title is "High Chancellor". The Fate super-computer subplot is not featured in the film version. Here Sutler is described as "a deeply religious man" with a single-minded desire for absolute power.

Sutler is described as "a young and upcoming politician" and "a member of the Conservative Party". At one point he served in the government as Under-Secretary for Defence during the "Saint Mary's crisis." It is unclear if this was before he left the Conservatives to found Norsefire, or whether there was a coalition between the two. Sutler and his cronies develop a bioweapon from medical experimentation on political prisoners to initiate a viral epidemic that kills 80,000 people and blame the attack on terrorists, who are executed. Norsefire and Sutler wins the election by promising to restore law and order to the country and deliver a cure to the virus, a promise delivered as soon as politically expedient. In power, Sutler outlaws political dissent, and has his political enemies and anyone who does not fit his Aryan ideal arrested and deported to extermination camps, such as at Larkhill. He supplants the monarch and turns the United Kingdom into a fascist dictatorship. 

When Sutler watches himself lampooned in a farce on a talk show, he is enraged and orders the show's host, Gordon Dietrich, arrested in the dead of night. Dietrich is later executed for possessing a copy of the Quran.  

Sutler blames Creedy for the failure to stop V and threatens to sack him. Intent on securing the leadership for himself, Creedy makes a deal with V to assassinate Sutler. Creedy and his men kidnap Sutler from his bunker and bring him to V in the London Underground. There, Creedy shoots his hated boss in the head at point-blank range.

As in the graphic novel, Sutler lives in an underground bunker in self-imposed exile and leaves the day-to-day operation of his empire to his lieutenants. For most of the film he is only seen on television and via videophones, until the end when he finally appears in person.

Notes and references

Action film villains
Bioterrorism in fiction
Characters created by Alan Moore
Comics characters introduced in 1982
Fictional dictators
Fictional English people
Fictional hermits
Fictional mass murderers
Fictional murdered people
Fictional politicians
Fictional prime ministers of the United Kingdom
Male characters in film
Male characters in comics
Male film villains
Superhero film characters
V for Vendetta characters
Fictional genocide perpetrators