[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 191]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

till after the Captivity, received amongst the Jews for the
Law of God. For the Prophets (except a few) lived in the time of the
Captivity it selfe; and the rest lived but a little before it; and were
so far from having their Prophecies generally received for Laws, as that
their persons were persecuted, partly by false Prophets, and partly by
the Kings which were seduced by them. And this Book it self, which was
confirmed by Josiah for the Law of God, and with it all the History of
the Works of God, was lost in the Captivity, and sack of the City of
Jerusalem, as appears by that of 2 Esdras 14.21. "Thy Law is burnt;
therefor no man knoweth the things that are done of thee, of the works
that shall begin." And before the Captivity, between the time when the
Law was lost, (which is not mentioned in the Scripture, but may probably
be thought to be the time of Rehoboam, when Shishak King of Egypt took
the spoils of the Temple,(1 Kings 14.26.)) and the time of Josiah,
when it was found againe, they had no written Word of God, but ruled
according to their own discretion, or by the direction of such, as each
of them esteemed Prophets.




The Old Testament, When Made Canonicall

From whence we may inferre, that the Scriptures of the Old Testament,
which we have at this day, were not Canonicall, nor a Law unto the Jews,
till the renovation of their Covenant with God at their return from the
Captivity, and restauration of their Common-wealth under Esdras. But
from that time forward they were accounted the Law of the Jews, and for
such translated into Greek by Seventy Elders of Judaea, and put into the
Library of Ptolemy at Alexandria, and approved for the Word of God. Now
seeing Esdras was the High Priest, and the High Priest was their Civill
Soveraigne, it is manifest, that the Scriptures were never made Laws,
but by the Soveraign Civill Power.

The New Testament Began To Be Canonicall Under Christian Soveraigns By
the Writings of the Fathers that lived in the time before that Christian
Religion was received, and authorised by Constantine the Emperour, we
may find, that the Books wee now have of the New Testament, were held by
the Christians of that time (except a few, in respect of whose paucity
the rest were called the Catholique Church, and others Haeretiques) for
the dictates of the Holy Ghost; and consequently for the Canon, or Rule
of Faith: such was the reverence and opinion they had of their Teachers;
as generally the reverence that the Disciples bear to their first
Masters, in all manner of doctrine they receive from them, is not small.
Therefore there is no doubt, but when S. Paul wrote to the Churches he
had converted; or any other Apostle, or Disciple of Christ, to those
which had then embraced Christ, they received those their Writings for
the true Christian Doctrine. But in that time, when not the Power and
Authority of the Teacher, but the Faith of the Hearer caused them
to receive it, it was not the Apostles that made their own Writings
Canonicall, but every Convert made them so to himself.

But the question here, is not what any Christian made a Law, or Canon
to himself, (which he might again reject, by the same right he received
it;) but what was so made a Canon to them, as without injustice they
could not doe any thing contrary thereunto. That the New Testament
should in this sense be Canonicall, that is to say, a Law in any place
where the Law of the Common-wealth had not made it so, is contrary to
the nature of a Law. For a Law, (as hath been already shewn) is the
Commandement of that Man, or Assembly, to whom we have given Soveraign
Authority, to make such Rules for the direction of our actions, as hee
shall think fit; and to punish us, when we doe any thing contrary to the
same. When therefore any other man shall offer unto us any other Rules,
which the Soveraign Ruler hath not prescribed, they are but Counsell,
and Advice; which, whether good, or bad, hee that is counselled, may
without injustice refuse to observe, and when contrary to the Laws
already established, without injustice cannot observe, how good soever
he conceiveth it to be. I say, he cannot in this case observe the same
in his actions, nor in his discourse with other men; though he may
without blame beleeve the his private Teachers, and wish he had the
liberty to practise their advice; and that it were publiquely received
for Law. For internall faith is in its own nature invisible, and
consequently exempted from all humane jurisdiction; whereas the words,
and actions that proceed from it, as breaches of our Civil obedience,
are injustice both before God and Man. Seeing then our Saviour hath
denyed his Kingdome to be in this world, seeing he hath said, he came
not to judge, but to save the world, he hath not subjected us to other
Laws than those of the Common-wealth; that is, the Jews to the Law
of Moses, (which he saith (Mat. 5.) he came not to destroy