[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Va'etchanan

the active roles of leading, watching over, and talking. Both  and  speak of binding the commandments to one's person— to hand and forehead,  to heart and throat.

In , Moses cautioned the Israelites not test God. Similarly, in , the prophet Malachi criticized the people of his time who tempted God.

Deuteronomy chapter 7
Professor Benjamin Sommer of the Jewish Theological Seminary of America read  and  to teach that God punishes children for their parents’ sins as a sign of mercy to the parents: When sinning parents repent, God defers their punishment to their offspring. Sommer argued that other Biblical writers, engaging in inner-Biblical interpretation, rejected that notion in , , and . Sommer argued that , for example, quoted , which was already an authoritative and holy text, but revised the morally troubling part: Where  taught that God punishes sin for generations,  maintained that God does not contend forever. Sommer argued that  and  similarly quoted  with revision. Sommer asserted that , , and  do not try to tell us how to read ; that is, they do not argue that  somehow means something other than what it seems to say. Rather, they repeat  while also disagreeing with part of it.

In early nonrabbinic interpretation
The parashah has parallels or is discussed in these early nonrabbinic sources:

Deuteronomy chapter 4
With the Cities of Refuge in  and  and , Divine intervention replaces a system of vengeance with a system of justice, much as in the play of the 5th century BCE Greek playwright Aeschylus The Eumenides, the third part of The Oresteia, Athena’s intervention helps to replace vengeance with trial by jury.

Deuteronomy chapter 5

Clement of Alexandria first used the Greek term that became the English word "Decalogue" to describe the Ten Commandments in about 200 C.E.

 told how in the 2nd century BCE, many followers of the pious Jewish priest Mattathias rebelled against the Seleucid king Antiochus IV Epiphanes. Antiochus's soldiers attacked a group of them on the Sabbath, and when the Pietists failed to defend themselves so as to honor the Sabbath (commanded in, among other places, ), a thousand died.  reported that when Mattathias and his friends heard, they reasoned that if they did not fight on the Sabbath, they would soon be destroyed. So they decided that they would fight against anyone who attacked them on the Sabbath.

Echoing , "You shall observe to do therefore as the Lord your God has commanded you; you shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left," the Community Rule of the Qumran sectarians provided, “They shall not depart from any command of God concerning their times; they shall be neither early nor late for any of their appointed times, they shall stray neither to the right nor to the left of any of His true precepts.”

Deuteronomy chapter 6
Yigael Yadin observed that Qumran sectarians used tefillin and mezuzot quite similar to those in use today.

In classical rabbinic interpretation
The parashah is discussed in these rabbinic sources from the era of the Mishnah and the Talmud:

Deuteronomy chapter 3
Noting that  and  both use the same expression, "at that time," a Midrash deduced that the events of the two verses took place at the same time. Thus Rav Huna taught that as soon as God told Moses to hand over his office to Joshua, Moses immediately began to pray to be permitted to enter the Promised land. The Midrash compared Moses to a governor who could be sure that the king would confirm whatever orders he gave so long as he retained his office. The governor redeemed whomever he desired and imprisoned whomever he desired. But as soon as the governor retired and another was appointed in his place, the gatekeeper would not let him enter the king's palace. Similarly, as long as Moses remained in office, he imprisoned whomever he desired and released whomever he desired, but when he was relieved of his office and Joshua was appointed in his stead, and he asked to be permitted to enter the Promised Land, God in  denied his request.

The Gemara deduced from Moses's example in  that one should seek a suppliant frame of mind before praying. Rav Huna and Rav Hisda were discussing how long to wait between recitations of the Amidah if one erred in the first reciting and needed to repeat the prayer. One said: long enough for the person praying to fall into a suppliant frame of mind, citing the words "And I supplicated the Lord" in . The other said: long enough to fall into an interceding frame of mind, citing the words "And Moses interceded" in .