[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ian Macphee

ward losing the leadership back to Peacock in May 1989.

With the next election not due until 1990, Macphee briefly returned to Shadow Cabinet under Peacock, again serving as shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs.  He returned to the backbench until retiring prior to the 1990 election.

After politics

Macphee remained in public life. He served on the board of CARE Australia and from 1994 he served as a director of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation for a period of five years. Macphee also worked with fellow former Liberal MP Alan Hunt in reforming the Victorian Legislative Council in a Constitutional Commission set up by the Bracks Labor Government.

On 26 January 1992, he was appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) for "service to the Australian parliament".

Macphee, given his history with Howard, was critical of the Howard Government, stating that he was "consistently outraged" by the Government's position on refugee policy. He also publicly supported the 2005 "backbench revolt" of Petro Georgiou, Judi Moylan, Bruce Baird and Russell Broadbent, which saw the softening of some aspects of the legislation.

Macphee was also highly critical of the Howard Government's role in the 2003 invasion of Iraq.

In 2017 speaking as a former immigration minister, Macphee criticised the powers held by current Immigration Minister Peter Dutton as "unchecked and unjust."

In 2020, in response to a push from a local group, Voices of Goldstein, Macphee endorsed the push for an independent candidate in his old seat of Goldstein, saying "the Liberal party branches are now controlled by the Liberal party head office, which does not listen to ordinary voters... that's the state we've got to in our democracy which has been abused by power hungry people."

References

|-

.

1938 births
Living people
Liberal Party of Australia members of the Parliament of Australia
Members of the Cabinet of Australia
Members of the Australian House of Representatives
Members of the Australian House of Representatives for Balaclava
Members of the Australian House of Representatives for Goldstein
Officers of the Order of Australia
Politicians from Melbourne
Politicians from Sydney
Australian people of Scottish descent
20th-century Australian politicians
Women's ministers of Australia