[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# François de Grossouvre

François de Grossouvre (29 March 1918 – 7 April 1994) was a French politician who was appointed in 1981 by the newly elected President François Mitterrand with the tasks of overseeing national security and other sensitive matters, particularly those concerning Lebanon, Syria, Tunisia, Morocco, Gabon, the Persian Gulf countries, Pakistan and both Koreas. He was also in charge of the French branch of Operation Gladio, the stay-behind paramilitary secret armies created by NATO during the Cold War.

He was found dead with gunshot wounds at the Élysée Palace, the French President's official residence. The official verdict was suicide.

Early life
François de Grossouvre was born in an aristocratic family, the descendant of Jean-François Durand, seigneur de Grossouvre (1735–1832). His father, a banker, died in 1923 in Beirut, where he resided. François de Grossouvre thereafter kept affective ties to Lebanon. He then studied with the Jesuits in France and studied medicine.

During the Second World War, he was posted as an auxiliary physician in a regiment of Moroccan tirailleurs. He then joined the ski troops in the Vercors region. There, he met Captain Bousquet, who created one of the first units of the Organisation de résistance de l'armée (ORA). He returned to Lyon, where he received his doctorate in 1942. Afterward, he became a doctor of the 11th regiment of cuirassiers, headed by Colonel Lormeau.

Grossouvre became a member of Joseph Darnand's Service d'ordre légionnaire (SOL), a Vichyist militia. He left it in 1943 to fight in the Vercors and joined the maquis of the Chartreuse, near Grenoble (code-name "Clober"). After the Liberation, he declared that he had in fact infiltrated the SOL on behalf of ORA.

Grossouvre was then recruited in 1950 by the French SDECE intelligence agency to replace Gilbert Union, an official in Lyon who had worked with the military agency BCRA.

Hebecame leader of Arc-en-Ciel, the regional branch of Gladio (Lyon region), stay-behind anticommunist organizations during the Cold War started by NATO, under the codename "Monsieur Leduc".

According to the former SDECE agent Louis Mouchon, "His business, the A. Berger et Cie Sugar company, offered ample opportunities to stage fronts. He really had excellent contacts." According to his obituary in The Economist, 
"He was recruited into the French espionage service and helped to organise Gladio, an American backed plan to create an armed resistance movement in Western Europe against a Russian invasion."

He met Pierre Mendès France during the war on a bomber, who would later introduce him to François Mitterrand.

Industrial activities
In 1943, he married Claudette Berger, the daughter of an industrialist, Antoine Berger, and had six children. Grossouvre managed his family-in-law's companies Le Bon Sucre (1944–1963) and A. Berger et Cie (1949–1963) and then founded the Générale Sucrière sugar company. Along with Italian collaborators, the businessman Gilbert Beaujolin and the American Alexandre Patty, he succeeded in obtaining an exclusive production licence for Coca-Cola and building the first factory of that type in France. Distribution was by the Société parisienne de boissons gazeuses and the Glacières de Paris, both subsidiaries of Pastis Pernod.

Besides his industrial activity,  Grossouvre was counsellor for foreign trade of France (1952–1967) and vice-president of the Chambre de commerce franco-sarroise (1955–1962). He invested some capital in the 1953 creation of L'Express magazine and started a friendship with Françoise Giroud and Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber. In the 1970s, he became the largest shareholder of La Montagne and the Journal du Centre regional dailies.

Relations with François Mitterrand
Grossouvre became a friend of Mitterrand during a trip to China in 1959, and participated in the Convention des institutions républicaines (CIR), a party created by Mitterrand in 1964 and dissolved at the 1971 Épinay Congress of the Socialist Party (PS). He was part of the triumvirate which presided the Fédération de la Gauche Démocrate Socialiste (FGDS), a party directed by Mitterrand, who entrusted him, among other things, with the negotiations with the Communist Party (PCF). In 1974, Grossouvre became the godfather of Mazarine Pingeot, Mitterrand's daughter, whose existence was kept secret until the 1990s.