[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mittelstand

y. The larger states of Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg follow close behind with 163 and 159 major medium-sized enterprises, respectively.
The article also mentions the cities of Hamburg (329 enterprises), Berlin (227) and Munich (188) with the highest so-called "top middle class enterprises" ranking.

The Mittelstand explainedMittelstand companies are "highly focused, achieving unprecedented efficiencies by designing a business model with a razor-thin focus and learning to do the one thing really well"; then to "compensate for their razor-thin focus . . . they diversify internationally and enjoy great economies of scale." Mittelstand companies benefit from Germany's apprenticeship system, which provides highly skilled workers; and there is a "collaborative spirit that generally exists between employer and employees . . . . In the post-reunification recession, it seemed only natural to German workers to offer flexibility on wages and hours in return for greater job security."

Many Mittelstand companies are export-oriented. They focus on innovative and high-value manufactured products and occupy worldwide niche market leadership positions in numerous B2B segments. They are typically privately owned and often based in small, rural communities. Many of the successful Mittelstand companies combine a cautious and long-term-oriented approach to business with the adoption of modern management practices, such as employing outside professional management, and implementing lean manufacturing practices and total quality management. The Mittelstand emphasis on long-term profitability stands in contrast to the public corporations of many countries (including German public corporations) which face quarterly or annual pressure to meet expectations.

 Management model "Made in Germany" 
The Mittelstand model is most specifically defined in the 2015 publication "The Best of German Mittelstand", which summarizes the distinct management model that "dovetails strategy, leadership and governance principles, with core processes in a unique blend, creating a finely tuned process." Strategy: Global niche dominance
 Governance: 'Enlightened' family capitalism
 World class performance in core processes
 Locational advantages: The German microeconomic business environment

 Financial success of the Mittelstand 
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are financially well-positioned. According to studies by IfM Bonn and the University of Siegen in 2016, their equity ratio has been rising steadily for years. At the same time, SME liabilities to banks are falling in relation to their total assets. For the first time, small and medium-sized enterprises as a whole have a higher equity ratio than large companies. Only micro-enterprises continue to have lower capitalization despite high growth rates.
One reason for this development lies in the stricter requirements under Basel II or III. To prevent their debt conditions from deteriorating, many small and medium-sized enterprises—as well as the larger family businesses—have increased their equity capital through retained earnings. This was also positively supported by the reduction in corporate taxes. At the same time, many small and medium-sized enterprises are reducing supplier credits and short-term bank liabilities.

Although SMEs continue to prefer bank loans, despite alternative means of financing, the importance of equity financing is likely to increase. For example, almost all companies will have to face increasing digitization with additional investment in information technologies to maintain their future competitiveness. However, to protect bank loans, IT technologies are not well suited due to the company-specific solutions and the generally high loss of value.

Britain's Mittelstand

The Mittelstand in Britain, sometimes called the Brittelstand or UK Mittelstand (McMittelstand in Scotland) plays as important a role to the UK economy as they do in Germany. Figures from the British government state that they employed 14.4 million people in the U.K. in 2013. Furthermore, the European Commission's performance review of UK this year estimated their gross value added at 473 billion euros ($595.4 billion) or 49.8 percent of the U.K. economy. The Confederation of British Industry (CBI), has long urged for the backing of the British Mittelstand. Help to grow schemes have been invested to help the British Mittelstand to grow as a result it has since been growing rapidly and in some cases has outpaced its European rivals.

While continuing to grow, a recent study which performed a comparison between German and British successful mid-cap companies suggests that British firms are far more short-term oriented in terms of management and policy raising the question whether the UK Mittelstand can endure over time in the same manner as the German equivalent, something the British government hopes to work on by embracing a longer term place.