[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Money Dragon

ulu.

Along with a rise in status and wealth, Ah Leong married three new wives.  Dai-Kam was very unhappy about this, but Ah Leong was a charming man, and would talk his way around her.

Ah Leong also used his wealth to build huge estates in his home area in China.  Tat-Tung supervised construction.

After the series of events, the first wife finally decided to take her children and return to China.  His third and fourth wives died.  Ah Leong was taken into court and fined for cohabitating with too many wives, since none of them were legally married in the United States.  The second wife became the only one living in the house, and went behind Ah Leong's back to get a marriage license—she was the only wife legally married to him.

Ah Leong married another woman, who stayed in China to manage his property there.  Dai-Kam returned from China, and in her absence Ah Leong's businesses grew even more.

At this time Phoenix comes into the picture.  After her arrival she is treated badly until she moves with her husband to a separate house.  Tat-Tung is also harassed by his father, who claims that he is cheating him.  This ends when Tat-Tung fights back by not coming to work.

Then one day Ah Leong cuts his foot while trying to clip his nails with a knife.  He believes that it will heal itself, and waits too long to get medical attention. It becomes so infected that doctors say they must amputate, but Ah Leong believes that he must go to death whole, so he dies after refusing the amputation.  Before his death he repents making his will such that his second wife's children will inherit.

After Lau Ah leong's death there is a lot of fighting over his money by the children of his second wife.  At the time of his death in 1934, Ah Leong had amassed a fortune of approximately a million dollars. At first, Tat-Tung and his family are struggling because they no longer have as much money.  However, one of his half-brothers eventually gets him a store to manage, and this assures Tat-Tung and Phoenix's future.

References

2002 American novels
Novels set in Hawaii
Chinese-American novels
2002 debut novels