[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Takamagahara

Yamatai-koku Theory 
The theory is that any of the candidate sites for the Yamatai-koku such as Yamamoto Country, Mii Country, Yamato Country, and Yasu Country in the Chikugo River basin. Some people specifically believe that Mii Country is the Takamagahara and Nakoku is the Ashihara-no-Nakatsukuni.

 4. The Artificiality Theory 
The theory is that wondering about location of Takamagahara is meaningless since myths are made up. A theory presented by Banto Yamagata, a scholar of Confucianism from the late Edo period is a typical example of it, and he argues that the Jindai period (神代, Age of the Gods) in the Kojiki was a fiction created by later generations. A historian in 20th century, Sokichi Tsuda’s view of history, which has become mainstream after the World War II, is based on his idea. Many scholars today also believe that the mythology of Takamagahara in Kojiki was created by the ruling class to make people believe that the class was precious because they originated in the heavenly realm.

 Takamagahara in Japan 

 Takaharu-cho, Miyazaki Prefecture 
The town of Takaharu, with Takachiho Mountain rising behind it, has long been recognized as the place of Ninigi-no-Mikoto’s descent. In the Sangoku Meisho Zue (三国名勝図会), a chronicle written by Satsuma Domain at the end of the Edo period, it is written that the name of this area, Takaharu (高原), is an abbreviation of Takamagahara (高天原) and the area was the capital of Japan during ancient times. The chronicle also states that it is the reason why there are other local areas with similar names such as Miyakojima (都島) and Takajo (高城).

As a proof of this record, Amano-Sakahoko (天逆鉾), the spear of gods, can be found at the top of the mountain. It is presumed that the spear was placed around the Edo period, but the details are still unknown. The town of Takaharu is also known as the birthplace of Emperor Jimmu. The main evidence is that Emperor Jimmu’s infant name, “Sano-no-Mikoto”, in the Nihon Shoki refers to the Sano area of the town. However, there is no detailed explanation about it, and the current description of Emperor Jimmu is largely based on Sangoku Meisho Zue (三国名勝図絵). According to the chronicle, Emperor Jimmu lived here until his expedition to the east.

 Takachiho-cho, Miyazaki Prefecture 
The town of Takachiho is located at the Northern part of Miyazaki prefecture. Ama-no-Iwato, Mount Amanokagu, and Shiioji Peaks can be found in this area. Takachiho Shrine is known for its specific type of Shinto ritual ceremonial dance called Yoru-Kagura, which is said to have originated from a dance performed by Ame-no-Uzume.

 Soyo, Yamato-cho, Kumamoto Prefecture 
Hinomiya-Heitate shrine, which calls itself the birthplace of the Takamagahara mythology, is at Soyo, Kumamoto. Shintai, the sacred body of the kami, is a stone slab carved with two types of Jindai characters, and the characters “Asohi-no-okami (アソヒノオオミカミ)” and “Hifumi (日文)” are engraved on the front and back of the slab. The shrine’s name “Heitate” means Himorogi, a sacred place or an altar, and it is said that this is the sacred place where the gods descended in ancient times.

 Takama, Gose-shi, Nara Prefecture 
Takama is located on a plateau at the foot of Mount Kongo in Gose-shi, Nara Prefecture. The region’s old name is Katsuragi (葛城), and Mount Kongo was called Mount Takamagahara in ancient times. The Takamahiko Shrine is located at east side of Mount Kongo, and the area around the shrine is a traditional place where the gods of the heavens lived (Matsumura, 2014). The shrine is rated as the highest in the Engishiki (延喜式, Procedures of the Engi Era), and its shintai (神体, body of the kami) is a mountain located behind the shrine. Kagero Nikki (蜻蛉日記), a classical waka, indicates that Amano-iwato was at Mount Katsuragi. Since this poem was written around 974, it shows that this understanding dates back to at least the Heian Period (794-1185). Similarly, Sanryu-syo(三流抄), the classical waka poem written in Kamakura period (1185-1333), describes the location of Takamagahara as Mount Katsuragi. Until new Hitachi Province theory was proposed by Hakuseki Arai in Edo period, this area was considered to be the location of Takamagahara. The stone monument of Takamagahara is in the parking lot of a temple in this area.
 Iruzen, Maniwa City, Okayama Prefecture 
Kayabe Shrine, Amano-Iwato, and Amano-Ukihashi are in the area of Hiruzen.

 Oinuana, Ueno Village, Gunma Prefecture 
The place was traditionally known as a small cave, but it was discovered to be much longer and deeper in 1929. The cave was named after what was believed to be the dwelling place of the Yamainu. Some places inside have been named as Takamagahara and Ama-no-Yasugawara.