[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Catherine Filloux

come by, sold out in double quick time. A long awaited feast.” Guy DeLauney, “Where Elephants Weep,” BBC World News Accessible at: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8P23Q_KC90A&fmt=18.

CNN “Where Elephants Weep”
“The production presents Cambodia in the light that it so urgently needs to be shown in…”

 ‘LEMKIN’S HOUSE’, highly recommended by The New York Times, The Listings 
“The man who invented the word genocide, Raphael Lemkin, turns out to have an unsettled afterlife in the compelling drama by Catherine Filloux.  He learns, through visitations by Tutsis and others, that the international law he campaigned for against genocide may not have accomplished anything…A call to action…” (Genzlinger).

VILLAGE VOICE “Genocide He Wrote” By Alexis Soloski - ‘Lemkin’s House’ 
“Catherine Filloux, who has written four plays about the Khmer Rouge genocide in Cambodia, researched her play impeccably but lent her play a dreamlike tone that offsets any dryness or didacticism…this play should haunt, and possibly inspire, much of the audience as well.”

VILLAGE VOICE “The Beauty Inside” “This moving character study pits East against West, tradition against progress, and ambition against conscience, in a drama whose lyrical dialogue evokes the surprising ambivalence of this wrenching battle.”  LAWLER

The L Magazine Theater Review by Douglas Singleton “It’s a relief to see such economical storytelling — a kind of anti-Homebody/Kabul where characters say what they mean and action occurs at a lively pace. Only five actors grace the stage though it seems a dozen do — the characters are rich and cleanly drawn…The Beauty Inside joins a string of exceptional pieces performed at the 45 Below Culture Project space…These are not run-of-the mill productions, but theater with purpose.”

nytheatre.com review Review by Loren Noveck – “The Beauty Inside” “What makes the relationship--and the play--work is that Filloux resists the temptation to portray the issues in black and white…Filloux also never forgets the personal cost of trying to change the world; both Yalova and Devrim take huge risks…and Filloux doesn’t try to make one more valuable or relevant than the other.” 

New York Times Theater Review | 'Eyes of the Heart': Surviving the Khmer Rouge
By ANITA GATES  “Thida is the heroine of Catherine Filloux's ‘Eyes of the Heart,’ a beautifully done one-act drama about the place where horror and grief meet…The strange thing (or maybe it's not strange at all) is that the audience's tears come when another character, an American, talks about her husband's death from a nervous-system disease, not when Thida describes a far more gruesome loss. Somehow one tragedy helps communicate the depth of the other.”

A CurtainUp Review by Jenny Sandman “Eyes of the Heart is a spare, intimate drama about the havoc wreaked by the Khmer Rouge…It makes for a finely balanced play, without maudlin appeals for pity, vengeance or help… Eyes of the Heart is an informative and an at once heartbreaking and heartwarming evening.”

The Washington Times, T.L. Ponick - “SILENCE OF GOD… is a brave attempt to come to grips with the Cambodian holocaust, something that has largely failed to penetrate the American consciousness…SILENCE OF GOD is a brave play, with a compelling story to tell.”

Pittsburgh Post-Gazette - Christopher Rawson – “Silence of God” - “Over everything hangs the Cambodian tragedy and America’s complicity or inaction. That Pol Pot proves so banal in person accentuates the mystery of evil.” 

The Morgan Messenger by Grace Cavalieri – “Silence of God” - “The single female author in the group, Catherine Filloux, is a returning festival playwright. SILENCE OF GOD is a fictional account of Cambodia, Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge, imagined through the eyes of a journalist at the end of the Pol Pot leadership. The lighting and set initially establish a reverence and awe for the material of a history too rude to be imagined. The play is ultimately about prayer and death, with a momentary flare of love at its center…One of the lines in the play speaks about “putting the spirit down on paper” and much of the play’s symbolism revolves around this significant act. It is the way human beings make an indentation in the universe. Filloux does this.”

Opera News, Recordings Critic’s Choice “The Floating Box: A Story in Chinatown” “Catherine Filloux’s libretto, based on more than forty hours of oral histories she and Hwang recorded in New York City’s Chinatown, is vivid and concisely poetic.” 

International Record Review (London) The Floating Box. (New World Records) “Between them Jason Kao Hwang and Catherine Filloux have addressed the problem of combining Chinese and Western styles with astonishing success here…Indeed [Filloux’s] portrayal of Chinese immigrants attempting to establish themselves in a strange land while unable to divest themselves of their own culture is in itself both compelling and totally convincing.”