[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 147]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

like,
whether attained supernaturally, or by study and industry; for in all
cases they are the gifts of God. So likewise where God sayes (Joel
2.28.) "I will powre out my Spirit upon all flesh, and your Sons and
your Daughters shall prophecy, your Old men shall dream Dreams, and your
Young men shall see Visions," wee are not to understand it in the
proper sense, as if his Spirit were like water, subject to effusion, or
infusion; but as if God had promised to give them Propheticall Dreams,
and Visions. For the proper use of the word Infused, in speaking of
the graces of God, is an abuse of it; for those graces are Vertues, not
Bodies to be carryed hither and thither, and to be powred into men, as
into barrels.

In the same manner, to take Inspiration in the proper sense, or to
say that Good Spirits entred into men to make them prophecy, or Evill
Spirits into those that became Phrenetique, Lunatique, or Epileptique,
is not to take the word in the sense of the Scripture; for the Spirit
there is taken for the power of God, working by causes to us unknown. As
also (Acts 2.2.) the wind, that is there said to fill the house wherein
the Apostles were assembled on the day of Pentecost, is not to be
understood for the Holy Spirit, which is the Deity it self; but for an
Externall sign of Gods speciall working on their hearts, to effect in
them the internall graces, and holy vertues hee thought requisite for
the performance of their Apostleship.




CHAPTER XXXV. OF THE SIGNIFICATION IN SCRIPTURE OF KINGDOME OF GOD, OF
HOLY, SACRED, AND SACRAMENT


Kingdom Of God Taken By Divines Metaphorically But In The Scriptures
Properly

The Kingdome of God in the Writings of Divines, and specially in
Sermons, and Treatises of Devotion, is taken most commonly for Eternall
Felicity, after this life, in the Highest Heaven, which they also call
the Kingdome of Glory; and sometimes for (the earnest of that felicity)
Sanctification, which they terme the Kingdome of Grace, but never
for the Monarchy, that is to say, the Soveraign Power of God over
any Subjects acquired by their own consent, which is the proper
signification of Kingdome.

To the contrary, I find the KINGDOME OF GOD, to signifie in most places
of Scripture, a Kingdome Properly So Named, constituted by the Votes
of the People of Israel in peculiar manner; wherein they chose God
for their King by Covenant made with him, upon Gods promising them the
possession of the land of Canaan; and but seldom metaphorically;
and then it is taken for Dominion Over Sinne; (and only in the New
Testament;) because such a Dominion as that, every Subject shall have in
the Kingdome of God, and without prejudice to the Soveraign.

From the very Creation, God not only reigned over all men Naturally by
his might; but also had Peculiar Subjects, whom he commanded by a Voice,
as one man speaketh to another. In which manner he Reigned over Adam,
and gave him commandement to abstaine from the tree of cognizance of
Good and Evill; which when he obeyed not, but tasting thereof, took upon
him to be as God, judging between Good and Evill, not by his Creators
commandement, but by his own sense, his punishment was a privation of
the estate of Eternall life, wherein God had at first created him: And
afterwards God punished his posterity, for their vices, all but eight
persons, with an universall deluge; And in these eight did consist the
then Kingdome Of God.




The Originall Of The Kingdome Of God

After this, it pleased God to speak to Abraham, and (Gen. 17.7,8.) to
make a Covenant with him in these words, "I will establish my Covenant
between me, and thee, and thy seed after thee in their generations,
for an everlasting Covenant, to be a God to thee, and to thy seed after
thee; And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land
wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan for an everlasting
possession." And for a memoriall, and a token of this Covenant, he
ordaineth (verse 11.) the Sacrament of Circumcision. This is it which is
called the Old Covenant, or Testament; and containeth a Contract between
God and Abraham; by which Abraham obligeth himself, and his posterity,
in a peculiar manner to be subject to Gods positive Law; for to the Law
Morall he was obliged before, as by an Oath of Allegiance. And though
the name of King be not yet given to God, nor of Kingdome to Abraham and
his seed; yet the thing is the same; namely, an Institution by pact,
of Gods peculiar Soveraignty over the seed of Abraham; which in the
renewing of the same Covenant by Moses, at Mount Sinai, is expressely
called a peculiar Kingdome of God over the Jews: and it is of Abraham
(not of Moses) St. Paul saith (Rom. 4.11.) that he is the "Father of the
Faithfull," that is, of those that are loyall, and doe not violate their
Allegiance sworn to God, then by Circumcision, and afterwards in the New
Covenant by Baptisme.