[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 139]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

g you to propose and us to
hear. When you dwelt so long upon the power of your master, I also
imagined that he had sent to us to propose a league of friendship and
alliance, such as might become equals, and bind man more closely to his
fellows. In this case the Arabians, although they neither want the
assistance, nor fear the attacks of any king or nation, would gladly
have consented, because it has been always their favourite maxim,
neither to leave injuries unpunished, nor to be outdone in kindness and
hospitality. But since you have come thus far to deliver a message which
must needs be disagreeable to the ears of free-born men, who acknowledge
no superior upon earth, you may thus report the sentiments of the
Arabians to him that sent you. You may tell him that, as to the land
which we inhabit, it is neither the gift of him nor any of his
forefathers; we hold it from our ancestors, who received it in turn from
theirs, by the common laws of nature, which has adapted particular
countries and soils, not only to man, but to all the various animals
which she has produced. If, therefore, your king imagines that he has a
right to retain the country which he and his people now inhabit, by the
same tenure do the Arabians hold the sovereignty of these barren sands,
where the bones of our ancestors have been buried, even from the first
foundation of the world. But you have described to us, in pompous
language, the extraordinary power and riches of your king; according to
you, he not only commands numerous and well-appointed troops of warlike
men, furnished with every species of military stores, but he also
possesses immense heaps of gold, silver, and other precious commodities,
and his country affords him an inexhaustible supply of corn, and oil,
and wine, and all the other conveniences of life. If, therefore, these
representations be false, you must appear a vain and despicable babbler,
who, being induced by no sufficient reason, have come hither of your own
accord to amuse us--a plain and simple race of men--with specious tales
and fables; but, if your words be true, your king must be equally unjust
and foolish, who, already possessing all these advantages, doth still
insatiably grasp after more; and, enjoying so many good things with ease
and security to himself, will rather put them to all the hazard than
repress the vain desires of his own intolerable avarice. As to the
tribute which you have demanded, what you have already seen of the
Arabians and their country affords you a sufficient answer. You see that
we have neither cities, nor fields, nor rivers, nor wine, nor oil; gold
and silver are equally unknown among us; and the Arabians, abandoning
all these things to other men, have, at the same time, delivered
themselves from the necessity of being slaves, which is the general law
by which all mortals retain their possession. We have, therefore,
nothing which we can send as a tribute but the sand of these our
deserts, and the arrows and lances with which we have hitherto defended
them from all invaders. If these are treasures worthy of his acceptance,
he may lead his conquering troops to take possession of our country. But
he will find men who are not softened by luxury, or vanquished by their
own vices; men who prize their liberty at a dearer rate than all other
mortals do their riches or their lives, and to whom dishonour is more
formidable than wounds and death. If he can vanquish such men, it will,
however, become his prudence to reflect whether he can vanquish the
obstacles which nature herself has opposed to his ambition. If he should
attempt to pass our deserts, he will have to struggle with famine and
consuming thirst, from which no enemy has hitherto escaped, even when he
has failed to perish by the arrows of the Arabians.''----

"'Happy and generous people,' exclaimed Sophron, 'how well do they
deserve the liberty they enjoy! With such sentiments they need not fear
the attack of kings or conquerors. It is the vices of men, and not the
weakness of their nature, that basely enslave them to their equals; and
he that prizes liberty beyond a few contemptible pleasures of his senses
may be certain that no human force can ever bereave him of so great a
good.'

"'Such sentiments,' replied Chares, 'convince me that I have not made a
false estimate of the inhabitants of these mountainous districts. It is
for this reason that I have been so particular in the description of
Egypt and Arabia. I wished to know whether the general spirit of
indolence and pusillanimity had infected the hardy inhabitants of
Lebanon; but from the generous enthusiasm which animates your
countenance at the recital of noble actions, as well as from what I have
experienced you are capable of attempting, I trust that these solitary
scenes are uninfected with the vices that have deluged the rest of Asia,
and bent its inhabitants to the yoke'"----

Here the impatience