[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 151]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

uld not
conceive that naked savages would dare to attack an army of two thousand
disciplined troops.

"One morning, the way before us appeared more intricate and obscure than
common; the forests did not, as usual, consist of lofty trees, which
afford a tolerably clear prospect between their trunks, but were
composed of creeping bushes and impervious thickets. The army marched as
usual, with the vain ostentation of military discipline, but totally
unprepared for the dreadful scene which followed. At length we entered a
gloomy valley, surrounded on every side by the thickest shade, and
rendered swampy by the overflowings of a little rivulet. In this
situation it was impossible to continue our march without disordering
our ranks; and part of the army extended itself beyond the rest, while
another part of the line involuntarily fell behind.

"In the moment while the officers were employed in rectifying the
disorder of their men, a sudden noise of musketry was heard in front,
which stretched about twenty of our men upon the field. The soldiers
instinctively fired towards the part whence they were attacked, and
instantly fell back in disorder. But it was equally vain to retreat or
go forward, for it now appeared that we were completely hemmed in. On
every side resounded the fatal peals of scattering fire, that thinned
our ranks and extended our bravest comrades on the earth. Figure to
yourself a shoal of fishes, enclosed within the net, that circle in vain
the fatal labyrinth in which they are involved; or rather, conceive what
I have myself been witness to--a herd of deer, surrounded on every side
by a band of active and unpitying hunters, who press and gall them on
every side, and exterminate them at leisure in their flight; just such
was the situation of our unfortunate countrymen. After a few unavailing
discharges, which never annoyed a secret enemy that scattered death
unseen, the ranks were broken and all subordination lost. The ground
was covered with gasping wretches, and stained with blood; the woods
resounded with cries and groans, and fruitless attempts of our gallant
officers to rally their men, and check the progress of the enemy. By
intervals was heard, more shrill, more dreadful than all the rest, the
dismal yell of the victorious savages, who now, emboldened by their
success, began to leave the covert and hew down those who fled, with
unrelenting cruelty. As to myself, the description which our colonel had
given me of their method of attack, and the precautions to be used
against it, rendered me perhaps less disturbed than I should otherwise
have been. I remarked that those who stood and those who fled were
exposed to equal danger; those who kept their ranks and endeavoured to
repel the enemy, exposed their persons to their fire, and were
successively shot down, as happened to most of our unfortunate officers,
while those who fled frequently rushed headlong upon the very death they
sought to avoid.

"Pierced to the heart at the sight of such a carnage of my gallant
comrades, I grew indifferent to life, and abandoned myself to despair;
but it was a despair that neither impaired my exertions nor robbed me of
the faculties of my mind. 'Imitate me,' I cried, 'my gallant countrymen,
and we shall yet be safe.' I then directly ran to the nearest tree, and
sheltered myself behind its stem--convinced that this precaution alone
could secure me from the incessant volleys which darted on every side. A
small number of Highlanders followed my example; and, thus secured, we
began to fire with more success at the enemy, who now exposed themselves
with less reserve. This check seemed to astonish and confound them; and
had not the panic been so general, it is possible that this successful
effort might have changed the fortune of the fight; for, in another
quarter, the provincial troops that accompanied us behaved with the
greatest bravery, and, though deserted by the European forces, effected
their own retreat.

"But it was now too late to hope for victory or even safety; the ranks
were broken on every side, the greater part of our officers slain or
wounded, and our unfortunate general himself had expiated with his life
his fatal rashness. I cast my eyes around, and saw nothing but images of
death, and horror, and frantic rage. Yet even then the safety of my
noble colonel was dearer to me than my own. I sought him for some time
in vain, amid the various scenes of carnage which surrounded me. At
length I discovered him at a distance, almost deserted by his men, yet
still attempting to renew the fight, and heedless of the wounds which
covered him. Transported with grief and passion, I immediately darted
forward to offer him my feeble support; but, in the very instant of my
arrival, he received a straggling ball in his bosom, and, tottering to a
tree, supported his fainting limbs against the trunk. Just in that
moment three of our savage enem