[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Liberal Alliance (Denmark)

tensive economic liberal reforms, including a tax reform replacing progressive income tax with a flat-rate income tax of 40%, halving rates of corporation tax, instigating user charges for public healthcare, abolishing  early retirement schemes and reassessing everyone receiving disability benefits.

In 2011, the party opposed the government's entry of Denmark into the Euro Plus Pact and continues to maintain a staunch opposition to Denmark entering the eurozone. On the matter of European Union membership, the party supports a radically reinvented European Union based on free trade and in 2022 called for a "slimmed down" EU based solely on economic partnership while restoring political sovereignty from Brussels to national parliaments. Individual politicians in the Liberal Alliance and its youth wing support Denmark exiting the EU (Danexit), although remaining in the single market. The Liberal Alliance is the only party in Denmark that supports nuclear power. In 2009, the party voted against subsidies for environmentalist renovations without significant tax cuts. In 2011, the Red–Green Alliance and the Liberal Alliance were the only parties whose MPs supported equalising MPs' age of retirement with the rest of the country.

The Liberal Alliance has supported the rights of same-sex couples to marry and adopt, helping to pass both into law. The party opposed the reintroduction of border controls in 2011 and supported the dismantling of them later in that year. It supports ending the ban on foreigners owning holiday homes in Denmark. On 30 August 2011, with 5.0% voter support, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille told on air to Danish Radio that a vote for the Liberal Alliance is a vote for free hashish. Voter support increased to 7.5% following the statement. In parliament, the party supported the reduction of vehicle registration fees.

Organisation

Funding 
The party received donations from the investment bank Saxo Bank (500,000 Danish kroner) and the businessman Lars Kolind (100,000 kroner). As of 22 May 2007, the party had seven paid employees and a number of volunteers. The party announced it would not hire additional employees until it had more funds.

Liberal Alliance Youth 

On 23 February 2008, a youth wing to the party was formed by 21 people under the name of Young Alliance (). When the party changed its name to the Liberal Alliance, the youth branch followed suit changing its name to the Liberal Alliance Youth (Liberal Alliances Ungdom) whose current chairman is Simon Fendinge Olsen.

European parliament affiliations 

At its formation, two MEPs joined the party. With the defection of MEPs Gitte Seeberg and Anders Samuelsen, the Conservatives and the Danish Social Liberal Party were effectively left without representation in the European Parliament. The two MEPs did stay in their parliamentary groups (EPP-ED and ALDE, respectively). Both resigned from the European Parliament after being elected to the Danish Parliament in November 2007. The Liberal Alliance announced that it would join the ALDE group after future European Parliament elections. However, the party failed to achieve representation in the European Parliament in both the 2009 and 2014 European Parliament elections.

Leaders 
The party has had the following leaders since its foundation:

Election results

Parliament

Local elections

European Parliament

Former logos

See also 
 Liberal Initiative (Portugal)

Notes

References

External links 

 Official website
 Liberal Alliance on Den Store Danske

2007 establishments in Denmark
Centre-right parties in Europe
Classical liberal parties
Liberalism in Denmark
Liberal parties in Denmark
Libertarian parties
Political parties established in 2007
Right-libertarianism
Right-wing parties in Europe