[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mark Whipple

feated with a 13–0 record in games he started. Roethlisberger later became the youngest starting quarterback to win a Super Bowl. On January 25, 2007, Whipple was let go by new Steelers head coach Mike Tomlin and replaced with Ken Anderson. The next day, Whipple was hired by the Philadelphia Eagles.

On January 7, 2009, Whipple was named the offensive coordinator at Miami. Whipple was fired along with head coach Randy Shannon, following the end of the season loss to South Florida on November 27, 2010. After coach Tom O'Brien left Boston College to coach North Carolina State, it was reported that Mark Whipple was the leading candidate to replace him.  That job eventually went to Jeff Jagodzinski.  He was reported to be the leading candidate for the Connecticut Huskies head football coach, an opening created when Randy Edsall left to replace Ralph Friedgen as the head coach at the University of Maryland, College Park following the 2010 season. However, Connecticut hired Paul Pasqualoni on January 13, 2011.

Whipple signed a contract with the Cleveland Browns on January 30, 2011 to be their quarterback coach. He was fired along with the rest of the Browns coach staff at the end of the 2012 season.

Head coaching record

References

External links
 Nebraska profile

1957 births
Living people
American football quarterbacks
Brown Bears football coaches
Brown Bears football players
Cleveland Browns coaches
Miami Hurricanes football coaches
Nebraska Cornhuskers football coaches
New Hampshire Wildcats football coaches
New Haven Chargers football coaches
Philadelphia Eagles coaches
Pittsburgh Panthers football coaches
Pittsburgh Steelers coaches
St. Lawrence Saints football coaches
UMass Minutemen football coaches
Union Garnet Chargers football coaches
United States Football League coaches
Sportspeople from Phoenix, Arizona
People from Tarrytown, New York
Coaches of American football from Arizona
Players of American football from Phoenix, Arizona