[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Social class in the United Kingdom

(co-founder of the Survey of English Dialects), were fascinated by the linguistics of working-class speech.  Arthur Balfour, a 19th-century politician and an aristocrat, gave a large financial donation for the production of the English Dialect Dictionary, compiled by the working-class Joseph Wright.

Yorkshire dialect, the accent of Yorkshire with some considerable variation between the north, south, east and west of the region.
Manchester dialect, the accent and dialect of Manchester and the surrounding area. 
Scouse – The accent and dialect of Liverpool, especially strong in Merseyside's working-class population.
Barrovian, the dialect spoken in Barrow-in-Furness in Cumbria.
Lancashire dialect refers to the dialect in the traditional county of Lancashire, outside Manchester, Liverpool and Barrow.
Brummie – The accent and dialect of Birmingham.
Potteries dialect, the accent and dialect of Stoke-on-Trent and surround Potteries area.
The Black Country dialect of the West Midlands, which is similar to but distinctive from Brummie.
Geordie – An accent and dialect of North-East England, particularly the Tyneside area.
 Mackem – An accent and dialect of Sunderland and surrounding areas.
West Country dialects – a variety of similar, yet noticeably different accents and dialects in the South West of England, such as the Bristolian dialect.
Cockney is traditionally the working-class accent of East London. It also has distinct variations in grammar and vocabulary.
The London accent is a more broadly defined working and lower middle class accent than Cockney.
Estuary English – A working-class and lower middle class accent from South-East England, basically a milder (closer to R.P.)  form of the London accent.  The term was commonly used in the media in the 1990s, although the media depiction was criticised by academics such as Peter Roach  and Peter Trudgill and the term is now less common.  In this region, there was previously Essex dialect, Kentish dialect, Sussex dialect and Surrey dialect, but these are now rarely heard except amongst very elderly residents.
Mockney is a term used in popular media for a deliberate affectation of the working-class London (Cockney) accent by middle-class people to gain "street credibility". However, phoneticians regard the infusion of Cockney features into Received Pronunciation among younger speakers to be a natural process.
 Multicultural London English (abbreviated MLE), colloquially called Jafaican, is a dialect (and/or sociolect) of English that emerged in the late-twentieth century, and is used mainly by young, inner-city, working-class people in inner London. It is said to contain many elements from the languages of the Caribbean (Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago), South Asia (Indian subcontinent), and West Africa, as well as remnants of traditional Cockney.
Norfolk English
Suffolk English