[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Pat Moylan (Cork hurler)

Pat Moylan is an Irish former hurler who played as a midfielder at senior level for the Cork county team.

Moylan joined the team during the 1970 championship and was a regular member of the starting fifteen until his retirement after the 1981 championship. During that time he won three All-Ireland medals, three Munster medals, two National League medals and one All-Star award.

At club level Moylan was a three-time All-Ireland medalist with Blackrock. In addition to this he has also won five Munster medals and five county club championship medals.

Playing career

Club

Moylan played his club hurling with Blackrock and enjoyed much success in hugely successful decade for the club.

In 1971 he lined out in his first senior decider as Blackrock faced St. Finbarr's. After a decade in the doldrums the Rockies were back and a 2–19 to 5–4 victory secured a championship medal for Moylan. Blackrock subsequently represented Cork in the provincial series of games and faced Moyne-Templetuohy in the decider. An impressive 4–10 to 3–1 victory gave Moylan a Munster medal. The subsequent All-Ireland decider pitted Blackrock against Rathnure. A high-scoring game followed, however, a narrow 5–13 to 6–9 victory gave Moylan an All-Ireland Senior Club Hurling Championship medal.

Blackrock surrendered their club, provincial and All-Ireland decider the following year, however, in 1973 Moylan lined out in a second county championship final. A 2–12 to 2–10 defeat of Glen Rovers gave him a second championship medal. A subsequent two-point defeat of Newmarket-on-Fergus in the provincial decider gave Moylan a second Munster medal. The subsequent All-Ireland final pitted Blackrock against Rathnure. A rousing draw was followed by a great replay. Superb late goals by Donie Collins and Éamonn O'Donoghue secured a 3–8 to 1–9 victory and a second All-Ireland medal for Moylan.

Once again back-to-back championship titles eluded the Rockies, however, a 4–11 to 0–10 defeat of Glen Rovers in 1975 gave Moylan a third championship medal. He later added a third Munster medal to his collection following a decisive 8–12 to 3–8 defeat of Mount Sion. Kilkenny's James Stephen provided the opposition in the subsequent All-Ireland final. Five points down at half-time, the Kilkenny club came storming back and defeated Moylan's side by 2–10 to 2–4.

It was 1978 before Moylan enjoyed his next success. A 4–12 to 1–7 defeat of Glen Rovers gave him a fourth championship medal. Once again the Rockies stormed through the provincial championship and defeated Newmarket-on-Fergus by two goals, giving Moylan a fourth Munster medal. The All-Ireland final saw Cork take on Kilkenny again. This time it was Blackrock versus Ballyhale Shamrocks. Ray Cummins scored two goals in rapid succession in the opening thirty minutes to put Blackrock in the driving seat. At the full-time whistle Blackrock were the winners by 5–7 to 5–5, giving Moylan a third All-Ireland medal.

A 2–14 to 2–6 defeat of St. Finbarr's in 1979 gave Moylan his fifth and final championship medal. It was the first time that Blackrock had won back-to-back championships in almost fifty years. He later picked up a fifth Munster medal following a 0–13 to 1–8 defeat of Dunhill.

Minor and under-21

Moylan first came to prominence on the inter-county scene as a member of the Cork minor hurling team in 1966. He made his debut in the provincial quarter-final that year and subsequently collected a Munster medal following a 6–7 to 2–8 defeat of Galway. Cork later faced Wexford in the All-Ireland decider, however, a high-scoring 6–7 apiece draw was the result. The replay was much more conclusive with Wexford claiming a 4–1 to 1–8 victory.

In 1967 Moylan added a second Munster medal to his collection in the minor grade following a 4–10 to 0–3 rout of Limerick. Cork later faced Wexford in the All-Ireland decider once again. A 2–15 to 5–3 victory gave Moylan an All-Ireland Minor Hurling Championship medal, while he also had the honour of collecting the cup as captain of the team.

Moylan progressed onto the Cork under-21 team in 1968 and enjoyed immediate success on one of the most successful teams of all-time in that grade. Tipperary were bested by 4–10 to 1–13 to secure a first Munster medal. Moylan was later at midfield for the All-Ireland decider against Kilkenny. A 2–18 to 3–9 victory gave him his first All-Ireland medal in that grade.

In 1969 Cork had an even more comprehensive victory over Tipp in the provincial decider and Moylan added a second Munster medal to his collection. Old rivals Wexford provided the opposition in the subsequent All-Ireland final and a high-scoring game ensued. A 5–13 to 4–7 victory gave Moylan a second consecutive All-Ireland medal.