[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Taftan (volcano)

Ammonium chloride (salmiak) and sulfur has been collected around fumaroles. The thick sulfur layers on the southeastern summit were formerly extracted for use in Iran and Pakistan. Sulfur and sulfate deposits are also found lower on the volcano, from hot springs around Gooshe, at Sangān and Torshāb.

Hot springs are also found at Taftan, especially at over  altitude. An analysis of five springs in May 2012 indicated temperatures of  and flow rates of . The waters are very acidic due to the formation of  from magmatic gases, including the oxidation of . The hot waters around Taftan contain large quantities of boron, probably because the hydrothermal system of Taftan is young and receives input of host rocks containing boron. They are influenced by the fumarolic gases, as well as by volcanic rock composition. Some of the water in the area is juvenile, with magmatic water forming up to 20% of the water. Temperatures in the hydrothermal system are estimated to be between  and . The composition of the water in various springs around Taftan varies in terms of elemental composition, probably reflecting the mixing between volcanic and meteoric waters and interaction with host rocks and brines. The geothermal area of Taftan is among the largest in the Makran zone of Iran; it covers a surface area of . Other geothermal manifestations in southeastern Iran have been found at Bazman. Mud pools are also found at Taftan. Probably due to decreased precipitation, before 2002 a trend to increased steam and decreased water release has been observed, especially in the upper part of the geothermal system.

Hot springs and other geothermal manifestations are widespread in Iran and using them to gain geothermal energy has been studied; according to a report of 2002 hot springs at that time were mainly used for therapeutic purposes and bathing. A report in 2002 indicated that Taftan may be a feasible place to install a binary cycle power plant.

Climate and vegetation
The climate at Taftan features cold winters accompanied by snowfall when temperatures drop below freezing between December and February, and hot summers with temperatures during July and August exceeding . Taftan is located in an arid locale but has more precipitation than the surrounding area, thus providing water to the surrounding terrain. Average precipitation is  per year.

Owing to the height of the mountain, there are distinct vegetation belts at Taftan. The lowlands around the mountain are covered with Artemisia steppe and occasional shrubland. Open scrubs occur in a higher altitude belt of  where the terrain is rocky, and thorn-cushion vegetation at elevations of ; there is little vegetation in the summit area. The summit of Taftan and several other Iranian volcanoes were deemed national natural monuments in 2002.

See also
 List of volcanoes in Iran
 List of Ultras of West Asia

References

Sources

External links

 "Kuh-e Taftan, Iran" on Peakbagger

Stratovolcanoes of Iran
Mountains of Iran
Mountaineering in Iran
Landforms of Sistan and Baluchestan Province
Pleistocene stratovolcanoes
Tourist attractions in Sistan and Baluchestan Province
Mountains of Sistan and Baluchestan Province