[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Flashman in the Great Game

ks) - A group of vigilantes led by James Rowbotham. All but Flashman are killed attempting to reach Cawnpore.
Mrs. Leslie - A woman attached to the Meerut garrison with whom Flashman, in his disguise as Makkaram Khan, has an affair. Killed by sepoys during the Meerut Massacre.

Historical characters

Indians
Rani Lakshmi Bai - Queen of Jhansi.  Flashman becomes acquainted with in a way other Westerners failed and ultimately seduces her.
Nana Sahib - One of the leaders of the Sepoy Mutiny.  Flashman meets him at the Siege of Cawnpore.
Tantya Tope - One of the leaders of the Sepoy Mutiny. Flashman meets him at the Siege of Cawnpore.
Azimullah Khan - One of the leaders of the Sepoy Mutiny. Flashman meets him at the Siege of Cawnpore.

British civilians

Queen Victoria
Prince Albert
Lord Palmerston - Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.  Flashman calls him both "an impatient old tyrant" and a "decent, kindly old sport at bottom".
Lord Ellenborough - Former Governor-General of India
Thomas Hughes, author of Tom Brown's School Days. Flashman meets him before the publication of that book, in which he is not portrayed in a complimentary manner.
Thomas Henry Kavanagh - The Irishman who slipped out of Lucknow in disguise and met up with Campbell to guide him in to relieve the besieged garrison. Flashman accompanies him and gets him out of a few jams along the way. Flashman considers him to be a blundering idiot, but also says "anyone who's as big a bloody fool as that, and goes gallivanting about seeking sorrow, must be called courageous."
Florence Nightingale - Flashman sits in at a meeting with her and Queen Victoria and answers her questions about soldiers and social infections.  He finds her attractive, but the presence of the queen keeps him from taking "a squeeze at her".
William Howard Russell, a reporter with The Times. Considered to be one of the first modern war correspondents.
Charles Wood - First Lord of the Admiralty

British soldiers

Sam Browne
Lord Cardigan. National hero, former commander of the Light Brigade during the Crimean War, and no friend of Flashman.
Colin Campbell - British General who relieves the Siege of Lucknow. Flashman says "he was an ugly old devil, with a damned caustic tongue and a graveyard sense of humour, but I never saw a man yet who made me feel more secure."
Lord Canning Governor General of India at the time of the Mutiny.
Henry Havelock - British General who recaptures Cawnpore. Flashman describes him as looking like "Abraham Lincoln dying of diarrhoea, with his mournful whiskers and bloodhound eyes".
James Hope Grant
Clement Walker Heneage
Harry Hammon Lyster
John Moore - British Major, killed in action at the Siege of Cawnpore.
General John Nicholson - Officer of the East India Company.  Flashman meets him on his way to Jhansi, and Nicholson insists on praying with him. Later, he is killed at Delhi.
Robert Napier
James Outram - British General who helps recapture Lucknow. Then he selects Flashman to accompany Thomas Kavanagh on his hazardous mission.
Lord George Paget
Fred Roberts
William Stephen Raikes Hodson
Hugh Rose
Mowbray Thomson - British officer at the Siege of Cawnpore. One of a handful of survivors of the Satichaura Ghat massacre, who escapes down the River Ganges with Flashman.
Hugh Wheeler - British General who commands the garrison during the siege of Cawnpore

Other
Nicholas Pavlovich Ignatieff - Flashman's nemesis from Flashman at the Charge. He turns up at Balmoral as a Russian diplomat.

External links

1975 British novels
Flashman novels
Novels about the Indian Rebellion of 1857
Novels about the Great Game
Barrie & Jenkins books
Cultural depictions of Rani Laxmibai
Cultural depictions of Henry John Temple, 3rd Viscount Palmerston
Cultural depictions of Queen Victoria
Cultural depictions of Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha
Cultural depictions of Florence Nightingale