[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War

13, Israel began implementing a land and sea blockade on Lebanon.  The Beirut International Airport (the sole international airport in Lebanon) was bombed, forcing all international flights to be diverted to Cyprus.  The Israeli army said the airport had been used to smuggle in weapons to Hezbollah.

Many roads and bridges were struck by Israel, essentially cutting off the predominantly Shia southern Lebanon from the Capital in Beirut.Warplanes also bombed the road to Damascus, the capital of Syria, and struck a bridge in a suburb south of Beirut, a place highly valued by Hezbollah. They also struck a power plant's fuel storage south of Beirut (but did not destroy the plant itself). People living in this region heard at least three strikes. No casualties were reported. However, the strike eventually resulted in the spilling of over 15,000 tons of heavy fuel oil, affecting  of coastline and threatening aquatic life and fishing. Israeli jets attacked two Lebanese military air bases, destroying runways which Israel claims were used by the Hezbollah to transfer supplies. Attacks against the Rayak air base in the eastern Bekaa Valley near the Syrian border and the Qulayaat military airport (also known as Kleyate or Rene Mouawad airport) in northern Lebanon were the first attacks against Lebanon's army in the conflict.

An unnamed senior IDF officer stated that the strikes were targeted against rocket launch sites and rocket storerooms, although, he said, many of them were intentionally located by Hezbollah in civilian population centers. An unnamed Lebanese official responded that "Hezbollah did not store arms in civilian areas." Air strikes were also carried out against outposts of Hezbollah. Israel had named the overall operation "Just Reward", and Maj.-Gen. Udi Adam of the Northern Command, says Israel has not ruled out sending ground forces into Lebanon.

Hezbollah declared an all-out military alert, and said it had 13,000 rockets capable of hitting towns and installations far into northern Israel. As a result, Defense Minister Peretz told commanders to prepare civil defense plans, and some 220,000 Israeli civilians spent the night in bomb shelters. Hezbollah continued to fire rockets at Israel, killing one Israeli civilian, a 40-year-old in Nahariya, and wounding 14 others. Another Israeli civilian, a 33-year-old man in Safed, later died from the wounds inflicted.

Hezbollah had threatened to hit the city Haifa, "if the southern suburbs and the city of Beirut are subjected to any direct Israeli aggression". Two rockets hit Haifa, hours after the threat. Hezbollah denied firing any rockets at the city. Israeli sources later reported that two rockets were fired from inside Lebanon. The attack is the first time rockets have hit so far south into Israel. One shock injury had been reported from these initial attacks on Haifa.

Twelve members of one Lebanese family were reported by Lebanese authorities to have been killed when Israeli planes bombed their home in the Lebanese village of Zibqine, near Tyre. According to the Lebanese government, in Dweir, a small village near Nabatiye, Israeli planes dropped a bomb onto the home of a local Shia Muslim cleric, killing him, his wife and eight of his children. Another family from that same village was also reported to have lost seven members following Israeli bombing. Israel intensified its response on Lebanon by attacking the Beirut International Airport and damaging three runways.

The Lebanese government called for a Cease-fire, claiming the Israeli response was "disproportionate", a view echoed by France and Russia. 35 Lebanese civilians are believed to have been killed.

Friday, July 14

The Israeli offensive into Lebanon continues, and for the first time the offices of Hezbollah are bombed. Hezbollah declares "open war".

The Israeli Sa'ar 5-class missile boat INS Hanit that was blockading the waters  off of the Lebanese coast was damaged in the stern after being hit by a C-802 anti-ship missile. Various sources are reporting that the missile is Chinese-made while others report that it was Iranian-made or procured from Iran, a charge which Iran denies.  It is known that China has provided Iran with this type of missile in the past. Early on there were mistaken reports that it had been hit by an unmanned aerial vehicle packed with explosives, and that there was no serious damage to the ship. Israel immediately recovered one sailor's body, and three more were found two days later.

An Egyptian civilian merchant ship, the Moonlight, was hit by a Hezbollah rocket, caught in the cross-fire as Hezbollah was firing on the Israelis. The ship was registered in Cambodia, but sailing under Egyptian flag, carrying several hundred tons of cement. The ship sank in minutes, but the Egyptian crew managed to board lifeboats and was picked up by another civilian vessel.  One crewman, however, was seriously injured.