[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Fourth Protocol (film)

al Govorshin
 Ronald Pickup as Wynne-Evans
 John Horsley as Sir Anthony Plumb
 Michael Bilton as Kim Philby
 Peter Cartwright as Jan Marais
 Aaron Schwartz as Gregoriev
 Mark Rolston as Russian Decoder
 Michael J. Jackson as Major Pavlov
 Matthew Marsh as Barry Banks
 Jerry Harte as Professor Krylov

Production
Michael Caine read the draft manuscript of the novel and suggested to Forsyth that they produce a film together. They hired George Axelrod to write a script and John Frankenheimer to direct, but were unable to raise finance. Axelrod and Frankenheimer left the project, Forsyth wrote the script himself and they got a new producer and director.

Locations 
Much of the film was shot in the Heelands district of Milton Keynes; the main house featured is on Tranlands Brigg, Heelands, Milton Keynes. Scenes set on the London Underground were shot at Charing Cross, Green Park, and Aldwych stations. Colchester Station was also used in one scene, with star Michael Caine filmed standing on the tracks.  For some of the interiors, rooms of King's College London on the Strand were used. The "RAF Baywaters" scenes were filmed at the now defunct RAF Upper Heyford as a take on the real life RAF Bentwaters. Filming also took place in Finland. Towards the end of the film, the car chase in Ipswich is actually shot in Chelmsford on the A1016 Chelmer Valley bypass which at the time was newly built. One shot shows helicopters flying under the Orwell Bridge which is often considered a local landmark.

Eastbourne Mews, W2, was used as the filming location for John Preston's (Michael Caine) house.

Differences from the novel 
 The film opens with the killing of Kim Philby, who has already planned the operation, because he knows too much. In the book, he remains a key figure. 
 The film begins with Preston breaking into Berenson's house to expose him as a traitor. In the novel, Jim Rawlings, a professional thief, robs Berenson's flat of jewellery. In the process, he discovers illegal copies of classified documents in a briefcase. As a patriotic citizen, he takes them and sends them anonymously to MI5. The character of Rawlings is omitted from the film and the side plot of the disposal of the stolen jewellery is not pursued. In the film, the jewellery is taken by Preston, and returned to Berenson by Irvine. In the novel, the jewellery is broken down by Rawlings's fence and later taken from the diamond polisher working for the fence after he is tortured and killed. Berenson's contacts have a replica made of the jewellery using zirconium stones and later permanently deposits them with his bank.
 The political plot of the book to enable the Labour Party to win the general election and allow for a communist takeover of the party was left out.
 The film removes a large section of the book in regard to Preston's investigation into Jan Marais in South Africa.
 The character of the assembler in the book is a man, although the surname is the same. He is killed by getting his neck broken in a forest rather than being shot in bed.
 In the novel, the Soviet sailor is attacked by street thugs and later commits suicide by jumping from the top floor of a hospital, while in the movie he is hit by a truck.
 In the book the story about Berenson is linked to the atomic plot because it provides a way for Irvine to send a false message to Karpov suggesting the operation is blown. Karpov, fearful of a scandal then sends Winkler, his worst agent, to help Preston find Petrofsky, hoping that in exchange Irvine will ensure any scandal will be suppressed. The theme is of backchannels between individuals in opposing intelligence services working to counter dangerous opportunism within their governments. The end of the film implies Irvine and Karpov have a much more cynical collaboration simply to help their careers.
 Sir Nigel Irvine is a much more positively-presented character in the book, where he supports Preston because he genuinely respects his abilities, has Petrofsky killed to undercut the KGB without going to war (in the book, Preston accepts this with mild disappointment instead of the sheer anger he shows in the film), and arranges for Preston to get lucrative private-sector work so he can win sole custody of his young son. 
 Brian Harcourt-Smith is arrogant in both the film and book, but the film ignores him in its last third. In the book, his mishandling of the situation with Petrofsky leads the senior MI-5 leaders to stop his appointment as Director-General, and he angrily resigns to take a job at a bank.

Reception

Box office
The film debuted at no. 4 at the box office with $3.6 million in ticket sales.

In the UK it made £766,413.

Critical response
Rotten Tomatoes retrospectively gave the film a score of 67% based on reviews from 21 critics.