[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hapoel Be'er Sheva F.C.

ich scored 71 goals).

In the 1978–79 season, the team finished ninth. In addition, she reached the quarter-finals of the State Cup for the sixth time in her history, following a 2–1 win over Hapoel Kfar Saba in the eighth-finals. In the quarterfinals she lost to Beitar Tel Aviv with a penalty kick.

The 1980s
Towards the 1979–80 season, Amatzia Levkovich returned to coaching the team, and was joined by the young Efraim Davidi of Maccabi Be'er Sheva. The team did not open the season well, and then gave Levkovich a chance to play with other young players. The number of duty gates, 27, was the lowest since the season of the first championship under Levkovich (1974–75), but the offense was deficient and the team rarely scored goals. The team finished in the tenth place in the table with only seven wins.

Towards the 1980–81 season, Eliyahu Offer returned to the coach position and opened the season well. However, just as the team scored more goals, it was also a great hit, and finished the season in 11th place.

In preparation for the 1981–82 season, the team appointed Shimon Shenhar, and the team opened the season with four losses, two draws and a win, leading to 15th and last place in the league. From the eighth round onwards, the team achieved a series of 11 cycles without loss. At the end of the 18th round, the team ranked in fourth place in the table, which they managed to keep until the end of the season. Be'er Sheva showed a good attacking ability during the season, scoring 43 goals and equaling the record for one season. King of the team's gates was Shalom Avitan with 14 goals. In addition, the team reached their semi-finals in the history of the State Cup, after beating Maccabi Netanya in the eighth round, 1–0, and in the quarterfinals they won 4–0 in Ramat Gan. In the semi-finals she met Hapoel Tel Aviv and lost 3 to 5 in the penalty kick after 2–2 at the end of the extension.

The fourth place in the league gave Be'er Sheva a ticket to the Lilian Cup, a tournament that was played in the 1980s. In preparation for the 1982–83 season, the team played in the tournament and won 3–1 against Maccabi Netanya. In this season, Be'er Sheva played a very good defensive ability and took only 23 duty gates, the lowest number of duty gates since the first season. Be'er Sheva finished third in the table, and the reigning king was again Shalom Avitan with 11 conquests.

In preparation for the 1983–84 season, Eliyahu Offer returned to the position of coach. The team played again against Maccabi Netanya in the Lilian Cup final and lost 2–3. In the league, the team failed to maintain stability, rocking throughout the season between mid-table and bottom, and finally finished seventh in the table. In addition, she reached the finals of the Israeli Cup for the first time in her history, after winning 4–2 in the quarterfinals of Hapoel Tel Aviv in a penalty shootout after a replay, and in the semi-finals she defeated Maccabi Netanya. In the final, the team lost 2–3 penalties to Hapoel Lod after 0–0 at the end of the extension.

In preparation for the 1984–85 season, Zvi Rosen was appointed coach of the team, who scored few goals and finished the season with the lowest number of conquests since the 1976–77 season, and faced the danger of a drop to the relegation. Three seasons to the end of the season, with a lag of 5 points from where they remain in the league, Rosen was fired and replaced by former teammate Jackie Dekel, who managed to keep the team in the top league.

In preparation for the 1985–86 season, Nahum Stelmach was appointed coach, and his assistant was appointed former player of the team Alon Ben Dor. This season, the team reached their final Toto Cup for the first time in their history, after beating Maccabi Tel Aviv 2–1 in the semi-finals. In the final she lost to Hapoel Petah Tikva 1–2. In the league, the team barely scored and finished the season with 24 goals, but also scored a low 24 points, the lowest since the 1969–70 season. Throughout the season the team wandered between the bottom and middle of the table, finally finishing eighth in the table.

In preparation for the 1986–87 season, Nino Bargig was appointed coach of the team, which started the season with two losses and a draw. Bargig was dismissed and replaced by Dror Bar-Nur. Under his defense, the team improved the defense game and finished with only 19 goals, but continued to harden the game and scored only 20 goals. The team's number of goals and goals was the lowest in its history in the first division. Throughout the season, she struggled with the bottom, finishing her 11th in the table.

In preparation for the 1987–88 season, the team appointed Nissim Bakhar as coach. During this season the team maintained a high defense capability and improved its offensive ability. The team finished third in the table and won the Lilian Cup for the third time since the tournament was established.