[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tamás Priskin

Tamás Priskin (; born 27 September 1986) is a Hungarian former professional footballer who played as a striker.

He spent most of his career in England, with Watford and Ipswich Town. His first season on arrival in 2006 was in the Premier League, and he spent the remainder in the Championship. Since his release from Ipswich in January 2012, Priskin has played in brief stints in Russia, Austria, Israel, Hungary and Slovakia.

A full international since 2005, Priskin has 63 caps and 17 international goals for Hungary.

Early life
Priskin was born in Komárno in Czechoslovakia to ethnic Hungarian parents. He joined the youth club of Győri ETO FC when he was 15 years old and received Hungarian citizenship in 2005 in addition to his Slovak passport. He is the elder brother of Győri ETO FC striker Imre Vankó.

Club career

Győr
Priskin made his debut for Győri ETO FC in the first Hungarian League on 23 April 2003 at the age of 16 years and 7 months. On 9 August 2006 he completed a move to Premier League club Watford on a four-year deal after impressing during a trial period, for an undisclosed fee.

Watford

2006–07 season
Priskin made his debut for Watford ten days after signing as they opened the season away at Everton. After coming on in the 79th minute for Darius Henderson, he set up Damien Francis, who scored the consolation in a 2–1 defeat at Goodison Park. His first goal for the club came on 24 October in a League Cup third round tie against Hull City at Vicarage Road, exploiting a Ryan France error to net the second in a 2–1 win for Watford's first normal-time victory of the season.

He made his first start on 30 December, lining up against Wigan Athletic on 30 December due to an injury to Hamer Bouazza. A minute before half time, he equalised by heading in Jordan Stewart's cross for his first Premier League goal, but referee Steve Tanner abandoned the match in the 56th minute due to heavy rain, and the match was made void.  In a goalless draw away to Fulham two days later, Priskin was sent off by referee Steve Bennett six minutes into stoppage time for two yellow cards.

Priskin's first official Premier League goal came on 9 April 2007 in a 4–2 win against Portsmouth at Vicarage Road, netting the third of the game in the 50th minute from Steve Kabba's cross. He scored a second twelve days later against Manchester City on 21 April, equalising in the 75th minute from Douglas Rinaldi's pass for a 1–1 home draw, which nonetheless saw his team relegated.

2007–08 season

With Watford back in the Championship in 2007–08 following relegation, Priskin only made sparse appearances, being kept out of the side by Marlon King, Henderson and new signing Nathan Ellington.

On 8 March 2008, having not played a league game for three months, Priskin signed on a month-long loan at fellow Championship team Preston North End, making his debut as a starter on the same day in a 2–1 win away at Charlton Athletic. He scored his first goal for Preston to open a home win of the same margin against Lancashire rivals Burnley two weeks later. In his last of five Preston matches, at Queens Park Rangers on 5 April, he came on at half-time for goalscorer Neil Mellor to double Preston's lead, but they conceded two added-time goals for a 2–2 draw. He returned to Watford at the end of the loan, playing more regularly than before and featuring as a substitute in both legs of their 1–6 aggregate defeat to Hull in the play-off semi-finals.

2008–09 season
Priskin's first goals of the season came on 18 October, two first-half strikes in a 3–0 win at Southampton. Three days later, in a home match against Cardiff City, Watford were 2–0 up when Priskin was sent off in the 29th minute for attacking Darren Purse, and eventually drew 2–2.

He also scored goals against Premier League sides Tottenham Hotspur in the League Cup and Chelsea in the FA Cup – the latter only two minutes after coming onto the pitch – although both games ended in a Watford defeat. On 27 January 2009, he replaced Will Hoskins in the 76th minute against Burnley and again scored within two minutes of entering the pitch, scoring a second in added time for a 3–0 home win. His improved performances came from November onwards under new manager Brendan Rodgers – during this time he scored most of his goals, established himself in the side, and became well known for his skill, pace, and deadly finishing.

Ipswich Town