[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Agiasos

his large religious celebration/market fair attracts many stall-holders who display their merchandize anywhere they can, and the shop-keepers advertise their local products such as halva, sour apples, pears as best they can, while the spicy fragrance of oregano and aromatic leaves of sage are there.

Many people are still awake when dawn breaks and the fresh morning breeze blows from the mountain. The festive atmosphere is unique for all those who happen to experience it.

On the feast day of Panayia, after the observance, the holy icon is circulated around the church.

Monuments - Sights

 The church of Panayia, a major tourist attraction on the island, is a three-aisle basilica, surrounded by high walls since it was once a monastery. Inside, in front of the iconostasis, on an inclined support stands the miracle working icon of Our Lady dating from the 4th century AD. It was brought to Agiasos from Jerusalem by the monk Aghathon the Ephesian. Directly above a silver gilt replica of the icon dating from the 12th century AD. A number of old icons dating from the Byzantine era are set on the ledges of the iconostasis. For more information about the Church, see “History of the village”.
 "The Garden of Our Lady" is a cool area with a lovely view of the village from below. Here stands the 600-year-old towering plane tree with its enormous branches, under which Eleftherios Venizelos is said to have danced.
 The chapel of "Holy Apostles" (Agii Apostoli), located inside the yard walls of the Church of Panayia is of remarkable architecture, and the chapel of the "life-giving source" (Zoodhochos Piyi), where, legend says, Aghathon the Ephesian, the monk who brought the miracle-worker icon of Panayia from Agiasos, built his hermitage during the Iconoclast times.
 The church of the Holy Trinity, the second largest church in Ayasos, is located in the Kampoudi area in the upper entrance of the village. Built in 1870, it is a replica of the Church of Panayia and other Basilicas of the 18th century. The church has many remarkable icons, some of which date back to the 17th century. Noteworthy is the small but elegant church bell tower.
The church's fair is held on the feast day of the Holy Spirit, marking the beginning of summer for all village activities. Access to the church is easiest by taking the upper entrance to the village, is found if you turn left at the crossroad leading to Megalochori.

 The Market Square lined with neoclassical style coffee houses ("kafeneio").
 The "Kasteli" is a magnificent verdurous height covered in pine trees at an altitude of , northwest of the town. Here stands two picturesque little church among flower gardens and vegetable patches, one of which is dedicated to the Archangel. Ruins of a medieval fortification can also be seen.
 Just before the ascent to Agiasos, there is the Reservoir of Karyni, plunged in perennial planes dating from the Roman times. One of these planes is a tourist attraction because of the enormity of its hollow.
 Folk Art Museum. The museum operates from January to December and is located in the Church yard. One of the exhibits is the life-size model of a room in a traditional house of Ayasos. The museum collections include fine works of folk art (embroidery, textile works, traditional costumes, old copperware etc.), old jewelry which are pilgrims’ offerings to the church (rings, bracelets, ear-rings, brooches, barrettes etc.), an old coin collection etc. An "Ayasotiki ghonia" (traditional corner of Agiasos) is exhibited at the Museum.
 Ecclesiastical Museum. The museum operates in the Church yard. Its collection items include: The Holy Rood made with wood from the True Cross, the sacred relics of the Saints, holy vessels, old hanging oil-lamps (18th century), a stole embroidered with gold (ecclesiastical vestment) (16th century), an embroidered epitaph of Panayia (Our Lady), embroidered testers (canopy over altar or pulpit) an old icon-stand, an old piece of Venetian furniture, etc.

Folk art

Ceramics 

The history of the art of ceramics in Agiasos is as old as the history of the town itself.

The arrival of the icon of Our Lady and the other relics to the island on the one hand, and the foundation of the monastery on the other, contributed to transforming Agiasos into a place of pilgrimage. This pilgrimage attracted thousands of believers, especially during the Turkish Rule. Thus, production of pottery such as water pitchers, plates, etc., in order to meet the demands of the throngs of devout Christians.

Nowadays, a new series of pottery products has been introduced; small fonts (receptacles for holy water) used by the pilgrims to transport the holy water to their homes and other clay knickknacks and souvenirs.