[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of smoking bans in the United States

vate residential apartment buildings, which range from complexes where smoking is entirely prohibited (whether inside private dwellings or outside) to those where certain sections of dwellings may be designated as smoking dwellings. Most California cities allow landlords to regulate smoking at will.

Alameda, January 2, 2012, banned in commercial areas, recreation areas (parks, trails beaches, sports fields), service areas (bus stops, ticket lines, ATMs), dining areas, public event spaces, entryways, and many workplaces including 90% of hotel/motel guest rooms, small businesses with fewer than five employees, tobacco shops, hookah bars, medical research sites, work vehicles, theatrical production sites, and all outdoor worksites. On January 1, 2013, the ban expanded to include all multi-unit housing.
Belmont, October 9, 2007, banned in parks and other public places, as well as inside apartments and condominiums.
Berkeley, March 26, 2008, banned on all commercially zoned sidewalks, and within  of a bus stop As of May 2014, banned in apartments and condos 
Beverly Hills, October 1, 2007, banned in all outdoor dining areas.
Burbank, April 2007, banned in most public places including Downtown Burbank, outdoor dining & shopping areas, parks, service lines, and within  of all building entrances/exits.
Calabasas, 2006, banned in all indoor and outdoor public places, except for a handful of scattered, designated outdoor smoking areas in town. Believed to be the strictest ban in the United States.
Davis, The Davis City Code prohibits smoking in a wide variety of locations open to the public.
El Cajon, August 14, 2007, banned on city streets, in outdoor patios in restaurants, and outside of the local shopping mall. Anyone caught smoking in public areas will faces a fine of up to $500. The city previously outlawed smoking in parks, and also requires businesses that sell tobacco products to obtain a city license.
El Cerrito, January 1, 2015, banned in all public places, commercial areas, and multi-unit residences and within 25 feet of any of these.
Escondido, in 2005, increased the state prohibition on smoking within  of an entrance to a public place to  outside city-owned buildings.  In 2009, the city, at the urging of local students, banned smoking in parks, city open spaces, and trails, including the parking areas for these city properties.
Glendale, October 7, 2008, banned smoking in/on and within  from: all city property (except streets and sidewalks); city vehicles and public transportation vehicles; city public transit stations; places of employment; enclosed public places; non-enclosed public places; and common areas of multi-unit rental housing. Some of the areas where smoking is prohibited are authorized to have smoking-permitted areas, subject to regulations. Also, landlords in Glendale are required to provide disclosure to a prospective renter, prior to signing a lease, as to the location of possible sources of second-hand smoke, relative to the unit that they are renting.
Hermosa Beach, March 1, 2012, banned at all of Hermosa's outdoor dining areas, the popular Pier Plaza, the city pier, the Strand, the greenbelt parkway, and all city parks and parking lots. Smoking already is outlawed on the city-owned beach.
Irvine has banned all smoking and vaping in all public places within the city.
Loma Linda, July 25, 2008, banned on all sidewalks, streets, common areas in shopping centers, bus stops, parks, restaurant patios, theaters, City Hall, and 80% of motel rooms and apartment units. Exempts the federally controlled VA hospital grounds, and smoking in cars traveling in the city.
Laguna Beach, California Bans smoking throughout the city including city beaches, parks, sidewalks, bike paths, alleys and in parking structures. The only places people are allowed to smoke are in inside homes and cars as of May 23, 2017 
Long Beach, California bans smoking in all city parks, at or within 20 feet of busstops, and at farmers' markets.
Los Angeles, 2007, banned in all city parks, and, 2011, all outdoor dining areas.
Marin County, May 23, 2012, banned in all condos and apartments, as well as all patios within residential units. Anyone caught smoking will face a $100 fine and will be sentenced to five days of community service. A second offense warrants a $300 fine and ten days of community service, and a third offense being $700 fine and fifteen days of community service. Landlords may opt out of smoking restrictions by designating 20 percent of their units reserved for smoking and may permit e-cigarettes to be used inside apartments and condos. All other outdoor areas, including bar and restaurant patios, and private homes that are not of multi-unit residences and smoking in cars are exempt from the ban.
Oakland, bans smoking within 25 feet of an entrance, exit, window, or air intake of the building of most enclosed places where smoking is prohibited (e.g., workplaces, service areas, common areas and no-smoking units of