[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fibrous joint

ysical examination findings that are often positive include the squeeze test and the external rotation test. Patients with high-grade syndesmosis injuries often cannot perform a single-leg heel raise. Patients report pain in varying degrees over the anterior and often posterior distal fibular joint.

Syndesmotic tear
The severity of acute syndesmosis injury is rated from grade I to III by several authors. A grade I injury is a partial anteroinferior tibiofibular ligament tear, meaning the exorotation and squeeze tests are negative for this grade. Grade II injury is a complete anteroinferior tibiofibular ligament and inferior interosseous ligament tear, meaning that squeeze test and exorotation are positive. This results in the injury being stabilized with immobilization but not operatively stabilized. A grade III injury is a complete anteroinferior tibiofibular ligament tear including a (partial) interosseous ligament tear and deltoid ligament avulsion, meaning the joint is unstable and positive on the exorotation and squeeze tests. This grade requires operative stabilization. If the syndesmosis is torn apart as result of bone fracture, surgeons will sometimes fix the relevant bones together with a syndesmotic screw, temporarily replacing the syndesmosis, or with a tightrope fixation, which is called Syndesmosis Procedure. The screw inhibits normal movement of the bones and, thereby, the corresponding joint(s). When the natural articulation is healed, the screw may be removed. The tightrope fixation with elastic fiberwire suture on the other hand allows physiologic motion of the ankle and may be permanent.

Gomphosis

A gomphosis, also known as a dentoalveolar syndesmosis, or 'peg and socket joint' is a joint that binds the teeth to bony teeth sockets in the maxillary bone and mandible. The fibrous connection between a tooth and its socket is a periodontal ligament. Specifically, the connection is made between the maxilla or mandible to the cementum of the tooth.

The motion of a gomphosis is minimal, though considerable movement can be achieved over time—the basis of using braces to realign teeth.  The joint can be considered a synarthrosis.

The gomphosis is the only joint-type in which a bone does not join another bone, as teeth are not technically bone.  In modern, more anatomical, joint classification, the gomphosis is simply considered a fibrous joint because the tissue linking the structures is ligamentous. It has been suggested that this permanent soft-tissue attachment was a critical requisite in the evolution of the mammalian (synapsid) tusk.

A gomphosis is a specialized fibrous joint in which a conical process or peg of one bone fits into a hole or socket in another bone.
(gomphos is a Greek word meaning bolt). Small quantity of fibrous tissue holds the bones together.
No movement is possible at such peg-and-socket joints.

References

External links 

 Age at Death Estimation from Cranial Suture Closures 

Cranial suture closure and its implications for age estimation
 Fibrous Joints from Douglas College

Joints
Skull

it:Articolazione#Sindesmosi