[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ruggero Santilli

to metalworking companies as an alternative to acetylene, and aspired to compete more broadly with natural gas.  As of 2018 two people had been killed and one person injured by MagneGas canisters; as of July 2018 the company was under investigation by OSHA as well as the US gas transport regulator.

In 2013, Santilli became involved with another publicly traded company called Thunder Fusion Corporation, formed when a publicly traded shell company acquired intellectual property generated by Santilli around fusion power that had been owned by Hyfuels. The company changed its name to Thunder Energies Corporation in 2014.  Thunder Energies said that it developed a telescope that could detect galaxies, asteroids and other objects in space that were made of antimatter, and in early 2016 Santilli announced that the company had taken pictures of otherwise invisible antimatter objects on Earth. Santilli claimed he was able to use the telescope—a standard, commercial telescope re-fitted with concave lenses, to view antimatter galaxies and images that he interpreted as invisible beings. He planned to sell the telescopes to amateur astronomers in America.

In 2016, Santilli sued Dutch mathematician and skeptic Pepijn van Erp, his webhost, and the chairman of Skepsis Foundation over blog postings in which van Erp had criticized Santelli's work as pseudoscience and ridiculous. The suit against the foundation's chairman was dismissed in August 2018 and shortly thereafter the suit against van Erp was settled.

In 2017 an article in Perspectives on Science described Santilli's Institute for Basic Research as follows: "The substance of the IBR's program is more directed at a Kuhnian rather than an institutional revolution but the readiness with which its supporters endorse the idea of a Jewish conspiracy could class it as having revolutionary intent and being norm violating. Its strong leadership style suggests pathological individualism and an emphasis on opposition to mainstream science."  It also noted, describing tendencies of advocates for fringe science: "...there is a surprising readiness to discuss the possibility that the resistance of the mainstream to fringe ideas is the consequence of mainstream cabals, particularly, a Jewish conspiracy. The website scientificethics.org, makes allegations of Jewish corruption and scientific gangsterism as a cause of the 'persecut[ion] of the Italian American scientist R. M. Santilli,' leading to the suppression of unorthodox scientific ideas, particularly those that conflict with 'organized Jewish interests on Einstein.'"

Selected publications

References

External links
</ref>

1935 births
21st-century American physicists
20th-century Italian physicists
Living people
American conspiracy theorists
University of Turin alumni
People from the Province of Isernia
University of Naples Federico II alumni
Fringe science