[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tail Concerto

ls for the theme songs to Solatorobo: Red the Hunter and Little Tail Story.

ReceptionTail Concerto received a 30 out of 40 from the staff of Famitsu, earning the publication's Silver Award, as well as a 77.5% average score from Dengeki PlayStation, based on individual reviews of 75, 85, 75, and 75.

The game received above-average reviews in the west according to the review aggregation website GameRankings. Peter Bartholow of GameSpot called attention to the Japanese import's "pleasant and light" presentation, deeming it "a 3D platformer perfect for gamers of all ages", but ultimately felt that it lacked challenge and was too short. Matt Helgeson of Game Informer similarly called the game charming and a "cute-fest" with "delightfully clumsy anime cutscenes", but that the gameplay was "nothing too complex or innovative." Adam Cleveland of IGN found Tail Concerto to be "a fun game that is just too short for its own good", calling attention to the game's "great graphics and sound effects", but added that it had little to offer older players who "will most likely require a little more complexity than this". He also felt that although the spoken dialogue was "very well done", the translation became "curiously awkward" as the story progressed, and that certain voice samples had a tendency to play over the wrong text. GamePros early review called it "a strange, appealing and above-all harmless game that manages to be fun despite its obscure story and oft-frustrating control." Jeff Lundrigan of NextGen advised the reader in his review to pick up the game "on the cheap, if possible, then gather some friends, get in the right frame of mind, and surprise them by throwing this in. You'll be a hit until at least the party is over, guaranteed."

Jeremy Parish of 1Up.com compared the game to the films of director Hayao Miyazaki in 2012, declaring that "CyberConnect2's Tail Concerto and its sequel Solatorobo -- drip with Ghibli style, perhaps more than any other game you can name". He would elaborate that the series "comes across as a combination of Laputa and Porco Rosso. With a serious-mindedness that belies its whimsical appearance, these games brilliantly embody the essence of Hayao Miyazaki's directorial ethos."

The game sold approximately 97,000 units in Japan, falling short of CyberConnect and Bandai's original goal, and would reach a grand total of around 150,000 units sold worldwide.

Legacy
Despite the low sales of the original game, CyberConnect were interested in creating a sequel as early as one year after Tail Concertos release. Company president Hiroshi Matsuyama proposed ideas for Tail Concerto 2 to Bandai in both 1999 and 2000, but was rejected both times since the publisher believed the franchise simply wasn't profitable, leading CyberConnect to instead focus on their then-upcoming .hack franchise. However, Matsuyama and his colleagues didn't give up, citing that Tail Concerto had fans all over the world and believed a follow-up could still find an audience. They re-proposed the idea in 2003 and 2004, with Bandai again refusing to greenlight the project due to its predecessor's low sales.

Despite a direct sequel never coming to fruition, CyberConnect and character designer Nobuteru Yūki returned to the world of Tail Concerto in 2005 with the creation of the character , a public safety mascot who first appeared in Fukuoka Prefecture's disaster-warning email program of the same name. The promotional materials for the program reveal that Mamoru-kun and his friends live in the country of "Nipon", which, along with Tail Concertos Prairie Kingdom, is part of a larger world called "Little Tail Bronx". In June 2007, CyberConnect2 released promotional artwork for a new video game, which was confirmed to be a spiritual successor to Tail Concerto called Solatorobo: Red the Hunter, which takes place in the same world, and was released for the Nintendo DS in 2010.

A mobile game set in the same universe, Little Tail Story, was released in 2014. Another game in the series titled Fuga: Melodies of Steel was announced as part of the Trilogy of Vengeance'' series, commemorating CyberConnect2's 20th anniversary. It was released in 2021 for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and PC via Steam.

See also
Cartoon animal
Mecha

References
Notes

References

External links
Official website at CyberConnect2 

1998 video games
3D platform games
Action-adventure games
Atlus games
Bandai games
CyberConnect2 games
Little Tail Bronx
Platformers
PlayStation (console) games
PlayStation (console)-only games
Steampunk video games
Video games about cats
Video games about dogs
Video games about mecha
Video games about police officers
Video games developed in Japan
Single-player video games