[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

turn them against Hezbollah. The report also states that Israel to preserve the principle of proportionality, even if the destroyed objects could serve a dual purpose. It called for an independent and impartial inquiry appointed by UN, to investigate alleged war crimes by both Hezbollah and Israel.

Human Rights Watch
A press release by Human Rights Watch issued on 3 August accuses Israeli forces of "hav[ing] systematically failed to distinguish between combatants and civilians in their military campaign against Hezbollah in Lebanon".  In a 50-page report, the human rights organization analyzed almost two dozen cases of Israeli air and artillery attacks on civilian homes and vehicles. "The pattern of attacks shows the Israeli military’s disturbing disregard for the lives of Lebanese civilians," said Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch. "Our research shows that Israel’s claim that Hezbollah fighters are hiding among civilians does not explain, let alone justify, Israel’s indiscriminate warfare."

The "Indiscriminate Bombing in Lebanon [is] a War Crime"

International Red Cross
The International Committee of the Red Cross stated that they have "serious questions" regarding the actions of Israeli forces in Lebanon. ICRC director of operations Pierre Kraehenbuehl stated at a press conference in Geneva that "The high number of civilian casualties and the extent of damage to essential public infrastructure raise serious questions regarding respect for the principle of proportionality in the conduct of hostilities." The ICRC is responsible for protecting the Geneva Conventions, which discuss the rules of war. The IRCR stated that these rules not only apply to Israel, but also to Hezbollah militants

According to Democracy Now!, "The International Committee of the Red Cross also criticized Israel for killing so many civilians and for destroying much of Lebanon’s public infrastructure."

Reactions by communities and citizens

Australia
On 22 July 2006, between 10,000 and 20,000 Sydney residents, mostly of Lebanese & Arab heritage, flocked onto George Street in the city's CBD.There was a huge police presence, including riot police, mounted police, dog squads and helicopters. Arab communities have not mobilised in this scale for years in this rally organised by 30 community organisations and the Stop The War Coalition. Similar protests were also held in other major cities across Australia. In Melbourne, there were 10,000, in Brisbane 500 and in Canberra 300. Slide show here of rallies

On 19 July, about 2000 members of Sydney's Jewish community held peace vigil and service at the Sydney Great Synagogue.

On 29 July, between 200 and 400 protestors in support of Lebanon and Palestinians marched in Perth, Western Australia.  The rally had been organised by the Perth Peace Group and Socialist Alliance with the aim of a peaceful protest. After marching through the Central Business District (CBD), the rally moved to the Sheraton hotel where John Howard was giving a keynote address to the Western Australia Liberals state conference. As Howard exited the building protesters gathered in numbers, and chanted "Shame" and "We want peace,"  with some protestors surging towards his car.  Light scuffles broke out, followed by two arrests. A follow-up rally was held in solidarity outside of the East Perth police watch house, protesters dispersed shortly afterwards.

Azerbaijan
An anti-Israeli protest of 70 people was held in the Azerbaijani town of Nardaran.  The protestors burnt flags of Israel and the United States, chanting slogans condemning Israel. The protests also targeted other states supporting Israel, and expressed support for Hezbollah.  Local resident Haji Alikram Aliyev declared of the government, "They do not fear Allah but Jews. We cannot keep silence in this case or else it will be betrayal," he said.  Haji Hajiaga Nuri, leader of the Azerbaijan Islamic Party declared "Azerbaijani parliament should follow the Turkish parliament and abolish the Israel-Azerbaijan friendship commission." A demonstration outside the Israeli Embassy was planned for 9 August.

Belgium
There has also been a demonstration in Brussels against Israel's military actions.

The families of the kidnapped Israelis met with European Union parliament members in Brussels to appeal for help in obtaining a sign of life from their loved ones. Thousands rallied in Brussels for Israel and demanding the release of the abducted soldiers.

Brazil
There are programmed (and one already have happened) two demonstrations in São Paulo against Israel.

Canada

In Montreal, Canadians protested against Israel and against Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper near the Israeli consulate, while supporters of Israel praised Harper.