[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# WMAC Masters

when the latter almost fell off the rotating platform).  Despite the interference, Red Dragon won the match and retained his title. Later, Jamie Webster (Great Wolf) began to have premonitions about the Dragon Star either disappearing or otherwise being a fake and the role Jukido would play in this.

On the women's side, Sophia Crawford (Chameleon) defeated both Mer-Mer Chen (Princess) and Christine Rodrigues (Lady Lightning) to win the Dragon Star.  When she went to claim her prize, she found the Dragon Star replaced with red dragon crest of Jukido and screamed in horror, validating Great Wolf's visions.  Wizard, along with Olympus, The Machine, Tiger Claw and Superstar, figured out that Tracer and Warlock were behind the theft, but were convinced there was a third member of the group.  They originally suspected Chameleon of being that third member, but realized that she was innocent; not only was her terror at seeing the Jukido crest instead of the Dragon Star genuine, but Superstar had also previously overheard her reject Tracer's offer to be part of "the team."  Jukido members Tracer and Warlock were definitely part of the plot to steal the Dragon Star, but, unbeknownst to all until the very end (and only to the viewers), so was Hien Nguyen (Tsunami); he brought the Dragon Star to a helicopter, where Tracer and Warlock awaited him.  Great Wolf's visions, however, portrayed Tsunami as a hero who recovers the Dragon Star for the WMAC, so Tsunami's true role in the plot remains a mystery and a topic for debate amongst the fandom.

Episodes

2.1: Showdown: Part 2: The masked ninja escapes before his identity is discovered. As a new Super Challenge is fought, accusations are thrown at Star Warrior. The ending reveals that Warlock and the newest Master, Tracer, are secretly working together to destroy WMAC.
2.2: Dragon Star Rematch: Superstar and the Machine's rematch is marred by an earthquake. Meanwhile, the Masters put Star Warrior on trial as the masked ninja.
2.3: Ladies' Night: Lady Lightning hopes a new outfit gets her confidence back after losing the Dragon Star. Meanwhile, Star Warrior feels resentment towards his brother, Superstar, for doubting him during the masked ninja controversy.
2.4: Fired Up: Red Dragon prepares to go for full Dragon Belt status as Olympus shows off a unique weapon.
2.5: Wizard and Warlock: A new Master called Wizard arrives with Warlock revealing him as his estranged brother, whom he tells the Masters is part of an evil martial arts organization known as Jukido; however, Wizard tells the Masters that it's the other way around and that Warlock has been lying to them all. Red Dragon defeats The Machine for the Dragon Star. At the end of the episode, Warlock has Wizard ambushed by ninjas.
2.6: Battle of the Brothers: Tiger Claw saves Wizard from his attackers, the man sharing a clue before passing out. Meanwhile, Star Warrior and Superstar overcome their mistrust issues as the other Masters investigate the attackers.
2.7: Bad Blood: The issues of the attacks and mistrust cause tension between the Masters, especially during their preliminary matches.
2.8: Super Challenge III: Another Super Challenge gives Warlock the chance to attain full Dragon Belt status. Turbo and Star Warrior embark on a series of strange challenges against each other following Turbo's Battledome loss to Star Warrior in the previous episode.
2.9: Mixed Doubles: A special match of male/female Masters is made while Warlock challenges Red Dragon for the Dragon Star. Meanwhile, Wizard returns to the WMAC following his brutal Battledome beating at the hands of the Jukido warriors a few weeks ago.
2.10: Name of the Game: The Masters play with a program that creates anagrams of names. Star Warrior and Turbo settle their feud while Black Widow reveals she is retiring as Dragon Star champion, perhaps giving Jukido the opening they have been looking for.
2.11: Vision of Evil: Part 1: Great Wolf shares a nightmare he had of the Dragon Star being stolen and fears the day's match-ups will prove it true.
2.12: Vision of Evil: Part 2: In a special 3-way match, Chameleon wins the Dragon Star but a bizarre statue shows up instead, thus confirming Great Wolf's fears. The Masters finally realize who is behind the plot unfolding all this time, as Wizard finally exposes his brother's true intentions to the Masters.
2.13: The Turning Points of the Masters: A recap of the personal flashbacks of the Masters.

Production
The first 13 episodes of the first season cost $5.5 million.

Cancellation