[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Battle of Pickett's Mill

Infantry Regiment, and it drove back some of the Federals who were pressing the cavalry. Next, Cleburne deployed Lowrey's brigade on Granbury's right flank where it repelled more of Hazen's troops. Unfortunately for Hazen and his men, no units from Johnson's division appeared to support his attack.

With his soldiers taking heavy losses and running low on ammunition, Hazen frantically sent messages to his superiors asking for reinforcements. No help came and neither Wood nor Howard ever explained why. After 50 minutes, the Union survivors spontaneously withdrew; Hazen made no effort to stop them. Finally, with Hazen's attack completely spent, Wood ordered Gibson's brigade forward, thinking that "a second effort might be more successful". Gibson's men were stopped by the same intense rifle and artillery fire. Johnson's 1st Division, XIV Corps was made up of the brigades of William Carlin (1st), John H. King (2nd), and Benjamin F. Scribner (3rd). Scribner's brigade finally showed up on Gibson's left, but was quickly pinned down by enfilade rifle fire from Kelly's dismounted cavalrymen. On Gibson's right, McLean's troops displayed no activity, so Key's Arkansas Battery and another artillery unit swung their guns to the right and blasted Gibson's hapless soldiers.

 
Captain Cyrus Askew of the 15th Ohio Infantry Regiment went to the rear to ask for reinforcements and found Wood and Gibson. After Howard rode up and asked Askew for a report, a shell landed nearby. Howard threw up the stump of his amputated arm and shouted, "I am afraid to look down". It turned out that a shell fragment knocked off the heel of Howard's boot, but his foot was not maimed as he feared. Even so, Howard's foot was badly bruised, leaving him unable to walk or ride a horse. Meanwhile, after an hour of futile attempts to capture the ridge, Gibson's troops pulled back. They joined Hazen's men in the rear who were complaining that they had been "sold out". At 6 pm, Howard received a message from Thomas, saying that Sherman canceled the attack at 5:15 pm  and ordered him to only defend. Howard ordered Wood to send Knefler's brigade forward to hold the Confederates in check until entrenchments were dug. Knefler's brigade advanced at 6:30 pm and blundered into the ravine where it was struck by intense fire. Pulling back, Knefler's men plus the 37th Indiana and 78th Pennsylvania Infantry Regiments from Scribner's brigade took a position where they exchanged fire with the Confederates until nightfall.

After dark, Knefler's men went forward to retrieve as many wounded Union soldiers from the ravine as possible. Among other casualties, Johnson was grazed by a shell and handed command of his division to King. At 10 pm Knefler got the order to pull back, since the defense line was completed. At the same time, Granbury ordered his men to charge into the ravine to drive off any remaining Union soldiers. In the pitch dark, few soldiers were hit by bullets, but Granbury's Texans captured numerous Federals and chased others away. Then Granbury's troops fell back to the ridge. That night, a veteran of many battles from the Texas brigade was assigned to picket duty in the ravine. At dawn, he was so sickened by the carnage that he had to leave. He noted that many of the Federal gunshot victims were struck in the head.

Aftermath

Cleburne's division reported sustaining 448 casualties, mostly in Granbury's brigade. The Union soldiers suffered a loss of 1,600 killed, wounded, and missing. The American Battlefield Trust estimated losses at 500 Confederate and 1,600 Union. Normally, the killed-to-wounded ratio in Civil War battles was one-to-five. In this battle, the number of killed in Wood's division was extraordinarily high, probably because many of the dead were shot repeatedly. The Confederates found one corpse with 47 bullet holes. Hazen's brigade lost 467 casualties, Gibson's brigade lost 681, and Knefler's brigade lost 250, mainly prisoners. Scribner's brigade lost 125 of which 102 were from the 37th Indiana and 78th Pennsylvania. About 70 wounded and 140 unwounded Union soldiers were captured by the Confederates. Georgia State Parks credited Union forces with 14,000 troops and Confederate forces with 10,000 soldiers.

Cox acknowledged that Wood's troops were assailed by fire from Cleburne's division in front, Hindman's division on their right, and cavalry on their left. Even so, Cox believed that if Johnson had ordered Scribner to push straight on, while fending off the Confederate cavalry with another one of his brigades, the attack might have succeeded. Cox admitted that some "mistake" prevented McLean's brigade from having any effect. Castel pointed out that a crack Confederate brigade on favorable terrain, supported by two more brigades, dismounted cavalry, and artillery, could be expected to repulse two Union brigades attacking piecemeal.