[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nikolai Pukhov

ometers. On 26 August 1944, Pukhov was promoted to Colonel General. During the final stage of the war in 1945, the army fought in the Vistula–Oder Offensive, the Sandomierz–Silesian Offensive, the Lower Silesian Offensive, the Upper Silesian Offensive, the Berlin Offensive, and the Prague Offensive.

Postwar 
Postwar, Pukhov continued to command the 13th Army, and in June 1946 became the first commander of the 8th Mechanized Army in the Carpathian Military District. In February 1948, he was transferred to command the Odessa Military District. After graduating from Higher Academic Courses at the Military Academy of the General Staff in 1952, Voroshilov became commander of the North Caucasus Military District in April 1953 before being transferred to command the West Siberian Military District in November of that year. He continued to command the Siberian Military District when it was recreated after the merger of the East and West Siberian Military Districts on January 4, 1956. In June 1957, Pukhov became the chief Soviet advisor to the Romanian People's Army. He died in Moscow on March 28, 1958, and was buried at the Novodevichy Cemetery. His unfinished memoirs were posthumously published in 1959 by Voenizdat as "Годы испытаний" or Years of Trials in English.

Legacy 
Streets in Donetsk, Chernigov, and Kaluga were named for Pukhov. A memorial plaque dedicated to him was located in Kaluga. In June 2006, a monument to Pukhov was unveiled in Zhitomir, the former headquarters of the 8th Mechanized Army.

Awards and honors 
Pukhov was a deputy of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union at its 3rd and 4th convocations. He was awarded the following awards and decorations:
 Hero of the Soviet Union (Gold Star No. 1799)
 Order of Lenin (4)
 Order of the Red Banner (3)
 Order of Suvorov, 1st class (2)
 Order of Bogdan Khmelnitsky, 1st class
 Virtuti Militari (Poland)
 Order of the Cross of Grunwald (Poland)
 Czechoslovak War Cross 1939–1945
 Order of the Republic (Tuvan People's Republic)

References

Citations

Bibliography

External links
 Nikolai Pavlovich Pukhov
 

1895 births
1958 deaths
People from Kaluga Oblast
People from Peremyshlsky Uyezd
Communist Party of the Soviet Union members
Third convocation members of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union
Fourth convocation members of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union
Second convocation members of the Verkhovna Rada of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic
Third convocation members of the Verkhovna Rada of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic
Soviet colonel generals
Imperial Russian Army officers
Military Academy of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Soviet Union alumni
Russian military personnel of World War I
Soviet military personnel of the Russian Civil War
Soviet military personnel of World War II
Heroes of the Soviet Union
Recipients of the Order of Lenin
Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner
Recipients of the Order of Suvorov, 1st class
Recipients of the Order of Kutuzov, 1st class
Recipients of the Order of Bogdan Khmelnitsky (Soviet Union), 1st class
Recipients of the Order of the Cross of Grunwald, 1st class
Knights of the Virtuti Militari
Recipients of the Czechoslovak War Cross
Burials at Novodevichy Cemetery