[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dienst Speciale Interventies

the AT of the Brigade Speciale Beveiligingsopdrachten (BSB) of the Royal Marechaussee, is provided to the DSI and partakes in all operations as well due to the complete interoperability. An AT consists of one Team Commander, four Section Commanders, the team operators and administrative personnel. 

The primary task of the Arrest Teams is to conduct the arrests of high-risk individuals, for which regular police personnel is inadequately trained and equipped. The planned AT cases are often the final chapter of a criminal investigation. In addition to the execution of planned raids, ATs can respond to ad hoc cases such as terrorist incidents or disturbed persons. For example, the DSI allocates AT operators to the Rapid Response Teams (RRTs). The RRTs patrol the large cities and specific high-risk locations throughout the Netherlands on a 24/7 basis, and each consist of three AT operators in an armoured vehicle. The RRTs are the first DSI unit on-scene of a violent (terrorist) incident. Working as an operator within one of the ATs is a full-time job. When operators are not working AT cases or RRT shifts, they are training their physical fitness, techniques and procedures and their respective team specialisation.

Intervention Department 

The Intervention Department (Dutch: Afdeling Interventie, AI) is a mixed unit consisting of both law enforcement and military operators, which main tasks are to conduct the arrest of terror suspects and organised crime figures, and to neutralise ongoing terror attacks. The mixed unit consist of approximately one third operators of M-Squadron (NLMARSOF) and the Korps Commandotroepen, one third operators of the police ATs and one third AT operators of the BSB. Operators of these units are attached to the Intervention Department for a period of time and are required to complete the AT and National Intervention Course beforehand.

In addition to the planned raids the unit conducts, the AI maintains several strategically located operating bases for the Quick Reaction Force {QRF). The QRFs consist of robust teams of Intervention Department operators – these teams are larger, more heavily equipped and contain more specialists (such as snipers) than the Rapid Response Teams. The QRF teams are on-call 24/7 and respond to actual instances of terrorist incidents or other violent cases that require an intervention. Moreover, the Intervention Department can utilise the Quick Reaction Air (QRA) concept, which provides the DSI with three AgustaWestland AW139 helicopters of the Dienst Luchtvaartpolitie, to allow for a quick response time throughout the country.

Expertise and Operational Support Department 
The Expertise and Operational Support Department (Dutch: Afdeling Expertise & Operationele Ondersteuning, AE&OO) provides operational support to all units within the DSI. This includes police negotiators, snipers and technical experts (e.g. drone operators).

M-Squadron 
M-Squadron is part of NLMARSOF, the special operations forces of the Netherlands Marine Corps, and is formally not part of the DSI. However, during national deployments M-Squadron operates under the command of the DSI. M-Squadron is the tip of the spear counterterrorist unit in the Netherlands and tasked with conducting large-scale, prolonged and complex interventions, such as ships, oil platforms, trains and airliners. As a marine unit, M-Squadron has extensive expertise in maritime environments.

Equipment

Personal equipment 

While the various DSI units all have specific equipment for their respective tasks, some personal equipment can be seen with all units. All operators that are active within the DSI wear the same grey uniforms and equipment, and wear the 'Politie' patch on their chests and backs, this applies to military personnel as well. The choice for the colour grey has multiple reasons. The predominant reason is to advance the image of the DSI and to increase esprit de corps. Moreover, the DSI can be easily distinguished from other specialised law enforcement tactical units while the grey gear also complicates police impersonation. Lastly, the colour grey signifies the character of a mixed unit, situated between the 'blue' (law enforcement) and 'green' (military) worlds. 

Each DSI operator is provided with a ballistic helmet, model Ulbrichts Zenturio, which is fitted with an armoured glass visor that can withstand multiple 9mm rounds. In addition, all operators are provided with a lightweight Ops-Core FAST SF Super High Cut helmet that enables more freedom of movement and situational awareness. Furthermore, DSI operators are given a heavy bulletproof vest as well as a lighter plate carrier (model First Spear AAC). Much of the DSI's personal equipment is customised and/or tailor-made for the service's specific needs and requirements. All operators are trained to use night-vision goggles, the DSI fields PVS-31 and GPNVG-18 goggles. Pointmen have access to multiple types of ballistic shields.