[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Francis Martin O'Donnell

rest, O'Donnell as United Nations Resident Coordinator, and following an earlier call to deepen democracy and liberalise the economy, exceptionally issued an advisory statement of principles on behalf of the UN Country Team, followed by a visit by former Estonian President Arnold Rüütel on 23 April.

O'Donnell called for greater awareness of the Holocaust, and decried discrimination against Jews, Muslims, migrants and minorities in many countries. He was also instrumental in tackling racism and xenophobia in Ukraine, by organising regular consultations with the representatives of diplomatic missions and international organisations and jointly bringing this issue to the attention of Government. An ambassadorial working group was formed and a Diversity Initiative, under the leadership of the IOM and UNHCR, was established to provide a forum for developing anti-discrimination policies. As a result of concerted efforts, the Government stepped up its response to this challenge; an official repudiation of racism by President Viktor Yushchenko issued; the Government adopted an Action Plan on Counteraction to Racism; and the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) established a special unit to counteract xenophobia and intolerance. Policy advice was provided and best practices from European countries was shared with Government.  There was a wide-scale information campaign, including broadcasting of public service announcements.

Simultaneously serving as UNDP resident representative in Ukraine, O'Donnell also oversaw the establishment and implementation of the large EU Border Assistance Mission between Moldova and Ukraine, which brought about substantial improvements in border management, including a curtailing of human trafficking, illicit weapons and other contraband smuggling, and corruption.  He also coordinated UNDP co-operation under the BUMAD programme with Ukraine, Moldova and Belarus, to reduce illicit drug traffic. O'Donnell drew attention to the negative impact of endemic corruption in Ukraine, on co-operation with its development partners. He also launched a major programme for women's and children's rights, in collaboration with the EC, Council of Europe, and ILO.
The First Lady of Ukraine, Kateryna Yushchenko, in her farewell, thanked Mr. O'Donnell for his work in Ukraine and co-operation with her Ukraine 3000 Foundation. She credited him that UN institutions repeatedly rendered support to the Foundation's initiatives related to education and culture.  Also in 2007, the Ukraine 3000 International Charitable Foundation joined the United Nations Global Compact.

Ambassadorship
On completion of O'Donnell's three years' mission as Ambassador of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta to the Slovakia, the Deputy Prime Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Miroslav Lajčák emphasised O'Donnell's contributions in favour of endangered and marginalised groups of people, and in protecting vulnerable groups such as the Romani people, supporting the integration of Roma children into the school system. O'Donnell was awarded Slovakia's Golden Medal on 1 March 2013. The award was made in recognition of his personal contribution to the development of relations between the Sovereign Order and the Slovak Republic.

Clans of Ireland
O'Donnell served as a director and board member of Clans of Ireland, the independent permanent authority established in 1989 to authenticate and register Irish Clans and historical families, under the patronage of the President of Ireland, and also served on the Council of its Order of Merit, latterly as its Chancellor, until the completion of his term in April 2015. As delegate of the Clan O'Donnell of Tyrconnell, he represented his Clan in 2012, 2013 and 2014 in the annual Parade of Clans at the Mansion House, Dublin. He was a keynote speaker at the O'Donnell Clan Gathering of 5–9 August 2013 in County Donegal, and presented research on the topic of the Ardfert expedition of 1601, as well as on a branch of O'Donnells who were Counts in France until extinct in 1879. In May 2013, on the occasion of the repatriation of the remains of the last reigning royal family of Yugoslavia, accorded a State Funeral by Serbia, O'Donnell laid a wreath at the cask of the late King Peter II of Yugoslavia, in his capacity as delegate of the Clans of Ireland and on behalf of Ireland's ancient royal and noble clans and historic families