[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Domestic policy of the Surayud Chulanont government

The domestic policy of Surayud Chulanont as Prime Minister of Thailand affected the Thai economy, human rights, education, and numerous other areas.  Appointed Prime Minister by a military junta that overthrew the government of Thaksin Shinawatra, he has been praised for his efforts to reverse the policies of the Thaksin government and to reduce the role of foreigners in the Thai economy.  However, his policies have been controversial, and he been accused of economic mismanagement, rampant human rights abuses, and allowing the escalation of the South Thailand insurgency.

New constitution
The junta's 2006 Interim Constitution authorized it to appoint a 2,000 person National Assembly which would select members to become candidates for a Constitution Drafting Assembly.  From the onset of his appointment as Premier, Surayud Chulanont was urged by academics to override the junta's control of the constitution drafting process.  Surayud eventually gave the junta a free hand in drafting the constitution.

The junta had originally promised to draft a permanent charter within eight months and to hold elections in October 2007.  However, the Prime Minister's Office Minister Thirapat Serirangsan later announced that elections might not occur until one year and five months.

Thaksin Shinawatra
Surayud warned deposed Premier Thaksin Shinawatra several times against returning to Thailand, calling his return "a threat". During a November 2006 trip to China for the ASEAN-China Summit, Surayud refused to meet Thaksin, who was also in China at the time. Surayud later denied Thaksin the opportunity to return to Thailand to contest in eventual elections, and said that the appropriate time for him to return would be "after a year," when a newly elected government was already in place.

Thaksin's diplomatic passport was revoked by the Foreign Ministry on 31 December 2006 after the government claimed he had engaged in political activities while in exile.  Thai embassies were ordered not to facilitate his travels.  Traditionally, all former prime ministers and foreign ministers of Thailand were permitted to hold on to their diplomatic passport for life.

Thaksin later publicly announced that he was quitting politics.  Surayud's Defense Minister later announced that the junta would refuse Thaksin's reconciliation offer, claiming that Thailand was being threatened by "ill-intentioned people" and capitalism.

Telecommunications
 The planned merger of state-telecom companies TOT and CAT.
 The cancellation of plans to list TOT, CAT, and Thai Post on the Stock Exchange of Thailand.
 The cancellation of the Thaksin government's telecom excise tax policy.  The Thaksin government imposed an excise tax on privately offered fixed and cellular services, and then allowed telecom companies to deduct the amount they paid in excise tax from concession fees they had to pay to state concession owners TOT or CAT Telecom.  The total amount paid by the private telecom firms did not change.  The Surayud government's excise tax cancellation meant that TOT and CAT Telecom would receive their full concession payments.  However, TOT and CAT were then forced to increase their dividends to the Ministry of Finance to account for their increased income.
 Changing the publicly listed state-enterprise media company MCOT's policy from focusing on monetary benefits to social benefits. MCOT's stock prices dropped 5.13% to an 11-month low as a result.

Culture
 The planned ban against all forms of advertising for alcoholic beverages.
 The banning of all "sexually arousing dances" (locally called "coyote dances") during the Loy Kratong festival.

Public health
 Making the 30-baht universal healthcare program completely free. The Budget Bureau criticized the move. The government later cut the universal healthcare program budget by over 3.8 billion baht, providing a subsidy of just 1,899 baht per head, compared to the previously proposed figure of 2,089 baht.  The number of eligible people was cut from 48 to 46 million people.
 License the production and sale of patented HIV and heart disease drugs without the permission of the foreign patent owners.  Lack of public health budget was cited as the reasons for breaking the patents.  "It has stunned our industry," said the President of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association (PReMA).  The Minister of Public Health claimed that pharmaceutical industry was reaping "colossal" profits.  Under World Trade Organization rules, a government is allowed to break patents under after declaring a "national emergency." Breaking the patents of Abbott's HIV treatment Kaletra and Sanofi-Aventis' blood clot drug Plavix was estimated to save Thailand US$24 million a year.