[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Benjamin Holmes (Canadian politician)

ment, abolished the two provinces and their separate parliaments, and created the Province of Canada, with a single parliament for the entire province, composed of an elected Legislative Assembly and an appointed Legislative Council. The Governor General retained a strong position in the government.

In the first general election of 1841, Holmes was elected unopposed to the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada as one of two members for the city of Montreal, alongside George Moffatt, another Montreal businessman. A firm supporter of the union of the Canadas, Holmes initially was a member of the British Tory group from Canada East (as Lower Canada was now known), and a supporter of the Governor General, Lord Sydenham.  However, over the course of the four annual sessions of the Parliament, Holmes gradually shifted towards the coalition of Reformers and the French-Canadian Group, and away from supporting the governor general.  The major showdown between Governor General Sir Charles Metcalfe and the Reform ministry of Louis-Hippolyte LaFontaine and Robert Baldwin came in 1843, over the implementation of responsible government. The Lafontaine-Baldwin ministry resigned.  Holmes was one of the co-sponsors of a resolution in the Legislative Assembly, supporting the outgoing Reform ministry and calling on the Governor General to respect the principle of responsible government.  From his initial Tory position, he had shifted to a moderate independent position, and ended the last session as a member of the reform-minded French-Canadian Group. He explained that his views on cooperation with the French-Canadian members had changed over the course of the Parliament.  This transition in his political views had resulted in a loss of support from some in the Montreal English-speaking community, who viewed him as a "ratter".

By 1844, the Bank of Montreal was suffering due to the absence of Holmes.  He was persuaded by the Lafontaine group to resign his seat to trigger a by-election, which was won by the Lafontaine candidate, Lewis Thomas Drummond. Holmes returned to work at the bank, but he found that his political stances hampered his reputation for impartiality in the business community.  He resigned from the  bank in 1846.

Second term:  1848 to 1851
Holmes was not a candidate in the general election of 1844, but he did stand for election in the general election of 1848.  He was elected in the Montreal riding, along with Lafontaine.  He was disappointed at not being named to the Cabinet, but supported the Lafontaine-Baldwin ministry in the Assembly, including the debates over the Rebellion Losses Bill. The passage of the bill resulted in an English-speaking mob rioting and burning the Parliament building in Montreal.  Holmes broke with the Reform ministry in 1848, when he became a supporter of annexation and more extensive legal and political reforms.  He was moving from Reform to the nascent Parti rouge.  He did not stand for election in the general election of 1851.

Montreal municipal politics
By 1833, Holmes was involved in Montreal municipal politics.  He was elected to the city council representing the west ward of the city from 1842 to 1846, and again from 1850 to 1851.  In 1843, Holmes was involved in unsuccessful mediation efforts to avert strikes by workers on the Lachine and Beauharnois Canals, the bloodiest in the history of the Canadian labour movement. He was defeated in two attempts to become mayor of Montreal, in 1850 and again in 1860.

Last days
Except for his attempt to become mayor of Montreal in 1860, Holmes had largely withdrawn from politics by the mid-1850s.  In a late recognition of his contribution to the Reform cause, the Liberal government of John Sandfield Macdonald and Antoine-Aimé Dorion appointed Holmes as the receiver of customs at Montreal in 1863.

In 1853, his daughter Maria Margaret Holmes married Charles Dewey Day, who had served for a short time in the first Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada, before being appointed a judge of the Lower Canada Court of Queen's Bench.

Holmes died at Montreal in 1865.

See also 
1st Parliament of the Province of Canada

References

1794 births
1865 deaths
Irish emigrants to Canada
Members of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada from Canada East
Montreal city councillors
Directors of Bank of Montreal