[Source: PubMed]

64. Probl Radiac Med Radiobiol. 2019 Dec;24:439-448. doi: 
10.33145/2304-8336-2019-24-439-448.

APPLICATION OF ART THERAPY FOR CORRECTION OF PERSONAL DISORDERS OF 
PSYCHOEMOTIONAL STATE OF CHILDREN - INHABITANTS OF RADIATION POLLUTED 
TERRITORIES AND CHILDREN DISPLACED FROM THE ARMED CONFLICT ON THE SOUTHERN EAST 
OF UKRAINE.

[Article in English, Ukrainian; Abstract available in Ukrainian from the 
publisher]

Poznysh VA(1), Vdovenko VY(1), Kolpakov IE(1), Stepanova EI(1).

Author information:
(1)State Institution «National Research Center for Radiation Medicine of the 
National Academy of MedicalSciences of Ukraine», 53 Yuriia Illienka St., Kyiv, 
04050, Ukraine.

OBJECTIVE: to identify the psycho-emotional state of children - residents of 
radioactively contaminated territories and children displaced from the zone of 
armed conflict in the south-east of Ukraine, and evaluate the effectiveness of 
art therapy application to correct its disturbances.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The psycho-emotional state was determined in 113 
children, of which 57 children from radioactively contaminated territories with 
137Cs content in the body from 269 Bq to 7024 Bq (group I) and 56 chil- dren 
displaced from the zone of military conflict in the Southeast of Ukraine (group 
II). The age of children ranged from 10 to 17 years. The children were 
hospitalized to the childrens' clinics of the NRCRM because of functional dis- 
orders and chronic somatic pathology. The psycho-emotional state of children was 
evaluated using the «non-exis- tent animal» test. It was analyzed for three 
symptoms - anxiety, aggressiveness and neuropsychiatric exhaustion and was 
evaluated by scoring points. Correction of the psychoemotional condition was 
carried out by the method of art therapy in the form of a serial drawing. 
Psychological testing was performed twice: at admission to the hospital and 
after the end of the art therapy.
RESULTS: The results of the primary examination of the psycho-emotional state of 
children by the «non-existent ani- mal» test showed that in children - residents 
of radioactively contaminated territories the state of anxiety was reg- istered 
in all 57 children (100 %), the state of aggression - in 38 children (66.7%); 
exhaustion - in 37 children (64.9 %). In children who have been displaced from 
the zone of armed conflict in the south-east of Ukraine, the state of anxiety 
was also registered in all 56 children (100 %), the status of aggression was 
determined in 53 chil- dren (94.6 %), and the state of exhaustion - in 44 
children (78.6 %). It was established that in children displaced from the combat 
zone in the Southeast of Ukraine, the quantitative indices of anxiety and 
aggression states were sig- nificantly higher than in children living in 
radioactively contaminated territories (p < 0.001), whereas nor by frequen- cy, 
nor by the degree of severity of exhaustion state they did not clearly differ (p 
> 0.05). Correlation analysis with the definition of Spearman's criterion did 
not reveal likely association between the content of 137Cs in the body of 
children - residents of radioactively contaminated territories and the 
peculiarities of their psycho-emotional state.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of the art therapy method in the form of a serial drawing 
for children - residents of radioac- tively contaminated territories and 
children moved from the combat zone in the south-east of Ukraine, led to a sig- 
nificant positive effect, which was characterized by a decrease in the 
manifestations of symptoms of anxiety and aggressiveness. The state of 
exhaustion was less well corrected and its indices only had a tendency to 
improve. Thus, the method of art therapy in the form of a serial drawing is 
characterized by efficiency, simplicity of execution, low cost, it can be widely 
used in children's teams to correct disorders of the psycho-emotional state.

Publisher: Meta. Vyznachyty psykhoemotsiy̆nyy̆ stan ditey̆ – meshkantsiv 
radioaktyvno zabrudnenykh terytoriy̆ i ditey̆, pe- remishchenykh iz zony 
zbroy̆nogo konfliktu na pivdennomu skhodi Ukraïny ta otsinyty efektyvnist' 
zastosuvannia art- terapiï dlia korektsiï y̆ogo porushen'.Materialy i metody. 
Psykhoemotsiy̆nyy̆ stan vyznachaly u 113 ditey̆, z nykh 57 – meshkantsi 
radioaktyvno zabrudne- nykh terytoriy̆ z vmistom 137Ss v tili vid 269 do 7024 Bk 
(I grupa), 56 – vymusheni pereselentsi iz zony zbroy̆nogo konfliktu na 
Pivdennomu Skhodi Ukraïny (II grupa). Vik ditey̆ kolyvavsia vid 10 do 17 rokiv. 
Dity perebuvaly na likuvanni u dytiachykh viddilenniakh kliniky NNTsRM z pryvodu 
funktsional'nykh rozladiv ta khronichnoï somatychnoï pa- tologiï. 
Psykhoemotsiy̆nyy̆ stan ditey̆ vyznachaly za dopomogoiu testu «neisnuiucha 
tvaryna», analizuvaly za tr'oma symptomokompleksamy – tryvozhnist', agresyvnist' 
i nervovo-psykhichne vysnazhennia ta otsiniuvaly shliakhom nara- khuvannia 
baliv. Korektsiiu psykhoemotsiy̆nogo stanu provodyly metodom art-terapiï u 
vygliadi seriy̆nogo maliuvan- nia. Psykhologichne testuvannia provodyly dvichi 
pry nadkhodzhenni do statsionaru i pislia zakinchennia art-terapiï. Rezul'taty. 
Rezul'taty pervynnogo obstezhennia psykhoemotsiy̆nogo stanu ditey̆ za testom 
«neisnuiucha tvaryna» pokazaly, shcho u ditey̆ – meshkantsiv radioaktyvno 
zabrudnenykh terytoriy̆ stan tryvozhnosti reiestruvavsia v usikh 57 ditey̆ (100 
%); stan agresyvnosti – u 38 (66,7 %); vysnazhennia – u 37 (64,9 %). U ditey̆, 
peremishchenykh iz zony zbroy̆nogo konfliktu na pivdennomu skhodi Ukraïny, stan 
tryvozhnosti takozh reiestruvaly v usikh 56 ditey̆ (100 %), stan agresyvnosti 
vyznacheno u 53 (94,6 %), a stan vysnazhennia – u 44 (78,6 %). Vstanovleno, 
shcho u ditey̆, pe- remishchenykh iz zony boy̆ovykh diy̆ na pivdennomu skhodi 
Ukraïny, kil'kisni pokaznyky staniv tryvozhnosti ta agresyv- nosti buly suttievo 
vyshchymy, nizh u ditey̆ – meshkantsiv radioaktyvno zabrudnenykh terytoriy̆ (r < 
0,001), todi iak ani za chastotoiu, ani za stupenem vyraznosti stanu 
vysnazhennia vony virogidno ne vidriznialysia (r > 0,05). Korelia- tsiy̆nyy̆ 
analiz z vyznachenniam kryteriiu Spirmena ne vyiavyv virogidnykh asotsiatsiy̆ 
mizh vmistom 137Cs v tili ditey̆ – meshkantsiv radioaktyvno zabrudnenykh 
terytoriy̆ ta osoblyvostiamy ïkh psykhoemotsiy̆nogo stanu.Vysnovky. 
Zastosuvannia metodu art-terapiï u vygliadi seriy̆nogo maliunku u ditey̆ – 
meshkantsiv radioaktyvno za- brudnenykh terytoriy̆ i ditey̆, peremishchenykh iz 
zony boy̆ovykh diy̆ na pivdennomu skhodi Ukraïny, pryzvodylo do suttievogo 
pozytyvnogo efektu, iakyy̆ kharakteryzuvavsia znyzhenniam proiaviv 
symptomokompleksiv tryvozhnosti, agresyvnosti. Stan vysnazhennia girshe 
piddavavsia korektsiï, y̆ogo pokaznyky maly lyshe tendentsiiu do pokrashchen- 
nia. Otzhe, metod art-terapiï u vygliadi seriy̆nogo maliunku kharakteryzuiet'sia 
efektyvnistiu, prostotoiu vykonannia, nyz'koiu sobivartistiu, y̆ogo mozhna 
shyroko zastosovuvaty u dytiachykh kolektyvakh dlia korektsiï porushen' psykhoe- 
motsiy̆nogo stanu.

V. A. Poznysh, V. Yu. Vdovenko, I. E. Kolpakov, E. I. Stepanova.

DOI: 10.33145/2304-8336-2019-24-439-448
PMID: 31841485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]