[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Nuclear espionage

ctive material being lost, sent climbers back to the area to search for the generator in 1966. This attempt was unsuccessful.  In 1967 a new generator was sent with the climbers and was placed atop the peak of Nanda Kot. This mission was a success, and the U.S. was able to spy on the Chinese region.

On October 30, 2019 the Nuclear Power Corporation of India (NPCIL) made an official announcement that the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant in Tamil Nadu was the victim of a cyberattack. The attack happened earlier that year in September, but the NPCIL was hesitant to go public with the news, stating that a cyberattack on the facility was not possible.  Only a single computer was attacked by the perpetrator. It's not clear what information was stolen at the time, but top officials related to the incident are not convinced that future attacks will be prevented. Speculation about the perpetrator has been discussed, specifically about what type of malware was used to hack into the system. The malware, known as "Dtrack" , has similarities to attacks from North Korea. This makes them a possible  target, especially with their past of other malware attacks.

See also
 Atomic spies
 Soviet espionage in the United States

References

Manhattan Project
Rhodes, Richard. Dark Sun: The Making of the Atomic Bomb. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1995.

Israel
Cohen, Avner. Israel and the Bomb. New York: Columbia University Press, 1998.

People's Republic of China
Cox, Christopher, chairman (1999). Report of the United States House of Representatives Select Committee on U.S. National Security and Military/Commercial Concerns with the People's Republic of China., esp. Ch. 2, "PRC Theft of U.S. Thermonuclear Warhead Design Information". Available online at https://web.archive.org/web/20050804234332/http://www.house.gov/coxreport/.
Stober, Dan, and Ian Hoffman. A convenient spy: Wen Ho Lee and the politics of nuclear espionage. New York: Simon & Schuster, 2001.

Pakistan
Powell, Bill, and Tim McGirk. "The Man Who Sold the Bomb; How Pakistan's A.Q. Khan outwitted Western intelligence to build a global nuclear-smuggling ring that made the world a more dangerous place", Time Magazine (14 February 2005): 22.

Iran

India 

 Thomas O'Toole. "CIA Put Nuclear Spy Devices in Himalayas", Washington Post  (13 April 1978)
 William Borders. "Desai Says U.S.-Indian Team Lost Atomic Spy Gear", The New York Times (18 April 1978)

Types of espionage
Nuclear weapons
Nuclear secrecy