[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China is the first-ranked executive department of the State Council of the People's Republic of China, responsible for the country's foreign relations. It is led by the minister of foreign affairs, currently Wang Yi, who serves as the nation's principal representative abroad. The ministry is headquartered in Chaoyang District, Beijing, the country's primary diplomatic quarter.

The MFA's primary functions include formulating foreign policy, administering the nation's diplomatic missions, representing Chinese interests at the United Nations, negotiating foreign treaties and agreements, and advising the State Council on foreign affairs. The Ministry is subordinate to the Central Foreign Affairs Commission, which decides on policy-making and led by General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party. Foreign policies concerning the Republic of China fall under the jurisdiction of the Taiwan Affairs Office. , the ministry maintains the largest diplomatic network in the world, with 275 diplomatic posts.

History

Early People's Republic 
Before the proclamation of the People's Republic of China, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) handled foreign relations through its Foreign Affairs Group, established on 1 May 1947. The Foreign Affairs Group was abolished on 30 September 1949, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Central People's Government was established on 1 October 1949, the day of the PRC's proclamation. Zhou Enlai, also appointed as premier, became the first foreign minister of the PRC. The ministry was formally inaugurated by Zhou on 8 November 1949.

The Ministry initially had 170 staff, a number which increased to nearly 2,000 by 1960. Of the 17 ambassadors appointed abroad between October 1949 and 1952, twelve were senior military officials, nine were survivors of the Long March and only three had previously been abroad. Additionally, the new Ministry did not recruit former diplomats from the Kuomintang that opted to stay in the PRC, instead creating a new diplomatic corps entirely.

The MFA of the PRC was established in September 1954, after the first meeting of the National People's Congress, and became a department of the State Council.

In 1956, as China's diplomat engagement increased, a West Asian and African Affairs was established; previously Western European and African affairs were handled by the same department. During this period, Zhou oversaw the professionalization and formalization of the Ministry, including establishing standard operating procedures on areas such as the Ministry's official responsibilities and training guidelines. The Ministry was hit by the Anti-Rightist Campaign, launched by Mao Zedong in 1957 after the Hundred Flowers Campaign, with its quota for finding "rightists" being around 5 percent. On 11 February 1958, Chen Yi succeeded Zhou as foreign minister.

Cultural Revolution 
The Ministry personnel initially paid little attention to the Cultural Revolution when it was launched in 1966, launching a few political study sessions. However, the movement gradually caught the Ministry's attention and after Mao received a letter from a member of the Communist Party of Austria complaining about the conduct and extravagance of Chinese diplomats in the country, he instructed Chen, writing "“revolutionize or there will be danger". This prompted Chen to instruct reforms to diplomatic protocols, and diplomatic mission abroad were required to promote Mao Zedong Thought, wear Mao suits and Chairman Mao badges and intensify political study sessions.

The rebels within the Ministry established the "Foreign Ministry Revolutionary Rebel Station" later in 1966 and stated their intention to overthrow the CCP committee in the Ministry. The Ministry started recalling personnel overseas back into Beijing in 1967 to take part in the Cultural Revolution, causing immense strains in China's diplomatic corps. The rebel groups attempted to take in the Ministry in August 1967, paralyzing the Ministry's Political Department for two weeks. Many of China's diplomats were sent to May Seventh cadre schools after their establishment in 1968 until their disestablishment in 1971. After Mao decided to restore order in the country in late 1968, Zhou started to plan bringing back normality to the Ministry, and some diplomats started to return abroad in late 1969.

By 1971, with the admission of the PRC into the United Nations, the country's diplomacy began to normalize. However, the Ministry was increasingly factionalized, especially between the "Lord Qiao", associates of Qiao Guanhua, and "young girl", referring to Mao's close associates Wang Hairong and Tang Wensheng, factions. Chen Yi died on 6 January 1972, and was succeeded by Ji Pengfei as foreign minister.