[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mejlis of the Crimean Tatar People

ver the peninsula.) After the annexation, most Mejlis members did not cooperate with the new Russian-Crimean authorities; of the six members that did, one became deputy speaker of the Crimean parliament, and another  head of the Crimean State Committee for Interethnic Relations and Deported Peoples.

In May 2014, Crimean Tatar leader Mustafa Dzhemilev was prevented from entering Crimea, resulting in Tatars organizing large protests. There was a failed attempt to help Dzhemilev enter Crimea after Tatars broke through a border checkpoint. In response, Crimean authorities accused the Mejlis of "extremist activity" causing "illegal" gatherings marked by "violence and threats of violence", and warned that the Mejlis could be dissolved and outlawed across Russia.

On 3 July 2014, it was announced that for the first time, Mejlis would hold its session outside of Crimea in Henichesk. Russian law enforcement seized the Mejlis building in Simferopol on 20 September 2014.

The Mejlis was labeled an "extremist organisation" by Russian authorities in Crimea and banned by the Russian-appointed Supreme Court on 26 April 2016. According to Regional Prosecutor General Natalia Poklonskaya, it was banned because its leaders had sought to "destabilise" the region since the 2014 annexation by Russia through the use of "propaganda of aggression and hatred towards Russia, inciting ethnic nationalism and extremism in society". The Mejlis was also said to be responsible for stopping cargo traffic in the autumn of 2015 between mainland Ukraine and the peninsula and for a late November series of explosions that damaged voltage power lines, which led to a massive power outages. The Mejlis denied involvement in these events. 

Also, on 26 April 2016, Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights Nils Muižnieks urged the Court to reverse the ban since he believed "equating [the Mejlis] with extremism paves the way for stigmatisation and discrimination of a significant part of the Crimean Tatar community and sends a negative message to that community as a whole". Exiled in mainland Ukraine, Chairman of the Mejlis Refat Chubarov stated the Court's decision had been unjustifiable and that "the occupiers in Crimea are doing everything to crush Crimean Tatars and force everyone to be silent". Amnesty International stated that the ban "demolishes one of the few remaining rights of a minority that Russia must protect instead of persecute". Deputy Chairman of the Mejlis  vowed that the organization would try to continue its work despite the ban, saying "it will continue working in Ukraine and other countries".

Deputy head of the Mejlis İlmi Ümerov was on 7 September 2016 released after a three weeks' involuntary detention for tests of his "mental capacity" in a psychiatric hospital in Simferopol, where he was taken after stating on TV that Crimea should be returned to Ukraine; doctors ruled him entirely sane. Ümerov was then charged with calling for Russia's borders to be changed, a charge punishable with up to five years in jail.

The Supreme Court of Russia upheld the ban on 29 September 2016. The Mejlis is contesting this ban in the European Court of Human Rights.

On 1 October 2016, Head of the Republic of Crimea Sergei Aksyonov explained that Natalia Poklonskaya accused Mejlis of energy blockade through diversion. The same day, Aksyonov's Vice-Prime Minister Dmitry Polonsky claimed that Mejlis is a "puppet organization" of the United States Department of State.

By late December 2016, nine Mejlis members were in mainland Ukraine, in Russia, or in self-imposed exile. One was imprisoned, and more than ten had been charged with criminal and administrative offences in Crimea.

In April 2017, the UN International Court of Justice issued an interim order against the Russian Federation to allow Crimean Tatar Mejlis' activities, and in July 2018, reminded Russia of its legal obligation.

In the 2019 Ukrainian Presidential Election, the Mejils supported the re-election campaign of then incumbent President Peter Poroshenko.

2022–present: Russian invasion of Ukraine
On 28 February 2022, the Mejlis of the Crimean Tatar People condemned the Russian Federation, describing it as a "a terrorist state", and calling its military and political leaders international criminals on account of Russia's full-scale invasion of other parts of Ukraine.

See also
Majlis

Notes

References

External links
 Center of the Information and Documentation of Crimean Tatars — Statute on Mejlis of the Crimean Tatar people 
 Official site of Mejlis of the Crimean Tatar People