[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Locations in Jericho (TV series)

delphia, Pennsylvania (2, 6, 13, 14, 18)
 Phoenix, Arizona (13, 18)
 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania (13, 14, 18)
 St. George or Cedar City, Utah (13, 14)
 San Diego, California (2, 6, 13, 18)
 San Francisco, California (3, 13, 18)
 Seattle, Washington (3, 6?, 13, 18)
 Washington, D.C. (7, 13, 14, 18, OVS)

Sources:
Episode 1 ("Pilot") - The mushroom cloud over Denver is seen in Jericho. Later, Dale Turner listens to a voicemail message from his mother in Atlanta, which is cut off by an explosion.
Episode 2 ("Fallout") - Robert Hawkins' map in his basement is seen for the first time. He is seen marking cities with push pins.
Episode 3 ("Four Horsemen") - Part of a Chinese news broadcast is seen on the television in Bailey's Tavern. A map of the United States is shown with some cities marked with red dots. The cities are marked with Chinese characters in the approximate locations of Atlanta (亚特兰大), Chicago (芝加哥), Dallas (达拉斯), Denver (丹佛), Los Angeles (洛杉矶), New York City (纽约), San Francisco (旧金山) and Seattle (西雅图). All of these apart from New York are corroborated with evidence from future episodes. Airplane pilots recordings also mention clouds over Denver, Kansas City (actually Lawrence), and South, somewhere in Texas, possibly Dallas.
Episode 4 ("The Walls of Jericho") - A map at the bar shows Denver and Kansas City as bombed, while some found footage is uncertainly guessed as Cincinnati
Episode 6 ("9:02") - Robert Hawkins' map in his basement is seen again, found by his daughter. Further cities are marked with push pins.
Episode 7 ("Long Live the Mayor") - Gray Anderson returns from his travels with further news about the attacks, mentioning Lawrence, Washington D.C., and New York.
Episode 13 ("Black Jack") - In a visit to the Black Jack Fairgrounds, a map is seen with attacked cities marked with red dots. Sarah Mason mentions seeing clouds on Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, Maryland.
Episode 14 ("Heart of Winter") - Robert and Sarah Mason visit the 'Old Man' and see a map similar to the one in Robert's basement. 
Episode 18 ("A.K.A.") - Robert's basement map is seen once again, with additional cities marked.
Online Video Segment - In the "Ask the Mystery Woman" online video segments , Sarah mentions both the Baltimore and Washington, D.C. blasts.

Some facts stated on the show contradict other evidence:

Episode 3 ("Four Horsemen") - On a cockpit voice recorder recovered by Jake Green, pilots are heard discussing mushroom clouds "somewhere in Texas", over Denver, and over Kansas City. There has not been evidence of a Kansas City attack elsewhere in the series, but there have been multiple reports of an attack at nearby Lawrence.
Episode 12 ("The Day Before") - In a flashback to the day before the attacks, Sarah is seen reading a list of intended target cities on Hawkins' laptop. As it can not be assumed that all bombs hit their targets, this can not be used as evidence of an attack. Of the eight cities displayed, there is additional evidence in other episodes of six (Washington D.C., Philadelphia, Los Angeles, Denver, Dallas and Chicago) having been attacked, and New York having survived an attempted attack. No definite evidence either way has been presented regarding St. Louis, which was also reported to have possibly been attacked.
Episode 19 ("Casus Belli") - Darcy Hawkins, monitoring radio broadcasts, mentions a report that the Chicago West refugee camp has continuing riots; but this does not imply that Chicago survived.

Cities with unconfirmed status
Some cities were assumed to have been attacked in early episodes, but have been absent from later episodes. It is unknown if there are production and continuity issues, or simply a result of the poor communication infrastructure in the Jericho universe.
 Cincinnati, Ohio: In "Walls of Jericho", Eric suggests that it may have been Cincinnati's skyline seen in a looped reel of news footage. An attack on the city is not supported by any other source.
 Kansas City, Missouri: Although a pilot on the cockpit voice recorder tape describes seeing a mushroom cloud over Kansas City, an explosion in Kansas City is not supported by any other source. Given the proximity of Lawrence, Kansas, to Kansas City (40 miles), it is likely that the explosion in Lawrence could have been mistaken for Kansas City by the pilot.
 New Orleans, Louisiana: In "9:02", a pin marking New Orleans appears in Robert Hawkins' map, but disappears from some shots. It is not in any maps in future episodes. 
 St. Louis, Missouri: In "The Day Before", St. Louis appears in Robert Hawkins' computer list of intended terrorist targets. However, there is no evidence of either an attack, or a foiled attempt, on the city. It is not marked on any maps.   Airline pilots, heard on a retrieved cockpit voice recorder, see F-16s and believe they belong to a Missouri Air National Guard unit based in St. Louis.