[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Busby's Bore

Street section backfilled with sand when the weight of tram traffic caused stone slabs under Oxford Street to collapse
2004Proposal to reactivate Bore to supply city parks and gardens
2006NSW Government allocates funds for restoration of the Bore to supply parks of Sydney central business district.

Commemorative items 
1962A fountain was provided by Sydney City Council to commemorate "Sydney's second source of water and its first piped water supply." The fountain is situated in Hyde Park, near the corner of St James Road and Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
1988A cairn was placed in Centennial Park commemorating Busby's Bore, the centenary of the Water Board and the dedication of Centennial Park. The cairn is situated on Grand Drive, Centennial Park approximately 100 metres east of the Robertson Road Gates.

Heritage listing 
As at 10 September 1997, Busby's Bore is a unique engineering achievement which played a crucial role in the development of urban Sydney. As a product of convict labour and a major factor in the establishment of local administration in NSW (in the form of the Sydney Corporation) the bore is associated with the important steps that changed Sydney from penal colony to colonial trading port.

The fabric of the bore and associated archaeological deposits possess research potential relating to substantive historical and scientific questions relating to 19th century work and technology and to changes in the environment.

The intactness of the bore and the fact that it is still in use make it a rare survivor from the first half of the 19th century within urban Sydney.

Busby's Bore was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.

Busby's Bore, as a most important public work between 1827 and 1837 and Sydney's main water supply between 1837 and 1852, is a physical remnant of many of the major processes which have shaped modern Sydney.

Busby's Bore was an important factor leading to the establishment of the Sydney Corporation in 1842. It highlights the Colonial Government's lack of interest in managing the problems caused by Sydney's fast growing urban population.

The bore is associated with Busby and Commissioner Bigge and symbolises their aspirations for Sydney and themselves.

The place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.

Contemporary Community Esteem - The community has demonstrated its esteem for this item through the making of a Permanent Conservation Order. It is known to be valued by groups such as the Institute for Engineers, The National Trust and Local Historical Societies.

The place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

The bore's fabric possesses research potential regarding its construction techniques, the technology and materials available in the colony at the time, convict working conditions, the history of its use through changes made to it over time and the success of government regulation of the water supply through evidence of illegal entries.

The archaeological deposits surrounding the bore may also provide evidence of its use and construction. Archaeological deposits within the curtilage of the bore may possess research potential relating to; aboriginal occupation of the area, environmental changes since colonisation including the introduction of new species, grazing, draining of swamps and development and the development of the Royal Agricultural Society's Showground.

The place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

The intactness of this early 19th century, convict built water supply makes it a rare survivor from this period within urban Sydney. As the main water supply to Sydney from 1837 to 1853 the bore is a unique item.

The place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a class of cultural or natural places/environments in New South Wales.

The bore is representative of English rock mining techniques of the period and of rock mining in other parts of Australia. It is also representative of public works carried out by convict labour and 19th century engineering techniques.

Engineering heritage 
The bore is listed as a National Engineering Landmark by Engineers Australia as part of its Engineering Heritage Recognition Program.

See also 

Sydney Water

References

Bibliography

Attribution

External links

 reference and article (CC-by-sa) on Busby's Bore in the Dictionary of Sydney