[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James L. Gelvin

, in World Affairs (Summer 1995).
 "The Social Origins of Popular Nationalism in Syria: Evidence for a New Framework", in International Journal of Middle East Studies (November 1994).
 "Demonstrating Communities in Post-Ottoman Syria", in The Journal of Interdisciplinary History XXV:I (Summer 1994).

Chapters in Edited Volumes
"A New Middle East?" in James L. Gelvin (ed.), The Contemporary Middle East in an Age of Upheaval (Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2021).
"The Syrian Civil War and the New Middle East", in James L. Gelvin (ed.), The Contemporary Middle East in an Age of Upheaval (Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2021).
"The Arab Uprisings of 2010-11", in David Motadel (ed.), Revolutionary World: Political Upheaval in the Global Age (Cambridge University Press, 2021).
"Religion, State, and Society in the New Middle East", in Catalin-Stefan Popa (ed.), From Polarization to Cohabitation in the New Middle East (Harrassowitz Verlag, 2020).
"Nationalism in the Arab Middle East: Resolving Some Issues", in Larbi Sadiki (ed.), Routledge Handbook on the Politics of the Middle East (Abingdon, Oxon, UK: Routledge, 2020).
"Comprendiendo las insurrecciones árabes", in G. Conde et al. (eds.), Mundo árabe: Levantamientos populares, contextos, crisis y reconfiguraciones (Ciudad de México: El Colegio de México/CIDE, 2015). 
"Was There a Mandates Period?  Some Concluding Thoughts", in Cyrus Schayegh and Andrew Arsan (eds.) The Routledge Handbook of the History of the Middle East Mandates (New York: Routledge, 2015).
"Reassessing the Recent History of Political Islam in Light of the Arab Uprisings", in Fahed Al-Sumait et al. (eds.), Conceptualizing the Arab Uprisings: Origins, Dynamics, and Trajectories (New York: Rowman & Littlefield, 2014).
"The Arab World at the Intersection of the Transnational and National", in David W. Lesch and Mark Haas (eds.), The Arab Spring: Change and Resistance in the Middle East (Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 2012)
"American Global Economic Policy and the Civic Order in the Middle East", Michael Bonine et al., Is There a Middle East? (Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 2012).
"The Middle East Breasted Discovered", in Geoff Emberling and John Larson (eds.), Pioneers to the Past: American Archaeologists in the Middle East, 1919–20 (Chicago: Oriental Institute, 2010).
"Resolution of the Syrian General Congress—1919", in Neil Schlager (ed.), Milestone Documents in World History (Dallas: Schlager Group, 2010).
"Post Hoc Ergo Propter Hoc?: Reassessing the Lineages of Nationalism in Bilad al-Sham", in Thomas Philipp and Christoph Schumann (eds.), From the Syrian Land to the State of Syria (Würtzburg: ERGON Verlag, 2004).
"T.E. Lawrence and Historical Representation", in Charles Stang (ed.), The Waking Dream of T.E. Lawrence: Essays on His Life, Literature, and Legacy (New York: St. Martin's Press, 2002).
"Secularism and Religion in the Arab Middle East: Reinventing Islam in a World of Nation States", in Derek R. Peterson and Darren Walhof (eds.), The Invention of Religion: Rethinking Belief and Politics in History (New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press, 2002).
"Developmentalism, Revolution, and Freedom in the Arab Middle East: The Cases of Egypt, Syria, and Iraq", in Robert H. Taylor (ed.), The Idea of Freedom in Asia and Africa (Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2002).
"(Re)Presenting Nations: Demonstrations and Nationalisms in Pre-Mandate Syria", in F. Moge Gocek (ed.), Social Constructions of Nationalism in the Middle East (Albany: SUNY Press, 2002).
"Napoleon in Egypt as History and Polemic", in Irene Bierman (ed.), Napoleon in Egypt (Reading, ENG: Ithaca Press, 2003).
"The Other Arab Nationalism: Syrian/Arab Populism in Its Historical and International Contexts" in James Jankowski and Israel Gershoni (eds.), Rethinking Nationalisms in the Arab World (New York: Columbia University Press, 1997).
 "The Ironic Legacy of the King-Crane Commission", in David W. Lesch (ed.), The United States in the Middle East: A Historical Reassessment (Boulder: Westview Press, 1995).

Audio Books
 "Palestine, Zionism, and the Arab-Israeli Conflict", 24-part lecture series, The Teaching Company, 2002. According to the author's UCLA homepage

References

Living people
1951 births
Harvard University alumni
MIT School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences faculty
Boston College faculty
Harvard University faculty
University of California, Los Angeles faculty
School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University alumni
Historians of the Middle East
Columbia College (New York) alumni