[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Israel–European Union relations

." Faster advancement of such plans is somewhat hampered by the current instability in the Middle East and conflicts in the West Bank, Gaza Strip, and Lebanon. European public opinion of some of Israel's policies, especially those related to the aforementioned areas of conflict is, in general, poor.

The European Union's former High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy, Javier Solana, stated in 2009 that Israel had a very significant relationship with the EU, amounting almost to full cooperation through participation in the EU's programmes. Former Spanish foreign minister Miguel Ángel Moratinos spoke out for a "privileged partnership, offering all the benefits of EU membership, without participation in the institutions". On 11 January 2005, industry commissioner and vice president of the commission Günter Verheugen even suggested the possibility of a monetary union and common market with Israel.

However, a growing number of EU member states have considered granting formal recognition to the State of Palestine meaning Israel may oppose EU membership, or EU members may oppose the integration of Israel on political and cultural grounds.

Qualification 
Although Israel is not geographically located in Europe, it is a member in many European transnational federations and frameworks, and takes part in many European sporting events and the Eurovision Song Contest.

An argument for the inclusion of Israel into the EU as a full member is that it has a partly "European" culture, as a significant number of Israelis are either Jews who migrated to Israel from Europe, or descendants of such people. Israel also has a GDP per capita similar to many richer European countries. Some claim that allowing Israel into the EU would create a precedent for other geographically non-European countries to apply for membership, but in fact this precedent already exists as Cyprus, which is already a member state, is geographically in Asia. Proponents of Israel's accession to the EU claim that Israel's situation is similar to that of Cyprus—a country outside of Europe geographically, but a part of Europe culturally and socially.

Moreover, like most western European countries, Israel is a member of the OECD and from an economic perspective matches the European Union extremely well, with essentially every significant economic indicator (GDP per capita, government deficit, public debt level, current account surplus, inflation level, etc.) closely matching the overall EU average. Israel is however not included among the nine countries that are part of the EU agenda for future enlargement of the European Union.

The European Council has not been asked to take a stance regarding whether or not Israel is a European state, but similar circumstances to Morocco (being geographically outside Europe and without exceptional features such as CoE membership) may preclude its inclusion as a full member into the EU as well.

Support 
The principle of Israel joining the European Union has been supported by some politicians in both Israel and Europe, including;
Former Israeli Foreign Minister, Silvan Shalom, 
Israeli Minister of Strategic Affairs Avigdor Lieberman
Former Italian Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi.
Former Spanish Prime Minister José María Aznar in 2014 said Israel is needed by the European Union, in an address at the British House of Commons. Aznar said his report recommends that due to its Western culture and the benefits it brings the European Union, Israel should become a full member of the EU without pre-conditions.
In 2012, former Bulgarian foreign minister Solomon Passy said Israel should more assertively seek to join NATO and the European Union. 
Two Italian MEPs of the Transnational Radical Party, Marco Pannella and Marco Cappato, campaigned in favour of Israeli membership in 2006.

A 2004 opinion poll showed that 85% of Israelis would support an application for membership. Another survey in 2011 showed support for EU membership is 81%.

See also 
Foreign relations of Israel

References

Further reading 

Pardo, Sharon. (2014). "Two Vignettes on Israeli–European Economic Community Relations in the late 1950s." Israel Journal of Foreign Affairs VIII:1, 95–101
Persson, Anders (2015). The EU and the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict, 1971–2013: In Pursuit of a Just Peace. Lanham: Lexington Books.

External links 
The European Friends of Israel website

 
Third-country relations of the European Union
European Union