[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of websites founded before 1995

ap, annotations, search, plenty of hyperlinks, etc. Designed by Francis Heylighen, Cliff Joslyn and Valentin Turchin to develop a cybernetic philosophy.
ExPASyThe first life sciences web site. Still active.
Trojan room coffee potThe first webcam.
Trincoll JournalA multimedia magazine published by students at Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut.
Wired.comAn online presence for Wired magazine.
Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (a.k.a. NTT) NTT's  was the most famous web page in Japan in the mid-1990s. The page was announced in December 1993.

1994
By mid-1994 there were 2,738 websites, according to Gray's statistics; by the end of the year, more than 10,000.
ALIWEBALIWEB (acronym of Archie Like Indexing for the Web) was the first web search engine. It was announced in November 1993 by Martijn Koster and went online during May of 1994.
Allied Artists InternationalThe first corporate web site for Allied Artists Entertainment Group, predecessor to Allied Artists International, present day owner of Allied Artists Film Group & Allied Artists Music Group.
American Marketing Association Professional Association. Created in 1994 by a group of marketing professors, it offered general marketing news for marketers and professors of marketing. Approximately a year later, the site was moved to ama.org where it still remains.
Amnesty International Human rights site. Created in 1994 by the organization's International Secretariat and the Computer Communications Working Group of Amnesty International Canada.
Apple Inc.An early corporate site.
Art.Net"Art on the Net", created by Lile Elam in June 1994 to showcase the artwork of San Francisco Bay Area artists as well as other international artists. It offered free linkage and hosted extensive links to other artists' sites.
Art Crimes The first graffiti art site began to archive photos from around the world, creating an important academic resource as well as a thriving online community.
The Amazing FishCam  A webcam pointed at a fishtank located at Netscape headquarters. According to a contemporaneous article by The Economist, "In its audacious uselessness—and that of thousands of ego trips like it—lie the seeds of the Internet revolution."
Automatic Complaint-Letter Generator Created by Scott Pakin in April 1994, the site allows users to specify the name of the individual or company that the complaint is directed toward, as well as the number of paragraphs the complaint will have. After submitting the data, the computer generates sentences that are composed of arbitrary verbs, nouns, and adjectives. Still active.
BBC Online Started in April with some regional information and Open University Production Centre (OUPC) content. By September, the first commercial service was launched, a transcription service via ftp server. At its peak, it had 122 accounts, including FBI bureaus around the world, taking daily updates from 12 feeds. Still active.
Bianca's Smut Shack An early web-based chatroom and online community known for raucous free speech and deviant behavior.
Birmingham City Council Early local government site, initially hosted by the University of Birmingham.
Buzzweb.com The earliest website for alternative music artists and news. Created by A. Joi Brown and Matthew Brown in 1993–1994. Registered with Network Solutions in 1993.
CDNAir.ca The first website for an airline, Canadian Airlines.
Chabad.org The first Ask the rabbi site. Launched by Rabbi Yosef Yitzchak Kazen as an outgrowth of earlier discussion groups on FidoNet dating back to 1988.
CitySites The first "City Site" web development company, advertising businesses, and reviewing music and art events in the Bay Area. Started in 1994, CitySites was featured in Interactive Week Magazine in 1997 as numerous other City websites began competing for the business ad market including CitySearch and others. Founder Darrow Boggiano still operates CitySites.
Classical ArchivesAn online digital music store that solely focuses on classical music.
Cool Site of the Day Glenn Davis' daily pick of 'cool' websites.
Cybersell The first commercial advertising service that focused on using spam came online as sell.com. It was set up by Laurence Canter and Martha Siegel, notorious for spamming Usenet newsgroups earlier that year.
CORDIS The Community Research & Development Information Service, the European Commission's first permanent website, providing the repository of EU-funded research projects. Launched on ESPRIT day in November 1994 as www.cordis.lu.
Dianne Feinstein's US Senate campaign website Dianne Feinstein was the first US Senate candidate to have established a website.
The Economist The Economist "went live in early 1994" with a website "structured as a portal with various search tools of the day (e.g., Archie, Veronica, Jughead, WAIS and Gopher)." It cost $120, paid for by one of the magazine's correspondents, and by the end of the year "America Online voted it one of the world's top-ten news sites, nosing out Time-Warner's