[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kerry and Kay Danes

film on two novels by British journalist Paul Conroy. The Bodhi Tree concentrates on the main story of lawyer Max Green, Australia's biggest legal fraudster, who embezzled millions of dollars and was later murdered in Cambodia. The smaller supporting story fictionalises the Danes in Laos.

Kay Danes

Kay Frances Stewart was born in 1967 at Wynnum, Queensland. She married Australian soldier Kerry Danes and together they had three children, with the first being born in 1986 when Kay was either 18 or 19. After her husband took a civilian job twelve years later in Laos, Kay Danes followed and was engaged as his office manager. In her memoirs, Danes refers to herself as an adrenaline junkie and regarded Laos as an exciting adventure up until being jailed in December 2000.

Danes' online professional profile describes her as a Business Development & Marketing Director for a private security company (with her husband) since January 2002. Her "specialities include administration, project management, research and development". Prior to that, she was an office manager in Laos.

Thailand
At the start of Chapter 1 of her third memoir Families Behind Bars: Stories of Injustice, Endurance and Hope (2008), Kay Danes writes that she was also a director of a bodyguard company based in Thailand at the time she was detained in Laos in 2000. She claims to have hired out former elite military and police officers. Danes also asserts that she had access to the King of Thailand's own personal bodyguards, and she would sometimes provide close protection services to employers of her husband's security company in Laos. Opposite page 96 of her fourth memoir Standing Ground: An Imprisoned Couple's Struggle for Justice Against a Communist Regime (2009), Danes captions a picture of herself at Siem Reap airport on a covert surveillance assignment in 2000. Separately, Kay Danes' mother writes on page 43 of Families Behind Bars that Kay called her in Australia on Christmas Day 2000 on Kerry Danes' mobile phone after secretly concealing it during her first two days of imprisonment in Laos.

Laos Activism

Allegations
After the Australian government successfully negotiated a Lao presidential pardon in 2001 on their behalf, Kerry and Kay Danes returned to Australia with their monies intact. Kerry resumed Australian military service. Kay found herself "on a slippery slide of prescribed medications" for quite a few years. The Danes reportedly experienced and witnessed daily incidents of torture and ill-treatment by Laotian authorities. In 2002, the Australian government declined to intervene when it was suggested that the Laos government was considering court action for non-payment of the $AUD1.1 million in fines and compensation that the Danes had agreed to pay by instalments when their presidential pardon was negotiated. Affected with post-traumatic stress disorder and chronic depression, Kay Danes released her first memoir Deliver Us From Evil: Bad Things Do Happen to Good People in 2002.

Legitimacy
Danes was invited to speak the same year at the U.S. Congressional Forum on Laos in the United States House of Representatives and the Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Having found an appreciative audience, she testified on numerous occasions on Capitol Hill, and spoke at the National Press Club about human rights violations and the plight of political and foreign prisoners held in Laos.

The sense of injustice can be a powerful motivational condition, causing people to take action not just to defend themselves but also others who they perceive to be unfairly treated. Danes continued writing and two more memoirs were released in 2006 and 2008. Danes testified in 2009 and 2011 at special sessions of the U.S. Congressional Forum on Laos. Kay provided information about the Vientiane prison that she and husband Kerry were released from in 2001. Such information was considered in the context of the 2007 imprisonment of three missing Hmong-Americans In 2009, Danes published her fourth Lao memoir Standing Ground: An Imprisoned Couple's Struggle for Justice Against a Communist Regime.

Publications
Kay Danes has published several memoirs based on her own personal experiences and observations. Her second memoir Nightmare in Laos : The True Story of a Woman Imprisoned in a Communist Gulag.Kay Danes has mentioned suffering from diagnosed Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).

Memoirs