[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 116]
# Politics — Aristotle

l exercises
which are prescribed as necessary; that they may not prevent the growth
of the body: and it is no small proof that they have this effect, that
amongst the Olympic candidates we can scarce find two or three who have
gained a victory both when boys and men: because the necessary exercises
they went through when young deprived them of their strength. When they
have allotted three years from the time of puberty to other parts of
education, they are then of a proper age to submit to labour and a
regulated diet; for it is impossible for the mind and body both to
labour at the same time, as they are productive of contrary evils to
each other; the labour of the body preventing the progress of the mind,
and the mind of the body.




CHAPTER V


With respect to music we have already spoken a little in a doubtful
manner upon this subject. It will be proper to go over again more
particularly what we then said, which may serve as an introduction to
what any other person may choose to offer thereon; for it is no easy
matter to distinctly point out what power it has, nor on what accounts
one should apply it, whether as an amusement and refreshment, as sleep
or wine; as these are nothing serious, but pleasing, and the killers of
care, as Euripides says; for which reason they class in the same order
and use for the same purpose all these, namely, sleep, wine, and music,
to which some add dancing; or shall we rather suppose that music tends
to be productive of virtue, having a power, as the gymnastic exercises
have to form the body in a certain way, to influence the manners so as
to accustom its professors to rejoice rightly? or shall we say, that it
is of any service in the conduct of life, and an assistant to prudence?
for this also is a third property which has been attributed to it. Now
that boys are not to be instructed in it as play is evident; for those
who learn don't play, for to learn is rather troublesome; neither is
it proper to permit boys at their age to enjoy perfect leisure; for to
cease to improve is by no means fit for what is as yet imperfect; but it
may be thought that the earnest attention of boys in this art is for
the sake of that amusement they will enjoy when they come to be men and
completely formed; but, if this is the case, why are they themselves
to learn it, and not follow the practice of the kings of the Medes and
Persians, who enjoy the pleasure of music by hearing others play, and
being shown its beauties by them; for of necessity those must be
better skilled therein who make this science their particular study
and business, than those who have only spent so much time at it as was
sufficient just to learn the principles of it. But if this is a reason
for a child's being taught anything, they ought also to learn the art of
cookery, but this is absurd. The same doubt occurs if music has a power
of improving the manners; for why should they on this account themselves
learn it, and not reap every advantage of regulating the passions or
forming a judgment [1339b] on the merits of the performance by hearing
others, as the Lacedaemonians; for they, without having ever learnt
music, are yet able to judge accurately what is good and what is
bad; the same reasoning may be applied if music is supposed to be the
amusement of those who live an elegant and easy life, why should they
learn themselves, and not rather enjoy the benefit of others' skill.
Let us here consider what is our belief of the immortal gods in this
particular. Now we find the poets never represent Jupiter himself as
singing and playing; nay, we ourselves treat the professors of these
arts as mean people, and say that no one would practise them but a
drunkard or a buffoon. But probably we may consider this subject more
at large hereafter. The first question is, whether music is or is not
to make a part of education? and of those three things which have
been assigned as its proper employment, which is the right? Is it to
instruct, to amuse, or to employ the vacant hours of those who live at
rest? or may not all three be properly allotted to it? for it appears
to partake of them all; for play is necessary for relaxation, and
relaxation pleasant, as it is a medicine for that uneasiness which
arises from labour. It is admitted also that a happy life must be an
honourable one, and a pleasant one too, since happiness consists in both
these; and we all agree that music is one of the most pleasing things,
whether alone or accompanied with a voice; as Musseus says, "Music's the
sweetest joy of man;" for which reason it is justly admitted into every
company and every happy life, as having the power of inspiring joy.
So that from this any one may suppose that it is necessary to instruct
young persons in it; for all those pleasures which are harmless are not
only conducive to the final end of life, but serve also as relaxations;
and, as men are but rarely in th