[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo

march in Karachi against the General Zia Ul-Haq's regime and addressed nearly 10,000 people in that protest march, after which she was arrested by the police. Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo as head of Pakistan National Party had also tried to reach the protest meeting to make a speech, but was also arrested.

In 1988, Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo took part in the elections but lost. This was Mir Bizenjo's last election.

Death 
Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo died on 11 August 1989. His sons remain active in Baloch politics. After the death of Mir Ghaus Bakhsh, his son Mir Bizen Bizenjo took over the political faction of his father. But after sometime, Ghaus Bakhsh's younger son Mir Hasil Bizenjo rose to prominence while Bizen Bizenjo faded into the background.

Legacy 
Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo along with Nawab Yousaf Aziz Magsi, Abdul Aziz Kurd, Mir Gul Khan Nasir and Faiz Mohammad Yousafzai is considered to be one of the founders of democratic politics in Balochistan and is, to this day, remembered as "Baba i Balochistan" or "The Father of Balochistan" by Baloch nationalists.

In 2017, at a public meeting organized on the 28th death anniversary of Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo, the then chief minister of Balochistan Sanaullah Zehri criticized the people waging a war against Pakistan and under the cover of Baloch liberation. He stated that these political leaders were enjoying their lives in Europe and in other Western countries and yet they were inciting local Baloch people to rebel against the state of Pakistan. He praised Bizenjo's politics of reconciliation with the state of Pakistan. He also said that Bizenjo never favoured militancy in Balochistan and always preferred talks to bring durable peace and development in Balochistan.

Bibliography

See also 
 Mir Hasil Khan Bizenjo
 Mir Gul Khan Nasir
 National Party
 Hyderabad tribunal
 Khan Abdul Wali Khan
 Khan Amirzadah Khan
 B. M. Kutty

Further reading

References

External links
 Role of Mir Ghous Bakhsh Bezanjo in the Politics of Balochistan An Analysis by Naudir Bakht, April 1999
Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo Part 1
Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo Part 2
Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo Part 3
Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo Part 4
Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo Part 5
Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo Part 6
GoogleBooks
Baloch Nationalism: Origin And Development
Post-Colonial Balochistan
Pashtun Movement

Aligarh Muslim University alumni
Baloch nationalists
Baloch people
Governors of Balochistan, Pakistan
Tumandars
1989 deaths
People from Khuzdar District
Year of birth missing
Pakistani prisoners and detainees
Pakistani MNAs 1972–1977