[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Panspoudastiki

he students and the problems of the workers have common causes, the current political system which is capitalistic and imperialism. That is why, one of the most famous slogans used by this student organization is "Workers, Farmers, Students! Our Union is our response to the Multinational Companies"!

On 9 May, were held the Students' Unions  elections in Greece. The students list Panspoudastiki(PKS) in which the forces of KNE participate after these elections has increased in general level its power and with more forces  will make their best in order to continue the big struggles that have taken place since May 2006 against the reactive capitalist reconstructions in education that according to EU are being promoted by the government of right wing of "New Democracy" and social democrats of "PASOK". In cities in which put their stamp on the mobilizations, like Athens that gave the rhyme of these manifestations and represents the half of the whole country's votes -  PKS was increased 1% in the universities and 4,5 in the Technical Universities. The increase is being expressed with 8 universities students Unions and 5 technical Universities Unions that PKS is first power. In tens of Students Unions in the whole country  PKS is also second power. The controversy among the different forces is very big. The list of government of New Democracy, DAP had a deterioration of its forces, but the list of the social democrats of PASOK and its students' organization, PASP, didn't succeed to earn this loss of percentage of DAP. We have to underline that both these lists are preserving the high level of their electoral percentage. The various leftists groups are presenting an increase which occurs also in concrete cases due to the unification of different groups this year, but generally speaking their forces remain small.
In the 2014 election, PKS became the second most voted force in both the Universities and the technical institutions, being the only participating group that recorded an increase in absolute votes, despite the rise of the abstention in the elections.

See also
Communist Party of Greece
Communist Youth of Greece

Communist Party of Greece
Student wings of communist parties
Student political organizations in Greece
Communist organizations in Greece