[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Town and Country Planning Act 1990

ealed and replaced by the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004. It used to concern larger scale Development Plans, particularly Unitary Development Plans in metropolitan areas including London, and, for non-metropolitan areas, Structure Plans and Local Plans.

Part III, Control Over Development

Part III's concern with control over development focuses on effectively putting into public ownership, under democratically accountable regulation, all significant construction or demolition decisions by private landowners. This was seen necessary to ensure that private development did not run contrary to the community's interest. Section 59 states that "The Secretary of State shall by ... “development order”... provide for the granting of planning permission." An initial application maybe for Outline Planning Permission as this allows the applicant to see whether an application is likely to be accepted before carrying out the costly work of preparing a full application. This will mean that there are other "reserved matters" to be resolved through one or more further applications.

Section 73 allows applicants to request the variation or removal of conditions on a previous permission.

Section 78 allows applicants to appeal against decisions on applications, or the non-determination of applications.

Section 106
Section 106 of the Act, in conjunction with DoE Circular 5/05, allows for local planning authorities and persons interested in land to agree contributions, arrangements and restrictions as Planning Agreements or Planning Obligations. Applicants can offer such agreements unilaterally or negotiate and agree them as support for their application to make it accord with local planning requirements, but without some of the rigorous controls of Planning Conditions under s 70(1).

It relates to money paid by developers to local planning authorities in order to offset the costs of the external effects of development. For example, if a developer were to build 100 new houses, there would be effects on local schools, roads etc., which the local authority would have to deal with. In that situation, there might be a Section 106 agreement as part of the granting of planning permission. The agreement might also entail provisions about production of social housing. The developer might agree to make a contribution towards the provision of new schools or traffic calming on local roads.

Section 106A has the effect that any modification or discharge of a s 106 Agreement must be agreed by deed between the parties and in accordance with s 106B. It creates the right to apply in a prescribed form to modify a s 106 agreement once five years has passed since the agreement, or such shorter period as secondary legislation may prescribe. It prevents one applicant applying for a modification which may become enforceable against others who have not applied.

It clarifies that s 84 of the Law of Property Act 1925 (power to discharge or modify restrictive covenants affecting land) does not apply to a planning obligation.

Section 106B contains the right of the applicant to appeal against the decision or non-determination of a local planning authority under s 106A to the Secretary of State. Section 106B states "before determining the appeal the Secretary of State shall, if either the applicant or the authority so wish, give each of them an opportunity of appearing before and being heard by a person appointed by the Secretary of State for the purpose". It states "the determination of an appeal by the Secretary of State under this section shall be final". Schedule 6 applies to determine how the appeal is heard and by whom.

Parts IV and V, Compensation
Sections 107 to 118 deal with compensation for effects of certain orders, notices etc. The Planning and Compensation Act 1991 repealed sections 113 and 114, and all of Part V, in sections 119 to 136. It previously dealt with compensation for restrictions on new developments in limited cases.

Part VI, right to be purchased
Sections 137 to 171 deal with rights of the owner to require purchase of interests.
Namely, interests affected by planning decisions or orders in certain circumstances and interests affected by planning proposals: serving blight notices.

Part VII, enforcement
Sections 172 to 196C deal with methods of enforcement of planning law.

Part VIII, trees, amenity, adverts
Sections 197 to 225 deal with Special Controls. Specifically, those for:
Trees
Land adversely affecting amenity of neighbourhood
Advertisements

Section 215 of the Act empowers a local planning authority to issue a notice to the owner of land or a property where it adversely affects the local area, and the notice can specify what remedial action is required. Sub-section 1 states,