[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Commonwealth Secondary School

actical Assessment in the 2018 O Levels.

Normal Course 
The Normal Course is a nationwide 4-year programme leading to the Singapore-Cambridge GCE Normal Level examination, which runs either the Normal (Academic) curriculum or Normal (Technical) curriculum, abbreviated as N(A) and N(T) respectively.

Normal (Academic) Course 
In the Normal (Academic) course, students offer 5–8 subjects in the Singapore-Cambridge GCE Normal Level examination. Compulsory subjects include:
 English Language
 Mother Tongue Language
 Mathematics
 Combined Humanities
A 5th year leading to the Singapore-Cambridge GCE Ordinary Level examination is available to N(A) students who perform well in their Singapore-Cambridge GCE Normal Level examination. Students can move from one course to another based on their performance and the assessment of the school principal and teachers.

Normal (Technical) Course 
The Normal (Technical) course prepares students for a technical-vocational education at the Institute of Technical Education. Students will offer 5–7 subjects in the Singapore-Cambridge GCE Normal Level examination. The curriculum is tailored towards strengthening students’ proficiency in English and Mathematics. Students take English Language, Mathematics, Basic Mother Tongue and Computer Applications as compulsory subjects.

Centre of Excellence for Design and Innovation 
Commonwealth Secondary is a Centre of Excellence for Design and Innovation, providing students with professional development in Design Thinking and Maker Education as ways to develop joy of learning and entrepreneurial skills in students.

Environmental education 
In 2001 the school started a Green Club. One of the projects was the adoption of the mangrove boardwalk trail in the Sungei Buloh Wetland Reserve as part of the Adopt-A-Park Scheme launched by the National Parks Board.

In 2006, the staff endorsed the goal of working towards becoming a Centre of Excellence for Environmental Education.  A group of teachers was identified to develop a customised environmental education curriculum for the school, starting with the Secondary One students in 2007. 2006 also saw the school clinching the Lotus Award in the Singapore Environment Council's Green Audit. In 2007, the school was designated a Centre of Learning for Environmental Education for the West 7 cluster. The school converted the school pond into a Constructed Treatment Wetland to recycle used water to water the plants in the school compound. Commonwealth Secondary School became the Centre of Excellence for Environmental Education in 2008.

On 28 March 2014, the school celebrated Earth Hour with the Amazing Spider man II cast, Andrew Garfield and Jamie Foxx. It was a significant milestone for the school because it is the first time Hollywood came to Commonwealth. The two superstars not only interacted with the 1400-strong audience, they also did their part for the environment by planting a sugar apple and giant lemon bush in the school's Gift of Life Garden. It was a befitting way for the school to kick start her 50th Birthday celebrations.

Co-curricular activities (CCAs) 
Commonwealth Secondary's CCA programme comprises sports, uniformed groups, aesthetic groups, clubs and societies.

In 2003 CWSS attained gold medals in the biannual Singapore Youth Festival (SYF) Central Judging in all five of its aesthetic groups (Band, Choir, Drama, Chinese dance, Indian dance). In 2005, these groups attained two Gold with Honours and three Golds in the SYF Central Judging. The newly formed Malay Dance Group won a silver award in the SYF.

The Choir team was selected as the only choir to perform on the Opening Ceremony of the Singapore Youth Festival at the Esplanade Theatre on 1 July 2005. The Drama team performed for the SYF at the Hwa Chong Institute Drama Theatre on 22 July 2005. In March 2006, the performing arts group held its first public performance 'Leaving a Legacy' at the Esplanade - Theatres on the Bay. 2009 was a record-breaking year for the school, with three aesthetic groups attaining the highest accolade, Gold with Honours.

The hockey team was ranked among the top eight schools in Singapore for the third year running. The netball team achieved 2nd position in West Zone Netball B Girls in the year 2006 and champions in the M1 School Challenge League 2009. 

The National Cadet Corps of CWSS had maintained high standards for the past years, attaining gold award for unit performance in 2005, 2008 and 2009. The Red Cross units won gold medals in the Best Unit Awards 2005. The Red Cross Unit was awarded the Community Service Gold Award for the 4th consecutive Year, c. 2006. The Girls' Guides had consistently been attaining Gold and Silver for unit performance.