[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Horst Stöcker

Horst Stöcker (born 1952 in Frankfurt, West Germany) is a German theoretical physicist and Judah M. Eisenberg Professor Laureatus at the Goethe University Frankfurt.

Biography
After Abitur 1971, Stöcker studied physics, chemistry, mathematics and philosophy at the Goethe University Frankfurt, where he got his Dr. phil.nat. in 1979 under Walter Greiner. Title of the dissertation was Shock waves in nuclear matter – proof by circumstantial evidence.

He went on to GSI and – as a DAAD – postdoctoral fellow – to LBL, UC Berkeley.

Stöcker joined the faculty of physics and astronomy at Michigan State University and the National Superconducting Cyclotron Laboratory, NSCL, in 1982.

1985 Stöcker moved on to a professorship for Theoretical Physics and Astrophysics at Goethe University Frankfurt, where Stöcker holds the Judah M. Eisenberg endowed chair since 2004.

From 2000 to 2003, Stöcker was twice elected vice president at Goethe University, for science, mathematics, computer science, IT and high performance computing, HPC, for the medical school and for the , the hospital of the Goethe University. He was re-elected ViP for a third time 2006–2007.

Stöcker is senior fellow, and, with Walter Greiner and Wolf Singer, founding director and chair of the executive board at the international interdisciplinary Frankfurt Institute for Advanced Studies (FIAS) – a public-private scientific foundation for theoretical research in fundamental science, natural science and computational life science, of Goethe University.

Horst Stöcker was the scientific chairman and CEO (director general) at the Darmstadt GSI Helmholtz Centre for Heavy Ion Research, 2007–2015.

2008 Stöcker was elected vice-president of  for the Research Area "Struktur der Materie", 2008, and was reelected 2010–2012.

Honors
  Professor Laureatus für Theoretische Physik, at Goethe University Frankfurt
 Doctor honoris causa of the Russian Academy of Sciences, RAS, Moscow, Russia
 Doctor honoris causa of the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research, Dubna, Russia
 Doktor honoris causa of the University of Bucharest, Romania
 Fellow of the European Physical Society, EPS, London, Great Britain
 Fellow of the Institute of Physics, IoP, London, Great Britain
 Member, Deutsche Akademie der Technikwissenschaften, acatech, Munich
 Member, Academia Europaea, London, Great Britain
 Hessian Order of Merit

Stöcker published around 500 publications that were cited around 50,000 times, supervised around 50 doctoral students and submitted 5 patents.

Publications 
 Walter Greiner, Ludwig Neise, Horst Stöcker: Thermodynamik und Statistische Mechanik. Harri Deutsch, Thun und Frankfurt am Main 1993, 
 Horst Stöcker: Mathematische Formeln für die technische Ausbildung und Praxis, Deutsch (Harri) 1995, 
 Horst Stöcker: Mathematik – Physik – Chemie, Das Basiswissen, 3 Bde., Deutsch (Harri) 2000, 
 Horst Stöcker: Taschenbuch mathematischer Formeln und moderner Verfahren, Deutsch (Harri) 2003, 
 Horst Stöcker: Taschenbuch der Physik, Deutsch (Harri) 2004,

References

External links 
 Internetpräsenz FIGSS
 Internetpräsenz FIAS

20th-century German physicists
21st-century German physicists
1952 births
Living people
University of California, Berkeley faculty
Michigan State University faculty
Scientists from Frankfurt
Goethe University Frankfurt alumni
Academic staff of Goethe University Frankfurt