[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Operation Change of Direction 11

Wadi al-Hujeir when it meets the western contributory and turns north before it joins the Litani River near the Qa'qa'iya bridge. The area was the obvious route of any Israeli attempt to cut south Lebanon off at the Litani river. Both the Israeli invasions in 1978 and 1982 passed through this area.

From the first days of the war, Israel bombed the small Christian village of al-Ghandouriya, situated near the wadi crossing, forcing the inhabitants to evacuate their homes. Israel usually did not attack Christian villages for no good reason and for Hizbullah it was clear that the Israeli army intended to pass this way. Several attempted Israeli incursions in the area reinforced this impression. The only question was whether it would take the form of a helicopter landing behind Hizbullah lines or an armored advance from the border. Hizbullah thus reinforced its forces in the area. It took up positions in the vacated villages and started preparing ambushes.

General Tzur had twice sent the brigade’s engineering battalion to secure a foothold on the western bank of the wadi near the village of al-Ghandouriya, in preparation for the rapid sweep westwards towards the city of Tyre. In both cases the Israeli forces were called back for unclear reasons. In both cases the Israeli forces were attacked by anti-tank missiles but for some reason these reports never reached their superiors. Hizbullah claims to have repulsed the Israeli attacks.

The battle was initiated by a large helicopter lift of infantry from the Nahal Brigade in the vicinity of the villages of al-Ghandouriya and Furoun to the west of the wadi. The Infantry was supposed to clear the ground for the advancing tanks but somehow failed in their mission.

A column of 24 Merkava tanks from the 401st Brigade advanced westward from the area of Tayyiba and when it entered the wadi, it was attacked from all sides, including from the rear near Odaisseh that had been thought to have been under IDF control for several days. The Hizbullah had prepared an ambush from hidden positions on the hilltops. The tanks were attacked by missiles, probably of the  Kornet type. Eleven of the tanks were hit and several went up in flames.  Eight tankers, including two company commanders, and four Nahal infantry men died in the initial battle of Sulouqi. Hizbullah fighters used ATGMs, small-arms fire, and mortars to suppress the Nahal Brigade, preventing them from providing effective infantry support for the armor forces. Timur Göksel, the former chief spokesperson for UNIFIL later commented that "anyone dumb enough to push a tank column through Wadi Saluki should not be an armored brigade commander but a cook."

The division proved unable to open the route across the wadi. Early morning August 13 another tank battalion reported having crossed the wadi successfully but the sweep west was cancelled. No further offensive action was taken on this front. Four IDF infantry soldiers were killed only hours before the cease-fire on the eastern bank of Wadi al-Hujeir. They were killed by an anti-tank rocket fired at them while operating in the village of Qantara. 
Among those killed in the clash were Uri Grossman, the son of Israeli author David Grossman.

A total of 17 Israeli soldiers died in the eastern sector during Operation Change of Direction 11.

According to the IDF, around 80 Hizbullah fighters were killed in the battle of Wadi Saluki. The IDF claimed it lost 12 soldiers. This estimate seemed to have been based on battle damage assessments from the large number of cluster munitions the IDF used in the final days of the war. Captain Daniel Helmer of the US army commented that "as in much of the war, Hezbollah’s dead proved as elusive as its living fighters. " Lebanese sources claimed that nine Hizbullah fighters were killed during the battles of al-Ghandouriya and Wadi Saluki. According to the Hizbullah version, seven Hizbullah fighters and their commander Rani Adnan Bazzi were killed while fighting a close-quarters battle with IDF troops in al-Ghandourriya. Another three were wounded. One wounded fighter was taken prisoner by Israeli soldiers. He woke up at Poriya hospital in Tiberias and was eventually released in the prisoner exchange in 2008. Hizbullah claimed to have lost only one fighter at Wadi Saluki, and identified him as Ali Salih, a commander. Salih was severely wounded by an Israeli drone strike and died of his injuries in a hospital twenty days later. According to the official Hizbullah version of events, Salih fought singlehandedly at Wadi Saluki, running between Kornet missile positions and firing at the Israeli tanks before finally being hit. Hizbullah claimed that all of the Israeli tanks destroyed at Wadi Saluki were destroyed by Salih.

The planned westward sweep towards the coast never materialized. Guy Zur, commander of Division 162, apparently was "astonished” and told the press that Hizbullah was the "world’s best guerrilla group".

Aftermath