[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Operation Mersad

Many senior MEK commanders were killed, and many MEK militants were not given quarter. Iran claimed it destroyed 200 tanks and 700 other vehicles.

The Iranian successes during Operation Mersad were partially because of effective coordination between the Army and the Revolutionary Guard.

Aftermath 

Operation Mersad was the last land battle of the Iran–Iraq War.

The last notable combat actions of the war took place on 3 August 1988, in the Persian Gulf when the Iranian navy fired on a freighter and Iraq launched chemical attacks on Iranian civilians, killing an unknown number of them and wounding 2,300.

Both sides eventually withdrew to the international border in the coming weeks, with Resolution 598 becoming effective on 8 August 1988, ending all combat operations between the two countries.[102] By 20 August 1988, peace with Iran was restored. UN peacekeepers belonging to the UNIIMOG mission took the field, remaining on the Iran–Iraq border until 1991. While the war was now over, Iraq spent the rest of August and early September clearing the Kurdish resistance. Using 60,000 troops along with helicopter gunships, chemical weapons (poison gas), and mass executions, Iraq hit 15 villages, killing rebels and civilians, and forced tens of thousands of Kurds to relocate to forced settlements.[99] Many Kurdish civilians immigrated to Iran. By 3 September 1988, the anti-Kurd campaign ended, and all resistance had been crushed.[99] 400 Iraqi soldiers and 50,000 Kurdish civilians and soldiers had been killed.

At least in part as a response to the invasion, Iran executed several thousand political prisoners across the country for treason, mainly members of the MEK, but also members of the Tudeh Party (Communist Party) and other opposition groups. The estimates for number of executions vary from as little as 1,400 to as high as 12,000. The most likely number was given by dissident Ayatollah Hussein-Ali Montazeri, as being between 3,800–4,500. The death toll may have been higher for those MEK executed by frontline court-martials or dying in prison.

Ali Sayad Shirazi was the Iranian commander responsible for the coordination between the Revolutionary Guard and the Iranian army, that was responsible for the success of Operation Mersad. In April 1999, an MEK operative posing as a roadsweeper killed Shirazi outside his home.

Bibliography

See also
People's Mujahedin of Iran
Massoud Rajavi
Operation Forty Stars

References

External links 
 
 sajed.ir in English – The Official site of Holy Defence – Iraq-Iran War 1980–88 

Conflicts involving the People's Mojahedin Organization of Iran
Military operations of the Iran–Iraq War in 1988
Military operations of the Iran–Iraq War involving the Peshmerga