[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Macedonian Australians

suburb of Rockdale. Many Macedonians from Yugoslavia would also settle in isolated parts of Australia such as Port Hedland. Most of these immigrants were from an agricultural background. Macedonian migration had slowed by the 1980s only to restart in the early 1990s after the breakup of Yugoslavia.

As at the 2006 census 64% of Australian residents born in Macedonia had arrived before 1980.

Macedonians in Victoria

Macedonians have been migrating to Victoria since the late 1880s. Many "pečalbari" decided to settle and they travelled the countryside looking for work as itinerant labourers. Others established market gardens or small businesses in both rural and city areas. Many thousands of Aegean Macedonians came to Victoria in the post war period, today the largest group of Aegean Macedonians can be found in Victoria. During the 1960s and 1970s they were joined by thousands of Macedonians from the Socialist Republic of Macedonia. In 1982, KUD Jane Sandanski was established in St Albans and is still in operation to this day. In 1991, Macedonia declared its independence from the Yugoslav federation. Business migrants from Macedonia soon began to arrive in Australia. By 1986 there were 24,090 Macedonian speakers in Victoria, this reached a peak in 1996 with 32,949 people using Macedonian at home. As of 2006 37,434 people in Victoria had either full or partial Macedonian ancestry. Currently, there are over 40,000 people in Greater Melbourne of Macedonian descent, making up around one percent of the population - the 17th largest ethnicity in the city behind Lebanese but ahead of Croatian.

In Victoria, Macedonians established St. George in Fitzroy, Melbourne during the late 1950s as the first independent Macedonian Orthodox church inside Australia and outside of Macedonia. In Melburnian suburbs with Macedonian communities, other churches were established such as St. Ilija, St. Dimitrija, St. Nikola, St. George & St. Mary, St. Mary, St. Petka, and in Geelong St. John the Baptist. Macedonian Melburnians also built the first Macedonian Orthodox monastery St. Kliment Ohridski - Chudotvorec in the vicinity of King Lake. The Macedonian community of Australia views the Macedonian Orthodox Church as a "Guardian" of Macedonian identity, its people and cultural traditions.

After the Republic of Macedonia gained independence in 1991, Greek Australians opposed the move through local protests and tense relations developed with Macedonian Australians. There were some businesses, community buildings and Orthodox churches belonging to both groups which were either destroyed and attacked. Australia recognised Macedonia under its temporary name as "FYROM". Responding to the Greek government stance, the Australian Federal Government issued a directive that its agencies and departments call Macedonians as "Slav-Macedonians" and some people from the north of Greece as "persons associated with Slav-Macedonians". Government owned media, the ABC and SBS dismissed the federal government decision.

In the mid 1990s, Victorian Premier Jeff Kennett backed the Greek position over the Macedonian question in his attempts to shore up local electoral support. At Kennett's insistence, his state government in 1994 issued its own directive that all its departments refer to the language as "Macedonian (Slavonic)" and to Macedonians as "Slav Macedonians". Reasons given for the decision were "to avoid confusion", be consistent with federal naming protocols toward Macedonian Australians and repair relations between Macedonian and Greek communities. It was accepted that it would not impact the way Macedonians self identified themselves. The decision upset Macedonians, as they had to use the terms in deliberations with the government or its institutions related to education and public broadcasting.

In mid 1995, the Macedonian Community through its organisation, the Australian Macedonian Human Rights Commission challenged the decision on the basis of the Race Discrimination Act at the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission (HREOC). The plaintiffs described that the government directive treated Macedonian differently and with an unequal status from other officially recognised languages. The commissioner acknowledged the distress the directive caused, but upheld it due to its intent of decreasing community tensions and not causing discrimination based on ethnic background. After the case was dismissed, the Macedonian community went to the Federal Court. The judge stated that HREOC had made errors in its interpretation of various terms and ruled that discrimination had occurred based on ethnic background. The Federal Court repealed the decision in 1998 and since then the prefix "slavo-" has been dropped, on the basis of racial discrimination.