[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Federico Higuaín

"MLS is Back" tournament match against Toronto FC. With D.C. United losing 2–0 and at a man disadvantage due to a first-half ejection, Higuaín came on as a substitute in the 80th minute and scored on a breakaway in the 84th minute. D.C. United added a second goal in injury time to force a 2–2 draw.

Inter Miami CF 
On 10 October 2020, D.C. United traded Higuaín to Inter Miami in exchange for $50,000 in General Allocation Money, where Higuaín joined his brother, Gonzalo Higuaín. Higuaín re-signed with Miami on 28 January 2021 for the 2021 season. Following the 2021 season, Higuaín announced his retirement from playing professional football.

Style of play
Nicknamed Pipa, Higuaín is a diminutive playmaker with a slender physique. While not being a prolific goalscorer, his technique, vision, intelligence, creativity on the ball, ability to provide assists for his teammates, and eye for goal from midfield make him capable of playing both as a forward and as an attacking midfielder, and he has also often functioned as a second striker, or as a winger. Buenos Aires-based journalist Daniel Colasimone has stated that "[h]is role is more to harass opposition defenses with intelligent runs, fine ball control and incisive passing. His hard work on and off the ball, and affable personality made him well-liked wherever he played in Argentina." His coach at Columbus, Gregg Berhalter, said of him in 2015: "He’s the guy who ties everything together. He ties the defense to the offense on both sides of the ball. He's been fantastic this year, and his contribution is underrated in my eyes because he's been performing at a really, really high level."

Coaching
Higuaín began his coaching career in 2020 when he signed with D.C. United as a player and player development coach. On 4 February 2022, he was named as part of the coaching staff for Inter Miami II ahead of the inaugural MLS Next Pro season.

Personal life
Higuaín holds a U.S. green card which qualifies him as a domestic player for MLS roster purposes.

Career statistics

Honours
Individual
 MLS 50/50 Club
 MLS Newcomer of the Year: 2012
 MLS Player of the Week 2012: Week 25, 26
 AT&T Goal of the Week 2013: Week 24
 MLS Player of the Week 2014: Week 11

References

External links
 
 
 Argentine Primera statistics at Fútbol XXI 

1984 births
Living people
Argentine people of Basque descent
Footballers from Buenos Aires
Argentine men's footballers
Men's association football forwards
Club Atlético River Plate footballers
Club Atlético Nueva Chicago footballers
Beşiktaş J.K. footballers
Club América footballers
Club Atlético Independiente footballers
Club Atlético Colón footballers
Columbus Crew players
Liga MX players
Süper Lig players
Argentine Primera División players
Major League Soccer players
Designated Players (MLS)
Argentine expatriate men's footballers
Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Turkey
Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Mexico
Argentine expatriate sportspeople in the United States
Expatriate men's footballers in Mexico
Expatriate men's footballers in Turkey
Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States
D.C. United players
Inter Miami CF players
D.C. United non-playing staff
Inter Miami CF non-playing staff
Inter Miami CF II