[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 100]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

objection to the maternal function--how would she be
received? Heavens, with what pained looks, with what platitudes and
proverbs, with what reproofs and axioms and sentiments! She would issue
forth from that interview like another St. Sebastian, stuck all over
with wounds and arrows. 'Sacred mission,' 'tenderest joy,' 'holiest
mission,' 'highest vocation'--one knows the mellifluous phrases."

"But after all she would be wrong in her objection. The instinct is a
true one," said Lady Engleton.

"Oh, then why should she be pelted for expressing it previously, if the
question is not indiscreet?"

"Well, it would seem rather gruesome, if girls were to be overpowered
with that passion."

"So we are all to be horribly shocked at the presence of an instinct
to-day, and then equally shocked and indignant at its absence to-morrow;
our sentiment being determined by the performance or otherwise of the
ceremony we have just witnessed. It really shows a touching confidence
in the swift adaptability of the woman's sentimental organization!"

Lady Engleton gave an uneasy laugh, and seemed lost in uncomfortable
thought. She enjoyed playing with unorthodox speculations, but she
objected to have her customary feelings interfered with, by a reasoning
which she did not see her way to reduce to a condition of uncertainty.
She liked to leave a question delicately balanced, enjoying all the fun
of "advanced" thought without endangering her favourite sentiments. Like
many women of talent, she was intensely maternal, in the instinctive
sense; and for that reason had a vague desire to insist on all other
women being equally so; but the notion of the instinct becoming
importunate in a girl revolted her; a state of mind that struggled to
justify itself without conscious entrenchment behind mere tradition.
Lady Engleton sincerely tried to shake off prejudice.

"You are in a mixed condition of feeling, I see," Hadria said. "I am not
surprised. Our whole scheme of things indeed is so mixed, that the
wonder only is we are not all in a state of chronic lunacy. I believe,
as a matter of fact, that we _are_; but as we are all lunatics together,
there is no one left to put us into asylums."

Lady Engleton laughed.

"The present age is truly a strange one," she exclaimed.

"Do you think so? It always seems to me that the present age is finding
out for the first time how very strange all the _other_ ages have been."

"However that may be, it seems to me, that a sort of shiver is going
through all Society, as if it had suddenly become very much aware of
things and couldn't make them out--nor itself."

"Like a creature beginning to struggle through a bad illness. I do think
it is all extremely remarkable, especially the bad illness."

"You are as strange as your epoch," cried Lady Engleton.

"It is a sorry sign when one remarks health instead of disease."

"Upon my word, you have a wholesome confidence in yourself!"

"I do not, in that respect, differ from my kind," Hadria returned
calmly.

"It is that which _was_ that seems to you astonishing, not that which is
to be," Lady Engleton commented, pensively. "For my part I confess I am
frightened, almost terrified at times, at that which is to be."

"I am frightened, terrified, so that the thought becomes unbearable, at
that which _is_," said Hadria.

There was a long silence. Lady Engleton appeared to be again plunged in
thought.

"The maternal instinct--yes; it seems to be round that unacknowledged
centre that the whole storm is raging."

"A desperate question that Society shrinks from in terror: whether women
shall be expected to conduct themselves as if the instinct had been
weighed out accurately, like weekly stores, and given to all alike, or
whether choice and individual feeling is to be held lawful in this
matter--_there_ is the red-hot heart of the battle."

"Remember men of science are against freedom in this respect. (I do wish
_our_ man of science would make haste.)"

"They rush to the rescue when they see the sentimental defences giving
way," said Hadria. "If the 'sacred privilege' and 'noblest vocation'
safeguards won't hold, science must throw up entrenchments."

"I prefer the more romantic and sentimental presentment of the matter,"
said Lady Engleton.

"Naturally. Ah! it is pathetic, the way we have tried to make things
decorative; but it won't hold out much longer. Women are driving their
masters to plain speaking--the ornaments are being dragged down. And
what do we find? Bare and very ugly fact. And if we venture to hint that
this unsatisfactory skeleton may be modified in form, science becomes
stern. She wishes things, in this department, left as they are. Women
are made for purposes of reproduction; let them clearly understand that.
No picking and choosing."

"Men pick and choose, it is true," observed Lady Engleton in a musing
tone, as if thinking aloud.

"Ah, but that's d