[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Architecture of Hungary

the Gothic conversion of Roman churches was common. There are written sources at the end of the 15th century, in addition to civil artists, they begin to talk about field-town and village masters. A unique memory of the architecture of the villages is the Manor Gothic House of Alsóörs.

Renaissance

In the second half of the 15th century, the Renaissance began to replace Gothic, and the German-French effect was replaced by the Italian. The changes were also supported by political reasons. The first change of style took place at the seat in Buda thanks to king Matthias Corvinus. The Renaissance has spread through nobility and high priests. The Hungarian Renaissance can be divided into three style periods.

Early Renaissance (1460-1541)
Mature Renaissance (1506-1570)
Late Renaissance (between 1570-1690 or 1750)

It is typical that local variations have developed and some Renaissance phenomena coexist.

Early Renaissance

The first Renaissance buildings were Matthias palaces, the East Wing of Buda Castle and its courtyard, the Royal Palace of Visegrád, the villa of Nyék. Their style followed the Tuscan Renaissance. It was then that the order of the facade (columns with semicircles or straight beams), window and door types, decorative motifs, which had an exemplary effect on later construction sites. Matthias ' architect was the Chimenti Camicia, born in Florence. In Buda there was a significant stone-carving workshop, where the stonemakers learned Italian motifs and moved on. Matthias' construction was followed immediately by the construction of the Archbishop of Esztergom (1480-1500), John of Aragon, Ippolito d'Este, Tamás Bakócz, built in Esztergom, Miklós Báthori built in Nógrád (1483) and Vác (1485-95), András Báthori in the castle of Ecséd,  Sigismund Ernest Csaktornyai in Zagreb (current Croatia) (1488) and Pécs (1498), Bishop László Geréb in the Gilău (current Romania) (1480–90), Archbishop of Kalocsa Péter Váradi in the Bač Fortress (current Serbia) (1490's), Balázs Ráskai in Csővár, Pál Kinizsi in Nagyvázsony.

In the second half of the early Renaissance, the new style appeared not only in the Transdanubia and the major centres, but also in the Sălaj, Ciuc Mountains in the current Romania, the Zemplén County, Syrmia (current Serbia). Most of the memories follow the traditions of the Matthias period: tabernacles in Pest, carvings in Nyírbátor, fragments in Pécs, details in the Castle of Siklós also in the Kátalántalán Street 2 in Pécs, the façade of the number 2, the Papal vault gate passage built in 1515. In Transylvania, in addition to the Tuscan effect, the Lombard effect can be detected (the Chapel of Johannes Lazo on the north side of the Alba Iulia Cathedral (current Romania)).

Mature and late Renaissance

The signs of the mature Renaissance can be seen from 1506, in the construction of the Bakócz Chapel. The Bakócz chapel is important example of the Hungarian architecture of the 16th century. The carvings of Joannes Fiorentinus and the tabernacle of Archbishop George Szatmári in Pécs represent the same line.

After the fall of the Mohács and the Buda emergency, architecture continued on a very different line. In accordance with the division of the country, three artistic provinces were formed, the form language of which can be distinguished: Transdanubian, Upper Hungary and Transylvania.

However, there was still an Italian effect, until 1526 in Tuscan, then in northern Italy, from the 1570-80's cinquecento had a stronger form language, again having a Tuscan effect, especially in Transylvania, while in Transdanubia they continued to adapt to the Upper Solas.

For the time of the late Renaissance, Hungarian character becomes decisive, none of elements that would be purely Italian, despite the fact that many Italian masters worked in the country.

Transdanubian

In the Transdanubia, the traditions of the previous era were the purest. The Italian military engineers have established the Italian Rook system and the cinquecento forms have appeared. In the second half of the 16th century, the forms of late cinquecento evolved and the late Renaissance also appeared. New types of buildings have been established, such as the rectangular castle type with arcades, such as the destroyed fortress of Kanizsa by Pietro Ferrabosco, and the Castle of Egervár.

The memories of the late Renaissance in transdanubia are mainly castles, such as the Deutschkreutz (current Austria), the dominant form of the -loggia of the Firewatch Tower of Sopron, which also appeared on residential houses.

Upper Hungary