[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Abner Doubleday

Part of the confusion could stem from there being another man by the same name in Cooperstown in 1839.

Despite the lack of solid evidence linking Doubleday to the origins of baseball, Cooperstown, New York, became the new home of what is today the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum in 1937.

There may have been some relationship to baseball as a national sport and Abner Doubleday.  While the modern rules of baseball were formulated in New York during the 1840s, it was the scattering of New Yorkers exposed to these rules throughout the country, that spread not only baseball, but also the "New York Rules", thereby harmonizing the rules, and being a catalyst for its growth.  Doubleday was a high-ranking officer, whose duties included seeing to provisions for the US Army fighting throughout the south and border states.  For the morale of the men, he is said to have provisioned balls and bats for the men.

Namesakes and honors

Doubleday's men, admirers, and the state of New York erected a monument to him at Gettysburg. There is a  obelisk monument at Arlington National Cemetery where he is buried.

Doubleday Field is a 9,791-seat baseball stadium named for Abner Doubleday, located in Cooperstown, New York, near the Baseball Hall of Fame. It hosted the annual Hall of Fame Game, an exhibition game between two major league teams that was played from 1940 until 2008.  It has hosted the Hall of Fame Classic since 2009.

The Auburn Doubledays are a collegiate summer baseball team based in Doubleday's hometown of Auburn, New York.

Doubleday Field at the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, where the Army Black Knights play at Johnson Stadium, is named in Doubleday's honor.

The Abner Doubleday Little League and Babe Ruth Fields in Ballston Spa, New York, the town of his birth. The house of his birth still stands in the middle of town and there is a monument to him on Front Street.

A sign at the Doubleday Hill Monument, erected in Williamsport, Maryland, to commemorate Doubleday's occupation of a hill there during the Civil War, claims he invented the game in 1835.

Mendham Borough and Mendham Township, New Jersey has held a municipal holiday known as "Abner Doubleday Day" for numerous years in the General's honor and commissioned a plaque near the site of his home in the borough in 1998, even though the borough was known as Mendham Township back then.

In 2004, the Abner Doubleday Society erected a monument to Doubleday in Iron Spring Park, Ballston Spa, near his birthplace.

In popular culture
In the movie The Ridiculous 6, Doubleday is portrayed by John Turturro. The character organizes the first game of baseball between the six main characters and a group of Chinese immigrants, creating the rules as he goes, primarily to allow him to win.

In the 23rd episode of the anime Samurai Champloo, titled "Baseball Blues", Doubleday and Alexander Cartwright are featured as American naval officers who engage the main characters and local Japanese people into a baseball game, which the Americans lose.

In the mini-series North and South, George Hazzard is seen watching a primitive form of baseball with a wounded Orry Main, while referring to the game being invented by Doubleday, a fellow West Point cadet.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Union)
 William Webb Ellis, sometimes apocryphally credited with inventing rugby football

Notes

References
 
 
 
 
 Gomes, Michael. "Abner Doubleday and Theosophy in America: 1879–1884". Sunrise, April/May 1991.
 
 
 
 
 "Doubleday, Abner" in The Handbook of Texas.

Further reading
 
 
 
 Silkenat, David. Raising the White Flag: How Surrender Defined the American Civil War. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 2019. .

External links

 
 
 
 Defense of Madame Blavatsky
 Baseball Hall of Fame
 Photo of Abner Doubleday and wife Mary, taken by Mathew Brady, owned by University of Michigan Museum of Art
 Ulysses Freeman Doubleday – McLean County Museum of History

1819 births
1893 deaths
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
American people of English descent
Burials at Arlington National Cemetery
History of baseball
People from Auburn, New York
People from Ballston Spa, New York
People of New York (state) in the American Civil War
Union Army generals
United States Military Academy alumni
Writers from New York (state)
New York (state) Republicans
American Theosophists
People from Mendham Township, New Jersey