[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Topoxte

e three principal islands were densely inhabited during the Postclassic with a great deal of construction taking place. The site was abandoned about the same time as Mayapan, around 1450, when the Kowoj Maya, moved their capital west to Zacpetén Island in the Salpetén lake, near the Peten Itza lake.

Colonial history
Spanish missionaries Fuensalida and Orbita are said to have passed by Lake Yaxha in 1618, at which time they reported that there appeared to be no inhabitants, indicating that the site had already been abandoned by this time. However, it has been suggested that their indigenous guides deliberately led them via a neighbouring lake in order to mislead them into thinking that the Yaxhá region was uninhabited. The mention of Lake Yaxha by these missionaries is the only mention of the lake in colonial period records.

Modern history
Although he probably never visited the site, the existence of Topoxte was first reported by Juan Galindo in 1831, in his report to the Society of Antiquaries. Teoberto Maler spent three days at the site in 1904, clearing the site core and describing Building C and recording 9 stela-altar pairs. Sylvanus Morley visited Topoxte in 1914, describing the sculptured stelae of the site, including 2 on Cante Island. In 1933 Cyrus L. Lundell and L. C. Stuart made a new plan of the main plaza and assigned the nomenclature to the structures that is still used today. William R. Bullard carried out excavations at Topoxte from 1958 to 1960 and identified the Postclassic occupation of the site. Further excavations were carried out in 1973 and 1974 by Don and Prudence Rice, on Cante Island.

The site was damaged by looters in the 1970s and 80s. PRONAT (Proyecto Nacional Tikal) undertook clearing and restoration work at Topoxte in 1989, including the erection of scaffolding and a protective roof on Building C, the main temple. Archaeological investigations of the site were undertaken from 1991 to 1993.

The site
The principal ruins of the pre-Columbian city are spread over three islands:Topoxte, Cante and Paxte, in the southwest of Yaxha Lake, of which Topoxte is the largest. All three of these islands were densely occupied, with all construction except the ceremonial architecture being aligned according to the local topography.

Paxte Island
Paxte Island is the smallest of the three principal islands with a surface area of approximately . It is about  west of Topoxte Island. 68 structures have been identified on Paxte, mostly low rectangular platforms built from unworked limestone, presumably the remains of domestic buildings. There are two groups of larger buildings located on the highest part of the island, aligned north–south, a fact that distinguishes them from the smaller residential buildings, which are aligned according to the local topography. Excavations suggest that Paxte was occupied from the Late Classic into the Postclassic.

Cante Island
Cante Island has a surface area of approximately , with a steep slope on the east side and a gentler slope on the west side. Cante lies to the west of Paxte Island and contains the remains of 142 structures that have been mapped. The main group is organised around a plaza but the majority of the buildings were arranged according to the local topography. Almost all the structures of Cante are medium-sized rectangular platforms. Like Paxte, Cante appears to have been occupied from the Late Classic into the Postclassic. Sylvanus Morley found 2 sculpted stelae on the island in 1914, they have been dated to the Late Classic.

Topoxte Island

Topoxte Island measures roughly  from north to south and  from east to west, it has a crescent shape with a bay on the west side. It is the largest of the three principal islands and contains the remains of around 100 structures, as well as the principal ceremonial centre of the city. The largest structures are largely concentrated in two groups in the centre and in the north of the island.

Topoxte Island had a surge in construction activity in the Postclassic suggesting a population influx at this time, in parallel to an equivalent influx into the area of Lake Petén Itzá region in response to the collapse of Chichen Itza in the north of the Yucatán Peninsula. The ceremonial architecture at Topoxte includes two major periods of construction in the Late Postclassic and closely reflects that at Zacpeten, another Kowoj site, and also seems to be linked to activity at Mayapan.

Ten different construction phases are apparent in the archaeological record of Topoxte. The first three phases date to the Preclassic. There are three distinctive groups at the site, two 5 meter tall platforms, and a low residential area consisting of more than 100 structures.  The site's central plaza is bounded by 3 temples constructed in the Postclassic architectural style similar to structures at Mayapan (incorporating vertical walls, columns and flat stone ceilings).