[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Andrew R. Heinze

said, "never thought or spoke like a businessman. On the contrary," he pointed out, "he placed military men, statesmen and even scholars – but not businessmen – at the top of his hierarchy of values... Selfishness, especially materialistic selfishness, offended him as a profound moral dereliction."

Heinze has often written about antisemitism, but his concerns have usually focused on countries other than the United States. "One of the reasons Jews have traditionally viewed America as a promised land is the comparative absence of violence against them," he said. In 1999, however, Buford Furrow and the Los Angeles Jewish Community Center shooting got his attention, and he wrote an opinion piece about it for the San Francisco Examiner. "Standing at the end of the decade, the century and the millennium," he wrote,  "I think we must agree with Buford Furrow about one thing. The attack on a Jewish day care center in Los Angeles is a wake-up call."

Heinze has written a number of opinion pieces that have focused on the relations between Catholics and Jews. It was logical that he would be interested in the subject because he was a Jew who worked in a Catholic university, he was faculty advisor for the school's Jewish Student Union, and he was director of the school's Jewish Studies program. There was another, more personal, reason for his interest, however; in 1997 he had met Jan Karski, the courageous Polish Catholic who was recognized in 1982 as Righteous Among the Nations for his efforts to help the Jews in World War II. (Karski had said in 1981, "just as my wife’s entire family was wiped out in the ghettos of Poland, in its concentration camps and crematoria — so have all the Jews who were slaughtered become my family. But I am a Christian Jew... I am a practicing Catholic... My faith tells me the second original sin has been committed by humanity. This sin will haunt humanity to the end of time. And I want it to be so.”) After Karski delivered the keynote address at the first Swig function Heinze had presided over, he had spent some personal time with Heinze and his family; Heinze never forgot Karski's gentle warmth, his integrity and his courage.

In 1998 Heinze wrote an opinion piece for the Examiner, "The Vatican Repents Catholic Anti-Semitism;" it focused on the long-awaited and newly released document, We Remember: A Reflection on the Shoah, published by Cardinal Edward Cassidy, president of the Pontifical Commission for Religious Relations with the Jews. The document had caused heated controversy; many critics argued that it didn't go far enough in taking responsibility for the past. Heinze's Examiner article opened with the story of Bernard Lichtenberg, a Catholic priest who was arrested in 1941 by the Berlin Gestapo because he had publicly prayed for the Jews; after his arrest, Lichtenberg asked to be sent away with the Jews so that he could pray for their welfare. He spent the next two years in a Nazi prison camp and died on his way to Dachau. After telling the story of Father Lichtenberg, Heinze gave his opinion of the We Remember document. He agreed with the critics that "The Catholic Church must reckon with historical fact, proving its awareness of sin in high places." "But," he added, "the rest of us must encourage the message of repentance and renewal the church is preaching to its followers because, in the end, that is what produces people such as Bernard Lichtenberg." It was an opinion piece that encouraged reconciliation, not anger. Two years later Heinze invited Cardinal Cassidy to San Francisco to participate in a Swig  lecture on interfaith understanding. Cardinal Cassidy accepted the invitation.

Essays
In his Jewish Daily Forward essay, "Breaking the Mold of the Sitcom," Heinze analyzes his favorite TV comedy, Seinfeld, casting an affectionate eye on the show's creators, Jerry Seinfeld and Larry David, and marveling at their success in probing "the many gestures, innuendoes and gaps in the messages we send each other every day in every type of situation. Those, they know, contain the real meanings that pass back and forth beneath the surface of our conventions. Those are the explosives littering the minefield that is life in society." Heinze is stunned that the show is able to pack so much original comedy into twenty-two minutes of airtime, and he has little sympathy for people who dismiss the show as being shallow or neurotically self-focused: "People with little sense of humor have failed, time and again, to understand that the notorious self-centeredness of the show’s characters enables us to laugh at the selfish, neurotic traits we all share but prefer to disguise."