[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Moroccan Association for Human Rights

ation into the law as well as the assurance that the country complies with those provisions.
The diffusion, awareness-raising and education on human rights.
The allegation and condemnation of violations of human rights
To give support to all people that have been a victim of human rights violations.

Principles 
The AMDH has developed throughout the years six fundamental principles that inform its actions.

Universality of human rights 
It believes that all human beings without discrimination are entitled to human rights. As a result, the AMDH's actions follow the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other declarations and international conventions that follow such line. It also believes that the respect for human rights has a global dimension requiring all people to participate unitedly. Thus, The AMDH works at the national, Maghreb, Arab and International level.

Globality of human rights 
According to the AMDH, human rights involve all social, political, civil and economic dimensions, which are indivisible. Therefore, as long as one of them is not fully respected human rights remain incomplete and ineffective. Furthermore, it is easier to decline the respect of other dimensions.

Mass action 
The AMDH believes that the respect for human rights will only be achieved if all the people, including the victims of the violations, and not just the elites, work for it together. It also considers that the best way to expand human rights around the world is by raising awareness among the population about the importance of these rights and the need to defend them. As a consequence, the AMDH encourages the creation of new regional sections, as open spaces for all citizens, and the association with other organizations to bring together as much strength as possible in the fight for human rights. This has led to the adoption of the motto "unity of action".

Independence 
It claims independence from any sort of power and from any political organization. Instead, it guides its actions by taking into account the defense of human rights and international documents on the matter. That said, the AMDH is open to work with the authorities and different political organizations as long as they respect its identity and independence.

Democracy 
The Moroccan Association for Human Rights has applied this principle to both its internal and external relations in order to ensure mutual respect and avoid marginalization. It also considers that if human rights are to be universal and be globally applied, a true democratic society is necessary to legitimize them.

Progressive character 
Due to the prior principles the AMDH fits in the international and national progressive movement that fights repression and exploitation and works for the advancement of humanity towards freedom, equality and solidarity.

Structure 

The AMDH also has four sections abroad: Madrid, Paris, Brussels and Lille. The section in Madrid was the first one to be constituted.

The Administrative Commission and the Central Office form the executive body of the Moroccan Association for Human Rights.

There are other organs that, in addition to the already mentioned in the tables, are also part of AMDH's structure:
The Meeting of National Sections and The Meeting of Regional Sections, one occurs twice a year at the national level while the other at the regional level.
The central commissions, which are specialized bodies in different matters helping to implement the AMDH's activities.
In total the Moroccan Association for Human Rights has 14.000 members of which about 20% are women. Any individual in order to be part of the association has to complete a form and compromise to respect the AMDH's principles, statutes and rules of procedure. It is also required that two members sponsor the new one.

Internal and external relations

Internal relations 
Following its motto "unity of action", the AMDH has built partnerships with other organizations such as human rights or civil society organizations, trade unions, democratic associations and official bodies like the Ministry of Justice or the National Council of Human Rights.

External relations 
For the same reason the Moroccan Association for Human Rights has expanded its partners abroad, which are: