[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mass media in North Korea

and films on personal computers.

North Korean broadcasts have been picked up in South Korea, and are monitored by the Unification Ministry in Seoul, which handles cross-border relations and media exchanges.

Defectors are also streaming North Korean television broadcasts on the Internet.

Internet

Internet access in North Korea is restricted to Internet cafés or hotels designated for foreign tourists in Pyongyang, and is limited for North Koreans to essential users like international businesses. Nearly all of North Korea's Internet traffic is routed through China. The general population of North Korea does not have internet access, however, they do have access to Kwangmyong, an intranet set up by the government. North Korea itself has a limited presence on the internet, with several sites on their national .kp domain.  The Mosquito Net filtering model used in North Korea attempts to attract foreign investment, while the filter simultaneously blocks foreign ideas.

Video games 
Accessibility to video games increased over the late 2000s and 2010s as mobile phones began to enter the North Korean market, with simple domestically produced mobile games becoming more common. Web games developed by North Korean companies have also been developed throughout the 2010s, often with a focus on education.

In September 2019 state-run media announced the release of a motion-based video game system named the Moranbong. The system appears to exhibit similar features to the Nintendo Wii and PlayStation Move. The system has two wands similar in appearance to Wii controllers, a motion detector similar in appearance to the Kinect, and a sensor-based mat that detects foot-based input. The system is effectively a rebranded version of the Subor G80, a Chinese console running Android OS.

Access to foreign media
Despite extremely strict regulations and draconian penalties, North Koreans, particularly elite citizens, have increasing access to news and other media outside the state-controlled media authorized by the government. While access to the internet is tightly controlled, radio, DVDs, and USB drives are common media accessed, and in border areas, television. Penalties vary depending on the source of the media; being found with South Korean media may be punished more harshly than access to Chinese media. One estimate is that approx. 92% of North Koreans access foreign media at least once a month.

See also 

 Censorship in North Korea
 Propaganda in North Korea
 Telecommunications in North Korea
 Radio jamming in Korea
 Media of South Korea
 Media coverage of North Korea

References

Bibliography