[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Karen Carter Peterson

tement drew criticism from Governor Bobby Jindal and the leader of the Louisiana Republican Party, Roger F. Villere, Jr. As a result of the controversy, State Senator Elbert Guillory returned to the Republican Party, the party to which he was once registered but later left to run for elected office.

Tobacco taxation
Although generally a proponent of restrictions on state government spending instead of tax increases to close budgetary shortfalls, Peterson, an avowed non-smoker, supports higher taxes on tobacco and use of the consequent revenue to fund priorities of the Louisiana Healthier Families Act. Her 2009 House Bill 889 (Louisiana Healthier Families Act), after heavy lobbying by both sides, failed in the Louisiana House of Representatives; she attributed the loss to "the national ambition of our governor", Bobby Jindal, whom she accurately predicted was interested in the presidency and wanted to seek that office without a tax increase on his record.

Same-sex marriage
In a statement as follows, Peterson endorsed U.S. President Barack Obama's support for same-sex marriage:

Peterson has appointed to her leadership team Stephen Handwerk, the first openly gay man to serve as an officer of the Louisiana Democratic Party. Handwerk writes a weekly column for the Lafayette Daily Advertiser and is the Democratic commentator on FM radio station KPEL in Lafayette.

Evolution
In 2013, Peterson proposed repeal of the Louisiana Science Education Act, a 2008 law which permits science teachers in public schools to use supplemental classroom materials to question evolution as presented in science textbooks. The Senate Education Committee voted 3–2 on May 1, 2013, against the repeal. Over seventy Nobel Prize-winning scientists supported Peterson's bill and have urged that the state law be removed.

COVID-19 pandemic
Protesting against the failure of the Senate chamber to follow Centers for Disease Control's recommended COVID-19 pandemic mask-wearing policy, Peterson refused to attend sessions and missed 85% of her votes of the Louisiana State Senate in 2020. She was later criticized in attack ads for accepting her pay during this protest.

Personal life
Peterson lives in New Orleans' Warehouse District. Her husband, Dana Peterson, is a political consultant. Peterson appeared in Spike Lee's documentary about Hurricane Katrina, When the Levees Broke.

When Peterson resigned her senate seat on April 9, 2022, the reasons she cited were an addiction to gambling as well as mood depression as a related condition.

Peterson is Catholic.

References

External links
 Louisiana Senate - Karen C. Peterson government website
 Karen Carter Peterson campaign website

 
 Democratic Leadership Council profile

|-

|-

1969 births
21st-century African-American politicians
21st-century African-American women
21st-century American politicians
21st-century American women politicians
African-American Catholics
American people convicted of mail and wire fraud
Candidates in the 2006 United States elections
Candidates in the 2021 United States elections
Democratic Party Louisiana state senators
Democratic Party members of the Louisiana House of Representatives
Howard University alumni
Lawyers from New Orleans
Living people
Louisiana politicians convicted of crimes
People with mood disorders
Politicians convicted of mail and wire fraud
Politicians from New Orleans
Louisiana State Democratic Chairmen
Tulane University Law School alumni
Women state legislators in Louisiana
American lawyers with disabilities
American politicians with disabilities