[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dominic Ongwen

d to be a child soldier before rising to leadership. So this is the first ICC case in which an inductee is being charged with the same crimes as those done to him. According to one commentator, "In no other ICC trial have case narratives been so opposite, morally complex and riddled with paradoxes".

Opposition to the ICC trial
On 20 January 2015, The Acholi Religious Leaders' Peace Initiative (ARLPI), an interconfesionnal organisation whose goal is to pursue peaceful resolution to the LRA conflict, issued a statement opposing Ongwen's detention and trial at the ICC. Seeing him as a victim, they recommend that he should be brought back to Uganda to undergo "the rituals of 'Mato Oput' (Reconciliation) for all that he went through during his time in "LRA captivity". The signatories contrast this traditional approach, which promotes restoration, transformation, healing and new life, with the ICC approach which they consider to be punitive and retributive. Geoffry Omony, programme director of YOLRED, an organisation that supports former soldiers, supports this point of view.

Other commentators consider that the ICC indictments directly contradict the Ugandan Parliament's blanket amnesty which has led to the demobilisation and reintegration of tens of thousands of rebels.

Family members, including his wife Florence Ayot and his brother Charles Ojar also pleaded for Ongwen not to be tried at the ICC.

Victims, however, have expressed hope in the ICC trial, claiming that without it there would be no justice in their lifetime for the grave violations they had endured during the conflict. Others have pointed to the failure of the Uganda government to protect Ongwen from abduction when he was a child.

Sentence 
On 4 February 2021, in a judgment of 1077 pages, Ongwen was convicted on 61 crimes, comprising both crimes against humanity  and war crimes, including murder and attempted murder; rape; sexual slavery; forced marriage; torture; enslavement; outrage upon personal dignity; conscription and use of children under the age of 15 to participate actively in hostilities; pillaging; destruction of property and persecution. On 6 May 2021 the ICC pronounced a joint prison sentence of 25 years, taking into account the gravity of the crimes committed, as well as aggravating and mitigating circumstances.

The Defence filed appeals against the conviction (21 July 2021) and the sentence (26 August 2021) which the Appeals Chamber will hear in due course.

See also 

 Military use of children

Notes and references

External links
 icc-cpi.int
'You chop her': Ugandan recalls brutal upbringing as LRA child soldier (By Elias Biryabarema, Reuters, February 4, 2021)
Open Society Justice Initiative briefing paper: The Trial of Dominic Ongwen at the International Criminal Court

1975 births
Living people
21st-century criminals
Acholi people
Date of birth missing (living people)
Lord's Resistance Army rebels
People convicted of attempted murder
People convicted of murder
Ugandan people convicted of rape
People detained by the International Criminal Court
People extradited from the Central African Republic
Violence against women in Uganda
People convicted by the International Criminal Court