[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Topography of Terror

.

With altogether 400 photos and documents, for the first time the exhibition comprehensively related the history of the prison at Prinz-Albrecht-Straße 8 and reminded the fate of numerous detainees.

This presentation lasted from August 2005 to April 2008 on the site of the 'Topography of Terror'.

The Trial of Major War Criminals in Nuremberg 
This exhibition was presented on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Nuremberg Trials and comprised around 110 photo and 50 text documents as well as 15 audio stations. It outlined the genesis, process, ambition and importance of the trial led by the Allies at Nuremberg focussing on the accused, whose culpability for the war crimes is demonstrated.

The presentation was located on the construction hoarding at the area of the Topography of Terror from October 2005 to April 2007.

The "People's Court"—Hitler's Political Tribunal 
German-English documentation on occasion of the 70th anniversary of the foundation of the people's court.

The exhibition was developed in cooperation with the Memorial to the German Resistance.

Travelling exhibitions

Fire! Anti-Jewish Terror on "Kristallnacht" in November 1938 
The exhibition was developed in cooperation with the Foundation Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe and the Stiftung Neue Synagoge - Centrum Judaicum. The cooperative project presented on the 70th anniversary of the Kristallnacht pogrom presents historical documentation of the attack, seen around the world, on German Jewry after five and a half years of Nazi dictatorship.

The presentation was displayed from November 2008 to March 2009 in the Centrum Judaicum in Berlin.

Library 

The library of the Topography of Terror Foundation is a special library focusing on the police, SS, Gestapo in the Third Reich and on the National Socialism in general. It currently comprises about 25 800 media elements, about 120 regularly and 100 closed magazines. It is situated around a fountain reminding of Zen gardens and freely accessible.

Memorial Museums Department 
The Topography of Terror Foundation provides comprehensive advice and coordination tasks in the field of national and international memorial sites. In Germany, the Memorial Museums Department is the central coordination office for memorial sites and initiatives for memorial sites and increasingly promotes the international collaboration.

Exhibition

Nazi Forced Labour Documentation Centre 

The last well-preserved former Nazi forced labour camp is located in Niederschöneweide. In the Second World War it served as one of the more than 3000 collective accommodations dispersed throughout the city for forced labourers. The Documentation Centre on Nazi Forced Labour opened in the summer of 2006 on a part of historical grounds that once belonged to the camp and which are today protected as a monument. The Documentation Centre offers two permanent exhibitions: "Forced Labour in the Daily Round 1938-1945" and "Between two stools. The History of the Italian Military Internees 1943-1945". Entrance and guided tours are free.

"Topography of Terror" tours in Russia
In several Russian cities activists of Memorial have organised alternative tours, showing visitors locations, buildings and monuments associated with the political terror of the Soviet period, especially of Lenin and Stalin. Such tours are regularly held in Ryazan (Central Russia), Krasnoyarsk (Siberia) and Khabarovsk (Far East) while Moscow has tours and a website devoted to the theme, "It happened right here" (Это прямо здесь).

References

Further reading

Movies 
 Schaltzentrale der Hölle. Was passiert mit der "Topographie des Terrors" in Berlin? Documentary, Germany, 2004, 7'08 Min., ZDF-aspekte, 20 July 2004
 Dokumentationen des Terrors. News programme, Germany, 2007, 1'52 Min., Production: ZDF-heute, first run: 2 November 2007

External links

Official site
Gedenkstättenforum
Nazi Forced Labour Documentation Centre

Berlin Wall
Gestapo
Museums in Berlin
Nazi SS
Nuremberg trials
World War II museums in Germany
Buildings and structures in Friedrichshain-Kreuzberg