[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# High-speed rail in Canada

nnecting Toronto, Kitchener–Waterloo, London and Windsor for 2015. On October 30, 2015 the Government of Ontario announced that David Collenette would be the special advisor for high-speed rail. Collenette delivered the Special Advisor's Final Report to the provincial government on December 2, 2016,

On May 19, 2017, Ontario Premier Kathleen Wynne and Transport Minister Steven Del Duca announced the first steps in having a high-speed rail route in place by 2025 from Toronto to London, extending to Windsor by 2031, based on the recommendations on Collenette's report. The environmental assessment for this would reportedly be coordinated with the Metrolinx project to enable two-way, all-day GO Transit trains to Kitchener and will be sharing that corridor. Premier Wynne also said that design and planning would commence "immediately" along with the assessment. The announcement was criticized as a re-election tactic in anticipation for the 2018 Ontario general election, as the Liberal Party had announced similar plans for high speed rail in 2014, also ahead of a general election that same year. However, with the election of a majority government for the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario, the future of the high-speed rail proposal inherited from the Liberal Party became uncertain. In late 2018, it was reported that the new Ford government, while not outright cancelling the high-speed rail proposal, was expanding its scope to include alternatives such as increased Via Rail service, more bus capacity or improved highway infrastructure. The 2019 provincial budget paused all funding for the high-speed rail proposal.

High Frequency Rail 

On July 6, 2021, procurement for the Via Rail's High Frequency Rail was announced. The service is planned to operate between Toronto and Quebec City partly along newly constructed tracks that would run pass through Peterborough, Ottawa, Montreal, Laval, and Trois-Rivières, and partly along existing right of way. The government's initial announcement envisioned trains operating at a maximum speed , but the government has challenged its partners to come up with a design that can reach speeds up to . By segregating Via's passenger rail services from freight lines, travel times in some routes are expected to be reduced by up to 90 minutes, and service reliability is expected to increase from an average of 67% to 95%.

There is no single definition for high speed rail but it is generally accepted that newly built lines capable of travelling at  and upgraded lines capable of travelling  qualify.

Other proposed routes

Chilliwack–Whistler 
In October 2020, a group known as the Mountain Valley Express Collective Society formed to propose the creation of a High-speed rail network for the Fraser Valley. The rail network is proposed as an alternative to supplement the growing capacity demands along the British Columbia Highway 99 corridor. The proposal would be for an end-to-end transit system running from Whistler, British Columbia to Chilliwack, with stops in major municipalities like Surrey, British Columbia, Vancouver, and Squamish, British Columbia. The BC provincial government has yet to formally approach the project.

Vancouver–Seattle 

The Pacific Northwest Corridor is one of ten high-speed rail corridors proposed by the US federal government. If the  corridor were completed as proposed,  passenger trains would travel from Eugene, Oregon, to Seattle, Washington, in 2 hours 30 minutes, and from Seattle to Surrey, British Columbia, in 2 hours 50 minutes. A dedicated line parallel to existing tracks would decrease this time into 1 hour, with  speed. The proposal is still being worked on.

The terminus on the Canadian side is proposed to be located at King George station in Surrey. This would leave passengers at the end of a public transit SkyTrain line to downtown Vancouver, a 40-minute addition to the trip. Surrey is east of Vancouver.

A second option is to run the line to Bridgeport in Richmond, BC. That is a 20-minute ride on SkyTrain to downtown Vancouver.

The State of Washington completed in December 2020 an ultra-high-speed study titled, "Cascadia High Speed Ground Transportation". The Cascadia ultra-high-speed ground transportation (UHSGT) system would connect people and communities increase economic competitiveness, and improve quality of life across the Cascadia megaregion. This fast, safe predictable way to travel would connect the metro areas of Vancouver, Seattle, and Portland.

Montreal–Boston/New York