[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Institute of Chartered Accountants Australia

Risk
 Integrated Chartered Accounting Practice (ICAP)

Additionally, two electives must be completed from the following list:

 Advanced Tax (AU or NZ)
 Assurance
 Data Analytics and Insights
 Strategy and Performance
 Advanced Financial Reporting
 Financial Modelling
 Sustainability for Accountants

The institute is the only Australian professional accounting body that is a government accredited Higher Education provider.
Unlike other Australian accounting designations, the Chartered Accountants Program leads to the awarding of a Graduate Diploma.
The Australian Chartered Accountant qualification is recognised as an "approved qualification" - a significant requirement for auditor registration purposes in the UK.

Mentored Practical experience
To meet the practical experience requirements to become a Chartered Accountant in Australia, you must:
 Be employed with an organisation recognised by the Institute for at least 17.5hpw whilst completing the GradDipCA
 Recording your work experience with a Chartered Accountant mentor
 Apply for full membership after completing the GradDipCA and accumulating at least three years of practical work experience.

Membership

There are a number for different membership categories:

 Members: Have the designation CA after their name.
 Fellows: Have the designation FCA (Fellow Chartered Accountant) after their name. These members have been nominated for advancement Fellowship and have been a continuous member for 10 years and have been in a senior position for seven years. To be advanced to Fellow the member must have demonstrated 'leadership'
 Affiliate membership: Have an accounting degree and at least five years membership, but have not completed the Chartered Accountants Program.
 Teacher of Accountancy: For teachers to obtain membership, they are required to have completed a Doctorate or Masters by research with a major in an accounting related field, held a senior academic position for not less than five years, have appropriate Australian Taxation and Corporation Law knowledge and have references from two Chartered Accountants and their Head of School, and another significant academic
 Certificate of Public Practice: Firms or members who offer their services to the public as 'Chartered Accountants'.

Continuing education

Chartered Accountants continue their education to ensure they are able to provide the highest standards of integrity and professionalism. A Chartered Accountant must complete a total of 120 hours of Continuing Professional Education every three years.

Ethical Standards
The institute collaborates with CPA Australia and the Institute of Public Accountants in supporting the Accounting Professional & Ethical Standards Board (APESB), founded in 2006.
APESB publishes ethics-related standards that must be followed by accountants in Australia based on the international standards published by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA).

See also
 Tax Institute (Australia)
 List of Australian organisations with royal patronage
 Global Accounting Alliance
 IFACnet
 International Qualification Examination
 University of Queensland Business Association

References

External links
 
 Student Challenge
 Resources (Professional Bodies in Australia)

Accounting in Australia
Organisations based in Australia with royal patronage
1928 establishments in Australia
Member bodies of the International Federation of Accountants