[Source: Gutenberg#7370 | Part 51]
# The Social Contract — Jean-Jacques Rousseau

r, and all descended from them, are
freemen, and no subjects by conquest; let that give what dominion it
will. And if I, or any body else, shall claim freedom, as derived from
them, it will be very hard to prove the contrary: and it is plain, the
law, that has made no distinction between the one and the other, intends
not there should be any difference in their freedom or privileges.

Sect. 178. But supposing, which seldom happens, that the conquerors and
conquered never incorporate into one people, under the same laws and
freedom; let us see next what power a lawful conqueror has over the
subdued: and that I say is purely despotical. He has an absolute power
over the lives of those who by an unjust war have forfeited them; but
not over the lives or fortunes of those who engaged not in the war, nor
over the possessions even of those who were actually engaged in it.

Sect. 179. Secondly, I say then the conqueror gets no power but only
over those who have actually assisted, concurred, or consented to that
unjust force that is used against him: for the people having given to
their governors no power to do an unjust thing, such as is to make an
unjust war, (for they never had such a power in themselves) they ought
not to be charged as guilty of the violence and unjustice that is
committed in an unjust war, any farther than they actually abet it; no
more than they are to be thought guilty of any violence or oppression
their governors should use upon the people themselves, or any part of
their fellow subjects, they having empowered them no more to the one
than to the other. Conquerors, it is true, seldom trouble themselves to
make the distinction, but they willingly permit the confusion of war to
sweep all together: but yet this alters not the right; for the
conquerors power over the lives of the conquered, being only because
they have used force to do, or maintain an injustice, he can have that
power only over those who have concurred in that force; all the rest are
innocent; and he has no more title over the people of that country, who
have done him no injury, and so have made no forfeiture of their lives,
than he has over any other, who, without any injuries or provocations,
have lived upon fair terms with him.

Sect. 180. Thirdly, The power a conqueror gets over those he overcomes
in a just war, is perfectly despotical: he has an absolute power over
the lives of those, who, by putting themselves in a state of war, have
forfeited them; but he has not thereby a right and title to their
possessions. This I doubt not, but at first sight will seem a strange
doctrine, it being so quite contrary to the practice of the world; there
being nothing more familiar in speaking of the dominion of countries,
than to say such an one conquered it; as if conquest, without any more
ado, conveyed a right of possession. But when we consider, that the
practice of the strong and powerful, how universal soever it may be, is
seldom the rule of right, however it be one part of the subjection of
the conquered, not to argue against the conditions cut out to them by
the conquering sword.

Sect. 181. Though in all war there be usually a complication of force
and damage, and the aggressor seldom fails to harm the estate, when he
uses force against the persons of those he makes war upon; yet it is the
use of force only that puts a man into the state of war: for whether by
force he begins the injury, or else having quietly, and by fraud, done
the injury, he refuses to make reparation, and by force maintains it,
(which is the same thing, as at first to have done it by force) it is
the unjust use of force that makes the war: for he that breaks open my
house, and violently turns me out of doors; or having peaceably got in,
by force keeps me out, does in effect the same thing; supposing we are
in such a state, that we have no common judge on earth, whom I may
appeal to, and to whom we are both obliged to submit: for of such I am
now speaking. It is the unjust use of force then, that puts a man into
the state of war with another; and thereby he that is guilty of it makes
a forfeiture of his life: for quitting reason, which is the rule given
between man and man, and using force, the way of beasts, he becomes
liable to be destroyed by him he uses force against, as any savage
ravenous beast, that is dangerous to his being.

Sect. 182. But because the miscarriages of the father are no faults of
the children, and they may be rational and peaceable, notwithstanding
the brutishness and injustice of the father; the father, by his
miscarriages and violence, can forfeit but his own life, but involves
not his children in his guilt or destruction. His goods, which nature,
that willeth the preservation of all mankind as much as is possible,
hath made to belong to the children to keep them from perishing, do
still continue to belong to his children: for supposing them not to have
joine