[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Confederation of Indian Industry

t of India.

To stimulate foreign investment into India and promote industrial activities, CII partners with Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). CII is a joint venture partner in Invest India, a National Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency, established by DPIIT.

Competitiveness
CII has set up dedicated Centers of Excellence to enhance the competitiveness of Indian industry through training, consultancy, and research. These centres provide special services to the industry to enable firms to lower their costs and become more productive and competitive. Currently, there are ten Centers of Excellence set up in the areas of Quality, Green Business, Manufacturing Excellence, Logistics, SMEs, Sustainable Development, Leadership, Food & Agriculture, and Water Institute, and Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Start-ups.

Quality Movement

India started its quality movement journey in the early 1980s. Late Japanese Professor Kaoru Ishikawa visited India in 1986, then heading JUSE (Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers). During his visit to India, he recommended starting a national drive for quality by setting up an institutional arrangement. CII took the lead in this initiative and has since spearheaded the quality movement in India. In 1988, A Total Quality Management Division (TQMD) was set up on Ishikawa's recommendation. The TQMD evolved into the CII Institute of Quality, which lead a quality movement that aimed to transform Indian businesses by offering them Total Quality Management skills such as Total Productive Maintenance, Lean Management, Six Sigma, Industrial and Legal Metrology, and Conformity Assessment & Standards. CII and the Export-Import Bank of India jointly established the CII-EXIM Bank Award for Business Excellence in 1994. The Award is based on the internationally recognised EFQM Excellence Model. The CII Institute of quality has had a major impact on a large number of firms in India in terms of raising overall awareness regarding quality.

Environment

CII initiated industry engagement in the area of environment and climate change in 1991, when the landmark Rio Summit was held. Since then, it has established three Centres of Excellence that work in the area of climate change, air pollution, environment, sustainability, green building, energy and water management.

Green Building

Going green way addresses ecological challenges and also makes good business sense. Keeping this principle in mind, the CII Sohrabji Godrej Green Business Centre (GBC) was launched in March 2000 during the visit of the then U.S. President Bill Clinton to India. The Centre aims to promote ecologically sustainable business models in green economy. The GBC was inaugurated by Dr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, the then President of India on 14 July 2004. The GBC headquarters at Hyderabad is India's first platinum rated green building which has been awarded by the United States Green Building Council (USGBC), under the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) rating system.

Since 2004, the GBC under the aegis of Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) is spearheading the green movement in the country by offering services to various national and international stakeholders in the areas of green projects.

In 2011, the centre launched the GreenCo Rating system which evaluates how green a company is and suggests the way forward on resource conservation and energy & environmental management. In 2015, GreenCo Rating was acknowledged in India's Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) document, submitted to United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), as a proactive voluntary action of Indian industry towards combating climate change.

So far, 22 green building rating systems have been designed by GBC to address ecological challenges. IGBC Green Building Rating System has adopted over 5,400 green building projects amounting to over 7.5 billion sq. ft.  GBC's various initiatives have facilitated the reduction of over 16 million tons of  per year.

International Partnership
CII connects Indian Industry with multiple stakeholders across the globe while also highlighting India's position as a stable and dependent partner. CII's international work constitutes working closely with the Indian Government to creating policies conducive to the trade and development procedures in India, identifying best practices, and creating access to foreign markets. Such activities include meeting with the Heads of State and Government, decision-makers, networking with counterpart organisations, multilateral and academic institutions, and other policy-making bodies.