[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lundin Energy

Lundin Energy (former Lundin Petroleum) is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company formed from Lundin Oil in 2001 and based in Sweden with focus on operations in Norway. 

Lundin Energy was purchased by Aker BP in July 2022 in a deal worth more than US$14 billion.

Lundin Energy had  of oil equivalent of proven plus probable reserves at the end of 2020 whereas contingent resources amounted to . The company's commercial success is overshadowed by a Swedish war crimes investigation into its past operations in Sudan. Chairman Ian Lundin and former CEO Alex Schneiter are the suspects of the preliminary investigation. In April 2020, the company changed its name from Lundin Petroleum AB to Lundin Energy AB.

Operations
Lundin Energy is fully focused on Norway where the company holds 89 licenses. Core areas are the Utsira High Area and Alvheim in the North Sea and the Loppa High in the southern Barents Sea.

In 2010, Lundin Energy discovered the Johan Sverdrup oil field, one of the largest oil discoveries ever made on the Norwegian continental shelf. Lundin Energy has a 20 percent working interest in the Johan Sverdrup oil field development project. Production from Phase 1 started on 5 October 2019 and reached plateau in April 2020, with plateau production of 535 thousand barrels (Mboepd) of oil per day. Phase 2 will add another processing platform to the field centre which is estimated to increase the processing capacity for the full field to 755 Mboepd. Phase 2 is scheduled to start production in 2022.

Another important part of Lundin Energy's production is the Edvard Grieg oil field, located in PL338 on the Utsira High in the central North Sea. The Edvard Grieg field was discovered in 2007 and started production in November 2015. Another production hub is in the Alvheim area, located in the central part of the North Sea, and production from the fields in this hub started in 2008, 2010 and 2015.

Lundin Energy is one of the largest operated acreage holders and has been one of the most active explorers in Norway over the past 10 years. In October 2021, Lundin Energy announced it had acquired an additional 25 percent working interest in the Wisting development, increasing Lundin Energy´s working interest to 35 percent. Wisting is set to be one of the largest development projects in the Barents sea over the next few years.

Decarbonisation plan
Lundin Energy is investing MUSD 800 to achieve carbon neutrality by 2023 from operational emissions. As part of the decarbonization strategy, the company also replaced “Petroleum” with “Energy” in its name.

Carbon capture projects
To neutralise the residual emissions, Lundin Energy is investing in carbon capture projects. In January 2021 they signed a partnership with Land Life Company, to invest MUSD 35 in reforestation projects capturing approximately 2.6 million tonnes of CO2. Another partnership was signed with EcoPlanet Bamboo in September 2021 where the company will invest MUSD 9 in sustainable bamboo plantations capturing approximately 1.7 million tonnes of CO2 over 10 years.

Carbon neutrally produced oil 
In April 2021, Lundin Energy made the world´s first certified carbon-neutrally produced crude sale from its Edvard Grieg field. The field was independently certified by Intertek Group plc (Intertek), under its CarbonClear certification at 3.4 kg of CO2e per boe. '

Accusations of greenwashing 
Lundin Energy's decarbonisation plan has been called greenwashing by environmental organizations. Isadora Wronski, head of Greenpeace Sweden told CNBC in 2020 that “Ridding ‘Petroleum’ from the company name does not change the fact that Lundin is in the oil business and their product is one of the environmentally most harming products there is."

The Lundin Foundation
The Lundin Foundation established and funded by the Lundin Group of Companies. As part of its wider decarbonisation strategy, Lundin Energy currently supports seven start-ups and accelerators in low-carbon technology and innovation through the Lundin Foundation. One of these is Ocean Harvesting Technologies (OHT), a pre-commercial wave energy company that explores the use of wave energy converters (WECs) used to  cut emissions from oil and gas production at sea. Lundin Energy is currently involved in a project with OHT on its Edvard Grieg field, to explore the potential of using wave energy to decarbonise production of oil and gas on platforms. If successful, it could be used to decarbonise platforms far from shore.

Lundin Energy also supports Evoy, a company that develops 100% electric motor systems for high-speed boats which has the potential of reducing emissions in the boating industry. Lundin Energy further support Katapult Climate with its Climate Accelerator Program that targets innovative tech entrepreneurs that advance zero and low carbon solutions at scale.