[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mallaah

me of the past when lower and upper caste lived together in harmony was just invoked to counter the politics of Dalit mobilisation based on the report of Mandal Commission which sought reservation in the government jobs and educational institutions for socially and economically backward communities.

The tussle between the lower and the upper caste hence continued in the decade of 1990 itself when the attempt to mobilise lower castes to support the upper caste dominated politics was taking place . The states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were facing severest caste wars in which the lower castes like Mallah were falling prey to the caste based armies of the upper caste. Amongst all massacres that occur in the rural Bihar in 1990s, the Laxmanpur Bathe, 1997 is the most notable where Ranvir Sena, an upper caste militia slaughtered 56 lower castes including the members of Mallah community who earlier helped them cross the river being ignorant of their intentions. The Sena members also raped 5 girls who were less than 15 years old.

In states like Uttar Pradesh too, the brutal force of repression upon lower caste was inflicted by the members of upper castes, which were many a times challenged by the iconic people from the lower castes as for example Phoolan Devi, who being born in a Mallah family faced all sort of discrimination from the upper caste dominated administration after being raped by bandits belonging to Thakur Rajput castes and finally ended up perpetrating the infamous "Behmai massacre", in which male members of a Thakur caste dominated village were assassinated by a gang of Mallah under the leadership of Phoolan Devi. Devi was later inducted as Member of Parliament from Uttar Pradesh by Mulayam Singh Yadav, who acknowledged her popularity among her castemen.

The Mallah and their subcastes called Bind were also active in high value organised crime in the Bihar during 1990s. These organised crimes were kidnapping, Timber logging, forcibly taking contract for public works, automobile theft and smuggling which were the prerogative of the criminals belonging to upper castes earlier as they required linkage with the politicians and backup from the ruling regime as high capital inflow is involved. In the regime of Rashtriya Janata Dal led government these criminals from backward castes specially Mallah and Yadav turned several areas of Bihar into their base and organised high value crimes . The criminal nature of Mallah were earlier used by British colonialists too to list them in Criminal Tribes Act 1871. Scholars like Buchanan and Crooke also consider this behaviour to be inherent in their nature which halted their attempts to sanskritize and seek high status.

Post 2000
The period before 2000 saw consolidation of backward castes under Lalu Prasad Yadav, who according to the backward communities gave voice to them to stand up in front of upper castes. Lalu as a Chief Minister frequently visited the SC hamlets of the state and sensitise the lower caste feeling against repression. This period saw representation of many lower castes including Mallah in local level politics who now acquired the post of "Mukhia" (village headman) at many places.

The early part of Lalu Yadav's rule saw the rise to prominence of the leaders of the lower castes among which Jai Narain Prasad Nishad was a notable leader from Mallah community. However, the prominence of Yadavs made many aspirational backward castes dissatisfied, who were forced to seek place in electoral politics elsewhere. The Dalit caste after being marginalised in the Rashtriya Janata Dal thus moved towards the socialist leader Ram Vilas Paswan who championed the cause of the numerically weak backward communities and the dominant Dalit caste, Dusadh.

The Mallah community later supported Nitish Kumar until 2015, when Mukesh Sahani entered the political arena of Bihar. Sahani called himself "Son of Mallah" and cultivated support amongst the Nishad community, who were electorally influential in some pockets of Bihar. Initially, his campaign for the Bharatiya Janata Party as the leader of Mallah caste made the community vote in favour of BJP in 2014 elections, but later on he joined the Mahagathbandhan (Bihar), a grand alliance of opposition parties in Bihar which includes Rashtriya Janata Dal and Rashtriya Lok Samata Party among others. The walking out of Sahani led Vikassheel Insaan Party out of National Democratic Alliance was due to alleged betrayal of Bihar government under Nitish Kumar to grant Scheduled Tribe status to Mallah caste.

Distribution in Bihar

The Mallah community is present all over Bihar though sparingly. They are dominant in districts like Muzaffarpur and Vaishali. In Muzaffarpur region, they have emerged as the most influential caste politically, leaving behind Bhumihar, Rajput, Koeri, Kurmi and Yadav. Since decades the Member of Parliament from this constituency has remained from the Mallah caste only.

In Pakistan

In Sindh