[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Law of Northern Ireland

abortions to be carried out by a "registered medical professional".

Fatal offences

As to the mens rea for murder, see section 8 of the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1966.

The following partial defences reduce murder to manslaughter:
loss of control
diminished responsibility
suicide pact

See also section 6 of the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1966. The common law defence of provocation was abolished and section 7 of that Act repealed by section 56 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009.

The Infanticide Act (Northern Ireland) 1939 provides a partial defence which reduces murder to infanticide.

The penalty for murder is provided by section 1(1) of the Northern Ireland (Emergency Provisions) Act 1973.

Sexual offences

The Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order 2008 reformed the law of sex crime in Northern Ireland similarly to how the Sexual Offences Act 2003 did in England and Wales.

Non-fatal non-sexual offences

Offences against property

Firearms and offensive weapons

Forgery, personation and cheating

Forgery is covered by the Forgery and Counterfeiting Act 1981.
The common law offence of cheating, except in relation to the public revenue, was abolished by section 30(1) of the Theft Act (Northern Ireland) 1969.

Offences against the State or Crown or Government and political offences
Several of these areas of law, such as treason, defence and foreign relations, are reserved or excepted matters, meaning only Westminster has the power to legislate for them.
High treason
Misprision of treason
Compounding treason
Treason felony
Attempting to injure or alarm the Sovereign, contrary to section 2 of the Treason Act 1842
Offences under the Official Secrets Acts 1911 to 1989
Offences under the Incitement to Disaffection Act 1934
Causing disaffection among police officers, contrary to section 68 of the Police (Northern Ireland) Act 1998
Incitement to sedition or disaffection or promoting industrial unrest, contrary to section 3 of the Aliens Restriction (Amendment) Act 1919
Offences relating to terrorism
Offences under section 1 of the Unlawful Drilling Act 1819
Piracy iure gentium
Piracy with violence, contrary to the Piracy Act 1837
Offences under the Slave Trade Act 1824
Offences under the Foreign Enlistment Act 1870
Offences under the Immigration Act 1971
Coinage offences under Part II of the Forgery and Counterfeiting Act 1981
Offences relating to public stores under the Public Stores Act 1875
Offences against postal and electronic communication services
Misconduct in public office
Refusal to execute public office
Cheating the public revenue
Offences under the Customs and Excise Management Act 1979
Tax evasion and money laundering offences

Abolished offences
Sedition
Seditious libel

Harmful or dangerous drugs

Offences against religion and public worship

Blasphemy
Blasphemous libel

The Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 abolished the offence of blasphemy in England and Wales; this measure did not extend to Northern Ireland.

Offences against the administration of public justice

Public order offences
Prevention of Incitement to Hatred Act 1970  (Northern Ireland) 
Riot
Affray
Offences under the Public Order (Northern Ireland) Order 1987. These include Northern Ireland's incitement to hatred laws. In 2013 the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission reported, in 'Racist Hate Crime: Human Rights and the Criminal Justice System in Northern Ireland',  that authorities were uncertain about the scope of this legislation. 
Justice Act (NI) 2011 proscribes sectarian or indecent chanting at regulated matches.

Offences against public morals and public policy
Bigamy

Protection of children and vulnerable adults

Protection of animals and the environment

Road traffic and motor vehicle offences

Participatory offences

Participatory offences include aiding, abetting, counselling, or procuring the act of some crime or conspiracy. It also includes being an accomplice to criminal behaviour.

Defences to crime
Marital coercion

Criminal justice

Due to the history of political violence in Northern Ireland, there have been distinctive developments in Northern Irish criminal law and anti-terrorism procedures. These date to the Civil Authorities (Special Powers) Act (Northern Ireland) 1922, commonly called the Special Powers Act. Following the outbreak of violence in the 1960s and 1970s, the Northern Ireland (Emergency Provisions) Act 1973 introduced juryless Diplock courts to try terrorism related offences.

The Terrorism Act 2000 retains special provisions for Northern Ireland in respect of anti-terrorism law, and retains the possibility to try certain offences without a jury.

Civil law

The Defamation Act 2013 does not apply in Northern Ireland. This protections which this Act provides for free expression (e.g. the public interest defence in section 4) do not therefore apply in Northern Ireland.

Northern Irish courts have issued a small number of super-injunctions.