[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Young Riders

ugh as Teaspoon when the riders do wrong, she tries to be a mother to them all.  She is in love with Marshal Cain, but because of her past, she hesitates to marry him until the end of the first season.

Jesse James (Christopher Pettiet) Season 3 
A young boy who joins the riders in the third season.

Rachel Dunn (Clare Wren) Seasons 2-3 
Rachel takes on the role of station caretaker after Emma leaves.

Guest stars
Many prominent actors guest-starred on the show, including Mitchell Ryan, Rob Estes, Chris Penn, Lloyd Bochner, Jay O. Sanders, Ted Shackelford, Roger Rees, James Gammon, Meg Foster, Albert Salmi,
Kelli Williams, Fisher Stevens, Della Reese, Melissa Michaelsen, David Carradine, Stacy Keach Sr., Pernell Roberts, David Soul, Cynthia Nixon, Richard Roundtree, Buck Taylor, Nick Ramus, Jamie Walters, Frances Fisher, Noble Willingham, James Cromwell, William Russ, John Slattery, Rebecca Staab, Jim Beaver, Peter MacNicol, Tim Thomerson, Stan Shaw, Bart the Bear, Brian Keith, Park Overall, Brian Bonsall, John Schuck, Gloria Reuben, Khrystyne Haje, Gary Sandy, John DeLancie, Tammy Grimes, Frederic Forrest, Frederick Coffin, Cliff DeYoung, William Sanderson, Sydney Walsh, Cassie Yates, Robert Clohessy, and Jenny O'Hara

Episodes

Reception
In its first year on the air, The Young Riders was plagued by low ratings. In November 1989, it ranked 60th out of 84 programs for its time slot in the Nielsen ratings.  In its second season, the series was given a new timeslot  and made a dramatic turn around, winning its time slot five out of its first seven weeks, and consistently outperformed the other critically acclaimed shows on the night China Beach and Twin Peaks. Though still only ranked 57th in the Nielsen Ratings, it began building a "small, but loyal" following among teens and young adults.

Diane Holloway of the Austin American-Statesman felt it offered a new take on the standard Western, and praised the series for its "beautiful" cinematography. The Philadelphia Inquirers Ken Tucker heavily criticized the series when it premiered considering it "one of the season's most pretentious bombs" and feeling "everything about [it] is overdone" including the acting. Considering it a rip-off of the films Young Guns and The Long Riders, Tucker considered the series failed at period authenticity and thought the riders dressed no different from 1980s young adults. Writing for The Atlanta Journal, Phil Kloer agreed with Tucker, also calling the series a rip-off of Young Guns. Kloer considered the pilot to be "not particularly good or bad", and felt the series was doomed to fail quickly. He did, however, praise the series cinematography as being "more like a film than a TV series, very beautiful with lots of soft light". Ron Miller of TV Weekly, however, praised the series when it was released. As it entered its second season, he renewed his praise, noting the more successful series was now "thumbing its nose at all the prognosticators" who had considered it unlikely to succeed.

Home media
MGM released the first season of The Young Riders as a single Region 1 DVD box set on March 21, 2006.

The season 1 set was released to Region 2 (Europe) on January 15, 2007.

TGG Direct released season 3 on DVD in Region 1 for the very first time on January 29, 2013.  They also re-released the first season on the same day.  Season 2 was released on October 22, 2013. However, due to clearance issues, the episodes "Born to Hang," "Bad Company," "Blood Money," and "Littlest Cowboy" were excluded. Another Season 2 set was released in 2014. In addition to the four episodes excluded from the 2013 release, the 2014 set also excludes the episodes "Dead Ringer" and "The Play's the Thing".

References

External links
 
 The Young Riders Italia

1989 American television series debuts
1992 American television series endings
American Broadcasting Company original programming
English-language television shows
Cultural depictions of Buffalo Bill
Cultural depictions of Jesse James
Television series by MGM Television
Television shows set in Wyoming
Television shows set in Nebraska
Works about the Pony Express
1980s Western (genre) television series
1990s Western (genre) television series