[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Mordechai Vanunu

s and allow him to leave Israel on 6 April that year.

On 10 July, the Jerusalem Magistrate's Court gave Vanunu a two-month suspended jail sentence unless "he commits another similar violation [speaking to foreigners] in the next three years." He was also sentenced to 120 hours of community service.

Vanunu returned to Israel's Supreme Court on 6 November 2017 seeking to end the restrictions holding him in Israel so that he could be reunited with his wife in Norway. On 14 November 2017, Israel's Supreme Court rejected Vanunu's twelfth appeal.

On 2 June 2018, Vanunu tweeted, "after 32 years of all the Israel Nuclear secrets had gone to all the world they still claim I am a security risk" and on 3 July, he tweeted "They renew all the restrictions for another year after 14 years and 18 years in prison."

Awards and honours

Vanunu has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize every year since 1987.

Vanunu wrote the poem "I'm Your Spy" early during the first eleven and a half years he was held in strict isolation.

Vanunu received the Right Livelihood Award in 1987. He was given an honorary doctorate by the University of Tromsø in 2001.

In March 2009, Vanunu wrote to the Nobel Peace Prize Committee in Oslo:

In September 2004, Vanunu received the LennonOno Grant for Peace, a peace prize founded by artist and musician Yoko Ono in memory of John Lennon, her late husband.

In December 2004, he was elected by the students of the University of Glasgow to serve for three years as Rector. On 22 April 2005, he was formally installed in the post but could not carry out any of its functions as he was still confined to Israel. The Herald newspaper launched a campaign for his release.

In 2005 he received the Peace Prize of the Norwegian People (Folkets fredspris). Previous recipients of this prize include Vytautas Landsbergis (1991), Alva Myrdal (1982), Mairead Maguire and Betty Williams. On 24 February 2010, Nobel Institute Director, Geir Lundestad, announced that for the second year in a row, Mordechai Vanunu had declined the honour of being nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize.

On 21 September 2010, the Teach Peace Foundation recognised Mordechai Vanunu for his courageous actions to halt the development and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction by the Israeli government.

On 4 October 2010, the International League for Human Rights announced that Vanunu was awarded the Carl von Ossietzky Medal for 2010 and, on 16 November, sent open letters to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Defence Minister Ehud Barak and Interior Minister Eli Yishai, seeking Vanunu's free departure out of Israel to allow him to receive the medal at the Award Ceremony in Berlin on 12 December 2010. Nobel laureates cited as co-signatories to the letter include Mairead Maguire, Günter Grass, Harold W. Kroto and Jack Steinberger.

The request was refused and the 12 December Berlin medal ceremony was restyled as a protest event in support of Vanunu and nuclear disarmament. On this occasion, a musical composition, The Dove, was dedicated to Vanunu and given its premiere performance.

On 19 May 2015, Vanunu married Norwegian professor Kristin Joachimsen at the Lutheran Church of the Redeemer in Jerusalem.

See also
List of peace activists
List of whistleblowers
Nuclear-Free Future Award
Nuclear proliferation
Nuclear weapons and Israel
Gideon Spiro
Omid Kokabee, Andrei Sakharov
 List of nuclear whistleblowers

References

Further reading
 Black, Ian. Israel's Secret Wars: A History of Israel's Intelligence Services, Grove Press, 1992, 
 Cohen, Avner. Israel and the Bomb, New York: Columbia University Press (1999), 
 Cohen, Yoel. The Whistleblower of Dimona: Israel, Dimona & the Bomb.  
 Fleming, Eileen. Memoirs of a Nice Irish American 'Girl's' Life in Occupied Territory.  [2007], .
 Fleming, Eileen. "Beyond Nuclear: Mordechai Vanunu's Freedom of Speech Trial and My Life as a Muckraker".  [2010], .
 Fleming, Eileen. "The Vanunu Legend: Israel’s Nuclear Whistleblower’s Struggle for Freedom" [2014] .
 Fleming, Eileen. "Heroes, Muses and the Saga of Mordechai Vanunu", Outskirts Press, 2015,  
 Gaffney, Mark.  Dimona: The Third Temple?  The Story Behind the Vanunu Revelation.  
 Gilling, Tom and John McKnight. Trial and Error — Mordechai Vanunu and Israel's Nuclear Bomb. 1991 Monarch Publications. 
 Hounam, Peter.  The Woman from Mossad: The Torment of Mordechai Vanunu.  paperback edition title: The Woman from Mossad: The Story of Mordechai Vanunu & the Israeli Nuclear Program Toscano, Louis. Triple Cross. 1990 Birch Lane Press 
 Spiro, Gideon. Vanunu and the Israeli Bomb.'' (1998)

External links