[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Seth Ledyard Phelps

ater that day Phelps was inspecting the inside of the abandoned fort and discovered that the Union fleet could have safely passed the fort by staying close to the river bank below the steep buffs, out of the line of fire from the fort's guns, realizing that Davis had wasted an entire month.

Memphis

The First Battle of Memphis was a naval battle fought on the Mississippi River just above Memphis on June 6, 1862, resulting in a major defeat for the Confederacy, and marked the virtual elimination of the long-standing Confederate naval presence on the river. Shortly after securing Fort Pillow, the Union fleet made way for Memphis on June 5, leaving the Pittsburg at Fort Pillow to lend any needed support for the Union garrison, while the Mound City stood by to escort any transports that would arrive. At 2 p.m. Fort Randolph was sighted in the distance. Greeted by Captain Dryden of the Monarch, they were informed that the Union had taken the fort and that the "stars and stripes" were flying overhead. Phelps, standing on the deck of the Benton observed the fort through his spyglass and confirmed Dryden's claim.

Shortly after 4 p.m. just above island No. 37, Phelps encountered the Sovereign and fired a warning shot for her to come about, which was ignored as the Confederate vessel turned about and began retreating. Davis ordered Phelps to fire again. The Carondelet and the Cairo also joined in and fired. As the Sovereign disappeared around a bend, Davis ordered Lieutenant Bishop to pursue the vessel in the faster-moving Spitfire with its 12-pound howitzer bow gun. The Spitfire soon overcame the enemy vessel and began firing, causing the crew to run their boat ashore. In their haste they attempted to destroy the boilers, but the attempt was averted.  Meanwhile, the remainder of the union fleet stretched back for ten miles and slowly made their way, reaching a group of small islands just north of Memphis. Phelps asked if it was safe to anchor at this point, and upon confirmation the fleet began to  anchor in a line of battle formation.

Confederate commander  James Montgomery's River Defense Fleet moved up the river to engage the union fleet unaware of the presence of the combined fleet, which this time included Ellet's squadron of rams.
The battle started with an exchange of gunfire at long range, the federal gunboats setting up a line of battle across the river and firing their rear guns at the cottonclads coming up to meet them. The USS Queen of the West, then quickly steamed forward between the slow-moving ironclads and initiated the battle by ramming the CSS Colonel Lovell, almost cutting the vessel in two. Before breaking free from the Lowell she was rammed by the Sumter Due to the lack of organization on both sides the battle was soon reduced to a melee. During the engagement Ellet was wounded in the knee from a pistol shot.

Phelps aboard the Benton fired on the  CSS General Thompson causing the vessel to explode. The Beauregard and the Little Rebel were struck in the boilers and disabled. The Rebel was pushed aground by the Monarch and captured.  Only the CSS General Van Dorn was fast enough to get away.

By 7:30 a.m., the entire Confederate Defense Fleet had been destroyed, as the converted steamboats proved no match for the powerful Federal ironclads and rams, resulting in the immediate surrender of the city of Memphis to Union forces within a few hours. The Benton dropped anchor and sent her gig to retrieve a well-dressed man standing near the shore waving a white flag. Phelps brought the man aboard to see commander Flag Officer Davis for a conference. After their meeting, Phelps accompanied the man back and proceeded into town with an official request for surrender, and was met with jeers from some of the crowd, but without further incident. Phelps handed the notice to Mayor John Park, who replied: "Your note of this date is received and the contents noted. on reply, I have only to say, that as the city authorities have no means of defense, by the force of circumstances the city is in your hands." Phelps was promoted to lieutenant commander in July 1862.

Vicksburg Campaign

In the months before the Vicksburg campaign, before the actual fighting on land began, there was much naval activity occurring on the Mississippi near Vicksburg between Union and Confederate gunboats. During this time Phelps served aboard the Benton, most notably with his engagement of the Confederate steamer Fairplay, being used as a transport to move military supplies into Vicksburg.