[Source: PubMed]

57. Zoonoses Public Health. 2022 Sep;69(6):757-767. doi: 10.1111/zph.12976. Epub 
2022 May 26.

Building on health security capacities in Indonesia: Lessons learned from the 
COVID-19 pandemic responses and challenges.

Aisyah DN(1)(2), Mayadewi CA(2), Budiharsana M(3), Solikha DA(4), Ali PB(4), 
Igusti G(5), Kozlakidis Z(6), Manikam L(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Institute of Epidemiology and 
Health Care, University College London, London, UK.
(2)Indonesia One Health University Network, Depok, Indonesia.
(3)Faculty of Public Health, Universitas Indonesia, Depok, Indonesia.
(4)Ministry of National Development Planning (BAPPENAS) of the Republic of 
Indonesia, Jakarta, Indonesia.
(5)Aceso Global Health Consultants Limited, London, UK.
(6)International Agency for Research on Cancer World Health Organization, Lyon, 
France.

As an active member country of the WHO's International Health Regulation and 
Global Health Security Agenda, Indonesia, the world's fourth-most populous and 
largest archipelagic country has recorded the second-highest COVID-19 cases in 
Asia with over 1.8 million cases in early June 2021. This geographically and 
socially diverse country has a dynamic national and sub-national government 
coordination with decentralized authorities that can complicate a pandemic 
response which often requires nationally harmonized policies, adaptability to 
sub-national contexts and global interconnectedness. This paper analyses and 
reviews COVID-19 public data, regulations, guidance documents, statements and 
other related official documents to present a narrative that summarizes the 
government's COVID-19 response strategies. It further analyses the challenges 
and achievements of the country's zoonotic diseases preparedness and responses 
and lastly provides relevant recommendations. Findings are presented in four 
sections according to the Global Health Security Agenda capacities, namely 
epidemiological surveillance (detect capacity); laboratory diagnostic testing 
(respond capacity); data management and analysis (enable capacity); and the role 
of sub-national governments. The COVID-19 pandemic has been a catalyst for the 
rapid transformation of existing surveillance systems, inter-related stakeholder 
coordination and agile development from the pre-pandemic health security 
capacities. This paper offers several recommendations on surveillance, 
laboratory capacity and data management, which might be useful for Indonesia and 
other countries with similar characteristics beyond the COVID-19 response, such 
as achieving long-term health security, zoonoses and pandemic prevention, as 
well as a digital transformation of their governmental capacities.

© 2022 The Authors. Zoonoses and Public Health published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/zph.12976
PMCID: PMC9348171
PMID: 35618675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None to be disclosed. While two authors are 
affiliated with Aceso Global Health Consultants Ltd, which is a private company, 
we declare that this research project does not receive funding from Aceso Global 
Health Consultants. The company does not have a role in the study design, data 
collection and analysis, decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript. 
Dr. Logan Manikam is the director of the company, and Gayatri Igusti is an 
employee of the company. However, both of them contributed to this paper on a 
pro‐bono basis.