[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Tcham N'Toya

Tcham N'Toya-Zoa (born 3 November 1983 in Kinshasa, Zaire) is a French-Congolese footballer. He has spent much of his career in the English football leagues, playing primarily in attack, and he is currently playing in Israel for Maccabi Herzliya.  His name in Hebrew is נטויה צ'אם. In Arabic it is تشام(هشام) نطويا.

Career

Although born in Zaire, N'Toya got his start in football playing in the youth team of French Ligue 1 club Troyes AC. He soon relocated as English club Chesterfield signed the young striker.

At Chesterfield, N'Toya played 48 games and scored 8 goals, before the club loaned him out in 2006; first to York City and then Oxford United, the latter of which he had an impressive record, scoring 4 goals in 8 games.

He was signed by Notts County in the summer of 2006 on a free transfer. Upon signing him, County manager Steve Thompson tipped N'Toya to shine stating; "He is an untapped talent and there is more to come from Tcham. He has outstanding pace and strength and is also a willing learner which is the main thing." N'Toya was released by Notts County at the end of the 2006-07 season on 8 May 2007. Despite scoring the winner in a League Cup match against Premier League side Middlesbrough, he only scored one league goal, coming against Bury.

He went on trial at Scottish Premier League side St Mirren in August, but failed to win a contract. He later joined the Israeli Premier League side Maccabi Herzliya and now he plays for Maccabi Ahi Nazareth.

Notes

External links

1983 births
Living people
French men's footballers
Democratic Republic of the Congo men's footballers
Men's association football forwards
ES Troyes AC players
Chesterfield F.C. players
York City F.C. players
Oxford United F.C. players
Notts County F.C. players
Maccabi Herzliya F.C. players
Maccabi Akhi Nazareth F.C. players
Israeli Premier League players
Liga Leumit players
Ligue 2 players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Expatriate men's footballers in Israel