[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Sardarilal Mathradas Nanda

native land, to the heights of honour when Nanda became chief of the Indian Navy. The couple were the parents of several children, including a son, Suresh Nanda (ex-naval officer and businessman) and Beena Mehra, wife of Major Pradeep Kumar Mehra, founder of Usha Stud Farm on the outskirts of Delhi.

Nanda suffered a personal tragedy when his daughter Beena died in a helicopter crash.  She was married to Major Pradeep Kumar Mehra, an army officer and polo enthusiast who founded and ran Usha Stud Farm on the outskirts of Delhi. The couple were the parents of three grown-up daughters. On 2 January 2002, Beena Mehra, her husband and their daughter Radhika were all killed in a helicopter crash while flying from Mussourie to Dehradun Airport after attending a New Year's Day party. Their other two daughters, Ameeta and Devika, survived since they was not on the helicopter; Ameeta Mehra now runs Usha Stud Farm.

Controversies
Following his retirement, Nanda took an executive role with Crown Corporation, an arms trading firm headed by his son Suresh Nanda, which specialized in supply of imported weapons to the Indian Armed Forces. The organization was surrounded by a controversy when Operation West End a sting-operation which aimed to expose corruption between India's defence ministry and Crown Corporation. The allegation on Admiral Nanda's son, Suresh Nanda, was closed by CBI when no evidence was found.

Another incident that caused turmoil in the family was the 1999 Delhi hit-and-run case, which involved Admiral Nanda's grandson Sanjeev Nanda. Sanjeev Nanda was found guilty by the Supreme Court of India. The accident and the trial attracted a lot of media attention and became one of the cases that exemplified middle class India's frustration with rich and powerful people being able to circumvent the law.

Later years and death
In the later years of his life, Nanda wrote his autobiography titled The Man Who Bombed Karachi: A Memoir. The book provides an insider's account and the reminisces how India adapted an inventive strategy to defeat Pakistan, and the 32 years of his naval career. Nanda  participated in interviews on Indian War Heroes, a popular one being the interview by Sushil Sharma in 1997. His tactics in India's victory is still being discussed by channels on YouTube and Indian websites.

Admiral Nanda died in New Delhi on 11 May 2009 at the age of 93. He was survived by his wife Sumitra Nanda (died Feb 2011), son Suresh Nanda and grandchildren. His funeral was marked with full military honours at Brar Square Crematorium in New Delhi and was attended by top brass of Armed Forces. The Telegraph however wrote that it was not as well attended as his naval career mandated.

Awards

Source:

Dates of rank

See also
 Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw
 Air Chief Marshal Pratap Chandra Lal

References

Bibliography

1915 births
2009 deaths
Recipients of the Padma Vibhushan in civil service
Chiefs of the Naval Staff (India)
Indian Navy admirals
Royal Indian Navy officers
Flag Officers Commanding Indian Fleet
Deputy Chiefs of Naval Staff (India)
Indian military personnel of the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971
Military personnel from Punjab, India
Admirals of the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971
Recipients of the Param Vishisht Seva Medal
Graduates of the Royal College of Defence Studies
Chiefs of Materiel (India)
Chiefs of Personnel (India)