[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Assyrians in Lebanon

ian political parties in Lebanon are part of the March 14 Alliance and include the following parties:

Syriac Union Party
Shuraya Party

Religion
The majority of Assyrians in Lebanon are Christians who adhere to the East and West Syriac Rite. These include the following churches:

Catholic Assyrians

Chaldean Catholic Church

There is an estimated 20,000 Chaldean Catholic adherents in Lebanon, the majority being refugees from Iraq. The Chaldean Catholic Eparchy of Beirut was established on the 3rd of July 1957 and the main parish in the country is St Raphael Chaldean Catholic Cathedral.

Syriac Catholic Church

The Patriarch Ignatius Joseph III Yonan of the Syriac Catholic Church currently resides in Beirut, where the church is based. The church owns a summer residence in Deir El Sherfet on top of Mount Lebanon. In 1817, a Syriac Catholic diocese was established in Beirut, but has remained vacant since 1898. The diocese of Beirut is currently under the jurisdiction of a patriarchal vicar or apostolic administrator since its vacancy.

According to Catholic statistics from 1962, the Syriac Catholic Church had 6 parishes in Lebanon, accounting for 6 churches, 14 priests and 14,500 adherents. In 1964, this grew to 8 churches and 15,000 adherents.

Orthodox Assyrians

Syriac Orthodox Church

The Syriac Orthodox Church of Antioch is represented in Lebanon under the following clergymen:

 Archbishopric of Mount Lebanon under Mor Theophilos George Saliba
 Patriarchal Vicate of Zahle under Mor Justinos Boulos Safar
 Archbishopric of Beirut & Benevolent institutions in Lebanon under Mor Clemis Daniel Malak Kourieh 
 Patriarchal Institutions in Lebanon under Mor Chrysostoms Michael Shamoun.

Church of the East

The Assyrian Church of the East (ACOE) in Lebanon is part of the Archdiocese of Australia, New Zealand and Lebanon, under the leadership of Mar Meelis Zaia.

The ACOE churches in Lebanon include:

 Mar Gewargis (Sed El Baouchrieh), built in 1953
 Mar Zaya (Ksara, Zahlé)
 Rabban Pethyoun (Hadath)
 Mar Khnanya (Achrafieh)

Notable people
Fairuz
Wadih El Safi
Abeer Nehme
Elias Zazi
Philippe de Tarrazi
Isaac Armalet
Alexander Michel Melki
Felix Michel Melki

See also
Iraqis in Lebanon
Syrians in Lebanon

References

Sources
1932 Census; British Journal of Middle Eastern Studies, Vol. 26, No. 2, (Nov., 1999), pp. 219–241
1956 Estimates; International Journal of Middle East Studies, Vol. 11, No. 2, (Apr., 1980), pp. 175–187
 
 

 
Assyrian diaspora in Asia
Middle Eastern diaspora in Lebanon
Ethnic groups in Lebanon