[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of markets in Bangkok

There are many markets in Bangkok, Thailand. Notable markets include:

Markets
 Tha Tian Market: Ordinary community market on Rattanakosin Island next to the Chao Phraya River.
 Sampheng or the official name Soi Wanich 1: A small alleyway lined with numerous shops, and part of Bangkok's Chinatown.
 Saphan Han: a continuation of Sampheng, a retail and wholesale various goods market by Khlong Ong Ang, Chakkraphet Road is between it and Phahurat.
 Phahurat Market or often known as Thailand's Little India: A large textile market.
 Ban Mo Market: Open-air market near Sampheng, Phahurat Market, and Pak Khlong Market is a market for sound equipment and appliances and jewelry.
 Bang Lamphu Market: Retail cheap clothing and student uniforms with street foods market.
 Asiatique The Riverfront: Night market (; ) by the Chao Phraya River, opened in 2012.
 Chatuchak Weekend Market (JJ Market): A large weekend market.
 Or Tor Kor Market: Opposite Chatuchak Weekend Market. A popular Thai food market.
 Chula Soi 12 (Suanluang Square): Near Chulalongkorn University in Suanluang area. A sportswear market.
 JJ Green Market: Second hand items, restaurants, live music. Originally located on Kamphaeng Phet 3 Road near Chatuchak Park and Chatuchak Weekend Market, but now moved to the area opposite the Dhurakij Pundit University, opened on 6 February 2020 under the new name "JJ Green2 Night Market".
 Sunday Market: Large ornamental fish market, a part of the Chatuchak Weekend Market, near J.J Mall, Queen Sirikit Park and Children's Discovery Museum.
 Patpong Night Market: Tourist-oriented.
 Pratunam Market: Tourist-oriented.
 Soi Lalai Sap or Si Lom Soi 5
 Soi Choei Phuang or Soi Vibhavadi Rangsit 9 in Chatuchak District: Various goods such as ladies items, kid clothes includes cafeterias. Its connects to Soi Phahonyothin 18/2 on the Phahonyothin Road. It is dubbed "Soi Lalai Sap II".
 Suan Lum Night Bazaar Ratchadaphisek 
 Talat Rot Fai: Daily night market and weekend flea market. Behind the Seacon Square shopping mall.
 Wang Lang Market: Day market near Siriraj Hospital and Siriraj Medical Museum. Clothing (new and second-hand), food, small goods.
 Thonburi Market (Sanam Luang 2): Weekend market in Thonburi, like JJ Market.
 Bon Marché: In Chatuchak District close to Wat Samian Nari. 
 Bobae Market: Wholesale and retail cheap clothing market along Khlong Phadung Krung Kasem close to Hua Lamphong and Saphan Khao.
 Major Ratchayothin Market: Selling items ranging from clothing to watches and sunglasses. Next to the Major Cineplex Ratchayothin.
 Bang Rak Market: Flea market. Next to Robinson Department Store (Bang Rak), Tak Sin MRT station and Tak Sin boat pier. Besides selling merchandise, they also have food trucks and stalls, beer bars, beauty salons, and tattoo shops.
Bangkok Gate Plaza: Phahon Yothin, Sai Mai District next to Yaek Kor Por Aor BTS Station.
Suea Pa Plaza: Retail and wholesale IT equipment and mobile phone accessories in Bangkok near Khlong Thom and Sampheng.
Nang Loeng Market: Thailand's oldest official land market has been operating since the reign of King Rama V near Government House and Khlong Phadung Krung Kasem.
Huai Khwang Market: Night market in Huai Khwang District close to Huai Khwang MRT station.
Hua Mum Market: Night flea market in Lat Phrao District on Prasoet Manukit Road.
Hua Takhe Market: A traditional market by Khlong Prawet Buri Rom in Lat Krabang District suburb Bangkok near Hua Takhe railway station.
 Siam Gypsy Junction Market: Night flea market selling second-hand goods, antiques, artwork, handicrafts, clothing, accessories including pets and ornamental plants in hipster style like Suan Lum Night Bazaar Ratchadaphisek or Talat Rot Fai under the Bang Son MRT station near Bang Sue MRT station including  Bang Sue Junction Railway Station and Bang Sue Central Station
 New Don Mueang Market: Wholesale and retail cosmetics market near Don Mueang International Airport, north Bangkok 
 New Sam Yan Market: A new look at Sam Yan Market with a two-modern storey building in Sam Yan area flanked by Chulalongkorn University Stadium and Pathum Wan Police Station, divided into three sections: a ready to meal, a wet market, and a cafeteria on the second floor. Open only Tuesday-Wednesday, Saturday-Sunday and public holidays owned and managed by Chulalongkorn University.
 Sampeng II Plaza: Modernized Chinese land and floating markets on Kanlapaphruek Road, Bang Khae District. Its name is derived from Sampheng.
 JODD FAIRS Rama 9: A large outdoor market with a focus on seafood stalls, there is a large outdoor cinema. The market is popular with Asian and Western tourists. The market connects to Rama 9 MRT Station.

Wet markets

A wet market (; ; lit: 'fresh market') is where raw or perishable foodstuffs are sold; a fresh-food market.