[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# June Wayne

men. Artist Faith Wilding wrote in 1977 that upon interviewing many of Wayne's former students, "all agreed that it had made a tremendous difference in their professional lives and careers, that in fact, it had been the turning point for some of them in making the step from amateur to professional."

In 1972, Wayne commissioned, and Tamarind Lithography Workshop published, "Sex Differentials in Art Exhibition Reviews: A Statistical Study” by Rosalie Braeutigam and Betty Fiske, a study which showed the scope of gender inequity. The 132 page study investigated through empirical data the scope of inequity faced by women in the arts. Periodicals examined included the New York Times, the Los Angeles Times, the San Francisco Chronicle, Artforum, ARTnews, Art in America, and others. Publication caused an uproar, a typical headline reading “She Draws Bead on Artworld”. As Wayne stated: “In 1959 women artists were covered by one line of critical text to male artists’ 10,000 lines. ARTnews gave 99% of its coverage to men. We charted this at Tamarind. Things haven’t changed much.”

Along with fellow artists Sheila Levrant de Bretteville, Ruth Weisberg, and others, Wayne was a founding member of the Los Angeles Council of Women in the Arts, which sought the equal representation of women artists in museum exhibitions. She was also part of the selection committee for the exhibition Contemporary Issues: Works on Paper by Women, which opened at the Los Angeles Woman's Building in 1977 and featured the works of over 200 women artists.

Among Wayne's pupils was Faith Bromberg, who would go on to be involved in the feminist art movement herself.

Mary Beth Edelson's Some Living American Women Artists / Last Supper (1972) appropriated Leonardo da Vinci’s The Last Supper, with the heads of notable women artists collaged over the heads of Christ and his apostles; Wayne was among those notable women artists. This image, addressing the role of religious and art historical iconography in the subordination of women, became "one of the most iconic images of the feminist art movement."

Free speech activism
From her early years, Wayne was an advocate for free-speech and an opponent of State censorship. After Joseph McCarthy was reelected to the US Senate in 1952, the Los Angeles City Council passed a resolution by a vote of 13-1 calling modern artists “unwitting  tools of the Kremlin”. Wayne attended Council meetings to oppose the resolution, and actions of the group “Sanity in Art”. In the same period, "the City wanted to cause anybody who modeled for an art school to prove that they weren’t prostitutes." In 1990 Wayne helped lead the charge against attempts in Congress by Rep. Philip Crane (Ill.) and others to abolish the National Endowment for the Arts. As Wayne stated: “Artists are taxpayers. We are entitled to due process. We are entitled to be free of defamation. The arts of this country are among the few positive cash flows we have in international trade. And I think that’s quite a lot of accountability.”

Select museum exhibitions
Wayne's art has been exhibited worldwide, including:
 Whitney Museum of American Art, New York, 1955;
 Museu de Arte Moderna de São Paulo, 1955;
 Modern Art in the United States, Paintings, Sculptures and Prints: A Selection from the Collections of the Museum of Modern Art, Tate, London, 1956;
 Brooklyn Museum, 1957;
 Denver Art Museum, 1959;
 Santa Barbara Museum of Art, 1964;
 Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., 1966;
 Fresno Art Museum, 1986;
 National Gallery of Australia, Canberra, 1986;
 National Portrait Gallery, Washington, D.C., 1987;
 Whitney Museum of American Art, Stamford, Connecticut, 1988;
 Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, 1989;
 Bibliothèque nationale de France, Paris, 1992;
 Skirball Cultural Center, Los Angeles, 1996;
 June Wayne and the Cosmos: Stellar Winds, My Palomar, and Solar Flares, New York Academy of Sciences, 1997;
 Birmingham Museums and Art Gallery, Birmingham, United Kingdom, 1997;
 June Wayne: A Retrospective, Neuberger Museum of Art, Purchase College, State University of New York, 1997;
 The Djuna Set, Fresno Art Museum, 1988;
 Cincinnati Art Museum, 1998;
 June Wayne: The Dorothy Series, Skirball Museum, Hebrew Union College, Cincinnati, 1998; 
 June Wayne: A Retrospective, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Los Angeles, 1998-1999; 
 June Wayne: A Retrospective, Palm Springs Desert Museum, Palm Springs, 1999;
 Shock Wave, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, 2005;
 June Wayne, Pioneer Lithographer, Birmingham Museums and Art Gallery, Birmingham, 2006;
 June Wayne's Narrative Tapestries: Tidal Waves, DNA, and the Cosmos, The Art Institute of Chicago, 2010;
 June Wayne’s Paintings, Prints, and Tapestries, Pasadena Museum of California Art, 2014;
 MOCA Jacksonville, The Other: Nurturing a New Ecology in Printmaking, 2016;
 Change Agent: June Wayne and the Tamarind Workshop, Arizona State University Art Museum, 2019–20;