[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 17th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

portion of the enemy trenches.  The rest of their brigade, however, did not receive the signal to attack—left without support, the 17th Wisconsin was forced to withdraw.  On the second attempted assault, May 22, the 17th Wisconsin was held in reserve, due to their severe losses on the first assault.

After the failure of the second assault, Grant settled in for a protracted siege and maintained the encirclement until Vicksburg surrendered on July 4, 1863.  The brigade of the 17th Wisconsin, then led by General Thomas E. G. Ransom, was given the honor of being the first to enter the city, due to their performance in the siege.  In the Vicksburg campaign, the 17th Wisconsin Infantry suffered 14 killed and 50 wounded.

Operations West of the Mississippi (Fall 1863)
A few days after the capture of Vicksburg, the 17th Wisconsin and its brigade moved south to Natchez, Mississippi.  There on August 24, they were supplied with horses and employed as mounted infantry.  In September, Colonel Malloy led 300 men of the 17th Wisconsin across the Mississippi River to Trinity, Louisiana, routing Confederate defenders and destroyed a Confederate steamboat—the Rinaldo—carrying supplies.  After being joined by the rest of the brigade, Malloy and the 17th Wisconsin were again sent forward and occupied the town of Trinity, then went forward again and routed more Confederate defenders, pursued them for nine miles, and captured several prisoners.  During this campaign, the 17th Wisconsin suffered one killed and four wounded.

On September 4, they approached Fort Beauregard, a fortified earthwork designed to defend approaches to Harrisonburg, Louisiana.  The Confederate defenders fled and abandoned the fort and its guns, and the 17th Wisconsin Infantry captured and destroyed several cannons and ammunition.  After this success, they went on to destroy a grist mill and a large store of cotton and food supplies, then returned to with the brigade to Natchez.  Colonel Malloy's account of the Natchez expedition can be found in the Official War Records, Series 1, Volume 26, Part 1.

In October, the brigade returned to Vicksburg for Winter.

Atlanta campaign (SpringSummer 1864) 
Seven-eighths of the regiment re-enlisted in January 1864, qualifying the 17th Wisconsin Infantry as a veteran regiment.  The veterans were given furlough in March to return to Wisconsin, where they paraded through Madison and were honored by Governor James T. Lewis, Secretary of State (General) Lucius Fairchild, and Mayor William T. Leitch.

The regiment reassembled on April 20, 1864, at Camp Washburn, Milwaukee, and went by rail to Cairo, Illinois.  There they attached to XVII Corps, which was on its way to join General William T. Sherman in the Atlanta campaign.  They traveled on the Tennessee River to Clifton, Tennessee, then marched to Huntsville, Alabama.  At Huntsville, in May 1864, the 17th Wisconsin Infantry was assigned to the 3rd brigade, 3rd division, XVII Corps, and Colonel Malloy was designated brigade commander, leaving Lt. Colonel Thomas McMahon in command of the regiment.

On June 5, the 17th Wisconsin, with its division, marched to join General Sherman, meeting him at Acworth, Georgia, on June 8, just after the Battle of Dallas.  Their division was placed on the far left end of the Union line, near Big Shanty, on June 10, and engaged in heavy skirmishing until June 19, when they advanced to Brush Mountain, suffering two killed and six wounded.

At the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain, where the Confederate army of Joseph E. Johnston had set its defenses, the 17th Wisconsin and its division were again on the far left of the Union line.  They were part of the demonstration against the Confederate right, designed to convince the enemy to spread out their defenses.  The 17th Wisconsin succeeded in taking two lines of Confederate trenches, but came under fire from three Confederate batteries; they held the ground for three hours but were forced to withdraw.  They suffered 2 killed and 11 wounded here.  After several days of stalemate, in which they suffered an additional 1 killed and 3 wounded, on July 2, the 17th Wisconsin, with its corps, was assigned to the flanking maneuver which went around the south end of the Confederate line and forced Johnston to evacuate his position.