[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 122]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

Hadria had wished to spend on mere lodging, but otherwise it seemed
perfect. It was in a quiet street between the Champs Elysées and the
river. Two great thoroughfares ran, at a respectful distance, on either
side, with omnibuses always passing. Hadria could be set down within a
few minutes' walk of the School of Music, or, if she liked to give the
time, could walk the whole way to her morning's work, through some of
the most charming parts of Paris. As for Martha, she was richly provided
with playgrounds. The Bois could be quickly reached, and there were
always the Champs Elysées or the walk beneath the chestnuts by the
river, along the Cours de la Reine and the length of the quays. Even
Hannah thought the situation might do. Hadria had begun her studies at
the School of Music, and found the steady work not only a profound,
though somewhat stern enjoyment, but a solid backbone to her new
existence, giving it cohesion and form. Recreation deserved its name,
after work of this kind. Any lurking danger of too great speculative
restlessness disappeared. There had been a moment when the luxurious joy
of mere wandering observation and absorption, threatened to become
overwhelming, and to loosen some of the rivets of the character.

But work was to the sum-total of impulse what the central weight was to
one of Martha's toys: a leaden ballast that always brought the balance
right again, however wildly the little tyrant might swing the creature
off the perpendicular. When Hadria used to come in, pleasantly tired
with her morning's occupation, and the wholesome heat of the sun, to
take her simple _déjeuner_ in the little apartment with Martha, a
frivolous five minutes would often be spent by the two in endeavouring
to overcome the rigid principles of that well-balanced plaything. But
always the dead weight at its heart frustrated their attempts. Martha
played the most inconsiderate pranks with its centre of gravity, but
quite in vain. When a little French boy from the _étage_ above was
allowed to come and play with Martha, she proceeded to experiment upon
_his_ centre of gravity in the same way, and seemed much surprised when
Jean Paul Auguste not only howled indignantly, but didn't swing up again
after he was overturned. He remained supine, and had to be reinstated by
Hadria and Hannah, and comforted with sweetmeats. Martha's logic
received one of its first checks. She evidently made up her mind that
logic was a fallacious mode of inference, and determined to abandon it
for the future. These rebuffs in infancy, Hadria conjectured, might
account for much!

About three weeks passed in almost pure enjoyment and peace; and then it
was discovered that the cost of living, in spite of an extremely simple
diet, was such as might have provided epicurean luxuries for a family of
ten. Hadria's enquiries among her acquaintances elicited cries of
consternation. Obviously the landlady, who did the marketing, must be
cheating on a royal scale, and there was nothing for it but to move.
Hadria suggested to Madame Vauchelet, whose advice she always sought in
practical matters, that perhaps the landlady might be induced to pursue
her lucrative art in moderation; could she not put it honestly down in
the bill "Peculation--so much per week?"

Madame Vauchelet was horrified. "Impossible!" she cried; one must seek
another apartment. If only Hannah understood French and could do the
marketing herself. But Hannah scorned the outlandish lingo, and had a
poor opinion of the nation as a whole.

It was fatiguing and somewhat discouraging work to begin, all over
again, the quest of rooms, especially with the difficulty about the
landlady always in view, and no means of ascertaining her scale of
absorption. It really seemed a pity that it could not be mentioned as
an extra, like coal and lights. Then one would know what one was about.
This uncertain liability, with an extremely limited income, which was
likely to prove insufficient unless some addition could be made to it,
was trying to the nerves.

In order to avoid too great anxiety, Hadria had to make up her mind to a
less attractive suite of rooms, farther out of town, and she found it
desirable to order many of the comestibles herself. Madame Vauchelet was
untiring in her efforts to help and advise. She initiated Hadria into
the picturesque mysteries of Parisian housekeeping. It was amusing to go
to the shops and markets with this shrewd Frenchwoman, and very
enlightening as to the method of living cheaply and well. Hadria began
to think wistfully of a more permanent _ménage_ in this entrancing
capital, where there were still worlds within worlds to explore. She
questioned Madame Vauchelet as to the probable cost of a _femme de
ménage_. Madame quickly ran through some calculations and pronounced a
sum alluringly small. Since the landlady difficulty was so serious, and
made personal superintendence necessary, it se