[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jill Long Thompson

countability, and making larger investments in vocational education the focal points of her campaign. Long Thompson lost to incumbent Governor Mitch Daniels by 18% of the vote in a year in which Barack Obama was the first Democrat since Lyndon Johnson to win a presidential race in Indiana.

Educator

Long Thompson taught in the College of Business at Valparaiso University from 1981 through the spring of 1986, when she entered the race for United States Senate. In 1995 she served as a fellow at the Institute of Politics at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government. From 2003 to 2007, she served as CEO and Senior Fellow at the National Center for Food and Agricultural Policy in Washington, D.C. She is currently a visiting scholar with the Ostrom Workshop at Indiana University Bloomington. {ostromworkshop.indiana.edu} 
From 2015-2020 she taught ethics at the Kelley School of Business and the O'Neill School of Public and Environmental Affairs at Indiana University Bloomington. (history.house.gov/People/Detail17117)

Author
Dr. Long Thompson is the author of The Character of American Democracy published by Indiana University Press in September 2020. {Indiana University Press }

Farm Credit Administration
In October 2009, President Barack Obama nominated Long Thompson to the Farm Credit Administration Board, the independent agency that oversees the Farm Credit System. The nomination was pending confirmation by the U.S. Senate when Obama installed Long Thompson on the Board by recess appointment on March 27, 2010. The Senate finally confirmed her in September 2010. On November 27, 2012, she assumed the role of board chair and CEO of the Farm Credit Administration, with a term ending in May 2014. She continued to serve at the Farm Credit Administration until March 12, 2015.

See also
Women in the United States House of Representatives

References

Sources

|-

|-

|-

1952 births
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Indiana
Female members of the United States House of Representatives
Indiana city council members
Indiana University alumni
Harvard Kennedy School people
Living people
People from Whitley County, Indiana
United States Department of Agriculture officials
Valparaiso University alumni
Women city councillors in Indiana
Women in Indiana politics
Recess appointments
21st-century American women