[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Interleukin 15

brates, homologues of IL-15 have not been found.

Disease

Epstein–Barr virus 

In humans with history of acute infectious mononucleosis (the syndrome associated with primary Epstein–Barr virus infection), IL-15R expressing lymphocytes are not detected even 14 years after infection.

Celiac disease 

There have been recent studies suggesting that suppression of IL-15 may be a potential treatment for celiac disease and even presents the possibility of preventing its development. In one study with mice blocking IL-15 with an antibody led to the reversal of autoimmune intestinal damage. In another study mice used were able to eat gluten without developing symptoms.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease 
A recent report indicated IL-15 promotes non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Rheumatoid arthritis 
A recent study found IL-15 present in the synovial tissue of patients diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis. Preliminary research has functionally implicated IL-15 role in collagen-induced arthritis.

Immunotherapy

Metastatic cancer 

IL-15 has been shown to enhance the anti-tumor immunity of CD8+ T cells in pre-clinical models. A phase I clinical trial to evaluate the safety, dosing, and anti-tumor efficacy of IL-15 in patients with metastatic melanoma and renal cell carcinoma (kidney cancer) has begun to enroll patients at the National Institutes of Health.

Vaccines Adjuvants

Vector-based therapy – Nonlytic Newcastle Disease Virus (NDV) was engineered to express recombinant IL-15 protein to generate an NDV-modified tumor vaccine. Preclinical results of NDV-modified tumor vaccine showed promise by controlling melanoma tumor growth in mice. A recombinant vaccinia virus expressing influenza A proteins and IL-15 promoted cross protection by CD4+ T cells. A Brucella DNA vaccine containing IL-15 gene enhanced the CD8+ T cell immune response in mice. IL-15 was needed for CD4+ T cell heterosubtypic protection while using a multivalent influenza vaccine using vaccinia-based vector. While influenza A virus expressing IL-15 stimulates both innate and adaptive immune cells to decrease tumor growth mice.

Transpresentation complexes 

Currently there are two varieties of IL-15 superagonist available. One combines IL-15 and IL-15Rα-Fc (R&D Systems) in vitro to generate the complex. It is referred to as IL-15 SA. A second IL-15 superagonist complex called ALT-803 is offered by Altor BioScience.

IL-15 SA 
IL-15 SA is currently being evaluated for antiviral and anticancer activities, in addition to enhancing immunotherapy and vaccination. One potential shortcoming of IL-15 SA was its enhancement of septic shock in mice.

ALT-803 
ALT-803 is an IL-15 superagonist complex IL-15N72D:IL-15RαSu/Fc that includes an IL-15 mutant (IL-15N72D) and a dimeric IL-15 receptor α sushi domain-IgG1 Fc fusion protein.

ALT-803 was given fast track status by the FDA in 2017 and at that time, Phase III trials in bladder cancer were being prepared.

RLI-15 
RLI-15 is a fusion protein consisting of the NH2-terminal (amino acids 1–77, sushi+) cytokine-binding domain of  IL-15Rα coupled to IL-15 via a 20-amino acid flexible linker. This fusion protein, referred to as protein receptor-linker-IL-15 (RLI) acts as an IL-15 superagonists that has an increased serum half-life and biological activity similar to complexed IL-15/IL-15Rα-Fc. RLI demonstrated a strong anti-tumor effect in two different tumor models. RLI15 is being produced and tested by Cytune Pharma affiliated company of SOTIO which renamed it to SO-C101. Phase 1 trial was initiated in 2019.

Rheumatoid arthritis 
Possible implications of IL-15 treatment for individuals diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). HuMax-IL15 was derived from transgenic mice and individuals with RA underwent HuMax-IL15 administration for twelve weeks. After treating synovial tissue with HuMax-IL15, decreased proliferation of interferon-y and suppressed expression of CD69 was observed. Additionally, 63% of patients reported a 20% improvement while 25% of patients reported a 70% improvement. American College of Rheumatology criteria was used to determine the severity of RA symptoms.

References

Further reading 

 
 
 
 
 

Interleukins