[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Economic impact of immigration to Canada

ng the living standard of Canadians by embracing the supply and demand concept of labour economics, and improving the economic efficiency of the system. A former director from Quebec's Ministry of Immigration observed that the government needs to treat people better.

Overview

Immigration to Canada

According to the CIA's World Factbook (2017), Canada has one of the highest migration rates in the world. Canada is also unusual among western nations in the widespread popular support for high rates of immigration, and a 2007 study showed support for immigration has increased in Canada. Canada's immigration policy, which focuses on selecting immigrants based on their skills and qualifications to meet labor market demands, as well as supporting irregular immigrants in need, reinforces the public perception that immigrants are making a positive contribution to the economy and that the system preserves human dignity. However, assessing the economic effectiveness of the immigration policy is challenging due to the complex interplay of capitalist dynamics, societal influences, and political factors on the lives of immigrants. In 2022, Bank of Canada Governor Tiff Macklem gave insider advice to businesses to suppress wages across the board by not incorporating higher wages into contracts with employees for undermining collective bargaining power in long-term, citing a surplus of motivated workforce available from immigrant sources.

In 2023, a Statistics Canada report revealed that the notion of a widespread labor shortage in Canada is no longer substantial. The report found that jobs requiring higher education consistently had fewer available positions, and highlighted that the hiring challenges for positions requiring post-secondary education are not due to a lack of qualified workers, but because of mismatch in skills that could be solved with ongoing training and deflated entry requirements, and inadequate wages that could be fortified with desirable benefits or competitive wages. The report also raised doubts about the hiring difficulties faced by firms trying to recruit workers with lower levels of education. It raised questions whether these job vacancies are solely a result of labor shortages in specific low-skilled occupations that might demand higher wages or if factors such as greater negotiating power and profit maximization that the low-skilled industries enjoy play a significant role. According to Jim Stanford, an economist and the director of the Centre for Future Work, the goal of immigration policy should not be solely focused on solving recruitment problems for low-wage employers or any employers, but rather on broader considerations that benefit the country and it's people as a whole.

Economic rationale for immigration

There is no agreed view on the net impact of immigration in current times. Historically, Canada's unusually high immigration rates can be traced to the nation's unique economy. Another factor is that Canada has one of the world's largest supplies of natural resources such as oil, metals, and lumber. It also has a sparse population spread over a vast landscape. Canada has thus faced acute labour shortages and has responded by actively searching for immigrants. In the late 19th century this included bringing Chinese migrants to build the Canadian Pacific Railway and actively advertising in Europe to find farmers with the Last Best West campaign. Today similar recruitment efforts are needed to staff the oil sands projects in Alberta.

Another factor that contributes to the immigration question is Canada's low birth rate (10.3 births per 1000 people). The theory is that new residents can assist in meeting future government obligations relating to pay-as-you-go liabilities.

The economic dangers of population decline are not universally accepted. Organizations like the Fraser Institute question whether a declining population would reduce or increase per capita income, noting that in the short term, with a stable economy, fewer people would increase the per capita income simply because you divide the income among fewer people. This would increase per-head consumption and create a climate of economic wellbeing that could nurture pro-family values and policies which can increase Canada's birth rate. A study by the C. D. Howe Institute suggests that immigration cannot keep Canada's population young and could possibly contribute to population ageing in the near term. Employment statistics have also brought into question whether skilled worker immigrants, with a 34% unemployment rate in 2001, are successfully meeting existing labour market needs in Canada. However, data from the 2020 Labor Force Survey has shown a 9.5% unemployment rate among landed immigrants. Many developed nations have much lower fertility rates than Canada but have not embraced immigration.