[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Richard Misrach

ligent photographer, aesthetics are never pursued at the expense of politics, or vice versa. Misrach's goal may be said to be a search for the photographic Holy Grail, to fuse reportage with poetry. To progress – as he put it – "from the descriptive and the informative to a metaphorical resolution."

A 2013 review in Architectural Digest compares Misrach's desert images to the work of "Carleton Watkins, Timothy O'Sullivan, and other 19th-century itinerant photographers," noting that while "sublimely beautiful, Misrach's prints are also imbued with disquieting undercurrents." Beginning with "The Terrain," in which images of apparently untouched wilderness are punctuated by human elements such as a lone telephone pole or a train, the Cantos include spectacles like the space shuttle landing ("The Event") and car racing ("The Salt Flats"), man-made fires and floods like the Salton Sea ("The Flood") and desert seas created by the damming of rivers, as well as color-field studies of empty skies ("The Skies"). Images of military training and testing sites feature extensively in the Cantos and the series' corresponding publications: "The War" resulted in the 1991 book Bravo 20: The Bombing of the American West, co-authored by Myriam Weisang Misrach, and nuclear testing was addressed in Violent Legacies, published in 1992. "The Pit" documented mass graves of dead animals in the Nevada desert while "Pictures of Paintings" focused on the representation of the western landscape in museums across the American West. "The Playboys" depicted issues of Playboy, discovered by the photographer at a military site, that had been used for target practice.

Badger suggests that Misrach's Cantos have an antecedent in the work of Depression-era documentary photographer Lewis Hine, writing that with the Cantos, Misrach

...has attempted a project of immense ambition – possibly one of the most ambitious in the history of the medium – compounded of many ideas, existing on different levels, and subject to profound shifts in subject and mood. He must be judged on the Desert Cantos as a totality, the sum rather than the individual parts... I regard the Desert Cantos as one of the most important photographic enterprises of the nineteen-eighties and nineties.

The Los Angeles Times quotes Misrach regarding the Cantos:

The desert ... may serve better as the backdrop for the problematic relationship between man and the environment. The human struggle, the successes ... both noble and foolish, are readily apparent in the desert. Symbols and relationships seem to arise that stand for the human condition itself.

Desert Canto XXXVIII: Premonitions (2009-2016) and Desert Canto XXXIX: The Writing On the Wall (2017-) 

In one of the most recent Desert Cantos, Misrach examines a polarizing and anxious moment in American history, using both a large-format digital camera and his iPhone to document graffiti left on abandoned buildings and rock walls throughout Southern California and the greater Southwest. Desert Canto XXXVIII: Premonitions (2009-2016) suggests a disturbing and dystopian climate which "in hindsight...led to the Trump election" while Desert Canto XXXIX: The Writing On the Wall (2017-), photographed after the 2016 election, captures an "election-engendered dialogue in graffiti form."

Desert Canto LV: Art in the West 
As part of Misrach‘s exploration of land art in the desert, he photographed Nancy Holt's Sun Tunnels in 1988. That work is part of a 2022 traveling exhibition, Nancy Holt/ Inside Outside, and was published in a Blind Spot monograph.

The Oakland–Berkeley fire and Hurricane Katrina
In October 1991, a firestorm raged in the Oakland–Berkeley hills, killing 25 people, wounding 150 and destroying over 3,500 dwellings. This fire – one of the worst in California's history – happened a few miles from Misrach's studio and the photographer visited the site a few weeks later, taking hundreds of pictures. However, out of respect for the victims of the fire, he put the work away for two decades. "1991: The Oakland–Berkeley Fire Aftermath: Photographs by Richard Misrach," an exhibition of Misrach's photographs of the firestorm's aftermath, was finally shown for the first time concurrently by the Berkeley Art Museum and the Oakland Museum of California in 2011. These exhibits included handcrafted elegy books in which visitors shared their recollections, a video story booth for recording memories, and an open-microphone meetings. The collected responses from local residents, as well as the prints — sets of which Misrach donated to the museums — were kept in the collections.