[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Phil Amos

t instantly became a headline-grabbing piece of political drama from which he took a lot of personal satisfaction at bringing public attention to the anti-nuclear issue. Lange would later become Prime Minister and passed a law banning the visit by nuclear propelled or armed ships with Amos' support.

As a friend of the Tanzanian President Julius Nyerere, he accepted an invitation to be an education advisor as well as a Swahili interpreter/translator, assisting the local police, courts and other government agencies. He lived in a remote part of Tanzania from 1977 to 1988. In a brief return to Auckland in late 1978 he stated that the impacts of the Muldoon government continuing sporting links with South Africa were leading to people in Africa believing that New Zealanders were racist. He was so dismayed by the view of New Zealand in the area that he wrote a letter to the editor to a widely circulated English language newspaper in his area denying that the people in New Zealand supported the Apartheid system in South Africa. His wife Jill went back to New Zealand in 1979 and they later divorced. He then worked as a lecturer at a teachers' college before moving with his second wife, a fellow lecturer Odilia, to work a farm near her home village on the remote slopes of Mount Kilamanjaro (even climbing to the top himself). He made a living by operating a flour mill he built to serve local farmers and also grew bananas, avocados, pineapple, corn, and vegetables on the one hectare plot they owned. Amos said the period in his life as one of finding new challenges which met his personal philosophies 

In 1985 he made headlines in New Zealand again after it was rumoured he had died following a failure to reply to an invitation from David Lange to attend a reception he was also attending in Dar-es-Salaam. Amos later said his "disappearance" was just an invention of the media. His first wife Jill said it was unusual for a former cabinet minister to voluntarily live in such a remote place but also stating "...he always was an unusual politician." A parliamentary colleague Richard Mayson who travelled to Tanzania to visit him, described Amos as living the life of a 20th-century version of David Livingstone.

In 1988 he returned to Auckland and immediately became disillusioned with the then state of the Labour Party and horrified by New Zealand's economic reforms, Rogernomics, which pushed for free market economy and privatisation of state assets. He protested by joining Jim Anderton's NewLabour Party (NLP) soon after it was formed and later became president of the party. He told Anderton he was "devastated by the actions of the Labour Party". He received many invitations to stand for parliament again for the NLP, but declined after consultation with his family who thought he was of better use as a "supportive and wise head for the new breed of NLP politicians." At the 1992 local-body elections he put himself forward as a candidate for the Mount Albert ward of the Auckland City Council. Standing as an Alliance candidate (the NLP was a component party of the Alliance) he narrowly missed out on being elected by a margin of just 17 votes.

Death
Amos was a heavy smoker most of his life. He had been admitted to hospital several times in the months before he died in Auckland on 8 June 2007 of lung failure, aged 81. He was survived by his first and second wives and children from both his marriages.

Personal life
He married Jill Edwina Turner in 1949, the daughter of Ross Turner, and had two sons and one daughter with her. His second marriage was to Odilia. Odilia Amos died in 2011.

Awards and recognition
Amos was awarded the New Zealand 1990 Commemoration Medal. In the 1994 Queen's Birthday Honours, he was appointed a Companion of the Queen's Service Order for public services.

Notes

References

Further reading

This interview was conducted by Neville Glasgow. This interview is cassette # 69 in this series.

This interview was conducted by Richard Thompson.

1925 births
2007 deaths
People from Whanganui
People educated at Ōtorohanga College
New Zealand Labour Party MPs
Members of the Cabinet of New Zealand
New Zealand left-wing activists
New Zealand anti-war activists
New Zealand anti-nuclear activists
New Zealand military personnel of World War II
New Zealand educators
NewLabour Party (New Zealand) politicians
Royal New Zealand Air Force personnel
New Zealand education ministers
New Zealand MPs for Auckland electorates
Companions of the Queen's Service Order
Members of the New Zealand House of Representatives
Unsuccessful candidates in the 1960 New Zealand general election
Unsuccessful candidates in the 1975 New Zealand general election