[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# America's Town Meeting of the Air

omas, American Communist Party leader Earl Browder, and civil libertarian Morris Ernst.

But there were also guests from the world of literature (author Pearl Buck, poets Carl Sandburg and Langston Hughes) and a number of famous scientists, politicians, journalists, and public intellectuals.

Topics

The topics were meant to inspire discussion, and Denny tried to select subjects that would get people talking long after the show was over.  Among them were discussions about whether America truly had freedom of the press (and whether censorship was sometimes necessary); whether the United States should enter World War II or remain neutral; and why the United States public schools weren't doing a better job.

But during World War II, Denny repeatedly encountered what he had most sought to avoid: angry audience members who didn't want to listen to other viewpoints and who wanted to criticize, rather than debate.  Worse still, some audience members expressed isolationist and anti-Semitic views. Denny struggled to maintain the show's openness and objectivity, but it became increasingly difficult to do so.

Decline
The 1930s were definitely the heyday of America's Town Meeting, although it remained on the air throughout the 1940s and sometimes still inspired the kinds of passionate discussions Denny had hoped for. But Town Meeting underwent a number of time changes during the 1940s. Some were the result of changes at NBC — the network that had been called the NBC Blue Network was sold in 1943, and it first became known as the "Blue Network," and then was renamed the American Broadcasting Company in late 1945. (Some advertisements and promotions for "Town Meeting," however, would still refer to the show as "a Blue Network program" or originating on "ABC's Blue Network" as late as 1949.)

Some of the programs on the new network were shifted around, and not only did Town Meeting get a new timeslot—it was moved from 9:30pm to 8:30pm—but by 1944, it even got a sponsor—Reader's Digest. At times, the show was 60 minutes, sometimes 45 minutes and sometimes only a half-hour. And when television came along, interest in Denny's radio program gradually faded. By 1952, he had been replaced as moderator, and the show was finally canceled on July 1, 1956.

Denny, who continued to believe in educational media, joined an organization that planned international seminars, and he hoped to create an international version of Town Meeting. He died of a cerebral hemorrhage on November 11, 1959, at the age of 60.

Awards and honors 
ABC Radio and George V. Denny, Jr. were given a 1945 Peabody Award for Outstanding Educational Program for America's Town Meeting of the Air.

In 2009, the National Recording Preservation Board selected the May 8, 1941, episode of America's Town Meeting of the Air ("Should Our Ships Convoy Materials to England?" with guests Reinhold Niebuhr and John Flynn) for inclusion in the holdings of the National Archives' audiovisual collection.

Works cited
 Denny, George V. Jr.  "Radio Builds Democracy."  Journal of Educational Sociology, vol. 14, #6, February 1941, pp. 370–377.
 Dunning, John. On the Air: The Encyclopedia of Old-Time Radio, Oxford, 1998.
 "George V. Denny, Radio Host, Dead."  New York Times, November 12, 1959, p. 35.
 Hilmes, Michele, editor.  "NBC:  America's Network."  University of California Press, 2007.
 Overstreet, Harry A. and Bonaro W. Overstreet.  Town Meeting Comes to Town.  Harper and Brothers, 1938.
 Sparling, Earl.  "Town Meeting's On the Air Again."  Forum and Century, October 1939, pp. 164–8.

References

Listen to

 America's Town Meeting of the Air (Internet Archive)
America's Town Meeting of the Air (New York Public Radio)
Library of Congress essay on its selection for the National Recording Registry.

American talk radio programs
NBC Blue Network radio programs
ABC radio programs
1930s American radio programs
1940s American radio programs
1950s American radio programs
United States National Recording Registry recordings