[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Military leadership in the American Civil War

Military leadership in the American Civil War was vested in both the political and the military structures of the belligerent powers. The overall military leadership of the United States during the Civil War was ultimately vested in the President of the United States as constitutional commander-in-chief, and in the political heads of the military departments he appointed. Most of the major Union wartime commanders had, however, previous regular army experience. A smaller number of military leaders originated from the United States Volunteers. Some of them   derived from nations other than the United States.

In the Southern Confederacy, the constitutional commander-in-chief was educated at West Point and had served in the Mexican War. Many officers in the United States Army, most of them educated at West Point at the expense of the United States, and having taken an oath of allegiance to the same, joined the rebellion against it. Several significant Confederate military leaders emerged from state unit commands. Some military leaders derived from countries other than the United States.

The United States (The Union)

Civilian military leaders

President Abraham Lincoln was Commander-in-Chief of the Union armed forces throughout the conflict; after his April 14, 1865 assassination, Vice President Andrew Johnson became the nation's chief executive. Lincoln's first Secretary of War was Simon Cameron; Edwin M. Stanton was confirmed to replace Cameron in January 1862. Thomas A. Scott was Assistant Secretary of War. Gideon Welles was Secretary of the Navy, aided by Assistant Secretary of the Navy Gustavus Fox.

Regular Army officers
When the war began, the American standing army or "Regular army" consisted of only 1080 commissioned officers and 15,000 enlisted men. Although 142 regular officers became Union generals during the war, most remained "frozen" in their regular units. That stated, most of the major Union wartime commanders had previous regular army experience.  Over the course of the war, the Commanding General of the United States Army was, in order of service, Winfield Scott, George B. McClellan, Henry Halleck, and finally, Ulysses S. Grant.

Commanding Generals, U.S.A.

Robert Anderson
Don Carlos Buell
John Buford
Ambrose Burnside
Edward Canby
Philip St. George Cooke
Darius N. Couch
Thomas Turpin Crittenden
Thomas Leonidas Crittenden
Samuel Curtis
Abner Doubleday
William B. Franklin
James A. Garfield
Quincy Adams Gillmore
Gordon Granger
Ulysses S. Grant
David McMurtrie Gregg
Henry Wager Halleck
Winfield Scott Hancock
William B. Hazen
Samuel P. Heintzelman
Joseph Hooker
Oliver O. Howard
Andrew A. Humphreys
Henry Jackson Hunt
David Hunter
Philip Kearny
Erasmus D. Keyes
John McArthur
George B. McClellan
Alexander McDowell McCook
Irvin McDowell
James B. McPherson
Joseph K. Mansfield
George Meade
Montgomery C. Meigs
Wesley Merritt
Dixon S. Miles
Edward Ord
Alfred Pleasonton
John Pope
John F. Reynolds
William Rosecrans
John Schofield
Winfield Scott
John Sedgwick
Philip Sheridan
William T. Sherman
Henry W. Slocum
Andrew Jackson Smith
William Farrar Smith
George Stoneman
Edwin V. Sumner
George Sykes
George Henry Thomas
Alfred Thomas Archimedes Torbert
Gouverneur K. Warren
James H. Wilson
John E. Wool

Militia and political leaders appointed to Union military leadership
Under the United States Constitution, each state recruited, trained,  equipped, and maintained local militia; regimental officers were appointed and promoted by state governors. After states answered Lincoln's April 15, 1861, ninety-day call for 75,000 volunteer soldiers, most Union states' regiments and batteries became known as United States Volunteers to distinguish between state-raised forces and regular army units. Union brigade-level officers (generals) could receive two different types of Federal commissions: U.S. Army or U.S. Volunteers (ex: Major General, U.S.A. as opposed to Major General, U.S.V.). While most Civil War generals held volunteer or brevet rank, many generals held both types of commission; regular rank was considered superior.

Edward D. Baker
Nathaniel Prentice Banks
Francis Preston Blair, Jr.
Benjamin Franklin Butler
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain
Jacob Dolson Cox
John Adams Dix
John C. Frémont
Nathan Kimball
John A. Logan
John Alexander McClernand
Daniel Sickles
James B. Steedman
Alfred Terry
Lew Wallace

Native American and international officers in Union Army
Reflecting the multi-national makeup of the soldiers engaged, some Union military leaders derived from nations other than the United States.

Philippe, Comte de Paris
Michael Corcoran
Włodzimierz Krzyżanowski
Thomas Francis Meagher
Ely Parker
Albin F. Schoepf
Carl Schurz
Franz Sigel
Régis de Trobriand
Ivan Turchaninov
August Willich