[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Robert M. Price

n Atheist Press (2016) by Michael B. Paulkovich 
 Apocryphal Apparitions: 1 Corinthians 15:3–11 as a Post-Pauline Interpolation, Journal of Higher Criticism 2/2 (Fall 1995), 69–99
 Robert Eisenman's James the Brother of Jesus: A Higher-Critical Evaluation, Journal of Higher Criticism 4/2 (Fall 1997)

Cthulhu Mythos (as editor or author)
 Acolytes of Cthulhu
 The Antarktos Cycle: Horror and Wonder at the Ends of the Earth
 The Azathoth Cycle: The Blind Idiot God
 Beyond the Mountains of Madness (featuring short stories inspired by Lovecraft's At the Mountains of Madness, plus one Weird Tales story that probably inspired Lovecraft)
 Black Forbidden Things
 Blasphemies & Revelations Mythos Books. . (2008).
 The Book of Eibon
 The Book of Iod (stories by Henry Kuttner)
 The Cthulhu Cycle: Thirteen Tentacles of Terror
 Dark Wisdom: New Tales of the Old Ones (stories by Gary Myers)
 The Dunwich Cycle: Where the Old Gods Wait
 The Exham Cycle
 The Hastur Cycle
 The Horror of It All: Encrusted Gems from the "Crypt of Cthulhu"
 H.P. Lovecraft and the Cthulhu Mythos
 The Innsmouth Cycle: The Taint of the Deep Ones
 The Ithaqua Cycle: The Wind-Walker of the Icy Wastes
 Lin Carter: A Look Behind His Imaginary Worlds
 Lin Carter's Anton Zarnak, Supernatural Sleuth
 Lin Carter's Flashing Swords! 6
 Lin Carter's Flashing Swords! 7
 Lovecraft: A Look Behind the Cthulhu Mythos (with Lin Carter) Borgo Pr; Rev Sub edition (1997) 
 The Mighty Warriors (2018)
 Mysteries of the Worm (stories by Robert Bloch)
 Nameless Cults: The Cthulhu Mythos Fiction of Robert E. Howard
 The Necronomicon
 The New Lovecraft Circle
 The Nyarlathotep Cycle: The God of a Thousand Forms
 Secret Asia's Blackest Heart: A Horror Anthology
 Shards of Darkness (stories by Edward P. Berglund)
 The Shub-Niggurath Cycle: Tales of the Black Goat with a Thousand Young
 The Sword of Thongor
 The Taint of Lovecraft (stories by Stanley Sargeant)
 Tales of the Lovecraft Mythos
 Tales Out of Dunwich
 Tales Out of Innsmouth: New Stories of the Children of Dagon
 Thongor Conquers the Underground World
 Tindalos Cycle
 The Tsathoggua Cycle: Terror Tales of the Toad God
 Worlds of Cthulhu
 The Xothic Legend Cycle: The Complete Mythos Fiction of Lin Carter
 The Yig Cycle 
 The Yith Cycle: Lovecraftian Tales of the Great Race and Time Travel
 The Yog Sothoth Cycle

Magazines
 Editor of Midnight Shambler, Eldritch Tales, and Crypt of Cthulhu

Notes

References

Sources

External links

 
 
 The Human Bible podcast 
 The Amazing Colossal Apostle at archive.org

1954 births
Living people
20th-century Baptist ministers from the United States
20th-century American theologians
21st-century American theologians
Academic journal editors
American atheists
American podcasters
American skeptics
Atheist theologians
Christ myth theory proponents
Cthulhu Mythos writers
Drew University alumni
Gordon–Conwell Theological Seminary alumni
Members of the Jesus Seminar
Montclair State University alumni
Writers from Jackson, Mississippi
20th-century atheists
21st-century atheists
American male non-fiction writers
Baptists from Mississippi
American biblical scholars
H. P. Lovecraft scholars