[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Motherland Calls

The Motherland Calls () is the compositional centre of the monument-ensemble "Heroes of the Battle of Stalingrad" on Mamayev Kurgan in Volgograd, Russia. The statue is designed in the Soviet style of socialist realism. It was created by sculptor Yevgeny Vuchetich and structural engineer Nikolai Nikitin, and declared the tallest statue in the world in 1967. At , it is the tallest statue in the eastern hemisphere outside of Asia and the tallest statue (excluding pedestals) of a woman in the world.

Together with the Warrior Liberator in Treptower Park, Berlin and Rear-front Memorial in Magnitogorsk, the monument is a part of a triptych.

Construction
The work of sculptor Yevgeny Vuchetich and engineer Nikolai Nikitin is an  figure of a woman stepping forward with a raised sword. The statue is an allegorical image of the Motherland, which calls on its sons and daughters to repulse the enemy and return to the attack.

The Motherland Calls is highly complex from an engineering point of view, due to its characteristic posture with a sword raised high in the right hand and the left hand extended in a calling gesture. The sculpture is hollow. The technology behind the hollow statue is based on a combination of prestressed concrete with wire ropes, a solution which can also be found in another work of Nikitin's, the Ostankino Tower in Moscow. Inside, the entire statue consists of separate cells or chambers, like rooms in a building. The concrete walls of the sculpture are  thick.

The construction of the monument was started in May 1959 and completed on 15 October 1967. It was the tallest sculpture in the world at the time of creation. Restoration work on the main monument of the monument complex was done in 1972, when the sword was replaced by another entirely consisting of stainless steel.

It is most likely that Vuchetich sculpted the figure from the discus thrower Nina Dumbadze, and the face from his wife Vera. According to various sources, Valentina Izotova or Ekaterina Grebneva posed for the sculpture. It is also believed that the statue has parallels with the figure of the "Marseillaise" on the Arc de Triomphe in Paris.

At night, the sculpture is illuminated by floodlights. In 2018, it was illuminated as part of a light show titled "The Light of the Great Victory", marking the 72nd Victory Day on 9 May in Russia.

Measurements
When the memorial was dedicated in 1967 it was the tallest statue in the world, measuring  from the tip of its sword to the top of the plinth. It lost this title to Japan's Dai Kannon of Kita no Miyako park in 1989. The plinth measures another , and is installed on a concrete foundation with a depth of . The figure measures , and the sword . The monument weighs over . The statue contains  of concrete and  of metal structures, and the sword itself weighs . The rigidity of the frame is supported by 99 metal cables constantly in tension.

Dedication
Two hundred steps, symbolizing the 200 days of the Battle of Stalingrad, lead from the bottom of the hill to the monument. The statue appears on both the current flag and coat of arms of Volgograd Oblast.

Marshal of the Soviet Union Vasily Chuikov is buried in the area of the monument, as is famous WWII-era Russian sniper Vasily Zaytsev, who killed 225 soldiers and officers of the German army and their allies in the battle of Stalingrad.

The monument is the central part of the triptych, consisting of the monuments Rear-front in Magnitogorsk and "Warrior-Liberator" in Berlin's Treptower Park. It is understood that the sword, forged by the side of the Urals, was later raised by the Motherland in Stalingrad and dropped after the Victory in Berlin.

There exists a replica of the monument in Manzhouli, China.

Structural problems
The sword was originally made of stainless steel, trimmed with titanium sheets. The huge mass and high windage of the sword, due to its colossal dimensions, caused a strong swinging under the influence of wind loads, which caused excessive mechanical stress in the place where the hand holding the sword was attached to the body of the sculpture. Deformations in the design of the sword also caused the movement of sheets of titanium plating, creating a pitched sound of thundering metal. Therefore, in 1972, the blade was replaced by another – entirely consisting of stainless steel – and in the upper part of the sword, holes were provided that made it possible to reduce its windage.

In 2009, reports said the statue was leaning due to changes in groundwater level causing movement of the foundations. The statue is not fixed to its foundations and is held in place only by its weight. An anonymous official claimed that it had shifted  and was not expected to move much further without collapsing. A program of monument restoration was developed in 2008–2009, and conservation and restoration work started in 2010.