[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dragan Primorac

f this Congress as a co-organizer (until now about 5700 scientists from nearly 74 countries have participated in the work of the Congress. Since 2007 ISABS (International Society of Applied Biological Sciences) become the organizer of the Congress, whose official journal is Croatian Medical Journal.

He authored close to 200 scientific papers and abstracts in clinical and molecular medicine, genetics, forensic science, population genetics, genetic legacy of Homo sapiens and education, science and technology policy. Currently, he has a particular interest in metabolic bone and cartilage disorders, sports medicine as well as in personalized and regenerative medicine. He is the author of the original results on the genetic origins of the Europeans with a special focus on the South Eastern European population.  Several renowned media outlets, both electronic and print, have reported on the results of his research work, such as the New York Times, USA Today, Chicago Tribune, Hartford Courant, JAMA, Lancet, Science, NBC, Channel 8 (Connecticut TV Station), etc. Primorac worked at the Clinic for Pediatrics and served for several years (1996–2001) as the head of the Laboratory for Clinical and Forensic Genetics, both at Split Clinical Hospital. He was also director of the Polyclinic " Holy Spirit II " in Zagreb while currently, he is President of the Board of Trustees of the St. Catherine Hospital. During 1992/1993 Primorac and Simun Andelinovic founded the Laboratory for Clinical and Forensic Genetics at the Clinical Hospital in Split. That laboratory was the first in the region where identification of war victims discovered in mass graves by DNA technology took place. For their efforts, they won a joint Award of the City of Split in 1995.

In 2005. Primorac played a key role in the founding process of the initially private Media university in Split, that subsequently relocated to the inland city of Koprivnica. Media university merged with the University of applied sciences in Varaždin, starting to form the only public university in the Central and Northern Croatia alongside the University of Zagreb. As of 2022, University North is known as the fifth largest university in Croatia with some 5500 students in two university centres, Koprivnica and Varaždin. In 2015. Primorac visited the newly formed University North, stating that the study conditions at the university are at the level of some of the best universities in the world.

Primorac received 21 domestic and international awards including Mary E. Cowan Outstanding Service Award awarded by the American Academy of Forensic Sciences, The Young Investigator Award of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research, the Michael Geisman Fellowship Award of the Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation, the Life Time Achievement Award by the Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences, The Award of the Italian Region Veneto for Special Achievements in Promoting Science in the EU, the University of New Haven’s International Award for Excellence, Presidential Award by the President of the International Association of Forensic Sciences for his contribution given to forensic sciences. In 2015 he has been awarded The State Science Award (the most prestigious national recognition by the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia) for his outstanding contribution to a biomedical science and received "The Order of Croatian Star with the Effigy of Ruđer Bošković" decoration, from the President of the Republic of Croatia for his extraordinary achievements in science. In June 2018., the President of the Republic of Croatia awarded Primorac with the Order of Ante Starčević for his extraordinary achievements in the field of science, education, and politics, as well as for his contributions to the development of the Republic of Croatia.

Politics 

Primorac became a politician as a member of Croatian Government, serving as the Minister of Science, Education and Sports between 2003 and 2009. He completed his first term (2003–2007) without any party affiliation.  According to the International Republican Institute survey of October 1, 2007, he was rated as the most successful minister in the Croatian Government with 31% approval rate.