[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Aggravated felony

d felony.

IIRIRA required that any alien convicted of an aggravated felony must be detained while awaiting removal, resulting in the detention of far more aliens than before the Act took effect. In Demore v. Kim, , the Court ruled that the mandatory detention provision of IIRIRA was constitutional.

Consequences of illegal re-entry after deportation
A related use of the term "aggravated felony" comes in the context of the definition of the crime of illegal reentry into the United States following deportation, , and the corresponding sentencing enhancement provided by the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. It is a crime for an alien to illegally enter or without be found without permission in the United States after that alien has been deported. The maximum sentence for this crime is 2 years; however, if that deportation follows a conviction for an aggravated felony, the maximum sentence increases to 20 years.

Furthermore, the guideline that corresponds to this crime typically doubles or triples the sentence the alien would otherwise have received if the deportation follows conviction for an aggravated felony. In Almendarez-Torres v. United States, , the Supreme Court held that this increased maximum sentence did not violate the Sixth Amendment.

Comparison to crimes involving moral turpitude (CIMT)
The consequences of making a crime an aggravated felony are far reaching. One major consequence is that, unlike the deportability ground for a crime involving moral turpitude (CIMT), aggravated felonies do not have to be committed within five years after admission into the U.S. to give rise to deportability. (E.g. a Lawful Permanent Resident who was admitted into the U.S. as a small child and who commits an aggravated felony at age 60 becomes deportable).

Some aggravated felonies make a person deportable without regard to the actual or potential sentence attached to the conviction. For details, see list of aggravated felonies'' in the chart at the top.

Sources
 Immigration Law and Procedure, 5th ed., by David Weissbrodt and Laura Danielson

References

External links 
When Misdemeanors are Felonies: The Aggravated Felony of Sexual Abuse of a Minor, by William J. Johnson, vol. 52, 2007/08.
Aggravated Felonies by Public Officials in North Carolina

United States immigration law
Criminal law
American legal terminology