[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Soesterberg Air Base

Soesterberg Air Base  was a Royal Netherlands Air Force (RNLAF) military air base located in Soesterberg,  east-northeast of Utrecht.  It was first established as an airfield in 1911, and in 1913, the Dutch Army bought the field and established the Army Aviation Division.

For almost 40 years, United States Air Force facilities at Soesterberg, named Camp New Amsterdam, were a major front line USAFE air base during the Cold War.  The base was closed on 31 December 2008, due to budget cuts in the Dutch armed forces.  The air base ceased flying operations on 12 November 2008, when the command was transferred from the RNLAF to the Ministry of Defence which will maintain the base until it will be given back to nature.  The last fighter ever to depart, delayed due bad weather at Aviano AB, was a Greek F-4E Phantom II.  The former USAFE facilities remained in military hands, and will now officially be called Camp New Amsterdam.

Early history
During World War I, the Netherlands was a neutral country, and flew border patrol missions from Soesterberg airfield.  The Dutch confiscated all foreign aircraft landing inside the borders of their country during the war, and added the operational ones to their inventory to be used for pilot training at Soesterberg.

At the beginning of World War II, the Dutch again declared neutrality, but the German force's blitzkrieg overran the country in five days, and Soesterberg was occupied by the German Luftwaffe on 15 May 1940.  A variety of German aircraft were stationed there during the war, flying anti-ship missions along British convoy routes in the North Sea, bombing missions over England, and fighter defence against Allied bombing missions.  Throughout the war, allied air forces caused enormous damage to the airfield, and by September 1944 the Luftwaffe acknowledged Soesterberg airfield to be more or less useless.

In May 1945, Canadian forces liberated the airfield.  After the War, an extensive Dutch construction programme was started to build new hangars, and extending the runways.  Several locations around the base, used as service areas during the War, were upgraded.  On 5 August 1951, the Royal Netherlands Air Force (RNLAF) declared it operational and gave it an air defence role.  The RNLAF has maintained flying units at Soesterberg since then.

On the base two monuments were erected.  The Monument for Fallen Aviators (Monument voor Gevallen Vliegers) is the official RNLAF memorial, and located near the main entrance of the base.  On Remembrance of the Dead, May 4, the RNLAF holds a ceremony to remember and commemorate the fallen of World War II.

The other monument at the base is for Executed Resistance Fighters.  It is the symbol for the sacrifice that 33 resistance fighters gave for freedom.  Every year on 19 November, there is a memorial service.  During World War II, the German Army (Wehrmacht) secretly executed the 33 resistance fighters in the woods of the base.  The resistance fighters were part of several resistance groups and most of them were caught due to betrayal.  Although the execution was held in secret, there were rumours about it, and after the war the base was minutely searched.  The mass grave, camouflaged by buried trees, was located by Major A. Siedenburg.  His son was one of the victims.

United States use

In 1954, the Dutch government agreed to the stationing of a US Air Force fighter squadron to augment air defence.  The USAF forces operated from a part of Soesterberg Air Base which was named Camp New Amsterdam, in honour of the first Dutch settlement in America, Nieuw Amsterdam, later renamed New York City.

512th Fighter-Day Squadron
The first U.S. Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) unit to operate from Soesterberg was the 512th Fighter-Day Squadron, which arrived with North American F-86F "Sabre" on 16 November 1954 from RAF Manston in the UK.  By July 1955, the 512th reached full operational status.

32d Fighter-Interceptor Squadron
In September 1955, the designation of the 512th was transferred to RAF Shepherds Grove, where it replaced the 78th FIS.  Its aircraft, personnel and equipment however stayed in the Netherlands, and made up the newly activated 32d Fighter Day Squadron, which was operated at Soesterberg as a detachment of the 36th Fighter Wing at Bitburg Air Base in West Germany.

In 1956, the squadron transitioned to the North American F-100 Super Sabre.  The 32d sent five instructors pilots to Sidi Slimane AB in Morocco to complete transition training for the F-100.  At the same time, the squadron began ferrying the F-86s to Prestwick, Scotland, and Châteauroux-Déols Air Base in France for disposal.  On 18 July 1958, USAFE redesignated the unit as the 32d Tactical Fighter Squadron, as part of the 36th Tactical Fighter Wing.

Due to the requirement of a longer runway for landing and take offs, the runway of the base was extended to over .