[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Constructive set theory

metalogical property beyond consistency, i.e. a theory may be consistent and from it one may prove that some program will eventually halt, despite this never actually occurring when said program is ran. More formally, assuming consistency of a theory does not imply it is also arithmetically -sound.

Total functional relations 
In set theory language here, speak of a function class when  and provenly
.
Notably, this definition involves quantifier explicitly asking for existence - an aspect which is particularly important in the constructive context. In words: For every , it demands the unique existence of a  so that . 
In the case that this holds one may use function application bracket notation and write . The above property may then be stated as . This notation may be extended to equality of function values. Some notational conveniences involving function application will only work when a set has indeed been established to be a function.
Let  (also written ) denote the class of sets that fulfill the function property. This is the class of functions from  to  in a pure set theory. Below the notation  is also used for , for the sake of distinguishing it from ordinal exponentiation. When functions are understood as just function graphs as here, the membership proposition  is also written . The boolean-valued  are among the classes discussed in the next section.

By construction, any such function respects equality in the sense that , for any inputs from . This is worth mentioning since also more broader concepts of "operations" exist in the literature, which may not respect this. Variants of the functional predicate definition using apartness relations on setoids have been defined as well. 
A subset of a function is still a function and the function predicate may also be proven for enlarged chosen codomain sets. As noted, care must be taken with nomenclature "function", a word which sees use in most mathematical frameworks. When a function set itself is not tied to a particular codomain, then this set of pairs is also member of a function space with larger codomain. This do not happen when by the word one denotes the subset of pairs paired with a codomain set, i.e. a formalization in terms of . This is mostly a matter of bookkeeping, but affects how other predicates are defined, question of size. This choice is also just enforced by some mathematical frameworks.

If both the domain  and considered codomain  are sets, then the above predicate only involves bounded quantifiers. Common notions such as injectivity and surjectivity can be expressed in a bounded fashion as well, and thus so is bijectivity. Both of these tie in to notions of size. Importantly, injection existence between any two sets provides a preorder. A power class does not inject into its underlying set and the latter does not map onto the former. Surjectivity is formally a more complex definition. Note that injectivity shall be defined positively, not by its contrapositive, which is common practice in classical mathematics. The version without negations is sometimes called weakly injective. The existence of value collisions is a strong notion of non-injectivity. And regarding surjectivity, similar considerations exist for outlier-production in the codomain.