[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# HIV/AIDS in China

(MSM), stovepiping among different government entities, and difficulties obtaining data from private healthcare providers. Through the early 2000s, the Chinese government limited discussion of data and statistics of HIV/AIDS in the country, and media only reported numbers approved by the government.

Accordingly, estimates from the period of the epidemic often were imprecise, tending to overestimate the overall number of cases. China did not begin to produce regular, systematic estimates of the prevalence of HIV/AIDS until 2003, doing so in conjunction with the United Nations, World Health Organization, and United States Centers for Disease Control. This initial estimate was tentatively 840,000 cases nationwide, but with a potential range of 430,000 to 1.5 million. This was revised down to 650,000 in 2005.

Other international estimates tended to greatly overstate the presence and potential growth of HIV in China before more reliable official data was available. For example, in 2002, a report by the United Nations Theme Group on HIV/AIDS in China, entitled "HIV/AIDS: China's Titanic Peril", had estimated up to 1.5 million infected cases, and warned of "[a] potential HIV/AIDS disaster of unimaginable proportion". A 2002 report by the US National Intelligence Council projected 10–15 million cases in China by 2010.

Overall, the availability, precision, and coverage of HIV/AIDS data in China improved significantly from 2003 onward. Beginning in 2010, the Chinese government again expanded the scope and number of HIV surveillance sites, increasing coverage of all groups and expanding to cover larger portions of the population and providing more comprehensive information on the disease. Data gathered through the current system has generally been reliable, although issues with standardized protocols across different sites and coordination among different levels of government were identified in independent studies.

Current transmission

HIV in China is primarily transmitted through sexual contact, which accounts for over 90% of new infections. Sexual transmission gradually began to overtake the originally predominant routes of transmission, injection drug use and unsafe blood donation practices, throughout the 1990s and into the mid-2000s. In 2005, sexual transmission accounted for 50% of all new infections, and by 2007, a majority of HIV/AIDS cases overall were related to sexual transmission pathways.

Currently, major high-risk groups for HIV infection include intravenous drug users, men who have sex with men (MSM), and sex workers. The Chinese government has additionally established data collection and monitoring sites targeting male migrant workers, long-distance truck drivers, male STI clinic patients, antenatal care clinic patients, and college students.

MSM in particular have seen a significant increase in transmission rates since epidemiological studies examining them as a group began in 2000. MSM represented 26% of new reported cases in 2014, up from 2.5% in 2006. Increased migration from poorer regions with high HIV prevalence to urban areas and somewhat liberalized attitude towards homosexuality in China over the last two decades, resulting in more overall sexual activity, have been hypothesized as factors driving this trend. 

MSM are also generally at a higher risk for contracting STIs, including syphilis, which may form a coinfection with HIV. Drug use contributes little to HIV infection among MSM, with the overwhelming majority of new cases being the result of sexual activity. More than one-fifth of MSM are married to women, which might speed the transmission of HIV to the general population, and outreach to this subgroup in particular can be difficult.

Mortality rates
The standardized mortality rate of HIV/AIDS rose from 0.33 per 100,000 people in 1990 to 2.50 per 100,000 in 2016, and the rate is higher in men than in women. Overall rates of mortality continue to grow as more individuals are infected. The provision of antiretroviral therapy (ART) among infected individuals, however, has greatly decreased mortality among patients receiving care since the early 2000s; by 2014 86.9% of eligible patients were receiving some form of ART.

Control and prevention

Overview of policy response
The response of the government of China to the HIV/AIDS crisis evolved in tandem with the epidemic itself. Generally, policy moved from preventive and containment measures aimed at keeping the disease from reaching the general population, often with a reliance on enforcement of public morality, to more active, data-driven control measures involving targeted education and harm reduction programs. Early law and policy implementation were often hindered by lack of knowledge among lawmakers on the severity and impact of HIV/AIDS and its potential for growth within China.