[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Aboke abductions

y Hillary Clinton, Kofi Annan, Yoweri Museveni, the Pope, members of the European Parliament, former South African President Nelson Mandela, Libyan President Muammar al-Gaddafi, Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir, and Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe, as well as numerous diplomats of other nations.

The leaders of the LRA were indicted in 2005 for war crimes and crimes against humanity by the International Criminal Court, although some have noted that the indictments complicated the sporadic attempts at negotiations. A 2006 study estimated that 66,000 children and youths had been abducted over the course of the 20-year conflict.

On 14 March 2009, Catherine Ajok, one of the abducted Aboke girls still held by the rebels, returned to Uganda. Ajok escaped during the Garamba offensive against the LRA, making her way to a UPDF base in Dungu, Democratic Republic of the Congo. She returned with her 12-month-old baby, who she said was fathered by Joseph Kony.

In 2012, one of the 30 girls called Angela Atim Lakor escaped from the LRA soldiers. She later co-founded the Watye Ki Gen (we have hope) and organisation that supports both the returnees from the LRA rebels and their children to catch up with the stigma with the help of  World Vision Children of War Reintegration Centre in Gulu.

Concerned Parents Association (CPA) was formed. It is that unites the parents of the abducted children.

Chaipersons of the Concerned Parents Association (CPA) 

 Angelina Atyam 
 Late Ben Pere

Controversies 
In February 2001 during the presidential campaigns, Yoweri Museveni was reported to said that Aboke girls should no longer be an issue as they were already affected by HIV/AIDS while he was speaking over Radio Rhino FM in Lira. Angelina Atyam also said that they (parents of the abducted children) had forgiven the rebels and also that they needed their girls back home whether they are sick or not, child mothers or child slaves.

See also
List of kidnappings
List of solved missing person cases
Arrow boys monument

References

Bibliography 
 Scars of Death: Children Abducted by the Lord's Resistance Army in Uganda, Human Rights Watch, September 1997
De Temmerman, E. Aboke Girls: Children Abducted in Northern Uganda, Fountain, 2001. . (Originally published as De Temmerman, E. De meisjes van Aboke: Kindsoldaten in Noord-Oeganda. De Kern, 2000.  .)
 
 Testimony of former child soldier Grace Grall Akallo (PDF), U.S. House Subcommittee on Africa, Global Human Rights and International Operations, 26 April 2006
 Brenna, Paulo, Sister, The Rebels Are Here (PDF)

External links
 Lacy, Marc, A Mother's Bitter Choice: Telling Kidnappers No, New York Times, 25 January 2003

1990s missing person cases
1996 crimes in Uganda
Apac District
Children in war
Formerly missing people
Lord's Resistance Army
Kidnapped Ugandan people
Kidnappings in Uganda
Child abduction in Uganda
Missing person cases in Uganda
Violence against women in Uganda