[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Macedonia naming dispute

y, which also claims as ethnic Macedonians figures considered national heroes in Bulgaria, such as Dame Gruev and Gotse Delchev, also drew criticism from Bulgaria. Foreign diplomats warned that the policy reduced international sympathy for the Republic of Macedonia in the naming dispute with Greece.

A continuing negotiation 
The Assembly of the Republic of Macedonia voted on 11 April 2008 to dissolve itself and hold early elections within sixty days. Following a meeting with the four major parties, president Branko Crvenkovski announced the continuation of the negotiations for the name, despite the parliament dissolution. The parties agreed that the dispute should not be a matter of heavy political debate before the elections.

Matthew Nimetz visited Skopje on 17 April 2008 and Athens on the following day, initiating a new cycle of negotiations, but without bearing a new proposal yet.

Talks continued in New York from 30 April to 2 May 2008, though Nimetz again did not propose a new compromise name.

2008 proposal and reactions 
According to media from both sides, the main points of the proposal from 8 October 2008 were the following:
 the name "Republic of Macedonia" will stay the official name inside the country (in the native language)
 the name for the country in all official purposes (i.e. United Nations, EU, NATO) will be "Republic of North Macedonia" ()
 UN Security Council will suggest to third countries to use the name "Republic of North Macedonia" in official bilateral relations
 the name "former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia" will no longer be an acceptable name for the country
 "Macedonia" alone cannot be used by any of the two parties as an official name for the country or the region.
 Both parties can use "Macedonia" and "Macedonian" in unofficial settings, with the precondition that they will not claim exclusive rights of any kind.
 the front page of the Macedonian passports will contain the following names for the country:
 Republic of North Macedonia in English
 République de Macédoine du Nord in French
 Република Македонија in Macedonian
 Greece will support the integration of its neighbouring country into EU and NATO
 both countries will confirm that they have no territorial claims towards each other

Reaction by ethnic Macedonian politicians/diplomats 
The cabinet of the President of the Republic of Macedonia, Branko Crvenkovski, announced that the Republic of Macedonia wanted "serious changes" in the latest proposal and that the presented set of ideas could not be a basis for the resolution of the dispute. Prime minister Nikola Gruevski agreed with Crvenkovski.

Reaction by Greek politicians/diplomats 
The English edition of the Greek newspaper Kathimerini reported that Greek diplomats privately welcomed the proposals. Greek Foreign Minister Dora Bakoyannis, however, did not make a comment on the newest set of proposals. It was also said that Athens would not state its position before Skopje. In the meantime, all major opposition parties expressed serious concerns about the proposal since it crossed the "red line" that Greece had set on a single name to be used erga omnes.

Before either Athens or Skopje had officially responded to the proposal, the Athenian daily Ethnos published an alleged secret diplomatic correspondence of the U.S. Department of State. The leaked document, originally tagged as classified until 2018, was said to detail a behind-the-scenes deal between Washington and Skopje on the main provisions of the Nimetz proposal as early as July. According to the newspaper, the latest UN-sponsored set of ideas were secretly sketched to please Skopje by the U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice three months earlier. The report sparked outrage in Greece, with opposition parties accusing the government of tolerating "US interference" in the UN mediation process and calling for Greece's withdrawal from the negotiations. Skopje "strongly and categorically" denied all claims of the existence of a secret deal with Washington.

Reaction by Bulgarian politicians/diplomats 
Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, stated in June 2012 that names like "Northern Macedonia" would be completely unacceptable, since this geographical term would include Bulgarian territories, and more specifically the region of Blagoevgrad, giving rise to irredentist territorial claims by nationalist ethnic Macedonians against Bulgaria.

The International Court of Justice 

In November 2008, Skopje instituted proceedings against Athens in front of the UN's International Court of Justice for what it described as "a flagrant violation of [Greece's] obligations under Article 11 of the Interim Accord signed by the Parties on 13 September 1995". The alleged violation was referring to the blockade by Athens to Macedonia's bid for NATO membership.

Following the submissions of memorials and counter-memorials, and the public hearings, the legal positions of the parties were as follows: