[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Boeing EC-135

located at Hickam AFB, Yakoto AB (Japan) Kadena AB (Okinawa), and Clark AB (Philippines).  There may have been an additional Ground Station on Guam.

At Kadena AB, the 1962nd Communications Group hosted the Blue Eagle Ground Station.  The call sign for the Kadena Blue Eagle Operation was “Settler”.

All Blue Eagle Ground Stations were contracted to Philco Corporation and consisted of two trailer vans that could be pulled by a single tractor.  One van was configured with a 15KW diesel powered generator and diesel fuel tank and the other was outfitted with a 15-ton heavy duty air conditioning unit, three motor generators, three UHF/VHF FM transmitters and receivers, two multiplexers each providing up to 24 telephone lines and a dedicated, individual telephone line provided to the aircraft.

The ground stations were self sufficient in that they were configured in trailers so they could be relocated to safer positions in the event of a national emergency.  The equipment installed in the vans was identical to the electronics on board the aircraft.  This necessitated the requirement for motor-generators to provide conversion from 60 Hz to 400 Hz power.

Each equipment van had an omni-directional antenna mounted on the roof of the van and 3 additional portable antennas that were deployed on telephone poles.  The antennas could be switched electro-mechanically from each transmitter/receiver pair.  The vans at Kadena AB were never moved from their initial installation location.

Blue Eagle was formed in 1965 and started 24/7 operation in October 1965 and continued until disbanded in 1992.

Nightwatch

Operation Nightwatch provided three EC-135J command post aircraft to the President of the United States which were based at Andrews AFB (Maryland). All three aircraft were transferred to other ABNCP missions.

Nightwatch was initiated in the mid-1960s utilizing the three EC-135J aircraft, modified from KC-135Bs, as command post aircraft. The three Nightwatch aircraft were ready to fly the President and the National Command Authority (NCA) out of Washington in the event of a nuclear attack. The E-4 aircraft (a modified Boeing 747-200) came on line with the Nightwatch program in 1974 replacing the EC-135s on this mission.

USCENTCOM Support

The 310th Airlift Squadron, part of the 6th Air Mobility Wing at MacDill AFB (Florida), operated two NKC-135s that were reconfigured as  EC-135Y aircraft from 1989 to 2003 as executive transport and command & control platforms to support the Commander, United States Central Command.  These aircraft have since been replaced with three C-37A Gulfstream V aircraft.

Advanced Range Instrumentation Aircraft

The Advanced Range Instrumentation Aircraft are EC-135Bs, modified C-135B cargo aircraft and EC-18B (former American Airlines 707-320) passenger aircraft that provided tracking and telemetry information to support the US space program in the late 1960s and early 1970s.

During the early 1960s, NASA and the Department of Defense (DoD) needed a very mobile tracking and telemetry platform to support the Apollo space program and other unmanned space flight operations. In a joint project, NASA and the DoD contracted with the McDonnell Douglas and the Bendix Corporations to modify eight Boeing C-135 Stratolifter cargo aircraft into EC-135N Apollo / Range Instrumentation Aircraft (A/RIA). Equipped with a steerable seven-foot antenna dish in its distinctive "Droop Snoot" or "Snoopy Nose", the EC-135N A/RIA became operational in January 1968, and was often known as the "Jimmy Durante" of the Air Force. The Air Force Eastern Test Range (AFETR) at Patrick AFB, Florida, maintained and operated the A/RIA until the end of the Apollo program in 1972, when the USAF renamed it the Advanced Range Instrumentation Aircraft (ARIA).

Since Patrick AFB was located on the Atlantic Ocean, salt water and salt air-induced corrosion issues and associated aircraft maintenance challenges were problematic for the ARIA while based there.  Transferred to the 4950th Test Wing at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, in December 1975 as part of an overall consolidation of large test and evaluation aircraft, the ARIA fleet underwent numerous conversions, including a re-engining that changed the EC-135N to the EC-135E. In 1994, the ARIA fleet relocated again to Edwards AFB, California, as part of the 412th Test Wing. However, taskings for the ARIA dwindled because of high costs and improved satellite technology, and the USAF transferred the aircraft to other programs such as E-8 J-STARS.