[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Coco Martin

ta. Nina, Martin was chosen to star in a 2013 film A Moment in Time together with Julia Montes as his leading lady. The film was shot in Amsterdam and Paris, and was produced by Dreamscape Cinema and Star Cinema. His performance earned him, a nomination for Best Drama Actor at the 2014 FAMAS Awards.

In 2014, Martin starred in Maybe This Time, a film with singer-actress Sarah Geronimo produced by Star Cinema and VIVA Films. In the same year, Martin starred with Kris Aquino in his first ever Metro Manila Film Festival film. The film was a sequel to a 2004 film of the same title also starring  Aquino. The film became the second-highest-grossing film at the 2014 Metro Manila Film Festival behind The Amazing Praybeyt Benjamin and holds the title of having the highest opening gross of any Filipino horror film. It earned a total of ₱235.0 million at the box office. In the same year, Martin also starred in the period drama television series entitled Ikaw Lamang with Julia Montes, Kim Chiu and Jake Cuenca. The series earned Martin "Best Performance by an Actor in a TV Series" at the 13th Gawad Tanglaw Awards and "Best Drama Actor" at the 28th PMPC Star Awards for Television.

2015–2022: Ang Probinsyano and critical success
In early 2015, he starred in an episode of the fantasy anthology television series Wansapanataym entitled "Yamishita's Treasures" alongside his leading lady Julia Montes. He also appeared in an episode of Maalaala Mo Kaya co-starring Angel Locsin and Ejay Falcon that was dedicated to the memory of Special Action Force members killed in the Mamasapano clash.

In September 2015 with an ensemble cast, Martin starred in his most successful television series to date, the TV adaptation of the late Fernando Poe Jr.'s film FPJ's Ang Probinsyano. To portray the role, he had to train in martial arts such as Kickboxing, Arnis, and MMA. The program was originally set as a year-long series, but due to its continuous success and consistent top rating, it was extended indefinitely and finally ended on August 12, 2022. The longest-running television series, it lasted from September 28, 2015, to August 12, 2022, with a total of 1,696 episodes. Martin was given a certificate of appreciation for his portrayal of a highly dedicated CIDG Police officer. The citation was given during the 63rd Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG) Founding Anniversary. On 14 September 2016, Surigao congressman Robert Ace Barbers filed House Resolution No. 358 at the 17th Congress of the Philippines which commended the show for its efforts to promote crime awareness and prevention among viewers and endorsed Martin as "Celebrity Advocate for a Drug-Free Philippines." However, in 2018, the Philippine National Police (PNP) withdrew its support for "Ang Probinsyano" following its negative portrayal of the PNP in the television series. PNP spokesman Chief Superintendent Bong Durana said that an internal memorandum, signed by Director General Eduardo Garado, chief of the PNP Community Relations, was issued ordering all units, offices and personnel to refrain from assisting the producers of the series. In response to this, ABS-CBN has drafted a Memorandum of Understanding and has submitted it to the PNP for its comment, leading to a meeting with Martin, ABS-CBN Management, Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) Secretary Eduardo Año along with PNP Chief Oscar Albayalde to resolve the issues. Due to the success of Ang Probinsyano, Martin was dubbed as the "King of Philippine Television" by various press and given numerous awards including the "Fernando Poe, Jr. Memorial award" at the 63rd FAMAS. In the same year, Martin starred in the film You're My Boss with Toni Gonzaga and in his second MMFF entry, Beauty and the Bestie with Vice Ganda, the third highest-grossing Filipino film of all time.

In 2016, he starred with superstar Nora Aunor in an indie film titled Padre de Familia directed by Adolf Alix Jr. The film was based on Martin's experiences working overseas. It premiered at selected cinemas in Europe and the Middle East via The Filipino Channel. In the same year, he starred in his third Metro Manila Film Festival entry, The Super Parental Guardians, along with Vice Ganda and Awra Briguela under Star Cinema. It was the second-highest grossing Filipino film of all time.