[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Justice M. Chambers

He died on July 29, 1982, and was buried in Arlington National Cemetery.

Awards and decorations

Medal of Honor citation
The President of the United States in the name of The Congress takes pride in presenting the MEDAL OF HONOR to              

For service as set forth in the following CITATION:

For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty as commanding officer of the 3d Assault Battalion Landing Team, 25th Marines, 4th Marine Division, in action against enemy Japanese forces on Iwo Jima, Volcano Islands, from 19 to 22 February 1945. Under a furious barrage of enemy machinegun and small-arms fire from the commanding cliffs on the right, Col. Chambers (then Lt. Col.) landed immediately after the initial assault waves of his battalion on D-day to find the momentum of the assault threatened by heavy casualties from withering Japanese artillery, mortar rocket, machinegun, and rifle fire. Exposed to relentless hostile fire, he coolly reorganized his battle-weary men, inspiring them to heroic efforts by his own valor and leading them in an attack on the critical, impregnable high ground from which the enemy was pouring an increasing volume of fire directly onto troops ashore as well as amphibious craft in succeeding waves. Constantly in the front lines encouraging his men to push forward against the enemy's savage resistance, Col. Chambers led the 8-hour battle to carry the flanking ridge top and reduce the enemy's fields of aimed fire, thus protecting the vital foothold gained. In constant defiance of hostile fire while reconnoitering the entire regimental combat team zone of action, he maintained contact with adjacent units and forwarded vital information to the regimental commander. His zealous fighting spirit undiminished despite terrific casualties and the loss of most of his key officers, he again reorganized his troops for renewed attack against the enemy's main line of resistance and was directing the fire of the rocket platoon when he fell, critically wounded. Evacuated under heavy Japanese fire, Col. Chambers, by forceful leadership, courage, and fortitude in the face of staggering odds, was directly instrumental in insuring the success of subsequent operations of the 5th Amphibious Corps on Iwo Jima, thereby sustaining and enhancing the finest traditions of the U.S. Naval Service.

Silver Star citation
Citation:

The President of the United States of America takes pleasure in presenting the Silver Star to Major Justice Marion Chambers (MCSN: 0-4796), United States Marine Corps Reserve, for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in action while attached to the First Marine Raider Battalion during the seizure of Tulagi, Solomon Islands, from enemy Japanese forces, on the night of August 7–8, 1942. While a patient at the Battalion Aid Station, suffering from multiple wounds inflected by a mortar shell, Major Chambers personally assumed control of the evacuation of the wounded when a hostile counterattack threatened to penetrate to the station. With utter disregard for his own personal safety, he also directed the action of the Marine detachment covering the removal of the wounded to a less dangerous area. His heroic devotion to duty was in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service.

Named After Justice M. Chambers
Marine Corps League – Col. Justice M. Chambers Detachment – #555 – 8720 Twinbrook Dr. Mentor, Ohio 44060

"Colonel Justice M. Chambers Memorial Bridge" West Virginia: U. S. Route 60 crossing Four Pole Creek from Cabell County to Wayne County.

CHAMBERS AWARD FOR OUTSTANDING LEADERSHIP:
The Colonel Justice Marion "Jumping Joe" Chambers Award is presented annually to the Reserve company grade officer within the 4th Marine Division or 4th Force Service Support Group
who best demonstrates the outstanding leadership qualities exemplified by Colonel Chambers during World War II. (MARINE CORPS ORDER 1650R.35B)

The Reserve Center in Brook Park, OH, home to HQ Co, 3d BN, 25th MAR is named after Col. Chambers.

See also

List of Medal of Honor recipients for World War II
List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Battle of Iwo Jima

Notes

References

1908 births
1982 deaths
United States Marine Corps personnel of World War II
Burials at Arlington National Cemetery
United States Marine Corps Medal of Honor recipients
Marine Raiders
Recipients of the Silver Star
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
United States Marine Corps colonels
Military personnel from Huntington, West Virginia
Battle of Iwo Jima
World War II recipients of the Medal of Honor
United States Navy reservists
United States Marine Corps reservists
Lawyers from Huntington, West Virginia
Marshall University alumni