[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 32]
# Constructive set theory

lied by Replacement. The discussion so far only committed to the predicatively justified bounded Separation. Note that full Separation (together with ,  and also  for sets) is validated in some effective topos models, meaning the axiom does not spoil cornerstones of the restrictive recursive school.

Related are type theoretical interpretations.
In 1977 Aczel showed that  can still be interpreted in Martin-Löf type theory, using the propositions-as-types approach. More specifically, this uses one universe and -types, providing what is now seen a standard model of  in .
This is done in terms of the images of its functions and has a fairly direct constructive and predicative justification, while retaining the language of set theory. Roughly, there are two "big" types , the sets are all given through any  on some , and membership of a  in the set is defined to hold when .
Conversely,  interprets .
All statements validated in the subcountable model of the set theory can be proven exactly via  plus the choice principle -, stated further above.
As noted, theories like , and also together with choice, have the existence property for a broad class of sets in common mathematics.
Martin-Löf type theories with additional induction principles validate corresponding set theoretical axioms.

Soundness and Completeness theorems of , with respect to realizability, have been established.

Breaking with ZF
As a rule of inference,  is closed under Troelstra's general uniformity for both  and . One may adopt it as an anti-classical axiom schema, the uniformity principle denoted ,

This is also often formulated for . Now for a binary set of labels ,  implies the indecomposability schema , as noted.

One may postulate the subcountability of all sets. This already holds true in the type theoretical interpretation and the model in the effective topos. By Infinity and Exponentiation,  is an uncountable set, while the class  or even  is then provenly not a set, by Cantor's diagonal argument. So this theory then logically rejects Powerset and of course .
Subcountability is also in contradiction with various large set axioms. (On the other hand, also using , some such axioms imply the consistency of theories such as  and stronger.)

One may of course add a Church's thesis.

In 1989 Ingrid Lindström showed that non-well-founded sets can also be interpreted in Martin-Löf type theory, which are obtained by replacing Set Induction in  with Aczel's anti-foundation axiom. 
The resulting theory  may be studied by also adding back the -induction schema or relativized dependent choice, as well as the assertion that every set is member of a transitive set.

Intuitionistic Zermelo–Fraenkel
The theory  is  adopting both the standard Separation as well as Power set and, as in , one conventionally formulates the theory with Collection below. As such,  can be seen as the most straight forward variant of  without .
So as noted, in , in place of Replacement, one may use the

While the axiom of replacement requires the relation  to be functional over the set  (as in, for every  in  there is associated exactly one ), the Axiom of Collection does not.
It merely requires there be associated at least one , and it asserts the existence of a set which collects at least one such  for each such .
In classical , the Collection schema implies the Axiom schema of replacement. When making use of Powerset (and only then), they can be shown to be classically equivalent.

While  is based on intuitionistic rather than classical logic, it is considered impredicative.
It allows formation of sets using the Axiom of Separation with any proposition, including ones which contain quantifiers which are not bounded. Thus new sets can be formed in terms of the universe of all sets, distancing the theory from the bottom-up constructive perspective. With this general Separation, it is easy to define sets  with undecidable membership, namely by making use of undecidable predicates defined on a set.
Further, the power set axiom implies the existence of a set of truth values. In the presence of excluded middle, this set has two elements. In the absence of it, the set of truth values is also considered impredicative. The axioms of  are strong enough so that full  is already implied by  for bounded formulas. In fact, it is ready implied by the particular formula , the principle that knowledge of membership of  shall always be decidable, no matter the set. See also the previous discussion in the section on the Exponentiation axiom.

Metalogic
As implied above, the subcountability property cannot be adopted for all sets, given the theory proves  to be a set.
The theory has many of the nice numerical existence properties and is e.g. consistent with Church's thesis principle as well as with  being subcountable. It also has the disjunctive property.