[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1994 in the United Kingdom

have now found the bodies of eight people buried at 25 Cromwell Street.
 12 March – The first women are ordained as priests in the Church of England, at Bristol Cathedral, the very first being Angela Berners-Wilson.
 19 March – Europe's first inverted roller coaster, Nemesis, opens at Alton Towers.

April
 April – Economic growth for the first quarter of this year exceeded 1% – the highest for five years.
 1 April – Women's Royal Air Force fully merged into Royal Air Force.
 10 April – Human remains are found at Kempley, Gloucestershire, by police working on the Gloucester mass murder case. The body is believed to be that of Catherine "Rena" Costello, Fred West's first wife, who was last seen alive in 1971.
 12 April – Bob Cryer, the Labour MP for Bradford South in West Yorkshire, is accidentally killed after his car overturns on the M1 near Watford, Hertfordshire, aged 59.
 20 April – Unemployment has fallen to just over 2,500,000 – the lowest level in two years – as the economy continues to make a good recovery from the recession that ended a year ago.
 28 April – Rosemary West, 40-year-old wife of suspected serial killer Fred West, is charged with three of the murders her husband stands accused of. Rosemary West was first arrested seven days ago, two months after her husband was first taken into custody.
 29 April – An opinion poll shows that Conservative support has fallen to 26% – their worst showing in any major opinion poll since coming to power 15 years ago.

May
 4 May – Police find human remains buried at a former home of Fred and Rose West in Gloucester. The body is believed to be that of Fred West's daughter Charmaine, who was last seen alive at the age of 8 in the summer of 1971.
 5 May
 Local council elections see the Conservatives lose 429 seats and control of 18 councils.
 The Rotherham by-election is held; Denis MacShane holds the seat for Labour.
 6 May – The Channel Tunnel, a  long rail tunnel beneath the English Channel at the Strait of Dover, officially opened.
 9 May – Release of Scottish group Wet Wet Wet's cover of the song "Love Is All Around" (1967), as featured in Four Weddings and a Funeral. From 29 May it will spend 15 consecutive weeks at number one in the UK Singles Chart, the longest spell ever attained by a British act.
 12 May – John Smith (Labour Party leader) dies suddenly of a massive heart attack in London at 55 years old.
 13 May – The film Four Weddings and a Funeral is released in the UK.
 17 May – Bryan Gould, the Labour MP who unsuccessfully lost to John Smith in the 1992 leadership election, resigns from the House of Commons, triggering a by-election in his Dagenham constituency.
 19 May – Robert Black, who was jailed for life four years ago for abducting a seven-year-old girl in the Scottish Borders, is found guilty of murdering three girls (Caroline Hogg, Susan Maxwell and Sarah Harper) who were killed during the 1980s and sentenced to life imprisonment with a recommended minimum term of 35 years.
 25 May – The Camelot Group consortium wins the contract to run the UK's first National Lottery.
 31 May – Tony Blair and Gordon Brown have dinner at the Granita restaurant in Islington and allegedly make a deal on who will become the leader of the Labour Party, and ultimately, the next Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.