[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Yingkou

The Battle of Yingkou (Japanese: ) was a land battle of the First Sino-Japanese War between the forces of Meiji Japan and Qing China, fought outside the treaty port town of Yingkou, Manchuria. It is sometimes referred to as the Battle of Niuzhuang or Newchwang.

Background
Following the battles of Pyongyang and Jiuliancheng, the Japanese army entered Manchuria. Marshal Yamagata pursued the Qing forces closely, aiming to not let them recuperate and reinforce. On the 29th of October, the 5th division took Fenghuangcheng unopposed and learned that some of General Song's men were moving to Motienling to link up with the 10,000 men under General I. This would threaten the rear lines of the Japanese if they marched on Haicheng via Hsiumucheng. Therefore, General Nozu decided to move the 10th brigade to Motienling to prevent the Qing armies from linking up. This was successful and on the 25th of November, the 10th brigade repulsed attacks from both Qing forces and on the 30th of November, took the offensive and dispersed the Qing armies.

The exhausted Japanese forces returned to Fenghuangcheng and due to logistical issues were unable to prevent General I from linking up with the other Qing forces at Motieling, bringing the Qing forces to at least 10,000 men. General I took the offensive against Fenghuangcheng but was defeated on the 9th and 14 December by the Japanese, who resupplied following the battle. Simultaneously, the 5th brigade under General Katsura Taro was marching on Takushan in pursuit of General Ma's 6,000 strong army fearing it would march to Lushunkou. Therefore, Katsura closely pursued Ma to Haicheng which he took from its 5,000 defenders on the 13th of December. The fall of Haicheng threw the plan of General Song into disarray as the ability to hold a defensive position on the Liao river became difficult. This was worsened by the Japanese decision to attach the 1st Division to the 1st Army in Manchuria.

General Song decided to attack to re-establish his defensive position. On the 18th of December, 10,000 Qing forces prepared to storm the town of Niuzhuang but were first attacked by the 5th Brigade and forced to withdraw, suffering 500 casualties to 440 Japanese casualties. The counterattack was also thrown into disarray when, on the 10th of January, the 1st Brigade took Kaiping (Gaizhou) from its 5,000 strong Qing garrison, inflicting 1,200 losses to 307 Japanese. Qing reinforcements en route from Yingkou numbering 10,000 came across the retreating men and were thrown into a panic and the offensive was halted. To the relief of General Song, the Japanese temporarily halted offensive actions due to exhaustion and they began to reinforce their current positions.

The Qing government, after the fall of Lushunkou and the entry of Japanese forces into Manchuria, mobilised additional men and changed commanders. The Guangxu Emperor relieved Li Hongzhang of his command, handing it over to a 6-man strong committee of Defence headed by Prince Chun. The Committee prioritised the defence of Zhili and organised a 50,000 man strong army at Shanhaiguan and another army of 55,000 in Beijing. The overall commander of the 105,000 men was Liu Kunyi. There were also 80,000 provincial forces within the theatre of operations. However, limited men were available to Song Qing in Manchuria (35,000, not including the 10,000 forces under General I in Liaoyang).

Chinese Counter offensive 
Nonetheless, Song Qing endeavoured to take the offensive, aiming to retake Haicheng and Kaiping. However, despite an attack with 20,000 men, he was defeated by the 5th Japanese Brigade (there were a total of 30,000 Japanese soldiers in the region) and suffered 300 casualties to Japan's 41. Song, however, was undeterred and launched 2 more offensives. The Chinese offensives lasted from the 17th of January to the 21st of February. General Nozu decided to take advantage of Chinese exhaustion and launched his own counter offensive.

On the 16th of February 15,000 soldiers attacked Haicheng in 3 columns commanded Zhang Xun, I K'o t'ang and Xu, however this assault was repulsed by the Japanese and the Chinese suffered 150 casualties and the Japanese 14, the next day a battalion of the Japanese 3rd division and elements of the 2nd reserve infantry were attacked by 1,000 bandits but these were repulsed. On the 21st the Chinese once again approached Haicheng but beside long range artillery fire no attack was made simultaneously, both sides received reinforcements in the region.