[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 68]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

of bread and a porringer of water-gruel--all which he
defended, very little to his guest's satisfaction, upon the most
unerring principles of medical science.

"After breakfast had been some time finished, Dr Ramozini told his
patient it was time to begin the great work of restoring him to the use
of his limbs. He accordingly had him carried into a little room, where
he desired the gentleman to attempt to stand. 'That is impossible,'
answered the patient, 'for I have not been able to use a leg these three
years.' 'Prop yourself, then, upon your crutches, and lean against the
wall to support yourself,' answered the physician. The gentleman did so,
and the doctor went abruptly out, and locked the door after him. He had
not been long in this situation before he felt the floor of the
chamber, which he had not before perceived to be composed of plates of
iron, grow immoderately hot under his feet. He called the doctor and his
servants, but to no purpose; he then began to utter loud vociferations
and menaces, but all was equally ineffectual; he raved, he swore, he
promised, he entreated, but nobody came to his assistance, and the heat
grew more intense every instant. At length necessity compelled him to
hop upon one leg in order to rest the other, and this he did with
greater agility than he could conceive was possible; presently the other
leg began to burn, and then he hopped again upon the other. Thus he went
on, hopping about with this involuntary exercise, till he had stretched
every sinew and muscle more than he had done for several years before,
and thrown himself into a profuse perspiration.

"When the doctor was satisfied with the exertions of his patient, he
sent into the floor an easy chair for him to rest upon, and suffered the
floor to cool as gradually as it had been heated. Then it was that the
sick man for the first time began to be sensible of the real use and
pleasure of repose; he had earned it by fatigue, without which it can
never prove either salutary or agreeable.

"At dinner the doctor appeared again to his patient, and made him a
thousand apologies for the liberties he had taken with his person. These
excuses he received with a kind of sullen civility. However, his anger
was a little mitigated by the smell of a roasted pullet, which was
brought to table and set before him. He now, from exercise and
abstinence, began to find a relish in his victuals which he had never
done before, and the doctor permitted him to mingle a little wine with
his water. These compliances, however, were so extremely irksome to his
temper, that the month seemed to pass away as slowly as a year. When it
was expired, and his servants came to ask his orders, he instantly threw
himself into his carriage without taking leave either of the doctor or
his family. When he came to reflect upon the treatment he had received,
his forced exercises, his involuntary abstinence, and all the other
mortifications he had undergone, he could not conceive but it must be a
plot of the physician he had left behind, and full of rage and
indignation, drove directly to his house in order to reproach him with
it.

"The physician happened to be at home, but scarcely knew his patient
again, though after so short an absence. He had shrunk to half his
former bulk, his look and colour were mended, and he had entirely thrown
away his crutches. When he had given vent to all that his anger could
suggest, the physician coolly answered in the following manner:--'I know
not, sir, what right you have to make me these reproaches, since it was
not by my persuasion that you put yourself under the care of Doctor
Ramozini.' 'Yes, sir, but you gave me a high character of his skill and
integrity.' 'Has he then deceived you in either, or do you find yourself
worse than when you put yourself under his care?' 'I cannot say that,'
answered the gentleman; 'I am, to be sure, surprisingly improved in my
digestion; I sleep better than ever I did before; I eat with an
appetite; and I can walk almost as well as ever I could in my life.'
'And do you seriously come,' said the physician, 'to complain of a man
that has affected all these miracles for you in so short a time, and,
unless you are now wanting to yourself, has given you a degree of life
and health which you had not the smallest reason to expect.'

"The gentleman who had not sufficiently considered all these advantages,
began to look a little confused, and the physician thus went on:--'All
that you have to complain of is, that you have been involuntarily your
own dupe, and cheated into health and happiness. You went to Dr
Ramozini, and saw a parcel of miserable wretches comfortably at dinner.
That great and worthy man is the father of all about him; he knows that
most of the diseases of the poor, originate in their want of food and
necessaries, and therefore benevolently assists them with better diet
and clothing. The rich, on the contr