[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Military conquests of Umar's era

n the days leading up to the end of the siege, Ubadah was sent to give a delegation to Muqawqis to negotiate for the last time. It is said that Muqawqis became afraid of Ubadah when he saw the Rashidun commander's majestic appearance, prompting Ubadah to taunt Muqawqis reaction in written chronicle:

Ubadah gave him three options: accept Islam, pay Jizyah, or fight it out in accordance with al-Aas' instruction, as Muqawqis later refused the two first options and choose to continue fighting Following the failed negotiation, the Byzantine forces decided to fight, and on the same day the fortress fell to the Muslims led commander Zubayr ibn al-Awwam who climbed the fortress wall personally, leading a small units and opened the gate from inside. As Zubayr prepared to storm the castle with his small units, he chose some of warriors including Muhammad ibn Maslamah to form a small team who would accompany Zubayr in his daring act of personally climbing the wall of Babylon Fortress and forcing their way towards the gate and open it for Muslim army. Islamic medieval chronicler, Qatada ibn Di'ama, reported Zubayr reported as personally leading his soldiers climbed the wall of the fortress through the side where a market called al-Hammam located, then instructed his troops to shout Takbeer the moment he reached the top of the wall. Zubayr was recorded to immediately descending the wall and opened the gates with his hand, which caused the entire Muslim army enter, prompting the terrified Muqawqis to surrender while in Tabari version, It is the Byzantine garrisons who opened the gate, as they immediately surrender after witnessed az-Zubayr managed to climb the fortress wall. After the fortress has been taken, al-Aas consulted with Maslama ibn Mukhallad al-Ansari. Maslama suggested to Amr to give a field command to Ubadah to attack Alexandria. Ubadah rode to Amr, who gave him his spear of command.

Later, Ubadah gave a speech before marched towards Alexandria. Then as they arrived outside the city, Ubadah led a detachment to besiege Alexandria on the same day and reused his strategy of using trenches strategy to conquer Latakia in Syria, where he gave a signal to the entire army including those who hid in the trenches to launch an assault, where his strategy successfully breached and routed the Alexandrian garrison forces on the very first charge. Thousands of Byzantine soldiers were killed or taken captive, and others managed to flee to Constantinople on ships that had been anchored in the port. Some wealthy traders also left. Ibn Abd al-Hakam noted through his long narrations, that az-Zubayr skipped the siege of Alexandria, as the siege were done by 'Ubadah ibn al-Samit.

Meanwhile, Miqdad ibn al-Aswad campaign pacified several areas in al-Gharbia region, started from Kafr Tanah (area in modern-day Dakahlia Governorate), and Tennis. Then Miqdad continued his march leading forty horsemens which included Dhiraar ibn al-Azwar. Then as they reached Damietta, Miqdad found the city was fortified by a man named al-Hammuk, an uncle of Al-Muqawqis. Al-Hammuk fortified the city and closed the gates, as Miqdad besieged the city. As Damietta subdued, Miqdad were appointed to govern the city. The siege continued until the defender of Damietta, Shata, the son of Hammuk, agreed to surrender and converted to Islam. As Shata has now converted to Islam, Miqdad now appointed him to lead the army to conquer the province of Sah, the fortresses in Ashmoun, Lake Burullus, and Dumayra. However, Shata later fallen in battle during the capture of Tina castle.

 Conquest of northern Sudan 

Later, the caliphate army on Egypt moved south to face the Exarchate of Africa army which reinforced Sudanese Christian auxiliaries of Beja. Before the battle, the Rashidun army camped in a place which called Dashur. Benjamin Hendrickx reported that the African Christians has mustered around 20,000 Sudanese symmachoi corps, 1,300 elephants mounted archers, and anti cavalry units named al-Quwwad which armed with iron sticks,which led by a Patrician named Batlus. Meanwhile, al-Maqqari even stated 50,000 Christian army of Byzantine Sudanese Christian alliance in the "Battle of Darishkur". Al-Maqrizi stated in this conflict that Miqdad ibn Aswad, Zubayr ibn al-Awwam, Dhiraar ibn al-Azwar and Uqba ibn Amir each commanding Muslims cavalry facing the Elephant corps led by Byzantine exarchate commander named Batlus. The Rashidun cavalry armed with spears ignited in flames that tip soaked in Santonin plants and Sulphur which caused the elephants flee in terror, scared with the flaming spears. while the elephant riders were toppled from the elephant's back and crushed underfoot on the ground. Meanwhile, the al-Quwwad warriors who used iron staffs were routed by the Rashidun cavalry soldiers who used a seized chain weapons to disarm the staff weapons of the al-Quwwad corps of Byzantine.