[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort Phantom Hill

rrison had to rely on food shipments from Austin,  away, that were occasionally seized by indigenous peoples, and the garrison could not abate the water shortage even by digging an  well. Pestilences such as tuberculosis and rheumatism and the poor supply of food and water also plagued the garrison.

Fort Phantom Hill and the other outposts of the US Army in Texas were unfortified cantonments, where troops could recuperate after being on campaign. Before being razed, the fort buildings consisted of jacales with the exception of the officers' quarters, built of timber, and the magazine, guardhouse, and commissary, built of stone. Each building had a stone chimney. Stone was sourced from a quarry at the Elm Fork on the Brazos River while blackjack oak was transported from up to  away. The structures of the fort were arranged around a parade ground. Officers' quarters lined the north and east sides, opposite the enlisted men's barracks, while administrative structures stood on the west side. Additional buildings, such as the magazine and bakery, were located away from the parade ground and its surrounding structures.

On April 27, 1852, Abercrombie was replaced as commander of Fort Phantom Hill by Lieutenant Colonel Carlos Waite. Waite was replaced by Major Henry Hopkins Sibley on September 23, 1853, who oversaw the withdrawal from the post of four of its five companies and their replacement by a company of the 2nd Dragoons. In August 1853, the fort was inspected by Colonel William G. Freeman, who found it and its garrison in poor condition. The fort was ordered abandoned on April 6, 1854, along with Forts Mason and Terrett. Shortly after the garrison's departure, the fort was burned, probably by the departing soldiers.

Subsequent use, 1854–1871
Following Fort Phantom Hill's abandonment, it was still frequently visited by travelers and US Army troops. Among the latter was Robert E. Lee, who as a lieutenant colonel of the 2nd Dragoons passed by the fort on June 16, 1856, while in pursuit of the Comanche leader Sanaco. In February 1861, Texas seceded from the United States and joined the Confederate States of America. Major General David E. Twiggs, commander of the Department of Texas since 1857, surrendered its equipment and installations in Texas to the Confederacy and abandoned the state as the American Civil War began.

On March 4, 1861, LeRoy Pope Walker, the Confederate Secretary of War, ordered career soldier Benjamin McCulloch to raise a volunteer force of ten companies to defend Texas's frontier. McCulloch passed the task to his brother, Colonel Henry Eustace McCulloch, who distributed his forces across the former US Army installations in Texas. One of McCulloch's officers, Major James Buckner Barry, stationed a portion of his command at Fort Phantom Hill. After a campaign against the Comanche in 1861 quieted the frontier, McCulloch's troops were sent to fight in the Trans-Mississippi theater as part of the 1st Texas Cavalry Regiment. They were replaced with the Frontier Regiment, who also encamped at Fort Phantom Hill and were also increasingly pulled away from the frontier as the war continued.

Use as satellite post, 1871–1875
Confederate forces began to surrender to the federal government in 1865, heralding the end of the Civil War. In June, the remaining Confederate forces in Texas formally surrendered to the US Army, who reoccupied the state. After initially ignoring Texans' concerns about indigenous raiding in favor of reoccupying prewar installations along the border with Mexico, the US Army returned to the frontier and began expanding its presence there in 1866–67. From 1869 until the end of the Red River War in 1875, Fort Phantom Hill's ruins were occupied several times by US Army troops as a subpost of Fort Griffin, established in 1867 along the Clear Fork of the Brazos.

Civilian use
White settlement in what became Jones County, Texas, began in November 1851 with Fort Phantom Hill and an Indian agent named Jesse Stem, who operated a farmstead near the fort until he was killed by Tonkawa natives in February 1854. As the fort neared completion, more settlers established themselves in the area but not in sufficient numbers to justify its retention by the US Army in 1854. In 1858, three of the fort's stone buildings were repaired and used for a station of the Butterfield Overland Mail along its route through Texas until it moved out of the state with the beginning of the Civil War in 1861. Jones County was established on February 1, 1858, and during the Civil War it suffered from raids by indigenous peoples that halted white settlement in the county for 15 years.