[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Virginia Clay-Clopton

ion of their social life.

American Civil War
With growing tensions over sectional differences, Alabama seceded from the Union, and the Clays returned to the state. Clement Claiborne Clay represented his state in the Confederate legislature, and the couple moved to the capital of Richmond, Virginia.

Postwar years
Clement Clay and his wife Virginia were among Southerners imprisoned at Fort Monroe after the war; they were suspected of being involved in the assassination plot against President Abraham Lincoln. Also held at that prison was Jefferson Davis, their friend and former president of the Confederacy. They became even closer friends during this time. Varina Howell Davis used to visit her husband, bringing their youngest daughter. The Clays were released in 1866, but Davis was not released until 1867. The families had some continued contact after the Clays returned to Huntsville, Alabama.

About this time, Jefferson Davis is believed to have fallen in love with Virginia Clay, carrying on a passionate correspondence with her for three years. In 1871, he was reported by newspapers across the country as having been seen on a train with an unidentified woman, and the incident gained him unwanted attention.

Virginia Clay's husband Clement died in 1882. In 1887, she married Judge David Clopton, and became known as Mrs. Clay-Clopton. He died in 1892.

During these years, Virginia Clay-Clopton became active in the women's suffrage movement and the United Daughters of the Confederacy, founded in 1894. Beginning with women's groups arranging for burial and commemoration of the Confederate dead, the chapters grew rapidly into the 20th century, when membership reached into the hundreds of thousands. UDC activities and intervention into textbook content strongly shaped memory and public opinion about the Civil War.

In 1904, Clay-Clopton published a memoir titled A Belle in the Fifties, covering her life from girlhood through her confinement at Fort Monroe. It was one of three memoirs recommended by the UDC to its membership for serious study, together with those of Sara Agnes Rice Pryor and Louise Wigfall Wright.

In the postwar years, some of the early books by Southern women had been histories or biographies of historical figures, such as that by Varina Davis of her husband. The UDC encouraged women to write their own stories. Such memoirs became part of the public discourse about the war, so that women's roles and sacrifices were acknowledged. Their accounts of antebellum society became part of an idealized past. At the turn of the century, a dozen memoirs by Southern women were published.

Clay-Clopton is buried in Maple Hill Cemetery in Huntsville, Alabama, near her first husband.

References

Further reading

 Virginia Clay, Southern Belle And Wife Of Confederate Senator Clement Clay
Virginia Clay-Copton, A Belle of the Fifties: Memoirs of Mrs. Clay, of Alabama, Covering Social and Political Life in Washington and the South, 1853-66, New York: Doubleday, Page & Company, 1905, c1904, full online text available at Documenting the American South, University of North Carolina
Nueremberger, Ruth Ketring. The Clays of Alabama: A Planter-Lawyer-Politician Family, Lexington: University of Kentucky Press, 1958 
 Wiley, Bell Irvin. Confederate Women. New York: Greenwood Press, 1975.

1825 births
1915 deaths
American political hostesses
People from Nash County, North Carolina
Members of the United Daughters of the Confederacy
Women in the American Civil War
American prisoners and detainees
American memoirists
American socialites
American suffragists
Activists from North Carolina
Clay family
American women memoirists