[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of Axis personnel indicted for war crimes

The following is a list of people who were formally indicted for committing war crimes on behalf of the Axis powers during World War II, including those who were acquitted or never received judgment. It does not include people who may have committed war crimes but were never formally indicted, or who were indicted only for other types of crimes.

The Nuremberg trials

 Martin Bormann – Guilty, sentenced in absentia to death by hanging. Later proven he committed suicide to avoid capture at the end of World War II in Europe, and remains discovered in 1972 were conclusively proven to be Bormann by forensic tests on the skull in 1998. Nonetheless, Simon Wiesenthal, Hugh Thomas and Reinhard Gehlen refused to accept this. Gehlen further argued Bormann was the secret Russian double agent 'Sasha'.
 Karl Dönitz – Guilty, sentenced to 10 years' imprisonment.
 Hans Frank – Guilty, sentenced to death by hanging
 Wilhelm Frick – Guilty, sentenced to death by hanging
 Hans Fritzsche – Acquitted. Tried, convicted and sentenced to nine years' imprisonment by a separate West German denazification court. Released September 1950.
 Walther Funk – Guilty, sentenced to life imprisonment, released in 1957 due to poor health.
 Hermann Göring – Guilty, sentenced to death by hanging but committed suicide by ingesting cyanide two hours before the sentence was to be carried out.
 Rudolf Hess – Guilty, sentenced to life imprisonment, committed suicide in prison in 1987.
 Alfred Jodl – Guilty, sentenced to death by hanging. Henri Donnedieu de Vabres called the verdict a mistake in 1947. In 1953, the denazification courts reversed the decision and found Jodl not guilty. Within months, the decision of the denazification court was itself overturned. His property, confiscated in 1946, was returned to his widow.
 Ernst Kaltenbrunner – Guilty, sentenced to death by hanging.
 Wilhelm Keitel – Guilty, sentenced to death by hanging.
 Gustav Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach – Medically unfit for trial.
 Robert Ley – Committed suicide before his trial began.
 Konstantin von Neurath – Guilty, sentenced to 15 years' imprisonment (released 1954 on grounds of ill health).
 Franz von Papen – Acquitted. Tried, convicted and sentenced to eight years' imprisonment by a separate West German denazification court. Released on appeal in 1949.
 Erich Raeder – Guilty, sentenced to life imprisonment (released 1955 on grounds of ill health).
 Joachim von Ribbentrop – Guilty, sentenced to death by hanging.
 Alfred Rosenberg – Guilty, sentenced to death by hanging.
 Fritz Sauckel – Guilty, sentenced to death by hanging.
 Hjalmar Schacht – Acquitted
 Baldur von Schirach – Guilty, sentenced to 20 years' imprisonment.
 Arthur Seyss-Inquart – Guilty, sentenced to death by hanging.
 Albert Speer – Guilty, sentenced to 20 years' imprisonment.
 Julius Streicher – Guilty, sentenced to death by hanging.

Subsequent Nuremberg trials

The Doctors' Trial

 Hermann Becker-Freyseng – Guilty, sentenced to 20 years' imprisonment, commuted to 10 years
 Wilhelm Beiglböck – Guilty, sentenced to 15 years' imprisonment, commuted to 10 years
 Kurt Blome – Acquitted
 Viktor Brack – Guilty, sentenced to death
 Karl Brandt – Guilty, sentenced to death
 Rudolf Brandt – Guilty, sentenced to death
 Fritz Fischer – Guilty, sentenced to life imprisonment, commuted to 15 years
 Karl Gebhardt – Guilty, sentenced to death
 Karl Genzken – Guilty, sentenced to life imprisonment, commuted to 20 years
 Siegfried Handloser – Guilty, sentenced to life imprisonment, commuted to 20 years
 Waldemar Hoven – Guilty, sentenced to death
 Joachim Mrugowsky – Guilty, sentenced to death
 Herta Oberheuser – Guilty, sentenced to 20 years' imprisonment, commuted to 10 years
 Adolf Pokorny – Acquitted
 Helmut Poppendick – Guilty, sentenced to 15 years' imprisonment (commuted to time served in 1951)
  – Acquitted
 Gerhard Rose – Guilty, sentenced to life imprisonment, commuted to 20 years
 Paul Rostock – Acquitted
 Siegfried Ruff – Acquitted
 Konrad Schäfer – Acquitted
 Oskar Schröder – Guilty, sentenced to life imprisonment, commuted to 15 years
 Wolfram Sievers – Guilty, sentenced to death
 Georg August Weltz – Acquitted

The Milch Trial

 Erhard Milch – Guilty, sentenced to life imprisonment, commuted to 15 years (released in 1954)

The Judges' Trial