[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kate Chase

tal remains of the daughter of Salmon P. Chase were laid to rest forever beside the dust of her illustrious father.

And yet, The Enquirer recognized her legacy: "No Queen has ever reigned under the Stars and Stripes, but this remarkable woman came closer to being Queen than any American woman has."

Fictional portrayals
Kate Chase's presence in Washington, D.C. would be fictionally recreated in the 1990s TV series The Secret Diary of Desmond Pfeiffer. She is prominent in both Gore Vidal's historical novel Lincoln and William Safire's Freedom and is portrayed by Deborah Adair in the 1988 made-for-TV movie of Vidal's book.  Chase has also been featured in other Civil War-related novels, such as Stephen L. Carter's The Impeachment of Abraham Lincoln. She was the principal character in the 1967 two-act play "Kate Chase" by Jack LaZebnik.

References

Further reading 
The Belle of Washington, by Eleanor Harper Shumaker
Kate Chase and William Sprague: Politics and Gender in a Civil War Marriage, by Peg A. Lamphier
Kate Chase for the Defense, by Alice Sokoloff
Kate Chase, Dominant Daughter: The Life Story of a Brilliant Woman and her Famous Father, by Mary Merwin Phelps
Proud Kate, Portrait of an Ambitious Woman, by Ishabel Ross
So Fell the Angels, The Story of Chase, Lincoln's ambitious Chief Justice, his bold designing daughter, and the husband who could finance her plans, by Thomas Graham Belden and Marva Robins Belden
 Lee's Lost Dispatch and Other Civil War Controversies, by Philip Leigh (Yardley, Penna.: Westholme Publishing, 2015), 214
Lincoln, by Gore Vidal - The author uses Kate Chase as a major character in his novel
Freedom by William Safire - Kate Chase appears in several chapters of this  novel
Two Moons, a novel by Thomas Mallon, includes a fictional account of the Kate Chase/Roscoe Conkling extramarital affair
Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln by Doris Kearns Goodwin, who provides comprehensive biographical information about Kate Chase
Mrs. Lincoln's Rival by Jennifer Chiaverini 
American Queen: The Rise and Fall of Kate Chase Sprague: Civil War "Belle of the North" and Gilded Age Woman of Scandal, by John Oller

External links 
 Kate Chase, Washington Hostess During The Civil War
 

1840 births
1899 deaths
American socialites
First ladies and gentlemen of Rhode Island
Women in the American Civil War
People of Washington, D.C., in the American Civil War
People from Cincinnati
Deaths from kidney disease
Burials at Spring Grove Cemetery