[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vital-Justin Grandin

time of their marriage or the age of 21 years.” For that cause, he made the trip to the nation's capital city, Ottawa, to lobby the government and upper echelons of the Catholic bureaucracy directly. His efforts were later described by commentators in 2021 as an implementation of cultural genocide.

Grandin was never completely healthy; he had been a sickly child and also had a speech impediment, and his health deteriorated during his later years. He also presided over the development and expansion of the Diocese of St. Albert, including the founding of new missions and churches throughout Alberta and the construction of hospitals and schools, which, unusually for the time, were administered by members of female religious orders and lay clergy. Grandin's efforts to increase francophone settlement in Alberta were less successful, but many francophone communities founded at the behest of Grandin (such as Beaumont, Lacombe, and Morinville) still exist in central and northern Alberta.

Death and legacy
Grandin died in office on 3 June 1902. He was succeeded by Bishop Émile-Joseph Legal in the Diocese of St. Albert.

Grandin's spiritual writings were approved by theologians on 20 November 1935, and the cause for his beatification was formally opened on 24 February 1937, granting him the title of Servant of God. He was declared venerable by the Roman Catholic Church in 1966.

Many institutions were named for Grandin during the 20th century, including Edmonton-area businesses, schools, and city infrastructure. That included public murals painted in homage of him, as late as 1989, which were one of the first items related to Grandin to come under scrutiny in 2011, when an Indigenous working group in Edmonton found the mural glorified residential schooling "and of all the horrors of the cultural genocide that entailed." In June 2021, after the discovery of possible unmarked graves of Indigenous children on the grounds of a former residential school site in Kamloops, British Columbia, Edmonton and St. Albert city officials, as well as private businesses, began removing his name in reaction to a strengthening public condemnation of his role in creating the Indigenous residential school system. Similar pushes to remove his name also occurred in other cities, including the Canadian cities of Winnipeg and Calgary, as well as smaller communities like South Indian Lake, Manitoba.

Buildings and businesses from which Grandin name has been removed
June 9, 2021: The city of Edmonton votes to rename the Grandin LRT station and remove a mural of Grandin displayed in the station.
June 15, 2021: Grandin Fish ‘n’ Chips restaurant renames to Prairie Fish ‘n’ Chips
June 28, 2021: Edmonton Catholic Schools votes to rename Grandin School and remove a mural depicting Bishop Grandin on an exterior wall of the school
June 28, 2021: Calgary Catholic School District votes to rename Bishop Grandin High School to Haysboro Catholic High School
 June 28, 2021: In a Special Public Meeting, Greater St. Albert Catholic Schools' unanimously approved a motion to change the name of Vital Grandin Catholic Elementary School by Sept. 30, 2021. Signage was removed from the  school building immediately following the decision.
 Oct 27, 2022: Calgary Catholic School District confirms final name change of Bishop Grandin High School to Our Lady of the Rockies High School.
 March 13th, 2023: Winnipeg announced it would review name changes for streets within its city limits, with Bishop Grandin Boulevard becoming Abinojii Mikanah, Bishop Grandin Trail becoming Awasisak Mēskanow, and Grandin Street becoming Taapweewin Way.

See also
 Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Edmonton
 Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada

Notes

External links
 Biography at the Dictionary of Canadian Biography Online
 Catholic Missions of Canada
 Biography from the Manitoba Historical Society
 Biography from the Alberta Online Encyclopedia
 Portrait Photo

French Roman Catholic missionaries
Roman Catholic missionaries in Canada
19th-century Roman Catholic bishops in Canada
20th-century Roman Catholic bishops in Canada
1829 births
1902 deaths
Missionary Oblates of Mary Immaculate