[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# History of Bridgeport, Connecticut

ce, 73 percent were foreign born. The immigrant neighborhoods were located mostly south of the railroad line, near the factories and to the shore and included Eastern and Southern Europeans, Scandinavians and Irish. At this point, African Americans constituted 1.6 percent of Bridgeport's population.

A growing city needed more housing and developers provided it, such as the Irish working-class neighborhood of Sterling Hill, the 1880s rental units now preserved as the Bassickville Historic District and the World War I emergency housing for workers that now constitutes the Black Rock Gardens Historic District. The new immigrants wanted their own houses of worship, too, such as the Polish community's St. Michael's built in the East Side in 1907 and the Hungarian Jewish communities Achavath Achim Synagogue built in the West End in 1926.

By the early 1900s, the city was home to a sizable Hungarian American community. Many Hungarian Americans in Bridgeport, including women, worked in industrial jobs such as metalworking. A Hungarian American-run newspaper named Előre, ("Forward") existed during this time.

Late 20th century and deindustrialization
Like other urban centers in Connecticut, Bridgeport fared less well during the deindustrialization of the United States in the 1970s and 1980s. Suburban flight as well as overall mismanagement, for which several city officials were convicted, contributed to the decline.

The construction of Interstate 95 in the 1950s demolished many homes throughout Bridgeport, including a largely Hungarian neighborhood in the city's West End.

From the mid-1960s through the early 1990s, Bridgeport was one of the most dangerous cities in Connecticut. As with many urban New England cities, such as New Haven and Hartford, the city had a high crime and murder rate. In following years, Bridgeport soon became ravaged by urban blight. A large white flight occurred in the city, as it started to become a much more dangerous place to work and live. Soon, the population of the city declined as many companies began laying off their employees, thus dropping city employment rate. The total population dropped from 158,709 in 1950 to 141,686 in 1990.

Bridgeport suffered from acute economic inequality during the late 20th century. Much of Bridgeport's violent crime during the late 20th century were concentrated in a handful of public housing complexes, which were described by The New York Times as overcrowded, dilapidated, and "virtual incubators for crime". Conversely, the city's downtown remained highly desirable, and home to numerous corporate offices. Public housing projects seriously affected by crime during this period included Beardsley Terrace/Trumbull Gardens Apartments in the city's North End, P.T. Barnum Apartments on the West Side, Pequonnock Apartments and Marina Village in the South End, the Green Apartments in the Hollow, and Father Panik Village. Father Panik Village opened in 1939 as the first public housing project in New England, and the sixth largest public housing project in the county, located in the Lower East Side. However, by the late 1970s, the complex faced serious neglect, and the city failed to provide it with public services such as police patrols and garbage collection. A high amount of violent crime transpired in the complex in subsequent years. In 1982, Bridgeport Housing Authority's projects were deemed deplorable by federal officials and eventually placed the Housing Authority on the country's "troubled list". By 1986, the city began vacating and demolishing the complex. The final buildings were demolished in late 1993.

The city also experienced problems with arson during this time, leading to whole neighborhoods burning down, at the same time as cuts and company closures occurred to the Bridgeport Fire Department. Various prominent manufacturing companies relocated out of Bridgeport during this time.

Martin Luther King Jr., who spoke three times at the Klein Auditorium in 1961, 1964 and 1966 and at Central High School in 1962.

In 1987, the L'Ambiance Plaza, a residential project which was under construction at the time, collapsed, killing 28 construction workers. It was the worst disaster the city had faced at that point and one of the worst in Connecticut. Emergency crews from around New England responded to assist Bridgeport's Fire and Police Departments in the rescue and recovery effort.

In 1991, the city filed for bankruptcy protection but was declared solvent by a federal court.

21st century
While Bridgeport has seen population growth in the 21st century, problems of violent crime, poverty, and corruption have persisted.