[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Papal election of Giuseppe Siri theory

outside the conclave, a different cardinal was elected, Giovanni Montini, who took the name Paul VI. During this conclave, it was alleged that the threats of terrible retribution if Siri were elected were passed into the conclave by the B'nai B'rith, working on behalf of a Judeo-Masonic conspiracy.

The assertion that Siri's 1963 election had been set aside after the intervention of the B'nai B'rith was contained in an article written in 1986 by Louis Hubert Remy in a French publication, , and translated into English in 1987 for Dan Jones's newsletter, The Sangre de Cristo Newsnotes. That article made no mention of the 1958 conclave. Malachi Martin, in his apocalyptic 1990 book The Keys of This Blood, said that in the 1963 conclave Siri received sufficient votes for election, but refused it. The reason, according to Martin, was that he believed that "only thus could foreseen possibilities of grave danger be avoided—but whether harm to the Church, his family, or to him personally, is not clear." Siri's refusal, he says, followed a conversation on the subject of Siri's candidacy between a member of the conclave and somebody outside it, who was "an emissary of an internationally based organisation". In a 1997 interview on the radio programme Steel on Steel, hosted by John Loefller, Martin claimed that Siri had also obtained a majority of votes in the first 1978 conclave, but that he had received a written note after his election threatening him and his family with death should he accept. Followers of the theory recognize him as "Gregory XVII", and also refer to him as "the Red Pope".

Paul L. Williams, in a 2003 book entitled The Vatican Exposed, claimed that US State Department documents confirmed that Siri had been elected pope in 1958 as Gregory XVII. According to Williams, however, the election was quashed not by a Judeo-Masonic conspiracy, but by fear of the Soviet Union. Roncalli, he claims, was known as the "pink priest" because of his ties with both the French and Italian Communist parties, while Siri was "rabidly anti-Communist". Siri received the requisite number of votes on the third ballot, and was elected as Gregory XVII, but "the French cardinals annulled the results, claiming that the election would cause widespread riots and the assassination of several prominent bishops behind the Iron Curtain." It was then decided to elect Cardinal Federico Tedeschini, but as he was too ill, Roncalli was elected instead. Williams cited "Department of State secret dispatch, 'John XXIII,' issue date: November 20, 1958, declassified: November 11, 1974" and "Department of State secret file, 'Cardinal Siri,' issue date: April 10, 1961, declassified: February 28, 1994" in support of his claims. In subsequent editions, however, the references were changed to simply "F.B.I. source".

Significance
Traditionalist Catholics oppose the liturgical changes and "modernist" theological positions resulting from the Second Vatican Council (1962–1965), which many of them see as a "heretical" council. Sedevacantists are a minority group within traditionalist Catholicism, who maintain that none of the popes from John XXIII (who called the council) onward were true popes, and that therefore the papal seat is vacant (). The idea that John XXIII and Paul VI were not true popes, but antipopes, is neatly explained by the Siri theory: if Siri was elected in 1958, then the election of John, and therefore of all his successors, was invalid. The Catholic magazine Inside the Vatican has referred to adherents of the Siri theory as "sede impeditists", meaning that they believe there was a true pope, but that he was "impeded" by outside forces from taking his office. The magazine estimated that the theory was believed "by hundreds, perhaps thousands of people around the world".

Siri's later career
Siri is not recorded as ever having made reference to the theory, nor was there any mention of it in his New York Times obituary, in the biography written by Raimondo Spiazzi, or in a speech given by Giulio Andreotti on the centenary of Siri's birth in 2006. He was appointed president of the Italian Episcopal Conference by John XXIII in 1959, and remained in the post under Paul VI until 1964. He sat on the Board of Presidency of the Second Vatican Council from 1963 until its close in 1965. He was a candidate for pope in the 1978 conclave that followed the death of Paul VI, where he is thought to have led in the early ballots before being overtaken by Albino Luciani (John Paul I), and again two months later in the October 1978 conclave, where he is also thought to have come within a few votes of election. He was Archbishop of Genoa from 1946 to 1987, and at the time of his retirement he was "the last remaining active cardinal named by Pope Pius XII".

References

Conspiracy theories involving religion
Sedevacantism
Traditionalist Catholicism