[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rob Thomson

ys by a score of 6-3  

He served as the team's third base coach for six seasons and was a member of the coaching staff for the Yankees' 2009 World Series championship. Prior to the 2015 season, Thomson was named bench coach, which was a role he held until 2017.

Philadelphia Phillies (2018–present)

Thomson held the position of Philadelphia Phillies bench coach from 2018 to 2022. He initially got the assignment under first year manager Gabe Kapler. A report by Jon Heyman claimed that after a series of managing mistakes by Kapler, Thomson had taken over in-game decisions. Kapler was fired after two seasons, but Thomson remained the Phillies’ bench coach under new manager Joe Girardi, who had worked with Thomson while with the Yankees. Prior to the 2022 season, Thomson had stated to the team that it would be his last as a bench coach, intending to retire after the completion of the season.

On June 3, 2022, the Phillies fired manager Joe Girardi after a disappointing 22–29 start to the season. The same day, Thomson was named the Phillies’ interim manager. Thomson became the first Canadian full-time manager since George Gibson managed the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1934. The Phillies won their first game under Thomson, blanking the Los Angeles Angels 10–0.

On July 13, 2022, Thomson managed a game against the Toronto Blue Jays, at the Rogers Centre, to become the first Canadian to manage a major league game in Canada.

The Phillies secured a 3–0 win over the Houston Astros to clinch their first playoff berth since 2011 on October 3, 2022. After the game, Thomson said in the locker room "We’re not done. After Wednesday, we have 13 more wins and [then] we’re world champions." With the Phillies making the playoffs, Thomson became just the fourth interim manager in MLB history to take over a team at least 7 games under .500 and lead them to the postseason. In the Wild Card Series, against the St. Louis Cardinals, the Phillies swept the Cardinals 2-0 for their first playoff series win since 2010. In the National League Division Series, the Phillies faced off against the defending World Series champion Atlanta Braves. The Phillies defeated the Braves, 3-1, and reached the National League Championship Series for the first time since 2010.

On October 10, 2022, the Phillies removed the interim tag from Thomson's title and formally named him the 55th manager in franchise history, with a two-year contract.
He then led the team to win the 2022 National League Pennant. After clinching a trip to the 2022 World Series, Thomson reiterated that there was more work to be done telling his team that they had "beaten three really good teams, and there was one to go." The Phillies lost to the Houston Astros in six games. The Astros, who were down two games to one, won three games in a row to the secure the World Series. In Game 6, Thomson received scrutiny from some in the media for his decision to take out starter Zach Wheeler after 70 pitches. Wheeler was replaced by José Alvarado, who gave up a home run to Yordan Alvarez, which gave the Astros the go-ahead lead in the sixth inning.

Managerial record

Personal life
Thomson lives in Stratford, Ontario, a 1 hour 45-minute drive from Toronto, with his wife, Michele. In the past, Thomson lived in Tampa Bay, Florida, and Manhattan, New York. He has two daughters.

References

External links

Rob Thomson Philadelphia Phillies bio

1963 births
Living people
Baseball people from Ontario
Baseball players at the 1984 Summer Olympics
Bristol Tigers players
Canadian baseball coaches
Canadian expatriate baseball players in the United States
Gastonia Jets players
Gastonia Tigers players
Kansas Jayhawks baseball players
Lakeland Tigers players
Major League Baseball bench coaches
Major League Baseball third base coaches
New York Yankees coaches
New York Yankees executives
Olympic baseball players for Canada
Philadelphia Phillies coaches
Sportspeople from Sarnia
Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame inductees
Philadelphia Phillies managers
Minor league baseball managers