[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 10th Infantry Regiment (United States)

The 10th Infantry Regiment is a regiment in the United States Army first formed in 1855. Formerly a standard line regiment that served the United States in the American Civil War and again in World War II and into the Cold War, the 10th Infantry Regiment is now a garrison regiment housing training cadre and trainees undergoing Basic Combat Training with the United States Army.

History
Since its inception, the 10th Infantry Regiment has been famous for its mobility and lethality both of which it displayed in conflicts ranging from the Civil War to WWII. The Regiment's rich battle history and success in war directly correlates with its historically high-quality leadership which all started with the inspirational first commander of the regiment, COL Edmund Brooke Alexander.

The regiment was first commissioned as the 10th Infantry on 3 March 1855 and was officially organized in April 1855 at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania. The regiment was first commanded by Colonel Edmund B. Alexander, serving from 1855 to 1869. During his tenure, COL Alexander guided the Regiment through the Indian Wars and Civil War. He is also the man responsible for coining the regimental motto- Courage and Fidelity, which is an excerpt from his famous "Order of the Day" speech, given upon presentation of the colors to the Regiment and prior to deployment to Fort Snelling, Minnesota, the first duty station of the 10th Infantry Regiment. The Regiment's rich battle history and success in war directly correlates with its historically high-quality leadership, which all started with the inspirational first Commander of the Regiment, Colonel Alexander. 25 September 1855, Colonel Alexander, commanding the six-month-old 10th Infantry Regiment, read his order of the day to the cocky, confident group of men assembled on the parade grounds of Carlisle Barracks. He began:

The first Command Sergeant Major of the regiment was Command Sergeant Major Charles C. Monton. At some point the Regiment was transferred to Fort Snelling in the Minnesota Territory for garrison duty. From there it was sent West to Utah in 1857 for the Utah War by President James Buchanan.  Post Civil War the Regiment was reassigned to the Department of the Northwest in June 1865 taking command of its posts; Fort Snelling, Fort Ridgely, Fort Ripley, Fort Abercrombie, Fort Rice, and Fort Wadsworth.  In 1869 the regiment was consolidated with elements of the 26th Infantry Regiment after having served in the Civil War. It was assigned to the 14th Division on 5 July 1918 and stayed there until it was relieved from assignment in 1919.

The regiment was inactively stationed at Camp Sherman, Ohio from December 1921 until June 1922 when it was reassigned to Fort Knox again on active duty. In 1923 it was assigned to the 5th Infantry Division and stayed there through World War II.

After World War II, the regiment was stationed in Kentucky on inactive duty. In 1947 it was moved to South Carolina until 1951, when it was then stationed at Indiantown Gap Military Reservation, Pennsylvania. Due to Cold War escalations, it was sent to West Germany in 1953 on active duty. Four years later it was relieved from assignment and reorganized as a parent regiment under the Combat Arms Regimental System. In 1989 it was again reorganized, this time under the United States Army Regimental System, and transferred to the United States Army Training and Doctrine Command.

The regiment was divided into three separate battalions. For the most part, they served in the same theaters. However, there are some slight differences in the active service of these battalions.

Regimental colors 
The regimental colors of the 10th Infantry Regiment are sewn on a blue background representing infantry. The American Bald Eagle holds an olive branch for peace and arrows for war. There are thirteen leaves and thirteen arrows representing the original thirteen colonies. The eagle faces the olive branch as a sign that all Soldiers seek peace. The Regimental Motto and Crest are also present.