[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1869 in the United Kingdom

Events from the year 1869 in the United Kingdom.

Incumbents
 Monarch – Victoria
 Prime Minister – William Ewart Gladstone (Liberal)
 Parliament – 20th

Events
 7 January – Amateur Swimming Association formed in London.
 30 January – the new magazine Vanity Fair publishes the first of a long series of colour lithographic caricatures of public figures, initially by Carlo Pellegrini, portraying Benjamin Disraeli.
 February – Charity Organization Society established in London as the Society for Organising Charitable Relief and Repressing Mendicity.
 February–April – the Conservative local authority in Liverpool opens the first council housing in Europe, St Martin's Cottages (tenement flats).
 6 March – the first international cycle race is held at Crystal Palace, London.
 31 March – the Conservative Party holds both seats in the Blackburn by-election.
 21 April – at least fifteen people are killed by collapse of machinery at Delabole Quarry in Cornwall.
 15 May – General Examination for Women of the University of London first held, sat by the "London Nine".
 22 May – Sainsbury's first store opened, in Drury Lane, London.
 2 June – seven men are tried at Mold for attacking a colliery manager following a pay cut. A riot breaks out as those convicted are being transported to the railway station; soldiers fire on the crowd, killing four people.
 10 June – an underground explosion at Ferndale Colliery in the Rhondda kills 53.
 24 June – Sea Birds Preservation Act passed, preventing killing of designated species during the breeding season, the first Act to offer any protection to wild birds in the UK.
 26 July – Irish Church Act disestablishes the Church of Ireland with effect from 1871.
 2 August – Municipal Corporation (Election) Act (Municipal Franchise Act) restores to unmarried women ratepayers the franchise to vote in local elections and enables them to become Poor Law Guardians, through an amendment moved by John Bright.
 9 August
 Debtors Act abolishes indefinite imprisonment for civil debt in England and Wales with effect from 1870.
 Evidence (Further) Amendment Act permits those taking part in legal proceedings to make an affirmation if they conscientiously object to taking an oath.
 27 August – Oxford University Boat Club wins the first international boat race held on the River Thames against Harvard University.
 October – the 'Edinburgh Seven', led by Sophia Jex-Blake, start to attend lectures at the University of Edinburgh Medical School, the first women in the UK to do so (although they will not be allowed to take degrees).
 11 October – Red River Rebellion against British forces in Canada.
 16 October – England's first residential university-level women's college, the College for Women, predecessor of Girton College, Cambridge, is founded at Hitchin by Emily Davies and Barbara Bodichon.
 4 November – the first issue of scientific journal Nature is published in London, edited by Norman Lockyer.
 19 November – the Hudson's Bay Company surrenders its claim to Rupert's Land in Canada under its letters patent back to the British Crown.
 22 November – clipper ship Cutty Sark is launched in Dumbarton, Scotland; she is one of the last clippers built, and the only one to survive in the UK.
 31 December – last day on which the half farthing coin is legal tender in the U.K.
 undated – first Home Children child migration to Canada.

Publications
Matthew Arnold's collected essays Culture and Anarchy.
R. M. Ballantyne's novel Erling the Bold.
R. D. Blackmore's novel Lorna Doone.
John Stuart Mill's book The Subjection of Women.
Hesba Stretton's novel Alone in London.
First year of publication of Joseph Whitaker's An Almanack for the year.
Charlotte M. Yonge's novel The Chaplet of Pearls.
The People's Friend weekly magazine launched (13 January).