[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Enrique Bermúdez

t of his life, a lengthy autobiographical essay titled "The Contras' Valley Forge: How I View the Nicaraguan Crisis", in which the Contra leader chronicled his life from his early career as a military attaché to Somoza through the height of the conflict between the Contras and Sandinista government.

In the article, Bermúdez staunchly criticized the Sandinistas for their alliances with the Soviet Union and Cuba and for betraying promises they made to establish a representative democracy. However, Bermúdez also issued some criticism at U.S. policy, writing that some Democrats, such as Jim Wright, then the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, were appeasing the Sandinista regime in ways that were inhibiting the Contras' in their effort to overthrow the Sandinista government. The article was authored by conservative author and writer (and then Policy Review editor) Michael Johns, who interviewed Bermúdez over a series of days in Tegucigalpa, Honduras in May and June 1988.

Assassinated in Managua
Following the Sandinista defeat in the 1990 elections, Bermúdez returned to Managua, only to be gunned down on February 16, 1991, after being lured to a meeting at Managua's InterContinental Hotel. He was shot in the hotel's parking lot as he departed the hotel after those with whom he was meeting failed to show. In 1994, Bermúdez' daughter, Claudia Bermúdez, told The Miami Herald: "There were a lot of people who would have benefited from having my dad put away--the Sandinistas, the Chamorro government, the United States. My dad died with a lot of information."

Personal
In the last years of the Contra War, Bermúdez had taken up reading the works of noted libertarian author Ayn Rand. While serving as commander of the semi-secret Contra headquarters on the Nicaragua-Honduras border code named "Aguacate" - Spanish for Avocado - he was known for taking solitary walks in the nearby jungle, taking photographs of intricate spiderwebs. Bermúdez is survived by family members, most of whom live in Miami. He was buried in Miami, following a funeral mass that was attended by many of his U.S. and Nicaraguan supporters.

In 2002 and 2004, his daughter, Claudia Bermúdez, now a resident of the San Francisco area, ran unsuccessfully against incumbent Democrat Barbara Lee for California's 9th congressional district seat. She remains heavily engaged in public policy-related initiatives in the district.

See also
 List of unsolved murders
 National Guard (Nicaragua)
 Nicaraguan Revolution
 Sandinista Popular Army

Notes

References
Enrique Bermúdez (with Michael Johns), "The Contras' Valley Forge: How I View the Nicaraguan Crisis," Policy Review, Heritage Foundation, Summer 1988..
Shirley Christian, Nicaragua: Revolution in the Family, Vintage, 1986, .
Glenn Garvin, Everybody Had His Own Gringo: The CIA and the Contras, Brassey's (US), 1992, .
Roy Gutman, Banana Diplomacy: The Making of American Policy in Nicaragua, 1981-1987, Simon & Schuster, 1988, .
"Shultz to Visit Central America on Faltering Talks" The New York Times, June 19, 1988 (covering Bermúdez' Summer 1988 autobiography in Policy Review).
United States Department of State, Special Report No. 174, Nicaraguan Biographies: A Resource Book, Bureau of Public Affairs, 1988.

External links
"Bermudez Elected a Contra Director", Associated Press, The New York Times, July 19, 1988
"Sandinista Says Colonel's Election Shows Contras' 'True Character'", The New York Times, July 22, 1988
"Quick Solution is Sought in Ex-Contra Chief's Death", Reuters, The New York Times, February 18, 1991
"Leader's Slaying Incites Ex-Contras," The New York Times, February 20, 1991.
"Nicaragua Holds Suspect in Killing of Contra Chief" The New York Times, March 6, 1991
"Nicaraguan Aide Says Killer of Ex-Contra Might Be Dead", Reuters, The New York Times, March 7, 1991].
"Assassins in Managua", The New York Times, April 16, 1991

1932 births
1990s murders in Nicaragua
1991 crimes in Nicaragua 
1991 deaths
1991 murders in North America
Assassinated military personnel
Assassinated Nicaraguan politicians
Contras
Deaths by firearm in Nicaragua
Male murder victims
Military attachés
Nicaraguan anti-communists
Nicaraguan expatriates in the United States
Nicaraguan military personnel
Nicaraguan revolutionaries
People from León, Nicaragua
People from Managua
People from Miami
People murdered in Nicaragua
People of the Cold War
People of the Nicaraguan Revolution
Unsolved murders in Nicaragua
1990s assassinated politicians