[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ithaca Health Alliance

arger cities in the U.S. Financed through membership savings from 1997 to the Free Clinic's inception, members continue to support the IFC, as do donations from the wider community. The IHA has also received competitive grants that have allowed for better-supported and expanded Free Clinic services.

Clinic hours of operation 
The Clinic is open from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Mondays and from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. on Thursdays, with an appointment day for special services on Tuesdays from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. Due to COVID 19 clinic is offering all services by appointment only.  Clinic does not turn anyone away.

Clinic services 
IFC is one of only three medically integrated free clinics in the U.S., meaning that visitors are treated by both conventional and complementary healthcare professionals. A physician and a registered nurse are always on duty.

Conventional medical care accounts for 70 percent of services the Free Clinic provides. Most days, alternative practitioners, such as herbalists, massage therapists, chiropractors, and acupuncturists, join physicians and registered nurses. Nutritionists offer scheduled appointments for education and consultation, and a newly developed occupational therapy program provides case management and therapy for a range of human conditions.

Clinic volunteers 
A large group of support personnel manages the office, advising patients and visitors about community resources and advocating for patients' needs. Upwards of 75 volunteers, including students from area colleges and universities, along with many interested and dedicated community members, freely contribute their time to the ongoing success of IFC.

Statistics 
In its first year of operation, the Free Clinic completed more than 850 patient visits, nearly triple the number initially anticipated. In its second year, the Clinic had 1880 visits, while in 2008 2091 visits were made to IFC. According to data for the first half of 2009, 70 volunteers contributed 1735 hours of service, for a total of 1121 patient visits. IFC is nearly always busy.
An estimated 12,000 residents of Tompkins County have no health insurance. Without IFC, many of these people could also expect to be without medical care. Unable to pay out-of-pocket fees for service, the uninsured residents in and around Ithaca are frequently dangerously ill before they learn about IFC. Three years of providing care to indigent and working poor populations has revealed to staff and volunteers that IFC is the primary source of care for most of the Clinic's patients.

Present day 
As it has been since its inception, IHA is a member organization. Most of the organization's income relies on private charitable contributions and government grants. Over 700 professional, community, and college volunteers provide all services. In 2010, IHA was granted tax-exempt 501(c)(3) status.

References

External links
 Ithaca Health Alliance website
 Health Democracy, book by founder

Non-profit organizations based in New York (state)
Medical and health organizations based in New York (state)
Ithaca, New York