[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Shalom Hanoch

Shalom Hanoch ()  (born September 1, 1946) is an Israeli rock singer, lyricist and composer.

He is considered to be the father of Israeli rock and modern Israeli music in general, both of which have been profoundly influenced by his work. His collaboration with Arik Einstein produced some of the first Israeli rock albums. He is often referred to as "The King of Israeli Rock".

Biography
Shalom Hanoch was born in Kibbutz Mishmarot in 1946, roughly 16 months before the establishment of the state of Israel. His musical talent as a child was recognized in the kibbutz. Before discovering rock music, he listened to a wide variety of genres (from Classical, through Russian folk music, Gospel, and Blues).

After getting his first jazz guitar when he was around 12 years old, Hanoch began composing his own songs. By the age of 14, he had completed his first song, Laila (Night). He continued writing music withanother member of the Kibbutz, Meir Ariel, and joined the Kibbutz's band, HaMishmaron. Songs from that time include Agadat Deshe (Grass Legend), Nisa LaYam (We'll Go To The Beach), Risim (Eyelashes) and Yom Acharon (Last Day). At age 16, he took acting classes at Beit Tzvi arts school. He was an Atheist.

Nahal Army Troupe
Although at that point he was more interested in acting than in creating music, Hanoch was recruited by the Nahal army troupe when he turned 18, and wrote a few songs for the troupe while in the service. He was demobilized in 1968, but not before he had participated in a recording of the best-of album made of re-recorded versions to 1950s and 1960s hits by the troupe called Kol HaKavod LaNahal (Well Done, Nahal). In this album Hanoch sang Mitria Bishnaim along with the troupe's star, Shula Chen. The two were mentioned on the cover, an innovation for army band recordings.

Pre-Rock
In 1967 Shalom performed with the High Windows club in Tel Aviv. It was there that he was introduced to Arik Einstein, who was already a star in Israel. Impressed with what he had seen and heard, Einstein suggested that Hanoch write songs for him. A first EP, Hagar, was released the same year, with four of Hanoch's compositions performed by Einstein.

Hanoch's breakthrough occurred in 1968 when Arik Einstein recorded his second album, Mazal Gdi (Capricorn), that contained only songs written by Hanoch. He also wrote the lyrics for six of them. The cooperation between the two continued in the Israel Song Festival (Festival HaZemer), where Einstein performed Hanoch's songs. But the complex, unusual song "Prague," which dealt with the Soviet invasion of the capital of the Czech Republic, was not well-received by the audience. In 1969 Hanoch and his former Nahal-band member, Chanan Yovel, joined with Benny Amdursky and founded the band HaShlosharim. Shalom composed many of the band's songs. In these years he also wrote a lot of songs for other artists.

Rock Revolution
In 1970 Arik Einstein, Shalom Hanoch and The Churchills created a new Israeli sound, influenced by Anglo-American Rock n' Roll. The album Shablul, in which Hanoch composed all the songs, pioneered this new sound. One of the best-known songs from this album was Ma Ata Ose KsheAta Kam Baboker (What Do You Do When You Wake Up in the Morning). The Churchills, who played on most of the songs, was a band influenced by the Psychedelic rock of the late 1960s, and this kind of psychedelia appeared in some of their songs. Shablul's lyrics were another expression of musical innovation and changes in Israeli music. The words were written in popular rather than  official and formal language, as were used in Israeli songs before. Along with the extraordinary lyrics, one old-style song was in the album  HaBalada Al Yoel Moshe Salomon (The Ballad About Yoel Moshe Salomon).

Plastelina, the second Einstein-Hanoch album, was recorded four months after the first. Two more artists who worked with Einstein that time, Shmulik Kraus and Josie Katz, took part in recording and composing. In the same year Hanoch wrote and composed a song for Uri Zohar's Hitromemut movie. In 1971 Hanoch flew to London in order to start an international career.