[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fritz Katzmann

Danzig to become the HSSPF "Weichsel" comprising Danzig-West Prussia, holding this command until the end of the war. There he oversaw the installation of gas chambers and crematoria at the Stutthof concentration camp. Katzmann brought Central and Eastern European collaborators auxiliaries with him.

On 1 July 1944, Katzmann was made a Generalleutnant of the Waffen-SS and tasked with the final liquidation of the Stutthof camp with all of its sub-camps, ahead of the Red Army advance. Gassing with Zyklon B had begun already in June. Until that point, Stutthof prisoners were considered important for German armaments production with Focke-Wulf workshop churning out airplane parts right at the main camp. Stutthof had 105 sub-camps located as far as Thorn (today, Toruń) and Elbing (today, Elbląg). 

When Germany surrendered on 8 May 1945, Katzmann vanished. He lived in Darmstadt under the alias "Bruno Albrecht." His wife and five children never heard from him. He revealed his identity to a hospital priest chaplain shortly before his death on 19 September 1957.

Katzmann's Decorations:

 Golden Party Badge, number 98,582
 War Merit Cross, 1st and 2nd Class with Swords
 Honor Chevron of the Old Guard
 Sudetenland Medal

See also
German camps in occupied Poland during World War II
List SS-Gruppenführer
The Holocaust in occupied Poland

Notes

References
 Ruth Bettina Birn: Die Höheren SS- und Polizeiführer. Himmlers Vertreter im Reich und in den besetzten Gebieten. Düsseldorf 1986. 

 Joseph Wulf: Das Dritte Reich und seine Vollstrecker. Wiesbaden 1989. 

 Institut für Nationales Gedenken: Lösung der Judenfrage im Distrikt Galizien / Solving the Jewish Question in the District of Galicia. (dt., engl., poln. - der Katzmann-Report)
 The Katzmann Report. Excerpt in English YadVashem.org

1906 births
1957 deaths
Holocaust perpetrators in Poland
Holocaust perpetrators in Ukraine
People from Bochum
Recipients of the War Merit Cross
SS and Police Leaders
SS-Gruppenführer
Sturmabteilung personnel
Waffen-SS personnel