[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tsitsernakaberd

e survivors during and after the genocide, among them Johannes Lepsius, Franz Werfel, Armin T. Wegner, Henry Morgenthau Sr., Fridtjof Nansen, Pope Benedict XV, Jakob Künzler and Bodil Biørn.

An alley of trees has been planted to commemorate the genocide victims.

Armenian Genocide Museum-Institute 

The Armenian Genocide Museum-Institute opened in 1995 on the occasion of the 80th anniversary of the genocide. The structure of the museum, planned by architects Sashur Kalashian, Lyudmila Mkrtchyan and sculptor F. Araqelyan, has followed a unique design. Since opening, the museum has received tens of thousands of visitors including schoolchildren, college students and huge numbers of tourists from outside Armenia. The Republic of Armenia has turned visiting the museum into part of state protocol and many official foreign delegations have already visited the museum. These delegations have included Pope John Paul II, Pope Francis, President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, Presidents of France Jacques Chirac and Francois Hollande, and other well-known public and political figures. The museum contains historical documents and is open to the public for guided tours in Armenian, Russian, English, French, and German.

The two-story building is built directly into the side of a hill so as not to detract from the presence of the Genocide Monument nearby. The roof of the museum is flat and covered with concrete tiles. It overlooks the scenic Ararat Valley and majestic Mount Ararat.
The first floor of the museum is subterranean and houses the administrative, engineering and technical maintenance offices as well as Komitas Hall, which seats 170 people. Here also are situated the storage rooms for museum artifacts and scientific objects, as well as a library and a reading hall. The museum exhibit is located on the second floor in a space just over 1,000 square meters in size. There are three main indoor exhibit halls and an outer gallery with its own hall.
The Genocide Monument is designed to memorialize the victims. The Genocide Museum's mission is rooted in the understanding that the Armenian Genocide is important in preventing similar future tragedies, and in keeping with the notion that those who forget the past are condemned to repeat it.

The institute also conducts academic research into the genocide and publishes books on the subject and a journal, International Journal of Armenian Genocide Studies.

Gallery

See also 

 1965 Yerevan demonstrations
 List of visitors to Tsitsernakaberd
 Armenian Genocide Remembrance Day
 List of Armenian genocide memorials
 Yad Vashem (est. 1953), Holocaust memorial and research institute with a similar concept

References 

 Genocide.am – Photos of Tsitsernakaberd memorial

External links 

 About Armenian Genocide Museum
 Official site
 Tsitsernakaberd - Virtual Tour
 Armenian Genocide 
 Official Website of Armenian Genocide Centennial 

1967 establishments in the Soviet Union
Armenian genocide commemoration
Armenian genocide memorials
Buildings and structures completed in 1967
Buildings and structures in Yerevan
Genocide museums
History museums in Armenia
Monuments and memorials in Armenia
Monuments and memorials built in the Soviet Union
Museums in Yerevan