[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 25]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

s May.
February – Republicans attack Kenmare, County Kerry, but are driven off.
February – Free State troops based in Carrick-on-Shannon, including armoured cars and an 18-pounder gun, sweep County Leitrim, searching for a Republican column under Ned Bofin, at least 18 arrests are made.

March 1923 

2 March – Anti-Treaty IRA officers in North Tipperary, Paddy Ryan Lacken and Seán Gaynor are captured by the Free State.
3 March – The body of a National Army sergeant, Thomas McGrath, is found near, Clonmel. Killed by four gunshots. He is reported to the fourth soldier assassinated in the area within a month.
5 March – A Free state patrol comes upon a 36-man strong Anti-Treaty column about to attack Cahersiveen, County Kerry. The IRA retreat, fighting a rearguard action against pursuing National Army troops through the Garrane mountains. In the running fights, 3 Free State soldiers killed. Two Republicans, including one Anti-Treaty engineer (Dan Clifford) are killed, allegedly after being wounded and then falling into the hands of the pro-Treaty troops. Another later died of wounds. The National Army claims that three more Anti-Treaty fighters were killed in the action and carried away by their comrades. Six Anti-Treaty men are captured, five of whom are executed on 28 March.
6 March – Five Free State soldiers, including three officers are killed by a booby trap mine while clearing a road in Knocknagoshel, County Kerry. Another soldier is badly wounded. National Army commander Paddy Daly issues a memorandum that Republican prisoners are to be used to clear mined roads from now on.
7 March – Nine Republican prisoners are taken from Ballymullen Barracks in Tralee to Ballyseedy Cross, ostensibly to clear a mined road. They are then tied together around the landmine, which is then detonated by National army troops. One man, Stephen Fuller, is blown clear by the blast and survives. The eight other prisoners are killed. All of the dead are from IRA Kerry no 1 Brigade. A riot breaks out in Tralee when the troops bring nine coffins back to the town.
A Free State sentry is killed by a sniper outside a barracks in Tralee.
Con Moloney, Adjutant General of the Anti-Treaty IRA, is captured by Free State troops at the Glen of Aherlow, County Tipperary, in Moore's Wood, Rossadrehid.
In County Mayo, an Anti-Treaty IRA column is surrounded and captured by Free State troops at Buckagh. One IRA man is killed. The remainder are taken to prison in Galway and sentenced to death, but this sentence is not carried out.
A CID Officer fires at a 'wanted man' on the corner of Grafton Street and Nassau Street. He hits and mortally wounds civilian George Fitzhenry (67) of Fairview.
8 March – Four more Anti-Treaty IRA prisoners are killed in Kerry by National Army troop from Dublin. They are, as at Ballyseedy the day before, blown up by a mine, ostensibly while clearing a mined road, at Countess Bridge in Killarney. The dead are from IRA Kerry 2 Brigade. One man, Tadhg Coffey, escapes the massacre.
A Postmaster, Samuel Atkinson, is shot dead by raiders at Lisnalong, County Monaghan.
9 March – 
An anti-Treaty prisoner, Gleeson is shot dead after being taken prisoner by Free State troops near Cloughjordan, County Tipperary.
Dublin, A civilian, Patrick Carney, injured by the fire started by anti-Treaty fighters at the income tax offices, Beresford Place, dies at his home in Harold Cross.
11 March – 
A civilian suspected of Republican sympathies is shot dead on Donore Avenue Dublin by Free State Intelligence officers.
Kerry, Another Republican prisoner, Seamus Taylor is taken from Kenmare jail to Ballyseedy woods by National Army troops and shot dead.
12 March – 
In County Kerry, Five Republican prisoners (this time from IRA Kerry no. 3 Brigade) are killed at Cahersiveen. They are taken from a National Army post in the town at gunpoint by Dublin Guard officers, under protest from the garrison. The prisoners are then shot in the legs to prevent escape and then blown up by a landmine by National Army troops.
One anti-Treaty fighter and one Free State soldier are killed in a gun battle after an attack on Free State post at Rooskey, County Roscommon.
13 March – 
Three Republican prisoners from Wexford IRA units are executed in Wexford town.
Three other Republicans are executed, two in Cork (one was a William Healy of the Donoughmore Battalion) and the other in Dublin. The Republican 'government' issues a statement announcing a period of mourning and forbidding all public entertainments such as sporting events while executions of their men continue.
A Free State soldier is killed in a gun attack at Glasson, near Athlone.
In County Mayo, near Charlestown, a gun battle takes place between the National Army and Irregulars. During the previous night, around 100 Irregulars enter Charlestown, raided some houses and set up a roadblock preventing traffic to Swinford. On 13 March the National Army barracks in Swinford hear about the incident and send troops