[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of synagogues

ntral Synagogue of Aleppo (Aleppo), Jobar Synagogue of Elijah the prophet (Damascus), Kittab Attia (Damascus), Menarsha Synagogue (Damascus), Minyan Synagogue (Damascus), Racqy Synagogue (Damascus), Scalyn Synagogue (Damascus), Shama'a Synagogue (Damascus), Tedef Synagogue of Ezra the scribe (Tedef)

T
  Tahiti: Ahava v'Ahava Synagogue (Papeete)
  Taiwan: Landis Taipei Hotel Synagogue. Chabad Taiwan (Taipei)
  Tajikistan: Dushanbe synagogue (Dushanbe)
  Thailand: Beth Elisheva Synagogue (Bangkok), Even Chen Synagogue (Bangkok)
  Tunisia: Beit Knesset Kohanim HaDintreisa (Djerba), El Ghriba synagogue (Djerba), Zarzis Synagogue (Zarzis)
  Turkey: see List of synagogues in Turkey
  Turkmenistan: Ashkhabad Synagogue (Ashgabat)

U
  Uganda: Moses Synagogue (Nabugoye), Putti Synagogue (Putti), Namutumba Synagogue (Magada, Namutumba District), Nasenyi Synagogue (Nesenyi), Namanyonyi Synagogue (Namanyonyi)
  Ukraine: see List of synagogues in Ukraine
  United Kingdom: see List of synagogues in the United Kingdom
  United States: see List of synagogues in the United States
  Uruguay: see List of synagogues in Uruguay
  Uzbekistan: Central Synagogue Beit Menahem (Tashkent), Gumbaz Synagogue (Samarkand)

V
  Venezuela:Tiféret Israel, Hogar Jabad Lubavitch de Venezuela, Unión Israelita de Caracas, Asociación Bet El, Congregación Bet Aharón, Tiféret Israel del Este Keter Torá, Centro Bet Shemuel, Shaaré Shalom, Centro Bet Shemuel del Este,  (Caracas); Asociación Israelita de Valencia, (Valencia); Sociedad Israelita de Maracaibo, (Maracaibo); Or Meir, (Porlamar)
  Vietnam: Chabad of Vietnam (Ho Chi Minh City)
  Virgin Islands, US: Beracha Veshalom Vegmiluth Hasidim Synagogue (Saint Thomas)

W

X

Y
  Yemen: Grand synagogue of Aden (Aden), Kessar Synagogue, Dhamari Synagogue (San‘a’)

Z
  Zambia: Lusaka Synagogue (Lusaka). There were once synagogues in Ndola, Kitwe, and Mufulira, Zambia of the Copperbelt Region, but they are now African churches.  Ndola's former synagogue, now used by the Catholic Church as offices, and they built a new prayer space for church services.  In Kitwe, the former synagogue is today owned and operated by the Salvation Army.  The synagogue in Livingstone is also now an African church. There was once a Jewish community in the Copperbelt Region town of Luwansha, but it is unclear whether any former synagogue was built and still stands.
  Zimbabwe: Bulawayo Hebrew Congregation (Bulawayo), Harare Hebrew Congregation (Harare). There were once three synagogues in the Midlands region of the country—in Kadoma (building destroyed), Kitwe (building used by an African church, and Gewru (building used as a church today).

See also
List of Conservative synagogues
List of Humanistic synagogues
List of Orthodox synagogues
List of Reconstructionist synagogues
List of Reform synagogues

References

 Messinas, Elias. (2022). The Synagogues of Greece: A Study of Synagogues in Macedonia and Thrace: With Architectural Drawings of all Synagogues of Greece. .
 Waronker, Jay A.  Articles (2007, 2009, 2010) appear in KULANU (www.kulanu.org) on the synagogue architecture in Zambia.

External links
 Synagogues of the World on the Jewish Virtual Library
 The Jewish History Resource Center, Project of the Dinur Center for Research in Jewish History, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem
 Federation of Jewish Communities of the CIS
 JewishDirectory.com
 Worldwide directory of Chabad Centers
 Images of synagogues in the archives of the Center for Jewish Art at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
 The Bezalel Narkiss Index of Jewish Art
 Klein Rudolf: Zsinagógák Magyarországon 1782-1918 - Synagogues in Hungary, TERC Kft., 2011