[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Evelyn Gandy

iate for a "young girl". She defeated Arrington in a primary runoff and was sworn-in in early 1948, working in the legislature for one four-year term. She closed her law practice to focus on her legislative duties but in September became a legal researcher for the State Department of Public Welfare.

In the House, Gandy was assigned to the ways and means, judiciary, eleemosynary institutions, colleges and universities, and claims committees. She introduced a successful bill to raise bond money for Hattiesburg city school construction and proposed another bill that would authorize Mississippi Southern College to establish its own nursing and law schools. She proposed other bills to establish a state department of labor and a state cosmetology board. After losing a bid for re-election to her House seat in the 1951 Democratic primary to Donald Colmer, Gandy became director of the Division of Legal Services in the Department of Public Welfare, where she served until she announced her resignation in February 1959, effective March 31.

State offices 
In 1959 Gandy campaigned for election to the office of State Treasurer. Her main opponent was former Jackson mayor and investment banker Leland S. Speed. She attacked his credibility, arguing that his business connections disqualified him from handling public funds. She won, making her the first woman to be elected to a Mississippi statewide constitutional office and the second elected to a statewide office overall (after State Tax Collector Nellah Massey Bailey). On September 1, 1959, Gandy was appointed Assistant Attorney General of Mississippi by State Attorney General Joe Patterson. Serving in only a temporary capacity pending her swearing-in as State Treasurer in January 1960, she was the first woman to hold the office. She served as State Treasurer from 1960 to 1964, leaving office as state law at the time did not allow the treasurer to run for consecutive terms.

In 1963 Gandy ran for the office of Lieutenant Governor. Facing four opponents, she campaigned on her experience in government, pledging to focus on economic issues and education. She promised to treat the position as a "full time job". Framing herself as a segregationist, she supported states' rights, urging Mississippians to not support President John F. Kennedy and saying "We are now engaged in the greatest clash of Federal-State power which has occurred since the War Between the States one hundred years ago." Placing second in the first primary, she entered a runoff with the leading candidate, incumbent Carroll Gartin. He attacked her gender, with his campaign ads calling on voters to "elect a man". He won, taking 52 percent of the vote.

In 1964 Governor Paul B. Johnson Jr. appointed Gandy as State Welfare Board Commissioner. During her tenure the federal government passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which required that all programs which received federal funds could not discriminate based on race. Despite her own segregationist views, Gandy signed a pledge affirming that the welfare board would not discriminate and integrated the reception areas of state welfare offices. In 1965, she oversaw the launch of a monthly newsletter for the State Department of Public Welfare, The Observer. That year Johnson appointed her to the new Commission on the Status of Women. She resigned effective April 30, 1967, to prepare for a second campaign for state treasurer.

Facing no opposition in the Democratic primary or general election, Gandy was re-elected as State Treasurer and served again from 1968 to 1972. During that time, she lobbied for changes to the State Depository Act and implemented new policies which allowed public funds deposited in private banks to earn interest, enabling the state to make an additional $4 million within a year of the new measure. She also implemented a program to deposit state funds equally across banks in the state. A fiscal conservative, she opposed an attempt to amend the state constitution to allow the state to borrow more money through bond issues.