[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Australian Fair Pay and Conditions Standard

ccrued for each completed four-week period of continuous service and was cumulative. Casual employees did not have an entitlement to annual leave under the Standard. Continuous shift workers received an additional week of annual leave, provided they regularly worked both Sundays and public holidays.

When taking annual leave, employees were entitled to at least the basic pay rate they were on at the time of commencing the annual leave. It was possible for employees to request to cash out up to 2 weeks (or the pro rata equivalent for part-time employees) of their accrued annual leave entitlement every 12 months. However, this could only occur if a term in a workplace agreement specifically permitted cashing out. Requests to cash out annual leave had to be in writing and could be refused by an employer. An employer could not require an employee to cash out an entitlement to annual leave, or exert undue influence or pressure on an employee.

Personal/carer’s leave, compassionate leave, and family and domestic violence leave 
Under the Standard, sick leave was referred to as personal leave. Carer's leave was part of the same entitlement and could be used to provide care and support to a member of an employee's immediate family or household. Ten days of paid personal/carer's leave were available for employees every year. For part-time employees and those who were within the first 12 months of employment, this type of leave was available on a pro-rata basis. Casual employees were not eligible for paid personal/carer's leave.

Personal/carer's leave was cumulative. There was no limit on the amount of accumulated sick leave that could be taken each year. However, the taking of paid carer's leave was limited to 10 days in the first year of employment and 12 days in subsequent years.

On top of these basic entitlements, there was provision for an additional two days' unpaid emergency carer's leave per occasion where an employee had exhausted their paid personal/carer's leave entitlements. Casual employees were also entitled to unpaid carer's leave. There was also provision for two days of paid compassionate leave per occasion, when a member of immediate family or household had a life-threatening illness or injury, or died. Compassionate leave operated separately from personal/carer's leave. This meant it was not necessary to exhaust personal/carer's leave entitlements to access compassionate leave.

In addition to these, all employees are entitled to 5 days of unpaid family and domestic violence leave each year. The new Labor Government has also introduced a bill, the Fair Work Amendment (Paid Family and Domestic Violence Leave) Bill, which if passed will see all employees able to access 10 days of paid family or domestic violence leave from 1 February 2023, or 1 August 2023 for small businesses (those with less than 15 employees).

Parental leave 
Unpaid parental leave was available up to a maximum of 52 weeks. This 52 weeks could be shared between both parents at the time of the birth of a child, or the adoption of a child under five years of age. Parental leave under the Standard applied to all full-time, part-time and eligible casual employees who had at least 12 months continuous service with the same employer. Casual employees became eligible when they had been employed with the same employer on a regular and systematic basis for at least 12 months with a reasonable expectation of ongoing employment. These parental leave provisions also applied more broadly to employees outside of the WorkChoices system. In other words, those employed by a sole trader, trust, partnership or other unincorporated entity were also covered. Mothers must have had a continuous period of 6 weeks of maternity leave immediately after giving birth to a child. Special maternity leave (unpaid) could have been taken if a pregnancy was terminated within 28 weeks of the expected date of birth or pregnancy-related illness. It also required a minimum of 12 months' service for eligibility.

Minimum pay 
Under the Standard, basic hourly rates were guaranteed pay rates set by the Australian Fair Pay Commission. The commission set the Federal Minimum Wage (FMW), classification-based wages in Australian Pay and Classification Scales (APCSs), and casual loadings. The default minimum casual loading for employees not covered by an industrial instrument was set to 20 percent. The commission also had the power to set minimum rates of pay for juniors, trainees and apprentices, employees with disabilities and piece workers.