[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Infantry in the American Civil War

.  For the Confederates corps were numbered within their respective armies, but divisions and brigades were identified by their commanding officer.  Confederate corps and armies were commanded by a lieutenant general and full general respectively, while major generals commanded both in Union forces.

Starting at the regimental level, commanders had a staff of officers to help with the administration of their unit.  Regimental staff officers were chosen from among the unit's lieutenants, while higher formations were to have a representative from the armies' respective War Departments.  General officers were also allowed a personal staff of aides-de-camp and a chief of staff.  Neither side had an effective way to train staff officers however, and so their competence tended to be based on how much experience they gained.  Furthermore, with some exceptions there were no enlisted personnel authorized to assist in carrying out the logistical work necessary to keep these units supplied.  Either civilian workers had to be hired or infantry soldiers detailed to handle these functions; the former tended to be unreliable while the latter lessened the combat effectiveness of their units.

Infantry were accompanied by a train of wagons carrying the supplies they would need for a given campaign, although it was often necessary to supplement this by foraging or pillaging.  The exact number of wagons needed depended on the number of soldiers and other factors, with commanders seeking to strike the right balance of sufficient supplies without slowing down the army with unnecessary wagons.  Once an ambulance corps was set up, infantry would also be accompanied by a number of ambulances to carry away the wounded (a task otherwise assigned to musicians).

Tactics
Both the Union and Confederate armies utilized a modified form of the linear tactics which defined the French Revolutionary Wars and Napoleonic Wars.  These tactics were transmitted to American commanders in the form of manuals, the three principal ones being Winfield Scott's Infantry Tactics, or Rules for Manoeuvers of the United States Infantry (published in 1835), William J. Hardee's Rifle and Light Infantry Tactics: for the Instruction, Exercise and Maneuver of Riflemen and Light Infantry (1855), and Silas Casey's Infantry Tactics (1862). Other popular instruction manuals included McClellan's Bayonet Drill (1862).

The core of these tactics was organizing soldiers into ranks and files in order to form a regiment into a line of battle or column.  The line was the primary formation of combat as it allowed the soldiers to fire a full volley at the enemy.  Generally consisting of companies formed up into two ranks with files close enough to touch elbows, the line was held in alignment by placing the regimental colors in the center and a designated guide on either end of the line.  File closers spread out just behind the line helped ensure order and prevented soldiers from deserting.  Thus organized, a standard 475-man regiment occupied a front of 140 yards.  The column was primarily used for maneuvering, with a simple column consisting of companies stacked up behind one another at varying distances.  More common was the double column consisting of two stacks of companies next to each other as doing so shortened the formation's length and widened its frontage.  Infantry squares were rarely employed, both because they were the most difficult formation to carry out and because they were rarely necessary on Civil War battlefields.

Of particular tactical importance was the usage of skirmishers, which historian Earl J. Hess argues reached its apogee during the Civil War.  The textbook deployment of skirmishers was for a company to break into two platoons, one of which formed the skirmish line and the other a reserve 150 paces behind it.  Soldiers deployed as skirmishers operated in groups of four known as "comrades in battle" spaced out at five-pace intervals, with spacing of twenty to forty paces between each group.  Standard practice was for two companies to form a skirmish line for a regiment, while on a larger scale a regiment would form a skirmish line for a brigade.  In essence a more advanced form of the line of battle, skirmish lines nevertheless required greater individual skill and determination of the soldiers forming it.  They could act as a screen for a defensive line from oncoming enemy soldiers, harassing attackers as they approached, or probed an enemy's strength in preparation for an attack and screen the assaulting force.  Some regiments were more adept at skirmishing than others, but most were adequate in the role.