[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ivano Bonetti

ing he had loaned the money to his former club in order to perform the signing of Fabián Caballero.

Between 2004 and 2010 he had a spell as director of football of Lega Pro Prima Divisione club A.S. Pescina Valle del Giovenco.

In August 2020, Bonetti joined Serie D club Rimini as head youth coach.

Personal life
Bonetti is married and has three children. He is the son of Aldo Bonetti who played for Brescia until the Second World War. His brother Mario played for Atalanta and brother Dario played over 100 games for Roma and won two caps for Italy.

Media and business interests
Bonetti became an entrepreneur in 2013, he is the founder, CEO and president of Mobisafe, a company that deals with technology applied to health. He sells a product that, when applied to mobile phones, is able to reduce electromagnetic waves, the Skudowave. The medical device has been sold in pharmacies and distribution of the Skudowave to several football clubs, among others Bayern Munich, Juventus and Manchester United.

Managerial statistics

Honours
Juventus
Serie A: 1985–86
Intercontinental Cup: 1985

Sampdoria
Serie A: 1990–91

References

External links
 Bonetti discovers paradise after Juventus – Ivano signing for Grimsby, Independent, The (London), 2 December 1995
 Played for the Town: Ivano Bonetti – Electronic Fishcake player profile
 Bonetti knows wheeling and dealing won't save his neck at Dens Sunday Herald, The, 14 May 2000 Bonetti becomes Dundee manager
 Italian Playing Stats
 Bonetti T-shirts
 The Bonetti years Review of Dundee Management, BBC website
 

1964 births
Living people
Footballers from Brescia
Italian men's footballers
Italian football managers
Men's association football defenders
Brescia Calcio players
Genoa CFC players
Juventus FC players
Atalanta BC players
Bologna FC 1909 players
UC Sampdoria players
Torino FC players
Serie A players
Serie B players
Grimsby Town F.C. players
Tranmere Rovers F.C. players
Crystal Palace F.C. players
Dundee F.C. players
FS Sestrese Calcio 1919 players
Scottish Premier League players
Premier League players
Dundee F.C. managers
Scottish Premier League managers
Italian expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Scotland
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Italian expatriate football managers
Expatriate football managers in Scotland
Italian expatriate sportspeople in England
Italian expatriate sportspeople in Scotland