[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Philip Giraldi

flag" scenarios in which the Israelis could insert a commando team in the Persian Gulf or use some of their people inside Iraq to stage an incident that they will make to look Iranian, either by employing Iranian weapons or by leaving a communications footprint that points to Tehran's involvement."

In 2009, the London Times reported on an Iranian plan to experiment on a "neutron initiator" for an atomic weapon, Gareth Porter reported for Inter Press Service that Giraldi said that unnamed intelligence sources had told him that the document was in fact a fabrication, which Giraldi speculated was created by Israel. He claimed that Rupert Murdoch publications regularly disseminate false intelligence from the Israeli and sometimes the British government.

In August 2010, Giraldi again referred to unnamed "sources in the counterintelligence community" in The American Conservative who had told him intelligence agents of Israel's Mossad were posing as representatives of the equivalent American agencies and visiting Arab and Muslim residents in New York and New Jersey. He alleged it was done as a "false flag" operation to help agents gain information about Iran, which they believed would not be forthcoming to Israeli agents. The Israeli embassy, the United States Department of Justice, and Giraldi all declined to comment for an article on the allegations in the biweekly New York Arab-community newspaper Aramica.

In September 2017, Valerie Plame encountered much criticism on Twitter when she retweeted Giraldi's Unz Review column "America's Jews are Driving America's Wars", and then when it was reported she had retweeted previous columns by Giraldi making claims about Jewish influence in American foreign policy, including "Why I Dislike Israel" (2014). In the 2017 article, Giraldi asserted American Jews pushed the United States into war with Iraq (it named Jews as "conduits for the false information that led to a war [with Iraq] that has spread and effectively destroyed much of the Middle East"), were fueling a war machine against Iran; and had a dual loyalty to Israel (he said Jews should not be put "into national security positions involving the Middle East, where they will potentially be conflicted"). He wrote: "Jewish groups and deep pocket individual donors not only control the politicians, they own and run the media and entertainment industries" and that. In the article he wrote that "those American Jews who lack any shred of integrity" appear on television they should be labeled, "kind-of-like a warning label on a bottle of rat poison". He concluded: "The only alternative is for American citizens who are tired of having their country's national security interests hijacked by a group that is in thrall to a foreign government to become more assertive about what is happening. ... We don't need a war with Iran because Israel wants one and some rich and powerful American Jews are happy to deliver." He accused American Jews of making false claims and taking politicians and the media down with them. Alan Dershowitz wrote for The Jerusalem Post: "In other words, Jewish supporters of Israel, like [Bill] Kristol and me, should have to wear the modern day equivalent of a yellow star before we are allowed to appear on TV." After the publication of the column, Giraldi said he had been fired for the Unz Review column by The American Conservative, where he had been a contributor for fourteen years.

In a May 2019 article for The Unz Review, Giraldi claimed Israel was connected with the September 11 attacks in 2001: "Israel, in spite of obvious involvement in 9/11, was not included in the 9/11 Commission Report despite the existence of an enormous Israeli intelligence operation freely working in the United States that was known to the FBI. ... [T]here are Israeli fingerprints all over the place, with cover companies and intelligence personnel often intersecting with locations frequented by the hijackers."

In a 2019 article for the Strategic Culture Foundation, Giraldi described the US as engaged in a deliberate campaign to start a war with Iran, based on a threat "falsified" and "contrived" by John Bolton in collaboration with Israeli leader Benjamin Netanyahu, as assertion described by analyst Mitchell Bard as "in the grand tradition of antisemitic conspiracy theories".

Claims about the Holocaust
A letter co-written by Giraldi was published by his alumni magazine in 1999. Near the end of the letter, Giraldi and his co-author wrote: "Perhaps what is truly unique about the Holocaust is the ability of its exploiters to preemptively silence their critics. Surely within the University of Chicago community there must be many who recognize that the Holocaust industry has gone too far, that the Holocaust is far from being the central event of the century, and that its message of an exclusivity in suffering—serving to promote a Zionist agenda—is dubious at best."