[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chemicals Convention

ata sheets containing information on hazards, suppliers, safety precautions and emergency procedures for hazardous chemicals.
The data sheets are subject to criteria set by the competent authority or recognized bodies under Criteria.
The name used on the data sheets must match the name on the label.

Article 9 
All suppliers of chemicals shall ensure that the chemicals are classified in accordance with Article 6, labeled in accordance with Article 7, and safety data sheets are provided in accordance with Article 8.
As new health and safety information on chemicals becomes available, the supplier of hazardous chemicals shall ensure that new labels and safety data sheets are handed over in accordance with national legislation.
Suppliers of chemicals not yet classified under Article 6 shall seek available information on the chemical to evaluate whether it is hazardous.

Responsibilities of employers 
Articles 10 to 16 deal with the duty of employers to inform workers about possible risks associated with the use of chemicals in the workplace. Employers and employees must work together to ensure safety.

Article 10 
Employers must ensure that all chemicals are labeled in accordance with Article 7 and that chemical data sheets are made available to workers and their representatives in accordance with Article 8.
If employers receive chemicals that are not labeled in accordance with Article 7 or for which safety data sheets are not provided in accordance with Article 8, they shall obtain information from the supplier or other reasonably available sources. Until then, the chemicals should not be used.
The employer shall ensure that chemicals used have been classified in accordance with Article 6, identified in accordance with Article 9, labeled in accordance with Article 7 and that all necessary precautions have been taken.
Employers must maintain a register of all hazardous chemicals used in the workplace, with cross-references to their chemical safety data sheets, and make it available to all workers.

Article 11 
The employer must provide workers with sufficient information about safety precautions and identity of chemicals when the chemical is transferred.

Article 12 
Employers must ensure that workers are not exposed to hazardous chemicals for longer than permitted, must assess worker exposure to hazardous chemicals, must monitor and record work with hazardous chemicals to protect safety and health, and must ensure that records are properly maintained.

Article 13 
The employer shall make an assessment of the risks resulting from the use of chemicals at work and shall protect workers by taking appropriate measures.
Employers must limit employee exposure to chemicals to protect health and safety, provide first aid and make provisions for emergencies.

Article 14 
Hazardous chemicals and emptied containers containing residues of hazardous chemicals shall be disposed of in a manner that reduces the risk to safety, health and the environment.

Article 15 
Employers must inform workers of the hazards they face in their workplace and of chemical labels and safety data sheets.
They must use the safety data sheets as the basis for work instructions and provide ongoing training to workers on chemical use.

Article 16 
Employers and employees shall work together in relation to safety in the use of chemicals in the workplace.

Duties of workers 
Article 17 is about the cooperation between employers and employees to reduce risks at work.

Article 17 
Workers shall work closely with employers and follow all procedures in the use of chemicals at work to ensure safety.
Workers shall take all reasonable steps to minimize the risk associated with the handling of chemicals.

Rights of workers and their representatives 
Article 18 gives employees the right to avoid imminent risk for health reasons without unreasonable consequences.

Article 18 
Employees have the right to remove themselves from the hazards of working with chemicals if there is an immediate risk to their health or safety.
Employees who extricate themselves from danger in accordance with the provisions of this Article shall be protected from unreasonable consequences.
Affected workers have the right to information about the properties and identity, labels, and safety data sheets of the chemicals used.
If disclosure of an identity of a chemical to a competitor may harm the employer's business, the employer, when providing the information required under this Article, may protect the identity in accordance with Article 1.

Responsibility of exporting States 
Articles 19 to 27 deal with the responsibilities for States exporting hazardous chemicals and the responsibilities for control. They also address the validity of this Convention and the scope of application.