[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jiaganj Azimganj

ence, history, geography and BCom.

Rajmati Parichand Bothra Memorial Jiaganj College of Engineering and Technology at Jiaganj offers diploma courses in engineering.

Jiaganj Institute of Education & Training, Baluchar PTTI, Vivekanada Teachers' Training Institute, Jiaganj School of Nursing Training

Municipality
Jiaganj-Azimganj Municipality was established in 1896. From the British reign, most famous personalities came to the post of chairman and had their greatest activity for the development of this Municipality. The present chairman of Jiaganj and Azimganj Municipality is Sri Prasenjit Ghosh. Several writ petitions came to be filed relating to removal of the Chairman of Jiaganj Azimganj Municipality on the basis of the requisition dated 24 March 2017 signed by nine councillors including the petitioner under Section 18(3) of the West Bengal Municipal Act, 1993.
Jiaganj-Azimganj Municipality is one of the oldest municipalities in Murshidabad district. The twin town is situated on the opposite banks of the river Bhagirathi, a branch of river Ganges. Jiaganj (24.23°N 88.27°E) is on the east side while Azimganj (24.23°N 88.25°E) is on the west. The municipal area is surrounded by Murshidabad town in the south, vast land of Bhagabangolla in the North and while in the east and west sides by the Rada area of Nabagram and Sagardighi. This conglomeration of ancient Gauda (North Bengal) and Rada area constituting this municipality was a part of Murshidabad municipality till 1896 when it was curved out as a separate municipal area. These two riparian settlements remind the rich history and cultural heritage of Bengal. The twin towns of Jiaganj and Azimganj were important trade centre during the Subah reign in Bengal, considered as the ‘Baranasi of Bengal’ during the period of Rani Bhabani, a renowned landlord of Bengal. It was also a holy place for Vaishnava culture in some point of time in the past. Because of the abundance of silk, muslin, ivory and rich agricultural yield the entire area had become the centre of vigorous economic activities during the nineteenth century Bengal. Attracted by the promise of trade and banking several families, especially Jains settled here, many Jain temples on both banks of the river of standing tall till date are the witnesses for the same. Traversing over hundred years since today this historic municipal town is inhabited by people of all religion, caste, creed, language, and culture and the municipal area is embellished and honoured with the harmonious existence of Temples, Mosques, Churches and Gurudwara in it.

Connectivity
There are two parallel railway links on both the sides of river Bhagirathi. One is connecting Sealdah to Jiaganj through Lalgola branch line and another Howrah to Azimganj through Barharwa–Azimganj–Katwa loop. A new rail bridge is coming up over river Bhagirathi connecting Nashipur to Azimganj. Azimganj-Nalhati Railway line started in 1872.

Important train that originates from Azimganj Junction railway station :
 Ganadevata Express (Daily)
 Howrah–Malda Town Intercity Express (Daily)
 Nabadwip Dham–Malda Town Express (Daily)

Apart from this through road links, Jiaganj is connected to adjacent townships like Lalbagh (Murshidabad), Berhampore, Lalgola, Bhagabangola.

Important train that goes through Jiaganj railway station :
 Bhagirathi Express (Daily)
 Hazarduari Express (Daily)
 Dhano Dhanye Express

Jiaganj and Azimganj are connected by boat service managed by local municipality on river Bhagirathi.

Jain temples
There are several historic Jain temples in the city including Sri Neminath Swami, Chintamani Parasnath, Shantinath, Gaudi Parshwanath, Padmaprabhu, and Sanwalia Parasnath (Rambagh) temples and a dadabadi at Rambagh.

Jiaganj 1. Shree Shambhabnath Ji, 2. Shree Adinath Ji, 3. Shree Bimalnath Ji, 4. Shree Adinath Ji, Kathgola temple, 5. Dadabari at Kiratbagh, 6. Basupujya Parswanath Swami Jinalaya at Kiratbagh, Mahavir Swami Digambar Jain Mandir.

Healthcare
Jiagnj Rural Hospital functions with 30 beds at Jiaganj and Azimganj Primary Health Centre at Azimganj functions with 15 beds.

Notable people
 Arijit Singh, Playback singer
 Mir Afsar Ali, News presenter, actor and Radio jockey of Radio Mirchi
 Indra Dugar, Painter
 Bidhayak Bhattacharya Scriptwriter, actor, author
Hari Makhan Das and his disciple Radharani Devi, who was also a noted film-actress of 1930s-40s, a contemporary co-actress of Kanan Bala.

References

Sources
Indian trains
Official site of Jiaganj Azimganj Municipality
Personal website of Jiaganj Azimganj Murshidabad Town
DEBIPUR M. G. D. HIGH SCHOOL JIAGANJ-AZIMGANJ (M)

Cities and towns in Murshidabad district
Cities in West Bengal