[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shooting Dogs

roadblock, something his government contact gleefully points out. On Christopher's return to the school, Delon tells him they will begin shooting the dogs scavenging nearby bodies. Christopher sarcastically asks if the dogs have been shooting at the UN troops, in reference to their limited mandate.

French troops arrive at the base but announce they are only there to take French refugees. After a furious outburst from Delon, they agree to take all the Europeans. Joe attempts to negotiate for Marie to take his place on the trucks but is rebuffed. Rachel leaves with the French, telling Joe he should leave too. A group of refugees, including Edda, try to escape through the rear of the school but are ambushed by a mob. Most of them are killed, but a few make it back to the safety of the compound. Edda initially avoids them by hiding, but her baby begins crying, alerting the killers to her presence. As Joe watches, she and her baby are hacked to death.

Delon eventually receives orders to withdraw from the school. While the Belgians are preparing to leave, Roland begs Delon to shoot the refugees, to spare them murder by machete, but Delon refuses. Joe decides he cannot bear it anymore and leaves with Delon. He encounters Marie as he is boarding the truck and cannot say anything but "I'm sorry". Christopher elects to stay behind, before realising he can smuggle children out in the back of the school truck. He takes a small group of children, including Marie, intending to return for more, but as soon as he leaves the school, the mob attacks and massacres the remaining refugees.

Christopher is stopped at a roadblock, which is led by his friend Julius. Despite Christopher's attempts to talk his way through and appeal to their relationship, Julius is openly hostile. When Christopher refuses to cooperate, Julius fatally shoots him. Marie, observing their conversation and fearing that the truck will be searched, meanwhile manages to slip away unnoticed with the children. Christopher sees Marie escape before dying.

Footage of Marie running is intercut with interview footage over the UN's reluctance to term the events in Rwanda a "genocide". In a brief epilogue, Marie tracks down Joe, who is now a teacher at Christopher's old school, and they briefly discuss their experiences.

The film closes with information about the genocide in Rwanda and the killings at the ETO in particular, with details of the personal experiences of some of the film crew during the genocide.

Cast (credited)
 John Hurt as Father Christopher
 Hugh Dancy as Joe Connor
 Dominique Horwitz as Capitaine Charles Delon
 Louis Mahoney as Sibomana
 Nicola Walker as Rachel
 Steve Toussaint as Roland
 David Gyasi as François
 Susan Nalwoga as Edda
 Victor Power as Julius
 Jack Pierce as Mark
 Musa Kasonka Jr. as Boniface
 Kizito Ssentamu Kayiira as Pierre
 Clare-Hope Ashitey as Marie

Crew
 Director – Michael Caton-Jones
 Writers – David Wolstencroft (screenplay), Richard Alwyn (story), David Belton (story)
 Original Music – Dario Marianelli
 Cinematography – Ivan Strasburg
 Editing – Christian Lonk
 Casting – Anja Dihrberg, Karen Lindsay-Stewart
 Production Design – Bertram Strauß
 Art Direction – Astrid Sieben
 Set Decoration – Dagmar Wessel
 Costume Design – Dinah Collin

Critical response
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reports an approval rating of 84% based on 63 reviews, with an average rating of 7.2/10. The website's critical consensus reads, "Complex, human characters and on-location shooting give Beyond the Gates palpable tension and urgency." In The Guardian critic Rob Mackey wrote: "If you didn't know the story, you might expect the film to develop into a nice little culture-clash comedy… Shooting Dogs boasts a real location: the school in Kigali where a nightmare played itself out." In The New Statesman Victoria Segal wrote: "Shooting Dogs was shot in Kigali and the geography plays a significant role in generating stark fear: the oddly deserted streets, the bodies in the undergrowth, the humidity and dust. It is full of prickling moments of evil…"

Awards
1 win Heartland Film Festival 2006
Grand Prize for Dramatic Feature

See also
 Hotel Rwanda, a 2004 film dealing with the genocide that centers on the Hôtel des Mille Collines, a location also seen in Sometimes in April.
 Shake Hands with the Devil, a 2007 film based on the book of the same name recounting  General Dallaire's harrowing personal journey during the 1994 Rwandan Genocide and how the United Nations failed to heed Dallaire's urgent pleas for further assistance to halt the massacre
 Rwandan genocide

References

External links

 Does Shooting Dogs Lie?
 Acts of Genocide: Abrahamsson, Christian; Environment and Planning D 2008 26(4):736-639  Introduction to a series of academic articles discussing the film