[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eva Kaili

.

Between 2019 and 2022, Kaili was the head of the Hellenic S&D delegation until her expulsion from the party.

On 13 December 2022, the European Parliament voted to remove Kaili from her position as one of their vice presidents, with 625 votes in favor of removal, one against, and two abstentions.

Arrest and corruption charges

On 9 December 2022, Kaili was arrested by Belgian Federal Police following an investigation into organized crime, corruption and money laundering tied to lobbying efforts in support of Qatar; because Kaili enjoyed parliamentary immunity, her arrest was not on the original planning of the operation launched by Belgian authorities that day, but developments during the day led investigating judge Michel Claise (overall head of the operation) to conclude that Kaili was caught in flagrante delicto. A suitcase of cash was found with her father upon his arrest, and bags of cash were found at her home. The same day she was suspended from both the Socialists and Democratic Group with which she sits in the European Parliament and her national party PASOK. As part of the investigation, Belgian Police raided 16 homes and detained at least four others including parliamentary assistant Francesco Giorgi (Kaili's life partner), former MEP Antonio Panzeri (for whom Giorgi had worked at parliament, and with whom he had founded the human rights NGO "Fight Impunity"), and Kaili's father, Alexandros Kailis, who was arrested outside the hotel where he was staying with a suitcase of cash. During the raids over €600,000 in cash was recovered by investigators.

The arrest of Alexandros Kailis outside his hotel with the suitcase of cash led investigating judge Michel Claise to conclude that this was a case of Eva Kaili being caught In flagrante delicto; a special police team of around a dozen officers, accompanied by judge Claise in person, then headed for the home of Kaili and arrested her. Kaili did not resist, but was visibly shaken and in a state of shock and confusion, crying; Claise interrogated her for more than five hours.

Kaili's lawyers, André Risopoulos and Michalis Dimitrakopoulos, have protested the actions of Belgian authorities as a gross overreach of judicial power. In an interview with Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera, Dimitrakopoulos said that Kaili's arrest and initial interrogations were problematic because she was in a state of shock, fear and confusion and that the Belgian authorities failed to provide her with a reliable French-language interpreter.

The lawyer further claimed that it was only after a week that Kaili could testify "in a calm environment", where she was "in good enough psychological condition to be fully aware of what she was saying", and that it was "the first time she had a good interpreter".

On 12 December 2022, the Greek Anti-Money Laundering Authority announced that it had frozen all assets of Kaili and her close family members. This included all bank accounts, safes, companies and other financial assets. Of particular interest to the authorities, according to the head of the Anti-Money Laundering Authority, is a newly established real estate company in the Athens district of Kolonaki.

The timing of the arrests coincided with the 2022 FIFA World Cup being hosted in Qatar. At the time, there was significant criticism of the hosts within the European Union, but during a speech at the European Parliament, Kaili praised the country's human rights record and criticised accusations of corruption made against Qatar.

On 5 January 2023, Kaili, from the cell where she is incarcerated in Haren Prison outside Brussels, accused the Belgian authorities of "inhuman" behavior towards her. Since the day of her arrest and subsequent incarceration, she has asked for permission to meet her 22-month old daughter in prison or, failing that, to see her via Skype. However, both requests were rejected; Kaili said: "I am being tortured, this is so unfair that I cannot stand it, and I am breaking down. What is the problem with my little girl, why are they keeping her away from me?".  The authorities responded by permitting Kaili to have a three-hour meeting with her 22-month-old daughter in prison on the afternoon of 6 January; this was the first time Kaili had seen her daughter since her arrest in December. Kaili's father, Alexandros Kailis, brought the child to Haren Prison.

Kaili's three co-defendants, Francesco Giorgi (Kaili's boyfriend), Antonio Panzeri (an Italian former MEP and former Chair of the European Parliament Human Rights Subcommittee), and Niccolò Figà-Talamanca (a lobbyist and NGO activist) are described as pleading guilty to charges of corruption and money-laundering.