[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of retronyms

eries became popular in AA, AAA, C, D and PP3 form factors, all batteries in those form factors were disposable. However, rechargeable batteries back then were limited to stationary and vehicular (sometimes semi-portable) applications.
 Divided expressway/freeway (USA)  Early expressways and freeways were divided corridors, but recent concepts of freeways and expressways have included occasional undivided corridors for economic and environmental compromises, as well as an initial phase prior to twinning.  But it is unclear whether undivided versions existed first.  However, the expressway, parkway and freeway concepts were developed with divided highways in mind during the 1910s (parkways) and 1940s (freeways), the German Autobahn would be conceptualized around the same time with similar qualities to freeways.
 Dumb bomb  a bomb dropped from a bomber plane, with no guidance systems. Not used before guided missiles were invented and replaced the free-fall bombs.
 Dumb phone  A phone with either no or limited internet capabilities. These phones also have no or limited ability to run apps. Before smartphones became popular, these were simply considered ‘phones’ or ‘cellphones’. They are also sometimes referred to as feature phones or “flip phones”.
 English muffin Originally called a 'muffin' in southern England, the prefix is now used to distinguish them from the American version.

F–H
 Face-to-face conference  A conference whose participants meet in the same room, as opposed to using telephones or video cameras (similarly:IRL-meeting = in-real-life meeting).
 Farmall Regular As explained at Farmall tractor, the name Farmall began as a model name but became a sub-brand name as additional models were developed.
 Fat model  In the console collecting scene, a "Fat model" represents consoles released before a model that is more compact and has different hardware specifications. 
 Field hockey (North America)  Known simply as "hockey" (as it still is in the UK and Ireland) until ice hockey and roller hockey became popular. (In addition, there is a game called street hockey, which evolved from ice hockey.) Similarly, Field soccer (Football) and Field lacrosse (lacrosse). (Both North America)
 Film camera As opposed to digital camera. Also, the use of a film camera is often referred to as “film photography”, “analogue photography”, or “traditional photography” in order to distinguish it from digital photography.
 Film noir  Prior to the 1970s, films with "film noir" style were referred to in English-speaking countries simply as dramas or melodramas (see 'Classical Hollywood' above).  The term was coined in the 1950s by French critics who were taking the products of Hollywood more seriously than critics in the English-speaking world tended to at the time.
 First Gundam A nickname, commonly used by Japanese fans of the franchise and coined shortly after the release of Zeta Gundam. Gundam 0079 is also used in the same fashion.
 First Anglo-Dutch War  Renamed after the Second Anglo-Dutch War in 1664.
 Fixedsys  The monospaced system font in Microsoft Windows 1.x and 2.x, simply called System under those systems.  In Windows 3.0, System became a proportional font, and the original font was renamed Fixedsys. 
 Fortnite: Save the World  Originally titled Fortnite, it was renamed after the release of Fortnite: Battle Royale.
 Forward slash  Before the introduction of ASCII and electronic keyboards for computers, typewriters had only one type of slash ("/"), normally produced by the unshifted key shared with the question mark. The rise of MS-DOS brought regular use of the backslash ("\") character found on computer keyboards (for specifying directory paths). Before that time the symbol "/" was known simply as a "slash" (US) or "oblique" (UK). (Other typographical names for this character are virgule and solidus. In the UK, the character was traditionally known as an oblique stroke or, more simply, an oblique. To slash means to cut with a scything motion, which is analogous to the motion of the pen as the character is handwritten.)
 Free-range parenting  Traditionally children had less supervision prior to the 21st century; this allowed for more independence and freedom in a child's decision making. There is a modern term called helicopter parenting which refers to parents who overly monitor, plan, and get involved with their kids activities.
 French franc  The currency unit of France before the euro, which was originally the only franc, but had to be distinguished from the Belgian franc, Communauté Financière Africaine franc, and Swiss franc after those countries adopted the term.
 Friction brake  Automotive disc brake or drum brake.  Coined after the advent of the regenerative brake in electric or hybrid automobiles.
 Frizzen  This component was called the "hammer" while flintlock firearms were in use.  On percussion cap firearms which replaced flintlock the striking component was called the hammer and the term frizzen was