[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cypress Hills National Cemetery

n in New York State (which contributed the largest numbers of fighting forces in the Civil War) and the adjacent proximity of the cemetery to New York City, the nation's most populous and hence the prime source of Federal enlistments for the war effort.

The Mount of Victory (Cypress Hill Cemetery) 

Several hundred yards southeast of the Union Grounds, atop one of the higher elevations of Cypress Hill Cemetery, is another section of the national cemetery. In actual size, less than an acre and possessing at least 39 visible veteran headstones and one chaplain monument, The Mount of Victory is the smallest parcel of federal land. It is accentuated by the Eagle Monument (see below), and is visible from West Dolorosa Road. Many of those buried here are veterans of the War of 1812. The Mount of Victory is in Section 2 (plot marked 10) on grid 40.69151° N, 73.87549° W of the cemetery nearby West Dolorosa Road.

Cypress Hills National Cemetery 

The largest of the three sections of the national cemetery is located at 625 Jamaica Avenue. Visitors enter through decorative wrought iron gates constructed in 1886. The visitors lodge, built in 1887, is on the right. This Queen Anne style building has an office, meeting room and museum. There is a grave locator outside the lodge door. This section of the cemetery contains approximately 15,000 graves. Although the parcel is quite narrow, it is long, and leads to a hilltop. The cemetery is divided into 16 sections.

This cemetery also contains three British Commonwealth war graves from World War I – two sailors of the Royal Navy and one of the Merchant Navy.

Notable monuments 
There are several notable monuments in Cypress Hills. These are listed in the order that they were erected:
 The 1881 Garfield Memorial Oak Tree (Union Grounds, Section 1 F, on Cypress Way and Metropolitan Way). On November 3, 1881, the James A. Garfield Oak Society of Brooklyn planted an oak in honor of the slain 20th President of the United States. Following a storm in 1944 that damaged the oak, a new one was planted. At one time an iron fence encircled the memorial.
 The Ringgold Monument (Union Grounds, Section 1B). This large obelisk was erected by veterans who served under Colonel Benjamin Ringgold's command in the Civil War.
 British Navy Monument (Section 2, Grave No. 36). In 1908 workers at Fort Hancock, New Jersey, uncovered a buried earthen brick vault with the remains of a number of men. It was determined this was the crew of a British Navy vessel that perished in 1783 while sailing homeward following the Revolutionary War. On March 5, 1909, the remains were moved to Cypress Hills and interred in a single grave. The headstone—a large granite monument that bears the names of 14 men—was erected in 1939.
 The French Cross to honor French Sailors (Section 3).  This 12-foot (3.7 m) granite cross was erected in memory of 25 sailors of the French Navy who died while on duty in American waters in the fall of 1918. The remains of three sailors were repatriated to France; 22 are interred in Cypress Hills.
 Second Division AEF Monument (in front of rostrum).

 The Eagle Monument (Cypress Hills Section 2, The Mount of Victory). This unique hand-crafted monument of fieldstones was created by cemetery laborers around 1934. An American eagle, carved in stone was placed atop the stone pyramid.

Notable burials