[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# HMNB Devonport

His Majesty's Naval Base, Devonport (HMNB Devonport) is one of three operating bases in the United Kingdom for the Royal Navy (the others being HMNB Clyde and HMNB Portsmouth) and is the sole nuclear repair and refuelling facility for the Royal Navy. The largest naval base in Western Europe, HMNB Devonport is located in Devonport, in the west of the city of Plymouth, England.

The base began as a Royal Navy Dockyard in the late 17th century, designed and built on open ground by Edmund Dummer as an integrated facility for the repair and maintenance of warships, centred on his pioneering stone dry dock (one of the earliest stepped docks in the world). Over the next two centuries it expanded, reaching its present extent in the 20th century. Historically, the yard was also used for shipbuilding: over 300 naval vessels were built there, the last being HMS Scylla (launched in 1968). 

The yard was known as HM Dockyard, Plymouth until 1843, when it was renamed HM Dockyard, Devonport. (In the late 20th century, here as elsewhere, the term 'Naval Base' replaced 'Dockyard' in the official naval designation). 

Today HMNB Devonport serves as the home port of the Devonport Flotilla. FOST, the training hub of the front-line Fleet, is also based there, as is the Royal Navy's Amphibious Centre of Excellence (at RM Tamar). Although shipbuilding ceased at Devonport in the late 1960s, ship repair and maintenance work has continued; the now privatised maintenance facilities are operated under the name Devonport Royal Dockyard by Babcock International Group, who took over the previous owner Devonport Management Limited (DML) in 2007 (DML had been running the Dockyard since privatisation in 1987). Babcock owns around a third of the overall area of the base (having been sold the freehold in 2011).

Accommodation and support services are provided within the base for naval personnel. The Royal Naval Barracks, dating from 1889, were first commissioned as HMS Vivid, before being renamed HMS Drake in 1934. Since the early 21st century the name HMS Drake (and its command structure) has been extended to cover the entire Naval Base, while HMS Vivid is Plymouth's Royal Naval Reserve unit (which has its headquarters within the base).

The Naval Base today

The Naval Base as a whole covers an area of  with four miles (6 km) of waterfront; it has twenty-five tidal berths, five basins and fourteen dry docks (docks numbered 1 to 15, but there is no 13 Dock). The base employs 2,500 service personnel and civilians, supports circa 400 local firms and contributes approximately 10% to the income of Plymouth. The Naval Base commander has in recent years been a Commodore (RN), but in 2022 Brigadier Mike Tanner took command (the first Royal Marine officer to be appointed to the role).

Devonport Flotilla
In 2009 the Ministry of Defence announced the conclusion of a long-running review of the long-term role of three naval bases. It was decided that Devonport would no longer be used as a base for attack submarines (these were subsequently moved to Faslane), and that the Type 45 destroyers would be based at Portsmouth; however, Devonport retains a long-term role as the dedicated home of the amphibious fleet, survey vessels and more than half the frigate fleet (as well as HMS Triumph, the only remaining  nuclear-powered hunter-killer submarine). In 2018 the Defence Secretary announced that the proposed new Type 26 frigates would all be based at Devonport. 

Ships based at the port are known as the Devonport Flotilla; they include:

Amphibious assault ships

 HMS Albion landing platform dock; (Entering "reduced readiness" (partial ship manning) as of July 2023)
 HMS Bulwark landing platform dock (Regeneration refit scheduled to complete in 2024).

Type 23 frigates

 
 
  
 
  
  (Currently in LIFEX refit)
  (Currently in LIFEX refit)
In changes to base porting arrangements announced in November 2017, HM Ships Argyll, Monmouth and Montrose were all to join the Portsmouth Flotilla (however, Monmouth retired in 2021 and Montrose decommissioned in 2023); HM Ships , Richmond,  and St Albans moved in the opposite direction, to Devonport. Richmond also became a Devonport ship on completion of her refit. St Albans moved to Devonport in July 2019 in preparation for her major refit. Westminster is inactive, with her life-extension refit having been suspended in May 2023.

Trafalgar-class submarine

  (completed refit and returned to sea for post-refit trials December 2022)

Survey ships

Antarctic patrol ship

Aviation Support Ship
 RFA Argus (forward deployed as part of Littoral Response Group (South))

Fast Fleet Tankers
 RFA Wave Ruler (in extended readiness - uncrewed reserve; laid up at Seaforth Docks)
 RFA Wave Knight (in extended readiness - uncrewed reserve; laid up in Portsmouth)