[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Janissaries (novel)

ocals led by a young woman named Tylara, a former duchess of Drantos, who recently escaped the captivity of Sarakos. She is fleeing with two companions back to her homeland, Tamaerthon, where her father Drumold is Grand Chief. Rick decides to join them, and in due course gains his people a new home.

When they arrive Rick learns that the highland-living Tamaerthans, who are descended from Celtic arrivals from over 2,000 years ago, have a desperate problem. Due to adverse weather conditions their recent harvest was poor and many will starve in the coming winter unless something is done. Rick organizes and trains the Tamaerthans to fight more effectively, mingling their exceptional longbowmen with defensive pikemen. He then leads them on a raid on an outpost of the neighboring, powerful empire established by humans kidnapped from ancient Rome during the reign of Septimius Severus. The local Roman governor, Marselius, attacks with his heavy, cataphract-like cavalry and is soundly defeated by the pike-longbow combination of the Tamaerathans. After winning the battle, the Tamaerathans obtain enough food to last the winter.  Paradoxically, Rick manages to form an alliance with Marcellus that will ensure there will be no reprisals for the raid. Tylara and Rick fall in love and prepare to be married in the spring.

Then an opportunity arises to restore Tylara to her former position in Drantos, which will put Rick squarely in opposition to Parsons and his remaining men (two-thirds having deserted).  Initially reluctant, Rick comes up with a plan to end Sarakos's dominion over Drantos and begins production of artillery superior to anything except the heavy weapons of the mercenaries.  On the eve of battle, having prepared a gunpowder mine trap to kill all of Parsons' men just before dawn, Rick decides to meet with Parsons to try to get him to switch sides in an attempt to avoid killing the mercenaries.  Parsons attempts to assassinate him, however Tylara shoots him first.  With the death of Parsons, all of his mercenaries join Rick.  Without their support, and with the modern tactics and weapons, Sarakos is easily defeated.

Adaptation
In February 2013, Variety reported that motion picture rights to Janissaries had been acquired by the newly formed Goddard Film Group, headed by Gary Goddard. In October 2013, the IMDbPro site reported that the movie was in development, and that husband-and-wife writing team, Judith and Garfield Reeves-Stevens, had written the screenplay.

References

External links
 
 Chaos Manor - Jerry Pournelle's website

1979 science fiction novels
Janissaries series
1979 American novels
Novels by Jerry Pournelle
Ace Books books