[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 90]
# Politics — Aristotle

ustomed to say this as if here only liberty was to be found; for
they affirm that this is the end proposed by every democracy. But one
part of liberty is to govern and be governed alternately; for, according
to democratical justice, equality is measured by numbers, and not by
worth: and this being just, it is necessary that the supreme power
should be vested in the people at large; and that what the majority
determine should be final: so that in a democracy the poor ought to have
more power than the rich, as being the greater number; for this is one
mark of liberty which all framers of a democracy lay down as a criterion
of that state; another is, to live as every one likes; for this, they
say, is a right which liberty gives, since he is a slave who must live
as he likes not. This, then, is another criterion of a democracy. Hence
arises the claim to be under no command whatsoever to any one, upon any
account, any otherwise than by rotation, and that just as far only as
that person is, in his turn, under his also. This also is conducive to
that equality which liberty demands. These things being premised, and
such being the government, it follows that such rules as the following
should be observed in it, that all the magistrates should be chosen out
of all the people, and all to command each, and each in his turn all:
that all the magistrates should be chosen by lot, except to those
offices only which required some particular knowledge and skill: that no
census, or a very small one, should be required to qualify a man for any
office: that none should be in the same employment twice, or very few,
and very seldom, except in the army: that all their appointments should
be limited to a very short time, or at least as many as possible:
that the whole community should be qualified to judge in all causes
whatsoever, let the object be ever so extensive, ever so interesting, or
of ever so high a nature; as at Athens, where the people at large judge
the magistrates when they come out of office, and decide concerning
public affairs as well as private contracts: that the supreme power
should be in the public assembly; and that no magistrate should be
allowed any discretionary power but in a few instances, and of no
consequence to public business. Of all magistrates a senate is best
suited to a democracy, where the whole community is not paid for giving
their attendance; for in that case it loses its power; for then the
people will bring all causes before them, by appeal, as we have
already mentioned in a former book. In the next place, there should, if
possible, be a fund to pay all the citizens--who have any share in the
management of public affairs, either as members of the assembly, judges,
and magistrates; but if this cannot be done, at least the magistrates,
the judges the senators, and members of the supreme assembly, and also
those officers who are obliged to eat at a common table ought to be
paid. Moreover, as an oligarchy is said to be a government of men of
family, fortune, and education; so, on the contrary, a democracy is a
government in the hands of men of no birth, indigent circumstances, and
mechanical employments. In this state also no office [1318a] should be
for life; and, if any such should remain after the government has been
long changed into a democracy, they should endeavour by degrees to
diminish the power; and also elect by lot instead of vote. These things,
then, appertain to all democracies; namely, to be established on that
principle of justice which is homogeneous to those governments; that is,
that all the members of the state, by number, should enjoy an equality,
which seems chiefly to constitute a democracy, or government of the
people: for it seems perfectly equal that the rich should have no more
share in the government than the poor, nor be alone in power; but that
all should be equal, according to number; for thus, they think, the
equality and liberty of the state best preserved.




CHAPTER III


In the next place we must inquire how this equality is to be procured.
Shall the qualifications be divided so that five hundred rich should be
equal to a thousand poor, or shall the thousand have equal power with
the five hundred? or shall we not establish our equality in this manner?
but divide indeed thus, and afterwards taking an equal number both out
of the five hundred and the thousand, invest them with the power of
creating the magistrates and judges. Is this state then established
according to perfect democratical justice, or rather that which is
guided by numbers only? For the defenders of a democracy say, that that
is just which the majority approve of: but the favourers of an oligarchy
say, that that is just which those who have most approve of; and that we
ought to be directed by the value of property. Both the propositions are
unjust; for if we agree with what the few propose we erect a tyranny:
for if it