[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Denia, Haifa

Denia (; other spellings Danya, Dania, Denya) is a district of Haifa, Israel, located on Mount Carmel. Denia and its associated neighborhoods capture the southernmost part of Haifa's jurisdiction area, which is also the highest-elevated topographically, and make up the city's altogether most affluent as well as least densely populated residential borough, with a population count of slightly more than 11,000 in 2008. It lies approximately 5 kilometers in a beeline from downtown Haifa (whereas twisting roads due to intervening hills and wadis make actual distance bigger) and is crossed by Aba Hushi Avenue, which has made the district sometimes be referred to as the "Aba Hushi Axis". It is bordered by Nesher to the east, Nave Sha'anan to northeast, Ahuza to the north, Tirat Carmel to the west and the Mount Carmel National Park, among which portions of Hof HaCarmel Regional Council are interspersed, to the south. The University of Haifa's main campus, with its identifiable Eshkol Tower, is located in the borough.

As early as the 1930s there were attempts made to develop the then-empty area, which was rugged and wildly wooded, as a part of the Yishuv's strains of extending Haifa southwards whilst exercising environmental and landscape values - which later led to the declaration of the Carmel Park, tightly bordered by the district.

Name 
The first houses were built by the Danya Cebus infrastructure company, and the company name's first word was commonly adopted by the neighborhood's settlers; however, the first street, which was named Denia Street, was later decided to be rather attributed to Denmark – in Hebrew sometimes called Danya, and many of the roads whose construction followed also received names of countries and cities with significance to Haifa or Israel, such as Finland Street, Costa Rica Street and Hague Street.

Denia A and Denia B 

The original kernel of Denia, in official references sometimes appearing as "Hod HaCarmel", was established in the early 1960s, to the west of Road 672 which connects Haifa with Daliyat al-Karmel (later named after Mayor Aba Hushi), and the new neighborhood was actually so remote that it had no built-area continuity with any other existing community. The failed initial prospect of attracting military officers as residents was replaced by the explicit attempt of creating a millionaire-suburbia at the forest's doorstep, giving rise to the city's wealthy families beginning to buy the exceptionally large lots on which ambitiously designed properties were built, frontaged by spectacular gardening. In 1971, a decade after the plan for the first neighborhood was made, the authorities gave a green light to a part-two to be built westward down the same mountain ridge extension. This younger neighborhood, consisting overwhelmingly of duplexes and houses with backyard swimming pools, is the most secluded of neighborhoods, with the older Denia (now known as "Aleph", or A) as a sole access to and from the main road. The extreme-western houses coincide the town of Tirat Carmel; however, the residents have objected the suggested construction of a road that would connect them with that low-rated town. Surrounded by lush wadi gorges from three directions, Denia Beth (or B) has a country club and a considerable share of its population are employees of the IT research and development hubs of southern Haifa.

As of the 2000s, demographic data suggest that Denia A's inhabitants mean age is one of the highest in the borough and in Haifa. The two neighbourhoods share a small commercial centre, as well as a community centre and a public library.

Ramat Golda and Ramat Almogi 
The cluster of neighborhoods that constitute the greater Denia also in many senses includes the twin-communities of Ramat Golda ("Golda Height") and Ramat Almogi ("Almogi Height") – named respectively after Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir and Haifa mayor Yosef Almogi. Ramat Golda, the older of the two, was built mainly during the 1980s, adjacent to Road 672, and is appreciated for its unobstructed westward view to the Mediterranean. Parallelly stretching on the eastern bank of the highway, the construction of Ramat Almogi was commenced in mid-1990s and has continued into the 21st century, with more multiple-tenant units and condominiums, rare to Denia's older parts. It typically attracts younger families.

Ramat Aba Hushi