[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Franz Alexander

ng for treatment? See further Intensive short-term dynamic psychotherapy.

The corrective emotional experience

In the forties ... Franz Alexander, following the lead of Sandor Ferenczi, proposed ... the form of a "corrective emotional experience", which enjoyed an enormous vogue.

Alexander stated:

The concept provoked much controversy, provoking opposition from figures as disparate as Kurt R. Eissler, Edward Glover, and Jacques Lacan, who later said 'I did not hesitate to attack it myself in the most categorical way ... at the 1950 Congress of Psychiatry, but, it is the construction of a man of great talent'.

By the sixties, Alexander's conception was in retreat, and at the close of the following decade an analyst could ask rhetorically 'Who talks about Franz Alexander today — except those who want to put down his "corrective emotional experience" or to deny, as the Kohutians are at constant pains to do, that they are offering more of the same?'. Ongoing developments in object relations theory and the rise of self psychology would however lead to a revival of interest in the idea.

It was championed again by Moberly (1985).  In the latter's view, corrective emotional experience represents essentially what is therapeutic in analysis'.  Even those with continuing reservations about the idea conceded that 'when Alexander was writing ... it was pertinent for him to be drawing attention to the therapeutic value of the emotional experience of patients in analysis'.

In the twenty-first century, the term has passed into common psychodynamic parlance.  Thus notions of testing the relationship in cognitive therapy are seen as 'not dissimilar to the notion of the "corrective emotional experience" in psychodynamic therapy'; elucidation in existential therapy as opening up 'new experiences with the therapist, thus providing a corrective interpersonal experience'.

Publications
 1931, The Criminal, the judge and the public: A psychological analysis. (Together with Hugo Staub. Orig. ed. transl. by Gregory Zilboorg).
 1960, The Western mind in transition : an eyewitness story.  New York: Random House.
 1961, The Scope of psychoanalysis 1921 - 1961: selected papers. 2. pr. New York: Basic Books.
 1966, Psychoanalytic Pioneers. New York; London: Basic Books.
 1968, The history of psychiatry; An evaluation of psychiatric thought and practice from prehistoric times to the present (co-author Sheldon T. Selesnick). New York [etc.]: New American Libr.
 1969 [c1935] (with William Healy) Roots of crime: psychoanalytic studies, Montclair NJ: Patterson Smith.
 1980, Psychoanalytic therapy. Principles and application. Franz Alexander and Thomas Morton French.
 1984, The medical value of psychoanalysis. New York: Internat. Universities Pr., 1984. .
 1987, Psychosomatic Medicine: Its Principles and Applications. 2nd. ed., New York; London: Norton. .

See also
Bertram D. Lewin
Gregory Zilboorg
The Martians (scientists)

References

Further reading 

E. R. Moberly, The Psychology of Self and Other (London 1985)

 Kurt Eissler: The Chicago Institute of Psychoanalysis and the sixth period of the development of psychoanalytic technique (1950) – Psychomedia Telematic Review (a critical comment to the Alexander's 1946 essay on "The corrective emotional experience")

External links 

 mek.iif.hu
 The corrective emotional experience (1946) (chapters 2, 4, and 17 of the book by Franz Alexander, Thomas M. French et al., Psychoanalytic Therapy: Principles and Application. New York: Ronald Press, 1946)

1891 births
1964 deaths
Physicians from Budapest
University of Chicago faculty
Hungarian psychologists
20th-century American psychologists
American psychoanalysts
Hungarian psychoanalysts
Jewish psychoanalysts
Jewish Hungarian scientists
Hungarian emigrants to the United States
Analysands of Hanns Sachs
Hungarian criminologists
American criminologists