[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of S.H.I.E.L.D. members

ire storyline where a Hydra-controlled S.H.I.E.L.D. takes over the United States and is later disbanded.
 Daisy Johnson (Quake) – Tenth known executive director. Former protégé of Nick Fury and daughter of Calvin Zabo/Mister Hyde.
 Phil Coulson – Level 8 Agent.        
 Seth Burnett – Level 12 Agent

Notable Agents (Pre-Civil War)
 Agent 22
 Agent 74 – Sent to battle Vamp to demonstrate her abilities to Captain America.
 Agent M – Expert in the Microverse.
 John Allen Adams – Head of ESP squad.
 Agent Boyer undercover unit, dating Joe
 Dr. Ames – Medical surgeon stationed at Central.
 Anderson
 Earl Angstrum – Senior agent. His son was killed by the mutation of former Deathlok John Kelly (Biohazard).
 Artie – Member of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Superhuman Cleanup Department of Sanitation (SCUDS).
 Ashton – He is in charge of securing the alien spaceship of Golden Blade and Sapper.
 Ken Avery – Thirty-year veteran. A senior officer aboard the Helicarrier.
 Bainbridge
 Balaban – Serving on the Helicarrier with G. W. Bridge.
 Baker – Stationed aboard the Helicarrier.
 Ted Bailey – Stationed at front company D-Fleks Industries. Briefly carried consciousness of Jack Truman.
 Beefcake  –  LMD assigned to the Hulkbusters unit.
 Bradley Beemer – Part of the Howling Commandos monster force. He is also the Area 13 technical chief.
 Bellini – Ranking officer at the Venice, Italy, station.
 Berdino
 Berger – Formerly stationed in a training camp in Saudi Arabia. She accompanied Nick Fury to investigate a base in the Middle East.
 Bill – Partner of Joe. He picked up Agent L's microfilm from unnamed agents, but blew up his own car to stop HYDRA agents. It is yet to be confirmed whether he survived or not.
 Blake
 Sally Blevins (Skids) – A mutant who infiltrated two factions of the Morlocks, later involved in intrigue among Hawkeye, the Winter Soldier and Black Widow.
 Boothroyd – Administrator in charge of personal effects department. Probable transfer from MI-6. Could also be a reference to Major Boothroyd, the equipment officer code-named "Q" in the James Bond movie series.
 Abigail Brand – Head of S.W.O.R.D. (Sentient World Observation and Response Department), a subdivision of S.H.I.E.L.D. She is a hybrid mutant and alien. 
 Joseph Bricklemoore  –  Agent of the Mutant Task Force that infiltrated the Jean Grey School Student Body by using MGH (Mutant Growth Hormone) to become the mutate Tri-Joey.
 Josephine Bricklemoore  –  Agent of the Mutant Task Force that infiltrated the Jean Grey School Student Body by using MGH (Mutant Growth Hormone) to become the mutate Squidface.
 Bubba – Member of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Alpha Team.
 Barth Bukowski – Regional Director in Los Angeles.
 Jenna Carlisle – Forensics agent and adrenaline junkie.
 Mitch Carson – Security agent under Dum Dum Dugan.
 Carstairs  –  Member of the Alpha Team Armored Squad.
 Monica Chang – Chief of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Artificial Intelligence division.
 Cheesecake  –  LMD assigned to the Hulkbusters unit.
 Isadore "Izzy" Cohen – Former private first class in Fury's World War II squad. Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D.
 Colburn – Agent who noted traffic on the Project Contingency files at HQ.
 Colletti  –  Member of the Alpha Team Armored Squad.
 William Collins – Division commander who led the battle to raze the slave-camp island of the Red Skull and the Hate-Monger.
 Phil Coulson - Also known as the Agent, he is the main Agent of the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
 Crimson – Head of Magic-Ops division and assigned to the Hulkbusters unit.
 Cross – Friend of Contessa Valentina.
 Valentina Allegra de Fontaine – Former Special Director at Public Relations. Senior liaison officer to MI5. Level 9 agent. Revealed to have been replaced by a Skrull.
 Jessica Drew – The original Spider-Woman. Level 7 agent.
 Stanley Dreyfuss – Elektra's contact on Operation: Lock Kiss. Later learns he is a Life Model Decoy.
 Joanie "Nails" Eaton – Member of the Elite Agents.
 John Facchino – Human resources department.
 Rigby Fallon – Boy genius in the Artificial Intelligence division. Wrote most of the programs for the latter-day Helicarrier.
 Farrell  –  Member of the Alpha Team Armored Squad.
 E.B. Farrell – Weapons expert for the Elite Agents. Calls himself "the Kid".
 Fisher – Dawn Helicarrier technician.
 Nick Fury, Jr. – Son of Nick Fury. Also known as Marcus Johnson.
 Gerrard – Field agent for the Foreign Affairs office.
 Giulietta – Technician at the Venice, Italy, station.
 Gomez  –  Member of the Alpha Team Armored Squad.
 Herrick Goldman – Among group of renegade agents attempting to take over the Helicarrier for the impromptu war crimes trial of a KGB agent.
 Hazeltine – Intelligence agent at Central.
 Hugh Howard – Pilot and mechanic aboard Behemoth IV Helicarrier, charged with capturing Godzilla. The name is a reference to aviator, engineer, and multi-billionaire Howard Hughes.
 Jerry Hunt – Agent assigned to Scotland Yard. Former lover of Jessica Drew.
 Horatio Huxley – Ranking executive of Level 13. He