[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nashat Akram

teammates Younis Mahmoud, Alaa Abdul-Zahra, and Ali Rehema.
where he added the Qatari Stars Cup to his trophy tally after winning it in March, where he scored an 85th-minute winner against his former club Lekhwiya in the Semi Final. Al Wakrah once again finished 7th in the league with Nashat Akram.

Al-Nasr
At the beginning of the season, Nashat signed with Al-Nasr Dubai. On 24 September 2012 he won his first league game started in the UAE Pro-League against Al Jazira. On 29 September Nashat scored his first goal for the club in the UAE Pro-League against Al Wasl in a 2–2 draw, next fixture after that on 5 October Nashat scored in 4–2 win against Al Shabab then after that Al-Nasr won 6–1 against Ittihad Kalba with Nashat Akram on the score sheet. Nashat left the club in February to return to his home country of Iraq.

Al-Shorta

On 17 February 2013, Nashat signed a contract with his former club Al Shorta after 10 years abroad. He said that he wished to fulfill the dreams of Al Shorta's fans and win the Iraqi Premier League. He was given the number 15 shirt, formerly worn by Abbas Rehema who had just left to join Al-Talaba. Nashat scored on his first start for Al Shorta with a free-kick in a comfortable 3–0 win against Al-Sinaa. He went on to score against Al-Najaf FC, Erbil SC, Zakho FC, Karbalaa FC and in the Baghdad Derby against Al-Zawraa in his return season, captaining his side to their third Iraqi Premier League title. He also gave the captain's armband to Amjad Kalaf in the last match of the season to allow him to be the first man to lift the trophy for Al Shorta. The Maestro, as he is called by the Al Shorta supporters, continued to be a key player for the team as his side started the 2013–14 in an attempt to defend their title, scoring a goal against Al-Karkh SC before leaving the club.

Dalian Aerbin
On 11 February 2014, Nashat free transferred from Al-Shorta to the Chinese Super League, signing a 2-years contract with Dalian Aerbin. He made his debut with this team on 22 March against Henan Jianye in the Chinese Super League, playing the first half and being substituted in the 53 minute for Sun Bo. His debut match ended in a 2–2 draw between the two teams. Nashat played three matches with this team and then he stopped due to injury. Because of Injuries and Nashat failing to adjusting to the lifestyle in China he terminated his contract, but the matter was acrimonious and resulted in a case before the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS 2015/A/4039) which he lost and he was ordered to pay compensation to the Chinese club. He returned to Al Shorta.

Al-Shorta
On 17 August 2014, Nashat re-signed for Al-Shorta after his unsuccessful spell in China. The news of his arrival at the club excited supporters who hoped that he could replicate the form he showed in the 2012–13 season and help the club to win the league title again. However, after just two games at the club, Nashat left the club due to Ayad Bunyan (Nashat's father-in-law) being voted out from his position as president of the club. He became a free agent and said that he would only play for Al-Shorta if Ayad Bunyan was the president.

Erbil
In February 2015, Nashat signed a contract with Erbil SC, but only to play AFC Cup matches. He made his debut against FC Istiklol, coming on as a substitute in the 72nd minute and assisting Erbil's final goal in a 3–1 victory. He made another substitute appearance against Qadsia SC, coming on in the 71st minute of a 1–0 loss. He made his final appearance for the club in a 2–1 defeat to Ahal FK, starting the match before getting subbed off on 73 minutes while the scores were still levelled at 1–1.

Nashat announced his retirement in April 2015 after becoming a father.

International career

Youth team 
Nashat Akram made his name as the star player in Iraq's U-17s managed by Ammo Baba, who finished 2nd in their Asian Cup qualifiers group in July 2000. He was later called up by Adnan Hamad into the Iraq Under-19s. He was instrumental in the 6–0 demolition of Pakistan, setting up 2 goals in 6 minutes. He was a regular until he was replaced at half time against Korea Republic due to a tactical change; he later made appearances late on in games and created openings with his inspirational play. In part due to his efforts, Iraq won the AFC Youth Championship 2000 and qualified to the 2001 FIFA World Youth Championship in Argentina. Later he was nominated the Asian Young Footballer of the Year.

Iraq national team 
He made his international debut on 5 October 2001 in a World Cup qualification match against Saudi Arabia in Amman at the age of only 17 years and 23 days. On 15 June 2008 Nashat Akram scored a goal against China in China, to make an important 2 – 1 win for Iraq and gave a hope for qualifying to the next stage.