[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 2006 Ivory Coast toxic waste dump

compensation to victims. "The BBC has played a leading role in bringing to the public's attention the actions of Trafigura in the illegal dumping of 500 tonnes of hazardous waste", the statement said. "The dumping caused a public health emergency with tens of thousands of people seeking treatment."

The BBC did not agree to remove further allegations about the dumping such as 16 September article:- "Trafigura knew of waste dangers"; this quoted from internal Trafigura emails which showed that the company knew the waste was toxic before they dumped it. In one, a Trafigura employee says "This operation is no longer allowed in the European Union, the United States and Singapore" it is "banned in most countries due to the 'hazardous nature of the waste'" and another says "environmental agencies do not allow disposal of the toxic caustic."

Daniel Pearl Award
On 24 April 2010, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists presented the Daniel Pearl Award for Outstanding International Investigative Reporting to the team of journalists who had revealed the story of Trafigura and the Côte d'Ivoire toxic waste dump. The award went to the British journalists Meirion Jones and Liz MacKean from BBC Newsnight and David Leigh from The Guardian, Synnove Bakke and Kjersti Knudsson from Norwegian TV, and Jeroen Trommelen from the Dutch paper De Volkskrant. The citation says the award was for reports "which exposed how a powerful offshore oil trader tried to cover up the poisoning of 30,000 West Africans".

Probo Koala
The vessel (renamed Gulf Jash) was initially heading to Chittagong, Bangladesh for dismantling. However, the Government of Bangladesh imposed a ban on the ship from entering into its waters and therefore, as of June 2011, the ship was reportedly headed for Alang, India. In August 2011 it was again renamed the Hua Feng. In 2012 the ship, renamed to Hua Wen, was operating between China and Indonesia, and in 2013 she entered a ship breaking yard in Taizhou, China where she was due for demolition.

 See also 
 Health crisis

 References 

External links
 Amnesty International and Greenpeace Netherlands: The Toxic Truth - About a company called Trafigura, a ship called the Probo Koala, and the dumping of toxic waste in Côte d’Ivoire. Amnesty International Publications, London 2012, . (PDF, 232 pages, 7.6 Mb )
The Trafigura files and how to read them – internal Trafigura emails published by The Guardian''
 Minton Report

2006 health disasters
2006 industrial disasters
2006 in Ivory Coast
Man-made disasters in Ivory Coast
Environment of Ivory Coast
Waste disposal incidents
Environmental disasters in Africa
2006 in the environment
Abidjan
August 2006 events in Africa
2006 disasters in Africa
Environmental controversies
Ocean pollution
Health in Ivory Coast
2006 in international relations
Health disasters in Africa