[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Economy of Montenegro

s the currency of the country in March 2002.
 
The banking sector of Montenegro has a significant share of foreign capital. Banks in Montenegro provide both retail and corporate banking products under one roof, and most offer non-resident accounts, usually to both natural persons and legal entities.

The Montenegro Stock Exchange, founded in 1993, was strengthened in 2011 when it merged to become the sole stock exchange in the country. It is owned by a number of financial institutions.

Infrastructure

In the 2007 Great Recession the economic growth slowed, as several infrastructure projects, such as the development of Velika Plaža, Ada Bojana, Buljarica, Jaz Beach, and the construction of the Bar-Boljare motorway and new power plants had to be postponed. 

The Port of Bar is the country's primary communication with the maritime trade. Its terminal is specialized in bulk shipment of bauxite and other ores, grain, wood products, acetic acid and petroleum derivatives. In 2019 its allowable draft was reported as 12.8m and several private storage tanks exist on site, to service trade. Ro–Ro traffic from Bari and Ancona is handled through an operational quay which is 400m long with water depth of between 4m and 5.9m.

Industry
The 2007 recession was difficult for the Podgorica Aluminium Plant, which was initially built in 1969 and was the biggest single contributor to the Montenegrin gross domestic product. The plant, first sold to Oleg Deripaska's En+ Group in 2005, declared bankruptcy in 2013 and was sold to local magnate Veselin Pejovic's Uniprom in 2014.

Tourism

With 300km of coastline, backed by mountains, Montenegro is proving to be a desirable holiday destination and generated around 25% of Montenegro's GDP. Covid restrictions in 2020 saw Montenegro suffer a 15% drop in GDP and high unemployment in the tourist sector before rebounding in 2021. Montenegro prefers luxurious and upscale projects to attract tourists, encouraging foreign investment to create the facilities.

Agriculture of Montenegro
In July 2006 prior to EU integration efforts a survey document was produced by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management for the EU-funded project Agriculture and Rural Development Strategy of Montenegro. The Statistical Office of Montenegro learned as late as November 2021 how to collect its data in formats acceptable to the European Commission.

Since 2010 agricultural trade relations between the EU and Montenegro have been governed by the EU-Montenegro Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and with the exception of beef, sugar and wine all agricultural products originating in Montenegro can enter the EU duty free. The EU has a large agri-food trade surplus with Montenegro, and exports meat, dairy and food preparations. The EU mainly imports vegetables such as mushrooms, wine and oils from Montenegro.

It was reported by the EC Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development in March 2019 that the share of agriculture in Montenegro's GDP was 8%. Agricultural land accounts for 38% of the total. Olives and citrus fruits are grown in the coastal region, while seasonal vegetables and tobacco are produced in the central areas. In the north of the country ungulates dominate the farming. The largest share of the land consists of pasture and grassland.

Montenegro became a member of the UN International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) in 2015, which notes that the rural population represents one-third of the total. In 2019 the IFAD focused its activities "on the key challenges of better connectivity and higher productivity by (i) fostering the graduation of micro and small agricultural holdings from the current non-viable subsistence-type agriculture toward semi-commercial and commercial agriculture, through investments in pro-poor rural infrastructure, (ii) promoting the aggregation of smallholders within inclusive value chain clusters and (iii) supporting the proactive role of municipalities to deploy investment to promote inclusion for entire sectors of the rural population."

Over the years 2009 to 2019 the World Bank contributed a development project called the Montenegro Institutional Development and Agriculture Strengthening Project, by which (amongst other highlights) the food safety system was upgraded in EU compliant manners, a Border Inspection Post with veterinary and phyto-sanitary controls was established in the Port of Bar, an electronic farm register was created, procedures for the classification of farm and food  establishments were completed according to EU norms, and the Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory in Podgorica was accredited in ISO 17025 analysis methods.

Import/Export statistics