[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Teapacks

e band released the non-album single "Avaryan tzatzua" (Petty Criminal), a tie-in song to Oz' book of the same name, which was released concurrently with the song. The following year, they released the non-album singles "Hayamim haacherim" (Other Days) and "Kol yom ani kimaat" (Every Day I Feel...).

In June 2003, Teapacks released the single "Rikudei amba" (Amba Dancing - a parody of the rikudei am dances popular in Israel) and their greatest hits album Kol halehitim, featuring a bonus disc Haosef Haalternateapacks containing "Avaryan tzatzua", "Kol yom ani kimaat", five more songs from their albums and five remixes. Kol halehitim also featured a cover of the Israeli national anthem Hatikva, performed with Sarit Hadad. A Russian version of "Rikudei amba", "Tantsuyem amba", was also recorded, being released for free from the Teapacks website at that time and as a B-side to a promotional single.

In 2005, the group released the non-album single "Sof hashavua masiba" (Weekend Party). The following year, they released the album Radio/Musika/Ivrit (either "Radio/Music/Hebrew" or "Radio Hebrew Music"), featuring the singles "Kluv shel zahav" (Cage of Gold) and "Perach ha-shchunot" (Flower of the Community). The song "Hora nadlanim' (Real Estate Agent's Hora) was also translated into English and released as "Money Trees Forever".

Eurovision and breakup: 2007-2009 
On 7 January 2007, Teapacks were internally selected by IBA's Eurovision Committee to represent Israel in the Eurovision Song Contest held in Helsinki, Finland. On 27 February 2007, Teapacks performed four songs, "Push the Button", "Salam Salami", "12 Points" and "Voulez Vous", in a TV special. "Push the Button" was chosen as the Israeli entry for the 2007 Eurovision Contest by popular vote.

The band performed "Push the Button" at the Eurovision Semi Finals on 10 May 2007, but it failed to qualify for the finals. The song was controversial because of references to Iran and nuclear war.

Teapacks officially disbanded on 1 January 2009. In an interview with Mako on 10 November 2008, Oz stated that the three constant members (himself, Yosifov and Peremen) had become tired of working together. During their breakup, Oz released two solo albums, Mizmorei nevochim (Psalms for the Perplexed) and Mizmorim nosafim (More Psalms), while Yosifov concentrated on teaching guitar and collaborated with Moran Cohen-Talmor on several albums.

Reunion and return of Yemini: 2014-present 

In 2014, Teapacks reformed and began to tour. Their latest album, Avodat kapayim (Manual Labour), was released in September 2016, preceded by the singles "Mi haprovintsial" (What's With the Provincial), "Tsemed ayalot" (Two Deer), "Layla layla tov (Good Night, Good Night), "Avodat kapayim" and "Lo haya lano klum" (We Had Nothing). Yemini also returned to Teapacks, but during his time away from them, he had become an Orthodox Jew. Due to this, when the video to "Mi haprovintzial" was filmed in February 2016, he was replaced with Motti Yosef. Oz explained in an interview with Israel Hayom the rabbinical hoops the band had to jump through to keep performing with Yemini. The live show since 2014 features a PowerPoint presentation with the lyrics running behind the band, synced with the songs. This is a habit Oz brought to the group from his solo work - new band members Adam Mader (mandolin), Sefi Hirsch (violin), Shachar Yampolsky (keyboards, acoustic guitar), Danielle Krief (backing vocals) and Noam Chen (percussion) all played in Oz' solo band and joined Teapacks in 2014.

A website called ooooiiii.com, featuring the chorus of "Harabi Joe Capara" on a loop, was created in 2006 and became popular in 2011 after being featured on Vsauce.

Discography

Studio albums 
 Shvil Klipot Hagarinim (The Path of Sunflower Seeds) - 1992
 Ha'acharon Ba'asiron Hatachton (The Last of the Lower Class) - 1993
 Hachaim Shelcha Be'laffa (Your Life in a Laffa) - 1995
 Klavim Lo Novchim Beyarok (Dogs Do Not Bark When It’s Green) - 1996 (Motion Picture Soundtrack)
 Neshika Ladod (A Kiss to the Uncle) - 1997
 Disco Menayak (Disco Jerk; this word is also a derogatory slang for a Police officer) - 1999
 Yoshvim Beveit Caffe (Sitting in a Coffee Shop) - 2001
 Radio Musica Ivrit (Radio Hebrew Music) - 2006
 Avodat Kapayim (Manual Labour) - 2016

Compilations 
 Kol Halehitim (Hit Collection) - 2003
 Haosef Haromanti (Romantic Collection) - 2010
 Shirim Nosafim (More Songs) - 2016