[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Spanish Republican Air Force

ience in Spain by Soviet pilots and technicians as essential for his plans regarding the capability and combat readiness of the Soviet Air Forces. Therefore, much emphasis was placed on detailed reporting of the results of the testing of the new Russian military equipment and air-warfare techniques.

The first planes that came to Spain were Tupolev SB bombers; the fighters would arrive later. Their first action was a morale-lifting bombing raid on the Talavera de la Reina military airfield used by the Legionary Nazi and Italian planes that dropped their bombs over Madrid every day. This action made the Russian pilots very popular among the people in Madrid. The Katiuska pilots took advantage for the time being of their aircraft's relatively higher speed, but the plane was vulnerable and its fuel tanks easily caught fire when shot at. Furthermore, when the Condor Legion brought the speedier Messerschmitt Bf 109 fighters later in the war, the SB squadrons suffered heavy losses.

Anatol Serov, nicknamed "Mateo Rodrigo", established the Escuadrilla de Vuelo Nocturno fighter squadron along with Mikhail Yakushin. This night-flight section would use I-15 Chatos that had modified exhaust pipes, so that the flames in front would not impair the pilot's night vision. M. Yakushin would become the leader of the Night Fighter Squadron that would be quite effective against the Condor Legion Ju 52 night bombing raids.

There were about 300 Russian pilots in or around Madrid by the end of November 1936. The improved defensive capacity of the Spanish Republic boosted the morale of the areas of Spain under loyalist control. The Russian pilots gave their best performance in the Battle of Guadalajara, routing the Italian Aviazione Legionaria and pounding the Fascist militias incessantly from the air.

Following the demands of the Non-Intervention Committee, Soviet pilots were phased out in the fall of 1938 and trained Spanish airmen took their places after having been trained at the flying schools of Albacete, Alicante, Murcia, El Palomar, Alhama, Los Alcázares, Lorca or El Carmolí that had been set up by the Soviet military.

From about 772 Russian airmen that served the Spanish Republican Air Force for over two years, a total of 99 lost their lives. Little gratitude or recognition were shown to the surviving pilots despite their effort and, to compound their sad lot, many would later become victims of the Stalin Purges after their return to the USSR.

Pilot training
The training of pilots, as well as other air force personnel, was trusted to the Instruction Services (Servicios de Instrucción). All the different units of the Instruction Services depended from the Ministerio de Marina y Aire. During the Civil War the instruction bases and centres were scattered throughout the republican zone:

 The High-speed Flying School (Escuela de Vuelo de Alta Velocidad), located at the El Carmolí air base in the Campo de Cartagena.
 The Bomber School (Escuela de bombardeo), located at the Santiago de la Ribera and Los Alcázares air bases.
 The Multiple-engined Aircraft School (Escuela de polimotores), located at Santiago de la Ribera and Los Alcázares as well.
 The Aircraft Mechanics School (Escuela de mecánicos), located at Godella, Valencia Province.
 The Weaponry School (Escuela de Armeros), located at Eibar, Basque Country.

Fighter aces

Ranks

Preceding agencies

Aircraft, insignia and historical documents

See also

Spanish Air Force
Spanish Civil War
LAPE (Líneas Aéreas Postales Españolas), Spanish Republican Airline 
List of aircraft of the Spanish Republican Air Force
List of Spanish Civil War air aces
Deutschland incident (1937)
Aviazione Legionaria
Condor Legion
German re-armament
Some Still Live
Yankee Squadron
Timofey Khryukin

Notes

References

Bibliography 
 Antonio Arias Arias, Arde el Cielo: Memorias de un Piloto de Caza Participante en la Guerra de España (1936-1939) y en la Gran Guerra Patria de la URSS (1941-1945). Edited by A. Delgado Romero, 1995. Silla, Valencia. (Memoirs of a Spanish Republican Air Force fighter pilot and squadron leader, who later fought for the Soviet Union during WW2).

 Green, William & Swanborough, Gordon. "Soviet Flies in Spanish Skies". Air Enthusiast Quarterly, No. 1, n.d., pp. 1–16.  

 Leyvastre, Pierre. "The Day of the Dewoitine". Air Enthusiast Quarterly, No. 1, n.d., pp. 17–19, 84–96.  
Carmen Calvo Jung, Los Últimos Aviadores de la República

Further reading

External links