[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Second migration to Abyssinia

d seven children. The Negus sent them to Medina "in two boats", presumably at his own expense, in June or July 628. Ibn Ishaq records that one woman and three of her children died on the return journey "from drinking foul water".

Ibn Ishaq also names seven men and three women who died in Abyssinia.

Other related events
Abu Bakr wished to spare A'isha the discomforts of a journey to Ethiopia and tried to bring forward her marriage to Mut`am's son. Mut`im refused because Abu Bakr had converted to Islam.
 
Muhammad married the newly-widowed Ramlah bint Abu Sufyan by proxy while she was still in Abyssinia.

First List
 Uthman ibn Affan. Son-in-law of Muhammad.
 Ruqayya bint Muhammad al-Hashimiya (wife of Uthman).
 Abu Hudhayfa ibn Utba al-Abdshamsi.
 Sahla bint Suhayl ibn Amr al-Amiriya ibn Luayy (wife of Abu Hudhayfa).
 Al-Zubayr ibn Al-Awwam al-Asadi (a nephew of Khadija bint Khuwaylid and a cousin of Muhammad).
 Musaab ibn Umayr al-Abduldari.
 Abdulrahman ibn Awf al-Zuhri.
 Abu Salama (Abdullah) ibn Abdulasad al-Makhzumi.
 Umm Salama (Hind) bint Abi Umayya al-Makhzumiya (wife of Abu Salama, later married to Muhammad).
 Uthman ibn Mazoon al-Jumi (a maternal uncle of Hafsa bint Umar).
 Amir ibn Rabia (an ally of the Adiy clan).
 Layla bint Abi Hathama ibn Hudhafa al-Adawiya (wife of Amir).
 Abu Sabra ibn Abi Ruhm from the Amir ibn Luayy clan.
 Abu Hatib ibn Amr ibn Abdshams from the Amir ibn Luayy clan. It is said that he was the first to arrive in Abyssinia.
 Suhayl ibn Bayda (Suhayl ibn Wahb) from the Al-Harith ibn Fihr clan.

Ibn Ishaq reports a dispute over this list: people believed either Abu Sabra or Abu Hatib was involved in this emigration, but not both of them.

Second List
According to Ibn Ishaq, there were 101 adults (83 men and 18 women) who embarked on the second migration to Abyssinia. However, the names he actually lists amount to 104 persons. His list does not include children who accompanied their parents, although he does list ten of the children who were born to the Muslims in Abyssinia.

 Ja'far ibn Abi Talib of the Hashim clan.
 Asma bint Umays of the Khath'am tribe (wife of Ja'far). Their sons Abdullah, Muhammad and Awn were born in Abyssinia.
 Uthman ibn Affan of the Umayya clan.
 Ruqayya bint Muhammad of the Hashim clan.
 Amr ibn Saïd ibn Al-Aas of the Umayya clan.
 Fatima bint Safwan of the Kinana tribe(wife of Amr).
 Khalid ibn Said of the Umayya clan (brother of Amr).
 Umayna bint Khalif of the Khuza'a tribe (wife of Khalid). Their children Saïd and Ama were born in Abyssinia.
 Abdullah ibn Jahsh (ally of Saïd, therefore regarded as an honorary Umayyad, although ancestrally from the Asad tribe).
 Ubaydullah ibn Jahsh (brother of Abdullah). He became a Christian in Abyssinia.
 Umm Habiba (Ramla) bint Abi Sufyan (wife of Ubaydullah, an Umayyad by birth). She later married Muhammad.
 Qays ibn Abdullah (ally of Saïd).
 Baraka bint Yasar (wife of Qays, a freedwoman of Abu Sufyan).
 Muwayqib ibn Abi Fatima (ally of Saïd).
 Abu Hudhayfa ibn Utba of the Abdshams clan (brother of Abu Sufyan's wife Hind bint Utba).
 Abu Musa Abdullah ibn Qays of the Ashaar tribe (ally of Utba)
 Utba ibn Ghazwan of the Qays-Aylan tribe (ally of the Nawfal clan)
 Al-Zubayr ibn Al-Awwam of the Asad clan of the Quraysh.
 Al-Aaswad ibn Nawfal of the Asad clan (first cousin of Al-Zubayr).
 Yazid ibn Zama'a of the Asad clan.
 Amr ibn Umayya of the Asad clan.
 Tulayb ibn Umayr of the Abd ibn Qusayy clan.
 Musaab ibn Umayr of the Abduldar clan.
 Suwaybit ibn Saad of the Abduldar clan.
 Jahm ibn Qays of the Abduldar clan.
 Umm Harmala bint Abdu’l-Aswad of the Khuza'a tribe (wife of Jahm).
 Amr ibn Jahm of the Abduldar clan (son of Jahm and Umm Harmala).
 Khuzayma ibn Jahm of the Abduldar clan (son of Jahm and Umm Harmala).
 Abu’l-Rum ibn Umayr of the Abduldar clan.
 Firas ibn al-Nadr of the Abduldar clan (first cousin of Abu’l-Rum).
 Abdulrahman ibn Awf of the Zuhra clan.
 Amir ibn Abi Waqqas of the Zuhra clan.
 Al-Muttalib ibn Azhar of the Zuhra clan.
 Ramla bint Abi Awf ibn Dubayra (wife of Al-Muttalib). Their son Abdullah was born in Abyssinia.
 Abdullah ibn Masood of the Hudhayl tribe (ally of Al-Muttalib).
 Utba ibn Masood of the Hudhayl tribe (brother of Abdullah and ally of Al-Muttalib).
 Al-Miqdad ibn Amr of the Bahr tribe (ally of Al-Muttalib, adopted by Al-Aswad ibn Abdu Yaghuth al-Zuhri before Islam)
 Al-Harith ibn Khalid of the Taym clan.
 Rayta bint Al-Harith ibn Jabala (wife of Al-Harith). Their children Musa, Aïsha, Zaynab and Fatima were born in Abyssinia.
 Amr ibn Uthman of the Taym clan.
 Abu Salama (Abdullah) ibn Abdulasad of the Makhzum clan.
 Umm Salama (Hind) bint Abi Umayya of the Makhzum clan. Their daughter Zaynab was born in Abyssinia.
 Shammas ibn Uthman of the Makhzum clan.
 Habbar ibn Sufyan of the Makhzum clan (nephew of Abu Salama).
 Abdullah ibn Sufyan of the Makhzum clan (brother of Habbar and nephew of Abu Salama).
 Hisham ibn Abi Hudhayfa of the Makhzum clan.
 Salama ibn Hisham of t