[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Calibre Sports

Calibre Sports Inc. is one of Melbourne, Australia's most successful pistol clubs. With a history spanning more than 20 years and operating under several different names, Calibre Sports is now based in Broadford, Victoria on part of the Victorian State Motorcycle Complex.

About
Calibre Sports Incorporated was founded in 1994. Now based at our range in Broadford, Victoria, It is organised as a Member-directed club, structured by a constitution.

The club is affiliated with the worldwide shooting organisations IPSC and ICORE. It is also affiliated with the Victoria-based VAPA. In addition to in-house competitions, the club provides a successful stream of competitors in disciplines specified by the aforementioned organisations. Calibre Sports members regularly participate in National and International shooting events.

In the beginning
Calibre Sports had its beginnings at the Victoria Ranges Indoor Rock Climbing Centre in Mt. Alexander Rd, Flemington.

Back then in 1994, the club was known as Victoria Ranges Pistol Club. Membership fees were minimal and paid directly to the Victoria Ranges Complex and did not include lane hire.

Whilst there was a committee, the club was run as part of the "Victoria Ranges" business and any final decisions were always made by the owners there.

Victoria Ranges pistol club boasted a membership of over 800, but as is normally the case only a small percentage were actually active competitively.

A small group of members worked in conjunction with Victoria Ranges and held weekly competitions.

At the end of each term prizes were awarded to the top shooters and these were usually handguns for 1st, 2nd and 3rd place.

Flemington Indoor Pistol Club
As more members became interested in the day-to-day running of the club, they realised that the club needed to stand on its own if it was to continue successfully.

And so, in 1995 "Flemington Indoor Pistol Club" (FIPC) was formed. Now an Incorporated Association the club had its own identity, separate from any business or shooting body.

However, it was difficult for the club to function independently as it was still under the administration of "Victoria Ranges" and as such unable to collect or have access to any club funds.

It wasn't until 198, when members decided that they wanted the club to be run as a club that the first AGM was held and as a result, the club was to be managed solely by a member elected committee.

Independence
The club came to an agreement with Victoria Ranges. FIPC would lease a small office upstairs, members would renew via the club and pay a separate fee for a lane hire package directly to Victoria Ranges.

A turbulent 12 months followed with several clashes between committee members and Victoria Ranges staff. It was becoming evident that Victoria Ranges wanted to regain control of the club.

in 1999 a group headed by some FIPC committee members together with Victoria Ranges management formed "Melbourne Indoor Pistol Club" (MIPC).

MIPC was also based at the Victoria Ranges Centre and this created great confusion for FIPC members as MIPC's logo was a direct copy of the FIPC logo with only the name changed, even the renewal forms were the same.

As a result, many members paid their renewal fees via the Victoria Ranges staff, they were not informed that this fee was not going to their club and that the staff were signing them up to MIPC.

This was to have a devastating effect on club membership and many members had no idea what was going on or which club they actually belonged to.

Time for a change
It was clear that something needed to be done and in late 1999 FIPC opted for a name change, a competition was conducted to select the new name and logo. Many entries were received of which Calibre Sports was the most popular and so "Calibre Sports Inc" was formed.

Whilst Calibre Sports was easily distinguishable, attracting new members was difficult and membership was slowly dropping.

In mid 2000 Ivan Rehlicki of Relic Custom, approached Calibre Sports with a proposal for the club to relocate to a new Indoor Range under construction in Thomastown. Calibre Sports would be the primary club and any new members would be signed up by Calibre Sports. The proposal was put to the membership in September 2000 and they voted in favour of the move.

The Relic Custom Indoor Shooting Complex opened in early 2002. Approximately 200 members made the move to Thomastown.

Over the next 2 years membership increased to over 500, making Calibre Sports one of the largest pistol clubs in Australia. The club affiliated with IPSC and ICORE and together with Relic Custom implemented a significant sponsorship program which helped to promote both entities.

In 2003 handgun owners were hit hard by the government buyback, a result of the Monash shootings.