[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Topoxte

ostclassic. It was excavated in a possible residential patio among a group of small buildings at the south end of Topoxte island. It was possibly interred in a seated position. The remains belong to an adult male aged between 15 and 25 years old and were found buried with fragments of tortoiseshell.

Burial 2 was found in the south of Topoxte island. The remains belong to an adult male between 25 and 35 years old and were oriented north–south. Associated offerings included an earthenware bowl and a necklace consisting of four shell or bone beads. This burial dates to the Late Classic.

Burial 3 was found in the south of Topoxte island. The remains are those of an adult male aged from 25 to 35 years old and are mixed with the bones of a second individual. Associated offerings include two obsidian prismatic blades. The burial dates to the Early Classic.

Burial 4 was excavated from an artificial terrace near the northwest corner of Building A and dates to the Postclassic. The remains belonged to an adult female between 17 and 25 years old. She was buried with a broken copper disk and a piece of flint.

Burial 5 was excavated from a residential area in the northwest of Topoxte island. The remains were those of a child between 2 and 4 years old, possibly buried in a seated position. A shell bead was found under the skull. The age of the remains is uncertain, but they may date to the Preclassic.

Burial 6 was partially excavated from the extreme southeastern edge of the island, the remains are those of an adult and were apparently interred outside of the limits of the urban area of the site. The gender of the remains is uncertain but they have been tentatively identified as female and date to the Early Classic.

Burial 7 was found in a residential area in the northern part of Topoxte island. Only about 10% of the remains were recovered, they belong to an adult tentatively identified as male. The remains were buried with the head aligned towards the south and were associated with two pieces of worked flint. They date to the Postclassic.

Burial 8 dates to the Postclassic. It was excavated from the western edge of Building E, which is located by the Main Plaza. The remains are those of an adult male between 17 and 25 years old. A second skull was found interred with the burial, belonging to an adult female of similar age to the principal remains.

Burial 9 dates to the Postclassic. The bones are those of an adult male between 17 and 25 years old. The remains were interred with a prismatic blade of grey obsidian, they were found in a columned building in the extreme north of Topoxte island.

Burial 10 was found in the northern extreme of Topoxte island, the remains are those of an adult male and date to the Postclassic. Interred with the deceased were a worked flint and a piece of slate.

Burial 11 was associated with an altar platform to the west of Building E, in the Main Plaza. The remains are those of an adult of indeterminate gender, between 15 and 25 years old. Two pieces of flint were buried with the remains, which date to the Postclassic.

Burial 12 is located to the south of a low residential platform, upon an artificial terrace in the north of Topoxte island. The burial contains the remains of two or possibly three individuals. Various items were associated with the burial, such as a fragment of a flint knife and another of grey obsidian, and several pieces of bone needle. One of the skeletons belongs to an adult female between 17 and 25 years of age, the other is that of a child of between 5 and 8 years of age, they both date to the Preclassic.

Burial 13 was found to the south of Building G, in the Main Plaza, and may have been interred at the time that the plaza was levelled. The remains are those of an adult, possibly female, between 25 and 40 years old. The burial is associated with several pieces of flint and obsidian and dates to the Early Classic.

Burial 14 was interred near the northeastern shore of Topoxte island, near a residential complex. It consists of two individuals, an adult male between 17 and 25 years old and a seated adult female between 25 and 35 years old. The burial dates from the Postclassic Period.

Burial 15 was found to the north of Building H, on an artificial elevation near the centre of Topoxte island, among mixed residential and non-residential buildings. The remains are those of an adult, tentatively identified as female and of unknown age. The burial dates to the Late Classic. Associated offerings included an inverted ceramic vessel, a flint projectile point, a grey obsidian prismatic blade, a shell disk, two perforated ceramic disks and various other pieces of worked flint. Some of these items may actually be rubbish dumped on top of the burial, with only the inverted vessel being a definite offering associated with the human remains. The burial dates to the Late Classic.