[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Proxy bomb

lic Church, and even among some IRA supporters, eventually forcing the IRA to drop the tactic. According to journalist and author Ed Moloney, "as an operation calculated to undermine the IRA's armed struggle, alienate even its most loyal supporters and damage Sinn Féin politically, it had no equal".

Moloney has suggested that the tactic may have been calculated to weaken the position of alleged "hawks" in republicanism, those who favoured armed action over electoral politics. At the same time, Moloney argues that the widespread public revulsion would have strengthened the position of those in the IRA such as Gerry Adams who were considering how republicanism could abandon violence and focus on electoral politics. Peter Taylor wrote of the proxy bombs that by such actions and the revulsion they caused in the community, IRA hardliners inadvertently strengthened the hand of those within the republican movement who argued that an alternative to armed struggle had to be found.

Later proxy bombs

The Troubles 
Several more 'human proxy bombings' were planned, but the operations were called off, partly because of the outrage it drew from all sections of the community. Nevertheless, there were a few more 'traditional' proxy bombings in the following months.

At 9:30 am on 22 November 1990, the IRA took over a man's house in Newtownbutler, County Fermanagh. While his parents were held at gunpoint, he was forced to drive a Toyota Hilux pick-up truck to Annaghmartin military checkpoint. He was told that the truck carried a bomb on a five-minute timer. When he reached the checkpoint, he shouted a warning and a small explosion was heard, but the main bomb failed to detonate. The vehicle was found to contain  of homemade explosives, the biggest IRA bomb until then. The same checkpoint was the subject of a heavy machine gun attack on 26 December.

In early February 1991, another proxy bomb wrecked an Ulster Defence Regiment base in Magherafelt, County Londonderry, but there were no fatalities. Two months later, on 8 April, near the border town of Belleek, County Fermanagh, a civilian female motorist working in the local RUC/Army barracks was taken hostage along her husband at an IRA checkpoint and forced to drive to the facilities with a bomb in her handbag. A soldier on watch in a sangar at the base main gate raised the alarm, and the area was evacuated. There were no casualties, but the observation post was heavily damaged by the blast. The final IRA use of proxy bombs came on 24 April 1993, when they forced two London taxi drivers to drive bombs towards Downing Street and New Scotland Yard. There were no casualties, however, as the drivers managed to shout warnings and to abandon their cars in time. A conventionally delivered bomb was detonated by the IRA on the same day in the financial centre of Bishopsgate, in Central London.

Colombia 
In the early 2000s, FARC rebels began to use proxy car bombs in Colombia. That has been attributed to training given to FARC by members of the Provisional IRA. In the Colombian province of Arauca in January 2003, three brothers were forced to drive car bombs into military checkpoints, each told that the other brothers would be killed if they did not comply. One of the brothers died, along with six Colombian soldiers, and another survived with serious injuries in a separate incident, when only one of the three explosive charges attached to the vehicle went off, resulting only in minor damage to the target. The whereabouts of the third brother were still unknown in December 2003.

Republican dissidents 
In December 2013, Óglaigh na hÉireann, a Real IRA splinter group, claimed responsibility for an attempted bomb attack on Belfast City Centre in which a car was hijacked and its driver forced to deliver the bomb to its intended target. The bomb only partially detonated, leaving no casualties.

References

1990 in Northern Ireland
Attacks on military installations
Explosions in 1990
Explosions in 2003
Car and truck bombings in Colombia
Car and truck bombings in Northern Ireland
Guerrilla warfare tactics
Improvised explosive devices
Irish National Liberation Army actions
Military actions and engagements during the Troubles (Northern Ireland)
October 1990 events in the United Kingdom
Provisional Irish Republican Army actions
Terrorism tactics
Ulster Volunteer Force actions