[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Invasion: Earth (TV series)

Invasion: Earth is a BBC science fiction TV series. It was made in collaboration with the Sci Fi Channel, and released in 1998 as six fifty-minute episodes.

Creation and production

Invasion: Earth is a dark science-fiction drama about the discovery of a planned invasion and conquest of Earth by a sinister race of inter-dimensional alien beings, and the efforts of a small NATO force who strive to counter the threat.

The series was conceived, written and co-produced by Jed Mercurio, a former physician who (under the pseudonym John MacUre) gained prominence in Britain the 1990s as the creator and writer of the offbeat medical drama series Cardiac Arrest.

The principal cast included Vincent Regan in his first starring TV role, Maggie O'Neill (who later co-starred in the acclaimed British comedy-drama series Shameless), veteran American character actor Fred Ward (Tremors) and Anton Lesser as alien abductee Lt Charles Tyrell.

Invasion: Earth was a co-production between BBC Scotland and the Sci-Fi Channel. It was shot on location in Scotland with considerable assistance from the British armed forces and is also notable as one of the first British TV series to feature extensive use of computer-generated imagery (CGI).

Episode summary

Episode 1: "The Last War"
In 1944, during the height of The Blitz, an unidentified object crashes into an English suburb. A bomb disposal team, led by Lieutenant Charles Tyrell (Anton Lesser), arrive on the scene. The soldiers discover two of the crashed craft's occupants; one is shot dead by a soldier while attempting to flee, while the other, badly injured occupant falls out of the craft. It soon becomes apparent that the occupants are not human, with domed heads and speckled pale skin. Tyrell establishes a rapport with the survivor just as MI6 arrives.

Fifty-four years later, in the skies over the North Sea, RAF Flight Lieutenant Chris Drake (Vincent Regan) and his navigator, Flight Lieutenant Gerry Llewellyn (Stuart McQuarrie), intercept an unidentified craft. During the ensuing encounter, both the airfield and their Tornado interceptors are seemingly attacked by a weapon that shuts off electrical power, so Drake impulsively acts against orders and shoots down the craft. In the process, his own plane is damaged, and he and Llewellyn eject over the ocean. Drake is recovered alive, but Llewellyn suffers serious injuries during ejection and dies in the sea before he can be rescued. The guilt-ridden Drake is grounded as a result of his hasty actions. The UFO, meanwhile, crashes in Scotland.

During the UFO encounter, a local group of government-sponsored university students, who moonlight as amateur SETI watchers, pick up a strange transmission aimed at the far reaches of space. Led by Dr Amanda Tucker (Maggie O'Neill), the group comes to the conclusion that this is an extraterrestrial message. After hearing rumours of the UFO encounter, Tucker heads for Scotland, where she meets, and, after a fortuitous meeting, she joins forces with Drake. After uncovering some of the truth behind the recent events, they are reluctantly recruited by United States Air Force Major General David Reece (Fred Ward), who believes the transmission to be terrestrial rather than alien, to decipher its meaning.

Meanwhile, RAF personnel race to capture the downed UFO pilot and recover his craft. Equipped with alien technology, including a cloaking device, the pilot evades them (despite being wounded by pursuers) but finally stops a motorist, who takes him to hospital. Once located by the military and stripped of his strange garb and apparatus, the pilot is found to be none other than Tyrell, who refuses to communicate with his captors, even though they assume him to be a test pilot for a foreign nation's air force. Meanwhile, Tucker's associate, Nick Shay (Paul J. Medford), discovers that the signal sent by the alien craft has in fact been intercepted and jammed by another force, and suggests that they might be dealing with two distinct alien races who may be in conflict with each other.

Episode 2: "The Fourth Dimension" 
As NATO attempts to analyse the alien landing pod, the danger that Tyrell poses to Earth becomes apparent when, during examination, he is found to have a tracking device in his tooth. Before it can be removed, a strange portal opens, apparently attempting to capture him. During the ensuing gunfire, a policeman is killed, although the gunfight also reveals that the invaders, which the NATO team dub "nDs", are physical entities who can be harmed. Thinking that the enemy power is trying to rescue him, Tucker rips out Tyrell's tooth, but this allows the portal to home in on her instead. She and a number of RAF personnel are drawn into another portal, vanishing into the beyond.