[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# French battleship Jauréguiberry

e only French battleship of the program to use that arrangement owing to fears that the rate of fire would be reduced and that the turrets would be more vulnerable to being disabled by a single lucky hit. She was the first French battleship to use electric motors to operate her main-battery turrets.

She and her half-sisters were disappointments in service; they generally suffered from stability problems, and Louis-Émile Bertin, the Director of Naval Construction in the late 1890s, referred to the ships as "chavirables" (prone to capsizing). All five of the vessels compared poorly to their British counterparts, particularly their contemporaries of the . The ships suffered from a lack of uniformity of equipment, which made them hard to maintain in service, and their mixed gun batteries comprising several calibers made gunnery in combat conditions difficult, since the splashes of relatively similarly sized shells were hard to differentiate and thus made it difficult to calculate corrections to hit the target. Many of the problems that plagued the ships in service were a result of the limitation on their displacement, particularly their stability and seakeeping.

General characteristics and machinery
Jauréguiberry was  long overall. She had a maximum beam of  and a draft of . She displaced  at normal load and  at full load. She was fitted with two heavy military masts with fighting tops. In 1905 her captain described her as an excellent sea-boat and a good fighting ship, although her secondary armament was too light. He also said that she was stable and well laid-out with good living conditions. She had a crew of 631 officers and enlisted sailors.

Jauréguiberry had two vertical triple-expansion steam engines, also built by Forges et Chantiers de la Méditerranée, which were designed to give the ship a speed of . On trials they developed  and drove the ship to a maximum speed of . Each engine drove a  propeller. Twenty-four Lagraffel d'Allest water-tube boilers provided steam for the engines at a pressure of . The boilers were distributed between six boiler rooms and were ducted into a pair of closely spaced funnels. She normally carried  of coal, but could carry a maximum of . This gave her a radius of action of  at .

Armament

Jauréguiberrys main armament consisted of two 45-caliber Canon de  Modèle 1887 guns in two single-gun turrets, one each fore and aft of the superstructure. A pair of 45-caliber Canon de  Modèle 1887 guns were mounted in single-gun wing turrets, one amidships on each side, sponsoned out over the tumblehome of the ship's sides. Each 305 mm turret had an arc of fire of 250°. The 305 mm guns fired  cast iron (CI) projectiles, or heavier  armor-piercing (AP) and semi-armor-piercing (SAP) shells at a muzzle velocity of . The 274 mm guns were also supplied with a mix of CI, AP, and SAP shells, with the same muzzle velocity as the larger guns. The ship's offensive armament was completed by a secondary battery of eight 45-caliber Canon de  Modèle 1891 guns mounted in manually operated twin-gun turrets. The turrets were placed at the corners of the superstructure with 160° arcs of fire. They fired  CI or  AP or SAP shells at a muzzle velocity of .

Defense against torpedo boats was provided by a variety of light-caliber weapons. Sources disagree on the number and types, possibly indicating changes over the ship's lifetime. All sources agree on four 50-caliber () guns. These fired a  shell at a muzzle velocity of . Gibbons and Gardiner agree on twelve, later eighteen, although d'Ausson lists fourteen,  40-caliber Canon de 47 mm Modèle 1885 Hotchkiss guns that were mounted in the fighting tops and on the superstructure. They fired a  projectile at  to a maximum range of . Their theoretical maximum rate of fire was fifteen rounds per minute, but only seven rounds per minute sustained. Gibbons and Gardiner agree that eight  Hotchkiss 5-barrel revolving guns were mounted on the fore and aft superstructures, although none are listed by d'Ausson.

The ship was initially fitted with  torpedo tubes, though sources disagree on the number. Gardiner states that she had two submerged tubes and two above-water tubes, but d'Ausson states that she had six tubes, two each above water in the bow and stern and one on each broadside underwater. The above-water tubes were removed during a refit in 1906. The M1892 torpedoes carried a  warhead, and could be set at  or , which could reach targets at  or , respectively.