[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Devil to the Belt

Devil to the Belt is an omnibus release from 2000 containing two   science fiction  novels by American writer C. J. Cherryh, Heavy Time (1991), and Hellburner (1992).  They are set in Cherryh's Alliance-Union universe and are prequels to her Hugo Award–winning 1981 novel Downbelow Station.  Both of the included works were nominated for the Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel in their respective years of eligibility.  The novels and the omnibus printing were published by Warner Books, with some editions bearing the "Questar Science Fiction" or "Warner Aspect" imprints. Cherryh self-published e-book editions of Heavy Time and Hellburner in 2009 at Closed Circle Publications.

Summary 

Heavy Time and Hellburner are set in the Sol System at the beginning of the "Company Wars" period in the 24th century.  Heavy Time introduces ASTEX, a division of the Sol Station Corporation (the Earth Company of Downbelow Station) engaged in asteroid mining for minerals to support the Earth's economy and the war effort.  Disputes over mining rights, corporate corruption and economic exploitation are key plot elements in the first novel.

Both novels, especially Hellburner, are works of military science fiction, taking place amidst the development of the Earth Company Fleet of warships that are to be deployed against Union forces in the upcoming war.  Military topics explored in the books include the military-industrial complex, interservice rivalry, loyalty to one's crewmates, problems in the chain of command, the role of military training, and civilian support of the armed services, among others.

Plot of Heavy Time 

The title is a term for the periods of time spacers spend in refinery habitats under nearly 1g, which is when they're heavy compared to their periods of weightlessness when out in the shops.

Ben and Bird are two freerunners: private prospectors who look for asteroids worth mining for heavy metals. Bird was born on Earth, fifty years ago, and has been freerunning for thirty years, whereas Ben was born twenty-something years ago in the Asteroid Belt and only started freerunning when he invested 20k in Bird's ship a few years ago.

Their ship picks up a distress signal and gets approval from "Big Mama" (the central office of the Belt) to check out the source of the signal. When they reach it, the origin ship appears intact apart from a dented fuel tank, but its power has almost run out. Inside, they find blood and bits of organic waste, and a barely-alive young man called Dekker.

They take Dekker onto their ship, clean him up, and attach the other ship to theirs and head back to base. Bird thinks the ethical course of action is to look after Dekker and not worry about his ship, but Ben, having scrimped and saved to get enough money to buy in on Bird's ship, obsesses about whether they'll have salvage rights to Dekker's ship.

Dekker is fairly incoherent whenever he talks to them but keeps asking them the time, and where his partner Cory is. He knows she went out of the ship, and wants to rescue her, but can't tell Bird and Ben what happened or why the ship ended up outside of the zone it's registered for. He seems to have lost track of time since two months earlier. They establish that where the ship was prospecting, there is now a "driver": a larger Company ore extraction ship. 

Ben reacts aggressively to every word or action of Dekker's, and talks about killing Dekker so Ben and Bird can get the ship. Bird keeps trying to calm him down and intervenes between him and Dekker.

They attach Dekker to a restraining cable but he tries to force the catch on it and Ben beats him up before Bird can stop him. 

Bird manages to keep the peace between them until they eventually get back to Refinery Two Base, where the police question Bird and Ben, inspect both ships, and take Dekker to the hospital. They retain all of both men's personal effects for the moment. 

Ben heads down to the lower decks of Refinery Two, where few freerunners venture, to see if he can get quicker info from the company executives about whether he and Bird have any salvage rights to Dekker's ship, while Bird stays on the upper levels and meets up with two female friends of his, Meg and Sal. Ben returns to say they have a chance of getting Dekker's ship, because it didn't belong to a company, but was owned by Dekker and his partner Cory.