[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# American patriotic music

e, John Philip Sousa began composing many of his most famous patriotic marches, including "The Stars and Stripes Forever" and "The Washington Post March." Such songs as "The Black KPs", likely labelled racist and offensive by modern listeners, were intended to rally the public behind the war effort.

20th and 21st Centuries
World War I produced many patriotic American songs, such as "Over There", written by popular songwriter George M. Cohan. Cohan composed the song on April 6, 1917, when he saw some headlines announcing America's entry into the war. Cohan is also famous for penning "Yankee Doodle Dandy," an over-the-top parody of patriotic music. "God Bless America", a song written by Irving Berlin in 1918, is sometimes considered an unofficial national anthem of the United States. It is often performed at sporting events alongside (or, in some rare cases, such as Ronan Tynan, in place of) "The Star-Spangled Banner". In 1940, songwriter Woody Guthrie wrote "This Land is Your Land" in response to his dislike of "God Bless America", calling it unrealistic and complacent. World War II produced a significant number of patriotic songs in the Big Band and Swing format. Popular patriotic songs of the time included "Remember Pearl Harbor". Patriotic songs in the latter half of the 20th Century include "Ballad of the Green Berets" during the Vietnam War, Lee Greenwood's "God Bless the USA" during the years of the first Gulf War and again after the September 11, 2001 attacks.

See also
 Anthems and nationalistic songs of Canada
 List of anthems of non-sovereign countries, regions and territories
 List of historical national anthems
 National Anthem Project

References

External links
 Patriotic songs, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences website
 Early American Songs of Protest and Patriotism
 Patriotism and Nationalism in Music Education (Ashgate press, 2012)

Patriotic
18th-century music genres
19th-century music genres
20th-century music genres
21st-century music genres
American patriotic songs