[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Disaster risk reduction

rds as opposed to a general definition.

Disaster risk reduction programs often see resilience as part of the goals their program should achieve. This is shown in the 2005-2015 Hyogo Framework for Action, which contained the subtitle “Building the Resilience of Nations and Communities to Disasters.”

Vulnerability 
Vulnerability refers to the likelihood of a structure or system to be harmed by some sort of event. In the context of disaster risk reduction, vulnerability is the ability to respond and recover from some sort of hazard as well as the amount of social or economic liability that may result from the event. The fewer resources a community has to respond and recover from an event, the more vulnerable they are.

Vulnerability plays a critical role in the analysis of risk, as the risk a structure faces is proportional to its level of vulnerability. Risk is often defined by the likelihood of (hazardous) events to occur and the vulnerability of the community to these events. The more vulnerable the community, the more risk they face. Resilience and vulnerability, therefore, are practically opposites. While vulnerability refers to the lack of recovery from an event, resilience is the ability to recover from an event with minimal change. Vulnerability adds risk, while resilience works to mitigate it.

Mitigation 
Mitigation is the actions taken before an impactful event that aim to reduce any possible negative outcomes, or the reduction of harmful effects. Natural risk assessments commonly use the term mitigation, while broader climate change reports tend to use adaptive capacity instead. Although certainly interconnected, adaptive capacity refers more to the potential to adjust a system, while mitigation is the actual implementation of such adjustments.

Mitigation planning helps local governments lessen the impacts of hazards within their communities. The framework encourages community involvement, as no two locations have the same hazard risks, and communities know their own experiences best. Nonetheless, mitigation plans provide a foundation upon which local groups can enhance their policies and action plans.

Risk reduction and mitigation are often used interchangeably, however they have a few key differences. Both aim to reduce the number of negative effects of hazards, but risk reduction focuses on reducing the likelihood of the event itself, while mitigation focuses on reducing the impact of the event. Despite these nuances, policies for the terms can and do overlap to effectively assist communities experiencing hazards.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has an example of a mitigation plan. Their plan contains 4 steps: organize resources, assess risks, develop mitigation strategy, and implement the plan. These steps are broad, as they are designed to be applied to a wide variety of hazards. FEMA also has more specific policy plans, such as their Hazard Mitigation Field Book (HMFB) on Roadways. This document focuses on preventing road erosion, inundation, and debris pileup caused by damaged culverts, embankments, and road surfaces. Since this is a smaller topic, the field book is able to include more detailed advice on how to handle each problem. The HMFB uses a project identification diagram to realize each issue and a selection matrix to match that problem with an effective solution using duration, feasibility, design, and environmental considerations.  While only one small guide to hazard mitigation, the HMFB serves as a solid example of mitigation policy.

Effects of climate change on hazards 

Hydrometeorological hazards such as droughts, floods, and cyclones are naturally occurring phenomena. However, climate change has caused these hazards to become more unreliable, frequent and severe. Hazards are easily influenced by large scale changes in the ocean, atmosphere, and biosphere such as global warming, rising sea levels, and extreme weather events, all of which are human caused results of climate change. When the impact of these events becomes too extreme, they are often called disasters.

Disasters are defined by their influence on people: if a hazard overwhelms or negatively affects a community, it is considered a disaster. Due to increasing climate change caused by humans, more natural hazards are reaching disaster status. As of 2008, there were on average 400 disaster events per year, more than double the amount since the 1980s.

Countries contributing most to climate change are often at the lowest risk of feeling the consequences. As of 2019, countries with the highest vulnerability per capita release the lowest amount of emissions per capita, and yet still experience the most heightened droughts and extreme precipitation. Between 1970 and 2019, 91% of deaths from hazards occurred in developing countries. These countries already have higher vulnerability and lower resilience to these events, which exacerbates the effects of the hazards.