[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Far Cry 2

on Windows machines, contrasting against the notoriously high demands of Crytek's Crysis. The PS3 version caused worries for the team due to its notorious reputation as a difficult console for third-party developers, but a dedicated team of programmers worked to smooth over gameplay on the console.

The team started out with the basic CryEngine technology. In order to create their intended open world environment, they repurposed the old engine and created their own, dubbing it Dunia. The team "gutted" the old engine, rewriting and replacing an estimated 90 percent of the code. Engine development ran parallel to game development, resulting in "constantly shifting budgets" and regular adjustment of the gameplay, with the goal being to be able to create a square kilometer of game terrain in one day. They also designed a dedicated animation system called LivePosture, which controlled the movement of vegetation and the environment. Guay insisted at the outset of development that the game prompt the creation of new design tools rather than relying on existing tools. The team made use of Procedural Data Generation to handle the in-game environment and reactions, cutting down on both production time and the load on the engine. Guay planned a slow escalation of engine development, easing in new staff in small numbers to let them get experience with the engine rather than causing problems bringing in a large number of unprepared staff at once.

Scenario
Hocking and Redding came up with the initial narrative concept, which tied into the game's planned setting. While the original Far Cry had drawn from H. G. Wells's novel The Island of Doctor Moreau and had a divisive science fiction-like tone in consequence, Far Cry 2 took inspiration from Joseph Conrad's 1899 novella Heart of Darkness, as well as the more contemporary film adaptation Apocalypse Now (1979). The intent was for a darker, more realistic narrative and tone. Some surreal elements were retained to enhance the chosen art design. A common theme with Heart of Darkness was how far people would go, and how much they would become like monsters and leverage the unhinged side of their nature, in order to survive and endure through terrible circumstances. Another influence along the same lines was the novel Red Harvest by Dashiell Hammett, where the protagonist enters a lawless city and ultimately eliminates both sides of a deadly conflict. The game's conflict drew inspiration from events around the city of Nairobi, which were seen as emblematic of conflicts in Africa. The voice acting was done by actors from or close to the ethnicity of the in-game characters, such as the faction leaders being voiced by South African actors.

Contrasted with other games at the time, the narrative did not make use of traditional cutscenes or a strict guided path. Redding described the approach as "dynamic story architecture", aiming for a systemic narrative emerging from the player's actions. This approach required a dedicated narrative designer, with Hocking successfully persuading Ubisoft's management on the importance of the role. One of Redding's priorities was incorporating elements into the game world to reinforce the character's thematic journey into madness and violence, including the option for the player to fail at objectives without derailing the narrative or requiring a reset. The narrative progress is based on the player's reputation, described as an "invisible counter" which determined in-game events, though late in production it was felt a relationship history matrix between players and NPCs would have worked better. Due to the complexity of the game, this change could not be implemented. The narrative was cited as an example of the all or nothing approach to design, citing the Buddy dynamics only working properly with all twelve being alive as an issue tackled by the team.