[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Peter Obi

tiku Abubakar. Due to the elections being rife with several allegations, reports and evidence of voter manipulation, disenfranchisement and rigging, Obi announced that he would challenge the election results, stating that, "We won the election and we will prove it to Nigerians".

Political positions

National security 
As a candidate, Obi has publicly demanded that the federal government name individuals responsible for financing terrorism and oil theft in Nigeria. In 2020, Obi expressed support for the End SARS social movement against police brutality.

Women's issues 
Obi has stated that he believes women are less prone to corruption in public office than men, and states that his gubernatorial staff were predominantly women. Obi has said he wants to do away with the Office of the First Lady of Nigeria, stating “It was not my wife that was voted in but himself. The Ministry of Women Affairs was enough to take good care of women.” In commemoration of International African Women's Day, Obi stated: "In Nigeria, we advocate continually greater women participation in leadership, nation-building and society, which begins with unfettered social inclusion, gender mainstreaming and empowerment."

Controversy 

On April 1, 2023, Peoples Gazette published leaked phone conservation between Obi and one of the leaders of Nigeria's biggest Pentecostal Church, Bishop David Oyedepo of the Living Faith Church Worldwide, also known as Winners Chapel. In the leaked phone call, which took place a few days before the Nigerian presidential election, Obi declared that the election was a religious war and solicited the support of the bishop to reach out to Christians across the Southwestern part of Nigeria and those in the Northcentral states like Kwara, Kogi and Niger.

The report generated widespread controversy across the country, with some members of his campaign organisation confirming the authenticity of the phone call and defending his position, while other members declared the phone record as a deep fake.

On 5 April 2023, Obi tweeted that the published phone call was fake and threatened to take legal action against the newspaper.

On 1 May 2023, Obi appeared in an interview on Arise TV in Abuja. During the interview, he was repeatedly asked if the audio was fake or authentic, and he repeatedly responded that he was not a tribal or religious bigot. He declined to state that the conversation did not take place. Instead, he emphasised that it was normal for him and other politicians to solicit support from religious leaders during elections.

Awards and honours
These are some of Obi's awards:

  The Suns Man of the Year (2007)
 This Days Most Prudent Governor in Nigeria (2009)
 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation's Best Performing Governor on Immunization in South-East Nigeria (2012)
 Silverbird's Man of the Year (2013)
 Distinguished Alumnus Award - Lagos Business School Alumni Association (LBSAA) (2014)
 Nigerian Library Association's Golden Merit Award (2014)
 Pontifical Equestrian Order of Saint Sylvester Pope and Martyr (2014)
 Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Onitsha's Golden Jubilee Award (2015)
 This Days Governor of the Decade (2020)
 Leadership Excellence Award's Man of the Year (2022)

Pandora Papers

As a result of the Pandora Papers leaks, the Premium Times reported on Obi's involvement in offshore companies in tax havens such as the British Virgin Islands and Barbados. Obi appeared to have made shell companies in the 1990s with the Barbados-based Beauchamp Investments Limited and UK-based Next International (UK) Limited being tied back to Obi and his family. This was before he held any political office in Nigeria. 
Further reporting showed that in 2010 as well, Obi had Access International help him set up and manage Gabriella Investments Limited, a company in the British Virgin Islands named after Obi's daughter. One of the directors was also the director of a Belize-based shell company that was issued 50,000 shares in Gabriella Investments.
In 2017, Obi reorganized the company under the name PMGG Investments Limited and created a trust named The Gabriella Settlement, which became the sole shareholder in PMGG Investments Limited. Obi was not holding any political position at this time.

A Premium Times report claimed that Obi remained as director of Next International (UK) Limited while serving as Governor of Anambra State, which is in direct violation of Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act. In an interview with Arise News, Obi clarified that he resigned from all companies before taking office as Governor of Anambra State.