[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# History of Solidarity

idarity call for new elections went unheeded, but the Sejm still managed to pass a resolution condemning the 1981 martial law (despite the SLD voting against). Meanwhile, the left-wing OPZZ trade union had acquired 2.5 million members, twice as many as the contemporary Solidarity (with 1.3 million).

In June 1996, Solidarity Electoral Action (Akcja Wyborcza Solidarność) was founded as a coalition of over 30 parties, uniting liberal, conservative and Christian-democratic forces. As the public became disillusioned with the SLD and its allies, AWS was victorious in the 1997 parliamentary elections. Jerzy Buzek became the new prime minister; however, controversies over domestic reforms, Poland's 1999 entry into NATO, and the accession process to the European Union, combined with AWS''' fights with its political allies (the Freedom Union—Unia Wolności) and infighting within AWS itself, as well as corruption, eventually resulted in the loss of much public support. AWS leader Marian Krzaklewski lost the 2000 presidential election, and in the 2001 parliamentary elections AWS failed to elect a single deputy to the parliament. After this debacle, Krzaklewski was replaced by Janusz Śniadek (in 2002) but the union decided to distance itself from politics.

In 2006, Solidarity had some 1.5 million members making it the largest trade union in Poland. Its mission statement declares that Solidarity, "basing its activities on Christian ethics and Catholic social teachings, works to protect workers' interests and to fulfill their material, social and cultural aspirations."

The European Solidarity Centre, a museum and library devoted to the history of Solidarity and other opposition movements of the Eastern Bloc, opened in Gdańsk on August 31, 2014. In 2020, to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the creation of the Solidarity movement many important landmarks around the world were lit up in white and red colours including the Niagara Falls, Christ the Redeemer Statue, Széchenyi Chain Bridge in Budapest, Wrigley Building in Chicago, Qutb Minar in New Delhi with posters and Solidarity logos being displayed in cities such as Berlin, Dublin, NATO headquarters in Brussels, Belgrade and Santa Monica in California.

 See also 
 

References

Further reading

 Paczkowski, Andrzej. Revolution and Counterrevolution in Poland, 1980-1989: Solidarity, Martial Law, and the End of Communism in Europe'' (Boydell & Brewer, 2015).

External links

 Interview with Henry Kissinger on US – Soviet Relations during Solidarity from the Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives 
 Presentation The Solidarity Phenomenon 
 Solidarity official English homepage
 Solidarity 25th Anniversary Press Center
 International Conference 'From Solidarity to Freedom'
 Poland: Solidarity – The Trade Union That Changed The World
 Who Is Anna Walentynowicz?, a documentary film about Solidarity 
 Advice for East German propagandists on how to deal with the Solidarity movement
 Solidarity, Freedom and Economical Crisis in Poland, 1980–81 
 Arch Puddington, How American Unions Helps Solidarity Win
 Michael Bernhard, The Polish Opposition and the Technology of Resistance
 The Independent Press in Poland, 1976–1990 – this site of the Library of Congress contains a list of Polish abbreviations and their English translations; many of which were used in this article
  Solidarity Center Foundation – Fundacja Centrum Solidarności
 Silver Coin Marks the 30th Anniversary of Poland's Solidarity Movement

Solidarity (Polish trade union)
Political history of Poland
Solidarity