[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Campeonato Brasileiro tournament scheduling

of 10, single round-robin with random home and away matches. Top 2 teams qualified.

Final phase: "Quadrangular", i.e. 1 group of 4 in single round robin. Home and away matches order based on combined first and second phases.

1974 Campeonato Nacional de Clubes – Single division w/ 40 participants.

1st phase: 2 groups of 20. Single round-robin with random home and away matches. Top 10 of each group qualified, plus remaining top 2 overall (to compensate possible group strength imbalance), plus... remaining top 2 public attendance. Thus Fluminense and Nacional advanced despite 32nd and 34th placings. This odd feature would never be reapplied.

2nd phase: 4  groups of 6 teams. Single round-robin with random away and home matches. Top team only of each group would qualify.

Final phase: "Quadrangular". Single round-robin. Home and away matches criteria unclear.

1975 Copa Brasil – Single division w/ 46 participants

The 1975 tournament introduced the feature of repechage, which eventually would be largely practiced in the following decades in "creative" ways, and eventually allowing ground for disputes that disrupted the championship as in the late 80's.

1st phase: 4 groups, with 2 paired groups of 10 teams and 2 paired of 11 teams. The system was what could be called "complementary round-robin" as teams of one group only played against the teams of the other group paired to it, with no internal round-robin. Top 5 teams of each group qualified for main groups while remaining teams qualified for repechage groups. Group distributions were random. An odd scheduling sometimes reproduced later on for unknown reasons, except urge for randomness.

2nd phase: 2 main groups of 10 teams and 4 repechage groups (2 of 5 and 2 of 6 teams). Main groups would reuse "complementary  round-robin" system. Repechage groups single round-robin. Both random home and away matches. Top 6 teams of main groups and top team of repechage groups would qualify.

3rd phase: 2 groups of 8 teams. This time, standard single round-robin system (probably because of play-off needs). Top 2 would qualify.

Final phase: single play-off semi-finals and final. Home advantage on 3rd phase group placing (crossed winner vs runner-up).

Ranking issues: Final placings for top 16 teams based only on third phase placings, irrespective of first and second phase, given the inconsistency of those phases and differences between main and repechage groups. Also the third phase was large enough to provide a significant placing. Thus Flamengo and América-RJ are given both 5th place, for instance, instead of 7th and 8th according to CBF. Teams re-qualified from repechage are thus placed ahead of eliminated main group teams. Placing of eliminated main and repechage group teams consider 1st phase results as there was no elimination in the latter.

1976 Copa Brasil – Single division w/ 54 participants (similar to 1975)

First phase: 6 groups of 9 teams. Single round robin. Random home and away matches. Top 4 of each group would qualify to main groups of second phase, remaining would go to repechage groups.

Second phase: 4 main groups of 6 teams and 6 repechage groups of 5 teams. Single round robin. Random home and away matches. Top 3 of main groups and top team of repechage groups qualified.

Third phase: 2 groups of 9 teams. Single round-robin. Random home and away matches. Top two of each group qualified.

Final phase: single play-off semi-finals and final. Home advantage to 3rd phase group winners.

Ranking issues: same as for 1975.

1977 Copa Brasil – Single division w/ 60 participants

1st phase: 6 groups of 10. Single round robin. Top 5 qualify. Remaining to repechage.

2nd phase:  6 main groups for 5 teams and 6 repechage groups of 5 teams. Single round-robin. Top 3 of main groups and top team of repechage groups qualified.

3rd phase: 4 group of 6 teams. Single round robin. Top team qualify

Final phase: single play-off semi-finals and final. Home advantage on combined phase results.

1978 Copa Brasil – Single division w/ 74 participants.

1st phase: 2 groups of 13 teams and 6 of 12 teams. Single round-robin. Top 6 qualify. Remaining to repechage

2nd phase: 4 main groups of 9 teams. Round-robin. Top 6 qualify plus 1 on combined 1st and 2nd phase results. 6 repechage groups, 2 of 7 teams and 4 of 6 teams. Round-robin. Top teams qualified  plus 1 on combined 1st and 2nd phase results.

3rd phase: 4 groups of 8 teams. Round-robin. Top 2 qualify

Final phase: home and away quarterfinals, semifinals and final play-offs. Home and qualifying (two draws) advantage on better season record.

1979 Copa Brasil – Single division w/ 96 participants