[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Seth Ledyard Phelps

ted Cairo down the Mississippi River, on March 11, with a flotilla of five gunboats, which included the USS Benton, commanded by Captain Phelps,  USS Louisville, Benjamin M. Dove,  USS Carondelet, Commodore Henry Walke,  Conestoga, George Blodgett, and the USS Cincinnati, commanded by Roger Stembel.

On March 14, the flotilla continued its descent arriving at Hickman, Kentucky, at 5 p.m., some twenty-five miles below Columbus, where Foote decided to anchor for the night. On the morning of March 15, the flotilla continued on. Foote, and Phelps arrived aboard the  Benton and encountered the Confederate steamer CSS Grampus which unexpectedly appeared through the fog. Alarmed, Grumpus stopped its engines and struck its colors, but her commander then quickly changed his mind, turned about and headed downriver, with Benton firing shells that fell short of her stern.  Moving on they spotted a chain of batteries of at least 50 heavy guns, which extended four miles along the crescent-shaped Tennessee shore, thwarting any further passage. The Benton continued slowly while Phelps discerned the trees along the bank for possible hiding places for shore batteries, sometimes firing into suspected areas. Upon discovering no hidden guns, the Benton stopped at the double bend in the river, where several other vessels were docked, along with a floating shore battery. After determining that there were no Confederates about, a tug was dispatched to place and tie up mortar boats. At 1 o'clock in the afternoon, the mortar boats commenced firing upon the island, with the Benton joining the bombardment two hours later. Red Rover and other Confederate vessels moved out in retreat. With Confederate guns silent, Phelps boarded a tugboat and took it downstream, turning into and out of range of Confederate batteries, hoping to draw their fire and revealing their strength. With no response from the Confederates, Phelps returned upstream to the Benton, where he spent the remainder of the afternoon firing shells at nearby Forts Thompson and Bankhead.

General Pope advanced on New Madrid, an engagement that lasted from February 28 to March 14, with very few casualties, and proceeded on to Point Pleasant, Missouri and using his guns to established a blockade of the river. To reach Island No. 10 he would need gunboat support from Foote and Phelps to suppress Confederate batteries on the adjacent Tennessee shore.  Phelps in a March 27 report to Whittlesey wrote, "The rebels have an immensely strong position here, and the gunboats cannot get at them. ... The rebels have selected this place with this knowledge and we cannot get troops to where they are except from below..."

The morning of March 15 was cold and rainy with high winds. As Phelps and the Benton proceeded down the river it sighted the Confederate scout CSS Grampus which came about in front of the Benton, stopped and struck her colors. Then after giving four long blasts on her whistle, she quickly retreated, while the Benton fired four shots, all falling short of the target. At 8 P.M. Phelps and his flotilla approached Phillip's point, with island No. 10 sighted in the distance. On March 17, Foote called his commanders together in council to discuss the next best course of action.

A plan was devised to cut out a channel north of Island no. 10. allowing union vessels to bypass Confederate batteries on the island.
After days of bombardment from Union gunboats and floating batteries, Pope was finally able to move his army across the river and trap the Confederates opposite the island, who by now were in retreat. Outnumbered at least three to one, the Confederates realized their situation was hopeless and decided to surrender. At about the same time, the garrison on the island surrendered to Flag Officer Foote and the Union flotilla. As Foote and Phelps were looking on from the Benton, a Confederate steamer DeSoto approached with a flag of truce with lieutenants George S. Martin and E. S. McDowell aboard with a message. After the meeting Phelps escorted the Confederate officers back to the island, returning April 8 to announce their unconditional surrender.

Foote stands down