[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# America 3000

, he is 'man'. Korvis invites her to feel his flesh, ultimately leading to the couple having intercourse. Meanwhile, back at the Frau base, Morha and Freyha conspire against Vena, and convince Lakella to usurp her sister's crown. In a display of power, Lakella launches an assault on the Plugot base.

During the assault on the men's camp, many lives are lost. Morha is knocked off her horse by a grenade and is trampled by the remaining soldiers, Amie is killed by an oncoming thunder-rock, and Lakella is killed in hand-to-hand combat with Gruss. Korvis, upon arriving home to the wreckage, angrily launches a counter-offensive, believing Vena is to blame. At the Frisco gates, Korvis meets a surrendering Vena, who was unaware of the ambush plans or her sister's treachery. Vena and Korvis throw down their weapons, and kiss. The onlooking men and women follow suit, signaling an end to the war between them.

Cast
 Chuck Wagner as Korvis 
 Laurene Landon as Vena 
 William Wallace as Gruss 
 Sue Giosa as Morha 
 Victoria Barrett as Lakella 
 Galyn Görg as Lynka 
 Shaike Ophir as Lelz (credited as Shai K. Ophir) 
 Camilla Sparv as Reya 
 Karen Sheperd as Keva (credited as Karen Lee Sheperd) 
 Ari Sorko-Ram as Relk 
 Ezra Dagan as Amie 
 Joanna Reis as Freyha 
 Steve Malovic as Aargh the Awful 
 Anat Zahor as Bowa (credited as Anat Zachor) 
 Pierre as Henry Troke

Reception
TV Guide found the film's " pace is creakingly slow, and the performances are all of the somnambulistic variety. The only saving graces are a relatively exciting climax and a funny monster named Aargh the Awful".

The Globe and Mail summarized the film as, "Space, midnight Mad Maxine meets Here Come the Bridesmaids (if bridesmaids had more cleavage). It's the year 3000, nine centuries after a cataclysmic nuclear war, and babes have taken over the world - not women, but babes, who dress and do their hair as if chauvinist pigs were still in charge. Wanting to be accepted for who they are, dammit, the valiant, long-oppressed menfolk decide to fight back, led by the burly Korvis (Chuck Wagner, who the following year would become Randall Thompson on General Hospital). But winning over those big-breasted warlords won't be easy; nor will Korvis's noble desire to make love, not war."

Sunday Mercury referred to the film as, "a big-haired, post-apocalyptic feminist film that is, by all accounts, one of the best worst films that's ever been made."

In the 2015 documentary, Electric Boogaloo: The Wild, Untold Story of Cannon Films, lead actress Laurene Landon, recounts her experience with Cannon Films when filming America 3000, and sets fire to her only copy of the VHS film.

References

Further reading 
 
 
 "Original VHS Box-Art" UMV 10889 http://www.videocollector.co.uk/america-3000/37159

External links
 
 
 America 3000 at Rotten Tomatoes
 America 3000 The Unknown Movies

1986 films
1980s science fiction action films
American science fiction action films
1980s English-language films
Golan-Globus films
American post-apocalyptic films
Films set in the 30th century
Films set in Colorado
Films shot in Israel
Gender role reversal
Films produced by Menahem Golan
Films produced by Yoram Globus
1980s American films
Films set in bunkers