[Source: Gutenberg#7370 | Part 50]
# The Social Contract — Jean-Jacques Rousseau

nsent is little taken notice of:
and therefore many have mistaken the force of arms for the consent of
the people, and reckon conquest as one of the originals of government.
But conquest is as far from setting up any government, as demolishing an
house is from building a new one in the place. Indeed, it often makes
way for a new frame of a commonwealth, by destroying the former; but,
without the consent of the people, can never erect a new one.

Sect. 176. That the aggressor, who puts himself into the state of war
with another, and unjustly invades another man’s right, can, by such an
unjust war, never come to have a right over the conquered, will be
easily agreed by all men, who will not think, that robbers and pyrates
have a right of empire over whomsoever they have force enough to master;
or that men are bound by promises, which unlawful force extorts from
them. Should a robber break into my house, and with a dagger at my
throat make me seal deeds to convey my estate to him, would this give
him any title? Just such a title, by his sword, has an unjust conqueror,
who forces me into submission. The injury and the crime is equal,
whether committed by the wearer of a crown, or some petty villain. The
title of the offender, and the number of his followers, make no
difference in the offence, unless it be to aggravate it. The only
difference is, great robbers punish little ones, to keep them in their
obedience; but the great ones are rewarded with laurels and triumphs,
because they are too big for the weak hands of justice in this world,
and have the power in their own possession, which should punish
offenders. What is my remedy against a robber, that so broke into my
house? Appeal to the law for justice. But perhaps justice is denied, or
I am crippled and cannot stir, robbed and have not the means to do it.
If God has taken away all means of seeking remedy, there is nothing left
but patience. But my son, when able, may seek the relief of the law,
which I am denied: he or his son may renew his appeal, till he recover
his right. But the conquered, or their children, have no court, no
arbitrator on earth to appeal to. Then they may appeal, as Jephtha did,
to heaven, and repeat their appeal till they have recovered the native
right of their ancestors, which was, to have such a legislative over
them, as the majority should approve, and freely acquiesce in. If it be
objected, This would cause endless trouble; I answer, no more than
justice does, where she lies open to all that appeal to her. He that
troubles his neighbour without a cause, is punished for it by the
justice of the court he appeals to: and he that appeals to heaven must
be sure he has right on his side; and a right too that is worth the
trouble and cost of the appeal, as he will answer at a tribunal that
cannot be deceived, and will be sure to retribute to every one according
to the mischiefs he hath created to his fellow subjects; that is, any
part of mankind: from whence it is plain, that he that conquers in an
unjust war can thereby have no title to the subjection and obedience of
the conquered.

Sect. 177. But supposing victory favours the right side, let us consider
a conqueror in a lawful war, and see what power he gets, and over whom.

First, It is plain he gets no power by his conquest over those that
conquered with him. They that fought on his side cannot suffer by the
conquest, but must at least be as much freemen as they were before. And
most commonly they serve upon terms, and on condition to share with
their leader, and enjoy a part of the spoil, and other advantages that
attend the conquering sword; or at least have a part of the subdued
country bestowed upon them. And the conquering people are not, I hope,
to be slaves by conquest, and wear their laurels only to shew they are
sacrifices to their leaders triumph. They that found absolute monarchy
upon the title of the sword, make their heroes, who are the founders of
such monarchies, arrant Draw-can-sirs, and forget they had any officers
and soldiers that fought on their side in the battles they won, or
assisted them in the subduing, or shared in possessing, the countries
they mastered. We are told by some, that the English monarchy is founded
in the Norman conquest, and that our princes have thereby a title to
absolute dominion: which if it were true, (as by the history it appears
otherwise) and that William had a right to make war on this island; yet
his dominion by conquest could reach no farther than to the Saxons and
Britons, that were then inhabitants of this country. The Normans that
came with him, and helped to conquer, and all descended from them, are
freemen, and no subjects by conquest; let that give what dominion it
will. And if I, or any body else, shall claim freedom, as derived from
them, it will be very hard to prove the contrary: and it is plain, the
law, that has made no distinction between the one