[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Immigration to Mexico

regón (O'Brien) was president of Mexico during 1920-24 and Ciudad Obregón and its airport are named in his honor. Actor Anthony Quinn is another famous Mexican of Irish descent. There are also monuments in Mexico City paying tribute to those Irish who fought for Mexico in the 19th century.

Italian 

There has not been a huge influx of Italians to Mexico compared to other countries such as Brazil, Argentina and the United States. Many minor migration waves are documented however, the earliest probably being as old as the conquest of the Chichimeca lands in the early 16th century.

The most prominent recent wave of migration came from northern Italy and Veneto in the late 19th century, and their descendants today are well assimilated in Mexican society. The town of Chipilo in the state of Puebla (nowadays part of Greater Puebla City) was founded by Italians, and most of its inhabitants still speak the Venetian language together with Spanish. The exact number of Italian descendants is not known, but it is estimated that there around 850,000 Italian Mexicans in the country. As of 2012, 20,000 Italians reside in Mexico

Russian

According to INM in 2009 1,396 Russians are living documented in Mexico. According to the Russian embassy, 25,000 reside in Mexico.

Most left Russia during its communist regime (Soviet Union), taking advantage of the Mexican law allowing migrants from communist countries to apply for asylum as soon as they touched Mexican soil, and the ability to become legal residents of Mexico.  Leon Trotsky famously moved to Mexico escaping persecution from Stalin, and was eventually murdered at Stalin's behest in Mexico City.  The Spiritual Christian Pryguny were a small early 20th century immigrant group to Valle de Guadalupe, Baja California.

Spanish 

Spaniards make up the largest group of Europeans in Mexico. Most of them arrived during the colonial period but others have since then immigrated, especially during the Spanish Civil War (1936–39) and the Francisco Franco regime (1939–75).

The first Spaniards who arrived in Mexico, were soldiers and sailors of Extremadura, Andalusia and La Mancha who sailed around the Yucatán Peninsula, the shores of the Gulf of Mexico and then made landfall leading to the development of New Spain. Among the soldiers sent by the Spanish crown to the colonial territory were Muslims converts from Córdoba and Granada. At the end of the 16th century, both common and aristocrat people migrated to Mexico and disseminated by its territory. Genetic studies show that a majority of Mexicans have at least some European ancestry, most of which is Spanish and dates back to the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries.

Most recent immigrants came during the Spanish Civil War. Some of the migrants returned to Spain after the civil war, but some of them remained in Mexico. According to the 2010 census, there were 18,873 Spaniards living in Mexico.

Due to the 2008 Financial Crisis and the resulting economic decline and high unemployment in Spain, many Spaniards have been emigrating to Mexico to seek new opportunities. For example, during the last quarter of 2012, a number of 7,630 work permits were granted to Spaniards.

The article on Basque Mexicans covers the large segment of Spaniards and some French immigrants of the Basque ethnic group.

Other Europeans 

Small waves of immigrants from Poland, Ukraine and other Eastern European countries (Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania etc.), arrived during the Cold War.

Fewer immigrants came from Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Cyprus, Greece (see Greek Mexican), Albania, Croatia, Serbia, Czech Republic, Montenegro, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Slovakia, Slovenia, North Macedonia, Malta, Portugal and Cape Verde.

See also 
 Illegal immigration to Mexico
 Immigration to the United States
 Immigration to Canada

References

Further reading