[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# History of the Spanish language

ssical Latin, but became silent in Vulgar Latin. Thus, words were spelled without any such consonant in Old Spanish; in Modern Spanish, from the 16th century onward, it attempts to mimic the Latin spelling rather than continue Old Spanish orthography.

Modern development of the Old Spanish sibilants

During the 16th century, the three voiced sibilant phonemes—dental , apico-alveolar , and palato-alveolar  (as in Old Spanish fazer, casa, and ojo, respectively) lost their voicing and merged with their voiceless counterparts: , , and  (as in caçar, passar, and baxar respectively). The character ⟨ç⟩, called ⟨c⟩ cedilla, originated in Old Spanish but has been replaced by ⟨z⟩ in the modern language.

Additionally, the affricate  lost its stop component, to become a laminodental fricative, . As a result, the sound system then contained two sibilant fricative phonemes whose contrast depended entirely on a subtle distinction between their places of articulation: apicoalveolar, in the case of the , and laminodental, in the case of the new fricative sibilant , which was derived from the affricate . The distinction between the sounds grew in the dialects of northern and central Spain by paradigmatic dissimilation, but dialects in Andalusia and the Americas merged both sounds.

The dissimilation in the northern and central dialects occurred with the laminodental fricative moving forward to an interdental place of articulation, losing its sibilance to become . The sound is represented in modern spelling by ⟨c⟩ before ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩ and by ⟨z⟩ elsewhere. In the south of Spain, the deaffrication of  resulted in a direct merger with , as both were homorganic, and the new phoneme became either laminodental  ("seseo", in the Americas and parts of Andalusia) or  ("ceceo", in a few parts of Andalusia). In general, coastal regions of Andalusia preferred , and more inland regions preferred  (see the map at ceceo).

During the colonization of the Americas, most settlers came from the south of Spain; that is the cause, according to almost all scholars, for nearly all Spanish speakers in the New World still speaking a language variety derived mainly from the Western Andalusian and Canarian dialects.

Meanwhile, the alveopalatal fricative , the result of the merger of voiceless  (spelled ⟨x⟩ in Old Spanish) with voiced  (spelled with ⟨j⟩ in some words and in others with ⟨g⟩ before ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩), was moved backward in all dialects, to become (depending on geographical variety) velar , uvular  (in parts of Spain) or glottal  (in Andalusia, Canary Islands, and parts of the Americas, especially the Caribbean region).

Interchange of the liquids /l/ and /r/
One unusual feature of Spanish etymology is the way in which the liquids  and  have sometimes replaced each other in words derived from Latin, French and other sources. For example, Spanish milagro, "miracle", is derived from Latin miraculum. More rarely, this process has involved consonants like  and  (as in alma, from Latin anima). Here is an incomplete list of such words: