[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John Kennedy (Louisiana politician)

oard 

While secretary of the revenue department, Kennedy was also appointed to the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, which is responsible for regulating legalized gambling. He criticized riverboat casino operators for failing to enforce the 21-year age restriction.

Treasurer of Louisiana (2000–2017)

Kennedy left the Foster administration when he was elected Louisiana State Treasurer in 1999, having unseated incumbent Ken Duncan with 55.6% of the vote, or 621,796 votes, to Duncan's 44.4%, or 497,319 votes. Kennedy was reelected treasurer without opposition in 2003, 2007 and 2011. In 2015, he defeated his sole challenger with 80% of the vote.

Commission on Streamlining Government 

Kennedy served as a member of the Commission on Streamlining Government, which worked to reduce bureaucracy in Louisiana. In 2009, he urged the commission to consolidate the state's four boards of higher education into one. Kennedy argued that the state needed to cut spending, rather than raise taxes, because it already had the nation's fifth-highest business taxes. He urged the commission to cut the number of state government employees, which he said could save $800,000 per year. Kennedy also recommended that the commission review all state consulting contracts to ensure the state was getting a good deal.

Kennedy suggested limiting Medicaid patients to two nonemergency room visits per year as a cost-saving measure. He also called for the state to require that all prisoners receive a high school diploma to reduce recidivism. Kennedy often criticized the commission as "way too tentative” in its policy proposals.

Unclaimed property 

After being elected treasurer, Kennedy drafted a bill to move the work of managing unclaimed property from the Department of Revenue to the state treasurer's office to allow him to continue the work he had started as secretary of revenue under Governor Foster. Kennedy led regular events to raise awareness about unclaimed property at malls and other public spaces, returning $400 million to 600,000 Louisianians. He told reporters that the state had returned money to many prominent Louisianians, including Foster, Archie Manning, and John Goodman. Under Kennedy’s leadership, the treasury uncovered $45 million in unclaimed death benefits alone.

With the money that remained unclaimed, Kennedy convinced the state legislature to establish a $200 million fund to repay construction bonds that were used to build I-49. He worked with Moody's and Standard & Poor's to maintain the state's favorable bond rating throughout the project.

Debt refinance 

As treasurer, Kennedy sought to refinance portions of Louisiana’s debt from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita as interest rates decreased. He worked with the state legislature and several governors' offices to negotiate each refinancing. 

In 2004, Kennedy told the state legislature that he could save more than $1.4 billion by refinancing the state's debt. He noted that he had sent Governor Kathleen Blanco several letters about refinancing that went unanswered. In 2011, Kennedy announced that Lafayette and Livingston Parishes had saved $11 million by refinancing. By 2013, Kennedy said he had "refinanced virtually all of the state's debt".

In 2014, Kennedy worked to refinance $229 million in bond debt. The project faced delays because of a disagreement with Governor Bobby Jindal's office over accounting practices. Jindal's team claimed Kennedy was "unnecessarily holding up" progress on many construction projects, but Kennedy maintained that Jindal's accounting practices potentially violated federal anti-fraud laws. The two sides eventually compromised and the deal moved ahead, saving Louisiana $12 million. By the end of 2014, Kennedy had saved Louisiana a total of more than $600 million by refinancing debt. 

In 2015, Kennedy saved Louisiana $109 million over 26 years by refinancing a $649 million loan that funded a highway project.

Anti-corruption efforts 

As treasurer, Kennedy pushed for tougher ethical standards in state contracting reform. In 2007, he called for a full investigation into all contracts signed in the wake of Hurricane Katrina after media investigations revealed that one FEMA contractor allegedly engaged in profiteering by misrepresenting timesheets and hourly rates. Kennedy also urged Governor Blanco to ban family members of state officials from securing construction contracts during the rebuilding effort.