[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# John Mahama

named "Smarttys," owned by a member of the ruling NDC activist Selassie Ibrahim. It was revealed that the rebranding of the buses cost the government Gh₵3,600,000 which at the time was more than the cost of the 116 buses, the money lost was eventually refunded through the Attorney General's office.

Honours and awards
Mahama received an honorary doctorate in the field of Public Administration, from the Ekiti State University of Nigeria, formerly affiliated to the Obafemi Awolowo University in "recognition of his politico-socio economic development of Ghana and Africa at various stages of his political career." Later the same university passed a resolution to name its Faculty of Management Science after him. 
The Cuban government, recognising Mahama's relentless advocacy for the Cuban cause, namely for the lifting of the 50-year economic embargo on the communist country and for the freedom of the detained Cuban five by the United States government, conferred on him the Friendship Medal. The General Council of Assemblies of God, Ghana honoured Mahama with its Daniel Award. The Graduate School of Governance and Leadership also awarded him the African Servant Leadership Award while the Institute of Public Relations recognized Mahama with a prize for his leadership acumen and technocratic flair. In 2013, the Forum for Agricultural Research in Africa (FARA) conferred on Mahama the Africa Award for Excellence in Food Security and Poverty Reduction. In March 2016, University of Aberdeen held a special convocation to confer an honorary degree of Doctors of Laws (LLD) on President John Mahama.

Mahama has also attended numerous conferences and won many fellowships, including a study as a visiting scholar at Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, United States. He is also a Bill Gates Fellow. He was awarded the Great Cross of the National Order of Benin, the highest award in Benin, by President Yayi Boni.

In February 2017, Mahama received the 2016 African Political Leader of the Year Award from the African Leadership Magazine in South Africa.

In October 2022, Mahama was honored by Liberty University with a Global Leadership and Economic Impact Award in Virginia, USA. This award was to celebrate him for governing wisely, “advocating and achieving a consistent track record on economic development, women’s participation in education, and enhancing economic growth.”

See also
List of Mills government ministers
List of Mahama government ministers

References

External links

 
 

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1958 births
20th-century Ghanaian historians
21st-century Ghanaian historians
Alumni of Achimota School
Communications ministers of Ghana
Former Presbyterians
Ghanaian civil servants
Ghanaian commanders in chief
Ghanaian MPs 1997–2001
Ghanaian MPs 2001–2005
Ghanaian MPs 2005–2009
Ghanaian Pentecostals
Living people
Members of the Pan-African Parliament from Ghana
National Democratic Congress (Ghana) politicians
People from Northern Region (Ghana)
Presidents of Ghana
University of Ghana alumni
Vice-presidents of Ghana
Government ministers of Ghana
21st-century Ghanaian politicians
Ghana Senior High School (Tamale) alumni
Ghanaian writers
20th-century Ghanaian writers
People from Savannah Region (Ghana)