[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Centre for Effective Dispute Resolution

tral institutions and tribunals can give parties greater assistance. The Commission is composed of 75 figures from the field and is also consulting 45 organisations from different jurisdictions. In 2009 the Commission published its Rules & Recommendations for Settlement in International Arbitration.

Training 
Training mediators for over seventeen years, its Mediator Training Skills is widely thought to be the best in the world. With a faculty of 30 experienced mediators, CEDR says over 5000 mediators from different countries have been trained to date. Once passed mediators can go on to become accredited. In the last ten years CEDR has also branched out and offers other courses such as a Certificate in Advanced Negotiation, Advocacy Skills for lawyers and Conflict Management for managers.

Consultancy and named clients 
Increasingly CEDR says it is called into organizations and disputes at an early stage to design a resolution system or training scheme. In 2006 CEDR announced it had been appointed by the World Bank's International Finance Corporation to introduce mediation to Pakistan. In its 2005 report CEDR said it has also worked with IBM, the Court of Appeal and the National Association of Pension Funds.

Whilst no organizations were mentioned in its 2006 annual report, in 2007 CEDR said it ran projects or consulted with the IFC and World Bank, the European Patent Office, the London Olympics 2012, the Federal Government of India, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Germanischer Lloyd Wind Energy, the Chartered Institute for Personnel and Development, the Chartered Institute of Public Relations, the Ministry of Justice (UK), the National Health Service (UK), the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (UK) and UNCITRAL. The report shows that in addition to its work in the UK, in 2007 CEDR also worked in South Africa, China, the Ukraine, India, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Turkey, Vietnam, the United States, Bosnia and Croatia.

The 2008 report names law firms it worked with as Allen & Overy, Ashurst, Clifford Chance, Eversheds, Herbert Smith, Lewis Silkin, Lovells, Mayer Brown, Nabarro and Norton Rose. The businesses and organizations given are Allianz, Association for Consultancy and Engineering (ACE), Barclays, Beazley, British Waterways, Court of Appeal, Deloitte, Department for Transport (UK), Home Office (UK), Hong Kong Bar Association, Howden, International Finance Corporation, International Underwriting Association, John Laing, Lloyd's Markets Association, Medical Protection Society, PricewaterhouseCoopers, QBE, Skanska, Teceris, Thames Water, UK Intellectual Property Office, University of Southampton and the World Bank.

In its 2009 annual report it says it worked with a number of banks - Barclays, Lloyds TSB, HBOS, National Westminster Bank/Royal Bank of Scotland, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs, UBS, Merrill Lynch and EBRD. Other organizations included are Beazley, Home Office (UK), John Laing, BBC, Sony, Panasonic, EDF Energy, Metropolitan Police, the Arts Council, Samsung, The Tribunals Service, ACAS, BDO Stoy Hayward, British Sugar, NHS Primary Healthcare Trusts, Roche, Bristol Myers Squibb, University of Cardiff, University of Birmingham, City University, Wolverhampton University, the Medical Protection Society, Lloyds Market Association, IFC and PricewaterhouseCoopers.

External links 
 CEDR website
 CEDR IDRS
 Fourth Mediation Audit 
 2007 Report 
 2008 Report 
 2009 Report 
 Commission on Settlement in International Arbitration, Rules and Recommendations About Us - CEDR | Alternative Dispute Resolution | Mediation Services

References 

Non-profit organisations based in the United Kingdom
Dispute resolution
Arbitration organizations