[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Israel–New Zealand relations

al gangs. Prime Minister Helen Clark cancelled a planned visit to New Zealand by Israeli President Moshe Katzav, delayed approval for a new Israeli ambassador to New Zealand, and called the case "far more than simple criminal behaviour by two individuals" which "seriously strained our relationship."

Jewish graves in Wellington were vandalised with Swastikas and Nazi slogans carved into and around 16 Jewish graves. David Zwartz, a leader in the Jewish community in New Zealand who was appointed as the Honorary Consul from Israel to New Zealand in 2003, said:"...there is a direct connection between the very strong expressions against Israel and people here feeling they can take it out on Jews. It seems to me Israel-bashing one day, Jew-bashing the next day."

The Israeli Deputy Chief of Staff, Gabi Ashkenazi, was denied permission to visit New Zealand to speak at a private fund-raising event in March 2005 because of the freeze on visits from Israeli officials.

On June 26, 2005 Foreign Minister Shalom sent a letter of apology to the New Zealand government, and said that Israel would take steps to prevent a recurrence of similar incidents.

Diplomatic relations were reinstated on August 30, 2005. Naftali Tamir presented his credentials to Governor-General Dame Silvia Cartwright before a guard of honour. Amos Nadav, the Israeli Foreign Minister's deputy director for Asia and the Pacific said "We are happy the crisis is behind us and look ahead to the future."

2015 diplomatic accreditation dispute
In 2015 Israel and New Zealand settled a diplomatic dispute that had arisen when New Zealand assigned an ambassador to Israel who was also slated to be the ambassador to the Palestinians. In September 2014 Israel would not allow Ambassador Jonathan Curr to present his credentials, saying that would violate Israel's "well-known policy" of not receiving diplomats who are also received by the Palestinian Authority. New Zealand ended the conflict by appointing separate diplomats to Israel and the Palestinian authority, a move viewed as motivated by its recent election as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council and increasing impatience within the council over failure to agree on a UN stance in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.

Economic relations
In 1994 Israel opened a trade office in Auckland and the New Zealand and Israel Trade Association, known as NZITA, was established. Since 2001, Fonterra, New Zealand's largest dairy company, has been involved in a joint venture with the Israeli cooperative Tnuva. As of 2007, New Zealand agricultural exports to Israel had been hampered by a tariff on foreign agricultural exports imposed by Israel.

By 2008, New Zealand had exported NZ$52 million worth of exports to Israel. New Zealand exports to Israel have included machines, equipment, software, cut diamonds, agricultural products, chemicals, textiles and apparel, military equipment, and food. Imports into New Zealand from Israel were worth NZ$120 million and have included turbo equipment (10%), machine parts (9%); auxiliary plant equipment (8%), electrical products including insulated wire (8%), and diamonds (3%).

Tourism
New Zealand and Israel also have a visitor visa waiver programme. By late 2008, 10,000 Israelis had visited New Zealand.

In April 2011, Israel and New Zealand signed a reciprocal deal that allows tourists to work for three months without an additional visa.  The deal was signed by the Speaker of the Knesset, Reuven Rivlin and his New Zealand counterpart Lockwood Smith, when Rivlin was visiting New Zealand.

Issues and controversies

Israel-Palestine conflict
Like most Western countries New Zealand has not officially recognised Palestine as a sovereign state. New Zealand has condemned the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and has rigorously promoted a United Nations-backed two-state solution. While it regularly votes for pro-Palestinian measures at the UN, New Zealand is yet to formally challenge only Israel when tensions erupt into significant violence, as with the May 2021 hostilities.

Although the New Zealand Government under Jacinda Ardern has advocated a placative diplomatic policy towards both Israel that defends its right to exist, polls show that almost a quarter of New Zealanders believe Israel to be an apartheid state.

UNSC Resolution 2334

On 23 December 2016, New Zealand was a co-sponsor on Resolution 2334, which condemned the ongoing building of Israeli settlements in occupied Palestinian territories. New Zealand's Foreign Minister Murray McCully defended his Government's actions as being in line with New Zealand's "established policy on the Palestinian question" and emphasised New Zealand's willingness to "engage constructively with all parties on this issue".