[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Minuta Molchanya

rogramme and its running time was cut  to 6 Minutes. By then, a Belarusian version featuring the Eternal Flame in Minsk and guards of honour of the Military Commandanture had been airing since then, produced by Belteleradio for Belarus 1, whose feed is simucast on all public and private TV stations.

Since 2004, a minute of silence has been broadcast on all sports channels produced by NTV-Plus (since 2016 - by the GPM Match! Sub-holding). Followed in 2006 when all Digital Telefamily of Channel One also took the airing including some private cable TV channels (exepct on Religious and TV Shopping channels).

On May 9, 2005, in connection with the arrival in Moscow to celebrate the 60th anniversary of Victory of a large number of Foreign Delegations, the nationwide Minute of Silence was enforced in the official protocol of events and immediately preceded the festive concert on Red Square, in connection with which the broadcast was postponed from 18:55 till 19:55. During the Minute of Silence, the traditional video footage of the burning Eternal Flame was replaced for a few seconds by a direct connection from Red Square are the heads of foreign delegations, along with Russian officials, who paid tribute to the fallen.

Beginning in 2010, the footage of the Minute of Silence this time included the granite obelisk honoring the fallen from every City of Military Glory of Russia, a title bestowed beginning 2005 to cities and towns in the country that had been either battlefields or major military bases that had helped in the war effort against the Axis Powers. The red granite obelisk honoring this places had been inaugurated on Victory in Europe Day, May 8, one day before the 65th Victory Day.

On May 9, 2014, the programme was revamped again to adjust to modern broadcast standards. The Tomb Of The Unknown Soldier with the Enternal Flame was retained and all montages from people gathered were removed due to the old age of the veterans and the small declining crowd over the years. The crowd shots were replaced by pictures of some of the millions of servicemen and women who perished during the war, and the background music was updated to the coral rendition of Georgy Sviridov's composition Sacred Love. The pictures were updated every year and some photos of the fallen are provided from the "Victory in Faces" Historical Depositarium  and the Victory Museum. It used excerpts of Robert Rozhdestvensky's Requiem  read by Boris Mironov and Lyubov Germanova while Kirillov retained the conclusion at the end of the program. Also RT now broadcasts in English, Spanish and Arabic languages the Minute itself for the benefit of its international viewers, from 2007 to 2013 it broadcast the whole program dubbed in these languages.

In 2015, a fragment of Putin's speech was replaced for the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of Victory Day, The initial landscape sketch of Moscow was also supplemented by a plan towards the Historical Museum, and the speech was added "heads of foreign delegations, the president, veterans in the stands, parade participants paid tribute to the memory of the victims"

On May 9, 2020, during the Coronavirus pandemic in Russia in which the traditional was Parade postponed and all people were still required to stay home, the tradition in the singing of "Den Pobedy" was added while people singing this with their balconies across major cities featuring the voices of Russian pop artists Lev Leshchenko, Vladimir Pozner, Tatiana Tarasova, and Dmitry Kharatyan among others. Produced by Russia-1, it aired following the 55th Minute of Silence.

Announcers 
 Igor Kirillov (1976-1983, 1990–91, 1996-2011)
 Alexy Zadachin (1984–85)
 Olga Vystotskaya (1986–89)
 Evgeny Khoroshevtsev (2012–13)
 Boris Mironov and Lyubov Germanova (2014–present)

References

External links 
 Minute of Silence text (Russian)
 First Minute of Silence (1965) audio, narrated by Vera Enyutina and Yuri Levitan
 Minute of Silence (2012) video, narrated by Igor Kirillov and E. Khoroshevtsev
 Minyuta Molchanya 2014 (2021 ver.), Video

Television in the Soviet Union
Radio in the Soviet Union
Aftermath of World War II in the Soviet Union
1945 in the Soviet Union
1960s Soviet television series