[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sherrod Brown

airs (Chair)
 As chair of the committee, Brown serves as an ex officio member on all the subcommittees.
 Committee on Finance
 Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness
Subcommittee on Social Security, Pensions, and Family Policy (Chair)
 Committee on Veterans' Affairs

Potential national campaigns
One of Bernie Sanders's closest allies in the U.S. Senate, Brown nevertheless endorsed Hillary Clinton and campaigned for her in the 2016 Democratic presidential primary in Ohio. He was vetted as a potential vice-presidential running mate for Clinton. The choice came down to Brown and Tim Kaine, who was ultimately selected. Brown had the distinct disadvantage that had Clinton won, Ohio's Republican Governor John Kasich would have chosen Brown's replacement in the Senate, whereas Kaine's replacement would be chosen by Democrat and Clinton ally Virginia governor Terry McAuliffe.

In May 2017 Washington Monthly suggested that Brown could unite the establishment and progressive wings of the Democratic Party as a presidential candidate in 2020. On November 12, 2018, Cleveland.com reported that Brown was "seriously" considering a presidential run.
After winning his third Senate term in the 2018 election, Brown was considered a potential candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020 and began exploring a run in January 2019. In March 2019, he announced that he would not run for president and would instead remain a senator. During the 2016 campaign season, Brown also said he had no interest in being vice president.

Political positions
In the 2011 National Journal annual rankings, Brown tied with eight other members for the title of the most liberal member of Congress. According to FiveThirtyEight, Brown voted with President Donald Trump's position on Congressional issues 25.8% of the time.

In a 2017 issue of Dissent, Michael Kazin introduced an interview with Brown by praising him as "a politician ahead of his time" and "perhaps the most class-conscious Democrat in Washington." Brown told Kazin that many Ohioans think "people on the coasts look down on them" and blamed this notion on Fox News and The Wall Street Journal.

President Biden
According to FiveThirtyEight, during the 117th Congress, Brown voted with President Joe Biden's stated position 98% of the time.

Corporate PAC money 
Brown has sponsored legislation to require corporate political action committees to disclose their donors.

In 2019, when Brown was considering running for president, he pledged not to take donations from corporate PACs. He had accepted more than $10.4 million in PAC money from 1997 to 2018. Since Brown declined to seek the presidency in 2019, his Senate campaign committee and leadership PAC have accepted over $1 million in corporate PAC donations. Some of the corporate PAC money that Brown accepted came from health insurance and pharmaceutical companies that the state of Ohio is suing for allegedly illegally driving up drug prices.

Economy 
In March 2019, Brown was one of six senators to sign a letter to the Federal Trade Commission requesting that it "use its rulemaking authority, along with other tools, in order to combat the scourge of non-compete clauses rigging our economy against workers" and saying that non-compete clauses "harm employees by limiting their ability to find alternate work, which leaves them with little leverage to bargain for better wages or working conditions with their immediate employer." The senators' letter added that the FTC had the responsibility of protecting both consumers and workers and needed to "act decisively" to address their concerns over "serious anti-competitive harms from the proliferation of non-competes in the economy."

Elections 
In 2018, Sherrod Brown was one of several Democrats to claim that Republicans "stole" the 2018 Georgia gubernatorial election. His claims mirrored those made by Stacey Abrams, the election's Democratic nominee, that voter suppression allowed Republican nominee Brian Kemp to win the election. Experts have found no proof of voter suppression in the election to validate the Democrats' claims.

Foreign policy

Brown opposed the Iraq War and voted against the Iraq Resolution as a House Representative. He voted against the $87 billion war budgetary supplement. He also voted for redeploying US troops out of Iraq by March 2008. Brown voted for the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008, which appropriated $250 billion for ongoing military operations and domestic programs.

In December 2010, Brown voted for the ratification of New START, a nuclear arms reduction treaty between the United States and the Russian Federation obliging both countries to have no more than 1,550 strategic warheads and 700 launchers deployed during the next seven years, and providing for a continuation of on-site inspections that halted when START I expired the previous year. It was the first arms treaty with Russia in eight years.