[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Terrorism in Malaysia

tack on border patrol troop at Kroh-Betong, northern Peninsula Malaysia on 17 June 1968. Skirmishes, bombings and assassinations continued until the signing of a tripartite peace treaty between Malaysian and Thai Governments as well as the MCP on 2 December 1989.

Post-independence and until present

War on Terror and Islamic extremism
In July 2000, an Islamic militant group called Al-Ma'unah stole weapons from a Malaysian Army camp in an attempt to overthrow the Malaysian Government. The group was later cornered in the village of Sauk, Perak and was involved in a stand-off the against the Malaysian Army and Royal Malaysian Police forces. Following a five-day standoff, the siege came to an end when Malaysian security forces, including the army 22nd Grup Gerak Khas (22nd GGK) and police VAT 69 Pasukan Gerakan Khas, stormed the camp in Operation Dawn.

On 6 April 2015, Malaysian authorities arrested seventeen suspected militants who were involved in an alleged terror plot in the capital Kuala Lumpur. Two of the suspects were alleged to have been fighting for the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS) in Syria. These arrests coincided with the Malaysian Government's plans to introduce two new anti-terror bills: the Prevention of Terrorism Act and the Special Measures Against Terrorism in Foreign Countries Act.

Policy

Malaysia's Policy on terrorism

Official Policy
Malaysia's policy on terrorism is clearly stipulated in Directive No. 18 (Revised) issued by the National Security Council. Malaysia is putting the emphasis on:
 Denouncing any form of terrorist acts
 Protection of hostages' life and property
 Preference for negotiated solutions
 No exchange of hostage to resolve the crisis
 Strike action as a last resort following failure of negotiation

Total Defence (HANRUH) concept
Since 2006, the Malaysian Government has implemented the concept of total defence (HANRUH) as part of the national defence doctrine. The Malaysian Government defined the total defence concept as a form of overall and integrated defence involving government agencies, private sectors, non-governmental bodies and citizens of Malaysia to protect the sovereignty and integrity of Malaysia. Under this concept, the Malaysian Government has identified 5 total defence components:
 Psychological integrity
 Consolidation and unity of Malaysians
 Public preparedness
 Economic integrity
 Security preparedness

Psychological integrity
Under the component of psychological integrity, the vision is to prepare the Malaysian citizens to continuously ready and committed to protect the sovereignty and integrity of the country. The main objectives are to instil the following among the citizens:
 Sense of patriotism and nationalism
 Sense of love to the country
 Sense of pride to be Malaysians
 Sense of readiness to sacrifice for the country
 Sense of harmony, unity and national integration
 Well-informed citizens

Preparedness against terrorism

Consolidation and Unity of Malaysians
The vision of consolidation and unity of Malaysians is to create a harmonious and unified Malaysian race (Bangsa Malaysia) regardless of status, race, religion, culture and origin. The main objectives are to instil the following among the citizens:
 Caring
 Tolerance
 Collaboration
 Share similar vision and goal
 Respect religious diversity

Public preparedness
Public preparedness focuses on two main aspects, namely:
 Provision of sufficient access to protection of life and property
 Ensure security and continuous supply of basic amenities in the event of war, emergency and disaster

To ensure that the above focuses achieve its intended vision, the Malaysian Government has established the following as part of the implementation strategy:
 Rescue and emergency assistance services
 Fire safety brigade
 Food supply and distribution services
 Assign Malaysia Civil Defence Department as the lead agency to co-ordinate and implement all public preparedness programs in collaboration with public emergency response services and other volunteer associations

Economic integrity
The economic integrity component seeks to ensure solid economic prosperity and continuous competitiveness level. Three main factors identified under this component are:
 Stockpile of necessity items
 Staple food supply as a national strategic asset
 Ensuring transportation, energy and water supply continue to be provided without interruption and not under threat

The action plan for economic integrity is formulation of a national agriculture policy to reduce dependency on imported products and diversify national production.

Security preparedness
Security preparedness involve the policing and military forces of the country. The main task for the police force is to ensure public order, providing assistance to other government agencies, protecting lives and properties as well as assisting the cause of war. The military is responsible to protect national interest and sovereignty.