[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Slovenia in the Eurovision Song Contest 1999

Slovenia participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 1999 with the song "For a Thousand Years" written by Sašo Fajon and Primož Peterca. The song was performed by Darja Švajger, who had previously represented Slovenia in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1995 where she placed seventh with the song "Prisluhni mi". Slovenian broadcaster Radiotelevizija Slovenija (RTV Slovenija) organised the national final EMA 1999 in order to select the Slovenian entry for the 1999 contest in Jerusalem, Israel. 17 entries competed in the national final where "Se tisoc let" performed by Darja Švajger was selected as the winner following the combination of votes from a four-member jury panel and a public televote. The song was later translated from Slovene to English for the Eurovision Song Contest and was titled "For a Thousand Years" .

Slovenia competed in the Eurovision Song Contest which took place on 29 May 1999. Performing during the show in position 6, Slovenia placed eleventh out of the 23 participating countries, scoring 50 points.

Background 

Prior to the 1999 contest, Slovenia had participated in the Eurovision Song Contest five times since its first entry in . Slovenia's highest placing in the contest, to this point, has been seventh place, which the nation achieved in 1995 with the song "Prisluhni mi" performed by Darja Švajger. The country's only other top ten result was achieved in 1997 when Tanja Ribič performing "Zbudi se" placed tenth. In 1998, "Naj bogovi slišijo" performed by Vili Resnik placed eighteenth.

The Slovenian national broadcaster, Radiotelevizija Slovenija (RTV Slovenija), broadcasts the event within Slovenia and organises the selection process for the nation's entry. The Slovenian entry for the Eurovision Song Contest has traditionally been selected through a national final entitled Evrovizijska Melodija (EMA), which has been produced with variable formats. For 1999, the broadcaster opted to organise EMA 1999 to select the Slovenian entry.

Before Eurovision

EMA 1999 

EMA 1999 was the fifth edition of the Slovenian national final format Evrovizijska Melodija (EMA). The competition was used by RTV Slovenija to select Slovenia's entry for the Eurovision Song Contest 1999 and took place on 26 February 1999 at the RTV Slovenija Studio 1 in Ljubljana. The show was hosted by Mojca Mavec and was broadcast on TV SLO1.

Format 
Seventeen songs competed in a televised show where the combination of points from a four-member expert jury and a public televote selected the winner. Each member of the expert jury assigned scores as follows: 1–8, 10 and 12, while the public televote assigned scores which had a weighting equal to the votes of two jurors. The song that received the highest score when the votes were combined was determined the winner.

Competing entries 
An expert committee consisting of Miša Molk (Head of Entertainment and Sports at RTV Slovenija), Mojmir Sepe (conductor and composer) and Andrej Karoli (music editor for Radio Slovenija) selected seventeen artists and songs for the competition from 71 received submissions. Among the competing artists was former Slovenian Eurovision contestant Darja Švajger who represented Slovenia in 1995.

Final 
EMA 1999 took place on 26 February 1999. In addition to the performances of the competing entries, 1997 Irish Eurovision entrant Marc Roberts performed as a guest. The combination of points from a four-member jury panel (2/3) and a public televote (1/3) selected "Še tisoč let" performed by Darja Švajger as the winner. The jury consisted of Roberts, Miša Molk (Head of Entertainment and Sports at RTV Slovenija), Mojmir Sepe (conductor and composer) and Andrej Karoli (music editor for Radio Slovenija).

At Eurovision
According to Eurovision rules, all nations with the exceptions of the bottom seven countries in the 1998 contest competed in the final on 29 May 1999. On 17 November 1998, an allocation draw was held which determined the running order and Slovenia was set to perform in position 6, following the entry from the United Kingdom and before the entry from Turkey. At the contest, Darja Švajger performed the English version of "Še tisoč let", titled "For a Thousand Years". Slovenia finished in eleventh place with 50 points.

The show was televised in Slovenia on RTV SLO1. The Slovenian spokesperson, who announced the Slovenian votes during the show, was Mira Berginc.

Voting 
Below is a breakdown of points awarded to Slovenia and awarded by Slovenia in the contest. The nation awarded its 12 points to Croatia in the contest.

References

External links
Slovene National Final 1999

1999
Countries in the Eurovision Song Contest 1999
Eurovision