[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Mercenaries in popular culture

videogames, are focused on the exploits of mercenary commands, allowing players the freedom to determine their own paths and to move between different government and Great House factions as employers, as an easy way to explore the various areas and cultures of the setting.

Computer and video games

 The computer game series Jagged Alliance focuses on a team of mercenaries doing several missions in fictional underdeveloped nations. 
 In Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction, the player controls one of three mercenaries in North Korea, and is able to accept mercenary contracts from the Allied Nations (a fictional version of the United Nations), South Korea, China, and the Russian Mafia. In the sequel, Mercenaries 2: World in Flames, set in Venezuela, the three mercenaries accept contracts from new contractors being underwritten by the contractors from the first game, while assembling a private military company of their own in the process.
 The game Army of Two and Army of Two: The 40th Day focuses on a pair of mercenaries. 
 Far Cry 2 allows the player to take control of one of 9 mercenaries in a fictional African conflict, who is tasked with eliminating a local arms dealer.
 Borderlands is a first-person role-playing shooter from Gearbox Software that in which players control one of four playable mercenary characters as they traverse the fictional planet of Pandora in search of a mysterious "Vault," said to contain priceless unknown riches.
 Bladestorm: The Hundred Years' War puts the player in command of a group of mercenaries. 
 In the multiplayer first-person shooter Team Fortress 2, the player controls one of nine mercenaries, in a corporate war.
 Mercenaries from the board game BattleTech were featured in several of the spin-off MechWarrior computer games.
 In Red Faction, "mercs" are used by the corporation ULTOR to kill rioting miners before the Earth Defense Forces arrive. 
 Players may participate as mercenary pilots in Project Wingman, Air Combat, Ace Combat 2 and Zero.
 In Strike Commander, the player runs a mercenary air force.
 Armored Core features a mercenary organization consisting of pilots of huge Mecha.
 In the Total War series, battalions of mercenaries can be hired at inns (in Medieval: Total War 1) or in the field (in Rome: Total War). 
 In Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance and Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn, the protagonist Ike is the leader of a mercenary group employed by other kingdoms in heroic causes; additionally, in most other games in the series, the "mercenary" is a basic sword-wielding character class.
 In the Treasures of Aht Urgan expansion for Final Fantasy XI, players are recruited into the "Salaheem's Sentinels" mercenary company, for which they can take on various missions called "Assaults" for various rewards. 
 Age of Empires III and Age of Empires III: The War Chiefs allows the player to hire foreign mercenaries.
 In the Halo universe, the Kig-Yar (Jackal) species are employed as mercenaries and privateers and are commonly deployed as scouts, snipers, or special infantry.  
 Numerous mercenary characters are found in Resident Evil, groups that provide such services as mercenaries include the U.B.C.S. as well as characters like Hunk or Jack Krauser
 In the Xbox 360 game Chromehounds, a mercenary organization called Rafzakael guides the player throughout the story mode and the online mode.
 The Soldier of Fortune depict a Capitol Hill conspiracy involving specialized mercenaries hired by G8 and the United Nations.
 In Call of Duty: Black Ops II, Cuban and Central American Mercenaries are used by narco-terrorist Raul Menendez to attack China and NATO, alongside hacked drones.
 In Splinter Cell: Conviction, Sam Fisher has several run-ins with a ruthless private military company known as "Black Arrow".
 Several different mercenary groups appear in the 2008 video game Fallout 3; most are presented as antagonists to the player.
 In the DC Comics video game Batman: Arkham City, a specialized team of highly trained mercenaries are featured, contracted from a clandestine private security agency known as "Tyger".
 In the game Mount & Blade and its sequel Mount & Blade: Warband, the player character can hire mercenary units at taverns in all cities. They cost more than normal units recruited from villages both in the initial cost and their upkeep.
 In Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City, "Wolfpack" is a mercenary group employed by Umbrella Corporation. They are dispatched into Raccoon City to run various missions on behalf of Umbrella's interests ranging from destruction of physical evidences to assassination of incriminating eyewitnesses.
 In Call of Juarez: The Cartel, a bankrupt PMC known as Peacekeepers International become a rogue group that supplies weapons to the Mendoza Cartel.
 The video game Grand Theft Auto V features the private military company "Merryweather Security".
 The Konami videogames Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots and Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pa