[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Los Angeles Chinese massacre of 1871

ffective, and both men then drew revolvers and started firing at one another. Warren was shot in the groin, and died the following day.

During this period, the See Yup Company divided into three; Hong Chow Company, headed by Yo Hing, the Nin Yung Company, headed by Sam Yuen, and the Hop Wo Company.

Sing Yu was released from jail on November 5. Three days later, Sing Yu was rescued from a group of five Chinese men who were discovered torturing her on the outskirts of San Bernardino. Sing Yu had been suspended over a fire and her legs & abdomen burnt, and her back cut lengthwise in several places. The five men, members of Yo Hing's company, were arrested and indicted for attempted murder. The following day, Yo Hing swore out a warrant against a resident of San Bernardino named Que Ma. Yo Hing accused Que Ma of stealing a horse two years prior. Que Ma was arrested in San Bernardino by Officer Dye, and brought to Los Angeles on November 12. While Que Ma was being held in custody in Los Angeles, the five men involved in the torture of Sing Yu were tried, and four were found guilty of an assault to do great bodily injury. Ah Chu, Ah Yok, Lee Jung, and Wang Hing were each sentenced to pay a fine of $500 each, or in default, to spend two years in the State Penitentiary. On November 29, the case against Que Ma was dropped since no witnesses appeared against him in court. On his person was found a summons from the County Court of San Bernardino requiring his presence at the torture trial that had already concluded. Yo Hing was required to pay the cost of the Que Ma's trial.

On December 8, Sing Yu filed a complaint against Lee Woo, of Anaheim, for Grand Larceny; it's possible the complaint is related to the abduction that occurred on October 14. Lee Woo was arrested on December 17, and a trial was scheduled for December 23 in Justice Gray's Court. However, the evening before the trial, the Deputy Sheriff of Santa Barbara county arrived in Los Angeles and arrested Sing Yu on a charge of grand larceny. The Deputy Sheriff, along with Deputy U. S. Marshal Dunlap, arrested Sing Yu in Negro Alley and placed her in a carriage belonging to city councilman George Fall. A group of men, belonging Yo Hing's company chased the carriage and caught up to it at Commercial street. Yo Hing's men fired four shots into the carriage, hitting a Chinese man named Wan, and killing one of the horses. The carriage escaped, and four of Yo Hing's men were arrested. The following day, the Los Angeles Daily Star reported the men convicted of torturing Sing Yu in San Bernardino were discharged from San Quentin, their charges having been overturned by the State Supreme Court.

In January 1871, Wong Heng, a wash house owner from San Bernardino, and his wife were passing through Los Angeles, on their way to China via San Francisco. Upon their arrival in Los Angeles, Yo Hing accused Wong Heng of having informed on the four Chinese men that roasted Sing Yu, and demanded Wong Heng compensate him. Wong Heng refused. The following day, Wong Heng and his wife got on the cars to leave for San Francisco. But before the cars departed, Wong Heng and his wife were arrested on a complaint made by one of Yo Hing's agents. Additionally, another of Yo Hing's agents, Lee Yee, filed a suit against Wing Heng, using a forged contract that purported to show Wong Heng borrowed $600, and agreed to repay the amount before returning to China. All of Wong Heng's money was confiscated by the Jailer, Frank Carpenter, until the cases could be settled.