[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Seth Ledyard Phelps

!" Phelps, in turn, ordered the Hindman to ram the obstructions and alternately pull them away. Meanwhile, Porter and Smith tried to reach the fort by way of the Atchafalaya River. Porter was subsequently deterred on the Atchafalaya and finally turned around and began the trip back up the Red River.

Reaching Fort DeRussy, Porter's gunships began to shell the fort while A. J. Smith 's troops moved in to engage the rebel fort Confederate Major General John Walker, realizing he was up against overwhelming odds, surrendered before the Union assault began. Upon learning that Phelps had already made it to Fort DeRussy, Porter dispatched an order from him to proceed toward Alexandria. Phelps already wanted to get there as soon as possible and sent the faster Fort Hindman and Cricket on ahead, arriving March 15, at the same time Confederate steamers were escaping upriver beyond the falls. Phelps arrived on Eastport a short time later, followed by river monitors. The next morning he was joined by eight other gunboats. Phelps landed a force under Admiral Selfridge to occupy the town and seize any Confederate property. The squadron had now made good its promise to be at Alexandria by March 17, General Banks, however, did not arrive until ten days later. Immediately after the arrival of the fleet Admiral Porter, not waiting for Banks, began efforts to get his squadron of thirteen gunboats upriver beyond the city.

Porter remained in Alexandria so command of the squadron at Grand Ecore fell on Phelps. As cotton was a primary objective, Phelps observed that the three barges Porter had intended for use as a bridge were being loaded with cotton gathered by the Army from the surrounding area. Phelps reported the affair to Porter who approved, much to Phelps's disappointment, who was not keen on the cotton speculation that was occurring in the midst of a war. When Porter arrived from Alexandria he found that the Eastport had gotten past the shoals at Grand Ecore but could proceed no further due to the low river level which was rising very slowly. Subsequently, Porter had to proceed with the remainder of his squadron of light-draft tinclads, monitors and transports. On April 7, Porter departed from Grand Ecore with several gunboats and the transports, leaving Phelps behind in command of the heavier vessels.

General Banks chose an alternate route in his effort to march to Shreveport and became separated from the protection of the squadron's heavy guns and his supply. When attacked by General Richard Taylor, resulting in the Battle of Mansfield, Banks, suffering heavy losses, was forced to retreat to Pleasant Hill fifteen miles to the southeast. The next day Banks called a council of war and it was decided that an advance on Shreveport was no longer feasible where the fleet began their retreat down the Red River.

During the return journey, the Eastport, captured by Phelps on an earlier mission, struck a mine on April 15, 1864, but was repaired and refloated. At this time the Red River was getting lower. On the return trip to Alexandria the huge ironclad  had already grounded eight times, and once again had grounded hard near Montgomery. After laboring all night Phelps reluctantly admitted that there was no other alternative but to destroy the prize vessel so it would not fall into the hands of the Confederates. Porter and Phelps were in charge of pyrotechnics, placing several tons of gunpowder in barrels about the ship. Phelps lit the match himself, and both men barely made it off the vessel on to the awaiting Hindman in time before the Eastport exploded into pieces, with large sections of the hull falling all around them. The Confederates were nearby and herd the explosion and were upon the scene directly and began firing their rifles and rushed an attempt to board the Cricket which was tied up near by,  but were repulsed by canister shot from the Cricket and other Union gunboats nearby.

Later life

After the war, in 1875, General Grant (now President of the United States) nominated Phelps to serve on the temporary board of commissioners. When Congress made it official in 1878, Phelps was appointed the permanent board's first president. He served for one year, resigning on November 29, 1879.

Phelps Vocational School in Northeast DC is named for Phelps. Additionally, his home at 15 Logan Circle in Washington still stands and now houses the Old Korean Legation Museum.