[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Sascha Riether

had an option to acquire the player at the end of the loan period. After securing the move to his new club, Riether spoke of his delight for being able to suit up at Craven Cottage, "I remember Craven Cottage being a great stadium with great fans, and I hope I can go on to have a great season here."

Riether made his Fulham debut on the first day of the season against Norwich City, a 5–0 thumping of the Canaries at Craven Cottage. Since making his debut, he quickly established himself in the starting eleven for the side, beating out Stephen Kelly over the right–back position. On 10 November, Riether was adjudged to have handled the ball inside the area and referee Phil Dowd awarded a 93rd-minute penalty to Arsenal with the game tied 3–3; Mikel Arteta's spot-kick was saved by Mark Schwarzer and Fulham escaped the Emirates with a point. Riether scored his first goal in the Premier League for Fulham in a 2–2 draw at Sunderland on 2 March 2013. Despite missing out three matches during the 2012–13 season, he went on to make 39 appearances and scoring once in all competitions. Following a successful debut season in England, Riether was voted as the club's Player of the Season by his fellow players, beating out the likes of top scorer Dimitar Berbatov and Greek midfielder Giorgos Karagounis.

On 16 May 2013, Riether agreed a permanent deal with Fulham for an undisclosed fee. He said "I am pleased after a first season in England and am focused on my other tasks in Fulham." Ahead of the 2013–14 season, he signed a contract extension with the club, keeping him until 2016. Riether continued to regain his first team place, in the right–back position despite facing competition from new signing, Elsad Zverotić. On 5 October 2013, Riether twice cleared shots off the line from fellow countryman Robert Huth as Fulham beat Stoke City 1–0 at home. Riether received much praise for his play and was recognized by Sky Sports as the game's "Man of the Match" for his endeavors. On 4 November 2013, Riether was charged with violent conduct by The FA after video evidence showed that he stamped on Manchester United player Adnan Januzaj in stoppage time of Fulham's 3–1 loss to United two days before. The club later found themselves in the relegation zone following the club's string of losses, which he described it as "desperate to avoid another survival scrap after experience with Cologne". Even after the reuniting with Manager Magath, the club were later relegated to the Championship after losing 4–1 to Stoke City. Riether's form had dropped, as Metro reflected on his performance: "Riether's demise, however, was so stark and speedy it was almost upsetting. He was slow and turgid last season and began to resemble a player more fitting to his age." Despite this, Riether finished the 2013–14 season, making 33 appearances and scoring once in all competitions.

Initially remaining coy about his future at Fulham until the end of the season, Riether was among several players expected to leave Fulham following their relegation. During his time at Fulham, Riether was the subject of a football chant from Fulham supporters in his honour by singing: "Sascha Riether Baby – Sascha Riether ohohohoho!"

Return to Freiburg
On 26 June 2014, Riether left relegated Fulham and rejoined his first club SC Freiburg for an undisclosed fee.

However, at the start of the season, Riether suffered a knee injury that saw him miss the first four matches. But he made his second debut for the club, coming on as a second–half substitute, in a 3–3 draw against TSG Hoffeinheim on 23 September 2014. Expected to feature in the midfield position, Riether played in the right–back position, where he found himself in the competition with Oliver Sorg instead. In the absence of captain of Miso Brecko and Julian Schuster, who lost his first team place, Riether captained the side on four occasions throughout the first half of the season. However, he suffered a muscle injury in late–November and missed the next three matches as a result. But Riether returned from injury against Hamburger SV on 13 December 2014 and started the whole game as captain, helping SC Freiburg keep a clean sheet, in a 0–0 draw. Following his returning from injury, he regained his first team place, playing in the right–back position. Riether helped the club keep three consecutive clean sheets between 21 March 2015 and 11 April 2015. However, towards the end of the 2014–15 season, he lost his first team place and was demoted to the substitute bench, as the club were relegated from the Bundesliga. At the end of the 2014–15 season, Riether went on to make twenty–one appearances in all competitions.

Schalke 04

Following Freiburg's relegation from the Bundesliga, Riether signed for Schalke 04 on 23 July 2015, signing a one–year contract and an option of extending for another season. Upon joining the club, he was given a number 27 shirt ahead of the new season.