[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of Jeeves characters

The following is a list of recurring and notable fictional characters featured in the Jeeves novels and short stories by P. G. Wodehouse.

Anatole 
Anatole is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories, being the supremely skilled French chef of Aunt Dahlia at her country house Brinkley Court. He is mentioned in many of the stories and is often praised as "God's gift to the gastric juices".  A small, rotund man, Anatole has a large moustache; Bertie Wooster notes that the ends of Anatole's moustache turn up when he is happy and droop when he is upset. Originally from Provence, Anatole speaks English with a mixed fluency, having learned much of his English from Bingo Little and an American chauffeur from Brooklyn.

Anatole previously worked for the Littles but entered Aunt Dahlia's employment in "Clustering Round Young Bingo". The only cook known to be able to make food that agrees with Tom Travers's digestion, he was relied on to such an extent that Tom Travers postponed a Mediterranean trip because Anatole was ill with influenza in "The Spot of Art". Anatole is described as being temperamental, to the point of nearly resigning in Right Ho, Jeeves when several people at the dinner table push his food away in bids to catch their loved ones' attention.

Many characters esteem Anatole's cooking and try to hire him away from the Travers household, including Jane Snettisham ("The Love That Purifies"), Sir Watkyn Bassett (The Code of the Woosters), and Mrs. Trotter (Jeeves and the Feudal Spirit). In Much Obliged, Jeeves, Bertie comments that Anatole suffers from mal au foie (liver problems) and is apt to discuss the subject at length.

Rosie M. Banks

Rosie M. Banks is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories, being an author who writes romance novels. She also appears in Drones Club stories outside the Jeeves canon. She is married to Bingo Little.

Madeline Bassett 

Madeline Bassett is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories. She is the daughter of Sir Watkyn Bassett and is a rather mushy, sentimental girl. Bertie Wooster is briefly engaged to her.

Watkyn Bassett 
Sir Watkyn Bassett, CBE, is a fictional character who appears in two Jeeves novels. He is the father of Madeline Bassett, and the uncle and guardian of Stephanie "Stiffy" Byng. He wears a pince-nez, and is described as a small man who makes up for his height by wearing clothes that are striking in appearance, including a prismatic checked suit in The Code of the Woosters. In Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves, he wears a striking dressing-grown. As Bertie states regarding Bassett, "He was a small man...you got the impression, seeing him, that when they were making magistrates there wasn't enough material left over when they came to him...and for some reason not easy to explain it nearly always happens that the smaller the ex-magistrate, the louder the dressing-grown. His was a bright purple number with yellow frogs, and I am not deceiving my public when I say that it smote me like a blow, rendering me speechless."

When he first meets Bertie Wooster, Sir Watkyn is the magistrate at Bosher Street Police Court. Shortly afterward, he inherits a great deal of money from a distant relative and retires to live in Totleigh Towers, where he is a Justice of the Peace. As a magistrate, Bassett fined Bertie £5 for stealing a policeman's helmet on Boat Race Night, and Bertie thinks that the fortune Sir Watkyn inherited actually derived from pocketing fines while a magistrate. Sir Watkyn is a noted collector of antique silver, and his collection rivals that of Bertie's uncle, Tom Travers. Each tries to obtain the silver cow-creamer in The Code of the Woosters. In that novel, it is mentioned that Sir Watkyn is engaged to a widow named Mrs. Wintergreen. She is the aunt of Sir Watkyn's friend, Roderick Spode, who is often at Totleigh Towers. However, she is not mentioned again. In Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves, he obtains a black amber statuette.

In the Jeeves and Wooster television series adapted from Wodehouse's stories, Sir Watkyn is Florence Craye's uncle, which was not the case in the original Jeeves canon.

Biffy Biffen
Charles Edward "Biffy" Biffen is a fictional character who appears in the Jeeves short story, "The Rummy Affair of Old Biffy". An absent-minded friend of Bertie Wooster, Biffy is engaged to a woman named Mabel, who is Jeeves's niece.