[Source: PubMed]

7. BMC Psychiatry. 2017 Dec 19;17(1):405. doi: 10.1186/s12888-017-1566-x.

The influence of caregiver depression on adolescent mental health outcomes: 
findings from refugee settlements in Uganda.

Meyer SR(1), Steinhaus M(2), Bangirana C(3), Onyango-Mangen P(3), Stark L(4).

Author information:
(1)Program on Forced Migration and Health, Mailman School of Public Health, 
Columbia University, 60 Haven Avenue, New York City, NY, 10032, USA. 
sm3992@cumc.columbia.edu.
(2)International Center for Research on Women, New York City, USA.
(3)TPO Uganda, Plot 3271 Kansanga, Opp. KIU, 21646, Kampala, Uganda.
(4)Program on Forced Migration and Health, Mailman School of Public Health, 
Columbia University, 60 Haven Avenue, New York City, NY, 10032, USA.

BACKGROUND: Family-level predictors, including caregiver depression, are 
considered important influences on adolescent mental health. Adolescent 
depression and anxiety in refugee settings is known to be a significant public 
health concern, yet there is very limited literature from humanitarian settings 
focusing on the relationship between caregiver mental health and adolescent 
mental health. In the context of a larger study on child protection outcomes in 
refugee settings, researchers explored the relationship between caregiver 
depression and adolescent mental health in two refugee settlements, Kiryandongo 
and Adjumani, in Uganda.
METHODS: Adolescents between 13 and 17 and their caregivers participated in a 
household survey, which included measures of adolescent anxiety and depression, 
and caregiver depression. Analysis was conducted using multiple logistic 
regression models, and results were reported for the full sample and for each 
site separately.
RESULTS: In Kiryandongo, a one-unit increase in a caregiver's depression score 
tripled the odds that the adolescent would have high levels of anxiety symptoms 
(AOR: 3.0, 95% CI: 1.4, 6.1), while in Adjumani, caregiver depression did not 
remain significant in the final model. Caregiver depression, gender and exposure 
to violence were all associated with higher symptoms of adolescent depression in 
both sites and the full sample, for example, a one unit increase in caregiver 
depression more than tripled the odds of higher levels of symptoms of adolescent 
depression (AOR: 3.6, 95% CI: 2.0, 6.2). Caregiver depression is a consistently 
significantly associated with adverse mental health outcomes for adolescents in 
this study.
CONCLUSIONS: Adolescent well-being is significantly affected by caregiver mental 
health in this refugee context. Child protection interventions in humanitarian 
contexts do not adequately address the influence of caregivers' mental health, 
and there are opportunities to integrate child protection programming with 
prevention and treatment of caregivers' mental health symptoms.

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-017-1566-x
PMCID: PMC5738231
PMID: 29258471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
Columbia University Medical Center Institutional Review Board (AAAB7134) 
provided ethical approval for this research. Ethical approval to conduct 
research in the refugee settlements was granted by the Office of the Prime 
Minister, the department in charge of refugee affairs in Uganda. Ethical 
procedures were reviewed and approved by UNHCR and our local research partner, 
TPO Uganda, who provided significant insight into the appropriate ethical 
procedures, including referral structures, to ensure the safety and wellbeing of 
participants. Informed consent: Consent was obtained from all participants. 
Caregivers provided consent for minors to participate in the study, prior to 
adolescents under 18 providing their own assent. Caregivers provided their own 
consent for their own participation. Given levels of literacy in the refugee 
settlements, our local research partner advised against written consent was 
obtained and all consent procedures were conducted orally. CONSENT FOR 
PUBLICATION: Not applicable COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they 
have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral 
with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.