[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Environmental issues in Vietnam

nt in 2000 indicated that numerous pesticide retailers were operating without a business license or sold pesticides that failed to meet domestic safety requirements. The lack of regulation and enforcement regarding pesticide use has led to farmer carelessness, ultimately leading to a variety of public health and environmental issues. For instance, a study conducted in the Red Delta River region of Hanoi indicated that farmers were concocting pesticide cocktails or using inappropriate levels of pesticides in order to conserve capital and labor; concocting “pesticide cocktails” can alter the properties of the pesticides by making the solution ineffective or more toxic and can lead to high levels of pesticide residues in crops. Another environmental concern is the improper disposal of pesticide waste. According to a survey result of 60 farmers in Hanoi, 17% of the surveyed farmers disposed pesticide waste in garbage bins or pits and another 17% collected the waste in batches and disposed them into the garbage. Most of the pesticides used in Vietnam are rarely biodegradable and often not biodegradable at all. Consequently, there currently is increasing concern regarding infiltration of pesticides into public water resources in Vietnam. Currently, there is increasing public effort and awareness into better pesticide management; efforts include but are not limited to introducing frameworks such as the Vietnam National Integrated Pest Management Program and Farmer Field School.
 Litter or solid waste pollution, including trash or garbage, often ending up washed into rivers or water bodies, has also become a major concern associated with more urban areas of Vietnam. Products that were single-use plastic were highlighted as contributing most to litter, land and water pollution. A lack of public garbage disposal bins promoted littering, in which litter would then be washed away by rainwater, which blocked the sewerage system, causing flash floods during severe rainstorms.

See also
 Deforestation in Vietnam
 Environmental impact of coffee production in Vietnam
 Environmental impact of war
 Operation Ranch Hand
 2016 Vietnam marine environment disaster

References

Issues
Vietnam