[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Michael Sata

upport in urban areas, his lead grew smaller as votes from rural areas were counted. In the end, Banda overtook Sata, and final results on 2 November showed Banda with 40% of the vote against 38% for Sata. Sata subsequently stated that he had not been defeated and accused Banda of fraud.

Presidency

Sata ran for President for a fourth time in the election held on 20 September 2011. In the early stages of the campaign he was more vitriolic in his anti-Chinese rhetoric, but he later toned down his rhetoric. Results showed him receiving about 43% of the vote against 36% for Banda, and Chief Justice Ernest Sakala accordingly declared that he had won the election in the early hours of 23 September. He was sworn in later in the day. He was said to have won because of the urban vote. Despite the toning down of his rhetoric, the investment climate in Zambia was considered uncertain in the wake of his victory.

Policies
On 8 September 2008, Sata claimed that he would protect Chinese investments if he was elected, abandoning the hostility towards Chinese investment that he had expressed during the 2006 presidential election campaign.

During the 2006 election campaign he was reported to have said of Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe that "Mugabe hasn't done anything wrong. It is the imperialists, the capitalist-roaders, who say he is a villain."

In 2008, he said that he would revoke licenses for foreign investors if they resisted his orders to give at least a 25% stake in their companies to Zambians.

At his inauguration as President of Zambia, Sata assured foreign investors that they were welcome in his country, Africa's biggest copper producer, but said they must improve conditions for their Zambian employees.

Illness and death

Concerns about Sata's health grew during 2014 and some suggested that he was no longer really running the government due to his condition, although the government denied that. He stopped appearing in public, which seemed jarringly uncharacteristic for the notably extroverted and outspoken president. Observers thought he seemed unwell when he opened parliament on 19 September and over the course of the following month he failed to appear in public again. MMD leader Nevers Mumba alleged that the government was lying about Sata's health. He also missed a speech at the general debate of the sixty-ninth session of the United Nations General Assembly amid rumours he had fallen ill at a New York City hotel.

On 19 October, he left the country for what was described as a medical check-up, leaving Edgar Lungu, the Minister of Defense, in charge of the country in his absence. Given the circumstances, including the sudden nature of the trip, Sata's absence from public view and the fact that the 50th anniversary of Zambian independence was only days away, many believed that Sata was very seriously ill.

Sata died on 28 October in London. He was receiving treatment for an undisclosed illness. Cabinet Secretary Roland Msiska issued a statement that he died late in the day. "As you are aware the president was receiving medical attention in London. The head of state passed on October 28. President Sata's demise is deeply regretted. The nation will be kept informed on burial arrangements." When he died at 23:00 in King Edward VII Hospital, his wife, Christine Kaseba, son, Mulenga, and other family members were with him at the time. He is the second President of Zambia to die in office, after Levy Mwanawasa's death only six years earlier in 2008. Vice-President Guy Scott was named acting leader until an election, making him the first white leader of a democratically elected Sub-Saharan African government and the first since F. W. de Klerk in Apartheid South Africa.

Reactions

Domestic
Sata's predecessor, Rupiah Banda, said that Sata "was more than a public servant. He was a passionate competitor, a man of conviction and determination. He was also a loving son, a husband, a father, and friend to me, despite everything we've been through, a friend. Above all, Michael Sata was a Zambian, in body, soul, and spirit. We have gone through this before as a country and we made it to the other side because we were united. Let this be a time that we set aside the ideas that separate us, and embrace the humanity and dignity that unites us as a country and defines us as a people."

Mark Chona, former special assistant to Kenneth Kaunda, Zambia's first president, said: "We are very devastated because he was a very hard working and committed president and leader. He was extremely passionate about anything he had decided to achieve."