[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Willkie Farr & Gallagher

partner Nora Ann Wallace became the first female member of the firm's Executive Committee. Beginning in 1995, and for the next two decades, Mario Cuomo (the former 52nd Governor of New York, the Lieutenant Governor of New York, and the Secretary of State of New York) was of counsel at Willkie Farr.

In 2003, carbon monoxide and smoke inhalation from a fire at a historic bed-and-breakfast in Charlottesville, Virginia, where members of the firm were staying on a recruiting trip, killed Willkie recruiting coordinators Trish Langlade and Billie Kelly.

In 2007, Willkie announced a strategic alliance with Dickson Minto, a boutique law firm with offices in London and Edinburgh that specializes in private equity, with both continuing to operate independently of each other. Willkie was recognized in 2015 as being in 'Band 1' (the top ranking) on the national scale for its work in eight practice areas according to Chambers & Partners.

In 2019, Gordon Caplan, then co-chairman of the firm, named 2018 “Dealmaker of the Year” by The American Lawyer, was indicted as a parent participant in the 2019 college admissions bribery scandal, for conspiracy to commit mail fraud and wire fraud; the firm placed him on indefinite leave the next day. A felony guilty plea deal was filed in March 2019, and he was sentenced to one month in prison.

The American Lawyer ranked Willkie Farr 47th in gross revenue, with $772 million in 2017, and in the 2018 Global 200 survey it was ranked the 57th-highest-grossing law firm in the world. It had 145 equity partners, and its profits per equity partner were $2.97 million, 17th-highest in the nation.  In size, it was ranked the 68th-largest law firm in the United States.

Attorneys
The top represented law schools at Willkie Farr include New York University School of Law (the school representing the highest number of firm partners), Harvard Law School, University of Pennsylvania Law School, Columbia Law School, Georgetown University Law Center and University of Virginia Law School.

Notable partners
 Norman Bay – former Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

Affiliations

In 2022, Willkie Farr & Gallagher was a founding member of the Legal Alliance for Reproductive Rights, a coalition of United States law firms offering free legal services to people seeking and providing abortions in the wake of Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization, which overruled Roe v. Wade.

Notable alumni

Academia
 Robert Bork – Professor, Yale Law School; Solicitor General of the United States;  judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit
 Danielle Citron – Professor, University of Virginia School of Law
Roberta Karmel – first female SEC Commissioner, Centennial Professor of Law & Co-Director, Center for the Study of International Business Law, Brooklyn Law School
 Pamela Samuelson – Distinguished Professor & Director, Berkeley Center for Law & Technology; U.C. Berkeley School of Law
 Harold G. Wren – Dean and Professor of Law, the Brandeis School of Law at the University of Louisville, the Northwestern School of Law, Lewis & Clark College (1969–72), and the T.C. Williams School of Law at the University of Richmond.

Government service
 Norman Bay – U.S. Attorney for the District of New Mexico; first Chinese-American U.S. Attorney; Chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
 Mario Cuomo – the 52nd Governor of New York, the Lieutenant Governor of New York, and the Secretary of State of New York.
 Lindley Miller Garrison – U.S. Secretary of War during World War I
 David Goodfriend – Deputy Staff Secretary to President Bill Clinton
 Charles Evans Hughes – U.S. Secretary of State; 36th Governor of New York
 Craig Johnson – New York State Senator
 Sean Patrick Maloney – United States Representative for New York's 18th District
 Nathan L. Miller – 43rd Governor of New York
 Benito Romano – U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York; first Puerto Rican to hold the U.S. Attorney post
 Wendell Willkie – 1940 US Presidential candidate, and author of One World

Judiciary
 Felix Frankfurter – Associate Justice, U.S. Supreme Court
 Rachel Freier – Judge, New York City Criminal Court; first Hasidic Jewish woman to hold public office in United States history; was a paralegal at Willkie Farr.
 William Hornblower – Judge, New York Court of Appeals; Supreme Court nominee; President of New York City Bar Association
 Chester J. Straub – Judge, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit