[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brian Rolè

nd many others from all over the world. Other participants from previous years include names such as Franz Harrary, Louis Dematos, Peter Marvey and other famous names in magic. In China they performed 28 stage shows for thousands of people who attended this prestigious magic festival,

On television

Brian Rolè performed on various Maltese television shows, namely Tlaqna (in which he performed street magic) and Raxx (in which he performed grand illusions), both of which aired on Malta's national TV station TVM (Malta). Apart from that he also appeared on television shows, such as Showtime Ma Aceline, Is-Sibt, Hello Ray amongst others as a special guest. Between 2007 and 2008 Brian appeared over 25 times as the resident magician during the live televised show, Showtime Stairway To Success on the Maltese TV station ONE TV and between 2008 and 2009 again on Malta's national television station TVM during the Eurovision based program, Euro Showbox and during J Anvil's very popular TV show Saturday Night on Favourite Channel. In 2010 he has made several guest appearances on Net TV during a popular program for teens called 'GEKO' where he can be seen performing street magic, on 'Sessi' which is shown on Education 22 and has been appearing in a couple of TV adverts that are shown on many stations in Malta. In 2011 Brian Role' began appearing regularly on a Saturday afternoon program named 'Sas-Sitta' on NET TV which is currently still being broadcast. On International Television, Brian appeared on The Cruise and Travel Channel where he was featured by Debbie Jones on 'Cruising with the Stars'. He continues to perform on television on a regular basis.

Recently
Most recently Brian Role` performed mainly during live Zoom shows during the multiple lockdowns due to Covid-19, giving live and televised performances where regulations permitted. In December 2021 he received The Darkstone Award for his 'Contributions to The Art of Magic', by the President of the International Assembly of the Society of American Magicians (S.A.M), Anthony Darkstone.

See also
List of magicians

References

Sourced from on line archive and actual clippings
Malta Independent Halloween Capturing Imagination Show Review 
Malta Independent Magic of the Night Article 25/09/2007 
The Malta Independent Cruise Article 
Inside Magic Article Brian elected President IBM Ring 202 Malta 
Brian's Official Profile On The International Brotherhood Of Magicians Web-site 
Winner IBM Ring 202 Parlour Magic Competition 2002 
Runner Up IBM Ring 202 Close Up Magic Competition 2004 
2nd Runner Up IBM Ring 202 Children's Magic Competition 2006 
Brian Role' in TV advert shown on Maltese TV stations 
Magician Brian Role' and Lola Palmer awarded with highest international award in Magic the I.M.S. Merlin Award 
Brian Role` awarded with The Darkstone or 'Contributions to The Art of Magic', by S.A.M. International Assembly.

External links
Brian Role` Official Website 
Magician Malta Official Local Website
Official Blog
Facebook Page

1972 births
Living people
Magicians
People from Gozo