[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Georgia Landing

The Battle of Georgia Landing or Battle of Labadieville (October 27, 1862) was fought between a Union Army force led by Brigadier General Godfrey Weitzel and a Confederate States Army force commanded by Brigadier General Alfred Mouton near Labadieville, Assumption Parish, Louisiana, during the American Civil War. After a sharp clash, the Union troops compelled Mouton's outnumbered force to retreat.

Major General Benjamin F. Butler ordered a three-pronged invasion of the Bayou Lafourche district. Weitzel's force disembarked at Donaldsonville on the Mississippi River and moved south down Bayou Lafourche. After being defeated, Mouton's command withdrew up Bayou Teche. Weitzel and the other Union forces occupied Brashear City (now Morgan City), Thibodaux, and the railroad connecting those towns with New Orleans. The military operation caused many African-American slaves to escape into Union-held areas.

Background

Capture of New Orleans
The Capture of New Orleans was accomplished by a joint Army-Navy expedition led by Flag Officer David G. Farragut and Major General Butler. In the Battle of Forts Jackson and St. Philip, Farragut's fleet successfully steamed past the forts and appeared before the defenseless city on April 25, 1862. The garrisons of the two forts surrendered on April 28, the city formally surrendered on April 29, and Butler's troops occupied New Orleans on May 1. Butler immediately began his "efficient and controversial" administration of the captured city.

In June 1862, Brigadier General John W. Phelps, one of Butler's subordinates and an ardent abolitionist, began recruiting and training free and formerly enslaved African-Americans as soldiers. Phelps' initiative was premature, and Butler did not approve; Phelps was sent home in September. However, by then Butler had warmed to the idea and formed two regiments of so-called Native Guards with white officers and Black enlisted men.

Operations
A company of partisan rangers began firing on passing Union gunboats in the Mississippi River from Donaldsonville, Louisiana. This made Farragut furious and he threatened to bombard the town if the attacks did not stop. The attacks continued and on August 9, several Union gunboats appeared before Donaldsonville. After allowing the inhabitants to evacuate, the gunboats opened fire on the town, then landing parties went ashore to burn down more buildings. On August 20, Major General Richard Taylor arrived at Opelousas, Louisiana, to assume command over the Confederate Department of West Louisiana. His task was to recruit soldiers, defend the district, and bring the partisan rangers under control or disband them. 
 
Soon after seizing New Orleans, Butler established small Union garrisons at Boutte Station and Des Allemands on the railroad between Brashear City and Algiers, opposite New Orleans. In early September, a Confederate force led by Brigadier General John G. Pratt set out to capture both garrisons. The force consisted of the Terrebonne and St. Charles militias and a Texas-Louisiana partisan ranger battalion led by Major James A. McWaters of the 2nd Louisiana Cavalry Regiment. On September 4, the Confederates overpowered the garrisons, killing 9, wounding 27, and capturing 155 men and 3 guns.

Attempting to exploit his success, McWaters moved his rangers to St. Charles Court House where they were caught between two converging Union forces. Colonel James W. McMillan landed downstream with the 21st Indiana and 4th Wisconsin Infantry Regiments while Colonel Halbert E. Paine landed upstream with the 9th Connecticut, 14th Maine, and 6th Michigan Infantry Regiments. Most of McWaters' rangers escaped into the swamps, but the Federals killed 2, wounded 3, and captured 50 men, 300 horses, weapons, and equipment.

Butler, commanding the Department of the Gulf, launched a three-pronged expedition into the Bayou Lafourche region. Commander McKean Buchanan took four light-draft gunboats from New Orleans to Berwick Bay via the Gulf of Mexico. Colonel Stephen Thomas with the 8th Vermont Infantry Regiment and the 1st Native Guards marched from Algiers to Thibodaux along the railroad. This column was later reinforced by the 2nd Native Guards. The main column consisted of Weitzel and 5,000 soldiers aboard 7 river transports. These troops landed at Donaldsonville on October 25 and sacked what was left of the town. Colonel William G. Vincent of the 2nd Louisiana Cavalry withdrew his 850 Confederate defenders south to Napoleonville on Bayou Lafourche.

Battle

Order of Battle