[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Clint Courtney

he next day's exhibition game covered in bandages, getting three hits against Early Wynn. Either teammate Duane Pillette or Browns announcer Buddy Blattner dubbed him "Scrap Iron", a nickname that would stick with him throughout his career and would well describe the tough, confrontational Courtney.

Courtney was the Opening Day starting catcher for the Browns. In the fourth game of the year, he had his first major league hit, a triple with the bases loaded against Bob Kennedy, helping the Browns defeat the Chicago White Sox 7–1. On May 6, he hit his first major league home run, a go-ahead, two-run blast against Bob Hooper as St. Louis beat the Philadelphia Athletics 5–1. Courtney missed 16 games from June 13 through June 28 after discovering a split finger on his right hand during a game against the Boston Red Sox on June 12. On July 12, in the second inning of a game against the Yankees, Courtney spiked Martin when he slid into second. When Courtney attempted the play again in the eighth inning, Martin hit him with the hand that had been holding the baseball. Courtney got up and tried to retaliate, which resulted in a shower of punches from Martin. A brawl ensued, during which umpire Bill Summers was knocked to the ground with a punch. Courtney was ejected from the game, but Summers allowed Martin to stay in because he thought Martin had merely been defending himself. The Yankees won 5–4 in extra innings, and Courtney was suspended three games and fined $100. He had a game-ending RBI in painful fashion on September 9, getting hit by a pitch by Ray Scarborough with the bases loaded to force in the winning run in the bottom of the ninth, as the Browns defeated the Yankees 5–4.

In 119 games as a rookie, Courtney batted .286 with 38 runs scored, 118 hits, 5 home runs, and 50 RBI. His .996 fielding percentage led American League (AL) catchers. He finished second in AL Rookie of the Year voting to Harry Byrd, also ranking 24th in AL Most Valuable Player (MVP) voting. Courtney also won The Sporting News AL Rookie of the Year award. Oscar Fraley of United Press International wrote that Courtney was "a rarity in succeeding as a freshman catcher."

Sophomore season, move to Baltimore (1953–1954)

Courtney sought a $4,500 raise for 1953, which would bring his salary to $12,000. When owner Bill Veeck countered with an $11,000 offer, Courtney wrote a short letter saying, "Dear Veeck: I changed my mind. I want $14,000, not $12,000. Clint." On April 28, the Browns faced the Yankees at Sportsman's Park. In the top of the 10th inning, McDougald jarred the ball loose from Courtney at the plate, scoring a run. When the Browns were up to bat that inning, Courtney retaliated by spiking Phil Rizzuto as he tried to stretch a single into a double. Martin jumped on Courtney in a wild melee. Fans threw soda bottles onto the field, the game was paused for 17 minutes, and umpire Johnny Stevens dislocated his shoulder. Afterwards, AL president Will Harridge doled out a record $850 in fines, including $250 to Courtney alone. Courtney was involved in another fight in the third inning of the first game of a doubleheader on July 5, when Johnny Bucha of the Detroit Tigers crashed into him while trying to score. Bucha was ruled out to end the inning, but a bench-clearing brawl ensued. The Tigers ultimately won the game by a score of 10–7.

In the first game of a doubleheader on July 16, the Browns hit three successive home runs during the first inning of an 8–6 victory over the Yankees. Courtney started the feat, followed by Dick Kryhoski and Jim Dyck. This was an MLB record at the time. Courtney "produced much less with the bat" in 1953 according to Costello, who attributed the diminished performance to broken fingers suffered early in the year. In 106 games, Courtney batted .251 with 28 runs scored, 89 hits, 4 home runs, and 19 RBI. Over the offseason, he managed the Ciudad Obregón Yaquis of the Mexican Winter League, again getting selected to the All-Star Game.

Courtney remained the starting catcher in 1954, as the Browns moved to Baltimore and became the Orioles. In the first MLB game at Memorial Stadium, on April 15, Courtney hit the first home run in the stadium's history, a solo shot against Virgil Trucks in a 3–1 win over the White Sox. Against the Washington Senators on August 29, Courtney had five hits and two RBI in a 5–0 victory. In 122 games, he batted .270 with 25 runs scored, 107 hits, 4 home runs, and 37 RBI. He struck out a mere 7 times in 397 at bats (1.8 percent of the time), setting a franchise record for lowest strikeout percentage. On November 17, the Orioles made a 17-player trade with the Yankees, acquiring catchers Hal W. Smith and Gus Triandos. This made Courtney expendable, and he was traded to the White Sox on December 6. Jim Brideweser and Bob Chakales were part of the trade, which brought Baltimore Matt Batts, Don Ferrarese, Don Johnson and Fred Marsh in return.