[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 41st Ohio Infantry Regiment

The 41st Ohio Infantry Regiment was an infantry regiment in the Union Army during the American Civil War.

The regiment served in the Western Theatre for the entire war, under such well-known generals as Grant and Sherman. It fought in many battles over the course of four years, suffering more than 300 casualties. It earned a reputation among the hardscrabble Western units for its spit and polish, and was often held as an example of good soldiering.  The Medal of Honor was newly established at the start of the Civil War, and over 1,500 Federal troops were awarded it during the conflict. Two of them were in the 41st Ohio Infantry.

Organization and early service
Much of the success of the 41st Ohio Infantry Regiment was due to the abilities of its initial commander, William Babcock Hazen. Hazen, a graduate of West Point, was a professional soldier in the Regular Army before the war. Though initially the volunteers felt he was too harsh and dictatorial, once battle was joined, their opinions rose along with their success.  Hazen had grown up in northeastern Ohio near Hiram, and returned to that area in fall of 1861 to raise a volunteer regiment.  The regiment organized at Camp Wood in Cleveland with much of August through October spent organizing and drilling.  On October 29, 1861, the regiment mustered into service for a term of three years.

In November 1861, the regiment moved to Louisville, Kentucky, then on to Camp Wickliffe to join its brigade. Once arrived, it was organized as part of the 15th Brigade, 4th Division, Army of the Ohio, under Maj. Gen. Don Carlos Buell. Shortly after arriving, some of the men carried out a scouting expedition into western Virginia.

In January 1862, the regiment was finally armed by the State of Ohio.  Prior to this, the men were using whatever weapons they may have brought from home or acquired on their own.  The official issue weapons were a great disappointment to the men, however, as they were provided with "Greenwood Rifles"; cast off older muskets and rifles that had been reconditioned and rebored by Miles Greenwood & Co. of Cincinnati, Ohio.  While the weapons were functional and would serve the men in battle, they felt they were unreliable and inaccurate.  Because of this, the men sought to replace these weapons whenever an opportunity arose.

Battle of Shiloh
Early in 1862, General Grant and General Buell were advancing south through Kentucky toward Nashville, Tennessee, with Grant on the western side of the Tennessee River, and Buell on the eastern side.  Confederate General Albert Sidney Johnston's Army of Tennessee was moving to oppose this advance, and Johnson chose to strike before the two Union armies could join together. He chose to attack Grant's formations on the western bank, near Pittsburg Landing and a small chapel called Shiloh Church.  Johnson began his attack just before dawn on April 6, 1862.

The regiment was with Buell's army on the eastern bank of the river.  Prior to the battle, Colonel Hazen had been promoted to command of the 19th Brigade in the Army of the Ohio, of which the 41st Ohio Infantry was one of three regiments (the others being the 9th Indiana under Colonel Moody, and the 6th Kentucky under Colonel Whitaker).  Of these three regiments, the 41st Ohio Infantry was the smallest, having been reduced to 371 active duty men through sickness and incapacitation during their months of training and marching.  Above Hazen in the chain of command was Brigadier General William "Bull" Nelson, in charge of the 4th Division, in the vanguard of the advance toward the action at Pittsburg Landing.  For most of April 6, the division was stopped eight miles away from the river crossing to Pittsburg Landing, waiting for promised local guides who could help them find their way through the swampy ground in front of them.  Though some could hear the battle raging, at that time they could not tell if it was a major engagement or merely a skirmish.