[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Laniado Hospital

he time claimed that permits had already been granted to three hospitals in the Netanya area, but Sidney Greenwald, the first chairman of the American Friends of Laniado Hospital, convinced him to issue one to the Klausenburger Rebbe, too. In the end, Laniado was the only hospital opened in Netanya.

The first building, an outpatient clinic, opened in 1975. In June 1976, a maternity ward opened, followed by an emergency room and internal medicine department in 1977, a cardiology and intensive-care unit in 1978, and ophthalmology and dialysis units in 1979. The hospital continued to expand every year thereafter. Until his death in 1994, the Rebbe planned the strategic development of the hospital's departments and services, and supervised every aspect of the hospital's operation.

Today Laniado Hospital includes departments for radiology, hematology, pediatric emergency, oncology, in vitro fertilisation, geriatrics, women's health, and many more. The largest department in the hospital is the maternity ward, which delivers more than 6,000 babies annually.

Laniado lies within a five-block radius of other institutions founded by the Klausenburger Rebbe — including synagogues, Talmud Torahs, girls schools, yeshivas, kollels, an orphanage, and an old-age home — and the Kiryat Sanz Hasidic community itself.

Operating principles

On opening day, the Klausenburger Rebbe promulgated a set of nine Founding Principles emphasizing the hospital's raison d'être as a means of fulfilling the Torah's commandments to heal, to love one's fellow man, and to demonstrate belief in God. The Rebbe regarded the hospital as just another Torah institution, and instructed his staff to treat patients with the Torah principles of kindness and compassion.

Laniado is operated strictly according to Jewish law. A hospital rabbi is available to answer halakhic questions 24 hours a day, instruct staff, and supervise the kashrut of foods served in the wards. The hospital mashgiach (spiritual supervisor) ensures Shabbat observance in the wards, makes Kiddush and Havdalah for the patients, blows shofar on Rosh Hashana, and provides the Four Species during Sukkot. Non-Jewish staff answers phones and performs writing tasks on Shabbat and Yom Tov. All staff and visitors are expected to dress according to the laws of tzniut (modesty). Television sets are banned from the premises. Far from alienating the non-religious residents of Netanya, Laniado's positive atmosphere and dedication to healing have been favorably received.

Because of its commitment to healing, the Rebbe insisted that the hospital should never close due to a strike. Indeed, a no-strike clause is written into every employee's contract. The first test of this no-strike policy occurred during the 1983 general doctors' strike which crippled Israeli hospitals for over four months. Laniado was ostracized by the doctor's union, but the Rebbe refused to yield. Since then, Laniado has never participated in any doctors' or nurses' strike.

The hospital is also committed to doing everything possible to preserve and improve the quality of life. To that end, Laniado often provides expensive and often non-reimbursable medical services which exceed its annual operating budget of $50 million. The hospital relies heavily on private donations to make up its budget shortfall.

Nursing school
In 1978, the Rebbe opened the Laniado nursing school to educate nurses in the "Jewish way" of caring for the infirm. As of 2006, the school had graduated 1,000 nurses, who found jobs at Laniado and at other hospitals throughout Israel. The school offers a 30-month certification course for religious girls (which includes an 18-month course on the halakhic aspects of healing), and a 20-month practical nursing course for women of all ages and backgrounds. In 1986 the school broke ground on a new building donated by Rudolph and Edith Tessler, and was renamed the Tessler Nursing School.

Innovations and medical discoveries
In keeping with the hospital's commitment to the sanctity of life, Laniado doctors and researchers are constantly looking for better ways to treat illness. Researchers in the hematology department regularly work together with Laniado doctors on stem cell and diabetes research. In the early 2000s, specialists from the hematology, neurology and infectious diseases departments discovered the first cure for West Nile virus while treating a 70-year-old patient. In the coronary care department, physicians have speeded up catheterization of incoming patients by routing Magen David Adom ambulances directly to the coronary care unit rather than the emergency room. A government survey of all coronary intensive care facilities in Israel showed that the recovery rate for heart-attack victims at Laniado is 30 percent higher than the national average.

References