[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Third Generation (1979 film)

s death scares the members of his gang. In order to finance their activities, Petra and some of the other terrorists rob the very bank in which Petra's husband works. While they are escaping, Petra shoots and kills her husband. They frantically change their looks and names and flee from their homes.

Bernhard is interrogated by Officer Gast as to their whereabouts. Bernhard genuinely does not know but gets curious and follows August undetected. He sees Lurz give money to August in order to finance the terrorist activities. After Paul's death, the terrorists believe that there is a traitor among them. August makes the others think that it was Franz. August sets up Franz by telling him where Ilse is buried. He then calls the authorities and gets him killed. August also does the same to Petra when she is instructed to place a bomb and gets intercepted and killed by the police. Bernhard is caught by Officer Gast at the cemetery when he tries to warn Franz that it is a set-up and tells him not to go to Ilse's grave. Bernhard tells Officer Gast what he saw at the Japanese restaurant; after they argue, Bernhard falls down a long flight of stairs and is killed. The remaining terrorists, taking advantage of the carnival season to wear elaborate costumes as disguises, kidnap P.J. Lurz. He is videotaped in a basement. He still believes that all is part of his secret plan and smiles to the camera.

Cast

 Eddie Constantine as P.J. Lurz
 Hanna Schygulla as Susanne Gast
 Margit Carstensen as Petra Vielhaber
 Bulle Ogier as Hilde Krieger
 Volker Spengler as August
 Raúl Gimenez as Paul
 Hark Bohm as Gerhard Gast
 Günther Kaufmann as Franz Walsch
 Vitus Zeplichal as Bernhard von Stein
 Udo Kier as Edgar Gast
 Harry Baer as Rudolf Mann
 Y Sa Lo as Ilse Hoffmann
 Jürgen Draeger as Hans Vielhaber
 Claus Holm as Father Gast
 Lilo Pempeit as Mother Gast

Production
The Third Generation was made immediately after Fassbinder achieved wide international critical and commercial success with The Marriage of Maria Braun. It was produced by Fassbinder's production company Tango Films for an estimated amount of 800,000 DEM. It was shot in Berlin from November 1978 to January 22, 1979, which is the period when the action takes place.

The large cast mainly comprised actors from Fassbinder's regular troupe: Hanna Schygulla, Margit Carstensen, Volker Spengler, Harry Baer and Günther Kaufmann among others. It also includes two international stars: Eddie Constantine, who had worked with Fassbinder earlier in the director's career, and Bulle Ogier, who did not speak German. Her dialogue was translated to her native French by Juliane Lorenz who worked as assistant director and editor, also having a cameo role as a job counselor. Some of the actors also worked behind the scenes: Harry Baer was executive producer, Raúl Gimenez was production designer and Volker Spengler was the art director.

Reception
The Third Generation premiered on 13 May 1979 at the Cannes Film Festival. It competed in the Un Certain Regard section. American and French critics praised the film as the most exciting in the festival. The French daily Le Figaro called it: "An effective, cinematic exercise in style and one of the most frightening political films".

The film was released in West Germany in September 1979. It was received without enthusiasm. Some critics praised the film's mordant political humor, but mostly it received negative reviews. A critic called it as crazy as teaming Jerry Lewis with Robert Bresson. The political theme of the film aroused controversy. At a screening in Hamburg the projectionist was beaten unconscious, while in Frankfurt an incensed mob threw acid at the screen. There were also death threats. However, The Third Generation is now considered by film critics to be one of Fassbinder's best films. At the Rotten Tomatoes website it has an 83% "Fresh" rating.

The New York Times placed the film on its Best 1000 Movies Ever list.

References

Bibliography
 Thomsen, Christian Braad.   Fassbinder: Life and Work of a Provocative Genius . University of Minnesota Press, 2004, 
Watson, Wallace Steadman.  Rainer Werner Fassbinder: Film as Private and Public Art. University of South Carolina Press, 1996,

External links

 
Critical analysis of "The Third Generation" by Critical-Film.com reviewer Scott Wood

1979 films
German crime comedy films
1970s crime comedy films
Films directed by Rainer Werner Fassbinder
1970s German-language films
Films set in Berlin
West German films
Films about terrorism
German political satire films
Cultural depictions of the Red Army Faction
1970s German films