[Source: PubMed]

62. Compr Psychiatry. 2023 Nov;127:152424. doi: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2023.152424. 
Epub 2023 Sep 16.

Evaluation of the Early Adolescent Skills for Emotions (EASE) intervention in 
Lebanon: A randomized controlled trial.

Jordans MJD(1), Brown FL(2), Kane J(3), Taha K(4), Steen F(5), Ali R(6), Elias 
J(7), Meksassi B(8), Aoun M(9), Greene CM(10), Malik A(11), Akhtar A(12), van 
Ommeren M(13), Sijbrandij M(14), Bryant R(15); STRENGTHS consortium.

Author information:
(1)War Child, Research and Development Department, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; 
Amsterdam Institute of Social Science Research, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: mark.jordans@warchild.nl.
(2)War Child, Research and Development Department, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; 
Amsterdam Institute of Social Science Research, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: felicity.brown@warchild.nl.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Columbia University, New York, USA. Electronic 
address: jk4397@cumc.columbia.edu.
(4)War Child, Lebanon Country Office, Beirut, Lebanon.
(5)War Child, Research and Development Department, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. 
Electronic address: frederik.steen@warchild.nl.
(6)War Child, Lebanon Country Office, Beirut, Lebanon. Electronic address: 
rayane.ali@warchild.nl.
(7)War Child, Lebanon Country Office, Beirut, Lebanon. Electronic address: 
joseph.elias@warchild.nl.
(8)War Child, Lebanon Country Office, Beirut, Lebanon. Electronic address: 
bassel.meksassi@warchild.nl.
(9)War Child, Lebanon Country Office, Beirut, Lebanon. Electronic address: 
may.aoun@warchild.nl.
(10)Program on Forced Migration and Health, Heilbrunn Department of Population 
and Family Health, Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, USA. 
Electronic address: mg4069@cumc.columbia.edu.
(11)World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
malika@who.int.
(12)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Division of Insurance Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Sweden; School of Psychology, University of New South 
Wales, Australia. Electronic address: aemal.akhtar@ki.se.
(13)World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
vanommerenm@who.int.
(14)VU University, Department of Clinical, Neuro- and Developmental Psychology, 
WHO Collaborating Center for Research and Dissemination of Psychological 
Interventions, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
e.m.sijbrandij@vu.nl.
(15)School of Psychology, University of New South Wales, Australia. Electronic 
address: r.bryant@unsw.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: There is a need for scalable evidence-based psychological 
interventions for young adolescents experiencing high levels of psychological 
distress in humanitarian settings and low- and middle-income countries. Poor 
mental health during adolescence presents a serious public health concern as it 
is a known predictor of persistent mental disorders in adulthood. This study 
evaluates the effectiveness of a new group-based intervention developed by the 
World Health Organization (Early Adolescent Skills for Emotions; EASE), 
implemented by non-specialists, to reduce young adolescents' psychological 
distress among mostly Syrian refugees in Lebanon.
METHODS: We conducted a two-arm, single-blind, individually randomized group 
treatment trial. Adolescents aged 10 to 14 years who screened positive for 
psychological distress using the Pediatric Symptom Checklist (PSC) were randomly 
allocated to EASE or enhanced treatment as usual (ETAU) (1:1.6). ETAU consisted 
of a single scripted psycho-education home-visit session with the adolescent and 
their caregivers. EASE consists of seven group sessions with adolescents and 
three sessions with caregivers. The primary outcome was adolescent-reported 
psychological distress as measured with the PSC (internalizing, externalizing, 
and attentional symptoms). Secondary outcomes included depression, posttraumatic 
stress, well-being, functioning, and caregivers' parenting and distress. All 
outcomes were assessed at baseline, endline, and 3 months (primary time point) 
and 12 months follow-up.
RESULTS: Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and other adversities in Lebanon at the 
time of this research, the study was prematurely terminated, resulting in an 
under-powered trial sample (n = 198 enrolled compared to n = 445 targeted). We 
screened 604 children for eligibility. The 198 enrolled adolescents were 
assigned to EASE (n = 80) and ETAU (n = 118), with retention rates between 76.1 
and 88.4% across all timepoints. Intent-to-treat analyses demonstrated no 
between-group differences on any of the outcome measures between the EASE and 
ETAU. We did observe a significant improvement on the primary outcome equally in 
the EASE and ETAU groups (-0.90, 95% CI: -3.6, 1.8; p = .52), - a trend that was 
sustained at three months follow-up. Sub-group analyses, for those with higher 
depression symptoms at baseline, showed ETAU outperformed EASE on reducing 
depression symptoms (difference in mean change = 2.7, 95% CI: 0.1, 5.3; p = .04; 
d = 0.59) and internalizing problems (difference in mean change 1.0, 95% CI: 
0.08, 1.9; p = .03; d = 0.56) .
CONCLUSION: No conclusions can be drawn about the comparative effectiveness of 
the intervention given that the sample was underpowered as a result of early 
termination. Both EASE and single session psycho-education home visits resulted 
in meaningful improvements in reducing psychological distress. We did not 
identify any indications in the data suggesting that EASE was more effective 
than a single session family intervention in the context of the COVID-19 
pandemic and other crises in Lebanon. Fully powered research is needed to 
evaluate the effectiveness of EASE.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.comppsych.2023.152424
PMCID: PMC11214135
PMID: 37748283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.