[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 29]
# Constructive set theory

ithmetic theory, the naturals here are not the abstract elements in the domain of discourse, but elements of a model. As has been observed in previous discussions, when accepting , not even for all predicatively defined sets is the equality to such a finite von Neumann ordinal necessarily decidable.

Set Induction 
Like mathematical induction above, the strictly stronger full set induction the axiom is usually formulated as a schema in terms of predicates, and thus has a different character than induction principles proven from predicative set theory axioms. A variant of the axiom just for bounded formulas is also studied independently and may be derived from other axioms.

Here  holds trivially and so this covers to the "bottom case"  in the standard framework.

In , the axiom proves induction in transitive sets and so in particular also for transitive sets of transitive sets. The latter then is an adequate definition of the ordinals, and even a -formulation. Induction in turn enables ordinal arithmetic in this sense. Set induction allows definitions of class functions by transfinite recursion. The study of the various principles that grant set definitions by induction, i.e. inductive definitions, is a main topic in the context of constructive set theory and their comparatively weak strengths. This also holds for their counterparts in type theory. Replacement is not required to prove induction over the set of naturals from set induction, but that axiom is necessary for their arithmetic modeled within the set theory.

The axiom of regularity is a single statement with universal quantifier over sets and not a schema. As show, it implies , and so is non-constructive. Now for  taken to be the negation of some predicate  and writing  for the class , induction reads

Via the contrapositive, set induction implies all instances of regularity but only with double-negated existence in the conclusion. In the other direction, given enough transitive sets, regularity implies each instance of set induction.

Metalogic
The theory formulated above can be expressed as  with its collection axioms discarded in favour of the weaker Replacement and Exponentiation axioms. It proves the Cauchy reals to be a set, but not the class of Dedekind reals.

Call an ordinal itself trichotomous if the irreflexive membership relation "" among its members is trichotomous. Like the axiom of regularity, set induction restricts the possible models of "" and thus that of a set theory, as was the motivation for the principle in the 20's. But the constructive theory here does not prove a trichotomy for all ordinals, while the trichotomous ordinals are not well behaved with respect to the notion of successor and rank.

The added proof-theoretical strength attained with Induction in the constructive context is significant, even if dropping Regularity in the context of  does not reduce the proof-theoretical strength.
Even without Exponentiation, the present theory with set induction has the same proof theoretic strength as  and proves the same functions recursive. Specifically, its proof-theoretic large countable ordinal is the Bachmann–Howard ordinal. This is also the ordinal of classical or intuitionistic Kripke–Platek set theory.
It is consistent even with  to assume that the class of  trichotomous ordinals form a set. The current theory augmented with this ordinal set existence postulate proves the consistency of .

Aczel was also one of the main developers or Non-well-founded set theory, which rejects set induction.

Relation to ZF
The theory also constitutes a presentation of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory  in the sense that variants of all its eight axioms are present. Extensionality, Pairing, Union and Replacement are indeed identical. Separation is adopted in a predicative form and with Infinity is stated in a strong formulation, as in the classical case, they already imply the Empty Set axiom. Exponentiation for finite domains and full mathematical induction are also implied by their stronger adopted variants. Without the principle of excluded middle, the theory here is lacking, in its classical form, full Separation, Powerset as well as Regularity. Accepting  now exactly leads into the classical theory.

The following highlights the different readings of a formal theory. Let  denote the continuum hypothesis and  so that . Then  is inhabited by  and any set that is established to be a member of  either equals  or . Induction on  implies that it cannot consistently be negated that  has some least natural number member. The value of such a member can be shown to be independent of theories such as . Nonetheless, any classical set theory like  proves there exists such a number.

Strong Collection 
Having discussed all the weakened forms of the classical set theory axioms, Replacement and Exponentiation can be further strengthened without losing a type theoretical interpretation, and in a way that is not going beyond .