[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Ștefan Voitec

as held in Bucharest in 1980—and which Ceaușescu ultimately used for broadcasting Dacianist theories. Voitec also appeared at the Dolj Communist Party conference on November 8, 1979, reading out Ceaușescu's "congratulations for [Dolj's] successes in fulfilling the objectives of the five-year plan". 

On June 18, 1980, Voitec was elected a full member of the Romanian Academy, and was reconfirmed as a member of the Star of the Socialist Republic. However, these months allegedly witnessed his second sidelining and brief disappearance from public life. Reports emerged that Voitec had used the occasion of his 80th birthday to criticize the regime and express his regrets about political choices. In January 1981, diarist and literary critic Mircea Zaciu heard rumors that Ceaușescu was preparing to have the "old ex-profiteer" kept under house arrest. Voitec and the President appeared together to cast their vote in the local elections of November 1982—part of a group which also included Elena Ceaușescu, Niculescu-Mizil, Emil Bobu, Miu Dobrescu, Suzana Gâdea, Alexandrina Găinușe, Nicolae Giosan, and Ilie Verdeț. By 1983, Radio Free Europe was commenting on the growth of Nicolae Ceaușescu's personality cult, noting that charismatic party leaders were disappearing from group photos as time progressed. Voitec had returned to the foreground, but as an "old obedient piece of social-democratic furniture". 

Voitec was twice operated on for colorectal cancer (malignant colorectal stenosis), but the disease relapsed and formed metastases in his lungs and blood vessels. Kept under watch by Health Minister Eugen Proca, he died at a hospital in Bucharest at 12.45 PM, on December 4, 1984. His body was incinerated; the urn was stored at the Monument of the Heroes for the Freedom of the People and of the Motherland, for Socialism in Carol Park. After the anti-communist revolt of 1989, it was sent back to the nearby crematorium, where it remained unclaimed by relatives. Reportedly, his Dobrogeanu-Gherea edition remains "virtually irretrievable in public libraries", possibly because of an anti-communist literary purge, which took place "in the early months of 1990". According to newspaper reports, Voitec had been registered as a voter in post-communist Romanian elections as late as November 1996; based on his address, he had been assigned to the Jean Monnet Section, in Primăverii.

Legacy

As an icon of opportunism
Historian Sorin Radu identifies Voitec, Rădăceanu, and "up to a point Titel Petrescu" as opportunists who "compromised the ideals of social democracy and of democracy as a political system". As noted by Radu, the label of "collaborator", applied by the Voitec faction to right-wing socialists such as Ioan Flueraș, can be applied to Voitec himself, in relation to the PCR. Writing Voitec's obituary in 1984, exile political scientist Vladimir Tismăneanu argued: "In his own way, very often a contradictory way, tinged by justified fears and unavowable doubts, Ștefan Voitec's political praxis most categorically stood apart from that of his 'thoroughbred' communist comrades. Without overexposing himself, without venturing into unwinnable political squabbles, Voitec took care not to become anything more than the spectator to a political game which he felt was fundamentally alien to his psyche." Tismăneanu cautions that such traits could not bracket out Voitec's "capital role in undermining the legitimate leadership of Romanian social democracy": "Alongside Lothar Rădăceanu, he contributed to maintaining confusion in the mass base of the social democratic party, cautioned collaborationist stances, and gave his approval to the operation which ended with the 'big gulp' of social democracy in the so-called unification congress of February 1948." In the post-communist decade, Sergiu Cunescu led a revived Social Democratic Party. He was replaced as chairman by Alexandru Athanasiu, who in 2000 aligned the party with the stronger Party of Social Democracy, widely seen as a successor of the PCR; commenting on these developments, which he opposed, Cunescu depicted Athanasiu as a "new Ștefan Voitec".