[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# PREDA Foundation

ing assistance, social work, and computer training for disadvantaged youth. The Computer training course is conducted at the Preda computer laboratory with 20 units. The course is certified by TESDA and Microsoft through the LEARN Foundation.
 Internet Safety Campaign (INSEC): National and International safety advocacy campaigns for Internet safety.
 Fair Trading: This is a nationwide project assisting 26 village and urban based production groups making quality handicraft items that are exported by Preda. The project practices the Fair trade criteria and gives interest free production loans, development loans and access to export markets. Village infrastructure projects (clean water systems, land purchase) product design and other family services are provided.
 Tetra Bag Project: The Preda recycling project turned the hundreds of thousands of throwaway aluminum foil pouches into raw material for lucrative livelihood projects for abandoned mothers, survivors of sexual exploitation, youth rescued from prisons, students, and dozens of waste paper collectors and out of work sewers.

Fil-American children
Preda has been highly active in the cause of helping Fil-American Children. Preda Social workers organized the association of 720 mother of Fil-American children, provided family research assistance and helping to pursue a class action suit in the US court of complaints in Washington, D.C., on behalf of the children in 1993.
Preda visited and lobbied the US congress and State Department and succeeded in advancing a US congressional resolution assigning $650,000 for the FilAm children through US AID and other agencies.

Campaign against pedophiles and human trafficking
Preda has been highly active in the Philippines in a campaign against pedophiles and human trafficking.
The Preda Human Rights team lobbied successfully for the passing of the Olongapo City Anti-Prostitution Ordinance No. 51. In March, 2008, Preda organized a march from the Olongapo City hall with banners and placards to the gate of the former United States Military base and held a rally calling for the implementation of the law and for the city government to cancel permits given to sex bars and clubs. This was a historic first. Never was there such a public protest allowed on the streets before. Preda have been actively involved in the fight against the child sex slavery trade in the notorious pedophile haunt of Angeles. Working undercover with law enforcement agencies and volunteers, with the help of hidden cameras, they have uncovered bars trafficking children for prostitution in Angeles.

Threats and harassment against PREDA staff
PREDA staffers receive threats from pedophiles and their sympathizers in the sex tourist industry. The staff are continually harassed with false charges and smear campaigns to prevent them pursuing justice for victims of sexual abuse. As a result, PREDA works for the implementation of the UN Declaration of 1998 protecting the defenders of human rights against such abuse.
When Father Shay Cullen exposed a child prostitution ring in Subic Bay he was threatened with deportation.

Awards and nominations

Nobel Peace Prize Nomination: On October 3, 2002, Canadian MP Hon. David Kilgour of Edmonton Southeast nominated Fr. Shay for the Award.
Nobel Nomination 2003: Christa Nickels, German MP nominated Fr. Shay for the 2003 Nobel Peace Prize.
In 2003, Fr. Shay was awarded the first Prix Caritas by Caritas Switzerland. Awarded to Preda in honour of its initiatives and extraordinary engagement for children in need.
A film about children's rights campaigner, Fr Shay Cullen has been won the Radharc Award 2004. Entitled 'Fr Shay Cullen: Taking a Stand' and produced by Annette Kinne Andec Communications, the documentary was filmed on location in the Philippines, Germany, Britain and Ireland.
BETINHO PRIZE. Preda was shortlisted for the 2000 Association for Progressive Communications (APC) Betinho Communications Prize because of their website preda.org and the use of the internet for human rights campaign.
On September 13, 2008, FR. Shay Cullen and PREDA was awarded the International Person Of The Year Award in Dublin, Ireland.
On October 9, 2008, Fr. Shay Cullen was awarded the International Solidarity Prize by the Prestigious World Medical Child Care Associations.
Fr. Shay Cullen was honoured with the Humanitarian Award at the 2009 Meteor Ireland Music Awards.

References

External links
 Speech by Fr Shay Cullen on the Sexual Abuse of Children at The International Solidarity Prize 2008
 Presentation on Crin.org

Anti-prostitution activism
Human trafficking in the Philippines
Organizations that combat human trafficking
Child-related organizations in the Philippines
Organizations established in 1974
1974 establishments in the Philippines
Charities based in the Philippines