[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# List of Battle Angel Alita characters

Because there is no formal criminal justice system or police force in the Scrapyard, hunter-warriors function as the primary means of enforcing Factory Law. However, they themselves are still subject to Factory Law, and can become wanted criminals when they step outside its boundaries.

Figure Four

 is a drifter known for his mastery of koppo, a form of martial arts that emphasizes bypassing a cyborg's armor to inflict internal damage.  Originally a fisherman from the West Coast, Figure traveled east in order to see Tiphares, staying in the Scrapyard for a year, before signed up as a mercenary guarding Factory Train 12, where he befriended Yolg and became intrigued by Alita.  Figure questions Alita's bloodlust and desire for battle only to realize that she cannot choose not to fight and decides to help her in her fight against the Barjack.  Figure realizes that Alita likes him when he saves Alita from Knucklehead, and later admits that he loves her.  He later returns to his previous life in as a fisherman in his hometown Alhambra.  In the ending of the original series, Figure refuses to believe Alita is dead and spends five years searching.  He encounters Kiyomi K. in Ketheres and later confronts a senile deranged Desty Nova, who leads them into a cavern where he reunites with the reborn Alita.

Figure Four also appears as a side character in Last Order, travelling with Ido before reuniting with the original Alita in the form of a full-flesh human, while her brain chip-equipped cyborg counterpart travels to Mars to finish her fight with Frau X.

Fury

 is one of Murdock the Dog Master's cyborg dogs, and appears to be modeled along the lines of a bloodhound.  He is the only dog whom a 2 year old Koyomi latches onto as "Doo Fan", what she calls all dogs she comes across after Duke Fang. He is assigned by Murdock to protect Koyomi and Shumira when Zapan wreaks havoc on Bar New Kansas in the Berserker Body, and is thus the only one of the four dogs to escape alive. Fury stays with Koyomi and her father, joining her when she runs away at age 13 to see Kaos by hitching a ride with a caravan. Fury now spends much of his time sleeping, but he still possesses some of his old instincts, as he quickly kills one of Sentinel's bandits who is threatening Koyomi. Fury recognizes Alita when she saves Koyomi from the bandits, even though he has not seen her in 11 years. He accompanies Koyomi when she joins the Barjack, and is with her and the Heng when it fires on Tiphares. Fury realizes that AR-10 is not Alita, and after the Heng is destroyed by the Tipharean superweapon Abaddon, destroys a flock of missile bees unleashed by AR-10 on the survivors. His first attack on AR-10 when she threatens Koyomi fails, but while AR-10 is distracted by asking the GIB to switch her ammunition over to anti-personnel rounds to deal with Buick, Fury is able to grab her around the neck and use his weight to throw her into a pile of molten metal, killing her but also dying in the process.

References

 Notes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Battle Angel Alita
Battle Angel characters