[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of political scandals in the United Kingdom

This is a list of political scandals in the United Kingdom in chronological order. Scandals implicating political figures or governments of the UK, often reported in the mass media, have long had repercussions for their popularity. Issues in political scandals have included alleged or proven financial and sexual matters, or various other allegations or actions taken by politicians that led to controversy. In British media and political discourse, such scandals have sometimes been referred to as political sleaze since the 1990s. Notable scandals include the Marconi scandal, Profumo affair and the 2009 expenses scandal.

1890s
Liberator Building Society scandal, in which the Liberal Party MP Jabez Balfour was exposed as running several fraudulent companies to conceal financial losses. Balfour fled to Argentina, but was eventually arrested and imprisoned.

1910s 
 Marconi scandal of insider trading by Liberal Party Ministers including:
 Rufus Isaacs, 1st Marquess of Reading, the Attorney General
 The Master of Elibank, Lord Murray, the Treasurer of the Liberal Party,
 David Lloyd George, 1st Earl Lloyd-George of Dwyfor, the Chancellor of the Exchequer
Herbert Samuel, 1st Viscount Samuel, Postmaster General; was falsely implicated. (1912)
Shell Crisis of 1915, which led to the fall of H. H. Asquith's Liberal Party government during World War I.

1920s 
Lloyd George and the honours scandal. Honours sold for large campaign contributions (1922)
 Zinoviev Letter (1924)

1930s 
 Jimmy Thomas budget leak (1936)

1940s 
 Hugh Dalton budget leak (1947)
 John Belcher corruptly influenced – led to Lynskey Tribunal

1950s 
 Crichel Down and the resignation of Thomas Dugdale (1954)
 Suez Crisis (1956)

1960s 
 Vassall affair (1963): civil servant John Vassall, working for Minister Tam Galbraith, was revealed to be a spy for the Soviet Union and was arrested. The affair was investigated in the Vassall tribunal.
 Profumo affair (1963): Secretary of State for War John Profumo had an affair with Christine Keeler (to whom he had been introduced by artist Stephen Ward) who was having an affair with a Soviet spy at the same time.
 The Robert Boothby (Tory), Tom Driberg (Labour), Kray brothers affair and consequent cover-up involving senior politicians of both parties.  The Daily Mirror published some details of the matter and was falsely sued for libel.

1970s 
 Corrupt architect John Poulson and links to Conservative Home Secretary Reginald Maudling, Labour council leader T. Dan Smith and others (1972–1974): Maudling resigned, Smith sentenced to imprisonment.
 Earl Jellicoe and Lord Lambton sex scandal (1973): Conservatives, junior defence minister Lambton is arrested for using prostitutes and Cabinet minister Jellicoe also confesses.
 Labour MP John Stonehouse's faked suicide (1974)
 Harold Wilson's Prime Minister's Resignation Honours (known satirically as the "Lavender List") gives honours to a number of wealthy businessmen whose principles were considered antipathetic to those held by the Labour Party (May 1976)
 Peter Jay's appointment as British Ambassador to the US by his father in law, the then Labour Prime Minister James Callaghan. At the time Jay was a journalist with little diplomatic experience. (1976)
"Rinkagate": the Thorpe affair. Liberal Party leader Jeremy Thorpe was arrested and tried for allegedly paying a hitman to murder his lover, model Norman Scott, while walking his dog on Exmoor; the hitman only shot the dog, Rinka. Thorpe was forced to resign due to his clandestine gay affairs, but was acquitted of conspiracy to murder.

1980s 
 Joseph Kagan, Baron Kagan, earlier ennobled by the Labour Prime Minister Harold Wilson's notorious Lavender List (1976), was convicted of fraud (1980)
 Cecil Parkinson affair with secretary Sara Keays resulting in their child, Flora Keays (1983)
 Al Yamamah contract alleged to have been obtained by bribery (1985)
 Westland affair (1986): The Defence Secretary, Michael Heseltine resigned from his Cabinet job in a disagreement with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher over the Westland affair. Heseltine walked out of a meeting at Number 10 as his views on the future of the Westland helicopter company were being ignored at the time.
 Jeffrey Archer and the prostitute allegations (1986), and his subsequent conviction for perjury (2001)
Westminster cemeteries scandal (1987)
 Edwina Currie resigns as a junior Health minister after claiming that millions of British eggs were infected with salmonella, stating that "most of [British] egg production" was infected (1988) 
 "Homes for votes" gerrymandering scandal (1987–1989)