[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Creation of the Humanoids

lms, the film was released to television, where it was being shown by late 1964. It was released on Beta and VHS videocassettes by Monterey Home Video in 1985 and was later available from Something Weird Video. The first licensed DVD release came in 2006 on a double-feature disc from Dark Sky Films.

The film's running time is often listed as 75 minutes. The Dark Sky DVD release runs 84 minutes and is presented in anamorphic 16:9 widescreen, which approximates the matted aspect ratios most commonly used for 35 mm projection in the United States in 1962. The earlier videocassette releases are not pan-and-scan versions of a widescreen image, but simply unmatted full-frame 1.33:1, revealing areas at the top and bottom of the image not normally seen in a theater.

Reception
The film's theatrical run was apparently not commented on in the mainstream press. The public reception as measured by theater attendance and profitability is unclear, but one 1962 item in the trade paper Variety notes that "Creation of the Humanoids and Invasion of the Animal People at the Fox shape to a sock $10,000", "sock" being a favorable term in that publication's show-business jargon and $10,000 the week's box office receipts at the Fox theater.

After its 1964 television debut, references to more than its title began to appear. In 1965, Susan Sontag briefly mentioned some story details in her essay on science fiction films entitled The Imagination of Disaster.

Later critical opinion
"Slow, stagy cheapie" – Leonard Maltin.
"This interesting film...is badly let down by Simms' over-talkative script." – The Aurum Film Encyclopedia – Science Fiction.
"Incredible little film" – Michael Weldon, The Psychotronic Encyclopedia of Film.
"...a highly underrated gem of considerable worth [and] a perfect illustration of how science-fiction should work as a literature of ideas rather than of special effects." – Richard Scheib, Moria – The Science Fiction, Horror and Fantasy Film Review.
"Yes, it is ham-handedly, painfully un-subtle, but making a film with this message in the early 1960s, with the storms of the civil rights movement still raging, required considerable courage on the part of the filmmakers." – Erick Harper, DVD Verdict.
"Undeniably sophisticated as science fiction, The Creation of the Humanoids is one weird movie." – Glenn Erickson, DVD Savant.

In popular culture
The Creation of the Humanoids is often said to be "Andy Warhol's favorite film". The original source for this claim appears to be a 1964 art review of new Warhol paintings that begins with a short description of the film and states that the protagonists' climactic discovery is "the happy ending of what Andy Warhol calls the best movie he has ever seen." This would lead Warhol to create the Andy Warhol Robot in the 1980s with theatrical production from Peter Sellars and Lewis Allen.

It was shown on the MeTV show Svengoolie on July 31, 2021.

Selected passages from the film are embedded in the All India Radio (band) song "MovieStar".

See also
 R.U.R.
 List of American films of 1962

References

External links
 

1962 films
1960s English-language films
American independent films
1960s science fiction films
American science fiction films
Android (robot) films
Films about consciousness transfer
American post-apocalyptic films
1962 independent films
Films set in the 23rd century
Films about nuclear war and weapons
Films directed by Wesley Barry
1960s American films