[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 1876 South Carolina gubernatorial election

ered voters in 1875, only 555 voters did not cast a ballot in the election. The results as declared by the Democrats held up to be the official results of the election when Hampton became the sole governor on April 11, 1877.

 
 

|-
| 
| colspan=5 |Democratic gain from Republican
|-

County results

Dual governors
Hampton quickly organized his government and made a request to South Carolinians to refuse to pay taxes to the Chamberlain government.  To support the Hampton government, each taxpayer was asked to contribute just 10% of what  his tax bill had been the previous year. South Carolinians, both white and black, paid taxes to the Hampton government and refused to pay taxes to the Chamberlain government, thereby denying the Chamberlain government its last legitimacy and authority apart from the U.S. Army.<ref>Walter Edgar, '"South Carolina: A History p 405</ref>

After the resolution 1876 presidential election in favor of Rutherford B. Hayes, both Chamberlain and Hampton traveled to Washington to discuss with the new president regarding the situation in South Carolina. President Hayes realized that only a massive reintroduction of federal troops would enable Chamberlain to continue as governor and thus ordered on April 3, 1877, for the removal of federal troops from South Carolina. The departure of Federal troops on April 10 caused Governor Chamberlain and the Republican-led government to concede the election to Wade Hampton. A day later on April 11, Hampton became the sole and official governor of the state of South Carolina.

Timeline

1872
November – Wade Hampton called for the redemption of the state after hearing of the election of Franklin J. Moses Jr. for governor.

1876
January 6 – Meeting of the Democratic State Committee to reorganize and agree to prepare for the Democratic convention in May. 
April 12–April 14 – Republicans held a state convention in Columbia to elect delegates to the National Convention in Cincinnati.
May 4–May 5 – Democrats held a state convention in Columbia to elect delegates to the National Convention in St. Louis.
July 8 – In the Hamburg Massacre in Aiken County, following arguments over a black National Guard parade on Independence Day, white paramilitary groups came to the black-majority town, where they killed 6 blacks, 4 while held as prisoners. One white died in an exchange of gunfire at the armory. 
August 15–August 17 – Democratic convention in Columbia adopted a platform and selected Wade Hampton as their nominee for governor in the general election.
September 6 – Following a Democratic meeting in Charleston with a black speaker, a white fired above a black crowd, attracting more black Republicans, and a fight ensued, quickly increasing in size. In the riot, black Republicans injured 12 whites; the one white death is attributed to a mistaken shot by a white man.
September 13–September 15 – Republican nominating convention met in Columbia and selected Governor Chamberlain as their nominee for governor in the general election.
September 16–September 19 – Extended acts of violence at Ellenton in Aiken County, where 500-600 white paramilitary came from Columbia County, Georgia; 1 white is killed and 40-100 blacks. 
October 4 – Governor Chamberlain signed a document stating that he had no effective control of state government and was entirely dependent upon Federal troops. He threatened to use the soldiers to bring economic damage to the state if he was not elected Governor of South Carolina.
October 7 – Governor Chamberlain institutes martial law in Barnwell and Edgefield counties; he ordered the rifle clubs to disperse and forbids any unorganized militias.
October 16 – At a "joint discussion meeting" near Cainhoy, organized by Republicans and Democrats in black-majority Charleston County, whites find hidden black arms and kill 1 black man. Black Republicans go to their hidden arms (rifles and shotguns) and attack the white men, who were armed with pistols as they retreated to their steamboat. Republicans killed 6 whites and injured 16. It was the only such incident in which more whites than blacks were killed.
October 17
President Ulysses S. Grant placed the Federal troops in South Carolina under the command of Governor Chamberlain.
A party of black militia ambushed 6 white men leaving a Democratic meeting in Edgefield, killing 1 and wounding another.
October 23 – A black mob laid siege to the town of Mt. Pleasant for the night, forcing the white citizens into a single house. The mob left in the morning threatening to return and kill everyone in the town.
November 7 – Election day.
November 8 – Black Republicans attacked whites on Broad Street in Charleston when somebody yelled incorrectly that white Republican leader Edmund W.M. Mackey had been killed. In the altercation, 1 white was killed and 12 were wounded; 1 black was killed and 11 were wounded.
November 22 – State Board of Canvassers throws out the results from Edgefield and Laurens counties.
November 28 –