[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Indian National Army trials

if disconcerting factor for the Raj was the significant militant public support that it received. At some places, NCOs in the British Indian Army started ignoring orders from British superiors. In Madras and Pune, the British garrisons had to face revolts within the ranks of the British Indian Army.

Another Army mutiny took place at Jabalpur during the last week of February 1946, soon after the Navy mutiny at Bombay, which were both suppressed. It lasted about one week. After the mutiny, about 45 persons were tried by court martial. 41 were sentenced to varying terms of imprisonment or dismissal. In addition, a large number were discharged on administrative grounds. While the participants of the Naval Mutiny were given the freedom fighters' pension, the Jabalpur mutineers got nothing. They even lost their service pension.

Most of the INA soldiers were set free after cashiering and forfeiture of pay and allowance.

Lord Louis Mountbatten, the head of Southeast Asia Command, ordered the INA memorial to its fallen soldiers to be demolished when Singapore was recaptured in 1945. It has been suggested by some historians that Mountbatten's decision to demolish the INA memorial was part of a larger effort to prevent the spread of the socialist ideals of the INA in the political atmosphere of the Cold War and the decolonization of Asia. In 1995, the National Heritage Board of Singapore marked the place as a historical site. A Cenotaph has since been erected at the site where the memorial once stood.

After the war ended, the story of the INA and the Free India Legion was seen as so inflammatory that, fearing mass revolts and uprisings—not just in India, but across its empire—the British government forbade the BBC from broadcasting their story.  However, the stories of the trials at the Red Fort filtered through.  Newspapers reported at the time of the trials that some of the INA soldiers held at Red Fort had been executed, which only succeeded in causing further protests.

In popular culture
The 2017 period drama film Raag Desh is based on the INA trials.

See also
 Indian National Army
 INA Defence Committee, the legal defence team for the INA formed by the Indian National Congress in 1945.
 Shah Nawaz Khan, Gurbaksh Singh Dhillon and Prem Kumar Sahgal, defendants in the first INA trial.
 Malik Munawar Khan Awan, who commanded the 2nd INA Guerrilla Battalion during the Battle of Imphal.
 Habib-ur-Rehman, Subhas Chandra Bose's chief of staff.
 Lakshmi Sahgal, who commanded the Rani of Jhansi Regiment and was also the minister in charge of women's affairs in the Azad Hind government.
 Indian National Congress

References 

 Letter from members of the Indian National Army Defence Committee to the Viceroy, 15 Oct 1945.

 
INA trial
Indian independence movement
History of the Indian Army
Military of British India
Court-martial cases
1945 in India
1946 in India
History of Delhi
Treason trials