[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Aga Khan Agency for Microfinance

environment.

In 2008, based on the success in Afghanistan, the first institution to offer SME loans, AKAM launched a pilot of a similar SME initiative in Egypt, which added an integrated in-house business development services component provided directly by AKAM's microfinance institution in Egypt.

On average, SMEs are responsible for the creation of around 20 full-time and part-time jobs per business. This provides the poor with a way to maintain or improve their quality of life in the face of uncertainty. Moreover, gaining access to financial services is a critical step in connecting the poor to a broader economic life and building their confidence so that they can play a role in the larger community.

Call centre
At the First MicroFinance Institution Syria (FMFI-S), it was found that, aside from the branch network, FMFI-S had no other channels in place to sell its products and/or services to its clients. The institution decided that the setup of a call center would improve its service and eventually its outreach. International best practices have also shown that for the microfinance client target group, this channel can be very successful and cost-effective.

Some seven million Syrians, or about 38 percent of the country's population, have a mobile phone. This makes getting in touch with clients and others who have shown an interest in getting a microfinance loan easier. With the help of the Frankfurt School of Finance & Management, FMFI-S started the process of improving customer service by upgrading the staff's skills and reducing loan approval time. To ensure that the clients were getting the best possible service, FMFI-S established a call center to handle customer complaints, customer queries, or to get information to dormant clients or to people referred by other clients.

The call center handles product issues, including promotional campaigns. This call center also allows the institution to diversify and expand the SME client base using lower-cost solutions than the expansion of the branch network.

By the end of 2010, seven outbound campaigns had been executed. The result of this campaign was that 32 percent of those who were called had a conversation with an FMFI-S staff member. Of this 32 percent, about 10 percent went into a branch and got a loan. Although the actual outreach through the call center only equaled three percent of total loans disbursed, this is expected to increase in the coming months. All branches have anecdotally noticed that the call center has played a role in attracting new clients. Though there is an increased traffic burden on the branches, the call center has contributed to the increasing number of visitors (potential clients) in the Damascus and Masyaf branches.

Agricultural lending
Given the scarce access to financial services among the rural poor and the importance of agriculture as a critical livelihood activity, agricultural finance is a key focus area for AKAM. Several of AKAM's institutions, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, Pakistan, the Kyrgyz Republic, and Tajikistan, have significant rural outreach and agriculture portfolios, but the unmet demand is still vast. Where there are sister agencies, AKAM's entities collaborate to help increase the farmers’ yield. PAMF Madagascar's focus is to expand outreach in rural areas where the microfinance penetration rate is extremely low—currently at around 3.5 percent—and where poverty is high. Consequently, 62 percent of its loans are rural. Although agriculture is a mainstay of the economy, employing 80 percent of the population, access to agricultural finance is low, particularly among PAMF-Mada's focus areas of Sofia and Itasy.

The focus of PAMF-Mada's initial rural expansion has been small agricultural loans; in 2010, 48 percent of the loan disbursements were for agriculture. PAMF Madagascar also collaborates with AKF to provide loans to rice farmers organized and trained by AKF in improved cultivation practices. To continue to support its target market, PAMF Madagascar expects small agricultural loans to remain an important share of its lending activity. However, to support growth in agriculture more broadly, increase impact, and support sustainability, PAMF Madagascar plans to introduce an agricultural SME product to develop appropriate financial services for other actors and gaps in the rice value chain in particular.