[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# List of smoking bans in the United States

entrance to public places (except on outdoor patios), including most restaurants; exempts bars, restaurants with bars, private clubs, stage performances, restaurants that seat fewer than 50 people, bowling alleys, billiard parlors, taxicabs and limousines where both driver and passengers agree to allow smoking, and retail tobacco shops.
St. Louis County, January 2, 2011, banned in all enclosed workplaces, including restaurants, after public vote of 65%–35% on November 3, 2009; exempts certain drinking establishments (bars having 25% or less gross sales of food, were in existence on January 2, 2011, and have applied for a smoking exemption certificate), cigar bars, casino gaming floors, private clubs, performing on stage as part of a theatrical production, private and semi-private rooms in nursing homes and rest homes, retail tobacco shops, smoking rooms in hotels and motels, and smoking lounges at Lambert-St. Louis International Airport.
West Plains, May 1, 2016, banned in all restaurants; exempts limousines for hire and taxicabs, where the driver and all passengers affirmatively consent to smoking in such vehicle, performers upon the stage, provided the smoking is part of a theatrical production, any licensed establishment which serves liquor on the premises for which not more than ten percent (10%) of the gross sales receipts of the business are supplied by food purchases, either for consumption on the premises or elsewhere, private residences, except when used as a childcare facility, adult day care, or health care facility, and not more than twenty percent (20%) of hotel and motel rooms as defined in this ordinance and designated as smoking rooms, which must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited.

Montana

Statewide smoking ban: On October 1, 2005, the Montana Clean Indoor Air Act (MCIAA) went into effect, banning smoking statewide in all enclosed workplaces in Montana including restaurants, though bars were exempt until October 1, 2009; the word "bar" is defined in the Act as also including taverns, night clubs, cocktail lounges, and casinos. The act exempts private residences not used as a daycare facility or healthcare facility, private motor vehicles, tobacco demonstrations in schools, designated hotel/motel smoking rooms, and American Indian religious and cultural activities. Local governments are preempted from regulating smoking more stringently than the Act.

Nebraska
 Statewide smoking ban: On June 1, 2009, the Nebraska Clean Indoor Air Act passed in February 2008 went into effect, banning smoking statewide in all enclosed workplaces in Nebraska, including all bars and restaurants. The Act exempts tobacco retail stores, designated hotel/motel smoking rooms, private residences, and places where scientific research about smoking is occurring. In April 2009, the Act was amended to further exempt cigar bars, as well. Local governments may regulate smoking more stringently than the Act.

Nevada
Statewide smoking ban excluding bars, casinos, and designated restaurant smoking rooms: On December 8, 2006, after passage by 54% of voters on November 7, 2006, the Nevada Clean Indoor Air Act went into effect, banning smoking statewide in all enclosed workplaces. The act passed by voters initially included all restaurants as well as bars that serve food. The Act permits smoking without limitation in areas within casinos where minors are already prohibited, stand-alone bars that do not serve food, strip clubs and brothels, retail tobacco stores, and private residences (including those that serve as an office workplace, unless used as a childcare, adult daycare, or healthcare facility). Local governments may regulate smoking more stringently than the Act, though no city or county in Nevada has chosen to do so. In 2009 Nevada partially repealed the ban to allow smoking in tobacco-related trade conventions. The ban was further amended in 2011 to allow smoking in taverns that serve alcohol and food as long as patrons under 21 are not allowed in. Smoking is also now allowed in designated areas of family restaurants if the smoking area is physically enclosed and separated from the non-smoking area and minors are prohibited inside.