[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of Jeeves characters

ie inadvertently leaves Bingo Little's baby in Upjohn's study. St. Asaph's may be another name for Malvern House.

Upjohn is mentioned in The Code of the Woosters, The Mating Season, and "Jeeves and the Greasy Bird". He is also mentioned in the Drones Club story "The Editor Regrets".

Bobbie Wickham

Roberta "Bobbie" Wickham is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories, being a redheaded girl enamoured of practical jokes. She also appears in Mr. Mulliner stories and other stories outside the Jeeves canon.

Uncle Willoughby
Uncle Willoughby is a fictional character appearing in the Jeeves short story, "Jeeves Takes Charge". He is Bertie's uncle and resides in Easeby Hall; his surname is not stated. Bertie is initially financially dependent on Willoughby, though this is not true in later works. As he does not appear in later stories, it is speculated that Willoughby passed away and Bertie inherited from him. It is also possible that Willoughby was the trustee of Bertie's inheritance and Bertie obtained full access to his inheritance after reaching a certain age.

Ginger Winship
Harold "Ginger" Winship is a fictional character appearing in the Jeeves novel, Much Obliged, Jeeves. He is a friend of Bertie Wooster and was Bertie's neighbor at Magdalen College at the University of Oxford. He has ginger hair and was a heavyweight boxer for Oxford. At one point, he is engaged to Florence Craye, though he ultimately marries Magnolia Glendennon. His former valet Brinkley was also Bertie's valet for a time when Jeeves had briefly left his service.

Bertie Wooster

Bertram "Bertie" Wooster is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories, being the master of said Jeeves.

Claude and Eustace Wooster 
Claude and Eustace Wooster are fictional characters in the Jeeves semi-novel The Inimitable Jeeves, being the cousins of Bertie Wooster and the twin sons of Henry Wooster and Emily Wooster. They appear in "Sir Roderick Comes to Lunch", "The Great Sermon Handicap" and "The Delayed Exit of Claude and Eustace". They are about half a dozen years younger than Bertie and are full of energy, able to stay out all night revelling; much to the dismay of the more subdued Bertie, who considers them "more or less generally admitted to be the curse of the human race". Introduced as students at Oxford, they steal a multitude of items in an effort to join the school's Seekers club - inadvertently breaking up Bertie's engagement to Honoria Glossop - and are later expelled for pouring soda water on the Senior Tutor. They later ship out to South Africa to join the firm of a family friend at Aunt Agatha's direction.

Emily Wooster 
Emily Wooster is a fictional character mentioned in one Jeeves semi-novel, The Inimitable Jeeves. She is Bertie Wooster's Aunt Emily, the widow of Henry Wooster, and the mother of Claude and Eustace Wooster.

George Wooster
George Wooster, Lord Yaxley, is a fictional character in the Jeeves stories. He frequents many gentlemen's clubs, and is said to have discovered, well before modern medical thought, that alcohol was a food. He is Bertie's uncle and apparently inherits his title, as he seems unlikely to have earned it. He eventually marries an ex-barmaid. He plays an important role in "The Delayed Exit of Claude and Eustace" and appears in "Indian Summer of an Uncle".

Henry Wooster 
Henry Wooster is a fictional character mentioned in the Jeeves semi-novel The Inimitable Jeeves, being Bertie Wooster's Uncle Henry, and the brother of Bertie's late father. Though Bertie thought he was extremely decent, Uncle Henry did strange things like keep eleven pet rabbits in his bedroom. He ended up in some sort of home, though his sister, Bertie's Aunt Agatha, claims he was merely eccentric. He died sometime before the stories take place, leaving behind a wife, Emily Wooster, and his twin sons, Claude and Eustace Wooster.

Uncle Henry's story gives Sir Roderick Glossop concerns about Bertie Wooster's sanity in "Sir Roderick Comes to Lunch". He is likely the same Uncle Henry who gave Bertie the profitable tip that Bertie repeats to an audience of girls in "Bertie Changes His Mind".

Lord Worplesdon 
Percival "Percy" Craye (later Earl of Worplesdon) is a fictional character in the Jeeves stories. He has a daughter, Florence Craye, and a son, Edwin Craye. Lord Worplesdon is also the guardian of Zenobia "Nobby" Hopwood. He is a former employer of Jeeves, and later returns to Jeeves for advice. When stirred by a strong emotion, Worplesdon has a tendency to start shouting "What? What? What?" repeatedly.