[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nuclear War Survival Skills

nadequate ventilation."

Protection Against Fires and Carbon Monoxide
Fire is considered the third most dangerous hazard, after direct blast effects and fallout radiation. It is noted that during the Bombing of Dresden, "Most casualties were caused by the inhalation of hot gases and carbon monoxide"

Fire is the third largest worry in a nuclear attack, behind initial blast and fallout radiation. The biggest killer in fires is the increased carbon monoxide. This poses an even greater threat in shelters that rely on ventilation. If a fire occurs in a shelter, occupants should move to a room where ventilation from other rooms could be cut off. When building a shelter, Dr. A. Broido suggests putting the intake vent as far from combustible materials as possible.

Water

The importance of water to basic survival is discussed, with the recommendation that "four or five quarts of drinking water per day are essential." Methods of storing, transporting, and purifying water are also explained, with plastic-lined earthen storage pits recommended for storing large quantities.

Food
A basic diet, vegetarian and consisting only of bulk staples, is presented, along with basic nutrition facts and special advice for the very young, very old, and sick. "And because of the remarkable productivity of American agriculture, there usually would be enough grain and beans in storage to supply surviving Americans with sufficient food for at least a year following a heavy nuclear attack. Take precaution when eating meat. Areas with enough fallout to make animals sick, become a high-risk area for contaminated meat. If it is a crisis situation, meat should be cooked until very well done.

Fallout Radiation Meters

Reviews the best dose-rate meters and dosimeters available in 1987 and details the Kearny fallout meter, a "Homemakeable dose-rate meter", which can be built from a correctly scaled copy of the plans, such as those provided in hardcopies of the book; photocopies and printouts of digital copies may not be to scale.

Light
"Under wartime conditions, even a faint light that shows only the shapes of nearby people and things can make the difference between an endurable situation, and a black ordeal." Plans for an expedient cooking-oil powered lamp are included.

Shelter Sanitation and Preventive Medicine 
Topics covered include: Clean Water and Food; Control of Insects; Prevention of Skin Diseases; Disposal of Human Wastes; Disposal of Dead Bodies; and Prevention of Respiratory Diseases.

Surviving Without Doctors
Where There Is No Doctor is recommended to supplement to this chapter. Excerpts are provided, along with additional information specific to the health effects of radiation and the use of potassium iodide.

Expedient Shelter Furnishings
Improvised furniture is discussed, including a hammock made from bedsheets, and a hanging chair made from the hammock.

Improvised Clothing and Protective Items
The basic principles of thermal insulation are explained; ideas for expedient cold- and wet-weather clothing are provided.

Minimum Pre-Crisis Preparations
A list of recommended preparations are given for: shelter, shelter ventilation, water, food, fallout meters, sanitation, medicines, light, communications, etc.

Permanent Family Fallout Shelters for Dual Use
Considerations for permanent fallout shelters are given, with emphasis on maximizing habitability and minimizing cost.

Trans-Pacific Fallout
Details the potential fallout dangers to the United States of a limited nuclear exchange between other countries.

Appendices
 Appendix A: Instructions for Six Expedient Fallout Shelters
 Appendix B: How to Make and Use a Homemade Shelter-Ventilating Pump, the KAP.
 Appendix C: Instructions for a Homemade Fallout Meter 
Complete set for constructing a Kearny Fallout Meter, with an extra set of critical patterns and detailed instructions for quick and correct mass reproduction.
 Appendix D: Expedient Blast Shelters
 Appendix E: How to Make a Homemade Piston Pump
 Appendix F: Providing Improved Ventilation and Light