[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Huamachuco

e hills, immediately gathered all his troops and evacuated the city, taking position in the Sazón hill, a perfect defensive position, with steep slopes and with a very difficult access facing the Cuyulga, a defensive position that in addition sported some Inca ruins that were to be used as parapets.

Engagement
When the Peruvians saw that Gorostiaga had moved out, they moved into the town and took control of it, effectively cutting off the Chilean escape route. Later, on the 8th and all through the 9 July  there were a few artillery exchanges, but the final Peruvian assault was reserved for the early hours of the 10 July. Cáceres' plan was to initiate the attack by destroying his enemy's most vulnerable position, southeast of Sazón hill. As the Chileans observed the threat posed by  the Peruvian advance, they in turn rapidly moved their vanguard down the hill to try to contain the menace, counter-attacking the Peruvian right flank on Cuyulga hill. Two companies of the Chilean Zapadores Regiment managed to get down the Sazón heading for the Peruvian positions on Santa Bárbara hill.

Cáceres responded by sending two companies of his Junín and Jauja regiments. These troops found fierce opposition and became bogged down in the fighting now occurring in the area. To support his infantry, Cáceres also sent forward a few companies of the Cazadores de Concepción and Marcavalle regiments; with this move Cáceres was seeking to surround the Chilean troops who were by then in retreat. Col. Gorostiaga tried to stop this evolving Peruvian movement by sending a company of the Concepción Battalion, under Lieutenant Luis Dell'Orto, to stall the attack of the Peruvian Colonel Luis Germán Astete's division. One after another the Chilean companies entered into battle at the same rate the Peruvian regiments did. For a moment both armies were on equal footing, while the Chilean right wing was defended by one company of the Talca Battalion facing the troops of General Manuel Cáceres.

Outnumbered, the Chilean forces were forced to retreat to their own lines under heavy Peruvian attack. Little by little the Peruvians started to push the Chilean line back up onto the summit of the Sazón hill. The Chilean artillery was silenced and regrouped on the left of the Chilean lines, protected by the cavalry and the Zapadores Regiment, plus troops of the Concepción and Talca units. The Peruvians almost got to the top of the hill.

After four hours of fighting, Cáceres sensed victory. Gorostiaga's forces were reduced to defending themselves on their parapets at the very top of the Sazón. It was at that moment that the Peruvians started to run out of ammunition. Faced with this fact, Cáceres made a fatal mistake: he ordered his artillery to relocate to the valley facing the hill in order to provide the final coup. Gorostiaga saw this tactical error and ordered a cavalry charge by a squadron of the Cazadores a Caballo Cav. Regiment led by Sergeant Major Sofanor Parra. against the Peruvian guns. The defenceless artillery men were either dispersed or killed, the Peruvians losing seven cannons in the process.

Chilean counter-attack
Meanwhile, the Chileans quickly reorganised themselves and launched a massive bayonet counter-attack against the outnumbering Peruvian lines. Cáceres' Peruvians soldiers, who lacked bayonets, and with almost no ammunition by then, could only defend themselves with the butts of their rifles; their montoneras allies at least had spears to defend themselves with. The Chilean downhill counter-attack broke the Peruvian lines. The formations of the Peruvian troops collapsed and the remnants started to flee from the battlefield. With this last attack the Chileans achieved victory. A few moments later, their infantry supported by two cannons, took the Peruvian basecamp at Cuyulga hill, ending the battle.

Aftermath 
The Peruvians lost 800 men - almost one third of their forces - including a large number of their officers. Among the dead were General Pedro Silva, Chief of Staff Colonel Manuel Tafur, and the four divisional chiefs: Luis Germán Astete, Manuel Cáceres, Juan Gastó and Máximo Tafur. Many more died or were executed after the battle, among them one of Peru's greatest heroes, Colonel Leoncio Prado, due to failing  to keep his word to stay out of the war. General Cáceres, injured, was able to escape and evade capture. The battle effectively ended all further Peruvian resistance and the Treaty of Ancón, putting an end to the war, was signed just three months later, on October 20, 1883.