[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Fields in Trust

Fields in Trust is a British charity set up in 1925 as the National Playing Fields Association (NPFA), by Brigadier-General Reginald Kentish and the Duke of York, later King George VI, who was the first president, which protects parks and green spaces and promotes the cause of accessible spaces for play, sports and recreation in British cities and towns.

As well as campaigning to protect playing fields and open space, Fields in Trust legally protects the King George's Fields, 471 public recreation grounds set up as a memorial to King George V.

History

The charity was set up in 1925 as the National Playing Fields Association (NPFA), by Brigadier-General Reginald Kentish and was founded by the Duke of York, later King George VI, who was the first president. This royal link continued with Queen Elizabeth II as Patron from 1952 until her death in 2022 and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, as President from 1947 until he stepped down in 2013 to be succeeded by his grandson William, Prince of Wales.

Fields in Trust is a charity incorporated by Royal Charter in 1932. The organisation was awarded the Olympic Cup in 1931 by the International Olympic Committee in recognition of its work providing Playing Fields in Great Britain.

The Charity’s affairs are conducted through its Council, which meets quarterly to set the policy of the Association and to oversee its work.  It is also linked to many other bodies, and the members of the organisation include local authorities, individuals, playing field associations, schools, and sports clubs.  In 1972, Fields in Trust (then the NFPA) supported the Bishop of Stepney, Trevor Huddleston, in denouncing the lack of play provision which had led to the deaths by drowning of two boys who lived in his diocese. This gave the impetus to the Fair Play for Children campaign.

Fields in Trust set standards for playground provision in the UK through the Six Acre Standard, which is widely recognised as a planning tool for local authorities as a basis, when stipulating play area provision for new housing development, and in local play policies. Fields in Trust is one of the agencies represented on the UK Government School Playing Fields Advisory Panel convened by the Department for Education to scrutinise the disposal or change of use of playing fields and school land.

Objectives

Recommendations on Outdoor Playing Space were first formulated in 1925, soon after the Association’s formation.  This was with the intention of ensuring "every man, woman and child in Great Britain should have the opportunity of participating in outdoor recreational activity within a reasonable distance of home during leisure hours".  The charity urged all local authorities to adopt a minimum standard of provision of  of public open space for every 1,000 people, of which at least  "should be set aside for team games, tennis, bowls and children’s playgrounds".

Since then, Fields in Trust have kept the recreational space standard under regular review.  It now stands as the Six Acre Standard, recommending  per 1,000 head of population as a minimum necessity for space.

In 1992, the Association revised its recommendations on recreational space to include the Children’s Playing Space Standard aspect of the Six Acre Standard - part of the recommendation then was a general statement of the need for adequate children’s playing space.

Protected Land 

Fields in Trust supervises the property over which the Association acts as Guardian Trustee and ensures that it retains its charitable purpose. The Fields in Trust charity has a role in the protection of over 2,800 parks, playing fields and nature reserves across the United Kingdom. In total, the Fields in Trust's land portfolio represents an interest over .  In the 1920s and 1930s many of the sites were funded by the Carnegie United Kingdom Trust on the basis that the land would be kept as public playing fields in perpetuity.  In all of its work, Fields in Trust is assisted by affiliated national and county associations and other partners.

King George's Field
Fields in Trust is the Trustee of the King George's Fields Foundation (KGFF).  The Foundation was established as a Memorial to the Late King George V by Trust Deed on 3 November 1936.  The objects of the Trust were "to promote and to assist in the establishment throughout the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of Playing Fields for the use and enjoyment of the people every such Playing Field to be styled ‘King George’s Field’ and to be distinguished by heraldic panels or other appropriate tablet medallion or inscription commemorative of the King".

The Trust defined a playing field as "any open space used for the purpose of outdoor games, sports and pastimes".