[Source: PubMed]

66. J Public Health (Oxf). 2021 Jun 7;43(2):425-432. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdz098.

Public health and climate change: How are local authorities preparing for the 
health impacts of our changing climate?

Woodhall SC(1)(2), Landeg O(3), Kovats S(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Public Health and Wellbeing Division, South Gloucestershire Council, Bristol 
BS37 5AF, UK.
(2)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London WC1H 9SH, UK.
(3)Extreme Events and Health Protection, Public Health England, London SE1 8UG, 
UK.
(4)NIHR Health Protection Research Unit (NIHR HPRU) in Environmental Change and 
Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London WC1H 9SH, UK.
(5)Department of Public Health, Environments and Society, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London WC1H 9SH, UK.

BACKGROUND: Local authorities have a crucial role in preparing for the impacts 
of climate change. However, the extent to which health impacts are being 
prioritized and acted on is not well understood.
METHODS: We investigated the role of public health in adapting to climate change 
through: (i) a content analysis of local authority climate change adaptation 
strategies in South West England and (ii) semi-structured telephone interviews 
with local authority public health consultants and sustainability officers and a 
regional Public Health England representative (n = 11).
RESULTS: Adaptation strategies/plans varied in existence and scope. Public 
health consultants did not have an explicit remit for climate change adaptation, 
although related action often aligned with public health's emergency planning 
functions. Key barriers to health-related adaptation were financial constraints, 
lack of leadership and limited public and professional awareness about health 
impacts.
CONCLUSIONS: Local authorities in South West England have differing approaches 
to tackling health impacts of climate change, and the prominence of public 
health arguments for adaptation varies. Improved public health intelligence, 
concise communications, targeted support, visible local and national leadership 
and clarity on economic costs and benefits of adaptation would be useful for 
local authorities in preparing for the health impacts of climate change.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Faculty 
of Public Health. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdz098
PMCID: PMC8185561
PMID: 31828318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]