[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# January 1973

rts Organisation was founded by Olly Croft.
The anime series Fables of the Green Forest began its run on Japanese television.
Died: Pedro Berruezo, Spanish soccer football forward for Sevilla FC, suffered a fatal heart attack on the field six minutes into a match against the host team Pontevedra CF.

January 8, 1973 (Monday)
The Paris Peace Talks to end the Vietnam War came close to failing at an angry meeting in the French town of Gif-sur-Yvette, where U.S. National Security Adviser Henry Kissinger was angrily confronted by North Vietnam's chief negotiator, Lê Đức Thọ, over the Christmas bombing of North Vietnam.  Reportedly, Tho shouted at Kissinger in French for more than an hour, loudly enough that reporters outside the conference room could hear him berate the U.S. representative.  Nevertheless, a peace agreement would be reached on January 23.
The Brazilian government kidnapped, from different locations (including Soledad Barrett Viedma), six opponents of the military regime and then murdered them.  The bodies were found in a barn in the town of São Bento near the city of Abreu e Lima in the Pernambuco state. 
The Mexican television networks Telesistema Mexicano and Televisión Independiente de México, merged to create a single broadcast network, Televisa (Television Via Satelite).
Sesamstrasse, the German-language version of the U.S. children's program Sesame Street, premiered on the west German network Norddeutscher Rundfunk (NDR), with German actors dubbing previously broadcast U.S. shows, before a German production could be started on January 2, 1978, with new puppets and sets.
At 9:55 a.m. Moscow time (0615 UTC), the Soviet Union launched the Luna 21 uncrewed space mission to the Moon, which included the remotely-guided Lunokhod 2 lunar rover.
In the U.S., the ABC television network introduced its new late-night series, ABC's Wide World of Entertainment, as part of a block of programming after 11:30 pm that rotated between the series and several other programs.
Born: 
Irina Slavina (pen name for Irina Murakhtaeva), Russian journalist and government opponent known for her fatal self-immolation as a protest; in Gorky (now Nizhny Novgorod), Russian SFSR, Soviet Union (d. 2020)
Ryan Coetzee, South African politician and British political strategist 
Henning Solberg, Norwegian rally driver; in Askim
Donnell Turner, American soap opera actor on General Hospital since 2015; in Tacoma, Washington
Died: 
Sam Battaglia, 64, American mobster, in prison
Dong Xiwen, 58, Chinese painter known for his painting The Founding Ceremony of the Nation, before being persecuted during the Cultural Revolution, died of cancer.

January 9, 1973 (Tuesday)
Rhodesia closed its borders with Zambia on the grounds that the Zambians were harboring anti-Rhodesian guerrillas.
All 42 crew on the Dona Anita, an African freighter, died when the vessel sank off the coast of Vancouver Island.
Alexander Mackenzie Stuart, Max Sørensen, and Cearbhall Ó Dálaigh became judges at the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. Jean-Pierre Warner joined the Court as Advocate-General.
Born: Sean Paul, Jamaican rapper; in Kingston

January 10, 1973 (Wednesday)
A tornado killed 63 people in Argentina in the city of San Justo.
Five political parties in Indonesia, the Indonesian National Party, the League of Supporters of Indonesian Independence, the Murba Party, the Indonesian Christian Party, and the Catholic Party merged into a single organization, the Indonesian Democratic Party.
Born: 
Félix Trinidad, Puerto Rican boxer; in Fajardo, Puerto Rico
Ajit Pai, American politician, Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission 2017–2021; in Buffalo, New York

January 11, 1973 (Thursday)