[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# War in Somalia (2006–2009)

urundi and Uganda before withdrawing. The quick withdrawal of the AMISOM peacekeepers was seen as putting additional pressure on the United Nations to provide peacekeeping. That same month, President Abdulahi Yusuf resigned after stating the he had lost control of the country to Islamist insurgents.

January 2009
January 2009 saw the withdrawal of the major ENDF deployment to Somalia, and the accession of former Islamic Courts Union leader Sharif Sheikh Ahmed to the Somali presidency. On 12 January 2009, the last ENDF troops departed from Mogadishu, ending the two year long occupation. By the time of the Ethiopian withdrawal, the TFG possessed control over only a few streets and buildings in Mogadishu with the rest of the city coming under control of Islamist factions, particularly Al-Shabaab. Following the withdrawal, the Somali Football Federation and ICU remnants jointly announced that Mogadishu Stadium would finally be open to the public after having being used as an ENDF base. On New Years Day 2009, Shabelle Media, reported that ENDF forces were carrying out search operations of ICU rebels in Hiraan Region. According to Shabelle Media, ICU rebels had set up defensive positions near an ENDF base, and residents nearby fled in an anticipation of a large scale confrontation.Al Shabaab rejected any peace deal and continued to take territories, including Baidoa. Another Islamist group, Ahlu Sunna Waljama'a, which is allied to the TFG and supported by Ethiopia, continued to attack Al-Shabaab. Al Shabab accused the new TFG President of accepting the secular transitional government and have continued the civil war since he arrived in Mogadishu at the presidential palace.

After the parliament took in 200 officials from the moderate Islamist opposition, ARS leader Sharif Sheikh Ahmed was elected TFG President on January 31, 2009.

Casualties 
Islamist insurgents, ENDF troops, TFG forces, AMISOM forces, and other involved parties in the conflict sustained considerable casualties. The true extent of these losses remains uncertain, primarily due to a lack of transparency from the involved parties and a dearth of reporting on causalities.

ENDF/AMISOM losses 
The extent of ENDF casualties in Somalia remains uncertain, primarily due to a deliberate information blackout enforced by Meles Zenawi's government from 2006 to 2009. In early 2007, NBC news reported that, "...a general blackout of information about the war prevails". Opposition groups in the Ethiopian Parliament to the ruling TPLF were not informed on the number of soldiers who had been killed in Somalia, a policy which the TPLF continued until and after the withdrawal. By the end of 2007, ENDF casualties had reached an 'unsustainable level'. Somali witness accounts in Mogadishu estimated a rate of approximately 200 Ethiopian casualties weekly. Independent experts claimed the ENDF casualty rate was around 100 troops a week by the end of the occupation. Estimates of losses are further complicated by the practice of ENDF troops in Somalia routinely disguising themselves in Somali TFG uniforms to conceal their presence. Shortly after the January 2009 withdrawal, Meles Zenawi publicly declined to disclose the number of ENDF casualties incurred during the occupation, stating on national television:''...regarding the details on those killed or wounded in Somalia, I think the House does not need to know about how many were killed or wounded...I also think that I do not have an obligation to present such report."According to the BBC, Ethiopian forces deployed in Somalia between 2006 and 2009 experienced significant losses. 

The figures for AMISOM troops killed in Somalia from their deployment in early 2007 to 2009 has also never been publicly revealed. African Union officials only publicly commented on casualty estimates on their entire operation for the first time in 2023. AMISOM suffered several hundred casualties, but the figure from 2006 to 2009 is unknown. Ugandan Peoples Defence Forces (UPDF), was one of the largest AMISOM contingents, but never published figures on troop casualties.

Civilian 
In December 2008, the Elman Peace and Human Rights Organisation said it had verified that 16,210 civilians had been killed and 29,000 wounded since the start of the war in December 2006. In September of that year 1.9 million displaced civilians from homes in Mogadishu alone during the year 2007 had been documented.