[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wiper (occupation)

s not sailing in the United States; A United States MMD is not recognized by international shipping organizations. A Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) is required to apply for an MMD or a QMED program.

Requirements for those applying for a QMED credential include the following:

 Be at least 18 years of age
 Undergo a medical evaluation
 Pass an illicit substance screening
 Be able to fluently communicate in the English language in the ways that ship duties would require. Greater detail of this process can be illustrated in Code of Federal Regulations (CFR 46). 

By passing tests administered, an individual may claim a QMED credential and begin accruing sea time in order to apply for higher positions in the maritime industry such as the Third Assistant Engineer. 

Much of this same process applies for international wipers although there are minor discrepancies between the U.S. Coast Guard and other international licensure departments. This process can be greatly reduced in duration through enrollment in one of seven offered United States Coast Guard (USCG) approved and accredited maritime academies, such as California Maritime Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, whose programs offer a mix of applied technologies courses and opportunities to accrue sea time. In addition, there are several international maritime academies, such as Svendborg International Maritime Academy, which specialize in the growing demands for environmental protection, the safety of workers, and the efficiency of shipping across the globe.

Union Affiliation and Organization 

Union Affiliation and Jones Act mariners are closely related in terms of interaction, and the proliferation of labor unions is mainstream across the United States and the world. Seafarer's labor unions are meant to primarily protect sailors and their interests while serving as financial strongholds to support internal operations ad communication, deal in the costs of lawsuits and other court procedures, and to reward its members in various ways. The payment for these undertakings come primarily from union dues which are deducted from the paycheck of a member in the form of a percentage. 

Unions such as Marine Engineers’ Beneficial Association (MEBA) and the Marine Firemen, Oilers, Water tenders, and Wipers Association (MFOW) are a staple of employment for those sailing in the United States. These labor unions lobby for increased rights in the workplace and establish deals between employers and workers which call for benefits of varying degree and magnitude. These benefits include guaranteed meal times, coffee breaks, overtime, medical insurance, paid vacation, and other sorts of hazard payment. 

The voicing of grievances is relatively commonplace in maritime labor unions, much like shore-based skilled labor operations, and protectionist legislation is deliberated during meetings, protests, lawsuits, and on occasion United States Supreme Court precedent. Unions internationally follow the same structure of deliberation between employees and employers that can serve as arenas to bid for changes from within.

See also 

Seafarer's professions and ranks
Engine room
Engineering department
Motorman (ship)
Oiler (occupation)

References

External links
United States Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Licensing and Documentation website

Marine occupations
Railway occupations