[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Morgan Schneiderlin

erlin was eligible to represent England. Under Article 8.1, Regulations Governing The Application of the Statutes, FIFA Statutes, Schneiderlin is only eligible to represent France at international level as he has played at various age-levels in UEFA competitions prior to gaining British citizenship.

On 13 May 2014, France coach Didier Deschamps named Schneiderlin on the team's standby list for the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil. He was later called into the full squad following the withdrawal of the injured Clément Grenier. On 8 June Schneiderlin made his international debut, replacing Karim Benzema for the final three minutes of an 8–0 friendly win against Jamaica in Lille.

His debut in the World Cup came 17 days later, when he played the full 90 minutes of a 0–0 draw with Ecuador at the Maracanã Stadium in Rio de Janeiro; Deschamps made six changes for this final group match due to France's previous good form. That was his only appearance at the tournament, in which France lost in the quarter-finals to Germany.

Schneiderlin was not initially selected to France's squad for their hosting of UEFA Euro 2016, with Leicester City's N'Golo Kanté chosen at his expense, but he was added following an injury to Lassana Diarra. Schneiderlin did not play in any of France's seven matches at the tournament, in which they lost in the final to Portugal.

Personal life
In March 2016, Schneiderlin became engaged to Camille Sold, whom he married in June 2017. Their son was born in October 2018.

Career statistics

Club

International

Honours

Manchester United
FA Cup: 2015–16
FA Community Shield: 2016
 UEFA Europa League: 2016–17

Nice
Coupe de France runner-up: 2021–22

France
UEFA European Championship runner-up: 2016

Individual
Southampton Player of the Season: 2012–13

References

External links

 
 
 
 

1989 births
Living people
People from Obernai
Footballers from Bas-Rhin
French men's footballers
France men's youth international footballers
France men's under-21 international footballers
France men's international footballers
Men's association football midfielders
RC Strasbourg Alsace players
Southampton F.C. players
Manchester United F.C. players
Everton F.C. players
OGC Nice players 
Western Sydney Wanderers FC players
Konyaspor footballers
A.E. Kifisia F.C. players
Championnat National 2 players
Ligue 2 players
Ligue 1 players
English Football League players
Premier League players
A-League Men players
Super League Greece players
2014 FIFA World Cup players
UEFA Euro 2016 players
Competitors at the 2009 Mediterranean Games
Mediterranean Games competitors for France
French expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Expatriate men's soccer players in Australia
Expatriate men's footballers in Turkey
Expatriate men's footballers in Greece
French expatriate sportspeople in England
French expatriate sportspeople in Australia
French expatriate sportspeople in Turkey
French expatriate sportspeople in Greece