[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Elusa (Haluza)

ving through animal husbandry and commerce, and used a well for drinking water. Al-Khalasa was taken during the 1948 Arab-Israeli War by the IDF in October 1948.

Archaeology

The ruins of Halusa  are located in a large plain  southwest of Beersheba, Israel.  Many inscriptions have been found there.

In 2014, two archaeological survey-excavations were conducted at Haluza on behalf of the University of Cologne in Germany and Haifa University. Archaeological surveys of the area are partly hampered by the presence of shifting sands. However, Nabataean streets have been found, along with two Byzantine-period churches, a theatre, wine press and tower.

A Greek inscription bearing the name of the city was discovered at Elusa, tentatively dated to the time of Emperor Diocletian around 300 CE. The announcement was made in March 2019 by the excavating German–Israeli team.

Pre-Muslim decline
By analysing rubbish removed from the city, it has been determined that it underwent a major decline around the middle of the sixth century, about a century before the Islamic conquest. The excavators propose that their findings call for a reevaluation of the settlement history of the Negev region in the late Byzantine period. One possible cause for the crisis is raised as the Late Antique Little Ice Age, a cold snap believed to have been caused by "volcanic winter".

Biblical association
According to a 1906 article from the Revue Biblique written by , in the vicinity, according to the Targums, was the desert of Sur with the well at which the angel found Hagar ().

See also
Archaeology of Israel
Tourism in Israel

References

External links
  From The Madaba Mosaic Map centennary (1897-1997), a SBF book reproduced online. The page contains the A. Negev encyclopedia entry and a number of scholarly comments and links, as well as historical texts.
 Incense Route - Desert Cities in the Negev UNESCO 
 Stops on the Incense Road - Elusa
 

World Heritage Sites in Israel
Nabataean architecture
Ramat Negev Regional Council
Nabataean sites in Israel
Elusa
Former populated places in Southwest Asia
Buildings and structures in Southern District (Israel)
Archaeological sites in Israel
6th-century disestablishments in the Byzantine Empire