[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Michael Waddington

as called to defend a third year United States Naval Academy Midshipman, Mark Calvanico, who was accused of breaking into the room of a fellow midshipman and raping her. On June 3, 2008, Naval Academy Superintendent Vice Adm. Jeffrey Fowler dismissed all court martial charges against the midshipman.

Execution of Iraqi snipers
In August 2008, Waddington defended an Army infantryman, SFC Joseph Mayo, who was accused of executing four Iraqi snipers that were caught in Baghdad. Multiple soldiers from the unit were charged in connection with the alleged shooting. In March 2009, SFC Mayo pleaded guilty, indicating that he did it "in the best interests of my soldiers", and was sentenced to 35 years.

Maywand District murders
Waddington represented Spc. Jeremy Morlock, one of five soldiers charged with the Maywand District murders, premeditated murder of three Afghan civilians, in 2010. Morlock faced a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. Morlock later pleaded guilty to three counts of murder, one count of conspiracy to commit assault and battery, and one count of illegal drug use in exchange for a maximum sentence of 24 years.

Colombian prostitution scandal
Waddington defended a US Special Forces soldier who was one of several people accused of being involved in hotel misconduct and a prostitution scandal in Colombia in April 2012. The charges against the men included heavy drinking to soliciting prostitutes, two days before President Barack Obama arrived for the Summit of the Americas. Three of the implicated were cleared of serious misconduct charges, with four others, including Secret Service supervisor David Chaney, being forced out.

Navy SEAL Double Rape Trial
In the March 2018, Waddington defended a US Navy SEAL officer stationed at Coronado Navy Base, CA, who was accused of sexually assaulting two women in San Diego, CA. The Navy SEAL was acquitted of all charges by a Navy jury.

Navy SEAL Team 6 Catfishing Scandal
In the summer of 2019, Waddington defended a member of SEAL Team 6 accused of being involved in a catfishing scandal.

Green Beret Colonel Rape Allegation
In August 2020, Waddington successfully defended an Army Special Forces Colonel accused of raping a woman affiliated with the US Embassy in Pakistan. The jury trial took place at Fort Bragg, NC, in August 2020.

Books Published 
Waddington had written multiple books, including non-fiction and fictional works, including:

Battlemind
Battlemind: A Military Legal Thriller

Kick-Ass Closings

Kick-Ass Closings: A Guide to Giving the Best Closing Argument of Your Life

The Art of Trial Warfare

The Art of Trial Warfare: Winning at Trial Using Sun Tzu's The Art of War

Pattern Cross-Examination for DNA and Biological Evidence

Pattern Cross-Examination for DNA and Biological Evidence: A Trial Strategy & Resource Guide

Pattern Cross-Examination for Forensic Experts
Pattern Cross-Examination for Forensic Experts: A Trial Strategy & Resource Guide

Pattern Cross-Examination for Sexual Assault Cases

Pattern Cross-Examination for Sexual Assault Cases: A Trial Strategy & Resource Guide

Trial Warrior’s Book of Wisdom

Trial Warrior’s Book of Wisdom: A Compilation of Quotes for Success in Law and Life

Google+ for Lawyers

Google+ for Lawyers: A Step by Step User's Guide

Upgrade Your Army Discharge

Upgrade Your Army Discharge

The State of Criminal Justice: 2013-2022

From 2013 to 2023, Waddington wrote eleven chapters in the American Bar Association's annual books, The State of Criminal Justice. The chapters involved the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), sexual assault in the military, and military law. The three most recent publications are:

The State of Criminal Justice 2022

The State of Criminal Justice 2022 - Overview of UCMJ Changes in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022

The State of Criminal Justice 2021

The State of Criminal Justice 2021 - Military Justice Act of 2016's Expansion of Military Subpoena Power

The State of Criminal Justice 2020

The State of Criminal Justice 2020 - Changes to the Punitive Articles Under the Military Justice Act of 2016

Dare to Succeed

Waddington was one of the co-authors of the 2013 book, Dare to Succeed: The World's Leading Experts Reveal Their Secrets to Success in Business and in Life – and Dare You to Succeed.

Speaking Engagements 
Waddington has lectured at multiple national legal conferences and universities on the topics of cross-examination, closing arguments, trial strategy, war crimes, military law, and The Art of Trial Warfare.

Television consultation 
Waddington has provided consultation services to several television channels including CBS for its legal and political drama, The Good Wife.

Personal life
Waddington resides in Miami, Florida, with his wife and law partner, Alexandra Gonzalez.

References