[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bridgwater Castle

s new house. Harvey had purchased it from George Whitmore who had been granted the ownership by Charles I in 1626. Harvey leased the house to Colonel Wyndham in 1643. The new house was in the shape of a Roman B and is shown on the map drawn by John Strachey in 1735 and another in 1777 by John Locke.

In 1642, however, the English Civil War broke out between supporters of Charles I and Parliament:  the town and the castle were still seen as having value and a garrison was established by the Royalists under Edmund Wyndham. Wyndham's wife, Lady Crystabella Wyndham, fired a musket shot at Cromwell, from the castle wall, but missed and killed his aide-de-camp. Eventually, with many buildings having been destroyed in the town, the castle and its valuable contents were surrendered to the Parliamentarians on 21 July 1645. In 1651 Colonel Wyndham made arrangements for Charles II to flee to France following the Battle of Worcester.

The 18th century historian John Collinson suggested that the castle itself was deliberately destroyed the following year, when parliament ordered that the garrison was disbanded. The extent of the order was debated and clarified again in 1647 and still debated in 1656. More recent studies argue, based on eyewitness descriptions, that much of the castle had already been destroyed and it was just some of the remaining walls and sconces which had been added for its defence which were destroyed.

Although Robert Blake was born in Bridgwater and became one of the most important military commanders of the Commonwealth of England and one of the most famous English admirals of the 17th century, he is not thought to have been involved in the fighting in the town, although he was involved in the sieges of Taunton.

During the Monmouth Rebellion of 1685 rebel troops were hemmed in at Bridgwater on 3 July, and were ordered to refortify the town, prior to the Battle of Sedgemoor.

Rebuilding of the site

During the later part of the 17th century John Harvey continued the development of the site.  In 1721 the remains of the castle, the house and the land was sold to James Brydges, 1st Duke of Chandos who developed an industrial centre in the town and demolished the last of the buildings. Much of the site was built on in the 1720s to create the Georgian Castle Street. In 1734 Chandos sold the whole of the redevelopment area to Thomas Watts, who sold it the following year to John Anderton, whose descendants continued to clear old buildings and construct new ones. King's Square was built between 1807 and 1814, with many of the buildings incorporating stone from the old castle, although further study would be needed to say how much of their cellars and foundations are in situ castle walls. In 2008, during sewer renovation work, a section of the curtain wall of the castle and a tunnel used to transport goods from the port were discovered.

Parts of the castle wall, water gate and undercroft still survive.

See also
Bridgwater War Memorial
Castles in Great Britain and Ireland
List of castles in England

References

Bibliography

Further reading
Fry, Plantagenet Somerset, The David & Charles Book of Castles, David & Charles, 1980. 

Buildings and structures completed in 1202
Castles in Somerset
Bridgwater