[Source: PubMed]

11. Health Policy Plan. 2021 Mar 3;36(1):45-83. doi: 10.1093/heapol/czaa072.

Health system adaptation to climate change: a Peruvian case study.

Aracena S(1), Barboza M(2)(3), Zamora V(4), Salaverry O(4), Montag D(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Global Public Health, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK.
(2)Instituto Universitario de Investigación en Estudios Latinoamericanos, 
Madrid, España.
(3)Centro de Investigaciones Tecnológicas, Biomédicas y Medioambientales - 
CITBM, Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, Lima, Peru.
(4)Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, Lima, Peru.

Despite mitigation attempts, the trajectory of climate change remains on an 
accelerated path, with devastating health impacts. As a response to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change call for National Adaptation 
Plans, Peru has developed a national and decentralized regional adaptation 
plans. The purpose of this article is to understand the role and priority status 
of health within the adaptation planning and process. Peru was used as a case 
study to analyse the policy process in the creation of adaptation plans, 
encompassing the need to address climate change impacts on health with a 
particular focus on marginalized people. An actor, content and context policy 
analyses were conducted to analyse 17 out of 25 regional adaptation plans, which 
are available. The national adaptation plans (2002, 2015) do not include health 
as a priority or health adaptation strategies. In a decentralized health care 
system, regional plans demonstrate an increased improvement of complexity, 
systematization and structure over time (2009-17). In general, health has not 
been identified as a priority but as another area of impact. There is no 
cohesiveness between plans in format, content, planning and execution and only a 
limited consideration for marginalized populations. In conclusion, the regional 
departments of Peru stand on unequal footing regarding adapting the health 
sector to climate change. Findings in the strategies call into question how 
mitigation and adaption to climate change may be achieved. The lack of local 
research on health impacts due to climate change and a particular focus on 
marginalized people creates a policy vacuum. The Peruvian case study resembles 
global challenges to put health in the centre of national and regional 
adaptation plans. In-depth cross-country analysis is still missing but urgently 
needed to learn from other experiences.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press in association with 
The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czaa072
PMID: 33263753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]