[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Libertarian Party of New Hampshire

t for you", changed his political affiliation from Republican to Libertarian in 1992. These three state representatives gave the Libertarian Party the largest amount of state legislators for a third party since the Socialist Party of America had four state legislators elected in Connecticut in 1938.

The party elected four members to the state legislature during the 1992 elections. These legislators were aided through the use of electoral fusion in 1992 and 1994, where they would also gain the nomination of a major party in addition to the Libertarian nomination. The party ran eighty-five candidates in the 1992 state house election and ninety-one candidates in the 1994 state house election. Representative Don Gorman was selected to serve as the party's leader in the state house through winning a coin toss after the caucus was divided two to two between Gorman and Warburton. The Libertarian Caucus was recognized by the state house due to having more than three members, but lost its recognition after membership decreased to two in 1995. Representative Jim McLarin resigned on February 9, 1995, leaving Gorman as the only Libertarian in the state house. Gorman lost reelection in the 1996 election.

Miriam Luce defeated Warbuton for the Libertarian gubernatorial nomination for the 1992 election and received 4.00% of the vote in the election. Warburton, Steve Winter, and Clarence G. Blevens ran for the Libertarian gubernatorial nomination for the 1994 election which Winter, who later served in the state house as a Republican, won and later received 4.40% in the election. Robert Kingsbury defeated Blevens and Rotthaus for the Libertarian gubernatorial nomination for the 1996 election, but only received 1.20% in the election causing the party to lose its ballot-qualified status.

Despite the fact that the party was qualified in the state and had members elected to the state legislature it was not allowed to have members serve as polling place officials as only the two largest parties could have members serve as polling place officials. The party sued against this law, but lost when Judge Bruce M. Selya ruled against them in Werme v. Merrill in 1996.

2000s

Representative Steve Vaillancourt was given the Libertarian nomination after he lost renomination in the Democratic primary and won reelection during the 2000 election. During the 2008 United States presidential election the party nominated George Phillies for president and Karen Kwiatkowski for vice-president at its state convention. Both people declined the nomination and the party had to hold another convention. However, Phillies still appeared on the general election ballot and received 531 compared to the national presidential ticket of Bob Barr and Wayne Allyn Root which received 2,217 votes.

In 2001, Jason Sorens, a PhD student at Yale University, wrote an essay calling for the mass migration of 20,000 libertarians to a single, low-population state where they would have the ability to have electoral power and create a libertarian society. On October 1, 2003, the organization selected New Hampshire as the state they would move to. Governor Craig Benson supported the movement stating "come on up, we'd love to have you". The Free State Project reached its goal of 20,000 members in 2016, and by then around 1,900 members had already moved to New Hampshire.

2010s

Max Abramson, a Republican member of the state house, switched to the Libertarian Party in May 2016, and ran for governor of New Hampshire in the 2016 gubernatorial election in which he received 4.31% of the popular vote giving the Libertarian Party qualified status in New Hampshire. Abramson later changed his political affiliation to Republican and won elected to the state house during the 2018 elections as a Republican, but later changed his political affiliation back to Libertarian on June 28, 2019.

In 2016, the five-member executive committee of the party voted to adopt a resolution calling for the secession of New Hampshire from the United States. Roger Paxton, the vice-chairman of the party, stated that “Recognizing that libertarianism is defined as self-ownership, and recognizing that both our federal and state founding documents make it clear that we have the right of peaceful secession. I’m pleased that the Libertarian Party of New Hampshire has resolved its support,”.

On February 9, 2017, Caleb Q. Dyer, a Republican member of the state house, changed his political affiliation to Libertarian. On May 10, Joseph Stallcop, a Democratic member of the state house, also switched his political affiliation to Libertarian bringing the Libertarian caucus to two members which entitled it to be recognized as a caucus and a room in the capitol. On June 27, the Libertarian Party announced at a press conference that Brandon Phinney, a Republican member of the state house, had changed his political affiliation to Libertarian. Stallcop later resigned from the state house on August 6, 2018.