[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# International Programme for the Development of Communication

s. It is formally submitted to the IPDC Council, contributes to the World Trends report; it feeds into UNESCO's contribution to the global monitoring of SDG indicator 16.10.1; it is used as an input for UNESCO's submissions to the Universal Periodic Report of the United Nations Human Rights Council.

Strengthening national mechanisms to promote the safety of journalists 
The IPDC's strategy since 2017 to enhance safety of journalists at national levels is to strengthen national mechanisms that promote safety and combat impunity for crimes against journalists. This was further highlighted during the November 2017 Eastern African Conference on National Mechanisms for Safety of journalists with the Nairobi Declaration during which Eastern African countries called for the establishment of national mechanisms. Toby Mendel considers that “making sure that relevant stakeholders are effectively integrated into a safety mechanism can dramatically increase its chances of succeeding by harnessing the skills, resources, and support of different stakeholders, and by promoting coordination as opposed to duplication or even competition”. These mechanisms include capacity building, legislative reforms, monitoring, training, and the provision by media companies of protective equipment.

Global Initiative for Excellence in Journalism Education (GIEJE) 
The Global Initiative for Excellence in Journalism Education (GIEJE) is an IPDC special initiative since 2007 supporting journalism education as “essential to bring out the potential of media systems to foster democracy, dialogue and development”. This special initiative is built on work relating to the publication “Model Curriculum for Journalism Education” and established Criteria and Indicators for Quality Journalism Training Institutions. The Model Curricula is an IPDC publication launched in 2007 at the request of Member States at the first World Journalism Education Congress (WJEC-1) convened in Singapore. It provides frameworks for specialized syllabi in order to set standards based on good practice internationally, as a resource on which stakeholders around the world can draw to improve the quality of journalism education in their countries. By the end of 2012, they had been adapted by at least seventy journalism schools in sixty countries in diverse linguistic, social and cultural contexts. Work towards this special initiative also include the UNESCO Series on Journalism Education, Centres of excellence in journalism education, staff training, learning materials and resources, enhancing institutional governance and management systems, media monitoring, creating networks between journalism education institutions and media.

Journalism Curriculum Development in Nairobi
In 2013, the School of Journalism & Mass Communication, University of Nairobi developed a curriculum on conflict reporting, bringing together experts who had developed the training material and providing training at a regional conference on the topic.

Media Development 
This was the first of the IPDC Special Initiatives, initiated by the Council in 2006 and launched in 2008 after a period of research, drafting and consultation. The framework is built on UNESCO's Constitutional mandate to foster “the unrestricted pursuit of objective truth”, “the free exchange of ideas and knowledge” and “the free flow of ideas by word and image”. It has been applied in over 20 countries and assessments are ongoing in 18 more.

The indicators cover the media sector as a whole, under five categories:

 Legal and regulatory framework governing media;
 Degree of plurality and diversity of the media;
 Capacity of media to function as a platform for democratic discourse;
 Professional capacities;
 Technical capacities.

The Media Development projects 
The IPDC supports several media development projects in all five United Nations regions, involving:

 Training Judicial Authorities in Africa: 
 Support to UNESCO Conferences
 IPDC Talks in the field
 Access to Information in Afghanistan
 Capacity support in IPDC Secretariat
 Gender and Media Project: Fostering gender balance and sensitivity in media in Asia
 Gender and Media Project: Fostering balanced and fair gender portrayal in Jordanian media content
 Promoting freedom of expression and the safety of journalists in Ukraine
 Establishment and reinforcement of national safety mechanisms
 Gender and Media Project: Strengthening IPDC-GAMAG partnership for gender-transformative media development

Knowledge-Driven Media Development (KDMD) 
Knowledge-Driven Media Development (KDMD) is an IPDC special initiative agreed on at the 57th meeting of the IPDC Bureau in March 2013. The framework promotes a “knowledge-driven”, “context-sensitive” media development approach, that takes into account “the challenges and opportunities of the media environment”.

Media and Internet Indicators