[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James Love (NGO director)

ay AIDS drug price were the subject of a documentary film about access to AIDS drugs, Fire in the Blood. In November 2001, a Wall Street Journal editorial singled out the Consumer Project on Technology for pushing the World Trade Organization to adopt the Doha Declaration on TRIPS and Public Health.

In 2002, at the Barcelona International AIDS conference, Love called for the creation of a patent pool for patents on HIV and other essential medicines.  In the fall of 2002, Tim Hubbard and Love participated in a radical scenario planning exercise organized by Aventis, the pharmaceutical and life sciences company, and developed proposals to eliminate legal monopolies on new medicines, and to expand support for open science projects. Among the Radical Pharma Scenario proposals were to replace intellectual property obligations in the WTO TRIPS accord and trade agreements with multilateral agreements on funding medical R&D, and to reform the incentive systems by replacing patent monopolies with cash prizes. In 2005, Representative Bernie Sanders introduced the first of several "Medical Innovation Prize Fund" bills designed to eliminate drug monopolies, one of the reforms coming out of the 2002 Aventis scenario sessions.  The 2005 prize fund bill, which was drafted in 2004, would have created a large fund, set at 50 basis points of US GDP, to reward developers of new drugs, on the basis of "the incremental therapeutic benefit" of a product, benchmarked against existing therapies, subject to set asides in the fund for orphan drugs and national and global public health priorities. Love and Hubbard also proposed systems of "competitive intermediaries" to manage funding for open science projects. Working with artists and activists such as Ted Byfield, Alan Toner, and Jamie King, Love proposed the Blur/Banff model for supporting artists who recorded music.

In 2003, Love encouraged colleagues to consider the reform of WIPO, the UN specialized agency for intellectual property. In 2004, working with the TransAtlantic Consumer Dialogue (TACD), Love organized a meeting on access to knowledge for essential learning tools and on the future of WIPO.  During this period, Love coined the term a2k, as a community brand for the Access for Knowledge movement that had been built out of the WIPO reform efforts.

Also in 2003, Love worked with several developing country governments, including Malaysia, Indonesia, Zambia and Mozambique on the granting of compulsory licenses on patents for antimalarial drugs. In 2003, the South Africa Competition Commission hired Love and the Consumer Project on Technology to evaluate a compulsory licensing request by Hazel Tau and the South Africa Treatment Access Campaign (TAC).  The Competition Commission staff found that GSK and Boehringer were in violation of three sections of South Africa competition laws, leading to licenses on patents for several suppliers of generic AIDS drugs.

In 2004 and 2005, Love worked with Tim Hubbard and others on two separate initiatives to propose new treaty paradigms for intellectual property and innovation.  The first was a proposal for a global treaty on medical research and development that would replace blinding norms on patents and other intellectual property rights for medicines.  The second was a comprehensive access to knowledge treaty.

In 2005, Love authored a World Health Organization (WHO) and UNDP joint publication titled "Remuneration Guidelines for Non-Voluntary Use of a Patent". The 2005 Remuneration Guidelines introduced the Tiered Royalty Method (TRM), an approach that takes into account differences in incomes between countries, and sets royalties independent of the generic price of product.

In 2007, during discussions with MSF on a possible large prize for the development of a new low cost point of care diagnostic tool for tuberculosis, Love proposed an "open source dividend" mechanism to provide financial incentives to open source research. The open source dividend proposal would later be incorporated into other innovation inducement prize fund proposals.

In 2008, Love and KEI worked with the World Blind Union to convene a meeting to draft a possible treaty on copyright limitations and exceptions for persons who are blind, visually impaired or have other disabilities. (The treaty proposal was formerly tabled by the World Intellectual Property Organization in 2009.)  A diplomatic conference led to the negotiation of the Marrakesh VIP Treaty in June 2013, now in global effect, having been ratified by over 50 countries including India (first to ratify), all of the European Union and the United States. Love's contribution to the treaty effort was recognized by the Electronic Frontier Foundation with their EFF Pioneer Award.