[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Luis Suárez

ier League match, and was punished with a ten match ban. In an earlier incident while playing for AFC Ajax he was caught biting PSV Eindhoven player Otman Bakkal and was suspended for seven games. Suárez has also been accused of stamping on opponents in the Premier League and the UEFA Europa League.

Due to his diving, biting, stamping, and other antics, Suárez has been frequently labelled as a pest and a cheat. In December 2013, Spanish football website El Gol Digital ranked Suárez at fifth in its list of the world's dirtiest footballers.

Media and sponsorship

Suárez had a sponsorship deal with German sportswear and equipment supplier Adidas, before switching to rivals Puma in 2018. Suárez starred in a 2014 advert for Beats with other global football stars including Neymar and Thierry Henry, with the theme of "The Game Before the Game" and the players' pre-game ritual of listening to music. In Uruguay, Suárez has also appeared in advertisements for Abitab, Antel, Cablevisión, Garnier, Pepsi and Samsung.

Suárez features in EA Sports' FIFA video game series: as a result of Suárez's ban for his bite on Giorgio Chiellini at the 2014 World Cup, players in FIFA 15 were unable to select Suárez until his ban ended on 26 October.

Active on social media, Suárez has over 40 million Instagram followers as of May 2020, the most for a person from Uruguay.

Personal life
Suárez was born in Salto, Uruguay to Sandra Diaz and Rodolfo Suárez, the fourth of seven boys. His older brother, Paolo Suárez, is a retired professional footballer, who last played for Isidro Metapán in El Salvador.

Suárez moved with his family to Montevideo when he was seven, and his parents separated when he was nine. In Montevideo, he developed his football skills on the streets, while also taking up work as a street sweeper at the age of 15. In 1998, aged 11 he appeared as a contestant on children's game show Aventujuegos, with his team winning: his episode was brought up in a 2011 episode of chat show Noche de Locura and he was surprised the footage had been kept.

The contrast between his life in Europe and the poverty he left behind has been cited as contributing to his periodic aggression on the field, as well as being a possible explanation for the more forgiving attitudes of the Uruguayan public and press towards such cases, compared to Europe. Besides his native tongue, Suárez is able to speak Dutch and English.

Suárez is of mixed race and has a black grandfather. The matter of ethnicity was raised in reporting on the Patrice Evra incident, where use by his grandmother, Lila Piriz, of "mi negrito" as a sobriquet has been offered to explain Suárez's repeated use of "negro" over the two-minute altercation; the FA judged his evidence unreliable, issuing him an eight-match ban. His mother also supported the claim Suárez made that using the word was not racist in Uruguay. She said it was "normal", and that it was "a word people use with their friends. It's like calling someone fat, thin or whatever."

Suárez began dating Sofía Balbi at age 15 in Montevideo; the Balbi family moved to Barcelona in 2003, and Suárez's focus on football strengthened as a result as he wanted to follow them to Europe to join Sofía again. Suárez married her in 2009, and the couple have a daughter named Delfina (born 2010) and two sons named Benjamin (born 2013) and Lauti (born 2018). He has a tattoo of his daughter's name Delfina on his wrist which he kisses as part of his goal celebration – this celebration routine is featured in EA Sports’ video game FIFA 15 as "Kiss The Wrist". In 2014, Suárez joined Barcelona, allowing him to live closer to Sofía's family. On the move, Suárez said, "[Liverpool] did all they could to get me to stay, but playing and living in Spain, where my wife's family live, is a lifelong dream and ambition. I believe now the timing is right." In 2014, Suárez released his autobiography, Crossing the Line – My Story.

Suárez, who is married to an Italian citizen, was eligible to take a B1 Italian Language exam and flew to Perugia in September 2020 to take the test and gain Italian citizenship. Though obtaining the results of the language exam and approval of citizenship takes several months and several years respectively to be processed, Suárez reportedly got his language exam results within hours and would have his citizenship approved in several weeks. The Italian media had noted that this led to accusations of special treatment against Suárez, especially as Italian laws had been changed in 2018 to make obtaining citizenship by marriage more difficult. In September 2020, an investigation was launched over accusations that he had cheated his way into gaining Italian citizenship.

It is known that Suárez has used his experience and knowledge to mentor new Uruguayan footballing talents, most notably Darwin Núñez.