[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Carl Dickinson

ended the season at Meadow Lane fighting on-loan Arsenal defender Marc Bola for the left-back spot under new boss Kevin Nolan. During the 2017–18 season he faced a battle with Daniel Jones for the left-back spot. He made 32 appearances by the end of the 2017–18 campaign and was released in May 2018.

Yeovil Town
On 21 June 2018, Dickinson signed for League Two side Yeovil Town on a two-year contract. He made 37 appearances for the "Glovers" in the 2018–19 campaign, but began training with former club Port Vale after he was told he was not in the Yeovil's first-team plans following manager Darren Way's sacking in March. Yeovil were relegated out of the English Football League at the end of the campaign. Yeovil were fourth in the National League and Dickinson had 29 appearances to his name by the time the 2019–20 season was suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic in England; meanwhile during the break in play his impression of former manager Tony Pulis became a viral video on Twitter. Yeovil entered the play-offs at the quarter-final stage, where they were beaten 2–0 by Barnet. He made 37 appearances in the 2020–21 campaign and said he really enjoyed playing under manager Darren Sarll.

Later career
After leaving his management position at Hanley Town, Dickinson joined Southern League Premier Division Central club Stratford Town as a player on 10 November 2022. He moved on to Northern Premier League Premier Division side Nantwich Town the following year. He joined Eccleshall of the North West Counties League Division One South in March 2023 to aid the club during an injury crisis. He signed for North West Counties League Premier Division side Bury on 11 June 2023. However he left Bury the following month due to the long commute from his home. Upon leaving Bury, he signed with local Midland League Premier Division side Congleton Town, linking up with former Port Vale teammates Richard Duffy and Anthony Griffith.

Management career
On 17 March 2021, it was reported that Dickinson had "agreed in principle" to sign a three-year contract to join North West Counties Premier Division club Hanley Town as player-manager. He signed former Port Vale teammate Louis Dodds. Hanley were transferred to the Midland League Premier Division for the 2021–22 season and would win the league title to secure a place in Northern Premier League Division One West. He also began coaching the under-12s at Stoke City's Academy in February 2022. On 13 October 2022, Dickinson and assistant manager Dave Kevan left Hanley Town by mutual consent due to "increased business costs". He stated that "I’ve had to make the choice which had to suit not only me and my family but also make sure helped the club as well".

Style of play
Dickinson is a vocal player noted for his commitment, hard work and dedication.

Personal life
His son, Zac (born August 2010), was playing in the Stoke City Academy in 2022.

Career statistics

Honours

Player
Stoke City
Championship second-place promotion: 2007–08

Manager
Hanley Town
Midland League Premier Division: 2021–22

References

1987 births
Living people
People from Swadlincote
Footballers from Derbyshire
Men's association football defenders
English men's footballers
Derby County F.C. players
Stoke City F.C. players
English expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Iceland
English expatriate sportspeople in Iceland
Knattspyrnufélagið Víkingur players
Blackpool F.C. players
Leeds United F.C. players
Barnsley F.C. players
Portsmouth F.C. players
Watford F.C. players
Coventry City F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
Notts County F.C. players
Yeovil Town F.C. players
Hanley Town F.C. players
Stratford Town F.C. players
Nantwich Town F.C. players
Eccleshall F.C. players
Bury F.C. players
Congleton Town F.C. players
English Football League players
Úrvalsdeild karla (football) players
Premier League players
Southern Football League players
Northern Premier League players
North West Counties Football League players
English football managers
Hanley Town F.C. managers
Northern Premier League managers
Stoke City F.C. non-playing staff