[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Coalition for the International Criminal Court

The Coalition for the International Criminal Court (CICC) is an international network of NGOs, with a membership of over 2,500 organizations worldwide advocating for a fair, effective and independent International Criminal Court (ICC). Coalition NGO members work in partnership to strengthen international cooperation with the ICC; ensure that the court is fair, effective and independent; make justice both visible and universal, and advance stronger national laws that deliver justice to victims of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. The CICC Secretariat is hosted by the Women's Initiative for Gender Justice and it is based in The Hague.

History
The coalition was founded in 1995 by a small group of NGOs that coordinated their work to ensure the establishment of an international criminal court. The founders, decided to house the Secretariat of the movement with the World Federalist Movement, and Mr. William Pace, at that time Director of the WFM, was appointed Convenor for the Coalition.

Since then, the coalition's membership has progressively increased as its original goal of establishing the ICC grew to include the larger goal of guaranteeing the court's fair, effective and independent functioning. Over the years, the coalition secretariat and its global membership have worked together at every stage of the court's development from the preparatory committees for the establishment of the court, to the Rome Conference that established the court to the annual Assembly of States Parties meetings. Milestones in the coalition's work include the participation in and monitoring of the 1998 Rome Conference, resulting in the adoption of the Rome Statute of the ICC; the statute's rapid entry into force on July 1, 2002; and the election of the court's senior officials, completed in June 2003. The role of the coalition was recognized by the Assembly of States Parties when it adopted a resolution entitled Recognition of the coordinating and facilitating role of the NGO Coalition for the International Criminal Court (ICC-ASP/2/Res.8) during its second session in September 2003.

In 2019, Mr. William Pace stepped down as CICC Convenor after almost 25 years. The Steering Committee of the Coalition appointed Ms. Melinda Reed (Women's Initiatives for Gender Justice), as the Acting Convenor, until a new Convenor is appointed by the membership of the movement.

Profile

Steering committee

A core group of well-known and respected NGOs form the Steering Committee of the Coalition, which provide policy and program coherence for the Coalition’s efforts and activities. Adapting and adjusting to political developments, the Steering Committee helps guide the work of the coalition's secretariat, serving as an advisory body not only to provide global policy coherence, but to ensure cooperation and provide crucial strategic oversight.  Each of these organisations has its own ICC programs, staff and resources.

Steering committee members include: 
 Amnesty International
 Asociación Pro Derechos Humanos
 International Federation for Human Rights
 Human Rights First
 Human Rights Watch
 No Peace Without Justice
 Parliamentarians for Global Action
 Women's Initiatives for Gender Justice
 World Federalist Movement/Institute for Global Policy
 Emeritus steering committee members: European Law Students' Association
 Rights and Democracy
 Asian Forum for Human Rights and Development (FORUM-ASIA) – Bangkok, Thailand
 Civil Resource Development and Documentation Centre (CIRDDOC) – Enugu, Nigeria
 Comisión Andina de Juristas (Andean Commission of Jurists) – Lima, Peru
 Human Rights Network Uganda (HURINET-Uganda) – Kampala, Uganda
 The Redress Trust – London, United Kingdom

Membership

In 1995, the CICC consisted of 25-member organizations, but today—with a global membership of more than 2500 organizations—the Coalition has become a major actor in the global fight to end impunity. Coalition members represent vast geographic and thematic interests, including human rights, women's issues, children's rights, peace, international law, humanitarian assistance, the rights of victims, faith-based issues, and disarmament.

Regional and national networks
The Coalition for the ICC has established strong national and regional networks all over the world. The CICC national coalitions and regional networks typically comprise a diverse range of civil society groups working within a single country or region, including NGOs, academics, lawyers, and bar associations. Through these networks, strategic plans to achieve the goals of this campaign, in particular ratification and implementation of the Rome Statute, and widespread education about the court and the statute, are developed and carried out.

By 2009, there were 14 national coalitions in Asia and the Pacific, 14 in Europe, 21 in Africa, 11 in the Middle East and North Africa, and nine in Latin America, for a total of 69 national coalitions advocating for the ICC.