[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Jean Lee (murderer)

obtaining the tickets they asked the taxi-driver where they could go to drink beer and were taken to the Copacabana nightclub in Collins-street, arriving there at about midnight.  Lee later gave evidence that they "stayed there until I was the worse for drink and was asked to leave".

Murder charges

When detectives arrived at the scene of 'Pop' Kent's murder they immediately set about the task of assessing the situation, interviewing witnesses and searching for evidence to identify the perpetrators of the crime.  With descriptions of the woman and two men obtained from the boarding-house occupants and other residents of Dorrit-street, as well as staff of the University Hotel, detectives began a systematic check of hotels in the inner-city district, interviewing desk-clerks and night porters in the early hours of the morning.  At about 3.40 a.m. detectives entered the Great Southern private hotel near the Spencer-street railway station.  Upon hearing descriptions of the three suspects, the night porter told the police about three guests who had taken rooms the previous day, a Mr. and Mrs. Lee in a double room and a Mr. Andrews in a single room.  The three had arrived back at the hotel the previous evening for a few hours, but then called a taxi and gone out again.  With the strong belief these were the three suspects, detectives used the room keys to search the rooms.  In the double room they found a blood-stained blue coat and skirt and a man's shirt with blood-stains on the cuff.  In the single room was another blood-spotted shirt hanging over a chair.  The detectives then settled down to wait in the hotel lobby.  At about 4.20 a.m. Lee and her two companions arrived back at the Great Southern in an inebriated state and were apprehended by the waiting detectives.  They were conveyed to Russell Street headquarters in separate cars and put into three different interview rooms for questioning.

At the beginning of the questioning Lee refused to answer any questions (as she was entitled to do), and despite further questioning, Lee maintained her resistance.  When detectives showed and read to Lee a statement made by Clayton, implicating her and Andrews in the murder, she "became unbalanced emotionally" and said "that if her lover wanted it that way, he could have it".  She then made a statement "exculpating him, and accepting the whole blame for Kent's murder", stating she had bashed the old man over the head with a bottle.  Afterwards she "recovered her original possession, and resumed her reticent attitude", denying any wrongdoing, and claiming she had made the statement to "get peace and quiet".
 
Andrews, Clayton and Lee were charged with Kent's murder and remanded in custody.  An inquest into Kent's death was held at the Melbourne Coroner's Court on November 30.  During the presentation of evidence it was reported that on a number of occasions "the three defendants grinned at witnesses and joked among themselves".  At the conclusion of the inquest the City Coroner found that Kent had died from "asphyxsia, caused by compression and fracture of the larynx, wilfully, feloniously, and maliciously caused by Jean Lee, 29, Robert David Clayton, 28, and Norman Andrews, 35, all of Woollahra, Sydney".  The Coroner committed the three prisoners for trial.  On December 14 the counsel for the defence successfully applied for an adjournment of the trial until February as the three accused "required time to raise funds and arrange other matters for their defence".

Trials