[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Judiciary of Greece

to the jurisdiction of the Administrative Courts (of First Instance and of Appeal), while all the other administrative acts are appealed against with the legal remedy of the writ of annulment and they belong to the jurisdiction either of the Council of State or of the Administrative Court of Appeal.

The control of these acts has to do with matters of legality, namely whether they are issued in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. At second and final instance, the Council of State is always competent to judge these acts. The decisions of all the administrative courts may be appealed against with a writ of certiorari, which is judged by the Council of State.

The Chamber of Accounts is also a supreme administrative court, whose jurisdiction is limited in certain particular areas (e.g., disputes between the state and the civil servants concerning their pensions). Its decisions are irrevocable and out of the control of the Council of State.

The constitutional control of laws

According to the Greek judicial system every court is competent to judge the conformity, or lack thereof, of a legal provision with the Constitution. This judicial right constitutes the so-called "diffused" control of constitutionality, which is opposed to the "concentrated" control. The latter exists in most European countries, which have a Supreme Constitutional Court, such as Italy, Germany or even France, which has a Constitutional Council. Since there is no such court in Greece, all courts are deemed competent to decide upon the constitutionality of a legal provision.

The Supreme Special Court

The Supreme Special Court is not a "regular" and "permanent" court, namely it sits only when a case belonging to its jurisdiction arises. It dates back to 1927 when it was established after the Czechoslovak model. Its role is: 
 to resolve disputes between the Supreme Courts or between the courts and the administration
 to take an irrevocable decision, when contradictory decisions of the Supreme Courts, concerning the true meaning or the constitutionality of a legal provision, are issued
 to judge the pleas against the validity of the result of the legislative elections
Consequently, it is the only court that can declare an unconstitutional legal provision "powerless" (not "null and void") and expel it from the Greek legal system, while the Supreme Courts can only declare it as "inapplicable" for the particular case. The decisions of the Supreme Special Court are binding for all courts, including the Supreme Courts.

Proposed Supreme Constitutional Court

At the outset of 2006, the prime minister of Greece, Kostas Karamanlis, included within the plans of the scheduled constitutional amendment the foundation of a Supreme Constitutional Court, which would take the jurisdiction of the Supreme Special Court. A supporter of the proposition had been the Minister for the Environment, Physical Planning and Public Works Georgios Souflias. However, shortly after the prime minister's announcement, an ardent debate broke out about the necessity of a Constitutional Court.

The government thus became ambivalent and, since any proposition never got a final form, it is not clear yet whether it entailed the concentration of the constitutional control to the Supreme Constitutional Court, replacing the present "diffused control" model of distributed legal liability of the courts, or would take a jurisdiction similar of the existing Supreme Special Court, consisting in the resolution of contradictions and disputes between the three Supreme Courts.

EU Law and the Constitution
The Court of Justice of the European Communities considers the law of the EU superior to the national laws, including the national constitutions. This, however, applies where the European Council has expressly legislated in particular areas, this being where treaty provisions provide for secondary legislation in furtherance of the former. The Greek courts and, especially, the Council of State have avoided expressing themselves about the superiority of the Constitution or EU law.

In 2001, a new provision was added to the Constitution, according to which the owners of private mass media are not allowed to participate in public procurements. Both major parties, New Democracy (ND) and Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK), agreed to this provision, aiming, according to those who proposed it, at promoting transparency. In 2005, Parliament passed a law, materialising the constitutional provision.