[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Koreans in Mexico

nd 6,028 South Korean citizens lived in Mexico. A plurality but not a majority of each of those groups (258 and 2,261) lived in Mexico City. By migration status, 317 of the North Koreans and 2,970 of the South Koreans were non-immigrants. Each group had a sex ratio somewhat imbalanced towards males.

Other sources also report a wide variety of population estimates. A September 2013 article in The New York Times, citing officials at the Korean Cultural Center, Mexico City, stated that "at least 12,000 Koreans now call Mexico home". The article stated that in 2010 the Korean population in Mexico was ten times as large as the said population in 2000. In contrast, a 2008 report from the Los Angeles Times claimed that the descendants of early henequen plantation laborers alone might number as many as thirty thousand.

Centers of Korean population
Mexico City's Zona Rosa district has a Koreatown known as Pequeño Seúl (Little Seoul), filled with businesses established by the new migrants. There, many Korean restaurants can be found as well as hair salons, bakeries, and daycare centers. In the 1990s, others also set up shop in Tepito. Other districts in Mexico City where Koreans live include Colonia Juárez, Santa Fe, Interlomas, Polanco and Anzures.

Other centers of Korean population include:
Yucatán, where there can be found descendants of Korean immigrants to the henequen plantations in the late 19th and early 20th century
Tijuana in Baja California where for example the Chuseok Harvest Festival is celebrated
In the north-central states of Jalisco, Colima, Aguascalientes, and Nayarit, a community of about a thousand Koreans; within Jalisco, Koreans are concentrated in Guadalajara and Zapopan. The University of Nayarit offers Korean language course and a degree in Korean studies, the only one in Latin America.
Monterrey Metropolitan area's suburb city, (Huinalá, Apodaca) has a new Koreatown filled with businesses in Korean and Spanish.
Juriquilla, Querétaro, north of Querétaro City, where a Korean community has established itself in the area for foreign investment, like the Samsung plant located at the Parque Industrial Juriquilla, north of Querétaro City.
Pesquería, Nuevo León is a town in the north of Mexico where Kia motors opened a plant. 6,000 Koreans arrived the area. Billboards in Korean and Spanish text abound in the city, as well as Korean businesses.

Culture

Language and education

Henequen plantation workers, initially seeing Mexico solely as a place of sojourn rather than of settlement, initially made little effort to learn neither Spanish nor the local indigenous languages. However, as their stay in the country became permanent, they slowly began to abandon the Korean language, and their descendants speak only Spanish. In contrast, more recent migrants retain Korean as their dominant language. A 2006 survey of 160 Korean migrants in Mexico City, both those from South Korea and those from other Korean diaspora populations of the Americas, found that 92% used Korean as the language of communication with their families; 6% used both Korean and Spanish, and only the remaining 2% used Spanish exclusively or English as well. With regards to their command of Spanish, 21% stated that they could understand newspapers, 52% stated that they could hold simple conversations, and the remaining 27% stated that they could only make simple greetings or had no command of the language.

The Korean community has one weekend school aimed at preserving knowledge of the Korean language among heritage speakers: the Escuela Coreana en México, located in Mexico City. For two decades from the 1990s up until 2010 it occupied a variety of rented facilities, but that year it was able to acquire its own premises thanks to US$850,000 donations by companies and other benefactors to the Asociación de Residentes Coreanos en México. It is currently located in Zona Rosa.

The Korean-language paper newspaper Hanin Diario () has been published in Mexico City since the 1990s.

Religion
Early Korean migrants to Mexico included a few Christians whose emigration was motivated by the desire to find a place to freely practice their religion. Among more recent arrivals, both Christians and Buddhists are present. The former planted many churches in the 1990s, while the latter established two temples in the 2000s.

Branches of the World Mission Society Church of God, a South Korea-based church, are present in Estado de México, Morelos, Puebla, Nuevo León, Jalisco, with the Mexican headquarters in Tacuba, Mexico City.

Other organisations

The Korean Association in Mexico (, ) organizes concerts, protests at the North Korean embassy, and other activities.

In Polanco, Mexico City, there is a Korean cultural center, Korean Cultural Center, Mexico City, with activities both artistic (exhibitions, traditional music concerts, folk art shows) and academic (language and Korean history courses).