[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Factions in the Democratic Party (United States)

d Stacey Abrams. Four progressive women of color all under age 50 first elected to the House in 2018 became prominently known as The Squad. The Squad became loosely organized though not as a traditional caucus, and went on to add several women and men first elected to the House in subsequent cycles.

In 2016, the Blue Collar Caucus, a pro-labor, anti-outsourcing Caucus was formed, with significant overlap in members with the Progressive Caucus, although some moderates such as Cheri Bustos are members as well. , there are nine democratic socialists in the United States Congress, with seven being at some point affiliated with the Democratic Socialists of America: Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Representative Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Jamaal Bowman of New York, Representative Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, Representative Cori Bush of Missouri, Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Representative Summer Lee of Pennsylvania, and Representative Greg Casar of Texas. All self-described democratic socialists in Congress are members of the Democratic Party, except for Senator Sanders, who was a member of the party for his 2016 and 2020 presidential campaigns but caucuses with the Senate Democrats as an Independent.

Conservatives 

A conservative Democrat is a member of the Democratic Party with conservative political views, or with views relatively conservative with respect to those of the national party. While such members of the Democratic Party can be found throughout the nation, actual elected officials are disproportionately found within rural regions of the United States, more commonly in the South and the West. Historically, Southern Democrats were generally much more ideologically conservative than conservative Democrats are now.

The conservative coalition was an unofficial coalition in the United States Congress bringing together a conservative majority of the Republican Party and the conservative, mostly Southern wing of the Democratic Party. It was dominant in Congress from 1937 to 1963 and remained a political force until the mid-1980s, eventually dying out in the 1990s. In terms of Congressional roll call votes, it primarily appeared on votes affecting labor unions. The conservative coalition did not operate on civil rights bills, for the two wings had opposing viewpoints. 

However, the coalition did have the power to prevent unwanted bills from even coming to a vote. The coalition included many committee chairmen from the South who blocked bills by not reporting them from their committees. Furthermore, Howard W. Smith, Chairman of the House Rules Committee, often could kill a bill simply by not reporting it out with a favorable rule (he lost some of that power in 1961).

The Blue Dog Coalition was originally founded as a group of conservative Democrats. After reaching a peak of 59 members in 2008, the caucus was reduced following the 2010 election to only 26 members. The caucus has adopted more liberal stances on social issues in recent years. The Coalition remains the most conservative grouping of Democrats in the house, broadly adopting socially liberal and fiscally conservative policies and promoting fiscal restraint, although some members retain socially conservative views. As of July 2023, 10 House members are part of the Blue Dog Coalition.

Historical factions 
Historical factions of the Democratic Party include the founding Jacksonians; the Copperheads and War Democrats during the American Civil War; the Redeemers, Bourbon Democrats, and Silverites in the late-19th century; and the Southern Democrats and New Deal Democrats in the 20th century.

Early Democratic Party 
Jeffersonians, named after founding father Thomas Jefferson, was a political movement in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. While it dominated the first party system which predates the Democratic Party, many of its beliefs influenced the party throughout the 19th century. These beliefs were concentrated around the beliefs of republicanism and agrarianism. Other than Jefferson, early notable Jeffersonians included presidents James Madison and James Monroe of the Virginia dynasty.