[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Decoupling capacitor

ge, the switching event has finished, so that the load can draw full current at normal voltage from the power supply and the capacitor can recharge. The best way to reduce switching noise is to design a PCB as a giant capacitor by sandwiching the power and ground planes across a dielectric material.

Sometimes parallel combinations of capacitors are used to improve response. This is because real capacitors have parasitic inductance, which causes the impedance to deviate from that of an ideal capacitor at higher frequencies.

Transient load decoupling
Transient load decoupling as described above is needed when there is a large load that gets switched quickly. The parasitic inductance in every (decoupling) capacitor may limit the suitable capacity and influence appropriate type if switching occurs very fast.

Logic circuits tend to do sudden switching (an ideal logic circuit would switch from low voltage to high voltage instantaneously, with no middle voltage ever observable). So logic circuit boards often have a decoupling capacitor close to each logic IC connected from each power supply connection to a nearby ground. These capacitors decouple every IC from every other IC in terms of supply voltage dips. 

These capacitors are often placed at each power source as well as at each analog component in order to ensure that the supplies are as steady as possible. Otherwise, an analog component with poor power supply rejection ratio (PSRR) will copy fluctuations in the power supply onto its output. 

In these applications, the decoupling capacitors are often called bypass capacitors to indicate that they provide an alternate path for high-frequency signals that would otherwise cause the normally steady supply voltage to change. Those components that require quick injections of current can bypass'' the power supply by receiving the current from the nearby capacitor. Hence, the slower power supply connection is used to charge these capacitors, and the capacitors actually provide the large quantities of high-availability current.

Placement
A transient load decoupling capacitor is placed as close as possible to the device requiring the decoupled signal. This minimizes the amount of line inductance and series resistance between the decoupling capacitor and the device. The longer the conductor between the capacitor and the device, the more inductance is present.

Since capacitors differ in their high-frequency characteristics, decoupling ideally involves the use of a combination of capacitors.  For example in logic circuits, a common arrangement is ~100 nF ceramic per logic IC (multiple ones for complex ICs), combined with electrolytic or tantalum capacitor(s) up to a few hundred μF per board or board section.

Example uses
These photos show old printed circuit boards with through-hole capacitors, where as modern boards typically have tiny surface-mount capacitors.

See also
 Ceramic capacitor
 Equivalent series inductance
 Equivalent series resistance
 Film capacitor
 E-series of preferred numbers

References

External links
 Choosing and Using Bypass Capacitors – application note from Intersil
 Decoupling – decoupling guide for various frequencies by Henry W. Ott
 Power Supply Noise Reduction – how to design effective supply bypassing and decoupling networks by Ken Kundert
 ESR and Bypass Capacitor Self Resonant Behavior: How to Select Bypass Caps – article written by Douglas Brooks
 Circuit Board Decoupling Information – decoupling guidelines for various types of circuit boards
 Basic Principles of Signal Integrity – Altera whitepaper
 Bypass Capacitors, an Interview With Todd Hubing – by Douglas Brooks

Capacitors