[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Saint Clare Parish

Saint Clare Parish is a parish in the Roman Catholic Diocese of San Jose in California. It is located in Santa Clara, California.

The parish community of St. Clare originated from the Mission Santa Clara de Asís and can trace its history to Jan 12, 1777, when Fathers Tomas de la Pena and Jose Antonio de Murguia celebrated Mass on the west bank of Santa Clara's Guadalupe River.

St. Clare Parish was built to take over the parochial functions of the Mission Santa Clara de Asís after it burned in 1925.  The parish was built later that same year one block west of the Mission on Lexington Street.  

Archbishiop Edward Hanna constituted the mission for non-parochial services for college students and the parochial powers of the church pass to St. Clare's Church built by Father George Bulter.  

Father Bulter ordered a statue of the Blessed Mother from Rome. It was dedicated along with the church in a ceremony where parishioners gathered in front of the Mission and carried the statue in a procession across the street to the new St Clare church on August 15, 1926 (four days after the feast day of St. Clare).

The Mission was rebuilt in 1928 and is now used as the chapel for the Santa Clara University.

The parish also assumed control of the Saint Clare School located next door and founded in 1856.

St. Clare's church celebrated its 200th anniversary on Sunday, April 17, 1977 with a 12:15 PM mass officiated by Archbishop Joseph McGucken and a reception dinner and dancing at Santa Clara's Benson Center.

Santa Clara City Historical and Landmarks Commission plaque outside the steps of St. Clare Parish contains the following text:

"Point of historical interest.  St. Clare's Parish.  St. Clare's Catholic Parish founded by the Franciscans under Father Tomas De La Pena, in 1777.  Parish came under the guidance of the Jesuit Fathers in 1851.  Plaque marks the sixth site of parish church.  1777-1977.  Placed by the order of the Santa Clara City Council by the Historical and Landmarks Commission."

See also

 Roman Catholic Diocese of San Jose in California

References

External links
 Saint Clare Parish
 Saint Clare School oldest elementary school in Silicon Valley.
 A history of the Catholic Church in America

Roman Catholic Diocese of San Jose in California
Roman Catholic parishes in the United States