[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chemogenomics

-based approaches that have been applied in drug discovery and molecular pharmacology over the past decade.  This strategy is now enhanced by parallel screening and by the ability to perform lead optimization on many targets that belong to one target family.

Applications

Determining mode of action

Chemogenomics has been used to identify mode of action (MOA) for traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) and Ayurveda. Compounds contained in traditional medicines are usually more soluble than synthetic compounds, have “privileged structures” (chemical structures that are more frequently found to bind in different living organisms), and have more comprehensively known safety and tolerance factors.  Therefore, this makes them especially attractive as a resource for lead structures in when developing new molecular entities.  Databases containing chemical structures of compounds used in alternative medicine along with their phenotypic effects, in silico analysis may be of use to assist in determining MOA for example, by predicting ligand targets that were relevant to known phenotypes for traditional medicines. In a case study for TCM, the therapeutic class of ‘toning and replenishing medicine” was evaluated.  Therapeutic actions (or phenotypes) for that class include anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, neuroprotective, hypoglycemic activity, immunomodulatory, antimetastatic, and hypotensive.  Sodium-glucose transport proteins and PTP1B (an insulin signaling regulator) were identified as targets which link to the hypoglycemic phenotype suggested.  The case study for Ayurveda involved anti-cancer formulations.  In this case, the target prediction program enriched for targets directly connected to cancer progression such as steroid-5-alpha-reductase and synergistic targets like the efflux pump P-gp.  These target-phenotype links can help identify novel MOAs.

Beyond TCM and Ayurveda, chemogenomics can be applied early in drug discovery to determine a compound's mechanism of action and take advantage of genomic biomarkers of toxicity and efficacy for application to Phase I and II clinical trials.

Identifying new drug targets 

Chemogenomics profiling can be used to identify totally new therapeutic targets, for example new antibacterial agents.  The study capitalized on the availability of an existing ligand library for an enzyme called murD that is used in the peptidoglycan synthesis pathway.   Relying on the chemogenomics similarity principle, the researchers mapped the murD ligand library to other members of the mur ligase family (murC, murE, murF, murA, and murG) to identify new targets for the known ligands.   Ligands identified would be expected to be broad-spectrum Gram-negative inhibitors in experimental assays since peptidoglycan synthesis is exclusive to bacteria.  Structural and molecular docking studies revealed candidate ligands for murC and murE ligases.

Identifying genes in biological pathway 

Thirty years after the posttranslationally modified  histidine derivative diphthamide was determined, chemogenomics was used to discover the enzyme responsible for the final step in its synthesis.  Dipthamide is a posttranslationally modified histidine residue found on the translation elongation factor 2 (eEF-2).   The first two steps of the biosynthesis pathway leading to dipthine have been known, but the enzyme responsible for the amidation of dipthine to diphthamide remained a mystery.  The researchers capitalized on Saccharomyces cerevisiae cofitness data. Cofitness data is data representing the similarity of growth fitness under various conditions between any two different deletion strains. Under the assumption that strains lacking the diphthamide synthetase gene should have high cofitness with strain lacking other diphthamide biosynthesis genes,  they identified ylr143w as the strain with the highest cofitness to the all other strains lacking known diphthamide biosynthesis genes.  Subsequent experimental assays confirmed that YLR143W was required for diphthamide synthesis and was the missing diphthamide synthetase.

See also 
 Chemical biology
 Chemical genetics
 Drug discovery
 High-throughput screening
 Personalized medicine
 Phenotypic screening

References

Further reading

External links 
GLASS: A comprehensive database for experimentally-validated GPCR-ligand associations
Kubinyi's slides

Computational chemistry
Genomics
Drug discovery
Pharmaceutical industry
Cheminformatics