[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Jean Lee (murderer)

e worst type of criminal".  He regularly frequented nightclubs, billiard saloons and two-up schools and was a heavy drinker.  On 18 October 1949 Anthes, by now calling himself Norman Andrews, flew to Melbourne and a week later met up with Clayton and Lee at the Werribee Cup race meeting.

The victim

 William George Kent – born on 23 October 1874 at Moonambel, Victoria, the eldest child of William Kent and Caroline (née Spencer).  As a young man Kent was a jockey in the Wimmera district of western Victoria.  On one occasion in about 1892 he rode the winners in the hurdle, handicap and trial stakes at a race meeting at Warracknabeal.  His brother, Jack Kent, was a successful jockey at metropolitan race meetings and was killed in a fall during a race in Perth on New Year's Day 1908.  After his riding days had finished William Kent remained a keen racing enthusiast and owned racehorses.  Kent and Florence Anderson were married in 1903 at Bendigo and had nine children born between 1904 and 1920.  Kent and his family lived at various localities in the Western and Wimmera districts of Victoria.  In about the mid-1920s he was the licensee of the Hopetoun House Hotel at Jeparit.  Kent was the proprietor of Mac's Royal Mail Hotel at Warracknabeal from January 1927 until late 1928, after which he and his family relocated to Melbourne.  By about 1944 Kent was living apart from his wife and operating a boarding-house ('Mallow House') at 50 Dorrit-street, Carlton.  Kent also conducted an illicit business as starting-price (SP) bookmaker at the nearby University Hotel, where he drank regularly, especially on Mondays to settle up bets after the weekend races.  Kent, known locally as 'Pop', was murdered by Lee, Clayton and Andrews on 7 November 1949 in his room at Carlton.  Kent was buried in Melbourne General Cemetery in Carlton on November 9. His estate was valued for probate purposes at £274.6s.5p, of which £100 was the goodwill from his boarding-house business.  Kent's widow, Florence, died in 1970 at Bendigo, Victoria, aged 90 years.

In popular culture

In 1998, a verse novel by Jordie Albiston of Jean Lee's life, The Hanging of Jean Lee, was published.

Albiston's verse novel became the basis of a musical, The Hanging of Jean Lee, with a score written by Australian composer Andree Greenwell.  The musical played at Sydney Opera House in 2006 featuring singers Max Sharam and Hugo Race.

Lee's life and crimes was the subject of a 2007 album by Australian rock musician Ed Kuepper, Jean Lee and the Yellow Dog.

The ghost of Jean Lee, portrayed by Max Sharam, appears in the 2020 docudrama A Miscarriage of Justice, based on the hanging of Ronald Ryan.

Jean Lee was featured in an episode entitled "Match Made For Murder" in Season 5 of the true crime television series Deadly Women, first aired in January 2012.  In the re-enactment, Jean is portrayed by Australian actress and director Kate Ryerson. Robert Clayton was portrayed by Paul Godfrey, and William 'Pop' Kent is played by Stephen Bourke.

Notes
A.

References

Sources
 Paul Wilson, Don Treble and Robyn Lincoln (1997), Jean Lee: the Last Woman Hanged in Australia, Milsons Point, NSW: Random House Australia, .

Further reading
 Waterkeyn, Xavier, Death Row: Profile of People Who Face the Ultimate Penalty, 2006, New Holland Publishers, Australia.

External links
The Hanging of Jean Lee - ABC Radio National Poetica's sound version of Andrée Greenwell's composed work in full, with libretto by Jordie Albiston

1919 births
1951 deaths
20th-century executions by Australia
20th-century Australian women
Australian female murderers
Australian people convicted of murder
Executed Australian women
People convicted of murder by Victoria (state)
People executed by Victoria (state)
People executed by Australia by hanging
People executed for murder
People from Dubbo
People convicted of torture