[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Near East Side (Columbus, Ohio)

he Near East area features over 1,000 unique homes with at least 50 different architectural styles. The Bryden Road and Broad Street corridors were once home to some of the wealthiest citizens with the most decadent homes, influenced by Queen Ane, Italianette, French, German, and Renaissance styles.

East High School – located on E Broad St, built 1922. Landmark status. Important to African American communities in Columbus. Famous Ohio State footballer Chic Harley graduated from here.
Spring Street YMCA / Ward Home and Storage Facilities. – founded 1919. One of the first to specifically serve the black community. The E.E. Ward Moving Company is the oldest African American owned and operated business, still operating today, in the country.
Lincoln Theatre – located on Long Street, opened in 1929 by Al Jackson.
Macon Hotel – located in the Bronzeville area, serves as a cultural landmark of the 1930s jazz club scene of the Near East side. Its prominence declined after the construction of I-70, when it was cut off from the rest of the neighborhood.
Ohio School for the Blind – originally downtown, Columbus was home of "...the first publicly supported school for the blind in the United States." A second building was constructed at Parsons and Main St. It currently serves as the Columbus Department of Health building.
Poindexter Village / "Blackberry Patch" - originally an area for African Americans to settle after arriving from the Great Migration. It was a shanty town filled with homes constructed from pieces of scrap wood. In 1941 President Roosevelt dedicated the nation's first public housing complex, Poindexter Village.
Pythian Temple and James Pythian Theater - located on Mt. Vernon Avenue and now existing as a portion of The King Arts Complex since 1987 along with the former Garfield Elementary School. The theater was erected by the Pythian Temple Society and opened on January 10, 1926. The architect, Samuel Plato, was a pioneer as one of the first African-American architects to have designed structure built in Columbus. The building is of Colonial Revival style and was added to the National Register of Historic Places on November 25, 1983. 
Urban Cultural Arts Foundation – established 1978, and is the oldest Black-owned gallery in Columbus.

Parks
Twelve parks, covering 165 acres, are within the Near East Area.

Academy Park
Located on South Nelson Rd and adjacent to Wolf Park, Academy Park features for-lease baseball diamonds, soccer fields, basketball courts, a trail head, open green space, and Clowson Field. An indoor recreation center is located in the northern area of the park, which provides space for indoor athletic activities.

Beatty Park
Located on North Ohio Ave, Beatty Park features an indoor recreation center, outdoor playground equipment, basketball courts, well-lit tennis courts, and green space for family friendly activities.

Blackburn Park
Located on Carpenter Street, this park features a sprayground, basketball courts, green space, tennis courts, playground equipment, an indoor recreation center, and picnic space for families.

English Park/Kwanzaa Playground
English Park was so named as it was the site of the home of the English family, and is now home to the Kwanzaa Playground that was developed in 1995 as a joint effort between the community and the City of Columbus. Seven local artists and sculptors contributed the design and construction. The park has a human-like shape representing mankind's first ancestor. The playground underwent renovation by the Columbus Division of Parks and Recreation at a cost exceeding $300,000. The park focuses on positive African-American imagery to embrace the concept that "It takes a whole village to raise a child."

Franklin Park Conservatory

The Franklin Park Conservatory is a botanical garden and conservatory located in Columbus, Ohio. It is open daily and an admission fee is charged. Originally built in 1895, the Conservatory is on the National Register of Historic Places. Today, it is a horticultural and educational institution showcasing exotic plant collections, special exhibitions, and Dale Chihuly artworks.

Hanford Village Park
Located on Alum Creek Drive, this small community park features basketball courts, a playground, and picnic and green space for family friendly activities.

Linwood Park
Located on Linwood Ave, this park is a "pocket park" which features a paved path and benches. The park is maintained by the community.

"Pumphouse" Park
Located on E Main St, this park was formerly named Main-Alum Park. This park is the site of a water pumping station for Columbus, and is maintained by Bexley. It is also the former site of the Norwood Amusement Park. The park features open-air shelters, greenway trail access, and athletic fields/green space for family friendly activities.