[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Virginia National Guard

The Virginia National Guard consists of the Virginia Army National Guard and the Virginia Air National Guard. It is part of the Government of Virginia though the National Guard across the United States is mostly funded by the federal government. The National Guard is the only United States military force empowered to function in a state status. Those functions range from limited actions during non-emergency situations to full scale law enforcement of martial law when local law enforcement officials can no longer maintain civil control.
The National Guard may be called into federal service in response to a call by the President or Congress, in accordance with Title 10 of the United States Code.

Many states also maintain their own military forces. These forces are federally recognized, but are separate from the United States National Guard Bureau and are not meant to be federalized, but rather service the state exclusively, especially when the National Guard is deployed and unavailable. The Virginia Defense Force is the commonwealth's own all-volunteer, formal military organization that is the reserve to the Virginia National Guard.

History 
The Virginia National Guard traces the history and tradition of Citizen-Soldier service to the founding of Jamestown in 1607, and it boasts that there has been a military presence defending Virginia ever since. According to the Virginia National Guard, its history is divided into multiple eras typically defined by America's wars against foreign powers. During Virginia's colonial era (1607–1774), many Virginians served in the militia formed to protect the various towns and counties. In 1644 free-black colonists (mostly former slaves) were also allowed to enlist in the militia. Today the 276th Engineer Battalion carries the oldest continuous lineage from that period. During the French and Indian War (1755–1763) George Washington, served as a Lieutenant Colonel of the Virginia Regiment.

With the beginning of the American Revolution in 1775, most of the Virginia militia volunteered to fight the British. George Washington was appointed as the commander of the Continental Army and other Virginians soon became well-known military leaders: Daniel Morgan, George Rogers Clark, Hugh Mercer, and “Light Horse” Harry Lee. Four men who served in the Virginia Militia would later become President: George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and James Monroe.

The War of 1812 and War with Mexico: Once again Virginia supplied men and arms to defend the country and the state. The Virginia Military Institute (VMI) was established in 1839. During the 1854 War with Mexico, Virginia provided a Regiment of Volunteers to serve with the US Army.

The Civil War (1861–1865) and Spanish–American War (1898–1899): Virginia joined the Confederacy on 17 April 1861. The most famous Virginia Guardsman of the war was Thomas Jackson. From his brigade's performance at the Battle of Manassas the title of "Stonewall Brigade" was awarded to the Virginia Militia and still used today for the 116th Infantry. Robert E. Lee surrendered the Army of Northern Virginia at Appomattox Court House on 9 April 1865. After the Civil War the country and state were at peace until the Spanish–American War. Virginia provided regiments of militia including, for the first time, a regiment of African American militia. After the wars, Virginia militiamen served in state duty for riot control and law enforcement.

The Birth of the Modern National Guard (1903–1916): During the Spanish American War many problems in the existing State Militia system became obvious to all. In 1903 Congress enacted the first of several laws changing how the volunteer system would function. Among the provisions was a mandate that Guardsmen had to drill a minimum of 48 periods a year along with 15 days of "annual training." Enlisted men were now issued standard army uniforms and were trained to Army standards. As a requirement of the law the "Virginia Volunteers" designation was changed to "Virginia National Guard."

The Mexican Border Campaign: In 1916 Mexican bandits raided Columbus, N.M., and then fled back over the border. President Woodrow Wilson ordered the Army to pursue them into Mexico and later mobilized 100,000 National Guardsmen to patrol and protect the border against further raids. From Virginia came two infantry regiments, a battalion of field artillery, one cavalry squadron and companies of engineers and signal troops, for a total of 4,000 men. In early 1917 the Virginia units returned home after serving six months on the border.