[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# On the Day Before

House dinner, someone told him that on Yom Kippur Jews ask God for forgiveness, but "on the day before" Yom Kippur, called Erev Yom Kippur, Jews ask forgiveness from one another. The president remarks that "you can't ask forgiveness of God until you've asked forgiveness of people on the day before."

In a reference to the Palestinian leadership, Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization Yasser Arafat is mentioned by name. Even though foreign dignitaries were normally fictional on the show, producer Aaron Sorkin said it felt right to call the Chairman by his real name "'cause Arafat's been around forever and he'll be around forever". In a later episode, however ("Gaza" in season five), the name of the Chairman of the Palestinian Authority was changed to Nizar Farad, a fictional character. By that point in mid-2004, Arafat was in failing health in real life, and would die in November 2004. The show continued to use the Farad character and never made any references to Arafat's successor Mahmoud Abbas.

When the president vetoes the bill, it is said that this is Bartlet's first veto. In a previous episode, "In This White House" as Sam debates Ainsley Hayes for the first time, it is made clear that the president has in fact previously vetoed a bill. It has been suggested, however, that what was discussed on that occasion was a pocket veto.

At one point in the episode, Josh quotes an interview with one of Buckland's aides in what he calls the Indianapolis Post-Dispatch. No such newspaper exists. The show chose to combine the names of two different newspapers: the Indianapolis Star, and the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.

Reception
It was for this episode, along with "War Crimes", that Janel Moloney was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series in 2002. In this category she was up against two of her co-stars: Mary-Louise Parker and Stockard Channing, who went on to win the award. Deborah of Television Without Pity gave the episode a grade of "A".

References

External links
"On the Day Before" at The West Wing Episode Guide
"On the Day Before" at The West Wing Continuity Guide

The West Wing (season 3) episodes
2001 American television episodes
Television episodes directed by Christopher Misiano
Television episodes written by Aaron Sorkin