[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Izzie Stevens

as the character, Alex informs Meredith that Izzie sent divorce papers. He signs them another two episodes later in the season 6 episode "How Insensitive". In the sixth-season finale, Alex is shot and asks for Izzie. Imagining that Lexie is Izzie, he apologizes and asks her never to leave him again.

In the season 12 episode "I Choose You", Alex's later-second wife (Camilla Luddington) finds an invoice from the fertility clinic that housed Izzie and Alex's fertilized embryos from when she had cancer and ponders the possibility that he has children with Izzie. In the season 12 finale "Family Affair", Alex goes through a relationship break-up ponders if you can only get one soulmate, referring to Izzie. The season 14 episode, "Who Lives, Who Dies, Who Tells Your Story" serves as the 300th episode which sees Alex affected by the appearance of an Izzie doppelganger named Liza (Eryn Rea) who repeats a common Izzie catchphrase "Seriously?". He subsequently reveals to his soon-wife Jo—who urges him to call Izzie—that he never found out what happened to his ex-wife. He prefers to envision his own fantasy of a perfect life for her, married with three children and always smiling, now that he has moved on and is happy with his new partner. In the season 16 episode "Leave a Light On", it is revealed that Izzie reconciled with her ex-husband ten years after their divorce. Izzie is discovered to be a surgical oncologist living on a farm in Kansas raising 5-year-old twins named Alexis and Eli, who were born as a result of Izzie moving forward with IVF five to six years earlier. In the 400th episode "You Are the Blood", Meredith imagines Izzie several times in snippets of her fragmented memories of the hospital as she reflects on her story in reverse upon being named chief of surgery.

Development

Casting and creation

Izzie was created by Grey's Anatomy producer Shonda Rhimes, with actress Katherine Heigl cast in the role. Heigl originally wanted to play Izzie as a brunette, but was requested to retain her natural blond for the part. For the audition process, she tried to appear smart by wearing a sweater and glasses and putting her hair up in a bun. She even considered dying her hair brunette to "trick" Rhimes and Horton into thinking she could play a doctor. 

Peter Horton stated that while they considered other actresses, "Katie came in and just ... obliterated it." He also noted the difficulty in finding an actress both beautiful and someone "who can really act". Stacy McKee revealed that the reason they dropped Izzie as having worn glasses after the pilot episode was due to the "nightmare" of the glasses reflecting in the lighting when shooting scenes. Heigl's comprehension of medical procedures and terminology is slight; the actress explained that while she has an admiration for doctors, she is not as fascinated by medicine as other cast members. When Kate Walsh's character Addison Montgomery left Grey's Anatomy to launch the spin-off show Private Practice, Heigl disclosed that she had hoped for a spin-off for Izzie.

Heigl declined to put her name forward for a fourth season episode of Grey's Anatomy as consideration at the 60th Primetime Emmy Awards in 2008, claiming that she had been given insufficient material on the season to warrant a nomination. Following Heigl's statement, speculation arose that her character would suffer a brain tumor and be killed off Grey's Anatomy, substantiated by the announcement Jeffrey Dean Morgan would return to the series as Denny, who died at the end of season 2. ABC's entertainment president Steve McPherson denied the rumor, stating: "There is an unbelievable storyline for her this year, which is really central to everything that's going to go on this season". In 2010, Heigl clarified that she clarified she was not "snubbing the Emmys", calling her 2007 win the "highlight of [her] career" and regretted making the statement. She stated that she made it out of fear of a "No comment" answer making her sound uninterested in entering the race. Commenting further, she remarked: "I could have more gracefully said that without going into a private work matter. It was between me and the writers. I ambushed them, and it wasn’t very nice or fair."

Speculation resumed, however, when Dean Morgan returned to the show for a second time in its fifth season. Cast member James Pickens, Jr. announced that both Heigl and T. R. Knight were set to depart from the show, but he later retracted his comment. During the course of the fifth season, Izzie was diagnosed with Stage 4 metastatic melanoma which spread to her liver, skin and brain. Following the show's 100th episode wrap-up party, Heigl revealed she did not know if Izzie would survive, as no one on the production team would disclose her character's fate to her. It was confirmed in June 2009 that Heigl would return as Izzie for the show's sixth season. Heigl's appearances in the season were sporadic, seeing Izzie depart and return twice.