[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Nicolas Schöffer

e same space without physical or visual separation.

The plan was based on  the observation that the older generations would generally feel comfortable in quiet, cooler rooms with a dimmed, diffuse light, while young people prefer bright and warm rooms and are not bothered by deafeningly loud music.

The house with invisible partitions consisted of a round and a trapezoidal part, which were not separated from each other inside the house. Viewed from above, the floor plan resembled a keyhole. In the round part, the temperature was hot (35 °C - 40 °C) and it was very bright and noisy. The dominant hues were red and orange. In the trapezoidal part, on the other hand, the temperature was cool (18 °C - 20 °C) and the dominant colours were correspondingly cool blue tones. This part of the room was silent and the lights were dimmed. There was no visible physical separation between the two opposing spaces. A step through the boundary line between the two parts of the room led the visitor into a completely different atmosphere.

Many visitors suspected a scam until they understood how this magic worked. The trick was achieved in part by the special cladding of the walls and interior design. The thermally insulating and sound-absorbing properties of the cladding played an important role. Air circulation has been carefully planned and regulated by air conditioning. The heat in the round part of the room was donated by an infrared curtain, the effect of which could only be felt locally. The lighting was also planned and executed by Phillips. Blue fluorescent actinic lamps were used in the cool part of the room. The shape of the house was derived from acoustic considerations.

KYLDEX1 
Schöffer regularly participated in theater projects. CYSP1 appeared on stage several times.  Theater performances became increasingly complex culminating in cybernetic theater plays.  Schöffer designed the sets for theatrical performances and fashion shows. An example is a Paco Rabanne space age fashion show titled Light and Movement that took place with a stage set designed by Schöffer in 1967 in the Museum of Modern Art in Paris.

Cybernetics played a dual role in Schöffer's theatrical experiments. The stage was populated by robots, cybernetic towers, prisms and light effect boxes. On the other hand their operations were controlled according to cybernetic principles. The controls depended on an element of chance through the perceived light and sound effects.  During the theater play KYLDEX1 there was a cybernetic feedback and control loop between the publicum and the performance.

Schöffer's first collaboration with the Hamburg State Opera was the stage design of Gian Carlo Menotti's children's opera Help, Help, the Globolinks!. Thank to this collaboration he received a new commission for a solo theater performance applying the cybernetic principles of coupling and feedback. KYLDEX1 (KYbernetic and LuminoDynamic theater EXperiment) was presented in 1973 at the Hamburg State Opera on ten consecutive evenings.

The audience was drawn into the theatre play. The heartbeat of a dozen selected viewers was measured and used as input for the central brain. Each person in the audience received five color cards to vote. According to the decision of the majority, those present could influence the course of the spectacle. Viewers could request the sequence to be repeated, slow down or speed up the spectacle, stop the performance, and ask questions.

The spectacle was created by programming six parameter groups. The spatial parameters were partly represented by five 6.5 m high Chronos 8B-type sculptures and erotic sculptures made of inflatable plastic with a span of 2 to 4 m. The audio parameters were twofold: on the one hand, Pierre Henry's electronic concrete music, on the other hand, human voices corresponding to a word score. The parameter group human interventions consisted of dancers and a commentator. Other parameter groups were the lighting and projection screens. The sixth parameter group consisted of olfactory stimuli.

Schöffer Collection in Kalocsa 

Nicolas Schöffer moved to Paris in 1936. He returned to Hungary for the first time in 1976 and later often visited his native town Kalocsa.  In 1979 he donated to the city a collection of his works covering all of his creative periods. Next year a museum was opened in the house where he was born. A new building was added to the museum at the rear part of the garden on the grounds of the birth house.  In the new part temporary exhibitions were organized, the office moved in and an apartment was reserved for Schöffer on the second floor. Eléonore de Lavandeyra Schöffer donated a French library to the museum in 1994, which was also set up in the new building. Schöffer organized international conferences here.