[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arnold Kramish

ring what he knew".

Death
A resident of Reston, Virginia, Kramish died at age 87 on June 15, 2010, at George Washington University Hospital due to normal pressure hydrocephalus. He was survived by his wife, Vivian Raker, a daughter, a son, a sister, and four grandchildren.

References

Bibliography

 "Before bomb fell, two Americans paid ultimate price", The Rocky Mountain News, Sunday: August 6, 1995, at childrenofthemanhattanproject.org about the Philadelphia Naval Yard accident.
 Atomic energy in the Soviet Union
 The peaceful atom in foreign policy
 Atomic energy for your business: Today's key to tomorrow's profits,
 Europe's enigmatic gap
 The emergent genie  (The Rand Corporation.)
 Book review, Secrecy and the arms race: A theory of the accumulation of strategic weapons and how secrecy affects it  (Rand paper series)
 The Soviet atomic power program: Large or small?
 A freeze on nuclear testing: Of problematical significance?
 Research policies in international perspective: A time for reappraisal  (Rand)
 Research and development in the Common Market vis-a-vis the U.K., U.S., and U.S.S.R  (Rand Corp. )
 The non-proliferation treaty at the crossroads  (Institute for the Future. / IFF papers)
 Nuclear energy in the U.S.S.R
 The peaceful atom in retrospect and prospect
 The Soviet Union and the atom: Toward nuclear maturity  (Rand Corporation)
 Atlantic technological imbalance: An American perspective
 The Soviet Union and the atom: The "secret" phase  (Rand Corporation)
 The Chinese People's Republic and the bomb
 International registration of the atom  (P-1134)
 The nuclear motive: In the beginning  (Working papers / International Security Studies Program, Wilson Center)
 A reexamination of the nuclear proliferation problems presented by worldwide requirements for enriched fuel;: Relating the February 1965 options to today  (Rand Corporation)
 Book review, The structure and performance of the aerospace industry  (Rand paper series)
 Soviet atomic energy (Rand paper series)

External links
 https://www.rand.org/pubs/authors/k/kramish_arnold.html Rand Corporation reports by Kramish.
 Biography
 Manhattan project era letter

1923 births
2010 deaths
American nuclear physicists
Historians of espionage
Harvard University alumni
Jewish American scientists
Neurological disease deaths in Washington, D.C.
Writers from Denver
People from Reston, Virginia
Manhattan Project people
University of Denver alumni
People with hydrocephalus
20th-century American historians
Scientists from Virginia
21st-century American Jews