[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Blood in the Water match

a bleeding gash. Zádor left the pool; his bleeding was the final straw for a crowd already in frenzy.  Many angry spectators jumped onto the concourse beside the water, shook their fists, shouted abuse and spat at the Russians. To avoid a riot, police entered the arena and shepherded the crowd away.

Pictures of Zádor's injuries were published around the world, leading to the "Blood in the Water" moniker. Reports that the water in the pool turned red were, however, an exaggeration. Zádor said his only thought was whether he would be able to play the next match.

The referees stopped the match; Hungary was declared the winner since they had been leading.  Hungary then beat Yugoslavia 2–1 in the final to win their fourth Olympic gold medal. Zádor's injury forced him to miss the match. After the event was completed, he and some of his teammates defected to the West.

In film 
In 2006, for the 50th anniversary of the attempted Hungarian Revolution, the documentary Freedom's Fury, produced by Kristine Lacey and Thor Halvorssen, told the story of the match. Quentin Tarantino described it as "the best untold story ever".  The documentary was narrated by the Olympic swimmer Mark Spitz, who, as a teenager had been coached by Ervin Zádor.

Also in 2006, a feature film about the match was released, entitled Children of Glory (Hungarian title: Szabadság, szerelem, meaning "Freedom, love", after the lines of Sándor Petőfi, the martyred poet of the 1848–49 revolution). The movie shows the Hungarian Revolution through the eyes of a player on the water polo team and a young woman who is one of the student leaders. It was directed by Krisztina Goda, and produced by Andrew G. Vajna. The movie appeared in Hungarian cinemas on 23 October 2006, the 50th anniversary of the revolution. On 29 October 2006, it was shown at the White House for President George W. Bush and guests (including Hungarian-American figures such as George Pataki, Governor of New York, and George A. Olah, Nobel Prize winner).

The incident is also featured in the 1978 Australian film Newsfront.

References

External links 
 Article in Radio Free Europe
 Article in New York Times
 Website on Hungarian 1956 Olympic team
 Report of the match at Stoneridge water polo website. 
 Freedom's Fury website 
 Freedom's Fury trailer on YouTube

Water polo at the 1956 Summer Olympics
Water polo matches
History of water polo
Water polo in Hungary
Water polo in Russia
Olympic Games controversies
Brawls in team sports
December 1956 sports events in Australia
1956 in international relations
Hungarian Revolution of 1956
Hungary–Soviet Union relations
Politics and sports
Nicknamed sporting events