[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Louis Schanker

974,) at the Brooklyn Museum and a 1978 retrospective at the Associated American Artists. Just a few blocks from the hospital where he died in 1981 the Martin Diamond Gallery was holding a major show of his oils, sculpture and prints and his work was on exhibit at the Whitney Museum of American Art.

By all accounts a delightful man, Schanker was suspect to some because of his joie de vivre.  According to Mercury Gallery owner, Sidney Schectman, who was showing the works of the Ten from 1937–39, Rothko was by all reports a very serious person.  He did not have many friends. "I know he liked Schanker. I once talked to him about him, but he told me that Schanker was a playboy of some sort even then, but a great painter and a great wood block [painter] ... you know, painted, the greatest. "But I don't know where he's going to go," he would say because he thought he was frivolous. And that's the kind of person Rothko was, terribly, terribly serious."

Schanker's has remained popular and there is still continuing interest in his works. In 1989, summing up Schanker's career for a book on American abstraction, Virginia Mecklenburg wrote of "an animated expressionism that aims at a fundamental emotional structure".

Personal life 
In December 1960, Schanker married socialite Libby Holman. It was his second marriage. They remained together until her death in 1971.

Death 
Schanker died on May 7, 1981, at the Lenox Hill Hospital, after previously suffering a stroke. He was 78 years old.

References

Public collections
 The Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois
The Boston Public Library, Boston, Massachusetts
The Brooklyn Museum of Art, Brooklyn, New York
Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh/Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Cincinnati Art Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio
The Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, Ohio
CU Art Museum, University of Colorado at Boulder
The Detroit Institute of Arts, Detroit, Michigan
The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York
University of Michigan Museum of Art, Ann Arbor, Michigan
Museum of Modern Art, New York, New York
Neuberger Museum of Art, SUNY, Purchase College, Purchase, New York
The Newark Museum, Newark, New Jersey
New York Public Library, New York, New York
Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
The Phillips Collection, Washington, D.C.
Sheldon Memorial Art Gallery, Lincoln, Nebraska

Further reading
 Louis Schanker, "The Ides of Art: Eleven Graphic Artists Write", Tiger's Eye 8 (June 1949) p. 45.
Acton, D., Adams, C., & Beall, K. F. (1990). A spectrum of innovation color in American printmaking, 1890-1960. New York: Norton.
Diamond, M. (1995). Who were they? my personal contact with thirty-five American modernists your art history course never mentioned. New Rochelle, N.Y.: M. Diamond.
McCoy, G. (1972). Louis Schanker (1903-). Archives of American Art. 123.
 Virginia M Mecklenburg; Patricia Frost; Phillip Frost; National Museum of American Art (U.S.), The Patricia and Phillip Frost collection, American abstraction, 1930-1945(Washington, D.C. : Published for the National Museum of American Art by the Smithsonian Institution Press, ©1989.) , 
 Marika Herskovic, New York School Abstract Expressionists Artists Choice by Artists, (New York School Press, 2000.) . p. 16; p. 38; p. 330-333
 Schanker, L., & Johnson, U. E. (1974). Louis Schanker prints, 1924-1971. American graphic artists of the twentieth century, monograph no. 9. Brooklyn: Brooklyn Museum.
Steiner, R. J. (1999). The Art Students League of New York a history. Saugerties, New York: CSS Publications.
United States. (1987). A New deal for American art in federal buildings, "Aerial act" Work Projects Administration, 1935-1943 golden anniversary. Washington, D.C.: U.S. General Services Administration.

External links
 Louis Schanker, 1903 -1981  Printmaker, Painter, Sculptor: 60 years of experimentation
 The Ten
 American Abstract Artists
 Smithsonian Institution Research Information System; Archival, Manuscript and Photographic Collections, Louis Schanker
 Smithsonian Institution Research Information System; Louis Schanker artwork in the collection

1903 births
1981 deaths
20th-century American painters
American male painters
Abstract expressionist artists
Art Students League of New York alumni
American people of Romanian-Jewish descent
Alumni of the Académie de la Grande Chaumière
20th-century American sculptors
20th-century American male artists
American male sculptors
Federal Art Project artists
Public Works of Art Project artists
20th-century American printmakers
Sculptors from New York (state)
Sports artists