[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of Cyberpunk 2020 books

Dream Pod 9, released several third-party supplements and adventure modules. Noteworthy among them was the sourcebook Night's Edge that took the basic Cyberpunk 2020 setting and blended in horror elements such as werewolves and vampires. Several Ianus Games adventures explored these themes further.

Cyberpunk 2020 Books
 King of the Concrete Jungle, by Hans Guevin (1994) [ICP106] - The power elite of Neo-Montreal hold a yearly contest to see who can acquire the most impressive "thing"; the losers each owe the winner a favor. The characters get dragged into this year's contest. 
 Media Junkie I - Take One, by Gilles Bussiere (1993) [ICP107] - The patron wants the characters to retrieve ten old films for their collection. Contains the first four scenarios.
 Media Junkie II - Final Cut, by Gilles Bussiere (1993) [ICP114] - The patron wants the characters to retrieve ten old films for their collection. Contains the last six scenarios. 
 Premature Burial, by Justin Schmid (1994) [ICP117] - The characters rescue a badly beaten and wounded man who claims to be a powerful Corporate named Julius Romero. He enlists the characters in a plot to get even with his bosses, who tried to kill him. However, they find that Julius Romero isn't missing and someone is killing his rivals. Who is the patron and what is really going on? 
 Remember Me, by Justin Schmid (1994) [ICP118] - A campaign with four linked scenarios concerning the unreliability of memory. The characters are medias who got a copy of a video that can link Arasaka to a brutal massacre. Or...the characters are police who are hunting down a cop killer. Or...the characters are seriously mentally ill patients who need to break out of their asylum. Or...the characters are edgerunners trying to rescue an ally from a cult's compound. The characters are all four...but, which one (if any) are they really?
 Sub-Attica, by Lucien Soulban (1994) [ICP120] - The characters are sentenced to an underwater prison. Includes 8 scenarios.

Night's Edge Series
 Bloodlust, by Stephane Brochu (1995) [ICP108] - Vampire characters in Night's Edge.
 Crashpoint, by Jeff Boman (1995) [ICP112] - Unusual deaths. Includes Neo-Voodoo rules and details organlegging in Night's Edge.
 Dark Metropolis, by Justin Schmid (1994) [ICP116] - Sourcebook about The City in Night's Edge. Includes new drug design and equipment malfunction rules.
 Grimm's Cybertales, by Justin Schmid (1993) [ICP110] - Each chapter covers a different subject. Subjects include A New Order (Stress and Psychosis rules), Apostles of the Edge (Cults in 2020), Neo-Voodoo (Voodoo in Night's Edge), The Boogey-Men of 2020 (Stalkers, Serial Killers, Terrorists, Junkie Burnouts, etc.), Ghosts in the Machine (The Net in Night's Edge), Perchance to Dream (Fatigue, Sleep and Dreaming rules), and Ars Nova (Magic rules and skills in Night's Edge). 
 Home Front, Stephane Brochu (1994) [ICP119] - A brutal home invasion leaves the father dead, the mother in shock, and the teenaged son missing - perhaps kidnapped. Later a string of murders occurs in the same neighborhood, all of them men with families. The characters need to investigate and stop the killings.
 Necrology I - Of Death, Life and Afterwards..., by Justin Schmid (1992) [ICP102] - Details the Flatlining craze, in which users experience "death" for 2 minutes.
 Necrology II - And Now I Lay Me Down, by Justin Schmid (1993) [ICP104] - An unkillable serial killer called the Boogey Man stalks The City at night.
 Necrology III - Immortality, by Justin Schmid (1993) [ICP105] - The characters are kidnapped and brought to a medical research facility.
 Night's Edge, by Justin Schmid (1992) [ICP101] - An alternate Cyberpunk universe in which psychic powers and the supernatural exist. Includes templates for Vampires, Werewolves, and Vampire Hunters; Psychic rules; and stats for new gear and weapons.
 Playground, by Lucien Soulban (1994) [ICP115] - Welcome to the Playgrounds, Virtual Reality parks where your dreams come true. But what about your nightmares..?
 Survival of the Fittest, by Gilles Bussiere (1993) [ICP103] - Rumors are that a serial killer is roaming The City, ritually killing his victims by draining their blood. The characters are hired to find a missing person.

Stratelibri / Giochi Uniti
An Italian company that takes care of translation and distribution. They also independently produced a third-party setting sourcebook in the early '90s.

Sourcebooks
Nathan Never (1994) [SL4200] - Sourcebook based on Nathan Never, a popular series of science fiction comics by Sergio Bonelli Editore.

The Interface / Prometheus Press Inc.

The Interface was "The Magazine for the Cyberpunk Enthusiast" and was published on license from R Talsorian Games.