[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dismal Key

Dismal Key is a small island, part of the Ten Thousand Islands archipelago in the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Florida. The island is artificial, constructed by people of the Glades culture. Construction of the island proceeded in stages over some 1,500 years following the end of the Archaic period in Florida. Occupation probably ended a couple of centuries before the arrival of Europeans in Florida. Dismal Key was occupied by several hermits in the 20th century.

Shell works
The southwest coast of Florida has many large artificial structures known as shell works, made of shells piled up by human activity. Shell works are found from Charlotte Harbor southward through the Ten Thousand Islands. Many of the shell works are surrounded by water, forming artificial islands, often called keys. The shell works were the sites of villages, occupied by people who depended primarily on fishing, but also hunted and gathered wild foods. Shells works have complex structures, apparently designed to separate spaces by use; domestic, public and sacred. The northern part of the range in which shell works are found, from Charlotte Harbor through Estero Bay, was occupied by people of the Caloosahatchee culture. The southern part of the range, including Marco Island and the Ten Thousand Islands, was occupied by people of the Ten Thousand Islands region of the Glades culture. Both the Caloosahatchee culture area and the Ten Thousand Islands region of the Glades culture area were occupied by the Calusa people at the time of first contact with Europeans. Archaeological evidence indicates that artifacts in the Ten Thousand Islands region changed from resembling those of the Glades culture to resembling those of the Caloosahatchee culture around 1300, indicating absorption by or strong influence from the Calusa. Schwadron notes that many of the shell works sites in the Ten Thousand Islands appear to have been abandoned shortly before 1300, and suggests that the people of those sites may have migrated into Calusa territory.

Dismal Key is about  in size. The entire key above water consists of shell works, shells piled up by human activity, with various apparently designed features. The key is crescent shaped, and roughly bilaterally symmetric. The structure of the shell works on Dismal Key resembles that of other shell works in the Ten Thousand Islands, including Fakahatchee Key, Russell Key, Sandfly Key, Key Marco and Chokoloskee Island, suggesting a common plan.

Shell ring
A "c"-shaped shell ring of about  in width and up to  high is located in the open end of the shell works on Dismal Key. A central plaza about  across surrounds a deep pond. The opening in the ring faces northeast, away from the rest of the shell works. The ring is constructed of layers of clean, unbroken oyster shells mixed with layers of crushed oyster and other shells, with some fish bones. The ring appears to have been rapidly constructed in several episodes. The layers of crushed shell, which include possible post holes, may have been living floors. Artifacts found in the ring include ceramics, shell and bone tools, shark teeth, and sting ray spines. A chert flake was found (the nearest source of chert is  away). Fragments of human bone and a human tooth were found, but excavation was halted in the area to avoid further disturbing a potential grave site. Six shell samples from the ring yielded calibrated radiocarbon dates between 450 BCE and 50 BCE, very early in the Glades culture period. While the shell ring appears to have been a habitation site,  of shell were deposited in 150 years, and the ring is not just a midden. There is no evidence of human use of the shell ring after 50 BCE.

Shell fields
Relatively flat shell fields, of about  in area, are in the interior of the shell works, separated from the shell ring by mangroves, with a series of mounds partly surrounding the shell fields. The shell fields have some very low ridges and shallow depressions and ponds. Schwadron suggests that the depressions may have been oyster roasting pits or the sites of structures. The shell fields consist primarily of small oyster shells with some conch and whelk shells, and many artifacts, including ceramics and shell tools. The base level of the shell fields consists of a mixture of broken and unbroken oyster shell, with no artifacts and very little soil. On top of the base is a very thin layer of crushed oyster shell, interpreted as an old ground surface. Possible post holes, now filled with soil, extend from this layer into the base layer. Above the old ground surface is a midden layer, consisting of oyster shells with about 20% soil mixed in, and ceramics and shell tools. The modern surface is a sandy loam. The ceramics are classified as late Glades I period, from 500 to 750. Two shell samples yielded calibrated radiocarbon dates of 400-580 and 450-620. This time period corresponds to that in which the shell fields at Fakahatchee Key were constructed.