[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Blowout Comb

events. The artwork was modeled after the distinct design of the official Black Panther Newspaper, which Ishmael Butler came across one day while at a relative's house. Many pictures of Ishmael's trip to Los Angeles, prior to recording the album, are also shown in the artwork.

 Critical reception 

The album was released to rave reviews and critical acclaim. In a contemporary review for the Chicago Tribune, music critic Greg Kot wrote that the tension between the group's dreamy delivery and the seriousness of their questions about the African-American community gives substance to the music's elated mood. Heidi Siegmund of the Los Angeles Times wrote that it maintains a subtle but consistent mood that, unlike their debut album, warrants repeated listening. Time magazine's Christopher John Farley found Digable Planets' rebellious lyrics "constructive" and felt that the live musicians employed by the group lets the songs develop into extended jams. Farley asserted that the album "should further establish jazz-rap as pop's most dynamic new genre." Robert Christgau, writing in The Village Voice, said that, although the raps are not as "down-to-earth" and the music is less jazzy than their debut, Digable Planets sound surprisingly exceptional with a live band and less samples, and rap candidly and uniquely, particularly Ladybug, whom he cited as the "genius" of the group.

In a mixed review, Eric Berman of Rolling Stone magazine found the music sluggish and formless, despite the group's admirable experimentation and "creamy" raps. Martin Johnson, writing in the Chicago Reader, credited the group for successfully reinventing themselves with streetwise, black nationalistic lyrics, but felt that the music fizzles out as they get distracted with their own rhetoric.Blowout Comb was voted the 34th best album of the year in The Village Voices annual Pazz & Jop critics' poll. Spin magazine named it the fifth best album of 1994, and editor Craig Marks wrote that Digable Planets improved drastically with boldly political lyrics and music that was as expressive as Curtis Mayfield and Stevie Wonder. In a retrospective review, AllMusic's John Bush cited its production as some of the greatest beats ever on a hip hop album and asserted that, unlike Reachin, the "underrated" Blowout Comb has proven to be an enduring classic. Mark Richardson of Pitchfork called it one of the more accessible albums in popular music history to relax to, although it offers a rich, underlying influence of history and knowledge for those who choose to listen to it as "a richly rendered world with so much to explore".

 Commercial performance 
The album did not match the commercial success of the group's previous album, and was a commercial failure. Whereas Reachin charted for 32 weeks on the Top R&B Albums and peaked at number five, Blowout Comb spent 13 weeks and reached number 13 on the chart. According to Kyle Ryan of The A.V. Club, critics originally attributed this failure to the lyrics' black power messages. Colin Larkin, writing in the Encyclopedia of Popular Music (2000), said that part of the reason was because the album lacked a song as catchy as the group's debut single "Rebirth of Slick (Cool Like Dat)". Music journalist Peter Shapiro viewed it as a failed attempt at abandoning pop for "street" appeal by another group whose original success derived from a more amiable style of hip hop.

 Subsequent work 
Shortly after the release of Blowout Comb, Digable Planets disbanded in early 1995 due to the passing away of Mecca's parents, creative differences, and displeasure with the music industry. Ishmael Butler remarked "we got into the music business at a time when it still had to be original; it was more about the music. Then it started to be more economic, more material, and that disillusioned us. Being young and everything like that, we just sort of copped out. Because we weren't really the industry types; it wasn't really like that for us, so we didn't feel like we were losing out on things." Ishmael also stated in an interview with Vibe that the group didn't like the music industry because "they have nothing to do with art".

After splitting up, the group members went on to record solo work and side projects with other artists. Years later, Craig Irving reformed Digable Planets for a reunion tour in 2004, and since then, they have toured extensively. In 2005, they released a greatest hits compilation titled Beyond the Spectrum: the Creamy Spy Chronicles, which contains two newly recorded songs.

Track listing
All songs written and produced by Digable Planets, co-produced by Dave Darlington.