[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Meridian Ridge Campaign

ather's Pass (Diao Ling Guan, 雕翎关) were able to get the rest they desperately needed.  Luck proved to be once again on the communist side when the heavy rain and dark nights had enabled the 1st Battalion of the communist 3rd Garrison Regiment to successfully evade the pursuing nationalist cavalries.

Final decisions
On August 17, 1947, Wang Shitai (王世泰) held another conference after dark at the Eagle's Feather's Pass (Diao Ling Guan, 雕翎关), and decided to send two officers, Niu Shushen (牛书申) and Liu Yinggon (刘懋功) to make contact with the communist 2nd Garrison Regiment that stayed behind to cover the retreat.  Once the contact was reestablished, they would rejoin the communist 3rd Garrison Regiment to return to Guanzhong for the desperately needed rest.  Wang Shitai (王世泰) and his staff officer Gao Weisong (高维嵩) would lead the headquarters staff of the communist 3rd Garrison Regiment to return to eastern Gansu to look for the 5th Regiment of the communist 3rd Garrison Regiment.  Wang Shitai (王世泰) believed that the pursuing nationalists had already penetrated deep into the Meridian Ridge following him, and if he and his force could cut behind the enemy line, the unexpected move would ensure their safety.  Unfortunately, he was totally wrong this time.

By the evening of August 17, 1947, Ma Jiyuan (马继援) was a little depressed because after last engagement with the enemy on the day before, the enemy main force was nowhere to be found.  Furthermore, the search and destroy operation became increasingly difficult because the thick forest and mountainous terrain had greatly reduced the effectiveness of cavalry.  Ma Jiyuan (马继援) voiced his concern to his father Ma Bufang at Xining via radio, and the latter immediately order the general retreat by claiming that the nationalist force was in danger of being ambushed in the enemy's heartland where even Hu Zongnan dared not to venture this far.  Ma Jiyuan (马继援) realized the potential danger his force would face, especially when the main force of the enemy was not heard from since Yulin Campaign, and had it being hiding nearby for an ambush, the nationalist force deep in the heartland of enemy would be in danger of being wiped out.  As a result, Ma Jiyuan (马继援) ordered a general retreat to be carried out the next day at dawn.  This meant that the communist and the nationalist paths would meet, a situation the communists desperately attempt to avoid.

Conclusion
The nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division retreated toward Xifeng, Heshui (合水), and Qingyang via the same route it entered the heart of the communist base.  The 2nd Regiment of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division was the nationalist unit that struck the deepest blow into the enemy's heartland, and it was at most eastward position when received the general retreat order.  By the afternoon of August 18, 1947, the nationalist regiment made its way back to the Peach Tree Village (Tao Shu Zhuang, 桃树庄) of near Nine Steep Hills (Jiu Xian, 九岘) Town, and met the small retreating headquarters force of the communist 4th Column led by its commander Wang Shitai (王世泰).  A short battle ensued and both side chose not to continue to engage the enemy.

After retreating to the safety at the Papaya Plateau (Mu Gua Yuan, 木瓜塬), Wang Bingxiang (王秉祥) heard gunshots in the direction of Peach Tree Village (Tao Shu Zhuang, 桃树庄), and he immediately led his guerrilla to the direction of gunshots to reinforce their comrades.  However, before they could join the battle, the gunshots stopped when they had just reached Gao Family's Col (Gao Jia Ao, 高家坳).  Wang Bingxiang (王秉祥) and his guerrilla observed that there were several dozen communist cavalries retreating along the mountain ridge.  Several days later, Wang Bingxian (王秉祥) and his guerrilla fighters learnt that those retreating communists cavalries were actually the members of the headquarters staff of the communist 4th Column, including their superior Wang Shitai (王世泰).  Ma Fushou (马福寿), the commander of the second Regiment of the Reorganized 8th Cavalry Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 82nd Division had ready received order to withdraw, and was on his way retreating toward the region of Golden Village Temple (Jin Cun Miao 金村庙), thus did not pursuit the fleeing enemy.  Had the nationalists known that the group included the highest communist commander of Guanzhong, they would certainly give a chase and Wang Shitai (王世泰) and his staff would not be able to escape for sure.