[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# TT1

embalming process. She died as an elderly woman of at least 75 years of age; she was toothless and had rheumatoid arthritis of the spine. She had a healed fracture (Colles' fracture) of her right wrist. She may have been blind towards the end of her life, based on a prayer dedicated by her to Thoth.

Khonsu was buried in a sarcophagus and coffin set similar to his father. His large rectangular sarcophagus was fitted with runners but lacked wheels; the decorative scheme is similar in content but has less defined registers. It too had been disassembled and placed against the west wall. His set of two nested mummiform coffins were found on Sennedjem's funerary bed. The outer coffin shows Khonsu wearing the striped wig and a divine curled beard. His arms are depicted crossed over his chest and he holds the tyet-knot and djed-pillar in his hands. The lid is divided by vertical and horizontal bands of text; the space between depicts Anubis as a jackal, mourning goddesses, and Khonsu himself adoring Osiris. The footboard depicts the sycamore goddess giving water to him and his wife Tamaket in human form and as ba-birds. His inner coffin depicts him wearing an elaborate wig and short beard. He again holds the djed and tyet in his hands. Below his arms is a winged goddess. The design of the lower half of the coffin is similar to the outer one; the footboard shows solar scenes. The set was completed with a mask, which is in Cairo. Like his mother Iyneferti, Khonsu's unwrapped body was transferred to the Peabody Museum and examined in 1933. He died aged between 50 and 60 years, had worn teeth and spinal arthritis. A necklace with faience beads was found on his body. A scarab pectoral is also known for him.

Isis, the daughter of Khonsu and Tamaket, was buried with her parents in her grandfather's tomb. She was married to her uncle, Khabekhnet, who had his own chapel and tomb nearby in TT2. She was buried in a single coffin that Sousa characterises as "surprisingly "archaic"". On the lid she is depicted in the dress of the living. She wears a long wig with a floral fillet and topped with lotus flowers; two pairs of earrings (studs and hoops) emerge from her hair. Her left arm is bent across her chest, which is covered by a broad collar, and holds a trailing ivy vine. The trough of the coffin follows the same design as the earlier coffins of her family members. This style is contemporary with the late Eighteenth Dynasty, something that lead Sousa to suggest Isis was given or reused an antique coffin. Her body was also fitted with a mask, and her mummy was wrapped in reed matting.

Little is known about the rest of the occupants of the burial chamber. The coffin set (consisting of a coffin and mummy board) and mummy of Tamaket were purchased by the Egyptian Museum of Berlin; during World War II, her coffin (presumably containing her mummy) was transferred to Sophienhof Castle for safe keeping but was destroyed in 1945 when the castle was bombed. The remaining coffins, belonging to Ramose, Taashen, Prehotep, and the two foetuses are now lost. The identities of the uncoffined individuals of which only the heads were kept are unknown. A skull donated by Toda to the Biblioteca Museu Victor Balaguer is from a woman aged in her thirties who is thought to be one of Sennedjem's daughters or granddaughters; the assocated mandible belonged to an unknown man. Those interred without coffins are usually thought to belong to poorer family members who could not afford them. Alternatively, Cooney suggests they were originally interred in coffins but that the coffins were later removed for reuse or sale by family members later in the Nineteenth or Twentieth Dynasties.

Canopics and other funerary equipment
Canopic chests are known for Sennedjem, Iyneferti, Khonsu, Tamaket, and Isis. All the chests are shaped like a shrine with a sloping roof and are painted with figures of the goddesses Isis, Nephthys, Neith, and Serket and speeches by each taken from the Book of the Dead. Each organ was dried and wrapped and placed in ceramic jars inside the chests. Sennedjem's mummified and wrapped organs were placed in mummiform canopic coffins instead of canopic jars. Each small coffin was wrapped in fabric and inscribed with the name of the son of Horus associated with the respective organ.

A total of 74 ushabti and 24 ushabti boxes were found in the tomb. Most of the boxes have vaulted lids. All are decorated and most are inscribed with the names of their owners. Sennedjem has no ushabti box but has three ushabti placed in their own coffins. Counted among these figures is a funerary statuette of Sennedjem. It depicts him in daily dress, wearing a wig, tunic and long kilt. The front of the kilt has an offering passage, asking that he receive "everything which goes forth upon the offering table of Amun in Ipet-sut [Karnak]... for the ka of Sennedjem, justified, happy in peace".

Dispersal