[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of Peking (1900)

ars. Also required was the execution or exile of government supporters of the Boxers and the destruction of Chinese forts and other defenses in much of northern China. Ten days after the treaty was signed the foreign armies left Peking, although legation guards would remain there until World War II.

With the treaty signed the Empress Dowager Cixi returned to Peking from her "tour of inspection" on 7 January 1902 and the rule of the Qing dynasty over China was restored, albeit much weakened by the defeat it had suffered in the Boxer Rebellion and by the indemnity and stipulations of the peace treaty. The Dowager died in 1908 and the dynasty imploded in 1911.

Legacy 
In the Second Sino-Japanese War, when the Japanese asked the Muslim General Ma Hongkui to defect and become head of a Muslim puppet state under the Japanese, Ma responded through Zhou Baihuang, the Ningxia Secretary of the Nationalist Party to remind the Japanese military chief of staff Itagaki Seishiro that many of his relatives fought and died in battle against Eight Nation Alliance forces during the Battle of Peking, including his uncle Ma Fulu, and that Japanese troops made up the majority of the Alliance forces so there would be no cooperation with the Japanese.

In popular culture
The events of the Battle of Peking are shown in the 1963 historical war film 55 Days at Peking by director Nicholas Ray.

Pictures

See also

 History of Beijing
 First and Second Opium Wars
 Qing Dynasty Royal Decree on events leading to the signing of Boxer Protocol

References

Further reading

 Д.Г.Янчевецкий "У стен недвижного Китая". Санкт-Петербург - Порт-Артур, 1903 (D.G.Yanchevetskiy "Near the Walls of Unmoving China", Sankt-Peterburg - Port-Artur, 1903)
 Fleming, Peter (1959). The Siege of Peking. London: Hart-Davis.
 Giles, Lencelot (1970). The Siege of the Peking Legations; A Diary. Edited with introduction, Chinese anti-foreignism and the Boxer uprising, by L. R. Marchant. Nedlands, W.A.: University of Western Australia Press.
 В. Г. Дацышен «Русско-китайская война 1900 года. Поход на Пекин» – СПБ, 1999.  (V.G. Datsishen "Russo-Chinese war of 1900. March to Beijing", Sankt-Peterburg, 1999)
 Harrington, Peter (2001). Peking 1900. The Boxer Rebellion. Oxford: Osprey.
 Preston, Diana (1999). The Boxer Rebellion: The Dramatic Story of China's War on Foreigners That Shook the World in the Summer of 1900. New York: Walker and Co.
 Thompson, Larry Clinton (2009). William Scott Ament and the Boxer Rebellion: Heroism, Hubris, and the Ideal Missionary. Jefferson, NC: McFarland. William Scott Ament and the Boxer Rebellion: Heroism, Hubris and the "Ideal Missionary"
 China's Tragic Years (2001). China's Tragic Years, 1900–1901, Through a Foreign Lens.

External links
 

1900 in China
19th century in Beijing
Battles of the Boxer Rebellion involving the United States
Peking
August 1900 events
Conflicts in 1900
Sieges involving Austria-Hungary
Sieges involving France
Sieges involving Germany
Sieges involving Italy
Sieges involving Japan
Sieges involving Russia
Sieges involving the United Kingdom
Sieges involving the United States
United States Marine Corps in the 18th and 19th centuries
Battles of the Boxer Rebellion