[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Magdalena Ridge Observatory

warded to Advanced Mechanical and Optical Systems S.A. (AMOS) of Belgium. In 2009 the design of the infrastructure of interferometer arms was completed, as was the design for the telescope enclosures. In 2010 construction of the arms began. Also in 2010 the first delay line was installed in the BCF.

In October 2015, New Mexico Tech signed a five-year, $25 million cooperative agreement with the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) to support continued development of the interferometer at the observatory. Dr. Van Romero, Vice President of Research at Tech, said the new funding will allow the completion of three telescopes, mounts and enclosures on the mountaintop facility. The first telescope was installed in 2016, but construction was paused in 2019 when the AFRL funding was withdrawn by US Congress.

New Mexico Exoplanet Spectroscopic Survey Instrument

The New Mexico Exoplanet Spectroscopic Survey Instrument (NESSI) is a ground-based instrument specifically designed to study the atmospheres of exoplanets. The $3.5 million instrument is the first purpose-built device for the analysis of exoplanet atmospheres, and is expected to have a powerful impact on the field of exoplanet characterization.

The Principal Investigator is Michele Creech-Eakman at the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology, working with seven co-investigators. The NESSI instrument was mounted on the observatory's 2.4 meter telescope. The instrument's first exoplanet observations began in April 2014.

See also

 List of astronomical interferometers at visible and infrared wavelengths
 List of astronomical observatories
 Very Large Array — nearby radio Interferometer observatory

References

External links
 Department of Physics at New Mexico Tech
 Description of the interferometer from Cambridge University website
 Magdalena Ridge Observatory Clear Sky Clock Forecasts of observing conditions.

Astronomical observatories in New Mexico
Cavendish Laboratory
Interferometers
Interferometric telescopes
Buildings and structures in Socorro County, New Mexico
New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology
Buildings and structures under construction in the United States
1999 establishments in New Mexico