[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Simon Rusk

higher than a number of established academies, including Chelsea, Liverpool, Tottenham and West Ham.

Despite losing a number of key players to the senior squad in 2019–20, the side continued their good form and reached the knockout stages of the EFL Trophy for a second time under Rusk's management.

Stockport County
On 27 January 2021, Rusk became the manager of National League side Stockport County. On 27 October 2021, the club confirmed they had parted ways with Rusk.

Dundee 
On 17 February 2022, Rusk was announced as assistant manager of Scottish Premiership side Dundee under his assistant manager at Stockport, Mark McGhee until the end of the season. After the side was relegated with just one win in the duo's time there, it was confirmed in May 2022 that Rusk would take up a role with the English FA.

England
On 13 May 2022, Rusk was appointed a national coach with England men's teams. On 16 August 2022, it was confirmed that Rusk would take charge of the England U19s.

International career
Despite being born in England, Rusk was capped three times by the Scotland national under-18 team.

Career statistics

A.  The "League" column constitutes appearances and goals in the Football League and Football Conference.
B.  The "Other" column constitutes appearances and goals in the Conference League Cup, FA Trophy and Football League Trophy.

Managerial Statistics

Honours

Player
Boston United
Football Conference: 2001–02

Crawley Town
Conference Premier: 2010–11

Coach
Brighton & Hove Albion U23s
Premier League 2: Division 2 Play-Off Winner 2017–18

References

External links

1981 births
Living people
Footballers from Peterborough
English men's footballers
Scottish men's footballers
Scotland men's youth international footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Peterborough United F.C. players
Cambridge City F.C. players
Boston United F.C. players
Northwich Victoria F.C. players
Rushden & Diamonds F.C. players
York City F.C. players
Crawley Town F.C. players
National League (English football) players
English Football League players
Crawley Town F.C. non-playing staff
Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. non-playing staff
Stockport County F.C. managers
National League (English football) managers
Anglo-Scots
Dundee F.C. non-playing staff