[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Greg Tansey

eason as Stockport's top goalscorer with eleven goals in 41 games. He also scored Stockport's last goal in the Football League, a penalty in the tenth minute of added time in a 1–1 home draw with Cheltenham Town. During his six years at Stockport, Tansey made 112 appearances, scoring fourteen times.

Inverness Caledonian Thistle
Despite being offered a new one-year deal at Stockport, Tansey left the club in favour of a move to SPL side Inverness Caledonian Thistle, officially signing on a free transfer in June 2011. He made his debut against Motherwell at Fir Park on 23 July 2011, playing the whole match in a 3–0 loss. Tansey opened his goalscoring account for Inverness two weeks later, on 6 August 2011, netting twice as Inverness drew 3–3 away at Dunfermline Athletic. In November 2011, Tansey was sent-off in a 2–0 home loss against Celtic. He was "controversially ordered off for leading with an arm in an aerial challenge", but contact was described as "minimal". The decision left Inverness manager Terry Butcher "furious" — "There's no way it's a red card. If anything it is assault by fingernail". Inverness opted to appeal against the sending off, and the red card was later rescinded with referee Stephen O'Reilly admitting he had "made a mistake". He went on to score in games against Dunfermline and Hibernian respectively, taking his league goal tally for the season to four. Tansey scored a free-kick on the last day of the season, in a 2–0 home victory over Hibernian, in what was ultimately his last game for the club. During his one season at Inverness, he played 39 times, scoring five goals.

Stevenage
In May 2012, Tansey rejected a contract extension at Inverness, and opted to join League One side Stevenage, signing a three-year deal with the club. He made his debut for Stevenage in the club's 3–1 home victory over AFC Wimbledon in the League Cup on 14 August 2012, playing the first 70 minutes of the match. Tansey scored his first goal for the club in his ninth appearance, scoring with a 30-yard effort in a 3–1 win over Walsall at Broadhall Way on 18 September. He then went on to score in Stevenage's next two home games; scoring with a long-range strike in a 2–2 draw against Bury, before netting the only goal of the game courtesy of a curling free-kick in a 1–0 win over Scunthorpe United.

A month later, Tansey scored another long-range strike, this time in Stevenage's 4–1 loss to Preston North End, briefly tying the game in the first-half after the ball had dropped to him on the edge of the area. A goal in the club's 1–1 away draw with AFC Bournemouth on 20 November 2012 took his goal tally to five for the season. Just four days later, he scored with a "looping shot" in injury-time as Stevenage came from a goal down to draw 1–1 at home against Tranmere Rovers. Shortly after featuring in the club's defeat to Tranmere Rovers in March 2013, Tansey had a hernia operation, an injury that ruled him out of first-team action for a month. He returned as a late second-half substitute in Stevenage's last game of the season, a 2–0 loss to Milton Keynes Dons on 27 April 2013. Tansey made 40 appearances during his first season with the club, scoring six times.

Ahead of the 2013–14 campaign, Tansey scored in pre-season friendly match, a 2–0 victory against a Queens Park Rangers XI at Broadhall Way. He then opened the league season by scoring one goal and assisting another in Stevenage's 4–3 home loss to Oldham Athletic. Three weeks later on 31 August 2013, Tansey scored his second goal of the season – a free kick – in a 1–1 draw against Bradford City. Then, on 21 September 2013, Tansey scored his third goal of the season, converting a penalty, in a 3–1 loss against Carlisle United. In all games at Stevenage, Tansey made sixty-two appearances and scored nine times.

Inverness CT return
On 17 January 2014, Tansey re-signed for Inverness Caledonian Thistle on an 18-month deal. Upon returning to Inverness, Tansey stated that he rejoined the club because of his motivation to help them play in Europe.