[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Japanese invasion of Taiwan (1895)

nd began to issue paper money and postage stamps in the name of the Republic.  The foreign minister Chen Jitong, who had lived in France for many years, was responsible for crafting much of this republican symbolism.

The course of the war

Phase One: Keelung, Taipei and Tamsui

Ruifang and Keelung 

Meanwhile, the Japanese were making their preparations for occupying Taiwan in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty of Shimonoseki. The task of securing Japan's new colony was entrusted to the Imperial Guards Division, which had seen no action during the fighting in Manchuria.  7,000 guardsmen, under the command of Prince Kitashirakawa Yoshihisa, left Port Arthur on 22 May, on board fourteen transports.  The preparations for the expedition were made in such haste that there was no time to issue the guardsmen with summer uniforms, and they left for the hot and humid climate of Taiwan in the heavy winter clothes they had been wearing against the bitter cold of Manchuria.  On 26 May the transports, escorted by the warships Matsushima and , reached the Japanese-owned Ryukyu Islands to the northeast of Taiwan and anchored off the port of Nakagusuku on the eastern coast of Okinawa.

On 27 May the recently appointed governor-general of Formosa, Admiral Kabayama Sukenori, joined the expedition from Tokyo.  In view of the reports that had reached Japan that the leaders of the self-styled Republic of Formosa were making preparations to resist a Japanese landing, Kabayama felt that there was no time to lose.  In consequence, he ordered the ships to set sail for Taiwan at noon the same day.  On 29 May the first troops of the Imperial Guards Division went ashore on the northern coast of Taiwan at Samtiao Point near the village of Audi (a small village in Gongliao), several miles to the east of Keelung.  The Japanese had originally intended to land at Tamsui, but finding the town strongly defended changed their plans at the last moment.  The landing marked the beginning of the war. The first major engagement took place on 2 June at Ruifang. The defending Chinese forces were defeated.

On 3 June the Japanese captured the port city of Keelung.  Following a preliminary bombardment of the city's coastal defences by the warships Matsushima, Oshima, , Takachiho and Chiyoda, the Imperial Guards attacked the Keelung forts from the rear.  The main struggle took place around the Shiqiuling battery (). Eleven years earlier, during the Sino-French War, Chinese forces had bottled up a French expeditionary corps in Keelung for seven months during the Keelung Campaign, and the Shiqiuling battery had been held against the French for most of the war.  Now, in 1895, the Japanese routed the fort's garrison and captured the fort with little loss. Keelung was occupied on the afternoon of 3 June, after the Qing commanders fled the city and left the garrison force leaderless.  Japanese casualties in the battle for Keelung were 2 dead and 26 wounded.

Transfer of sovereignty 
While the fighting raged ashore at Keelung, sovereignty over Taiwan was formally transferred from China to Japan at a ceremony held on the morning of 3 June aboard one of the Japanese warships in Keelung harbour.  Japan and China were represented at this ceremony by two plenipotentiaries, Governor-General Kabayama for Japan and Li Jingfang (the adopted son of Li Hongzhang) for China.  Li Hongzhang's numerous enemies had arranged that the obnoxious task of presiding over the surrender of Taiwan to the Japanese should be thrust upon his son's shoulders.  The occasion was profoundly humiliating for Li.  The Japanese had hoped to stage the handover ceremony ashore, in the capital Taipei, but Li soon discovered that he would be lucky to escape with his life if he set foot on Taiwanese soil.  As the negotiator of the Treaty of Shimonoseki that handed over Taiwan to Japan, Li Hongzhang was detested by the islanders, and they were now furious to learn that his son had been entrusted with the task of formally ceding Chinese sovereignty over the island.  Placards were posted up in towns all over Taiwan vowing eternal hatred to Li Hongzhang and his family, and Li Jingfang was forced to beg the Japanese to hold the transfer ceremony at sea rather than ashore.  The Japanese granted this request.

Tang Jingsong's flight 
When the news of the defeat at Keelung reached Taipei on 4 June, the republican leaders promptly abandoned ship.  During the night of 4 June President Tang and General Chiu fled to Tamsui, and from there sailed for the mainland on the evening of 6 June aboard the steamship Arthur.  Their departure was delayed for a day because of disorder in Tamsui (see below).

Japanese occupation of Taipei