[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Stuart London

r market at Queenhithe, a meat market at St. Nicholas Shambles, a fruit and vegetable market in St. Paul's Churchyard, a livestock market at Smithfield, and a meat and fish market at Stocks. From 1670, Covent Garden became an important fruit, vegetable and flower market for the newly-built West End.

London became a major hub at the centre of a burgeoning empire. The East India Company was established just before the beginnning of the period, in 1600, and continued to operate from various London headquarters throughout, establishing trading posts in India. In 1607, they opened a shipbuilding yard at Blackwall. In 1606, a voyage from Blackwall set off to colonise Virginia in America. Goods flowed into London's port from colonies in North America, including colonies in the West Indies which relied on slave labour. As the amount of shipping coming into London grew, the wharves in the Pool of London- the part of the Thames next to the City- grew increasingly crowded, and so docks further downstream in places like Deptford, Greenwich and Poplar became more important.

Culture and entertainment 

Several large fairs were held throughout the year around London, with the largest being Bartholomew Fair in Smithfield, held at the end of August. It featured acrobats, circus acts, freak shows and theatrical performances alongside market stalls. Famous performers in London included the acrobat Jacob Hall. St. Margaret's Fair took place in Southwark in September, and a May Fair was held in the region of modern-day Mayfair. Its most famous character was a gingerbread seller called Tiddy Doll, who dressed like a gentleman with a suit trimmed in gold lace. In January 1684, a frost fair was held on the Thames, which had frozen solid enough not only to walk on, but to drive a coach, erect tents, and even roast an ox on. Many of the traditional celebrations for religious festivals such as Christmas were banned or suppressed during the Interregnum period.

Blood sports such as bear-baiting, bull-baiting and cockfights were popular, and there is even a recorded instance of lion-baiting in 1604, when three mastiffs were pitted against a lion from the Tower of London with the king and queen in attendance. The lion and one of the dogs survived; the dog was adopted by St. James's Palace as a reward.

In Lambeth, visitors could see Tradescant's Ark, a collection of rare plants and other curios put together by John Tradescant the Elder and John Tradescant the Younger. Other private houses had similar collections of curiosities, such as that belonging to Thomas Browne, William Charlton, the Royal Society, and Hans Sloane, the latter of which went on to become the core of the British Museum.

Tourists came to London for sightseeing, particularly Whitehall Palace, the Royal Exchange, Westminster Abbey, Nonsuch Palace, St. Paul's Cathedral, Hampton Court Palace, the tapestry makers at Mortlake, and the Tower of London.

1661 saw the opening of Vauxhall Gardens, which featured ornamental plantings, concerts, food and spectacles, and was known as a place to have secret liaisons.

Literature 

Poetry was the most important form of literature in this period. Famous poets of the period included William Shakespeare, John Denham, Margaret Cavendish, John Milton, and John Dryden. In 1668, Charles II appointed John Dryden as the very first Poet Laureate. He was succeeded by Thomas Shadwell and Nahum Tate.

The form of the novel began to coalesce in the latter half of the period, with works by London authors such as John Bunyan's The Pilgrim's Progress and Aphra Behn's Oroonoko. There were also important works of philosophy being written such as Thomas Hobbes' Leviathan and John Locke's Two Treatises of Government.

London saw several wealthy men accrue large private libraries in this period. Lambeth Palace Library was founded in 1610 by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Richard Bancroft. The largest private library in the country was owned by the Earl of Anglesey, Arthur Annesley, at his house near Drury Lane. It was broken up after his death in 1686. The Bishop of Worcester's house in Twickenham had 6,000 books in 1689, and the diarist John Evelyn had 5,000. St. James' Palace had the "Old Royal Library", containing 2,000 medieval manuscripts.

Other important publications from this period include Britain's first daily newspaper, The Daily Courant, which began publication in London in 1702, and could be bought near the Fleet Bridge; and The Tatler, which was first published in 1709, and contained society gossip and caricatures of prominent figures.

Theatre