[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peggy Stewart (ship)

that the Williams brothers themselves had been the ones who notified him of the tea importation), and stirred up a great deal of popular fervor. Thus the second committee meeting was thronged with people, many of whom had come specifically to make an example of the wicked Mr Stewart and his cronies.

The second committee meeting, 19 October
The reporting of this affair in the Maryland Gazette was, by modern standards, less than conscientious. No mention was made of the  indentured servants, no attempt was made to remind readers of the Good Intent case, and the report of the fateful second meeting was oddly abbreviated:

The committee were of opinion, if the tea was destroyed by the voluntary act of the owners and proper concessions made, that nothing further ought to be required. This their opinion being reported to the assembly, was not satisfactory to all present. Mr Stewart then voluntarily offered to burn the vessel and the tea in her...

A letter to the Baltimore Patriot newspaper immediately after the death of successful physician and businessman Dr Charles Alexander Warfield, in 1813 expands greatly on that short account. Warfield, recently appointed a Major in the new Anne Arundel County militia, had not  only argued with moderate patriots like Charles Carroll and Samuel Chase; he had allegedly had a gallows erected outside Stewart's house. Some details of the account seem false, but other sources agree that he led the calls for harsh penalties, whipping up mob hysteria. The Gazette did publish a letter from the Williams brothers in which, among other things, they complained that their complete willingness to co-operate with the committee was "kept entirely secret" from the angry throng, and instead "a most ungenerous piece was drawn up  by Mathias Hammond." An anonymous letter to another newspaper (quite probably written by Thomas Williams) claimed that "the minds of the people were so inflamed, that they threatened death to Mr. Stewart, and desolation to his store and dwelling-house."

Burning of the ship
The offer to burn Peggy Stewart was enough to satisfy the mob, so the brig was moved to a convenient spot "with her sails  and colours flying", and, after reading out a statement apologising for their conduct (which was subsequently published in the Gazette),  Anthony Stewart, Nehemiah Moxley, Joseph Williams and James Williams jointly set the vessel and the tea alight. Within a few hours, "in the presence of a great number of spectators" Peggy Stewart had burned down to the waterline. The event has since become known as the "Annapolis Tea  Party".

The plot claim
Thomas Charles Williams, the real cause of the problem, later published an apology for his own actions- but if the anonymous letter really  was his work (it was published in the Philadelphia Public Ledger on 4 January 1775, just two days after Thomas signed his apology,  also in Philadelphia) he blamed everybody except himself. The letter outlined an alleged plot involving another rival firm, Wallace, Davidson  and Johnson- Davidson being Deputy Comptroller of Customs in addition to his business interests. Stewart was the principal victim, partly  because he had voted against a proposal (nominally in retaliation against the British government's punishment of the people of Boston) for  American lawyers to refuse to handle actions for debts due to persons in Great Britain, partly because Peggy Stewart had taken trade the  Wallace firm had lost when a vessel of theirs ran aground in the English Channel. The writer was convinced that the plot would have failed  if Stewart had followed Joseph and James's lead- but then, the writer knew nothing about the 53 indentured servants, and claimed instead  that Stewart, as an owner of the vessel, was "anxious for dispatch, in order that she might proceed to another port."

Anthony Stewart's later life
Anthony Stewart and his family spent most of the years of the American Revolutionary War living in New York, where he served on the board of directors of the Associated Loyalists; then in 1783 he attempted, with one Samuel Gouldsbury, to found a community called New Edinburgh, in Nova Scotia. Legal obstacles prevented the plan from being fully realised, but the community still exists today. Despite the significant financial loss he sustained in the "Tea Party", Stewart remained wealthy, although the   of land he owned in Maryland would be forfeited at the end of the War in 1783. Ironically, he died on a business visit to Annapolis, in 1791.

Legacy of the burning