[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Social effects of H5N1

See Influenza pandemic for government preparation for an H5N1 pandemic
The social impact of H5N1 is the effect or influence of H5N1 in human society, especially the financial, political, social, and personal responses to both actual and predicted deaths in birds, humans, and other animals. Billions of dollars are raised and spent to research H5N1 and prepare for a potential avian influenza pandemic. Over ten billion dollars were lost, and over two hundred million birds were killed to contain H5N1. People reacted by buying less chicken causing poultry sales and prices to fall. Many individuals stockpiled supplies for a possible flu pandemic.

Financial
On November 1, 2005, US President George W. Bush unveiled the National Strategy To Safeguard Against The Danger of Pandemic Influenza backed by a request to Congress for $7.1 billion to begin implementing the plan.

On January 18, 2006, donor nations pledged two billion US dollars to combat bird flu at the two-day International Pledging Conference on Avian and Human Influenza held in China. Over ten billion dollars were spent, and over two hundred million birds were killed to try to contain H5N1.

According to The New York Times, due to the H5N1 threat, as of March 2006: "governments worldwide have spent billions planning for a potential influenza pandemic: buying medicines, running disaster drills, [and] developing strategies for tighter border controls."

Investment strategies are being altered to manage the effects of H5N1. This changes the valuations of trillions of dollars worth of stocks worldwide as investors move assets in accordance with both fears and hopes.

Poultry farming practices have changed due to H5N1:
 killing millions of poultry
 vaccinating poultry against bird flu
 vaccinating poultry workers against human flu
 limiting travel in areas where H5N1 is found
 increasing farm hygiene
 reducing contact between livestock and wild birds
 reducing open-air wet markets
 limiting workers contact with cock fighting
 reducing purchases of live fowl
 improving veterinary vaccine availability and cost.

For example, after nearly two years of using mainly culling to control the virus, the Vietnam government in 2005 adopted a combination of mass poultry vaccination, disinfecting, culling, information campaigns and bans on live poultry in cities.

The cost of poultry farming has increased, while the cost to consumers has gone down due to fears from H5N1 driving demand below supply, resulting in devastating losses for many poultry farmers. Poor poultry farmers can't afford mandated measures keeping their bird livestock from contact with wild birds (and other measures) thus risking losing their livelihood altogether. Multinational poultry farming is increasingly becoming a profit loser as H5N1 achieves status as endemic in wild birds worldwide.

Financial ruin for poor poultry farmers, that can be as severe as threatening starvation, has caused some to commit suicide and many others to stop cooperating with efforts to deal with H5N1; further increasing the human toll, the spread of the disease and the chances for a pandemic mutation.

Political
US HHS Secretary Michael O. Leavitt has said "Everything you say in advance of a pandemic is alarmist; anything you do after it starts is inadequate."

H5N1, like many other topics, is subject to political spin; wherein every interest group picks and chooses among the facts to support their favorite cause resulting in a distortion of the overall picture, the motivations of the people involved and the believability of the predictions.

Donald Rumsfeld, formerly United States Secretary of Defense, is a past board member and current minor shareholder of Gilead Sciences which owns intellectual property rights to Oseltamivir (also called "Tamiflu"). In November 2005, George W. Bush urged Congress to pass 7.1 billion in emergency funding to prepare for the possible bird flu pandemic, of which one billion is solely dedicated to the purchase, and distribution of Tamiflu.

Some believe H5N1 is a problem of industrial poultry practices.