[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Joseph Widney

led to the building of a 500-seat building.  He paid the full cost of construction and ministered without compensation. The new building was dedicated on June 3, 1900. In 1903 this church was renamed the Beth-El Methodist Episcopal Church. Widney resigned from the Methodist Episcopal church in 1911.

Widney was influenced by the teachings of preacher David Swing and Thomas Starr King, a broad-minded, religiously inclusive Unitarian minister.  Widney described King as "one of the few great and broad-minded spirits of the church" (Frankiel, p30.)California's Spiritual Frontiers.

Racial beliefs

Widney lamented the decline in influence and power of the original Hispanic population of California. Widney said, "You could visit the hospitals and almshouses in the late 'eighties and look in vain for the Mexican or the Spaniard."

Widney in his 1876 History indicates: "In the spring of 1850, probably three or four colored persons were in the city. In 1875, they numbered 175 souls, many of whom hold good city property acquired by industry. They are farmers, mechanics, or some other useful occupation, and remarkable for good habits".

African-American activist W. E. B. Du Bois used Widney's Race Life of the Aryan Peoples to support his own view of the significance of the contributions of blacks to the development of modern civilization. Widney wrote "They [the Negroes] once occupied a much wider territory and wielded a vastly greater influence upon earth than they do now."

In The Three Americas (1935), Widney suggested that the United States buy British Guiana from the United Kingdom and give it to the African Americans as reparations for slavery.

Later years

Widney attributed his longevity to living simply and keeping busy. At age 94, Widney advocated "no liquor, no tobacco, no drugs. I'm not a fanatic on liquor, but to me it is a medicine. I keep it around and take it when I need it. But there is no excuse whatever for tobacco or drugs". He recommended at least eight hours sleep each night and short naps throughout the day.

He died at 10:50 am on July 4, 1938, in his home in Highland Park, Los Angeles, aged 96.  After services held in his home, he was buried at the Evergreen Cemetery at Boyle Heights on July 6, 1938.

In March 1939 the new Crippled Children's High School was renamed the Dr. Joseph Pomeroy Widney High School. This school is for those aged 13 to 22 with special educational needs. The Widney Alumni House at the University of Southern California, the university's original building, was declared a Los Angeles Historic-Cultural Monument (No. 70) on December 16, 1970. The University of Southern California honors its distinguished graduates by presenting the Widney Alumni Award. His portrait was painted by American artist Orpha Mae Klinker, and a bust of Widney was sculpted by Emil Seletz.

List of works

Books (co-authored)
 Lindley, Walter and Joseph Widney. California of the South: Its Physical Geography, Climate, Resources, Routes of Travel, and Health-Resorts Being a Complete Guide-Book to Southern California.D. Appleton and Company: 1888; 3rd edition; 1896.
 Warner, J. J.; Benjamin Hayes; and Joseph Widney. An Historical Sketch of Los Angeles County, California: From the Spanish Occupancy, By the Founding of the Mission San Gabriel Archangel, September 8, 1771, to July 4, 1876. Prepared by a committee appointed by the Literary Committee of the Los Angeles Centennial Celebration. Louis Lewin & Co.: 1876; Reprint ed. O. W. Smith: 1936.

References

Further reading
 Dumke, Glenn S., "Joseph Pomeroy Widney", in Dictionary of American Biography 12 (Charles Scribner's Sons):715–716.