[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Warblade (comics)

of the Ravagers that tested the survivors of the kill-or-be-killed tournament. During the altercation, several test subjects of the Colony escaped. Along with Rose Wilson, Warblade was tasked with tracking down some of the escapees, as well as to kill Caitlin Fairchild. He is killed by Deathstroke.

In other media
 Warblade appeared in the Wild C.A.T.s animated series. His voice was provided by Dean McDermott. Here Warblade discovered his powers when he becomes part of the group, in the first episode. Because of this, he was the group's rookie, a position occupied by Voodoo in the comic book. While still an expert martial artist, he's also a computer expert which becomes useful in the overall plot.
 Warblade stars in a solo mini-comic series called Warblade: Endangered Species (#1-4). Warblade makes a trip once a year to Japan, to hone his Martial Arts skills, although this time, he's traveling with the intentions of killing his former best friend—One who has been possessed by a Daemonite during their time in Cyberdata together. It is also in this series that he ends up meeting up with his old ally* Ripclaw—the last member of the Cyberdata team—until he joined Cyberforce. (*former ally turned enemy by a telepath (Misery), who used her powers to try to make everyone kill each other.  After much fighting and Reno almost losing his life, Misery was defeated. Reno and Robert (Ripclaw) would become friends and allies --> *See WildC.A.T.s/Cyberforce "Killer Instinct" Crossover for more details*)
 A Warblade figure from Playmates Toys was released in 1994.

References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

2004 comics debuts
Characters created by Jim Lee
DC Comics characters who are shapeshifters
DC Comics characters who can move at superhuman speeds
DC Comics characters with accelerated healing
DC Comics characters with superhuman durability or invulnerability
DC Comics characters with superhuman strength
DC Comics male superheroes
DC Comics martial artists
DC Comics orphans
Fictional artists
Fictional blade fighters
Fictional characters who can stretch themselves
Fictional characters with metal abilities
Fictional extraterrestrial–human hybrids in comics
Fictional kendoka
Fictional male martial artists
Fictional wushu practitioners
Male characters in animated series
WildCats characters
WildStorm limited series
Wildstorm Universe superheroes