[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Human rights in Paraguay

state provides security for gay-pride marches and gatherings recently these marches and gatherings have led to clashes between the police and the paraders that have accused the government of discriminating them after some homophobic statements made by Colorado and UNACE congressmen.

Employee rights

Paraguayan law allows unions, strikes, and collective bargaining, and forbids binding arbitration. In practice, however, employers act with impunity against strikers and unions.  The law also prohibits
forced labor, but in practice it is widespread.  Labor by children under 14 is illegal, but it is actually widespread,  As of 2010, slightly over half of Paraguayan children between ages five and 17 are in employment, with the majority of them working over 14 hours a week. There are known to be slaves in Paraguay, especially among domestic servants; parents sell children to perform forced labor, smuggle drugs, and commit other crimes. Enforcement of laws against these activities is hampered by a lack of resources.

There is a minimum wage, but it is unenforced.  There is also a standard workweek, but violations abound.

Institutionalized corruption

Police officers are frequently involved in crime.  Paraguayan police have been described in a 2010 U.S.  State Department report as “poorly trained, inadequately funded, generally corrupt, and shielded by impunity.”  Policemen commit kidnappings, detain civilians in order to extort bribes, and conspire with prosecutors to commit blackmail and other crimes. The report refers to “routine incidents of police involvement in homicide, arms and narcotics trafficking, car theft, robbery, extortion, and kidnapping throughout the country, with such abuses particularly widespread in Ciudad del Este and other areas bordering Brazil.” Between 2008 and 2010, several police officers were arrested for or found guilty of various acts of murder and manslaughter. Some kidnappings have resulted in disappearances. Paraguayan law prohibits torture, but some police officers and other government officials engage in it anyway. The State Department report mentions that “some security forces and government prosecutors” in Paraguay, “acting in official capacity but without government knowledge or support,” may have “occasionally killed individuals for personal gain.”

Although candidates for public office are supposed to issue financial disclosures, many do not.  Extortion is common at many levels of Paraguayan society. Military officers have routinely extorted money from their subordinates, and Civil Registry Office officials have demanded money illegally for performing standard services.

In practice, official corruption is rarely punished.

Rights of prisoners

Paraguayan prisons are not up to international standards. Conditions have been described as “deplorable.”  Among the problems are “violence, mistreatment, overcrowding, inadequate and poorly trained staff, deteriorating infrastructure, unsanitary living conditions, poor food safety standards, and inadequate medical and psychological care.” Some inmates actually have weapons. Deaths while in custody are not uncommon. Certain prisoners demand bribes from visitors in order to arrange contact with the inmates they are visiting. As of 2010. about 30 percent of the inmates in Paraguayan prisons should, according to the country's constitution, have been released already but were still being held pending a judge's order. Inmates can receive better accommodations in exchange for regular payments.   In 2010, it was discovered that inmates in one prison were blackmailing underage girls to come to the prison to videotape sex acts. It was alleged that some prison officials, including the warden and clergy working in the prison, were involved in this activity.

Some juvenile offenders are imprisoned in adult prisons.  Paraguay permits the media, human-rights groups, the Red Cross, and other organizations to visit prisons and monitor conditions. A National Commission on Prison Reform was created in 2010.

A group of international human-rights organizations issued a statement in December 2012 denouncing 
“the health plight of 10 farmers who have been on a hunger strike for nearly two months after being arbitrarily detained in the prison of Coronel Oviedo, Caaguazú department, Paraguay.” The strikers were described as “part of a group of 54 people who have been arbitrarily charged with seven criminal charges including offense of murder, attempted murder, serious injury, criminal association, grave coercion, coercion and invasion.”  The statement listed a series of violations of Paraguayan law that had been made in connection with this case.

Human-rights ombudsman