[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Swig Program in Jewish Studies and Social Justice

The Swig Program in Jewish Studies and Social Justice is a Jewish studies program at the University of San Francisco in San Francisco, California. Originally founded in 1977, and re-established in 2008, it is the only program in the world to formally link the fields of Social justice and Jewish studies. It offers a minor in Jewish Studies and Social Justice (JSSJ), an annual Social Justice Lecture, an annual Human Rights Lecture, an annual Social Justice Passover Seder, intermittent films, presentations, and workshops, a study-abroad course, and Ulpan San Francisco.

History
Melvin Swig was a San Francisco real estate developer and philanthropist who endowed a multitude of charities, organizations, and programs in the San Francisco Bay Area. In the mid-1970s Swig met Rabbi David Davis who, in conjunction with the Reverend John H. Elliott, a Lutheran minister and USF Theology & Religious Studies professor, had recently begun to teach a class called “Jesus the Jew” at the University of San Francisco. Swig, who was Jewish, was intrigued with the idea of a Jewish perspective being taught at a Catholic university, and he suggested that Rabbi Davis introduce him to Father John Lo Schiavo, the president of the university. The three men explored the idea of creating a Jewish studies program at USF. As a result of their collaboration, in 1977 the Mae and Benjamin Swig Chair in Judaic Studies was established as an homage to Swig's parents. The program was the first Jewish Studies program at a Catholic university worldwide. It was also the first Jewish Studies program at any Bay Area university or college. Swig later became the chairman of the University of San Francisco Board of Trustees.

Rabbi Davis became the first Mae and Benjamin Swig Chair of the university's new program, which was then called the Swig Judaic Studies Program. Davis recalls that Father Lo Schiavo called him a “one man ecumenical movement” because of his work in building bridges between the San Francisco Jewish and Christian communities.  Indeed, the collaboration between Swig, who was a prominent leader in the San Francisco Jewish community, and Lo Schiavo, an equally prominent member of the Jesuit community, would never have existed without Rabbi Davis' enthusiasm and encouragement. The new Swig Judaic Studies Program offered workshops, lectures, and seminars, and it partnered with Jewish organizations in the Bay Area for additional educational programming. Rabbi Davis brought world-renowned figures to USF, including Nobel prize recipients Saul Bellow and Elie Wiesel; Erik Erikson, winner of the Pulitzer Prize and National Book Award; and Abba Eban, ambassador from Israel.

In 1997 Andrew R. Heinze, a USF professor of American History who specialized in Jewish studies, was appointed as the new Swig chair. To solidify the program's academic standing, Heinze created a Jewish Studies Certificate program that expanded the curriculum beyond the Theology & Religious studies Department. He introduced courses in Hebrew, Jewish history, The Holocaust, Jewish American literature, and Yiddish culture. Heinze also introduced the Swig Annual Lecture Series: free public lectures delivered by distinguished scholars, which were published and distributed to universities, public libraries, and individual scholars in the United States and abroad. This series included a ground-breaking symposium on new religious approaches to homosexuality, and a symposium on Jewish-Catholic Relations that featured one of the Vatican's pre-eminent officials, Cardinal Edward Cassidy, president of the Pontifical Commission for Religious Relations with the Jews. In 1998 Heinze launched Ulpan San Francisco, an Israeli-style Hebrew immersion program that was scheduled during the summer and served anyone living in the San Francisco Bay area; it was the first such program in Northern California.

In 2007 Aaron Hahn Tapper became the third person to hold the chair. Hahn Tapper, who had earned a BA from Johns Hopkins University, an MA from Harvard Divinity School, and a Doctorate from the University of California, Santa Barbara, focused on "conflict resolution and social relations between Jewish, Muslim, Israeli and Palestinian communities." The University of San Francisco's dean of humanities, Jennifer Turpin welcomed Hahn Tapper's appointment to the Swig chair with the comment, "He's a person who welcomes people with many different points of view and backgrounds to the conversation.  His commitment to transforming conflicts between different cultures and faiths is one that really resonates with the university." In fact, in 2006, Hahn Tapper had been formally recognized by former President Bill Clinton for his conflict resolution work with teens and college students.