[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nikolay Alexeyev

ually fierce homophobia".

In 2006, Nikolay Alexeyev also received GALHA Award (London), in recognition of "his courage in challenging homophobia in Russia and beyond".

On 17 June 2008, The Advocate called him a Global Pride Warrior together with three other activists from Nepal, Nigeria and Chile.

Also in 2008, Nikolay Alexeyev received the HERO Award (Los Angeles), "for his attempts to stage full Prides". The award was presented during the Grand Finale of the Mr Gay International Competition in Los Angeles.

 Also in 2008, Nikolay Alexeyev received São Paulo's Citizen Award for Respecting Diversity Sao Paulo. It was presented by the Associação da Parada do Orgulho LGBT de São Paulo (APOGLBT).

On 14 May 2009, Radio Free Europe Radio Liberty called Nikolay Alexeyev "A Man of the week" after the organisation of the Slavic Pride during the "Eurovision Song Contest" final in Moscow.

In July 2010, Nikolay Alexeyev received "A Hero Award" in international nomination presented by Vancouver Pride Society. On 1 August 2010 he was a grand marshal of Vancouver Gay Parade, heading the march in white navy uniform with the logo of Moscow Pride. The interview with Nikolay Alexeyev was published by the leading Canadian LGBT newspaper Xtra.com. During his stay in Vancouver he also took part in two TV shows on local ShawTV explaining the situation for LGBT rights in Russia.

In December 2010, Romanian LGBT portal Angelicuss.com named Nikolay Alexeyev as "A Man of the Year 2010". According to the publication, he is "one of the most respected human rights activist in the world and he is a model to us for his determination and self sacrifice. Nikolai is a symbol of dignity maintained against the waves of hatred which drown Russia".

Nikolay Alexeyev is known to be a personal friend of German Bundestag member Volker Beck, British gay rights activist Peter Tatchell, President of IDAHO Committee Louis-Georges Tin, writer and Oscar Wilde's grandson Merlin Holland. He was also a friend of Jacques Teyssier.

Media appearance

According to the leading Russian Internet search engine Yandex.Ru, Nikolay Alexeyev is the most quoted gay activist in Russian media on LGBT issues. He takes part in various TV and radio programs in Russia and abroad.

He was twice invited to take part in the most watched talk show on Russian TV K baryeru! (NTV Russia Television) hosted by Vladimir Solovyov (journalist) for six years. The show took a form of a debate between two participants with the conductor acting as a referee and asking questions. The program was widely watched in Russia because it was broadcast during prime time throughout the country. It was last aired on 23 April 2009, after which the channel's administration took a decision to close the program.

"K baryeru" - Nikolay Alexeyev v. State Duma deputy Svetlana Goryacheva, was broadcast on 18 May 2006. The debate was initiated after the organizers for the first time notified Moscow Mayor about their intention to conduct a Gay Pride in Moscow.

"K baryeru" - Nikolay Alexeyev v. State Duma deputy Alexander Chuyev was broadcast on 21 June 2007. The debate was initiated after Orthodox youth movement "Georgievtsy" organized picketings of the gay cruising area in downtown Moscow.

During the second program Alexander Chuyev linked Nikolay Alexeyev to oligarch Boris Berezovsky and called him an extremist. In the final round of the show a scandal started after Nikolay Alexeyev called Alexander Chuyev "gay, coward and hypocrite". A week later, at the request of the deputy, criminal investigation was started against the activist. After a private peaceful agreement between the parties Alexender Chuyev asked the judge to dismiss the charges and close the case. Nikolay Alexeyev also tried to prosecute Alexander Chuyev on the basis of the very same talk show but he was denied by the prosecution department.

On 2 December 2007 Alexander Chuyev, who in 2007 initiated a bill in the State Duma to criminalize "propaganda of homosexuality", was not re-elected during the parliamentary elections. On 5 December 2007 he admitted in the interview that the reason for his defeat was his homophobia. His bill to re-criminalize homosexuality was only rejected by the State Duma on 8 May 2009, on the eve of the 1st Slavic Pride in Moscow.

In June 2007, after the second Moscow Pride, NTV channel featured Nikolay Alexeyev in its program "Glavnyi geroi".

Nikolay Alexeyev took part in two video programs in the studio of The New Times magazine. In January 2008 he was opposed by Russian film director and actor Nikolay Burlyaev and in June 2008 Nikolay Alexeyev talked about the preparation and conduct of the third Moscow Pride.

On 17 May 2010, the International Day Against Homophobia, Nikolay Alexeyev took part in the program "Chestnyi ponedelnik" on NTV which was dedicated to sexual minorities in Russia.

Principal appearances of Nikolay Alexeyev on the leading Russian radio "Echo Moskvy":