[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dogs of Roman Britain

y harnesses or beatings. The inscription can be seen in the British Museum.

Pets 

Through zooarchaeological research, evidence has been found that supports the idea that domestic dog ownership was prevalent in Roman Britain. Human care for dogs can be seen in the analysis of the bones left behind.

Canine burials have few credible instances in Roman Britain, and it difficult to measure the relation the colony's inhabitants had with domestic dogs for this reason. Within the remains of one site in La Bourse, Marseille (France),  it can be deduced that the recovered dog had significant dental issues that were sustained for a while. Evidence such as the loss of its maxillary teeth and the unusual amount of calculus buildup proves that this dog would have needed human care in order to eat. With this knowledge alongside the apparent abundance of the animals in Roman British life, it is likely that such dogs were treated equally in this regard.

However, terminology such as the word "pet" is problematic in the context of Rome as work animals and pets were often the same thing in antiquity. Using the word pet also subconsciously projects modern interpretations of what a pet is onto the ancient world. Therefore, it is MacKinnon's suggestion that "personal animal" is a more reflective term for the role of dogs in Roman Britain.

Economic contributions 
Roman Britain was lacking in the resources other colonies provided, but hunting dogs found in the Isles were of some value in export and trade. Aside from dogs as companions and for hunting purposes, dog hides were also known attributes of the Roman Britain economy.

Depictions in art 

The relationship between Britain and the production of hunting breeds was significant enough to render the image of hunting with domestic dogs often synonymous with the territory itself in Roman art.

Figurines were found in an excavation at Southbroom which consisted of dog-like creatures. Some of them depicted a long protruding tongue while others have a limp human in their jaws. It is suggested that these differences in the figures indicate a transition from a predator to a domesticated animal. However, another important factor to note is that the dog figurines found in this hoard always depict the dog larger than the human. This may be a representation of a deity or divine depiction of the dogs as protectors. This idea can be seen as a visual display of dogs being associated with the underworld.

See also
Molossus

References

Sources
Fleig, D. (1996). Fighting Dog Breeds. (Pg. 26 - 27). Neptune, NJ: TFH Publications. 
Homan, M. (1999). A Complete History of Fighting Dogs. (Pg. 9). Howell Book House.

External links
Wonders of Britain

Dog breeds originating in the United Kingdom
Extinct dog breeds
Roman Britain
Roman weapons