[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Australian rules football in Africa

l code in the colony. It was reintroduced by the Australian Defence Force in 1997 and in the 2000s became one of the fastest growing places for the sport outside of Australia, becoming widely played in the North West Province with tens of thousands of players. The governing body is AFL South Africa.

Sudan
While the sport hasn't been played in Sudan, the country is notable for producing AFL players from the migrant community in Australia.

Notable players

South Sudan
While the sport hasn't been played in South Sudan, the country is notable for producing many AFL players from the migrant community in Australia. A team representing South Sudan has won the World 9s twice most recently in 2021.

Notable players

Uganda
Non-organised Australian football at junior level featuring locals has been played in Uganda in 2006.

Western Sahara
Australian football was played on an informal basis in Western Sahara in 2008.

Zimbabwe
The sport of Australian rules football is in its early stages of development in Zimbabwe, with Australian Football Zimbabwe in the planning stage, with its main aims being to combine Aussie rules football as a developing sport, with health clinics and information sessions to be run to assist disadvantaged and sick children.

In 2020, AFL Zimbabwe was formed as the governing body for the sport in Zimbabwe.

Notable players

Other AFL nationalities
An increasing number of players descended from the Indigenous peoples of Africa have played professionally in the Australian Football League, holding African Australian identity. The successful career of Majak Daw in the AFL is credited as having inspired many children from the South Sudanese migrant community in Australia to take up the sport.

Team Africa at the International Cup
A team known as Team Africa, drawn from various Melbourne African communities, competed in the 2008 Australian Football International Cup's Multicultural Challenge, playing matches against South Africa, Tonga and an Asian community side dubbed Team Asia.

Team Africa's players were from countries including Somalia, Egypt, Ethiopia, Sudan, Nigeria, Kenya, South Africa, Zimbabwe and Djibouti.

References

 
Australian rules football outside Australia