[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Walk of the People – A Pilgrimage for Life

meeting political and religious leaders and everyday folks. Several hundred people walked them into Aachen, Germany, in a welcome organized by local Green Party members. They were denied entrance into East Germany in June 1985 and settled in an old mill house in a border town to figure out a plan. 

A few weeks later, they walked to Vienna, Austria, then took a train to Budapest and some other cities in Hungary as part of a tour organized by the government's Hungarian Peace Committee. They were turned down again for visas to fly to Moscow. Eventually, several members took a train to Moscow from Geneva, Switzerland, following the November 1985 Geneva Summit between Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev. They met with members of the Soviet Peace Committee and others, and distributed letters and drawings.

Impact 

Many people in Europe wrote to O'Brien to say how much the walk gave them hope and a different perspective of Americans, she said. Some organizers said the project likely made subsequent efforts to break down the Cold War barriers easier to implement in Russia. A 450-mile American-Soviet Peace Walk from Saint Petersburg to Moscow involving about 230 Americans and 200 Russians, which was organized by another group, occurred in 1987. Meeting with high-level Russian officials in Moscow and Geneva for several hours showed that "behind the scenes you were taken a lot more seriously than (Russian officials) were willing to admit," O'Brien said.

The project raised much awareness through the media. The walk was covered by hundreds of newspapers, radio stations, and television stations in the U.S. and Europe, from CNN and The Associated Press, to national television in France, Germany, and other countries. Many people heard about the march and said it inspired them to work more diligently for peace. 

Numerous political, religious and peace movement leaders were touched enough to write letters of support or welcome. Former New York Gov. Mario Cuomo wrote three times on the walk’s behalf, and former President Jimmy Carter wrote twice. Besides Gov. George Wallace, others who wrote letters or endorsed the project included:

 Rev. C.T. Vivian, civil rights leader, Presidential Medal of Freedom recipient 
 Ron Dellums, former Oakland mayor, U.S. House of Representatives member
 Texas Gov. Mark White
 North Carolina Gov. Jim Hunt
 Georgia Gov. Joe Frank Harris
 Louisiana Gov. Edwin Edwards
 New Mexico Gov. Toney Anaya
 Arizona Gov. Bruce Babbitt
 South Carolina Gov. Richard Riley
 Maryland Gov. Harry Hughes
 Washington, D.C., Mayor Marion Barry
 Delaware Gov. Pete du Pont and Rep. Tom Carper
 New Jersey Gov. Thomas Kean
 Houston Mayor Kathryn Whitmire
 Philadelphia Mayor Wilson Goode
 New Orleans Mayor Ernest Morial
 Santa Cruz Mayor John Laird
 Tempe Mayor Harry Mitchell
 Princeton Mayor Barbara Sigmund
 Catholic Bishop Nicholas D'Antonio Salza
 Episcopal Bishop C. Judson Child Jr. 
 Richard Barnet, author, co-founder Institute for Policy Studies
 Uwe Lichtenberg, Fürth, Germany, Mayor 
 Michael O'Halloran, Lord Mayor of Dublin, Ireland
 Raymond Yans, Liège, Belgium, Deputy Mayor
 Rev. Richard Deats, executive secretary, Fellowship of Reconciliation
 Rev. Kenneth Kinnett, Episcopal Church of the Covenant
 Howard Frazier, executive director, Promoting Enduring Peace

Aftermath 

Some participants continued to join similar projects, including the Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament and an international peace walk organized by world-wide walker Prem Kumar in India in 1987-88. Kumar walked with Walk of the People for a few weeks in Ireland and the United Kingdom in the midst of his 10,500-mile, four-year journey.

As the Berlin Wall fell and the Soviet Union dissolved, the "Doomsday Clock" rose to 17 minutes by 1991. But it has since gone down to less than two minutes, as of 2020.

One participant, journalist Kevin James Shay, wrote a book about the inside story of the project called Walking through the Wall. The book won a 2002  International PeaceWriting Award, sponsored by the OMNI Center for Peace, Justice and Ecology of Fayetteville, Arkansas, and the Peace and Justice Studies Association of Georgetown University. Shay donated many of his papers from the project to Swarthmore College.

Similar group peace walks 
Many similarly-long peace walks involving a group have occurred before and after A Walk of the People. The following are a few:

 San Francisco to Moscow Walk for Peace, 1960-61. Organized by the Committee for Non-Violent Action, about 16 people started from San Francisco and walked to New York in six months. More people joined in Europe, and the project, led by pacifist leaders A.J. Muste and Bradford Lyttle, covered some 5,900 miles in just ten months. Unlike numerous projects, they were able to walk through Russia.