[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# May 1974

Province of Ravenna, Emilia-Romagna
Died:
Ruth McGinnis, 64, American straight pool player, and women's champion in 1946, died of cancer.
Billy Welu, 41, American professional bowler and commentator, winner of the American Bowling Congress Masters championship in 1964 and 1965

May 17, 1974 (Friday)

UVF terrorists killed 33 civilians and injured more than 300 in the Republic of Ireland in four simultaneous car bomb explosions in County Dublin and County Monaghan. The event marked the highest number of casualties in any single event in The Troubles.
In Lafayette, Louisiana, 28-year-old Russell James Foote, the director of the local chapter of the American Red Cross, was found in his car with a gunshot wound to the head inflicted by someone standing outside the car. He died shortly afterwards at Lafayette General Hospital. The investigation by the Lafayette Parish Sheriff's Office revealed embezzlement within the Red Cross office.  Foote's murder had not been solved.

In Compton, California, a shootout between members of the Los Angeles Police Department and the Symbionese Liberation Army (SLA) terrorist group began at 5:50 p.m. local time at the terrorist group's hideout at 1449 54th Street. The firing of tear gas canisters into the residence was followed by a fire that killed six of the SLA members, burning their bodies beyond recognition. The shootout and fire were broadcast on live television in Los Angeles, preempting national news programming. Six SLA members died during the incident. SLA leader Donald DeFreeze (aka Commander Cinque), 30, shot himself to death. Camilla Hall, 29, and SLA co-founder Nancy Ling Perry, 26, died after being shot by police. Patricia Soltysik, 24, Angela Atwood (aka General Gelina), 25, and Willie Wolfe (aka "Kahjoh"), 23, died of smoke inhalation or burns.
The first Synchronous Meteorological Satellite, SMS-1, a weather satellite placed in geosynchronous orbit, was launched from Cape Canaveral, to be placed at a point  above the Earth's equator and the 100th meridian west.
The derailment of a Southern Railway train injured 133 people  northwest of Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
Born:
Andrea Corr, Irish pop music singer and member of The Corrs; in Dundalk, County Louth
Tamara Rojo, Canadian-born Spanish ballet dancer, principal dancer in the English National Ballet; in Montreal
Died:
Durga Das, 73, Indian journalist, editor of the Hindustan Times and founder of the India News and Feature Alliance (INFA) news agency.
Maurice Lehmann, 79, French actor, director and producer, former general manager of the Paris Opera.
Fritz Roethlisberger, 75, American social scientist and business theorist

May 18, 1974 (Saturday)
India became the sixth nuclear power, with the successful test of a low-yield weapon at the Pokhran Test Range in the state of Rajasthan. Taking place on Buddha Jayanti, celebrated as the birthday of Siddhartha Gautama Buddha, the test was code-named Project Smiling Buddha. The other nuclear powers at the time were the U.S., the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, France, and the People's Republic of China.
In voting for the Australian House of Representatives and the Australian Senate, Gough Whitlam's Labor government lost seats but maintained a slim majority in the 127-member House (66 to 61) over the Liberal/Country Coalition led by Billy Snedden. In the 60-seat Senate, the Labor Party and Snedden's Coalition won 29 seats each, while Tom Drake-Brockman of the National Alliance and independent Senator Michael Townley winning the other seat.
In the final weekend of matches in West Germany's 1973–74 Bundesliga season, first-place Bayern Munich (20-9-4, 49 points) and second-place Borussia Mönchengladbach (20-6-7, 46 points) faced each other. Borussia, already eliminated from the race for first place, defeated Bayern Munich, 5 to 0.
Little Current, ridden by jockey Miguel Rivera, won the 1974 Preakness Stakes at Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore.
In fiction, May 18, 1974, is the "seventh day" in the bestselling 1962 novel Seven Days in May, about an attempted overthrow of the U.S. government. The day was modified to Sunday, May 19, for the 1964 film of the same name.
Died:
Roald H. Fryxell, 40, American anthropologist, was killed in a car accident.
Martín Echegoyen, 83, former head of state of Uruguay as Chairman of the nine-member Consejo Nacional de Gobierno, 1959 to 1960 
Tyree Glenn, 61. American jazz trombonist of the big band era
Xenia Makletzova, 81, Russian ballet dancer
Dan Topping, 61, American sports executive, former part owner and president of the New York Yankees, died of complications of emphysema.

May 19, 1974 (Sunday)