[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Saudi–Yemeni War (1934)

The Saudi–Yemeni War () was a war between Saudi Arabia and the Kingdom of Yemen in 1934.

Background 
Ibn Saud, the founder of Saudi Arabia, had named himself King of the Nejd, following the collapse of Ottoman Empire power during World War I.  In 1925 he took control of Hejaz from the Hashemites.  In 1932, he proclaimed the merger of the Nejd and Hejaz kingdoms, establishing the Saudi Arabian Kingdom. Most of the boundaries remained unmapped, unmarked, and undemarcated by treaty.  He was described as "a modern Solomon",  as "Cromwell of the Desert",  and as both the Napoleon and the Bismarck of Arabia.

By 1932, Ibn Saud controlled almost all of Arabia,  except for Yemen, and the smaller coastal states which were then British protectorates (Oman, Kuwait, Bahrain, Aden, etc.). Between Hejaz and Yemen were several tribal regions over which the Ottomans had previously held weak suzerainty,  and which both Ibn Saud and the Imam of Yemen now aspired to control.

Dispute over Asir 
In 1923, Emir Idrissi, the ruler of the Emirate of Asir, maintained an uneasy independence between Nejd, Hejaz, and Yemen.  He was at peace with his traditional rivals in Hejaz,  but in dispute with Imam Yahya of Yemen, to the south of Asir. The area controlled by the independent Idrisid emirate fluctuated during the ten years of its independent existence.

In 1926, the Emir of Asir assented to Saudi suzerainty, and in 1930 it was incorporated into the Nejd and Hejaz Kingdom. The new Saudi kingdom started growing at the cost of Idrissi-controlled areas, as Asir and Jizan were both part of the Idrisid Asir emirate during the 1920s.

A treaty was made in 1931 but soon broken. In November 1933, the Yemenis declared war and advanced on Najran.

A peace delegation, which included ibn Saud's son, was jailed by King Yahya. Ibn Saud's efforts reportedly prompted Imam Yahya to say of him: "Who is this Bedouin coming to challenge my family's 900 year rule?"

Treaty of Sana'a 
In February 1934, at the start of the war, the Yemen Government and the British representative in Aden made a "treaty of friendship",  which resolved some of the disputes between Yemen and Britain over Aden and the border between Yemen and the Aden Protectorate, and under which the British guaranteed the independence of Yemen for forty years. The Imam agreed to stop attacking Aden.  At this point in time, the British had a "treaty of friendship" with both the Saudi and Yemeni sides in the war.

Saudi-Yemeni War 
In March 1934, King Ibn Saud ordered the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia (later King Saud) "to re-occupy townships in the highlands of Tehama which the Imam of the Yemen has seized".  A communique states that "Ibn Saud has tried all diplomatic means of seeking an agreement, but the last just ruler in Yemen, the Imam has persisted in a policy of oppressing the inhabitants and 'eradicating' all who have not surrendered." On 20 March 1934, Saudi Arabia declared war on Yemen. The Saudis advanced quickly, capturing the disputed cities of Hajara and Najran on 7 and 21 April respectively. By 9 April, Haradh had been occupied by the Saudi army (except for a single fort, which fell the next day), and Midi was under siege. On 11 April, the Saudi press reported that Aqabat ash-Shatba had been captured by Saudi forces, from which the Saudi army continued their advance, capturing Yabad, then the Bab-al-Hadfd valley, before finally besieging Baqim. By 18 April, the press reported Saudi advances on all fronts, including north of Saada. By the 21st, Midi was reported to have fallen to Saudi forces. 

In May 1934, the Saudi forces pressed forward their attack in the coastal region, occupying Hodeida.  The Saudi tribesmen threatened to loot the Indian trading businesses in Hodeida, but were dissuaded by the arrival of British sailors to maintain order.  Unrest occurred in Sanaa, due to lack of food.  The Imam denied rumours that he had been slain,  while his son fled.  Both the King and the Imam sought control of Asir.  The Imam asked King Fuad of Egypt to intervene in the war.  The British sloop 'Penzance' evacuated the British and Indian residents of Hodeida, and 300 foreigners, to Karaman Island for safety. On May 6, three Italian warships were dispatched to Hodeida to protect Italian interests.