[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Gunther Dean

ead of the department's medical service.

Dean retired from the U.S. Foreign Service in 1989. Dean's freelancing efforts to get the Reagan Administration to reverse its policies on Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India angered high administration officials, and he left government service soon thereafter.

Personal life
Dean spoke four languages: English, French, German, and Danish. He was the first U.S. Ambassador to Denmark who learned and spoke Danish, thus gaining significant respect from its people. He was married to the French-born Martine Duphenieux, and they had three grown children. He lived in Switzerland and France but remained active on foreign affairs issues and went to the United States often. He died in June 2019 at the age of 93.

While stationed in Paris (1965–69), Dean played a major role in bringing the U.S.-North Vietnam peace talks to Paris in 1968. In Lebanon, Dean was helpful in obtaining the release of the first American hostages in Tehran. In India, Dean helped bring about the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan according to an agreed time table.

In the film The Killing Fields, Dean is portrayed by Ira Wheeler. The evacuation of Phnom Penh scene was filmed near Bangkok in 1983 and Wheeler met Dean, who was then the U.S. Ambassador to Thailand.

References

Bibliography
Book published 2009 DANGER ZONES: A Diplomat's Fight for America's Interests, published by the Association for Diplomatic Studies and Training.

External links

John Gunther Dean's Oral History
John Gunther Dean's Inventory. 11 linear feet of documents he donated to the U.S. National Archives in 2004 and 2005 are partially available to the public at the Jimmy Carter Library.
List of U.S. Ambassadors to Thailand, 1882 to present

1926 births
2019 deaths
People from Wrocław
Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences alumni
Ambassadors of the United States to Cambodia
Ambassadors of the United States to Denmark
Ambassadors of the United States to Lebanon
Ambassadors of the United States to Thailand
Ambassadors of the United States to India
Jewish American military personnel
United States Army personnel of World War II
Military personnel from Missouri
Jewish emigrants from Nazi Germany to the United States
Naturalized citizens of the United States
United States Foreign Service personnel
21st-century American Jews