[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Randall Auxier

t that time John Shook and Scott Gelfand from OSU became co-editors. After five years of publishing under the new name, The Pluralist became the official journal of the Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy in 2010. After this transition, Auxier continued to edit the journal until 2012.

The Library of Living Philosophers 
In 2001, Auxier was appointed editor of the Library of Living Philosophers, the third in its history, following series founder Paul Arthur Schilpp (1938–1981), and Lewis Edwin Hahn (1981–2001). This series is important to scholars because it provides an opportunity to critics and supporters of a valuable philosophical figure to address the thinker, while still alive, regarding any problems or ambiguities that may have arisen around his or her thought over the course of his or her career. The central thinker then responds to these questions or concerns, and, thus, the volume provides the opportunity for a final and definitive discussion regarding the thought of a world-renowned contemporary philosopher. The series has a highly esteemed reputation as a fine scholarly publication, and it is known for its impeccable editing.

During his editorship, Auxier worked with and completed volumes on Seyyed Hossein Nasr (2001), Marjorie Grene (2003), Jaakko Hintikka (2006), Michael Dummett (2007), Richard Rorty (2010), and Arthur C. Danto (2013). Figures whose volumes were completed after 2013 but for which Auxier was principal editor include Hilary Putnam and Umberto Eco. He initiated a volume on Julia Kristeva which is in progress.

The American Institute for Philosophical and Cultural Thought 
In November 2016, in response to the decision of Southern Illinois University Carbondale to dismiss all staff and cease all projects of the Center for Dewey Studies, Auxier, along with John R. Shook and Larry A. Hickman (Director Emeritus of the Center for Dewey Studies) founded the American Institute of Philosophical and Cultural Thought. It is a federal 501 (c) (3) private foundation and is registered in the State of Illinois as a charitable organization. AIPCT dedicated to the continuation of the work of the Dewey Center, to the greatest extent possible, as well as to a broad range of other cultural and scholarly activities. It holds some 30,000 volumes specialized in American thought along with the papers of a number of distinguished philosophers and theologians of the 20th century. There are regular programs, seminars, public lectures, as well as fellowships and grants for long-term research and residency. AIPCT is affiliated with several scholarly organizations, including the Institute of American Religious and Philosophical Thought and the Foundation for the Philosophy of Creativity and works closely with the Special Collections Research Center of the Morris Library at Southern Illinois University Carbondale.

Works 
Auxier has authored or co-authored many lectures and presentations around the United States and in other countries, has written many scholarly articles, book chapters, encyclopedia entries, and translations. He edited numerous books. Subjects on which he has published range from John Dewey and Alfred North Whitehead to the limits of evolution, biker bars, and rock music. His recent work includes Time, Will and Purpose: Living Ideas from the Philosophy of Josiah Royce, (Open Court 2013); Metaphysical Graffiti: Deep Cuts in the Philosophy of Rock (Open Court 2017), and, with Gary L. Herstein, The Quantum of Explanation: Whitehead's Radical Empiricism (Routledge, 2017). Auxier's journalism includes articles and book reviews for the Carbondale Nightlife and the Carbondale Times, and he authored articles and fiction for Empirical Magazine while it was operating. Auxier writes a regular blog for Radically Empirical, an online magazine that features essays and commentary on current and literary affairs. Auxier's creative works also include short stories, occasional poetry, and three music CDs.

Auxier's areas of specialization are American philosophy, post-Kantian continental philosophy, process and systematic philosophy/theology, history of philosophy, metaphysics, moral philosophy, theology, political theory, and philosophy of education. He has been awarded the Jacobsen Prize in Process Metaphysics from the International Society for Universalism and the Douglas Greenlee Prize from the Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy.