[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# November 1976

The following events occurred in November 1976:

Monday, November 1, 1976
Lieutenant Colonel Jean-Baptiste Bagaza of the Burundi Army led a bloodless coup d'état overthrowing President Michel Micombero, who had overthrown the monarchy of the African nation in 1966.  The 30-member Supreme Revolutionary Council that replaced Micombero named Bagaza as President of Burundi on November 10.
Universities and schools in Thailand reopened after having been closed for nearly a month because of violence that had led to a military coup d'état and closure on October 6.
Born: Adah Almutairi, American nanotechnology engineer; in Portland, Oregon

Tuesday, November 2, 1976
Former Georgia Governor Jimmy Carter defeated U.S. President Gerald Ford to win the 1976 United States presidential election, becoming the first candidate from the Deep South to win since the Civil War.  Carter received 297 electoral votes after narrowly winning Ohio and its 25 by a little more than 11,000 popular votes out of four million.  Ford, who had 240 electoral votes, conceded the election at 3:30 the next morning in Washington, and telephoned his congratulations to Carter by telephone at 11:00 a.m.
The first legislative elections in Cuba since 1958 took place with the indirect participation people who had voted in October 10 (with runoffs on October 17) for the members of Cuba's 169 municipal assemblies.  Of more than 30,000 candidates, the 10,725 who had been selected as municipal legislators then chose the 469 deputies of the National Assembly of People's Power (Asamblea Nacional del Poder Popular).
Born:  
Thierry Omeyer, former goalkeeper for the French men's national handball team; in Mulhouse
Kris Kaspersky (pen name for Nikolay Likhachev), Russian computer hacker; in Uspenskoye, RSFSR, Soviet Union (killed in skydiving accident, 2017)
Matt Cullen, former professional ice hockey player, two-time Stanley Cup champion with the Pittsburgh Penguins

Wednesday, November 3, 1976
Jacques Mayol of France became the first person to dive to a depth of  without the use of scuba gear.  Mayol, age 49, held his breath and went down into the Mediterranean Sea off of the island of Elba.
The worst railroad accident in Poland in more than ten years killed 25 people and injured 60 others after an express train crashed into the back of a passenger train that had been making a scheduled stop at the station at Julianka.  The express between Lublin and Wroclaw, traveling in a dense fog, came in behind the other train.
Brian DePalma's horror film Carrie, based on the novel of the same name by Stephen King, premiered in select cities before going into general release nationwide on November 16.
Born: Emiliano Reali, Italian novelist, in Rome
Died: Henk Korthals, 65, Dutch politician and former Deputy Prime Minister of the Netherlands, 1959 to 1963

Thursday, November 4, 1976
U.S. District Court Judge Warren J. Ferguson declared that the Family Viewing Hour (actually a two-hour period between 7:00 and 9:00 in the evening Eastern time in which programs containing violent scenes and sexual content were not to be aired), instituted by the FCC, was unconstitutional as a violation of the First Amendment guarantees of freedom of speech.  The suit had been brought by the Writers Guild of America, the Screen Actors Guild, and numerous production companies and had named the nation's three commercial TV networks (ABC, CBS and NBC).  A decree made by the National Association of Broadcasters in 1975 was also overturned, giving stations free rein on what to air in the pre-prime time slots.
Born: James Dale Ritchie, American serial killer; in Anchorage, Alaska (killed in police shootout, 2016) 
Died: 
Edith Shackleton Heald, 91, British journalist
Massimo Dallamano, 59, Italian film director known for "Spaghetti Western" movies, was killed in an auto accident