[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Navicat

November 2011. This is a simple Navicat version for commercial use. The Essentials editions of Navicat lack several features found in the Standard/Enterprise editions, including form view, record filtering, visual query building, data modeling and options for import, export and backup of data, etc.

Navicat Data Modeler
Navicat Data Modeler Windows version was officially released in March 2012. Then, Mac OS X and Linux version were released in May 2012 and June 2012. This is a standalone product for developers to create data models for MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, PostgreSQL and SQLite databases. Navicat Data Modeler allows users to visually design database structures, perform reverse/forward engineer process, import table structures from ODBC data sources, generate SQL files and print models to files, etc. In June 2015, added the support of MariaDB databases and several features such as Model Conversion, Physical/Logical/Conceptual model types and Navicat Cloud.

Navicat iOS
In August 2013, PremiumSoft released a new product - Navicat iOS. It is a database administration tool developed for iOS with features included object viewer & designer, query builder & editor, Navicat Cloud, server monitor, etc. MySQL was supported in the first release. Then, Navicat for PostgreSQL iOS version was released in January 2015. In September 2017, Navicat for MariaDB iOS version was released.

Navicat Cloud
Navicat Cloud is a cloud service for users to synchronize their connection settings, queries, models and virtual groups with multiple platforms and devices. A user can share his project to others for collaborating on connection settings, queries and models.

Navicat Monitor
Navicat Monitor was officially released in April 2018. It is a safe, simple and agentless remote server monitoring tool and supports to monitor MySQL, MariaDB and cloud databases. Users can access Navicat Monitor from anywhere via a web browser. The main features of Navicat Monitor including real-time instance performance monitoring, alert notification, query analyzer, replications monitoring.

Navicat On-Prem Server
Navicat On-Prem Server is an on-premise solution that provides the option to host a cloud environment for storing Navicat objects (connection info, queries, models, groups) internally at user's location.

Navicat Charts Creator & Viewer
In Nov 2021, 2 new products, Navicat Charts Creator & Navicat Charts Viewer were released. Navicat Charts Creator is a GUI tool for creating visual representations (charts & dashboards) of database data. Navicat Charts Viewer is a tool for viewing charts workspace files.

Features
Navicat's features include:

 code snippet
 visual query-builder
 SSH and HTTP tunneling
 data and structure migration and synchronization
 import and export and backup of data
 charts & dashboard
 report builder
 data modeling
 task scheduling and wizards tool

There are differences in the features available across operating systems.

Navicat is also compatible with forks of MySQL such as Drizzle, OurDelta, and Percona.

Navicat supports Cloud Databases like Amazon RDS, Amazon Aurora, Amazon Redshift, SQL Azure, Oracle Cloud, Google Cloud and Alibaba Cloud.

See also
Comparison of database tools

References

External links

 Navicat Community

MySQL
PostgreSQL
Database administration tools
Data modeling tools
Software companies of Hong Kong
Oracle database tools
Microsoft database software
MariaDB