[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bessie Rischbieth

Rischbieth, almost ninety years old, symbolically attempted to block it by entering the river ahead of the bulldozers. This was published in the West Australian newspaper and succeeded in generating public discussion of development, although it failed to stop land reclamation of the Perth foreshore.

Death
She remained active in social issues until her death at Bethesda Hospital in Claremont, Western Australia on 13 March 1967, aged 92.

Legacy
The Women's Service Guilds were responsible for the founding of National Council of Women of Australia, Girl Guides, the Housewives Association, Civilian Widows, Swan River Conservation, and many other organisations dispensing or advocating social justice to women and children across the state and nation.

Rischbieth is perennially named in the West Australian's W.A.'s 100 most influential list and a conservation award bears her name. An extensive collection of her papers and other material and the items associated with Louie (Louisa) Cullen, an 'original suffragette' whom Rischbieth encouraged to share her experience and archives,  is held by the National Library of Australia, the John Curtin Prime Ministerial Library and the State Library of Western Australia. The National Library of Australia mounted a crowdfunding appeal to digitise her papers in June 2016.

In 2016, a statue of her was placed on the area of the former Perth Esplanade, now Elizabeth Quay. The statue references her opposition to the filling in of Mounts Bay for the freeway interchange, but neither addresses that site or her more famous defence of Kings Park. The statue has been criticised both for the youthful appearance given her and the small size of her umbrella.

Rischbieth Crescent, in the Canberra suburb of Gilmore, is named in her honour.

Gallery

Published works

The Dawn, journal of the Federation of Women Voters''

Notes and references

Further reading

External links

1874 births
1967 deaths
Australian justices of the peace
Australian suffragists
Australian Theosophists
Australian people of Cornish descent
People from Adelaide
People from Perth, Western Australia
Australian Officers of the Order of the British Empire
19th-century Australian women
20th-century Australian women