[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mistborn: The Well of Ascension

her Allomancy; she stops their slaughtering and turns them and Luthadel's army against Straff's army. Vin kills Straff and his generals as Cett decides to ally himself with Luthadel. Vin forces Cett, Penrod, and Straff's last general to swear allegiance as kings under Elend, whom she names emperor.

Vin realizes that the Well of Ascension is in Luthadel itself; Rashek had transferred it from Terris to his stronghold when he had remade the world after claiming the Well's power, ensuring that he could keep it close and hide it from others. Vin, Elend and Spook find a hidden doorway in the Lord Ruler's castle that leads down to the underground Well of Ascension, where a man made of mist stabs Elend. Meanwhile, a similar spirit approaches Sazed, revealing the fragment of text which had disappeared from his and Tindwyl's transcription: Alendi must not reach the Well of Ascension, for he must not be allowed to release the thing that is imprisoned there. Sazed attempts to stop Vin but is attacked by Marsh, who appears to struggle with his quest to kill Sazed. Sazed is saved by Ham, and Marsh escapes. Meanwhile, Vin is tempted to use the power in the Well to heal Elend, but ultimately follows the instruction of Sazed's rubbing, releasing the power for the good of the world rather than seizing it for herself. The moment she releases it, a powerful entity escapes, shouting out that it is now free. The Mist figure encourages Vin to feed Elend a bead of metal she finds in the room, which makes him a Mistborn; his life is saved through Allomancy by burning Pewter.

Two months later, Sazed returns to The Conventical of Seran and inspects the engraving. He discovers that the words of the rubbing have been changed, finally explaining why Kwaan had inscribed it in metal where it could not be altered. Even the text in Sazed's metalminds had been manipulated, presumably by the mysterious entity working to secure its own release. Realizing that he had been manipulated and the entire Hero of Ages prophecy had been a lie designed to release the power hidden in the Well of Ascension, Sazed loses his faith.

Characters
Vin: A half-skaa Mistborn who killed the Lord Ruler and is the Survivor's Heir. She believes herself to be the Hero of Ages, and fights to protect Luthadel from its enemies. She is in a relationship with Elend.
Elend Venture: The king of the Central Dominance and leader of the Luthadel Assembly; a nobleman with a good heart who cares about the people. He is in love with Vin. 
Dockson or "Dox": A member of Kelsier's crew, he is in charge of operations and administration for the crew and Luthadel. He was the closest to Kelsier, and is the only member who isn't an Allomancer.
Hammond or "Ham": A member of Kelsier's crew and a general in Elend's military. He is a Pewter-burning Thug. Ham enjoys philosophical bouts, especially with Breeze.
Breeze: A member of Kelsier's crew and a Soother.
Clubs: A member of Kelsier's crew and a general in Elend's military. He is a Smoker, and the uncle of Spook.
Spook: A member of Kelsier's crew and Clubs' nephew. He is a Tineye and the youngest member of the crew. Formerly known as Lestibournes, Kelsier gave him a new nickname, Spook.
Marsh: Kelsier's brother, who was turned into a Steel Inquisitor during the rebellion against the Lord Ruler. 
Sazed: A Terrisman from the Northern Dominance of Terris. He is a Feruchemist Keeper, specializing in the keeping of religions. With the Final Empire overthrown, Sazed's duty is to spread his knowledge to the world.
Tindwyl: A Terriswoman from the Northern Dominance of Terris. She is a Keeper, specializing in the remembering of great political leaders.
OreSeur: A Kandra who is bound to Vin by a Contract, though the two despise each other. At her request, he takes the form of a wolfhound. 
Straff Venture: Elend's father and a Tineye. He is king of the Northern Dominance.
Ashweather Cett: The self-declared king of the Western Dominance.
Allrianne Cett: Ashweather Cett's only daughter, considered to be somewhat of a ditz by Vin. 
Jastes Lekal: The former best friend of Elend and the current king of the Southern Dominance.
Zane: A Mistborn who considers himself insane. He is an illegitimate son of Straff Venture.
TenSoon: The Kandra that belonged to Straff Venture and was later commanded by Zane.

External links
Mistborn: The Well of Ascension (official site)

Reviews
Amazon.com (includes Booklist review)
Eric James Stone review
Washington Post
Wotmania

2007 American novels
Mistborn novels
Novels set on fictional planets
Tor Books books
American fantasy novels