[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# HESA Ababil

unition payloads. It is probably coterminous with the "Mirsad-1" UAV operated by Hezbollah and may have been renamed "Qasef-1" in Houthi service.

Ababil-CH 
The Ababil-CH has two rear tails, like the Ababil-T, but is used as a target drone like the Ababil-B. It is slightly larger than the Ababil-T.

Qasef-1 
The Qasef-1 and Qasef-2K loitering munition versions are based on the Ababil-2 airframe and has a 30-kg warhead. It has been solely operated by Yemeni Houthis, who have mostly used it to attack the radar components of MIM-104 Patriot surface-to-air missiles. The Qasef-1 has been in use since late 2016 and some examples have been intercepted in transit to Yemen. It is possibly a renamed or modified Ababil-T with an installed explosive charge or a warhead.

The Houthis claim that they manufacture Qasef-1s themselves, but this claim has been disputed and there is widespread suspicion that it is Iranian-built.

Ababil-3 

The Ababil-3 is a complete redesign of the Ababil with an improved airframe used solely for surveillance: it carries better equipment and can stay aloft for longer. Some sources also designate the Ababil-3 as the Ababil-III. The Ababil-3 is thought to be based on the South African Denel Dynamics Seeker, and possibly the Seeker-2D model in particular. It is more widely exported than the Ababil-2, and is known to have entered production by 2008, with specific parts manufactured by 2006.

The Ababil-3 has a cylindrical body, with wings mounted on top while at the end of the body is an H-shaped twin boom. The wing design is a rectangle which after half its lengths tapers toward the wing tips. The Ababil-3's wingspan is about 7 meters, compared to 3 meters for the Ababil-2. It uses an engine from German company Limbach Flugmotoren. Other sources suggest the Ababil-3 is powered by Chinese or Iranian clones of the L550. Other particular parts inside the Ababil-3 were sourced from Irish defense contractors.

Analysis of an Ababil-3 downed over ISIS-held territory in Iraq, apparently due to mechanical failure, finds that the Ababil-3 is built out of composite materials. The powerplant had plain-surfaced cylinder heads; it was unclear if the engine was manufactured in Iran or China. Overall, the manufacture was "very economical" and the Ababil-3 was designed for low cost. There were also a number of defects in the downed Ababil-3 model, which could suggest poor manufacture or handling in the field.

Ababil-3s are based at an airstrip outside of Minab, a town near Bandar Abbas. Ababil-3s are also known to be based at Bandar Abbas International Airport. The Ababil-3 is comparable with the RQ-2.

The Ababil-3's max airspeed is , its range is  (roundtrip), and it has a service ceiling of . It has an endurance of 4 hours. An estimated 217 Ababil-3s have been built as of July 2019.

In 2014 Iran announced that they had developed night vision capabilities for the Ababil-3. Previous Ababil variants were most effective in daytime. As of 2020, Iran has armed  versions of the Ababil-3 drone.

Ababil-3s have been extensively used in the Syrian Civil War. The heterogeneity of Syrian Armed Forces forces makes it difficult to determine who operates or controls their use. An Ababil-3 crashed or was brought down in Pakistani territory in July 2019.

Ababil-4 

By 2022, Iran was using Ababil-4 in military exercises and military parades but released little information about it. This drone has longer range and duration than Ababil-3 and is used in reconnaissance and surveillance or combat roles.

Ababil-5 

Ababil-5 was first unveiled on April 18, 2022 during the Iran Army Day. It has a Rotax-914 engine (similar to Mohajer-6) with 115 horsepower and has a range of 480 km. It can carry four guided anti-tank missiles (Almas series) with a range of 8 kilometers or six precision-guided bombs (Qaem series) weighing 2.4 kilograms with a range of 6 kilometers. The drone is used in reconnaissance and surveillance or combat roles.

Operational history

Lebanon 

Hezbollah acquired Ababil-2 drones (twin-tail variant) in 2002, and operated them under the Mirsad-1 designation. Israel has said that Hezbollah received at least 12 Ababils before the 2006 Lebanon War. Three Ababils were launched during the conflict.

The first Ababil was shot down by an Israeli F-16 on 7 August 2006 off the coast of Northern Israel. The second Ababil crashed inside Lebanon on 13 August. The third Ababil deployed by Hezbollah was shot down by another F-16 hours later just inside Israel's northern border. Hezbollah was assessed as having several Ababil UAVs in 2009, although other estimates have ranged from 12 to 24–30. By 2018, Hezbollah stated that the Mirsad-1 had been retired from service.

Hezbollah has also built a large airstrip in Lebanon's Bekaa Valley. There is speculation that the airstrip could support larger, runway-launched Ababil-3 UAVs. Hezbollah is not definitively known to operate the Ababil-3.