[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Daniel Rudd

Daniel Arthur Rudd (August 7, 1854December 3, 1933) was a Black Catholic journalist and early Civil Rights leader.

He is known for starting in 1885 what has been called "the first newspaper printed by and for Black Americans", the Ohio Tribune—which he later expanded into the American Catholic Tribune, purported to be the first Black-owned national newspaper. The paper folded in 1897.

He also founded the Colored Catholic Congress in 1889, which held five meetings total and lasted until 1894.

Biography

Early life
Daniel Rudd was born on August 7, 1854, on Anatok Plantation in Bardstown, Kentucky to enslaved parents Robert and Elizabeth Rudd. Daniel and all 11 of his siblings were baptized in the Catholic Church.

Rudd was very religious, but it is unknown at what point in his life he decided to make the promotion of Catholicism his life's work. He was eventually emancipated from slavery and moved to Springfield, Ohio while still a young adult, sometime before 1876.

At the time, anti-Catholicism and political nativism were rampant, causing American Catholics to be physically threatened by Protestants with acts such as the burning of churches and convents. This led Rudd to decide to speak out on public schools in Springfield, as his fellow Catholics did not agree with the Protestant methods that were being used in them—which Catholics believed were insufficient to deal with the “materialism and formal unbelief” facing American youth.

In addition, Rudd helped desegregate Springfield public schools, advocating alongside the city's Black community beginning in 1881.

Career
Rudd's journalism career started at the Sunday News. While there, he was a printer, reporter, and editor who was interested in following a Frederick Douglass-like advocacy that was aimed at protecting the civil rights of African Americans. He believed that the press played a large role in Black advancement. Rudd also thought that editors and journalists had the ability to persuade and educate Catholic, business and civic leaders.

Newspaper owner 
In 1885 Rudd began his first Catholic newspaper called the Ohio Tribune, the first Black paper printed by and for the Black community. The fledgling, local weekly—with a limited scope—did not do well.

After only a year, Daniel moved the company to Cincinnati, where he started featuring articles that spoke out on Black issues such as segregation and discrimination. This new iteration, the American Catholic Tribune; this was the first Black-owned and operated national Catholic newspaper.

Rudd believed that the newspaper was important in promoting the church as a transformational institution that was capable of bringing equality and social justice for African Americans.“The Catholic Church alone can break the color line. Our people should help her to do it.”

(American Catholic Tribune)Cardinal Gibbons, archbishop of Baltimore (the preeminent episcopal see in the nation at the time), the archbishops of Cincinnati and Philadelphia, and the bishops of Covington, Columbus, Richmond, Vincennes, and Wilmington, were all listed on the masthead of the Tribune as endorsers.

Rudd was also a very good businessman who knew how to reach out and teach others who thought like him and wanted to push for the same rights and changes, such as Black Catholics and Protestants. In order for Rudd to make the changes he wanted, he needed income—which he gained by using the Tribune to promote his own printing school. This allowed him to expand his own business and dreams with printing, and start creating custom cards, letterheads, envelopes, invoices, pamphlets, books, legal documents, and advertisements.

That wasn't the only source of his income though, he also had newspaper subscriptions from Catholic and Protestant readers in Northern and Midwestern states. African Americans saw his will to make a change and fight for something they've believed in for quite some time, so many bishops, monsignors, laypersons, and even more Protestants gave him financial aid.

In 1891, he collaborated with Ida B. Wells and her Memphis Free Speech, alongside the Detroit Plaindealer, in hiring a correspondent to investigate the conditions of African Americans in the former Confederacy.

Rudd was successful for quite some time in his printing business, and by 1892, Rudd's newspaper was printing 10,000 copies. His successes led the Afro-American Press League (a consortium of the roughly two hundred Black newspapers being published in the country at the time) to ask Rudd to serve as its president. The enterprising Rudd served in this capacity even as he worked to keep his Queen City printing business and printing school afloat.

Colored Catholic Congress