[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# York General Hospital (Pennsylvania)

That although we depreciate the horrors and necessities of war, and are at all times anxious for peace, we have no terms to propose to the rebels in arms against the Government; and will accept no compromise with them, until they lay down their arms and voluntarily return to their former allegiance;

Resolved, That we, the soldiers in York Hospital, Pennsylvania, desire to record our detestation and contempt for the so called Copperhead party of the North-a party composed of traitors, too cowardly to go openly over to the enemy, but who are doing all they can to embarrass the Administration and give aid and comfort to the rebels, by raising false issues and creating discontent among the people; and that we desire to let our friends at home know that neither the leaden pills of Jeff Davis, nor the medicated ones of Doctors here, have yet purged us of our loyalty; but that on the contrary, we are ready now as ever, (if our health and physical condition permits), to resume our places in the front rank.

Resolved, That we hail with delight and give our hearty approval to the vigorous policy of Maj. Gen. Schenck, commanding this Military Department; that a copy of these resolutions be sent to him, to the President of the United States, the Governor of Pennsylvania, and that they be published in all papers in the borough of York and elsewhere, favorable to the Union cause.

In late May 1863, the Ladies’ Relief Association of Gettysburg sent supplies to the hospital, as well as items to comfort Union soldiers who had been wounded in the intense Battle of Chancellorsville. Just days later, during the Confederate invasion of 1863, the hospital and its grounds were occupied by portions of Avery's North Carolina brigade of Early's division. By August, Philadelphia newspapers were reporting "that since the fight at Gettysburg, there have been over one thousand wounded soldiers transported to the Military Hospital at York," but the numbers were, in fact, far higher with one estimate placing the number brought to York from Gettysburg at 2,500.

 By war's end, more than 14,000 soldiers passed were treated at this facility. Although the bodies of those who died here were typically shipped to their hometowns, nearly three dozen were buried in York's Prospect Hill Cemetery, where a monument of a Union soldier stands watch over the circular grave plot.

In June 1865, newspapers in and beyond Pennsylvania reported that the Union Medical Director had received orders to close several of the federal hospitals which had been created during the  war to care for Union military personnel. Among those announced for closure was the York General Hospital.

The site of the hospital was converted to a city park named Penn Park, which contains an impressive large Soldiers and Sailors Monument commemorating York's Civil War heritage and veterans. A nearby bronze relief map depicts the layout of the U.S. Army Hospital.

Hospital library, newspaper, and mail service
As the number of admissions to this military hospital increased, hospital chaplains and medical personnel were increasingly challenged to find ways to occupy those soldiers who were well on their way to recovery from their battle wounds or other illnesses, but not yet physically or mentally ready for discharge and return to their respective military units or homes. By 1864, a reading room had been created to provide additional space for more ambulatory soldiers to gather, and the hospital's existing library, which operated all day, each day (except Sundays when it was closed from 10 a.m. until midnight), had been expanded to include the complete works of William Shakespeare, a complete collection of the poetry of Lord Byron, multiple biographical works about key military and public figures (John Quincy Adams, Napoleon, et al.), which has been donated by the U.S. Sanitary Commission and others who supported the Union, and various sermons, books and other materials for spiritual guidance, as well as daily newspapers from New York City and other major cities, and from communities across Pennsylvania.

In addition, hospital personnel produced an in-house newspaper, The Cartridge. The publication's mission was described as follows:

"Our object is to promote the best interests of our sick and wounded companions, to cheer them during their sufferings, to afford them a medium of interchange of thought and sentiment, and to relieve the monotony of hospital life. We ask our friends to lend us their assistance and furnish such communications that will be of interest, pleasure and profit to use. Give them medium to express their thoughts and opinions on subjects now agitating the country....