[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kathleen Clarke

seat at the September 1927 election and did not regain it. She was elected as one of six Fianna Fáil Senators to the Free State Seanad (Senate) for nine years at the 1928 Seanad election under the leadership of Joseph Connolly. She would remain a member of the Seanad until it was abolished in 1936.

In 1930 she was elected to the re-constituted Dublin Corporation for Fianna Fáil along with Robert Briscoe, Seán T. O'Kelly, Thomas Kelly and Oscar Traynor. She served as the first Fianna Fáil Lord Mayor of Dublin, and the first female Lord Mayor,  from 1939 to 1941. She opposed the Constitution of Ireland as she felt that several of its sections would place women in a lower position that they had been afforded in the Proclamation of the Irish Republic. Following correspondence with Hanna Sheehy-Skeffington, she made her feelings public in the press. She was criticised by many in Fianna Fáil as a result and, while she resigned from the Thomas Clarke Cumann she remained a member of the Fianna Fáil Ard Chomhairle (national executive committee). She had previously opposed the Conditions of Employment Bill in the Seanad in 1935. While she did not support the IRA bombing campaign in England during World War II she appealed for IRA men sentenced to death by the Irish courts to be granted clemency. Ultimately this would lead to her breaking with the party completely after her term as Lord Mayor had finished in 1941. She also opposed the perceived centralisation of local government and the increased power of County and City Managers which had been introduced by Seán MacEntee. She declined to stand as a Fianna Fáil candidate at the 1943 general election. She helped found the Irish Red Cross while Lord Mayor of Dublin.

She contested the 1948 general election on behalf of Clann na Poblachta in Dublin North-East but was not elected, receiving only 1,419 (3.2%) votes.

Later life
In 1966, as part of the celebrations of the Easter Rising, she and other surviving relatives were awarded honorary doctorates of law by the National University of Ireland.
In the run up to the commemorations of the rising she wrote to then taoiseach Seán Lemass saying as “the only widow alive of the signatories of the 1916 Proclamation...I know more about the events both before and after the Rising than anyone now alive”. She wanted a central role in the celebrations and said that her husband, not Patrick Pearse, had been president of the Republic in 1916.

She said Pearse “wanted to grab what was due to others . . . surely Pearse should have been satisfied with the honour of Commander-in-Chief when he knew as much about commanding as my dog . . . I had not intended raising the issue in public but I shall be forced to come out very strongly in public if the powers that be attempt to declare Pearse as President”. In a taped interview made in 1968 she opined that Roger Casement was "... the aristocratic kind and he assumed that when he went into any movement, ipso facto, he was one of our leaders, if not the leader . . . and what could he know of Ireland, when he was all the time out of it.”

Following her death aged 94 in 1972 at a nursing home in Liverpool, she received the rare honour of a state funeral. She is buried at Deans Grange Cemetery, Dublin. She preferred to be known as Caitlín Bean Uí Chléirigh (Kathleen, Mrs Clarke) and had this inscription on her headstone. Her grand-niece, Helen Litton, edited her memoirs and her biography was published in 1991.

An apartment building in Ballybough is named after Clarke, 'Kathleen Clarke Place'.

References

External links
Interview with Kathleen Clarke – RTÉ Libraries and Archives
Kathleen Clarke file at Limerick City Library, Ireland
 Kathleen Daly Clarke Papers and Collection of Thomas Clarke and Irish Political Materials at John J. Burns Library, Boston College

 

1878 births
1972 deaths
Burials at Deans Grange Cemetery
Clann na Poblachta politicians
Cumann na mBan members
Early Sinn Féin TDs
Fianna Fáil TDs
Fianna Fáil senators
Lord Mayors of Dublin
Members of the 1928 Seanad
Members of the 1931 Seanad
Members of the 1934 Seanad
Members of the 2nd Dáil
Members of the 5th Dáil
People of the Irish War of Independence
Politicians from County Limerick
Women mayors of places in Ireland
20th-century women Teachtaí Dála
Women in war 1900–1945
Women in war in Ireland