[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# David Richards, Baron Richards of Herstmonceux

if you like, a 'second Yemen' – that is the Army's primary duty at the moment. Our role is to remain very close to them, to help them where they most need it and in the meanwhile focus our efforts on Afghanistan and assisting Pakistan to ensure they don't become the threat Yemen is beginning to be.

In May 2011, Richards and other senior NATO officers expressed a wish for backing from member states to intensify the war effort in Libya by directly targeting Col Gaddafi's regime, rather than simply protecting Libyan civilians. "The military campaign to date has been a significant success for NATO and our Arab allies, but we need to do more. If we do not up the ante now there is a risk that the conflict could result in Gaddafi clinging to power," said Gen Richards. He added that, while NATO forces were not targeting Col Gaddafi directly, he could nevertheless become a legitimate target if he was caught directly attacks against Libyan civilians. "The United Nations resolution allows Nato to use 'all necessary means' in Libya," he said. "We are not targeting Gaddafi directly, but if it happened that he was in a command and control centre that was hit by Nato and he was killed, then that is within the rules."

During the Syrian Civil War, Richards drew up plans to train and equip a Syrian rebel army of 100,000 to overthrow President Bashar al-Assad, as an alternative option to the government's plan for limited direct military involvement. The plans were rejected by the National Security Council as too ambitious. Consequently, his alternative advice was "to let Assad win and quickly and to stop encouraging and supplying opposition groups with insufficient support to ensure their success" to reduce the humanitarian consequences, which was not accepted. Ultimately on 29 August 2013, parliament refused to support the government's plan to participate in military strikes against the Syrian government.

Richards was succeeded as Chief of the Defence Staff by General Sir Nicholas Houghton on 18 July 2013.

Later life
Richards worked as a consultant for the government of the United Arab Emirates and has advised American arms company DynCorp.

From October 2013, Richards has worked as a Senior Adviser to the International Institute for Strategic Studies.

Richards is a patron of the Armed Forces Muslim Association.

On 26 June 2014, Richards said that Britain's Armed Forces will be like a "banana republic" if the Ministry of Defence kept cutting costs, and criticised the "bean counters" who cut perks for his successors. He is believed to have said Defence Secretary Philip Hammond "would never be a good soldier". Richards was concerned about a controversial plan to replace regular troops with reservists. On pay to soldiers, he said:

On 7 October 2014, Richards criticised the contemporary Western strategy employed to defeat ISIS. He said that air strikes are:

Richards wrote an autobiography, Taking Command, which was published by Headline in October 2014.

In a November 2016 interview with the parliamentary magazine The House, Richards said of Western involvement in the Syrian Civil War:

In June 2022, Richards made similar criticisms of the west's incrementally developed approach to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine. He suggested the long-term strategy should be to persuade Russia not to align with China.

Honours
Richards attended the US Brigade Commanders, Combined Joint Force Land Component Commanders, and Joint Task Force Commanders (Pinnacle) Courses. His operational awards include a Mention in Despatches for services in Northern Ireland. Richards was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) for services in East Timor, and made a Companion of the Distinguished Service Order (DSO) for services in Sierra Leone (Operation Barras).

Richards was appointed and knighted as a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath (KCB) in the July 2007 operational and gallantry awards list for his services in Afghanistan. In 2014, he was made a Commander of the Order of the Rokel, Sierra Leone's highest honour for "gallant leadership of the British Military intervention in the Sierra Leone Civil War."

Richards was appointed Honorary Colonel of the Royal Rifle Volunteers on 1 September 2003, Colonel Commandant of the Royal Artillery on 19 January 2005, and on 1 April 2007 he was appointed Colonel Commandant of the Brigade of Gurkhas. Richards was advanced to Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath (GCB) in the 2011 New Years Honours.

Richards was created a Life Peer on 24 February 2014 taking the title Baron Richards of Herstmonceux, of Emsworth in the County of Hampshire. He was chosen to carry the Sword of Spiritual Justice at the 2023 Coronation.

Personal life
In 1978 Richards married Caroline Reyne (née Bond). Lady Richards is a trustee of charities Plant for Peace and The Afghan Appeal. They have two daughters, Joanna and Pippa.