[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James Patton Anderson

tate taxes for Shelby County.

Anderson died in relative poverty at his home in Memphis at the age of 50, due primarily to lingering effects of his old war wound. He was buried there in the city's Elmwood Cemetery, Memphis, Tennessee.

See also
 List of American Civil War generals

Notes

References

Further reading
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Hewitt, Lawrence L. "James Patton Anderson." In The Confederate General, vol. 1, edited by William C. Davis and Julie Hoffman. Harrisburg, PA: National Historical Society, 1991. .
 Linedecker, Clifford L., ed. Civil War, A-Z: The Complete Handbook of America's Bloodiest Conflict. New York: Ballantine Books, 2002. .
 Raab, James W. J. Patton Anderson, Confederate General: A Biography. Jefferson, N.C.: McFarland & Co., 2004.
 Sifakis, Stewart. Who Was Who in the Civil War. New York: Facts On File, 1988. . 
 Sketch of General Anderson's Life, Special Collections, Robert Manning Strozier Library, Florida State University, Tallahassee, Florida.
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .

External links
 
 The James Patton Anderson Papers at the University of Florida
 

1822 births
1872 deaths
19th-century American politicians
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
Confederate States Army major generals
Delegates to the United States House of Representatives from Washington Territory
Deputies and delegates to the Provisional Congress of the Confederate States
Farmers from Tennessee
Members of the Mississippi House of Representatives
Mississippi lawyers
People from Franklin County, Tennessee
People of Florida in the American Civil War
Signers of the Confederate States Constitution
Signers of the Provisional Constitution of the Confederate States
Tennessee lawyers
United States Army officers
United States Marshals
Washington (state) Democrats
Washington & Jefferson College alumni
19th-century American lawyers
American slave owners