[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Seyed Ali Zahir Moulana

9, 2004, under the cover of darkness, where they were handed over by Moulana to high-ranking officers of the Sri Lanka Army Military Intelligence. Intelligence reports later revealed to the public said that Moulana and Karuna had managed to escape from the advancing LTTE forces by a mere 10 minutes.

Return to Parliament and Resignation 
Moulana did not contest the 2004 General Elections, but was one of four UNP MPs nominated to Parliament through the National List due to a deal made between the UNP and the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress to not field any UNP Muslim candidates from the East.

In June 2004, one of the Karuna loyalists who retreated to Colombo along with Karuna and Moulana was forced to return to Batticaloa and was captured and tortured by the LTTE, in which they forced a confession out of her. It was then revealed by her through a press conference called by the LTTE that it was Moulana who was Karuna's link with the government, and it was with him that they had come to Colombo. This revelation sparked a huge controversy surrounding the Government of Sri Lanka, the Sri Lanka Army, the UNP and Moulana, as it implicated the government's role behind the split in the LTTE.

Owing to the severe threat on the lives of Moulana and that of his family by the LTTE assassination squads, Moulana immediately resigned from Parliament and fled Sri Lanka on June 23, 2004.

Diplomatic career
While living in self-exile in the United States due to the threat on his life, Moulana was nominated by President Mahinda Rajapaksa and confirmed by the Cabinet of Sri Lanka as the Minister of Economic Affairs at the Embassy of Sri Lanka in Washington DC, USA. He ended his tour of duty in USA in December 2009.

Return to Sri Lanka and resumption of political career 
After the end of the Civil War in 2009, Moulana returned to Sri Lanka after living in self-exile in the United States for over 5 years in December 2009. Due to his involvement in the Karuna defection, Moulana was viewed by many Sri Lankans as being one of the pivotal components instrumental to bringing about an end to the civil conflict in Sri Lanka that had lasted nearly 3 decades.

Eravur Urban Council 
In March 2011, Moulana contested the Local Government Elections and was elected with an overwhelming majority as the Chairman (Mayor) of Eravur Urban Council. Eravur Urban Council is responsible for providing a variety of local public services including roads, sanitation, drains, housing, libraries, public parks and recreational facilities. Eravur, under his tenure as chairman was selected by the United Nations Disaster Risk Reduction Programme as a Role Model City for Disaster Resilience.

Federation of Sri Lanka Local Government Authorities and Commonwealth Local Government Forum

Subsequent to becoming Chairman of the Eravur Urban Council, Moulana was unanimously elected as the President of the Federation of Sri Lanka Local Government Authorities (FSLGA).

Moulana was elected as a board member of the Commonwealth Local Government Forum (CLGF) in July 2015, and also board member of United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG) for the Asia-Pacific Region. He was re-elected for a second term to the CLGF Board in November 2017.

Member of Eastern Provincial Council
Moulana was appointed as a Member of the Eastern Provincial Council on 6 February 2015. He took oaths before the Governor of Eastern Province, Austin Fernando.

Return to Parliament
Following the dissolution of Parliament in June 2015, Moulana joined the Sri Lanka Muslim Congress (SLMC) and the United National Front for Good Governance (UNFGG).  He claimed that he had been aligned with national parties for over 27 years, but owing to the failure of these parties to address the issues of Muslims and the subsequent deterioration of the Muslim community's image in the recent past of Sri Lanka, he had decided to join the SLMC. Muslims represent 70% of Moulana's vote base. He contested under the SLMC symbol in the Batticaloa District and was re-elected to Parliament on August 17, 2015, with nearly 40,000 votes, being the only Parliamentarian directly elected under the SLMC. All other elected SLMC Parliamentarians were elected through the UNFGG. Moulana re-entered Parliament after a lapse of 11 years.

References

United National Party politicians
Living people
1956 births
Members of the 10th Parliament of Sri Lanka
Members of the 11th Parliament of Sri Lanka
Members of the 12th Parliament of Sri Lanka
Members of the 15th Parliament of Sri Lanka
Jamal Mohamed College alumni
University of California, Los Angeles alumni
Sri Lankan expatriates in India