[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Central Vigilance Commission

Organisation

The Central Vigilance Commission has its own Secretariat, Chief Technical Examiners' Wing (CTE) and a wing of Commissioners for Departmental Inquiries (CDI). As of 21 March 2012, CVC has a staff strength of 257 against sanctioned strength of 299 (including the post of CVC and 2 VCs).

Secretariat
The Secretariat consists of a Secretary of the rank of Additional Secretary to the Union government, one officer of the rank of Joint Secretary to the Union government, ten officers of the rank of Director/Deputy Secretary, four Under Secretaries and office staff.

Chief Technical Examiners' Wing (CTE)
The Chief Technical Examiners' Organisation constitutes the technical wing of the Central Vigilance Commission and has two Engineers of the rank of Chief Engineers (designated as Chief Technical Examiners) with supporting engineering staff. Following are the main functions of this organisation:
 Technical audit of construction works of Governmental organisations from a vigilance angle
 Investigating specific cases of complaints relating to construction works
 Assisting the CBI in their investigations involving technical matters and for evaluation of properties in Delhi
 Assisting the Commission and Chief Vigilance Officers in vigilance cases involving technical matters.

Commissioners for Departmental Inquiries (CDI)
There are fourteen posts of Commissioners for Departmental Inquiries (CDI) in the commission, 11 in the rank of Director and 03 in the rank of Deputy Secretary. The CDIs function as Inquiry Officers to conduct inquiries in departmental proceedings initiated against public servants.

The Directorate General of Vigilance 
The Directorate General of Vigilance, Income Tax is the apex body under the Central Board of Direct Taxes for the vigilance matters. The Directorate General interfaces with the Central Vigilance Commission, the Central Bureau of Investigation, field formations of CBDT who are also having their Vigilance wings and others in all the matters relating to Vigilance, preliminary investigation of complaints, obtaining CVC/CVO's first stage advice, wherever required, assistance to Ministry in issuance of charge sheets, monitoring the charge sheet issued by the Disciplinary authorities in the field, monitoring of progress in inquiry proceedings, processing of enquiry reports, obtaining CVC/CVO's second stage advice, wherever required and communication thereof to Disciplinary authorities and monitoring compliance/implementation of the advice.

Central Vigilance Commissioners
The following have held the post of the Central Vigilance Commissioners.

Limitations of CVC 

 CVC is only an advisory body. Central Government Departments are free to either accept or reject CVC's advice in corruption cases.
 CVC does not have adequate resources compared with number of complaints that it receives. It is a very small set up with a sanctioned staff strength of 299, while it is supposed to check corruption in more than 1500 Union departments and ministries.
 CVC cannot direct CBI to initiate inquiries against any officer of the level of Joint Secretary and above on its own. Such a permission has to be obtained from the department concerned. However, this provision was declared unconstitutional by Supreme court in 2014. The court had stated that merely the post of a person could not keep him above the law, further stating that section 6 of the Delhi Special Police  is violative of fundamental right Article 14.
 CVC does not have powers to register criminal case. It deals only with vigilance or disciplinary cases. 
 CVC has supervisory powers over CBI. However, CVC does not have the power to call for any file from CBI or to direct CBI to investigate any case in a particular manner. CBI is under administrative control of Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), which means that the powers to appoint, transfer and suspend CBI officers lie with DoPT.
 Appointments to CVC are indirectly under the control of the Union government, though the leader of the Opposition (in Lok Sabha) is a member of the committee to select CVC and VCs, as the candidates that are to be put up before it are decided by the Union government; the committee can only consider the candidates put up before it.

As a result, the CVC has neither resources nor powers to inquire and take action on complaints of corruption that may act as an effective deterrence against corruption.

Controversies