[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Isaiah Osbourne

t team regular for Nottingham Forest, playing in the midfield position. Despite suffering injuries along the way, he made eight appearances for the club in the Championship in all competitions. Following this, Nottingham Forest attempted to sign him on a permanent basis, but the move never happened.

Over the summer transfer window, Osbourne was linked with a move to Ligue 1 side Bordeaux, but the move never happened. Instead, he joined Gordon Strachan's Middlesbrough on a two-month loan on 5 November 2009. The loan signing made his debut for the club two days later in a 1–0 defeat at the hands of Crystal Palace at Selhurst Park. After making his debut for Middlesbrough, his performance was praised by manager Strachan. Since joining the club, Osbourne started in the first team for the next eight matches. On 28 December 2009, he had his loan spell with Middlesbrough extended for thirty–nine days. The club wanted to extend his loan spell, but Osbourne was recalled by Villa due to an injury crisis. By the time he departed from Middlesbrough, Osbourne made nine appearances in all competitions, Shortly after, he was expected to join Queens Park Rangers on loan but the deal was not completed.

Osbourne was loaned out on 30 January 2011 to League One club Sheffield Wednesday, managed by Alan Irvine. He made his debut for the club, coming on as a 64th-minute substitute, in a 2–1 loss against Rochdale on 12 February 2011. Since joining Sheffield Wednesday, Osbourne started in the club's next nine matches, playing in the midfield position.

After Irvine was sacked and replaced by Gary Megson, Osbourne was dropped out of the first team, with Megson preferring to bring in his own players. His loan deal was terminated early and he returned to Aston Villa on 5 April. Osbourne made a total of 11 appearances for The Owls.

Hibernian
Osbourne signed with Hibernian, and he soon agreed a two-year contract with the Scottish Premier League club.

Osbourne made his Hibernian début on 14 August 2011 in a 4–1 away loss at Kilmarnock, coming off the bench at half-time to replace Lewis Stevenson. Since joining the club, he was involved in the first team in a number of matches, playing in the midfield position. On 24 September 2011, Osbourne scored with a deflected shot in a 3–3 home draw with Dundee United, but it was officially recorded as a Scott Robertson own goal. However, he suffered two separate injuries and was sidelined for weeks. Osbourne made his return to the starting line–up against Dunfermline Athletic on 14 January 2012, starting a match and playing 86 minutes before being substituted, in a 3–2 win. Following his return from injury, he continued to regain his first team place for the rest of the 2011–12 season, playing in the midfield position. Osbourne finally scored his first goal for Hibernian, scoring in the 18th minute, in a 4–3 loss against Motherwell on 22 February 2012. Having aimed to help the club avoid relegation, he successfully predicted with his target after helping Hibernian beat Dunfermline Athletic 4–0 on 7 May 2012. However, Osbourne started in the Scottish Cup Final against rivals, Hearts, as the club lost 5–1. Despite missing two more matches halfway through, he scored one goal for Hibs in 35 appearances during the 2011–12 season.

Blackpool
EFL Championship side Blackpool signed Osbourne in July 2012 on a one-year contract, with an option for a second year.

He made his debut for the club, starting the whole game, in a 2–0 win against Millwall in the opening game of the season. After the match, Osbourne said he was happy to make his debut for Blackpool. Since joining the club, Osbourne started in the ten matches in the first thirteen matches of the season. However, he suffered a knee injury that kept him out for weeks. It wasn't until on 24 November 2012 when Osbourne made his return from injury and scored his first goal for the club, in a 2–2 draw against Watford. Following this, he continued to regain his first team place, playing in the defensive midfield position. However, Osbourne continued to be sidelined on five occasions as the 2012–13 season progressed, due to injuries and suspensions. At the end of the 2012–13 season, he went on to make thirty appearances and scoring once in all competitions.