[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Otto Hahn Peace Medal

Weltethos), Tübingen, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially for his exemplary employment for humanity, tolerance and the dialogue between the great world religions."
2010: Daniel Barenboim – Argentine-Israeli pianist, conductor and UN Messenger of Peace, Berlin, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially his exemplary commitment to the dialogue in the Middle East and the approximation between Israel and Palestine."
2012: Tadatoshi Akiba – Japanese mathematician, politician, former mayor of Hiroshima and co-founder of the Mayors for Peace Organization, Hiroshima, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially his untiring dedication to worldwide nuclear disarmament and the policy of détente and reconciliation."
2014: Manfred Nowak – Austrian University teacher and international law and human rights expert, Vienna, "for outstanding services to peace and international understanding, especially for his tireless efforts to protect the rights of each individual and the courageous publication of cruel abuses."
2016: Melinda Gates – American businesswoman, philanthropist and co-founder of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle, "for outstanding contributions to peace and understanding among nations, especially regarding her admirable philanthropic initiatives that prepare the ground for millions of people in all continents for a humane life."
2018: John Kerry – 68th United States Secretary of State, Boston, "for his exceptional diplomatic achievements."

Statements by prizewinners

"The award of the Otto Hahn Peace Medal has given me great joy and satisfaction, particularly because it is linked with the name of this great man, a great scientist, and a modest human being who was ready to help other people at all times, and who has always been a role model for me." (Prof. Dr. h.c. Simon Wiesenthal, Vienna, 1991).

"Ever since my early youth, I have admired Otto Hahn as a scientist and a human being. The reason for Hahn's peace work was simply that, knowing more than other citizens about atomic weapons, he felt it his duty to speak about this issue that was so crucial for mankind. He could make things clear, he had to use his knowledge. And it is why Otto Hahn, with atomic weapons in mind, wrote shortly before his death of the 'necessity of world peace'." (Prof. Dr. Sir Karl R. Popper, Kenley, 1993).

"Otto Hahn held a particular attraction for us younger people after the war. In his commitment to the promotion of free scientific enquiry, as well as in his efforts to persuade scientists to recognize their responsibility for shaping the contemporary world and the future, we found something which we could identify. And when in the fifties he came out so strongly and impressively against the misuse of nuclear science for aggressive purposes, we looked upon him as an example to us all. Another reason for the admiration we felt for Otto Hahn was that he never ceased to remind us of our duty to think not only of ourselves, and not only of the developed world, but of the world as a whole." (Dr. h.c. Hans Koschnick, Bremen, 1995).

"Otto Hahn was a fantastic man, who gives us all an example of humanity, also in the nazi era." (Prof. Dr. h.c. Lord Yehudi Menuhin, London, 1997).

"I wish to express my thanks on behalf of my husband. This award is very important to Muhammad. He feels very honoured to be the winner of the tenth Otto Hahn Peace Medal. Both Otto Hahn and Muhammad worked in professions that had destructive effects – but both worked tirelessly for peace. We warmly thank the United Nations Association of Germany, Berlin-Brandenburg, for honouring Muhammad's commitment. He will continue to devote every effort to his activities as United Nations Messenger of Peace and to his work within the Muhammad Ali Center for Peace and International Understanding." (Dr. Lonnie Ali, Berrien Springs, 2005).

See also 
 Not to be confused with the much more often awarded scientific Otto Hahn Medal nor the new Otto Hahn Prize created by a merger of two similar prizes.
 List of prizes named after people
 List of peace prizes

References

External links 
  Website of the Otto Hahn Peace Medal DGVN, LV Berlin-Brandenburg (United Nations Association of Germany, Berlin-Brandenburg) 
  Germans honor Hiroshimas's Akiba The Japan Times, Tokyo, November 29, 2012.
  Former Hiroshima Mayor Tadatoshi Akiba received Otto Hahn Peace Medal in Berlin House of Japan, April 18, 2013.

Peace awards
Humanitarian and service awards
German awards
Otto Hahn