[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Gheorghe Pintilie

ooperation with the Hungarian People's Republic, for which task he and Drăghici traveled to Budapest in November 1960. During the period of cooperation which followed, Pintilie established a direct line of communication with József Galambos, his counterpart in the Hungarian Ministry of the Interior.

Pintilie was still a junior minister and active general until January 19, 1963, when he was forced into retirement, collecting a special pension. In March 1962, Gheorghiu-Dej had received a letter from the disgraced Georgescu, in which the latter alleged that Pintilie, always "hostile" toward Drăghici, had wanted to make Pauker head of the Special Information Service. Upon reviewing the effects of Pintilie's removal during May 1963, Drăghici reported that the Soviet advisors had also become redundant: "They have had nothing to do since last year, they just sit in their offices and read the newspaper [...]. Back when Pintilie was around, they was  sitting with him in his office and, wouldn't you know it, Pintilie fed them info. There, this is the situation currently, and my view is that we have no longer have any use for these advisers."

Downfall
August 1963 saw the Romanian Politburo openly discussing ways to "neutralize those Soviet intelligence networks operating on Romania's territory, which Gheorghe Pintilie had coordinated." Reportedly, in November the general secretary asked for, and obtained, a full record of Soviet agents operating in Romania, resulting in a list of 160 names. He then asked his loyalists, including Vasile Patilineț (who oversaw contacts between the Army and the PCR), to make sure that all those included on the list pledge themselves to the Romanian government, renouncing collaboration with the Soviets. Nicolae Ceaușescu, who joined Patilineț's commission, reported that Pintilie's spying was confirmed as a matter of public record, and also that, despite the "hard times", the general continued seeing other Soviet agents, including Vasile Posteucă. While her husband came under suspicion, Ana Toma kept her position in the Central Committee and the Ministry of Foreign Trade—but only to 1965, when Gheorghiu-Dej died. In the resulting reshuffle, she was sent to manage the National Union of Workers' Cooperatives (UCECOM).

In April 1968, the new PCR leader Ceaușescu distanced himself from Gheorghiu-Dej's legacy by ordering an investigation into the Foriș's disappearance and Pătrășcanu's execution; this move also took aim at both Pintilie and Drăghici. That month, Pintilie and Șoltuț found themselves included on a list of Securitate operatives that had used "methods of physical coercion against party members under investigation". According to Foriș's grandson Ștefan Sîrbu, just ahead of the more complex investigation, his family received a nocturnal phone-call from "Pantiușa", who "had gone insane". In confessing to the murder, Pintilie also confirmed to the Forișes that their patriarch was no longer alive, as they had never been explicitly informed that this was the case. 

In the ensuing rehabilitation process of his victims, Pintilie underwent interrogations by a PCR commission. He spoke about his criminal past, and, though he justified himself through his perfect obedience to the party line, he also admitted that some killings reflected his own "convictions". As Sîrbu notes, documents of the interrogation show that Pintilie had rescinded his earlier confession, and was placing full blame for the Foriș killing on his "Russian driver, who had since escaped from the country." As a member of the investigation team, Răduică reported that, in an oral statement, "Pantiușa" again confessed to being Foriș's first-hand executioner. The definitive confession provided by Pintilie acknowledged that the roles had been distributed as follows: "My driver hit him over the head, just one hit [...] I dug the pit myself, I handled all of that [...]. It was both of us who killed [Foriș and the other two]".