[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Yoshinobu Kanemaru

estle Kingdom 13, in a triple threat tag team match, ending their reign at 304 days. Kanemaru would enter the 2019 Best of the Super Juniors tournament, ending with a record of 3 wins and 6 losses, including wins over SHO and long time rival Taiji Ishimori, however failing to advance from the block.

In June 2020, Kanemaru would enter the New Japan Cup tournament for the first time in his career, defeating Yuya Uemura in the first round, before losing to Taiji Ishimori in the second. On September 11, 2020, Kanemaru and Desperado won a tournament to win the IWGP Jr. Tag Team Championship by last defeating the team of Bushi and Hiromu Takahashi. Kanemaru signed a full-time contract with New Japan Pro-Wrestling, that would see him continue to perform as a wrestler, as well as becoming a producer for the company. On January 4, 2021, at Wrestle Kingdom 15, Desperado and Kanemaru successfully defended the titles against Ryusuke Taguchi and Master Wato.

In January, Kanemaru and Desperado lost the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championships to Taiji Ishimori and El Phantasmo, ending their second reign at 134 days. The duo regained their titles 33 days later during the Road to Castle Attack tour. In April at Sakura Genesis, Kanemaru and Desperado lost the titles once again to Roppongi 3K. In July at Wrestle Grand Slam in Tokyo Dome, Kanemaru competed in the New Japan Rambo for the Provisional KOPW 2021 trophy, but the match was won by Chase Owens. The following month in August, Kanemaru and Desperado competed in the Super Junior Tag League, where they finished joint top of the block with 8 points. In the finals, they defeated IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Champions Taiji Ishimori and El Phantasmo to win their first Super Junior Tag League tournament. They had their title shot at Wrestle Grand Slam in MetLife Dome in September, where they defeated El Phantasmo and Taiji Ishimori once again to win their fourth IWGP Junior Tag Team Championship. The duo lost the titles the following month to Flying Tiger (Robbie Eagles and Tiger Mask). In November, Kanemaru competed in the Best of the Super Juniors, finishing with 8 points, failing to advance to the finals. On December 24, Kanemaru lost to Toru Yano, in a KOPW 2021 Championship match. On January 4, 2022, at night one of Wrestle Kingdom 16, Kanemaru competed in the New Japan Rambo match, but failed to last till the final 4. On Night 2, Suzuki-gun lost to Master Wato, Hiroyoshi Tenzan and Satoshi Kojima. On Night 3, Kanemaru and Suzuki-gun stablemate Zack Sabre Jr lost to Pro Wrestling Noah's Naomichi Marufuji and Yoshinari Ogawa.

On February 19 during the NJPW New Years Golden Series, Kanemaru and Desperado competed in a four-way tag-team match for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championships, but the match was won by Six or Nine (Master Wato and Ryusuke Taguchi), whilst also involving champions Flying Tiger and El Phantasmo and Taiji Ishimori. In March, Kanemaru entered the New Japan Cup, receiving a bye to the second round, but lost to Cima. On May 1 at Wrestling Dontaku, Kanemaru and Desperado faced Six or Nine for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight tag team championships, but were defeated. In the same month, Kanemaru competed in the Best of the Super Juniors, competing in the A Block. Kanemaru finished with 8 points, failing to advance to the finals. In June at Dominion 6.12 in Osaka-jo Hall, Kanemaru teamed with El Desperado and Zack Sabre Jr to face House of Torture (Evil, Yujiro Takahashi and Sho) for the NEVER Openweight 6-Man Tag Team Championship, but lost. Later in the month, Kanemaru competed in a tournament to advance to AEW x NJPW: Forbidden Door for a chance to be crowned the inaugural AEW All-Atlantic Championship, however Kanemaru was defeated by Tomohiro Ishii in the qualifying round.  Six days later, Kanemaru and Desperado teamed on the buy-in of AEW x NJPW: Forbidden Door, against Swerve in our Glory (Keith Lee and Swerve Strickland), in a losing effort. In October, Kanemaru competed in another tournament to crown the inaugural NJPW World Television Championship, but lost to David Finlay in the first round. In November, Kanemaru competed in the Super Junior Tag League, this time teaming with Douki. The duo ended the tournament campaign with 8 points failing to advance to the finals. At the World Tag League & Best of the Super Juniors finals, Minoru Suzuki announced the disbandment of Suzuki-gun by the end of the year. The final match between the faction took place on December 23, where the team of Taichi, Sabre Jr, Kanemaru and Douki defeated Suzuki, Lance Archer, Desperado and Taka Michinoku. After the match, each of the Suzuki-gun members spoke about their memories as a part of the group and thanked leader Suzuki. The night ended with all members posing with the Suzuki-gun flag, only to be interrupted by former member Takashi Iizuka, causing all 9 men to pose in the ring, behind the Suzuki-gun flag.