[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Associationalism

great principle,” Rauschenbusch proclaimed in 1896, “is association”.  These growing political currents in favor of associationalism perhaps culminated when voters elected William McKinley and Theodore Roosevelt, a left statist associationalist who would become president shortly thereafter, in 1900.

Protective legislation
“Associationalism is fundamentally about collective governance – about the legal constitution of groups and bodies politic and the rules and bylaws that regulate the interrelationships of members”.  During the early 20th century Congress passed a great deal of “protective legislation,” which was, in essence, legislated associationalism.  Labor received improved work conditions resulting in fewer work-related injuries. Wages were increased while hours were decreased.  In addition, probably the most important protective legislation pertained to the legal establishment and organization of large labor unions.

On the other side of the coin, employer costs went up resulting in outsourcing and decreased cash flow into such areas as research and development, slowing technological progress.  Fewer hours and the fact that labor was more organized (allowing for an increase in strikes and protests) resulted in less production.  Finally, such strong government influence over labor could lead to an abuse of power, favoring certain unions.  The results of these legislated regulations suggested to critics that associationalism tends to benefit labor (the "people”) directly at the cost of both corporate management and technological progress.

Early presidential associationalism

Theodore Roosevelt

	Theodore Roosevelt (President 1901-1909) was the first true champion of American associationalism as evidenced by his intervention into the United Mine Workers strike of 1902.  For the first time representatives from government, labor, and management met collectively and were able to resolve the conflict.  When management was uncooperative, Roosevelt threatened to employ the military on behalf of labor to arrive at a resolution.

Instead, a five-member commission was established to communicate with the company management.  Also, wages were increased by ten percent and the length of the work day was cut from ten hours to nine, keeping union membership sound.  By demonstrating a new role for the state in such conflicts (aside from the previously held military positions) associationalism took root in American society and politics, and there wasn't another major coal strike in the country until the 1920s.

Woodrow Wilson
Woodrow Wilson (President 1913-1921), a regulatory liberal, employed associationalism during World War I to control and regulate capital, ensuring a steady flow of war supplies while minimizing the risk of breaks in manufacturing vital to the war effort.  The establishment of such government agencies as the National War Labor Board were instrumental in preventing strikes and ensuring collective bargaining.  In addition, Wilson appointed the country's first Secretary of Labor that was pro labor (William B. Wilson).  The policies were implemented as America successfully met its goals in wartime production.  There were nearly no strikes, many companies saw enormous profits, and the Allies won the war.

Academic Context Surrounding Associationalism 
A significant text surrounding associationalism is Robert D. Putnam’s book “Making Democracy Work: Civic Traditions in Modern Italy.” This book compares Northern and Southern Italy in the frame of the question, “What are the conditions for creating strong, responsive, effective representative institutions?” Putnam essentially answers this question with civil society and associationalism. Northern Italy had lower levels of associationalism which led to higher levels of fascism; whereas Southern Italy had more civic engagement and therefore less support towards autocratic rule.

However, association in civic societies is not always a source for good. Sheri Berman in her text, “Civil Society and the Collapse of the Weimar Republic,” argues that participation in civil societies can also help mobilize people to weaken democracy. This claim is analyzed through the case study of the NSDAP (Nazi Party). This study provides a counterexample to Putnam, showing how the NSDAP rose to power not by attracting alienated Germans, but rather by recruiting highly activist individuals that mobilized the political agenda of the Nazi party. In fact, the Nazi activists’ associational skills helped expand the party’s appeal, weakening democracy across the nation.

References

Footnotes