[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1977 in the United Kingdom

ndon.
 Prostitute Patricia Atkinson is murdered in Bradford; she is believed to be the fourth woman to die at the hands of the mysterious Yorkshire Ripper.
29 April – British Aerospace is formed, to run the nationalised aviation industry.
30 April – Mid-Hants Railway reopens as a heritage line.

May

3 May – Light aircraft carrier HMS Invincible is launched at Barrow-in-Furness by Elizabeth II.
5 May
 Silver Jubilee review of the Police at Hendon by Elizabeth II.
 Conservatives make gains at local council elections, including winning the Greater London Council from Labour.
7 May
 The 3rd G7 summit is held in London.
 Prime Minister of Canada Pierre Elliot Trudeau does a pirouette behind the back of Elizabeth II.
 The 22nd Eurovision Song Contest is held in London. With Angela Rippon as the presenter, the contest is won by Marie Myriam representing France, with her song "L'oiseau et l'enfant" ("The Bird and the Child"); the British entry, Lynsey de Paul and Michael Moran's "Rock Bottom", takes second place.
10 May – Dounreay nuclear power plant experiences an explosion caused by potassium and sodium.
13 May – The Silver Jubilee Air Fair is held at Biggin Hill.
15 May – Liverpool F.C. are English league champions for the 10th time.
17 May – Elizabeth II commences her Jubilee tour in Glasgow.
18 May
 The UK is among 29 signatories of a Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques.
 Elizabeth II visits Cumbernauld and Stirling.
19 May – Elizabeth II visits Perth and Dundee.
21 May – Manchester United win the FA Cup for the fourth time by defeating Liverpool 2–1 at Wembley Stadium in the cup final. It is their first major trophy since they won the European Cup in 1968.
23–27 May – Elizabeth II visits Edinburgh.
25 May – Liverpool F.C. win their first European Cup by defeating the West German league champions Borussia Mönchengladbach 3–1 in the final in Rome.
27 May
 Elizabeth II opens the new air terminal building at Edinburgh Airport.
 Prime Minister James Callaghan officially opens the M5 motorway, now complete with finishing of the final stretch around Exeter, 15 years after the first stretch (beginning near Birmingham) was opened.
28 May – Climax of Windsor Silver Jubilee celebrations: Elizabeth II visits the town on her Jubilee tour.
30 May – A gala performance for the Silver Jubilee is held at the Royal Opera House, London.

June
6–9 June – Silver Jubilee celebrations are held in the United Kingdom to celebrate 25 years of Queen Elizabeth II's reign, with a public holiday on 7 June.
12 June – The Supremes' farewell concert: US group The Supremes perform their final concert together at the Drury Lane Theatre, London, before disbanding permanently.
17 June – Wimbledon F.C., champions of the Isthmian League, are elected to the Football League in place of Workington in the Fourth Division.
20 June
 Anglia Television broadcasts the fake documentary Alternative 3; it enters into the conspiracy theory canon.
 Seventeen people are arrested during clashes between pickets and police at the Grunwick film processing laboratory.
26 June – 16-year-old shop assistant Jayne McDonald, is found battered and stabbed to death in Chapeltown, Leeds; police believe she is the fifth person to be murdered by the Yorkshire Ripper.