[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Islam in Mexico

n sight. Nowadays, most of the Mayan Muslims have left the Murabitun and established ties with the CCIM, now following the orthodox Sunni school of Islam. They built the Al-Kausar Mosque in San Cristobal de las Casas. Nevertheless, the vast majority of Native Mexicans today are non-Muslims.

Mosques

This is a list of some but by no means all mosques and Islamic meeting centers in Mexico.
 
 Centro Islámico del Norte. Av. Benito Juárez 603, Centro, 66230 San Pedro Garza García, N.L.
 Suraya Mosque in Torreon, Coahuila.
 Dar es Salaam Mosque in Tequesquitengo, Morelos.
 Tahaarah Mosque in Comitan, Chiapas.
 Al Kautsar Mosque in San Cristobal de las Casas, Chiapas.
 Al Medina Mosque in San Cristobal de las casas, Chiapas
 Musala Tlaxcala #30 San Critobal de las Casas, Chiapas
 Murabitun Mosque San Cristobal de las casa, Chiapas
 Salafi Mosque Muhammad ibn Abdul Wahab in Mexico City.
 Mezquita/ tekke de la Orden Jalveti Yerraji instituto Luz Sobre Luz in Mexico City.
 Masiid Omar, Centro Islamico Tijuana Beaches, Baja California, Mexico.
 Al-Hikmah Ciudad de México, Aragón, Mexico.
 Mezquita Euclides Euclides 25, Col. Anzures, Polanco, Ciudad de México.
 Mezquita Abu Bakr Don Luis 10, Nativitas, Benito Juàrez, Nativitas, Metro, 03500 Ciudad de México, CDMX
 Mezquita de guadalajara Centauro 2912, La Calma, 45070 Zapopan, Jal. Guadalajara.
 Musalah Al Ajirah in Margarita # 5 local, colonia Santa Maria la Ribera, Delegación Cuauhtémoc, CP 06400, Mexico City.

Moorish architecture in Mexico 

In Chiapa de Corzo, Chiapas, a fountain, known locally as "La Corona" or "La Pila" was built to provide the population with water. This architectural work was built in annealed brick with a strong Mudejar influence. It was built by the Spanish Dominican friars during the Colonial era in the sixteenth century.

The Morisco Kiosk (Moorish Kiosk) in Colonia Santa María la Ribera was made by José Ramón Ibarrola for the Universal Exhibition of New Orleans from 1884-1885, in the neo-Mudejar style that was prevailing in Spain in the 19th century.

Notable Mexican Muslims 
Fitra Ismu Kusumo, Indonesian artist living in Mexico.

See also 
Religion in Mexico

References

External links

Centro Cultural Islamico de México, A.C. (Spanish)
Centro Educativo de la Comunidad Musulmana A.C (Spanish)

 
Mexico