[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Hannes Trautloft

II. Gruppe a few days later. The airfield was located southwest of Leningrad and was equipped with hangars and buildings and JG 54 would be based there during the Siege of Leningrad. On 22 September, Trautloft visited the German front lines of the infantry and came under attack by strafing aircraft.

Eastern Front
On 5 December 1941, the Stavka (high command of the Soviet armed forces) launched a series of counter offensives named the winter campaign of 1941–42. Based at Siversky, JG 54 was the only fighter wing in the combat area of Army Group North, responsible for patrolling an area from Leningrad in the north to the Valdai Hills in the south, spanning a front line of approximately . On 7 January 1942, the Stavka launched the Lyuban Offensive Operation which was fought on the southern shore of Lake Ladoga, near Lyuban. The attack began north of Novgorod and aimed at encircling elements of the German 18th Army with the objective to break the German siege of Leningrad. This attack forced Trautloft to largely commit JG 54 to the defense of this attack. Subsequently, most of the missions flown in January and February where over the Volkhov River, connecting Lake Ilmen and Lake Ladoga, although some missions where still flown over Leningrad. By early March, JG 54 had replaced its Bf 109 F-2 aircraft with the newer Bf 109 F-4 variant. On 6 March, Trautloft claimed a Polikarpov R-5 reconnaissance bomber aircraft near Chudovo. He was credited with an aerial victory over a I-16 on 9 March and a Yakovlev Yak-1 five days later. On 15 March, German forces launched a counterattack leading the encirclement of the Soviet 2nd Shock Army on 19 March. During this counter offensive, Trautloft claimed two further victories.

On 9 May, Trautloft claimed a Yak-1 fighter and a Petlyakov Pe-2 bomber in the combat area south-southwest of Valday and east of Demyansk, following the relief of the Kholm Pocket. The Geschwaderstab returned to  Siversky on 15 May.

Luftwaffe commander
On 6 July 1943 Trautloft was appointed as Jagdflieger Inspizient Ost, serving with the General der Jagdflieger office. This position put him in overall charge as Inspector of all the Fighter aircraft units fighting on the Eastern Front. On 20 November, Trautloft succeeded Günther Lützow as Inspekteur der Tagjäger, giving him overall responsibilities for all day-fighters. On 11 November, Göring, in his role as commander-in-chief of the Luftwaffe, organized a meeting of high-ranking Luftwaffe officers, including Trautloft. The meeting, also referred to as the "Areopag" was held at the Luftkriegsakademie (air war academy) at Berlin-Gatow. This Luftwaffe version of the Greek Areopagus—a court of justice—aimed at finding solutions to the deteriorating air war situation over Germany.

In late 1944, a rumor crossed Trautloft's desk that a large number of Allied airmen were being held at Buchenwald Concentration Camp. Trautloft decided to visit the camp and see for himself under the pretence of inspecting aerial bomb damage near the camp. Trautloft was about to leave the camp when captured US airman Bernard Scharf called out to him in fluent German from behind a fence. The SS guards tried to intervene but Trautloft pointed out that he out-ranked them and made them stand back. Scharf explained that he was one of more than 160 allied airmen imprisoned at the camp and begged Trautloft to rescue him and the other airmen. Trautloft's adjutant also spoke to the group's commanding officer, a NZ airman Phil Lamason. Disturbed by the event, Trautloft returned to Berlin and began the process to have the airmen transferred out of Buchenwald. Seven days before their scheduled execution, the airmen were taken by train by the Luftwaffe to Stalag Luft III.

In early 1945, Trautloft joined other high-ranking pilots in the "Fighter Pilots' Revolt incident" which escalated in a meeting with Göring on 22 January 1945. This was an attempt to reinstate Galland who had been dismissed for outspokenness regarding the Oberkommando der Luftwaffe (Luftwaffe high command), and had been replaced by Oberst Gordon Gollob as General der Jagdflieger. The meeting was held at the Haus der Flieger in Berlin and was attended by a number of high-ranking fighter pilot leaders which included Trautloft, Lützow, Hermann Graf, Gerhard Michalski, Helmut Bennemann, Kurt Bühligen, Erich Leie and Herbert Ihlefeld, and their antagonist Göring supported by his staff Brauchitsch and Karl Koller. The fighter pilots, with Lützow taking the lead as spokesman, criticized Göring and made him personally responsible for the decisions taken which contributed to the lost air war over Europe.

Following this incident, Trautloft was relieved of his position and sent to command the 4. Flieger-Schule Division (4th Pilot School Division) in Strassburg. He spent the remainder of the war there. Trautloft ended the war as an Oberst (colonel).