[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Health effects from noise

similar, so it is thought that these levels will negatively impact the hearing of canines in kennels. The ABR can be used to estimate the hearing threshold of dogs, and can be used to show either a temporary threshold shift or permanent threshold shift after being exposed to excessive sound levels.

Behavioral effects to excessive noise exposure include hiding, urinating, defecating, panting, pacing, drooling, disregard to commands, trembling, and barking. These behavioral patterns pose a much greater problem to canines than meets the eye.  All of these behavioral patterns are characteristics that result in a longer stay at the kennels before being adopted. A longer stay at the shelter results in a longer duration of noise exposure and therefore more likely to show either a temporary or permanent threshold shift in the canine's hearing.

These excessive noise levels are not only harming the dogs physical and psychological state, but the workers' and potential adoptive families' physical and psychological state as well.  The workers' psychological state could affect the care provided to the dogs.  These loud noise exposures also have the potential to reduce the amount of time that potential adoptive families spend in the facility.  This can result in less dogs being adopted and more time being exposed to excessive sound levels.

To reduce the level of noise exposure poses a little more difficulty because the majority of the noise is coming from the dogs (barking), but structural changes can be made to the facilities in order to reduce the noise.  Structural changes could include how many dogs are put in one area, more absorbing material rather than metal cages and cement walls and floors, and possibly in the future use of hearing protection devices (HPD) for the dogs. All of these structural changes would also benefit the humans involved as well as the use of HPD's (ear plugs).

See also 

 Aircraft noise
 Buy quiet
 Environmental health
 Loud music
 The Mosquito, an audio device to discourage loitering
 Noise barrier
 Noise control
 Noise mitigation
 Noise pollution
 Nuisance barking
 Occupational hearing loss
 Power tool
 Safe-In-Sound Award
 Soundproofing

References

External links 
 Acoustical Society of America
 Noise and Health International Journal devoted to research on all aspects of noise and its effects on human health
 World Health Organization: Guidelines for Community Noise 
 ICBEN International Commission on Biological Effects of Noise
 How Sound Affects Us (8:18)—TED talk by Julian Treasure
 NIOSH Buy Quiet Topic Page
 Occupational Hearing Loss Prevention

Noise
Noise pollution
Sound
Acoustics