[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Kazakhstan–United States relations

the business session were deputy chair of Astana EXPO-2017 Ainur Kuatova, Deputy Chair of KAZNEX INVEST Assel Yergaziyeva, former Under Secretary of State Robert Hormats, president of Guggenheim International Steven J. Green, executive secretary of National Chamber of Entrepreneurs Sabr Yesimbekov.

3rd Kazakhstan - U.S. Convention was held on December 8, 2015, at U.S. Institute of Peace. The theme of the convention was "Road to the Astana EXPO 2017: Shared Prosperity and Dynamic Development." 2016 marks 25 years of Kazakhstan - U.S. diplomatic relations. The 25th anniversary became the main theme of the 4th Convention held on December 6, 2016, at Ritz Carlton Hotel in Washington, D.C. The theme of the 4th Convention was titled as "Kazakhstan - U.S. Strategic Partnership Celebrating the Quarter Century Milestone."

The 4th Kazakhstan - U.S. Convention was held on December 6, 2016, and keynoted by U.S. Deputy Secretary of Commerce Bruce Andrews. Secretary Andrews mentioned how U.S. companies have contributed to Kazakhstan's growth and development.

U.S. – Kazakh Business Council
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce announced on September 1, 2020, the launch of the U.S.-Kazakhstan Business Council (USKZBC). The new Council is aimed at advancing economic and commercial cooperation between the two countries.

Green economy
Kazakhstan and the United States partner under the Power the Future program that helps to increase the deployment of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies. With support from Power the Future, Kazakhstan designed an inclusive auction process that balances risks between investors and the government. In 2018 and 2019, Kazakhstan saw a total of 28 auctions, with bid prices coming in between 23 and 64% below previous renewable tariff ceilings.

Science and technology cooperation
Kazakh Prime Minister Bakhytzhan Sagintayev conducted a working visit to the U.S. in April, 2017. One of the main focus of the trip was promoting cooperation in IT technologies and engineering. To that end, the Prime Minister met with the Silicon Valley companies, such as Tesla Motors and Cisco among others. During his visit, the Kazakh Prime Minister also signed different memoranda with the American companies that are expected to start cooperation in the technology sphere.

Human rights
The 2014 country report of the United States State Department's Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor criticizes many aspects of the human rights situation in Kazakhstan, pointing out that –

The United States and Kazakhstan have affirmed their work in the area of human rights. In 2013, the Kazakhstan Commission for Children's Rights Protection and the General Prosecutor's office met with Special Advisor for Children's Issues of the U.S. Department of State Susan Jacobs to discuss the underground online network of adopting children and have created a commission to crack down on these illicit adoption rings. The US will be providing information to Kazakhstan on those networks and help understand the living conditions of adopted Kazakh children in the United States.

Kazakhstan and the USAID completed the Dignity and Rights program in October 2020. The program was funded by the USAID to combat the international trafficking in persons and promote migrants’ rights.

Rule of Law 
A US government report released in 2014 commented that in Kazakhstan:

The Rule of Law Initiative of the American Bar Association has programs to train justice sector professionals in Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan's Supreme Court announced steps to modernize and to increase transparency and oversight over the country's legal system. With funding from the U.S. Agency for International Development, the ABA Rule of Law Initiative (ABA ROLI) began a new program in April 2012 to strengthen the independence and accountability of Kazakhstan's judiciary.

The Procurator General of Kazakhstan and the Federal Bureau of Investigation collaborated successfully in a complex seven-year investigation into a February 11, 2006, triple homicide of Altynbek Sarsenbayev, Baurzhan Baibosyn, and Vasiliy Zhuravlev.

In June 2016, the American Bar Association Rule of Law Initiative held a round table dedicated to  judicial practice concerning cases related to extremism and terrorism. The participants of the round table included representatives of the Kazakh Supreme Court, the Union of Judges of Kazakhstan, and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).

On October 2, 2020, the USAID launched a five-year rule of law program for over $7 million to support legal reforms in Kazakhstan. The Supreme Court and the Ministry of Information and Public Development of Kazakhstan partner with the USAID under this program.