[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 25th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

er the war he became the 15th governor of Wisconsin and the 2nd United States Secretary of Agriculture.
 Major William H. Joslin (September 16, 1864October 25, 1864) commanded the regiment while Rusk was absent.  He was previously captain of Co. B.  After the war he served in the Wisconsin Assembly.

Notable officers and personnel
 Charles H. Baxter was a corporal in Co. C, was wounded and discharged, but later re-enlisted with the 41st Wisconsin Infantry Regiment, and was then commissioned captain of Co. K in the 47th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment.  After the war he became a Wisconsin state senator and mayor of Lancaster, Wisconsin.
 William H. Bennett, brother of Van S. Bennett, was captain of Co. B.  He was wounded and captured at Decatur.  After three ascending amputation attempts on his leg, he died of his infected wound.
 Menzus R. Bump was enlisted in Co. G and rose to the rank of first sergeant.  After the war he served in the Wisconsin Assembly.
 Cyrus M. Butt was first lieutenant for Co. A, and later became a major for the 48th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment.  He was promoted to lieutenant colonel but never mustered in federal service at that rank.  After the war he served in the Wisconsin State Senate.
 Jasper Cabanis, son of George Cabanis, was a private in Co. I and died of disease in 1862.
 James DeMott Condit was captain of Co. D. After the war he served in the Wisconsin Assembly.
 Chauncey H. Cooke was a private in Co. G.  His letters describing his service in the war were published as a book.
 Allen H. DeGroff was a private in Co. G. He was among the youngest Wisconsin volunteers at 15 years and 4 months at the time of his enlistment.  After the 25th Wisconsin was mustered out, he served one more month with the 12th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment.  After the war he served in the Wisconsin Assembly.
 John W. DeGroff was a private in Co. G. After the war he served in the Wisconsin Assembly and Senate.
 Vivus Wright Dorwin was captain of Co. G. After the war he served in the Wisconsin Assembly.
 Charles A. Hunt was first lieutenant and later captain of Co. K.  He also served much of 1864 as acting quartermaster of the regiment.  After the war he served in the Wisconsin Assembly and was appointed superintendent for the removal of the Winnebago people from Wisconsin in the 1870s.
 Edward I. Kidd was enlisted in Co. C. After the war he served in the Wisconsin Assembly and Senate, and was the state bank examiner.
 James B. McCoy was enlisted in Co. E and was later commissioned 1st lieutenant.  After the war he served in the Wisconsin Assembly.
 David Schreiner was enlisted in Co. C, was wounded at Atlanta and lost his left arm.  After the war he served in the Wisconsin Assembly.
 Michael J. Warner was enlisted in Co. K and discharged for disability in 1863. After the war he served in the Wisconsin Assembly.
 Thomas C. Woodard, father of Western Woodard, was enlisted in Co. F, rising to the rank of sergeant.  
 David C. Yakey was enlisted in Co. A and reached the rank of sergeant.  After the war he served in the Wisconsin Assembly.

See also

 List of Wisconsin Civil War units
 Wisconsin in the American Civil War

References

Further reading

External links
Roster of Wisconsin
The Civil War Archive

Military units and formations established in 1862
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865
Units and formations of the Union Army from Wisconsin
1862 establishments in Wisconsin