[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Vijaypat Singhania

onsidering all the flats in total, they said, the difference was around ₹650 crore. Madhupati Singhania decided to consult with the board over whether they should still honor the agreement given the increased rates, and they decided to put it to the shareholders, who overwhelmingly voted against it.

All of this left Singhania deeply upset with Gautaum Singhania. He sued for ownership of the J.K. House flat and reimbursement for rent paid on his duplex after the flat was ready, and publicly accused Gautaum Singhania of aiming to dishonor their agreement by asking the shareholders when Singhania felt the decision should have been kept within the board. Gautaum Singhania told the press in response, "Shareholder interest is paramount and supersedes family interest." Singhania in turn accused Gautam Singhania of actually wanting to keep the floor space Singhania was allotted in the agreement for himself, because Gautam Singhania was living in J.K. House as part of his salary in lieu of claiming health benefits and allegedly had claimed extra floor space there after the agreement was turned down. Gautam Singhania told the press that "vested interests" and "opportunists" were "misleading" Singhania and trying to drive a wedge between the two of them.

In 2017, the judge on Singhania's lawsuit requested that the two of them try to work things out within the family before pursuing the case further, noting that he felt the matter rightfully should not have required court resolution. Gautam Singhania said that he did not want the dispute to affect Raymond's reputation and that he would do whatever he could to resolve it. Singhania said that he was shocked he had needed to sue in the first place after how much he had given Gautam Singhania, and that given his son's "greed" and "arrogance and dishonesty" he doubted they would be able to reconcile even if they settled the case.

Books 

Singhania wrote the book An Angel in the Cockpit, an account of his journey from the UK to India on a microlight aircraft in 1988.

In 2021, Pan Macmillan published his autobiography An Incomplete Life. A warm review in The Tribune said that he "[accepts] his follies and foibles," keeping a "mostly reflective" tone, and that his "achievements go beyond the imagination" while "the missteps make him as vulnerable as any ordinary man."

References

Bibliography

Living people
Businesspeople from Mumbai
Rajasthani people
Recipients of the Padma Bhushan in sports
Recipients of the Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award
Indian aviators
Indian Air Force officers
Honorary air commodores
Sheriffs of Mumbai
Aviation history of India
Indian aviation businesspeople
Flight altitude record holders
Textile industry in Maharashtra
Balloon flight record holders
Indian aviation record holders
Indian balloonists
1938 births