[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Francis Pangilinan

Francis Pancratius "Kiko" Nepomuceno Pangilinan () is a Filipino lawyer, politician, and farm owner who served as a Senator from 2001 to 2013 and from 2016 to 2022. He was the Senate Majority Leader from 2004 to 2008.

A graduate of the University of the Philippines College of Law and Harvard Kennedy School, Pangilinan was first elected to the Quezon City Council, serving from 1988 to 1992. In between his stints in the Senate, he was the Presidential Assistant for Food Security and Agricultural Modernization to President Benigno Aquino III from 2014 to 2015.

Pangilinan ran for vice president of the Philippines in the 2022 election under the Liberal Party as the running mate of Vice President Leni Robredo. However, he lost his vice-presidential bid to Sara Duterte, running mate of eventual president Bongbong Marcos.

Early life and education
Francis Pancratius Nepomuceno Pangilinan was born on August 24, 1963, to Donato Tongol Pangilinan, Jr., an engineer and entrepreneur from Pampanga, and Emma Monasterial Nepomuceno, a public school teacher from Nueva Ecija and Marinduque. He has eight siblings.

Pangilinan completed his primary and secondary education at La Salle Green Hills in 1977 and 1981, respectively. Between school years, his father continuously assigned him and his siblings roles in their family businesses; for their Manila Pearl furniture factory, Francis was made a timekeeper as a child and a project coordinator at 19. He graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in English, Major in Comparative Literature degree at the University of the Philippines (UP) Diliman, and was a varsity athlete for the UP Men's Volleyball Team.

As an undergraduate, Pangilinan was elected as chairperson of the UP Diliman University Student Council in 1986, and served as a student regent of the UP Board of Regents in 1987. He was a member of Upsilon Sigma Phi while in attendance at the university, where he would subsequently obtain his Bachelor of Laws degree from the UP College of Law. Alongside his studies at the university, Pangilinan set up a fishball stand along Commonwealth Avenue, Quezon City, later naming it "Eat-a-bols" upon expanding the business to three locations and 40 steel carts, with him earning a partnership with Nestlé to serve Nestea alongside fishballs.

In 1997, Pangilinan moved to Boston, Massachusetts, to pursue a Master of Public Administration degree at Harvard Kennedy School, where he graduated with a general average of A-.

Political career

Quezon City
In 1988, Pangilinan was elected as the youngest councilor of Quezon City from the 4th district. During his stint as councilor, he became the founding president of the National Movement of Young Legislators. In 1992, he unsuccessfully ran in the congressional elections in Quezon City.

Senate
Pangilinan was elected to the senate in 2001 and was re-elected six years thereafter. In 2002, he and then-National Youth Commission (NYC) chairman Bam Aquino established the Ten Accomplished Youth Organizations (TAYO) Awards, which recognizes the contributions of youth organizations in public service and nation-building.

He was first elected as senate majority leader in 2004. On July 23, 2007, Jinggoy Estrada was voted Senate president pro tempore, while Pangilinan became the majority leader following the assumption of Manuel Villar to the chamber's leadership of the 14th Congress.

In 2008, Pangilinan created the Judicial Executive Legislative Advisory and Consultative Council, first proposed on the July 16–17, 2007 Manila Hotel summit on extrajudicial killings and forced disappearances in the Philippines.

He chaired the Senate Committee on Agriculture in 2010, during which he authored the Organic Agriculture Act of 2010, which aimed to further promote the development of organic agricultural practices and protect indigenous organic farmers in the country.

Aquino cabinet
In May 2014, Pangilinan was appointed as the presidential assistant for food security and agricultural modernization, a cabinet-level position under the Office of the President of the Philippines, by President Benigno Aquino III. As OPAFSAM head, he pushed for the creation of the coco levy trust fund for coconut farmers, in an attempt to rectify the ills created by the Coco Levy Fund scam involving former president Ferdinand Marcos and his cronies who collected taxes from farmers purportedly to develop the industry. In September 2015, Pangilinan announced his resignation from the post to run for senator in 2016.

Return to the Senate
Pangilinan won a third term in the 2016 Philippine Senate election, placing 8th overall.