[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mainz Microtron

twice the MAMI-B frequency of 2.45 GHz.
The other linac still  operates at 2.45 GHz for enhanced 
longitudinal stability. 
This special rf scheme gave rise to the name Harmonic Double-Sided Microtron (HDSM). 
MAMI-C is the worldwide first accelerator
using this concept (Kaiser, K.H. et al., 2000). 

The construction work started in 2000. 
End of December 2006, within one day, 
the first test beam was guided through all 43 recirculations and reached 
the design energy of 1508 MeV. After only a few weeks of beam tests, 
the first nuclear physics experiment was conducted in February 2007. 
About 50% of the MAMI beam time in 2007 (7180 h) was used for 1.5 GeV 
operation. All design parameters of the HDSM, including the max. current 
of 100 µA (151 kW of beam power), have been verified. End of 2009 an energy 
of 1604 MeV was reached.
The mean availability of the beam for experiments (> 80%) is at a very 
high level, a clear demonstration that the 
HDSM scheme is as reliable and stable as the RTM cascade.

Experimental facilities

High-resolution electron scattering

 
The largest experimental hall of the MAMI accelerator complex houses 
three high-resolution, focussing  magnetic spectrometers operated by the A1 Collaboration. 
The high momentum resolution (p/p < ) together with the large acceptance in solid angle 
(up to 28 msr) and in  momentum (up to 25%) makes this setup ideal for
electron scattering in coincidence with hadron detection.
One of the spectrometers can be tilted up to an out-of-plane angle of 10°, allowing for out-of-plane kinematics. 
A proton recoil polarimeter gives, in combination with the polarized MAMI beam and 
a polarized helium-3 gas target, access to a broad variety of spin observables.
A fourth spectrometer (KAOS/A1), covering high momenta with a moderate path length for the 
detection of kaons, is currently in the commissioning phase. 
The main physics goals are:
Form factors in elastic electron scattering belong to the most fundamental observables characteristic for nuclear and sub-nuclear systems. They are directly related to transverse spatial densities of charge and magnetization. At MAMI elastic electron-nucleon scattering is studied at small momentum transfer Q² < 2 GeV²/c² with a very high precision.
  In radiative inelastic electron scattering, where an additional low energy photon is emitted (virtual Compton-scattering), the response of nucleons to quasi-static electromagnetic fields can be studied. This response is described in terms of polarizabilities and their spatial distribution. 
 Inelastic electron scattering in coincidence with mesons (pions, etas, kaons) provides information about the excitation spectrum of protons and neutrons. Form factors for the transition of a nucleon to specific excited states can be studied with high precision.
 The structure and the wave functions of nuclei and hypernuclei, where one proton or neutron has been replaced by a heavier lambda or sigma baryon, are studied in electron scattering off nuclei in coincidence with knocked-out nucleons or produced mesons.

A list of recent publications can be found here.

Photoabsorption experiments

The A2 Collaboration studies reactions induced by high-energy photons incident
on nucleons or nuclei. A beam of photons with known energy and flux 
is produced via bremsstrahlung using a dedicated 
tagging spectrometer provided by the University of Glasgow. 
A polarized electron beam produces circularly polarized photons. Linearly 
polarized photons can be obtained from coherent bremsstrahlung in an oriented crystal radiator.
The central part of the detector system is a hermetic calorimeter consisting
of the Crystal Ball detector (672 NaI crystals) in combination with the TAPS detector (384 BaF2 crystals)
in forward direction. For charged-particle tracking and identification 
two layers of coaxial multi-wire proportional chambers and a barrel of 24 scintillation 
counters surrounding the target are installed inside the cavity of the Crystal Ball sphere. 
A frozen-spin target for polarized protons and deuterons is of particular importance for 
studying spin degrees of freedom.