[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Neil Danns

e contributed two goals from nine matches before returning to Leicester. Bristol City manager Derek McInnes was keen to extend Danns' stay further, either as another loan or on a permanent basis, but instead he joined another Championship club, Huddersfield Town, on loan until the end of the season.

On his debut, he "certainly put in a shift, first on the right hand side of midfield, then after the departure of [Oliver] Norwood, who started reasonably but lost his way, in the centre", in a draw at home to Birmingham City, He was a regular in the starting eleven as Huddersfield avoided relegation back to League One, with 17 league appearances and 2 goals, the first in a 2–1 West Yorkshire derby defeat of Leeds United and the second in a draw with Peterborough, although a toe injury kept him out of the last three fixtures.

In January 2013, Danns had dismissed suggestions of a disagreement with Nigel Pearson, and professed himself mystified by his exclusion from consideration at Leicester. At the start of the 2013–14 season, Pearson pointed out how fortunate Leicester were to "have quite a lot of quality in terms of our central midfield options", and that Danns would benefit from regular first-team football elsewhere.

Bolton Wanderers
On 26 September 2013, Danns signed on loan for Championship club Bolton Wanderers, managed by Dougie Freedman who had coached him at Crystal Palace. He made his first Wanderers appearance in a goalless draw away to Blackpool on 1 October, and his goal in the next match, away to Birmingham, gave his team their first league win of the season. He soon established himself in the team, and scored four goals from thirteen matches over the three-month spell. Freedman admired his industry, his ability to adapt his style of play to the match situation, and the way "he gets you off your seat and makes things happen", and the player was keen to make the move permanent if Leicester were willing.

He rejoined Bolton on 3 January 2014 on loan until the end of the season. In February and March, he set up a goal in each of three consecutive wins. At the end of April, Danns signed a one-year contract with Bolton, to begin on 1 July after the expiry of his Leicester deal. Highlighting his work-rate, dynamism, and the positive attitude that set an example to the "younger, hungrier players" prioritised by the manager, the Bolton News suggested that "Freedman may have already made the most important signing of the summer".

Amid strong competition for a place in Freedman's preferred 4–2–3–1 formation, Danns started his 2014–15 season from the bench in a 3–0 opening-day loss to Watford. After Mark Davies's stoppage-time penalty kept Bolton in the League Cup first-round match against Bury of League Two, Danns scored twice in extra time to take his side through. He started the next Championship match, and remained in the starting eleven for most of the season. Playing on the right of a diamond formation, Danns scored in new manager Neil Lennon's first home match, a 3–1 win against Brentford on 25 October, before Lennon reverted to the system used by Freedman but with more license given to attack-minded players. In January 2015, Lennon described Danns and Darren Pratley as "pivotal" in the way his team was set up to play. but injury to the latter would adversely affect Danns' form.

At the end of January, Danns signed a one-year contract extension. Having captained the team in the FA Cup third round, he was sent off in the fourth before Bolton let slip a one-goal lead and went out to Liverpool. Soon afterwards, he received his tenth yellow card of the season and with it a two-match ban. In April, Danns and Barry Bannan were "suspended indefinitely" and fined two weeks' wages for drunken behaviour at the club's hotel; after apologising to all concerned, they missed just one match before Lennon recalled them. Danns finished the season with 47 appearances in all competitions.

Danns was considered as stand-in captain after incumbent Pratley was injured, but was not chosen. He scored his first goal of the season on 26 September 2015 in a 2–2 draw with Brighton & Hove Albion during which Jamie Murphy was sent off for fouling him. Accusations of diving prompted Danns to tweet a picture of the damage caused. He played regularly in the first half of the season but in the second, was used off the bench and often out of position. He did not start a league match in 2016 until 9 April, well after Lennon had left the club, in a defeat to Derby County that confirmed Bolton's relegation. Danns was released when his contract expired, having made 81 appearances in his permanent spell.