[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Larz Anderson

wn (Italy), the Order of the Rising Sun (Japan), and the Order of the Crown (Belgium).

Death
Anderson died in White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, and was interred at Washington National Cathedral, where his remains rest in the St. Mary Chapel with those of his wife. The Andersons had no children.

Racism and antisemitism
Anderson's diaries and journals often expressed virulent racism and anti-Semitism. During a 1907 vacation in Florida aboard his houseboat, he wrote:
 
Visiting Prague in 1906, Anderson wrote of "narrow, winding, dirty, smelly streets with hooknosed Jews peering out of cellar doors." He also blamed a string of Harvard football losses on the fact that coach Arnold Horween was Jewish.

Homes and collections

Anderson Memorial Bridge, connecting Boston and Cambridge, Massachusetts, is often called "Larz Anderson Bridge"; in fact it was built by Anderson in memory of his father Nicholas Longworth Anderson.

Anderson House

Between 1902 and 1905, the Andersons built a Beaux Arts mansion in the fashionable Dupont Circle neighborhood of Washington, D.C. Known as Anderson House, the mansion was the couple's winter residence during the Washington social season, which generally extended from New Year's Day through Easter. After Larz's death, Isabel Anderson donated Anderson House in 1938 to the Society of the Cincinnati, of which Anderson was a member, and it now serves as its national headquarters.

New Hampshire

After her father's death Isabel Anderson purchased her father's birthplace in Contoocook, New Hampshire, a village of Hopkinton.  She occasionally stayed in the house, but preferred her own small, rustic summer camp in a rural area of southern New Hampshire that she used as a writing retreat and for visits with her relatives. The Perkins house has since been sold and divided into eight apartments and is now known as Perkins Manor.

Weld 

In 1898, the Andersons came into the possession of  near the outskirts of Boston that had been in Isabel's family since the mid-19th century. Isabel named the property Weld in honor of her grandfather William Fletcher Weld and the estate became the Andersons' home for summers and Christmas holidays for the next forty years. At the time they acquired the property, it included a shingle-style summer home that had been built in 1881 by Boston architect Edmund M. Wheelwright for Isabel's cousin William Fletcher Weld II. 

The Andersons added gardens, landscaping, a large kitchen garden including a greenhouse and outbuildings, a tennis court, and a small pond to the estate.  Over time, the couple acquired an additional  of adjacent land, where Larz built three smaller mansions that were used as guest housing and storage.  In 1914-16, after his return from diplomatic service abroad, Larz engaged the firm of Little & Browne to more than double the size of the mansion. Larz directed that architectural design elements from Lulworth Castle, an ancestral home associated with the Roman Catholic branch of the Weld family, be incorporated into the structure. Isabel willed the estate, including all land and buildings, to the Town of Brookline after her death in 1948 and it is now Larz Anderson Park.

Auto Collection

The Andersons had assembled an extraordinary collection of horse-drawn carriages, sleighs and vintage motorcars. In donating these along with the property, Isabel Anderson stipulated in her will that these be known as the "Larz Anderson Collection."  Fourteen of the original thirty-two vehicles remain in the collection and are still on display as part of the Larz Anderson Auto Museum, the oldest collection of motorcars in the United States.  The collection is housed in the stable of the Weld Estate in Brookline, Massachusetts.

Bonsai Collection

After Larz's death, Isabel donated 30 of their bonsai to the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University, along with the funds necessary to build a shade house for their display. Following her death, the remaining nine plants were donated to the arboretum, including an 80-year-old hinoki cypress that had been given to the Andersons by the Imperial Household shortly before they left Japan for the last time.

The BC Eagle

During the time they were in Tokyo, Japan, the garden of the American Embassy was adorned with a gilded bronze eagle sculpture which stood in front of the structure. The Andersons brought the eagle back to the United States and it remained on their Brookline property until 1954, when it was donated to Boston College and installed on the lawn in front of the university's Alumni House  before being relocated to a place of prominence on Linden Lane, in front of the university's iconic Gasson Tower. It is now considered synonymous with the "BC Eagle", the university's mascot.

References