[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 1983–84 in English football

eague Cup third round second replay. The fourth round tie between Arsenal and Walsall at Highbury produces a shock result when the Third Division visitors win 2–1. The surprise result has echoes of Walsall's shock win over Arsenal back in January 1933, when they beat the Gunners 2–0 at Fellows Park.

30 November 1983: Liverpool's bid for a third successive league title is now looking stronger, as they finish November as First Division leaders with a one-point lead over West Ham United and Manchester United. Tottenham Hotspur occupy fourth place, while Luton Town are fifth. Wolverhampton Wanderers, with just one win, are still bottom of the table, with Watford (the previous season's runners-up) and Stoke City completing the bottom three. Sheffield Wednesday are still top of the Second Division, while Newcastle United remain in the top three, with Chelsea overtaking Manchester City to move into third. In the League Cup, Oxford United hold Manchester United to a 1–1 draw at the Manor Ground in a fourth round tie. United give a first team debut to 20-year-old Welsh striker Mark Hughes. Norwich City beat their East Anglian rivals Ipswich Town 1–0 at Portman Road. There is another local derby in the competition at The Hawthorns, where Aston Villa beat West Bromwich Albion 2–1. In the only league action of the day, Leicester City climb out of the bottom three with a 2–1 home win over Southampton.

1 December 1983: Newcastle United further boost their promotion bid with the £150,000 acquisition of QPR defender Glenn Roeder, while Terry Neill makes a last-ditch attempt to reverse Arsenal's dismal league form by signing 21-year-old Manchester City defender Tommy Caton for £500,000.

3 December 1983: The pressure mounts further on Arsenal manager Terry Neill after a 1–0 defeat at home to West Bromwich Albion leaves his side 15th in the First Division. Leaders Liverpool are now four points ahead at the top of the table after a 1–0 win over Birmingham City, as Manchester United lose 1–0 at home to Everton and West Ham United are beaten 1-0 by Aston Villa at Villa Park. Coventry City keep up the pressure on the leading pack with a 4–2 away win over Luton Town. Watford climb out of the bottom three with a 5–0 away win over Wolves.

4 December 1983: Nottingham Forest beat their East Midlands rivals Leicester City 3–2 in a First Division clash at the City Ground, lifting the hosts up from 11th place to sixth.

6 December 1983: Everton boost their chances of ending their 14-year wait for a major trophy by beating West Ham United 2–0 in a League Cup fourth round replay at Goodison Park. In the Second Division, Chelsea boost their promotion push and increase Swansea's relegation worries with a 6–1 win at Stamford Bridge.

7 December 1983: Watford's UEFA Cup quest ends in a 7-2 aggregate defeat to Sparta Prague in the third round. Nottingham Forest progress to the quarter-finals with a 2–1 win over Celtic at Parkhead, after the first leg at the City Ground ended in a goalless draw. On the domestic scene, Oxford United take Manchester United to a second replay in the League Cup third round after a 1–1 draw at Old Trafford.

10 December 1983: Coventry City achieve one of the most surprising results of the season by defeating league champions Liverpool 4–0 at Highfield Road. Striker Terry Gibson scores a hat-trick. The defeat cuts Liverpool's lead at the top of the First Division to a single point following victories for both West Ham United and Manchester United. Coventry are now fourth and just three points off the top of the table. QPR climb from ninth to fifth with a 2–1 away win over West Bromwich Albion. Notts County stay clear of the relegation zone after another rout, this time beating Sunderland 6–1 at Meadow Lane. Luton Town remain in touch with the leading pack by winning 4–2 at Stoke City. Wolves are now nine points adrift of safety after losing 6–1 to Leicester City at Filbert Street. Arsenal are just five points clear of the relegation zone after losing 3–1 at West Ham. In the Second Division, Newcastle United beat Huddersfield Town 5–2 on Tyneside to return to the top three at the expense of Manchester City, who lose 2–1 at home to leaders Sheffield Wednesday.

14 December 1983: Telford United beat Football League opposition in the FA Cup for the second time this season, beating Northampton Town 3–2 at home.

16 December 1983: Terry Neill is sacked after more than seven years as manager of Arsenal, who occupy 16th place in the First Division. Manchester United go top of the league with a 4–2 home win over Tottenham.