[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Canada–Caribbean relations

ncies include the Canadian International Development Agency, the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency, the Canadian Trade Commissioner, the Transport Canada, the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission and other agencies.

Canada has taken a lead role more recently in helping Haiti to return to a state of normalcy following the February, 2004 uprising. The Government of Canada has provided much of this assistance though the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti MINUSTAH in addition to direct cooperation.

Aviation
Canadian assistance in Aviation services in the region have been carried out through the second half of the 20th century. During the late 1960s Canadian assistance through Transport Canada was sought to establish new venues for training Caribbean-based Air Traffic Controllers.

More recently the Vancouver Airport Services also manages many airports in and around the Caribbean region.

Recent times
Presently, Canada's banks have an especially large role in the Caribbean commercial banking industry.  Canadian banks own the three largest banks in the English-speaking Caribbean.

Additionally several Canadian energy companies have significant stakes in Caribbean-based providers of electricity.

Emera
 (Grand Bahama Power Company)
 (Barbados Light and Power Company—BL&P) Formerly Canadian International Power Company Ltd. (CIPC)
 (Dominica Electricity Services in Dominica)
 (St. Lucia Electricity Services Limited—LUCELEC)
Fortis Inc.
 (Belize Electricity Limited—BEL)
 (Caribbean Utilities Limited—CUC)
 (Fortis Turks and Caicos)

In 2006 several Canadian politicians moved to form the Canada-Caribbean Parliamentary Friendship Group.

In 2007, as part of a larger trip to Latin America and the Caribbean, Prime Minister Stephen Harper visited Barbados and Haiti. Observers said this was intended to increase Canada's visibility in the region and to remind Canadians of the region's importance.

The Canadian government announced in February 2009 that it was adding the Caribbean to its list of preferred recipients for foreign aid. This list includes 18 countries and the West Bank, as well as the Caribbean.

Migration
Since the liberalization of Canada's immigration laws in the 1960s immigration from the Caribbean has increased dramatically.  As of 2001, of Canada's 783,795-strong Black population (2.5% of Canadian population) nearly 40% have Jamaican heritage, and an additional 32% have heritage elsewhere in the Caribbean or Bermuda. In addition many Canadians of South Asian descent have immediate origins in the Caribbean.

The Canadian Seasonal Agricultural Workers Program (SAWP) consists of an annual recruitment of roughly 15,000 persons from the Caribbean and Mexico for temporary employment in Canada.

At the same time many Canadian snowbirds move to the Caribbean seasonally or for retirement.

See also
British Empire
French colonial empire
Regional Security System
Seasonal Agricultural Workers Program
Caribbean Development Bank
Commonwealth of Nations
Organization of American States
La Francophonie
Proposals for new Canadian provinces and territories
High Commission of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States in Ottawa
Canadian mining in Latin America and the Caribbean

References
Brian Douglas Tennyson. ed. Canadian-Caribbean Relations: Aspects of a Relationship.
 
 Carmichael, Dr. Trevor A. 2001. Passport to the Heart: Reflections on Canada Caribbean Relations. Ian Randle Publishers, Kingston 6, Jamaica.  The book's Forward passage, synopsis

External links
Statistics Canada:The Caribbean Community in Canada
Trini woman wants to rule Canada - By Tony Best, (September 10, 2006) About the growing number of West Indian women getting into Canadian Politics.
One hundred years of trade between Canada and the Caribbean commemorated (15 November 2008) - Caribbean Net News
Canada-Eastern Caribbean debt management agreement signed (15 November 2008) - Caribbean Net News
Canada and the Caribbean: Ties for good (14 August 2007) - The Secretariat of the Commonwealth of Nations

Political union
CANADA MAY ANNEX BAHAMAS; Premier Borden and Islands' Governor General Discuss the Question - October 19, 1911, Thursday: The New York Times Company
CANADIAN-WEST INDIAN CO-OPERATION IS URGED; Winston Churchill Promises His Aid to Bring About Their Closer Association. - June 27, 1921, Monday: The New York Times Company

 
Caribbean