[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Transport Scotland

Transport Scotland () is the national transport agency of Scotland. It was established by the Transport (Scotland) Act 2005, and began operating on 1 January 2006 as an Executive Agency of the Scottish Government.

Transport Scotland, an executive agency of the Scottish government, manages transport projects, ScotRail, and all motorways and major A-class roads in Scotland. The agency is organised into eight directorates, including Aviation, Maritime, Freight and Canals; Bus, Accessibility & Active Travel; and Rail. It focuses on sustainable and accessible transport, promoting walking, cycling, and wheeling. Transport Scotland also contributes to the Scottish Government's Climate Change plan.

The second National Transport Strategy, published in 2020, outlines a 20-year vision focused on reducing inequalities, climate action, inclusive economic growth, and health and well-being. Traffic Scotland, a public service managed by Transport Scotland, works to ensure safe and reliable trunk roads by monitoring, controlling, and informing travellers.

Regional Transport Partnerships (RTPs) help plan and deliver regional transport developments, with each RTP preparing a regional transport strategy and delivery plan. Some RTPs also provide transport services, like the Strathclyde Partnership for Transport which operates the Glasgow Subway and major bus stations.

Organisation

Transport Scotland is an executive agency of the Scottish government that conducts transport projects, manages ScotRail, and also maintains all motorways and major A-class roads in Scotland.

Directorates 
The agency is made up of eight directorates:

 Aviation, Maritime, Freight and Canals 
 Bus, Accessibility & Active Travel
 Finance and Corporate Services 
 Low Carbon Economy 
 Major Projects
 Rail
 Roads
 Strategy & Analysis

Transport Scotland has a responsibility to improve the sustainability and accessibility of local transport options including getting people back using bus transport. It has a role promoting walking, cycling and public transport.

Through Scottish Rail Holdings, its operator of last resort, Transport Scotland has taken ScotRail and the Caledonian Sleeper back into public ownership.

Transport makes a contribution to the Scottish Government Climate Change plan (updated in December 2020).

Current strategic documents 
A second National Transport Strategy for Scotland was published in February 2020. The vision for the next 20 years is underpinned by four priorities: reducing inequalities, taking climate action, helping deliver inclusive economic growth and improving health and well-being. There are three associated outcomes for each priority.

Traffic Scotland
Through the Traffic Scotland service, Transport Scotland provides a public service that aims to deliver safe and reliable trunk roads. The focus of Traffic Scotland is to minimise the effects of congestion, breakdowns and unforeseen events on the trunk road network. The Traffic Scotland service delivers traveller information for the Scottish Trunk Road network through a process called 'monitor, control and inform'.

Monitor: The Traffic Scotland service monitors the network using CCTV, roadside hardware, communication with the police, weather forecasts and major event management services.
Control: All information collected through the monitoring process is processed within the Traffic Scotland Control Centre. The Traffic Scotland Control Centre operates 24 hours a day to ensure that traffic and travel information disseminated as part of the Traffic Scotland service is accurate.
Inform: Traffic and travel information processed by the Traffic Scotland Control Centre is then disseminated via the Traffic Scotland service, including the Traffic Scotland website, the Traffic Customer Care Line, road side Variable Message Signs (VMS) and via the multiple Traffic Scotland data services available to public, corporate and media users.

In November 2016 Traffic Scotland introduced a real-time service to allow drivers to track which roads had been gritted through the 'Trunk Road Gritter Tracker'.

Regional Transport Partnerships
The role of Regional Transport Partnerships (RTPs) is to strengthen the planning and delivery of regional transport developments.

The first task of each RTP was to prepare a regional transport strategy. This is supported by a delivery plan where RTPs set out when and how projects and proposals would be delivered.

Some RTPs are also responsible for the delivery of transport services. For example, the Strathclyde Partnership for Transport owns and operates the Glasgow subway and major bus stations across the west of Scotland.

The seven RTPs are: