[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arabian wolf

live in large packs, and instead hunt in pairs or in groups of about three or four animals. They are most frequently active around water sources at sunrise and mid-afternoon. However, they more commonly travel at night. Due to food availability, Arabian wolves often associate with human settlements.

Diet 
Arabian wolves are mainly carnivorous, but also omnivorous and in some areas largely dependent on human garbage and excess products. Their native prey includes ungulates such as Nubian ibex (Capra nubiana), gazelles (Genus Gazella), and Asiatic wild ass (Equus hemionus onager), as well as smaller animals like hares and rodents. They also eat cats, sweet fruits, roadkill and other carrion. Opportunistically, almost any small animal including fish, snails, baby baboons can be part of their diet. Because Arabian wolves can attack and eat any domestic animals up to the size of a goat, pastoral Bedouins and other farmers will often shoot, poison, or trap them.

Other wildlife interactions 
There is at least one case in Israel of a striped hyena (Hyaena hyaena) associating and cooperating with a wolf pack. It is proposed that this is a case of mutualism: the hyena could benefit from the wolves' superior ability to hunt large, agile prey. The wolves could benefit from the hyena's superior sense of smell, to locate and dig out tortoises, to crack open large bones, and to tear open discarded food containers like tin cans.

As with other wolf subspecies, Arabian wolves can facilitate a trophic cascade by suppressing smaller carnivores such as golden jackals (Canis aureus) and foxes (Genus Vulpes). This allows smaller herbivores to become more abundant. Arabian wolves compete with other carnivores including the caracal (Caracal caracal) and Arabian leopard (Panthera pardus nimr).

Range and conservation

The Arabian wolf was once found throughout the Arabian Peninsula, but now lives only in small pockets in southern Israel, Palestine, southern and western Iraq, Oman, Yemen, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and some parts of the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt. It is rare throughout most of its range because of human persecution.

In Oman, wolf populations have increased because of a ban on hunting, and they may naturally re-establish themselves in certain places within the region in the relatively near term.

In Israel, between 100 and 150 Arabian wolves are found across the Negev and the Arava. The population is stable, as prey is abundant and much of the land is undeveloped and protected as nature reserves. They are strongly protected under Israel's 1955 Wildlife Protection Law.

The United Arab Emirates and Egypt both have a captive breeding program, and the wolf is protected in Oman and Israel, but in Saudi Arabia, the wolf is protected in places and still exists in places with sparse human activity.

References

Sources
 

Mammals of the Arabian Peninsula
Carnivorans of Asia
Vertebrates of Israel
Subspecies of Canis lupus
Mammals described in 1934