[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# John Solomon Cartwright

;  the capital would be in Upper Canada;  and only English would be used in the Parliament and the courts.  The Legislative Assembly approved the Cartwright resolutions, and passed an additional resolution that it would be "distinctly opposed" to the union unless those resolutions were incorporated.

In December 1839, the new governor general, Charles Poulett Thomson (later appointed to the peerage as Lord Sydenham), advised the Assembly that the British government could not accept the conditions proposed by the Assembly, and insisted on unconditional approval of the union.  The Legislative Assembly then passed a motion of approval without the Cartwright conditions.  Undeterred, in January 1840, Cartwright and the other Tories presented a pared-down list of conditions for agreement to the union.  Although Cartwright was not personally present for the vote due to a personal commitment, the Assembly approved the new conditions.  The final version of the Address to the Queen supported the union in principle, including the equal representation of Upper Canada and Lower Canada in the Assembly, but called for provisions that English would become the sole language in the courts and in legislative debates; that the capital should be in Upper Canada;  that there be a real estate qualification for membership in the Legislature;  that emigration from Britain be encouraged;  and that local governments be established in Lower Canada, similar to those in Upper Canada. The Address affirmed that the people of Upper Canada wished to maintain a constitutional system based on "... the representative mode of  government under a monarchy, and to a permanent connexion with the British Empire, and a dutiful allegiance to our Sovereign."  On receiving this version of the Address to the Queen, Governor General Thomson advised that he agreed with the provisions, including that English should be the sole language in the courts and the Assembly.

Province of Canada

Relations with moderate Tories
In 1840, the British Parliament enacted the Act of Union, which united Lower Canada and Upper Canada into the Province of Canada.  The Act was proclaimed in force in February 1841, and elections were held in March and April. Lower Canada was now referred to as Canada East, and Upper Canada as Canada West. The Act provided that English was to be the language of the Parliament, one of the conditions which Cartwright had proposed, even though Cartwright repeatedly stated that he thought French-Canadians needed to be included in the government of the province.

In his Report, Lord Durham had been highly critical of the Family Compact and its previous dominance of the government of Upper Canada. The new governor general, Thomson, made it clear that he wanted to establish a broad-based government, with representatives in the executive council from the different political groups, and a focus on commercial and economic development rather than ideological or constitutional disputes.

In light of these developments, in November 1840 the Attorney General of Upper Canada, William Draper, began corresponding with Cartwright.  Draper was a moderate Tory, whose interests were mainly commercial.  He had co-operated with Thomson in obtaining the Upper Canada Assembly's approval for the union.  Now, with the union approaching, he sounded out Cartwright on the possibility of creating a conservative party which could unite both the high Tories of the Compact, and the more moderate Tories which Draper represented.

Cartwright was apparently interested in the possibility, but after consulting with other Compact Tories, such as Allan MacNab and Robinson (now Chief Justice of the King's Bench of Upper Canada, but still involved in politics), he ultimately rejected Draper's proposal. Unlike his colleagues, Cartwright distrusted Draper's political honesty.  Cartwright's leadership role with the Compact Tories was such that his refusal to act with Draper put an end to the proposal. The two Tory factions would continue to be separate in the new Parliament.

First session of Parliament, 1841
In 1841, Cartwright was elected to the Legislative Assembly of the first Parliament of the Province of Canada, again representing Lennox and Addington.  One of the first matters before the new Legislative Assembly was a series of motions indicating support for the  union of Upper Canada and Lower Canada into the Province of Canada.  Cartwright, along with Compact Tory members such as Allan MacNab and George Sherwood, again voted in support of the union.  However, Sydenham, following his instructions from Britain, was determined to form a broad-based centrist government, and excluded the Compact Tories, precisely as Durham had advocated.  The feeling was mutual:  Cartwright and the other Tories generally opposed the measures proposed by Governor General Sydenham in the first session of the Parliament.

Second session of Parliament, 1842