[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Fourth Ward, Houston

hed to make room for more townhouses. Since the fire occurred, the Bethel Missionary Baptist Church congregation relocated to a new building. Pastor Robert Robertson, the leader of the church, supported the city's purchase and restoration of the church facility. The church was founded by Jack Yates.

Rutherford B.H. Yates Museum Inc. owns six houses on ten lots as part of the Educational and Cultural Corridor Park. All of them are National Register of Historic Places houses, three have State Historic Land Marks, four are designated by the City of Houston as protected landmarks, and all properties have State Archaeological Trinomial registrations. The houses include the Rutherford B.H. Yates Sr. House, the former home of the son of Jack Yates, and currently the Yates Community Archaeology Lab and Yates Printing Museum. Most of the houses were designed by black architects and built by black contractors who were the freedmen or descendants of slaves. The J. Vance Lewis homestead at Andrews and Wilson includes the 1907 J. Vance Lewis House, named "Van Court," and built the house 1218 Wilson. Lewis, born c. 1860 became an attorney, named the house after himself. The Pauline Gray-Lewis, was his wife, a  teacher and worked as a librarian at the Carnegie Colored Library.  A relative, Isabella Sims lived at 1216 Wilson on the same homestead. The organization plans to turn the Lewis house into a Museum of Legal Professions & Educators. 1319 Andrews St., a house built in 1898 on the south side of Andrews Street, across from the Lewis homestead, was the residence of the Reverend Ned P. Pullum and Emma, his wife. Rev. Pullum founded a brick yard that was producing 20,000 bricks a day, three pharmacies, a shoe business, and donated to the building of a church and the first hospital for Blacks, the Union Hospital.    The organization plans to convert it into a Health and Business museum. Antonio Tomasino Jr., a grocer, owned two buildings, built by black contractors, including the shotgun at 1514 Wilson and the workman's cottage at 1404 Victor. 1514 Wilson will become the site of the Archaeological Field School Lab. 1404 Victor, a workman's cottage built around 1900, will become a Barber/Beauty Shop museum.

In media
A White American filmmaker named James Blue directed a 1978 film called "Who Killed Fourth Ward?", with most of the filming done in 1976, from July through September of that year. It was uploaded to YouTube.

Notable residents
 Jack Yates - The house Yates occupied was originally in the Fourth Ward. It was later moved to Sam Houston Park and it was opened to the public on Wednesday December 11, 1996.
 Lenwood Johnson - An activist who campaigned to prevent the demolition of Allen Parkway Village and later to preserve the history of the Fourth Ward itself.

See also

 African-American neighborhood
 History of the African-Americans in Houston

References

Reference notes

Further reading
 Lomax, John Nova. "O'Brien's Song." Houston Press. Wednesday December 9, 2009.
 McDavid, Carol. "When is “Gone” Gone? Archaeology, Gentrification, and Competing Narratives about Freedmen’s Town, Houston." Historical Archaeology. September 2011, Volume 45, Issue 3, pp 74–88. Published online on October 19, 2016. DOI: 10.1007/BF03376848.
 
 
 Houston-Galveston Area Council  Livable Centers Study: FOURTH WARD FINAL REPORT. Houston-Galveston Area Council (HGAC), Fourth Ward Redevelopment Authority, and the City of Houston. November 2010
Video:

External links
 
 Fourth Ward Redevelopment Authority
 The African American Library at the Gregory School
 The High School for Performing and Visual Arts and Gregory-Lincoln Education Center Collaborative Historic Preservation Project - Houston Independent School District
 Archaeological Research in Freedman's Town: Rice University's Collaboration with the R. B. H. Yates Museum - Rice University
 Gregory Library Watch (Archive)

 
Neighborhoods in Houston