[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1907 in New Zealand

n by amateur Arthur Duncan.
 The 15th National Amateur Championships were held in Napier
 Men: Arthur Duncan (Wellington) – 5th title
 Women: Mrs G. Williams

Hockey
 The Challenge Shield is introduced.

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup: Marian
 Auckland Trotting Cup: All Night

Thoroughbred racing
Apologue becomes the first New Zealand-owned horse to win the Melbourne Cup.
Auckland Cup – Zimmerman
Wellington Cup – Achilles
New Zealand Derby – Elevation

Netball
 Women's basketball, now called Netball, is introduced to the country by J. C. Jamieson when a demonstration match between Eden and Epsom is played in an Auckland paddock.

Shooting
The Collins Challenge Shield is introduced by the National Rifle Association.

Rowing
William Webb of Wanganui defeats Australian Charles Towns on 3 August for the World Professional Sculling Championship, the first world rowing title won by New Zealand.

Rugby union
Auckland defend the Ranfurly Shield against Buller (21–0), Hawkes Bay (12–3) and Wanganui(6–5).
The All Blacks tour Australia, winning both tests. They also play Wellington.
A record crowd of 52,411 packs the Sydney Cricket Ground for the All Blacks v NSW match.

Rugby league
The All Golds New Zealand league team tours Britain, before a match has been played or a club has been formed in New Zealand.

Soccer
Provincial league champions:
	Auckland:	Auckland Corinthians
	Canterbury:	Burnham Industrial School, Christchurch Celtic (shared)
	Otago:	Northern Dunedin
	Southland:	Nightcaps
	Taranaki:	New Plymouth
	Wellington:	Wellington Swifts

Tennis
Anthony Wilding of New Zealand pairs with Australian Norman Brookes, as the Australasian team, to win the Davis Cup.
Anthony Wilding and Josiah Ritchie win the men's doubles at the Wimbledon Championship.
Kathleen Nunneley wins the last of her 13 successive national ladies singles titles.

Births
 29 May: Denis Blundell, future Governor-General.
 17 July: Jock Barnes, trade unionist. 
 24 August: Thaddeus McCarthy, jurist.
 18 September Alf Cleverley, Olympic boxer.
 8 October: Stan Whitehead, politician.
 9 December: Bernard O'Brien, philosopher and theologian.

Deaths
 4 February: Tohu Kākahi, Māori leader and prophet at Parihaka (b. c1828). 
 19 March: Peter Seton Hay, civil engineer and surveyor (born 1852 in Scotland) 
 12 April: William Henry Eyes, politician (b. 1819 in England).
 19 April: Edward Smith, politician (b. 1839 in England).
 19 May: Lancelot Walker, politician (b. 1829 in England).
 25 June: John Hall – Premier 1879–81 (b. 1824 in England).
 10 August: Matilda Meech, shopkeeper and businesswoman.
 8 October: Maraea Morete, tribal leader and writer (b. 1844).
 12 November: Allan McLean, runholder and philanthropist (b. 1822 in Scotland).

See also
History of New Zealand
List of years in New Zealand
Military history of New Zealand
Timeline of New Zealand history
Timeline of New Zealand's links with Antarctica
Timeline of the New Zealand environment

References
General

Specific

External links
 New Zealand History Online: New Zealand in 1907 - Dominion status