[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# Ion Negoițescu

ples of threats she had allegedly received from Romoşan. Cornel Nistorescu himself explained that he had decided not to publish the piece because he considered it superficial. He also claimed that the paper had renounced Corlăţan's services only after she had joined in public criticism of the paper.

Romoşan, who had earlier denied involvement with the Securitate, claimed that Negoiţescu had actually both been recruited as an agent since their release from prison in the 1960s, and had spied for the Securitate's foreign bureau during his time in Germany. Speaking after Corlăţan's article, he admitted having functioned as a Securitate informer, but not before 1987, when his wife, writer Adina Kenereş, was threatened with losing her travel privileges. He indicated that his signature on any other such documents was obtained with the use of violence and intimidation. He argued: "I presently think that I was being used by the Securitate, which destroyed my reputation in order to provide Negoiţescu with a cover", and claims that Negoiţescu himself apologized to him for "all the harm" during a chance meeting in the early 1990s. According to Nistorescu's assessment: "When the threads of Negoiţescu's file will come loose, perhaps I'll understand something from [Romoşan's] adventure." In contrast, Morar and Ştefan Agopian both assessed that Romoşan's own flight abroad was part of a Securitate diversion. Literary critic Dan C. Mihăilescu gave Romoşan's claims the benefit of the doubt and urged for the Negoiţescu file to be publicized in its entirety, but also asserted that Romoşan had lost his credibility.

Notes

References
 Mihaela Albu, "Atât de departe... atât de aproape... (Literatura română—între a fi şi a nu fi în Europa)", in the University of Iaşi's Philologica Jassyensia, Nr. 1/2007, p. 87-92
Nicolae Balotă, Arte poetice ale secolului XX: ipostaze româneşti şi străine, Editura Minerva, Bucharest, 1976.  
Matei Călinescu, Ion Vianu, Amintiri în dialog. Memorii, Polirom, Iaşi, 2005.  
Norman Manea, Plicuri şi scrisori, Polirom, Iaşi, 2004.  
Vladimir Tismăneanu, Stalinism pentru eternitate, Polirom, Iaşi, 2005.

External links
 Straja dragonilor (fragment), at the Humanitas site

1921 births
1993 deaths
Male essayists
20th-century essayists
20th-century memoirists
Romanian essayists
Romanian literary critics
Romanian literary historians
Romanian memoirists
20th-century Romanian novelists
Romanian male novelists
20th-century Romanian poets
Romanian male poets
Romanian surrealist writers
Romanian librarians
Romanian magazine editors
Romanian magazine founders
Romanian anthologists
Writers from Cluj-Napoca
Romanian gay writers
Romanian LGBT poets
Romanian LGBT novelists
Gay poets
Gay novelists
LGBT Eastern Orthodox Christians
Members of the Romanian Orthodox Church
Babeș-Bolyai University alumni
Members of the Iron Guard
Romanian people of World War II
People detained by the Securitate
Prisoners and detainees of Romania
Romanian dissidents
Censorship in Romania
Romanian defectors
Romanian emigrants to Germany
Academic staff of the University of Münster
BBC people
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty people
Mihai Eminescu scholars
Victims of human rights abuses
Anti-fascists
Romanian democracy activists
Inmates of Jilava Prison