[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Lebanon hostage crisis

son. Suggested motivation: Part of Hezbollah "volteface", and entering into a new era where it participates in Lebanese democratic process while continuing its fight against Israel.
 1991 December (late) – Return: bodies of William Buckley and Lt. Col. William Higgins found dumped on Beirut streets.

1992
 June 17, 1992 – Two German relief workers held since 1989, Thomas Kemptner and Heinrich Struebig, are released. They were the last Western hostages in Lebanon.

Mentions in popular culture
 Hostages, a 1992 HBO film based on the event, starring Colin Firth as John McCarthy
 Hostage (1999): three part UK documentary series for Channel Four, featuring interviews with Anderson, Keenan, McCarthy, Waite, Kauffmann, and with the politicians involved, including George Shultz and Oliver North.
 An Evil Cradling, Brian Keenan's memoir of his ordeal
 Blind Flight, a 2003 UK film focusing on McCarthy and Keenan
 Someone Who'll Watch Over Me, a play by Irish dramatist Frank McGuinness about an American, an Irishman and an Englishman held as hostages in Lebanon
 American Top 40, during the show for the week ending June 21, 1986, then-hostage David Jacobsen was mentioned in a Long Distance Dedication letter from his daughter Diane. She dedicated to him "The Long and Winding Road" by the Beatles.
 Out of Life, a film directed by Lebanese filmmaker Maroun Baghdadi. Inspired by d'Un otage à Beyrouth, based on the events surrounding hostage Roger Auque, Special Jury Prize at Cannes in 1991
 Two Rooms, a play by Lee Blessing depicts an American teacher held hostage in a dark room after being captured in Beirut. His wife holds a vigil for him in an empty room, in their house outside D.C. Originally commissioned and produced in 1988, Two Rooms was named Best Play of the Year by Time magazine.

See also
 Front for the Liberation of Lebanon from Foreigners
 1983 Beirut barracks bombing
 2011 Estonian cyclists abduction
 Foreign hostages in Afghanistan
 Foreign hostages in Iraq
 Iran hostage crisis

References

Bibliography
 Jaber, Hala. Hezbollah: Born with a Vengeance, New York: Columbia University Press, 1997
 Ranstorp, Magnus, Hizb'allah in Lebanon: The Politics of the Western Hostage Crisis, New York, St. Martins Press, 1997
 Wright, Robin, Sacred Rage, Simon and Schuster, 2001

Lebanese Civil War
Hezbollah
Kidnappings by Islamists
Hostage taking in Lebanon
20th century in Lebanon
Lebanon–United States relations
Iran–Contra affair
France–Lebanon relations
France–Iran relations
Kidnappings in Lebanon
Lebanon–United Kingdom relations