[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Via Giulia

The main façade facing Piazza de'Ricci shows strongly faded remains of a graffito by Polidoro da Caravaggio and Maturino da Firenze (16th century). On the side facing Via Giulia, a continuous façade gave the complex its present uniform appearance.

15 Santo Spirito dei Napoletani (Via Giulia ad. 34)

In the Pius V church catalogue this church is listed under the name of Santa Aura in strada Iulia. It was dedicated to Saint Aurea, the patron saint of Ostia. A nunnery was attached to the church. In 1439 the church was restored at the expense of Cardinal Guillaume d'Estouteville. In 1572 Cardinal Innico d'Avalos d'Aragona founded in the dilapidated building the Confraternita dello Spirito Santo dei Napoletani ("Brotherhood of the Holy Spirit of the Neapolitans"), who bought it from the nuns in 1574. Between 1619 and 1650 a new building was erected, with a project of Ottavio Mascherino and a façade by Cosimo Fanzago. It was dedicated to the Holy Spirit. In the following centuries it was renovated several times, at the beginning of the 18th century by Carlo Fontana  and in 1853 the façade was renovated by Antonio Cipolla. It was the National Church of the Kingdom of Naples. The last King of Naples Francis II and his wife Marie Sophie Amalie, Duchess in Bavaria, were buried in the church in 1942. After extensive restoration work carried out in 1986, the church is open for worship.

16 San Filippo Neri in Via Giulia (Via Giulia 134 bis)

Construction of the small church opposite the Carceri Nuove was sponsored by Rutilio Brandi, a glove-maker from Florence, and given to the Compagnia delle santissime piaghe after 1617, the year in which the confraternity got the permission to organize itself. The church was originally dedicated to Saint Trophimus. It was connected to a residence for unmarried girls (zitelle) and a hospital for sick priests. Since the residence was dedicated to San Filippo Neri, after some years the church too changed its dedication to him.  In 1728 Filippo Raguzzini restored the church on behalf of Pope Benedict XIII (). The church barely escaped destruction in the early 1940s due to the construction of a large road that should have joined Ponte Mazzini and the Chiesa Nuova. This road was never built due to the World War II. The edifice was abandoned after the war before being restored in 2000 for non-religious purposes.

17 Carceri Nuove (Via Giulia 52)

Since 1430 the Savelli family owned the title of Maresciallo di Santa Romana Chiesa ("Marshall of the Church"), with their own tribunal whose jurisdiction could reach the family of the pontiff. Due to that, the family run the  infamous Corte Savella, a prison which lay along Via di Monserrato near the Collegio Inglese. The inhumane penal system in the Corte Savella gave to Pope Innocent X () the excuse to withdraw the Savelli's monopoly on the penal system in Rome.

As a sign of new Justitia Papalis, he had the new penal institution, the Carceri Nuove, built in Via Giulia. This new prison was built between 1652 and 1655 by the architect Antonio del Grande. The Carceri Nuove were considered a model of a humane penitentiary system in their time. The building and its purpose had a rather negative influence on the image of the magnificent street, which led to the suspension of construction in the following years and the Renaissance character of the street being preserved. The building acted as a prison until the opening of Regina Coeli in Trastevere in 1883, further on until 1931 as a youth prison. From 1931 the palace housed the headquarters of the Centro di Studi Penitenziari ("Research Institute for Criminal Justice") and a specialized library. Today the building houses the Direzione Nazionale Antimafia e Antiterrorismo ("National Directorate for Anti-Mafia and Anti-Terrorism").

17a Palazzo del Gonfalone (Via del Gonfalone 29)
The building between the Vicolo della Scimia and Via del Gonfalone has no entrance from Via Giulia. It was built between 1825 and 1827 under Pope Leo XII () according to plans by Giuseppe Valadier as a prison for the youth. Today the building houses the Museo Criminologico (lit. "Criminological Museum").

18 Santa Maria del Suffragio (Via Giulia ad. 59)

In 1592 the Confraternita del Suffragio ("Brotherhood of Intercession") was founded next to the church of San Biagio della Pagnotta to implore the intercession for the souls of the purgatory. The Brotherhood was approved by Pope Clement VIII () in 1594  and was elevated to the status of Arciconfaternita ("Archbishopric Brotherhood") by Paul V. Thanks to several donations, in 1662 the erection of the church began as a project of architect Carlo Rainaldi. The building was consecrated in 1669, and the façade was finished in 1680. The church's interior was renovated in 1869; the frescoes inside the church are by Cesare Mariani (Coronation of the Virgin) and Giuseppe Chiari (Nativity of Mary and Adoration of the Magi).