[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gossamer (novel)

is given the name Gossamer and given a new dream-giver, New Littlest, to train.

Characters 
Littlest One/Gossamer: Littlest is the name of the young dream-giver at the beginning of the book.  She is quite carefree and is curious about everything.  She gains the name Gossamer for her gossamer touch.

The Old Woman : The old woman is an unnamed elderly woman that lives a lonely life with her dog, Toby. She decides to foster a young girl but gets a young boy named John instead. The old woman is less lonely when she is given good dreams.

John: John is the young boy that Littlest and Thin Elderly receive as their assignment.  He and his mother were both verbally and physically abused by John's father, Duane. John is eight years old.

John's Mother: John's mother is not explicitly named in the book. She is an intelligent woman, but was forbidden to participate in social and intellectual events by Duane. After her divorce she becomes a secretary at John's school.

Thin Elderly: Thin Elderly is the dream-giver that is Littlest/Gossamer's instructor.  He is quite experienced and patiently answers Littlest's questions without taking offense.  He takes care in his dream-giving and is quite happy with it.

Most Ancient: Most Ancient is the eldest dream-giver of Gossamer's Heap. He is wise in many ways and advises the dream-givers in many aspects of life.

Strapping: Strapping is a young dream-giver from a different Heap.  He was careless in his dream-giving; however, after he was assigned to John's mother as punishment, he becomes more affectionate and caring.

Fastidious: Fastidious is another dream-giver of the Heap.  She is extremely irritable, grouchy, and impatient; hence her name Fastidious. She was introduced as Littlest's mentor, but gave the task thereof to Thin Elderly, an older dream-giver who volunteered for the job in Fastidious' place.

Publication details 
2006, USA, Walter Lorriane Books (), pub date ? ? 2006, hardback (First edition)

External links
Lowry's website
Complete list of books by Lowry

2006 American novels
American young adult novels

American fantasy novels
Novels by Lois Lowry
Dreams in fiction