[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brigade Speciale Beveiligingsopdrachten

multiple static locations. For dynamic observations which require motorised vehicles, the BSB has a large and diverse fleet of civilian vehicles at its disposal. The discrete operation of these cars and motorcycle is taught by the training and education division during a specialised driving course.

Arrest Team 
The BSB has fielded an independent police tactical unit, known as Arrestatieteam (AT) (), since 1994. The AT is tasked with conducting the arrests of armed suspects, combating organised crime and neutralising other life-threatening situaties for which the regular police or Marechaussee are not adequately equipped or trained. The BSB has made this AT available to the Dienst Speciale Interventies (DSI) of the National Police. While the AT of the BSB resided under command of the DSI during operations, formally it is not part of the DSI. In addition, the brigade provides operators to the Unit Intervention, which is a mixed DSI unit consisting of both police and military operators, and the Rapid Response Teams of the DSI. Compared to the ATs of the DSI, the AT of the BSB is more often deployed for raids related to criminal investigations of the Investigations Branch of the Marechaussee. Due to the BSB being a military unit, the brigade can also be deployed for the arrest of personnel of the Netherlands Armed Forces.

Equipment

Weaponry 
 Pistols: Glock 17 and Glock 26
 Submachine Guns: MP5, MP7, and FN P90
 Shotguns: Mossberg 590A1.
 Assault Rifles: HK 416, HK 417 and SIG MCX (chambered in .300 AAC Blackout).
 Machine Guns: FN Minimi.
 Sniper Rifles: Accuracy International rifles (chambered in .308 Winchester and .338 Lapua Magnum).

Vehicles 
The BSB has access to a wide range of vehicles, some of which are armoured. A selection of vehicles known to be in use:

References

Bibliography

External links
 Official BSB page (Dutch)

Specialist law enforcement agencies of the Netherlands
Royal Marechaussee
Special forces of the Netherlands