[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# International Federation for Systems Research

changes of ‘input papers’), followed by the face-to-face discussion at the Conversation and followed by a post-conversation consolidation period. No papers are presented during the conversation, the participants discuss face-to-face their topic, often modifying it in the course of the conversation."

The results of the conference are published in the Proceedings of the IFSR Conversations. This document publishes the team reports plus several contributed papers. A short description of the IFSR's activities completes the proceedings. The Proceedings are distributed to member societies and conference attendees. The 2012 Proceedings are available at:  The Proceedings of the IFSR Conversation 2012, St. Magdalena, Linz. The 2014 Proceedings are available at: . The 2016 Proceedings are available through print-on-demand at 2016 IFSR Conversation Proceedings: Systems Literacy. Proceedings prior to 2012 are available online in the Archives section of the IFSR website (see http://www.ifsr.org/index.php/publications/conversations/).

The Conversations have led to significant development of a theoretical basis for Systems Engineering, progress in the evolution of Cybernetics to Second Order Science, continuing elucidation of GST* (General Systems Theory), and informing Systems Research (https://www.springer.com/us/book/9789811002625). These developments are described in the IFSR Newsletter .

Past presidents 
More prominent system scientists have been officers of the IFSR since 1980. Presidents of the federation were:
 1980: George J. Klir
 1984: Robert Trappl
 1988: Gerrit Broekstra
 1992: Gerard de Zeeuw
 1994: Bela H. Banathy
 1998: Michael C. Jackson
 2000: Yong Pil Rhee
 2002: Jifa Gu
 2006 Matjaz Mulej
 2008 Matjaz Mulej
 2010 Gary S. Metcalf
 2012 Gary S. Metcalf
 2014 Gary S. Metcalf
 2016 Mary C. Edson
 2018 Ray Ison

IFSR 2020-2024 Executive Committee 
 Ray Ison, President
 Pamela Buckle, Vice President
 Rika Preiser, Vice President
 Nam Nguyen, Vice President
 Louis Klein, Secretary General

International Academy for Systems and Cybernetic Sciences 
On April 7, 2010 the General Assembly of the IFSR approved the founding of the International Academy for Systems and Cybernetic Sciences (IASCYS).
 Aims
IASCYS aims to honor and activate outstanding members of IFSR member-associations. While no one can apply for membership in IASCYS as an individual, every member association of the IFSR can suggest candidates in an official letter supplying data on the candidate's scientific and professional achievements in accordance with the criteria of the IASCYS.
 Motivations
IASCYS fills the gap resulting from the failure of national and international academies of sciences and arts to include systems and cybernetics in their list of sciences and arts.
 Intentions
In order to honor the most distinguished systems and cybernetics professionals and simultaneously to promote the systems thinking world view, each year during a ceremonial assembly, a selected academic receives the Bertalanffy/Wiener medal of the Academy.

The officers of the IASCYS Executive Committee are:
 Stuart Umpleby – President
 Ockert Bosch- Vice-President,
 Jifa Gu – Vice-president
 Pierre Bricage – Secretary General

See also 
 List of systems science organizations
 Charles François

References

External links
 Homepage IASCYS
 Homepage IFSR
 Article 25 Years of the IFSR: A Milestone in the Systems Sciences, by Gerhard Chroust.

Cybernetics
Organizations established in 1981
Systems theory
Systems science societies