[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ralph Thoresby

0. The Monthly Review for April 1830 was scathing about the publication:

Such considerations appear not to have troubled Daniel Hopkin Atkinson, who in 1887 published Ralph Thoresby, the Topographer: his town and times – "a useful and entertaining commentary on Thoresby's Diary and Correspondence".

Ralph Thoresby High School in Leeds is named after him; as was one of the houses of the former Leeds Grammar School. When the local historical society was launched on 10 July 1889, it was named the Thoresby Society to honour "one of the greatest worthies Leeds had known". A masonic lodge in Pudsey is also named after him.

Publications
Ducatus Leodiensis; or the Topography of the antient and populous Town and Parish of Leedes and parts adjacent in the West Riding of the County of York, 1715. A second edition was published by Thomas Dunham Whitaker in 1816.
Museum Thoresbyanum, or A Catalogue of his Museum, with the Curiosities Natural and Artificial, and the Antiquities; particularly the Roman, British, Saxon, Danish, Norman and Scotch coins, with Modern Medals, 1715
Vicaria Leodiensis: or the History of the Church of Leedes in Yorkshire, 1724

Further reading
 (2 vols.)

References

External links

The Correspondence of Ralph Thoresby, from Google Book Search
Article on Ralph Thoresby in The Gentleman's Magazine, January to June 1830, from Google Book Search
The Thoresby Society – The Historical Society for Leeds and District, founded in 1899 – includes a biography 
Ralph Thoresby, the topographer: his town and times volume II, by D. H. Atkinson, 1889. From Microsoft Live Search Books.

1658 births
1725 deaths
Businesspeople from Leeds
People educated at Leeds Grammar School
18th-century English historians
English antiquarians
17th-century antiquarians
18th-century antiquarians
English curators
Councillors in Leeds
Fellows of the Royal Society
Writers from Leeds
17th-century English male writers
English topographers
Historians of Yorkshire