[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# 24th Iowa Infantry Regiment

took up the pursuit, and marching the livelong night close to the enemy's rear, reached Woodstock early on the morning of the 23d. During this march Captain McKinley was severely, and several men were slightly, wounded by the enemy's fire.  Pursuing as far as Harrisburg the regiment went into camp.

Countermarching with the army it took position on the line of the Cedar Creek, which was soon well fortified on the left and centre. Early having been heavily reinforced, turned this position on the morning of the 19th of October, and came near ruining our army be a similar plan to that of Sheridan against him on the field of Winchester. Sheridan was at the time at Winchester, on his return from Washington. His wild ride to the field of battle, and his saving the day, can never be forgotten, for they have been made immortal by the genius of T. BUCHANAN READ, whose thrilling poem upon this subject is the most soul-searching lyric of the war. In this last and crowning victory of the campaign, the Twenty-Fourth bore a brilliant part, losing here its commanding officer, mortally wounded, and many others in death and wounds. Nearly an hundred of its officers and men were placed hors-de-combat on this bloody field, on which no regiment in all the Union army fought more heroically, or more steadfastly than the Iowa Twenty-fourth. The same may be safely said, too, of its conduct at Winchester and Fisher's Hill. During the campaign its losses were nearly two hundred, officers and men.

With the battle of Cedar Creek, the campaign of the Shenandoah Valley was brought to an end. Our regiment did not afterwards meet the enemy. It performed heavy escort duty for a time, marching and countermarching between Cedar Creek and Martinsburg, and I the latter part of November went into cold, airy encampment on the Opequan. The men constructed huts, however, and got to be quite cozy, but near the close of the month the command was ordered to Winchester, where it remained on post duty till ordered south in the early part of January, 1865. At this time the officers of the regiment were: Lieutenant-Colonel Ed. Wright; Major, Leander Clark; Adjutant, William H. Smouse; Surgeon, Doctor Henry M. Lyons, with S.S. Cook, J.M. Lanning, assistants; Quartermaster, A.B. Eshelman. Company A—Captain Seymour J. McKinley; Lieutenants Charles E. Davis, William B. Davis. Company B—Captain William T. Rigby; Lieutenants William Kelly, W.W. Edgington. Company C—Captain Edwin H. Pound; Lieutenants A.J. Scott, Andrew Pierce. Company D—Captain Charles A. Lucas; Lieutenants J.B. Swafford, D.W. Ott. Company E—Captain James Rokes; Lieutenant William T. Holmes. Company F—Captain C.B. Bradshaw; Lieutenant Thaddeus L. Smith. Company G—Captain William W. Smith; Lieutenant j.m. Hord. Company H—Captain A.R. Knott; Lieutenants F.R. Jones, A.R. Hodgkins. Company I—Captain James W. Martin; Lieutenant J.W. McMichael. Company K—Captain Aaron W. Loomis; Lieutenants Royal S. Williams, James L. Hall.

The 6th of January, 1865, the Twenty-fourth bade farewell to the Shenandoah Valley. Moving by cars to Baltimore, the regiment was there quartered in stables!--an insult which could have been nowhere else offered to troops who had proudly borne the colors of the Union at Port Gibson, Champion Hills, Vicksburg, Jackson, Sabine Cross Roads, Winchester, Fisher's Hill, and Cedar Creek. Thence the regiment moved by steamship to Savannah, Georgia, where it had quiet for some two months. It then moved to Morehead City, North Carolina, in which State it performed heavy duties for some time, helping on the transportation between Goldsboro and Raleigh. After the capitulation of Johnston it returned to Savannah, and thence made the same movement to Augusta and back, which has been noted in the history of the Twenty-second regiment. It was mustered out of service at Savannah, and from there moved to Iowa, and was finally disbanded in the early part of August.