[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Port Militarization Resistance

ayed.  PMR concluded the evening with a 100-person candlelight vigil in downtown Olympia.  The final event of the protests was a 350-person march through downtown Olympia on November 17. Rail cars containing the final equipment from the shipment left the port on November 28 without further incident.

A total of 66 people were arrested during the November 2007 round of Port of Olympia protests.  The cost to the city for security during this round of port protests was estimated to be at least $112,168.  City Manager Steve Hall suggested the bill be sent to the Port of Olympia.

There was a notable anarchist presence in the November 2007 Port of Olympia protests.  Several people report seeing black bloc marches go through downtown Olympia, the first on the evening of November 5.  Further, some anarchist participants in the November 2007 protests at the Port of Olympia, while employing the strategy of Port Militarization Resistance, chose instead to identify with the name Port Liberation Front (A play on the name Earth Liberation Front).  In statements posted online, the PLF criticizes PMR for its commitment to non-violence, and for what it claims is its support for "legal wars" like the Invasion of Afghanistan.  PLF members cite decentralization as necessary for the achieving of port militarization resistance goals, while also stressing the need for involved parties to find "basic common ground in which they could operate together".  Various PLF statements have taken credit or partial credit for many actions during the protests, including physical barricades both at the port and in downtown Olympia.  There is no evidence of any anarchist or PLF participation in events or actions organized by PMR the movement.

Olympia police have come under both praise and criticism for their response to the November 2007 Port of Olympia protests.  Protesters have criticized police for deploying pepper spray on broad swaths of bystanders and on protesters passively failing to comply with orders, in violation of guidelines that say pepper spray should only be used to subdue violent resisters.  Police have also been criticized by community members for moving beyond individual arrest into a strategy of group punishment.  Others have expressed support for the police, and suggested the blame for the confrontations lies with the protesters.

Several reporters from local newspaper The Olympian were victims of attacks by police while attempting to cover the protests, one of whom was reportedly treated by protest medics.  The newspaper later came under criticism when an editor wrote an editorial disavowing these events had happened.

Other actions/Related actions

While being most noted for the protests at the Port of Olympia and Port of Tacoma, Port Militarization Resistance has been involved in or associated with other less noted port protests.

Port of Grays Harbor – May 2007

On May 1, 2007, Fort Lewis began shipping equipment from the 4th Squadron, 6th U.S. Air Cavalry Regiment, to the Port of Grays Harbor in Aberdeen, Washington, to be shipped to Iraq.  This was the first time the military used the Port of Grays Harbor for shipments.  Despite the intensity of the protests at the Port of Tacoma two months earlier, only a couple daytime protests materialized during this shipment.

The added security during the Port of Grays Harbor protests cost the city $165,000.  The military has refused to cover this bill, claiming that "it wasn't the military that required the security."

Port of Oakland – May 2007

On May 19, 2007, anti-war activists in Oakland maintained a picket line outside the gates of the Port of Oakland during a shipment of war materials.  The local ILWU chose not to cross this picket line, and thus the shipment was delayed for several days.

The event was organized by the Port Action Committee of Oakland, which comprises many of the people who organized the port protests at that port in April 2003.  Although this was unaffiliated with Port Militarization Resistance, organizers cited PMR as an inspiration.

Court cases

Due to the high number of arrests at Port Militarization Resistance protests, several criminal cases were pursued by local jurisdictions against protest participants.

Olympia 22

The most publicized court case to come from Port Militarization Resistance actions involved 16 of the 22 people arrested at the Port of Olympia on May 30, 2006.  Despite that some defendants were severed from the case, PMR organizers continued to refer to the remaining defendants as the Olympia 22.