[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Universitas Valachorum

ns the "clergy, magnates, noblemen, Szeklers, Saxons, Romanians, and the other people" etc. Pop sees as certain the participation of the Romanians at least until the restrictive measures introduced in 1366 by Louis I, after which date it is only possible that they may have been invited sporadically.

Banat: charters of 1457 and 1609
In 1457, King Ladislas V the Posthumous issued a charter which set up the legal foundation for a universitas of the Wallachian communities in the highlands of the Banate of Severin. There, in eight districts, most of them part of the military border structure of the Banat, the Wallachians constituted the majority of the population, nobility included, and they had rendered important military services to the kingdom. The royal diploma reaffirmed and enhanced earlier privileges, which were explicitly referenced in the document. The charter established a set of exclusive legal rights over the united territory of the eight highland districts, thus creating an essential condition for an Universitas Valachorum in that region. The Wallachians, subjects to the ius valachicum, were to be judged only by their own lord. However, they had no such lord, and King Ladislas established their right to appeal directly to him if they were dissatisfied with local court rulings. In effect, this meant that the eight districts were to become legally subjected directly and exclusively to the king. The absence of a Wallachian lord distinguished them from the Saxons, who had their own comes. Lastly, the king set the  nobles and knezes in the Banat on an equal footing with the true nobility in the rest of the kingdom. For this, Ladislas removed the juridical and confessional restrictions which had massively limited their ascendance to the first Estate of the realm. The fact that until the Ottoman conquest of their districts in 1658, only a small number of local noble families had acceded to higher political office shows that they rather stayed in their local, familiar places. Once the Ottoman advance led to the separation of a new Principality of Transylvania from the kingdom, in the Banat–never more than a marginal part of the new state–local nobles preferred regional positions. In exchange, the Wallachian privileges were not contested by the princes.

King Ladislas died soon after issuing the charter, and the following king, Matthias Corvinus, never implemented some of the provisions, chiefly the appointment of a lord for the Wallachians. In the second half of the fifteenth century, the military role of the Wallachians was diminished by Serbian noblemen in exile, who took over the defense of the Danube fords against the Ottomans. Still, in 1609, representatives of the Wallachians of the Upper Banat – noblemen, knezes and commoners – requested and received a reconfirmation of their privileges from the prince of Transylvania, Gabriel Bethlen. When a few educated nobles did finally try to introduce the idea of a community through language rather than social origin in the mid-seventeenth century, it was already too late, as the entire Banat became incorporated into the Ottoman Empire in 1658. As a result of history and self-imposed restrictions, the Romanian universitas never came to be, in spite of the favourable conditions created by the fifteenth-century diploma, a situation which contrasts with that of the Saxons, who had established their own university in the 1480s.

Notes
1Olachorum is Latin genitive plural for Olachus, Latin form of Vlach, meaning "Romanian"

References

Further reading
 Romanian translation of Hungarian original, "Havaselve vajdaság megalakulásának dél-erdélyi előzményei és következményei (13–14. század)", Budapest:  Vol. 129 No. 5 / 1995, pp. 1123-1153.
Pop, Ioan-Aurel (1991). Instituţii medivale româneşti. Adunări cneziale şi nobiliare în secolele XIV XVI, Cluj-Napoca, pp. 9 – 26
Pop, Ioan-Aurel (2003). Nations and Denominations in Transylvania (13th - 16th Century) p. 111 - 125, In Tolerance and Intolerance in Historical Perspective, edited by Csaba Lévai et al., Edizioni PLUS, Università di Pisa 
Transylvania as part of the Kingdom of Hungary: later Middle Ages, The College of the Hereditary Nobility of Hungary. Accessed 21 July 2021.

Medieval Transylvania
Medieval organizations
Vlach law