[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Mordechai Nisan

Mordechai Nisan is an Israeli professor and scholar of Middle East Studies at the Rothberg International School of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He taught also at Bar-Ilan University, the Open University, and the University of the Holy Land in addition to some Israeli colleges.

Academic career
Mordechai Nisan was a contributing expert to the  and a research consultant for the Jerusalem Institute for Western Defense. Nisan has written extensively in English and Hebrew. He holds a Ph.D. from McGill University in Montreal. He has been described as a proponent of the counter-jihadist worldview of Bat Ye'or.

Published works

"The Syrian occupation of Lebanon", NATIV, Ariel Center for Policy Research, Volume Thirteen, Number 3 (74), June 2000.
 
"The War of Islam Against Minorities in the Middle East," in Muhammad's Monsters, 2004
"Kadima's Treachery Must be Punished at the Polls"  March 27, 2006

 (1977): The Arab-Israeli Conflict, A Political Guide for the Perplexed. The Joshua Group.
 (1978): Israel and the Territories A study in Control 1967-1977. Ramat Gan: Turtledove. .
 (1982): American Middle East Foreign Policy: A Political Reevaluation. Griffin, GA: Dawn Pub. Co. .
 (1991): Toward A New Israel: The Jewish State and the Arab Question. New York: AMS Press. .
 (1999): Identity and Civilization: Essays on Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. University Press of America. .
 (2002): Minorities in the Middle East: A History of Struggle and Self-Expression (2nd ed.). McFarland & Company. .
 (2003): The Conscience of Lebanon: A Political Biography of Etienne Sakr (Abu-Arz). London: Routledge Publishers. .
 (2011): Only Israel West of the River: The Jewish State and the Palestinian Question. Createspace.com. .
 (2015) Politics and War in Lebanon: Unraveling the Enigma, Transaction Publishers.
 (2019) The Crack-up of the Israeli Left, Mantua Books.

References

Year of birth missing (living people)
Living people
Counter-jihad activists
Academic staff of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
Israeli Jews
Historians of the Middle East
Jewish historians
Israeli historians
Israeli male writers
McGill University alumni