[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Government of Oklahoma

heir members a chief justice and vice chief justice to serve a two-year term. The Chief Justice of Oklahoma is responsible for the administration of the courts in the Oklahoma Judiciary and establishes rules for the courts to follow. The chief justice also oversees practicing attorneys in the state.

Appellate and district courts
The Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals consists of a presiding judge and four judges who are appointed by the governor from a list of three judges submitted by the Judicial Nomination Commission. Justices are also ratified by the electorate at the next general election following their appointment and at the end of each six-year term. Justices serve until they resign or fail to be retained in office. The Supreme Court's decisions are binding on lower state courts.

Unlike most states, Oklahoma has two courts of last resort. The Supreme Court determines issues of a civil nature, and the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals decides criminal matters. Unlike the Supreme Court, the Court of Criminal Appeal has mandatory review jurisdiction whenever a sentence from a lower court involved the death sentence.

Court of Appeal justices is selected, confirmed, and ratified in the same manner as the justices of the Oklahoma Supreme Court.

The state created the Oklahoma Court of Civil Appeals because the Oklahoma Supreme Court had neither the time nor resources to hear every case brought before it. When a case is brought before the state supreme court, the justices can choose to send the case to one of the four divisions of the Court of Civil Appeals, two located in Tulsa and two in Oklahoma City. Each division of the court has three judges, appointed for life, but must stand for election every six years to retain their positions.

Two of the three judges may choose to reaffirm, modify, or overturn any ruling of any lower court. However, if the Oklahoma Supreme Court disapproves of the court's ruling, it may review the decision and change it as the court deems necessary.

Each of Oklahoma's 77 counties has its own district court. The district courts have general jurisdiction over civil and criminal matters, with the exception of certain limited areas like workers' compensation where original jurisdiction is reserved by statute to other courts. Each district court is presided over by either single or multiple district judges with at least one associate district judge to administer justice in each county. The judges are elected, in a nonpartisan manner, to serve a four-year term. In the event of a vacancy in any of the district courts, the governor appoints a judge to serve until the next elections. In the event of a heavy caseload in the district, a special judge may be appointed to assist the district judge.

The 77 district courts are divided into 27 districts, with each district having at least one district judge over the associate district judges. Above the 27 districts are nine judicial administrative districts, involving several districts, to assure an organized system. From among the district judges of the judicial administrative districts, one is selected to serve as the presiding judge, who is responsible for the administrative matters of their district. The presiding judge answers to the Supreme Court.

Civil appeals are heard by the Oklahoma Supreme Court and criminal appeals are heard by the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals.

District judges must live in the district in which they are seeking election. Associate judges must have been a practicing lawyer or judge for the past two years. There are a total of about 71 district judges, 77 associate district judges, and 78 special district judges.

Courts of limited jurisdiction
The Workers' Compensation Court is a special court of ten judges that hears worker's compensation claims. The judges are selected by the governor to serve a six-year term. Claims submitted are heard by a single judge in either Tulsa or Oklahoma City. If a party disapproves of the judge's ruling, they may appeal to a three-judge panel called the Court En Banc. Appeals for the Court En Banc are heard by the Oklahoma Supreme Court.

The Court on Tax Review is a special court in the Oklahoma judiciary charged with hearing disputes involving illegal taxes levied by county and city governments. Tax review cases are sent to the Chief Justice of Oklahoma, who then sends the claim to the presiding judge of the administration district from which the claim originated. The presiding judge then appoints three judges to serve as the Court on Tax Review. Appeals from the court are heard by the Oklahoma Supreme Court.

Independent judicial bodies
Though part of Oklahoma's court system, there are two courts that operate without the oversight of the Oklahoma Supreme Court.