[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# Va'etchanan

en one honors one's father and mother, God considers it as if God had dwelt among them and they had honored God. And a Tanna taught before Rav Nachman that when one vexes one's father and mother, God considers it right not to dwell among them, for had God dwelt among them, they would have vexed God.

The Mekhilta of Rabbi Ishmael taught that there are four types of children (as evinced by the four times—in ; ; ; and —that Scripture reports telling a child)—the wise, the simple, the wicked, and the type who does not know how to ask. The wise child asks, in the words of  “What mean the testimonies, and the statutes, and the ordinances, that the Lord our God has commanded you?” The Mekhilta taught that we explain to this child all the laws of Passover. The simple child asks, in the words of  “What is this?” The Mekhilta taught that we respond simply with the words of  “By strength of hand the Lord brought us out from Egypt, from the house of bondage.” The wicked child asks, in the words of  “What do you mean by this service?” The Mekhilta taught that because wicked children exclude themselves, we should also exclude this child in answering and say, in the words of  “It is because of what the Lord did for me when I came forth out of Egypt”—for me but not for you; had you been there, you would not have been saved. As for the child who does not know how to ask, the Mekhilta taught that we take the initiative, as  says (without having reported that the child asked), “You shall tell your child on that day.”

Deuteronomy chapter 7
A Midrash expounded on why Israel was, in the words of , like "a leafy olive tree." In one explanation, the Midrash taught that just as all liquids commingle one with the other, but oil refuses to do so, so Israel keeps itself distinct, as it is commanded in .

In medieval Jewish interpretation
The parashah is discussed in these medieval Jewish sources:

Deuteronomy chapter 4
Reading , "Observe therefore and do them, for this is your wisdom and understanding in the sight of the nations that, when they hear all these statutes, they shall say: 'Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people,'" Baḥya ibn Paquda taught that it is one's duty to study created things and to deduce from them the wisdom of the Creator.

Baḥya ibn Paquda saw Moses warning against thinking that God has a form or likeness, when in , he said, "Take therefore good heed; for you saw no manner of form on the day that the Lord spoke to you in Horeb out of the midst of the fire," and in , he said, "And the Lord spoke to you out of the midst of the fire: you heard the voice of the words, but saw no form; only you heard a voice." Baḥya taught that by saying "take good heed," Moses was warning people in their minds and thoughts to not represent God in any form or to conceive God in the likeness of any thing or any comparison, since the Israelites’ eyes never perceived any form or likeness when God spoke to them.

Baḥya ibn Paquda argued that the greatest benefit that God bestowed on humanity and the strongest proof of God's existence is the Torah that God gave humanity and God's manifestation of God's presence, as  says, "Unto you it was shown, that you may know that the Lord, He is God; there is none else beside Him. Out of Heaven He made you to hear His voice, that He might instruct you; and upon earth He made you to see His great fire; and you did hear His words out of the midst of the fire."

In the exhortation of , "know this day and consider within your heart, that the Lord is God in Heaven above and on the earth below," Baḥya ibn Paquda found a duty to investigate through rational inquiry the roots of the religion and the foundations of the Torah. Baḥya taught that one should exert one's mind until one knows God through the evidences of God's works but not strive to know God in God's glorious essence. For God is close to humanity from the perspective of God's deeds but infinitely remote in any representation of God's essence or comparison with it; one can never find God in that way. Baḥya contended that when one abandons trying to find God through one's conjectures and senses (because God cannot be grasped in that way), and instead finds God in the evidence of God's deeds, then one will have reached the pinnacle of knowledge of God to which Moses exhorted us in saying in , "Know therefore this day, and consider it in your heart, that the Lord He is God in heaven above, and upon the earth beneath: there is none else."

In the Torah's teaching (in , , and  and ) that one who killed another unintentionally did not incur capital punishment, Baḥya ibn Paquda found proof that an essential condition of liability for punishment is the association of mind and body in a forbidden act—that liability requires both intention and action.