[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Aboubacar Somparé

later said in an interview that Sidimé initially could not be reached after Conté's death, and that when Sidimé subsequently arrived at the People's Palace to discuss the situation, he delayed taking the necessary legal steps on the "pretext" that he could not arrange a ceremony until the next day.

Six hours after Somparé announced Conté's death, a statement was read on television announcing a military coup d'état. This statement, read on behalf of a junta called the National Council for Democracy and Development (CNDD), said that "the government and the institutions of the republic have been dissolved"; it also announced that the constitution was suspended. Somparé went into hiding and told the press that the newly established junta was trying to find him; he also urged the international community to "mobilise to prevent the military from interrupting the democratic process". After a few days in hiding, he emerged on 27 December to attend a meeting of political and social representatives that was called by the junta and held at the Alpha Yaya Diallo military camp.

Political career (2009–2017)
With the PUP out of power for the first time in its history, in late January 2009 a "refoundation" movement was reportedly established within the PUP that intended to remove supporters of Somparé and his old rival, Sékou Konaté, from the party leadership. Amidst speculation that the future of the party was in doubt, Somparé and Konaté reconciled in March 2009.

Somparé was largely silent in public in the year that followed the coup. Unlike many other Conté officials, he was left alone by the CNDD junta. At a PUP meeting on 6 March 2010, Somparé criticized the opposition parties that chose to embrace the coup; he argued that their initial acceptance of the coup demonstrated that they were "not sincere" in their claimed commitment to democracy and constitutional governance. Somparé was then chosen as the PUP's candidate for the June 2010 presidential election at a party congress on 27–28 March 2010.

Death
Somparé died on 2 November 2017.

References

1944 births
2017 deaths
Presidents of the National Assembly (Guinea)
Members of the National Assembly (Guinea)
Presidents of Guinea
Guinean Muslims
Unity and Progress Party politicians
Ambassadors of Guinea to France
Academic staff of Gamal Abdel Nasser University of Conakry
People from Boké Region