[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Doğu Perinçek

t of socialism from Mao".

Foreign policy 
His foreign policy position seen as largely is anti-West and pro-China. During an interview with Xinhua News Agency in 2017, he praised the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and stated that "China today represents hope for the whole humanity".

He has strongly opposed the Turkish intervention in Syria and actively promoted better ties with president Bashar al-Assad and his government, personally meeting Assad in Damascus in 2015. He has called for better ties with Iran, and opposes US sanctions on the country. 

Perinçek openly supported Vladimir Putin and the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, saying that "it is the weapon that Russia is currently using that brings peace and tranquility".

Armenian genocide denial case

In 2007, a ruling by a Swiss court made him the first person to receive a criminal conviction for denial of the Armenian genocide. He is a known denier of the Armenian genocide according to the Swiss-Armenian Association. The case was ultimately appealed to the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights, which in a 15 October 2015 judgment did not rule on the veracity of the Armenian genocide but ruled in favour of Perinçek on grounds of free speech.

Perinçek is notable as being the first person to be convicted by a court of law for denial of the Armenian genocide. On 9 March 2007, he was found guilty by a Swiss district court of conscious violation of Swiss laws against genocide denial with a racist motivation and was fined CHF 12,000. The case was a result of Perinçek's description of the Armenian genocide as "an international lie" at a demonstration in Lausanne on 25 July 2005; he later clarified to a Swiss court that there had been massacres, but reiterated his belief that these did not constitute genocide. The verdict was confirmed by the Vaud cantonal appeal court on 19 June, and by the Federal Supreme Court of Switzerland on 12 December 2007. Perinçek announced he will take recourse to the European Court of Human Rights. In December 2013 the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Switzerland violated the principle of freedom of expression. The court said that "Mr Perincek was making a speech of a historical, legal and political nature in a contradictory debate". After the ruling the government of Switzerland announced its decision to appeal the court's ruling. On 3 June 2014 the European Court of Human Rights accepted the appeal to move on to the Grand Chamber to clarify the scope available to Swiss authorities in applying the Swiss Criminal Code to combat racism. A preliminary hearing on the appeal by Switzerland was held on 28 January 2015.

The Grand Chamber ruled in favour of Perinçek on 15 October 2015. In a statement issued by Armenia's counsel, Geoffrey Robertson and Amal Clooney said they were pleased the Court had endorsed their argument on behalf of Armenia. The judgment did not dispute the fact of the Armenian genocide and recognised Armenians' right under European law to have their dignity respected and protected, including the recognition of a communal identity forged through suffering following the annihilation of more than half their race by the Ottoman Turks.

The Grand Chamber also made clear that the court was not required to determine whether the massacres and mass deportations suffered by the Armenian people at the hands of the Ottoman Empire from 1915 onwards can be characterised as genocide within the meaning of that term under international law. It also added that it has no authority to make legally binding pronouncements, one way or the other, on this point. Furthermore, 7 judges, including then-President of the European Court of Human Rights Dean Spielmann stated in their dissenting opinion that it is self-evident that the massacres and deportations suffered by the Armenian people constituted genocide and that the Armenian genocide is a clearly established historical fact.