[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1996 Hong Kong Chief Executive election

.

The pro-democrats also backed veteran politician and member of the Legislative Council Szeto Wah to launch a petition movement as the civil Chief Executive to mock the election of the 400-member Selection Committee. Szeto accumulated more than 104,000 signatures with their ID numbers as a result.

Nomination
The nomination session was held on 15 November 1996 at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre (HKCEC). Only three of the eight candidates received the qualifying minimum of 50 votes from the Selection Committee. Tung Chee-hwa, Ti-liang Yang and Peter Woo all secured more than 50 nominations to enter the race, while Simon Li, to his shock, fell a few votes by winning 43 nominations only and was eliminated. Tung became the leading candidate by winning an absolute majority of 206 votes in the Selection Committee.

Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen who oversaw the ballot casting described the event as "the dawn of genuine democracy in Hong Kong."

Opinion polling
In August 1996, public opinion polls showed Anson Chan had the most popular support, having more than 50% far ahead of Tung Chee-hwa's 5%. After Chan was dropped from the polling, Ti-liang Yang surged into the lead. Tung kept catching up in the polls in the later stage. In an opinion survey published on 2 December, 46% of the respondents said they preferred Tung, compared to 28% for Yang and 5.2% for Peter Woo.

Result
On 11 December 1996, the election was held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre (HKCEC), where 400-member Selection Committee elected Tung Chee-hwa as the Chief Executive. Tung received 320 votes against 49 votes for Ti-liang Yang and 36 votes for Peter Woo.

Protest
29 pro-democracy activists including legislators Emily Lau, Lee Cheuk-yan and Andrew Cheng protested against the election outside the HKECC during the election. A "tomb of democracy" was established outside the building shouting "oppose the phony election". Lau and Cheng scuffled with riot police and lay on the street. They were later bodily removed and taken to the Wan Chai Police Station.

Aftermath
Tung Chee-hwa was appointed as the first Chief Executive of the HKSAR by Premier Li Peng under State Council Order 207 at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on 18 December 1996. Tung was subsequently sworn in at midnight on 1 July 1997 as the HKSAR was formally established. His term of office was compounded with serious social problems including the right of abode issue, the Asian financial crisis, the bird flu pandemic and a host of other issues.

See also
 1990s in Hong Kong
 Handover of Hong Kong
 1996 Hong Kong provisional legislative election

References

Hong Kong Chief Executive elections
Hong Kong Chief Executive election
Chief Executive election
Hong Kong Chief Executive election
Hong Kong Chief Executive election