[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Berlin border crossings

sings within the Berlin city limits

Air travel

To and from Berlin-Schönefeld Airport for air travel:
Waltersdorfer Chaussee/Rudower Chaussee (transfer bus to and from West Berlin) 
also, within East Berlin territory (access via streetcar, U-bahn or rail):
Friedrichstraße Station (starting in 1961)

At the Berlin-Tempelhof and Berlin-Tegel airports there were border crossings manned by West Berlin police and customs.  These were not located in territory controlled by the GDR.  In addition to processing for international air travel, the personal documents of travelers between West Berlin and the Federal Republic were inspected.

Miscellaneous crossings

The various illegal or unofficial border crossings are not reliably documented:
 those constructed between the East and West by refugees and those who assisted them, mostly underground.   Many of these were discovered and destroyed.
 those constructed by, e.g., the Ministry for State Security and other clandestine organizations, in order to transfer people unobserved between East and West.

Changes in 1989 and 1990

In the time between the fall of the Berlin Wall on 9 November 1989 and the abolition of all border controls on 1 July 1990, numerous additional border crossings were built for interim use. Because of their symbolic value, the most famous of these were Glienicke Bridge, Bernauer Straße, Potsdamer Platz, and the Brandenburg Gate.

The opening of the Brandenburg Gate was merely a public relations formality which took place on 22 December 1989 at the request of then-Chancellor Helmut Kohl. Hundreds of television crews from all over the world had anticipated this historic event for weeks.

West Germans and West Berliners were allowed visa-free travel to the East Berlin and East Germany starting 23 December 1989. Until then, they could only visit under restrictive conditions that involved application for a visa several days or weeks in advance and obligatory exchange of at least 25 DM per day of their planned stay. Thus, in the weeks between 9 November 1989 and 23 December 1989, East Germans could travel more freely than Westerners as they were able to cross into West Berlin with just passport checks.

There are also roads that are reopened between 12 June 1990 and 21 June 1990 with or without border controls.

The controls were abandoned on 1 July 1990, the day of the currency union and before the actual reunification of Germany on 3 October 1990. In the months after the fall of the Wall, border crossings between the East and the West had become more and more irrelevant.

Today, a few portions of the structures have been retained as a memorial.

Remaining border controls

Today the only remaining border crossings in Berlin are located at Tegel and Schönefeld airports (Schönefeld being located outside Berlin city limits) and all Cold War-specific border control procedures have disappeared altogether.  They are staffed by German Federal Police and Customs for normal international traffic screening purposes.

Bibliography
 Hans-Dieter Behrendt: Im Schatten der "Agentenbrücke" (In the shadow of the "Agents' Bridge"), 260 pages, GNN Verlag,

See also

 Inner German border

External links

Comprehensive documentation by the former passport control staff officer Hans-Dieter Behrendt
Checkpoint Bravo preservation association
Border crossing stamps

Gallery

Berlin border crossings

Crossings after the fall of the Berlin Wall

Newly opened crossings after the fall of the Wall

Border crossings stamps

 
Border crossings in divided regions
Berlin Wall
Inner German border
Lists of international border crossings
Divided cities
Transport in Berlin