[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Russian march

vocated for the permission of the event in the framework of freedom of assembly.

A separate mass-meeting called the Right March have been organized by several Orthodox movements (the National Council, the Orthodox Standard Bearers Union and The Bastion), which declared their independent intentions.

2017 Russian march
In the 2017 the Russian march, in Lyublino District, participants are reported to include several far-right organizations, such as Nationalist Party, Black Bloc led by Vladimir (Ratnikov) Komarnitsky, Nation and Freedom Committee (KNS) led by Vladimir Burmistrov and Roman Kovalyov. At the beginning of the event, some far-right activists, addressing reporters, told that the police wanted to prevent them from participating in the march, because of the symbols they were wearing. For this reason, several demonstrators broke away from the march and tried to improvise a new march on Belorechenskaya street, and they were quickly arrested along with other passersby, in the confusion. During these detentions the police threw a far-right militant from the Russian Human Rights Defense League, knocking her unconscious. The march continued towards the Bratislavskaya Metro station and also Konstantin Filin was also detained after the far-right demonstrators shouted anti-police slogans. At the metro station several nationalist leaders made speeches from the stage, during which they talked about the repression suffered by the far right in Russia. Ivan Noviopov of the Irreconcilable League called for a "white revenge", unfurling a Confederate flag. Andrei Narodny of the National-Revolutionary Vanguard (NRA) closed his speech with a fascist salute.

2020 Russian march
Authorities of the Russian Federation denied authorization for the 2020 Russian march due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite the ban, dozens of nationalists gathered in a Siberian city of Barnaul on November 4, protesting against President Vladimir Putin. The organizers of the Russian march in Moscow, following the refusal, planned to lay flowers at the Federal Penitentiary Service office, to commemorate Russian neo-Nazi Maxim Martsinkevich, who died in prison one month before. The Moscow police detained at least 32 of far-right activists.

References

External links
 RusMarsh.org, official site

Protests in Russia
Protests in Ukraine
Russian March
March
Russian March
Russian March
Russian March
Xenophobia in Europe
November events