[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Elsie Dinsmore

lantation owned by Phillip and Lucy (Carrington) Ross. Elsie and her children (except Rosie and Walter, who were born later in the book) visit the Crags in Elsie's Children.
Sunnyside - A plantation owned by Lucilla and Chester, Max and Eva.
Magnolia Hall- Plantation owned by Molly and Louis Embury.

Characters
Elsie Dinsmore - The only child of Horace and Elsie (Grayson) Dinsmore. She marries Edward Travilla Jr., and is the mother of Elsie, Horace Edward, Violet, Harold, Herbert, Lily, Rose, and Walter Travilla.
Horace Dinsmore - Elsie's father. He is married first to Elsie Grayson, by whom he had Elsie, then to Rose Allison, by whom he had Horace II and Rose Dinsmore.
Edward Travilla Jr. - Son of Edward and Violet Travilla, married Elsie Dinsmore, and fathered her children. He dies in Elsie's Widowhood.
Rose Allison Dinsmore - Second child in the Allison family, married Horace Dinsmore, mother of Horace Jr. and Rose Dinsmore.
Enna Dinsmore Percival Johnson - Seventh child of Arthur Dinsmore Senior. Married first to Richard Percival, then Mr. Johnson. She is the spoiled pet of the Dinsmore family, and she is mean to Elsie in both childhood and adulthood. She mothers four children: Richard Jr. and Molly, by Percival, and Robert 'Bob' and Elizabeth 'Betty'. She is rendered mentally unstable after a carriage accident with her father, and in the first chapter of Grandmother Elsie  it is mentioned that she has died at the home of her oldest daughter.
Arthur Dinsmore Jr. - Fifth child of Arthur Dinsmore, Horace's half-brother. He is very mean to Elsie in her childhood, and is killed in the Civil War.
Thomas Jackson alias Bromly Egerton - one of Arthur Dinsmore's friends. He tries to win Elsie's hand in marriage so he can have her inheritance. He nearly succeeds, but Horace finds out before he can convince her to run away with him. He is killed in the Civil War.
Elsie Leland - Eldest child of Edward and Elsie Travilla. She marries Lester Leland and has four children: Edward Travilla, Eric, Elsie Alicia, and Violet Leland.
Horace Edward Travilla - The second child of Edward and Elsie Travilla. He marries Zoe Love shortly before her father's death and they have twins: Lily (after his sister) and Edward Lawrence.
Violet Raymond - Elsie and Edward Travilla's third child. She marries the widower Captain Levis Raymond and becomes the stepmother of Max, Lulu, and Grace. She has two children: Elsie and Edward Raymond.
Harold Allison Travilla - The fourth child of Edward and Elsie Travilla. He eventually marries his sister's stepdaughter, Grace Raymond.
Herbert Travilla - Edward and Elsie's fifth child. He becomes a physician and after the first books he is rarely mentioned.
Lily Travilla - Edward and Elsie's sixth child who dies at age 7.
Rose Travilla Croly - Edward and Elsie's seventh child. She marries her brother's friend, William Croly. She was mean to Lucilla when she was younger.
Walter Travilla - The youngest child of Edward and Elsie, named after Walter Dinsmore.
Lucilla "Lulu" Raymond Dinsmore - The oldest daughter of Grace and Captain Levis Raymond, and stepdaughter to Violet Raymond. She is known for having an incredibly bad temper, and as a little girl she is punished several times in each book by her father. However, she eventually overcomes her bad temper with the help of her father and becomes a very obedient daughter. She marries Chester Dinsmore. Most of the later books mainly focus on her.
Max Raymond - Only son of Grace and Captain Levis Raymond, and stepson of Violet Raymond. He marries Evelyn Leland, his step-cousin and his sister's best friend.
Grace Raymond Travilla - Youngest daughter of Grace and Captain Levis Raymond, and stepdaughter of Violet Raymond. She marries Harold Travilla, her physician and her stepmother's younger brother.
Chloe (no surname given), sometimes "Aunt Chloe" or "Mammy" - Elsie's nurse since infancy.  Describes herself as "only a poor old black sinner, but de good Lord Jesus, He loves me jes de same as if I was white". She is married to Uncle Joe.

Elsie's childhood friends
In the first two books Elsie plays with and visits several friends and neighbors and their children. Most of them had died by the time Christmas with Grandma Elsie was written. Herbert died of a broken heart when Elsie rejected his marriage proposal.

Herbert Carrington
Lucy Carrington Ross
Mary Leslie
Flora Arnett
Caroline (Cary) Howard
Mildred Keith
Sophie Allison
Isabel Carleton
Harold Allison