[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Building Act 1984

reates new building control authorities – initially at the district or unitary local authority level.

The Act confirms the new national Building Safety Regulator will be a building control authority for all "higher-risk" buildings. (Residential buildings with two or more flats over 18 metres high).

The national regulator will be the sole building control authority for 'higher-risk' (high-rise) buildings. All existing and under construction, "higher-risk" (high-rise – over 18m high) buildings are to be transferred to the "National Building Safety Regulator" jurisdiction.

All "higher-risk" buildings will have to register with the BSR and prove (over the whole-lifetime of the building) that they are still safe to use and occupy and monitor the "higher-risk" building's fire and structural safe features and systems, to keep this safety case registered with the national regulator (for England). Periodic re-registration (with the BSR) will be required for all high-risk buildings.

The new law will also alter the Architect Registration Board's operational rules to require all 'architects' to undertake annual CPD and competency training for the whole of the "practising career".

Developers, designers and contractors will no longer be able to choose their "regulator".

The national regulator will also have powers to test and/or ban any building material or building product, which it knows is "unsafe" or "non-compliant" with the "requirements of the Building Regulations". The national regulator will also have powers to require all claims made about the performance or nature of a building product or material to be truthful and supported by 'up-to-date' scientific testing.

The devolved Welsh Government has welcomed the draft Building Safety Bill, and will legislate for it to apply (with some Welsh amendments) to future building work within the nation of Wales.

Scotland

Scotland has its own Building (Scotland) Act 2003 and its own Building (Procedures) (Scotland) Regulations 2004.

References

United Kingdom Acts of Parliament 1984
Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom concerning England and Wales
Construction in the United Kingdom
Housing legislation in the United Kingdom