[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Bhoys from Seville

ast Rab Douglas from a tight angle. The match finished at 1–1, with the away goal giving Liverpool the advantage going in to their home tie at Anfield. Liverpool player El Hadji Diouf spat at a Celtic supporter during the match, and was later fined £5,000 at Glasgow's Sheriff Court for the incident.

The return match at Anfield took place the following week. Celtic's Alan Thompson and Liverpool's Dietmar Hamann both came close to scoring in the opening quarter-hour with long range shots. On 19 minutes, Jerzy Dudek turned a 30-yard free kick from Henrik Larsson around the post. Two minutes from half time, Celtic were awarded a free kick 25 yards from goal. Thompson struck a low shot past Dudek from the set piece, with the ball going under the defensive wall, which had jumped up and appeared to distract the Liverpool goalkeeper. Celtic sealed their victory on 82 minutes when John Hartson played a one-two with Larsson, and then drove a swerving shot from 25 yards out into the top-right corner of Dudek's goal. Celtic's 2–0 win saw them win the tie 3–1 on aggregate and progress to the semi-finals.

Semi-final v Boavista

Celtic's first European semi-final since the early 1970s saw them paired against Portuguese team Boavista. As with all the previous rounds, Celtic were drawn to play the first leg of the tie at Celtic Park.

In the first leg Celtic went a goal down through an own goal from Joos Valgaeren on 48 minutes. Larsson equalised seconds later, but then missed a penalty kick on 75 minutes. Despite a couple of good chances near the end of the game, Celtic were unable to score a winning goal. The 1–1 draw, watched by around 60,000 fans, was Martin O'Neill's 50th unbeaten match at Celtic Park, a record of results that stretched back to their last home defeat which was against Ajax in August 2001.

In a difficult return leg, Celtic toiled to break down a dour Boavista side who knew that a scoreless draw was all they needed to reach the final. An opportunistic strike by Larsson on 80 minutes won the match and the tie for Celtic, meaning that Celtic went through to the final, preventing an all-Portugal, and all-Oporto, final.

Celtic fans in Seville
Celtic were the first Scottish team in 16 years to reach a European final and the first Celtic team to reach a European final since the 1970 European Cup Final. Their opponents in the final were Portuguese club Porto, who had defeated Lazio 4–1 on aggregate in the other semi-final. The match was played at the Estadio Olímpico in Seville.

Tickets for the match had been selling for £500 in the lead up to the game. UEFA and the Spanish police had warned Celtic fans to avoid buying the 700 estimated fake tickets that were circulating before the game. Many of the fans who were not able to get tickets for the final watched the game on a large screen placed a mile from the stadium.

There was a scramble to arrange travel to Spain, and Celtic fans travelled by plane, car, bus, train and ferry to get to Seville on time. Many fans travelled to Seville on day trips and returned to Scotland early the next morning after the match. The first charter flights to Spain on the day of the match left Scotland well before dawn. About 33 charter planes departed before midday with over 9,000 Celtic fans on board. 2,000 more travelled on scheduled flights. At Glasgow Prestwick Airport, 9 charter flights departed before 9 a.m. BST with 3,500 fans.

Tens of thousands of Celtic fans travelled to Seville during the days leading up to the match, partying in a carnival atmosphere. Many of the supporters congregated in the Cathedral area of the city. One Irish pub was reported to have sold 300 barrels in the day leading up to the final, to satisfy the thirst of supporters in the near 100 degree heat (~ 37 °C). By the day of the final, an estimated 80,000 Celtic supporters had arrived in Seville.

The final vs. F.C. Porto