[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Majida El Roumi

Majida El Roumi Baradhy (; born 13 December 1956) is a Lebanese soprano singer and United Nations Goodwill Ambassador.

Early life 
Majida El Roumi Al Baradhy was born on 13 December 1956 in Kfarshima. Her father, Halim El Roumi, was from a Melkite Christian family from Tyre, South Lebanon, and her mother was Egyptian. Her father was born in Tyre in 1919 but later moved to Haifa, Palestine, at the age of two with his whole family to avoid the hardships of World War I. Kfarshima is also home to many Lebanese singers, musicians and poets like Philimon Wehbe, Melhem Barakat and Issam Rajji. The El Roumi residence was a meeting place for many cultural figures as he worked with many singers. He is accredited with having discovered many well-known artists, mainly the Lebanese star Fairuz.

Majida was featured in her school's stage in Saint Coeur, Al Hadath. At the age of 14, she accompanied her father in an interview on Télé Liban with Najib Hankash, where she first performed songs for Umm Kulthum and Fairuz. At the age of 16, Raymond Safadi, Majida's cousin, noticed her musical capabilities and thought that she should pursue singing as a profession. She participated in the talent show Studio El Fan in 1974 after she sneaked out of the house with her brother and her cousins. For her first appearance on television, she performed for Layla Murad and Asmahan and won the gold medal for oriental singing.

Her success prompted her father to change his mind and give her his blessings to pursue in singing as long as she continued her higher education. Later on, Majida graduated from the Lebanese University after receiving her BA in Arabic Literature. In 1975, Majida released her first single "Am Behlamak" (I'm dreaming of you, Lebanon) with collaboration with the Lebanese poet Said Akl and musician Elias Rahbani. The song, released at the outbreak of the Lebanese Civil War in April 1975, was very popular.

After releasing her first album Wadaa (Farewell) in 1976, Majida got the attention of Egyptian filmmaker Youssef Chahine. She starred alongside Hisham Saleem in her first and only movie Awdat Al Ibn Al Dal (The Return of the Prodigal Son) and performed three of the soundtrack's songs.

Personal life 
She married Antoine Dafone, and after years of marriage she separated from him following rumors about his relationship with a young singer. She has two daughters, Hala and Noor.

Musical career

1970s
In 1974, she was a contestant in the talent show Studio El Fan on Télé Liban and performed songs by Asmahan and Layla Murad at the age of 16.

1980s–1990s 

When she performed at Hunter College in May 1989 accompanied by a 19-piece orchestra, music reviewer Peter Watrous said: "she wandered between near-European pop and Middle Eastern pop".

2001–2004 

In 2001, Majida El Roumi released a single titled "Nachid El Hobb" (The Hymn of Love) with lyrics from Dam'a wa Ibtisama (A Tear and A Smile) written by the Lebanese artist and writer Gibran Khalil Gibran. El Roumi chose this text after the UN ceremony in 2001, when she was named Goodwill Ambassador, and declared it to be the theme message for her mission of peace around the world. In 2001, Majida's sister Maha had to be transported to the US for better medical care, as she was suffering from cancer.

2011–present 

Majida wrote the lyrics of "Bokra" (Tomorrow), a charity opérette that was released on 11 November 2011. The single's proceeds were donated to various charitable initiatives with arts and culture programs aiming to raise funds for education projects in the Arab World. In an interview with Rima Maktabi in the CNN program – Inside the Middle East, Majida told the story of the new song which was produced by Quincy Jones and RedOne.
In a surprising and unexpected decision, Majida announced that she had pulled herself out of the project. She said that the producer, Quincy Jones, did not meet her conditions and the team supervising and overlooking the project was not professional. Majida already put her voice on the operate, but when they asked her to record again in Qatar, she announced her withdrawal and waived her authorship rights when she backed out of the project.

"Ghazal" 

Majida released her new album "Ghazal" on 22 June 2012 having worked on it for 6 years with many composers and poets.