[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# George Frederick, Margrave of Baden-Durlach

George Frederick of Baden-Durlach (30 January 1573 – 24 September 1638) was Margrave of Baden-Durlach from 1604 until his abdication in 1622. He also ruled Baden-Baden.

He was the third son of margrave Charles II of Baden-Durlach and his second wife, Anna of Veldenz.  He was the youngest of eight children and was only four years old when his father died.

He succeeded his brother Ernest Frederick as margrave in 1604. He also continued his brother's occupation of Baden-Baden. George Frederick was a prominent member of the Protestant Union.

He raised an army of 12,000 men at the beginning of the Thirty Years' War in 1618. When Catholic League forces under General Tilly approached Baden in 1622 (Palatinate campaign), he marched against them, but came too late for the Battle of Mingolsheim. Setting off to pursue the retreating Catholics, he was defeated at the Battle of Wimpfen, and his army was destroyed, a few days later.

In 1627 he joined the Danish army. 
He died at Strasbourg in 1638.

Life

Early life
George Frederick was born in Baden to Charles II, Margrave of Baden-Durlach and Anna of Veldenz.

George Frederick was only four years old when he inherited the Margraviate of Baden-Sausenberg, necessating a regency. The regents were his mother Anna, Elector Palatine Louis VI (until 1583), Count Palatine Philip Louis of Neuburg and Duke Louis III "the Pious" of Württemberg.

In 1584, his elder brothers Ernest Frederick and James (d. 1590) and his mother (d. 1586) took over the guardianship.  In 1595, George Frederick was declared an adult, and he took up government himself.

George Frederick learned the Latin, French and Italian languages and received his higher education in Strasbourg, where his brother James had studied earlier.

He went on a Grand Tour to Besançon, Dole, Basel and Siena.

Division of the Margraviate of Baden-Durlach 
His elder brothers were declared adults in 1584.  Ernest Frederick and James wanted to divide the inheritance, although their father's testament forbade this. However, the testament had not been properly signed and sealed, and the remaining guardians held that this meant that they could allow the brothers to divide the Margraviate.  Ernest Frederick received Lower Baden, including the main towns Durlach and Pforzheim. James received the Margraviate of Baden-Hachberg.

George Frederick retained the southern parts of Baden-Durlach, the Lordships of Rötteln and Badenweiler and the County of Sausenburg.  Thus, the Margraviate was fragmented further, after the earlier split into Baden-Baden and Baden-Durlach.

When George Frederick's elder brother James died in 1590, Baden-Hachberg fell back to his eldest brother Ernest Frederick, who gave it to George Frederick in 1595.

Ruler of Baden-Hachberg (1595-1604)

Upon reaching adulthood, George Frederick became the ruler of Baden-Hachberg (Upper Baden).  At first, he ruled from Rötteln Castle. In 1599 he moved his residence and the entire National Administration to Sulzburg). After the conversion of his brothers Ernest Frederick to strict Calvinism and James to Catholicism, George Frederick remained a Lutheran and founded his own Latin school in his small residence Sulzburg, so he would not have to depend on the Calvinist school in Durlach for the education of pastors in his territory.  He constructed several buildings in Sulzburg, among them a real tennis hall.  Between 1600 and 1610, he built the Castle Church in Sulzburg. Hence, the Margraviate of Baden-Durlach remained Lutheran since he survived the longest among his brothers.

George Frederick's lived in an ascetic manner. From the hand-written notes in his personal Bible, one can deduce that he has fully read through it at least 58 times. Shortly after he took office in Upper Baden, George Frederick introduced Johann Weininger as the new General Superintendent at the Synod of Rötteln.  On this occasion he held a speech that resembled a sermon. In 1601, he promised the citizens of Pforzheim, who resisted the appointment of Reformed clergy by his brother Ernest Frederick, that he would support them when the case came before the Reichskammergericht.

In 1603, he issued a forestry regulation for the Margraviate of Sausenberg and the Lordship of Rötteln.

Margrave of Baden-Durlach (1604-1612)
When Ernest Frederick died in 1604, Baden-Durlach was inherited by George Frederick, reuniting it with Baden-Hachberg. He initiated a wide ranging set of legal, administrative, and religious reforms He established the Privy Council, which he presided himself. He created a high court and introduced a Church Order. George Frederick was aware that he could achieve his goal of a united Lutheran margraviate of Baden only with the support of the people. In return for approval of taxes to finance his defense policies, he conceded to the Estates the right to have a say in religious questions.