[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Radha Krishna Temple

they were – a dozen or so people with happiness on their faces, completely unselfconscious, radiating a weird inner strength of the kind which easily unsettles less secure people, even those of a so-called 'enlightened' generation." Sung primarily by Yamuna, "Govinda" peaked at number 23 in the UK.

Greene has written of the devotees "jok[ing] about a Harrison Bat-Light", whereby, in a scenario akin to the comic-book stories of Batman, the Beatles' guitarist would summon his Krishna friends at a moment's notice, and "off they would go on another adventure". One such moment, in March 1970, was when he, Shyamsundar and others travelled to Paris, where the local authorities had displayed hostility towards ISKCON's fledgling branch. Amid a chaotic press conference at Maxim's restaurant, this gesture increased Harrison's public affiliation with the movement, as did his financing of Prabhupada's 400-page book Krishna, the Supreme Personality of Godhead, for which he also wrote a foreword.

That same spring, Harrison invited three families from the London temple to stay at his newly purchased Oxfordshire estate, Friar Park, where they helped restore the property's parkland and formal gardens. The devotees' arrival at Friar Park sated Harrison's love of chanting and inspired themes on his first post-Beatles solo album, All Things Must Pass (1970), but left his wife, Pattie Boyd, feeling increasingly isolated. While Boyd welcomed Shyamsundar's presence, as the leader of this group, she and others close to Harrison were disturbed by the devotees' approach to childrearing when a young boy twice came close to drowning in the property's fountains.

Apple Records album

Yamuna suggested to Prabhupda that the Radha Krishna Temple (London) album might be released "in time for Christmas [1970]", with the title Bhaja Hunre Mana, Mana Hu Re. Apple issued it as The Radha Krsna Temple, in May 1971, compiling the two hit singles with new tracks, one of which was the eight-minute "Bhaja Hunre Mana".

The album cover depicted the deities situated in the Bury Place temple. Mukunda was again credited (as Mukunda Das Adhikary) for the musical arrangements. Two months after its release, Shyamsundar and other devotees were present during rehearsals for Harrison's Concert for Bangladesh benefit shows in New York, where they supplied prasadam for the musicians and crew.

The album was subsequently released as Goddess of Fortune on the Spiritual Sky record label and again through the Prabhupada-founded Bhaktivedanta Book Trust. Following an initial CD release on Apple Records in 1993, The Radha Krsna Temple was remastered and reissued in October 2010 as part of Apple's ongoing reissue campaign, and featured in the sixteen-disc Apple Box Set.

Bhaktivedanta Manor and the founding devotees' later careers

ISKCON's London chapter continued to grow during the early 1970s, such that the temple at Bury Place became too small to accommodate all its members by 1972. Harrison once more offered to help, and instructed Scottish-born devotee Dhananjaya to purchase a 17-acre property in Hertfordshire, close to London, on his behalf. Harrison donated the property, subsequently named Bhaktivedanta Manor, to the movement in February 1973. In addition to serving as the new UK headquarters, Bhaktivedanta Manor has since become one of the most popular Krishna temples in Europe. Out of appreciation for Harrison's various contributions, Prabhupada called him ISKCON's "archangel". In 1979, following legal proceedings over the use of the Bury Place site, the central London temple moved to a new premises at Soho Square. The Radha-Krishna deities were installed there and became known as "Radha-Londonishvara".

In their book on the first four decades of the Hare Krishna movement, authors Graham Dwyer and Richard Cole describe the three couples who founded the UK mission as "pioneer devotees". By 1971, when he met Harrison in New York before the Concert for Bangladesh, Shyamsundar had become Prabhupada's assistant, accompanying the acharya as he continued to propagate Krishna Consciousness around the world. The London temple hosted a visit by Prabhupada in July 1973, when Shyamsundar arranged a procession through the city to celebrate the annual Hindu Ratha-Yatra festival. From Marble Arch and ending at Trafalgar Square via Piccadilly, the acharya walked the whole route, dancing and chanting in front of a chariot carrying the deities of Jagannath, Balarama and Subhadra. Prabhupada's strength amazed his devotees, since he had been diagnosed with dysentery the previous week, while in Calcutta, and was considered to be too sick to travel.