[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abba Ahimeir

where he published (under the initials A. AH.) scores of important academic articles, mostly in the fields of history and Russian literature. Ahimeir died at the age of 65 of a sudden heart attack on the eve of June 6, 1962. His sons, Ya'akov and Yosef, both went on to become journalists.

Ideology

Ahimeir regarded Zionism as a secular, territorial phenomenon. He was the first to speak of "revolutionary Zionism," and call for a revolt for the cause of an independent Jewish state. His worldview generally placed the contemporary political situation into the context of Jewish history, specifically the Second Temple Period, often casting himself and his friends as pro-Jewish state freedom fighters, the mandate administration as a modern incarnation of ancient Rome and the official Zionist leadership as Jewish collaborators. Ahimeir's views had a profound influence on the ideology of the Irgun and Lehi organisations during their operations in the mandate and later the 1947–1949 Palestine war.

Although Ahimeir described himself as a fascist during the late 1920s, and wrote a series of eight articles in the Hebrew Doar HaYom newspaper in 1928 entitled "From the Notebook of a Fascist," few of his contemporaries took these leanings seriously. Ze’ev Jabotinsky, who consistently maintained that there was no room for Fascism within his Revisionist movement, dismissed Ahimeir's rhetoric and argued that he and his Maximalist followers were merely playacting to make a point and were not serious in their professed Fascist beliefs.

In the October 7, 1932, edition of Hazit HaAm, Jabotinsky wrote:Such men, even in the Maximalist and activist factions, number no more than two or three, and even with those two or three – pardon my frankness – it is mere phraseology, not a worldview. Even Mr. Ahimeir gives me the impression of a man who will show flexibility for the sake of educational goals. … to this end he has borrowed some currently fashionable (and quite unnecessary) phrases, in which this daring idea clothes itself in several foreign cities."

Ahimeir himself confirmed that for a while he thought fascism was a realistic way to oppose the "horrors of the Russian revolution" but that he quickly turned his back on Mussolini's ideology and in the beginning of 1929 Jabotinsky "cured him of fascism".

Ahimeir's fascist image during the 1920s was seized upon by author Christopher Hitchens in a 1998 article titled "The Iron Wall" to argue that fascism was the ideology guiding Benzion Netanyahu, a disciple of Ahimeir, and consequently his son, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. In an April 16, 2010, interview with the Jerusalem Post, Ahimeir's son Yossi defended his father against accusations of fascism, saying:"Hitchens is a known anti-Israel writer who takes my father's writing completely out of context. Fascism in 1928 can't be viewed in the context of the 1930s. Of course he would not be a fascist in view of how it developed."

References

External links
 "Dr.Aba Ahimeir: The man who turned the tide" Beit Aba Museum in Israel
 "The iron wall", Christopher Hitchens on Ahimeir's relationship with the Netanyahu family
 "Abba Ahimeir" A website featuring articles on noteworthy Jewish figures from the Mandate period who helped bring about the state of Israel

1897 births
1962 deaths
Belarusian Jews
People from Babruysk
Emigrants from the Russian Empire to the Ottoman Empire
Jews from Mandatory Palestine
Jewish fascists
Israeli people of Belarusian-Jewish descent
Members of the Assembly of Representatives (Mandatory Palestine)
Russian fascists
Revisionist Zionism
Burials at Nahalat Yitzhak Cemetery
Immigrants to Ottoman Palestine
Israeli prisoners and detainees
Inmates of Acre Prison
People acquitted of murder