[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Terry Cooke

om for the signing of Jamie Smith from Aberdeen. Remaining in the US, he was invited to trial with Seattle Sounders FC that August.

Cooke trained with Nottingham Forest to regain his fitness, and played in a reserve match against Coventry City, but manager Billy Davies did not offer him a contract.

North Queensland Fury
Cooke arrived in Townsville to trial with A-League franchise North Queensland Fury as a possible replacement for injured fellow Englishman James Robinson. He was signed by Ian Ferguson on 25 November and made his debut against Adelaide United on 28 November. He scored his first goal for the Fury on 13 February against Gold Coast United, scoring the game-winner in the 83rd minute of a 2–1 victory. After his short-term deal expired Cooke left the Fury as the club fell into administration.

Gabala
Cooke then joined Gabala of Azerbaijan, managed by Tony Adams. After making 12 appearances in which he scored one goal, Cooke then suffered a serious knee injury which kept him out for the remainder of the season, at the end of which he was released by the club.

International career
Cooke represented England at U16, U18 and U21 levels, but was never capped by the full senior side.

Coaching career
Cooke is now employed as a youth team coach for the Denver Kickers.

Honours
Manchester United
FA Youth Cup: 1994–95

Manchester City
Football League Second Division play-offs: 1998–99

Individual
Jimmy Murphy Young Player of the Year: 1994–95

References

External links

1976 births
Living people
People from Marston Green
Sportspeople from the Metropolitan Borough of Solihull
English men's footballers
Manchester United F.C. players
Sunderland A.F.C. players
Birmingham City F.C. players
Wrexham A.F.C. players
Manchester City F.C. players
Wigan Athletic F.C. players
Sheffield Wednesday F.C. players
Grimsby Town F.C. players
Colorado Rapids players
Northern Fury FC players
Gabala SC players
England men's under-21 international footballers
English expatriate men's footballers
Premier League players
A-League Men players
English Football League players
Major League Soccer players
Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States
Expatriate men's soccer players in Australia
Expatriate men's footballers in Azerbaijan
Men's association football midfielders
English expatriate sportspeople in the United States
English expatriate sportspeople in Australia
English expatriate sportspeople in Azerbaijan