[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Tutor Perini

building highway ramps and other connections at the north and south ends of the tunnel. They are also constructing buildings at each tunnel portal to house lighting, ventilation and other systems needed to operate the tunnel.

Hurricane Katrina Repairs in Mississippi, Louisiana, & Florida Gulf Coast

Tutor Perini subsidiary Roy Anderson Corp performed $783 million of reconstruction work in the first 24 months following Hurricane Katrina, operating under FEMA regulations and contracting with various state and municipal agencies. Work consisted of debris removal, residential construction, and commercial construction. Roy Anderson assisted with the debris removal and disposal for the City of Gulfport, Mississippi. This contract consisted of the removal and disposal of approximately 4,000,000 cubic yards of storm debris.

Encore at Wynn in Las Vegas, NV

Encore was constructed on approximately 20 acres on the Las Vegas Strip, immediately adjacent to the flagship property of Wynn Las Vegas. It includes a glass tower exceeding 653 feet in height with 2,034 all-suite hotel rooms, ranging from 700 square feet to 5,800 square feet. It also includes a 72,000-square-foot casino, 60,000 square feet of additional convention and meeting space, restaurants, a nightclub, swimming pools, cabanas, a spa and salon, retail outlets, 1,095,000 square feet above-grade parking, and an additional 315,000 square feet of underground parking. The project consists of a tower frame of reinforced concrete and an exterior skin of a glass curtain wall system to match the current tower on the Wynn property. The low-rise consists of structural steel frame with a composite glass, EIFS and stone exterior enclosure.

BART San Francisco Airport Extension in San Francisco, CA

This design-build project expanded the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District (BART) system 8 miles into San Mateo County from the existing Colma City station to the San Francisco International Airport (SFO) and terminating at the new Millbrae station. The project route required that the northern portion of the line be placed underground using a cut-and-cover approach. The southern half of the alignment ran parallel to the Caltrain Corridor, which remained in active service throughout construction for freight and passenger traffic. Service to the airport was created by raising the BART line onto an elevated section that crossed the Caltrain Corridor and a sensitive wetlands area then connected to a Caltrans crossing of the US Highway 101, where it ties into an elevated station at the airport that is integrated with the airport people mover system (also built by Tutor Perini Corporation for SFO).

Gaylord National Hotel in Oxon Hill, MD

A 2,400,000-square-foot, 2,000-room, 20-story hotel, 800,000 square feet of convention and meeting space, 20,000-square-foot luxury spa and fitness center and 1,950-car parking garage. With 470,000 square feet of flexible meeting space, exhibition space, pre-function space and convention space, Gaylord National is the largest combined hotel and convention center on the Eastern seaboard.

Paris Hotel in Las Vegas, NV

Third Street Light Rail - Phase 2 in San Francisco, CA

The Central Subway, Third Street Light Rail – Phase 2 Project, extends the existing SFMTA Light Rail System T-Line service from Fourth and King Streets, north along and under Fourth Street to Market Street, under the BART and Muni Metro tunnels adjacent to Powell Station, and then north along and under Stockton Street to Chinatown Station.  The Work includes construction of three underground stations at Chinatown, Union Square/Market Street and Yerba Buena/Moscone areas with one surface station at Fourth and Brannan Street in addition to the construction of the systems and track through the tunnels and in the stations. When the Central Subway was completed, Third Line trains will travel mostly underground from the 4th Street Caltrain Station to Chinatown, bypassing heavy traffic on congested 4th Street and Stockton Street.

Palace Tower of Caesars Palace Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas, NV

The 29-story, 2,100,000-square-foot Palace Tower is a Roman-themed facility containing 1,134 guest rooms and suites. The tower is supported by five levels of low-rise that feature 89,000 square feet of ballroom/meeting space, retail, restaurants, spa and fitness center, and pool area, spas, bars, cabanas, tennis courts, gazebo, and reception areas.

LAPD Administration Building - Los Angeles Police Department in Los Angeles, CA