[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# November 1976

Nuri, Anwar Zorab and Mamosta Jafar Abdulwahid, Iraqi Kurdish nationalists and leaders of the Komalay Ranjdaran organization, were jointly executed by the government of Iraq.
Born: Daniel Whiston, English ice dancer; in Blackpool, Lancashire
Died: Niles Welch, 88, American stage and silent film star

Monday, November 22, 1976
The British House of Lords, the upper house of Parliament whose approval of measures passed in Commons was usually taken for granted, overwhelmingly voted to reject the government-sponsored measure to nationalize Britain's aircraft and shipbuilding industries, with only 90 in favor and 197 against.  The Lords refused to accept the bill as written and insisted on exemptions from takeover for ship-repairing companies that had made a profit.
The popular newspaper comic strip Cathy, written by adveritising agency vice president Cathy Guisewite, made its debut and began a run of almost 34 years, concluding on October 3, 2010.  Described as "by a woman and about a woman" and distributed by Universal Press Syndicate, Cathy was in 1,400 newspapers at its peak and was reprinted in more than 20 books and inspired three animated TV specials.
The United Kingdom's Energy Act 1976 received royal assent, empowering the British Secretary of State to control the production, supply, acquisition and use of fuels and electricity, and included measures for the conservation of fuels.
Born: 
Torsten Frings, German soccer football midfielder and with 79 appearances for the Germany national team; in Würselen, West Germany
Sultan Munadi, Afghanistan journalist (killed by friendly fire, 2009)
Died: Jesse F. McClendon, 95, American physiologist and inventor of the McClendon pH-probe to measure the acidity of a patient's stomach contents

Tuesday, November 23, 1976
All 46 passengers and four crew on Olympic Airways Flight 830 were killed when the turboprop airliner crashed into a mountain near the village of Servia during its flight from Athens to Kozani.  Cleared to fly at , the plane impacted the mountain in foggy weather at .
The Nuclear Emergency Search Team (NEST), created in the U.S. in 1974 to respond to threats of nuclear terrorism, carried out its first known mission in responding to a threat, by a group that called itself "Days of Omega", to contaminate the city of Spokane, Washington by explode containers, each with five pounds of nuclear waste from the nearby Hanford Nuclear Plant, throughout the area unless it received a $500,000 extortion demand.  NEST agents found no evidence of increased radioactivity in the area and found that the threat was a hoax.  The matter was kept secret until its revelation 19 months later on the first episode of the ABC News show 20/20.

Born: Chiril Gaburici, Prime Minister of Moldova for four months in 2015; in Loganesti, Moldavian SSR, Soviet Union 
Died: André Malraux, 75, French novelist and former Minister of Cultural Affairs; in Paris

Wednesday, November 24, 1976
More than 4,000 people were killed in a 7.3 magnitude earthquake with an epicenter at Muradiye in eastern Turkey.  The quake struck at 2:45 in the afternoon local time (1225 UTC) near Turkey's border with the Soviet Union and Iran.  at least 500 died in Muradiye alone.
A U.S. District Judge ruled in favor of Robert C. Randall in Randall v. United States, the first decision in the U.S. to permit the use of marijuana as a medical necessity. Randall had sued the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the National Institute on Drug Abuse, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the U.S. Department of Health, Education & Welfare (HEW) to permit him to cultivate and use marijuana based on a physician opinion that it would be medically necessary to halt the progression of his glaucoma. 
Cuba ended its policy, in place since the Cuban Revolution of 1959, of allowing free calls from public telephones.  According to the official government newspaper Granma, the privilege had been abused by the general public.  The move came after, because of waste of resources, the recent rescinding of allowing households free running water. 
Official criticism of Deng Xiaoping by the government of China appeared to have come to an end when Party Chairman Hua Guofeng laid the cornerstone for the Mausoleum of Mao Zedong being constructed in Beijing.  Although the Gang of Four was mentioned, Chairman Hua's speech made no condemnation of Vice Premier Deng, who had been the victim of a second purge since shortly after the death of Premier Zhou Enlai. 
Born: 
Chen Lu, Chinese figure skater, 1995 world champion; in Changchun, Jilin Province
Vladimir Cvijan, Serbian politician and chief advisor to President Boris Tadić from 2004 to 2010 until forming an opposition political party; Cvijan abruptly disappeared from public view in 2014 and was the victim of a drowning in 2018.
Mandla Hlatshwayo, South African actor; in Soweto, Johannesburg (murdered 2017)