[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Mind control in popular culture

nfinement, denial of care, and constantly broadcasting messages via loudspeaker) to create a cult of ponies obsessed with the idea of conformity.
 In the Monkees episode "The Frodis Caper", an insane wizard captures a sentient potted plant from outer space and attempts world domination by broadcasting the plant's mind-control eye over television.
 In the American soap opera Days of Our Lives, several characters including John Black, Hope Brady, and Steve Johnson, were subjected to brainwashing and mind control by Stefano DiMera and other villains, in order to turn them into assassins and mob "soldiers".
 In the 2007 Korean supernatural horror film based on a 2005 graphic novel Someone Behind You a homicidal family curse causing the minds of family members and friends attacking and slaying one another for no apparent reason. A fearless young woman feared for her life that her family and friends are out to do the same against her. To survive the ongoing epidemic of homicidal attacks she is warned by a sinister student who cautiously reminds her never to trust family, friends, nor even herself. In 2009 it was released in the US under the new title "Voices".
 In the horror/thriller film series Candyman, Daniel Robitaille/Candyman uses mind control on a few of his main victims who denies his existence to carry out his murders supernaturally. In the 1992 film, he uses his ability to hypnotize Helen Lyle and leads her into psychosis by framing her for the gruesome murders he carried out. As with the 1999 film, he also puts his granddaughter Caroline McKeever under a trance and is framed for the crimes. In the 2021 film, he possesses Anthony McCoy as a vessel in his hallucinations to actually commit his murders through mind control.

Entertainment

Hypnotism has often been used by stage performers to induce volunteers do strange things, such as clucking like a chicken, for the entertainment of audiences. The British psychological illusionist Derren Brown performs more sophisticated mental tricks in his television programmes, Derren Brown: Mind Control.

The late Russian psychic, Wolf Messing, was said to be able to hand somebody a blank piece of paper and make them see money or whatever he wanted them to see.

See also
 Hypnosis in popular culture
 Mindwipe

References

Further reading
 

Topics in popular culture
Mind control
 
Science in popular culture