[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Jerusalem Biblical Zoo

academic seminars and student research at the Gabi Center, located in a  facility inside the main entrance. The center was named in memory of Dr. Gabi Eshkar, deputy director-general and chief veterinarian of the zoo for over 17 years, who was killed in an automobile accident in 2004.

Affiliations

The Jerusalem Biblical Zoo is a full member of the European Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EAZA). Zoo director-general Shai Doron is the only EAZA Council Member from Israel in the 2009–2012 season, while general curator Shmulik Yedvab has been EAZA's European Endangered Species Programme project coordinator for the white-tailed sea eagle population of Europe and Asia since 1995. The zoo is also a member of the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums (WAZA), the Israel Zoo Association (which it helped form), and the International Species Information System (ISIS).

Members of the veterinary staff belong to the American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, the European Association of Zoo and Wildlife Veterinarians, and the European Group on Zoo Animal Contraception.

Visitors and volunteers

A record 738,000 people visited the zoo in 2009. The zoo does a brisk business in tourist groups, school groups, and summer camps: over 120,000 visitors arrived in groups in 2009. Included in the total are 63 groups of special-needs children, both Jewish and Arab, who participate in weekly sessions of animal-assisted therapy. Total capacity in the park is 11,000 visitors.

Over 50 volunteers assist zoo operations on a weekly basis. The zoo's youth movement, called Tnuat Noach (, "Noah's Movement"), involves teens aged 13–15 as volunteers in the children's zoo, small animal building, and bird and herbivores sections. Members meet weekly with zoo staff and participate in hikes and expeditions in nature reserves.

In March 2013 a Zoo Guide application for iPhone and iPad was released, which includes GPS navigation within the zoo, detailed information (written, pictorial and audio) about the animals, and a detailed daily schedule of feedings and events.

Special events
The zoo, which is open every day of the year except Yom Kippur, Yom HaShoah, and Yom HaZikaron, schedules special activities on selected dates. Tree-planting activities are an annual Tu Bishvat tradition. On both days of Purim there is a parade, a family costume competition, and a tug of war between the entire Hapoel Jerusalem Basketball Team and one of the elephants (the elephant always wins). On Israel's Election Day, zoo goers are encouraged to vote for their favorite animal. During the summer, the zoo conducts tours of nocturnal animals in the wee hours of the night. It also schedules jazz concerts, juggling, and workshops during school vacations.

Expansion plans
The master plan for expansion is drafted by the zoo's main planning body, the International Zoological Committee, which is staffed by professionals in wildlife conservation, zoo management, education, tourism and economics. This committee convened in 1993, before the reopening of the zoo, and again in 1996, when it drafted plans for adding additional animal exhibits and visitor attractions by 2010.

New plans have been drawn up for an educational center and an exhibit called Yemei Bereishit (In the Days of Genesis) which replicates Biblical conditions and excludes all modern devices, including cell phones. The $30 million project will be paid for by private donations.

References

External links

Virtual tour of the Jerusalem Biblical Zoo
Extinct and Endangered Animals in Palestine

Zoos in Israel
1940 establishments in Mandatory Palestine
Buildings and structures in Jerusalem
Animal reintroduction
Tourist attractions in Jerusalem
Zoos established in 1940
Bible-themed museums, zoos, and botanical gardens
Hebrew Bible in popular culture