[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Campaign Against Sanctions and Military Intervention in Iran

an American Council and some other organisations sent a letter to the political leaders of the United States, the United Kingdom and Iran opposing military actions and appealing to the governments "to set aside all pre-conditions and resume direct and open negotiations on all issues of dispute, ..."

Media analyses, debates
In mid-2006, CASMII debated anti-war strategies with a group of peace activists (including Michael Albert, Noam Chomsky, Michael Lerner (rabbi) and Howard Zinn) associated with the generally left perspective media group Z Communications.

In early May 2007, the BBC apologised to CASMII for having used the words "abducted" and "hostages" in relation to the 2007 Iranian arrest of Royal Navy personnel. CASMII member Abbas Edalat was not satisfied with the apology, stating "We do not accept that because a story is at an 'early stage' misleading reports are therefore acceptable. The BBC has a code of practice and is very aware of the power of language. Using the word 'abducted' instead of 'captured' and the word 'hostages' instead of 'detainees' is a clear example of linguistic manipulation of the facts and there are no excuses for it."

In May 2007, the British media analysis group Media Lens pointed to an article by a Guardian journalist Simon Tisdall discussing alleged plans by Iran to fight against United States soldiers in Iraq. Media Lens asserted that the article was mostly based on anonymous official sources from the United States government. CASMII in turn complained to The Guardian about the article. CASMII member Abbas Edalat stated, " The Guardian has reported, without any challenge or any critical analysis, highly incriminating but unfounded and unsubstantiated statements by an unnamed US official in such a way that they appear to the reader as facts."

See also
 Sanctions against Iran
 Anti-Iranianism
 The UN Security Council and the Iraq war
 United Nations Security Council Resolution 1747

Notes

External links
 Campaign Against Sanctions and Military Intervention in Iran (CASMII)
 StopWarOnIran.org 

Anti-war movement
Foreign relations of Iran
Political organisations based in London
Sanctions against Iran