[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Detonator (railway)

ergency signal, three detonators were placed in short succession, with the explosion of a single detonator being a stop signal. Since 1986 detonators have no longer been used on German railways. Only the ICE 3 trains that travel to France still have detonators on board because of French regulations.

In Taiwan 
The use of detonators has been superseded by radio communications since the early 1950s. In November 2010, the Taiwan Railway Administration deployed 800 detonators for destruction on maintenance tracks. It received media attention, emitting sounds similar to the culturally significant firecrackers.

In Australia 
Today known as audible track warning signals, or audible track warning devices, detonators are used to attract the attention of train crews when track repairs or an obstruction are ahead, or when a hand signaller is acting for a signal.

In Tanzania
Detonators are used to attract the attention of train crews in case of:
 Visibility of fixed signal restricted by fog, mist or other circumstance
 obstruction of line, whether by train or otherwise
 protection of push trolleys
 protection of shunting movement outside the station limits during total failure of communication

Detonator placer 
Many mechanical signal boxes in the UK were equipped with detonator placers that placed detonators on a running line when a lever was operated. The levers were painted a striking white and black chevron pattern, pointing upwards for the "up" line, downwards for the "down" line. In some cases, the placers were fed from a cartridge holding a number of detonators.

Composition 
According to Military and Civilian Pyrotechnics by Ellern, page 376, FORMULA 155 – Railroad Torpedo, is by mass:

 Potassium chlorate – 40%
 Sulfur – 16%
 Sand (—60 mesh) – 37%
 Binder – 5%
 Neutralizer – 2%

Garratt locomotives 
The length of Garratt locomotives made the sound of a detonator hard to hear, so New South Wales 60 class locomotive had "sound pipes" to bring the noise of the explosion to the crew.

References

External links 
 
 

Explosives
Railway safety