[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# WMAC Masters

92 Summer Olympics. The Ki-Symbol reminds many of the mask of a Luchador because both reflect the heart and soul of the wearer. Other examples include:

Red Dragon: Chris Casamassa's father is the founder of Red Dragon Karate.

Mouse: As a child, Michele Krasnoo was known for her high-pitched kiais.

Great Wolf: Jamie Webster's real-life Native American name translates to "Great Wolf."

Bam: Willie Johnson gets this nickname from shouting "Bam" in his kiais.

Superstar: Ho Sung Pak's name, in his native Korean, means "Superstar."

Baby Doll: Bridgett Riley's father, a movie stuntman, gave her this nickname when she was a child.

Yin Yang Man: Richard Branden's hobby is sketching variations on the ancient Chinese "yin-yang" symbol.

Striking Eagle: Taimak's name means "Striking Eagle" in the Aztec language.

Cast of Characters
Many of the WMAC Masters, including Richard Branden, Erik Betts, Hien Nguyen, Sophia Crawford, Yuji Noguchi, Mer-Mer Chen and Bridgett Riley, were former and then-current stunt people for Power Rangers. In fact, one, Mike Chaturantabut, would actually later become a Power Ranger, in Power Rangers Lightspeed Rescue. Noguchi was one of the main stunt coordinators for Power Rangers until the franchise was bought by Disney. Other Masters are tied to Mortal Kombat, Batman & Robin, Shootfighter and the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movies and series. Hakim Alston (The Machine) made a few appearances in The New Adventures of Robin Hood, playing the role of Kemal, Nomad Warrior. Sophia Crawford (Chameleon) also made an appearance. Clayton Barber, Bridgett Riley, Erik Betts, Mike Chat and Chris Casamassa also appeared in the series Martial Law. Other movies that featured several WMAC-Masters are GI Joe, Watchmen, Catwoman, Avatar, Last Airbender, Book of Swords, Fist of the Warrior, xXx²: The Next Level, Torque, Windtalkers, Time Machine, Down With Love, Sci-Fighter, US Seals 2, Urban Justice, Blood and Bone, Poseidon, Johnny Tao, Fast Five, Savate, Drive, Gedo, Red Skies, 18 Fingers of Death!, Ant-Man, and Ides of March.

Despite the show's scripted and choreographed nature, its competitors were legitimate martial artists. At least two of the cast members could lay legitimate claim to being among the world's best martial artists: both Herbert Perez and Lynnette Love won Olympic gold medals in taekwondo, Perez a gold in the 1992 Summer Olympics, and Love a gold at the 1988 Summer Olympics in addition to a bronze medal in 1992. Bridgett Riley and Christine Bannon-Rodrigues were both competitive kickboxers, with Bannon-Rodrigues winning gold medals in the WAKO Amateur World Championship in 1991 and 1993. Several of the other performers held multiple black belts in multiple disciplines.

(Note: With the exception of Michael M. Foley, who portrayed "Tracy Swedom" (ki-symbol: "Tracer"), all actors on this list played themselves, with their ki-symbols being an element created for the show.)

Dragon Star Masters
Hakim Alston – The Machine
Richard Branden – Yin Yang Man
Chris Casamassa – Red Dragon
Mike Chaturantabut – Wizard (Season 2)
Mer-Mer Chen – Princess
Marco Johnson – Little Bam (Episode 2.8)
Willie Johnson – Bam (referred to in season 1 as The Bam)
Michelle Krasnoo – Mouse (Episode 1.3)
Herb Perez – Olympus
Ho Sung Pak – Superstar
Ho Young Pak – Star Warrior
Christine Bannon-Rodrigues – Lady Lightning
Johnny Lee Smith – Tiger Claw
Jamie Webster – Great Wolf
Sophia Crawford – Chameleon (Season 2)
Lynnette Love – Tarantula (Season 1)
Akihiro "Yuji" Noguchi – Cyclone (Season 2)
Tiana Noguchi – Black Widow
Bridgett Riley – Baby Doll (Season 1, with only one appearance in Season 2)
Carmichael Simon – Kid Carmichael (announcer referred to him as only "Kid" in season 2; though his full nickname was still displayed on screen)
Michael Bernardo – Turbo
Erik Betts – Panther (Season 1)
Hien Nguyen – Tsunami
Unknown Actor – The Rat
Taimak Guarriello – Striking Eagle

NOTE: "Black Widow" and "Cyclone" are real-life siblings, as are "Star Warrior" and "Superstar"; "Warlock" and "Wizard", however, are not.

Jukido Masters
Erik Betts – Panther (Season 1, implied)
Larry Lam – Warlock
Hien Nguyen – Tsunami (double-agent)
Michael M. Foley (Tracy Swedom) – Tracer (Season 2)

Others
Steve Boyles - Steve, the kickboxer (The Machine's rival) (Season 1 Episode 1)
Dave Morizot - John O., the stuntman/gang leader (Season 1 Episode 2)
Tracy Fleming - Gang member (Season 1 Episode 2)
Neil Brown Jr. – Jake (Season 1 Episode 3)
Sheri Cook - Nicole, the astronaut (Red Dragon's crush) (Season 1 Episode 5)
John Medlen - Babydoll's father (Season 1 Episode 9)
Billy Hines (extra)
Randy Vaughn - Himself/Wheelchair Kata (Episode 1.10)
Sheri Cook - Nicole the astronaut (Episode 1.5)
Don Dino - Referee
David "Fang" Yuen - Fight official
Norman Grossfeld - Computer voice announcer (Season 2)

Martial Arts Disciplines/Fighting Styles

Goju-Ryu
Striking Eagle

Hapkido
Black Widow

Judo
Rat

Karate
Cyclone
Great Wolf
Mouse
Red Dragon