[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# History of cricket in the United States

rica were able to continue playing internationally, while the United States was left out. Although commentator Robert Waller predicted that cricket "had taken so deep a root in Philadelphia that it could never be uprooted," the lack of support and international apathy caused an irreversible decline.

Slow resurgence 
In the second half of the twentieth century, immigrants to the United States from traditional cricket strongholds such as South Asia and the West Indies helped to stimulate the growth of the game. The first match televised in the United States was one between the Corinthians and Hollywood in 1958. Cricket received a boost in the United States in 1959 when President Dwight D. Eisenhower attended a cricket match at Karachi's National Cricket Ground. In 1961, an expatriate Englishman, John Marder, helped to establish the United States of America Cricket Association. He also helped to re-establish the series between the United States and Canada that began in 1844. Cricket also gained ground in American collegiate settings during this period. Again, most of the play was done by foreign students visiting the United States to study. This slow but steady resurgence in the game has not spread in great numbers to the mainstream American population.

Modern developments 
The United States of America Cricket Association was admitted as an associate member of the International Cricket Conference in 1965, a dramatic change as they been integral in keeping the United States out of international cricket when it was formed in 1909.

The United States was also able to participate in the ICC Trophy when the tournament started in 1979, where they have been successful and have continued to improve despite not yet qualifying for the World Cup. Unfortunately, the USACA proved unable to administer the sport in the United States effectively, leading to suspensions, and subsequent disqualification from tournaments.

In May 2007 the USA were to visit Darwin, Australia, to take part in Division Three of the ICC World Cricket League. A top two finish in this tournament would have qualified them for Division Two of the same tournament later in the year. Unfortunately, after the USACA was suspended from the ICC, the team was disqualified.

Compton Cricket Club 

The Compton Cricket club got its start with Mustafa Khan who played cricket in England with the Los Angeles Krickets world's first homeless cricket team founded by David Sentance and Ted Hayes in September 1995. Mustafa Khan with Leo Magnus as coach introduced cricket at the Willowbrok School in Compton. Thereafter, Ted Hayes and Katie Haber raised funds to take the Compton team to England.
The Compton Cricket Club, or CCC, is a cricket club based in Compton, Los Angeles County, California, USA. The CCC is an all American-born disadvantaged exhibition cricket team. The team, which includes Latino and African American ex-gang members, was founded in 1995 by US homeless activist Ted Hayes and Hollywood movie Producer Katy Haber to combat the negative effect of poverty, urban decay and crime in Compton. The club uses the ideals of sportsmanship, and the particular importance of etiquette and fair play in cricket, to help players develop respect for authority, a sense of self-esteem and self-discipline. Having toured England once as a homeless team and 3 times as the Compton Cricket Club, the club toured Australia in 2011 and became the first American born cricket club to tour to Australia.

Pro Cricket 

Pro Cricket was operated by American Pro Cricket LLC (APC), a private company independent of the ICC and the USACA. New Jersey cricket figure Kalpesh Patel was one of the key players and acted as Commissioner while Australian Robert Smith filled the role of Assistant Commissioner and game operations specialist. The league  was formed in 2004 as one of several independent efforts by different organizations to develop and promote cricket in the United States. It consisted of eight geographically distributed teams organized in two divisions that mostly used minor league baseball parks as home fields. APC originally announced that the league was fully funded for at least three years of competition, but the league struggled through its initial season due to poor attendance. Although most of the games were shown on Dish network PPV, the competition was linked to the unsuccessful launch of the so named "American Desi TV" channel based in New Jersey. The league ceased operations after the 2004 season.