[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Solomon Ayllon

shkenazi's opinion would have to be fortified by the assent of Ayllon and other members of their own body. Ashkenazi peremptorily declined this express invitation to sit in council with Ayllon, for he was well aware both of his ignorance of the Cabala and of his suspected affinity with Sabbateanism.

Ayllon saw in this crisis an opportunity to make political capital. He persuaded an influential member of the Ma'amad, a certain Aaron de Pinto, to take up the matter as an attempt on the part of the German rabbi to interfere with the autonomy of the Sephardic community around the Portuguese Synagogue. It is difficult to discover whether Ayllon was actuated herein by secret loyalty to Sabbateanism, or whether, for personal reasons, he merely sought to clear Ḥayyun from the imputation cast upon him. The adventurer was well acquainted with Ayllon's antecedents, and it would have been dangerous to make an enemy of him. Be this as it may, De Pinto succeeded in having a resolution passed by the Ma'amad, declining to permit any such interference in their affairs by the German rabbi, and requesting Ayllon to appoint a committee to give an official opinion upon Ḥayyun's work. The finding of this commission was publicly announced on 7 August 1713 in the Portuguese synagogue, and it ran that Ḥayyun was innocent of the heresy charged against him, and that he had been unrighteously persecuted. The committee consisted of seven members, but its conclusions represented simply Ayllon's opinion, for the other six understood nothing of the matter.

The affair, however, was not closed, for Ashkenazi and Ḥagis had already, on 23 July pronounced the ban of excommunication upon Ḥayyun and his heretical book. In the protracted discussion which ensued between Ayllon and Ashkenazi, a discussion into which the rabbis of Germany, Austria, and Italy were drawn, Ayllon made but a sorry figure, although, as far as Amsterdam was concerned, it might be said to have ended triumphantly for him, seeing that Ashkenazi was compelled to leave the city. Not alone did Ayllon permit his protégé, Ḥayyun, to assail the foremost men in Israel, but he supplied him with personal papers containing attacks upon his opponent Ḥagis. Ayllon was also no doubt the rabbi who laid charges against Ashkenazi before the Amsterdam magistrates, and thus made an internal dissension of the Jewish community a matter of public discussion. It is claimed that upon hearing of the death of Ashkenazi in 1718, Ayllon confessed that he had wronged the man. It is certain that when, a few years later, Ḥayyun visited Amsterdam again, he found matters changed so much that even Ayllon refused to see him. 

In 1717 he married 32-years-old Lea Medina. In the notarial record it is written that he came from Salonika. Ayllon died at Amsterdam in 1728.

Legacy 

Ayllon left a cabalistic work, a manuscript of which is preserved in the library of the Jews' College in London.

Notes

References

 

Jacob Emden, Megillat Sefer (see Index);
Gaster, History of Bevis Marks, pp. 22–31, 107-111;
Grätz, Gesch. der Juden, x. 305, 309-325, 482-487, 3d ed.;
Kohn, D.; Eben-ha-Toïn, pp. 64–74 (reprint from Ha-Shaḥar, iii.);
Wolf, Bibl. Hebr. iii. 1026, iv. 974
Moses Hagiz Shever Posh'im 

1660s births
1728 deaths
17th-century Italian rabbis
17th-century Sephardi Jews
18th-century British Sephardi Jews
17th-century English rabbis
18th-century Dutch rabbis
Rabbis from Thessaloniki
17th-century rabbis from the Ottoman Empire
Dutch Sephardi Jews
Sephardi Jews from the Ottoman Empire
Sabbateans
Sephardi rabbis