[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Statistical Accounts of Scotland

ntly written by ministers who were themselves meticulous Enlightenment scholars (see for example the response by the Rev Dr James Meek for the Parish of  Cambuslang in Lanarkshire).

The finished volumes were published in Edinburgh by William Creech.

The Second (New) Statistical Account of Scotland

As mentioned above, early attempts at producing an accurate statistical account of Scotland were related to schemes to support the widows and orphans of the clergy. In 1832 the Committee for the Society for the Sons and Daughters of the Clergy, with the blessing of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, took Sir John's work further. It was to be more modern (including maps for each county) and was to draw upon the specialist knowledge of local doctors and schoolmasters. It very self-consciously set out not to produce a new statistical account, but a statistical account of a new country – one that the revolutions mentioned above had changed rapidly. It was, however, very much the child of the "Old Statistical Account". Indeed, the Rev Dr John Robertson, the Minister responsible for of the new account for Cambuslang, was the  former assistant to the writer of the old account.

The Third Statistical Account of Scotland

Following a grant of some £8,000 from the Nuffield Foundation in 1947, the Third Statistical Account was initiated, and followed a similar parish format to the earlier accounts. The first volume, covering Ayrshire, was published in 1951. Ultimately it was more rigorous and wide-ranging than either of its predecessors, covering industry, transport, culture and demographics. Volume editors ensured a more generic approach than before, but even so the spirit of the originals was retained, even if idiosyncrasies remained.

The scale of the project, ongoing difficulties with funding and finding publishers (which included Collins and Oliver & Boyd) meant that the project took over forty years to complete, with a gap of more than a decade following the publication of Edinburgh in 1966. It was not until 1992 that the last volume, The County of Roxburgh, was published, under the auspices of the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations. Another consequence of this delay was that the later volumes covered administrative divisions which no longer existed.  Several parish accounts had to be revised or rewritten due to the lapse of time between the fieldwork and publication.  One account, the parish of Livingston in West Lothian, was revised twice and all three versions appear in the published volume.  The account for the parish of Currie went missing by the time the Midlothian volume was put together and the book appears without it.

Although the project was more secular than before, sections of the accounts continued to focus on religious life, and several of the parish accounts were still written by Church of Scotland ministers.  The tone of the comments in the 'Way of Life' often appear surprisingly judgmental to a modern reader, and there can be ill-concealed exasperation with the behaviour of working-class parishioners. For example, again and again, spending on football pools is denounced, as are other ways of spending money and leisure time. Judgmentalism turns to plain insult in remarks like 'The people of Dura Den can be extremely ignorant' (Parish of Kemback, Fife) and 'Singing in the schools and the church is painful to an educated ear' (Parish of Inch, Wigtownshire).

Note: each volume is entitled either County of... or City of....

Aberdeen (1953), MacKenzie, H.
Aberdeenshire (1960), Hamilton, H.
Angus (1977), Illsley, W.A.
Argyll (1961), MacDonald, C.M. 
Ayrshire (1951), Strawhorn & Boyd 
Banffshire (1961), Hamilton, H.
Berwickshire (1992), Herdman, J.   
Caithness (1961), Smith, J. S. 
Dumfriesshire (1962), Houston, G. 
Dunbartonshire (1959), Dilke, M.S. & Templeton, A.A. 
Dundee (1979), Jackson, J.M. 
East Lothian (1953), Snodgrass, Catherine P. 
Edinburgh (1966), Keir, D.  
Fife (1952), Smith, A. 
Glasgow (1958), Cunnison & Gilfillan  
Inverness-shire (1985), Barron, H.
Stewartry of Kirkcudbright & Wigtownshire (1965), Laird, J. & Ramsay, D.G.
Kincardineshire (1988), Smith, D.  
Lanarkshire (1960), Thomson, G.   
Midlothian (1985), Kirkland, H.  
Moray & Nairnshire (1965), Hamilton, H.  
Orkney (1985), Miller, R.
Peeblesshire & Selkirkshire (1964), Bulloch, J.P.B. & Urquhart, J.M.
Perthshire & Kinross-shire (1980), Taylor, D.B.   
Renfrewshire & Bute (1962), Moisley, H.A., Thain, A.G., Somerville, A.C. & Stevenson, W. 
Ross & Cromarty (1987), Mather, A.S.
Roxburghshire (1992), Herdman, J.
Shetland (1985), Coull, J.R.  
Stirlingshire & Clackmannanshire (1966), Rennie & Gordon  
Sutherland (1988), Smith, J. S. D.
West Lothian (1992), Cadell, P.

References