[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wasantha Karannagoda

The appointment coincided with the promotion of Air Chief Marshal Roshan Goonetileke to the newly created rank of Marshal of the Sri Lanka Air Force. Both promotions had been heavily lobbied for following the promotion of the General Sarath Fonseka to the newly created rank of Field Marshal in 2015.

Governor of North Western Province 
On 9 December 2021, he was appointed as the Governor of the North Western Province by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa. In February 2023, he chaired a board of inquiry into the role of the Sri Lankan Armed Forces during the 2022 Sri Lankan protests in May 2023, which found General Shavendra Silva willful neglected his duty that resulted in island-wide violence since the army did not intervene. On 26 April 2023, the U.S. Department of State sanctioned Karannagoda and his wife and banned them from entering the U.S. over credible allegations of human rights violations during the civil war. He is one of the accused in the abduction and killing of 11 mostly Tamil youths between late 2008 and mid 2009. Onn 17 May 2023, President Ranil Wickramasinghe removed three provincial governors including Karannagoda.

Honors 
Karannagoda had been awarded the Rana Sura Padakkama (RSP) for gallantry in combat; the service medals the Vishista Seva Vibhushanaya (VSV) and the Uttama Seva Padakkama (USP) for distinguished service, the Sri Lanka Armed Services Long Service Medal with clasp, the Purna Bhumi Padakkama and the North and East Operations Medal with two clasps; the campaign medal the Riviresa Campaign Services Medal and the commemorative medals the Sri Lanka Navy 50th Anniversary Medal with clasp, the President's Inauguration Medal and the 50th Independence Anniversary Commemoration Medal. He had gained the Surface Warfare Badge and the Commendation Badge.

In 2009, he was conferred an honorary doctorate by the University of Kelaniya.

See also 
Sarath Fonseka
Roshan Goonetileke
List of Sri Lankan non-career diplomats
List of Sri Lankan non-career Permanent Secretaries

References

Living people
Sri Lankan admirals of the fleet
Sinhalese military personnel
Alumni of Ananda College
Ambassadors of Sri Lanka to Japan
Commanders of the Navy (Sri Lanka)
Naval and Maritime Academy graduates
1952 births
Indian Naval Academy alumni