[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Accra Metropolitan District

, and Ayawaso West sub-metropolitan districts; and the Okaikoi sub-metropolitan district was split into the Okaikoi North and Okaikoi South sub-metropolitan districts. This intervention was informed by the need to break up the metropolitan district into smaller sectors to facilitate good governance.

In 2007, to promote efficiency in the administrative machinery and also meet the ever pressing demands for amenities and essential services, the Teshie and Nungua sub-metropolitan districts were merged and upgraded to municipal Status in 2007 as the Ledzokuku-Krowor Municipal District under Legislative Instrument 1865. Later, in 2012, the La sub-metropolitan district was carved out of the Accra Metropolitan District to form the La Dade-Kotopon Municipal District under Legislative Instrument 2038,

In November 2017, the government laid before Parliament Legislative Instruments (LI) which elevated the Ablekuma North sub-metropolitan district to municipal status as the Ablekuma North Municipal Assembly, and carved out the western part of the Ablekuma South sub-metropolitan district to form the Ablekuma West Municipal Assembly. Additionally, the Ayawaso West, Ayawaso East, and part of the Ayawaso Central sub-metropolitan districts were carved out of the Accra Metropolitan Assembly to form the Ayawaso North, Ayawaso East and Ayawaso West Municipal Assemblies. The Okaikoi North sub-metropolitan district was also elevated to municipal status as the Okaikoi North Municipal Assembly.

Administrative Area

The Accra Metropolitan district covers a total land area of . It is bounded to the north by the Ayawaso West Municipal district and Okaikoi North Municipal district, to the west by the Ablekuma West Municipal district and Ablekuma North Municipal district, and to the east by the Ayawaso East Municipal district and the La Dade Kotopon Municipal district. The Gulf of Guinea serves as the southern border.

Sub-Metropolitan Districts

Ablekuma South Sub-Metropolitan District
The Ablekuma South sub-metropolitan district covers a total land area of approximately . It shares boundaries with the Ablekuma West Municipal District to the west, Ablekuma Central sub-metropolitan district to the north, and Ashiedu Keteke sub-metropolitan district to the east.

Some of the communities within the sub-metropolitan district include:
 Korle Gonno
 Korle-Bu
 Chorkor
 Mamprobi
 New Mamprobi

Ashiedu Keteke Sub-Metropolitan District
The Ashiedu Keteke sub-metropolitan district covers a total land area of approximately . It is bounded to the north by Ablekuma Central sub-metropolitan district, to the west by Ablekuma South sub-metropolitan district, to the east by Osu Klottey sub-metropolitan district, and to the south by the Gulf of Guinea. The sub-metropolitan district houses the Central Business District (CBD) and as such the hub of major commercial activities within the City of Accra.

The 2010 population and housing census estimated the population of the sub-metropolitan district at 117,525 with 13,732 houses and 34,964 households. Using the Greater Accra Growth Rate of 3.1%, it is estimated that the 2018 population stands at 143,768.

Some of the communities within the sub-metropolitan district include:
 Jamestown
 Usshertown
 Tudu
 Okaishie
 Central Business District

Okaikoi South Sub-Metropolitan District
The Okaikoi South sub-metropolitan district shares boundaries with Okaikoi North Municipal District to the North, Osu Klottey sub-metropolitan district to the South, Ablekuma Central sub-metropolitan district to the West, and Ayawaso Central sub-metropolitan district to the East.

The 2010 population and housing census estimated the population of the sub-metropolitan district at 121,718 with 13,378 houses and 34,800 households. Using the Greater Accra Growth Rate of 3.1%, it is estimated that the 2018 population stands at 148,897.

Some of the communities within the sub-metropolitan district include:
 Bubuashie
 Kaneshie
 North Kaneshie
 Awudome
 Avenor

Electoral Areas
The Accra Metropolitan Assembly is made up of 20 electoral areas covering three constituencies.

Ablekuma South Constituency
The Ablekuma South constituency falls within the Ablekuma South sub-metropolitan district and includes five (5) electoral areas:
 Korle Gonno
 Korlebu
 Chorkor
 Mamprobi
 New Mamprobi

Odododiodioo Constituency
The Odododiodioo constituency falls within the Ashiedu Keteke sub-metropolitan district and includes seven (7) electoral areas:
 Ngleshie
 Mudor
 Kinka
 Nmlitsagonno
 Amamomo
 Korle Wonkon
 Korle Dudor

Okaikoi South Constituency
The Okaikoi South constituency falls within the Okaikoi South sub-metropolitan district and includes eight (8) electoral areas:
 Awudome
 Goten
 Kaatsean
 Mukose
 Bubuashie
 Bubui
 Avenor
 Kaneshie