[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Soroka Medical Center

nki Committee are conducted at Soroka. As of 2023, the committee is chaired by Prof. Eitan Lunenfeld.

A center for clinical research operates at Soroka, leading and promoting research with hospital staff and colleagues outside of the hospital in Israel and abroad, sometimes in cooperation with BGU.

Every year, approximately 300 new studies are approved at the hospital, and some 600 articles on research of clinical and managerial significance have been published in the scientific literature.

Soroka in times of emergency
Soroka Medical Center has accumulated extensive experience over the years in managing various emergency situations.

 Mass-casualty incidents – road accidents, earthquakes, terrorist incidents, and so on. 
 Situations of regional or comprehensive fighting – during times of combat in the South (such as Operation Protective Edge), Soroka Medical Center, is also subject to rocket fire and remains fully operational while ensuring protection for patients and professional teams and providing continuous service to the hospitalized and injured.

The emergency events are managed by a dedicated staff at the hospital in cooperation with many bodies in accordance with the nature of the event: the IDF, the Israel Police, Magen David Adom, the Home Front Command, other hospitals, and more.

Activities for the community
Soroka Medical Center is located in the community it serves and works to develop and promote programs aimed at improving quality of life and community health. The staff members of Soroka take part in a wide variety of social activities within and outside of the hospital. The activities are adapted to different target audiences. Among the activities are:

 Soroka at the Bar – a series of lectures by hospital experts on various subjects for the general public
 Ushpizin – lectures by medical staff from various fields of medicine for high school students and tours of various departments
 Accompanying and assisting Holocaust survivors – Soroka staff members visit Holocaust survivors who are hospitalized and also conduct weekly visits to the homes of survivors. Soroka employees volunteer at Amcha clubs in various fields of activity.

Soroka directors throughout the generations

See also
Health care in Israel
List of hospitals in Israel

References

External links 

Official website (in English)
 
American website
Official Facebook page
information booklet from the official website

Hospital buildings completed in 1959
Hospitals in Israel
Buildings and structures in Beersheba
Medical education in Israel
Teaching hospitals