[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Nicolas Schöffer

e speed of the perception of an image, i.e. thirty thousandths of a second, in such a way that it challenged the recipient's cognitive capacities. The Luminos were similar with the difference that the rotating parts were shaded by a transparent screen. They were the first mass-produced works of art.

These works represent a transition from Luminodynamism to Chronodynamism. After space and light time got into the focus of the artist's attention. However, the program of the Microtemps and Luminos repeated itself endlessly the same way because it was not yet based on an algorithm. During his further artistic activity, Schöffer created sculptures using cybernetics the program patterns of which are never repeated but the algorithm endlessly creates new combinations. Schöffer elaborated the theory of Chronodynamism (1959-).

As soon as Schöffer had with the five topologies and cybernetics his fully fledged artistic arsenal ready the dimension of the works began to grow. He created cybernetic light towers, the Chronos series.  They can be found in several cities around the world. Chronos 8 stands in his home town near the house where he was born. Although the most accomplished and tallest cybernetic light tower that he planned for Paris has never been built it is still considered as his masterpiece. It would have been taller than the Eiffel Tower and an information source for the inhabitants of Paris. It took ten years to design. The first oil crisis and the death of Pompidou thwarted the plan.

Final phase of the second creative periode 
Schöffer began to plan several series of cybernetic sculptures and Hydro-Thermo-Chronos Fountains in order to socialize art and enhance the aesthetic quality of the surroundings in the city. Several of these new ideas remained in the planning phase because of the imminent stroke of fate that disabled him.

He planned the first of the series Les Tour Soleil for Venezuela. These monumental solar towers consisted of sun reliefs mounted on a vertical axis. They could move around this axis on a spiral path. They stored the sun's energy during the day to use it at night. The innovation was the use of solar energy to supply the sculpture's light sources and motors with power. Plans for a 600 m high solar tower were completed for the Olympic Games in Los Angeles that took place in 1984.

Les Basculantes (1982–83) (Tumbling Sculptures) are cybernetic sculptures that lean at every moment to one side like the Tower of Pisa but they are continuously changing the direction and angle of their inclination.

The idea of the Hydro-Thermo-Chronos Fountains is also dated back to 1983. These fountains would have used water, fire and lasers to evoke a spectacle on a monumental scale that would have been accompanied by strong sound effects.

The purpose of the works called Les Percussonor (1984–85) was to relieve mental tension caused by stress as consequence of urban life. They are participatory works of art where the audience is encouraged to hit parts of the sculpture in order to produce sound effects.

These plans have remained in different stages of development but the ideas are clearly expressed. Posthumous realization is possible as the example of LUX 10 shows. It was built decades after Schöffer's death in the year 2016 in Busan, South-Korea.

Some of the never realized or already lost works (Hydro-Thermo-Chronos Fountains, CYSP 1, SCAM1 and the TLC for Paris) have been digitally reconstructed in three dimensions by Naomi Devil for the film Extraordinary World of Nicolas Schöffer that was presented to the public in the Hungarian Pavilion at the Expo 2015 in Milano. Film director was Sándor Gerebics.

Third creative periode 
The third creative period was introduced by a sudden stroke of fate. After a brain hemorrhage, the artist's right side remained paralyzed and he used a wheelchair. Due to his deteriorating state of health, he was no longer able to handle large projects on his own. Although two projects that had already started were completed, no new works of art were created on a city scale. During this last period he created graphic works, which he carried out with his left hand or with the computer. This was not a return to the ideas of the first period, which is also characterized by graphic and painterly work, but rather a synthesis of the entire career.

Main works