[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 49]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

was roused. Algitha had
to whisper a remonstrance to the boys, for their solemn questions were
becoming too preposterous. The lecture was discussed with much warmth.
There was a tendency to adopt the form "than which" with some frequency.
Bursts of laughter startled a company of rats in the wainscoting, and
there was a lively scamper behind the walls. No obvious opposition was
offered. Miss Temperley's views were examined with gravity, and indeed
in a manner almost pompous. But by the end of that trying process, they
had a sadly bedraggled and plucked appearance, much to their parent's
bewilderment. She endeavoured to explain further, and was met by
guilelessly intelligent questions, which had the effect of depriving the
luckless objects of their solitary remaining feather. The members of the
society continued to pine for information, and Miss Temperley
endeavoured to provide it, till late into the night. The discussion
finally drifted on to dangerous ground. Algitha declared that she
considered that no man had any just right to ask a woman to pledge
herself to love him and live with him for the rest of her life. How
_could_ she? Hubert suggested that the woman made the same claim on the
man.

"Which is equally absurd," said Algitha. "Just as if any two people,
when they are beginning to form their characters, could possibly be sure
of their sentiments for the rest of their days. They have no business to
marry at such an age. They are bound to alter."

"But they must regard it as their duty not to alter with regard to one
another," said Henriette.

"Quite so; just as they ought to regard it as their duty among other
things, not to grow old," suggested Fred.

"Then, Algitha, do you mean that they may fall in love elsewhere?"
Ernest inquired.

"They very likely _will_ do so, if they make such an absurd start,"
Algitha declared.

"And if they do?"

"Then, if the sentiment stands test and trial, and proves genuine, and
not a silly freak, the fact ought to be frankly faced. Husband and wife
have no business to go on keeping up a bond that has become false and
irksome."

Miss Temperley broke into protest. "But surely you don't mean to defend
such faithlessness."

Algitha would not admit that it _was_ faithlessness. She said it was
mere honesty. She could see nothing inherently wrong in falling in love
genuinely after one arrived at years of discretion. She thought it
inherently idiotic, and worse, to make a choice that ought to be for
life, at years of _in_discretion. Still, people _were_ idiotic, and
that must be considered, as well as all the other facts, such as the
difficulty of really knowing each other before marriage, owing to social
arrangements, and also owing to the training, which made men and women
always pose so ridiculously towards one another, pretending to be
something that they were not.

"Well done, Algitha," cried Ernest, laughing; "I like to hear you speak
out. Now tell me frankly: supposing you married quite young, before you
had had much experience; supposing you afterwards found that you and
your husband had both been deceiving yourselves and each other,
unconsciously perhaps; and suppose, when more fully awakened and
developed, you met another fellow and fell in love with him genuinely,
what would you do?"

"Oh, she would just mention it to her husband casually," Fred interposed
with a chuckle, "and disappear."

"I should certainly not go through terrific emotions and
self-accusations, and think the end of the world had come," said Algitha
serenely. "I should calmly face the situation."

"Calmly! She by supposition being madly in love!" ejaculated Fred, with
a chuckle.

"Calmly," repeated Algitha. "And I should consider carefully what would
be best for all concerned. If I decided, after mature consideration and
self-testing, that I ought to leave my husband, I should leave him, as I
should hope he would leave me, in similar circumstances. That is my idea
of right."

"And is this also your idea of right, Miss Fullerton?" asked Temperley,
turning, in some trepidation, to Hadria.

"That seems to me right in the abstract. One can't pronounce for
particular cases where circumstances are entangled."

Hubert sank back in his chair, and ran his hand over his brow. He seemed
about to speak, but he checked himself.

"Where did you get such extraordinary ideas from?" cried Miss Temperley.

"They were like Topsy; they growed," said Fred.

"We have been in the habit of speculating freely on all subjects," said
Ernest, "ever since we could talk. This is the blessed result!"

"I am not quite so sure now, that the Preposterous Society meets with my
approval," observed Miss Temperley.

"If you had been brought up in the bosom of this Society, Miss
Temperley, you too, perhaps, would have come to this. Think of it!"

"Does your mother know what sort of subjects you discuss?"

There was a shout of laught