[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Siege of Waterford

Farrell proved tactically superior in defending Waterford and repelled Cromwell's attempts. Eventually Cromwell had to call off the siege on 2 December and go into winter quarters at Dungarvan. Among his casualties was his commander Michael Jones, who died of disease.

Second siege July–August 1650

Waterford was not tightly besieged again until July 1650, but in the intervening months, it was steadily isolated. In January, its access to the west was cut off and in June, the Parliamentary commander Ireton arrived before the city. By this time Waterford was held by Irish general Preston. Not only was Preston's garrison short on food, but an epidemic (it is thought of bubonic plague) had taken hold in the city and was killing up to 400 people within the city walls a week. Moreover, the fall of Carlow (about 70 km north of Waterford) in July meant that Waterford could no longer be supplied via the river Barrow.

Ireton ordered his men to dig trenches for his siege guns, in order to bring them close enough to batter a breach in the walls and he also blockaded the port of Waterford with a Parliamentarian naval fleet. By the end of July, his artillery was in range of the walls. At this point, the Mayor and Aldermen of Waterford pleaded with Preston to surrender the city. He  was down to 700 fit troops and only 500 pounds of gunpowder and was therefore in no position to resist an assault. Indeed, he himself was gravely ill. If the city fell to by storm, it was understood that the lives and property of its defenders would not be guaranteed.  No doubt as a result of these considerations, Preston duly surrendered Waterford to Ireton on 6 August 1650. His troops were allowed to march away to Galway or Athlone, which were still in Irish Catholic hands, but he surrendered all the artillery, ammunition and ships in Waterford. Nearby Duncannon surrendered on 12 August.

How many of Waterford's garrison and population died during the sieges is difficult to determine. Ireton granted the civilian population lenient terms of surrender, respecting their lives and property. By contrast, at Limerick the following year, he had that city's most energetic defenders hung.

Waterford was the last Irish Catholic stronghold to hold out in the east of Ireland against the English Parliamentarian forces. After its fall, the Irish Catholic forces held only an enclave in the province of Connacht, west of the River Shannon.

See also
 Siege of Waterford (1495), earlier unrelated 15th century siege

References

Sources
Gentles, Ian The New Model Army

Wheeler, James Scott, Cromwell in Ireland

1649 in Ireland
1650 in Ireland
Waterord 1649
History of Waterford (city)
Conflicts in 1649
Conflicts in 1650