[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# January 1973

and the Catholic Party merged into a single organization, the Indonesian Democratic Party.
Born: 
Félix Trinidad, Puerto Rican boxer; in Fajardo, Puerto Rico
Ajit Pai, American politician, Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission 2017–2021; in Buffalo, New York

January 11, 1973 (Thursday)

An American Family, arguably the first "reality show" on television, was launched as a 12-episode series on the U.S. Public Broadcasting System.  The show was the edited product of seven months of a production crew following around a Santa Monica, California husband and wife and their five teenage children, and filming their private lives.  From May 30 until December 31, 1971, 300 hours of film was made of business executive Bill Loud, his wife Pat, and their three sons and two daughters, then editing it to twelve 50-minute shows.
The "Phase II" wage controls that had been implemented by U.S. president Nixon on November 14, 1971, ended along with all U.S. government limits on the raising of rent.  With the issuance of Executive Order 11695, Price controls continued for six months on food, health care and construction as part of the authority granted to the U.S. president the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970. Nixon called on industries to voluntarily hold down price and wage increases.
All Australian involvement in combat in the Vietnam War ceased by order of Australia's Governor-General, Paul Hasluck.  Troops remained in South Vietnam until July 1, 1973.
Former CIA agent E. Howard Hunt, leader of the White House Special Investigations Unit team that had been called "the White House Plumbers" because of the assignment to determine the source of news leaks to the media), became the first major participant in the Watergate scandal to plead guilty to charges. He would be sentenced to 8 years in prison and would serve for less than 3.
Joshua Wanume Kibedi, the Foreign Minister of Uganda, resigned abruptly while he was out of the country, attending a conference of foreign ministers of the Organisation of African Unity in Accra, capital of Ghana.  Kibedi made the decision days after his uncle, former Ugandan Minister of Health Shaban Nkutu, had been kidnapped and murdered on orders of Ugandan President Idi Amin.  Kibedi's sister, Malyamu Kibedi Amin, was one of President Amin's two wives, and Foreign Minister Kibedi feared for his own life and made the decision not to return, going into exile instead in the United Kingdom.
William T. Farr, a reporter for the Los Angeles Herald Examiner, was freed from jail after having been held in contempt of court for 48 days for refusing to reveal his confidential source for an article he had written in 1972 about the Charles Manson murder trial.  U.S. Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas ordered Farr's release while the contempt citation was on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.  "The case is a recurring one", Douglas wrote in his order, "when the interests of a fair trial sometimes collide with the requirements of a free press", but added "Yet since the precise question is a new one not covered by our prior decisions, I have concluded in the interest of justice to release Farr on his personal recognizance."
At a meeting in Chicago, the 24 Major League Baseball team owners voted to allow the American League to implement the "designated hitter" rule starting with the 1973 season, marking the first time since the American League's founding in 1901 that the two leagues would be playing the game under different rules.  The change, which permitted a team to designate a specific player who would substitute for the pitcher, but who would not be on the field when the other team was up to bat, was an amendment to Rule 3.03, which bars the pitcher from re-entering the game if he is replaced in the lineup.  The "DH" rule had been tested in the minor International League in 1969 and had resulted in increased team batting averages, an increase in runs scored and a decrease in the length of a game. The rule would be used in the American League for 49 seasons before being adopted by the National League in 2022.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average, commonly called "The Dow", the measure of performance on Wall Street of stocks on the New York Stock Exchange, reached its peak for the rest of the decade, closing at 1,051.70 points.  The next day, the Dow dropped 12.34 points and then began a steady decline that would last almost two years, with stocks averaging a 45.1 percent decrease in value and closing at a low of 577.60 on December 6, 1974. "The Dow" would not break the 1973 peak until almost 10 years later, with a close on November 3, 1982, of 1,065.49.
BBC Open University, which had offered degrees to older and working students through distance learning with early morning broadcasts on BBC-2 that started on January 3, 1971, awarded its first diplomas. 
Members of the all-male Harvard Club of New York City voted overwhelmingly, 2,097 to 695, to admit women to the priv