[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Institution of Occupational Safety and Health

hours per year.

Graduate Member will be changed to Certified Member: Continue to maintain CPD in Blueprint at 30 hours per year.

Charted Member: IOSH e-learning and assessment and continue to maintain CPD in Blueprint at 30 hours per year. New designation of charted safety and health professional.

Charted Fellow: IOSH e-learning and assessment and continue to maintain CPD in Blueprint at 30 hours per year. New designation of charted safety and health professional.

Membership and designations
Categories of membership depend on a combination of academic qualifications, experience and achievement.

Chartered fellow (CFIOSH)
Chartered Fellows of the Institution are entitled to use the designation Chartered Safety and Health Practitioner and the designatory letters CFIOSH. This is the highest grade. Chartered Fellows must have demonstrated an outstanding contribution to the discipline and profession of health and safety. All Chartered Fellows are required to maintain a Continuing Professional Development (CPD) record.

Chartered member (CMIOSH)
Chartered member of the Institution are entitled to use the designation Chartered Safety and Health Practitioner and the designatory letters CMIOSH. Chartered Member status requires approved educational qualifications, experience and should complete Initial Professional Development (IPD) Includes Skill Development Portfolio, Open Assessment and Peer Review interview. All Chartered Members are required to maintain a Continuing Professional Development (CPD) record.

Graduate member (Grad IOSH)
Members with Approved qualifications eg. NEBOSH Diploma, NVQ Level 6, MSc etc Will be awarded Graduate Member status of the Institution and they can use the designatory letters Grad IOSH. They are academically qualified to become Chartered Members, and are undergoing professional development.

Technical member (Tech IOSH)
Technical Members of the Institution are entitled to use the designatory letters Tech IOSH. They require approved educational qualifications like NEBOSH General Certificate, NVQ Level 3,NCRQ L3 etc, plus professional experience. They are required to continue in professional development.

Associate member (Assoc IOSH)
Associate level is for those who had attained level 3 Qualification. This don't require any professional experience but approved qualification to attain.

Affiliate member
Affiliate level is for those who have an interest in, or are employed in occupational safety and health but are not yet eligible to join at other categories of membership.

Student member 
IOSH has recently launched a student membership category which lets OSH students join IOSH for free for the duration of their studies.

References

External links
 Official IOSH website
 No Time to Lose
 IOSH Magazine
 Health and safety Jobs careers site
 OSH Knowledge Project

Occupational safety and health organizations
Occupational Safety and Health
Organizations established in 1945
Safety organizations
1945 establishments in the United Kingdom
Oadby and Wigston
Organisations based in Leicestershire
Health and safety in the United Kingdom