[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Harry M. Wurzbach

rol of the House of Representatives. Wurzbach died in office in 1931. His seat was filled by a special election, won by the Democrats. They gained   control of Congress with 217 seats to the Republicans' 215. The Republican Party did not regain a majority in the House until after the 1946 elections.

Because of the disfranchisement of African Americans by the dominant Democratic Party in the state, after Wurzbach, no other Republican was elected to represent Texas in Congress until 1950, when Ben H. Guill won a special election, serving the remaining eight months of the term. Until the late 20th century, the state was dominated by the Democratic Party. After Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Voting Rights Act of 1965, the black minority in Texas switched to the Democratic Party, which nationally had supported their cause of enforcing constitutional rights, even though the Act was passed only due to heavy Republican support in spite of Southern Democratic opposition within the Congress.

Death
Wurzbach died at 2 A.M. on November 6, 1931 at his home in Seguin, from complications following an appendectomy. His death was a surprise; his surgery was not considered an emergency and he had otherwise been in good health. Wurzbach is interred at the San Antonio National Cemetery, based on his military service.

Legacy and honors
 In 1922, Wurzbach was the only Representative from Texas to vote for the Dyer Anti-Lynching Bill, sponsored by Congressman Leonidas C. Dyer of St. Louis, Missouri.
 Harry Wurzbach Road in his hometown of San Antonio, TX, is named after him. Wurzbach Parkway is also named in his honor.
 His papers were collected by the University of Texas at Austin.
 The bell tower at St Andrew's Episcopal Church in Seguin, where he had served on the Vestry, was erected in his memory.
 Bob Eckhardt of Houston, a nephew of Wurzbach, became a politician and was elected as a Democratic Congressman.

See also
List of United States Congress members who died in office (1900–1949)

References

External links
 Retrieved on 2008-02-10
 

1874 births
1931 deaths
Politicians from San Antonio
People from Seguin, Texas
American military personnel of the Spanish–American War
American people of German descent
County judges in Texas
American prosecutors
Texas lawyers
Washington and Lee University School of Law alumni
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Texas