[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Pre-election day events of the 2006 Singaporean general election

), MP for Marine Parade GRC for the Serangoon Gardens district, ended up contesting in the Aljunied GRC due to changes made in the electoral boundaries; the ward eventually faced a rare contest possibility that would involve three female politicians: including Cynthia Phua (PAP) and Sylvia Lim (WP).

On 6 March, Today reported that three people have recently left Singapore Democratic Party, including Cheo Chai Chen who was a member of parliament for Nee Soon Central from 1991 to 1997. Yip Yew Weng, President of NSP, said that they have joined his party.

Chiam See Tong (SPP) announced on 9 March that he would seek his sixth term as MP for Potong Pasir SMC, and denied earlier speculations that he would retire or lead a team to contest a GRC. Chiam however had noted that it was important for the opposition to capture at least one constituency, explaining that "the psychological effect will be tremendous. If one stronghold is toppled, the rest may just follow like falling dominoes." Chiam is expected to face another rematch from the PAP candidate Sitoh Yih Pin on his ward at Potong Pasir.

Ooi Boon Ewe, a property executive who contested in Joo Chiat SMC in 2001 as an independent, had said that he is forming a new political party and that he would contest in either Joo Chiat, Yio Chu Kang, or Chua Chu Kang SMC. His party would later become People's Liberal Democratic Party, but his party was approved after the nomination day (2 May), making him unable to contest.

Post–nomination day to election day events 
These are the events of political parties, candidates and highlights during the campaigning period from 27 April to 6 May 2006.

Election rallies
On 27 April, the Singapore Police Force (SPF) released a list of 24 sites for election rallies scheduled to be held from 28 April to 5 May. All sites were for evening rallies that were scheduled to occur from 7 p.m. to 10 pm, except for a "Lunchtime Rally Site" at Boat Quay next to UOB Plaza.

Outdoor election meetings were required to be licensed by permits, and were issued by the SPF Police Election Meetings Office on a first-come, first-served basis, starting from 27 April. Since the morning of 26 April, more than 20 people, agents of the parties and candidates, were seen gathered at the office preparing to queue overnight for the permits.

List of election rallies

On 28 April, the first election rally for the People's Action Party, whose symbol featured a lightning bolt, was forced a change in venue from Serangoon Stadium to an indoor location, due to heavy rain and lightning.

Reactions to nomination day

 

When nominations were completed, opposition parties had successfully contested more than half the seats, thus denying PAP a walkover majority to form a government on nomination day, the first time since 1988. Lee Hsien Loong's response stated that he was happy that there were many opposition candidates contesting in the election, and said it is good for the maturation of Singapore's political system. He accepted the challenge from the opposition saying that "we [the PAP] don't have a majority, so we will fight this election." Workers' Party chairman Sylvia Lim said that her party would fight for more seats in parliament but did not expect to topple the PAP government. "There is no way the opposition will win every seat they contest," she said. Steve Chia (NSP) had said earlier that the SDA's aim was to win 15 seats and form a shadow cabinet, to provide effective scrutiny for the government.

For WP, their strongest GRC team consisting of its more prominent candidates led by chairman Sylvia Lim, challenged Aljunied GRC (led by Foreign Minister George Yeo) as one of the fiercest contests in the election. WP also fielded a very young team in Ang Mo Kio GRC, with candidates mostly in their 20s or early 30s, to compete with the flagship PAP team led by Lee Hsien Loong.

For SDA, its strongest GRC team was one that contested Jalan Besar GRC (led by Sebastian Teo and included a former MP Cheo Chai Chen). The hotly-watched SMCs include Chua Chu Kang (a ward which saw a close contest between the PAP and SDA in 2001 elections), Nee Soon East (one of two WP-contested wards in 2001 elections), as well as the two opposition-held wards, Hougang and Potong Pasir.

Ling's comment controversy

Negative campaigning
After nomination day, the PAP had stepped up its negative campaigning effort against the opposition. Lee Kuan Yew (PAP) had referred the opposition as not having "First World" quality and described some of their candidates as of poor quality and lacking in "intellectual content". He repeated his attack on 28 April saying "I want a world-class opposition, not this riffraff."

Lim Boon Heng (PAP) said that the SDP is already being written off by Singaporeans. Lee Hsien Loong said the opposition had no clear vision or views on Singapore's major challenges.