[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Police Academy 6: City Under Siege

Police Academy 6: City Under Siege is a 1989 American comedy crime film starring Bubba Smith, David Graf and Michael Winslow. It was directed by Peter Bonerz and written by Stephen Curwick, based on characters created by Neal Israel and Pat Proft. The film was given a PG rating for violence and language. This was the fifth and last Police Academy sequel to be released in the year immediately following the previous installment of the series. It would take five years until the release of the following film, Police Academy: Mission to Moscow. Police Academy 6: City Under Siege was also the last film in the series to feature Bubba Smith, Marion Ramsey, Bruce Mahler, Lance Kinsey and George R. Robertson as Hightower, Hooks, Fackler, Proctor and Commissioner Hurst respectively.

Plot
In the city the police are investigating a series of robberies along the old 51 bus route in the area of the city known as Wilson Heights. Captain Harris (G.W. Bailey) and Lt. Proctor (Lance Kinsey) stake out a bank, but the Wilson Heights gang, composed of Ace (Gerrit Graham) a skilled gunman, Flash (Brian Seeman) an acrobatic martial artist, and Ox (Darwyn Swalve) a strong man, manages to elude capture.

In his office, the mayor is furious with the latest crime spree and reprimands Harris and Commissioner Hurst (George R. Robertson) for his precinct's slow response. The governor is involved now, he brought in special team to stop the robberies and that is Commandant Lassard. The mayor orders Harris and Hurst to work with Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes) to apprehend the gang. Lassard assembles a seven-man team consisting of gentle-giant Hightower (Bubba Smith), weapon-crazy Tackleberry (David Graf), human beatbox Jones (Michael Winslow), passive-aggressive Hooks (Marion Ramsey), tough and hot Callahan (Leslie Easterbrook), accident-prone Fackler (Bruce Mahler), and Lassard's nephew, Nick (Matt McCoy) from Miami.

At the site of the gang’s latest robbery, a bank, the police academy team discovers clues that suggest that the Wilson Heights gang are being orchestrated by some other shadowy figure. After canvassing the neighborhood for any information on the Wilson Heights gang with little success, Nick stumbles upon a paper reporting an antique diamond heading to a museum, and gets an idea to use it as bait. However, the robbers nab the diamond anyway by cutting a hole in the truck and escaping through the sewer system. Nick then decides to go undercover to get information regarding a possible hideout, but Harris insists on going instead, and botches the job after Proctor accidentally knocks him over the balcony. Commandant Lassard and his men are later suspended after jewelry from the gang's last robbery is found in Lassard's office, pending an investigation.

The team decides to clear his name by investigating and solving the crimes themselves. Having Hooks access data files from a computer, Nick deduces that the robberies are occurring along the old bus line in the city, thus intentionally lowering property values in that part of the city prior to the announcement of a new replacement line system. They also learn that someone must be leaking information to the criminals, which is why they are always one step ahead of the police.

The police academy force finds and does battle with the Wilson Heights gang during a city wide blackout, Tackleberry taking down Ace, Jones defeating Flash, and Hightower beating Ox, while Nick chases the leader. A pursuit follows, which leads to Commissioner Hurst's office, where they find Commissioner Hurst. But, after the real Commissioner Hurst arrives, Hightower unmasks the fake Hurst to reveal that the mastermind has been The Mayor all along. Caught, the mayor admits that Captain Harris has been unwittingly leaking information during his daily meetings with him, and how he could have made billions off the properties if it had not been for Lassard and his team. Hurst then apologizes to Lassard and reinstates him and his team, and a plaque is given to honor the officers' bravery the next day.

The movie ends with Captain Harris being flown away by a bunch of balloons attached to his chair during the ceremony.

Cast

The Police Force 
 Matt McCoy as Sergeant Nick Lassard 
 Michael Winslow as Sergeant Larvell Jones 
 David Graf as Sergeant Eugene Tackleberry 
 Bubba Smith as Lieutenant Moses Hightower 
 Marion Ramsey as Sergeant Laverne Hooks 
 Leslie Easterbrook as Lieutenant Debbie Callahan  
 George Gaynes as Commandant Eric Lassard 
 G. W. Bailey as Captain Thaddeus Harris
 Lance Kinsey as Lieutenant Carl Proctor
 George R. Robertson as Commissioner Henry Hurst
 Bruce Mahler as Sergeant Douglas Fackler