[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Robert Whitaker (photographer)

was just to see what could become a record cover. "

In the mid-1990s Apple Managing Director Neil Aspinall began negotiations with Whitaker for the use of 300 of his images of the Beatles in the television documentary and book, The Beatles Anthology, but it proved to be a short-lived rapprochement:

Whitaker: "On one day Neil Aspinall is offering me £80,000 for the use of my pictures in his Anthology of the Beatles, chatting about their past around the table of an English pub. The next day Aspinall phones to say that he thinks I should give the Anthology all the pictures for nothing, having spent six months deciding which images should be reprinted, retouched and repaired. We, the Beatles, own Whitaker's life. Needless to say, they got nothing."

In 1997 Melbourne's Gallery 101 mounted a world-premiere exhibition of Whitaker's photographs of Mick Jagger, taken during the production of the film Ned Kelly.

In February–March 2002 his photos of George Harrison featured as part of a photographic tribute to George staged at the Govinda Galleries in Washington. In November 2002 he returned to Australia to open a 40th anniversary retrospective of his work entitled Yesterday & and Today: The Photography of Robert Whitaker 1962-2002 at the Monash Gallery of Art in Melbourne, which ran from 30 November 2002 to 26 January 2003. It included many previously unseen images from Whitaker’s early days in Australia, through his European work with The Beatles, Cream, The Seekers, Bob Hughes, Man Ray, Salvador Dalí and Peggy Guggenheim, to his more recent work with Australian artists such as Stelarc, Bruce Armstrong, and Howard Arkley.

In the early 2000s Robert Whitaker worked on compiling a digital archive of his work, and his photographs of The Seekers were chosen for a special commemorative Australia Post stamp issue to celebrate the group’s 40th anniversary.

Death
Whitaker died on 20 September 2011 following a long illness, aged 71. He left a widow and three children.

References

External links

IQ Art
"Shooting Stars" Heinrich, Karen, The Age'', 28 November 2002
Magidson Fine Art, Aspen
"Who Butchered The Beatles?"Mikkelson, David P.
"Yesterday & Today: The Photography of Robert Whitaker 1962–2002"Monash Gallery of Art
"Cream: Disraeli Gears"Pattingale, Graeme
 Disraeli Gears Photo SessionsPattingale, Graeme
"Review: Robert Whitaker at The National Gallery Victoria."Taylor, Roger
"Hans Bellmer in The Art Institute of Chicago: The Wandering Libido and the Hysterical Body"Taylor, Sue
"Everything You Always Wanted To Know About … The Beatles Butcher Cover"York, Robert

1939 births
2011 deaths
Photographers from Hertfordshire
People from Harpenden
People from Haywards Heath
Album-cover and concert-poster artists