[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Paul Myners, Baron Myners

s contribution to the Bank.

After government
After the Labour Party's loss in the 2010 general election in May 2010, Myners remained in the House of Lords. Until 2014 Myners served as a backbench Labour peer, before resigning to sit as a non-affiliated member and from 7 July 2015 as a crossbencher.

Myners joined the board of RIT Capital Partners PLC, an investment fund chaired and sponsored by Lord (Jacob) Rothschild, and later that year he became a Trustee of ARK, the charity supported by London's major hedge fund managers.

In February 2011, Lord Myners became chairman and a partner of Autonomous Research LLP, an independent equity research firm.

In June 2011, Lord Myners became chairman and a partner of Cevian Capital (UK) LLP, the UK arm of Cevian Capital, the largest active ownership (or activist) manager in Europe.

In October 2012, Lord Myners was appointed President of the Howard League for Penal Reform, replacing the outgoing Lord Carlile of Berriew QC.

In March 2013, Lord Myners joined the board of OJSC MegaFon, a London-listed company that is one of the three largest mobile operators in Russia. Myners was appointed to represent the interest of independent shareholders and served on the Board until the end of 2017.

Lord Myners was the chairman of Platform Acquisition Holdings Ltd, which in May 2013 listed on the London Stock Exchange, raising $905 million earmarked for acquiring a target business expected to have an enterprise value of between $750 million and $2.5 billion.

Platform was a Special Purpose Acquisition Company or SPAC (referred to in the US as a blank cheque corporation).  He subsequently Chaired a number of other SPACs, including one that acquired the worldwide operations of  Burger King and another that bought the European operations of Birds Eye and Findus.

In December 2013 he joined the Board of the troubled Co-operative Group as senior independent director to produce and publish for the members an independent report on governance. It was brought close to collapse in the year by losses in its banking subsidiary. The Co op is the largest convenience store retailer in the UK.  Myners limited his payment for this work to £1.

On 1 February 2015 Lord Myners was appointed Chair of the Court of Governors and Council of the London School of Economics and Political Science, succeeding Peter Sutherland.

In 2016, Lord Myners took up role as University Chancellor of the University of Exeter from Baroness Benjamin.

In 2020 Lord Myners was active in seeking funding for the Stadium for Cornwall.

Personal life and death
He was first married to Tessa Stanford-Smith, a school teacher, from 1972 to 1993, and then to Alison Macleod, former chair of the Contemporary Art Society and trustee of The Royal Academy Development Trust. He had four daughters and a son through two marriages. He lived in London and had a cottage near Falmouth, Cornwall.

Myners died at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London, on 16 January 2022, at the age of 73 after contracting COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in England.

Awards
Myners was awarded a CBE in 2001. He also received an Honorary Doctorate in Law from the University of Exeter and was a visiting fellow at Nuffield College Oxford. He was also an Executive Fellow of London Business School.

In July 2010 he was elected chairman of the All Party Parliamentary Group on Corporate Governance and in November 2010 was admitted as an Honorary Fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.

See also
Pensions Act 1995
Politics in England
Stewardship Code

References

External links 
 News Item from Independent newspaper 11 Oct 2008
 News Item from Guardian newspaper
 Helps charities after Kaupthing disaster

1948 births
2022 deaths
20th-century British journalists
20th-century English businesspeople
21st-century English businesspeople
Alumni of the University of London
British business executives
Chancellors of the University of Exeter
Commanders of the Order of the British Empire
Crossbench life peers
English adoptees
English financial writers
English money managers
Fellows of Nuffield College, Oxford
Labour Party (UK) life peers
Rothschild & Co people
NatWest Group people
People educated at Truro School
People from Truro
Schoolteachers from Cornwall
The Co-operative Group
The Daily Telegraph people
The Guardian people
Life peers created by Elizabeth II
Deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in England