[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United Nations Sustainable Development Group

hip confirmation pending at the UNSDG, as of March 2019:
 International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
 International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)
 International Maritime Organization (IMO)
 Universal Postal Union (UPU)
 World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO)

Leadership and organization

Structure 
The UNSDG is one of the three pillars of the UN system Chief Executives Board (CEB), which furthers coordination and cooperation on a wide range of substantive and management issues facing UN system organizations. The CEB brings the executive heads of UN organizations together on a regular basis under the chairmanship of the Secretary-General. Within the CEB structure, the High-Level Committee on Management works on system-wide administrative and management issues, the High-Level Committee on Programmes considers global policy issues, while the United Nations Development Group deals with operational activities for development with a focus on country-level work.

The Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) chairs the UNSDG. The UNSDG Chair reports to the Secretary-General and the CEB on progress in implementing the group’s work plan, and on the management of the Resident Coordinator System.

Leadership 
The United Nations Economic and Social Council and the United Nations General Assembly provide oversight and mandates for the UNSDG. The UNSDG is overseen by the Economic and Financial Committee (Second Committee) of the General Assembly. The UNSDG has provided reports such as the Comprehensive statistical analysis of the financing of operational activities for development of the UN system for 2006 and the Comprehensive statistical analysis of the financing of operational activities for development of the UN system for 2007 to the General Assembly.

The UNSDG's chairperson is the UNDP's Administrator. Since its inception, the following have been the Chair of the UNSDG:
 James Speth (1997–1999)
 Mark Malloch Brown (1999–2005)
 Kemal Derviş (2005–2009)
 Helen Clark (2009–2017)
 Achim Steiner (2017– )

UNSDG Advisory Group 
Under Kemal Derviş' leadership, an "Advisory Group", which provides the UNSDG Chair with advice and guidance on managing the operational dimensions of the UNSDG and the Resident Coordinator System, was established. In 2009, the non-rotational members of the advisory group were: the FAO, ILO, UNDP, UNESCO, UNFPA, UNICEF, UNHCR, WFP, WHO and UNIDO. The rotational members (for a period of one year, as of 2016) are: UNCTAD (representing UNEP, UN Habitat and UNODC) and the Economic and Social Commission for Western Africa (representing all five Regional Commissions).

Development Coordination Office 
The UN Development Operations Coordination Office (DOCO) is a key component within the UNSDG, promoting social and economic progress by providing support. It was a key part of UNSDG's formation in 1997, uniting the UN system and improving the quality of its development assistance. Coordination leads to more strategic UN support for national plans and priorities, makes operations more efficient, reduces transaction costs for governments, and ultimately helps people attain the Millennium Development Goals and other internationally agreed development objectives. At present it is the Secretariat and technical and advisory support unit of the UNSDG. It brings together the UN development system to promote change and innovation to deliver together on sustainable development. DOCO works under the leadership of the UNSDG Chair and guidance of the UNSDG. The team provides field evidence to inform policy, facilitates the achievement of shared results, and promotes excellence in UN leadership and coordination. The core objective is a relevant and impactful UN contribution to development.

See also 

 Delivering as One
 Quadrennial comprehensive policy review
 Reform of the United Nations
 United Nations Development Assistance Plan
 United Nations Development Programme

References

External links
 United Nations Sustainable Development Group

International development organizations
United Nations Economic and Social Council
United Nations reform
United Nations Development Programme