[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kurdish Americans

nt of Turkish Kurds emigrating to the US is that many emigrating Turkish Kurds will travel to one of the closer Kurdish diaspora communities within the European Union like Germany, France, the Netherlands, Sweden, and Finland, all of which are all home to varying sized Kurdish communities.

Language

Kurdish immigrants do not share a common language, however there are various dialects depending on the area of Kurdistan a Kurd is from. It has been deliberately outlawed from assimilation practices in Turkey and Iran. The language is officially recognized in the Iraqi constitution, alongside Arabic. Kurdi, or Sorani, emerged as the literary expression of Kurdish language and is recognized in Iraq as the official written form of Kurdish. Within the Kurdish language, there are three dialect groups: Northern Kurdish/Kurmanji (the largest group), Central Kurdish/Sorani, and Southern Kurdish/Laki. The existing linguistic divisions within the Kurdish language make it difficult to generalize about what languages are being spoken by Kurds in the United States. English is spoken much more frequently by younger generation Kurds than the older. Although an emerging phenomenon in the US, other diasporic Kurdish communities in the European Union have demonstrated that the immigration experience oftentimes leads to a dissolution of previous existing linguistic barriers, allowing for a more cohesive Kurdish community in the diaspora than was possible in Kurdistan.

Notable people

Eren Bali, Founding CEO of Udemy and cofounder of Carbon Health
Hamdi Ulukaya, Businessman and entrepreneur, founder of Chobani
Herro Mustafa, US Diplomat
Najmiddin Karim, Politician and Neurosurgeon
Azad Bonni, Neuroscientist at Washington University School of Medicine
Jano Rosebiani, Filmmaker
Hakki Akdeniz, Philanthropist and restaurateur. Owner and founder of the pizzeria chain Champion Pizza and Hakki's in New York City 
Saad Abbas Ismail, Archaeologist, translator and writer
John Shahidi, Businessman, manager and President of Shots Podcast Network, Nelk Boys and Happy Dad Hard Seltzer  
Sam Shahidi, Co-founder of Shots Podcast Network and CEO of Happy Dad Hard Seltzer
Amar Suloev, mixed martial artist. Fought for the UFC, PRIDE Fighting Championships, Cage Rage, and M-1 Global
Edip Yüksel, Islamic philosopher and intellectual, considered one of the prime figures in the modern Islamic reform and Quranism movements
Jamal al Barzinji,  Businessman, associated with the International Institute of Islamic Thought, the World Assembly of Muslim Youth, and the SAAR Foundation
Hanna Jaff, Activist

See also
Turkish Americans
Iranian Americans
Iraqi Americans
Syrian Americans
Mandaean Americans

References

Further reading
 
 Meho, Lokman I., ed. The Kurdish Question in U.S. Foreign Policy: A Documentary Sourcebook (Praeger, 2004).
 O'Connor, Karen. A Kurdish Family: Journey Between Two Worlds (Lerner Publishing Group, 1996).
 

 
 
 
Middle Eastern American