[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# University of Auckland Law School

ties. The PILSA executive works closely with the Student Academic and Support Adviser (Pacific) to provide workshops, seminars and tutorials for PILSA members. PILSA encourages all students to join PILSA and participate in social events, sports-days, tutorials, seminars and the Pacific Islands Moot.

As of 2017, Auckland has been the national senior mooting champion for nine of the past ten years. It has therefore represented New Zealand at the most prestigious moot court competition in the world, the Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot, nine times in the past ten years. Highlights of Auckland's participation in the Jessup include a semi-final finish in 2012, and a Best Oralist award at the international rounds (Andrew Grant) in 2017.

Research
Auckland Law School is home to a number of research centres of excellence, including The Aotearoa New Zealand Centre for Indigenous Peoples and the Law, the New Zealand Centre for Environmental Law, the New Zealand Centre for ICT Law, the NZ Centre for Legal and Political Theory, The New Zealand Centre for Human Rights Law, Policy and Practice and the Research Centre for Business Law. It is also home to Te Tai Haruru – the Māori Legal Academics Group.

The LLB degree
In any given year, about half of Auckland Law School graduates take up positions in New Zealand law firms, while the other half begin their careers in other professional organisations. These include accounting and consulting firms; business and industry; national and local government; teaching, research and journalism; international, environmental and other non-government organisations.

In the third and forth year of the LLB, Part III and IV students will have over 50 elective courses to choose from. (including four taught in the January/February summer school) – the largest range of any New Zealand law faculty.

Although there isn't any requirement to major within the LLB degree students may choose to specialise in a particular area of interest, or if they would prefer, to choose from a wide range of different areas to cover a range of topics.

There is a growing array of electives with an international focus: in 2015 these include Aviation Law, International Human Rights, International Law, Law and IT, Financial Markets Law, Global Environmental Law, Immigration and Refugee Law, International Criminal Law, International Disputes Settlement and International Trade Law.

More than 90% of LLB students qualify with two degrees, either because they enter law school as graduates (15%) or because they undertake conjoint bachelor's degrees (75%). Conjoint combinations are BA/LLB, BCom/LLB, BDes/LLB, BE(Hons)/LLB, BFA/LLB, BGlobalSt/LLB, BHSc/LLB, BMus/LLB, BProp/LLB, BSc/LLB, BAdvSci(Hons)/LLB.

Postgraduate Studies
The Faculty of Law has a leading postgraduate programme offering opportunities for postgraduate legal research.

The Master of Laws (LLM) is designed to provide an advanced level of study for both full-time students and those who are legal practitioners or engaged in other full- or part-time employment. Students may concentrate their study in particular areas of specialisation, or study a broad range of legal subjects. The LLM programme offers six specialisations: Commercial and Corporate Law, Public Law, Environmental Law, Human Rights Law, International Law, and Litigation and Dispute Resolution.

The LLM undertaken by research offers graduates the opportunity to conduct in-depth research in an area of personal interest to enhance future employment opportunities either professionally or academically.

The LLM undertaken by coursework offers law graduates an opportunity to study areas in greater depth and complexity than within an undergraduate law degree, combining courses of sophistication and technical difficulty in terms of legal content with courses that contain relevant interdisciplinary subject matter and a focus on policy. Each course contains a significant research component, usually in the form of a 12,500 word research essay. The LLM also permits cross-disciplinary study in the form of one Masters course (30 points) from another faculty in the University of Auckland.

The Masters of Legal Studies (MLS) is for graduates who do not have a Law undergraduate degree but have a four-year degree or equivalent in another discipline and whose work involves legal issues and dealing with legislation. Completion of this degree will not satisfy the entry requirements for admission as a barrister and solicitor in New Zealand and is not a substitute for an LLB degree. The MLS suits professionals from non-legal backgrounds who find that their careers require some knowledge of legal matters, but do not necessarily want to practise law. Professionals who will particularly benefit include: Accountants and Auditors, Architects and Town Planners, Business Development Managers, Compliance Managers, Teachers, Engineers, IT professionals, Police and Public Sector Professionals.