[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Renaissance College

Renaissance College ( ; ,  abbreviated: RCHK) is a private independent international school run by English Schools Foundation (ESF) in Hong Kong. Located in Ma On Shan near Heng On station, Renaissance College serves primary and secondary students. The school was founded in 2006 to replace the Phoenix International School, another school run by ESF. Since its inception, the school has offered the IB Primary Years Programme, Middle Years Programme and Diploma Programme. Renaissance College began to offer the IB Career-Related Programme in 2014.

As of September 2018, Renaissance College enrolls 2,094 students. Under the Private Independent School Scheme, at least 70% of the students of Renaissance College must be Hong Kong permanent residents when at full capacity.

History 
Plans to establish Renaissance College as ESF's first private school began in 1999. Unlike other schools operated by ESF at the time, Renaissance College would not receive recurrent government subsidy. 

In 2001, the Education Department (now the Education Bureau) granted ESF a lot of land in Ma On Shan and in Discovery Bay to build two primary-cum-secondary schools under the Private Independent School Scheme. The Ma On Shan site would eventually become the campus of Renaissance College.

On 29 October 2001, Canadian Overseas International College closed unexpectedly due to financial difficulties. According to the school's chancellor, the September 11 attacks forced the company that funded the school to file for bankruptcy. The Education Department was unaware of the financial difficulties that Canadian Overseas International College was facing, and was only informed by the school one day before its closure. The police investigated possible fraud at the school, after complaints from some parents. Jonathan Goodman, the supervisor of the Canadian school, was arrested in December 2001 for suspected theft but was not charged.

The closure of the Canadian Overseas International College made 380 students unable to attend school. To resume tuition for the affected students, the Education Department established Phoenix International School (PIS) in 2001 as a temporary school operated by ESF. PIS occupied the former campus of Australian International School in Cheung Sha Wan and adopted the Ontario curriculum (OSSD).

The campus in Ma On Shan cost HK$297 million to build, of which HK$191.6 million was funded by the Hong Kong Government. Phoenix International School merged with Renaissance College after the latter began operating in August 2006. The first cohort of Renaissance College had 900 primary and secondary students, of which 340 were transferred from Phoenix International School.

The school was granted the status of IB World School in 2007.

Technology
Technology at the college is centered around Apple products. The school provides iMacs, MacBooks, iPads and Apple TVs for students and staff. Wireless internet is available throughout the school. Students in secondary grades must have laptops, either their own or borrowed from the school. Student smart cards are used to access school services and track attendance.

Primary school
The primary section follows the Primary Years Programme for students ages 4 to 11. There are 36 classes of approximately 870 students and 40 teachers. The head of primary is Jason Doucette . The school day runs from 8:30 am to 3 pm for 185 days. Lunch is 50 minutes and recess is 20 minutes. There are 8 periods of 40 minutes each day.

Classrooms are located in the primary block, with Years 1 and 2 on the first floor, Years 3 and 4 on the second floor, and Years 5 and 6 on the third floor. There is a rooftop area and field. Each floor has a hub area for each year with computers, reading materials, seating, play equipment and other resources tailored for the different year levels.

Secondary school
The secondary section of RCHK has approximately 1,000 students ages 11 to 18. The middle school offers the Middle Years Programme while the high school offers the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme. School hours are 8:30 am to 3:10 pm Monday to Thursday and 8:30 am to 1:00 pm on Fridays.

In 2014, RCHK began offering the IB Career-related Programme. This allowed RCHK to become the first school in East Asia to offer all four IB programmes (8th in the world).

RCHK offers full academic scholarships to secondary students from Year 7 to Year 13 and full theatre, visual arts, music and sports scholarships for secondary students in Year 10 to Year 13 .

Uniform
Students in Years 1-11 wear polo shirts in black, brown and khaki. Years 12-13 can wear casual clothes.

References

External links
 Official Website

English Schools Foundation schools
Educational institutions established in 2006
International Baccalaureate schools in Hong Kong
Through Train schools
Association of China and Mongolia International Schools
2006 establishments in Hong Kong