[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ten Pound Poms

1957 to 1971, the scheme applied to further European countries, with a total of 1,442 immigrants.

Well-known participants
Prime Minister Julia Gillard migrated with her family from Barry, Glamorgan, Wales, in 1966, aged four. Her parents hoped the warmer climate would help cure her lung infection.

Another prime minister, Tony Abbott, migrated in 1960 under the scheme, although his father had already lived in Australia after arriving at the beginning of the Second World War on a Blue Funnel Liner and his mother was an Australian expatriate living in Britain at the time of his birth.

England fast bowlers Harold Larwood (in 1950) and Frank Tyson (in 1960) also took advantage of the scheme when they retired from cricket.

The Bee Gees (Gibb brothers), born on the Isle of Man, spent their first few years in Chorlton-cum-Hardy, Manchester, England, then moved in the late 1950s to Redcliffe in Queensland, where they began their musical careers.

The five original members of the Easybeats migrated independently and formed their band after arriving in Sydney. Lead singer Stevie Wright migrated from Leeds, England. Harry Vanda migrated from the Hague, Netherlands, and George Young migrated from Glasgow, Scotland, to become the twin guitars and later the songwriting team that took the Easybeats to the world with "Friday on My Mind". George's younger brothers, Malcolm Young and Angus Young, formed the twin guitars of AC/DC with another immigratory Scotsman, Bon Scott.

Other musical artists to have migrated to Australia under the scheme include John Farnham, Jimmy Barnes. John Paul Young, Colin Hay of Men at Work, Jon English and Cheetah, while Kylie Minogue is the daughter of two Ten Pound Poms; her mother was on the same boat as the Gibbs and Red Symons.

Businessman Alan Bond moved to Australia with his parents in 1950. He was named "Australian of the Year" in 1978.

Rugby league player and actor Ian Roberts moved to Sydney with his family in 1967. According to Roberts, he "was brought up in an English household and Australia existed outside the front door".

Actor Nicholas Hope, best known for his role in the 1994 film Bad Boy Bubby, was born in Manchester on Christmas Day 1958 and migrated to Whyalla shortly after.

See also
 The Feldons' song "Win One Time" off their 2012 album Goody Hallett and Other Stories refers to Ten Pound Poms, as the writer's father-in-law was one
 Ten Pound Poms (BBC television series)

References

Bibliography
 A. James Hammerton and Alistair Thomson, Ten pound Poms: Australia's Invisible Migrants, Manchester University Press, Manchester and New York, 2005.

External links
 New Zealand Ten Pound Pom interviewed by Radio New Zealand (2014)

Foreign workers
British emigrants to Australia
British emigrants to New Zealand
Settlement schemes in Australia
Settlement schemes in the British Empire
Settlement schemes in Oceania