[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# 24th Iowa Infantry Regiment

capitulation of Johnston it returned to Savannah, and thence made the same movement to Augusta and back, which has been noted in the history of the Twenty-second regiment. It was mustered out of service at Savannah, and from there moved to Iowa, and was finally disbanded in the early part of August.

Summary
The Twenty-fourth Iowa Infantry, sometimes called our "Temperance," sometimes our "Methodist" regiment was among the most distinguished of our Iowa commands. Colonel Byam, a clergyman of the Methodist Episcopal Church, was compelled to leave the service by reason of ill health in the summer of 1863. Lieutenant-Colonel Wilds, who succeeded in the command, took faithful, conscientious charge of his troops, till he gave up his life in the cause of his country. Wright, the last commanding officer, was one of our most successful soldiers as he had been one of our most noted men in the walks of civil life. All the officers, and the men generally, were remarkable for their bravery, their powers of endurance, their moral rectitude. Not the stern soldiery which, under the inspiration of Hampden and the leadership of Cromwell overturned the monarchy of England, ever fought more bravely, or suffered more patiently, than the Twenty-fourth Iowa Volunteers. It is impossible that men should have ever gone to war out of a higher sense of duty than did those of this command; and it is to the praise of morality, of temperance, of Christianity, that throughout a long career of as gallant service as was ever performed, they were as brave as they were virtuous. No troops left the service with a cleaner record than did these Methodist Volunteers, when, the war ended, they laid aside the sword of the Lord and of Gideon.

Total strength and casualties
A total of 1204 men served in the 24th Iowa at one time or another during its existence.
It suffered 6 officers and 69 enlisted men who were killed in action or who died of their wounds and 1 officer and 208 enlisted men who died of disease, for a total of 284 fatalities.

Commanders
 Colonel Eber C. Byam
 Colonel John Q. Wilds
 Lieutenant Colonel Edward Wright

See also 
 List of Iowa Civil War Units
 Iowa in the American Civil War
 Samuel J. Kirkwood
 Siege of Vicksburg
 Battle of Big Black River Bridge

Notes

References 
 The Civil War Archive
 Civil War Soldiers & Sailors System
 History of Company H - The "Springville Company" of the Twenty-Fourth Iowa Volunteers by Stan E. Capron

Units and formations of the Union Army from Iowa
Military units and formations established in 1862
1862 establishments in Iowa
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865