[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007

The U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007, (), is an emergency appropriations act passed by the 110th United States Congress that provides funding for the Iraq War through September 30, 2007.  A prior version of the act, , included a timeline for withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq. H.R. 1591 was passed by Congress but vetoed by President George W. Bush.
While the veto of H.R. 1591 could have caused delays for Iraq war expenditures, the availability of funds resulting from the passage of the Defense Appropriations Act on September 29, 2006, allowed the Department of Defense to continue Iraq War spending in the interim period between the veto of H.R. 1591 and the President's signature of approval for H.R. 2206.
The Feed and Forage Act was not invoked by the U.S. government in the days prior to the passage of H.R. 2206.

Components of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act of 2007 include:
Funding for wars in Afghanistan and Iraq (Title I)
Disaster relief related to Hurricane Katrina (Title II)
Elimination of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) shortfall and other health matters (Title VII)
The Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 (Title VIII)

Legislative history
The bill was passed by Congress on May 24, 2007 and signed by President Bush on May 25.

Provisions

Formal title 
The Act is formally entitled the "Making emergency supplemental appropriations and additional supplemental appropriations for agricultural and other emergency assistance for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, and for other purposes."

Withdrawal from Iraq

The Act included eighteen benchmarks for the Iraqi government to meet before the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq could commence. By August 2007, Iraq had met three of the benchmarks and failed to meet the remaining fifteen according to the Government Accountability Office. 

The three benchmarks met at that point were:

Ensure the rights of minority political parties in the Iraqi legislature.
Establish support for Baghdad Security Plan, with Iraqi troops providing security in Baghdad.
Establish all of the 33 planned joint security stations in neighborhoods across Baghdad.

While the remaining fifteen had not been met:

Reaching out to the Sunnis by reopening talks on the Iraqi Constitution.
Passing a new oil law.
Reversing the purge of former Baathists from Iraqi politics and government employment
Dismantling sectarian Shia militias.
Enact procedures to form semi-autonomous regions in Iraq.
Establish an Independent High Electoral Commission, laws and a date, for provincial elections.
Enact legislation allowing amnesty for insurgents who stop fighting.
Ensure that Iraq’s political authorities are not undermining the Iraqi Security Forces.
Provide an additional three trained Iraqi brigades to support Baghdad operations.
Provide Iraqi commanders with all authorities to make decisions in consultation with U.S. commanders without political intervention, to pursue all extremists including Sunni insurgents and Shiite militias.
Ensure that Iraqi Security Forces are providing even-handed enforcement of the law.
Ensure that the Baghdad Security Plan will not provide a safe haven for outlaws of any sectarian or political affiliation.
Reduce the level of sectarian violence in Iraq and eliminate militia control of local security.
Increase the number of Iraqi security forces units capable of operating independently.
Enact legislation to ensure the equitable distribution of hydrocarbon energy resources to the people of Iraq.

Appropriations 
The bill appropriated almost $95 billion to extend funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan through September 30, 2007.

Minimum Wage 
The Act contains additional provisions beyond the funding of the wars. It includes the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 as a rider, which raises the minimum wage from $5.15 an hour to $7.25 an hour from 2007 to 2009, and contains some $4.84 billion in tax breaks for small businesses.

Domestic Spending for Disaster Relief
The bill also includes domestic spending, such as more than $6 billion for hurricane relief.