[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Anyone Can Whistle

that Laurents's "book lacks the fantasy that would make the idea work, and his staging has not improved matters. Mr. Sondheim has written several pleasing songs but not enough of them to give the musical wings. The performers yell rather than talk and run rather than walk. The dancing is the cream."

Steven Suskin wrote in his 2000 book about Broadway composers: The "fascinating extended musical scenes, with extended choral work...immediately marked Sondheim as the most distinctive theatre composer of his time. The first act sanity sequence...and the third act chase...are unlike anything that came before."

Stuart King writing for London Box Office (April 2022) noted: "Southwark Playhouse (with Guildford graduate Georgie Rankcom at the directorial helm for this gender-fluid production) has resurrected the piece for a short run — just in time for Easter! But the burning question on Press Night was whether or not the cult 60s show would need a miracle to find a new, modern fan base, OR, have the subjects of political corruption, sexual identity and mental wellbeing potentially given the fundamentally flawed piece new meaning for a young and previously unfamiliar audience? This reviewer’s answer would be that it will almost certainly depend entirely on who you are, how you identify (if indeed you bother with such matters), whether corruption in public office bothers you (why wouldn’t it?) and probably most significantly of all, whether you consider yourself a Sondheim purist/aficionado/devotee."

Awards and nominations

Original Broadway production

References
 Balancing Act, The Authorized Biography of Angela Lansbury by Martin Gottfried, published byLittle, Brown and Company, 1999

Notes

External links
 
sondheim.com
MTI shows listing
Live, Laugh, Love: Anyone Can Whistle
Anyone Can Whistle on the Stephen Sondheim Reference Guide
The story of Anyone Can Whistle by Mark Eden Horowitz in The Sondheim Review

1964 musicals
Broadway musicals
Original musicals
Musicals by Stephen Sondheim
Musicals by Arthur Laurents
Musicals set in the United States