[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Constructive set theory

a finite set has not established, one may say a set is not finite, but this use of language is then weaker than to claim the set to be non-finite. The same issue applies to countable sets (not proven countable vs. proven non-countable), et cetera. A surjective map may also be called an enumeration.

Infinitude 
The set  itself is clearly unbounded. In fact, for any surjection from a finite range onto , one may construct an element that is different from any element in the functions range. Where needed, this notion of infinitude can also be expressed in terms of an apartness relation on the set in question. Being not Kuratowski-finite implies being non-finite and indeed the naturals shall not be finite in any sense. Commonly, the word infinite is used for the negative notion of being non-finite. Further, observe that , unlike any of its members, can be put in bijection with some of its proper unbounded subsets, e.g. those of the form  for any . This validates the formulations of Dedekind-infinite. So more generally than the property of infinitude in the previous section on number bounds, one may call a set infinite in the logically positive sense if one can inject  into it. A set that is even in bijection with  may be called countably infinite. A set is Tarski-infinite if there is some chain of subsets such that each has some new elements compared to its predecessor. There are indeed plenty of properties characterizing infinitude even in classical  and that theory does not prove all non-finite sets to be infinite in the injection existence sense, albeit it there holds when further assuming countable choice.  without any choice even permits cardinals aside the aleph numbers, and there can then be sets that negate both of the above properties, i.e. they are both non-Dedekind-infinite and non-finite (also called Dedekind-finite infinite sets).

Call an inhabited set countable if there exists a surjection from  onto it and subcountable if this can be done from some subset of . Call a set enumerable if there exists an injection to , which renders the set discrete. Notably, all of these are function existence claims. The empty set is not inhabited but generally deemed countable too, and note that the successor set of any countable set is countable. The set  is trivially infinite, countable and enumerable, as witnessed by the identity function. Also here, in strong classical theories many of these notions coincide in general and, as a result, the naming conventions in the literature are inconsistent. An infinite, countable set is equinumeros to . 

There are also various ways to characterize logically negative notion. The notion of uncountability, in the sense of being not countable, is also discussed in conjunction with the exponentiation axiom further below. Another notion of uncountability of  is given when one can produce a member in the compliment of any of 's countable subsets. More properties of finiteness may be defined as negations of such properties, et cetera.

Characteristic functions 
Separation lets us cut out subsets of products , at least when they are described in a bounded fashion. Given any , one is now led to reason about classes such as

Since , one has 

and so 
.
But be aware that in absence of any non-constructive axioms  may in generally not be decidable, since one requires an explicit proof of either disjunct. Constructively, when  cannot be witnessed for all the , or uniqueness of the terms  associated with each  cannot be proven, then one cannot judge the comprehended collection to be total functional.
Case in point: The classical derivation of Schröder–Bernstein relies on case analysis - but to constitute a function, particular cases shall actually be specifiable, given any input from the domain. It has been established that Schröder–Bernstein cannot have a proof on the base of  plus constructive principles. So to the extent that intuitionistic inference does not go beyond what is formalized here, there is no generic construction of a bijection from two injections in opposing directions.

But being compatible with , the development in this section still always permits "function on " to be interpreted as a completed object that is also not necessarily given as lawlike sequence. Applications may be found in the common models for claims about probability, e.g. statements involving the notion of "being given" an unending random sequence of coin flips, even if many predictions can also be expressed in terms of spreads.

If indeed one is given a function , it is the characteristic function actually deciding membership in some set  so that

and then by convention  and  as well as any equivalent of the formulas  and  with  free may be referred to as a decidable property or set on . One may call a collection  searchable for  if existence is actually decidable,