[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# York General Hospital (Pennsylvania)

thought and sentiment, and to relieve the monotony of hospital life. We ask our friends to lend us their assistance and furnish such communications that will be of interest, pleasure and profit to use. Give them medium to express their thoughts and opinions on subjects now agitating the country....

As for name: we would rather fight until the last man is slain than yield to southern tyranny: though we are at present unfit to take the field and hurl the contents of our trusty cartridge boxes against armed rebellion. We endeavor to make a vigorous use of this cartridge box and arm it with such missiles as the God of nature has given us for the benefit of such rebels that are too cowardly to fight.

We would not apologize for sentiments unbiased by party prejudice that sound harshly upon copperhead antagonists. It is as laudable to opposed traitors in the north as to fight their more worthy brothers in the south."

Mail was delivered to soldiers twice each day, at 9:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., and could also be sent out by soldiers to family and friends twice each day, at 7:00 a.m. and noon, using special envelopes embossed with the wording, "Soldier's Letter. U.S. Army General Hospital at YORK, PENN'A." Soldiers were charged three cents per stamp.

See also
List of former United States Army medical units

References

Further reading
 McClure, James, East of Gettysburg: A Gray Shadow Crosses York County, Pennsylvania, York, Pennsylvania: York County Heritage Trust, 2001.

External links
 Lloyd, June. "Last Chance to See York’s Civil War Hospital Exhibit." York, Pennsylvania: York County History Center, March 29, 2013.
 Lloyd, June. "The End of York's Civil War Hospital." York, Pennsylvania: York County History Center, July 29, 2012.
 Lloyd, June. "York's Civil War Hospital Convalescents Were an Active Lot." York, Pennsylvania: York County History Center, July 25, 2012.
 Lloyd, June. "York's Civil War Hospital Treated Many, Lost Few." York, Pennsylvania: York County History Center, June 29, 2012.
 McClure, Jim. "Cartridge Box Helps Tell Story of Civil War Military Hospital in York, Pa." York, Pennsylvania: York County History Center, August 19, 2011.
 "Penn Common Historical Marker." The Historical Marker Database, retrieved online February 21, 2019.

Pennsylvania in the American Civil War
York, Pennsylvania
Hospitals established in 1862
American Civil War hospitals
Closed medical facilities of the United States Army
Closed installations of the United States Army
1862 establishments in Pennsylvania