[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alfred Sommer

ran in Indonesia. Sommer conducted a sequence of observational and intervention trials in Indonesia, and subsequently elsewhere, that led to his discovery that Vitamin A deficiency reduces immune responsiveness, and therefore resistance to deadly infectious diseases, especially diarrhea and measles.

Sommer was forced to repeat his experiments multiple times before convincing the scientific community of the importance of Vitamin A deficiency in contributing to the death and blindness of nearly a million children every year, and the effectiveness of one large oral dose of vitamin A, twice a year, in preventing these outcomes. Sommer solidified scientific support by organizing an international conference on the issue at the Rockefeller Foundation center for study in Bellagio, Italy. The scientists at the conference concluded that almost any intervention that substantially improved children's vitamin A status, including the use of twice yearly large dose capsules, which was the focus of Sommer's research, was shown to reduce the child mortality rate of these Vitamin A deficient children by as much as 34 percent. He also conducted studies in which he supplemented Nepalese women of childbearing age with Vitamin A/beta-carotene and observed a 45% reduction in the maternal mortality rate. Sommer and his colleagues conducted further trials on the impact of dosing newborn children in populations that were vitamin A deficient vitamin A supplementation in newborns, repeatedly demonstrating that it reduced newborn mortality by 10-20%.

Other pioneering discoveries 
Sommer made a number of other discoveries that have led to major advances in global health care and policies, including demonstrating that measurement of mid-arm-circumference (MUAC) is a simple and effective tool for conducting nutritional surveillance and identifying children and populations at high risk of dying from malnutrition; that the easily assessed appearance of the nerve fiber layer in the retina is an early, accurate predictor of glaucomatous optic nerve damage indicating the need to initiate glaucoma therapy; and that vaccination for smallpox as long as 6 days after infection can prevent the disease, an observation that forestalled mass vaccination of primary responders following 9/11.

Recognition 

Alfred Sommer has received multiple awards for his research, including the Albert Lasker Award for Clinical Medical Research (1997), the Danone International Prize for Nutrition (2001), the Dan David Prize (2013), and the Helen Keller Prize for Vision Research, the Lucien Howe Medal of the American Ophthalmological Society, the Laureate Award of the American Academy of Ophthalmology (2011), the Duke Elder and Gonin Medals of the International Council of Ophthalmology, the Pollin Prize in Pediatric Research (Columbia University), the E.H. Christopherson Lectureship (American Academy of Pediatrics), the Prince Mahidol Award (from the King of Thailand), and the Warren Alpert Research Prize from Harvard Medical School in 2003, among other honors. The 2005 PBS documentary Rx for Survival featured Sommer as a "global health champion." Several institutions around the world have bestowed honorary doctoral degrees to Dr. Sommer, including Johns Hopkins University and McGill University.

Sommer is an elected member of both the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Medicine.

Current research interests 
Sommer's current research interests include the diagnosis and management of glaucoma, improved child survival and blindness prevention strategies, and micronutrient interventions, in addition to other projects in both epidemiology and ophthalmology.

Sommer Scholars and other Named Honors at JHSPH
In 2004, Michael Bloomberg, former chair of the Johns Hopkins University's Board of Trustees, donated $22 million to establish the Sommer Scholars Program at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in honor of Dr. Sommer. The programs aims to "recruit the next generation of public health leaders to devise new, effective interventions to improve global health." Additionally, as a consequence of gifts from other supporters, the Bloomberg School's Department of Molecular Microbiology is chaired by the "Alfred and Jill Sommer Professor"; the "Dana Center of the Wilmer Eye Institute is led by the "Alfred Sommer Professor of Ophthalmology"; and the main auditorium of the Bloomberg School is named "Sommer Hall."

References

1942 births
Living people
Johns Hopkins University faculty
American ophthalmologists
Jewish American scientists
Harvard Medical School alumni
Union College (New York) alumni
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health alumni
Members of the United States National Academy of Sciences
Recipients of the Lasker–DeBakey Clinical Medical Research Award
American public health doctors
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health
21st-century American Jews
Members of the National Academy of Medicine