[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Polícia de Segurança Pública

al commands (district commands of Beja, Bragança, Castelo Branco, Évora, Guarda, Portalegre and Viana do Castelo) are directly sub-divided in squads. They usually include two or more territorial generic squads, a transit squad, a criminal investigation squad and an intervention and inspection squad.

In the major territorial commands (metropolitan commands, regional commands and district commands of Aveiro, Braga Coimbra, Faro, Leiria, Santarém, Setúbal, Vila Real and Viseu) there is, however, an intermediate level of sub-unit between them and the squad, this being the division. These commands are thus organized in two or more divisions, each including several squads. The divisions can be generic (named "police divisions" and being responsible for a given area of responsibility) or specialized (transit, criminal investigation, airport security, installations security or public transportation security).

The municipal police of Lisbon and Porto are also manned by PSP members, who retain all their police powers. However, they are not under the operational command of the PSP, but are instead under the direct control of the municipal governments of Lisbon and Porto. These two police forces are thus different from the rest of the municipal police forces of the country, which are made of municipal employees with very limited police powers.

Personnel
As of 2019, the entry level salary for a police officer in the PSP is 789 euros a month.

PSP police personnel is divided into three categories: officers, chiefs and agents. The access to the agent category requires the conclusion of a technical course in the Practical School of Police (EPP) at Torres Novas. The access to the category of chief is made through the promotion from the category of agent, after the conclusion of a specific course also at the EPP. The access to the officer category requires a previous graduation from the Higher Institute of Police Sciences and Internal Security (ISCPSI), a university-level police academy.

The various categories, ranks, insignia and respective main functions are:
 Police Officers
  Chief Superintendent: National Director of the PSP
  Chief Superintendent: Deputy National Director or Inspector General of the PSP
  Chief Superintendent: commanding officer of a metropolitan / regional command
  Superintendent: commanding officer of a district command or second-in-command of a metropolitan / regional command
  Intendent: division commander in a metropolitan / regional command or second-in-command of a district command
  Sub-Intendent: division commander in a district command or second-in-command of a division commanded by an intendent
  Commissioner: second-in-command of a division commanded by a sub-intendent
  Sub-Commissioner: commanding officer of a police squad (police station)
 Police Chiefs
  Principal Chief: auxiliary of a unit commanding officer
  Chief: supervisor of staff and leader of police teams
 Police Agents
  Principal Agent: a senior principal agent may perform the same functions as a chief, others perform the same functions as an agent
  Agent: functions of police constable
 ISCPSI Students:
  Officer Candidate: student of the 5th year of the Training Course for Police Officers (CFOP)
  Cadet: student of the 4th year of the CFOP
  Cadet: student of the 3rd year of the CFOP
  Cadet: student of the 2nd year of the CFOP
  Cadet: student of the 1st year of the CFOP

Vehicles

Models
Since 2004, the Skoda Octavia has been the principal model of patrol car used by the Public Security Police. Since 2018 PSP is receiving hundreds of Renault Captur patrol vehicles, many equipped with Federal Signal push bumpers, to replace older patrol cars. However, a number of other models are also in service, including Nissan Leaf, Renault Zoe, Fiat Tipo, Toyota Avensis and Toyota RAV4 jeeps. Single apprehended Audi R8, BMW i8, Porsche 996 Turbo and Subaru Impreza Prodrive are used as special pursuit cars. Ground speed radar equipped Toyota Avensis and Volkswagen Sharan minivans are used for traffic enforcement, such as some Audi A4 3.0 TDI and Bmw 335i unmarked patrol cars, while some Toyota Hilux pickup trucks and Land Rover Defender jeeps are used for patrolling non urban and mountainous areas.

A huge number vans are also in service, including newer Mercedes-Benz Metris and Sprinter (with flip down wire shield across the windscreen) and Citroën Berlingo to prisoners transport.

The Special Police Unit uses several special vehicles, including MAN tow trucks, Iveco water cannons and armored vehicles, such as two Ford Streit and some Volkswagen Sharan (with flip down wire shield across the windscreen and Federal Signal front push bumper).

Vehicle appearance
PSP vehicles have some lack of uniform appearance due to the successive introduction of new liveries which however are usually only applied to new vehicles, with the existing ones keeping the original old ones.