[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Lambdin P. Milligan

, including Alvin P. Hovey and Oliver P. Morton, were named as defendants. Milligan's legal counsel was Thomas A. Hendricks, a former state legislator, member of Congress, and future governor of Indiana. Benjamin Harrison, an Indianapolis lawyer and future U.S. president, represented the defendants.

The jury was asked to consider what damages, if any, Milligan had sustained relating to Ex parte Milligan. Harrison portrayed Milligan as a traitor and argued that his actions prolonged the war. Milligan refused to admit his affiliation or actions with a seditious organization. Hendricks focused on Milligan's "malicious prosecution and false imprisonment." The jury's verdict in Milligan's favor was issued on May 30, 1871. Although Milligan sought thousands of dollars in damages, state and federal statutes limited the claim to five dollars plus court costs.

In 1880 Milligan became a member of the Republican Party, and in his later years supported Garfield's campaign for president. Milligan retired from his law practice in 1893.

Death and legacy
Milligan died of natural causes at his son's home in Huntington County, Indiana, on December 21, 1899, thirty-three years after the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in the case that bore his name.

Ex parte Milligan became well known as the leading U.S. Supreme Court case that found the president went beyond his legal powers to suppress dissenters during the American Civil War. The decision also helped to establish the tradition that presidential and military action "based on war" had limits.

See also
Copperheads
David Davis
habeas corpus
Sons of Liberty
Unitary executive theory

Notes

References
 
 
  
 

 
 
 
 Nolan, Alan T., "Ex Parte Milligan: A Curb of Executive and Military Power" in

Further reading
 Grayston, Florence L. "Lambdin P. Milligan—A Knight of the Golden Circle." Indiana Magazine of History, Vol. 43, No. 4, December 1947, pp. 379–391. .
 Pitman, Benn, ed. The Trials for Treason at Indianapolis: Disclosing the Plans for Establishing a North-Western Confederacy. Cincinnati: Moore, Wilstach and Baldwin, 1865. .

External links
 
 Lambdin P. Milligan profile at Ancestry.com

1812 births
1899 deaths
People from St. Clairsville, Ohio
American people of Scotch-Irish descent
American prisoners sentenced to death
Activists from Ohio
People of Indiana in the American Civil War
Indiana lawyers
American anti-war activists
Recipients of American presidential clemency
People from Harrison County, Ohio
People from Huntington, Indiana
People convicted of treason against the United States
19th-century American lawyers
Prisoners sentenced to death by the United States military
Civilians who were court-martialed
Knights of the Golden Circle members