[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Josette Sheeran

ive Officer of Empower America, where she developed its agenda of trade policy, technology policy, education reform, and tax reform, and advancing the agenda of Empowerment Economics to transform America's poorest cities and regions under the leadership of Jack Kemp and Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick.

Journalistic experience
Sheeran got her start in journalism in 1976 with the New York News World, which was owned by News World Communications, an international media conglomerate owned by the Unification Church, which she had recently joined. She served in a number of capacities for News World, eventually becoming their White House correspondent. In 1982 she moved to News World's new sister paper, the Washington Times. Originally a features editor, she was eventually appointed managing editor. During her tenure as managing editor of the Washington Times, she appeared as a commentator on programs such as Nightline, Fox News, The McLaughlin Group, The Diane Rehm Show, and CNN. Sheeran also wrote a nationally syndicated column for Scripps Howard News Service. She has had interviews with more than a dozen heads of state in Europe, Asia, Latin America and the United States, most famously her interview with North Korean head of state Kim Il Sung. She has twice served as a Pulitzer prize juror.<ref>A Desire to Feed the World and Inspire Self-Sufficiency, New York Times, August 11, 2007</ref>

Boards and honors
Ms. Sheeran serves as a director on numerous boards, including the Capital Group, one of America's oldest and largest investment management organizations. She also serves on the Board of Directors, and as co-chair of the Finance & Human Resources Committee, of the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA), founded through a partnership between the Rockefeller Foundation and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in 2006 in response to a call from former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who said the time had come for African farmers to wage a “uniquely African Green Revolution.”

Sheeran is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.

In 2011, Forbes named her the world's 30th most powerful woman; Foreign Policy listed her among its top 100 global 'Twitterati'. She was a Fisher Fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School Belfer Center in 2013. She graduated from the University of Colorado and has been awarded numerous honorary doctorate degrees, including from Michigan State University and the University of Colorado.

She was awarded Japan's Nigata International Food Award, Commandeur de l'Ordre du Mérite Agricole by the government of France, and Brazil's highest civilian award, the Grand Official Order of the ‘Rio Branco,’ and the “Game Changer” award by HuffPost.

See also
 2007–2008 world food price crisis

References

External links
 
 
 

World Food Programme
 Executive Director, World Food Programme
 World Food Programme home page
 Friends of the World Food Program, the US non-profit that supports WFP
 Speech by Sheeran to the UN (mp3)
 Breaking the Cycle of Hunger: An Interview With Josette Sheeran America.gov, United States Department of State, June 11, 2008.

Speech from the 20th Annual World Food Prize Symposium 2006 
Other
 Official Remarks and Press Releases
 Media coverage
 BBC; 'Ethiopia: WFP boss renews partnership with African Union,' 26 April 2007
 Xinghua News Agency; 'WFP chief arrives in Sudan on first visit to Africa,' 25 April 2007
 Wall Street Journal; 'U.N. Names Head of Food Program,' 8 November 2006
 Sheeran will lead U.N. food program - Washington Times'', November 6, 2006
 Apparent pressure from US costs Fust UN job , swissinfo.org, November 8, 2006
 Renaissance Women Network, Profile, in International/Business section
 A Desire to Feed the World and Inspire Self-Sufficiency, Elisabeth Rosenthal, New York Times, 2007-08-11
 Food Emergency: On the Front Line with the U.N.'s Josette Sheeran Business Week 2008-05-01
 Josette Sheeran wages the ultimate food fight, Eric Reguly, CTV News 2011-05-21

|-

1954 births
American Episcopalians
Executive Directors of the World Food Programme
American women ambassadors
Living people
Place of birth missing (living people)
Representatives of the United States to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture
The Washington Times people
Under-Secretaries-General of the United Nations
University of Colorado alumni
American officials of the United Nations
21st-century American women
Special Envoys of the Secretary-General of the United Nations