[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cristian Ledesma (footballer, born 1982)

s departure.

Santos
On 28 August 2015 Ledesma agreed to a contract with Brazilian club Santos. He made his debut for the club on 18 October, coming on as a second-half substitute for Renato in a 3–1 home win against Goiás.

On 6 January 2016, after being rarely used, Ledesma rescinded his contract.

Panathinaikos
On 14 July 2016, Panathinaikos have officially announced the transfer of Argentinian midfielder. The 33-year-old centre midfielder, who played for Santos last season, has signed a two-year contract with the Greens, for an undisclosed fee. On 18 August 2016,Lendesma along with Marcus Berg was the scorer of goal from the penalty spot, helping Panathinaikos win the first leg of the Europa League playoffs and is set to qualify for the group stage, as the Greens crushed Danish Brøndby IF 3–0 at Leoforos stadium. On 2 October 2016, he scored with two penalty kicks helping his club to achieve a 3–1 home win against Asteras Tripoli for the 4th day of the 2016–17 season.

On 28 December 2016, as expected, Panathinaikos have parted ways with Ledesma. The Greens have officially announced the news, while the 34-year-old midfielder seems to be heading to Italy.

Ternana

Lugano

Pro Piacenza
On 5 September 2018 Ledesma returned to Italy once again for Serie C club Pro Piacenza. Pro Piacenza experienced financial difficulties in late 2018 and all the players were released from contracts.

International career
Ledesma acquired Italian citizenship in 2008 through marriage to an Italian woman he met during his spell at Lecce; this made him eligible at international level for both Argentina and the Italy (Azzurri), as he had never been capped with the Selección before.

On 14 November 2010 Ledesma accepted a call-up by Italy manager Cesare Prandelli for a friendly match against Romania, thus becoming the third oriundo to become part of the Azzurri senior squad in the last ten years, the other two being Mauro Camoranesi and Amauri.

Coaching career
Ledesma confirmed in the summer 2019 that he had retired from football and would continue as a coach for the Ledesma Academy, where he should be in charge of training children from 5 to 15 years.

In September 2019 he took over on his first role as a first team manager, coaching Promozione amateurs LUISS, the football branch of the Libera Università Internazionale degli Studi Sociali Guido Carli. He left the club in October 2021, overseeing a promotion to Eccellenza. In March 2022 he was named new head coach of Eccellenza amateur side Cimini.

In July 2022, Ledesma joined Frosinone as a youth coach in charge of the Under-17 team.

Career statistics

Club

International

Honours
Lazio
 Coppa Italia: 2008–09, 2012–13
 Supercoppa Italiana: 2009

References

External links
 Official Lazio Club Profile
 Official FIGC Profile  
  
 

1982 births
Living people
Sportspeople from Morón Partido
Footballers from Buenos Aires Province
Naturalised citizens of Italy
Argentine emigrants to Italy
Italian men's footballers
Argentine men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Serie A players
Serie B players
US Lecce players
SS Lazio players
AS Pro Piacenza 1919 players
Campeonato Brasileiro Série A players
Santos FC players
Panathinaikos F.C. players
Super League Greece players
Italy men's international footballers
Argentine expatriate men's footballers
Italian expatriate men's footballers
Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Italy
Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Brazil
Italian expatriate sportspeople in Brazil
Expatriate men's footballers in Italy
Expatriate men's footballers in Brazil
Expatriate men's footballers in Greece
FC Lugano players
Expatriate men's footballers in Switzerland