[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Organization of Women's Freedom in Iraq

ow as $100. Moreover, theses crimes are hardly investigated unless the one who committed the crime confesses. The OWFI is fighting to change these laws and bring justice to the women who are being murdered. Additionally, their shelters serve a safe haven for women who are being sought after to kill.

Abuse of women in Iraq 
Women in Iraq are more vulnerable to acts of violence and to be accepting of domestic violence. An average of 63% of Iraqi women agree that being hit or beaten by their husbands is justified. After the over throwing of Saddam Hussein, there was increased conflict between Sunni and Shiite Muslims. Soon after, Shiite and Sunni militia groups targeted women of the other group by abducting, beating, raping, assassinating, trafficking, and murdering those women.

U.S. occupation
Since the 2003 US occupation in Iraq, the country has not been able to return to its pre-war condition. There has been a lack of institutional and social protections from the government. Before the occupation widows were provided with financial support as well as housing by the government but since the war this is no longer provided. Women and their children have faced many hardships due to this. They make up 80% of the Iraqi's who have lost homes or lack financial resources due to the war. There have been limited job opportunities for women, especially those who are widowed due to the war. This has led to an increase of poverty and homelessness for women and their children in Iraq.

Health institutions and public institutions have also collapsed and have not been able to fully recover since the start of the war. Due to the war the country also faces ceaseless bombing, which affects the access of clean water and electricity. It has additionally destroyed hospitals, which led to a lack of access to medical care. This has made it especially difficult for pregnant women and/or women seeking reproductive care. Women who need prenatal care, are victims of sexual abuse, have contracted an STD, etc. have difficulty receiving help because of the destruction of health organizations and institutions. Since the lack of employment for women pushed many of them into sex work, sexual abuse and contracting STDs is very common. Approximately 15% of women in Iraq who are widowed due to the war look to sex work for financial support. Additionally, roughly 50,000 Iraqi women who are refugees of the war are now working as prostitutes, according to the Independent (UK). Women are also facing an increase of sexual violence due to this war because it is commonly used as a weapon of war. This adds to the number of women who are in need of reproductive health care but cannot receive it because of the effects of the war.

Violence and harm against women has also increased since the occupation of the U.S in Iraq. The OWFI approximates that nearly 4,000 women have disappeared since the war, likely due to being sex trafficked into other countries. Iraqi women have also faced an increase in honor killings, 350 of these killings were reported in Kurdistan region of Iraq six months into 2007. It has also been reported that over 400 women have been kidnapped and sexually abused four months into the U.S occupation. And over half of those women who were sexually abused were killed by their families through an honor killing. Not only are they facing more honor killings but there has been an increase in suicide amongst women as well. In 2007 in Kurdish Iraq, at least 95 women committed suicide by setting themselves on fire.

To combat the effects that the war has had on women the OWFI takes women fleeing from the dangers of the war, honor killings, violence, and poverty into their shelters and protects them from these on going threats.

References

Iraqi nationalism
Marxist parties
Women's wings of communist parties
2003 establishments in Iraq
Feminist organizations in Iraq
Secularism in Iraq
Socialism in Iraq
Socialist feminist organizations
Organizations established in 2003