[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Andrei Tarkovsky

as Ghost in the Shell, was influenced by Tarkovsky.

The Indian-born British American novelist Salman Rushdie praised Tarkovsky and his work Solaris by calling it "a sci-fi masterpiece".

Film historian Steven Dillon says that much of subsequent film was deeply influenced by the films of Tarkovsky.

Mexican filmmaker Alejandro González Iñarritu is a huge fan of Tarkovsky. He once said in an interview: "Andrei Rublev is maybe my favorite film ever", and in another interview, he added: "I remember, the first time I saw a Tarkovsky film, I was shocked by it. I did not know what to do. I was shocked by it. I was fascinated, because suddenly I realized that film could have so many more layers to it than what I had imagined before". There are many direct references and hidden tributes to Tarkovsky's movies in Iñarritu's 2015 Oscar-winning drama The Revenant.

Danish film director Lars von Trier is a fervent admirer of Tarkovsky. He dedicated his 2009 film Antichrist to him, and, while discussing it with critic David Jenkins, asked: "Have you seen Mirror? I was hypnotised! I've seen it 20 times. It's the closest thing I've got to a religion – to me he is a god".

Film festival

Two film festivals have been named in his honor:
 International Human Rights Film Festival "Stalker", named after the film held annually in Moscow and regional centres since 1995
 International Film Festival "Zerkalo" named after Andrei Tarkovsky (meaning "mirror"), "for fans of intellectual cinema"; also known as Tarkovsky Film festival – Zerkalo, Zerkalo International Film Festival, Andrei Tarkovsky Zerkalo International Film Festival,  or simply Zerkalo, The festival is organized by a committee headed by Mikhail Men, governor of Ivanovo Oblast. Sister of Andrei Tarkovsky, Marina Tarkovsky was one of the co-founders and organizers. From 2010 the festival was directed by Pavel Lungin. In 2020, the president of the festival was Russian director Sergei Bodrov. Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic in Russia, the 14th edition was held online in 2020, and appears to be the last one held, . The festival awards a number of prizes, including the Special Award for Contribution to Andrei Tarkovsky's Cinema. Held in Ivanovo since 2007, the festival is held in July each year, with the 16th edition scheduled for 22–27 July, to be held in various cities in the Ivanovo region, with special screenings in Moscow. Films from France, India, Greece, Serbia, Colombia, Kazakhstan and other countries were entered into the competition, and a gala night was dedicated to Tarkovsky's 90th birthday, on the main square of his hometown of Yuryevets on 22 July.

See also
European art cinema
Slow cinema
Moscow International Film Festival

References
Notes

Bibliography

Schmidt, Stefan W. (2016). "Somatography and Film: Nostalgia as Haunting Memory Shown in Tarkovsky's Nostalghia." Journal of Aesthetics and Phenomenology, 3 (1): 27–41. Somatography and Film: Nostalgia as Haunting Memory Shown in Tarkovsky's Nostalghia

Further reading

External links

Andrei Tarkovsky at Senses of Cinema
Website about Andrei Tarkovsky, Films, Articles, Interviews
Andrei Tarkovsky: Biography wrestles with the filmmaker's remarkable life
Nostalghia.com - An Andrei Tarkovsky Information Site, at Film Studies Program in the Department of Communication and Culture, University of Calgary

 
1932 births
1986 deaths
20th-century Russian diarists
20th-century Russian male actors
20th-century Russian male writers
20th-century Russian non-fiction writers
20th-century Russian screenwriters
Writers from Kostroma Oblast
People from Kostroma Oblast
Gerasimov Institute of Cinematography alumni
Academic staff of High Courses for Scriptwriters and Film Directors
People's Artists of the RSFSR
Recipients of the Lenin Prize
Cannes Film Festival Award for Best Director winners
Directors of Golden Lion winners
Filmmakers who won the Best Foreign Language Film BAFTA Award
Russian male screenwriters
Science fiction film directors
Russian people of Polish descent
Russian people of Romanian descent
Russian diarists
Russian documentary filmmakers
Russian experimental filmmakers
Russian film directors
Russian male film actors
Russian non-fiction writers
Russian opera directors
Russian Orthodox Christians from Russia
Russian screenwriters
Soviet diarists
Soviet documentary film directors
Soviet emigrants to France
Soviet emigrants to Italy
Soviet film directors
Soviet male film actors
Soviet non-fiction writers
Soviet opera directors
Soviet screenwriters
Deaths from lung cancer in France
Burials at Sainte-Geneviève-des-Bois Russian Cemetery