[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hogle Zoo

exhibit is also home to a pair of Siamese crocodiles. This critically endangered species is incredibly rare in captivity and can only be found at five other accredited facilities within the Association of Zoos and Aquariums.

Mammals in the Temperate Zone include rock hyraxes and black-footed cats.

Desert Zone
The Desert Zone, features animals found in Deserts and xeric shrubland biomes. This is the largest terrestrial biome covering nineteen percent of the Earth's landmass. These habitats experience extreme temperate changes from high temperatures during the day to cold at night. The fauna that live in these regions have evolved adaptations that ensure their survival.

The Small Animal Building's Desert Zone is anchored by an open air aviary that resembles the Sonoran Desert featuring white-winged dove, northern cardinal, and desert tortoises. The Desert Zone also features reptile species including Kenyan sand boa, pancake tortoise, and Gila monster. Amphibian species include Colorado River toad and Kaiser's mountain newt. Utah native species featured in the exhibit include yellow-bellied marmot, turkey vulture, and common chuckwalla.

The mammal species found in the exhibit highlight specific adaptations for desert life. Sand cats have large ears which allow heat to easily leave their bodies, and nine banded armadillos use their claws to easily dig into sand to find food.

Tropics Zone
The tropics include biomes that span around the Earth's equator. These areas receive the most sunlight and experience extreme rainfall. Habitats in this zone include tropical rainforests and monsoon forests.

The Tropics Zone features mammal species from the Amazon River Basin including white-eared titi monkey, Linne's two-toed sloth, and kinkajou. The exhibit also includes reptile species found on the islands of Oceania including green tree python, emerald tree monitor, and the prehensile-tailed skink.

Rainforest Atrium
The Rainforest Atrium is a free-flight aviary featuring a variety of birds from around the world. The exhibit features natural light cycles through a glass dome that covers the exhibit. Artificial rock work, a waterfall, and live plants create a naturalistic habitat. Free-flight bird species in the Rainforest Atrium include speckled mousebird, superb starling, spur-winged lapwing, roseate spoonbill, pied imperial pigeon, rose-ringed parakeet, helmeted guineafowl, red junglefowl, and the critically endangered Edward's pheasant. The Rainforest Atrium is also the winter home for the zoo's Aldabra tortoises, radiated tortoises, and leopard tortoise.

Great Apes
The Great Apes exhibit opened in 1983. The exhibit, which cost $1,040,000, includes four indoor habitats for the apes during Utah's cold winter months as well as two outdoor yards. The exhibit currently features a breeding troop of western lowland gorillas and two groups of Bornean orangutans. The exhibit used to be home to a trio of chimpanzees.

Western lowland gorillas
Husani was brought to Hogle Zoo in 2010 to form a bachelor troop with Tino, another male who lost his longtime mate Muke the year prior to cancer. Husani was born at the Bronx Zoo in 1991 and came to Utah from the Birmingham Zoo. A year after Husain's arrival, the zoo also welcomed two females, Jo Ray K and her daughter Jabari from the Denver Zoo. They were brought to Hogle Zoo to start at family troop with Husani upon Tino's death. The zoo successfully housed the four gorillas in two troops until Tino's death in 2015. It was at that point when introductions began between Husani and the girls.

The Species Survival Plan closely monitors breeding among gorillas in accredited zoos. Breeding recommendations are not made until several factors are assessed by a specialist including exhibit factors, and troop behavior. Before a breeding recommendation was approved, Jo Ray K and Jabari were both put on birth control while they lived with Husani. After an assessment in 2019, Husani and Jabari were approved for a breeding recommendation. On July 6, 2020, Jabali gave birth to her daughter Georgia, the first birth for this pair and only the second gorilla born in the zoo's history.

In early 2022, Jo Ray K, the troop's matriarch died. Prior to her death, the SSP had already made a recommendation to transfer two more females to add to the zoo's troop. Later that summer, Mary and her daughter Pele moved to Utah from Busch Gardens Tampa Bay to join Husani, Jabari, and Georgia. Introductions began that summer and all five gorillas currently live together.

Bornean orangutans
Adjacent to the gorillas, are habitats for Bornean orangutans. The zoo is home to a breeding pair male Mia and female Kawan as well as orphaned siblings Acara and Tuah.