[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Dayal

ta Party and the return to power of the Congress Party, Dayal said that the change was because "People have rejected the ideology of hate, consisting of xenophobia, narrow nationalism and a sustained persecution of Muslims and Christians".  He went on to compare Hindutva to neo-Nazism and Apartheid.

Attacks on other religions
Speaking after the Bharatiya Janata Party had made gains in riot-affected parts of Gujarat, Dayal said "[Christians] have never been more afraid ... I have been expecting the very worst since the B.J.P. came to power, and the worst, I think, may still be in the future.
With levels of violence in Gujarat rising, on 1 October 1998, Dayal remarked "The AICU is surprised that Union Government and members of the ruling coalition, including the BJP, have not come out categorically in denouncing the violence against Christians".

In February 2002, after a renewed series of attacks on Christians, Dayal said "Physically, many of the incidents are now less obvious, but there is a 24-hour reign of terror, which occasionally bursts into violence".

Church property

Dayal represents the conservatives in the AICU.
At a seminar in Goa in August 2009, former Union minister Eduardo Faleiro said that church property should be brought under the ambit of state laws, as was the case with other religions.  This was endorsed by Remy Denis and other liberals. 
However, Dayal opposed any change.
He said that the "Christian situation" was radically and materially different from that of the Hindu, Muslim and Sikh religions, and existing laws were sufficient.

In March 2012, two Baptist churches in Imphal, Manipur were ordered to vacate within 15 days.
The authorities threatened to use force if the churches were not dismantled on schedule.
The All India Christian Council took up the issue with the national and state minority commissions.  According to Dayal, "Christians in Manipur are facing increasing threats from the public as well as the state government".
The same month, the Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia said that it is "necessary to destroy all the churches of the region".
As AICC Secretary General, John Dayal asked that India and other countries help assure the safety of churches in other countries of the Arabian peninsula.
The AICC pointed out that destruction of churches would be counter to the United Nations Charter and to the UN Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance And of Discrimination Based on Religion Or Belief.

Bibliography
A partial bibliography:

References

1948 births
Indian Roman Catholics
Living people
Leaders of Christian parachurch organizations