[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Year of Africa

1960 is referred to as the Year of Africa because of a series of events that took place during the year—mainly the independence of seventeen African nations—that highlighted the growing Pan-African sentiments in the continent. The year brought about the culmination of African independence movements and the subsequent emergence of Africa as a major force in the United Nations. These rapid political developments led to speculation and hope about the future of Africa as a whole; yet at the same time, the continent was beginning to face the realities of post-colonial violence. This year also saw the beginning of armed opposition to South African apartheid government, with political ramifications across Africa and around the world. During the year, all colonies of French West Africa and French Equatorial Africa became independent.

Origin

O. H. Morris of the British Ministry of Colonies predicted in early January that "1960 will be a year of Africa". The phrase "year of Africa" was also used by Ralph Bunche on 16 February 1960. Bunche anticipated that many states would achieve independence in that year due to the "well nigh explosive rapidity with which the peoples of Africa in all sectors are emerging from colonialism." The concept of a "Year of Africa" drew international media attention.

The mythology of the year was also influenced by the "Wind of Change" speech, delivered on 3 February 1960 by Harold Macmillan. Speaking in Cape Town, Macmillan acknowledged that imperial powers would have difficulty continuing to control their colonies. The speech represented an admission by Britain's political elite that the British Empire was over and could not be maintained.  This inspired a reaction from the Empire Loyalist wing of the Conservative Party; see Conservative Monday Club. Africans also reacted. In the words of Guinean Foreign Minister Caba Sory:

Independence

During 1960, the number of independent countries rose from nine (with populations of 95 million) to twenty-six (with populations of 180 million), gaining their independence from Belgium, France, Italy and the United Kingdom.

From France
In response to mounting conflict in Algeria—particularly the May 1958 crisis—France created a new constitution in 1958. This constitution made colonial states part of the "French Community" (La Communauté) which restructured the French empire as a sort of federation. All member states acceded to the agreement except for Guinea, which obtained independence in 1958 when it refused to join La Communauté. Its decision led France to cut off all support but set a precedent for other French colonies. In December 1959, returning French leader Charles De Gaulle agreed that member states could have independence if they chose. All did, at a rate much faster than France anticipated.
 Cameroon (formerly Cameroun) achieved independence on the first day of 1960 (unifying with part of the British Cameroons in 1961).
 Togo (formerly French Togoland) achieved independence on 27 April
 Mali Federation became independent on 20 June, then split into Mali and Senegal on 20 August
 Madagascar became independent on 26 June
 Dahomey (renamed to Benin in 1975) became independent on 1 August 
 Niger, independent on 3 August
 Upper Volta (renamed to Burkina Faso in 1984), independent on 5 August
 Ivory Coast (Côte d'Ivoire), independent on 7 August
 Chad, independent on 11 August
 Central African Republic, independent on 13 August
 Republic of the Congo (Brazzaville), independent on 15 August
 Gabon, independent on 17 August
 Mauritania, independent on 28 November

These countries remained within the French sphere of influence, particularly in economic terms. France also brokered political agreements with the Mali Federation and Madagascar, waiving the mandate that departure from the French Community would lead to the end of political ties (as it had for Guinea). French companies thus accepted the arrangement, because they would remain well-positioned to profit from the newly independent countries—which also continued to use colonial (CFA) francs.

The new constitutions created by these countries use some ideas from the French Constitution, including values of democracy and universal rights as well as a parliamentary system with a strong executive. They also sometimes use language from the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. They all emphasize Pan-Africanism over nationalism.

From Italy and the United Kingdom

Two countries achieved independence from the British Empire in 1960: Somalia, through the unification of British Somaliland and the Trust Territory of Somalia, and Nigeria.

On 26 June (also the day of Madagascar's independence), British Somaliland became the independent State of Somaliland. Five days later, it united with the Italian Trust Territory of Somalia to create the Somali Republic on 1 July.

Nigeria had the largest population and best economy on the continent. It became independent on 1 October.