[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Capital punishment in Malaysia

ory punishment.

On 13 July 2019, Minister in Prime Minister's Department Datuk Liew Vui Keong disclosed that a Bill to abolish mandatory death penalty was expected to be tabled in Parliament in October once the government had decided on appropriate prison terms for 11 serious crimes that it covers.

On 10 December 2019, the Law Minister Liew Vui Keong announced that an anticipated proposal on alternatives to the death penalty would be submitted in January 2020, allowing judges a discretion in certain serious crimes. The 2020–2022 Malaysian political crisis beginning in February 2020 led to a change in government, but subsequently the new Law Minister Wan Junaidi Tuanku Jaafar confirmed on 10 June 2022, that mandatory capital punishment would be formally abolished, with capital punishment being under the discretion of a judge. After the 2022 Malaysian general election led to another change in government, the new administration formally passed new legislation in April 2023 officially abolishing the mandatory death penalty, with Deputy Law Minister Ramkarpal Singh telling Parliament, "The death penalty has not brought the results it was intended to bring."

In April 2023, the Anwar Ibrahim cabinet introduced legislation in Parliament formally repealing the mandatory death penalty. The new law would replace the mandatory death penalty with a sentence of 30 to 40 years in prison, with the exception of offences under the Dangerous Drugs Act 1952 where life imprisonment would remain a possibility. The law would repeal the death penalty altogether for 10 offences, and allow judges discretion to either impose the death penalty or a prison sentence in 11 other offences.

On 3 April 2023, the Dewan Rakyat approved the legislation abolishing the mandatory death penalty by voice vote. The death penalty would be retained, but courts would have discretion to replace it with other punishments, including whipping and imprisonment of 30–40 years. This new jail term replaces sentences "for the duration of the offender's natural life". Life imprisonment in Malaysian law a fixed 30-year term, was retained.

Statutory provisions 
The following is a list of the criminal offences that carried the death penalty as of 2009:
 Waging or attempting to wage war or abetting the waging of war against the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, a Ruler or Yang di-Pertua Negeri – Section 121 Penal Code (see: Al-Ma'unah)
 Offences against the person of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, Ruler or Yang di-Pertua Negeri – Section 121A Penal Code
 Committing terrorist acts – Section 130C Penal Code
 Abetment of mutiny within Malaysian Armed Forces, if mutiny is committed in consequence thereof – Section 132 Penal Code
 Murder – Section 302 Penal Code (mandatory) (see: Mona Fandey)
 Abetment of suicide of child or insane person – Section 305 Penal Code
 Attempt to murder while under a life sentence – Section 307(2) Penal Code
 Kidnapping or abducting in order to murder – Section 364 Penal Code
 Hostage-taking resulting in death – Section 374A Penal Code (see: Pudu Prison siege)
 Rape resulting in death – Section 376(4) Penal Code
 Gang-robbery with murder – Section 396 Penal Code
 Trafficking in dangerous drugs – Section 39B Dangerous Drugs Act 1952 (see: Barlow and Chambers execution)
 Discharging a firearm in the commission of a scheduled offence – Section 3 Firearms (Increased Penalties) Act 1971
 Being an accomplice in case of discharge of firearm – Section 3A Firearms (Increased Penalties) Act 1971
 Offences in security areas for possession of firearm, ammunition and explosives – Section 57(1) Internal Security Act 1960 (see: Botak Chin)
 Consorting with person carrying or having possession of arms or explosives in security areas – Section 58(1) Internal Security Act 1960
 Abduction, wrongful restraint or wrongful confinement for ransom – Section 3(1) Kidnapping Act 1961

Only High Courts had jurisdiction in capital cases. Appeals to the Court of Appeal and the Federal Court are automatic. The last resort for the convicted is to plead pardon for clemency. Pardons or clemency were granted by the Ruler or Yang di-Pertua Negeri (Governor) of the state where the crime was committed or the Yang di-Pertuan Agong if the crime was committed in the Federal Territories or when involving members of the armed forces. Death sentences were carried out by hanging as provided in Section 277 of the Criminal Procedure Code.

Pregnant women and minors may not be sentenced to death. In lieu of the death penalty, women pregnant at the time of sentencing would have their sentences reduced to life imprisonment as provided by Section 275 of the Criminal Procedure Code, while juvenile offenders would be detained at the pleasure of the Ruler, Governor or Yang di-Pertuan Agong depending on where the crime was committed as provided by the Child Act 2001.