[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lee Crooks

hern Premier League Premier Division.

Playing style
Icelander Gudjon Thordarson, his manager at Barnsley and Notts County, referred to Crooks as 'The Beast' due to his combativeness. Crooks said before his Notts County debut, "If there is a tackle to be won, I am in there. I do like a good tackle".

While not a prolific scorer, his first professional goal in 1999 was described by The Guardian as a "tremendous shot which thundered in off the post." Similarly, his FA Cup goal for Bradford City in 2005 was described by the BBC as powerful shot which cannoned off the bar and in.

In February 2009, Crooks was described by The Times as a "versatile defender and midfielder who ... had his most productive season in helping Manchester City win promotion in 1999".

Military career

After quitting football, Crooks chose a new career path in the British Armed Forces. Choosing not to follow his younger brother into the British Army, Crooks instead signed up as an enlisted member (gunner) of the RAF Regiment, the infantry unit of the Royal Air Force, whose role is to provide force protection of RAF airfields and bases.

In February 2011 at 33 years old, he completed his seven months of RAF Regiment basic training, passing out as a leading aircraftman. Initially posted to No. 1 Squadron RAF Regiment based at RAF Honington in Suffolk, in the following weeks he underwent intensive training in the Sennybridge Training Area in Wales, and was due to visit the RAF Mount Pleasant base in the Falkland Islands followed by a deployment to the frontline in the War in Afghanistan, in early 2012.

Crooks left the RAF after five-years of service.

Career statistics

References

External links
 

Living people
1978 births
Men's association football defenders
Men's association football midfielders
English men's footballers
Manchester City F.C. players
Northampton Town F.C. players
Barnsley F.C. players
Bradford City A.F.C. players
Notts County F.C. players
Rochdale A.F.C. players
Guiseley A.F.C. players
Ossett Town A.F.C. players
Premier League players
English Football League players
Royal Air Force airmen
Footballers from Wakefield