[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# History of Hong Kong under Imperial China

ng Kong. While they are recognised by family surnames, they arrived first mostly in the form of clans. Despite the immigration and light development of agriculture, the area was still relatively barren and had to rely on the salt, pearl and fishery trades to produce income.

Ming dynasty (1368–1644)

In the early 16th century during the Ming dynasty, Hong Kong's earliest recorded non-Asian visitor arrived in the person of Portuguese mariner Jorge Álvares in 1513. After Alvares settled in Hong Kong, Portuguese merchants began trading in Southern China. At the same time, they invaded and built up military fortifications in Tuen Mun. Military clashes between China and Portugal ensued and the Portuguese were expelled. However, the Portuguese reestablished trade relations by 1549 with annual trade missions sent to Shangchuan Island and, due to the diplomatic efforts of Leonel de Sousa (a later Governor of Macau), acquired a lease from Ming authorities for a trade colony at Macau in 1557.

In the mid-16th century, the maritime prohibition policy came into effect. Designed to prevent contact with foreigners, it also restricted local sea activity. Villagers in Hong Kong coastal areas were ordered to move to mainland China. To further reduce the population of an estimated 16,000 in the territory, the transition from the Ming dynasty to the Qing dynasty led to the flushing out of Ming rebels. Qing officials forced many Hong Kong villagers back to the mainland through the destruction of villages and crops, which caused famine.

Hong Kong was governed under Xin'an County (新安縣) during the Ming dynasty.

Qing dynasty (1644–1842)

From 1661 to 1669, the territory was affected by the Great Clearance, ordered by the Qing dynasty's Kangxi Emperor, which required the evacuation of the coastal areas of Guangdong. It is recorded that about 16,000 persons from Xin'an County were driven inland and 1,648 of those who left are said to have returned when the evacuation was rescinded in 1669. What is now the territory of Hong Kong became largely wasteland during the ban.

The Hakka people became the dominant group to occupy the territory; today they are integrated into the very fabric of Hong Kong with many traditional villages still in place in the New Territories. Hakka people are a distinct subgroup with their own distinct cuisine that comprises many traditional and famous dishes.

Henry Pottinger made his way to Asia in 1841 to eventually become the first Governor of Hong Kong under British rule by 1842, thus ending the reign of Imperial China over Hong Kong.

See also
 Walled villages of Hong Kong

References

External links 
 

History of Hong Kong