[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert Acquafresca

meant that Bologna had spent €4.267 in total to acquire Acquafresca as transfer fee.

Return to Bologna
Acquafresca returned to Bologna for the 2013–14 Serie A season; however, he made 19 appearances in Serie A without scoring a goal, while Bologna were relegated to Serie B at the end of the season.

In the 2016–17 pre-season Acquafresca was left out from the first team squad, partially due to a trauma in his knee. He only played for Bologna as a member of the reserve team against the first team on 20 August, along with fellow first team player Luca Ceccarelli who was released by the club on 31 August. Acquafresca's squad number was also changed to number 99. On 1 September, a sister website of La Gazzetta dello Sport reported that the player would be left out from the first team squad in his final year of contract.

Ternana
On 31 January 2017, Acquafresca was signed by Ternana.

International career
Acquafresca has been capped for the Italian U-17, U18, U19, U20, and Under-21 sides, making his Italy Under-21 debut in a European qualifying match against Albania on 1 June 2007. The Polish Football Federation, together with Polish national coach Leo Beenhakker, had also tried to convince him to play for Poland. Acquafresca, who speaks Polish, in an interview given to Gazeta Wyborcza on 14 March 2008, said that he would leave the decision to the near future. On 18 March, he finally opted to refuse the Polish Football Federation offer, and instead confirmed his choice to represent Italy at international level.

With the national youth team, Acquafresca finished as the third placed team in group 6 in their 2006 UEFA European Under-19 Football Championship qualification campaign. With the Italian under-21 team, Acquafresca finished as the losing semi-finalist in the 2009 UEFA European Under-21 Football Championship, losing out 0–1 to eventual champions Germany.

With the Italy Olympic's team (de facto U21 team with overage player), Acquafresca took part at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, and finished as a losing quarter-finalist to Belgium; he scored 1 goal in 4 games throughout the tournament. Acquafresca also played for the Olympic team against Romania in a friendly match, as well as against Lega Pro club Borgo.

References

External links
 
 FIGC National Team data 

1987 births
Living people
Italian people of Polish descent
People of Apulian descent
Footballers from Turin
Italian men's footballers
Men's association football forwards
Torino FC players
Inter Milan players
Treviso FBC 1993 players
Cagliari Calcio players
Atalanta BC players
Genoa CFC players
Bologna FC 1909 players
Levante UD footballers
FC Sion players
Serie A players
Serie B players
La Liga players
Swiss Super League players
Italy men's youth international footballers
Italy men's under-21 international footballers
Olympic footballers for Italy
Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics
Italian expatriate men's footballers
Italian expatriate sportspeople in Spain
Italian expatriate sportspeople in Switzerland
Expatriate men's footballers in Spain
Expatriate men's footballers in Switzerland