[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 1977 in the United Kingdom

grandmother for the first time when Princess Anne gives birth to a son.
 The first SavaCentre hypermarket, a venture between Sainsbury's and British Home Stores, opens at Washington, Tyne and Wear.
22 November – British Airways inaugurates regular London to New York City supersonic Concorde service.

December
3 December – The England football team fails to achieve World Cup qualification for the second tournament in succession.
10 December
James Meade wins the 1977 Nobel Prize in Economics jointly with the Swede Bertil Ohlin for their "Pathbreaking contribution to the theory of international trade and international capital movements".
Nevill Francis Mott wins the Nobel Prize in Physics jointly with Philip Warren Anderson and John Hasbrouck van Vleck "for their fundamental theoretical investigations of the electronic structure of magnetic and disordered systems".
12 December
 Chrysler Europe announces its new Horizon range of five-door front-wheel drive hatchbacks, which will be built in the UK as a Chrysler, and in France as a Simca. It will give buyers a more modern alternative to the Avenger range of rear-wheel drive saloons and estates.
 Ron Greenwood signs a permanent contract as England manager, despite England's failure to qualify for next summer's World Cup. The appointment is controversial, as there had been widespread support for Brian Clough of Nottingham Forest to be appointed.
14 December – 25-year-old Leeds sex worker Marilyn Moore, is injured in an attack believed to have been committed by the Yorkshire Ripper.
16 December – The Queen opens a £71,000,000 extension of London Underground's Piccadilly line, which runs to Heathrow Central, serving Heathrow Airport.
21 December – Four children die at a house fire in Wednesbury, West Midlands, as Green Goddess fire appliances crewed by hastily trained troops are sent to deal with the blaze while firefighters are still on strike. 119 people have now died as a result of fires since the strike began, but this is the first fire during the strike which has resulted in more than two deaths.
22 December – The Queen's first grandchild is christened Peter Mark Andrew Phillips.
25 December 
 The Morecambe & Wise Christmas Show on BBC 1 television attracts an audience of more than 28,000,000 viewers, one of the highest ever in UK television history.
 English-born comedian and silent film legend Sir Charlie Chaplin dies aged 88 of a stroke at his home in Corsier-sur-Vevey, Switzerland.
27 December – The much-acclaimed Star Wars film, which has been a massive hit in the United States, is screened in British cinemas for the first time.

Undated
 Inflation has fallen slightly this year to 15.8%, but it is the fourth successive year that has seen double-digit inflation.
 Colour television licences exceed black and white ones for the first time in the UK.

Publications
Bruce Chatwin's travel book In Patagonia.
Patrick Leigh Fermor's travel book A Time Of Gifts.
John Fowles' novel Daniel Martin.
Edith Holden's nature notes The Country Diary of an Edwardian Lady (posthumous), which sells an initial print run of 148,000.
Shirley Hughes' children's book Dogger.
Paul Scott's novel Staying On.
J. R. R. Tolkien's collection The Silmarillion (posthumous).
Science fiction comic 2000 AD (launched February).