[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Central Bank of Armenia

The Central Bank of Armenia () is the central bank of Armenia with its headquarters in Yerevan.  The CBA is an independent institution responsible for issuing all banknotes and coins in the country, overseeing and regulating the banking sector and keeping the government's currency reserves. The CBA is also the sole owner of the Armenian Mint.

The bank is engaged in policies to promote financial inclusion and is a member of the Alliance for Financial Inclusion.

On July 3, 2012 the Central Bank of Armenia announced it would be making specific commitments to financial inclusion under the Maya Declaration.

On September 28, 2012 at the Global Policy Forum 2012, the bank made an additional commitment under the Maya Declaration to encourage the roll out of private sector products that respond to the needs of the poor, with an emphasis on innovative channels like mobile and electronic money. And to also implement a swift, effective, and free complaint-handling system via the financial mediator office, and improve the regulatory framework so that consumers have the information, protection, and ability to access all services.

The current governor of the CBA is Martin Galstyan.

Purpose

Mission of the Central Bank 

 to be a prestigious, transparent, independent, knowledge-based and effective entity that understands and appreciates development trends in international financial community
 to maintain institutional capacities in order to promptly respond to changes in economic landscape and effectively influence economic processes
 to always support a sustainable macroeconomic development of Armenia while remaining a key partner to the Government in facing economic challenges.

Key tasks of the Central Bank 
 to maintain stability of the financial sector
 to provide issuance of national currency and ensure cycle of it
 to combat money laundering and terrorism financing
 to manage international reserves of Armenia
 to regulate and oversee other areas of competence as provided under Armenian constitution and laws.

Structure

CBA Management 

The Central Bank Board is the highest body of the management of the Central Bank. 
The Central Bank Board consists of the chairman, his two deputies and 5 members of board. Chairman of the Central Bank and Deputy Chairmen of the Central Bank are included in the Central Bank Board according to position.
The Chairman of the Central Bank is the highest official of the Central Bank. The Chairman is responsible for the fulfillment of the objectives set by this law. In the absence of the Chairman or if he is incapable to perform his duties, he is substituted by one of his deputies, and in case of absence, or impossibility to govern by the deputies, the eldest member of the Central Bank Board shall act in his place.
The Chairman is appointed by the National Assembly, at the presentation by the President, for a period of 6 years, and The Deputy Chairmen are appointed by the President, for a period of 6 years. The Central Bank Board members are appointed by the President of Armenia for a period of 5 years. Members of the Central Bank Board cannot hold any other paid position in the Central Bank.
The Chairman of the Central Bank coordinates and ensures the work of the Central Bank, represents the Central Bank in the Republic and abroad, as well as in the international organizations, implements other rights assigned exclusively to the Central Bank Board. The Chairman, his deputies as well as Board Members cannot be members in management of any party, may not hold another state title, or perform other payable work, except for the scientific research, pedagogical and creative activities.

Maintaining financial stability 
Main body responsible for financial stability in Armenia is the Central Bank, as provided for by the Republic of Armenia Law “On Central Bank”. One of the CBA's objectives is maintaining the stability and appropriate functioning of the financial system of Armenia, including providing the stability, liquidity, solvency and appropriate functioning of the banking system. Central Bank of Armenia implements the above-mentioned task through its efforts of risk assessment and risk reduction, financial system regulation and supervision functions, payment system oversight and, in exceptional circumstances, by acting as lender of last resort, and resolution work to deal with distressed banks.