[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Long Tomorrow (novel)

to inspire the workers, who have been working for long without an end in sight. Len becomes romantically tangled with a Joan Wepplo, who possesses a red dress. Joan, in contrast to Len, has resented her upbringing in Bartorstown and seeks to leave, though the residents of Bartorstown are unable to.

The scientists of Bartorstown have been working on a long-term project with an Artificial Intelligence, Clementine, aimed at creating a forcefield that would eradicate the splitting of atoms, preventing future misuse of nuclear technology. They feed Clementine equations in the hope of creating the ultimate equation to produce the forcefield. Len is shocked to find that Bartorstown relies on nuclear power, conflicting firmly with his religious beliefs that the devilish nuclear power which annihilated society should be abstained from entirely. The community's rationalisation that sooner or later, others would unlock the lost secrets of nuclear technology and that it would be better to be preventive does not sit well with Len and his religious upbringing.

Len and Joan, now married, plot an escape from Bartorstown, and the two succeed, blending in with tribals to evade Bartorstown's surveillance. Len's journey is painful and he thinks of the long walk back to Piper's Run as his religious redemption. However, they are tracked down by Hostetter. The three sit together in a small town where a preaching is occurring, in similar circumstances where Soames was stoned. Len mentally prepares for himself to die, thinking of Soames and Dulinsky and the disillusioned Bartorstown scientists and acknowledging that change would come around eventually, even if he as an individual passed on. Len gives up the opportunity to out Hostetter as a Bartorstown member to the crowd to be stoned, and Hostetter reciprocates by not outing Len. Later, Hostetter is revealed to have armed backup that would have shot Len and Joan if he had outed Hostetter, but Hostetter reiterates that he knew Len so long and trusted Len that he never would have needed the backup. Hostetter, Len and Joan then make their way back to Bartorstown.

Critical reception
Damon Knight wrote of the novel:

Writing in The New York Times, J. Francis McComas described The Long Tomorrow as "Brackett's best novel to date [and] awfully close to being a great work of science fiction". He declared that "Brackett has written a moving but always objective account of the ever-recurring clash between action and reaction in human thought and feeling". Galaxy reviewer Floyd C. Gale praised the novel as a "powerful and sensitive opus". In 2012 the novel was included in the Library of America two-volume boxed set American Science Fiction: Nine Classic Novels of the 1950s, edited by Gary K. Wolfe. That July, io9 included the book on its list of "10 Science Fiction Novels You Pretend to Have Read".

See also
 List of nuclear holocaust fiction

References

1955 American novels
1955 science fiction novels
American post-apocalyptic novels
Novels by Leigh Brackett
Dystopian novels
Doubleday (publisher) books
Religion in science fiction
Novels republished in the Library of America