[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Guantánamo Bay

nt, and even then, according to Castro, only because of "confusion" in the early days of the Cuban revolution. The remaining uncashed checks, made out to "Treasurer General of the Republic" (a title that ceased to exist after the revolution), were kept in Castro's office, stuffed into a desk drawer.

In the 1990s, the United States used Guantanamo Bay as a processing center for asylum-seekers and as a camp for HIV-positive refugees. Over a period of six months, the US interned over 30,000 Haitian refugees in Guantanamo, while another 30,000 fled to the Dominican Republic. Eventually, the US admitted 10,747 of the Haitians to refugee status in the United States. Most of the refugees were housed in a tent city on the re-purposed airstrip that would later be used to house the complex used for the Guantanamo military commissions. The refugees who represented discipline or security problems were held on the site that later became Camp XRay, the initial site of the Guantanamo Bay detention camp. In August 1994, rioting broke out in the detention camps and 20 U.S. military police and 45 Haitians were injured.

Since 2002, the base has included the detainment camp for individuals deemed of risk to United States national security. In 2009, the U.S. President, Barack Obama, gave orders for the detention camp to close by January 22, 2010. , it remains open due to a congressional refusal of funds for its closure.

Alfred-Maurice de Zayas has argued that the 1903 lease agreement was imposed on Cuba under duress and was a treaty between unequals, no longer compatible with modern international law, and voidable ex nunc. He makes six suggestions for a peaceful settlement, including following the procedure outlined in the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. However, Article 4 of the Vienna Convention states that its provisions do not apply to past treaties retroactively.

See also
 Cuba–United States relations
 Guantanamo Bay detention camp
 Platt Amendment: Document to guarantee U.S. Navy lease in Cuba

References

External links

Read Congressional Research Service (CRS) Reports regarding Guantánamo Detainees
U.S. Naval Station Guantanamo Bay — The United States' oldest overseas Naval Base
Guantánamo: U.S. Black Hole
All-Party Parliamentary Group on Guantanamo Bay (APPG-GB)
Camp Delta (detainee) Map
U.S. Naval Base Guantanamo Bay Map
Guantanamo Docket
Human Rights First; In Pursuit of Justice: Prosecuting Terrorism Cases in the Federal Courts (2009)

Guantanamo Bay
Geography of Guantánamo Province
Bays of Cuba
Spanish–American War
Cuba–United States relations