[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chen Chu

of Shanghai Han Zheng and former Chinese Olympic Committee chairman Liu Pong during her trip to China.

The main venue of the games, the World Games Stadium, was designed by Japanese architect Toyo Ito. Both the groundbreaking and completion of the Stadium occurred during Chen's tenure of mayorship.

The closing ceremony was held in the sold-out World Games Stadium, where President of the International World Games Association Ron Froehlich called the Games a "fantastic success" and declared it "the best ever". Tourism Bureau of Kaohsiung announced the Games generated nearly US$61 million in revenue for the city. The city's department stores reported a 15-percent growth in sales. Chen said Kaohsiung would no longer be known only as the second largest city in Taiwan, but also the one that hosted the best World Games ever.

Typhoon Fanapi 

Chen was criticized for having a nap in her residence while many parts of Kaohsiung were flooded during Typhoon Fanapi on 19 September 2010.

Chen tearfully apologized, saying she felt guilty for taking a rest. Stressing that she returned to her residence to change her wet clothes, Chen indicated she was also keeping a close eye on the rainstorm. Critics called for her immediate resignation and compared Chen's behaviour to then-Premier Liu Chao-shiuan's haircut and then-Secretary-General of the Executive Yuan Hsieh Hsiang-chuan's attendance at a Father's Day dinner during Typhoon Morakot in August 2009.

Chen and the Kaohsiung City Government were sued by Lin Chi-mei, a fellow party member and local official from Benhe Village, in the aftermath of the flooding. She alleged the local government did not maintain properly the flood control facilities.

2010 Kaohsiung mayoral election 
Chen was running against the Kuomintang candidate Huang Chao-shun and independent candidate Yang Chiu-hsing in her first reelection campaign. She won the 2010 Kaohsiung mayoral election with 52.80% of the votes. This was the first Kaohsiung mayoral election held after the city became a special municipality under the Local Government Act, which also paved the way for the merger of Kaohsiung City and Kaohsiung County.

2014 gas explosions 
Kaohsiung residents criticized Chen for taking an apathetic attitude in the 2014 Kaohsiung gas explosions. The Kuomintang caucus in the Kaohsiung City Council sued her for negligence which led to casualties. A subpoena was issued to Chen and three other municipal officials on 22 September 2014. The Kaohsiung District Prosecutors' Office decided on 18 December 2014 not to indict Chen.

2014 Kaohsiung mayoral election 
Chen launched her second reelection campaign in 2014 and defeated the Kuomintang candidate Yang Chiu-hsing in the mayoral election, held on 29 November 2014, with 68.09% of the votes.

References 

|-

|-

|-

|-

1950 births
Living people
Democratic Progressive Party (Taiwan) politicians
Mayors of Kaohsiung
National Sun Yat-sen University alumni
Taiwan independence activists
Taiwanese democracy activists
Taiwanese prisoners and detainees
Politicians of the Republic of China on Taiwan from Yilan County, Taiwan
Prisoners and detainees of Taiwan
Taiwanese people of Hoklo descent
Shih Hsin University alumni
Women mayors of places in Taiwan
Taiwanese politicians convicted of crimes
Taiwanese Ministers of Labor
Women government ministers of Taiwan
21st-century Taiwanese women politicians
21st-century Taiwanese politicians