[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Civil War token

w York City.  The letter ends with the following sentence: "If any one attempts to haul down the American flag, shoot him on the spot."  The quote found its way to a number of patriotic tokens, albeit with a slightly modified wording ("haul down" is usually replaced by "tear it down").

Store cards 

Civil War store cards advertised the name and/or location of privately owned businesses.  Businesses that could afford it had two custom dies made, with both advertising the business.  Otherwise, only one side displayed the business's information.

Sutler tokens 
Sutler tokens are similar to store cards.  Rather than listing the name of a private business, however, these tokens bore the name of a particular army unit (usually a regiment) and the name of the sutler who conducted transactions with the regiment.  Of the three types of Civil War tokens, sutler tokens are by far the rarest.

Collectible value 
There are several factors that determine the collectible value of Civil War tokens including condition and rarity.  Rarity is measured on a scale from 1 to 10 (1 being the most common type).  The scale was developed by noted numismatic dealer and writer George Fuld.

The material used to mint Civil War tokens can also affect collectability.  Civil war tokens were minted using a variety of materials, copper being a common choice (often actually bronze).  Other materials used for minting were nickel, tin, German silver, white metal, and silver.  Examples of tokens minted using rubber are also known to exist.

Fuld rarity scale 
 R-1: Greater than 5,000
 R-2: Between 2,000 and 5,000
 R-3: Between 500 and 2,000
 R-4: Between 200 and 500
 R-5: Between 76 and 200
 R-6: Between 21 and 75
 R-7: Between 11 and 20
 R-8: Between 5 and 10
 R-9: Between 2 and 4
 R-10: Unique (one known example)

Civil War Token Society

In 1967 the Civil War Token Society was founded by a group of collectors for the purpose of "stimulat[ing] interest and research in the field of Civil War token collecting." The society publishes a quarterly journal, The Civil War Token Journal, maintains a library, and conducts quarterly mail auctions.

See also
 Exonumia
 Token and Medal Society
 Hard times token

Notes and references

External links 

 The Civil War Token Society
G.W. Forbes Civil War Sutler Token
 Civil War Tokens - Store Cards (broken link as of December 2013)
Rare Civil War Sutler Coins Shapell Manuscript Foundation
 Civil War Token Resources
 High resolution photographs of Civil War Token types

Token coins
Historical currencies of the United States
Economic history of the American Civil War