[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Genocyber

nocyber, this new Vajra has a completely robotic body that enables it to almost literally fuse with any machine or weapon it operates. This is demonstrated when the Vajra fuses with a fighter aircraft, enhancing the fighter's capabilities far beyond anything that would be possible for a human pilot.

As the fleet travels from Japan to Karain, the Vajra is conducting a test flight in a fighter when a UN scout plane operating near Karain radios in and requests to make an emergency landing. The pilot also has aboard a civilian he rescued near Karain: Elaine. As the scout plane approaches the carrier, Elaine senses the Vajra, which in turn senses Elaine. Alarmed, the Vajras fighter veers wildly off-course in pursuit of the scout plane, entering into a steep dive and narrowly avoids crashing into the carrier. The scout plane is forced to make a crash landing on the carrier deck, although Elaine survives unscathed and is taken into the care of the crew.

The carrier's senior officers sharply rebuke Sakomizu for the Vajras strange behavior, yelling at him that his Vajra is not only dangerous, but is also uncontrollable. Later, Sakomizu yells at the Vajra for embarrassing him.

Unlike in the previous OVA, Elaine now has a largely cybernetic body from the neck down. Although it is unclear why and how this change occurred, it is possible that Elaine and Diana (whose body was cybernetic) have completely merged.

A young female doctor, Myra, takes Elaine under her protection and gives her the name Laura. To Myra, Laura/Elaine reminds her of her own daughter (also named Laura) who died in the plane crash depicted in the first episode of the OVA, when Genocyber was fighting with the Kuryu cyborgs. Although Elaine is still mute, she is able to communicate telepathically with Myra, with whom she forms a special bond. Almost immediately, Myra comes to think of Elaine as her own child.

Neither Myra nor the crew are aware of the girl's psychic abilities and her presence on board is briefly uneventful. However, numerous members of the crew begin experiencing nightmarish hallucinations and several suffer mental breakdowns. Soon after, the Vajra again senses Elaine, and interprets her presence (i.e. Genocyber's presence) as a threat to itself and the ship. Elaine also senses the new Vajra, and, after seeking it out, transforms into Genocyber and destroys it, but Genocyber's arm is hacked off during the fight. The ship's crew, unaware of what actually happened, simply conclude that Sakomizu's Vajra has malfunctioned again, and blame him for the incident (once again, Elaine survives without injury). However, Sakomizu, upon seeing his Vajra destroyed, is insulted and wrongly concludes that the crew sabotaged his work, although he now clearly suspects that Elaine is more than she appears to be. He eventually creates a new Vajra after acquiring Genocyber's severed arm but is unable to control it; the Vajra then expands throughout the carrier, engulfing and consuming the entire crew, except for Myra, whom Genocyber saves. Sakomizu also appears to survive initially, before he too is consumed by the Vajra.

Genocyber then flies into the carrier and reaches the core of the Vajra. The Vajra attempts to fuse itself with Genocyber but Genocyber's psychic powers prove to be stronger, and the Vajra loses control of his body and the consumed carrier, which detonates in a massive explosion.

Later, Myra is rescued by a Karain helicopter as its pilots investigate the remains of the American fleet. Deciding that Myra is delirious, they fly back to Karain, but are horrified to discover that the entire country has been devastated. Genocyber then rises in the sky and spreads its wings, confirming that Karain has suffered a similar fate as Hong Kong. The episode ends with Genocyber flying away, as Myra, who has been driven to madness by the events, yells for Elaine, who she now truly believes to be Laura, to come back to her.

Episodes 4–5: Legend of the City of the Grand Ark, Part I and Part II
The fourth OVA onward are much different from its previous ones in terms of setting, taking place in a post-apocalyptic earth, in a region called the City of the Grand Ark.

The young girl, Elaine, does not appear much in this episode, only a transparent image in the story. In this story, Genocyber eventually realizes that "there was no place in the world for its power" and is dormant until it reawakens at the end.