[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Zenobia Camprubí

The Ascetic"), El rey y la reina ("King and Queen"), Malini, Ofrenda Lírica ("Gitanjali"), Las Piedras Hambrientas ("The Hungry Stones") and Ciclo de Primavera ("Cycle of Spring"), all of them by Tagore.
Both Camprubí and Jiménez used a simplified Spanish orthography different from the RAE standard.

Like Katherine Bourland, María de Maeztu and Rafaela Ortega y Gasset, Zenobia founded in Madrid La Enfermera a Domicilio ("The Home Nurse") in 1918, an association whose purpose was taking care of ill children and adults from working families, providing them with food and medication and taking them to dispensaries and to prestigious doctors who attended them for free. In addition, she took control of a small business that compensated for the economical problems of the couple. She calmed her husband's mood, encouraging his quill and sorting out problems as important as abandoning Spain with dignity after the outbreak of the Civil War in Spain.

On 6 April 1920, the play El Cartero del Rey by Tagore was premiered, translated and adapted to theatres by Zenobia. There were three functions in several days. She made a partnership with her friend Inés Muñoz to continue with the labor of exportation of handicraft, embroidery, ceramic and books to America. They had already received and managed her brother José's products. In October, beside María Goyri de Menéndez Pidal and María de Maeztu, she founded the Comité para la Concesión de Becas a Mujeres Españolas en el Extranjero ("Committee for the Granting of Scholarships to Spanish Women Abroad"). She was its secretary since its foundation until 1936. Then, the idea of another business came up: sublet apartments that she would furnish. Her relatives and North American friends used to ask her to look for an apartment with certain characteristics to stay in Madrid, something that wasn't easy, so she decided to do it herself. Juan Ramón and Zenobia moved to 8, Lista St. in 1921. The representation of John M. Synge's play, Jinetes hacia el mar ("Riders to the Sea") and Zenobia's version and translation of La hermana mayor ("Elder Sister"), by Tagore was made in the Athenaeum of Madrid. In 1922, she did a short trip to Catalonia and Baleares with her friend Inés Muñoz. In Barcelona she would visit her paternal uncle José Camprubí and her childhood friends.

On 15 March 1924, her father died in Madrid, at the age of 78. By the end of June and starting of July, Zenobia and Juan Ramón, invited by Federico García Lorca and his family, enjoyed their holidays in Granada; this was not the first time she traveled to this city. In August they spent some days in Moguer and in October they traveled again to around Andalucía, across Málaga, Córdoba, Sevilla and Moguer.
In 1926, the Lyceum Club Femenino Español was founded in Madrid, one of the first women associations created in Spain. Zenobia would be the secretary while María de Maeztu was the president. She developed an important labour impacting noticeably in the cultural scene in those times. In summer, the couple travelled through Spain, they went all over the North West area of the peninsula: Soria, Logroño, Pamplona, San Sebastián, Bilbao, Santander, Asturias, Santiago de Compostela, Vigo and León. In 1928, the "Arte Popular Español" was inaugurated in Madrid, dedicated to the selling of Spanish handicraft. She decorated the Parador Nacional Sierra de Gredos. On 18 August Mrs. Isabel Aymar died.

On July 1929, the couple traveled to Salamanca where they met Miguel de Unamuno and Zenobia's older brother, José. Her family came to Spain to visit the expositions of Barcelona and Seville and they would also visit Moguer. In August, they travelled to Southern France and visited Fuenterrabía, Irún, Hendaye, Biarritz, Bayonne, Pau and Tarbes, and settled in Lourdes. In mid-August 1930, her sister-in-law Ethel and her niece Leontine accompanied Zenobia and Juan Ramón to Vigo to board towards New York. From Vigo, the couple went to Barcelona to visit Zenobia's friends.

In 1931, Zenobia detected a tumour and she decided not to submit herself to a surgery. She received the X-ray treatment to avoid the growth. The sculptor Marga Gil Roësset sculpted a Zenobia bust.

Zenobia worked in 1935 as decorator of the hotel Paradero de Ifach, in Calpe (Alicante) and progressively stopped subletting apartments, since it was not profitable anymore.

Exile

In the early days of the civil war, Juan Ramón and Zenobia collaborated with the protection of minors in the care and accommodation of children orphaned by the war: they welcomed twelve children from 4 to 8 years of age, in a flat at Velazquez Street.

On 22 August 1936, they left Spain. Four days later they boarded in Cherbourg in the 'Aquitaine' liner bound for New York and the couple began a journey in which they visited Cuba, United States, Buenos Aires and Puerto Rico, where Zenobia worked as a teacher at the University of Puerto Rico.