[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Strays of York

s; it sometimes becomes waterlogged in wet weather. The main part of the Moor, to the west of the railway, is shaped rather like an inverted sweater, a body with two dangling arms. Two primary schools are located on the Moor. A signposted cycle path crosses the Moor between the Knavesmire and Acomb.

Access from the Knavesmire and Tadcaster Road is via a path that passes some allotments and Hob's Stone, an upright 14th-century coffin-lid with a weathered effigy of a knight, accompanied by a flat stone and a basin. The latter was used as a Plague Stone in the seventeenth century: the basin was filled with vinegar, in which people washed coins in the mistaken belief that bubonic plague was transmitted via money.

Hob Moor can also be accessed from St Helen's Road/Thanet Road to the south, and from Green Lane and Hob Moor Drive/Holly Bank Road to the north.

Monk Stray 
Monk Stray lies() to the north-east of York on either side of Malton Road (A1036). It extends as a thin strip of land for about one and a half miles from Heworth Green to the Monk's Cross area in the parish of Heworth Without. The Herdsman's Cottage, a one-storey building of about 1820, is on the west side at the start of Malton Road, and the old Elmfield Villa (1832), which was a Primitive Methodist college, Elmfield College for 70 years, is about  further up on the right (currently Straylands Grove).

Much of the west side of the Stray is occupied by the Heworth Golf Club. On the eastern side (known as 'Heworth Stray') is an area of open parkland. Outside the old City boundary, the areas of Stray on both sides of the road are less maintained, and can become boggy in wet weather, on tracks made by walkers through the longer grass. The parkland east of the Malton Road offers good views of York Minster, and occasionally is used for community events, such as the 2009 Tour of Britain festival.

Walmgate Stray 
Walmgate Stray (), also known as Low Moor, is the least visible of the Strays as, unlike the others, it is not on or adjacent to a classified road. It lies to the south-east of the city, with a short boundary on Heslington Lane and direct access from Heslington Road and University Road, as well as from Fulford Road (A19), either via Kilburn Road and through the allotments, or via the cycle path which runs from the South Bank area via the Millennium Bridge and the north side of the Imphal Barracks. The entrance from Heslington Road is between the University's Fairfax House and The Retreat, and is next to No. 103, the Herdsman's Cottage of about 1840.

From the Herdsman's Cottage, the Stray first slopes upwards – this is the edge of Lamel Hill – and then gently downwards past the grounds of The Retreat on the left, and there are views over the allotments to the trees of York Cemetery on the right. At the end of The Retreat's north/south wall, the cycle path crosses the Stray from Fulford Road (on the right) to the Biology building of the University (on the left). At the east (University) end of The Retreat's southern wall is a plaque to Joseph Rowntree, who is buried in the Quaker cemetery within The Retreat's grounds. Nearby is an unusual commemorative metal seat.

Further south, towards Heslington Lane, grazing cattle may be seen. The ground is flat and can be waterlogged in wet weather.

Bibliography 
 York Group for the Promotion of Planning: The Strays and Ways of York (The Sessions Book Trust, 1968)
 The Strays of York and their Management through the ages. W.W.M.Nisbet 1973

References

External links 
 Gild of Freemen of the City of York - Strays of York
 Common lands and strays, A History of the County of Yorkshire: the City of York (1961), pp. 498–506. British History Online, accessed 24 May 2007.
 Friends of Hob Moor

Parks and commons in York
Local Nature Reserves in North Yorkshire