[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Edward S. Bragg

e re-enlisted veterans traveled by train and were celebrated at a ceremony in Milwaukee, hosted by former Governor Edward Salomon, Milwaukee Mayor Edward O'Neill, and Bragg's former 2nd Wisconsin Regiment counterpart, General Lucius Fairchild—who had just been elected Wisconsin's Secretary of State.

Overland Campaign (Summer 1864)
In March 1864, General Ulysses S. Grant was appointed the commander of the Union Army in the Virginia theatre, replacing General George Meade, who had been in command since the Gettysburg Campaign.  That same month, the Iron Brigade veterans returned to camp and engaged in drilling and reorganization under the new commander.  For the next phase of the war, they would be the 1st Brigade, 4th Division, in Gouverneur K. Warren's V Corps.

On May 3, 1864, they returned to campaign, marching from their camp at Culpeper Court House.  They arrived at the Wilderness Tavern south of the Rapidan River at dusk on May 4.  On the morning of May 5, the Iron Brigade, along with their division, marched southwest and encountered the enemy in the woods at the start of what became the Battle of the Wilderness.  The fighting in the woods was confusing and, after engaging with the enemy, Colonel Bragg ran out on his own to attempt to identify the location of other nearby Union regiments, nearly falling into the hands of the enemy.

That afternoon, their division received new orders to detach and proceed to the south to reinforce Winfield Scott Hancock's II Corps and John Sedgwick's VI Corps.  Near dawn on May 6, the fighting resumed as Sedgwick launched his attack.  The Iron Brigade attacked the left flank of the Confederate Third Corps under A. P. Hill.  Though initially successful, the offensive stalled when elements of the Confederate First Corps under James Longstreet arrived and counterattacked.  The Union forces fell back under the Confederate counterattack but stabilized along the Brock Road, between Wilderness Tavern and Todds Tavern, Virginia.

After the fighting on May 6, Colonel Bragg was placed in command of the all-Pennsylvanian 3rd Brigade of their Division—sometimes referred to as the "Pennsylvania Bucktail Brigade"—by General Lysander Cutler.  Cutler, who had been Bragg's original commanding officer in the 6th Wisconsin, had become Division commander with the death of General James S. Wadsworth in the fighting earlier that day.  Bragg replaced Colonel Roy Stone, who was reportedly drunk during the battle on both May 5 and May 6. On both days, his brigade had performed poorly, marching and firing in a disorganized manner, scattering in the face of Confederate skirmishers, and accidentally shooting at members of their own unit.  

Stone was relieved of command after his horse fell on top of him as his lines broke again during the May 6 attack.  Colonel Bragg led the brigade for most of the remainder of the Overland Campaign.  His leadership stabilized the brigade and they performed admirably at the battles of Spotsylvania Court House, North Anna, Totopotomoy Creek, and Cold Harbor, where he turned over command of the brigade to Gettysburg hero Joshua Chamberlain.

On the night of May 7, V Corps was ordered to proceed southeast toward Spotsylvania Court House, as Grant attempted to maneuver his army in between Lee and the Confederate capitol, Richmond.  Arriving at Laurel Hill, northwest of Spotsylvania Court House, on the morning of May 8, they found a Confederate force had already reached the site and occupied strong defensive positions.  Bragg's brigade participated in four Union assaults against the Confederate fortifications between May 8 and May 12.  On the afternoon of May 12, they marched to their left and engaged in fighting at the "Bloody Angle".

Colonel Bragg was, once again, incorrectly reported killed in action after the fighting at Spotsylvania Court House.  A letter from Colonel Thomas Allen announced his death—along with the deaths of Lt. Colonel Rufus Dawes and Captain John Azor Kellogg—and was widely reprinted in several Wisconsin newspapers.  All three officers were actually alive and relatively unharmed—although Kellogg had been taken prisoner.