[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# European Archaeological Park of Bliesbruck-Reinheim

ting to the existence of under-floor heating (hypocaust). The exact date of the initial construction of the villa, which was located in an area that was inhabited by the Mediomatrics, a Celtic tribe, and conquered by the Romans in 50 BC, is not yet known. The complex reached its greatest size in the first half of the 3rd century AD.  Following the first wave of destruction in the late 3rd century there was a period of reconstruction.  The complex was destroyed by fire in the 4th century, after which it was never rebuilt.  However, artefacts indicate that in the second half of the 4th century the west wing of the main building was again inhabited to some extent.  The most famous artefact from the excavation is the Equestrian Mask of Reinheim, found in 2000 near one of the outbuildings. This bronze-plated iron mask in the form of a human face most likely served as a hinged visor on a Roman cavalryman's helmet. , 110 of these impressive masks have been found worldwide.
 Frankish burial ground from the Merovingian period.  This burial ground, which was re-covered between 1974 and 1986, contained approximately 115 graves.
 In addition to the ongoing excavations of the villa and the vicus, there is thought to be a prince's residence in the vicinity of the tomb of the princess, and archaeologists are also conducting exploratory excavations on the neighbouring heights in a concentrated effort to discover its location (2006).

Visiting the park 

On the German side there is a small museum which exhibits a selection of artefacts and replicas representing the whole range of periods from which finds have been made. In addition, there is a very impressive walk-in reconstruction of the Tomb of the Celtic Princess, including the most valuable funerary artefacts. In the area to the west there are reconstructions of a few Celtic-style dwellings.  From a viewing mound it is easy to make out the partially reconstructed foundations of the large Roman villa, while the main gatehouse and one of the outbuildings of the villa have been completely reconstructed.  Most of the original artefacts are now in the Museum für Vor- und Frühgeschichte (Museum of Prehistory and Protohistory) in Saarbrücken.

On the French side are the partially reconstructed thermal baths of the Gallo-Roman town, now sheltered by a roof and accompanied by helpful information plaques.  The shop-lined town street is easily recognizable from its exposed foundations and cellars, as well as a portion of the street, with clear information displayed in French, German and English.  There are reconstructions of a grist mill and baking oven, used for educational purposes.  A recent addition is a garden containing plants that were typically considered useful at the time.

The entire park lies in the picturesque Blies Valley and provides a beautiful setting for walks.

Re-enactment 

In collaboration with the experts and the park authorities, a group of citizens calling themselves "Taranis" has been endeavouring since 2002 to recreate the Celtic way of life with its accoutrements from the early La Tène Period (La Tène A, c. 475 to 370 BC).  They feature demonstrations of ancient crafts ranging from tablet weaving to the forging of Celtic utilitarian objects. Basing their activity on scientific research, the members then provide a graphic presentation of these crafts and ways of life.  Every year at the park, this group offers a re-enactment of its knowledge of Celtic life and receives invitations to participate in events at other venues as well.

The Archaeological Park in numbers 

The park covers an area of approximately 1200 by 600 metres.  Its archaeological sites attract about 40,000 visitors per year, including 20,000 schoolchildren.

Film 

 "Schätze des Landes" Bliesbruck-Reinheim und sein Europäischer Kultturpark.  Im Tal der Keltenfürstin.  ("Treasures of the Saarland" Bliesbruck-Reinheim and its European Archaeological Park.  In the Valley of the Celtic Princess.)  Documentary, 30 min.  A film by Wolfgang Felk, produced by SWR, premiere broadcast on November 4, 2006.

References

External links 

 bibliography
 
 press report by Saarländischer Rundfunk on the discovery of the double tomb
 Museum für Vor- und Frühgeschichte (Museum of Prehistory and Protohistory) in Saarbrücken:  the artifacts, such as those from the Tomb of the Celtic Princess at Reinheim, are exhibited here]

Archaeological sites in Germany
Archaeological sites in France
Archaeological parks