[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The New World Order (Wells book)

ton Churchill, noting that both men shared a returning ‘glare of prominence’ once found earlier in their respective careers. Despite this tribute from Eliot, he would end his remarks on The New World Order by highlighting that Wells ‘is walking very near the edge of despair’ by wanting rapid change.

The English priest William Inge, who was a close rival of Wells, wrote a review of The New World Order in the scientific journal Nature. For Inge, Wells's utopian vision in The New World Order was ‘utterly unrealisable’ but admired Wells's ‘earnest longing for a better world’. Inge agreed with Wells that ‘frenzied nationalism’ was a great danger to Europe and that the war engulfing Europe was a ‘ruinous folly’. However, notwithstanding these agreements about World War II, Inge would go on to criticise The New World Order for espousing a ‘Fabian collectivism’ that would extinguish the ‘strongest passions and instincts of human nature’. Further, Inge thought that Wells was too sympathetic towards socialist causes, remarking that Wells ‘sees Red’ when concerning his thoughts with society's elite. Also, despite Inge being an Anglican priest, he defended the Roman Catholic Church against Wells's criticisms that the Church was anti-revolutionary.

The American political scientist Charles E. Merriam reviewed The New World Order, stating that the book was ‘well worth examination’. Merriam noted Wells's ‘good intentions’ for drafting a set of human rights in the book, but did ‘deplore his somewhat feeble execution’. In his review, Merriam insisted that political experts should cultivate a more ‘bold and venturesome Wellsian spirit’ to solve ‘the great problem of modernising the large sections of our social institutions now demanding intelligent reconsideration and re-adjustment’.

The Times Literary Supplement (TLS) remarked that if The New World Order aimed to provide solutions to contemporary problems, then the book 'may seem jejune'. The TLS praised Wells for his analysis of world issues but thought that his recommendations to solve these problems were 'so general and vague that they are of little practical use'. Further, the TLS expressed that whilst the book intended to provide solutions to world problems, what Wells unintentionally provided was 'an attitude of mind which must be adopted if the search for a remedy is to succeed'. For the TLS, The New World Order outlined 'simply another utopia' that 'keeps alive the vision and the dream' of achieving world peace through 'the destruction of the sword'.

One of the harshest critics of H.G. Wells's world state idea was the British author George Orwell. Whilst both writers considered socialist alternatives to their shared political climate, Orwell complained that Wells had no interest in the realities of politics. Orwell derides Wells's idealism in his essay Wells, Hitler and the World State, saying that, ‘what is the use in pointing out that a world state is desirable? What matters is that not one of the five great military powers would think of submitting to such a thing’. Another point of contention for Orwell was the role of science in Wells's world state. Orwell argued that Wells confused scientific advancement with progress in societal values. For Orwell, this flaw in thinking made it hard for Wells to reconcile the order, planning and scientific encouragement found within Nazi Germany and his vision of a world state run by a scientific elite.

Dr Or Rosenboim, an academic at the School of Arts and Social Sciences of City, University of London, provided a contemporary evaluation of Wells's conception of world order. In her book, The Emergence of Globalism: Visions of World Order in Britain and the United States, 1939–1950, Rosenboim highlighted that Wells's new world order was 'limited by a conservative conception of statehood' and was 'grounded in a monistic conception of order'. Rosenboim further argued that 'under the auspices of the universality of science, the world state extended on a global scale the specific historical experience of Western civilisation, leaving no space for diversity, pluralism, or dissent'.

Impact on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) 
The New World Order was one of 18 advisory texts used to prepare the first draft of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). The United Nations Commission on Human Rights (UNCHR) noted that the preamble to Wells's declaration in The New World Order was a point of 'metaphysical' interest for drafting the preamble of the UDHR. Specifically, the UNCHR highlighted the phrases ‘a man comes into this world through no fault of his own’ and that ‘he is manifestly a joint inheritor of the accumulations of the past'.