[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# November 1976

nation's dictator, General Francisco Franco, who had died on November 20, 1975, after ruling Spain for almost 40 years.  The proposal was approved overwhelmingly in a referendum on December 15 and the first elections for the Congress of Deputies and for the Senate would take place on June 15, 1977.

In an event preceding the inaugural Great American Smokeout of 1977, one million residents of California were persuaded by the American Cancer Society to give up smoking cigarettes for an entire day. Surveys of smokers in California differed as to its effectiveness.
Born: Jack Dorsey, American entrepreneur and co-founder (in 2006) of Twitter; in St. Louis
Died: 
Man Ray (stage name for Emmanuel Radnitzky), 86, American-born French photographer known for his photograms, which he referred to as "rayographs"
Louis G. Cowan, 66, former President of the CBS Network and the creator of several popular TV quiz shows, including The $64,000 Question, was killed along with his wife in an accidental fire at his apartment at the Westbury Hotel in New York City
Alfred Jerger, 87, Austrian opera singer

Friday, November 19, 1976
Evita, a musical about the life of the late Eva Peron and produced and recorded by Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice, was released as a concept album in the UK, in the same manner that Webber and Rice had produced Jesus Christ Superstar in 1970.  The popular record album would be produced as a West End theatre musical, Evita, debuting on June 21, 1978.
The parliamentary members of West Germany's Christian Social Union of Bavaria (CSU) voted, 30 to 18, to end the alliance they had had with the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) since West Germany came into existence in 1949.  The CDU/CSU ticket had failed to win a majority in the October 3 election for West Germany's lower house of parliament, the Bundestag.  The split lasted only 24 days, and by December 13, the alliance between the CSU and CDU was restored. 
Voters in Algeria overwhelmingly approved a new constitution, restoring the People's National Assembly (suspended for more than 11 years since a 1965 coup d'état) and allowing for the direct election of the President.  The new document confirmed, however, that the ruling National Liberation Front would be the only legal political party.
Patricia Hearst, found guilty of bank robbery earlier in the year for a crime committed after she was kidnapped, was released from prison pending the appeal of her case after her millionaire father posted a bond of $1.5 million dollars.
Australian media entrepreneur Rupert Murdoch, who would later form the Fox Broadcasting Network, purchased New York City's afternoon newspaper, The New York Post from its owner and publisher, Dorothy Schiff.
Born: Benny Vansteelant, Belgian duathlon champion; in Torhout (died from complications of injuries, 2007)

Saturday, November 20, 1976
Thailand's 24-member military junta, which had been leading the Asian kingdom since a coup d'état in October 6, announced its appointment of a new National Assembly of 340 people, more than half of whom were current or former military officers, and most of whom were considered to be right-wing politically.  The junta stated further that it would act in "a purely advisory capacity" to the civilian Prime Minister" while still making clear its position on principal folicy decisions.
With only 11 days left in his term, Mexico's President Luis Echeverria Alvarez began implementing a policy of land reform, ordering the government confiscation of  of land owned by wealthy families, for redistribution to poorer families under the public policy that every Mexican peasant had a right to a piece of land.  The decision was overturned on December 7 by a Mexican federal judge.  
A landslide in the Colombian village of Chámeza, located in the departamento of Casanare killed 20 people as a row of huts were swept away and buried.
Born: Dominique Dawes, American gymnast; in Silver Spring, Maryland

Died: 
Trofim Lysenko, 78, controversial, but influential, Soviet geneticist and botanist whose pseudoscientific theories were blamed for famines in the Soviet Union and later the People's Republic of China
Hugh D. Auchincloss, 79, American stockbroker, former father-in-law of U.S. President John F. Kennedy as stepfather of Jackie Kennedy

Sunday, November 21, 1976
The Accord on the Transportation of Perishable Foods (ATP), signed on September 1, 1970, by Austria, West Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, and Switzerland, went into effect upon ratification by five states, and now applies to food shipment through 50 nations, mostly European but also the U.S. and Saudi Arabia.
Shahab Sheikh Nuri, Anwar Zorab and Mamosta Jafar Abdulwahid, Iraqi Kurdish nationalists and leaders of the Komalay Ranjdaran organization, were jointly executed by the government of Iraq.
Born: Daniel Whiston, English ice dancer; in Blackpool, Lancashire
Died: Niles Welch, 88, American stage and silent film star