[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Parsons Corporation

nd standards to upgrade air traffic controls in 19 facilities. Today, Parsons provides 24/7/365 technical support services in all nine FAA regions and two specialized FAA centers. Again in 2001, Parsons was the prime contractor to implement modernization plans for the national airspace system

1970s

In 1970, Parsons designed and built their first sulfur recovery plant for Consolidated Chemical Industries, Inc. In 1970, Parsons was hired by BP and ExxonMobil to perform engineering studies in Alaska to determine if the company could overcome the technical and logistical engineering challenges in Arctic oil production. Following this study, Parsons was hired in 1974 as managing contractor for all oil and gas facilities for BP and Exxon’s east side portion of Prudhoe Bay, Alaska. Also in 1974, Parsons provided modernization and construction program services for the new construction on more than 100 major U.S. postal installations. Parsons continues to provide services for the USPS today. In 1975, Parsons was selected to transform Yanbu, Red Sea in Saudi Arabia into a thriving, modern port complex. The company provided the master plan, design, and construction management services for this self-contained industrial city of more that 100,000 people that produces oil, gas, and petrochemical products used worldwide. Continuing work in the middle east, Parsons won a contract to design, engineer, and manage the construction of multiple facilities for ARAMCO’s Saudi Arabian gas program. In 1976, the Federal Railroad Administration awarded Parsons the Northeast Corridor Improvement Program contract, which was provided a 456-mile, high-speed rail service between Boston, New York, and Washington, D.C. In 1977, Parsons completed a 4-year design-build turnkey program to build the Jeddah Airport in Saudi Arabia (also known as the King Abdulaziz International Airport). In 1978, Parsons developed facilities criteria for assembly, testing, and system support of the U.S. Air Force’s MX missile system at Vandenberg Space Force Base.

1980s

In 1980, Los Angeles selected a Parsons joint venture to provide the Hyperion Wastewater Treatment Plant with program management, advanced planning, conceptual/detailed design, construction management, and startup services on all of their solids- and gas-handling expansion projects. In 1981, Parsons won a contract for the Petromin-Shell petrochemical design-build project, the company’s largest petrochemical project ever, valued at $1.5 billion. In 1984, as a subcontractor to Martin Marietta, Parsons supported development of the space shuttle ground system at Vandenberg Air Force Base. In 1985, the Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority hired a Parsons joint venture to provide commuter rail services and construction management of the MTA’s Red Line. Also in 1985, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers selected Parsons to furnish design, systems integration, engineering, and procurement for the eight chemical weapons incineration plants throughout the continental United States. The final munition was destroyed in July 2023 in Kentucky by a joint-venture team led by Bechtel National, Inc. and Parsons Corporation. In 1986, Parsons designed, engineered, and managed construction of the Red Dog mine air and sea ports along with the entire complex. In 1987, Parsons engineered, designed and tested the Titan solid booster rocket test stand at Edwards Air Force Base in California. In 1988, Parsons was hired to expand the Dulles (IAD) and Ronald Reagan (DCA) airports

1990s

In 1992, Parsons consulted with the Port of Los Angeles for the Pier 300 design. The $60 million project is a dry bulk terminal for international commodities such as coal and petroleum coke. Also in 1992, Parsons provided engineering cleanup services to the Department of Energy for its uranium enrichment facilities in Ohio. The project was worth $125 million. In 1993, The Southern Nevada Water Authority selected Parsons as PM/CM for their $2 billion capital improvement program to increase water capacity for the Las Vegas Valley. The company continues to provide program and construction management services to SNVA, and won a contract to continue services in 2020. In 1995, Parsons designed, engineered and managed the National Ignition Facility’s (NIF) construction.