[Source: PubMed]

69. J Migr Health. 2021 Oct 9;4:100067. doi: 10.1016/j.jmh.2021.100067.
eCollection  2021.

Social prescribing for migrants in the United Kingdom: A systematic review and 
call for evidence.

Zhang CX(1)(2), Wurie F(1)(3)(4), Browne A(3), Haworth S(1)(5), Burns R(2), 
Aldridge R(2), Zenner D(6), Tran A(3), Campos-Matos I(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Office for Health Improvement and Disparities, Department of Health and 
Social Care, 39 Victoria Street, London, United Kingdom SW1H 0EU.
(2)Institute of Health Informatics, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom NW1 2DA.
(3)UK Health Security Agency, Wellington House, 133-155 Waterloo Road, London, 
United Kingdom SE1 8UG.
(4)Institute of Epidemiology & Health Care, University College London, London, 
United Kingdom WC1E 7HB.
(5)Institute for Social and Economic Research, University of Essex, Essex, 
United Kingdom CO4 3SQ.
(6)Wolfson Institute of Population Health, Queen Mary University of London, 
London, United Kingdom E1 4NS.

BACKGROUND: The health needs of international migrants living in the United 
Kingdom (UK) extend beyond mainstream healthcare to services that address the 
wider determinants of health and wellbeing. Social prescribing, which links 
individuals to these wider services, is a key component of the UK National 
Health Service (NHS) strategy, yet little is known about social prescribing 
approaches and outcomes for international migrants. This review describes the 
evidence base on social prescribing for migrants in the UK.
METHODS: A systematic review was undertaken, which identified studies through a 
systematic search of 4 databases and 8 grey literature sources (January 2000 to 
June 2020) and a call for evidence on the UK government website (July to October 
2020). Published and unpublished studies of evaluated social prescribing 
programmes in the UK were included where at least 1 participant was identified 
as a migrant. Screening, data extraction and quality appraisal were performed by 
one reviewer, with a second reviewer checking 20% of studies. A narrative 
synthesis was conducted.
FINDINGS: Of the 4544 records identified, 32 were included in this review. The 
overall body of evidence was low in quality. Social prescribing approaches for 
migrants in the UK varied widely between programmes. Link workers who delivered 
services to migrants often took on additional support roles and/or actively 
delivered parts of the prescribed activities themselves, which is outside of the 
scope of the typical link worker role. Evidence for improvements to health and 
wellbeing and changes in healthcare utilisation were largely anecdotal and 
lacked measures of effect. Improved self-esteem, confidence, empowerment and 
social connectivity were frequently described. Facilitators of successful 
implementation included provider responsiveness to migrants' preferences in 
relation to language, culture, gender and service delivery format. Barriers 
included limited funding and provider capability.
CONCLUSIONS: Social prescribing programmes should be tailored to the individual 
needs of migrants. Link workers also require appropriate training on how to 
support migrants to address the wider determinants of health. Robust evaluation 
built into future social prescribing programmes for migrants should include 
better data collection on participant demographics and measurement of outcomes 
using validated and culturally and linguistically appropriate tools. Future 
research is needed to explore reasons for link workers taking on additional 
responsibilities when providing services to migrants, and whether migrants' 
needs are better addressed through a single-function link worker role or 
transdisciplinary support roles.

Crown Copyright © 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmh.2021.100067
PMCID: PMC8556515
PMID: 34746902

Conflict of interest statement: Dominik Zenner is an Associate Editor of the 
Journal of Migration and Health. No other authors have competing interests to 
declare.