[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Human rights in Egypt

n the African nation, which adds to the environment of discrimination against them, making them vulnerable to attacks and pressure of all sorts. As per a report by the Hudson Institute’s Samuel Tadros, the Coptic church is growing “outside Egypt's borders”.

Status of religious and ethnic minorities

From December 31, 1999, to January 2, 2000, 21 Coptic Christians were killed by an angry mob in Al-Kosheh. Al-Ahram in part cites economic resentment as the cause, but discusses Muslims who condemned the action. A Coptic organization saw it as a sign of official discrimination. In 2005 a riot against Copts occurred in Alexandria.

Privately owned and government-owned newspapers publish anti-Semitic articles and editorials.

On May 19, 2016, a prominent Coptic worker for Amnesty International, Mina Thabet, was arrested for 'inciting terrorist attacks on police stations, despite reports of paltry evidence.

Coptic women and girls are abducted, forced to convert to Islam and marry Muslim men. In 2009 the Washington, D.C. based group Christian Solidarity International published a study of the abductions and forced marriages and the anguish felt by the young women because returning to Christianity is against the law. Further allegations of organised abduction of Copts, trafficking and police collusion continue in 2017.
	
In April 2010, a bipartisan group of 17 members of the U.S. Congress expressed concern to the State Department's Trafficking in Persons Office about Coptic women who faced "physical and sexual violence, captivity ... exploitation in forced domestic servitude or commercial sexual exploitation, and financial benefit to the individuals who secure the forced conversion of the victim."

According to the Egyptian NGO Association of Victims of Abduction and Forced Disappearance, between 2011 and March 2014, around 550 Coptic girls have been kidnapped, and forced to converted to Islam. According the same survey around 40% of the girls were raped prior to their conversion to Islam and married their captors.

Police and state officials regularly harass people of ethnic minorities.

Racism and specifically anti-blackness is a pervasive issue in Egypt. In October 2005, Egyptian state police opened fire on Sudanese refugees camping outside the UNHCR office in protest of their neglect and conditions in the country, killing 134 and wounding over 400. They were predominantly women and children. The massacre is known as the Mustapha Mahmoud Park Massacre

In September 2021 a pregnant Sudanese refugee collapsed at the gates of the UNHCR in 6 October city. Her and her child later died due to intentional medical neglect. According to witnesses, Taghreed was neglected by the UNHCR 

In May 2021 a 15-year-old South Sudanese boy and his relatives were kidnapped, assaulted and abused by racists. The victims were physically and sexually assaulted at the roof for three hours, and one of the relatives’ hair was forcibly shaved. One of the victims; a 16-year-old girl, noted that they were stripped of their clothes and sexually assaulted.

Racism and anti-blackness is also prominent in Egyptian media; Depictions of blackface, cultural appropriation and other insults are commonplace in film, TV-shows and ads. Dunkin Donuts came under fire for their advertisement which was extremely racist.

Incidents of violence and harassment against black refugees in Egypt are increasingly common.

The indigenous Nubain communities face constant racism, land theft, arrests and cruelty.

Mortada Mansour, a prominent lawyer and a Sisi loyalist, during a TV interview in 2016 publicly made racist insults towards Ahmed El Merghany, a Nubian football player.

In December 2021 and January 2022, the Egyptian authorities arbitrarily arrested at least 30 Sudanese refugees and asylum seekers. They were targeted for their involvement in protests at the Cairo headquarters of the UNHCR, which were about the “harassment and racist treatment by Egyptians, a lack of protection, resettlement delays”. The refugees also took part in a demonstration at the Sudanese embassy in Cairo, where they expressed solidarity with the protests in Sudan. Reports revealed that the arrested refugees were subjected to beating and forced physical labour, before they were released without charges.

Status of women