[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Castan Centre for Human Rights Law

The Castan Centre for Human Rights Law is a research centre located within the Monash University Law Faculty in Victoria, Australia. It was established in 2000 to cater for the study of human rights law globally, regionally and in Australia, and grew rapidly to become the largest research centre in the Monash Law School.  it led by Melissa Castan.

History 
The Castan Centre was established in 2000 to meet the need for, and interest in, the study of human rights law globally, regionally and in Australia. The Centre was launched by former Justice of the High Court of Australia, the Hon Michael Kirby AC CMG, who said that the Centre would "reach out to the world" and add a "real cutting edge" to human rights research and advocacy.

The Centre is named after Ron Castan  (1939-1999), a distinguished barrister who was a prominent advocate of human rights best known for his leading role in the Mabo case which recognised the land rights of First Nations people in Australia.

The Castan Centre has been led by human rights experts including David Kinley, Sarah Joseph, Kevin Bell AM QC, and most recently Melissa Castan.

Description
The Castan Centre brings together leading national and international human rights scholars, practitioners and advocates from a wide range of disciplines in order to promote and protect human rights. It supports the development of legislation and government policy that respects, protects, and fulfils human rights, and develops research on human rights issues and the law, including book chapters, academic journal articles, reports and submissions to inquiries by government and United Nations bodies. It also engages in public education through seminars, online publications, and Australia's only dedicated annual human rights conference.

The Castan Centre strongly advocates for Australia to be a leader in the promotion and protection of human rights domestically, in the Asia-Pacific region, and across the globe. This includes the Castan Centre's commitment to advocating for a federal Charter of Human Rights.

 Melissa Castan leads the centre.

Areas of work 
The Castan Centre's research, policy, and advocacy work is wide ranging and covers both domestic and international human rights issues. The Castan Centre has adopted the following principal thematic Program Research Groups:

 Climate Change and Human Rights
 Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
 Indigenous Peoples' Human Rights
 Charters of Rights
 Gender and Sexuality 
 Technology, Privacy and Information.

Activities
The centre's main activities are research, teaching, public education (lectures, seminars, conferences, parliamentary submissions, internships and media presentations), applied research, advice work, policy work and consultancies.

Student programs 
The Castan Centre provides opportunities for students who are passionated about human rights to kick-start and develop their human rights careers. To do so, the Castan Centre endeavours to give as many students as possible the experience of working in human rights policy through its various student programs, including:

 In-house Internship Program: students spend one full day per week during semester on various human rights related projects. This enables students to assist the Centre in its human rights projects while learning more about human rights.
 Castan Centre Human Rights Clinic: the Human Rights Clinic engages students in practical human rights work, providing the opportunity for students to work with external clients on policy projects that have a real-world impact.
 Summer and Winter Vacation Research Program: high-achieving students work directly with a Castan Centre Academic Member on a research project, providing the student with research experience and an insight into research and academic careers.
 Human Rights Masters Degree and human rights subjects: the Monash University Faculty of Law offers the oldest Master's degree in Australia dedicated to the study of human rights law. The Faculty of Law also offers a number of undergraduate and postgraduate units on a number of human rights topics, including the popular subject Introduction to International Human Rights Law.

Public education 
The Castan Centre shares its expertise and raises awareness about key human rights issues and developments in the law, including through regular lectures by human rights experts.

The Castan Centre annual conference is the only dedicated human rights conference in Australia and has become a vital source of the latest information on Australian and international human rights issues. The conference is widely attended both in person and online and is a key fixture on the Australian legal calendar.