[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Childlore

erned how traditional rhymes seemingly appeal to children as something funny and remarkable in itself, often fascinated by the way it all rhymes with repetitive patterns and various styles and tones. For example, a popular English rhyme Opie and Opie heard from children as they tumble out of school:

This particular rhyme had little relevancy or meaning to adults but for children, Opie and Opie observed that these rhymes fascinated the children with its amusing tones and repetitive patterns. Additionally, Opie and Opie observed that the children also used these nursery rhymes as a means of communication with each other during a time where language is still fairly new to them and there are many occurrences in children experiencing difficulties expressing themselves. Simply, children often burst into telling and singing these rhymes as a cover in unexpected situations, to fill awkward silences, to hide an unexpressed emotion, or even in a gasp of excitement. As a result, these practices are very useful for children in their daily lives where they're easily adapting to using songs and rhymes in their social encounters, for amusement and for practical reasons.

Impact

Communication and language development 
One of the earliest ways children learn to communicate is through nursery rhymes. Earlier on, hearing nursery rhymes is how children begin to imitate sounds and learn to speak with a broad English vocabulary. Both the parents and child can speak and sing nursery rhymes together and the child will start to imitate the sounds and pronounce those words after talking about the nursery rhymes they heard. Eventually, the child begins to add additional words to their vocabulary, which opens up more opportunities of words to use when wanting to talk or sing. An example of this is seen in the saying "Sally go round the Sun".

When speaking this nursery rhyme to the child, the parents have the option to change the word around to the word over, under or through, expanding the vocabulary of the child and improving their language skills. Likewise, children eventually begin to learn to communicate using various styles of language, such as alliteration and onomatopoeia through nursery rhymes, which provides children with a framework for these various styles of language as they mature in their language skills.

Additionally, nursery rhymes expand the mental ability of children, exposing them to new ideas and encouraging them to use their imagination through the use of repetition. The simple, easily repeatable and satisfying rhythmic pattern makes nursery rhymes extremely appealing to children, which is significant as repetition is essential in language development. Simply, in order for a nursery rhyme to be effective, it must be repeated to the child multiple times. This repetition allows the child to increase their phonetic awareness and promotes spelling skills.

Furthermore, the anthropological works of Morag Maclean, Peter Bryant, and Lynette Bradley provides further insight examining the impact of nursery rhymes on communication and language development. In 1987, an in-depth study was conducted in which the researchers found that the study demonstrated that children begin their phonetic awareness before learning to read through activities which have no reading involved, such that there is a strong relationship between knowledge of nursery rhymes and phonetic development.  Simply, the ability to break down words into sounds and syllables is necessary for children to fully understand and use the alphabet and children develop these early literacy skills by learning nursery rhymes. For example, this was observed in the nursery rhyme "A Sailor Went to the Sea":

The exposure to this nursery rhyme allowed children to learn homophones and how there are different meanings for the words sea and see, even though they are pronounced the same, which essentially allows children to enhance and improve their language skills. All in all, practicing nursery rhymes effectively allows most children to receive great cognitive benefits.

Social and emotional development 
The nature of nursery rhymes serve as a tool for building and improving social and emotional skills for young children. Fundamentally, traditional children's nursery rhymes are a method of storytelling with beneficial aspects, such as voice inflection and engagement with the listener that allows children to develop a social and emotional understanding from the nursery rhymes.[13]

Additionally, many children may learn to make friends and build relationships with other children through nursery rhymes. Often, nursery rhymes involve cooperation and/or physical activity with the listener, which can be conducted in larger group settings. As a result, children have the opportunity to work with one another through guided instructions, which facilitate effective and engaged interactions contributing directly to their social development.