[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jeremy Stone

ashington, including the National Academy of Sciences, led to an agreement to restart the (post-1979 revolution) Iranian-American scientific exchange.

Stone published his second memoir, Catalytic Diplomacy: Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran, in October 2009. It covers his work from 1999 to 2006.

Resignation from FAS
After resigning from the presidency of the Federation of American Scientists on June 1, 2000, he formed the small nonprofit, Catalytic Diplomacy, which from 1999 to 2006 worked mainly on cross-straits relations between China and Taiwan; U.S.-Russian arms control; U.S. relations with Iran; and U.S. relations with North Korea. Beginning in 2007, along with a small group of activists, Stone worked on issues involving Myanmar (Burma), Cuba, Afghanistan, and Iran.
              
In 2004, he catalyzed the first public visit to Iran in a quarter century of a U.S. Government official, James Billington, the Librarian of Congress.

In 2010, Stone created an organization, Catalytic Longevity, to advance a dietary approach called "carbohydrate concentration".

In 2014, he reported on his work on religion on a website at www.catalyticreligion.org. This website documents the idea that the main architects of the three largest Western religions—Christianity (Apostle Paul), Islam (Mohammad), and Protestantism (Martin Luther)--all suffered from a mental disorder that encourages the creation of new religion. The disorder is a form of temporal lobe epilepsy called Geschwind Syndrome.

Stone received the Science and Society Award of the Forum on Physics and Society of the American Physics Society. In June 1985, he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Swarthmore College. And, in 1995, the Federation of American Scientists gave Stone its annual Public Service Award.

Personal life 
Stone was the son of journalist I. F. Stone and Esther Stone, and nephew of journalist and film critic Judy Stone. He resided, with his wife Betty Jane Stone, who predeceased him, in Carlsbad, California.

In popular culture 
The Stanford-based professor and hero of  Michael Crichton's 1969 novel and movie The Andromeda Strain is named "Dr. Jeremy Stone". Stone was at Stanford in 1969, but unlike the fictional character was studying post-graduate economics, not biology. There is also a comic strip hero with the name Dr. Jeremy Stone, whose alter ego is the superbly muscled Maul.

References

External links
Eric Alterman, "Of Scientists and Spies", The Nation (January 13, 2000)
 nytimes.com: Jeremy Stone, Who Influenced Arms Control During Cold War, Dies at 81

1935 births
2017 deaths
Activists from California
American people of Russian-Jewish descent
Jewish American activists
Jewish American scientists
The Bronx High School of Science alumni
Harvard University people
People from Carlsbad, California
Stanford University alumni
Swarthmore College alumni
Pomona College faculty
21st-century American Jews