[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lúcio Lara

Lúcio Rodrigo Leite Barreto de Lara (9 April 1929 – 27 February 2016), also known by the pseudonym Tchiweka, was a physicist-mathematician, politician, professor, anti-colonial ideologist and one of the founding members (and president) of the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA). He served as General Secretary of the MPLA during the Angolan War of Independence and Angolan Civil War. Lara, a founding member of the MPLA, led the first MPLA members into Luanda on 8 November 1974. He swore in Agostinho Neto as the first president of the country.

He was acting president of Angola for ten days, from 10 September 1979 to 20 September 1979, briefly leading the country between the death of Agostinho Neto and the inauguration of José Eduardo dos Santos. He was a member of the Angolan parliament from independence until 1992.

Early life and education 
Lúcio Lara was born in the city of Caála, in the province of Huambo, on 9 April 1929. His father was a merchant, and his mother was a princess of the Bailundo kingdom.

Between 1949 and 1952, he studied for a degree in mathematics at the University of Lisbon. During this period, he became a resident of the House of Students of the Empire, a student body that served as a center for anti-colonial discussions in Lisbon, Portugal. It was in this discussion center that he became friends with António Agostinho Neto (future president of Angola). The two would be responsible for the formation of the ideological nucleus of the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA). After graduating in mathematics, he began working as a teacher in Lisbon.

He entered the University of Coimbra in 1954 to study for a degree in physical chemistry, abandoning his studies in 1958 without completing them.

While participating in political party activities in Lisbon, he met Ruth Pflüger, a young Lisbon-born Portuguese Jew of German ancestry whom he married in 1955.

Political career 
He founded, together with several anti-colonial students and workers, the Clube Marítimo Africano in Lisbon, a recreational and sports entity that also served as a center for debates about colonialism. The Clube was important to circumvent Portugal's intelligence and information services and prevent the interception of correspondence.

In 1955, he joined the Angolan Communist Party (PCA), while taking part in the activities of the Portuguese Communist Party (PCP). In 1957, he joined the MPLA (founded the previous year), becoming its main ideologue, being even attributed to him the elaboration of the Marxist ideology of the party, which would become the dominant current.

His political activities lead him to be pursued by the PIDE (political police of Portugal). He is forced to flee Lisbon with his wife Ruth in March 1959 to West Germany and then to East Germany. In the same year, he fled again to Italy, when he discovered that there were Portuguese agents infiltrated in East Germany to assassinate him. In Italy, the philosopher Frantz Fanon found shelter for the couple in Tunisia and later in Morocco. In Rabat, Morocco, it signs an agreement with the African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde (PAIGC) to establish the MPLA's first international office in Conakry, Guinea. He stayed for a period in Guinea working as a professor of chemistry.

He was elected at the first conference of the MPLA party, in December 1962, as secretary of the organization and cadres and as a member of the central committee of the MPLA.  In 1963, with its expulsion from Democratic Republic of Congo/Zaire, and its flight across the river to Congo-Brazzaville, the MPLA fell into a state of total disarray and might have ceased to exist had Lara's brilliant organizational skills and cunning political decisions not saved it.

After being elected as secretary general of the party, he moved permanently with his family to Brazzaville (in 1964), considered the pro-tempore seat of the MPLA during the period of Angola's war of independence. In this city, he worked as a teacher of mathematics and chemistry in the party's schools and organizes the MPLA's department of education and culture, responsible for preparing teachers and maintaining a vast library.

On 8 November 1974 Lara was appointed head of the MPLA's diplomatic delegation for the first official visit to Luanda. His arrival was greeted by an ecstatic crowd of supporters, who broke through the containment barriers and invaded the runway at Luanda Airport when the delegation plane landed. Lara's delegation served to prepare the visit of Agostinho Neto to Luanda, the first visit of the party chief after the Carnation Revolution. Neto landed in the capital on 4 February 1975, being received by an even larger number of supporters.