[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Samuel Worcester

the larger battle had been lost, because the state and settlers refused to abide by the decision of the Supreme Court. Within three years, the US used its military to force the Cherokee Nation out of the Southeast and on the "Trail of Tears" to Indian Territory, lands west of the Mississippi River.

Later life
After being released, Worcester and his wife determined to move their family to Indian Territory to prepare for the arrival of the Cherokee. In 1835 he and his family moved to Tennessee, where they lived a short while before beginning their major trip by flatboat and steamer in 1836. They lost much of their household goods when a steamer sank. The journey to Dwight Presbyterian Mission in Indian Territory took seven weeks, during which Ann contracted a fever.

After reaching Dwight Presbyterian Mission, Worcester continued to preach to the Cherokee who had already moved to Indian Territory (they were later known within the nation as the Old Settlers, in contrast to the new migrants from the Southeast). In 1836, they moved to Union Mission on Grand River, then finally to Park Hill.  Worcester's work included setting up the first printing press in that part of the country, translating the Bible and several hymns into Cherokee, and running the mission. In 1839, his wife Ann died; she had been serving as an assistant missionary. He remained in Park Hill, where he married again in 1842, to Erminia Nash.

Worcester worked tirelessly to help resolve the differences between the Georgia Cherokee and the "Old Settlers", some of whom had relocated there in the late 1820s. On April 20, 1859, he died in Park Hill, Indian Territory.

Worcester House

Worcester House is the only surviving original house on the land of the former Cherokee community of New Echota. The remainder of the buildings were destroyed by European-American settlers after the Cherokee were forced to remove in 1838. The Worcester house was constructed in 1828 as a two-story building.

The Worcesters lived in the house from 1828 until 1834. It was confiscated by a Georgian who obtained title in the 1832 Land Lottery. The house was owned by many Georgians through the years until 1952.

That year the house was transferred to the state of Georgia, and in 1954 to the Georgia Historical Commission. It is managed by the Georgia State Parks and Historic Sites, a division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources. In 1962, the New Echota Historic Site was opened to the public. In 1973 it was designated as a National Historic Landmark District and is operated by the state. The Cherokee Council House was reconstructed here. The site recognizes Cherokee civilization.

See also
Brainerd Mission
Daniel Sabin Butrick (Buttrick)

References

Sources
Bass, Athea, Cherokee Messenger, University of Oklahoma Press (1936), .
Langguth, A. J. Driven West: Andrew Jackson and the Trail of Tears to the Civil War. New York, Simon & Schuster. 2010. .
McLoughlin, William G., The Cherokees and Christianity, 1794-1870: Essays on Acculturation and Cultural Persistence, University of Georgia Press (December 1994), .
New Echota Self-Guiding Trail, Georgia State Parks and Historic Sites (www.gastateparks.org).
Joseph C. Burke, "The Cherokee Cases: A Study in Law, Politics, and Morality,", 21 Stanford Law Review: 500 (1969).

External links
"Samuel Austin Worcester", Oklahoma Historical Society
New Echota Historic Site
New Echota Historic Site , Georgia State Parks

"Worcester House Photo Gallery"
Old and New Testaments Cherokee Bible Project
Dr. Elizur and Esther Butler Missionaries to the Cherokees historical marker

1798 births
1859 deaths
American Protestant missionaries
Protestant missionaries in the United States
Native Americans' rights activists
Translators of the Bible into indigenous languages of the Americas
People of Indian Territory
People from Worcester, Massachusetts
University of Vermont alumni
19th-century American translators
Native American linguists
19th-century American newspaper publishers (people)
American newspaper chain founders
Missionary linguists