[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alan Hart (writer)

has also suggested that the United States is in danger of an Israeli nuclear strike with a stolen nuclear weapon to trigger a war with Iran and "finish the ethnic cleansing of Palestine" under cover of war, which Hart claims that Israel is planning to do "as soon as the opportunity presents itself."

In April 2010, in his book entitled Zionism: The Real Enemy of the Jews, Hart wrote that "the Balfour Declaration was an expression of both the willingness of a British government to use Jews for imperial purposes and the willingness of Zionist Jews to be used. He also wrote that "Zionism's assertion that Israel was given its birth certificate and thus legitimacy by the UN General Assembly partition resolution of 29 November 1947 is pure propaganda nonsense" and that "Israel, which came into being mainly as a consequence of Zionist terrorism and pre-planned ethnic cleansing -- had no right to exist and, more to the point, could have no right to exist" without the consent of the Palestinians, which they have never given.

In February 2011, Hart called for the impeachment of American President Barack Obama. Hart argued that Obama's decision to veto the Security Council resolution condemning Israeli settlement activities in West Bank and demanding that Israel "immediately and completely cease" all such activities. Hart argued "a president who allows a lobby group to put the interests of a foreign power above those of the country of which they are citizens, and who by doing so puts his fellow citizens more in harm's way than they otherwise would be, is guilty of treason." Hart also wrote that "the only thing to which the Obama administration has been deeply committed is not provoking the wrath of the Zionist lobby and its stooges in Congress and the mainstream media."

On 25 April 2013, Hart posted what he called his final entry on Israel, Zionism, the Palestinians and related subjects. After complaining at length about corrupted historical truths and lamenting that the Palestinians, wealthy Arab elites and Western supporters of both had not been willing or able to use their resources to defeat Zionism, Hart claimed that Israel would in the end triumph as the propaganda battle had been lost, and that the endgame to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict would probably be "final Zionist ethnic cleansing of Palestine, followed, quite possibly, by another great turning against the Jews, provoked by Zionism’s insufferable self-righteousness and contempt for international law". Hart admitted that his personal and professional difficulties left him unable to continue his writing and advocacy efforts, with 88 commenters alternately praising his work and begging him to reconsider as of 8 June 2013.

9/11 'Truth' movement
In May 2010, Hart stated on online media such as the Kevin Barrett Show, that consultants close to the world's most prominent construction company assured him that "The twin towers were brought down by a controlled ground explosion, not the planes." Hart also speculated that the planes had been fitted with transponders and that Israeli Mossad agents guided them into the towers. Regarding the purpose of the 9/11 attacks, Hart stated that: “My guess is that at an early point they said to the bad guys in the CIA – hey this operation's running what do we do, and the zionists and the neo-cons said let's use it."

In another interview, Hart stated that "In my analysis there's enough evidence – visual, technical and scientific, and from eye-witnesses including fire fighters – to invite the conclusion that the Twin Towers, like Building Seven, were pre-wired for controlled demolition with nanothermite, the highest-tech military explosive."

Books
Hart was the author of several books including a biography of Yasser Arafat, Terrorism or Freedom Fighters: Yasser Arafat and the PLO (1984). Later, he completed the trilogy Zionism: The Real Enemy of the Jews. In an article discussing his book, Hart stated that "until enough Americans are made aware of the truth of history, no American president will have the space to break the Zionist lobby's stranglehold on Congress."

References

External links
 Alan Hart's personal website

1942 births
2018 deaths
9/11 conspiracy theorists
Anti-Zionism
BBC newsreaders and journalists
British conspiracy theorists
British television presenters
British reporters and correspondents
ITN newsreaders and journalists
Panorama (British TV programme)
Press TV people