[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mikheyev v. Russia

Mikheyev v. Russia was a 2006 court case involving Alexey Mikheyev and the Russian Federation. The case became notable as "the first serious victory in a case of torture" brought to the European Court of Human Rights against the Russian government. The case was brought forward by the Russian NGO Committee Against Torture and submitted to the European Court of Human Rights on November 16, 2001.

The applicant alleged that while in detention on remand he had been tortured by police officers in order to extract a confession to the rape and murder of a female minor. As a result, he had jumped out of the window of the police station and broken his spine. He also complained that the investigation into these events by the Russian police had been ineffective.

The court's decision in this case was a judgment on January 26, 2006. The ECHR recognized that there was ill-treatment of Mikheyev, which is a violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Basic Freedom. In addition, the court held that there was a violation of Article 3 of the convention on account of the lack of effective remedies in respect of the ill-treatment that Mikheyev complained about. ECHR held that the State should pay Mikheyev 250,000 euros in total compensation.

Case 

Mikheyev (himself a traffic police officer) was falsely accused of murder (his alleged victim later turned out to be alive and well) and tortured in police custody in order to extract a confession to the alleged crime. The abuse included administering electric shocks to Mikheyev's earlobes - the torture method called "a phone call to Putin" by the torturers (). After surviving the torture, Mikheyev jumped out of a third-floor window to escape his tormentors; the fall resulted in a spinal cord injury that rendered him a paraplegic.

Circumstances of the case 

On the evening of September 8, 1998, 22-year-old traffic inspector Alexey Mikheyev of Nizhny Novgorod and his friend Ilya Frolov met in Bogorodsk with two girls: M. Savelyeva and Y. Krylova.

They spent some time together riding in Mikheyev's car, after which Krylova was taken home per her request and Savelyeva went to Nizhny Novgorod with Mikheyev and Frolov.

When they were in Nizhny Novgorod, the girl asked to take her back to Bogorodsk. Mikheyev refused, since it was already late and he felt tired. Mikheyev invited the girl to spend the night at his apartment, informing her that his parents were there and she had nothing to fear. The girl refused and got out at the bus stop, saying that she would go to her acquaintances'.

On September 10, 1998, the mother of M. Savelyeva submitted to the Bogorodsk City Department of Internal Affairs an application on disappearance of her minor daughter, who left home on September 8, 1998, and did not return. The same day, on suspicion of participation in the disappearance of Savelyeva, Mikheyev and Frolov were delivered to the Bogorodsk City Department of Internal Affairs, and after interrogation by investigator Naumov, they were placed in a cell. Formally, Mikheyev and Frolov have not been charged.

On September 11, 1998, employees of the Bogorodsk City Department of Internal Affairs Dunaev, Naumov and Tyulchenko illegally searched Mikheyev's apartment and car, and garages and summer cottages belonging to Mikheyev's grandfather. The search was carried out illegally without the presence of witnesses, and the inspection of garages and cottages was not documented, and search of apartment and car in  protocol is indicated as "crime scene inspections" to give the searches an appearance of legality. During the vehicle search, police officers allegedly seized 3 pistol cartridges. Witnesses were not present during the car inspection and were invited to sign the protocol document after the pistol cartridges were discovered. Employees of the Bogorodsk City Department of Internal Affairs considered it necessary to continue to detain Mikheyev and Frolov. There were no legal grounds for further detention, therefore, police department employees: Dunaev, Naumov and Tyulchenko falsified police reports on pending hooliganism by Mikheyev and Frolov. On September 12, based on falsified reports, Judge of the Bogorodsky District Court imposed administrative arrest on A. Mikheyev and I. Frolov for 5 days until September 11, 1998.

From September 11 to 16, police officers intensely questioned Mikheev and Frolov for 10–12 hours at a time, forcing them to confess to rape and murder of Maria Savelyva and forcing them to write an admission of guilt.