[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Programme for the Development of Communication

ice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions”. More specifically, SDG 16.10 aims to: “Ensure public access to information and protect fundamental freedoms, in accordance with national legislation and international agreements”.

The two indicators related to the target are:

 SDG 16.10.1: “Number of verified cases of killing, kidnapping, enforced disappearance, arbitrary detention and torture of journalists, associated media personnel, trade unionists and human rights advocates in the previous 12 months”;
 SDG 16.10.2: “Number of countries that adopt and implement constitutional, statutory and/or policy guarantees for public access to information”.

Composition 
The IPDC is mainly composed of the Intergovernmental Council and of the Bureau of the Intergovernmental Council. The Council normally meets in plenary session in November every two years, and the Bureau annually in March. The Bureau discharges duties decided by the council and has full responsibility for Project selection, approval and allocation of funds.

The Intergovernmental Council of the IPDC 
The IPDC Council comprises 39 Member State delegates elected every two years from the UNESCO General Conference, and submits to it a report on its activities. The Council elects a chair, who is also Chair of the Bureau. The council, according to the Statutes as amended in 2003, is responsible for:

 Policy-making, guiding the planning and the implementation of the Programme;
 Approving priorities;
 Reviewing and assessing achievements on the basis of implementation and evaluation reports on projects and defining basic areas requiring increased international cooperation;
 Reviewing ways and means whereby Member States might participate more effectively;
 Approving an appropriate system of IPDC financing to secure the resources needed.

The Bureau of the Intergovernemental Council of the IPDC 
The Bureau members comprise the Chair of the Bureau, three vice-chairpersons, a Rapporteur and three other members, giving a total of eight who remain in office until a new Bureau is elected. The Bureau with Secretariat support is the appropriate body to submit proposals for a strategic framework to the council for consideration.

Journalism

Safety of journalists 

Safety of journalists is a special initiative of the International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC).  Safety of journalists is the ability for journalists and media professionals to receive, produce and share information without facing physical or moral threats. It includes a mix of international, regional and local prevention mechanisms intended to protect journalist, raise awareness on the violence they might face and promote freedom of expression. The International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) develops projects to address issues of safety of journalism and impunity in the field. Since 2008, the IPDC has encouraged Member States to submit information, on a voluntary basis, on the status of the judicial inquiries conducted on each of the killings condemned by UNESCO, for inclusion in a public report submitted every two years to the IPDC Council by the Director-General. The IPDC's 2016 Report is summarized in the "Time to break the cycle of violence against journalists" publication which highlights key findings, provides analysis of the killings, and of Member States responses.

UNESCO’s Director-General Report on killing of journalists 
Data on killings is gathered and verified for the Director-General's report and World Trends from multiple sources, including NGOs, UNESCO Field Offices and UNESCO Permanent Delegations. The Director-General further requests a report from States on the status of investigations into these killings. State responses are categorized as: i) no information received from the relevant State on the judicial enquiry's status; ii) the case, subject to specific official information being provided, is ongoing or unresolved; or iii) the case is resolved through conviction, the death of a suspect, or a judicial decision that the death was not related to journalistic practice. The response rate of states has risen from 30% in 2013 to 74.5% in 2017.

In addition to feeding into the Director Generals’ Report biennially, the data gathered is used in several ways. It is formally submitted to the IPDC Council, contributes to the World Trends report; it feeds into UNESCO's contribution to the global monitoring of SDG indicator 16.10.1; it is used as an input for UNESCO's submissions to the Universal Periodic Report of the United Nations Human Rights Council.