[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Operation Sharp and Smooth

to Hizbullah that the IDF "can operate deep inside Lebanon and wherever else we want to." According to Ami Pedahzur, Professor of Government and Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Texas at Austin, the raid was an unsuccessful attempt to kidnap Hezbollah activists for "bargaining" purposes.

According to an account published in Maariv a month after the war the IDF had learnt beforehand that the intended target of the operation would not be in place. The IDF however decided to go ahead with it for "propaganda purposes". The aim had been to obtain information about the fate of the abducted soldiers but in fact none was obtained. In spite of this it was marketed as a success story. The report was denied by the IDF.

Assessments

Stratfor concluded in an analysis of the raid that Israel took large risks and allotted huge military resources in carrying out the raid "well in excess of its achievements." Former chief of staff Moshe Ya'alon, a sharp critic of IDF conduct during the Lebanon war, questioned whether the raid was "justified in terms of risk, cost and benefit" and whether it was not simply "an adventure." HRW concluded that "the operation appears to have been based on questionable intelligence and had a disproportionate impact on civilians". Hezbollah leader Nasrallah mocked the raid during a speech on al-Manar TV in which he said "They stormed a hospital and threw a grenade...to search for injured fighters who they didn’t capture...they kidnapped five civilians and they are hostages. This is intelligence, this is the Mossad?" According to Ofer Shelach and Yoav Limor, the operation had a psychological influence on Hezbollah leadership as the attack was in the heart of their stronghold, the local commander of Bekaa area was dismissed, movement on the roads was minimized, and more energy was put on self-defense.

Fatalities
Group of men killed by hellfire missiles fired from helicopter or drone:
 Maxim "'Ali" Jamal al-Din, 18 (combatant in Communist Party)
 'Awad Jamal al-Din, 58 (combatant in Communist Party)
 Hassan Jamal al-Din, 18
 Naji Jamal al-Din, 45
 Muhammad Naji Jamal al-Din, 12
 Malik Jamal al-Din, 22
 Hussain Yusif al-Mekdad, 42
Men killed in or around Dar al-Hikma hospital:
 Atif Amhaz (nurse, civilian Hezbollah member
 Rida Midlej (Hezbollah combatant)
 Wissam Ahmad Yaghi (Hezbollah combatant)
Syrian Kurdish family killed by Hellfire missile strike:
 Talal Chibli, 40
 Maha al-'Issa Sha'ban, 35
 Muhanad Talal Chibli, 14
 Muayyad Talal Chibli, 12
 Asma Talal Chibli, 6
 Muhammad Talal Chibli, 4

Civilians detained and brought to Israel

 Hasan Deeb Nasrallah, 60
 Bilal Nasrallah, 32
 Ahmad Salih al-‘Awtah (or al-Ghawtah), 55
 Hasan al-Burji, 40
 Muhammad Shukr, unknown age

External links
Video of the operation by IAF, מבצע "חד וחלק"- חיל האוויר במלחמת לבנון השניה

Sources
 Human Rights Watch (HRW), "Why They Died", Civilian Casualties in Lebanon during the 2006 War, September 2007
 Amnesty International (AI), Israel/Lebanon Deliberate destruction or "collateral damage"?, Israeli attacks on civilian infrastructure, August 2006

References

2006 Lebanon War
August 2006 events in Asia