[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Blé Goudé

nity radio station, Radio Tchrato-Daloa which had refused to let them in, as well as besieging a UN base and the French Embassy for two days, until on 20 January, Blé called for them to go home and "clean up the streets". He was famously quoted as saying "Chacun son blanc" ("to each his white man").

Ivorian Peace Process
After 2006, Blé continued to play a leading role in nationalist politics. His public conflicts with other nationalists and members of Laurent Gbagbo's FPI, as well as continued attacks on opposition supporters by the jeunes patriotes, kept him in the public eye.

In May 2007, Blé accepted the government title of "Ivorian Peace Ambassador" and travelled around the country supposedly to preach reconciliation. Blé has said that he models himself on Kwame Nkrumah, Patrice Lumumba and Thomas Sankara.

In the two years of run-up to the often delayed (by the FPI) United Nations supervised Presidential Election, Blé campaigned and organized for Laurent Gbagbo, both as head of the FPI youth wing, and as a close adviser of the First Lady Simone Gbagbo, and as head of COJEP.

2010 and 2011 events

In 2010, Blé was nominated as Minister for Sports and Youth by the government of Laurent Gbagbo. He recruited some 5,000 pro-Gbagbo youth into the Ivorian Army and after only four weeks of training, arming them with AK47s, and putting them out on the streets of Côte d'Ivoire.

2013: beginning of the end

Blé was arrested on 17 January 2013 in Ghana, under a CPI arrest warrant, by members of the Ghanaian Police accompanied by Interpol agents, and surrendered to the Ghanaian authorities; he was flown to Abidjan the next day. He appeared in the Abidjan High Court on 21 January 2013 and was charged with war crimes, assassinations, endangering state security, and stealing state property. He was remanded in custody.

2014 to present: International Criminal Court
On 22 March 2014, Côte d'Ivoire extradited Blé to the International Criminal Court in The Hague to face charges of crimes against humanity. His case was combined with that of Laurent Gbagbo; their trial commenced on 28 January 2016. On 15 January 2019 Gbagbo and Goudé were acquitted by the ICC and their release was ordered.

In September 2021, The Defense of Charles Blé Goudé claimed 819,300 euros in damages for the long legal proceedings suffered by their Charles Blé Goudé.

Quotes

  "France will come to know a Second Algerian war"
Le Courrier d'Abidjan, 23 April 2004;
 "I don't want to see Le Patriote, Le Libéral and the papers of the RDR in news stands beginning Monday. I will assume all the consequences."
TF1, May 2004;
 On Adolf Hitler: "I've reached the point today where I don't believe anymore that Hitler was bad, or that Milosevic is bad. Because these same sources that present Hitler and Milosevic as criminals, that tell me today that we Ivoirian patriots who are suffering in the rebellion, who are torturers, they say that it's really the rebels who are our victims." Le Patriote (Newspaper of the RDR), 12 May 2004
 On Kofi Annan "A disgrace for Africa" AFP - 23 April 2004
 On rebel leader Guillaume Soro : "I realise that he's close to his grave." Le Temps, 27 July 2004;
 In response to the question : "What disciplinary measures are you going to take against the Young Patriots found guilty of raping European women?":
 "The Young Patriots are not guilty of rapes, neither are they guilty of looting suffered by the French. The French army organised the looting in cooperation with prisoners who have been freed."
Forum organised by the French weekly Nouvel-Observateur, 1 December 2004;
 On the UN :
 "Between us and the UN forces, it's war"
L'Intelligent d'Abidjan, 23 avril 2004;
 "If the UN forces don't make their position clearer, we're going to pursue them. We'll make them suffer their own Algeria."
L'Inter, 23 avril 2004;
 "We, the youth of Côte d'Ivoire, meeting today, are asking all the young Ivorians wherever they may be to give the UN the greatest revolt it has ever experienced."
24 Heures, 11 May 2004;
"I call on all of you to go and free our airport. If you're asleep, wake up. If you're eating, put down your fork. I'm not asking you to go and attack the French who came to live among us. Many French marched with us against the rebellion. Come and free the airport. Abidjan isn't a district of Paris".
Public statement, November 6, 2004

References
Footnotes