[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Miguel Barragán

é Rincón rose up in Veracruz against governor Barragán. The federal government sent General Guerrero to Xalapa where Barragán resided and succeeded in negotiating an agreement. Estava was placed as commissioner, and Barragán remained in the governorship, with Ignacio Mora in command of the military.

He participated in the Plan of Montaño, led by Vice President Nicolás Bravo. The insurrection failed, and Barragán was ironically imprisoned at San Juan de Ulúa, which he had captured shortly before, and then transported to the capital to be tried. He was tried together with Bravo, and their previous services to the nation contributed to the clemency that was shown by the court. In the end they were simply condemned to be banished, Barragán for six years. He was able to return to the country in 1829, due to an amnesty passed by President Vicente Guerrero.

Presidency

During the presidency of Anastasio Bustamante, Barragán was living in San Pedro, near Guadalajara. He was a critic of the Bustamante government and proposed a junta of eighteen notable citizens who could reform the country, leading to Barragán being attacked in the official newspaper.

He was named minister of war under the liberal administration of Valentín Gómez Farias, but he joined Santa Anna when the latter turned on Gómez Farías and overthrew him in April, 1834. The State of Jalisco opposed the overthrow of the government and Barragán was sent to gain their adherence along with General Quintanar. It was at this point, in January 1835, that Congress named Barragán as interim President in 1835.

President Barragán had to deal with an insurrection in May, 1835, led by Juan Álvarez in Texca, urging a return to the federal system. Petitions however came in from Orizaba, Toluca, and Jalapa urging rather to move away from the federal system and towards a centralized, unitary system of government. Another federalist insurrection in Zacatecas was pacified, and on October 23, 1835, the congress declared itself to be a constitutional congress. A new constitution was drafted by Francisco Sanchez Tagle and Lucas Alaman and was published throughout the nation at the end of the year.

Barragán sought to raise funds for the war effort against rebellious Texas, towards which Santa Anna was headed, and he also had to deal with insurrections fighting for the reestablishment of the federal system, led by Jose Antonio Mejia. Another federalist insurrection broke out in Tampico in December, 1835, but a majority of the garrison remained loyal and commander Gomez was able to reestablish order. The following day three vessels bearing mercenaries that set out from New Orleans overpowered the fort of La Barra through the betrayal of Commander Ortega, but they were defeated.

Barragán passed fierce measures to persecute army deserters and commanded that foreigners and arms being sent to aid the Texans, not be allowed to pass through any of the coastal states. His health, however began to swiftly decline. On his death bed, he was surrounded by friends, servants, and clergy. He died on March 1, 1836, shortly after kissing an icon of Christ, and was buried in the National Cathedral.

See also

List of heads of state of Mexico

References

Further reading
  "Barragán, Miguel", Enciclopedia de México, v. 2. Mexico City, 1996, .
  García Puron, Manuel, México y sus gobernantes, v. 2. Mexico City: Joaquín Porrúa, 1984.
  Orozco Linares, Fernando, Gobernantes de México. Mexico City: Panorama Editorial, 1985, .

External links 

 Short biography at El Balero (in Spanish).

Presidents of Mexico
Mexican Secretaries of Defense
Governors of Veracruz
Mexican generals
Mexican independence activists
1789 births
1836 deaths
19th-century Mexican military personnel
1830s in Mexico
Deaths from typhus
Infectious disease deaths in Mexico
Politicians from San Luis Potosí
19th-century Mexican politicians
People from Ciudad del Maíz