[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Constructive set theory

retely, denote by  the inductive property,
.
In terms of a predicate  underlying the class so that , the latter translates to .

Write  for the general intersection . (A variant of this definition may be considered which requires , but we only use this notion for the following auxiliary definition.)

One commonly defines a class , the intersection of all inductive sets. (Variants of this treatment may work in terms of a formula that depends on a set parameter  so that .) The class  exactly holds all  fulfilling the unbounded property . The intention is that if inductive sets exist at all, then the class  shares each common natural number with them, and then the proposition , by definition of "", implies that  holds for each of these naturals. While bounded separation does not suffice to prove  to be the desired set, the language here forms the basis for the following axiom, granting natural number induction for predicates that constitute a set.

The elementary constructive Set Theory  has the axiom of  as well as the postulate

Going on, one takes  to denote the now unique smallest inductive set, an unbounded von Neumann ordinal. It contains the empty set and, for each set in , another set in  that contains one element more.

Symbols called zero and successor are in the signature of the theory of Peano. In , the above defined successor of any number also being in the class  follow directly from the characterization of the natural naturals by our von Neumann model. Since the successor of such a set contains itself, one also finds that no successor equals zero. So two of the Peano axioms regarding the symbols zero and the one regarding closedness of  come easily. Fourthly, in , where  is a set,  can be proven to be an injective operation.

For some predicate of sets , the statement  claims it for all subsets of the set of naturals, and the axiom now proves such sets do exist. Such quantification is also possible in second-order arithmetic.

The pairwise order "" on the naturals is captured by their membership relation "". It is important to note that the theory proves the order as well as the equality relation on this set to be decidable. Not only is no number smaller than , but induction implies that among subsets of , it is exactly the empty set which has no least member. The contrapositive of this proves the double-negated least number existence for all non-empty subsets of . Another valid principle also classically equivalent to it is least number existence for all inhabited decidable subsets. That said, the bare existence claim for the inhabited subset  of  is equivalent to excluded middle for , and a constructive theory will therefore not prove  to be well-ordered.

Weaker formulations of infinity 
Should it need motivation, the handiness of postulating an unbounded set of numbers in relation to other inductive properties becomes clear in the discussion of arithmetic in set theory further below. But as is familiar from classical set theory, also weak forms of Infinity can be formulated. For example, one may just postulate the existence of some inductive set,  - such an existence postulate suffices when full Separation may then be used to carve out the inductive subset  of natural numbers, the shared subset of all inductive classes. Alternatively, more specific mere existence postulates may be adopted. Either which way, the inductive set then fulfills the following  predecessor existence property in the sense of the von Neumann model:

Without making use of the notation for the previously defined successor notation, the extensional equality to a successor  is captured by . This expresses that all elements  are either equal to  or themselves hold a predecessor set  which shares all other members with .

Observe that through the expression "" on the right hand side, the property characterizing  by its members  here syntactically again contains the symbol  itself. Due to the bottom-up nature of the natural numbers, this is tame here. Assuming -set induction, no two sets have this property.
Also note that there are also longer formulations of this property, avoiding "" in favor unbounded quantifiers.

Number bounds 
Adopting an Axiom of Infinity, the set-bounded quantification legal in predicates used in -Separation then explicitly permits numerically unbounded quantifiers - the two meanings of "bounded" should not be confused.
With  at hand, call a class of numbers  bounded if the following existence statement holds

This or the contrapositive variant

are statements of finiteness. For decidable properties, these are -statements in arithmetic, but with the Axiom of Infinity, the two quantifiers are set-bound. Denote an initial segment of the natural numbers, i.e.