[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pyotr Shafranov

ebruary 1942, Shafranov was credited with "skillfully organizing artillery-infantry cooperation and artillery fire support", for which he received the Order of the Red Banner on 31 January 1942. He continued in his position after the 249th was converted into the 16th Guards Rifle Division in March. 

Shafranov, by this time a colonel, became commander of the division on 16 August, and was promoted to major general on 27 November. He led the division in defensive battles in the Staritsa area as part of the 30th Army of the Western Front until February 1943. During March, in the Rzhev–Vyazma Strategic Offensive, Shafranov, promoted to major general, "skillfully organized the breakthrough of forward enemy defenses" before the division crossed the Volga and captured Rzhev. Subsequently, with the 11th Guards Army of the Bryansk Front, he led the division in Operation Kutuzov and the battles for Karachev and Gorodok in mid-1943. For the "successful performance of combat missions" in Operation Kutuzov, Shafranov was awarded the Order of Kutuzov, 2nd class.

Appointed commander of the 36th Guards Rifle Corps in early September, Shafranov led the latter as part of the 11th Guards Army with the Bryansk, 2nd and 1st Baltic, and 3rd Belorussian Fronts during the offensives of 1943 and 1944. For his "skillful leadership" of the corps in the late June 1944 Vitebsk–Orsha Offensive of Operation Bagration, during which it made a flank maneuver and captured the rail junction of Orsha, he was awarded the Order of Bogdan Khmelnitsky, 2nd class. During the July Kaunas Offensive, the corps crossed the Neman and advanced  in three days, capturing Kalvarija. He was promoted to lieutenant general on 13 September. 

Given command of the 5th Army of the 3rd Belorussian Front on 16 October, Shafranov transferred to command the 31st Army of the 1st Ukrainian Front on 15 December, leading the latter for the rest of the war. Under his command, the army fought in the East Prussian Offensive, capturing Schirwindt, Labiau, Wehlau, and Tapiau, which covered the approaches to Königsberg. Continuing the offensive, the army captured Heiligenbeil, the last German stronghold on the coast of the Frisches Haff to the south of Königsberg, and completed the destruction of the surrounded German troops in East Prussia during March. For his "skillful leadership", Shafranov was awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union and the Order of Lenin on 19 April 1945. He ended the war in the Prague Offensive in early May.

Postwar 
After the end of the war, Shafranov continued to command the army. In August 1948, he graduated from Higher Academic Courses at the Voroshilov Higher Military Academy and became commander of the troops of the Donbass Air Defense Region. After successively commanding the Baku Air Defense Region from June 1952 and the Ural Air Defense Region from April 1954, Shafranov commanded the Ural Air Defense Army between 1954 and 1955, while simultaneously serving as deputy commander of the troops of the Ural Military District for air defense. From May 1955 he served as deputy commander of the troops of the Transcaucasian Military District for air defense before becoming head of the air defense department of the Voroshilov Higher Military Academy in July 1956. Transferred to become head of the Military Command Academy of the Air Defense Forces in December of that year, Shafranov was promoted to colonel general in 1958. He became chief military advisor to the Hungarian People's Army in November 1959. In August 1961 he became the representative of the Supreme Commander of the Unified Armed Forces of the Warsaw Treaty Organization to the Hungarian People's Republic, the last position held before his retirement in 1965. Shafranov lived in Moscow, where he died on 4 November 1972, being buried at the Novodevichy Cemetery. He was survived by a son and daughter.

Awards and honors 
Shafranov was a recipient of the following Soviet awards and decorations:
 Hero of the Soviet Union 
 Order of Lenin (2)
 Order of the Red Banner (3)
 Order of Suvorov, 2nd class
 Order of Kutuzov, 2nd class
 Order of Bogdan Khmelnitsky, 2nd class

He was made an Honorary Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1943 along with other Soviet senior officers; his neck decoration was presented by British Ambassador to the Soviet Union Archibald Clark Kerr to People's Commissar of Foreign Affairs Vyacheslav Molotov in a 10 May 1944 ceremony.

Shafranov was a delegate to the third convocation of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union. A ship of the Ministry of the Maritime Fleet and a street in Buinsk were named for him.

References

Citations

Bibliography