[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Uranium mining in Kakadu National Park

2010, Jeffrey Lee, an Aboriginal landowner, offered thousands of hectares of his land to the Federal Government on the condition that it be added to Kakadu National Park. The land is rich in undeveloped uranium deposits, which could be worth billions of dollars.

Controversy regarding uranium mining

The United Nations voiced its official opinion the mine would not endanger the environment or traditional sites: The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) ruled against placing the World Heritage-listed Kakadu National Park on its "in danger" list after accepting assurances the mine would neither harm its environment nor endanger sacred Aboriginal sites.

Concern at Kakadu is that mine tailings and contaminated water may impact Aboriginal water and food supplies, with health consequences for local indigenous groups. Chief Justice of the Northern Territory Brian Martin disagrees, however, and has voiced that there would be no harm to the environment. Research and monitoring conducted since 1978 by the Australian Government's Supervising Scientist for the Alligator Rivers Region has indicated that uranium mining at Ranger has not resulted in any harm to the environment of Kakadu National Park.

There have been more than 150 leaks, spills and licence breaches at the Ranger uranium mine since it opened in 1981. In 2004, a number of mining workers in Kakadu became ill after potable water at the mine site became contaminated with process water. As of March 2009, the Ranger uranium mine is leaking 100,000 litres per day of contaminated water into the ground beneath the Kakadu National Park, according to a government appointed scientist. Energy Resources of Australia has been repeatedly warned about its management of the mine.

Benefits of uranium mining
The benefits to Australia of uranium mining in Kakadu are mainly economic. Australia possesses 24% of the world's uranium deposits, and the potential to export this uranium would benefit the Australian economy.
 
From 2000 to 2005 nearly 50,000 metric tonnes of uranium oxide were exported from Australia to eleven different countries. This brought over A$2.1 billion to the Australian economy.
 
Opponents of uranium mining in the Alligator Rivers region claim that these benefits have not reached local communities of traditional land owners, who remain poorly resourced, under-employed, and economically disadvantaged. In contrast, official Australian Government reports state that there have been many benefits brought to Aboriginal communities:
Since agreement was reached with traditional owners in 1978, a total of $145.8 million in payments has been made to Aboriginal interests, of which $1.9 million was in up front payments; $3.4 million was in rental payments and $140.5 million was in royalty equivalent payments.

The proposed Jabiluka mine has already generated $5.2 million in benefits for Aboriginal people. While no production-based royalties can be paid before production commences, it is expected that over its life, the Jabiluka mine will contribute a further $230 million to Aboriginal interests.

See also

 Anti-nuclear movement in Australia
 List of Australian inquiries into uranium mining
 List of Australian political controversies
 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
 Uranium mining in Australia
 Uranium in the environment
 World Uranium Hearing
 Depression glass
 Uranium tile

References

Further reading
 Australia. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission. Submission to the UNESCO World Heritage Committee on world heritage properties in Australia and Kakadu [electronic resource].[Canberra] : Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission, 2000.http://www.atsic.gov.au/issues/Indigenous_Rights/International/UNESCO/UNESCO_submission.pdf
 Grey, Anthony J. (1994) Jabiluka: the battle to mine Australia's uranium Melbourne: Text Publishing. 
Lawrence, D. (2000). Kakadu: the making of a national park. Melbourne: University of Melbourne.

External links
Time line of Uranium Mining in Australia
ERA to boost uranium production at Kakadu

Environmental issues in Australia
Uranium mining in the Northern Territory
Environmental controversies
Kakadu National Park
Uranium politics