[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals

Aspiration is the entry of a liquid or solid directly through the oral or nasal cavity, or indirectly from vomiting, into the trachea and lower respiratory system.  Substances and mixtures of this hazard class are assigned to one of two hazard categories this hazard class on the basis of viscosity.

Substitute substances
Sometimes companies are able to replace hazardous substances with substances featuring a reduced health risk. As an assistance to assess possible substitute substances, the Institute for Occupational Safety and Health of the German Social Accident Insurance (IFA) has developed the Column Model. On the basis of just a small amount of information on a product, substitute substances can be evaluated with the support of this table. The current version from 2020 already includes the amendments of the 12th CLP Adaptation Regulation 2019/521.

Environmental hazards

 Acute aquatic toxicity means the intrinsic property of a material of causing injury to an aquatic organism in a short-term exposure. Substances and mixtures of this hazard class are assigned to one of three toxicity categories on the basis of acute toxicity data: LC50 (fish) or EC50 (crustacean) or ErC50 (for algae or other aquatic plants). In some regulatory systems these acute toxicity categories may be subdivided or extended for certain sectors.
 Chronic aquatic toxicity means the potential or actual properties of a material to cause adverse effects to aquatic organisms during exposures that are determined in relation to the lifecycle of the organism. Substances and mixtures in this hazard class are assigned to one of four toxicity categories on the basis of acute data and environmental fate data:  LC50 (fish) or EC50 (crustacea) or ErC50 (for algae or other aquatic plants) and degradation or bioaccumulation.

Classification of mixtures

The GHS approach to the classification of mixtures for health and environmental hazards is also complex.  It uses a tiered approach and is dependent upon the amount of information available for the mixture itself and for its components. Principles that have been developed for the classification of mixtures, drawing on existing systems such as the European Union (EU) system for classification of preparations laid down in Directive 1999/45/EC.  The process for the classification of mixtures is based on the following steps:

 Where toxicological or ecotoxicological test data are available for the mixture itself, the classification of the mixture will be based on that data;
 Where test data are not available for the mixture itself, then the appropriate bridging principles should be applied, which uses test data for components and/or similar mixtures;
 If (1) test data are not available for the mixture itself, and (2) the bridging principles cannot be applied, then use the calculation or cutoff values described in the specific endpoint to classify the mixture.

Testing requirements

The GHS document does not include testing requirements for substances or mixtures.  In fact, one of the main goals of the GHS is to reduce the need for animal testing.  The GHS criteria for determining health and environmental hazards are test method neutral, allowing different approaches as long as they are scientifically sound and validated according to international procedures and criteria already referred to in existing systems.  Test data already generated for the classification of chemicals under existing systems should be accepted when classifying these chemicals under the GHS, thereby avoiding duplicative testing and the unnecessary use of test animals.  The GHS physical hazard criteria are linked to specific UN test methods.  It is assumed that mixtures will be tested for physical hazards.

Hazard communication

Per GHS, hazards need to be communicated:
 in more than one form (for example, placards, labels or SDS's).
 with hazard statements and precautionary statements.
 in an easily comprehensible and standardized manner.
 consistent with other statements to reduce confusion.
 taking into account all existing research and any new evidence.

Comprehensibility is challenging for a single culture and language, so global harmonization is complex. The GHS Purple Book includes a comprehensibility-testing instrument in Annex 6. Factors that were considered in developing the GHS communication tools include:
 Different philosophies in existing systems on how and what should be communicated;
 Language differences around the world;
 Ability to translate phrases meaningfully;
 Ability to understand and appropriately respond to pictograms.

GHS label elements