[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# ArmaLite AR-7

the pistol grip; there is no federal maximum pistol barrel length.

In the United Kingdom this rifle is a Section 1 Firearm requiring a Firearms Certificate to buy or acquire.

AR-7 Industries
AR-7 Industries made solid steel barrels much heavier than the AR-7 barrels by ArmaLite, Charter or Henry.

Henry Survival Rifle
In 1980, the design and production rights passed on to Henry Repeating Arms and the compact rifle was slightly revised, resulting in improved reliability and durability. The AR-7 is now (2018) known as the Henry U.S. Survival AR-7 rifle.  An ABS material replaced the original stock plastic, which was prone to cracking and failure. The receiver recess in the Henry stock allows storage of receiver with a magazine in place and the rifle is normally sold with two magazines.  The latest versions of the Henry allow for storage of three magazines total, with two in the stock recess, and one in the receiver. The modern Henry U.S. Survival Rifle floats on water for a while either assembled or stored, although it is not entirely waterproof and will sink eventually. The rifles now include a full Teflon coating on the outer surface.  Henry added a  3/8 inch Dovetail rail (aka Weaver .22 Tip-Off Mount rail) on the top of the receiver for attaching a wide variety of optics.  Henry introduced a 5-round magazine for jurisdictions that limit magazine capacity for hunting wild game.

Israeli pilot's survival rifle
Another variant was made by ArmaLite and sold to the Israeli Military for use as pilot/aircrew survival weapons, replacing the 9mm Beretta 1951 8-shot handgun.  The Israelis further modified these rifles, adding a telescoping stock, a pistol grip from a FAL-type rifle, shortening the barrel (to 13.5 inches), and adding a front sight based on the K98k Mauser. The shoulder stock held two magazines, with a third magazine in the receiver, plus forty rounds of ammunition stored inside the pistol grip.  After Israeli service, some of these rifles were re-imported into the U.S. by Bricklee Trading Company for sale on the civilian market.  The barrels are marked with the BTC identification as required by U.S. law on imported guns.  The Israeli version commands a premium among collectors.  In order to comply with U.S. Federal law on minimum rifle barrel length of 16", a 3-inch muzzle brake was permanently attached.

Operation
The AR-7 functions as a simple or plain blowback semi-automatic. The AR-7 is a light firearm with heavy bolt and twin recoil springs.

Aftermarket modifications
The fact that both the barrel and stock are detachable has led to a plethora of after-market accessories, similar to those available for the Ruger 10/22. Barrels, stocks, and grips, of varying finishes and utility, can be added to the rifle. These include collapsible stocks, wire-framed stocks, pistol grips, flash suppressors, shrouded barrels, high-capacity magazines, telescopic sights, reflex 'red dot' sights and other occasionally fanciful-looking hardware, some at a cost greater than the rifle itself. Such accessories often make it impossible to use the original floating stock for storage of modified parts.

The current Henry U.S. Survival AR-7 has a 3/8" scope sight rail integral with the receiver to accept standard Weaver-style "Tip-Off" rings. For earlier makes, B Square supplied the Charter Arms AR-7 Explorer Scope Mount Base, an accessory bracket with a 3/8" rail. The base attached by the receiver side plate screw (the Charter Arms side plate screw is longer than that of the ArmaLite). This base can be used on the ArmaLite and the Charter Arms Explorer rifles and the Charter Arms Explorer II pistol. However, with the base in place, the rifle receiver will no longer fit the recess in the stock for storage. (The B Square Charter Arms AR-7 base is not needed on the Henry version and will not fit the Henry receiver.)

Apart from the highly modified AR-7 Israeli survival rifles, most AR-7 models lack provision for a carry sling. AR-7 owners have adapted slings designed for use on guns without modification, such as universal shotgun slings designed to cup the shotgun buttstock at the rear and clamp to the barrel or magazine tube at the front. Given the light weight of the AR-7, 2.5 pounds, a proper length of parachute cord with a slip knot at either end can be used as a sling or lanyard.

See also
List of ArmaLite rifles
Preetz Model 65
Marlin Model 70P

References

External links
Henry Repeating Arms webpage for the AR-7/U.S. Survival Rifle
Photos of the AR-7 Survival Rifle

Survival guns
Semi-automatic rifles of the United States
Takedown guns
.22 LR firearms