[Source: PubMed]

75. Scand J Psychol. 2026 Apr;67(2):290-307. doi: 10.1111/sjop.70026. Epub 2025
Oct  1.

Populism as a Catalyst for Extremism: An Analysis of Its Relationship With 
Conspiracy Beliefs and Ideological Radicalization.

Ventura-Egoávil J(1), Shimabukuro-Lara JG(2), Zagal-Sanchez JI(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidad ESAN, Lima, Peru.
(2)Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, Lima, Peru.
(3)Universidad Nacional Federico Villareal, San Miguel, Peru.

This article presents an empirical model examining the explanatory relationship 
between three constructs: populism, conspiracy beliefs, and extremist 
attitudes-defined as attitudes of rejection and destruction toward democratic 
systems, manifested through violent acts, and even terrorism. The research was 
conducted in an emerging economy country, using a representative sample of 400 
citizens in full exercise of their civil rights. Data were analyzed using 
correlational analysis and a mediation model to test the influence of populist 
attitudes on extremist attitudes, mediated by conspiracy beliefs. Findings 
indicate that populist attitudes influence extremist attitudes, mediated by 
conspiracy beliefs. This suggests that individuals with populist attitudes are 
more prone to general extremism, amplified by conspiracy theories. An increase 
in populist attitudes may heighten inclinations toward violent extremism. 
Additionally, populist attitudes were found to explain both right- and left-wing 
radicalism, mediated by conspiracy beliefs. However, contrary to findings in 
Europe and the United States, populism exhibited a highly significant 
relationship with left-wing radicalism in this context. The study concludes that 
populism poses a greater risk than traditional ideologized radicalisms due to 
its ability to directly influence extremist attitudes, potentially translating 
into violent and even terrorist behaviors. This finding underscores the urgency 
of addressing populism as a sociopolitical phenomenon capable of exacerbating 
extremist dynamics in contemporary contexts.

© 2025 Scandinavian Psychological Associations and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/sjop.70026
PMID: 41034150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]