[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Operation Prone

from 71 Motorised Brigade
 HQ elements from 8th Armoured Division (South Africa)
 HQ elements from 44 Parachute Brigade
 one G-5 battery - based in SE Angola
 one G-2 battery - 71 Motorised Brigade
 8 Maintenance Unit
 30 Corps Maintenance Unit
 two 32mm anti aircraft batteries
 one provost platoon

10 SA Division (Operation Prone) - Brigadier Chris SerfonteinTask Force X-ray - Colonel Leon Marais
 53 Battalion
 54 Battalion
 4 SAI Battalion
 one combat wing - 101 Battalion
 17 Field Regiment HQ
 one G5 battery - 4 SAI
 one G2 battery - 17 Field Regiment
 one MRL battery - 17 Field Regiment
 one AA battery - Regiment VaalriverTask Force Zulu - Colonel Mucho Delport
 51 Battalion
 52 Battalion
 102 Battalion
 32 Battalion
 61 Mechanised Battalion incl. one tank squadron
 one combat wing - 101 Battalion
 14 Artillery Regiment HQ
 one G2 battery - Transvaal State Artillery Regiment
 one 35mm AA troop - Regiment Orange Free State
 two 20mm AA troops - Regiment Eastern TransvaalTask Force Yankee - Colonel Jan Lusse
 HQ 81 Armour Brigade
 HQ 10 Artillery Brigade
 one tank regiment (less one tank squadron) - 81 Armour Brigade
 one mechanized infantry company - 81 Armour Brigade
 one armoured car squadron - Light Horse Regiment|2 Light Horse Regiment
 two armoured car squadrons - 1 & 2 Special Service Battalion
 one 120mm mortar battery - 4 Artillery RegimentTask Force Whiskey all counter-insurgency units from Tsumeb/Grootfontein/Otavi10 Artillery Regiment - Colonel Jean Lausberg

Cuban forces50th Division''' - Brigadier General Patricio de la Guardia Font
 three special forces battalions - Cuban SPETSNAZ
 three tank battalions - Cuban tank regiment (105-110 tanks)
 one artillery regiment - Cuban regiment
 six infantry regiments - Cuban and Angolan soldiers (1500-2000 men each plus tanks)
 three raiding battalions - Cuban and SWAPO soldiers (200 Cuban + 250 SWAPO each)
 Missile air defence batteries, air force helicopters and aircraft

Initial clashes
With the Cuban movements southwards and continuing SADF/South West African Territorial Force operations against SWAPO in the same area, both forces would soon come into contact with each other.  On 18 April 1988, a SWATF unit, 101 Battalion, chasing a SWAPO unit was ambushed by Cuban elements from Xangongo near Chipeque. The battle ended with the South Africans losing two men and eleven wounded. Thereafter the Cubans continued patrolling southwards from Xangongo towards the SADF garrison at Calueque.

On 2 May 1988, SAAF Mirages attacked FAPLA positions south of Techipa. The Cubans, fearing a South African advance, retaliated and planned another ambush.

During the first round tripartite talks in London on the 3 May 1988, behind the scene talks between the military contingents of Cuba and South Africa was tense. The Cubans threatened to invade SWA/Namibia if the South Africans did not agree to the Cuban proposals while the South African indicated if they tried, it would be Cuba's darkest day. The talks ended the following day.

The Cuban ambush site was in position by 4 May 1988 less than 2 km south of Donguena. A SADF unit, the 101 Battalion, with twenty Casspirs and two trucks had been sent forward to occupy Donguena. They ran into the ambush with Cubans destroying or damaging four Casspirs. The South Africans withdrew at dusk having lost seven men and one captured, Sergeant Johan Papenfus and failed to retrieve the fourth Casspir and its equipment. The Cubans were said to have lost forty-five soldiers. Later that evening, a further three companies from 201 and 101 Battalions were sent forward to capture Donguena, but with Cuban tank positions south of the town, withdrew. The Cuban later withdrew the same evening.

On 12 May 1988, the 32 Battalion commander was called to a meeting in Oshakati to discuss a plan for the unit to attack SWAPO units at Techipa. The commander persuaded the planners to reconnoitre the area first before attacking. On 16 May, two reconnaissance units were airlifted to an area south of Techipa and while the second landed close to Xangongo but on the western side of the Cunene River. The first team was unable to get close to Techipa while the second team found tank tracks on all roads showing extensive patrolling of the area. The first team was sent back in from the north of Techipa by vehicle, finding extensive trench systems around the town reminiscent of the same layered system around Cuito Cuanavale with vehicles, generators and radar systems and outposts at further distances south of the town. A decision was then made to establish a new task force but it would only be in operation by early June, with a specific aim of protecting the water scheme at Calueque. In the meantime, three companies of 32 Battalion would hold the line until the task force was operational and would continue to patrol and reconnoitre the area south of Techipa.