[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Brookwood Labor College

f 1936-1937). Some 2,800 people saw Mill Shadows when it toured Hartford, Connecticut; Allentown, Pennsylvania; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; New Brunswick, New Jersey; Baltimore, Maryland; and Washington, D.C., in 1932. The play stayed in production for four years, and more than 30,000 people saw it.

In October 1936, Nicholas Ray was hired to run Brookwood's theater group. Ray saw a performance of Sit-Down and enjoyed it. Songwriter Earl Robinson was hired as composer. Ray and Robinson secured contracts which paid them $120 a month for eight months. Working only two hours a day, Ray crafted a troupe from the students at the college, and used improvisation techniques he'd learned at the Theatre of Action to help craft plays. The goal was to take the troupe on the road, performing at various union conventions and functions. But with Brookwood failing financially, they were released from their contracts after just three months.

Even during Brookwood's waning days, the labor program remained strong. In 1936, there were three full companies of Brookwood Players on tour, which produced plays in 100 cities in 23 states.

Two of the Brookwood plays, The Miners and Mill Shadows, remain critically acclaimed 75 years after they were first written.  The two plays were collected in Lee Pappas' 2010 book of critically acclaimed labor plays.

Publications
The college had a publisheing arm, Brookwood Labor Publications, whose works included:

 The Labor Movement Today (1934)
 A Labor Party for America? (1936)
 The Company Union (1936)
 Strikes Under the New Deal (1935-7?)

 Methods of War Resistance (practicum) (1939?)

Impact
Brookwood Labor College left a significant legacy in the American labor movement. Scholar Susan Kates notes that "no labor college proved more successful in attracting large numbers of students and setting the tone for worker education in America than Brookwood Labor College". Its curriculum shaped hundreds of programs nationwide. The school graduated more than 500 students in 16 years, and many of its graduates played prominent roles in national labor unions in mid-century. One sign of Brookwood's influence is just how much it changed American labor unions. Many of Brookwood's beliefs—mass unionization, unionization of skilled and semi-skilled workers, an end to gender and racial discrimination, support for social insurance programs—were later adopted by mainstream labor.

During the school's brief lifespan, Brookwood was widely known as "labor's Harvard", and noted author Sinclair Lewis called it "the only self-respecting, keen, alive educational institution I have ever known..." Labor historian Linda Eisenmann notes that, after 75 years, scholars still consider Brookwood one of the most influential labor colleges in American history. Labor historian Frances Ryan characterized it as "one of the most successful experiments in worker education in U.S. labor history".

Brookwood's reputation is based largely on its curriculum. Ryan says its curriculum was unique as a model of progressive education methods. The school also pioneered the extension course and the correspondence course.

Notable students
Below is a partial list of notable students who attended Brookwood Labor College:

Ella Baker, civil rights activist
Harry Bellaver, stage, film and television actor
Len De Caux, publicity director of the Congress of Industrial Organizations
Elizabeth Hawes, union organizer and fashion designer
Anna Pauline "Pauli" Murray, civil and women's rights activist and the first black woman ordained an Episcopal priest.
Rose Finkelstein Norwood, labor organizer, president of the Boston Women's Trade Union League
Joseph Ozanic, founder of the Progressive Miners of America
Rose Pesotta, vice president of the ILGWU
Roy Reuther, prominent international labor organizer with the United Automobile Workers
Sophie Reuther, international labor organizer with the United Automobile Workers
Walter Reuther, President of the United Automobile Workers and President of the Congress of Industrial Organizations
Floria Pinkney, international labor organizer with the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union

See also

 Labour Party (disambiguation) for various political movements associated with trade unionism or labor colleges
 Rand School of Social Science (1906)
 Work People's College (1907)
 New York Workers School (1923):
 New Workers School (1929) 
 Jefferson School of Social Science (1944)
 Highlander Research and Education Center (formerly Highlander Folk School) (1932)
 Commonwealth College (Arkansas) (1923-1940) 
 Southern Appalachian Labor School (since 1977)
 San Francisco Workers' School (1934)
 California Labor School (formerly Tom Mooney Labor School) (1942)
 Continuing education

References