[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Henry Howell

d with African-American voters but failed due to lack of support in wealthy suburban areas. Garrett Epps, a reporter for the Richmond Mercury, would later write a fictionalized account of the race, entitled The Shad Treatment. Howell later described the 1973 campaign as "the high point" of his life.

In 1977, Howell made his final run for elective office, campaigning for governor as a Democrat. Although former State Attorney General Andrew P. Miller, his chief primary opponent, outspent him by a ratio of 3-to-1, Howell defeated him in the primary with 253,373 votes (51%) but went on to lose the general election, taking 541,319 votes (43%) to Republican Lieutenant Governor John N. Dalton's 699,302 votes (56%). Charles Robb, who won election as lieutenant governor in that election, took action to align the personal animosity which had evolved between the Miller and Howell factions, by persuading former United States Senator William Spong to chair a commission to revitalize the state Democratic party. Virginia Democrats then moved from a primary election to a convention system, and Robb's political career continued, but Howell's ended.

Death and legacy
After losing the 1977 election, Howell retired to Norfolk, dying of cancer on July 7, 1997.

Although he failed to win Virginia's highest office, Howell put a definitive end to the rule of the conservative Byrd machine, helped consolidate gains of the Civil Rights Movement, and partnered with and mobilized newly enfranchised African-American voters. He offered the previously marginalized unprecedented recognition and respect in the state's transforming politics. He was much more progressive, less compromising, and more anti-Establishment than most of the so-called "New South" Democrats who emerged in the 1970s, such as Jimmy Carter, Reubin Askew, and Dale Bumpers. That hampered his success in a state that had rarely experienced a strong populist movement. However, his rejection of Virginia's racist legacy and the cross-racial coalitions he built prefigured the historic 1989 election of L. Douglas Wilder as the state's first African-American governor, as well as Barack Obama's victories in Virginia in two consecutive presidential elections. Eulogizing Howell, political scientist Larry Sabato, who had worked for Howell, praised how he drew support both from liberals and conservatives because he sought "power not for its own sake but to help others, to serve people and not the political class."

References

|-

1920 births
1997 deaths
Politicians from Richmond, Virginia
Politicians from Norfolk, Virginia
Lieutenant Governors of Virginia
Democratic Party Virginia state senators
Democratic Party members of the Virginia House of Delegates
College of William & Mary alumni
University of Virginia School of Law alumni
Virginia lawyers
Left-wing populism in the United States
20th-century American lawyers
20th-century American politicians
Candidates in the 1973 United States elections