[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# David Bridges

al of the season, in which Chelmsford would once again make the Conference South play-offs, but ultimately fall short. They lost 2–1 on aggregate in the semi-finals to Salisbury City, with Bridges playing in both games. He made 36 appearances in all competitions during the season, scoring two goals.

Later career
Shortly after the end of the 2012–13 season, Bridges signed for Isthmian League Premier Division club Bury Town on a free transfer. On joining Bury Town, Bridges said – "I'm good friends with Adam Tann and Craig Parker and they couldn't say enough good things about the club. They told me that the players are really well looked after and the club is full of good honest people". He left Bury Town in December 2013 due to the club's financial problems, and subsequently joined Brackley Town of the National League North in January 2014. Bridges made his debut for Brackley on 11 January 2014, coming on as an 87th-minute substitute in a 3–1 victory over Gainsborough Trinity. He made 15 appearances during the second half of the 2013–14 season whilst at Brackley, scoring two goals.

Bridges left Brackley in the summer and signed for King's Lynn Town of the Northern Premier League on 28 May 2014. On securing the signing of Bridges for the season, manager Gary Setchell stated "I'm probably very, very fortunate I've stumbled across Bridgo when he's got a lot going on outside of football, business wise". Whilst out injured, and having already obtained his UEFA 'B' coaching badge, Bridges was made first-team coach at the club in February 2015. He combined the role alongside continuing to play in the first-team. King's Lynn were moved into the Southern League Premier Division for the 2015–16 season and Bridges played regularly in the King's Lynn team during the campaign, making 39 appearances in all competitions. Bridges retired from playing in May 2016 to "concentrate on his successful business ventures and spend time with his family". On his retirement, manager Setchell said "David will be missed by a lot of people at the football club but I totally understand his decision to call it a day on his fantastic playing career and pursue his business interests and spend more time with his young family."

Having been retired from playing for over a year, Bridges appeared for St Neots Town of the Southern League Premier Division, the club he was also first-team coach, in a 1–0 away loss against AFC Rushden & Diamonds in a Southern Combination Challenge Cup match on 3 October 2017. He ended up playing 25 times during the 2017–18 season, his final season playing, scoring five goals, including two in his final appearance as St Neots won the Huntingdonshire Senior Cup.

International career
Bridges was named in the England C team, who represent England at non-League level, in January 2006, for a friendly against Italy C, staged at Cambridge's Abbey Stadium, his home ground at the time. He came on as a 73rd-minute substitute as England C won the match 3–1 in front of a crowd of 2,711.

Style of play
Deployed predominantly as a central midfielder throughout his career, Bridges also played across all of the midfield areas. Manager Graham Westley said that Bridges is a player with "a lot of off-the-ball intelligence" and that he "reads the game well".

Coaching career
Bridges gained experience coaching whilst playing at Kettering Town, taking training sessions in January 2012 in the absence of a first-team manager. He gained his UEFA B Licence during his time playing at King's Lynn Town and became the club's first-team coach in February 2015, staying in the role for a year-and-a-half whilst also playing.

In May 2017, he took up his first coaching-only role when he joined St Neots Town of the Southern League Premier Division as first-team coach. Bridges left St Neots in order to become head of coaching at League Two club Lincoln City on 13 August 2018. He spent over two years at Lincoln, before being appointed as a coach educator for the Professional Footballers' Association in February 2021.

Personal life
He supports Manchester United.

Career statistics

A.  The "Other" column constitutes appearances and goals (including those as a substitute) in the Conference League Cup, FA Trophy and Football League Trophy.

International

Honours
Histon
 Southern Premier League: 2004–05

Kettering Town
 Conference North: 2007–08

Stevenage
 FA Trophy: 2008–09; runner-up: 2009–10
 Conference Premier: 2009–10
 League Two play-offs: 2010–11

St Neots Town
 Huntingdonshire Senior Cup: 2017–18

References

External links