[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Monte Melkonian

menian self-determination within a revolutionary Turkish or Kurdish state. In the 1980s, while in a French prison, he called for the creation of a guerilla force in eastern Turkey which would unite Kurdish rebels, left-wing Turks, and Armenian revolutionaries. Vorbach summarized his views on Turkey:

While in Poissy prison, Melkonian drafted a political manifesto for his envisioned "Armenian Patriotic Liberation Movement," in which he outlines seven core principles: 1) revolutionary internationalism, 2) democracy and self-determination, 3) socialism, 4) feminism, 5) environmentalism, 6) anti-imperialism, and 7) peace and disarmament.

By the early 1990s, he saw Karabakh as a "sacred cause". He is quoted as saying, "If we lose Karabakh, we turn the final page of our people's history."

Melkonian was also an internationalist. In an article titled "Imperialism in the New World Order" he declared his support for socialist movements in Palestine, South Africa, Central America and elsewhere. He also espoused environmentalism from an anti-capitalist perspective. According to one author his economic views were influenced by the Beirut-based Armenian Marxist economist Alexander Yenikomshian.

Maile Melkonian, Melkonian's sister, wrote in response to David Rieff's 1997 article in Foreign Affairs that Melkonian was never associated with and was not a supporter of the views of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (Dashnaks).

Anti-smoking and anti-alcohol stance
Melkonian was said to have led an exemplary life by not smoking and drinking. Melkonian advocated that revolutionary socialists must lead "practical self-disciplined lives" and avoid "self-destructive habits" such as smoking or drinking alcohol: "By severely diminishing a person's self-discipline, these dependencies inhibit a person from becoming a member of the vanguard, and especially a guerrilla or fedaii." When he joined in toasts, he is said to have raised a glass of yogurt. Melkonian is widely known to have forbidden his soldiers consumption of alcohol. He also established a policy of collecting a tax in kind on Martuni wine, in the form of diesel and ammunition for his fighters. Melkonian also burned cultivated fields of cannabis in Karabakh.

Personal life
Melkonian married his long-time girlfriend Seda Kebranian at the Geghard monastery in Armenia in August 1991. They had met in the late 1970s in Lebanon. In a 1993 interview, Melkonian said that they had had no time to start a family. He stated, "We'll settle down when the Armenian people's struggle is over."

As of 2013 Seda, an activist and a lecturer, resided in Anchorage, Alaska with her husband Joel Condon who is a professor of architecture at the University of Alaska Anchorage.

Awards
sources:

References

Notes

Citations

Bibliography

Melkonian, Monte (1990). The Right to Struggle: Selected Writings of Monte Melkonian on the Armenian National Question. San Francisco: Sardarabad Collective

External links

The Monte Melkonian Fund is a non-profit charity established in 1995 and is dedicated in Melkonian's honor.
Gallery of Monte Melkonian on the Melkonian Fund Website include photos of his youth, years spent in Lebanon and Karabakh.
Monte Melkonian Video 
, including an interview with his wife 
2-part documentary video about Monte, including rare interviews, on Google Video: Part 1 and Part 2 

1957 births
1993 deaths
American emigrants to Armenia
American emigrants to Iran
American people of Armenian descent
Armenian colonels
Armenian communists
Armenian military personnel of the Nagorno-Karabakh War
Armenian nationalists
Armenian revolutionaries
Armenian socialists
Burials at Yerablur
National Hero of Armenia
People from Visalia, California
People of the Iranian Revolution
People of the Lebanese Civil War
University of California, Berkeley alumni
Armenian people imprisoned abroad
Prisoners and detainees of France