[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# African Union Mission to Somalia

te military companies operating in Mogadishu.  DynCorp, who provide logistical support in the Somali capital; Bancroft International, who provide training to TFG and AMISOM personnel, as well as assisting with community service delivery; and Pacific Architects & Engineers.

Deployment

Troop numbers

* The reason why troops from Sierra Leone were withdrawn was the inability to rotate in fresh soldiers, due to the Ebola outbreak in Sierra Leone and the surrounding region. In response, Ethiopia has offered to replace the contingent from Sierra Leone with Ethiopian reinforcements.
- The total number of personnel under AMISOM (including armed personnel and civil staff) was reportedly around 22,126.
- Before joining AMISOM in January 2014, the Ethiopian Defense Force was believed to have an estimated 8,000 troops in the country. It is also believed that some Ethiopian troops in Somalia operate independently from AMISOM.
- Likewise, Kenya had troops deployed in Somalia independently before they were brought under the AMISOM umbrella
- Cameroon, Mali, Senegal, and Zambia were known to have a total of four personnel inserted into AMISOM. However, it is not known whether they were security or civil personnel.
- Furthermore, there are also a small number of police officers from  Burundi, Gambia, and Zimbabwe that are inserted into AMISOM

 Casualties and major incidents 
According to SIPRI, 1,039 AMISOM soldiers were killed in action between 1 January 2009, and 31 December 2013, with an additional 69 fatalities in 2014 (per AMISOM) bringing the total to 1,108 dead from 2009 through 2014.

March 2007 – February 2011
AMISOM medical facility records showed 110 Ugandan and 95 Burundian soldiers had died between March 2007 and February 2011 in Somalia. Another 798 AMISOM soldiers were wounded. Some of the deadliest incidents were:
 22 February 2009 – 11 Burundian soldiers were killed and 15 wounded in a double suicide attack on their base in Mogadishu.
 23–29 July 2009 – An epidemic of Leptospirosis hit the Burundian and Ugandan military camps in Mogadishu killing three Burundian and two Ugandan soldiers. Another 18 Burundian soldiers were placed in quarantine. About 50 Burundian and 17 Ugandan soldiers were evacuated for medical treatment to Nairobi, Kenya.
 17 September 2009 – 17 soldiers were killed and 29 wounded in a suicide attack by Islamist rebels on the headquarters of the African Union force in Mogadishu. At least four civilians were also killed and more than 10 wounded. 12 of those killed were Burundian soldiers and five were Ugandan. Among the dead was the AMISOM deputy commander Maj. Gen. Juvenal Niyonguruza, from Burundi. Also, one of the wounded was AMISOM commander Gen. Nathan Mugisha, from Uganda.
 23 February – 4 March 2011 – 53–82 AU troops were killed in clashes with al-Shabab fighters during an offensive in Mogadishu, 190 other AMISOM troops were also wounded. In addition, a Burundian soldier was captured alive by militants. These were, at the time, the heaviest losses since AMISOM deployed. 43 of those killed were confirmed as Burundian soldiers and 10 as Ugandans. Also, 110 of the wounded were Burundians. Beside the 43 killed in action, four Burundian soldiers were declared missing in action.

March–December 2011
 5 March – A Burundian soldier was injured by the controlled explosion of a car bomb of al-Shabab militants. AMISOM forces won back the rebel-controlled town of Bulo Hawo with the help of forces loyal to the Somali government.
 17 March – Six AU soldiers were killed in heavy clashes between Somali government troops backed by AMISOM in Mogadishu and al-Shabab militants.
 12 May – 11 June – 12 AU soldiers were killed (including 7 Ugandans) and 13+ injured during the Bakaara market offensive in Mogadishu.
 29 July – Four Ugandan soldiers were killed and five wounded during clashes in Mogadishu. An AMISOM tank was also destroyed.
 1 August – At least two AMISOM soldiers were killed and others wounded in a suicide attack on an AMISOM base in Mogadishu.
 10 October – One AMISOM soldier was killed and six injured in an operation in North East of Mogadishu. The former Pasta Factory and critical junction, Ex Control Bal'ad, are after that in Government hands.
 20 October – At least 70 Burundian soldiers were killed and their bodies filmed and paraded by Al-Shabaab following the battle of Deynile, Mogadishu. An unknown number of soldiers were wounded. One AU armoured vehicle was also destroyed in the fighting.
 23 October – Two AU soldiers were wounded when a suicide bomber blew himself up near a convoy of AU peacekeepers in Mogadishu.
 29 October – Al-Shabab militants attacked an AMISOM compound injuring two AU soldiers in the Somali capital Mogadishu.
 25 December – A Burundian soldier was killed by an improvised explosive device, and two others were wounded in Mogadishu.