[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Foreign relations of Armenia

Since its independence, Armenia has maintained a policy of trying to have positive and friendly relations with Iran, Russia, and the West, including the United States and the European Union. It has full membership status in a number of international organizations, such as the Council of Europe and the Eurasian Economic Union, and observer status, etc. in some others. However, the dispute over the Armenian genocide of 1915 and the ongoing Nagorno-Karabakh conflict have created tense relations with two of its immediate neighbors, Azerbaijan and Turkey.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs implements the foreign policy agenda of the Government of Armenia and organizes and manages diplomatic services abroad. Since August 2021, Ararat Mirzoyan serves as the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Armenia.

Foreign relations
Armenia is a member of more than 70 different international organizations, including the following:
 
 Asian Development Bank	
 Collective Security Treaty Organization and the Commonwealth of Independent States 
 Council of Europe 
 The EU's Eastern Partnership and the Euronest Parliamentary Assembly 
 The UN's Eastern European Group
 Eurocontrol
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
 European Political Community
 Eurasian Economic Union	
 Eurasian Development Bank and the Eurasian Customs Union	
 Federation of Euro-Asian Stock Exchanges	
 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
 International Monetary Fund
 Interpol
 La Francophonie	
 NATO's Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council, Individual Partnership Action Plan, and Partnership for Peace
 Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
 Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation
 TRACECA
 United Nations		
 World Bank, the World Customs Organization, and the World Trade Organization

Armenia is also an observer member of the ASEAN Inter-Parliamentary Assembly, the Community of Democratic Choice, the Non-Aligned Movement, the Organization of American States, the Pacific Alliance, the Arab League, the Community of Democracies, a dialogue partner in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, and a regional member of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.

Armenian genocide recognition

As of 2023, 34 states have officially recognized the historical events as genocide. Parliaments of countries that recognize the Armenian genocide include Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Cyprus, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Latvia, Lebanon, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, the Netherlands, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, United States, Uruguay, Vatican City and Venezuela. Additionally, some regional governments of countries recognize the Armenian genocide too, such as New South Wales and South Australia in Australia as well as Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales in the United Kingdom. US House Resolution 106 was introduced on 30 January 2007, and later referred to the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. The bill has 225 co-sponsors. The bill called for former President George W. Bush to recognize and use the word genocide in his annual 24 April speech which he never used. His successor President Barack Obama expressed his desire to recognize the Armenian genocide during the electoral campaigns, but after being elected, did not use the word "genocide" to describe the events that occurred in 1915. The US House of Representatives formally recognized the Armenian genocide with House Resolution 296 on 29 October 2019. The United States Senate unanimously recognized the genocide with Senate Resolution 150 on 12 December 2019. In 2021, President Joe Biden became the first U.S. president to formally recognize the Armenian genocide. As of 2022, all 50 U.S. states have also recognized the events as genocide.

Disputes

Nagorno-Karabakh conflict 

Armenia provides political, material and military support to the Republic of Artsakh in the longstanding Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.