[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Monarchy in Quebec

ns, presenting Edward to the Indigenous leaders and proclaiming, "brothers! Here is Prince Edward, son of our King, who has just arrived with a chosen band of his warriors to protect this country." The Governor General then appointed Edward as second-in-command of the British forces in the colonies.

Edward became a part of society in Lower Canada, being able to associate with French Canadiens, Anglo elites, and United Empire Loyalist refugees from the United States, alike, and he toured much of the colony, visiting places such as Beauport, Fort Chambly, Lachine, and Île aux Noix, and  occasionally spending holidays at Montmorency Falls. The Prince even had a French-Canadian mistress, Julie de Saint-Laurent, with whom it is thought he sired two children. Edward also became close with Louis d'Irumberry de Salaberry, his wife, Françoise-Catherine, and their four sons, including Charles de Salaberry; the Prince nurturing the young men's military careers.

After touring other parts of the Canadas in August 1791, Prince Edward returned to Quebec City in time to witness the proclamation of the Constitutional Act, which split the Province of Quebec into Upper and Lower Canada, and act as an observer for the election of the first Legislative Assembly of the latter, in Charlesbourg in June 1792. There, he witnessed a riot break out between two groups at the polling station and, in reaction, entreated the public, speaking in French, "I urge you to unanimity and concord. Let me hear no more of the odious distinction of English and French. You are all His Britannic Majesty's beloved Canadian subjects." It was the first  known use of the term Canadian to mean both French and English settlers in the Canadas. Edward also oversaw the establishment of the Cathedral of the Holy Trinity, a project of personal interest to his father, the King.

On the outbreak of the French Revolutionary War, Edward was promoted to major-general and ordered to the Caribbean in January 1794. He returned to the Canadas in the summer of the same year, but to Nova Scotia, staying there until just after the turn of the century.

The War of 1812

The United States aimed to conquer the Canadas in the War of 1812; all the American parties involved assumed their troops would be greeted as liberators. Thomas Jefferson believed taking "Canada this year, as far as [...] Quebec, will be a mere matter of marching". Henry Dearborn, who'd been part of Benedict Arnold's failed expedition to Quebec in the American Revolution, trumpeted his belief that a disaffected French-Canada would be unwilling to support the British Crown over the United States. However, anti-Catholicism also caused many to oppose annexing predominantly Catholic Lower Canada, believing its inhabitants unfit "for republican citizenship".

Sure enough, as with their counterparts in Upper Canada, Lower Canadians rebuffed the American invaders. In the Legislative Assembly, members of the Parti Canadien 
believed that the interests of French-Canadians were best served by remaining under the Crown and, so, gave their support to the Militia Act. The Francophone bourgeoisie agreed with remaining loyal to the King, to continue to enjoy British liberty and to fight off the "immoral and excessively democratic American republic." At least one influential member of the clergy—Jean-Jacques Lartigue—appealed to nationalism in attempting to convince habitants to fight for the "honour of the King". However, there was a significant resistance among farmers to enter the militia, even as they showed loyalty to George III. After Léveillé, a habitant, was arrested for ignoring demands that he present himself for militia duty, his compatriots surrounded the carriage in which he was being transported and cheered, "vive le roi", when their demand for Léveillé's release was successful. A group of some 400 habitant gathered at Lachine on 1 July 1812, demanding to know the truth about the Militia Act; some, again, shouting, "vive le roi", prompting Chaboillez, a government agent, to inform the men that their cheers for the King were blasphemous. After a riot broke out at Lachine (because the crowd felt local officials were abusing their power, rather than as an act of rebellion against the Crown itself), Lartigue was sent there and to Pointe Claire to preach, concluding his oration at the latter by asking the parishioners to repeat after him a declaration of their loyalty to their beloved King.