[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Stephen Decatur Trenchard

Stephen Decatur Trenchard (July 10, 1818 – November 15, 1883) was a rear admiral in the United States Navy. He was present at the Battle of Taku Forts in 1859, and commanded the supply ship and gunboat  throughout the American Civil War, seeing action at both Battles of Fort Fisher. He later commanded the North Atlantic Squadron.

Biography

Early life and background
Trenchard was born in Brooklyn, New York, the son of U.S. Navy Captain Edward Trenchard and Eliza Sands Trenchard, the daughter of merchant and politician Joshua Sands. He was named for the distinguished naval officer Stephen Decatur, a close friend of his father, and was a direct descendant of George Trenchard (1655–1712), from the village of Wolverton in Dorset, who had come to the United States with William Penn in 1682. Stephen's great-grandfather, also George, (1706–1780), was the Attorney-General of West New Jersey in 1767-75 and commanded the Salem Light Horse during the Revolutionary War.

Early service
Trenchard attended a school at Gambier, Ohio, founded by Bishop Philander Chase, with the intention of preparing for the ministry, but instead decided to follow the example of his father and uncle Joshua R. Sands, and join the Navy. After a probationary cruise in the Mediterranean aboard the frigate , he received his warrant as midshipman on October 23, 1834, and was ordered to the receiving ship Concord, at Portsmouth. During the Second Seminole War Trenchard cruised in the West Indies, and on the coast of Florida, and had a tour of duty in the Mediterranean Sea aboard the sloop  under the command of Hiram Paulding.

Promoted to passed midshipman on July 16, 1840, he attended the Philadelphia Naval School, then returned to the Mediterranean in 1841 to serve aboard the sloops  and .

During the winter of 1845–46 he was aboard the schooner  engaged in surveying the coast of Georgia and Florida, and received his commission as lieutenant on February 27, 1847. He served aboard the sloop  in the Home Squadron in 1850–52, and in the receiving ship Philadelphia in 1853.

Trenchard served in the United States Coast Survey from 1854 to 1857. During the summer of 1856 he was in command of the U.S. Coast Survey ship , surveying the New England coast. On August 14, while off Cape Ann, Trenchard rescued the crew of the British bark Adieu, which had struck a reef and was breaking up. He received a sword from the British Government as a mark of gratitude, and although it was against the laws of the United States (Article I, Section 9, of the U.S. Constitution) for its officers to accept awards from a foreign state, Congress passed a special act permitting him to receive it.

Voyage of the Powhatan
In 1857 Trenchard was appointed executive officer of the sidewheel steam frigate , under the command of Captain George F. Pearson, for an extended cruise to the Far East as part of the East India Squadron. The ship left Norfolk, Virginia, on December 7, 1857, but a series of mechanical breakdowns meant that she did not get to sea until the 11th, proceeding to Madeira with the former President Franklin Pierce, his wife Jane, and their suite as passengers. The Powhatan made the run across the Atlantic without any further difficulties, reaching Funchal on the 27th, where the ex-President and his family went ashore.

The frigate departed Funchal on January 6, 1858, calling at Jamestown, Saint Helena, where Trenchard visited Longwood House, the scene of Napoleon's captivity and death. On leaving Jamestown harbor Powhatan collided with the Dutch bark Stad Enchede, sustaining minor damage. She towed the bark back to port and made repairs, leaving Saint Helena again the next day. Powhatan then shaped her course for China, calling at Cape Town, Port Louis, Acheen, and Singapore, arriving at Hong Kong on May 12, where the steamer  was flying the broad pennant of Commodore Josiah Tattnall III, who  transferred his flag to the Powhatan to visit various ports in China and Japan.

Trenchard was aboard the Powhatan at the during the Battle of Taku Forts in June 1859, when Commodore Tattnall, observing the desperate position of the British and French forces attempting to force their way up the Peiho river, exclaimed "Blood is thicker than water!"  and went to their assistance despite the United States's neutrality in the conflict. Soon after, when the United States concluded a treaty with China, Trenchard was part of Ambassador John Elliot Ward's retinue that traveled to Peking where treaties were formally exchanged. Powhatan then returned to the United States.