[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Musa Alami

1952, he founded the Arab Development Society (ADS) to help Jericho's refugees. After discovering water in the desert, he founded a large farm and school for refugee children. Alami raised funds in order to build villages for the refugees and launched an agricultural farm whose produce was exported.

According to Gilmour, who interviewed Alami in February 1979 in Jericho:
Both the farm and the school were highly successful until the Israeli invasion in 1967, when two-thirds of the land was laid waste and twenty-six of the twenty-seven wells destroyed. The Israeli army systematically smashed the irrigation system, the buildings and the well-boring machinery. Most of the land quickly reverted to desert.

Perhaps some of the destruction was unavoidable in wartime but what seems utterly callous and outrageous is the way Israeli authorities have behaved since 1967. A chunk of land was predictably wired off for "security reasons" and turned into a military camp. It is now deserted, [...] the Israelis refused to allow him to buy the necessary equipment either to restore the damaged wells or to drill new ones. So he made some manual repairs to four of the least damaged wells and with these he was able to salvage a fraction of the land and keep the farm and the school functioning. ...[The Israelis] are now telling him that he has too much water – though he has less than a fifth of what he used to have – and have warned him that they will be fixing a limit on his consumption and will be taking away the surplus for their own "projects" (i.e. their expanding settlements near Jericho).

...[Alami] laughs at President Carter's obsession with human rights because he knows they will never be observed in Palestine. "Liberty and justice are meaningless words for my people and my country. We have never known either." He waves towards his farm, a philanthropist's dream that was once brilliantly successful. "I gain no pleasure from this place now," he says, "I stay here out of duty. I know the Zionists have been wanting to get rid of us for years. They want me to go and have told me so. They want to build a kibbutz here. But I have a duty to keep going, a duty to my people."

Death
Musa Alami died in Amman on 8 June 1984 as a result of circulatory collapse. His funeral took place in the Al-Aqsa Mosque. The Israel Defense Forces crossing on the eastern exit of Jericho, through which Palestinians traveling to Jordan via the Allenby Bridge pass, is named after him. The site of the farm which Alami built is still commonly known as "the Musa Alami farm".

References

Further reading
 Alami, Musa. The Lesson of Palestine, Middle East Journal, Vol. 3, No. 4, October 1949, pp. 373–405.
 Gendzier, Irene L. (Ed.) A Middle East Reader Pegasus, 1969 (including: Musa Alami on Palestine)
 Furlonge, Geoffrey W., Palestine is My Country: The Story of Musa Alami (NYC, Praeger Publishers, 1969)
 Alami, Musa (Preface): The Future of Palestine, (Hermon Books, Beirut, 1970)

20th-century Palestinian politicians
Palestinian nationalists
Politicians from Jerusalem
Deaths from circulatory collapse
1897 births
1984 deaths