[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# May 1965

equation of the Fredholm type (in a generalized space due to the number of degrees of freedom of the system of particles considered), whose solution seemed to imply a periodic phenomenon that exhibited similarity to the undulatory behaviour of microscopic particles in Schrödinger's wave mechanics."

May 23, 1965 (Sunday)
In Belgium's parliamentary election, Prime Minister Theo Lefevre's coalition of Christian Socialists and Belgian Socialists lost 39 seats in the 212 seat Chamber of Representatives.  Formerly holding 180 seats, the coalition dropped to 141 seats, one fewer than the 142 necessary for a two-thirds majority in the Chamber that would be required for any constitutional changes.  Lefebvre presented his resignation to King Baudouin the next day.
Franz Jonas won a narrow victory in a bitter race for the new President of Austria, defeating former Chancellor Alfons Gorbach by a margin of 2,324,474 to 2,260,992.  Mayor of Vienna since 1951, Jonas was notable for having dropped out of school to become an apprentice typesetter, and for his fluency in the artificial language of Esperanto. As with his predecessor, Adolf Schärf, Jonas would pass away in his second term.
The Inter-American Peacekeeping Force was deployed in the Dominican Republic to replace the American troops that had been in the country since April 30. The force, sent by the OAS, would reach as many as 8,200 people and begin withdrawing on June 28, 1966, completing its mission by October.  During the occupation, the 270 troops already sent by Honduras and Costa Rica would be joined by 1,130 from Brazil, 184 from Paraguay, 160 from Nicaragua, and three staff officers from El Salvador.
The Norwegian tanker MV Heimvard exploded and burned at Muroran, Japan, after it rammed into a pier.  The force of the collision caused a kerosene stove to tip over, causing a fire that spread to the tanker's cargo of oil.  Eight members of her crew were killed, and 22 injured, while two men from a Japanese tugboat adjacent to the Heimvard were missing after the accident.  As the ship burned, other Japanese tugboats pulled the tanker out to sea and prevented the flames from spreading to the 65 oil storage tanks on the coast.
The Space Science Board of the National Academy of Sciences recommended to NASA that future astronauts who walked on the Moon should be kept under quarantine for at least three weeks after their return, just in case there were germs present on the lunar surface.  The period was picked "because it exceeded the incubation of most terrestrial germs", and as "a compromise between those who thought a quarantine was unnecessary and those who argued for many months".  The crew of Apollo 11, lunar astronauts would be kept under a quarantine upon their return and until August 10, 1969. 
Born: 
Melissa McBride, American television and film actress, in Lexington, Kentucky
Manolo Sanchís, Spanish soccer football player for Real Madrid and for the Spanish National Team; in Madrid
Kappei Yamaguchi, Japanese voice actor, in Fukuoka
Died: 
David Smith, 59, American abstract sculptor, was killed in an auto accident in Shaftsbury, Vermont, while on his way to attend the opening of an art exhibit at Bennington College.
Earl Webb, 67, American baseball player whose record for most doubles in a season — 67 in 1931 — remains a Major League Baseball record

May 24, 1965 (Monday)
The United Kingdom officially adopted the metric system of weights and measures, to be phased in over a ten-year period. Douglas Jay, the President of the Board of Trade, made the announcement to the press, and said that it would aid British companies trading with the rest of Europe.
Subandrio, the Foreign Minister of Indonesia and chief of its Intelligence Bureau, told a political rally that there was a "Council of Generals" that was plotting to overthrow President Sukarno and the Indonesian government as part of a conspiracy jointly funded by the United States and the United Kingdom.  In response to the allegations of the conspiracy, which Subandrio accepted as true without investigation, Subandrio persuaded the government to mobilize "progressive and revolutionary" officers against the fictitious Council.
Born: 
John C. Reilly, American actor and comedian, in Chicago
Shinichirō Watanabe, Japanese film director, producer, and screenwriter, in Kyoto
Died:
 Hans Jüttner, 71, German former SS leader
 Sonny Boy Williamson II (Aleck Miller), 52, American blues musician