[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Business rates in England

t to be both non-domestic and domestic in different parts, for example a shop with living accommodation. This is known as a composite hereditament, and the whole property is entered in the rating list, but the non-domestic valuation is based on the non-domestic part only.

Alterations and proposals 

Each rating list runs for three years, and may change within that time. The value from the very start of the list can be altered, or events within the life of the list (such as an extension) can be reflected by changes within the list, leading to different values at different times. For example, a property is entered in a rating list at 1 April 2005 with a rateable value of £10,000, and a year later the property is extended causing an increase to £12,000 from 1 April 2006; the original entry of £10,000 remains unchanged for the first year. A successful proposal could alter this original value of £10,000 to £9,000 from 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006, but the second entry from 1 April 2006 would remain unchanged at £12,000.

The Local Government Finance Act 1988 gives broad authorisation for regulations to be made about alterations, which can include alterations by the Valuation Office Agency to maintain the list accurately, or proposals by interested parties to change the list. The regulations have differed widely, changing the time-frame of when alterations are effective. For example, proposals to alter the 2000 rating list by an occupier were restricted to take effect in the financial year in which they were made, but the 2005 rating list removed this restriction, so that a successful proposal can have effect as far back as 1 April 2005.

What is commonly known as an appeal is more correctly known as a proposal to alter the rating list. Proposals can be made on a number of grounds, including challenging the basic rateable value, an alteration to the property, or proposing a reduction from a specific date due to a particular event (such as changes to a street affecting traffic). When an appeal is made, it will first be discussed with the Valuation Office Agency, who will attempt to come to an agreement. If no agreement is reached, and the proposal is not withdrawn, it will be heard by an independent valuation tribunal.

See also

 Taxation in the United Kingdom
 Rates
 Local government in the United Kingdom:Funding

Notes

References

 

 Valuation Office Agency Rating Manual, Valuation Office Agency

External links
The official government business rates website
The Valuation Office Agency

Local taxation in England
Rates
England and Wales