[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Humanity: Hour I

Humanity: Hour I is the sixteenth studio album by German hard rock band Scorpions, which was released in Europe on 14 May 2007 and in the  United States and Canada on 28 August 2007. Humanity: Hour 1 is a concept album based on a loose storyline by Desmond Child and futurist Liam Carl, which predicts a world torn apart by a civil war between humans and robots. This apocalyptic nightmare serves as a warning shot to all humanity, whose only hope of survival is to reclaim our humanity.

The album was produced by James Michael and Desmond Child, who also provide backing vocals. The song "Humanity" was performed for the first time by Scorpions on 24 March 2007 in Brussels, Belgium and released as the first single from the album.

Also of note is the band's logo on the album's cover: the text font is similar to their first two albums, as opposed to the band's more famous logo. This marks only the third time in the band's career (and the first time in 33 years) the less familiar font has been used. However, if one looks closely, their more familiar logo can be seen on the back of the neck of the gynoid.

The opening track "Hour  I" has been used as the intro of the NHL's Minnesota Wild from 2007 to 2015.

Background and recording
After Scorpions had finished the UK tour as special guest for Judas Priest, Rudolf Schenker revealed that band had started working on a live video album which would later become Unbreakable World Tour 2004: One Night in Vienna and also revealed that the band was planning to start working on a new album in late 2005. In an interview for the Malay Mail in May 2006, Schenker confirmed that the band was working on a new album which would have been hopefully released in late 2006 or early 2007. Describing the upcoming album, Schenker said: "For now, I can only tell you that it's going to pick up where Unbreakable left off. It will have superb power ballads and hard-rocking songs playable on commercial radio. I guess you can say that the new Scorpions album is going to sound fresh and rocking. Also one more thing, it's going to be a great album and not an album with one or two great songs". Originally, the band had in mind to choose Dieter Dierks as album producer, but it did not work out because of a disagreement on the contract. After the planned collaboration with Dierks did not happen, Scorpions had in mind to produce album by themselves at Rudolf Schenker's Scorpio Sound Studio, but were afraid that their efforts might not be good enough. Schenker said: "We knew we wanted to make a special record. We wanted to make sure that this album was going to be a masterpiece. When we do an album these days it has to be something special. If we only did it to make the fans happy – that's one thing – but you also have to make yourself happy."
 
Scorpions had been working intensively on the songs during the concerts in 2006 and invited several producers to come over to Germany for an interview (one of them was Roy Thomas Baker), but band members weren't really pleased with what producers had to offer, so in the end band decided to choose Desmond Child and James Michael as the producers of the new album. James Michael worked on the production of guitars, drums and bass. In October 2006, Scorpions band members went to Los Angeles to start recording the new material and during the next month and a half they worked on recording the basic tracks for the album. The band arrived there with 30 songs already written and soon after they began a second songwriting process. In the end of the second songwriting process, band had around 20 songs and many of those songs had a tone "too dark" from the lyrical standpoint, so band choose to eliminate many of the "darker" songs from the album and put in more optimistic songs. Among those songs are "The Game of Life" and "You're Lovin' Me to Death". In order to make those songs fit the concept of the album, songwriting teams had to rewrite the lyrics and the choruses on those songs. During the first couple of weeks, the band was working together in a rehearsal space, every day for eight hours. After the rehearsals, they started to arrange and record in different studios in the Los Angeles area. Guitars were recorded in one studio with James Michael, while Klaus Meine's vocals were recorded with Desmond in another studio. Child also hired a vocal coach for Meine, to perform about an hour of vocal warm-up before the recording sessions. Matthias Jabs explained: "Vocal cords are like muscles and you need to warm them up. Desmond was a visionary guy and knew if the vocalist is in good form, then he'll get what he wants from them". In the period between October 2006 and February 2007, band managed to record thirteen songs, of which twelve managed to make the album. Among the remaining 37 songs, several were recorded only as a demos.