[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Terminator (character concept)

the closing narration that the Terminator had "learn[ed] the value of human life". In Terminator Genisys, when a Terminator's learning capability is enabled after a long period, it becomes fully capable of acquiring knowledge and performing problem solving through reason based on whatever it learns.

Terminators, being machines, are typically believed by humans to not have emotions. According to Reese, Terminators "can't be bargained with, can't be reasoned with and [don't] feel pity or remorse or fear." Terminators also do not value life, and pragmatically kill in keeping with their programming, i.e., to fulfill their mission. In Terminator 2, when John Connor realizes that the Model 101 was about to kill a man they encountered, it responds "of course, I'm a Terminator."  Conversely, when discussing a variation on the Blade Runner 'tortoise test' in Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles episode, "Complications", Cameron states that a tortoise did not pose a threat and "We are not programmed to be cruel," implying that Terminators would right an overturned tortoise. Terminators in the films and TV series have displayed ruthless brutality in achieving their goals, but because they do not have emotions, they are not needlessly sadistic. Terminators can torture humans, but these are interrogations for information, used as a means to an end. Moreover, this means that Terminators are not very experienced at complex forms of interrogation:  for example, the T-1000 stabbed Sarah Connor through the shoulder and demanded that she call to John, but this was a simplistic application of pain.  Terminators can be taught more complicated torture tactics by humans, who are more familiar with sadistic torture - for example, the engineer/criminal Charles Fischer - as shown in "Complications". However, in the fifth film Terminator Genisys, a T-800 develops a fatherly love for a young Sarah Connor, and in the sixth film Terminator: Dark Fate, set in another timeline, another T-800 is capable of expressing affections towards its human family after it became self-aware, and of being remorseful over its killing of John Connor and seeks atonement. Terminators built by another AI, Legion, are apparently all capable of having emotions and other behaviors, evident by a Rev-9's actions, even have some degrees of autonomy than Skynet's.

Terminators appear incapable of "self-termination". In Terminator 2, the badly damaged Terminator states this to Sarah before asking her to lower it into molten steel, so that its chip cannot be used to create Skynet. To prevent the possible reprogramming of defeated Terminators, as the television series Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles episode "The Tower Is Tall but the Fall Is Short" reveals, Skynet coats later chips with a phosphorus compound which cause them to self-destruct when they contact oxygen.

While a Terminator apparently cannot commit suicide as such, its programming does not stop it from sacrificing itself if the success of its mission is thereby ensured. In the third movie, the T-101 deliberately ruptures its own fuel cell next to its antagonist, the T-X, causing an explosion destroying them both.

Typology

Humanoid
Guardian Terminator Cameron states to John Connor, in Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles episode "The Mousetrap", that Terminators' densities deny them the ability to swim.  T-888 Cromartie demonstrated in the same episode, however, that they can survive submerged and walk along the bed to the shore. The opening sequence of "Terminator: Dark Fate" portrays T-800s emerging from a beach in this fashion. The prototype Terminator Marcus Wright in Terminator Salvation did demonstrate the ability to swim, though he is the only one of his kind. This ability was first seen in the Terminator comics by Dark Horse.