[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Washburn High School

urricular activities 
In line with Washburn's three pillars of academics, arts and athletics, there are many opportunities in these areas in and beyond the classroom.

Athletics

Washburn is a member of the Minnesota State High School League and offers Boys and Girls varsity level sports, including:

 Boys' athletics
 Baseball
 Basketball
 Cross country running
 Cross country skiing
 Football
 Golf
 Hockey (Citywide team)
 Lacrosse (Citywide team)
 Soccer
 Swimming
 Tennis
 Track and field
 Wrestling
 Girls' athletics
 Badminton
 Basketball
 Cross country running
 Cross country skiing
 Golf
 Gymnastics
 Hockey (Citywide team)
 Lacrosse (Citywide team)
 Soccer
 Softball
 Swimming
 Tennis
 Track and field
 Volleyball

Theater
Washburn offers Blackbox theater classes, which give performances of student-created works, and after-school productions that are open to all students. Washburn productions typically include a musical in the fall, a larger Spotlight production in the winter, and a straight play or musical in the spring. Washburn also participates in the MSHSL One-Act Play competition.

Clubs
Washburn students have a variety of opportunities to participate in extracurricular activities, which take place before and after school. Notable organizations include Model UN, ACE (Architecture-Construction-Engineering), Amnesty International, Art Club, Book Club, College Club, Community Service Club, Dare 2 Be Real, Debate, Feminism Club, Green Team, The Grist newspaper, GSA, Knitting Club, Math Team, Mountain Biking Team, National Honor Society (NHS), Native Club, the Odyssey magazine, Otaku Club, Philosophy Club, Washburn Esports, FIRST Robotics Team, Marine Scuba Club, Silver Ribbon Club, Student Council, Teen Council, TRiO Educational Talent Search, and Urban Farm.

Fresh start 

In March 2008, the Minneapolis Board of Education announced that Washburn would be one of two high schools in the Minneapolis Public Schools Fresh Start program. Along with Edison High School, Washburn hired new teachers and staff and examined its curriculum. These changes were part of a nine-point plan by the Minneapolis school board to alleviate budget problems and prepare 80% of graduates for college. Principal Carol Markham-Cousins returned to lead the school, with the rest of the teaching staff required to apply for rehire or as new to the building.

On May 14, 2008, Markham-Cousins sent letters to students and family members explaining the reasons for the Fresh Start. She cited graduation rates and college preparation as two reasons. The same day, students staged a walk-out in protest of the program. Student drew with chalk on the sidewalk in front of the school in support of the teachers.

Additional changes that came to Washburn in 2008-09 included an increase in the number of art classes and the introduction of the International Baccalaureate program.

Notable alumni 
 Russ Anderson — Class of 1973, hockey star at University of Minnesota and in NHL; married Miss America 1977 Dorothy Benham
 James Arness — Class of 1942, film and television actor most famous for portraying Marshal Matt Dillon on long-running TV series Gunsmoke
 Garrett Bender - Class of 2009, United States national rugby union team
 Patty Berg — golfer, founding member of LPGA, inductee in World Golf Hall of Fame
 Bob Cabana - Class of 1967, astronaut, 2008 Astronaut Hall of Fame inductee
 Richard Carlson - Class of 1929, film and television actor with star on Hollywood Walk of Fame
 Arlene Dahl — Class of 1943, film and television actress, former MGM contract star who achieved notability during the 1950s; mother of actor Lorenzo Lamas
 Sean Daley — best known as Slug, member of hip-hop duo Atmosphere
 Kathryn Finney — author, NBC Today Show correspondent, social media influencer
 Ra'Shede Hageman - class of 2009, NFL player, Atlanta Falcons
 Ryan Hoag – football player drafted by Oakland Raiders in 2003 (currently the boys' varsity tennis coach at Washburn)
 R. L. Huggar —  best known as R.L., frontman of Next
 Jimmy Jam — musician
 John B. Keefe - Minnesota state legislator, lawyer, and judge.
 Ralph Lemon — artist
 Terry Lewis — musician 
 Dave Moore — newscaster
 Michele Norris —  class of 1979, National Public Radio host
 Jeanne Phillips — columnist, Dear Abby
 Carol Spencer - class of 1950, fashion designer for Barbie

References

External links
 Official website

High schools in Minneapolis
Educational institutions established in 1925
Minneapolis Public Schools
Public high schools in Minnesota
International Baccalaureate schools in Minnesota