[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yekta Uzunoğlu

Yekta Uzunoğlu (Kurdish: Yekta Geylanî) (b.1953, Silvan, Diyarbakır (Kurdish: Farqîn / Diarbekir)) is a doctor, writer, human rights fighter, translator and entrepreneur.

Biography 
He was born in 1953 in Silvan, Diyarbakır. In 1971 he went to France for higher education. After his family's financial assistance was refused by the junta of 1971 in Turkey (see: 1971 Turkish military memorandum), he went to Prague to study medicine. Between 1972 and 1979, he obtained a scholarship from Kurdish Prince Kamuran Ali Bedirhan to complete his medical education at Charles University in Prague. In 1979 he graduated from Charles University and became a medical doctor.

In 1976, he co-founded an illegal publishing house during the communist Czechoslovakia era with Prof. Dr. Pavel Martasek and Vladimir Korensky. Until 1979 they published many books on Kurds, a map of Kurdistan and Joyce Blau's works, who was a professor at the Sorbonne University in Paris.

Works 
He has participated in editing of a Kurdish grammar book, translated parts of Bible and works of Karel Čapek into Kurdish and Kurdish poetry into Czech. He has also cooperated with the Kurdish Institute of Paris, the Kurdish Institut of Bonn and the Czech Center of the International PEN Club.

Award 
He was presented František Kriegel award which is granted once a year by the Charter 77 Foundation in the Czech Republic - because of his civic courage. President of the Czech Republic, Mr. Václav Havel, presented the award to Yekta Uzunoglu at a ceremony attended by hundreds of Europe's most illustrious figures. In the Czech Republic, he was the first foreigner to receive this honor.

Quest for Justice 

On 13. September 1994, Czech police detained Yekta Uzunoglu (subsequently the officer in charge, Josef Opava, received a fourteen-year sentence as a member of the infamous "Berdych's gang"); his unlawful detention (Czech law allowed maximum 24 hours of detention) lasted nearly 72 hours without charges being laid. Afterwards, according to press statement from police officer Jiří Gregor, accusations were made of "illegal arms and drugs trading" and Uzunoglu was remanded into custody.

One month later, the previous charges were dropped, but more charges were brought of "preparing of murders, unlawful possession of guns, multiple frauds and torture"; these accusations had been laid by "Göksel Otan", supposed Turkish citizen living in the Czech Republic.

The case was litigated until 10 April 1995, when all accusations were proven to be false, except a count of torture. Purportedly Uzunoglu, with the help of other detainees, had tortured Göksel Otan on 9 September and then two other people (one of them his own cousin), on the date he was detained. At this time, according to court files, one of the accused persons (Uzunoglu's nephew) had been already in custody for several hours. However, even this version of the lawsuit was not accepted by the responsible court.

Meanwhile, Uzunoglu's remand was prolonged and Uzunoglu endured unlawful mistreatment, as then minister of justice Jan Ruml later confessed.

Later in 1996, Uzunoglu received the German citizenship, although still in custody. During the ensuing trial, it was shown that "Göksel Otan" was a false identity and that a false passport in that name had been used for at least 25 years. "Göksel" admitted in court that his true name is "Gurkan Gönen". According to Ministry of interior inquiry, Gönen has been a long-term informer of communist STB and after Velvet revolution worked as an informer for cpt. Horák, policeman leading the prosecution of Uzunoglu.

A final version of the lawsuit, literally same as the one rejected in 1995, was filed on 18 January 2000. In January 2003, the charge moved to Turkey's jurisdiction, which subsequently returned it to the Czech court 9 months later. On 25 September 2003, the Czech court stopped prosecution of Uzunoglu for humanitarian reasons, but both the prosecutor and Uzunoglu would not accept this decision; the latter demanded to be cleared of all accusations.

On 3 March 2006, important figures of the Czech public life published an open letter called "Žalujeme" ("We accuse", similar to Émile Zola's "J'accuse ...!", which helped end the infamous Dreyfus affair in France 100 years before), namely Pavel Dostál, Táňa Fischerová, František Janouch, Karel Jech, Květa Jechová, Svatopluk Karásek, Jaroslav Kořán, Dana Němcová, Karel Schwarzenberg, Jiřina Šiklová, Věněk Šilhán, Libuše Šilhánová, Jaromír Štětina, Petruška Šustrová.

In April 2006, Yekta Uzunoglu was presented the František Kriegel prize for civic courage.