[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# University of Auckland Law School

Auckland Law School is one of the eight faculties that make up the University of Auckland.  The Faculty of Law is located at the City Campus, between Waterloo Quadrant and Eden Crescent. It is in close proximity to the Auckland High Court. In 2020, Auckland Law School ranked 50th in the world and best in New Zealand according to QS World University Rankings. The University of Auckland's Faculty of Law is the largest of its kind in New Zealand. It advertises experts in a variety of fields, including commercial, public, human rights and environmental law.

History of the land
The land (and some of the buildings) that the Faculty of Law now occupies were previously used by the High Court of New Zealand in Auckland. One courtroom has been retained unaltered for moots. Prior to this, the land was used by an aerated water manufacturer, Grey and Menzies.

The law school is accessible by a right of way, down a small hill from Waterloo Quadrant. Originally, this was only a mud track nicknamed the Ho Chi Minh Trail that was later paved when the Davis Law Library was completed, replacing Eden Crescent as the main entrance into the Law School grounds.

Until 1991, the Law school was based on the top three floors of the University Library building.

Davis Law Library
The Davis Law Library is named after Professor A. G. Davis, who retired as Dean of the Law School in 1965. The Library was founded at the university in 1939 and has had several locations, including a move into the General Library building in 1969. It has been in its current Eden Crescent location since 1992.

Student activities
Auckland Law School is the home of volunteer (pro-bono legal services) organisation, the Equal Justice Project. Founded in 2005 by students Eesvan Kirshnan and Peter Williams with the aim of promoting equal access to justice in Auckland. It is one of the largest pro bono organisations in New Zealand.

The University of Auckland Mooting Society was formed in 2014 and is the first society of its kind in New Zealand. Throughout the year the Society offers a variety of seminars and workshops to assist students with compulsory academic moots. The John Haigh Memorial Moot was established in 2014 in memory of John Haigh QC (LLB '71), a highly respected barrister and alumnus of Auckland Law School. The 2014 final was judged by Harrison, Toogood and Moore JJ in the Auckland High Court. The moot provides a valuable opportunity for third-year and above students to develop and enhance their advocacy skills. In 2020, the University of Auckland Mooting Society is one of the largest clubs at Auckland Law School. They run five prestigious moots aimed at facilitating and developing mooting and advocacy.

An elected student body, the Auckland University Law Students' Society, represents and advocates for law students and to help provide opportunities which complement legal studies. AULSS help organise social events such as "Steins", publication of the serious academic Law Review, an annual Law Revue, mooting competitions, and participation in sports and events such as the Round the Bays fun run. Law students traditionally dominate both competition and administration of both the Auckland University Debating Association and the Auckland Debating Association.

Te Rākau Ture (TRT) is the name of the Māori Law Students Association in which the rōpū initiates activities throughout the calendar year. Established in 1990, TRT has grown to play a very important role in the lives of Māori students who study at Auckland Law School. Each year the rōpū organise a number of events such as hosting a noho marae for Part II and above, a Haerenga visiting high schools outside of Auckland to promote coming to the Law School, plus their most popular hākari whakamutunga. They welcome everyone to join TRT and encourage members to participate in their events to meet other students and build support networks.

The Pacific Island Law Student's Association more commonly referred to as PILSA, aims to provide a sense of identity and belonging among Pacific Island students at Auckland Law School. It also aims to promote educational achievement and to connect with Pacific communities outside of the university through various events organised throughout the year. The elected PILSA executive committee is a link between the PILSA members, the Pacific Students Faculty Adviser, the Faculty of Law and Pacific Island communities. The PILSA executive works closely with the Student Academic and Support Adviser (Pacific) to provide workshops, seminars and tutorials for PILSA members. PILSA encourages all students to join PILSA and participate in social events, sports-days, tutorials, seminars and the Pacific Islands Moot.