[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tămădău affair

The Tămădău affair (, Înscenarea de la Tămădău – "the Tămădău frameup" – or Fuga de la Tămădău – "the Tămădău flight") was an incident that took place in Romania in July 1947. It was the source of a political scandal and show trial.

It was provoked when an important number of National Peasants' Party (PNȚ) leaders, including Party Vice-President Ion Mihalache, had been offered a chance to flee Romania, where the Communist Party (PCR), the main force in the Petru Groza government, already had a tight grip on power with backing from the Soviet Union (see Soviet occupation of Romania). The affair signalled some of the first official measures taken against opposition parties as a step leading to the proclamation of a people's republic at the end of that year (see Socialist Republic of Romania).

Background
The PCR victory in the 1946 general election was achieved by widespread electoral fraud and was followed by the first attempts at anti-communist resistance, including the creation of a "military circle", led by Mihalache.

As the main adversary of Stalinism and a committed supporter of the Western Allies, the PNȚ was the principal target for PCR hostility. According to the journalist Victor Frunză, the PNȚ and the National Liberal Party were already targeted for having backed attempts during World War II by Conducător Marshal Ion Antonescu to sign a separate peace with the Allies (see Romania during World War II). In late October 1946, the PNȚ entered into open conflict with the authorities. The first volley was to send a secret report to the Secretary-General of the United Nations that was heavily critical of governmental policies.

The Communist press alleged that the National Peasants' Party had been organising a wide network of armed resistance (groups cited in that context may have indeed existed as early as 1947 and were probably merged into the resistance movement in the 1950s). Meanwhile, the Communists press applauded the dissidence of various PNȚ leaders such as , Nicolae L. Lupu, and Victor Eftimiu.

Events
Several details on the affair are still unclear. The offer to flee Romania was quickly discovered, as the government declared, or, as claimed by the journalist Victor Frunză, had already been investigated and, in the hope of discrediting the opposition party, partly facilitated by agents of Interior Minister Teohari Georgescu. In October 1947, PNȚ President Iuliu Maniu declared:

The idea for Mr. Mihalache and a few friends to go abroad was an older one and I had decided at some point to leave myself, in case Mr. Mihalache would not allow himself to leave. This discussion between us lasted for a while, and we were thinking how we could find a means of locomotion. When the question was being debated between the two of us with no one else aware of it, Dr. Emil Hațieganu came to see me. [...] He said: I have two aviators who have a plane at their disposal and have let me know that they have secured 3–4 seats, as they are to leave on an official military mission to Istanbul. I said that I was satisfied by the offer and I that I would designate 3–4 persons to leave.

Early on the morning of July 14, 1947, at the Tămădău airfield (located  from Bucharest), Siguranța Statului and armed soldiers arrested a number of prominent PNȚ politicians, including Mihalache, Nicolae Penescu, Ilie Lazăr, Nicolae Carandino, Dumitru, and Eugen Borcea, all of whom were waiting for airplanes to transport them out of the country. A photoreporter was also present to provide maximum exposure to the flight attempt.

The scandal was centred on the charge of treason ("of the people's interests"), which was provoked by the allegation that those arrested had attempted to establish a government in exile. Victor Frunză argued that "in democratic states" citizens should have an "unconditional right to a passport" to leave the country whenever they want and therefore the accusations of illegal border crossing, flight, and treason should not have been brought. Calls for a trial of the entire party were voiced by the Communist press (notably by Silviu Brucan), and Maniu himself, although not present at Tămădău, was argued to have planned the escape. Arrested while under treatment in a sanatorium, Maniu later admitted to the fact and indicated that he was prepared to assume complete responsibility:

[After Hațieganu's offer] I spoke to Mr. Mihalache, I specifically asked him to make use of this opportunity and he accepted. Indeed, the moral and political responsibility for the departure of Mr. Mihalache and our friends is mine.

He denied, however, any subversive goal:

The purpose as designed by me was that, through going abroad, they were to inform foreign countries of the situation in Romania.

Outcome