[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zdravko Kuzmanović

d his first goal for Stuttgart in a 1–1 draw against Hertha BSC, but was sent–off later in the game. Kuzmanović established himself in the starting eleven, taking the first team place from Thomas Hitzlsperger and made thirty–four appearances and scoring five times in all competitions despite injury.

Kuzmanović managed to regain his first team place and started the 2010–11 season well when he scored his first goal of the season, in a 7–0 thrash victory over Borussia Mönchengladbach on 18 September 2010, Kuzmanović’s performance soon attracted interests from Serie A clubs, but he played down rumours of leaving Stuttgart, insisting he was happy to stay at Stuttgart. In the round of 64, the second leg in the Europa League campaign against Benfica, Kuzmanović received a straight red card in stoppage time, as Stuttgart would not only lose for the second time against them, but being eliminated from the Europa League campaign. The 2010–11 season saw Kuzmanović making forty-seven appearances and scoring eleven times in all competitions.

In the 2011–12 season, transfer speculation to sign Kuzmanović continued when English side Chelsea had their 23 million bid turned down. Kuzmanović started the season by making seven appearances, including his first goal of the season as Stuttgart won 3–0 against Hannover 96 on 10 September 2011 before suffering a hamstring injury, which caused him to miss two matches. He then returned in mid-October and scored on his return on 22 October 2011, in a 2–2 draw against Nürnberg. Kuzmanović finished the 2011–12 season, making twenty–nine appearances and scoring six times in all competitions.

In the 2012–13 season, Kuzmanović had featured less at the start of the season, having suffered a torn muscle in his right thigh. On 24 September 2012, it was announced that Kuzmanović expected to leave the club at the end of the 2012–13 season after there were contract talks between the player and the club. After that, he was often playing out of position, both in substitution and starts. In December 2012, Kuzmanović's relationship with the club turned sour and beyond repair when contract talks broke down.

Internazionale
On 31 January 2013, Kuzmanović moved to Italian side Internazionale for an undisclosed fee.

Kuzmanović made his Internazionale debut on 3 February 2013, where he made his first start and provided the only goal in the game for Internazionale, as they lost 3–1 to AS Siena. Kuzmanović went on to establish himself in the first team, making thirteen appearances for the club.

However, in the 2013–14 season, under the new management of Walter Mazzarri, Kuzmanović was deployed only sparingly and spent most of the season on the substitute bench. and injured, making fifteen appearances for the club. With lack of first team opportunities, Kuzmanović attracted interests from Roma, but stayed at the club, stating he was happy at the club.

Then in the 2014–15 season Roberto Mancini was hired as the new Inter coach and under his management, Kuzmanović played more frequently. Kuzmanović played a role in both legs of the Europa League Qualification Round when he provided two assists in both games against Stjarnan. It was not until 29 October 2014 when he made his first league appearance of the 2014–15 season and provided the assist in the only goal of the game, in a 1–0 win over Sampdoria. Though he was placed on a loan list in January, he was taken off after the transfer window closed. Kuzmanović suffered an injury that kept out for the month. He finished the 2014–15 season, making twenty–five appearances and scoring once.

Ahead of the 2015–16 season, Kuzmanović's future at Inter Milan became uncertain after being linked with a move to Serie A clubs and Watford.

Return to FC Basel

First season
On 30 June 2015, Kuzmanović returned to FC Basel on a five-year deal. Upon returning to Basel after spending eight-years away, Kuzmanović said he wanted to stay at Basel for the rest of his career. After the announcement of Matías Delgado's captaincy, Kuzmanović was appointed as the club's vice–captain, alongside Marek Suchý.

Kuzmanović made his Basel debut in the opening game of the season, where he came on as a substitute for Delgado in the 63rd minute, in a 2–1 win over Vaduz. Kuzmanović suffered an injury when he tore his muscle in his right thigh, in a 3–1 win over Thun on 12 August 2015 and was sidelined for four weeks. After his return to the first team, Kuzmanović struggled to regain his first team place, due to strong performance from Taulant Xhaka and Mohamed Elneny and his return to the club became questionable.

With his first team opportunities limited, Kuzmanović was linked with a move back to Serie A, with Genoa, Bologna and Sampdoria and was expected to leave the club in the January transfer window. Another factor to leave the club was a dispute with manager Urs Fischer.