[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 52]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

icial occupations till they become
diseased merely for want of something to do. Then," added Algitha, "His
Majesty marries them, and sets them to work to create another houseful
of idle creatures, who have to be supported by the deathly toil of those
who labour too much."

"The devil is full of resources!" said Hadria.

Miss Temperley had been asked to stay at Dunaghee for the New Year.
Algitha conceived for her a sentiment almost vindictive. Hadria and the
boys enjoyed nothing better than to watch Miss Temperley giving forth
her opinions, while Algitha's figure gradually stiffened and her neck
drew out, as Fred said, in truly telescopic fashion, like that of Alice
in Wonderland. The boys constructed a figure of cushions, stuffed into
one of Algitha's old gowns, the neck being a padded broom-handle, made
to work up and down at pleasure; and with this counterfeit presentment
of their sister, they used to act the scene amidst shouts of applause,
Miss Temperley entering, on one occasion, when the improvised cocoa-nut
head had reached its culminating point of high disdain, somewhere about
the level of the curtain-poles.

On New-Year's-eve, Dunaghee was full of guests. There was to be a
children's party, to which however most of the grown-up neighbours were
also invited.

"What a charming sight!" cried Henriette, standing with her neat foot on
the fender in the hall, where the children were playing blind man's
buff.

Mrs. Fullerton sat watching them with a dreamy smile. The scene recalled
many an old memory. Mr. Fullerton was playing with the children.

Everyone remarked how well the two girls looked in their new evening
gowns. They had made them themselves, in consequence of a wager with
Fred, who had challenged them to combine pink and green satisfactorily.

"The gowns are perfect!" Temperley ventured to remark. "So much
distinction!"

"All my doing," cried Fred. "I chose the colours."

"Distinction comes from within," said Temperley. "I should like to see
what sort of gown in pink and green Mrs. ----." He stopped short
abruptly.

Fred gave a chuckle. Indiscreet eyes wandered towards Mrs. Gordon's
brocade and silver.

Later in the evening, that lady played dance music in a florid manner,
resembling her taste in dress. The younger children had gone home, and
the hall was filled with spinning couples.

"I hope we are to have some national dances," said Miss Temperley. "My
brother and I are both looking forward to seeing a true reel danced by
natives of the country."

"Oh, certainly!" said Mr. Fullerton. "My daughters are rather celebrated
for their reels, especially Hadria." Mr. Fullerton executed a step or
two with great agility.

"The girl gets quite out of herself when she is dancing," said Mrs.
Fullerton. "She won't be scolded about it, for she says she takes after
her father!"

"That's the time to get round her," observed Fred. "If we want to set
her up to some real fun, we always play a reel and wait till she's well
into the spirit of the thing, and then, I'll wager, she would stick at
nothing."

"It's a fact," added Ernest. "It really seems to half mesmerise her."

"How very curious!" cried Miss Temperley.

She and her brother found themselves watching the dancing a little apart
from the others.

"I would try again to-night, Hubert," she said in a low voice.

He was silent for a moment, twirling the tassel of the curtain.

"There is nothing to be really alarmed at in her ideas, regrettable as
they are. She is young. That sort of thing will soon wear off after she
is married."

Temperley flung away the tassel.

"She doesn't know what she is talking about. These high-flown lectures
and discussions have filled all their heads with nonsense. It will have
to be rooted out when they come to face the world. No use to oppose her
now. Nothing but experience will teach her. She must just be humoured
for the present. They have all run a little wild in their notions. Time
will cure that."

"I am sure of it," said Hubert tolerantly. "They don't know the real
import of what they say." He hugged this sentence with satisfaction.

"They are like the young Russians one reads about in Turgenieff's
novels," said Henriette--"all ideas, no common-sense."

"And you really believe----?"

Henriette's hand was laid comfortingly on her brother's arm.

"Dear Hubert, I know something of my sex. After a year of married life,
a woman has too many cares and responsibilities to trouble about ideas
of this kind, or of any other."

"She strikes me as being somewhat persistent by nature," said Hubert,
choosing a gentler word than _obstinate_ to describe the quality in the
lady of his affections.

"Let her be as persistent as she may, it is not possible for any woman
to resist the laws and beliefs of Society. What can she do against all
the world? She can't escape from the conditions of her epoch. Oh! she
may talk boldly now, for