[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Gender mainstreaming

ronments (i.e. patriarchal structures of institutional organisations or the prevalence of policy objectives contrary to gender equality etc.), [gender mainstreaming] may be conceived and applied as an alternative to positive action and used to downplay the final overall objective of gender equality.

True is of the opinion that in practice, attempts to mainstream gender within international institutions have led to the marginalization and increasing invisibility of gender in each policy area. Anne-Marie Goetz, a Clinical Professor at NYU, and Joanne Sandler, a consultant for gender equality and organizational development, argue that ironically, mainstreaming gender runs the risk of becoming everyone's responsibility, yet nobody's at the same time. Gender mainstreaming can allow those in power who are not genuinely interested in the women's movement to adopt the language of women's rights, a reflection of power politics that becomes more of a tool used to legitimize the actions of governments. Gender mainstreaming then becomes more about advising governments than advancing gender equality.

Other criticism

As differences are silenced, the kind of feminism that is likely to be mainstreamed could be a western or middle class brand of feminism. When mainstreaming decisions within international organizations are made by elites can undermine the input of local women's groups.

When gender mainstreaming policies are drafted without consulting sections of the women's movement (i.e., women's rights civil society groups), they lack ground level-expertise. Policy decisions related to gender that are made without consulting sections of the women's movement do not demonstrate a clear political willingness to addressing gender inequality. When institutions reach out to the women's rights movement, it demonstrates transparency, inclusiveness, accountability and the implementation process is more likely to be monitored with diligence. For example, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), as an attempt at mainstreaming gender into development, were formed with minimal consultation with women's groups. The MDGs have led to a considerable amount of theoretically discourse about the goals but less analysis about how they will be implemented.

True highlights the tendency for gender mainstreaming to become a guise under which women are used as economic subjects. Women are framed in terms of advancing economic growth, as opposed to the inherent normative ideal for women and men to hold equal positions of power in society.

See also

 Feminist economics
 Gender and security sector reform
 Gender Empowerment Measure
 Gender mainstreaming in teacher education policy
 Gender mainstreaming in mine action
 History of feminism
 Material feminism
 Special measures for gender equality in the United Nations
 Youth mainstreaming

References

External links 
WomenWatch, the United Nations Internet Gateway on Gender Equality and Empowerment of Women
Women's Empowerment, the United Nations Development Programme's gateway on women's empowerment and gender equality
Active work for Gender Equality, SALAR's booklet "Active work for Gender Equality – a challenge for municipalities and county councils""
EIGE, the European Institute for Gender Equality official website
The European Community of Practice on Gender Mainstreaming, The European Commission's learning network on Gender Mainstreaming within the European Social Fund (ESF)""
 Libguide on Gender Regional Agenda

Feminism and society
Feminist terminology
Gender equality
Gender and society
Public policy