[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Transformers: The Game

s Optimus intercepts and battles Megataron. The latter is ultimately killed after Optimus takes the AllSpark and rams it into Megatron's chest, destroying both him and the AllSpark. The game ends with the surviving Autobots choosing to remain on Earth and protect it from any potential future threat.

Decepticons campaign
The Decepticon Blackout lands in Qatar, where he attacks an MH-53 Pave Low helicopter and takes on its form to disguise himself from humans. He then attacks a SOCCENT Air Base, before sending his minion Scorponok to chase and kill all the survivors to prevent from calling for help using mobile communication vehicles. Afterwards, Blackout searches for top secret data about the AllSpark from the remains of SOCCENT through computer terminals kept inside Software towers, but in the process accidentally sends a Morse Code signal informing Stealth Bombers and F-22s of his location. After destroying them, Blackout finds data about an artifact that will lead the Decepticons to the AllSpark.

Meanwhile, the Decepticon scout Barricade, taking on the alternate form of a Saleen Ford Mustang Police cruiser, arrives to find Sam Witwicky, who has the artifact revealing the AllSpark's location. After recovering his minicon Frenzy from Sector 7 at the Power Plant, Barricade finds Sam and his girlfriend Mikaela Banes, but before he can take the artifact, he is attacked by the Autobot Bumblebee. Barricade defeats Bumblebee and retrieves the artifact: a pair of glasses with the location of the AllSpark burned into them. During this time, the Decepticon sub-commander Starscream is gathering an army to retrieve the AllSpark, and arrives at an airbase, which he destroys after recruiting Brawl and Bonecrusher. He and Blackout later attack the Hoover Dam, releasing their leader Megatron.

Both the Decepticons and the Autobots gather in Mission City, where Sam and Mikaela are taking the AllSpark. After dropping the two humans off, the Autobot Jazz fights Barricade, but is ultimately killed. The other Decepticons then arrive in the city and battle the Autobots, with Blackout deploying Scorponok to destroy several Energon drones that have spawned from the AllSpark. After destroying them, Scorponok is chased away by Ironhide, whom Blackout then battles and kills. Meanwhile, Megatron destroys the city as he searches for Optimus Prime, and finds Sam and Mikeala hiding with the AllSpark. Before he can kill them and claim it, Megatron is attacked by Optimus, whom he ultimately defeats. After executing Optimus, Megatron retrieves the AllSpark, which releases a massive shockwave, presumably converting all electronics in the world into Decepticons. With his new army, Megatron takes over the Earth and is later seen sitting on his "throne", ordering his Decepticons to kill all of mankind before they leave the planet.

Development

Cybertron Edition
GameStop/EB Games sold Transformers: The Game Cybertron Edition for the Xbox 360. This collector's edition contains exclusive material; codes that unlock the Cybertron level, a making of the game DVD, a Transformers comic book by Simon Furman, and Cybertron Edition box art.

Reception

Transformers: The Game received mixed reviews upon release. GameRankings and Metacritic gave it a score of 57.69% and 55 out of 100 for the PC version; 57.44% and 56 out of 100 for the PlayStation 2 version; 54.38% and 53 out of 100 for the Wii version; 53.49% and 54 out of 100 for the PlayStation 3 version; 52.42% and 52 out of 100 for the Xbox 360 version; and 46.89% and 47 out of 100 for the PSP version.

In most reviews, graphics and sound effects were praised, IGN's review named the graphics of the Wii version in the time of its release as the best on the system while Peter Cullen's voice acting as Optimus Prime, alongside Frank Welker (Megatron's original voice in the 1984 cartoon) were considered strong points also. GameSpot also commended the responsive motion-controls on the Wii.

However, the various reviewers noted multiple flaws, such as a troublesome camera that tumbled (intended to give an effect of the walking of the Transformers themselves), repetitive missions, and clunky driving in the vehicle modes. They also commented that the game was too short and it had an unbalanced difficulty, older gamers finding it too easy, while younger players finding extremely hard to pass certain missions. Furthermore, although there were few complaints about it, the main console versions of the game lack multiplayer modes (though there is multiplayer on the DS and PSP versions). Hyper'''s Maurice Branscombe commended the game for looking good and comments that "exploration and destruction is fun". However, he criticised the game for its "mission objectives that are repetitive and boring". He also criticised the combat as poor.

The game was nominated for the 35th Annie Award title of Best Animated Video Game, but lost to Ratatouille.

Sequels