[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# December 1979

ompany by Pan American World Airways was approved by President Jimmy Carter upon recommendation of the Civil Aeronautics Board, bringing an end to the 45-year old airline brand.  All of National's flights and aircraft were re-branded as Pan Am, which became the fourth-largest air carrier in the U.S.

Died: Darryl F. Zanuck, 77, American film producer and studio executive, winner of three Academy Awards for Best Picture (for How Green Was My Valley, Gentleman's Agreement and All About Eve)

December 23, 1979 (Sunday)
Only four people survived the crash of a Turkish Airlines flight that killed 41 people during its approach to Ankara at the end of its trip from Samsun.  The Fokker F-28 jet struck a hillside near the village of Kuyumcuköy after deviating from its course.
All 16 people on board a Douglas Airways GAF Nomad airplane were killed in Papua New Guinea when the two-engine propeller-driven aircraft over-ran the runway at the airport in Manari and plunged down a steep embankment. The flight had originated in Port Moresby.
The highest aerial tramway in Europe, the Klein Matterhorn, opened.
Born: 
Jacqueline Bracamontes, Mexican beauty pageant titlist and actress; in Guadalajara
Kenny Miller, Scottish soccer football striker and national team member; in Edinburgh
Died: Peggy Guggenheim, 81, American modern art collector

December 24, 1979 (Monday)

 The European Space Agency, financed primarily by France and nine other Western European nations, placed a rocket into Earth orbit for the first time as the unmanned  Ariane 1 was launched from the Guiana Space Centre near Kourou in French Guiana.
 The Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan with 6,000 combat troops of the 40th Soviet Army were flown into the Asian nation, to prepare to replace PDPA general secretary Hafizullah Amin, who had fallen out of favor with Soviet leadership.  Within three days, the troops invaded the capital city of Kabul to carry out a bloody coup d'état to kill Amin and replace him with Babrak Karmal.  The invasion began a war that would last for more than nine years. 
Died: Rudi Dutschke, 39, West German political activist, from injuries sustained in a 1968 shooting.  Known as "Red Rudi", Dutschke, who had been shot in the head on April 11, 1968, suffered frequent seizures and drowned in a bathtub while visiting friends in the city of Aarhus in Denmark.

December 25, 1979 (Tuesday)
All 28 crewmen of the Taiwanese freighter Lee Wang Zin were killed when the  Taiwanese ore freighter capsized off the coast of the Canadian province of British Columbia.
The U.S. Embassy hostages in Iran were allowed by their captors to have Christmas services, as three U.S. clergymen and a French-born Algerian archbishop spent five hours with the hostages.
Died: Joan Blondell (Rose Joan Bluestein), 73, American film and television actress

December 26, 1979 (Wednesday)
In Rhodesia, 96 Patriotic Front guerrillas entered the capital Salisbury to monitor a ceasefire scheduled to begin December 28.
Born: Dmitriy Vassiliev, Russian ski jumper; in Ufa, Bashkir ASSR, Soviet Union
Died: 
Helmut Hasse, 81, German mathematician for whom 12 mathematical functions are named, including the Hasse diagram, the Hasse norm theorem, and Hasse's theorem on elliptic curves
Josiah Tongogara, 41, Zimbabwean guerrilla leader of the Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army, the military wing of Robert Mugabe's Zimbabwe African National Union, was reportedly killed in an automobile accident in Mozambique while on his way to Rhodesia supervise the duties assigned to his troops as a part of the recent ceasefire.  Tongogara was passenger in a car that was driving him from Maputo to his headquarters in Chimoio, where he would have then crossed the border into Umtali.  Near the Mozambican city of Massinga, Tongogara's vehicle crashed into a truck that had been abandoned on the road.