[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Nicolas Schöffer

lustrations was Robert Doisneau. Accompanying the publication was a vinyl record of Pierre Henry's concrete music. Another Schöffer monograph published by Presses du réel appeared in 2004 with texts by Eric Mangion and Maude Ligier. Tamás Aknai wrote a Schöffer monograph in his home country in 1975.

The diploma theses discuss Nicolas Schöffer's oeuvre from very different angles. Maude Ligier deals with the first stage of the artistic career. The significance of this writing is that this initial phase of the creative work is rarely mentioned. Ligier analyzes the turning point in the artist's career that was triggered by the encounter with Wiener's book.     Nathalie Busson discusses the line of development that has led from separate artworks to the complex tasks of urbanism. Orsolya Hangyel and Eszter Tamás analyze the Hungarian roots of the kinetic artistic movement including Schöffer's contribution. In the focus of Andrea Rovescalli's thesis are those artworks of Schöffer that were produced in series for households, like the Lumino series. Three-dimensional digital reproduction of Schöffer's lost or only planned but never realized works was the main concern of Ördög Anna Noémi aka Naomi Devil. Her thesis submitted for her academic title at the University of Applied Art in Vienna consists of a text and 3D models. The thesis that Klára Gehér has written at the Technical University in Vienna is a comprehensive work that provides an insight into the antecedents of Schöffer's oeuvre. It compares individual works with those of contemporaries and points out the impact of Schöffer's work on future generations of artists. It provides a starting point for curators.

References
Writings by Schöffer:

Monographs:

Theses:

Interviews:

Film:

Biography with exhibition list

Video:

Other references:'

Sources
 Popper, Frank, From Technological to Virtual Art, Leonardo Books, MIT Press, 2007
 Busch, Julia M., A Decade of Sculpture: the New Media in the 1960s  (The Art Alliance Press: Philadelphia; Associated University Presses: London, 1974); 
 Nicolas Schöffer retrospective exhibition, Műcsarnok Exhibition Hall, Budapest, Hungary, 2019
 Nicolas Schöffer retrospective exhibition, video, Műcsarnok Exhibition Hall, Budapest, Hungary, 2019
 Nicolas Schöffer in recognised database Kunstaspekte
 Nicolas Schöffer exhibition catalog, Odalys Gallery

External links

 Nicolas Schöffer
 Nicolas Schöffer exhibition
 Images of his studio
  Sound recordings from Schöffer's spatiodynamic sculptures sourced from the DVD of an exhibition at Espace Gantner, France, 2004, titled Précurseur de l’art cybernétique, as well as various internet videos. The Lumino and Microtemps, 1968 and 1961 respectively, were not intended as sound sculptures, yet the noises they produce are definitely part of their appeal, not unlike Jean Tinguely's machines.
 

1912 births
1992 deaths
20th-century French artists
20th-century Hungarian artists
20th-century Hungarian Jews
Hungarian emigrants to France
People from Kalocsa
Cyberneticists
Kinetic art
French sculptors
French painters