[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Regional seat of government

Regional seats of government or RSGs were the best known aspect of Britain's civil defence preparations against nuclear war. In fact, however, naming conventions changed over the years as strategies in Whitehall changed.

In the aftermath of the nuclear attack on Hiroshima and the Soviet Union's development of nuclear weapons, it was clear that London could not survive a nuclear bombardment. Although considerable effort still went into secret construction of military citadels under London, the solution was to disperse the machinery of government into small pieces in the provinces, where there would be a greater chance of survival.

Experiments along these lines had taken place during the Second World War, when a system of regional commissioners existed and key departments were moved out of London to Bath, Harrogate and Cheltenham, among others. However, the idea of a regional commissioner dated back to the First World War and the 1926 general strike.

From the Second World War to the H-bomb
The Civil Defence Corps was revived in 1948 by Act of Parliament, and the next year it was decided to construct a network of two-storey, hardened war rooms built on government sites and with concrete walls ranging from five to seven feet thick.

Construction started in 1953 and was completed by 1965. The sites chosen were

 Region 1 (Northern)
 Kenton Bar in Newcastle upon Tyne, a former RAF operations room dating from 1940
 Region 2 (North East)
 Lawnswood, Leeds
 Region 3 (North Midlands)
 Chalfont Drive, Nottingham
 Region 4 (Eastern)
 Brooklands Avenue, Cambridge
 Region 5 (London)
 Five sub-controls in the outer suburbs were established – see Civil defence centres in London
 Region 6 (Southern)
 University of Reading Whiteknights Campus, Reading
 Region 7 (South West)
 Flowers Hill, Bristol
 Region 8 (Wales)
 Coryton, Cardiff
 Region 9 (West Midlands)
 Shirley, Birmingham
 Region 10 (Scotland)
 Kirknewton, near Edinburgh
 Region 11 (South East)
 Tunbridge Wells

The H-bomb era
Yet by the time the last of the war rooms was completed, the development of the hydrogen bomb made them anachronistic. Instead of a long war, planners now expected a short devastating attack on major cities. The war rooms were built too close to major population centres, and with a staff of only 45, were insufficient for the dispersed network that civil defence planners then thought would be required.

It was then expected that central government might itself cease to exist, and control would pass entirely into the hands of a regional commissioner, of cabinet rank, who would wield absolute power in his region. His staff would replicate all parts of central government.

In tune with this philosophy of dispersal, work continued to refurbish and expand a former underground aircraft factory and ammunition store at Hawthorn, Wiltshire, built in a vast complex of former Bath stone quarries near Bath, as a final emergency national seat of government.

In 1956 the Home Office issued a specification for a vastly expanded network of bunkers with space for 300 staff, capable of resisting a near miss, linked into communications systems such as the BBC, and capable of operating for several months.

However, in the following year Britain was hit by one of the recurrent economic crises which marked the 1950s and 1960s, and the plans had to be scaled back. In particular, the new RSGs were, wherever possible, to use existing facilities, with none in the end being purpose-built. This spirit of economy was to mark all UK preparations for nuclear war. They were completed between 1958 and 1961, and the construction was done in complete secrecy, with Parliament, as well as the public and the press, unaware of the work being carried out.

RSGs
The regional seats of government were;