[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Military conquests of Umar's era

under Schinos, Khalid attacked and defeated Theodras. A week later, Abu Ubaida himself moved towards Baalbek, where the great Temple of Jupiter stood. In May 636, Heliopolis surrendered to the Muslims after little resistance and agreed to pay tribute. Abu Ubaidah sent Khalid straight towards Emesa.

Siege of Jerusalem & Asia minor conquest 

Muslim victories pertinently ended Byzantine rule south of Anatolia, and Jerusalem fell in April 637 after a prolonged siege, Umar personally came to receive the key to the city by the Greek Orthodox patriarch, Sophronius, and was invited to offer prayers at the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. Umar chose to pray some distance from the Church, so as not to endanger its status as a Christian temple. Fifty-five years later, the Mosque of Omar was constructed on the site where he prayed. After the fall of Jerusalem, Umar permitted Jews to practice their religion freely and live in Jerusalem.

The conquest of Levant was completed in 637 after the last relentless resistance by Byzantines at Battle of Iron bridge, which resulted in Muslim occupation of Antioch, capital of eastern zone of Byzantine Empire in October 637. Emperor Heraclius attempt to capture northern Syria in 638, with the aid of Christian Arabs of Jazira, prompted Muslims to invade Jazira (Mesopotamia) in 638 and captured Marash in the Siege of Germanicia, securing the eastern flank of Syria from Byzantine attacks in future, soon after the occupation of Jazira, Muslim columns marched north in Anatolia, invaded and plundered Byzantine provinces of Armenia, these were however only preemptive attacks on Armenia to eliminate all Byzantine presence north of Syria, Armenia was annexed in 643 During the Conquest of Persian Empire. These preemptive attack resulted in the creation of a buffer zone or no man's land in south-eastern Anatolia and Armenia, which would eventually evolve into the al-'Awasim. It was exactly what Umar wanted, as he is quoted saying 

The Byzantine empire already exhausted after major defeats in Yarmouk and Northern Syria was left vulnerable to Muslims' attacks and its very existence in Anatolia was threatened. Umar apparently was not interested in occupation of Anatolia, it had a cold and mountainous terrain with no economic incentives, soon after the occupation of Byzantine Armenia, the time when chaos was at its peak in Byzantium, Umar had already rejected Khalid and Abu Ubaidah's proposal of invading Anatolia. Moreover, Umar, due to his strong desire to consolidate his rule in the conquered land and owing to his non-offensive policy left the remaining Byzantine empire on its own. The situation was a stalemate, Umar had power but not desire to cross into Byzantine Empire, and Emperor Heraclius had desire but not left powerful enough to roll back his former rich provinces. For the security of northern Syria, Umar issued orders for annual raids into Byzantine territories in Anatolia and Muslims raided as far as Phrygia.

Conquest of Africa (640–643) 

After losing the Levant, the economic lifeline and main source of manpower of Byzantines and Armenia, Emperor Heraclius was left incapable of any military come back. As a result, he focused on consolidating his power in Egypt. During his visit to Syria in 637 to receive the surrender of Jerusalem, Amr ibn al-Aas tried to convince Umar to invade Egypt, but Umar rejected on the grounds that Muslim rule in Syria was still not firm. After the great plague in 639, Umar paid another visit to Syria and was again persuaded by Amr to invade Egypt. Amr convinced Umar that Byzantine influence in Egypt was a continuous threat to Muslim rule in Palestine and that Egypt was a rich land that could provide Muslims with immense wealth, economical stability as well as a strategic location for trade with North Africa and Mediterranean. Initially hesitan, Umar rejected the proposal and is reported to have said “Life of my one soldier is dearer to me than a million Dirham.”

However, he eventually decided to put the matter to the Majlis al Shura (parliament) in Madinah. Once approved by the parliament Umar issued orders for the invasion of Egypt in December 639. The conquest was completed in 642 on the eve of Muslim conquest of Persian highlands.

Conquest of Egypt