[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Čelebići camp

Landžo was charged with individual responsibility for his direct participation in five murders, four specific acts of torture and one case of causing great suffering and serious injury. All four were charged with grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions and Violations of the Laws and Customs of War.

Proceedings
Delić and Mucić made their initial court appearances on 11 April 1996, Delalić on 9 May 1996 and Landžo on 18 June 1996. All pleaded not guilty. American journalist Elizabeth Neuffer who covered the trial, described the accused's disdain for the court and lack of seriousness. She noted that "Delic, Landzo, Mucic and Delalic... giggled, scowled and slouched their way through the trial like boys in a junior high detention hall" and how Delić "threatened a defense attorney and made loud disparaging remarks about witnesses while they testified". During testimonies, Delić was observed looking disinterested and chewing gum.

For his part, Landžo claimed he committed the crimes because he wanted to be a "perfect soldier" and unquestioningly obey orders coming from the camp superiors (Delić and Mucić). Just prior to the conclusion of the trial, he confessed to the murder of two of the ones he was charged with as well as some of the torture charges but added that he "does not remember" the rest of the crimes. He admitted among other things, to burning detainees on their arms or legs and forcing two brothers to perform fellatio on each other before tying slow-burning fuses to their genitals and liting them on fire. His confessions shocked the lawyers of the other three co-accused. During the trial, five psychiatrists testified about Landžo's mental state when he committed the crimes. With the exception of the prosecutor's expert, all testified that Landžo had some mental disorder but they each differed on specific diagnoses—from schizophrenic to unstable and deprived. His defense team used this to argue a "diminished or lack of mental responsibility" plea.

Judgement and sentencing
On 16 November 1998, the ICTY delivered its verdict on the Čelebići case, finding Delić, Landžo and Mucić guilty, but acquitting Delalić of all charges. All three were found guilty of:

 Violations of the laws and customs of war (Art. 3 ICTY Statute): murder, cruel treatment, torture and pillage;
 Serious breaches of the 1949 Geneva Conventions (Art. 2 ICTY Statute): wilful murder, torture, wilfully causing intense suffering or of inflicting serious bodily injury, and inhumane treatment

Delić was found guilty to a part of the charges and sentenced to 20 years in prison on the basis of individual responsibility and hierarchical superiority.

It was found that he beat one detainee over the course of several days which resulted in his death. He beat a detainee with a number of objects, including shovels and electric wires. He placed severe restrictions on the amount of water which could be drunk by detainees, despite there being no shortage of water available. He also violently raped two women in the camp.

Landžo was found guilty on 17 counts and sentenced to 15 years in prison on the basis of his individual responsibility.

It was found that he beat an elderly man and nailed a Serbian Democratic Party badge to his forehead causing him to die from the injuries. He closed a pair of heated pincers against a detainee's tongue, burning his lips, mouth and tongue and then used the pincers to burn the detainee's ears. He cut off a prisoner's air supply using a gas mask and burned his hands, legs and thighs with a heated knife. He also forced a prisoner to do push-ups while kicking him and beating him with a baseball bat.

Mucić was found guilty on 11 counts and sentenced to 7 years in prison on the basis of his individual responsibility and as hierarchical superior.

It was found that he participated in the maintenance of inhumane conditions for the detainees. As commander of the camp, he was responsible for creating the atmosphere of terror that
prevailed, whereby detainees lived in a constant state of anguish and fear of being subjected to physical abuse. Under his command, eight detainees were beaten to death.
 
In the case of Zejnil Delalić, it was found that he did not have enough command and control over the prison camp and the guards who worked there to entail criminal responsibility for their actions.

The trial was the first one for collective violations of international law since World War II. The ICTY found that a superior could be held criminally responsible for failing to prevent crimes by subordinates whether this position was held legally or in practice, and whether the superior was a civilian or a military commander.