[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

. Expressway. Also, a part of SR 59 just after this expressway ends is known as Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
 Cincinnati: Martin Luther King Drive is a major crosstown artery in Cincinnati. It connects the west side of the city to the east, running through several historic uptown neighborhoods.

 Cleveland: In 1981 Cleveland renamed Liberty Boulevard, which had been named to commemorate Cleveland area soldiers who had been killed in World War I, to Martin Luther King Jr. Drive. The Drive's northern end is an interchange with I-90, near the Lakefront Park along the Lake Erie shoreline, weaving south through the city to Harvard Avenue. Then a small portion which runs from Miles Avenue, changing its name to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard in the suburb city of Garfield Heights, where it dead ends. The largest span of the road is within the string of Cultural Gardens in Rockefeller Park. During the 1980s, Martin Luther King Jr. Drive was very dark at night, which is when most of the criminal activity took place. Currently, there are street lights every  along the parkway, as well as spotlights surrounding the nearby recreational areas.  The parkway is known for its elegant old overpasses and is home to the unique Cleveland Cultural Gardens, the only public space in the world celebrating the ethnic diversity of Cleveland.
 Columbus: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard in Columbus is approximately three blocks in length, connecting east Spring Street and Mount Vernon Avenue, and running adjacent to Mayme Moore Park.
 Dayton: Martin Luther King Jr. Way runs approximately 3 miles through the west side of the city of Dayton. The named part of the road begins from just west of the Great Miami River to the western edge of the Dayton city proper limits. This street is also called West Third Street.
 Findlay: Martin Luther King Way.
 Toledo: Dr. Martin Luther King Drive forms a short loop around Children's Park in Toledo.  Also the Cherry Street Bridge, a double-leaf bascule bridge over the Maumee River, has been renamed the Martin Luther King Bridge.
 Warren: Martin Luther King Boulevard SW is a two-lane semi-rural road on the west side of Warren running south off W. Market Street.
 Youngstown: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard runs from the border with Girard to 5th Avenue in Downtown Youngstown.

Oklahoma
 Oklahoma City: The Northern section of Eastern Avenue, from E. Reno Avenue north to N. 63rd Street, was renamed "N. Martin Luther King Avenue" in honor of his impact on Oklahoma City and the nation. The avenue is the principal north–south road in Oklahoma City's Eastside section, home to the state's largest African American community. Prominent landmarks along the avenue include many of Oklahoma City's top attractions, such as the Oklahoma City Zoological Park, Remington Park, and Omniplex Science Museum.  It is legend that King interviewed to become pastor of the historic Calvary Baptist Church in today's Deep Deuce Historic neighborhood, but church officials turned him down due to his youthful age.
 Tulsa: I-244 from I-44 west to downtown Tulsa is known as the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Expressway. Additionally, part of North Cincinnati Avenue was renamed to "Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard" in 2012.
 Langston: Running north–south from County Road 74/Sammy Davis Jr. Drive to East Commercial Street.

Oregon

 Eugene: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard forms a western extension of Centennial Boulevard, looping north of Autzen Stadium (University of Oregon Ducks football).
 Portland: Union Avenue between Delta Park and SE Division Street was renamed Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd in 1989. It carries Oregon State Route 99E and is a major arterial crossing the entire northern half of Portland, and passes through neighborhoods African-Americans were previously restricted to living in.
Springfield: Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway is the northern extension of Pioneer Parkway from the roundabout intersection with Hayden Bridge Way going north to the intersection of Game Farm Road then turning into Beltline Road.

Pennsylvania