[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 27]
# Constructive set theory

trivially decidable. Membership in those two is equivalent to the trivial propositions  resp. .

Call a class  indecomposable or cohesive if, for any predicate ,

This expresses that the only properties that are decidable on  are the trivial properties. It is well studied in intuitionistic analysis.

The so called indecomposability schema  (Unzerlegbarkeit) for set theory is a possible principle which states that the whole class  is indecomposable. Extensionally speaking,  postulates that the two trivial classes are the only classes that are decidable with respect to the class of all sets. 
For a simple motivating predicate, consider membership  in the first non-trivial class, which is to say the property  of being empty. This property is non-trivial to the extent that it separates some sets: The empty set is a member of , by definition, while a plethora of sets are provenly not members of . But, using Separation, one may of course also define various sets for which emptiness is not decidable in a constructive theory at all, i.e. membership in  is not provable for all sets. So here the property of emptiness does not partition the set theoretical domain of discourse into two decidable parts. For any such non-trivial property, the contrapositive of  says that it cannot be decidable over all sets.

 is implied by the uniformity principle , which is consistent with  and discussed below.

Non-constructive principles 
Of course  and many principles defining intermediate logics are non-constructive.  and , which is  for just negated propositions, can be presented as De Morgan's rules. 
More specifically, this section shall be concerned with statements in terms of predicates - especially weaker ones, expressed in terms of a few quantifiers over sets, on top of decidable predicates on numbers. Referring back to the section on characteristic functions, one may call a collection  searchable if it is searchable for all its decidable subsets . This is a form of - for . Note that in the context of Exponentiation, such proposition on sets are now set-bound.

Particularly valuable in the study of constructive analysis are non-constructive claims commonly formulated in terms of the collection of all binary sequences and the characteristic functions  on the arithmetic domain  are well studied. Here  is a decidable proposition at each numeral , but, as demonstrated previously, quantified statements in terms of  may not be. As is known from the incompleteness theorem and its variations, already in first-order arithmetic, example functions on  can be characterized such that if  is consistent, the competing - disjuncts, of low complexity, are each -unprovable (even if  proves the disjunction of the two axiomatically.)

More generally, the arithmetic -, a most prominent non-constructive, essentially logical statement goes by the name limited principle of omniscience . In the constructive set theory  introduced below, it implies -, , the -version of the fan theorem, but also  discussed below. Recall examples of famous sentences that can be written down in a -fashion, i.e. of Goldbach-type: Goldbach conjecture, Fermat's last theorem but also the Riemann hypothesis are among them. Assuming relativized dependent choice  and the classical  over  does not enable proofs of more -statements.
 postulates a disjunctive property, as does the weaker decidability statement for functions being constant (-sentences) , the arithmetic -. The two are related in a similar way as is  versus  and they essentially differ by .
 in turn implies the so-called "lesser" version . This is the (arithmetic) -version of the non-constructive De Morgan's rule for a negated conjunction. There are, for example, models of the strong set theory  which separate such statements, in the sense that they may validate  but reject .

Disjunctive principles about -sentences generally hint at equivalent formulations deciding apartness in analysis in a context with mild choice or . 
The claim expressed by  translated to real numbers is equivalent to the claim that either equality or apartness of any two reals is decidable (it in fact decides the trichotomy). It is then also equivalent to the statement that every real is either rational or irrational - without the requirement for or construction of a witness for either disjunct. Likewise, the claim expressed by  for real numbers is equivalent that the ordering  of any two reals is decidable (dichotomy). It is then also equivalent to the statement that if the product of two reals is zero, then either of the reals is zero - again without a witness. Indeed, formulations of the three omniscience principles are then each equivalent to theorems of the apartness, equality or order of two reals in this way. 
Yet more can be said about the Cauchy sequences that are augmented with a modulus of convergence.