[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Techsnabexport

tion authorized to conclude foreign trade deals related to import to Russia of irradiated fuel assemblies from nuclear power reactors. In 2017, TENEX was authorized by Rosatom to move low-enriched uranium though the territory of the Russian Federation within the IAEA LEU Bank creation in Kazakhstan.

In February 2018, TENEX and FSUE RosRAO, the V. G. Khlopin Radium Institute and SSC RIAR, was chosen for a project to develop technologies for analyzing the ageing properties of fuel debris subsidized by the Japanese government. Companies will study the samples of corium and "lava" generated by the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant accident, and will manufacture model samples of Fukushima Daiichi NPP fuel debris to develop a prediction model for the changes of corium properties with the aim of using it for post-accident clean-up at Fukushima Daiichi NPP. In 2019, after completing research on predicting changes in corium properties during aging, TENEX was selected as the executor of the second project on this topic.

Operations 
TENEX develops and supplies SNF storage and transportation systems, supplies equipment for RW management, builds infrastructure facilities for SNF management at the customer's premises, and reprocesses uranium-containing materials. The company also provides transportation and logistics services, and is developing new lines of business.

In 2019, TENEX concluded 28 deals with eighteen customers from eight countries, including additions to the existing contracts. The value of the deals was about $3 billion.

Nuclear fuel cycle and uranium products  

Techsnabexport supplies uranium products manufactured by Russian NFC enterprises: natural and enriched uranium, uranium conversion and enrichment services, as well as services in handling regenerated uranium and other uranium-containing materials of non-standard specifications. These products are used to produce fuel for nuclear power plants and research reactors.

TENEX provides a significant portion of the uranium enrichment services for reactors of foreign design.

The total volume of the portfolio of long-term orders is about US$16 billion.

Techsnabexport was appointed as the only organization authorized to conclude foreign trade transactions related to the import of irradiated fuel assemblies into Russia for reprocessing.

Other activities 

TENEX is working to expand the product offering for companies that produce and use "green" energy. The first deliveries of wood pellets as biofuel to the global market were made in 2019. The approach to the handling of wood in the supply chain was confirmed by certification according to international standards FSС and SBP.

The company is evaluating lithium deposits for their subsequent development.

See also

 Energy policy of Russia
 Nuclear power in Russia
 Rosatom

References

External links

Tenam Corporation

1963 establishments in the Soviet Union
Companies of the Soviet Union
Nuclear fuel companies
Nuclear technology companies of Russia
Rosatom
Government-owned companies of Russia
Technology companies established in 1963
Nuclear technology in the Soviet Union
Companies based in Moscow
Ministry of Foreign Trade (Soviet Union)