[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Europe District

The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Europe District, (NAU) provides both installation and contingency support to U.S. forces throughout the United States European Command area of responsibility. Headquartered in Wiesbaden, Germany, the district, which is part of the North Atlantic Division, covers a widely dispersed geographic area from Western Europe across Eastern Europe, including Russia, down to Israel and throughout most of the African continent. Work is executed from offices in Germany, Belgium, Turkey, Romania, Italy, Spain, Kosovo, Israel, Bulgaria, and Georgia. In 2009, the district completed more than $1.2 billion in projects including $648 million in military construction projects. The bulk of this work included Army and Air Force Family Housing units, forward operating sites in Eastern Europe, and training and operations facilities.

Other new challenges on the district's frontiers included $8.5 million in security and law enforcement projects in Georgia, $6.3 million in humanitarian assistance projects throughout the Caucasus, Balkans and Africa, and a host of other invaluable projects throughout five countries on the African continent.

History
The unit was established in 1971 in Frankfurt am Main.

Nonmilitary construction projects totaled $396 million – a 26 percent increase from 2008 – including almost $200 million in upgrades to various lodging and administrative facilities, airfields, child development centers, warehouses, and utility infrastructure; more than $125 million in small- to medium-sized renovations and planning work for garrison Directorates of Public Works; and roughly $30 million for environmental surveys and services throughout Europe.

Most illustrative of the district's work in 2009, however, was the construction placement. The district turned over 44 major facilities and 100 small- to medium-sized renovation projects, totaling about $586 million to customers this year. These projects included barracks, vehicle maintenance facilities, company operation facilities, and battalion and brigade headquarters facilities in Grafenwoehr, Germany; an Army Lodge in Chièvres Air Base, Belgium; the first C-130J aircraft hangar in Europe at Ramstein Air Base; a consolidated communications facility in Turkey; the only official border crossing station between Georgia and Russia; and miscellaneous military facilities on bases across Europe, Israel and Mali.

Europe District staff also provided rapid response in support of contingency operations, deploying nine percent of all government civilians to support contingency operations in the Middle East, including 11 employees to Operation Iraqi Freedom and 12 employees to Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan.

Also on the district's frontier in 2009 were the continued support to manage the construction of $100 million in forward operating site facilities for the U.S. Army Europe-led Task Force-East initiative in Romania and Bulgaria and another $100 million in projects requested by Israel to help it maintain its qualitative military edge over other countries in the region that threaten its security.

Mission
The United States Army Corps of Engineers Europe District provides planning, design, construction, environmental services, and project management to meet customer infrastructure requirements; engineering services supporting the Theater Security Cooperation Plan; and Field Force Engineering supporting contingency operations in the U.S. European Command and U.S. Africa Command areas of responsibility. 
 
Within its geographic boundaries, NAU supports the following governmental agencies and foreign governments:

Armed Forces
 United States European Command
 United States African Command
 United States Army Europe (USAREUR)
 United States Army Africa (USARAF)
 United States Air Forces in Europe – Air Forces Africa (USAFE-AFAFRICA)
 Seventeenth Air Force
 Special Operations Command, Europe

Department of Defense Agencies
 Department of Defense Dependents Schools
 Defense Commissary Agency
 Defense Logistics Agency
 Army and Air Force Exchange Service
 Defense Intelligence Agency
 United States Army Medical Command
 United States Army Installation Management Command, Europe
 Family and Morale, Welfare and Recreation Command
 Missile Defense Agency

Other governmental agencies
 United States Agency for International Development
 United States Department of Energy
 United States Customs and Border Protection
 United States Department of State
 Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE)
 Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs
 Host Nation Governments (Germany, Belgium, etc.)
 Government of Israel (Ministry of Defense)

Programs