[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Oregon State University College of Engineering

Oregon State University's College of Engineering is the engineering college of Oregon State University, a public research university in Corvallis, Oregon. U.S. News & World Report ranks OSU's engineering college 69th in the nation for 2024. The ranking makes the college one of the top two in the Northwest, while the college's nuclear engineering school ranks 12th nationally.

In 2022 student enrollment at the college reached over 9,800, with just over 8,500 of those undergraduates. The college is now the largest on campus and the seventh largest engineering college in the nation (2023).

History 
Oregon State University is the only public university in the state to offer fully accredited degrees in all of the major engineering fields. OSU was designated Oregon's engineering university by the State Board of Higher Education in 1914, with the goal of providing the university a distinct curriculum among Oregon universities. The College of Engineering claims over 35,000 graduates since its founding in 1889.

Schools 
 Mechanical, Industrial, and Manufacturing Engineering
 Civil and Construction Engineering 
 Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
 Chemical, Biological, and Environmental Engineering
 Nuclear Science and Engineering

Campus
OSU engineering continues to expand its campus footprint to accommodate higher enrollments and the addition of new programs. A new 153,000-square-foot building was added to the campus in 2006. The Kelley Engineering Center is home to the school of electrical engineering and computer science. A major remodel was also completed to Kearney Hall in 2008. The recent renovation now serves home to the school of civil and construction management engineering.

Size 
As of Fall 2022, there were over 9,800 students enrolled in the College of Engineering at the Corvallis campus. The College of Engineering's faculty is made up of approximately 122 members whose time is split between teaching and research. The college's operational budget for the 2022–2023 school year was $128.2 million with $64.6 million from research grants and $19.4 million from private donors.

Computer science (CS) students set a new record in 2022. CS students were awarded more CS degrees than any other engineering college in the nation.

Expansion

College of engineering alum and nVIDIA founder and CEO, Jen-Hsun “Jensen” Huang, is helping to build a $200 million research and education center planned for campus. The center will be named after the alum and his wife, Lori Huang, who are donating $50 million to the project. The Jen-Hsun and Lori Huang Collaborative Innovation Complex (CIC) will feature a massive AI supercomputer – powered, of course, by nVIDIA hardware.

The campus recently celebrated the opening of Johnson Hall. The Hall is the new home for the school of chemical, biological, and environmental engineering. Peter Johnson and his wife, Rosalie, both alumni of the school, sponsored the new addition with a $7 million dollar gift for its construction in 2016. The 58,000 square-foot building features an entryway plaza, modern offices, laboratory classrooms and open spaces for the school's faculty and students. Johnson invented a device and process used to manufacture longer-lasting lead-acid car batteries in 1980. He went on to found Tekmax Inc. in 1981.

Notable alumni