[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1st Iowa Infantry Regiment

moved with Sigel to strike the enemy position in the rear. Merritt led the regiment into battle, as Bates was left sick in Springfield. As the federals moved out on the evening of August 9, the Iowans sang loudly on the march, which made Lyon worried that the men would not fight well due to levity.

Lyon's attack surprised the Confederate camp on the morning of August 10, bringing on the Battle of Wilson's Creek.  The federal soldiers encountered Missouri State Guard cavalry, and one man from the 1st Iowa was killed during the encounter. While the 1st Missouri Infantry Regiment, the 1st Kansas Infantry Regiment, and some artillery fought the cavalry, the 1st Iowa and the rest of Lyon's wing moved onto a prominence known as Bloody Hill. Lyon's men encountered another enemy cavalry unit, and unaware of the Confederate and Missouri State Guard positions, Lyon formed up a position on Bloody Hill, with the Iowans on the left flank.  While Lyon held Bloody Hill, Sigel was defeated by a Confederate and Missouri State Guard attack. The Iowans played an indirect role in the fighting on Sigel's front: some of the Iowans were wearing gray uniforms, and when Sigel's men were faced by gray-clad Confederates of the 3rd Louisiana Infantry Regiment, they thought they were facing the Iowans and did not fire at first. 

On Bloody Hill, Lyon's men repulsed an attack, but during a second enemy charge, the 1st Iowa, less two companies fighting as skirmishers on the left, was transferred from the left to a position supporting the 1st Kansas. After moving to the new position, the Iowans and 1st Missouri became somewhat disorganized, with two companies of the Iowans become commingled with the Missourians. Merritt ordered the regiment to withdraw, which both cut off the two companies with the Missourians from the rest of the regiment and opened a gap in Lyon's line.  Merritt rode over to the isolated companies and maneuvered them over to the rest of the regiment, while Lyon ordered Sweeny to lead the 1st Iowa forward during Merritt's temporary absence. Lyon then began to lead the 2nd Kansas Infantry Regiment forward from a reserve role, but was shot dead.  Sturgis took command after the death of Lyon, while the defeat of Sigel allowed Price and McCulloch to concentrate a larger force against Lyon than before.  This stronger attack was repulsed, as well.

After this, Sturgis decided to withdraw, with his men outnumbered, running out of ammunition, and not knowing what had happened to Sigel.  During the retreat from the field, men from the 1st Iowa helped rescue a federal artillery caisson, and Private Nicholas Bouquet of the 1st Iowa received the Medal of Honor for his actions in this incident. The 1st Iowa had taken about 800 men into the battle, and had 12 men killed, 138 wounded, and 4 missing in action.  Sturgis withdrew his force back to Rolla via Springfield. One member of the 1st Iowa estimated that the regiment had marched  from the time they reached Renick to the arrival at Rolla. At Rolla, the 1st Iowa received new gray uniforms, and then to St. Louis, where they were discharged. The historians William Garrett Piston and Richard W. Hatcher report that the discharge occurred on August 23, while Dyer's Compendium dates it on August 20.  After their discharge, the Iowans were transported by steamboats from St. Louis to Burlington, Iowa, from whence the men returned to their homes.  According to Dyer, the 1st Iowa had 20 men killed in action or mortally wounded during its existence, with another eight dying of natural causes.  At least 600 veterans of the regiment reenlisted in other units, and two, Francis J. Herron and Charles L. Matthies became general officers during the war.

See also
List of Iowa Civil War Units
Iowa in the American Civil War

Notes

References
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Units and formations of the Union Army from Iowa
1861 establishments in Iowa
Military units and formations established in 1861
Military units and formations disestablished in 1861
1861 disestablishments in Missouri