[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Roy Olmstead

that the incriminating wiretapping evidence, which had been obtained without a warrant, constituted a violation of his constitutional rights to privacy and against self-incrimination. However, in February 1928 the Supreme Court upheld the conviction in the landmark case of Olmstead v. United States.

Prison and later life
Olmstead spent his four-year prison sentence at the McNeil Island Correctional Institute, and was released on May 12, 1931, with the Seattle Post-Intelligencer reporting: "He got the usual time off for good behavior, but aside from this, he served his full term plus thirty days for the $8,000 fine assessed against him." He moved back to Seattle to be with his wife and daughter, where he worked as an insecticides salesman and fumigator. On 25 December 1935, President Franklin D. Roosevelt granted him a full presidential pardon. Besides restoring his constitutional rights, the pardon remitted $100,000 the IRS claimed he owed in unpaid liquor taxes.

While in prison, Olmstead became a Christian Science practitioner and a carpenter, later working with prison inmates in the Puget Sound area on an anti-alcoholism agenda. He was a vibrant and active community member for his remaining years, teaching Sunday school and visiting prisoners in the King County Jail every Monday morning. Olmstead and his wife separated in 1940, citing personal and religious differences, and they divorced in 1943. Roy Olmstead died April 30, 1966, at the age of 79.

See also
List of people pardoned or granted clemency by the president of the United States

References
Notes

Bibliography
 
 

External links

 Olmstead, Roy (1886–1966) -- King of King County Bootleggers
 Roy Olmstead , biography on the website of the PBS miniseries Prohibition
 Prohibition’s Roy Olmstead: The Man Who No Longer Exists, BlogCritics.com

Prohibition in the United States
Seattle Police Department officers
1886 births
1966 deaths
American bootleggers
Recipients of American presidential pardons
People from Furnas County, Nebraska