[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ben Thompson (lawman)

d one round in retaliation, possibly wounding Coy, who was crippled for life.  While trying to draw his pistol, Foster had shot himself in the leg, which was later amputated.  He died soon after the surgery.

Burial
Thompson's body was returned to Austin.  He is buried in Oakwood Cemetery in Austin.

Fate of Thompson's property
Thompson's will deeded all his property to his business partner.  Among Thompson's gun collection was a custom made and engraved Stevens-Lord No. 36 target pistol, given to him as a gift from Buffalo Bill.

On January 13, 2007, Ben Thompson's roulette table was sold at auction in Waco, Texas.  It was reported that the table was used by Thompson in a gambling house he opened above the Iron Front Saloon, which had been located on Congress Avenue in Austin.

Television portrayal
Thompson's character is played by Denver Pyle in seven episodes of the ABC television series, The Life and Legend of Wyatt Earp, with Hugh O'Brian in the title role.  In one episode "The Time for All Good Men" (June 4, 1957), the actor Mike Ragan played Clay Allison, who joins Thompson and John Wesley Hardin (Phillip Pine) in coming to Earp's aid in a shootout with the owner and foreman, respectively, of the Big T Ranch, Rance Purcell (Richard Devon) and Gus Andrews (Grant Withers).  Walter Coy played Thompson in a single 1959 episode of the same series. Don Megowan portrayed Thompson in the episode "Hide Jumpers" (January 27, 1958) of the NBC television series, Tales of Wells Fargo.

References

Bibliography
 Adams, Paul. "The Unsolved Murder of Ben Thompson." Southwestern Historical Quarterly 48, January 1945.
 DeMattos, Jack. "Gunfighters of the Real West: Ben Thompson." Real West, October 1985.
 Heath, Charles G. "The Thompsons of Knottingly." NOLA Quarterly, Vol. XIV, No. 1, Spring 1990.
 Masterson, W.B. (Bat). "Famous Gun Fighters of the Western Frontier: Ben Thompson." Human Life Magazine, Vol. 4, No. 4, January 1907.
 Starr, Mary. History of Travis County and Austin, 1839-1899. Texian Press, 1963. 
 Streeter, Floyd Benjamin. The Complete and Authentic Life of Ben Thompson: Man With a Gun, New York: Frederick Fell, Inc., 1957.
 Thorpe, John "Ben and Billy Thompson." English Westerners Brand Book, Vol. XXIII, No. 1. Winter, 1984.
 Walton, W.M. The Life and Adventures of Ben Thompson: The Famous Texan, self-published by the author in 1884. A facsimile edition was published by The Steck Company of Austin, Texas in 1956.

Fictional portrayals

 J. Silverman, "When the bad guys really wore the badges: SF Stages' new work by Kilmurry", Santa Fe New Mexican, (New Mexico), July 4, 1997.

External links

Ben Thompson Foundation

1843 births
1884 deaths
1884 murders in the United States
People from Knottingley
People of Texas in the American Civil War
Lawmen of the American Old West
People murdered in Texas
Deaths by firearm in Texas
English emigrants to the United States
Burials at Oakwood Cemetery (Austin, Texas)
Gunslingers of the American Old West
American murder victims
Male murder victims
People from Abilene, Kansas
Confederate States Army soldiers