[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# F. K. Otto Dibelius

eed for violence, hoping instead 'that the hour may soon come when violence is no longer necessary'. Even after this clearly anti-Semitic action he repeated in his circular to the pastors of Kurmark on the occasion of Easter (16 April 1933) his anti-Jewish attitude, giving the same words as in 1928.

During the struggle of the churches
Once the Nazi government realised that the 28 Protestant church bodies in Germany were not to be streamlined from within using the Nazi-submissive German Christians faction within the church, they abolished the constitutional freedom of religion and religious organisation. The act was strictly opposed by Dibelius, who saw the separation of state and church as a prerequisite of the latter's free development to achieve its best role.  On 24 June the Nazi Minister of Cultural Affairs, Bernhard Rust appointed August Jäger as Prussian State Commissioner for the Prussian Ecclesiastical Affairs (). Jäger furloughed – among many others – Dibelius.

On 14 July, Adolf Hitler discretionarily decreed an unconstitutional premature re-election of all elders ( or Presbyter) and synodals in all 28 Protestant church bodies in Germany for 23 July. The new synods of the 28 Protestant churches were to declare their dissolution as separate church bodies in favour of a united German Evangelical Church (). Representatives of all 28 Protestant churches were to attend the newly created National Synod to confirm the designated Ludwig Müller as the Reich's Bishop. Müller already now regarded himself as leader of this new organisation.

In the campaign for the premature re-election of all presbyters and synodals on 23 July the Nazi government sided with the German Christians. Under the impression of the government's partiality, the other existing lists of opposing candidates united to form the Evangelical Church list. The Gestapo (est. 26 April 1933) ordered the list to change its name and replace all its election posters and flyers issued under the forbidden name.

The Gestapo confiscated the office and the printing-press of the Evangelical Church list to hinder any reprint. Thus, the list, which had been renamed as Gospel and Church (), took refuge with the Evangelical Press Association (), presided over by Dibelius and printed new election posters in its premises in Alte Jacobstraße # 129, Berlin. However, the German Christians gained 70–80% of the seats in presbyteries and synods. In 1933–34 Dibelius served the pastorate at San Remo, Italy.

After his return to Germany (July 1934) and after – from May to October 1934 – the intra-church opposition, the so-called Confessing Church, had built up its own organisational structures, circumventing the officially recognised bodies of the Old-Prussian church and the newly established Nazi-submissive German Evangelical Church, Dibelius served again as general superintendent in the Kurmark – ignoring his official furlough – accepted only by those congregations whose presbyteries rejected the Nazi adulterated official Old-Prussian church. From 1934 to 1945 he was a member of the March of Brandenburg provincial Councils of Brethren, the leading bodies established by the Confessing Church on all levels, such as deaneries, ecclesiastical provinces and for the overall Old-Prussian church as well as in other Nazi-subjected Protestant church bodies in Germany and on the Reich's level dubbing the position of Reich's Bishop Müller by the Reich's Council of Brethren.

Rebuilding the Old-Prussian church and Berlin-Brandenburg ecclesiastical province
Before the end of World War II Dibelius addressed some moderate incumbents of leading positions in the official Old-Prussian church, in order to establish their acceptance and co-operation in a future provisional leading body – the so-called Beirat (advisory council) of the Old-Prussian church, once the Nazis were defeated. On 7 May 1945 Dibelius organised the forming of a provisional church executive for the Old-Prussian Ecclesiastical Province of the March of Brandenburg, comprising Greater Berlin and the political province of Brandenburg. The provisionally leading advisory council reconfirmed Dibelius as general superintendent of Kurmark and also commissioned him to serve per pro the vacant general superintendencies of Berlin and the New March and Lower Lusatia. The Soviet occupying power agreed that Dibelius would use the self-chosen title of Bishop, which was regarded a non-Protestant title and was rejected by many, especially since the Nazi-submissive German Christians used that title for their church leaders, claiming an intra-church hierarchy in the range of the Führerprinzip.