[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Men's health

re. Men are more likely than women to disclose problems with alcohol use to their health care provider. In the United States, there are more men than women in treatment for substance use disorders. Both men and women receive better mental health outcomes with early treatment interventions.

Suicide 

Suicide has a high incidence rate in men but often lacks public awareness.  Suicide is the 13th leading cause of death globally, and in most parts of the world, men are significantly more likely to die by suicide than women, although women are significantly more likely to attempt suicide. This is known as the "gender paradox of suicidal behaviour". Worldwide, the ratio of suicide deaths was 1.8:1 men per woman in 2016 according to the World Health Organization. This gender disparity varies greatly between countries. For example, in the United Kingdom and Australia, this men/women ratio is approximately 3:1, and in the United States, Russia, and Argentina approximately 4:1. In South Africa, the suicide rate amongst men is five times greater than women. In East Asian countries however, the gender gap in suicide rates are relatively smaller, with men to women ratios ranging from 1:1 to 2:1. Multiple factors exist to explain this gender gap in suicide rates, such as men more frequently completing high mortality actions such as hanging, carbon-monoxide poisoning, and the use of lethal weapons. Additional factors that contribute to the disparity in suicide rates between men and women include the pressures of traditional gender roles for men in society and the socialization of men in society.

Risk factors 
Because variations exist in the risk factors associated with suicidal behaviour between men and women, they contribute to the discrepancy in suicide rates. Suicide is complex and cannot simply be attributed to a single cause; however, there are psychological, social, and psychiatric factors to consider.

Mental illness is a major risk factor for suicide for both men and women. Common mental illnesses that are associated with suicide include depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and substance abuse disorders. In addition to mental illness, psychosocial factors such as unemployment and occupational stress are established risk factors for men. Alcohol use disorder is a risk factor that is much more prevalent in men than in women, which increases risks of depression and impulsive behaviours. This problem is exacerbated in men, as they are twice as likely as women to develop alcohol use disorder.

Reluctance to seek help is another prevalent risk factor facing men, stemming from internalized notions of masculinity. Traditional masculine stereotypes place expectations of strength and stoic, while any indication of vulnerability, such as consulting mental health services, is perceived as weak and emasculating. As a result, depression is under-diagnosed in men and may often remain untreated, which may lead to suicide.

Warning signs 
Identifying warning signs is important for reducing suicide rates world-wide, but particularly for men, as distress may be expressed in a manner that is not easily recognizable. For instance, depression, and suicidal thoughts may manifest in the form of anger, hostility, and irritability. Additionally, risk-taking and avoidance behaviours may be demonstrated more commonly in men.

Common conditions
The following is a list of diseases or conditions that have a high prevalence in men (relative to women).

Cardiovascular conditions:
 Cardiovascular disease
 Atherosclerosis
 Heart attack
 Hypertension
 Stroke
 High cholesterol

Respiratory conditions:
 Respiratory disease
 COPD
 Lung cancer
 Pneumonia

Mental health conditions:
 Autism
 Major depressive disorder
 Suicide
Addiction

Cancer:
 Prostate cancer
 Testicular cancer
 Colorectal cancer
 Skin cancer

Sexual health:
 HIV/AIDS
 Erectile dysfunction
 Ejaculation Disorders
 Hypoactive sexual desire disorder

Other:
 Unintentional injuries
 Diabetes
 Influenza
 Liver disease
 Kidney disease
 Alcohol abuse

Organizations
In the UK, the Men's Health Forum was founded in 1994. It was established originally by the Royal College of Nursing but became completely independent of the RCN when it was established as a charity in 2001. The first National Men's Health Week was held in the US in 1994. The first UK week took place in 2002, and the event went international (International Men's Health Week) the following year. In 2005, the world's first professor of men's health, Alan White, was appointed at Leeds Metropolitan University in north-east England.

In Australia, the Men's Health Information and Resource Centre advocates a salutogenic approach to male health which focuses on the causal factors behind health.  The centre is led by John Macdonald and was established in 1999.  The Centre leads and executes Men's Health Week in Australia with core funding from the NSW Ministry of Health.