[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jim C. Hines

ering a science fiction convention ... a goblin nursery worker who finds herself trapped in the middle of a war. This self-published collection features five humorous short stories that explore the fantasy realm from the perspective of the lowest of the low, the unlikeliest of unheroes: the goblins.

Princess Series 
 The Stepsister Scheme  (2009) DAW () Danielle De Glas, aka Princess Whiteshore, aka Cinderella, is having a hard time adjusting to palace life. She loves her prince, Armand, but going from the life of a slave to that of princess is not easy. To complicate matters, three months after her wedding, Danielle is attacked by her stepsister, Charlotte. The assassination attempt fails, but Charlotte escapes - after telling Danielle she will never see her beloved Armand again. This is the set up. Danielle, along with two other princesses (Snow White and Talia, aka Sleeping Beauty), must rescue her prince. Along the way, the true histories of all three princesses are revealed, vs. the "tales" circulating about them.
The Mermaid's Madness  (2009) DAW () Princess Danielle on a mission of diplomacy with Queen Beatrice, their yearly tithe and renewal of peace with the merfolk, who prefer to be called undine. Since the undine are usually a matriarchal culture, it makes sense for the Princess and Queen to take the lead. Unfortunately, things go very wrong, very quickly. For instead of the King they are expecting, they are greeted by his mad daughter, Lirea, wronged by her human lover and looking for vengeance against all humans. In the ensuing conflict, Queen Beatrice is grievously injured. This leaves Danielle and her friends Talia and Snow to find both a cure for her ailment, and to find a way to stop Lirea from making war against their kingdom - and all of humanity.
 Red Hood's Revenge (2010) DAW () Roudette's story was a simple one. A red cape. A wolf. A hunter. Her mother told her she would be safe, so long as she kept to the path. But sometimes the path leads to dark places. Roudette is the hunter now, an assassin known throughout the world as the Lady of the Red Hood. Her mission will take her to the country of Arathea and an ancient fairy threat. At the heart of the conflict between humans and fairies stands the woman Roudette has been hired to kill, the only human ever to have fought the Lady of the Red Hood and survived-the princess known as Sleeping Beauty.
 The Snow Queen's Shadow (2011) DAW () When a spell gone wrong shatters Snow White's enchanted mirror, a demon escapes into the world. The demon's magic distorts the vision of all it touches, showing them only ugliness and hate. It is a power that turns even friends and lovers into mortal foes, one that will threaten humans and fairies alike.

Magic ex Libris Series 
 Libriomancer (2012)  DAW ()
 Codex Born (2013)  DAW  ()
 Unbound (2015)  DAW ()
 Revisionary (2016) DAW ()
 Imprinted: a Magic ex Libris Novelette (2018)

Janitors of the Post-Apocalypse Series 
 Terminal Alliance (2017) DAW ()
 Terminal Uprising (2019) DAW ()
 Terminal Peace (2022) DAW ()

Stand-alone works 

 Goldfish Dreams  (2003) Regal Crest Enterprises ()
 Fable: Blood of Heroes  (2015) Del Rey ()
 Tamora Carter: Goblin Queen  (2020) ()

Collections 
 The Goblin Master's Grimoire (2013)  ISFiC ()

Edited works 
 Heroes in Training (with Martin H. Greenberg), DAW (2007) ()
 Invisible  (2014)
 Invisible 2  (2015)
 Invisible 3 (with Mary Anne Mohanraj) (2017)

References

External links

 Jim C. Hines Homepage

1974 births
Living people
21st-century American novelists
American fantasy writers
American male novelists
Hugo Award-winning fan writers
Michigan State University alumni
Novelists from Pennsylvania
People from Holt, Michigan
21st-century American male writers