[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peresvet-class battleship

nch Canet Model 1891 quick-firing (QF) guns, 10 mounted in casemates on the sides of the hull and one underneath the forecastle as a bow chaser. Each gun was provided with 220 rounds. They fired shells that weighed  with a muzzle velocity of . They had a range of  when fired at an elevation of +20°.

Smaller guns were carried for close-range defense against torpedo boats. These included 20 quick-firing (QF)  Canet Model 1891 guns. Of these guns, eight were mounted in embrasures in the hull, four on the main deck, four on the battery deck and the last four at the corners of the superstructure on the forecastle deck. The ships carried 300 rounds for each gun. The gun had a muzzle velocity of  with its  shells. It had a range of about  at an elevation of +20°. The smaller guns included twenty QF  Hotchkiss guns in hull embrasures and on the superstructure. Each gun had 810 rounds provided. They fired a  shell. Eight  Hotchkiss guns were positioned between the 47-millimeter guns on the forecastle deck. They fired a  shell at a muzzle velocity of .

The Peresvet class had five  torpedo tubes, three of which were above water, one in the bow and one pair of broadside tubes, and two broadside underwater tubes. The ships carried a total of 12 torpedoes. They also carried 45 mines to be laid to protect their anchorage in remote areas.

The ships were fitted with Liuzhol stadiametric rangefinders that used the angle between two vertical points on an enemy ship, usually the waterline and the crow's nest, to estimate the range. The gunnery officer consulted his references to get the range and calculated the proper elevation and deflection required to hit the target. He transmitted his commands via a Geisler electro-mechanical fire-control transmission system to each gun or turret. Oslyabya and the rest of the Second Pacific Squadron were also fitted with Perepelkin telescopic sights for their guns, but their crews were not trained in how to use them.

Protection
The first two ships used Harvey armor for most of their armored vertical surfaces except for the gun turrets and their support tubes, which were made from Krupp armor. Pobeda, however, used Krupp armor for all of her heavy vertical armor. Over the machinery spaces, the maximum thickness of their waterline armor belt was  which reduced to  abreast the magazines. The belt tapered to a thickness of  over the machinery spaces and  over the magazines. The belt covered  of the ships' length and was  high, of which the upper  was intended to be above the waterline, but the ships were significantly overweight. So much of the belt was submerged that Peresvet only had  of armor exposed at normal load; at full load the effect was even greater and the belt was completely submerged. Oslyabya was even more overweight and only had  of her belt armor showing at normal load. The belt in both ships terminated in 7-inch transverse bulkheads, leaving the ends of the ships unprotected. The transverse bulkheads of the waterline belt in Pobeda were eliminated as the belt was extended to the ends of the ship with 4-inch armor plates. Above the waterline belt in all three ships was a shorter strake of armor that protected the middle of the ships. It was  long and 4 inches thick. The ends of the upper belt were closed off by 4-inch angled transverse bulkheads.

The sides of the gun turrets were 9 inches thick and  of armor protected their roofs; their supporting tubes were  thick. The face of the casemates for the 6-inch guns was five inches thick and their rears were protected by  armor plates. The casemates at each end of the ships were protected by 5-inch transverse bulkheads. Bulkheads  thick separated the 75-millimeter gun positions. Peresvet had two conning towers, each with sides 6 inches thick, but the other two ships only had a forward conning tower with 9-inch sides. A communications tube 3 inches thick connected each conning tower to the armored deck in all three ships. The flat part of the deck in the central armored citadel consisted of a  plate over the normal 0.75-inch structural steel deck plate; the sloped portion connected to the lower edge of the waterline belt and was 2.5 inches thick. Outside the citadel the armored deck consisted of  plates laid over the  deck plating. On the first two ships the deck armor consisted of mild steel; in Pobeda it was a chrome-nickel steel alloy.

Ships

Careers