[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of S.H.I.E.L.D. members

adron Supreme of Earth-31916 for his role in the events of Ultimate Power, effectively removing him from the position.
 Carol Danvers – Executive director after Nick Fury's involvement in the events of Ultimate Power and subsequent capture. She is a liaison/girlfriend to the alien Captain Mahr Vehl.

Notable agents
 Bruce Banner – Getting resources for the better of mankind and exchange allow S.H.I.E.L.D to use the Hulk
 Agent Sharon Carter – Dealt with illegal genetic mutations until the Ultimates were created.
 Jefferson Davis – Legally changed his name to Jefferson Morales. 
 Corporal Thaddeus Aloysius Cadwallander "Dum Dum" Dugan – Commander of Mutant Ops Division.
 Sofia Mantega (Renascence)  – S.H.I.E.L.D trainee
 Daimon Hellstrom – S.H.I.E.L.D. spy within the Defenders.
 Dr. Philip Lawson (Mahr Vehl) – Spy of the alien Kree race; defected.
 Xi'an Coy Manh – Assigned to government-sponsored mutant team to investigate anti-mutant conspiracy.
 Peter Parker (Spider-Man) – Only a temporary agent. Assigned to track down the Green Goblin.
 Kitty Pryde (Shadowcat) – Only a temporary agent. Assigned to track down the Green Goblin.
 Clay Quartermain – S.H.I.E.L.D. Special Ops.
 Betty Ross – Former girlfriend of Bruce Banner and head of Public Relations.
 The New Sentinels – Group of 60 agents with advanced body armor used to combat Magneto.
 Elijah Stern (Tinkerer) – Specialized-equipment maker and creator of the Spider-Slayers.
 Agent Wendell Vaughn – Head of Security for Project Pegasus in Devil's Point, Wyoming.
 Dr. Jennifer Walters – Scientist in Super Soldier project.
 Sam Wilson (Falcon) – Discovered the alien Vision and worked with her to learn details of alien threat Gah Lak Tus.
 James "Jimmy" Woo – Partnered with Sharon Carter.

Former agents
 Blackie Drago (Vulture) – An assassin who became the "Vulture" with a powered flying suit.
 Henry Pym (Giant-Man) – Headed Super Soldier project after Bruce Banner's mental breakdown. He is also the superhero Giant-Man.
 Natasha Romanova (Black Widow) – Member of the Ultimates covert-ops division, then promoted to public team. After engagement to Tony Stark (Iron Man), temporarily left team to join the Liberators.
 Colonel John Wraith – Head of the Weapon X program until killed by Nick Fury, but became Vindicator of Alpha Flight.
 The Ultimates – S.H.I.E.L.D.'s superhuman team that is the Ultimate Marvel version of the Avengers. Broke off after the Ultimates 2 in order to avoid being tied to politics.
 The ultimate members—Nick Fury, Tony Shark, Jonathan Pym, Janet Pym, Steve Rogers, Thorlief Golmen, Clinton Francis Barton, Natasha Romanova, Pietro Lensherr, Barbara, T'Challa Udaku, Claire Debussy, Scott Lang, Monica Chang, Jessica Drew, Samuel Wilson, Jamie Braddock, Miles Morales, Cassandra Lang, Sue Storm, Johnny Storm, Ben Grimm, Bruce Banner, Riri Williams

Marvel Cinematic Universe S.H.I.E.L.D.

In the Marvel Cinematic Universe, S.H.I.E.L.D. was founded by Strategic Scientific Reserve agent Peggy Carter, along with Chester Phillips and Howard Stark in the 1950s. It was later revealed in Captain America: The Winter Soldier, that S.H.I.E.L.D. was infiltrated by Hydra since its formation. When Hydra emerges in 2014, S.H.I.E.L.D. is labeled as a terrorist organization while most of its non-Hydra members leave S.H.I.E.L.D. to work the private sector or go off the grid. In the finale of the first season of the Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., Nick Fury charges  Phil Coulson with rebuilding the organization as the new director.

Executive directors and secretaries
 Peggy Carter – co-founder of S.H.I.E.L.D.; First known executive director. Deceased.
 Howard Stark – co-founder of S.H.I.E.L.D. Deceased.
 Chester Phillips – co-founder of S.H.I.E.L.D. Deceased.
 Alexander Pierce – Secretary of S.H.I.E.L.D. Deceased.
 Nick Fury – Former executive director; faked his death after S.H.I.E.L.D's fall and appointed Phil Coulson as his successor.
 Maria Hill – Field agent; former deputy director; had Level 9 Security Clearance before S.H.I.E.L.D. was taken down. Deceased.
 Phil Coulson – Executive director; current field officer who oversees many of the division's field operations; briefly deceased before being subjected to GH-325. Organic body has deceased but his consciousness was transferred to an LMD based on Chronicom technology.
 Jeffrey Mace – Executive director. Appointed in the wake of the Sokovia Accords and S.H.I.E.L.D. being made a legitimate organization again. Deceased.
 Daisy Johnson / Skye / Quake – Field agent; computer hacker; first known Inhuman agent with the ability to generate seismic vibrations. Leader of the Secret Warriors. Former executive director of S.H.I.E.L.D.
 Alphonso "Mack" Mackenzie – Mechanic and field agent; founding member of the "Real S.H.I.E.L.D." and new executive director of S.H.I.E.L.D. handpicked by Daisy after Coulson retired.