[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Aircraft carrier

le to deploy squadrons of F-35Bs. The first of this class, , is now in active service with another, , and 9 more are planned.

In a report to Congress in February 2018, the Navy stated it intends to maintain a "12 CVN force" as part of its 30-year acquisition plan.

Aircraft carriers in preservation

Current museum carriers
A few aircraft carriers have been preserved as museum ships. They are:
  in Mount Pleasant, South Carolina
  in New York City
  in Alameda, California
  in Corpus Christi, Texas
  in San Diego, California
  in Tianjin, China
  in Nantong, China

Former museum carriers
  was moored as a museum in Mumbai from 2001 to 2012, but was never able to find an industrial partner and was closed that year. She was scrapped in 2014.
  was acquired for preservation and moored in New Orleans from 1990 to 2002, but due to an embezzlement scandal, funding for the museum never materialized and the ship was scrapped in 2002.

Future museum carriers
  has a preservation campaign to bring her to the West Coast of the United States as the world's first amphibious assault ship museum.

See also
 Airborne aircraft carrier
 Aviation-capable naval vessels
 Carrier-based aircraft
 Lily and Clover
 Merchant aircraft carrier
 Mobile offshore base
 Project Habakkuk
 Seadrome
 Submarine aircraft carrier
 Unsinkable aircraft carrier

Related lists

 List of aircraft carriers
 List of aircraft carriers in service
 List of aircraft carriers by configuration
 List of aircraft carriers of the Second World War
 List of sunken aircraft carriers
 List of amphibious warfare ships
 List of carrier-based aircraft
 List of Canadian Navy aircraft carriers
 List of aircraft carriers of the People's Liberation Army Navy (China)
 List of current French Navy aircraft carriers
 List of German aircraft carriers
 List of aircraft carriers of the Indian Navy
 List of Italian Navy aircraft carriers
 List of aircraft carriers of the Japanese Navy
 List of aircraft carriers of Russia and the Soviet Union
 List of active Spanish aircraft carriers
 List of aircraft carriers of the Royal Navy
 List of escort carriers of the Royal Navy
 List of seaplane carriers of the Royal Navy
 List of aircraft carriers of the United States Navy
 List of aircraft carrier classes of the United States Navy
 List of escort aircraft carriers of the United States Navy

References

Bibliography

Further reading

 Ader, Clement. Military Aviation, 1909, Edited and translated by Lee Kennett, Air University Press, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, 2003, .
 Chesneau, Roger. Aircraft Carriers of the World, 1914 to the Present: An Illustrated Encyclopedia. Naval Institute Press, 1984.
 Francillon, René J, Tonkin Gulf Yacht Club US Carrier Operations off Vietnam, 1988, .
 
 
 Melhorn, Charles M. Two-Block Fox: The Rise of the Aircraft Carrier, 1911–1929. Naval Institute Press, 1974.
 Nordeen, Lon, Air Warfare in the Missile Age, 1985, .
 Polmar, Norman.  Aircraft Carriers: A History of Carrier Aviation and its Influence on World Events, 1901–2006. (two vols.) Potomac Books, 2006.
 
 Wadle, Ryan David. United States navy fleet problems and the development of carrier aviation, 1929–1933. PhD dissertation Texas A&M University, 2005. online.

External links

 - technical training film from the Royal Navy

 
Ship types
Articles containing video clips