[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Deltona massacre

edical clinic in Africa. People that personally knew him described him as a very intelligent, funny, loving guy who loved people, and often performed in plays, and even dabbled in dance.

Murderers

The attackers share two commonalities: a degree of mental illness and troubled, unstable upbringings.

Troy Victorino, the 6-foot-6, 300-pound ringleader of the attack, was on probation at the time of the murder. Victorino had been jailed many times for assault and was incarcerated for eight of the eleven years prior to the massacre. He had a history of childhood abuse ranging from beatings with belt buckles and sexual abuse beginning at age 2. Medical experts testified that his scarred mental development and brain damage left him with an inability to control his impulses. Witnesses that grew up near him and his brother could confirm the instability in that house: there were drugs, violence and abuse, and a general lack of parental unity or care.

Michael Salas' upbringing was on record by child protective services, and he and his brothers were determined to have been exposed to violence, drug-use, malnourishment, and abuse such as cigarette burns by their mother. His father Roberto died of AIDS when Michael was 9. Michael, who has several diagnosed mental disorders including bipolar disorder, dropped out of school in ninth grade.

Jerone Hunter was a clinically depressed, mentally ill man whose parents were both committed to mental hospitals at the time of the massacre. As early as age 3, Hunter would converse with his identical twin brother Jeremy, who died from pneumonia at 6 months old. His mother did not seek medical attention for his abnormal behavior because she thought it was common and reasoned, "in the black culture, I was told when they have a twin brother and they pass away, they always have that relationship with him, so I never thought it was strange." Hunter's rejected August 2008 appeal claimed he has schizophrenia who was forced into the slayings by Victorino and therefore should have been tried separately.

Legislative response
In response to the Deltona massacre, the Florida legislature proposed a bill that would add additional "risk-to-public" hearings for probation violators with violent histories. State law allowed, but did not require, probation officer Richard Burrow  to arrest Troy Victorino, a violent felon who was facing a battery charge and thus probation violation. Burrow opted to let Victorino leave his office and to ask for an arrest warrant the next day, which gave Victorino the opportunity to commit the killings.

The bill, SB-146, which passed on February 23, 2007, seeks to close this loophole by addressing felony probation and other community control violations with the new designation, "violent felony offenders of special concern" (VFOSC). Such an offender cannot be released from jail until a court hearing determines whether supervision was violated. If supervision is found to have been violated, the court must make a written finding as to whether the offender is a danger to the community. If determined to be a danger to the community, the violator may have his probation revoked and be sentenced up to the statutory maximum or longer if permitted by law. The bill substantially amends sections 921.0024 and 948.06, Florida Statutes; creates sections 903.0351 and 948.064, Florida Statutes; and reenacts sections 948.012(2)(b), 948.10(9), and 958.14, Florida Statutes.

See also
 List of death row inmates in the United States

References

External links
 Circuit Judge William Parsons 
 St. John's County Courthouse
 Circuit Judge William Parsons

2004 in Florida
2004 murders in the United States
Massacres in 2004
2000s crimes in Florida
Attacks in the United States in 2004
August 2004 crimes in the United States
Deaths by beating in the United States
Deaths by stabbing in Florida
Deltona, Florida
Mass murder in Florida
Mass murder in the United States
Necrophilia
Sexual assaults in the United States
Torture in the United States