[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Dan Cronin

ade permanent a surcharge on the state's income tax.

As of October 1992, Cronin was the youngest member of the General Assembly. He earned a reputation as a conservative Republican. However, he supported paid family leave, opposed by Republican leadership and business constituents.

Illinois Senate

Senate campaigns and political activity 
In 1991, Republicans took control of the redistricting of the state's legislative districts, and drew maps that gave partisan advantage to Republican candidates, especially in the suburbs of Chicago. Under the new maps, suburban voters controlled more legislative districts than Chicago or Downstate voters for the first time, reflecting population shifts. For the upcoming elections in 1992, Cronin decided to run in the new 39th senate district, solidly Republican territory with two-thirds of the district in DuPage. Two suburban senate districts in Chicago were eliminated. Senator Ted Leverenz, a Democrat of Maywood, was forced into the 39th district, losing much of his base to another district.

The race between Cronin and Leverenz was considered one of the "liveliest and most bitter contests" of the election season. Democratic colleagues regarded Leverenz as a strong campaigner to help overcome his steep odds. He touted his lengthy career as a state legislator for more than 16 years, and his pro-suburban record. Cronin, already being mentioned by observers as a possible candidate for statewide office in the 1994 elections, cast the race as a choice between a suburban conservative and a "wheeler-dealer" with ties to Chicago. Manion, who managed Cronin's previous campaign for the House, likewise managed this campaign for the Senate. Cronin won, and he joined the Senate in 1993.

In the 1996 elections, Cronin was challenged in the Republican primary by attorney Nancy Miller, but he won re-election. He was seen as a potential candidate for attorney general in the 1998 elections as Ryan, the incumbent, considered running for the US Senate. (Ryan ultimately did not run for US Senate in 1998.) 

The state's legislative districts were again redistricted in 2001. For the 2002 elections, Cronin ran for the newly-established 21st district. Tom Walsh, the Republican incumbent senator for the then-existing 22nd district, was forced to run in the same district against Cronin. In February, Cronin was criticized for committing $30,000 in pork barrel grant funding to a proposed gazebo in North Riverside, which was outside his present 39th district but inside the new 21st district he was running for. The gazebo had been backed by Illinois Treasurer Judy Baar Topinka and North Riverside Mayor Richard Scheck. Cronin defended his actions by pointing to his record of supporting other projects outside his district. He won the election.

During the 2006 elections, Cronin endorsed Jeff Redick, a colleague at Cronin's law firm, during a successful run for a seat on the DuPage County Board. In April 2007, Cronin became the chairman of the DuPage County Republican Party, succeeding Senator Kirk Dillard. His priorities as party chair included filling all vacant precinct committeeman positions and conducting performance evaluations of incumbent committeemen. Cronin assumed this role at a time when Republican margins of victory in county races were getting slimmer. By then, Democrats had taken control over state government.

Senate career 
In 1994, Cronin supported a bill backed by Governor Jim Edgar that would have banned assault weapons, though the measure faced strong opposition from Philip. He also sponsored a bill attempting to reverse the Illinois Supreme Court's decision in the Baby Richard case and keep children with their adoptive parents. The following year, he sponsored a bill that authorized winners of the Illinois Lottery to receive their winnings as lump-sum payments.