[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Testament of Abraham

uest to God, and God accepts it.  The long recension also includes Michael relaying God's speech and Abraham repenting his earlier words before making his request.
 Chapter 10 (long recension)/Chapter 12 (short recension): In the long recension, the next event is when Michael takes Abraham on the "Chariot of the Cherubim".  Abraham sees the entire world, including several sinners (murderers, people committing adultery, and thieves).  When he sees the sinners, he requests that they be killed in various ways, and the request is granted.  Analogues of the long recension's chapters 10-13 appear in the short recension, but the order is changed.
 Chapter 11 (long recension)/Chapter 8:3-16, 11:9-12 (short recension): In the long recension, Michael then takes Abraham to Heaven, where he sees a small gate and a large gate, with a man on a gold throne seated between them.  The man spends most of his time weeping.  A massive crowd travels through the large gate, while a few souls go in the small gate.  Eventually, Abraham finds out that the large gate is where the souls of sinners go to damnation, the small gate is where the souls of the righteous go to paradise, and the man is Adam, who rejoices when souls are saved and weeps when souls are damned.
 Chapter 12 (long recension)/Chapter 9-10 (short recension): Abraham then goes to the place where souls are judged.  He also finds a soul that is perfectly balanced between good and evil.  In the long recension, a man on a throne judges souls.  There are four angels below him, two angels that act as scribes, one fiery angel, and one angel with scales to weigh the soul.  The balanced soul is being judged when Abraham shows up.  In the short recension, Abraham finds the balanced soul before going to the place of judgement, the judge himself has only one helper, and when Abraham shows up, a woman who committed adultery with her daughter's husband, killed her daughter, and then forgot the entire episode is being judged.  For obvious reasons, she is damned.
 Chapter 13 (long recension)/Chapter 11:1-11, 13:8-14 (short recension): Abraham asks about the identity of the judge and his helpers.  Michael responds that Abel is the judge.  In the short recension, Abel's helper is Enoch.  In the long recension, Michael explains that once final judgement comes, Abel will be supplemented by two additional judges: after Abel, everyone will be judged by the 12 tribes of Israel and finally by God.  At this point, Michael explains the purpose of the various angel helpers: one of the scribe angels records every soul's good deeds, the other scribe angel records every soul's sins, the scale angel is Dokiel, who weighs the sins and righteous deeds of each soul, and the fiery angel is Puriel, who tests every soul with fire.
 Chapter 14 (long recension): Abraham prays for the balanced soul in Chapter 12, which convinces God to save the soul.  Abraham then decides that his damning of the sinners in Chapter 10 was a mistake, and prays to God that they be saved.  God agrees.  There is no analogue to this scene in the short recension.
 Chapter  15 (long recension)/Chapter 12:14-16 (short recension): Abraham and Michael return to earth.  In the short recension, Sarah dies.  In the long recension, Abraham again states that he will not go with Michael, which causes Michael to run back to Heaven and tell God about what happened.
 Chapter 16 (long recension)/Chapter 13:1-8 (short recension): God sends Death, in a pretty guise, to take Abraham away.  In the long recension, Death is capable of disguising himself.  Also, Death tells Abraham who he is, and Abraham professes not to believe him.  In the short recension, Michael disguises Death, and Abraham simply does not realize who Death is.
 Chapter 17 (long recension)/Chapter 13:9-14:5 (short recension): Abraham argues with Death, and continues to refuse to believe that the figure in front of him is Death, because the figure is too beautiful.  Eventually, Abraham convinces Death to reveal himself in all his ugliness.  At this point, many servants die.  In the long recension, 7,000 servants die, while in the short recension, only 7 servants die.
 Chapter 18 (long recension)/Chapter 14:5 (short recension): Abraham prays to God in order to revive the servants.  In the long recension, this is preceded by Death becoming beautiful again and some discussion about whether the servants were supposed to die.  Additionally, Abraham manages to convince Death to join him in prayer for the servants in the long recension.
 Chapter 19 (long recension): Abraham tries to convince Death to leave him again and send Michael back down, though Death does not immediately comply.  Abraham also convinces Death to describe the reasons behind his monstrous form.  There is no analogue to this scene in the short recension.
 Chapter 20 (long recension)/Chapter 14:6-7 (short recension): Death finally kills Abraham.  In the short recension, this is described as "in a dream".  In the long rec