[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1st Information Operations Command (Land)

The 1st Information Operations Command (Land), formerly the Land Information Warfare Activity Information Dominance Center (LIWA/IDC), is an information operations unit under the operational control of U.S. Army Cyber Command (ARCYBER) and headquartered at Fort Belvoir, Virginia.

It provides multi-disciplinary Information Operations (IO) support to the component and major commands of the United States Army. 1st IO CMD has broad authority to coordinate IO topics and establish contact with Army organizations, the United States Navy (USN) and United States Air Force (USAF), and JCS IO Centers, and with United States Department of Defense (DoD) and National Agency IO elements.

Mission

1st Information Operations Command provides IO support to the U.S. Army and other military forces through deployable IO support teams, IO Reach-back planning and analysis and the synchronization and conduct of Army Computer Network Operations (CNO), in coordination with other CNO and network operations stakeholders, to operationally integrate IO, reinforce forward IO capabilities, and to defend cyberspace in order to enable IO throughout the information environment.

Organization
1st Information Operations Command comprises two battalions. They conduct the command's Information Operations, Vulnerability Assessment, and Computer Network Operations mission. The Army Reserve Integration Element augments and supports the battalions. The Headquarters and Headquarters Company provides Command and Control, military justice, administration, training, and logistical support.

Staff
The 1st Information Operations Command's primary staff sections support Soldiers and staff to carry out the 1st Information Operations Command's Mission. The Command Judge Advocate is the primary legal advisor to the commander's legal matters in the command. Resource Management provides budgetary support and oversight. Contracting staff is directly responsible for the command's services contract administration. The S1 through S6 provide support in the areas of personnel, intelligence, operations, logistical, and automation or information technology.

S-1 – Personnel
S-2 – Intelligence
S-3 – Operations
S-4 – Logistics
S-6 – Automation
CJA – Command Judge Advocate
Resource Management
Contract Management

Headquarters and Headquarters Company

Mission
The Headquarters and Headquarters Company (HHC) provides Command and Control (C2), military justice, administration, training, and command logistics in support of 1st Information Operations Command's Brigade and Battalions, Active Component (AC), Active Guard Reserve (AGR), Army Reserve (USAR), Army National Guard (ARNG), Department of the Army (DA) Civilians, contractors, and Families.

Functions
 Support the commander's leadership responsibilities for moral, welfare, and discipline
 Manage unit-level supply and maintenance
 Facilitate various Army training courses
 Provide human resources support
 Facilitate family readiness group

1st Battalion

Mission
Organize, train, and deploy multi-skilled IO teams worldwide in support of Army, Joint, and Interagency information operations and vulnerability assessment to provide supported commanders a unique advantage in the information environment.

Functions
 Deploy in support of unit operations
 Analyze, assist, and challenge a unit's posture in the information environment
 Participate in unit training and exercises
 Assist with IO planning from strategic to tactical levels
 Conduct IO policies, procedures, and accreditation review
 Train and certify OPSEC officers

2nd Battalion

Mission
2d Information Operations Battalion conducts multi-functional assessments and security training to continuously improve the readiness and resilience of friendly forces against sophisticated adversary attacks.

Functions

	Executes effects based Cyberspace Operations ISO Army and Joint Exercises
	Conducts Operational Vulnerability Assessments
	Establishes and maintains PRT ISO Persistent Penetration Testing (PPT) cyber campaigns
	Mission Assurance Detachments Functions
	Integrates MA capabilities ISO Operational Technologies and Infrastructure assessments
	Conducts Cyber-to-Physical (Control Systems) Assessments ISO NDAA 1650
	Certifies Army PENTESTING programs
	Provides OPSEC Doctrine and Policy review
	Supports DA G34 Protection Assessments
	Cyber Support Detachment Functions
	Executes equipment procurement and lifecycle management
	Maintains remote operation capabilities
	Builds and Maintains attack Platforms
	Tool/exploit development

Army Reserve Element (ARE)