[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 114]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

trouble about his manners or understanding, he might
with safety indulge all his caprices, give way to all his passions, be
humoursome, haughty, unjust, and selfish to the extreme. He might be
ungrateful to his friends, disobedient to his parents, a glutton, an
ignorant blockhead, in short, everything which to plain sense appears
most frivolous or contemptible, without incurring the least imputation,
provided his hair hung fashionably about his ears, his buckles were
sufficiently large, and his politeness to the ladies unimpeached.

Once, indeed, Harry had thrown him into a disagreeable train of
thinking, by asking him, with great simplicity, what sort of a figure
these young gentlemen would have made in the army of Leonidas, or these
young ladies upon a desert island, where they would be obliged to shift
for themselves. But Tommy had lately learned that nothing spoils the
face more than intense reflection; and therefore, as he could not easily
resolve the question, he wisely determined to forget it.

And now the important evening of the ball approached; the largest room
in the house was lighted up for the dancers, and all the little company
assembled. Tommy was that day dressed in an unusual style of elegance,
and had submitted, without murmuring, to be under the hands of a
hair-dresser for two hours! But what gave him the greatest satisfaction
of all, was an immense pair of new buckles which Mrs Merton had sent for
on purpose to grace the person of her son.

Several minuets were first danced, to the great admiration of the
company; and, among the rest, Tommy, who had been practising ever since
he had been at home, had the honour of exhibiting with Miss Matilda. He
indeed began with a certain degree of diffidence, but was soon inspired
with a proper degree of confidence by the applauses which resounded on
every side. "What an elegant little creature!" cried one lady. "What a
shape is there!" said a second; "I protest he puts me in mind of Vestris
himself." "Indeed," said a third, "Mrs Merton is a most happy mother to
be possessed of such a son, who wants nothing but an introduction to the
world, to be one of the most elegant creatures in England, and the most
accomplished."

As soon as Tommy had finished his dance, he led his partner to a seat
with a grace that surprised all the company anew, and then, with the
sweetest condescension imaginable, he went from one lady to another, to
receive the praises which they liberally poured out, as if it was the
greatest action in the world to draw one foot behind another, and to
walk on tiptoe.

Harry, in the mean time, had shrouded himself in the most obscure part
of the room, and was silently gazing upon the scene that passed. He knew
that his company would give no pleasure among the elegant figures that
engrossed the foremost seats, and felt not the least inclination for
such an honour. In this situation he was observed by Master Compton,
who, at the same instant, formed a scheme of mortifying Miss Simmons,
whom he did not like, and of exposing Harry to the general ridicule. He
therefore proposed it to Mash, who had partly officiated as master of
the ceremonies, and who, with all the readiness of officious malice,
agreed to assist him; Master Mash therefore, went up to Miss Simmons,
and, with all the solemnity of respect, invited her out to dance, which
she, although indifferent about the matter, accepted without hesitation.
In the meantime, Master Compton went up to Harry with the same
hypocritical civility, and in Miss Simmons' name invited him to dance a
minuet. It was in vain that Harry assured him he knew nothing about the
matter; his perfidious friend told him that it was an indispensable duty
for him to stand up; that Miss Simmons would never forgive him if he
should refuse; that it would be sufficient if he could just describe the
figure, without embarrassing himself about the steps. In the mean time,
he pointed out Miss Simmons, who was advancing towards the upper end of
the room, and, taking advantage of his confusion and embarrassment, led
him forward, and placed him by the young lady's side. Harry was not yet
acquainted with the sublime science of imposing upon unwary simplicity,
and therefore never doubted that the message had come from his friend;
and as nothing could be more repugnant to his character than the want of
compliance, he thought it necessary at least to go and expostulate with
her upon the subject. This was his intention when he suffered himself to
be led up the room; but his tormentors did not give him time, for they
placed him by the side of the young lady, and instantly called to the
music to begin. Miss Simmons, in her turn, was equally surprised at the
partner which was provided for her; she had never imagined minuet
dancing to be one of Harry's accomplishments, and therefore instantly
suspected that it was a concerted scheme to mortify her. However, in
thi