[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Verónica Ruiz de Velasco

z de Velasco was vacationing for two weeks with her father in Cozumel and met her future husband. In July, 1996, she married him at the Igelsias San Miguel on the Isla de Cozumel. In August, her father Pedro Ruiz de Velasco died at the age of 81. In September she returned to Dallas with her husband.

The January 1997 edition of the Lifestyle Magazine contained a biography of Ruiz de Velasco's Career. In February the Anasazi Gallery in Dallas held a solo exhibition for Ruiz de Velasco. In April, Lucent Technologies held an exhibition of her work in their private executive gallery in Mesquite, Texas. In June, AT&T held an exhibition in their private executive gallery in Las Colinas, Texas. In October, Nordstrom of the Gallería in Dallas promoted Ruiz de Velasco's oil paintings throughout their store in honor of Hispanic Heritage Month. Ruiz de Velasco signed several hundred autographs. Nordstrom of the Gallería also held a fashion show with their top clothing lines with Ruiz de Velasco's art images used as a photographic backdrop.

In 1997, Mrs. Nancy Hamon asked Ruiz de Velasco to create a mural for the Nancy and Jake L. Hamon Biomedical Research Building at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. The mural was 3 meters by 4 meters. It was inaugurated by Nancy Hamon and the Director of the Medical Center, Dr. Kern Wildenthall.

In April 1999, Ruiz de Velasco held an exhibition at the Florence Art Gallery in Dallas, Texas. In July 1999, the Beaux Art at the Dallas Museum of Art chose Ruiz de Velasco to provide several of her paintings to auction off for charity. In December 1999, she held an individual exhibition at the Irving Arts Center (Museum) in Irving, Texas. Calendar Archive  
In April 2000, Ruiz de Velasco held an exhibition at the Mission Gallery in Highland Park, Texas. In 2003, she created two murals and donated them to the Beaty Early Childhood School in Plano, Texas. In 2005 she painted an airplane hung from the ceiling of the new International Terminal at the Dallas–Fort Worth Airport. In 2007, she painted the front cover of the September/October 2007 edition of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists.

In 2009, Veronica Ruiz de Velasco is one of five Mexican artists selected to create a painting representing Mexico at the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa.

In 2019, Veronica Ruiz de Velasco is interviewed on the TV Show "Estamos Unidos America" which will air on Mega TV.

In November 2020, Veronica Ruiz de Velasco opened her own art gallery in Palm Beach on Worth Avenue.

In 2021, Judge Jeanine Pirro interviewed her about her career inside her gallery and posted it to her Instagram site.

In January 2022, Judge Jeanine Pirro thanked her for creating a masterpiece on her three dogs, Ted , Red and Stella on her national Foxnews show called The Five.

From March 31 to April 2, 2023, she held an exhibition at the Salon international d'art Contemporain at the Louvre Museum in Paris, France.

References

External links

1968 births
Living people
Mexican women painters
Contemporary painters
Mexican muralists
Artists from Mexico City
Mexican women muralists
Escuela Nacional de Pintura, Escultura y Grabado "La Esmeralda" alumni
20th-century Mexican women artists
21st-century Mexican women artists