[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Agnotology

eld of epistemology.

Examples 
The fossil fuel industry used the technique in its campaign against the scientific consensus on climate change. It became the focus of the 2010 book Merchants of Doubt by Naomi Oreskes and Erik M. Conway. Oil companies paid teams of scientists to downplay its effects.

Michael Betancourt used agnotology in a critical assessment of political economy in a 2010 article and book. His analysis focused on the housing bubble as well as the 1980 to 2008 period. Betancourt argued that this political economy should be termed "agnotologic capitalism", claiming that the systematic production and maintenance of ignorance enabled a "bubble economy" that allowed the economy to function. In his view, the role of affective labor is to create/maintain agnotologic views that enable the maintenance of the capitalist status quo. This is done by proffering counters to every fact, creating contention and confusion that is difficult to resolve. This confusion reduces dissent by deenergizing its motivating alienation and thus its potential to address weaknesses that may trigger collapse.

Related concepts

Agnoiology 

From the same Greek roots, agnoiology refers either to "the science or study of ignorance, which determines its quality and conditions" or "the doctrine concerning those things of which we are necessarily ignorant," describing a branch of philosophy studied by James Frederick Ferrier in the 19th century.

Ainigmology 
Anthropologist Glenn Stone points out that some examples of agnotology (such as work promoting tobacco use) do not actually create a lack of knowledge so much as they create confusion. As a more accurate term Stone suggested "ainigmology", from the Greek root ainigma (as in 'enigma'), referring to riddles or to language that obscures the true meaning of a story.

Cognitronics 
An emerging scientific discipline that connects to agnotology is cognitronics, which aims to explain distortions in perception caused by the information society and globalization and cope with these distortions.

Unknowledge 
Irvin C. Schick distinguishes unknowledge from ignorance, using the example of "terra incognita" in early maps in which mapmakers marked unexplored territories with that or similar labels, which provided "potential objects of Western political and economic attention."

See also 
 
 
 , a six-part documentary that aired on PBS in 1997, based on Robert N. Proctor's 1995 book, Cancer Wars: How Politics Shapes What we Know and Don't Know About Cancer
 , a social psychology theory that may explain the ease of maintaining ignorance (because people are driven to ignore conflicting evidence) and which also provides clues to how to bring about knowledge (perhaps by forcing the learner to reconcile reality with long-held, though inaccurate beliefs; see Socratic method)
 
 
 , systematic denial of scientific biological realities by misrepresenting them in terms of various dogmatic tenets
 
 
 The Dunning–Kruger effect, a cognitive bias whereby people with low ability at a task overestimate their skill level, and people with high ability at a task underestimate their skill level.
 , a disinformation technique using the appeal to fear
 , a class of creationism that attempts to support assorted topics in biological denialism by misrepresenting them and related junk science as scientific research
 , an attempt at obfuscation of the culpability of commercial whaling by misrepresenting its junk-scientific rationale as scientific research.
 
 
 Misinformation
 
 
 
 , or Ignorance Studies, the study of ignorance as something relevant.
 
 
 , based on assorted junk-scientific strategies to misrepresent life- and health-saving technologies as harmful rather than beneficial.

References

Further reading 
 
 Kenyon, Georgina (2016 January 6). "The man who studies the spread of ignorance." BBC Future.

External links 

 Agnotology: The Cultural Production of Ignorance
 Agnotology and Misology
 WordSpy citations 

2000s neologisms
Cognitive inertia
Doubt
Error
Ignorance
Interdisciplinary subfields of sociology