[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Human rights in Haiti

an 700 calls from children reporting abuse. Few statistics regarding the wider problem of child abuse have been collected. Trafficking of children also is a significant problem. UNICEF estimates that 2,000 to 3,000 Haitian children per year are trafficked to the Dominican Republic.

Restavek system 

A restavek is a child in Haiti who is sold by their parents to work for a host household as a domestic servant because the parents lack the resources required to support the child. The practice meets formal international definitions of modern day slavery and child trafficking, and is believed to affect an estimated 300,000 Haitian children. The number of CDW (Child Domestic Workers) in Haiti, defined as 1) living away from parents' home; 2) not following normal progression in education; and 3) working more than other children, is more than 400,000. 25% of Haitian children age 5–17 live away from their biological parents.

Restaveks are unpaid and have no power or recourse within the host family. Unlike slaves in the traditional sense, restaveks can run away or return to their families, and are typically released from servitude when they become adults; however, the restavek system is commonly understood to be a form of slavery. Often host families dismiss their restaveks before they turn 15, since by law that is the age when they are supposed to be paid; many are then turned out to live on the street. Increasingly, paid middlemen act as recruiters to place children with host families, and it is becoming more common to place children with strangers.  Children often have no way to get back in touch with their families.

Assassination of President Jovenel Moïse
On 6 July 2021, President Jovenel Moïse of Haiti was killed, while his wife was injured in an attack at their residence. Reportedly, Haiti has been facing human rights and political crisis for many years. Amnesty International has now called on for immediate investigation. A UN report published in January 2021, found a pricking amplification in rights violations and abuses of the right to life during the 2018 and 2019 protests. The UN called on authorities to address “impunity, corruption, structural inequality and adequate standard of living in order to restore public confidence and prevent future unrests.”

See also

 Internet censorship and surveillance in Haiti
 LGBT rights in Haiti
 List of massacres in Haiti

References

External links
 Hope for Haiti: Education and grassroots development in rural Haiti
Censorship in Haiti – IFEX
Annual Report 2006: Haiti Inter-American Commission on Human Rights
Bureau des Avocats Internationaux / Institute for Justice and Democracy in Haiti (IJDH)

 
Law of Haiti
Society of Haiti
Government of Haiti