[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# IPCC Fourth Assessment Report

assessed likelihood, using expert judgment" are over 90% and over 66%, respectively.

Observations 

The report notes many observed changes in the Earth's climate including atmospheric composition, global average temperatures, ocean conditions, and other climate changes.

Changes in the atmosphere 

Carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide are all long-lived greenhouse gases.
 "Carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide have increased markedly as a result of human activities since 1750 and now far exceed pre-industrial values."
 The amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere in 2005 (379 ppm) exceeds by far the natural range of the last 650,000 years (180 to 300 ppm).
 The amount of methane in the atmosphere in 2005 (1774 ppb) exceeds by far the natural range of the last 650,000 years (320 to 790 ppb).
 The primary source of the increase in carbon dioxide is fossil fuel use, but land-use changes also make a contribution.
 The primary source of the increase in methane is very likely to be a combination of human agricultural activities and fossil fuel use. How much each contributes is not well determined.
 Nitrous oxide concentrations have risen from a pre-industrial value of 270 ppb to a 2005 value of 319 ppb.  More than a third of this rise is due to human activity, primarily agriculture.

Warming of the planet 

Cold days, cold nights, and frost events have become less frequent.  Hot days, hot nights, and heat waves have become more frequent.  Additionally:
 Eleven of the twelve years in the period (1995–2006) rank among the top 12 warmest years in the instrumental record (since 1880).
 Warming in the last 100 years has caused about a 0.74 °C increase in global average temperature. This is up from the 0.6 °C increase in the 100 years prior to the Third Assessment Report.
 Urban heat island effects were determined to have negligible influence (less than 0.0006 °C per decade over land and zero over oceans) on these measurements.
 Observations since 1961 show that the ocean has been absorbing more than 80% of the heat added to the climate system, and that ocean temperatures have increased to depths of at least 3000 m (9800 ft).
 "Average Arctic temperatures increased at almost twice the global average rate in the past 100 years."
 It is likely that greenhouse gases would have caused more warming than we have observed if not for the cooling effects of volcanic and human-caused aerosols. See global dimming.
 Average Northern Hemisphere temperatures during the second half of the 20th century were very likely higher than during any other 50-year period in the last 500 years and likely the highest in at least the past 1300 years (including both the Medieval Warm Period and the Little Ice Age).

Ice, snow, permafrost, rain, and the oceans 

The SPM documents increases in wind intensity, decline of permafrost coverage, and increases of both drought and heavy precipitation events. Additionally:
 "Mountain glaciers and snow cover have declined on average in both hemispheres."
 Losses from the land-based ice sheets of Greenland and Antarctica have very likely (>90%) contributed to sea level rise between 1993 and 2003.
 Ocean warming causes seawater to expand, which contributes to sea level rising.
 Sea level rose at an average rate of about 1.8 mm/year during the years 1961–2003. The rise in sea level during 1993–2003 was at an average rate of 3.1 mm/year. It is not clear whether this is a long-term trend or just variability.
 Antarctic sea ice shows no significant overall trend, consistent with a lack of warming in that region.

Hurricanes 

 There has been an increase in hurricane intensity in the North Atlantic since the 1970s, and that increase correlates with increases in sea surface temperature.
 The observed increase in hurricane intensity is larger than climate models predict for the sea surface temperature changes we have experienced.
 There is no clear trend in the number of hurricanes.
 Other regions appear to have experienced increased hurricane intensity as well, but there are concerns about the quality of data in these other regions.
 It is more likely than not (>50%) that there has been some human contribution to the increases in hurricane intensity.
 It is likely (>66%) that we will see increases in hurricane intensity during the 21st century.

Table SPM-2 lists recent trends along with certainty levels for the trend having actually occurred, for a human contribution to the trend, and for the trend occurring in the future. In relation to changes (including increased hurricane intensity) where the certainty of a human contribution is stated as "more likely than not" footnote f to table SPM-2 notes "Magnitude of anthropogenic contributions not assessed. Attribution for these phenomena based on expert judgment rather than formal attribution studies."

Factors that warm or cool the planet