[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Angiopoietin

genesis. Ang-2 works as an antagonist of Ang-1 and promotes vessel regression if VEGF is not present. Ang-2 works with VEGF to facilitate cell proliferation and migration of endothelial cells. Changes in expression of Ang-1, Ang-2 and VEGF have been reported in the rat brain after cerebral ischemia.

Angiogenesis signaling
To migrate, the endothelial cells need to loosen the endothelial connections by breaking down the basal lamina and the ECM scaffold of blood vessels. These connections are a key determinant of vascular permeability and relieve peri-endothelial cell contact, which is also a major factor in vessel stability and maturity. After the physical barrier is removed, under the influence of the growth factors VEGF with addition contributions of other factors like angiopoietin-1, integrins, and chemokines play an essential role.  VEGF and ang-1 are involved in endothelial tube formation.

Vascular permeability signaling
Angiopoietin-1 and angiopoietin-2 are modulators of endothelial permeability and barrier function. Endothelial cells secrete angiopoietin-2 for autocrine signaling while parenchymal cells of the extravascular tissue secrete angiopoietin-2 onto endothelial cells for paracrine signaling, which then binds to the extracellular matrix and is stored within the endothelial cells.

Cancer
Angiopoietin-2 has been proposed as a biomarker in different cancer types. Angiopoietin-2 expression levels are proportional to the cancer stage for both small and non-small cell lung cancers. It has been also implicated to play role in hepatocellular and endometrial carcinoma-induced angiogenesis. Experiments using blocking antibodies for angiopoietin-2 have shown to decrease metastasis to lungs and lymph nodes.

Clinical relevance

Deregulation of angiopoietin and the tyrosine kinase pathway is common in blood-related diseases such as diabetes, malaria, sepsis, and pulmonary hypertension. This is demonstrated by an increased ratio of angiopoietin-2 and angiopoietin-1 in blood serum.  To be specific, angiopoietin levels provide an indication for sepsis. Research on angiopoietin-2 has shown that it is involved in the onset of septic shock. The combination of fever and high levels of angiopoietin-2 are correlated with a greater prospect of the development of septic shock. It has also been shown that imbalances between angiopoietin-1 and angiopoietin-2 signaling can act independently of each other. One angiopoietin factor can signal at high levels while the other angiopoieting factor remains at baseline level signaling.

Angiopoietin-2 is produced and stored in Weibel-Palade bodies in endothelial cells and acts as a TEK tyrosine kinase antagonist. As a result, the promotion of endothelial activation, destabilization, and inflammation are promoted. Its role during angiogenesis depends on the presence of Vegf-a.

Serum levels of angiopoietin-2 expression are associated with the growth of multiple myeloma, angiogenesis, and overall survival in oral squamous cell carcinoma. Circulating angiopoietin-2 is a marker for early cardiovascular disease in children on chronic dialysis. Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus induces rapid release of angiopoietin-2 from endothelial cells.

Angiopoietin-2 is elevated in patients with angiosarcoma.

Research has shown angiopoietin signaling to be relevant in treating cancer as well. During tumor growth, pro-angiogenic molecules and anti-angiogenic molecules are off balance. Equilibrium is disrupted such that the number of pro-angiogenic molecules are increased. Angiopoietins have been known to be recruited as well as VEGFs and platelet-derived growth factors (PDGFs). This is relevant for clinical use relative to cancer treatments because the inhibition of angiogenesis can aid in suppressing tumor proliferation.

References

External links
 
 

Angiogenesis
Growth factors