[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of social nudity places in North America

ings - natural hot springs accessed via Hot Springs Trail in Montecito.
 Santa Clara County
 Lupin Lodge – Naturist resort in Los Gatos. Memberships available as well as day/night passes. Camping available. Just south of Silicon Valley, off Highway 17 (Idylwild Road exit).
 Santa Cruz County
 Laguna Creek Beach – Public beach frequented by nude sunbathers  north of Santa Cruz on Highway 1.
 Bonny Doon Beach – About a 10–15 minute drive from Santa Cruz on North Highway 1. Across from Bonny Doon Road. Nude beach is down the cliff – there are two sections of beach – the south end is for clothed beachgoers, and the north end, divided from the main beach by a large rock, is for nude sunbathers.
 Santa Cruz – The beach adjacent to the Santa Cruz Seaside County Beach Boardwalk. All bathers regardless of gender may go topless by county ordinance.
 Sonoma County
 The Russian River is right along U.S. 101 and CA 116.

Colorado
 Female toplessness is allowed in the cities of Denver, Boulder and Fort Collins, since these cities do not make any distinction between female toplessness and male bare chested. On February 15, 2019, The 10th Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in favor of Free the Nipple as to female toplessness being equal to male toplessness. This decision legalized female toplessness in the state.
 Mountain Air Ranch in Indian Hills.
 Orvis Hot Springs, a clothing-optional natural hot springs in Ridgway.
 North end of the Boulder Reservoir, near Boulder. (No longer allowed and tickets are issued by law enforcement)
 Valley View Hot Springs and the Orient Land Trust —  of clothing optional recreation in the San Luis Valley. Chlorine-free swimming pool, hiking trails, soaking ponds; accommodations include tent camping sites, vehicle camp sites & cabin rentals.
 Strawberry Hot Springs (only after dark) — Steamboat Springs
 Dream Canyon just outside Boulder
 Desert Reef Hot Spring in Florence.
 Dakota Hot Springs (formerly known as "The Well"), in Penrose.
 The "rock" just west of the Wedgewood Restaurant on Boulder Canyon Drive. Look for the Chapman Drive Trailhead parking on the left as you move up the canyon after the turn off to the restaurant.
 Tsujataism a group formed in 2017 in Boulder, Colorado that hold nude meditation rituals. these rituals are hosted by a Master and a Goddess and are communally funded.
 Left Hand Creek - 40°06'16.3"N 105°20'15.4"W - Sandy river banks and created pools make for a lovely little skinny dipping experience.

Connecticut
 Sun Ridge Resort in Sterling about  from the Rhode Island border and about  from Massachusetts. The resort has 95 wooded level sites on a mountain ridge.
 Solair Family Nudist Resort in Woodstock is a family oriented nudist resort and campground, owned and operated by its members.
 B&G of Connecticut, East Hartford, private social club for male naturists

Delaware

 Shore Inn the gay men motel in Rehoboth Beach
 Some of these nude beaches in the historic downtown district in the Delaware state park Fort DuPont State Park named after Rear Admiral Samuel Francis Du Pont at the New Castle County

District of Columbia
 Potomac Rambling Bares is a non-landed club that has since its founding in 1984 provided a comfortable atmosphere for nudists in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, Maryland and Virginia areas.

Florida