[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cursive Hebrew

he accompanying specimen presents Sephardi script. In this flowing cursive alphabet the ligatures appear more often. They occur especially in letters which have a sharp turn to the left (ג, ז, כ, נ, צ, ח), and above all in נ, whose great open bow offers ample space for another letter (see Figure 2).

The following are the successive stages in the development of each letter: 
 Alef is separated into two parts, the first being written as , and the perpendicular stroke placed at the left . By the turn of the 20th century, Ashkenazi cursive had these two elements separated, thus ׀c, and the acute angle was rounded. It received also an abbreviated form connected with the favorite old ligature , and it is to this ligature of Alef and Lamed that the contracted Oriental Aleph owes its origin (Figure 3, column 7). 
 In writing Bet, the lower part necessitated an interruption, and to overcome this obstacle it was made , and, with the total omission of the whole lower line, . 
 In Gimel, the left-hand stroke is lengthened more and more. 
 Dalet had its stroke put on obliquely to distinguish it from Resh; however, since in rapid writing it easily assumed a form similar in appearance to Resh, Dalet in analogy with ב was later changed to . 
 A transformation very similar to this took place in the cases of final Kaf and of Qof (see columns 2, 5, 11, 14), except that Kaf opened out a trifle more than Qof. 
 The lower part of Zayin was bent sharply to the right and received a little hook at the bottom. 
 The left-hand stroke of Ṭet was lengthened. 
 Lamed gradually lost its semicircle until (as in both Nabataean and Syriac) by the turn of the 20th century, it became a simple stroke, which was bent sharply toward the right. In the modern script today the Lamed has regained its semicircle. 
 Final Mem branches out at the bottom, and in its latest stage is drawn out either to the left or straight down. 
 In Samekh the same development also took place, but it afterward became again a simple circle. 
 To write 'Ayin without removing the pen from the surface, its two strokes were joined with a curl. 
 The two forms of the letter Pe spread out in a marked flourish. 
 For Tsadi the right-hand head is made longer, at first only to a small degree, but later on to a considerable extent. 
 In the beginning Shin develops similarly to the same letter in Nabataean, but afterward the central stroke is lengthened upward, like the right arm of Tsadi, and finally it is joined with the left stroke, and the first stroke is left off altogether. 
 The letters ה, ד, ח, ן, נ, ר, ת, have undergone little modification: they have been rounded out and simplified by the omission of the heads.

Samaritan Hebrew
The Samaritans are an ethnic group descended from the Israelites and are a sister people to the Jews. Whereas the Israelites and later Hebrews suffered a number of exoduses and deportations over the course of history, Samaritans for the most part remained in Israel since ancient times. As a result, the Hebrew language of the Samaritans is written in a unique abjad from that of Hebrew; this abjad is called the Samaritan alphabet. Thanks to the Samaritans' sedentary residence in Israel, the script of Samaritan Hebrew is a direct descendant of the Paleo-Hebrew alphabet, the script which the Jews abandoned in favor of the restoration of their original Ktav Ashuri script in the 4th century BCE. Samaritan Hebrew, as standard Hebrew does, has its own cursive script.

See also 
Cursive
Handwriting
Judeo-Arabic languages
Ruqʿah script

Notes

External links
Cursive Hebrew fonts for download at www.oketz.com
LadinoType - System for Solitreo and Rashi
Cursive Hebrew in the 1901–1906 Jewish Encyclopedia 

Hebrew alphabet
Penmanship