[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 9th (Highland) Infantry Division

instructors and the required equipment. The division was also used as a source of reinforcements for other units. For example, the 5th Queen's Own Cameron Highlanders released over 200 men to a sister battalion. These losses were made up over several months, by new waves of recruits and conscripts.

In October 1939, Commander-in-Chief, Home Forces Walter Kirke was tasked with drawing up a defensive plan to defend the United Kingdom from a German invasion, which was codenamed Julius Caesar. In November 1939, the division was assigned a role in this initial defensive plan, which it retained until 1940. The plan envisioned troops in the affected area immediately locating and defeating German parachutists, or cordoning off and thereby immobilising any German forces until the division could be relieved. On 6 March, Lindsay returned to retirement. He was replaced by Major-General Edward Beck, who had been the Director of Personal Services at the War Office. Following the German invasion of Norway, the Admiralty grew concerned at the capability of German airborne forces and the threat they posed to Scapa Flow, or of a large-scale attack against eastern Scotland. Kirke dismissed the feasibility of such an attack, and believed that East Anglia or the south coast were the areas in imminent danger of invasion as a result of the German operations on mainland Europe. Because of the anticipated threat to the south, the 9th (Highland) was left as the sole division in Scotland. It was envisioned that the TA divisions each be deployed intact to reinforce the regular army formations in France as equipment became available, with all 26 TA divisions deployed by the end of the first year of the war. As a result of the tempo of the Battle of France and the Dunkirk evacuation, the division did not leave Britain. On 26 June 1940, Beck was replaced by Major-General Alan Cunningham who had previously commanded the 5th Anti-Aircraft Division and the short-lived 66th Infantry Division.

Following the fall of France, the threat posed to Scotland was re-evaluated. General Edmund Ironside, who had replaced Kirke, decided to bolster the garrison in Scotland. At this point, the division was between 5–10,000 men strong. As of 31 May 1940, ammunition and equipment shortages were common among all divisions based in the UK. Few formations had their full establish of Bren light machine guns, Vickers machine gun, or ML 3-inch mortar. The 9th (Highland) had no anti-tank guns against a nominal establishment of 48, although it did have a full establishment of 307 Boys anti-tank rifles. Ironside relieved the 9th Division of some of its responsibilities by dispatching the 5th Division, and provided both formations with a mobile reserve in the form of the 7th Royal Tank Regiment. Ironside's plan for the defence of the United Kingdom, included the construction of "stoplines". In his words "... strong points prepared for all-round defence at aerodromes ... at the main centres of communication, and distributed in depth over a wide area covering London and the centres of production and supply" with the intent of preventing "the enemy from running riot and tearing the guts out of the country as has happened in France and Belgium." In Scotland, Scottish Command ordered a series of stoplines to be completed. The main line was to run from Dysart, Fife to Loch Tummel, with an additional line built from Cowie, Aberdeenshire inland. These lines were to include wire obstacles, anti-tank barriers, and pillboxes. The 9th (Highland) was to construct the Cowie Line, and aid in the preparation of Scottish Command's other defensive efforts. The division assisted in the construction of beach obstacles, rigged bridges for destruction and established roadblocks. The 274th Field Company, Royal Engineers was vital in the opening stages of the Cowie Line construction. Other changes included the 5th Queen's Own Cameron Highlanders being transferred from Tain to Halkirk. The battalion was assigned to defend RAF Castletown, which provided air cover for Scapa Flow.