[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Van Leer Jerusalem Institute

and Palestinian scholars lead pioneering studies and cross-border projects including academic discussion groups, workshops, conferences, and publications.

Specific areas of activity include research, the Journal of Levantine Studies, regional dialogue, and involvement in the Anna Lindh Foundation.

Manarat: The Van Leer Center for Jewish-Arab Relations
The Manarat Center, headed by Dr. Yonatan Mendel, was established in 2015 to highlight a variety of issues, including the status and rights of Palestinian citizens of Israel, the ramifications of the protracted Israeli-Arab conflict for both Jewish and Arab societies, and Israel's place in the Middle East. The center is involved in research and discourse regarding the challenges facing Israeli and Palestinian society in an attempt to discover the methods and principles likely to promote understanding, a shared life, mutual respect, reconciliation, justice, and peace. The Manarat Center, aims to promote partnerships between Jewish and Arab organizations.

The Center for the Study of Arab Society in Israel

Jewish Culture and Thinking
VLJI's Jewish Culture and Thinking Program is headed by Prof. Amnon Raz-Krakotzkin and promotes interdisciplinary research and public events concerning Jewish culture and thought in Israel and the Diaspora. The programs focus on the identity of communities, the streams and phenomena of contemporary Judaism, Judaism and democracy, and expressions of Jewish culture, thought, and creativity. The Jewish Culture and Thinking Program is a home for both established and young scholars in the humanities and social sciences, as well as thinkers, rabbis, and educators from Israel and abroad.

Israeli Civil Society
The Israeli Civil Society Unit, headed by Prof. Moshe Justman, focuses on creating a body of knowledge on citizenship and civic policy to be incorporated in public discourse and used by decision-makers. Projects — including research groups, discussion groups, round-tables on key current issues relating to social change, local and international conferences, and public symposiums — are thematically clustered around the basic issues of citizenship, social justice, relations between the state and civil society, Arab society in Israel, gender, economics, and education.

Public events
VLJI hosts an array of public events comprising conferences, workshops, colloquia, symposia, and other public meetings. The wide range of participants include intellectuals from Israeli and international academia and from the worlds of journalism, public policy, and politics.

Leadership 
The Head of the Van Leer Jerusalem Institute is Prof. Shai Lavi, a Tel Aviv University law professor who specializes in sociology and philosophy of law. He is currently also the director of the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics and the co-director of the Minerva Center for the Interdisciplinary Study of the End of Life, both at Tel Aviv University.

The academic committee is composed of Prof. Moshe Justman, director of the Israel Civil Society Unit and economics professor at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev; Dr. Abigail Jacobson, director of the Mediterranean Neighbours Unit; Dr. Yochi Fischer, director of the Advanced Studies Unit and history lecturer at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem; and Prof. Amnon (Nono) Raz-Krakotzkin, director of the Jewish Culture and Thinking Unit and currently chair of the Department of Jewish History at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev.

Past Directors 
2007-2016 – Gabriel Motzkin

1997-2007 – Shimshon Zelniker

1994-1997 – Nehemia Levtzion

1968-1993 – Yehuda Elkana

Notable scholars and fellows
 Azmi Bishara
 S. N. Eisenstadt
 Rachel Elior
 Menachem Friedman
 Ruth Gavison
 Naomi Hazan
 Hanna Herzog
 Avishai Margalit
 Paul Mendes-Flohr
 Adi Ophir
 Naftali Rothenberg
 Yehouda Shenhav