[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eugene de Kock

212 years in prison for crimes against humanity. The eighty-nine charges included six counts of murder, as well as conspiracy to murder, attempted murder, assault, kidnapping, illegal possession of a firearm, and fraud. De Kock served his sentence in the C Max section of the Pretoria Central Prison.

Imprisonment
In a local radio interview in July 2007, De Kock claimed that former president FW de Klerk's hands were "soaked in blood" and that de Klerk had ordered political killings and other crimes during the anti-apartheid conflict. These claims were in response to de Klerk's then-recent statements that he had a "clear conscience" regarding his time in office.

The Sunday Independent reported in January 2010 that De Kock was seeking a presidential pardon from President Jacob Zuma in exchange for more information about the apartheid government's death squads, and that a three-hour meeting between Zuma and the incarcerated De Kock took place in April 2009. A spokesman for Zuma denied the veracity of the report.

In 2012, De Kock made several pleas for forgiveness to the relatives of his victims. In January, he wrote a letter to the family of Bheki Mlangeni, apologising for killing the ANC attorney in a 1991 bomb attack; Mlangeni's mother, Catherine, doubted De Kock's sincerity as he had never before shown remorse. In February, De Kock met Marcia Khoza in his prison, confessing that he had personally executed her mother, Portia Shabangu, in an ambush in 1989; Khoza would not forgive him, because he had scarcely shown remorse during his TRC hearing.

In September 2014, De Kock met the Mamas, the family of another of his victims. Candice Mama, daughter of the late Glenack Masilo Mama, did forgive De Kock, even going as far as to express in countless interviews support for his bid for parole.

Parole
Justice Minister Michael Masutha announced on 30 January 2015, that De Kock had been granted parole. At the press conference, it was announced that the date of his release would not be made public. Masutha further said that De Kock had expressed remorse for his crimes and had co-operated with authorities to recover the remains of a number of his victims. De Kock was nevertheless to remain on parole for the rest of his life.

See also
Dirk Coetzee
Craig Williamson
Civil Cooperation Bureau
Wouter Basson
Lothar Neethling
Janusz Waluś
Siphiwe Mvuyane

References

1949 births
Living people
Afrikaner people
South African assassins
South African mass murderers
South African military personnel of the Border War
South African people convicted of crimes against humanity
South African police officers convicted of murder
South African prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment
Politicide perpetrators
People who testified at the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (South Africa)
People convicted of torture
Police officers convicted of crimes against humanity
People convicted of murder by South Africa
Prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment by South Africa
People convicted of illegal possession of weapons
People paroled from life sentence
White supremacist assassins