[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Seth Ledyard Phelps

1878, Phelps was appointed the permanent board's first president. He served for one year, resigning on November 29, 1879.

Phelps Vocational School in Northeast DC is named for Phelps. Additionally, his home at 15 Logan Circle in Washington still stands and now houses the Old Korean Legation Museum.

In 1883, President Chester A. Arthur appointed Phelps Minister to Peru. He arrived in Lima, Peru, in 1883. Early in June 1885 Phelps embarked on a hunting trip into the Andes mountains in Peru and contracted what looked like Oroya fever. He did not let it affect his work, but his condition worsened and while working at his desk he suddenly collapsed and died on June 24. Funeral ceremonies were conducted at the U.S. Legation which was followed by a procession of friends and members of Peru's cabinet and diplomats. His body was interred and soon sent to the United States aboard a mail steamer, City of Iowa, with a  U.S. Navy escort aboard. He was buried in Washington at Oak Hill Cemetery. Phelps's epitaph simply reads that he served in the Mexican and Civil Wars, at that he was U.S. Minister in Peru. There are no Naval ships named in his honor to date. In 1877 Phelps hired an architect, Thomas Plowman, and builder, Joseph Williams, to construct his retirement mansion located at 1500 13th Street, (also known as Logan Circle)  at a cost of 5,500.  Not long before  his  death, Phelps  decided to build three large houses near his own home as rental investments.

See also

 Bibliography of Naval history of the American Civil War
 Bibliography of early American naval history
 Bibliography of the American Civil War
 List of ships captured in the 19th century
 Blockade runners of the American Civil War
 Glossary of nautical terms

Notes

References

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  (Plain text format)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  (Plain text format)

Further reading

 
  – Google eBook
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 Constitution of the Mississippi Squadron Association

External links

 DANFS : "Old Navy" Ship Photo Archive
 Seth Ledyard Phelps Letterbook Missouri History Museum Archives

1824 births
1885 deaths
Mayors of Washington, D.C.
United States Navy officers
Union Navy officers
Ambassadors of the United States to Peru
19th-century American diplomats
People of Ohio in the American Civil War
People from Geauga County, Ohio
Members of the Board of Commissioners for the District of Columbia
19th-century American politicians
People from Chardon, Ohio
Burials at Oak Hill Cemetery (Washington, D.C.)