[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joseph Widney

Vasquez were among his patients.

Before the "Anti-Quackery Law" was enacted in 1876, doctors were not licensed. Medical practitioners would advertise their medical skills. On January 31, 1871, Widney helped found the Los Angeles County Medical Association, the oldest such association in California.

The founders wanted to establish medical schools and publications, and raise medical standards Widney advocated aid to "the sickly poor" as a facet of public health and civic philanthropy. From 1876 to 1901, medical licensing was done by the State Medical Society. In 1901, the State Board of Medical Examiners was  created. Widney was one of the first licensed by the medical society. He became its president in 1877. On May 12, 1937, a bust of Widney commissioned by the Los Angeles County Medical Association was placed in the lobby of their headquarters.

He believed in scientific medicine, and opposed faith healing or "mind cure" practitioners. In 1886, Widney, then professor of the principles and practice of medicine in the college of medicine of the University of Southern California, proposed a structure for the study of medicine. He advocated the creation of the Los Angeles and California Boards of Health, and was Los Angeles' first public health officer.

In 1884, he helped re-organize the Southern California Medical Society. In 1886, he helped establish the Southern California Practitioner, the society's monthly journal, and served as an editor for the first few years.

Author
In 1872, he helped found the Los Angeles Library Association, and served on its board of governors for the next six years. With Jonathan T. Warner and Judge Benjamin Hayes, Widney wrote and edited the first history of Los Angeles County, the Centennial History of Los Angeles, published in 1876. In 1888, he collaborated with Walter Lindley (1852–1922), founder of the California Hospital Medical Center, in producing California of the South, one of the first California tourist guides.

Other than his two-volume magnum opus, Race Life of the Aryan Peoples, published in 1907 by Funk and Wagnall,  he published his own works.

Widney said in Civilizations and Their Diseases (1937), I have never written for money. The sole object has been the carving out of broader lines for the human race. For more than fifty years of careful historical study, I have thought, and planned, and worked to this end. This ultimate purpose has run through all my publications. 

While at Drum Barracks and in Arizona, Widney became interested in climatology and conservation. He was chairman of the Los Angeles Meteorological committee for several years. Widney credited white settlement with improvements in the Southern California climate, including less variation in temperature, milder winds, and increased rainfall.  He was concerned about water conservation, and warned what is now called smog, identifying it as a concern in 1938, well before it gained official recognition in Los Angeles.

Widney sought the preservation of three great forest areas for future generations.

In January 1873, Widney suggested the Colorado Desert be flooded to re-establish Lake Cahuilla.

Horace Bell criticized the proposal in Reminiscences of a Ranger.

In his 1935 book, The Three Americas, Widney said that Atlantis was in the area where the Bahamas are located. He thought it was a semi-tropical island, inhabited by peoples from the Americas rather than from Europe. He also believed that there was a submerged lost continent in the South Pacific Ocean.

California development
Widney saw the potential of Los Angeles on his first visit in January 1867 while posted to Drum Barracks.  His brother, Robert Maclay Widney (1838–1929), had arrived in Los Angeles in 1868, and was a lawyer, and later judge, as well as the city's first real estate agent. Robert Widney was also the publisher of The Real Estate Advertiser. Joseph Widney invested in real estate in the Los Angeles area, which made him financially independent, and allowed him to retire from the practice of medicine at 55. In 1900, the Los Angeles Times called him "an extensive property owner in this city". At one time he owned the Widney Block on First Street, another Widney Block at Sixth and Broadway, and a property at the corner of Ninth and Santee streets, where he erected the Nazarene Methodist Episcopal Church. He also owned a building at 445–447 Aliso Street, where the first college of medicine for the University of Southern California was located from 1885 to 1896.

His investment in land started early. Between April 29, 1869, and August 28, 1871, he bought thirty-four lots in Wilmington near the San Pedro harbor area and another  near the San Gabriel Mission (Rand 28). He owned the parcel of land where the Los Angeles City Hall now stands, as well as much of Mount Washington, Los Angeles, where his last home (a Victorian mansion at 3901 Marmion Way) stood.