[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Herbert Needleman

rporating the factor of age, which had been excluded, "found essentially the identical results". By that point, Needleman's research had been superseded by newer research used to justify even lower limits of allowable lead.

Recognition

For his research, Needleman has been honored with many awards:

Dr. John V. Shankweiler Prize for outstanding student in biology - Muhlenberg College 
The first scientific studies award - the academy of the Association For Children With Learning Disabilities
Sarah L. Poiley Memorial Award - New York Academy of Sciences
Charles Dana Award for Pioneering Achievement in Public Health
Conservation Science Award - National Wildlife Federation
Chancellor's Award For Public Service - University of Pittsburgh
1996 2nd Annual Heinz Award in the Environment
Edward K. Barsky Award - The Physician's Forum
1997 Vernon Houk Award - The Society For Occupational And Environmental Health
1999 Distinguished Graduate Award - Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania
2003 Prince Mahidol Award - Thailand
2004 Rachel Carson Award for Integrity - Center for Science in the Public Interest
2006 Distinguished Investigator Award - Neurotoxicology specialty section of the Society of Toxicology

Publications
 1980, Herbert L. Needleman, Low Level Lead Exposure: The clinical implications of current research, 
 1991, Herbert L. Needleman (editor), Human Lead Exposure CRC Press, Boca Raton, Florida,  
 1994, Herbert L. Needleman, Philip J. Landrigan, Raising Children Toxic Free: How to Keep Your Child Safe from Lead, Asbestos, Pesticides, and Other Environmental Hazards, Farrar Straus & Giroux, Gordonsville, Virginia,  
 1994, Herbert L. Needleman, David C. Bellinger, Prenatal Exposure to Toxicants: Developmental Consequences, Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore
 Needleman, H. L. (1998). Childhood lead poisoning : The promise and abandonment of primary prevention. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 88, No. 12 (December 1998).
The Case of Deborah Rice: Who Is the Environmental Protection Agency Protecting?, Needleman HL (2008) PLoS Biol 6(5): e129 
Other authors 
 Rampton, S., Stauber, J., Trust Us, We're Experts 2001, p 95-7

References

Further reading 
 Needleman H.  "Standing up to the lead industry: an interview with Herbert Needleman. Interview by David Rosner and Gerald Markowitz."  Public Health Rep. 2005 May-Jun;120(3):330-7.   PDF

External links
 Brown.edu - 'Legacy of Lead Poisoning Detailed at Annual Barnes Lecture', Brown University (April 21, 2006)
 FindArticles.com - 'The difficult quest of Herbert Needleman', Thomas A. Lewis, National Wildlife  (April–May, 1995)
 HealthCentral.com - 'Take a Bite Out of Crime: Get the Lead Out: Study finds juvenile delinquents have more of the heavy metal in their bones', Jennifer Thomas, HealthDayNews  (January 6, 2003)

1927 births
2017 deaths
Members of the United States National Academy of Sciences
University of Pittsburgh faculty
Temple University faculty
Harvard Medical School faculty
American pediatricians
American psychiatrists
Place of birth missing
Muhlenberg College alumni
Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania alumni
Members of the National Academy of Medicine
20th-century American Jews
21st-century American Jews