[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Supplemental needs trust

ncome) are not contributed to a Miller Trust.

Upon the death of the beneficiary, the state Medicaid agency must be paid back for its medical assistance from any remaining assets in the Miller trust. This is similar to the payback provision of an SNT, and QITs are sometimes considered a form of SNT.

The Miller trust takes its name from the Colorado case of Miller v. Ibarra, 746 F. Supp. 19 (D. Colo. 1990), and is specifically sanctioned by 42 U.S.C. § 1396p(d)(4)(B).  It is likewise called a "Utah Gap Trust" because the shortfall between the two amounts reminded the attorney of the space between buttes in the Utah countryside.  The Miller trust is significant only in those states (about half) which impose an income cap on Medicaid long-term care eligibility.

Pooled Income Special Needs Trust 

A Nonprofit Pooled Income Special Needs Trust is authorized by 42 U.S.C. § 1396p(d)(4)(C). Again, the individual must be disabled under the Social Security definition. Unlike the other exempt trusts which can be administered by a private trustee who is an individual (such as a family member), the Pooled Income Trust is run by a nonprofit association, and a separate account is maintained for each individual beneficiary. All accounts are pooled for investment and management purposes. The trust (or more accurately, an account in the pooled trust) may be created by the beneficiary or a parent, grandparent, guardian, or court. In some states, a disabled individual over age 65 is entitled to transfer assets to a pooled trust and then be immediately eligible for Medicaid. In other states, the transfer must be made before the disabled individual attains the age of 66. Upon the death of the disabled individual, the balance is either retained in the trust for the nonprofit association or paid back to the State Medicaid agency for its medical assistance.

All 50 States have at least one state-approved Pooled Special Needs Trust.

Distributions from a Special Needs Trust

There are few restrictions on the distributions a trustee may make from an SNT as long as the distribution is for "supplemental and extra care over and above what the government provides" and is not for "support and maintenance" as defined by the eligibility rules of Supplemental Security Income as food and shelter. In practice, however, an SNT can fund social engagements and activities and can pay for adaptations to a home and the upkeep of those adaptations.

Revocation of a Special Needs Trust

Although SNTs are "irrevocable" that irrevocability only applies to the instructions written into the instrument itself; once the trust is executed the text cannot be altered. Special needs trusts can otherwise be revoked according to their own terms as written into the document (if the trust corpus is exhausted, for example). The discretionary power of revocation belongs wholly and solely to the trustee. However, revocation may interfere with the receipt of governmental benefits, or may (with first-party SNTs) trigger a Medicaid repayment, so a trustee needs to use extreme caution in making this decision.

An SNT may be revocable by a third-party settlor under limited circumstances. Note, however, that revoked trusts are not completed gifts for gift and estate tax purposes, and may subject the settlor to tax implications. Also, if the SNT is revoked for reasons other than good cause, the disabled beneficiary who relies on it may have legal recourse against the settlor for loss of governmental benefits and damages.

References

External links
American Bar Association: Special Needs Trusts Basics

Wills and trusts
Medicare and Medicaid (United States)
Disability law in the United States