[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# PELP-1

PELP1 plays  an essential role in E2-mediated rapid extranuclear signaling, neuroprotection, and cognitive function in the brain. Ability of E2 to exert  anti-inflammatory effects was lost in PELP1 forebrain-specific knockout mice, indicating a key role for PELP1 in E2 anti-inflammatory signaling.

PELP1 is a proto-oncogene  that provides cancer cells with a distinct growth and survival advantage.  PELP1 interacts with various enzymes that modulate the cytoskeleton, cell
migration, and metastasis.  PELP1 deregulation in vivo promotes development of mammary gland hyperplasia and carcinoma  PELP1  is implicated in progression of  breast, endometrial, ovarian, salivary prostate, lung, pancreas, and colon neoplasms.

PELP1 signaling contributes to hormonal therapy resistance.  Altered localization of PLP1 contributes to tamoxifen resistance via excessive activation of the AKT pathway  and cytoplasmic PELP1 induces signaling pathways that converge on ERRγ to promote cell survival in the presence of tamoxifen. AR, PELP1 and Src form constitutive complexes in prostate neoplasms model cells that exhibit androgen independence. Cytoplasmic localization of PELP1 upregulates pro-tumorigenic IKKε and secrete inflammatory signals, which through paracrine macrophage activation, regulate the migratory phenotype associated with breast cancer initiation.

Clinical significance 
PELP1 is a proto-oncogene that provides cancer cells with a distinct growth and survival advantage. PELP1 overexpression has been reported in many cancers. PELP1 expression is an independent prognostic predictor of shorter breast cancer–specific survival and disease free interval.  Patients whose tumors had high levels of cytoplasmic PELP1 exhibited a tendency to respond poorly to tamoxifen   and PELP1 deregulated tumors respond to Src kinase and mTOR inhibitors.  Treatment of breast and ovarian cancer xenografts with liposomal PELP1–siRNA–DOPC formulations revealed that knockdown of PELP1 significantly reduce the tumor growth. These results provided initial proof that PELP1 is a bonafide therapeutic target. Emerging data support a central role for PELP1 and its direct protein–protein interactions in cancer progression. Since PELP1 lacks known enzymatic activity, drugs that target PELP1 interactions with other proteins should have clinical utility. Recent studies described an inhibitor (D2) that block PELP1 interactions with AR. Since PELP1 interacts with histone modifications and epigenetic enzymes, drugs targeting epigenetic modifier enzymes may be useful in targeting PELP1 deregulated tumors.

Notes

References

External links 
 
 NURSA PELP1: 

Gene expression
Transcription coregulators