[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arthur A. Cohen

ntieth-century art, particularly Dada, Surrealism, and early Russian Constructivism." The business was initially run from their home, but by 1978 Ex Libris had been "moved to the ground floor of the Upper East Side Manhattan townhouse where the couple lived." Elaine finally closed Ex Libris in 1998.

The combination of Cohen's multiple lines of work and Elaine Lustig's extensive connections in the art world resulted in their home in New York being a gathering place for influential artists, critics, scholars, and writers of the era. Among the pair's frequent guests were Robert Motherwell, Richard Meier, Michael Graves, Cynthia Ozick, and Yosef Hayim Yerushalmi.

In 1968, he signed the "Writers and Editors War Tax Protest" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the Vietnam War.

On September 30, 1986, Cohen died from leukemia at the age of 58.

Writings

Fiction
Cohen wrote six works of fiction, including The Carpenter Years (1967), Acts of Theft (1980), and An Admirable Woman (1983), the last of which won the National Jewish Book Award. Many consider In the Days of Simon Stern (1973) to be Cohen's flawed masterpiece. For this novel Cohen was awarded the Edward Lewis Wallant Award in 1973. The screen rights to his third novel, A Hero in His Time, were purchased in 1976 by Jalor Productions, the production company behind Santa Claus Conquers the Martians (1964), widely regarded as one of the worst films ever made. However, the film was never made. Cohen's final work of fiction was Artists & Enemies (1987), a collection of three novellas published posthumously.

Non-fiction
Cohen's non-fiction, in addition to his study of Buber, included The Natural and the Supernatural Jew (1962), a book which traces the history of Jewish theology from the late 15th century, through the German Jewish renaissance, and into what he saw as a hopeful yet troubled American Jewish scene. Cohen also edited a popular reader on Jewish thought, Arguments and Doctrines. One of his posthumous publications, the immense anthology Contemporary Jewish Religious Thought (1987), which he co-edited with Paul Mendes-Flohr, was very well received when it was initially published. The anthology was even reissued in paperback by the Jewish Publication Society in 2009 with a new title, 20th Century Jewish Religious Thought. In his review for the Journal for the Study of Religion, Bernard Steinberg wrote, "Cohen and Mendes-Flohr have succeeded admirably in gathering and collating a series of challenging and provocative viewpoints which in sum depict the condition of contemporary Judaism and Jewry in a most vivid manner. The daunting and ambitious task that they undertook has surely paid off." In The New York Times, Alfred Gottschalk wrote, "The publication of this scintillating book is a major achievement and deserves commendation."

Of all his writings, it is perhaps Cohen's theological work which remains the most influential. His theological reflections were expressed through both his fiction and his non-fiction, his essays on Judaism and those on literature and the arts. However, his most definitive theological statements may be found in texts like The Natural and the Supernatural Jew, If Not Now, When?, The Tremendum, and his essays in Contemporary Jewish Religious Thought. "Death of God" theologian and friend Thomas Altizer has said of his theology, "Cohen is a pure expression of the solitary theologian, and he is certainly one of our most important theologians; indeed, there are those in the Jewish world who think that he simply created Jewish theology, or if not Jewish theology, then an American or postmodern Jewish theology." More concretely, Geoffrey Hartman comments in his memoir A Scholar's Tale: "At that time [in 1957] I also met Arthur [A.] Cohen and envied his commitment to have German Jewish thought inspire (perhaps even create) a modern Jewish theology."

Major works

In the Days of Simon Stern
As with all of Cohen's novels, the initial reception of In the Days of Simon Stern (1973) was mixed. However, in subsequent years there has emerged a consensus that it is Cohen's most significant work of fiction.

Cynthia Ozick wrote in The New York Times in 1973, "For a small mountain of reasons, this book ensnares one of the most extraordinarily daring ideas to inhabit an American novel in a number of years." Referring to the novel's eponymous main character, Melvin Maddocks wrote in Time, "It is one of the most venerable axioms of writing—certainly as old as Moll Flanders (1722)—that novels should be about sinners. Saints are difficult enough to deal with in real life, let alone in fiction. [...] Yet [Cohen] has taken on a saint and a fable in fiction, and won—apparently by sheer moral passion." The novel deals with Jewish life in the United States before the Second World War as well as the ramifications of the Holocaust.