[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Acoustic wave

wave pattern. Interference of sound waves can be observed when two loudspeakers transmit the same signal. At certain locations constructive interference occurs, doubling the local sound pressure. And at other locations destructive interference occurs, causing a local sound pressure of zero pascals.

Standing wave

A standing wave is a special kind of wave that can occur in a resonator. In a resonator superposition of the incident and reflective wave occurs, causing a standing wave. Pressure and particle velocity are 90 degrees out of phase in a standing wave.

Consider a tube with two closed ends acting as a resonator. The resonator has normal modes at frequencies given by

where
 is the speed of sound in m/s
 is the length of the tube in m

At the ends particle velocity becomes zero since there can be no particle displacement. Pressure however doubles at the ends because of interference of the incident wave with the reflective wave. As pressure is maximum at the ends while velocity is zero, there is a 90 degrees phase difference between them.

Reflection
An acoustic travelling wave can be reflected by a solid surface. If a travelling wave is reflected, the reflected wave can interfere with the incident wave causing a standing wave in the near field. As a consequence, the local pressure in the near field is doubled, and the particle velocity becomes zero.

Attenuation causes the reflected wave to decrease in power as distance from the reflective material increases. As the power of the reflective wave decreases compared to the power of the incident wave, interference also decreases. And as interference decreases, so does the phase difference between sound pressure and particle velocity. At a large enough distance from the reflective material, there is no interference left anymore. At this distance one can speak of the far field.

The amount of reflection is given by the reflection coefficient which is the ratio of the reflected intensity over the incident intensity

Absorption
Acoustic waves can be absorbed. The amount of absorption is given by the absorption coefficient which is given by

where
 is the absorption coefficient without a unit
 is the reflection coefficient without a unit

Often acoustic absorption of materials is given in decibels instead.

Layered media 

When an acoustic wave propagates through a non-homogeneous medium, it will undergo diffraction at the impurities it encounters or at the interfaces between layers of different materials. This is a phenomenon very similar to that of the refraction, absorption and transmission of light in Bragg mirrors. The concept of acoustic wave propagation through periodic media is exploited with great success in acoustic metamaterial engineering. 

The acoustic absorption, reflection and transmission in multilayer materials can be calculated with the transfer-matrix method.

See also 

Acoustics
Acoustic attenuation
Acoustic metamaterial
Auditory imagery
Audio signal processing
Beat
Biot–Tolstoy–Medwin_diffraction_model
Diffraction
Doppler effect
Echo
Gravity wave
Music
Musical note
Musical tone
Phonon
Physics of music
Pitch
Psychoacoustics
Resonance
Refraction
Reflection
Reverberation
Signal tone
Sound
Sound localization
Soundproofing
Stereo imaging
Structural acoustics
Timbre
Ultrasound
Wave equation
One-way wave equation
List of unexplained sounds

References

zh-yue:聲波

Wave mechanics
Acoustics
Sound