[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ógra Shinn Féin

to their decision to use tax-payers' money to appeal the European Commission's decision to force Apple Inc. to hand over €13 billion in unpaid taxes to the state. The protest involved dumping dozens of apples on the doorstep of the building as well as impaling apples on the railings.

Recent events

As part of the transformation of the Republican Movement to reflect changing realities brought about by the peace process, a decision was taken to change the logo, and at the 2004 National Congress the green star and orange graffiti-style logo was adopted. The logo was again changed at the 2006 Congress when the current logo, incorporating the words Ógra Shinn Féin, the Starry Plough, the Sunburst Flag and the "Freedom Lark" was adopted. Ógra Sinn Féin has been criticised by the Young Unionists for failing to remove the petrol bomb logo from a number of its wall murals.

Affiliations
National Youth Council of Ireland (NYCI) - Ógra Shinn Féin is a full member of the National Youth Council of Ireland.
European Network of Democratic Young Left (ENDYL) - Ógra Shinn Féin was a full member of the ENDYL until its dissolution.

International
Ógra Shinn Féin has strong connections with a number of pro-independence and socialist groups throughout the world, including:
SEGI - A Basque nationalist party that forms part of the Basque National Liberation Movement and is aligned with Langile Abertzaleen Batzordeak, Batasuna and the militant organisation ETA. SEGI is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by the Spanish and French authorities. ÓSF frequently send delegations to the Basque Country It has been reported in the Spanish media that the Spanish security services are monitoring both groups closely and have noticed a sharp increase in co-operation between the two. Spanish papers have also claimed that the youth wings exchange IRA and ETA knowledge and information.
Ghjuventù Indipendentista - A youth movement which supports Corsican Nationalism and advocates independence from France. An ÓSF delegation attend the "Scontri Internaziunali" which is held in the town of Corte in central Corsica every year.
Jovent Republicà - The youth wing of the Catalan nationalist group Republican Left of Catalonia which campaigns for the independence of Catalonia from Spain.
Others - ÓSF also supports nationalist movements in Kanaky (New Caledonia), Kabylie (Algeria), Galicia, Spain, Scotland, Sardinia and Brittany.

Notable members and former members

Pearse Doherty – Current Teachta Dála (TD) representing Donegal and former Senator, served as a member of the ÓSF National Executive.
Máiría Cahill – Former ÓSF National Secretary. Cahill was served as a Senator from 2015 to 2016 for the Labour Party, and selected as an SDLP member of Lisburn and Castlereagh City Council in 2018.
Toiréasa Ferris – Elected to Kerry County Council and candidate for Sinn Féin in the European Parliament Elections in 2009.
Eoin Ó Broin – Current Teachta Dála (TD) representing Dublin Mid-West. Sinn Féin Director of European Affairs. He is also a published author and a former National Organiser of Sinn Féin Youth.
Daithí McKay – Former Sinn Féin MLA for North Antrim and political commentator.
Jonathan O'Brien – Sinn Féin TD representing Cork North-Central.
Niall Ó Donnghaile – Sinn Féin councillor representing East Belfast, and Sinn Féin Assembly Press Officer. Lord Mayor of Belfast (2011–12). Seanadóir in the Seanad Éireann.
David Cullinane – Current Teachta Dála (TD) representing Waterford. Former Senator and previous member of Waterford City Council.
Matt Carthy – Sinn Féin Teachta Dála (TD) representing Cavan–Monaghan.
Megan Fearon – Former Sinn Féin MLA for Newry and Aramgh.
Emma Sheerin - Sinn Féin MLA for Mid Ulster. 
Fintan Warfield - Sinn Féin Seanadóir in the Seanad Éireann and former National Chair of Ógra Shinn Féin.

National Chairs

Eoin Ó Broin – 1997–98
Matt Carthy – 1998–2000
Damian Lawlor – 2000–02 (Author of Na Fianna Éireann and the Irish Revolution - 1909 to 1923)
Chris O'Ralaigh – 2002–03
Mickey Bravender – 2003–06
Barry McColgan – 2006–09
Donnchadh Ó Laoghaire – 2009–2011
Darren O’Rourke – 2011–2014
Harry Connolly – 2014–2016
Fintan Warfield – 2016–2018
Aodhán Ó hAdhmaill – 2018–2019 (First chair elected by membership at a National Congress)
Caoimhín McCann – 2019–

Publications

Ógra Shinn Féin publishes a quarterly republican youth magazine entitled Splanc. The magazine was launched in 2001, eventually ceasing publication around 2006. It was re-launched in 2007, primarily in online format, with the same name, Splanc (which is the Irish language translation of Spark).