[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation

iaries show their government-issued photo identity and address proof for the first three months. Bus conductors issue them zero-fare tickets Thereafter, beneficiaries obtain Shakti smartcards (named after the name of the scheme) through an application process on the government's Seva Sindhu website.

Terms and conditions of the scheme 
 The scheme will apply to all four Road Transport Corporations in the state (KSRTC, BMTC, NWKRTC and KKRTC). 
 Nagara Sarige, Gramantara Sarige, Karnataka Sarige, Vayavya Nagara Sarige, Vayavya Gramantara Sarige, Vayavya Karnataka Sarige, Kalyana Nagara Sarige, Kalyana Gramantara Sarige, Kalyana Karnataka Sarige, Bengaluru Sarige, Samparka and Astra services will be part of the scheme.
 Women can travel for free only on bus services within the state. Bus services to destinations outside Karnataka will be outside the scheme's purview even if women travel within the state. For example, a woman travelling to Mangaluru in Karnataka i.e., within the state on a Udupi-Kasaragod bus service which is an interstate service to Kasaragod in neighbouring Kerala, then the woman passenger will have to buy a ticket.
 The scheme will not apply to luxury buses (Rajahamsa Executive Class, Airavat Class, Airavat Club Class, Pallakki Class, Amoghavarsha Class, Ambaari Class, Ambaari Dream Class, Ambaari Utsav Class, Kalyana Ratha Class, Fly Bus, EV- Power Plus+, Bengaluru Darshini, Vajra and Vayu Vajra services).
 Half of the seats on KSRTC, NWKRTC and KKRTC's ordinary and express buses will be reserved for men. Luxury, AC and interstate buses as well as BMTC buses will be exempted from this. 
 The government will reimburse the RTCs based on the distance women travel.

Karnataka's Road Transport Undertakings
KSRTC, Bangalore: Operates out of Southern Karnataka.
NWKRTC, Hubli: Operates out of North-Western Karnataka except Vijayapura district.
KKRTC, Gulbarga: Operates out of North-Eastern Karnataka and Vijayapura district.
BMTC, Bangalore: Operates in Bangalore Metropolitan Region offering transit service.

Namma Cargo Logistics and Parcel Services 
Namma Cargo Logistics and Parcel Services was launched on 26 February 2021. It provides cargo and parcel services on the routes in which The KSRTC (Karnataka), NWKRTC and KKRTC buses travel.

Gallery

See also

List of bus depots in Karnataka
List of bus stations in Karnataka
North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation
Kalyana Karnataka Road Transport Corporation

References

Transport in Karnataka
Bus companies of India
Economy of Karnataka
State agencies of Karnataka
State road transport corporations of India
Companies based in Bangalore
1961 establishments in Mysore State
Transport companies established in 1961
Bus transport in Karnataka