[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Refugees in New Zealand

years of tertiary study. By December 2021, an umbrella organisation called HOST Aotearoa had been set up to aid refugees' integration into New Zealand and to provide training and support for community organisations including accessing support by government agencies.

Notable refugees in New Zealand

The following people are former refugees who settled in New Zealand:
Behrouz Boochani - Kurdish-Iranian writer and journalist.
Rez Gardi - Harvard-educated, international lawyer and Young New Zealander of the Year 2017.
Golriz Ghahraman - Oxford-educated, UN lawyer and New Zealand's first refugee member of parliament. Elected as a list candidate for the New Zealand Green Party.
 Guled Mire - prominent community advocate, writer and senior policy advisor. He is also a media commentator on refugee, race and Muslim issues, especially related to the Christchurch Mosque attacks.
Ibrahim Omer - Labour Party List MP, New Zealand's first African member of parliament and former refugee from Eritrea.
Eliana Rubashkyn - Stateless refugee born in Colombia whose gender was recognized internationally under an UN resolution.
Jorge Sandoval - Chilean cyclist.
Omar Slaimankhel - professional rugby league player, born in Pakistan to parents from Afghanistan.
Ahmed Zaoui - Algerian asylum seeker, politicians and poet.

New Zealand is also home to numerous high-profile second-generation refugees including Sir John Key, investigative journalist Nicky Hager and blogger David Farrar.

References

Further reading
Brief history of refugees in New Zealand
Stephens, M. "Refugee resettlement and activism in New Zealand" Forced Migration Review 54, 2017 
Stephens, M. 'The deep silence of the Pacific' Overland Aotearoa, 2015.
Special issue of Kōtuitahi on Refugee resettlement and seeking asylum in Aotearoa New Zealand. Guest editors: Jay Marlowe and Sue Elliott. 
Immigration New Zealand refugee quota 
Barnett, Tracey 'The Quiet War on Asylum' 2013, BWB Texts: Wellington. 
Refugees from Te Ara, Encyclopaedia of New Zealand
Pahiatua Children; books on the Polish refugees
Refugee sector organisations in New Zealand 
Verbitsky, J. "Refugee Policy" in New Zealand Government and Politics, Ed. Miller, R, 4th edition 2006, OUP 
Murdoch Stephens, "Doing Our Bit: The Campaign to Double the Refugee Quota". 2018. BWB Texts, Wellington

External links
 Stop the Boats - The Lie of Saving Lives at Sea (2017) at IMDB

 
Immigration to New Zealand