[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Lord Loves the One (That Loves the Lord)

er 1971–72, a period of heightened devotion on his part, as well as one of frustration due to the legal and business issues afflicting his Concert for Bangladesh aid project. The idea for the composition came about after a conversation with Prabhupada, when the latter visited Harrison at Friar Park.

The song begins with a riff over the chords of B major and B7, which is then followed by a chorus, rather than a verse. Author Simon Leng describes the musical mood as "mean, dirty blues – funky and low-down", accompanying a "most uncompromising lyric". In Allison's view, the lyrics to the chorus equate love received from one's deity with "human love" (in that it "grows as it is reciprocated"), while also serving as a statement on karmic retribution:

The first verse reflects Harrison and Prabhupada's discussion that day – although the reference to political leaders "acting like big girls" is an example of Harrison reverting to "Scouse parlance", according to author Alan Clayson. The latter also notes the antipathy that Harrison felt towards politicians following the Bangladesh aid project, when the American and British governments continued to withhold funds intended for the millions of starving Bangladeshi refugees. The lyric centres on maya, or the illusory nature of human existence, as Harrison sings of humankind behaving as if "we own this whole world", oblivious to the consequences and the end that awaits the individual in this life. Allison summarises the message to mean: "karma is the law of our existence; substituting ego for God is our problem; we must prepare ourselves for death."

As with another Prabhupada-inspired track that he wrote during this period, "Living in the Material World", Harrison expresses his belief that the pursuit of fame and riches – particularly in the music industry – is meaningless. In the second verse of "The Lord Loves the One", he sings: "We all fool around, with objectives in mind / To become rich or famous, with our reputations signed ..." While author Joshua Greene compares Harrison's songs from this period to Vedic sutras, Allison specifies this verse-two message to a passage from the Katha Upanishad, which reads: "Intoxicated, deluded by the glamour of riches, the childish do not see that they must pass away. They think, 'This is the world and there is no other.'"

As with the ISKCON-inspired "Awaiting on You All", Allison views the conditions that Harrison imposes in the song's choruses as a rare exception within the singer's work. Elsewhere, Allison continues, Harrison's songwriting reveals "a strong belief in the efficacy of unmerited divine grace". In a 1982 interview, Harrison described his statement on God rewarding those who first look to God as a "flexible" one, adding: "In one way, I'm never going to get out of here [i.e., escape the constant cycle of reincarnation] unless it's by His grace, but then again … [t]he amount of grace I would expect from God should be equal to the amount of grace I can gather or earn."

Among other Harrison biographers' interpretations of the lyrics, Ian Inglis writes of Harrison's unwelcome "evangelical" message regarding "the consequences of a life of selfishness and greed which finds no place for 'the Lord'". In contrast, Leng views the verses as "the singer's inner conversation", in which Harrison acknowledges the futility of his own existence, at a time when he felt overwhelmed by his success as a solo artist following the Beatles' break-up in 1970. Of the apparent sermonising in the choruses, Leng concludes: "'The Lord Loves the One' conveys the same basic message as 'what you put in is what you get out,' so, at one level, it's more a matter of common sense than divine revelation."

Recording
Harrison began sessions for his Living in the Material World album in October 1972, at Apple Studio in London. As a result of the problems associated with the Bangladesh project, author Peter Doggett writes, "[e]verything connected with the physical world seemed to annoy him." The studio manager at the time, former Beatles engineer Geoff Emerick, recalls Harrison wearing his Hindu prayer bag and "mumbling away, chanting his mantra", often unable to reply to questions put to him. As for all the tracks on the album, the recording engineer on "The Lord Loves the One (That Loves the Lord)" was Phil McDonald, who had also worked in that capacity for the Beatles.

The recording opens with Harrison's acoustic guitar and an electric piano riff that creates "a sense of foreboding", according to Inglis, who likens the intro to Three Dog Night's 1970 hit single "Mama Told Me Not to Come". Along with Harrison, the musicians on the basic track were Jim Keltner (drums), Nicky Hopkins (electric piano) and Klaus Voormann (bass). Part of Harrison's guide vocal from the basic track was retained for the official release.