[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nahum Eitingon

gal espionage network, which included Jews with ancestry in the Russian Empire, established by Eitingon in the United States in the early 1930s helped Pavel Sudoplatov in the 1940s run a wide network of Soviet moles in the scientific community in the U.S. and beyond, to conduct scientific espionage.

Assassination of Trotsky 
Leon Trotsky, the Soviet revolutionary, had been banished from the USSR by Joseph Stalin and had found refuge in Mexico. Stalin assigned the organisation and execution of a plan to assassinate Trotsky to Eitingon. While in Spain during the Spanish Civil War, Eitingon was able to recruit a young Spaniard communist ideologue, Ramón Mercader, as executioner. Trotsky was living in Mexico at the time and, soon after Mercader worked his way into Trotsky's group of friends, Eitingon had also arrived in Mexico.

On 20 August 1940, Mercader attacked and fatally wounded Trotsky with an ice axe while the exiled Russian was in the study of his house in Coyoacán (then a village on the southern fringes of Mexico City).  Eitingon and another collaborator (Caridad Mercader, Ramon Mercader's mother) in the assassination plot were waiting outside Trotsky's residence, in separate cars, to provide a getaway for Mercader.  When Mercader failed to return (having been detained by Trotsky's bodyguards), they both left and fled the country.

Second World War 
Eitingon continued his service in the NKVD during World War II. In 1941, he and Sudoplatov successfully negotiated the release of purged NKVD officers with Lavrentiy Beria, as they were needed at the outset of the war. After this, he was involved in the assurance of Turkish neutrality from 1941–42. In late 1942, he was appointed as deputy head of the 4th Directorate of the NKVD, which was focused on sabotage and infiltration operations behind enemy lines. In this capacity as the deputy of Sudoplatov, he organized several successful operations, including Operation Scherhorn. He also assisted in the organization of several partisan movements in Eastern Europe. Through this work, Eitingon was introduced to Rudolf Abel, who would become famous as a spy in the US. Eitingon also used his extensive preexisting network in the US to conduct Atomic Espionage.

Eitingon was further said to have been instrumental in the NKVD "Max" network, the Jewish-led Abwehr spy ring whose allegiances continue to befuddle historians to the present day.

After the war 
After the victory of the USSR in World War II, Eitingon was made deputy head of the C Department of the NKVD (later KGB), where he continued atomic espionage. In this role, Eitingon was also tasked with operations against the anti-communist Forest Brothers in the Baltic states and other anti-Soviet movements in Eastern Europe. He was also tasked with the liquidation of the OUN and other Ukrainian nationalist movements. During this time, he played roles in the arrests and executions of suspected nationalist collaborators or sympathizers, including Bishop Theodore Romzha and Alexander Shumsky.

Doctor's Plot and later life 

In October 1951, Major-General of State Security Eitingon, along with three other high-ranking members of the government (all Russian Jewish), were accused of "a Zionist plot to seize power" (the Doctors' Plot). Eitingon's sister Sofia was also arrested. As a doctor, she was considered to be the "link" to the plotting doctors who were allegedly planning to poison high-ranking Soviet leaders. The officers were all imprisoned in cold, dark cells and tortured. The tortures led many of them to falsely confess but Eitingon was steadfast in his denial. Sofia was sentenced to 10 years in prison.

After Stalin's death in March 1953, the head of Soviet intelligence and security services Lavrentiy Beria issued an order to close the cases against the "Zionist plotters" and all were released, including Sofia.

Beria was arrested in June 1953 and executed. Eitingon, considered a supporter of Beria, was arrested again and held in jail without trial at the Butyrka prison in Moscow for four years. In November 1957 he was put on trial, in which he was accused (again) of conspiracy against the regime (but this time without any Zionist connotations). The court sentenced him to 12 years in prison, and his rank and all his medals were taken from him. After Nikita Khrushchev's ouster from power in 1964, Eitingon was released from prison. After his release, he worked as an interpreter and editor at the International Book Organization in Moscow.

Nahum Eitingon died in 1981 of natural causes. He is buried in the Donskoye Cemetery. In 1992 the Russian Supreme Court annulled the conviction and cleared his name. Eitingon had persistently sought his official rehabilitation, but this was granted only posthumously.

See also
 Pavel Sudoplatov

Notes and citations

References