[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 44]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

you.
"Thank you, sir," said Tommy; "you are very good to me, indeed." And
away Harry and he ran to the copse at the bottom of the garden.

Mr Barlow then went to work, and presently, by Harry's direction, cut
down several poles about as thick as a man's wrist, and about eight feet
long; these he sharpened at the end, in order to run into the ground;
and so eager were the two little boys at the business, that, in a very
short time, they had transported them all to the bottom of the garden;
and Tommy entirely forgot he was a gentleman, and worked with the
greatest eagerness.

"Now," said Mr Barlow, "where will you fix your house?" "Here, I think,"
answered Tommy, "just at the bottom of this hill, because it will be
warm and sheltered."

So Harry took the stakes and began to thrust them into the ground at
about the distance of a foot, and in this manner he enclosed a piece of
ground, which was about ten feet long and eight feet wide--leaving an
opening in the middle, of three feet wide, for a door. After this was
done they gathered up the brushwood that was cut off, and by Harry's
direction they interwove it between the poles in such a manner as to
form a compact kind of fence. This labour, as may be imagined, took them
up several days; however, they worked at it very hard every day, and
every day the work advanced, which filled Tommy's heart with so much
pleasure that he thought himself the happiest little boy in the
universe.

But this employment did not make Tommy unmindful of the story which Mr
Barlow had promised him; it was to this purport:--


"THE STORY OF THE GRATEFUL TURK."

"It is too much to be lamented that different nations frequently make
bloody wars with each other; and when they take any of their enemies
prisoners, instead of using them well, and restoring them to liberty,
they confine them in prisons, or sell them as slaves. The enmity that
there is often between many of the Italian states (particularly the
Venetians) and the Turks is sufficiently known.

"It once happened that a Venetian ship had taken many of the Turks
prisoners, and according to the barbarous customs I have mentioned,
these unhappy men had been sold to different persons in the city. By
accident, one of the slaves lived opposite to the house of a rich
Venetian, who had an only son of about the age of twelve years. It
happened that this little boy used frequently to stop as he passed near
Hamet (for that was the name of the slave), and gaze at him very
attentively. Hamet, who remarked in the face of the child the appearance
of good-nature and compassion, used always to salute him with the
greatest courtesy, and testified the greatest pleasure in his company.
At length the little boy took such a fancy to the slave that he used to
visit him several times in the day, and brought him such little presents
as he had it in his power to make, and which he thought would be of use
to his friend.

"But though Hamet seemed always to take the greatest delight in the
innocent caresses of his little friend, yet the child could not help
remarking that Hamet was frequently extremely sorrowful, and he often
surprised him on a sudden when tears were trickling down his face,
although he did his utmost to conceal them. The little boy was at length
so much affected with the repetition of this sight that he spoke of it
to his father, and begged him, if he had it in his power, to make poor
Hamet happy. The father, who was extremely fond of his son, and besides
had observed that he seldom requested anything which was not generous
and humane, determined to see the Turk himself and talk to him.

"Accordingly he went to him the next day, and, observing him for some
time in silence, was struck with the extraordinary appearance of
mildness and honesty which his countenance discovered. At length he said
to him, 'Are you that Hamet of whom my son is so fond, and of whose
gentleness and courtesy I have so often heard him talk?' 'Yes,' said the
Turk, 'I am that unfortunate Hamet, who have now been for three years a
captive; during that space of time your son (if you are his father) is
the only human being that seems to have felt any compassion for my
sufferings; therefore, I must confess, he is the only object to which I
am attached in this barbarous country; and night and morning I pray
that Power, who is equally the God of Turks and Christians, to grant him
every blessing he deserves, and to preserve him from all the miseries I
suffer.'

"'Indeed, Hamet,' said the merchant, 'he is much obliged to you,
although, from his present circumstances, he does not appear much
exposed to danger. But tell me, for I wish to do you good, in what can I
assist you? for my son informs me that you are the prey of continual
regret and sorrow.'

"'Is it wonderful,' answered the Turk, with a glow of generous
indignation that suddenly animated his countenance, 'is it wonderful
that I should