[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Supplementary eye field

F acts as a backseat passenger, advising the driver as to what to do based on past insights. The SEF has recently been found to encode reward prediction error, suggesting that the SEF may actively evaluate decisions based on a value system on an occulomotor basis, independent of other brain regions.

Significance
The visual system is sensitive to sudden change. If something distracting occurs while a person is performing a task—reading a newspaper, for example—this immediately captures one's attention. This sudden shift can be a distraction but it has been also thought to be a reflex of great importance as identifying and reacting to environmental changes quickly (when needed) can be imperative to survival. Saccadic latency, the time delay between the appearance of a target and the initiation of a saccade,  is an important parameter for learning which occulomotor neurons and structures of the brain play what specific roles in saccade initiation. There is much research being conducted on the role of SEF in determining visually salient objects and occurrences, using saccadic latency as the parameter of interest.

SEF activity has been found to govern decisions in smooth pursuit but not the decision itself.

Sensory processes
The SEF responds to auditory stimuli as well as visual stimuli. Visual responses from the SEF happen later and are much weaker than that observed in the FEF, though. SEF neurons also exhibit non-retinal modulation including anticipation and reward prediction.

Methodology of study

Finding the SEF
The SEF was defined by the Schlags as a region where low currents (<50μA) evoke saccades. It is still found using this characterization as well as the known neighboring anatomy (Fig. 1).

Monkey models
SEF research is conducted mainly in monkey models. Typically trained rhesus macaque monkeys are used and surgically implanted with recording chambers. In this fashion, spike and local field potential (LFP) data can be acquired from SEF neurons, using microelectrodes in the recording chamber. Eye movements can also be monitored using eye-tracking camera equipment.

Experiments obviously vary, but to give an example: the monkey might be made to partake in a color visual search task, sitting in front of a computer screen. The monkey would look at a point on the screen which would change from filled in to open at the same time which a colored point of "opposite" color appears on the screen. The monkey would be rewarded for looking at a new spot—"for making a single saccade"—within 2000 ms and then fixating on the spot for 500 ms. Varied tasks such as these are used and data is analyzed to determine the SEF's role in saccade initiation, visual saliency, etc.

See also 
 Anatomical terms of location
 Saccade
 Eye movement (sensory)
 Smooth pursuit
 Frontal eye fields
 Superior colliculus
 IPS / LIP

References

External links 
Amiez, C., & Petrides, M. (2009). Anatomical organization of the eye fields in the human and non-human primate frontal cortex. Progress in Neurobiology, 89(2), 220-230.
Dr. D. Ferrier On the Brain of Monkeys

Vision
Saccade
Frontal lobe