[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sultan Ibraimov

ler could not be identified, the gun used in the killing was found at the scene. For several months, the investigation remained at a standstill, even after the interrogation of hundreds of suspects. Finally, Bobkov made the choice to examine the fingerprints on the gun - a first in the Soviet Union.

Using fingerprinting, the KGB was able to find the culprit; an ethnic Russian from Cholpon-Ata. He was later found having been hanged by a scarf, at a train station in Chapayevsk, in the Russian SFSR. In his hand, there was a note "To the Deputies of the Supreme Soviet of Kyrgyzstan", which was widely circulated in Kyrgyz media and included the names and personal information of the deputies of the Supreme Soviet of the Kirghiz SSR, including Ibraimov.

The assassin was not known to have any personal relations to Ibraimov, but was instead suspected of being a Russian ethnonationalist due to writings in his notebook which professed violently anti-Kyrgyz views. Here, the case ended, but discontent in the Kirghiz SSR reached a height, as many suspected that the assassination had been planned by First Secretary of the Communist Party of Kirghizia Turdakun Usubaliev, out of a desire to maintain his position.

Legacy 
Following his death, Ibraimov's popularity in Kyrgyzstan surged, and he has since been held in high regard by the Kyrgyz people and political leaders alike, and has become known as a patriotic figure. Almazbek Atambayev throughout his rule repeatedly praised and compared himself to Ibraimov, on one occasion defending himself from allegations of nepotism by saying that he, much like Ibraimov, started out with humble beginnings.

On 29 August 2019, Kyrgyz President Sooronbay Jeenbekov posthumously awarded him with the Hero of the Kyrgyz Republic award, the highest state award of Kyrgyzstan. Ibraimov Street in Bishkek was named in his honour in 1993 from its original name of Pravda Street, and Papan Reservoir is also officially named after him. There is also a memorial to Ibraimov near Osh Kyrgyz Drama Theater, also named after him.

Ibraimov's children have continued to serve in the Kyrgyz political scene. His son, Ermek, served as the Kyrgyz ambassador to Belarus, Latvia, and Estonia. His daughter, Elmira, served as chairperson of the Audit Chamber of Kyrgyzstan, member of the Kyrgyzstan political party and Deputy Prime Minister.

Notes

References

1927 births
1980 deaths
Party leaders of the Soviet Union
Communist Party of Kirghizia politicians
Assassinated prime ministers
Eighth convocation members of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union
Ninth convocation members of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union
Tenth convocation members of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union
People's commissars and ministers of the Kirghiz Soviet Socialist Republic
Heroes of the Kyrgyz Republic
Recipients of the Order of Lenin
Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner of Labour
Deaths by firearm in the Soviet Union