[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Japanese invasion of Taiwan (1895)

The Japanese invasion of Taiwan, also known as Yiwei War in Chinese (, ; May–October 1895), was a conflict between the Empire of Japan and the armed forces of the short-lived Republic of Formosa following the Qing dynasty's cession of Taiwan to Japan in April 1895 at the end of the First Sino-Japanese War. The Japanese sought to take control of their new possession, while the Republican forces fought to resist Japanese occupation. The Japanese landed near Keelung on the northern coast of Taiwan on 29 May 1895, and in a five-month campaign swept southwards to Tainan.  Although their advance was slowed by guerrilla activity, the Japanese defeated the Formosan forces (a mixture of regular Chinese units and local Hakka militias) whenever they attempted to make a stand. The Japanese victory at Baguashan on 27 August, the largest battle ever fought on Taiwanese soil, doomed the Formosan resistance to an early defeat.  The fall of Tainan on 21 October ended organised resistance to Japanese occupation, and inaugurated five decades of Japanese rule in Taiwan.

The Invasion

Japanese occupation of the Penghu Islands

In 1894 China and Japan went to war.  In a few short months the Japanese defeated China's Beiyang fleet, routed the Chinese armies in Manchuria, and captured Port Arthur and Weihaiwei.  Although nearly all the fighting took place in northern China, Japan had important territorial ambitions in southern China.  As the war approached its end, the Japanese took steps to ensure that Taiwan would be ceded to Japan under the eventual peace treaty and that they were well placed militarily to occupy the island.  In March 1895 peace negotiations between Japan and China opened in the Japanese city of Shimonoseki.  Although hostilities in northern China were suspended during these negotiations, Taiwan and the Penghu (Pescadores) Islands were specifically excluded from the scope of the armistice.  Possession of the Penghu Islands, lying midway between mainland China and Taiwan, was the key to a successful occupation of Taiwan.

A rumour was widely circulated at this time that the Chinese authorities, realising that they were powerless to prevent Taiwan and the Penghu Islands falling into the hands of Japan, had offered to cede them temporarily to Britain, presumably on the understanding that they would be returned at a later date.  According to this rumour, the Chinese proposal was discussed by the British cabinet, and the British prime minister Lord Rosebery and the foreign secretary Lord Kimberley refused even to consider it.  Apparently, the British cabinet's reluctance to accept this poisoned chalice was based not, as has sometimes been suggested, on the fear that accepting Taiwan would immediately embroil Britain with Japan, but rather on the calculation that if Taiwan became a British colony, even temporarily, a wholesale partition of China would have followed.

Although the Penghu Islands were garrisoned by 15 Chinese regular battalions (5,000 men) and defended by the recently completed xidai coastal defence battery (built in the late 1880s in response to the capture of Penghu Islands by the French during the Sino-French War), the Japanese met very little resistance during the landing operation as the defenders were demoralised. It took the Japanese only three days to secure the islands.  After a naval bombardment of the Chinese forts, Japanese troops went ashore on Fisher Island (modern-day Xiyu) and Penghu Island on 24 March, fought several brief actions with defending Chinese troops, captured the key xidai battery and occupied Magong.  In the next two days they occupied the other main islands of the Penghu Islands group.  Japanese combat casualties were negligible, but a cholera outbreak shortly after the fall of the islands killed more than 1,500 men of the Japanese occupation force.  The soldiers of the defeated Chinese garrison of the Penghu Islands, most of whom surrendered without a fight, were repatriated by the Japanese to mainland China.

Cession of Taiwan to Japan and proclamation of Republic of Formosa

The Japanese occupation of the Penghu Islands was of considerable strategic significance, preventing China from substantially reinforcing its garrisons in Taiwan.  Having made it almost impossible for China to fight successfully for Taiwan, the Japanese pressed their claims to the island in the peace negotiations.  The Treaty of Shimonoseki was signed on 17 April 1895, and contained a clause requiring the cession of Taiwan and the Penghu Islands.  On 10 May, Admiral Kabayama Sukenori was appointed the first Japanese governor-general of Taiwan.