[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2006 Ohio's 2nd congressional district election

orted that Wulsin and Schmidt would both run the 5K Susan Komen Breast Cancer Foundation Race for the Cure on September 10, 2006, and that the Schmidt campaign has only agreed, so far, to one debate—a 30-minute program scheduled to run on Cincinnati's Channel 12 Newsmakers show on  October 15, 2006.

Plagiarism accusation
On September 22, 2006 the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) reported Schmidt published "an op-ed about Medicare Part D in the Community Press and Recorder that is almost identical to a press release issued by Congresswoman Deborah Pryce (R-Columbus) on July 10, 2006." For example, the first paragraph of Pryce's press release states: "Two and a half years ago, Congress delivered on a promise we made to the American people by passing sweeping Medicare reform, including a comprehensive Medicare prescription drug benefit to, for the first time, give America’s seniors access to affordable prescription drugs.  As we have now passed the May 15 deadline, the evidence is in and we have much to celebrate: the Medicare prescription drug benefit is working, and seniors are saving money."

In comparison, the first paragraph of Schmidt's op-ed states that:
" Two-and-a-half years ago, Republicans delivered on a promise we made to the American people by passing sweeping Medicare reform, including a comprehensive Medicare prescription drug benefit to give America's seniors access to affordable prescription drugs. Now that the program is off the ground, the evidence is in and we have much to celebrate: the Medicare prescription drug benefit is working, and seniors are saving money. Over 90 percent of all Medicare beneficiaries now have drug coverage - that's 38 million seniors. As of this summer in Ohio, 1.4 million more seniors have prescription drug coverage than before the benefit began."

Wulsin's "cowards" ad
Wulsin ran a television advertisement using the widely broadcast footage of Schmidt criticizing Democratic Representative John Murtha, a Marine Corps veteran, by telling him that "cowards cut and run, Marines never do."  Schmidt's remark, in a 2005 debate about the Iraq War, had been widely criticized at the time, and she later apologized to Murtha.  (See Jean Schmidt#"Cowards" controversy.)  Schmidt protested that Wulsin's use of her speech violated a House rule against the incorporation of a broadcast of House proceedings in a campaign ad.  Wulsin's campaign responded that Wulsin, as a nonmember, was not bound by the rule.  Wulsin's spokesman also said of Schmidt, "If she didn't want people to see this ad, then she shouldn't have given that speech."

Projections
On September 21, 2006, the Cincinnati Enquirer reported: "A SurveyUSA poll out today shows Republican Rep. Jean Schmidt tied with her Democratic challenger." The actual percentages were 45 percent for Schmidt, 42 percent for Wulsin and 12 percent undecided; with a margin of error of 4.5 points in the poll of 497 likely voters, the result was a statistical tie. A June 2006 poll by the Momentum Analysis polling organization, which says it "helps forward Democratic and progressive causes", found challenger Wulsin tied at 44 percent with incumbent Schmidt and 11 percent undecided. The June 2006 poll found that Wulsin led Schmidt 50 percent to 37 percent in Hamilton County. (Hamilton County is divided between the Ohio's 1st congressional district and Ohio's 2nd congressional district.)

Polls

References

External links
Description of Ohio's second congressional district
Schmidt's campaign official site
Wulsin campaign website
League of Women Voters page on the race
Downey's campaign website

Ohio 02
2006 02
2006 Ohio elections