[Source: PubMed]

14. Vaccine. 2016 Dec 20;34(52):6691-6699. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2016.10.078.
Epub  2016 Nov 23.

Vaccine strategies: Optimising outcomes.

Hardt K(1), Bonanni P(2), King S(3), Santos JI(4), El-Hodhod M(5), Zimet GD(6), 
Preiss S(7).

Author information:
(1)GSK Vaccines, Avenue Fleming 20, Parc de la Noire Epine, B-1300 Wavre, 
Belgium. Electronic address: karin.hardt@gsk.com.
(2)University of Florence, Department of Health Sciences, Viale GB Morgagni 48, 
Florence, Italy. Electronic address: paolo.bonanni@unifi.it.
(3)GSK Vaccines, Avenue Fleming 20, Parc de la Noire Epine, B-1300 Wavre, 
Belgium. Electronic address: sue.a.king@gsk.com.
(4)Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM), Mexico City, Mexico. 
Electronic address: joseignaciosantos56@gmail.com.
(5)Ain Shams University, Faculty of Medicine, Pediatrics Department, Cairo, 
Egypt. Electronic address: mostafaelhodhod@yahoo.com.
(6)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA. Electronic 
address: gzimet@iu.edu.
(7)GSK Vaccines, Avenue Fleming 20, Parc de la Noire Epine, B-1300 Wavre, 
Belgium. Electronic address: scott.s.preiss@gsk.com.

Successful immunisation programmes generally result from high vaccine 
effectiveness and adequate uptake of vaccines. In the development of new 
vaccination strategies, the structure and strength of the local healthcare 
system is a key consideration. In high income countries, existing 
infrastructures are usually used, while in less developed countries, the 
capacity for introducing new vaccines may need to be strengthened, particularly 
for vaccines administered beyond early childhood, such as the measles or human 
papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine. Reliable immunisation service funding is another 
important factor and low income countries often need external supplementary 
sources of finance. Many regions also obtain support in generating an evidence 
base for vaccination via initiatives created by organisations including World 
Health Organization (WHO), the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), the 
Agence de Médecine Préventive and the Sabin Vaccine Institute. Strong monitoring 
and surveillance mechanisms are also required. An example is the efficient and 
low-cost approaches for measuring the impact of the hepatitis B control 
initiative and evaluating achievement of goals that have been established in the 
WHO Western Pacific region. A review of implementation strategies reveals 
differing degrees of success. For example, in the Americas, PAHO advanced a 
measles-mumps-rubella vaccine strategy, targeting different population groups in 
mass, catch-up and follow-up vaccination campaigns. This has had much success 
but coverage data from some parts of the region suggest that children are still 
not receiving all appropriate vaccines, highlighting problems with local service 
infrastructures. Stark differences in coverage levels are also observed among 
high income countries, as is the case with HPV vaccine implementation in the USA 
versus the UK and Australia, reflecting differences in delivery settings. 
Experience and research have shown which vaccine strategies work well and the 
factors that encourage success, which often include strong support from 
government and healthcare organisations, as well as tailored, 
culturally-appropriate local approaches to optimise outcomes.

Copyright Â© 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2016.10.078
PMID: 27887796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]