[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Creole music

gratulated on his success."  The song has been published in more than a dozen collections prior to 1963, listed by the Archive of Folk Culture, Library of Congress.

Good Hope Plantation, St. Charles Parish 
Songs numbered 130-136 in Slave Songs of the United States, according to a note on page 113,

The words "obtained from a lady who heard them sung" suggest that the songs were written down by someone, perhaps the lady herself, but certainly someone adept at music notation who was able to understand and write down the patois.  It seems likely that she or he was a guest or a member of the La Branche family, who resided at the plantation until 1859, shortly after which the plantation was devastated by flood.  This family included United States chargé d'affaires to Texas and a Speaker of the Louisiana House of Representatives, Alcée Louis la Branche.

We may never know the identity of the person who wrote down the seven Creole folk songs as sung at Good Hope Plantation, but it is noteworthy that Good Hope (town), Good Hope Floodwall, Good Hope Oil and Gas Field, Bayou La Branche, and, especially, La Branche Wetlands are today well known names in St. Charles Parish, where the seven songs were once sung.

The Louisiana Lady
During the 1930s and 1940s, Camille Nickerson performed Creole folk music professionally as "The Louisiana Lady".  During an interview with Doris E. McGinty, Professor Nickerson told of her first performance at a parish in New Iberia.  "I was dressed in Creole costume and sang for about an hour and a half, and was very well received.  Now this was a white audience; such a thing was unheard of in Louisiana, especially in the rural section such as this was.  The enthusiasm of the audience showed me what an impact the Creole song could have."

Compilations and arrangements of Creole melodies
In any discussion of Creole folk songs, compilations of such songs play an essential role, not only for defining "Creole folk music", but also as a source of information, and, for performers, a possible source of arrangements.  A brief summary of published compilations (with citations in References) follows:

Slave Songs of the United States (1867) the earliest known compilation; 7 unaccompanied melodies with words.
Creole Songs from New Orleans in the Negro-Dialect (1902)
, (1910); this scholarly work by Julien Tiersot contains several Creole folk songs not found elsewhere, notably "" obtained from Professor Alcée Fortier.
Afro-American Folksongs (1915)
Six Creole Folk-Songs (1921)
Bayou Ballads:  Twelve Folk-Songs from Louisiana (1921); texts and music collected by Mina Monroe, edited with the collaboration of Kurt Schindler.  In the introduction, Monroe (who was born Marie Thereze Bernard in New Orleans, September 2, 1886), offers these insights:

The most definite recollections of my childhood on the Labranche Plantation in St. Charles Parish where we lived, are of the singing and dancing of the negroes.  This plantation had been in our family from the days of the early settlers and, by a trick of fortune years after the war, with its resulting shiftings and changes, my grandmother found herself mistress of a plantation on which she had lived as a child.  Many of the negroes who had wandered away (in fact, nearly all of them) had by then returned to their birthplace to find themselves practically under the same masters ...

Monroe's compilation includes ample notes about each of the twelve folk songs.  The songs are arranged for solo voice with piano accompaniment..."suitable and attractive for concert singers."

Chansons Nègres, includes arrangements by Tiersot for solo voice and piano of these Creole folk songs:  "Papa Dit Non, Maman Dit Oui", "Monsieur Banjo", "Pauv' Pitit' Mamzell' Zizi", "Un Bal" (= "Michié Préval"),"Les Jours du Temps Passé", "Quand Patates Sont Cuites", "Bal Fini", "Compère Lapin", and "Aurore Bradère".
Louisiana French Folk Songs, Chapter 6: "Creole Folk Songs" (1939)
Creole Songs of the Deep South (1946)

Louisiana Creole music
"Louisiana Creole music", often reduced to "Creole music", designates a genre found in connection with Cajun music, zydeco, and swamp pop.  The beginnings of this genre are associated with accordionist Amédé Ardoin (1896–1941), who, in the early 1930s, made influential recordings with Cajun fiddler Dennis McGee.

Subsequent developments, in which Creole and Cajun styles became increasingly inseparable, are covered at Contemporary Louisiana Cajun, Creole and Zydeco Musicians.  Among the many pages, under the auspices of Louisiana State University Eunice, are tributes to Louisiana Creole musicians 
Alphonse "Bois Sec" Ardoin (1915-2007) and 
Boozoo Chavis (1930-2001). Andrus Espree aka Beau Jocque (1956–1999)

Notes