[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# International Typographic Style

sed on the simplification and purity of geometric forms to speak to values of spirituality.

All of these movements including the International Typographic styles are defined by reductionist purity as a visually compelling strategy of conveying messages through geometric and color based hierarchies.

Theory 
The Bauhaus mantra of 'form follows function' applies to design in the spirit of the International Typographic movement. The movement was structured by focusing on detail, precision, craft skill, systems of education and approach, technical training, high standards of print, and the innovative application of lettering. The theory revolves around critically approaching the development of a system specific to the design problem presented.

For example, a father of the style, Ernst Keller, argued that a design solution should always be respectful of its content.

A good comparison is the structure that defines a math problem. One only uses specific equations for specific types of problems. One similarly only can work through these equations in specific ways. With the International Typographic and other related philosophies, a design context is critical to deriving a response.

Characteristics of style
Each design done with International Typographic Style in mind begins with a mathematical grid, because a grid is the "most legible and harmonious means for structuring information." Text is then applied, most often aligned flush left, ragged right. Fonts chosen for the text are sans serif, a type style believed to "[express] the spirit of a more progressive age" by early designers in the movement and focus on delivering content over embellishment. Helvetica, a font that is named after the Latin name for Switzerland, has been described as synonymous with Swiss design; other characteristic fonts associated with the style include Univers and Akzidenz-Grotesk.

Objective photography is another design element meant to present information clearly, and without any of the persuading influences of propaganda or commercial advertising. Such a strong focus on order and clarity is drawn from early pioneers of the movement believing that design is a "socially useful and important activity ... the designers define their roles not as artists but as objective conduits for spreading important information between components of society."

See also
International style (architecture)
Swiss Style (design)
Helvetica
Max Bill
Adrian Frutiger
Armin Hofmann
Dorothea Hofmann
Richard Paul Lohse
Josef Müller-Brockmann
Paul Rand
Emil Ruder
Jan Tschichold

References

Further reading 
Brändle C.; Gimmi K.; Junod B.; Reble C.; Richter B. 100 Years of Swiss Graphic Design. Museum fürGestaltung Zürich. Zürich: Lars Müller Publishers, 2014. 325 p.
Fiedl, Frederich, Nicholas Ott and Bernard Stein. Typography: An Encyclopedic Survey of Type Design and Techniques Through History. Black Dog & Leventhal: 1998. .
Hollis, Richard. Swiss Graphic Design: The Origins and Growth of an International Style, 1920-1965. Yale University Press: 2006. .
Meggs P. A History of Graphic Design. N. Y.: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1998. 592 p.
Müller-Brockmann, Josef. Grid Systems in Graphic Design. Niggli: 1996. .
Ruder, Emil. Typography. Hastings House: 1981. .
Vasileva, Ekaterina. The Swiss Style: It’s Prototypes, Origins and the Regulation Problem // Terra Artis. Arts and Design, 2021, 3, 84-101. DOI: 10.53273/27128768_2021_3_84

External links 
 International Style / Swiss Style Color Palette
 Swiss Graphic Design and Typography Revisited

Art movements
Swiss art
Graphic design
Communication design
Modern art
1920s in art
1950s in art