[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Liam Trotter

f the 2008–09 campaign. He settled down as well under new Grimsby boss Mike Newell and was regularly played in the centre of midfield along with Jean-Paul Kamudimba Kalala. He returned to Ipswich on 22 December after playing his final game for the Mariners against Aldershot Town two days previously.

Scunthorpe United (loan)
On 5 February 2009, Trotter joined Scunthorpe United on trial with a view to a loan deal. The loan was confirmed on 23 February. Trotter made his debut for the Iron the following day, coming on as sub for Sam Togwell in the defeat at Southend United. Despite being restricted to the substitute bench, he continued to remain in the first team and had his loan spell with Scunthorpe United extended until the end of the season. His first goal for the Iron came against Northampton Town a header from a corner, as they drew 3–3 on 21 April 2009. He made the bench for the first leg of the League One play-off semi-final, against Milton Keynes Dons, he did not however make an appearance, he played all of the match and extra time however at stadium:MK in the second leg, scoring a penalty in the shootout which Scunthorpe won 7–6. Trotter played at Wembley when he came on as a substitute for Sam Togwell in the 55th minute, as the "Iron" defeated Millwall 3–2 in the play-off final. In the summer transfer window following this, he was subject to a bid from Scunthorpe but chose to stay with Ipswich Town signing a new one-year contract.

Millwall (loan)
Just days after signing his first professional contract for Ipswich Town, Trotter immediately moved to Millwall on a three-month loan deal until December 2006 to gain first team experience. He made his Millwall debut, coming on as a substitute for Neal Ardley in the 73rd minute, in a 0–0 draw against Blackpool on 2 September 2006 Whilst with Millwall, Trotter made two league appearances, but scored in neither.

On 5 January 2010, he re-joined Millwall for a second loan period on an initial month deal. Trotter scored his first Millwall in his second Millwall debut, as they drew 1–1 with Southampton on 16 January 2010. His performance at the club saw his loan spell extended until the end of the season. Trotter started every match for the side until he suffered an injury during a 1–1 draw against Yeovil Town on 13 April 2010. This led local newspaper Ipswich Star to bring up the curse of the Ipswich Town's players, who suffered an injury whilst on loan. It was not until 1 May 2010 when Trotter returned from injury, starting the whole game, in a 1–0 loss against Tranmere Rovers. He later helped play a big part in earning Millwall promotion later in the 2009–10 season. Trotter started the match in the play-off final, as Millwall beat Swindon Town 1–0 to send Millwall promoted to the Championship. At the end of the 2009–10 season, he went on to make twenty appearances and scoring once for the side in all competitions.

Millwall (permanent move)
On 24 June 2010, Trotter officially signed his two-year contract with Millwall, after initially being at the club for his second loan spell.

Trotter's first game after signing for the club on a permanent basis came in the opening game of the season, starting the whole game, in a 3–0 win over Bristol City. In a follow-up match against Hull City, he scored his first goal since joining the club permanently, in a 4–0 win. Trotter added two more goals for the side later in August, scoring against Middlesbrough in the League Cup and Coventry. After missing out two matches due to injury, he scored on his return, in a 6–1 loss against Watford on 18 September 2010. However, his return was short–lived when he was sent off for a high studs on Darcy Blake, as Millwall lost 2–1 against Cardiff City in a follow–up match. Following the match, Manager Kenny Jackett said: "I don't want to comment on the referee's performance – it will get me into trouble. Liam feels dejected at the moment and that he's let us down. But I feel he's been harshly treated. I haven't seen any malice in him whatsoever." After serving a three match suspension, Trotter returned to the starting line-up on 19 October 2010, coming on as a second–half substitute, in a 1–0 loss against Portsmouth. Two months later on 26 December 2010, he started against Portsmouth for the second time this season and scored his fifth goal of the season, in a 1–1 draw. Trotter later three more goals later in the season, scoring against Queens Park Rangers, Cardiff City and Leeds United. Despite suffering from injuries during the 2010–11 season, he remained in the first team for the side throughout the season. Trotter made thirty–eight appearances and scored eight goals in Millwall's return to the Championship.