[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# History of the United States Marine Corps

y of 7 March, the frigate Randolph, commanded by Nicholas Biddle, explodes while commencing in a firefight with , a British 64-gun ship of the line.   During battle, the powder magazines onboard combusted, exploding the entire hull.  Randolph sank taking a loss of 301 sailors, soldiers, and Marines.

On 9 March 1778, near Barbados in the Lesser Antilles of the Caribbean Sea, Alfred and Raleigh encountered British warships  and . When the American ships attempted to flee, Alfred fell behind her faster consort Raleigh, which escaped.  Towards afternoon the British men-of-war caught up with Alfred and forced her to surrender after a half-an-hour's battle. The Marine detachment, along with the Continental sailors, were taken prisoner. Raleigh continued north to New England. On 27 March, a British squadron chased Raleigh ashore on Point Judith, near Newport, Rhode Island. The Continental Marines held off an attack by Royal Marines while the crewmen unloaded valuable stores from the grounded ship. The Continental Navy ship Raleigh returned to New England early in April 1778.

On 23 April 1778, John Paul Jones and sailors and Marines aboard Ranger made a raid on the British port of Whitehaven, Great Britain.  The crew of Ranger set fire to ships and spiked the cannon of the fort.  Later that same day, they landed on St. Mary Isle to capture a British earl, but find him away from home, and instead they take the family silver.  The next day [24 April], Ranger and her Marines defeat the British sloop HMS Drake in the Irish Sea.

On 1 May 1778, the Marines assisted in a night battle with the British frigate HMS Lark in Narragansett Bay as Providence escapes the blockade and makes it to the open sea. Accused of cowardice and dereliction of duty for not aiding Alfred, Captain Thomas Thompson was suspended soon after reaching port. On 30 May 1778 the Marine Committee appointed John Barry to replace him as captain.

On 3 August 1778, the sailors and Marines aboard the Continental Navy ship  and intercepted, then defeated, the British privateer brigantine Montague, under the command of a Captain Nelson.

The Marines aboard Providence attack a 30-ship convoy on 7 August, off the coast of Nova Scotia.  They inflict damage on an armed transport carrying Highland troops.

On 27 September, the British ships HMS Experiment and HMS Unicorn engage Continental ship Raleigh off the Penobscot River, Maine, and force her aground.  Some of the Marines and sailors escape to shore, but more are captured.

Marines would mainly participate in the naval battles of the war, fighting ship-to-ship, such as the Battle of Valcour Island and famed Battle of Flamborough Head. Marksmen would perch in the upper rigging and masts of the ship to fire on enemy sailors from above. However, unlike British Marines, the Continental Marines would take the then-unorthodox missions of landing parties and other services ashore. For example, Marines would support batteries ashore at the Siege of Charleston in the spring of 1780.

Continental Marines landed and briefly captured Nautilus Island and the Majabagaduce peninsula in the Penobscot Expedition in 1779, but withdrew with heavy losses when Commodore Dudley Saltonstall's force failed to capture the nearby fort. A group under Navy Captain James Willing left Pittsburgh, traveled down the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, captured a ship later known as USS Morris, and in conjunction with other Continental Marines, brought by ship from the Gulf of Mexico, raided British Loyalists on the shore of Lake Pontchartrain on 10 September 1779. The last official act of the Continental Marines was to escort a stash of silver, on loan from Louis XVI of France, from Boston to Philadelphia to enable the opening of the Bank of North America. However, Marines did fight on the duel between  and  on 10 March 1783, the last recorded shots of the war, and Pvt Robert Stout of that ship would be the last recorded mention of a Continental Marine one year later. Major Nicholas would die from yellow fever on 27 August 1790. In all, the Continental Marines suffered 49 dead and 70 wounded.