[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1987 Atlantic hurricane season

a tropical depression as it moved northeastward. It turned to the southeast and re-emerged into the Gulf of Mexico on August 15, before striking near St. Marks, Florida, on the next day. The weakening system turned back to the northeast, continued weakening, and dissipated over Georgia on August 17.

The slow-moving system produced heavy rainfall along the Gulf Coast, particularly in southern Mississippi and Alabama, with just over  of precipitation recorded in the former. In Mississippi, the Biloxi and Tchoutacabouffa rivers crested at major flood stage, forcing 357 people to evacuate. Floodwaters reached  in height along several roads and entered many homes in Jackson County. Additionally, many businesses suffered water damage in Columbia, where about 25 families also evacuated due to flooding. Overall, damage from the system amounted to $7.4 million.

Hurricane Arlene 

A low pressure system on the tail end of a stationary cold front organized into a subtropical depression on August 8 near the South Carolina coast, and drifted southward. Convection became more organized, and the storm was classified Tropical Depression Three on August 10 over the Bahamas. It executed an anticyclonic loop to the northeast, and was estimated to have attained tropical storm status on August 11, based on reports from hurricane hunters. Small cells in the ridge of high pressure caused Arlene to take an unusual track to the east, with two southward jogs in its path. A trough of low pressure near Bermuda initially inhibited strengthening. However, after high pressures to its east forced the storm northward, more favorable conditions allowed Arlene to intensify into a hurricane on August 22. Operationally, it was upgraded two days earlier, based on the appearance of an eye feature on satellite imagery. After becoming a hurricane, Arlene accelerated to the northeast into the cold waters of the north Atlantic Ocean, and on August 23 it became extratropical about halfway between Newfoundland and Ireland. The extratropical remnants turned to the southeast and later to the east, making landfall on the Iberian Peninsula before dissipating on August 28 over Spain.

As Arlene approached, islanders of Bermuda were warned to board up windows, with winds of  expected. Ultimately, the island experienced winds of  with gusts up to . A blind sailor on a trip across the Atlantic was unable to make it to a harbor in Bermuda due to the hurricane, and rode out the storm in the open sea. The storm produced moderate rainfall to coastal areas of Spain, contributing to a monthly rainfall record at Rota. The 14.5 day total between the start of its best track and when it attained hurricane status is the largest on record for a North Atlantic hurricane.

Tropical Depression Four 

The fourth tropical depression of the season formed about  east of Barbados early on August 13. Initially, forecasters anticipated the system to intensify into a tropical storm; however, a reconnaissance mission into the depression on August 15 revealed that it was poorly organized and was declassified a tropical cyclone. Tropical Depression Four peaked with sustained winds of  and dissipated on August 15 about  northeast of Anegada in the British Virgin Islands.

Tropical Storm Bret 

A well-organized tropical disturbance formed off the African coast on August 17 and became a tropical depression the following day, as classified by satellite imagery. Later the same day, the ship S.S. Columbus Canterrury reported  winds and a pressure of , and the depression became Tropical Storm Bret.

The cyclone moved a westward course of  and reached its peak intensity of  winds and  in pressure on August 20. A ridge of high pressure in the eastern Atlantic Ocean, north of Bret, began to weaken and drift to the east on August 20. Bret was moving at  to the east on August 21. It was thought that Bret would strengthen at this point. Bret slowed from August 21 until August 23, moving at only .

The cyclone soon moved on a northwestward course and encountered wind shear. Bret weakened into a depression on August 23, due to the wind shear over the system. The next morning, the depression became a tropical wave with no low-level circulation left. The wave was soon absorbed by a trough of low pressure during the next few days.

Tropical Depression Six 

A tropical depression formed well west-southwest of the Cape Verde Islands on August 30. Forecasters predicted would become the third tropical storm of the season. At 0600 UTC August 31, the depression was seemingly unchanged, with winds of averaging about . The depression was then located  west of Sao Taigo in Cape Verde, stirring up  seas.