[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frank Lawrence Owsley

in the South, one featuring a large middle class of yeoman farmers and not just wealthy planters and poor whites. He argues that the South was devoted to republican values generally and was not locked into race and slavery. Owsley believed the Civil War's causes were rooted in both North and South.

In rejecting the Lost Cause of the Confederacy and the New South's romantic legends, Owsley sought to uncover a "real" South, what he called the plain folk.  He characterized the postwar South as made up of a broad class of yeoman farmers, between poor blacks, many of whom were sharecroppers in a kind of debt bondage, and poor whites at one end, and large plantation owners at the opposite end of the economic spectrum.  Owsley asserted that the real South was liberal, American, and Jeffersonian, not radical or reactionary.

Critics suggested Owsley was a reactionary defender of the Confederacy who was attempting to rewrite the past to preserve white Southern culture, and that he overemphasized the size of the Southern landholding middle class, while excluding the large class of poor white southerners who owned neither land nor slaves.  Further, they suggested Owsley's theory assumed that too much commonality in shared economic interests united Southern farmers, and asserted that he did not fully assess the vast difference between the planters' commercial agriculture and the yeoman's subsistence farming.

Biographer Priscilla Roberts argues that his work on the Plain Folk of the Old South:
 suggested that the South’s middle-class yeomanry, the majority of whites in that section, enjoyed a relationship of mutual respect with the gentry and planters of the region and a common commitment to the South's existing socioeconomic system which united all of them. Increasingly vitriolic abolitionist attacks on slavery by northerners during the 1850s threatened the South’s  identity and domestic independence, to the point that such "plain folk" felt that, in defending their section, they were defending the same liberties that the thirteen colonies had defended in 1776: a viewpoint with which Owsley clearly sympathized.

Vanderbilt
At Vanderbilt University (1920–49), Owsley directed nearly 40 Ph.D. dissertations and was a popular teacher of undergraduates. In 1949 he went to the University of Alabama to build its history program.  Reacting to attacks by critics of Southern segregation, Owsley tried to refute what he saw as their misunderstanding of the true South.  He regarded the future of American civilization as dependent on the survival of southern regionalism.

Owsley served as chairman of the University of Alabama's history department from 1951-54. Afterward, he was a guest lecturer at several universities. In the summer of 1956, Owsley embarked on a journey to Europe, on a Fulbright Scholarship, to research in British and French archives, a task which he did not live to complete.

See also
 Plain Folk of the Old South
 Southern Agrarians

References
  
 Bailey, Fred Arthur. "Plain Folk and Apology: Frank L. Owsley's Defense of the South", Perspectives on the American South: An Annual Review of Society, Politics, and Culture (1988) pp 101–14

Primary sources
 Owsley, Harriet Chappell and Owsley, Frank Lawrence. Frank Lawrence Owsley, Historian of the Old South. A Memoir with Letters and Writings of Frank Owsley (1990).

Books and articles by Owsley

External links
Owsley Family Historical Society website

1890 births
1955 deaths
Historians of the United States
20th-century American historians
20th-century American male writers
Historians of the Southern United States
Historians of the American Civil War
Southern Agrarians
Writers from Alabama
Auburn University alumni
University of Chicago alumni
Old Right (United States)
Writers of American Southern literature
Neo-Confederates
American male non-fiction writers
Vanderbilt University faculty
University of Alabama faculty