[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Battery E, 1st Illinois Light Artillery Regiment

ms.

On 15 December Thomas did exactly what Rice had predicted: he emerged from his trenches, and attacked Hood's army.  Rice relates his experience of the ensuing battle:

If things had gone badly for Hood on the 15th, they would turn disastrous on the following day.  Rice continues his account:

 

With this disaster, the once-mighty Army of Tennessee practically ceased to exist, playing no appreciable role during the rest of the Civil War.  Battery E went into garrison duty at Nashville, where their meat rations were reduced by the Army to "3/4 of a pound [per man] per day, also 3/4 ration of beans, coffee, sugar ... All the salt meat our detachment of 19 [men] drew for five days is 14 pounds and a little beef that no one but a soldier or a dog would think of eating ... This comprises our only food, except that now and then we draw onions, sour, heart, pickles, and potatoes in small quantities from [the] sanitary commission."  One seven-by-eight foot wedge tent was provided for every three to four men in the battery; these were raised four feet off the ground on wooden platforms constructed by the troops, who then "embellished" them to suit the tastes of the occupants.  Bunks and a fireplace were erected inside, and the floor covered with sawdust.

The battery redeployed to Chattanooga on 21 February 1865, "after a 24-hour ride over the roughest RR in the U.S."  Rice reports that the train derailed at some point during its journey, but since it was only moving at ten miles-per-hour nobody was hurt.

Muster out
The battery's initial enlistments expired December 19, 1864, but these veterans were not mustered out of service until December 24, 1864, at Louisville, Kentucky.  New recruits were brought into replace those who had been discharged; these continued to serve until July 15, 1865, when they were discharged near Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Total strength and casualties
The battery lost 5 enlisted men who were killed in action or who died of their wounds and 25 enlisted men who died of disease, for a total of 30 fatalities.

Anecdotes

Camp followers
Private James Bolton Rice, whose letters home to his wife provide a vivid description of life and action in Battery E from 1862 to 1865, gives a picture of the seedier side of life in a Federal army camp during mid-1862:

Rice followed this statement up with his own assurance of loyalty to his wife, telling her that this sight "disgust[s] me more than anything I see in the Army."

On the march
In a letter dated January 22, 1863, Rice describes what it was like to be on the march, on half-rations in the Federal army:

Needless to say, conditions in the Confederate forces were even worse, as their logistics system was not nearly as well-supplied or developed as its Federal counterpart.

Dissention in the ranks
In another letter, Rice describes the antipathy many Federal soldiers felt following the issuance of Abraham Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation in January 1863:

In subsequent paragraphs, Rice voraciously attacks Northern "Copperheads", referring to them as "damning traitors" and saying they should be "choked down and served as we serve them down here."  He goes on to say that four men in his own regiment are Copperheads (in his estimation), describing them as "weak-kneed, weak-backed ones who were scared into the Service through fear of the draft."  He ends, however on a note of guarded optimism that the government will overcome the "arch-traitors" and "rise like the morning mist, and show the world that America still stands with its government and institutions stronger better dearer than ever."

Grant and Sherman
During the Siege of Vicksburg, Rice wrote down his impressions of Ulysses S. Grant's generalship, together with his opinion of the rampant rumors of his drunkenness earlier in the war:

Rice later recorded his opinion of William T. Sherman's generalship, speaking of the "invincible Wm Sherman," and reporting that "wherever he goes, the soldiers greet him with cheer on cheers, shouting what the heroes of Vicksburg think of him ... suffice it that we are all willing to follow him to victory or death."

Rice does not indicate how much this glowing opinion of his leaders was shared by his comrades in Battery E, or what their views might have been.  His assessment of Grant's talent certainly proved well-founded, as Grant would be elevated to General-in-Chief of all Federal armies the following year, and go on to lead the North to victory two years later.  Sherman would equally go on to success and fame in Georgia, South Carolina and North Carolina.