[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1991 Sino-Soviet Border Agreement

hen the border demarcation work was declared finished, 1.6 km2 (0.6 mi2) were transferred to China, and 1.4 km2 (0.5 mi2) were retained by Russia. The Lake Khasan cemetery remained on the Russian side, and the Chinese officials underwent informal agreements to not build a port along the Tumen River.

Sino-Russian-North Korean border
The exact location of the Sino-Russian border along the left bank of the Tumen River was an area of contention (the entirety of the right bank of the river belonging to North Korea). The Convention of Peking (Beijing) set the location of border at 24 km (15 mi) above the mouth of the river, where it enters the Sea of Japan, but through Chinese negotiation was later moved to about 15 or 16 km (9 mi) above the mouth. In 1964, both sides agreed to a border about 17 km (11 mi) above the mouth, and these terms were kept in the 1991 agreement. However, the Russian side preferred it to be set at 24 km, and the Chinese at 15 km. The final position was set at 18.3 km (11.3 mi) above the mouth of the river.

The final position of the triangular border, where China, Russia, and North Korea meet, was successfully demarcated in 1998 after trilateral negotiations from all three countries, and went into effect 1999.

Relation to Taiwan's mainland claim

The Republic of China now based in Taiwan does not recognize any Chinese territorial changes based on any border agreements signed by the People's Republic of China with any other countries, including this 1991 one, due to the requirements in the Constitution of the Republic of China and its Additional Articles. Russia does not recognize the legitimacy of the Republic of China, though the two countries maintain unofficial relations, with representative offices of each country in the other's capital.

See also

Sino-Soviet border conflict
Foreign relations of China
Foreign relations of the Soviet Union
Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation
Bear Island (Amur River)

References

Bibliography

External links
 
 

Sino-Russian border agreement
Sino-Russian border agreement
Treaties of the People's Republic of China
Treaties of the Soviet Union
Boundary treaties
China–Russia border
China–Russia treaties
China–Soviet Union relations
Treaties concluded in 1991
Treaties entered into force in 1992
China–Soviet Union border
May 1991 events