[Source: PubMed]

9. Confl Health. 2024 Apr 25;18(1):37. doi: 10.1186/s13031-024-00592-7.

The effect of COVID-19 on the non-COVID health outcomes of crisis-affected 
peoples: a systematic review.

Thompson N(1), Kyaw KWY(1), Singh L(1), Cikomola JC(2), Singh NS(1), Roberts 
B(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Public Health and Policy, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Université Catholique de Bukavu, Democratic Republic of 
the Congo, Central African Republic.
(3)Faculty of Public Health and Policy, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK. bayard.roberts@lshtm.ac.ukr.

BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic posed considerable risks to populations 
affected by humanitarian crises in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). 
However, there is limited understanding of how the pandemic may have affected 
non-COVID health outcomes among crisis-affected populations. Our aim was to 
examine the evidence on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on non-COVID-19 
health outcomes for crisis-affected populations in LMICs.
METHODS: A systematic review methodology was applied following PRISMA 
guidelines. Eligibility criteria were: crisis-affected populations in LMICS; 
COVID-19; and all health topics, except for sexual and reproductive health which 
was covered in a linked review. Five bibliographic databases and additional grey 
literature sources were searched. The search period was from 2019 to 31 July 
2022. Eligible papers were extracted and analysed using a narrative synthesis 
approach based on the study objectives and relevant health access and systems 
frameworks. A quality appraisal was also conducted.
FINDINGS: 4320 articles were screened, and 15 eligible studies were identified 
and included in this review. Ten studies collected health outcomes data. Eight 
related to mental health, which generally showed worse mental health outcomes 
because of the pandemic, and pandemic-related stressors were identified. Two 
studies assessed physical health outcomes in children, while none addressed 
physical health outcomes among adults. Nine studies reported on access to 
healthcare, revealing worse access levels due to the pandemic and noting key 
barriers to care. Seven studies reported on the impact on health systems, with 
key challenges including reduced and distorted health care funding, reduced 
staff capacity, interrupted medicines and supplies, weak information and 
mixed-messaging, and weak leadership. All fifteen studies on the social 
determinants of health, particularly highlighting the effect of increasing 
poverty, the role of gender, and food insecurity on health outcomes. The quality 
of papers was limited overall.
CONCLUSION: This review found some limited evidence indicating negative mental 
health effects, increased barriers to accessing care, damage to health systems 
and magnified impacts on the social determinants of health for crisis-affected 
people during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the small number and limited 
quality of the studies make the overall strength of evidence quite weak.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13031-024-00592-7
PMCID: PMC11044391
PMID: 38664834

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.