[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Exsul Familia

was rightly called the “Mother of Italian Emigrants.” In 1910, in response to a request by Msgr. Luigi Pozzi, pastor of St. Joachim's parish, in South Trenton, New Jersey for sisters to work among his Italian parishioners, Pope Pius X sent five sisters of the Religious Teachers Filippini to America.

Pope Leo XIII upheld the dignity and rights of the working man and defended those emigrants who sought to earn their living abroad. In 1878, the Bishops of Germany established the Society of St. Raphael to aid emigrants, including those from Belgium, Austria and Italy. During World War I, Pope Benedict XV directed that the bishop of the dioceses in which prisoners of war were held should without delay appoint priests, sufficiently familiar with the language of the prisoners, to provide for their care. In 1919, the Italo-Albanese Eparchy of Lungro was created for Catholics of the Byzantine Rite who had emigrated, mostly from Epirus and Albania, to Sicily and Calabria. In 1920, the National Catholic Welfare Council established a Bureau of Immigration to assist immigrants in getting established in the United States. In 1922, Pope Pius XI housed sick and orphaned Armenian children at Castel Gandolfo at his own expense. In 1928 Sant'Antonio Abate all'Esquilino and its surroundings were acquired by the Holy See, which assigned the church to Russian Catholics of the Byzantine Rite. He also separated the Byzantine parishes from the dioceses of Palermo and Monreale, forming the new Eparchy of Piana. In 1922, he granted that official Papal approval to the Apostleship of the Sea for its work for the spiritual welfare of sailors. The Catholic Near East Welfare Association (CNEWA) was established in 1926 by American bishops to provide pastoral and humanitarian support to Northeast Africa, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, and India. The Society of Christ was founded in the archdiocese of Gniezno in 1932 for the spiritual care of Poles living abroad.

During and after World War II
No matter how enormous the difficulties that faced us and how impossible the times, we left nothing untried to bring some aid to our suffering sons, without discrimination as to their status or nationality. We also exerted great efforts for the displaced Jews who were victims of the cruelest persecutions. We approved, initiated, and furthered many works of charity for the relief of countless untold wartime disasters and hardships [...] But in all these works of charity, we were especially solicitous for prisoners of war, refugees, exiles and our other sons who, for whatever reason, had to wander far from their homelands. And along with these, our chief concerns were children and orphans. Yet this being well known to all, since the record is amply documented, there is no need to recount it further.

An office was established for inquiring about and exchanging information on prisoners and was maintained through the war. Buildings at the Vatican as well as at the Lateran, and especially those at Castel Gandolfo; and at the Roman Basilicas, as well as these religious communities, seminaries and ecclesiastical colleges of Rome sheltered displaced persons."It was also our privilege to bring comfort to millions of soldiers and prisoners by means of religious and charitable undertakings; [...] to obtain freedom for civilians condemned unjustly to prison or exile; [...] and to provide for the burial of those fallen in battle, to guard their revered remains and to return them to their homelands.
 
In 1949, in the aftermath of the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, the Pontifical Mission for Palestine was formed to focus relief efforts in Palestine, under the administration of CNEWA. The International Catholic Migration Commission was established in 1951 to coordinate the response of Catholic organizations to the needs of migrants and refugees.

"We have tried earnestly to produce in the minds of all people a sympathetic approach towards exiles and refugees who are our needier brothers [...] This we have done in radio addresses, in talks and discourses given as occasion arose, and in letters to archbishops and bishops." In a letter of December 24, 1948 to the American Bishops, Pius wrote:The natural law itself, no less than devotion to humanity, urges that ways of migration be opened to these people. For the Creator of the universe made all good things primarily for the good of all...the sovereignty of the State, although it must be respected, cannot be exaggerated to the point that access to this land is, for inadequate or unjustified reasons, denied to needy and decent people from other nations, provided of course, that the public wealth, considered very carefully, does not forbid this.