[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Giustizia e Libertà

oops occupied France in 1940. Its members were dispersed, but largely reconstituted themselves as the Action Party (Partito d'Azione) in German-occupied Italy following the Armistice of 1943. The military arms of the organisation, the partisan brigades, were still referred to as Giustizia e Libertà.

After 8 September 1943, partisan units under the Giustizia e Libertà banner formed after the Italian capitulation to Allied forces and the creation of the Italian Social Republic puppet state of Nazi Germany. As the largest non-Communist partisan groups, they benefited from provisions and training that were denied to other units by the western Allies. Among the group's best known commanders was Ferruccio Parri, who, using the nom-de-guerre "Maurizio," represented the Action Party in the Military Committee of the National Liberation Committee of Northern Italy (CLNAI). Centres of activity included Turin, Florence, and Milan, where a resistance cell was headed by Ugo La Malfa, Ferruccio Parri, and Adolfo Tino. Parri was arrested in Milan and turned over to the Germans, but he was later exchanged for German officials imprisoned by the partisans. He returned in time to take part in the conclusive phase of the resistance and in the Milan uprising.

The writer Primo Levi was a member of the Action Party partisan group in Aosta Valley. He was captured by fascist forces in 1943, handed over to the Germans in 1944, and deported to Auschwitz III (Monowitz).

Giustizia e Libertà brigades were regarded as professional military units, which drew fighters from every social class. In the twenty months of the war, their units sustained 4,500 overall casualties, among them the greater portion of their leaders.

See also
Giustizia e Libertà, publication of the group
Liberalism and radicalism in Italy
Liberal socialism
Rovetta massacre
International Brigades

References

Bibliography 
Historical Dictionary entry from Paravia Mondadori Editori, an Italian Educational publishing house
Mario Giovana, Giustizia e Libertà in Italia. Storia di una cospirazione antifascista, 1929-1937, Torino, Bollati Boringhieri, 2005.

External links
 Biblioteca Gino Bianco, Digital collection of Giustizia e Libertà 1934–1940, Giustizia e Libertà notebooks from 1932 to 1935

Anti-fascist organisations in Italy
Italian resistance movement
1929 establishments in Italy
1945 disestablishments in Italy
Organizations established in 1929
Organizations disestablished in 1945
Liberal socialism