[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Energoatom

ing damaged the connection equipment of unit No. 6 with the plant's open switchyard. The attack caused the disconnection of unit transformer and house load transformers. The loss of power actuated two emergency diesel generators of the safety systems to ensure cooling of the nuclear fuel from pumps.

The safety of NPPs in circumstances of warfare and occupation is a new challenge, as none of NPP in the world have ever been designed with protection from potential hostilities, bombing and missile shelling.

One person died and 10 people were seriously injured due to shelling of the ZNPP site and the satellite-town of Energodar.

The occupation forces exert psychological pressure and torture of local residents and personnel of the NPP.

Over 100 people were detained and their location is not yet known.

Military attacks on other NPPs 
On 19 September 2022 the Russian military forces fired a missile attack on industrial zone of the South Ukrainian nuclear power plant using most likely the "Iskander" missile of the "earth – earth" class. The missile hit in approximately 300 meters from the nuclear reactors. The hit weave damaged the NPP premises by shattering over 100 windows. The attack caused the shutdown of one of hydroelectric units of Oleksandrivska hydro Power Plant, which is a part of the SUNPP energy complex, and the high-voltage power line.

The IAEA mission 
On 18 August 2022, the President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy at the meeting with UN Secretary General António Guterres in Lviv agreed on the parameters of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) mission at the occupied Zaporizhzhia NPP.

On 1 September 2022, the IAEA mission attended the ZNPP. On the same day majority of the delegation left the occupied by the Russia facility. Six experts of the Agency remained at the Zaporizhzhia NPP.

On 3 September 2022, the IAEA Secretary General Rafael Grossi during the press conference informed world media about the primal results of the IAEA mission stay at the NPP captured by the Russian military.

On 5 September 2022, 4 out of 6 representatives of the IAEA mission team finished their work at the Zaporizhzhia NPP and lest the plant's site.

On 6 September 2022, the IAEA published a report covering the results on the ZNPP visit. In the document, the Agency calls for the urgent establishment of a safe zone around the plant in order to prevent a nuclear disaster and is ready to start consultations for the creation of such a zone. During the visit, the mission recorded damage to the buildings and structures of the plant and noted that further shelling could damage important equipment and lead to a significant release of radioactive substances.

On 7 September 2022, during the UN Security Council session regarding the situation at the ZNPP, UN Secretary General António Guterres declared "Any kind of harm caused to the nuclear facility can lead to disaster for the region and beyond. Any actions that could jeopardize the physical integrity, safety or security of the nuclear plant are unacceptable".

On 15 September 2022 the IAEA Board of Governors, which consists of 35 representatives of the UN member-countries, adopted a resolution demanding that Russia ends the occupation of the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant.

See also 

 Turboatom

References

External links 
 NNEGC Energoatom (English language version)
 Telegram channel of Energoatom
 YouTube channel of Energoatom
 Energoatom in Twitter
 Energoatom in Opendatabot

 
State companies based in Kyiv
Nuclear power companies
Energy companies of Ukraine
Ukrainian companies established in 1996