[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# David Sharp (mountaineer)

s filmed the same season as his ill-fated expedition. The footage was from the helmet camera of a Himex Sherpa who encountered Sharp, along with one of the Himex group of climbers who included Mark Inglis, during their descent, and was attempting to help Sharp along with a Turkish Sherpa.

Reactions

Sir Edmund Hillary
Sir Edmund Hillary was highly critical of the decision not to try to rescue Sharp, as reported by the media at that time, saying that leaving other climbers to die is unacceptable, and the desire to get to the summit has become all-important. He also said, "I think the whole attitude towards climbing Mount Everest has become rather horrifying. The people just want to get to the top. It was wrong if there was a man suffering altitude problems and was huddled under a rock, just to lift your hat, say good morning and pass on by". He told the New Zealand Herald that he was horrified by the callous attitude of today's climbers. "They don't give a damn for anybody else who may be in distress and it doesn't impress me at all that they leave someone lying under a rock to die", and that, "I think that their priority was to get to the top and the welfare of one of the ... of a member of another expedition was very secondary." Hillary also called Mark Inglis "crazy".

Sharp's mother
Linda Sharp, David's mother, does not blame other climbers. She told The Sunday Times, "Your responsibility is to save yourself – not to try to save anybody else."

David Watson
Mountaineer David Watson, who was on Everest that season on the North side, commented to The Washington Post: "It's too bad that none of the people who cared about David knew he was in trouble", because "the outcome would have been a lot different." Watson thought it was possible to save Sharp, and he said Sharp had worked with other climbers in 2004, to save a Mexican climber who had gotten into trouble. Watson was alerted the morning of 16 May by Phurba Tashi. Watson went to Sharp's tent and showed Sharp's passport to Tashi, who confirmed his identity. Around this time, a Korean team gave a radio report that the climber in red boots [Sharp] was dead. He had his rucksack with him, but his camera was missing, so it is not known if he summited.

Fate of the body
Sharp's body remains on the mountain, but was removed from sight in 2007.

See also
1996 Mount Everest disaster
Beck Weathers
Lincoln Hall (climber)
 List of people who died climbing Mount Everest
 List of Mount Everest expeditions

References

Further reading
 Dr. Morandeira: "Could David Sharp have been saved? Definitely", includes a chronology of the incident – mounteverest.net
 Everest 2006: "My name is David Sharp and I am with Asian Trekking" – everestnews.com

External links
 Picture of where David Sharp died
 List of deceased UK Everest climbers (archived 16 May 2016)

1972 births
2006 deaths
British summiters of Mount Everest
Deaths from hypothermia
English mountain climbers
Mountaineering deaths on Mount Everest