[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The William Davidson Faculty of Industrial Engineering & Management

research area deals with building mathematical models of decision-making processes, development  of mathematical techniques and algorithms for processing the models, and applications of the resulting techniques and algorithms in engineering, finance, management, medicine, service systems, and more.

Behavioral Science and Management
The purpose of this program is to give students advanced training in scientific theory, methodology and applications related to behavior of individuals at work, as well as social behavior in industrial systems and in formal organizations. The program deals with various aspects of integrating the human operator with engineering systems.
This program has two basic options:
Industrial Psychology (limited to students with a degree in psychology): Within this option there are two areas of specialization: Industrial and Organizational Psychology and Human-Factors Engineering. The program confers the degree os Master of Science in Behavioral and Management Sciences – Industrial Psychology.
Labor Relations and Personnel Management: This option prepares students for both academic and practical work in function of managing human resources in an organization. The program confers the degree of Master of Science in Behavioral and Management Sciences – Industrial Relations and Manpower Administration.

Industrial Engineering (IE)
The graduate program in Industrial Engineering (IE) offers both M.Sc. and Ph. D. degrees. The program is designed to prepare both for academics and professional careers. IE covers a wide spectrum of areas and the program reflects this fact. These areas include supply chain management, project management, plant layout, operations management, material handling, and service engineering.
To facilitate research in these areas, the program offers a broad theoretical background in problem-solving tools.

MBA
The Faculty of Data and Decision Sciences offers a Master of Business Administration (MBA) program.

ME
The Faculty of Data and Decision Sciences offers MASTER in Engineering (ME) in which students can specialize in various areas of study.

Universities in Israel
Universities and colleges established in 1958
1958 establishments in Israel