[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Barton H. Watson

.

Raid, suicide and trials
In December 2003, an anonymous CyberNET employee alerted the FBI office in Grand Rapids to potential fraud at CyberNET, such as fraudulent loans and forged invoices. The Internal Revenue Service and United States Postal Inspection Service quickly joined the investigation.

Investigators quickly got in touch with former CyberNET accountant Guy Hiestand, who had suspected shady doings at CyberNET for some time. However, he had never actually reported it because he did not know the culprit. Investigators discovered that CyberNET had rooked four banks into loaning money for new equipment before depositing it into shell companies to keep the company afloat.

On November 17, 2004, federal agents raided the CyberNET headquarters on South Division Avenue in Grand Rapids, seizing the business and all of the Watsons's personal assets. Although he had not yet been charged, Watson knew that he faced decades in prison if convicted. He went incommunicado until the night of November 23, when he called 9-1-1 and told the operator that he had a gun in his mouth. This triggered a lengthy standoff with Watson barricading himself in his home. It ended when Watson committed suicide in the early hours of November 24. It was subsequently determined that CyberNET and the Watsons had over $100 million in debt against approximately $2 million in assets.

On June 22, 2006, CyberNET president James Horton pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Grand Rapids to four counts of felony mail fraud, and was sentenced to 7½ years in prison. Paul Wright pleaded guilty on August 31, 2007 to federal charges of conspiracy to defraud banks and finance companies, money laundering and mail fraud. He was sentenced to 2½ years in prison.  Krista Watson pleaded guilty on September 4, 2007 to federal charges of conspiracy and tax evasion, and was sentenced to seven years in prison.

References

External links

 
Watson was the subject of the CNBC American Greed episode 13 "The Rise and Fall Of CyberNet" which originally aired March 12, 2008.

American fraudsters
1960 births
2004 deaths
Suicides in Michigan
University of Michigan alumni
People from Belding, Michigan
People from Ada, Michigan
2004 suicides