[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean

ts of human dignity, and both of these are violated in the case of HIV transmission through rape. Furthermore, sexual relations between older men and younger women during transactional sex possibly explain why more teenage girls than boys are HIV-positive in the Caribbean.

Men who have sex with men

Sexuality has also had a significant impact on HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean. The prevalence of HIV among men who have sex with men (MSM) seems to be high, though reliable, current data is lacking. The HIV prevalence rate across the Caribbean between MSM varies, ranging from 11.7 percent in the Dominican Republic (1996) to 18 percent in Suriname (1998) to 33.6 percent in Jamaica (1996). While unprotected sex between men is undoubtedly a major contributing factor to the epidemic, it remains largely hidden in the data. In many Caribbean countries, gay sexual relations remain illegal. This has led to a heavy stigma associated with same-sex relationships. 

This stigma and widespread discrimination are definite factors in the spread of HIV. In Trinidad and Tobago, one in five MSM were HIV positive, and out of those, one in four said they also have sex with women. Because of the stigma and discrimination, these men hide their same sex behavior and become involved with women who do not know about their sexuality. This has created a bridge for HIV to pass from the gay community to the general population.

Cultural factors

Several factors within Caribbean cultures play a role in HIV transmission. Firstly, sexual patterns exist in several countries that foster the spread of the disease. There is a high level of sexual activity among the youth, as evidenced by the 22 to 32 percent of persons in six eastern Caribbean states reporting having sex before age 15. Furthermore, having multiple sexual partners within the past year is relatively common throughout the Caribbean.

The commercial sex industry, transactional sex, and sex tourism in the Caribbean are likewise important factors. HIV infection rates for commercial sex workers are high, ranging from 4.5-12.4 percent in the Dominican Republic (2000) to 9 percent in Jamaica (2005) to 30.6 percent in Guyana (2000). One possible explanation is that the use of condoms in transactional sex is less likely. In addition to the specific industry of sex tourism, studies have shown that the general tourism industry is positively correlated with the HIV epidemic. The perceived connection exists in that there are aspects of the environment of a tourist area that foster higher risks for HIV infection. These include riskier behaviors on the part of locals and tourists, as well as employees of the tourism industry engaging in relations with the tourists.

Intravenous drug use also plays a small role in perpetuating the spread of the disease, though it is not very common in many countries. However, two notable exceptions are Bermuda and Puerto Rico. In Bermuda, the prevalence rate is around 43 percent, while in Puerto Rico almost 80 percent of HIV infections arise from drug injection.

Economic factors

The economies of the Caribbean influence the spread of HIV/AIDS as well. Firstly, the cost of HIV on many facets of life, outside of simply human well-being, was underestimated in the past. The disease hindered both the growth and the development of the island nations that make up the region. Because of rising mortality and falling productivity due to illness, the labor force in several industries has been negatively affected. Several aspects on individual economies will also experience negative impacts of HIV, from agriculture to tourism to finance. There have also been observed correlations between condom use and economic security, with those in more impoverished situations being less likely to practice safe sex.

Studies have tried to identify a relationship between poverty and susceptibility to HIV.  Many have indicated that HIV/AIDS can have a negative impact on socioeconomic status, as well as the level of overall employment in a given country. In Trinidad and Tobago specifically, being poor leaves one at a higher risk to contract the disease, but having the disease likewise leaves one more vulnerable to becoming poor and unemployed.

Examples by country

Haiti

Haiti, a nation that shares the island of Hispaniola with the Dominican Republic, has been greatly affected by HIV.  As of 2014, the adult prevalence rate of HIV is estimated to be 1.93%. For some time, Haiti had highest rate in the Americas and the highest outside of Sub-Saharan Africa. Like many other countries, the disease began as being associated with men who have sex with men, specifically men in Haiti who engaged in commercial sex with male tourists. Later, the disease crossed over into the heterosexual community, with the main areas of risk being sex with female sex workers, casual sex with partners infected with AIDS, and blood transfusions.