[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arnaud Gonzalez

later, he scored his first Guingamp goal in the 2–1 win against his hometown team Dijon FCO. He then netted in consecutive league matches for the first time in his career, firstly scoring the winning goal in the victory over FC Sète and then adding to his tally in the side's 1–2 loss to FC Lorient.

Gonzalez left Guingamp in 2006 after just one season, and he was signed on a free transfer by Chamois Niortais, who were managed at the time by Philippe Hinschberger. Niort were new arrivals to Ligue 2, having won promotion via the Championnat National the previous season. Gonzalez made his competitive debut for the side on 28 July 2006 in the 1–1 draw with AC Ajaccio and started each of the club's first 13 games of the season. He scored his first Niort goal in the 2–2 draw against SM Caen on 15 September. He kept his place in the team and netted his second goal for the club two months later in the 2–0 win over LB Châteauroux. On 9 February 2007, Gonzalez scored the winner after coming on as a substitute in the 3–2 win against Stade de Reims. He ended the season with three goals in seven matches as Niort finished 16th in the division to secure their Ligue 2 status for another season. In his first season with Niort, Gonzalez had scored six goals in 33 games, his highest number of goals in a season at the time.

Gonzalez retained his place in the Niort first-team for the start of the 2007–08 season. He scored the only goal of the match in the 1–0 win against Montpellier on 24 August 2007. However, he suffered two broken ribs in the match and had to be replaced by Djibril Konaté at half time. The injury forced him to spend more than two months out of the side, returning to the team for the 0–1 loss to Clermont Foot on 2 November. Gonzalez scored only once between November 2007 and May 2008 as Niort struggled in the league, occupying a relegation place for some part of the season. He netted his first goal in over eight months when he scored the third in a 3–0 win against Dijon on 2 May 2008. He was on the scoresheet again in the following match, opening the scoring in the 2–0 victory over Ajaccio. Niort entered the final match of the season against US Boulogne requiring a win or a draw to avoid relegation. Gonzalez was booked in the game and replaced by Benoît Leroy in the 68th minute while the match was still goalless. The team appeared to have done enough, but Boulogne scored in the third minute of injury time to relegate Niort to the Championnat National, meaning that Gonzalez would play in the third tier of French football for the first time in his career.

With the perceived goal threat of Gonzalez and new signing Luigi Glombard, Niort were widely expected to return to Ligue 2 after one season in the National. However, the team found it difficult to score goals and win matches. Despite appearing in almost every match, Gonzalez did not score a goal for the team until 3 April 2009, when he scored in the 3–0 win against FC Sète. Niort slipped further towards the bottom of the table, although Gonzalez did get on the scoresheet in the 2–0 away win against SO Cassis Carnoux on 16 May 2009. He was left out of the side for the final match of the campaign away at Pacy Vallée-d'Eure needing a win to stay in the National. However, Niort could only manage a 0–0 draw, meaning they would be relegated to the Championnat de France amateur (CFA) for the first time since 1970. Despite the relegation, he signed a new contract with Niort to keep him at the club until the summer of 2011. In the first match of the 2009–10 season, Gonzalez scored twice in the 3–0 win against Bordeaux Réserve—the first time he had ever scored two goals in one game. After a nine-match streak without a goal, he then netted in the 3–1 victory over Balma SC before scoring three in two matches against Vendée Luçon Football and Pau FC. Gonzalez achieved four goals in five league matches between 13 March and 10 April 2010. He then scored in the 4–0 win over Pau on 8 May 2010, which confirmed that Niort would be crowned winners of the CFA Group C and gain promotion back to the Championnat National.