[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Berlin Görlitzer Bahnhof

he reason given at the time for the demolition was that the buildings served no practical purpose in standing empty and as a result were being occupied by an "anti-social" element. The removal of these "ruins" would therefore be better for the image of West Berlin. By 1976 the site lay mostly empty.

Continuing use of Görlitzer Bahnhof after closure
Although the station stood abandoned and the site lay undeveloped for over thirty years, the area was never dormant. Since the closure in 1951, the land and buildings were used variously for coal storage, as a scrapyard, an auto garage, and for other small enterprises. Furthermore, the northern goods side of the station site remained in active use by the Deutsche Reichsbahn for transporting freight between West and East Berlin, and for this reason a border crossing point stood on the bridge over the Landwehrkanal. This passage of freight was permanently discontinued on 30 June 1985.

Between the years 1984 and 1987 a local swimming pool, the Spreewald Bad, an innovative structure designed by Christoph Langhof architects, was built on the site of the former station.

Before the remaining area from Skalitzer Straße up to the Görlitzer Ufer was developed into Görlitzer Park in the early 1990s, it was a waste ground partly accessible by the public. This vacancy led to the site being occupied during the summer of 1989 by the Mutoid Waste Company, an anarchist art commune from London. The location was chosen in part because of its proximity to the Wall. On one memorable occasion the scrap metal artists created a "Peace Bird" contraption which featured a bird suspended high in the air which was able to roll along the railway tracks to the border point on the bridge and, in a gesture of peace towards the GDR, exhibit the bird to those in the east.

Although the Görlitzer Tunnel remained in use until the beginning of the 1990s, the public access to the site prompted by the new park left it redundant. By the creation of a 'natural' arena in the centre of the park, the tunnel was largely destroyed, although its remains were incorporated into the design.

The remains 

The only obvious physical remains of the station site are the two goods sheds, an old office building, the railway bridge and the remnants of the underpass visible in a crater in the centre of the park. Nevertheless, it is possible to follow part of the old railway route on foot, as it leads out of the park, over the Landwehrkanal and then comes to an end over Elsenstraße in Treptow, just before the original line would have met the ring of the S-bahn.

The historic building itself lives on in existing local names. In 1926, the local U-Bahn station Oranienstraße was renamed as Görlitzer Bahnhof to indicate the neighbouring mainline terminus but despite the latter's demise the U-bahn stop maintains the historical name, much like with the similarly doomed Anhalter Bahnhof. In addition to this, the road that runs alongside the western side of Görlitzer Park, was renamed Wiener Straße in 1873, because the first trains connecting Berlin and the Austrian capital Vienna left from Görlitzer Bahnhof. Likewise, the neighbouring squares Spreewaldplatz and Lausitzer Platz were named after the areas of countryside once accessible from its platforms.

Filming location
The 1966 film Funeral in Berlin used the front of the building, which still stood at that time, as the filming location for the fictional East Berlin "Marx-Engels-Platz 59".

References

Railway stations in Germany opened in 1867
Demolished buildings and structures in Berlin
19th century in Berlin
20th century in Berlin
Gorlitzer Bahnhof
Gorlitzer Bahnhof
Gorlitzer Bahnhof
Railway stations closed in 1946