[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Uzi Arad

s and Defense Committee. He has also been active in advancing Israel's relations with Euro-Atlantic community. In 2000, Arad founded the EU-Israel Forum and led it through 2003. In 2004, he established the Atlantic Forum of Israel which seeks to enhance Israel's relations with the Atlantic Alliance.

In April 2009, Arad was appointed National Security Advisor to the Prime Minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, and Head of the Israeli National Security Council. While in government Arad fought for the NSC to be strengthened and upgraded, knowing it would be an uphill battle. His functional and geographical proximity to the Prime Minister, his personal relationship with Netanyahu, and his presence in real-time decision-making situations gave the new NSC a real role. Arad played a key role in fostering U.S.-Israel relations. His departure was marred by allegations about a leak on civilian nuclear energy. Arad was officially cleared by the deputy attorney general of any leak, and the Comptroller General, in his report about the National Security Council sided with Arad in his approach to the implementation of the National Security Act. In 2013 the French Government awarded Arad the distinction of Officer of the Légion d'honneur.

Academic career
In 1977, Arad took a sabbatical leave and carried out post-doctoral research at the Center for Strategic Studies at Tel Aviv University. Arad's co-authored volume, Sharing Global Resources, commissioned by the New York Council on Foreign Relations (with his wife, Ruth Arad and others), was published in 1979. After retiring from government in 1999, Arad lectured at Haifa University and in 2000 he joined the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya (IDC Herzliya), which became his academic home. At IDC, he established the Institute for Policy and Strategy and founded the Annual Herzliya Conference Series on the Balance of Israel's National Security. Modeled after prestigious international policy conferences and gatherings such as the World Economic Forum (Davos), the Munich Conference on Security Policy (Verkunde), the Trilateral Commission meetings, and the International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS) conferences, the Herzliya Conference soon became the principal policy event in Israel.

In 2005, the Israeli Council on Higher Education conferred upon Arad the academic rank of Professor in recognition of his expertise and international reputation. In the course of his work at IDC Herzliya, Arad conceived of a path-breaking international policy project exploring the applications of risk management to national and international security policy. Involving a global group of scholars and coordinated at Yale University and the Eurasia Group, the project culminated in the book Managing Strategic Surprise: Lessons from Risk Management and Risk Assessment recently published by Cambridge University Press. Arad contributed a chapter on intelligence and surprise attack, in which he applied analytical tools of risk management to the integrative administration of national intelligence systems. The edited volume garnered academic and professional acclaim and has been portrayed as a "superb collection of our best thought leaders." In 2013 Arad initiated, with the Technion’s Samuel Neaman Institute, the Israel’s Grand-Strategy forum which he chaired. The forum submitted its conclusions and recommendations to the President of the State of Israel in 2017.

Public activities 
Arad held several public duties while out of his governmental positions:

 2005-2009: Board member, The Israeli Society for Excellence through Education;
 2011-2013: Chair, Center for Defence Studies;
 2007-        : Board member, Center for Intelligence Heritage (Malam);
 2013 -       : Board member, Yad David Ben Gurion Society;

Selected publications
  (with R. McCullock, R.W. Arad, J. Pinera, and A.L. Hollick)
 
 The NSC - The Struggle to Create and Transform the National Security Council (With Limor Ben Har). Dvir Pub., Tel Aviv. 2016 - Hebrew
 A Grand Strategy for Israel - Reflections and Directions (With Dror Strum and Zeev Tadmor). Samuel Neaman Institute, The Technion, Haifa, 2017- Hebrew

References

External links
 Faculty Biography from Interdisciplinary Center
 History Commons profile 
 Namebase bibliography (Archive)

Living people
Academic staff of Reichman University
Israeli political scientists
People of the Mossad
Tel Aviv University alumni
People from Tel Aviv
People from Tiberias
Academic staff of the University of Haifa
Princeton School of Public and International Affairs alumni
Year of birth missing (living people)