[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James Meeks

rtunity scholarships for children in Chicago's worst-performing public schools. This effort was supported by a bipartisan coalition of legislators and outside groups such as the Illinois Policy Institute.

In 2015, he was elected chairman of the Illinois State Board of Education, serving until 2019.

Controversy 
In November 2010, in an interview on the radio station WVON, Meeks advocated that only African Americans should be qualified for city contracts designated for minorities and women. During the conversation, he stated, "The word 'minority' from our standpoint should mean African American. I don't think women, Asians and Hispanics should be able to use that title. That's why our numbers cannot improve — because we use women, Asians and Hispanics who are not people of color, who are not people who have been discriminated against". He later retracted his statement by saying he would only forbid white women if elected mayor. He told television station WFLD, "I don't believe white women should be considered in that count ….You have white women in the category. They receive contracts. Then, white men receive contracts. Where does that leave everybody else"? The next day, Meeks released a written statement further elucidating his comments. It stressed that "all minority- and women-owned businesses" are entitled to their "fair share" of city contracts.

Personal life 
Meeks and his wife Jamell live in Chicago, Illinois and have four children: Jamie, Janet, Trent (Christina), and Jasmine, and one granddaughter and a grandson

References

External links
Illinois General Assembly - Senator James Meeks (D) 15th District official IL Senate website
Bills Committees
Project Vote Smart - Senator James T. Meeks (IL) profile
Follow the Money – James T Meeks
2006 2004 2002 campaign contributions
Illinois State Senate Democrats - Senator James T. Meeks profile
Salem Baptist Church of Chicago

1956 births
Living people
African-American state legislators in Illinois
Baptist ministers from the United States
Bishop College alumni
Illinois Democrats
Illinois Independents
Illinois state senators
Politicians from Chicago
21st-century American politicians
Chairs of the Illinois State Board of Education
21st-century African-American politicians
20th-century African-American people