[Source: PubMed]

42. BMC Public Health. 2012 Jun 19;12:452. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-452.

Adaptation to climate change in the Ontario public health sector.

Paterson JA(1), Ford JD, Ford LB, Lesnikowski A, Berry P, Henderson J, Heymann 
J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, McGill University, Burnside Hall, Montreal, QC, 
Canada. jpater10@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Climate change is among the major challenges for health this 
century, and adaptation to manage adverse health outcomes will be unavoidable. 
The risks in Ontario - Canada's most populous province - include increasing 
temperatures, more frequent and intense extreme weather events, and alterations 
to precipitation regimes. Socio-economic-demographic patterns could magnify the 
implications climate change has for Ontario, including the presence of rapidly 
growing vulnerable populations, exacerbation of warming trends by heat-islands 
in large urban areas, and connectedness to global transportation networks. This 
study examines climate change adaptation in the public health sector in Ontario 
using information from interviews with government officials.
METHODS: Fifty-three semi-structured interviews were conducted, four with 
provincial and federal health officials and 49 with actors in public health and 
health relevant sectors at the municipal level. We identify adaptation efforts, 
barriers and opportunities for current and future intervention.
RESULTS: Results indicate recognition that climate change will affect the health 
of Ontarians. Health officials are concerned about how a changing climate could 
exacerbate existing health issues or create new health burdens, specifically 
extreme heat (71%), severe weather (68%) and poor air-quality (57%). Adaptation 
is currently taking the form of mainstreaming climate change into existing 
public health programs. While adaptive progress has relied on local leadership, 
federal support, political will, and inter-agency efforts, a lack of resources 
constrains the sustainability of long-term adaptation programs and the 
acquisition of data necessary to support effective policies.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides a snapshot of climate change adaptation and 
needs in the public health sector in Ontario. Public health departments will 
need to capitalize on opportunities to integrate climate change into policies 
and programs, while higher levels of government must improve efforts to support 
local adaptation and provide the capacity through which local adaptation can 
succeed.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-452
PMCID: PMC3418204
PMID: 22712716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]