[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# TaxPayers' Alliance

eria:

annual turnover of £6.5 million or less
balance sheet total of £3.26 million or less
fewer than 50 employees.

The alliance has one office – one in London. Its website said that, in March 2009, it employed 13 members of staff, and has since expanded to 19 members of staff as of November 2018.

Donations 
Sixty percent of donations come from individuals or groups giving more than £5,000. The Midlands Industrial Council, which has donated £1.5m to the Conservatives since 2003, said it has given around £80,000 on behalf of 32 owners of private companies. David Alberto, co-owner of serviced office company Avanta, has donated a suite in Westminster worth £100,000 a year, because he opposes the level of tax on businesses. from 2013–2018, it received at least £223,300 from US-based donors including $100,000 originating from a religious trust incorporated in the Bahamas

Construction magnate Malcolm McAlpine and a spokesman for JCB tycoon Sir Anthony Bamford have said they also helped fund the TPA.

The group has been accused of hypocrisy and possible illegality after it was revealed that it had been claiming tax relief on donations received from wealthy backers, which were intended for the purposes of political research.

In November 2022, the funding transparency website Who Funds You? gave the group an E grade, the lowest transparency rating (rating goes from A to E).

Campaigns, issues and publications

MPs' expenses 
The Alliance has called for more accountability and transparency in Parliament. The Alliance has also written to the Parliamentary Standards Commissioner to request an investigation into the expenses of Michael Martin, the then Speaker of the House of Commons. They have not, however, argued for commensurate levels of accountability from pressure groups that receive commercial funding, and critics have argued that they are in favour of transparency only from people who are elected, as opposed to transparency for organisations that conduct political campaigning for commercial ends.

Criticisms and controversy 
An investigation by Tim Horton, research director of the centre-left Fabian Society, claimed the group is "fundamental to the Conservatives' political strategy", which he said was to destroy public confidence in politicians' ability to deliver public services, thereby paving the way for cuts. "There is something deeply dishonest about their campaigns on government waste," he said. "Their aim isn't to make public spending work better, but to slash it dramatically. Yet none of them will campaign on their true vision of society: fewer public services. At least Thatcher was honest about the deal: less 'public' means you go private."

Guardian columnist Owen Jones criticised the Taxpayers' Alliance in his 2014 book The Establishment: And how they get away with it, saying, "The TaxPayers' Alliance is a right-wing organization, funded by conservative businesspeople and staffed with free-market ideologues. And yet it presents itself as though it were simply the voice of the taxpayer. After all, 'alliance' itself implies some sort of broad coalition. From its early days, the Alliance's pronouncements were invoked by news outlets more or less as the impartial mouthpiece of the hardworking taxpayer."

In Scotland, the Taxpayers' Alliance is opposed to public spending on the Gaelic language, and has been accused of feeding the press with misinformation to give the false impression that this spending is higher and more frivolous than it actually is.

Tax investigation of charitable arm 
The charitable arm of the Taxpayers' Alliance, the Politics and Economics Research Trust, is under investigation by regulators following allegations that the group may have used the trust to gain tax relief for donations intended to fund political research.

Revelations by The Guardian newspaper in 2009 resulted in the UK's Charity Commission opening a regulatory compliance case into the Trust. It was reported in December of the same year that the alliance requested certain of its donors — identified as "private businessman" located in the English Midlands - to channel funds through the trust for research into policies which might potentially damage their commercial interests. This move allegedly allowed the Alliance to receive tax relief on the donations; Richard Murphy, a campaigner and tax accountant, has stated that the move potentially breached charity law, as UK commission guidelines state that organisations may not be charitable if they have political purposes.

A spokesman for the Charity Commission was quoted as saying that the "scope of the investigation is to address the allegations relating to the charity's relationship with the Taxpayers' Alliance"; such cases are opened when "available information indicates misconduct or mismanagement has occurred" or otherwise when actions "may have been improper".