[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# PISCES

PISCES (Personal Identification Secure Comparison and Evaluation System) is a border control database system largely based on biometrics developed by Booz Allen Hamilton Inc..

Overview 
The PISCES-project was initiated by the Department of State, Terrorist Interdiction Program (TIP) in 1997, initially as a system for countries in improving their watchlisting capabilities by providing a mainframe computer system to facilitate immigration processing in half a dozen countries. Foreign authorities used the technology to watchlist and exchange information with the United States Department of State about suspected terrorists appearing at their borders. The information is used to track and apprehend individual terrorists, not for wide-ranging analysis of terrorist travel methods", according to US-government reports. It matches passengers inbound for the United States against facial images, fingerprints and biographical information at airports in high-risk countries. A high-speed data network permits U.S. authorities to be informed of problems with inbound passengers.

PISCES workstations installed throughout a country are linked by wide area network to the participating nation’s immigration, police or intelligence headquarters. The headquarters is provided with the automated capability to monitor activities at immigration points, evaluate traveler information and conduct real time data analysis.

Currently the PISCES-project falls under The Terrorist Interdiction Program (TIP), an ongoing programme of the United States Department of State. TIP provides all necessary software and hardware (mostly commercial and off-the-shelf, such as cameras and passport scanners), full installation, operator training, and system sustainment. Additionally, TIP assists with immigration business process improvement at ports of entry chosen for PISCES installation.

For FY 2007, funds will be used to support enhancements to the existing watch listing system software in order to provide a fraudulent document detection capability, a biometrics search capability, and improved name-searching effectiveness.

Starting in FY 2010 and onward to FY 2011, PISCES funding will be increased in what the United States Department of State considers "high risk" countries such as Afghanistan, Iraq, and Pakistan. A project to verify US visas via limited access to a US government database will go under trial in select outposts.

 Controversy 
Effectiveness

Although PISCES was operational in the months prior to September 11, 2001 it apparently failed to detect any of the terrorists involved in the attack.

According to the US Department of State,

 TIP provided photos and travel history to Pakistan of three of the four July 7, 2005 London Metro bombers.
 Within one week of TIP's introduction, a ring of human traffickers were identified at Chiang Mai, Thailand.
 Hundreds of travelers have been interdicted in Pakistan on suspicion of using stolen passports.
 "... in terms of linking it to specific arrests, nothing that I have -- nothing that I'm aware of''."

Data-handling

 INTERPOL: "... TIP will also assist the upgrading of INTERPOL's communications system to transmit fingerprints, photos and other graphics on a near-real time basis to and from a participating country’s INTERPOL National Central Bureau (NCB). INTERPOL data can then be imported into PISCES to expand the pool of suspects."

Deployment
In 2003: "is currently being deployed in five countries and is scheduled for deployment in 12 more countries this calendar year. Arrests and detentions have occurred in all five countries where the system has been deployed."

In 2005: "Since 2001, twenty nations have been provided this capability"

Expected 2011: 31