[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Didier Digard

Didier Frédéric Thierry Digard (born 12 July 1986) is a French professional football manager and former player who is the head coach of Championnat National 3 side Nice B. As a player, he was a defensive midfielder.

Club career

Le Havre
Digard started his career at EF Gisors Bézu, joining the academy at six years old. Digard revealed he began playing football around the time when Marseille was crowned European Champion. He stayed at the academy until eleven when the Le Havre's academy invited him to a tournament and trained with the club. Digard impressed the Le Havre's academy that they offered him a contract, leading him to join the club at age twelve. While progressing through the academy, Digard revealed that he had a behaviour problems, getting into fights but the club's then coach Mohamed Sall convinced him to stay and later credited him for understanding and believing in him. Digard started out playing as a striker before playing in a defensive midfield, a position he played throughout his career. Digard progressed through the club's academy before turning professional at eighteen.

On 29 October 2004, Digard made his debut for the club in a 1–0 win over Dijon, making his only appearance of the season and in his first season, he made 15 league appearances. In his second season, Digard scored his first goal against Dijon in a 2–1 win on 31 March 2006. In the next game on 7 April 2006, Digard scored his second goal against Grenoble Foot in a 4–1 win. In his third season, Digard scored his third goal in a 2–0 win over Tours on 12 January 2007. He played over 70 league games for the club.

Paris Saint-Germain
In June 2007, Digard was strongly linked with a move from Le Havre to the Premier League clubs, with Aston Villa, Reading and West Ham United interested. However, he eventually opted to stay in France, and signed a three-year deal with Ligue 1 club Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) on 3 July 2007 for a transfer fee of €2.5 million. Upon joining the club, Manager Paul Le Guen said: "I had one look at Digard and instantly decided that he was the right sort of player for us. He still has a lot to learn but he definitely has potential. It is up to him to exploit his potential and it is up to us to help him develop it."

Digard made his debut for PSG in their opening match of the season, in a draw against Sochaux on 4 August 2007. He started well for the side, playing in the defensive midfield position at the first team. However, injuries and lack of first team opportunities plagued his time at the club, leading to a frustrating spell at the club. Despite this, Digard went on to make nineteen appearances for the side.

Digard voiced his frustration over his delayed move to Boro and blamed the club's board's "incompetence" for the delay. This resulted in his suspension by PSG. Despite leaving the club on bad terms, Digard, nevertheless, said: "It was a milestone in my career, a great springboard. Despite the long injury I experienced there, I retain a lot of positive, it is an adventure that has brought me a lot in life."

Middlesbrough

On 4 July 2008, Digard signed for Middlesbrough on a four-year contract after the club agreed a €5 million (£4 million) deal with PSG. Boro had targeted him since June 2008. In the process of signing with Middlesbrough, Digard rejected overtures move from Portsmouth and AS Monaco. Upon joining the club, he said about the move: "I actually like the challenge. I like English football because it is physically challenging and that suits my game, so I'm not really scared. I'm looking forward to it and I can't wait to start playing and to start getting into the challenge. In midfield I have to help stop the other team's forwards and relaunch the game, so that we can counter-attack. I think to be physical, that's a quality, not a bad thing. You can have technical players, people who are mentally able, but to make a team complete you must have people who are strong."