[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nathan Feinsinger

ar.

The steel strike
President Truman named Feinsinger chairman of the Wage Stabilization Board on August 15, 1951, succeeding George W. Taylor. The board was part of a massive federal wage and price stabilization effort designed to support defense production and mobilization during the Korean War.

Feinsinger faced an immediate wage crisis as unionized steelworkers threatened to strike in order to win wage and productivity increases.  Feinsinger convinced United Steelworkers of America president Philip Murray to call off a strike set for January 1, 1952, in favor of a 90-day voluntary cooling-off and fact-finding period.  Feinsinger was forced to turn over the wage case to the president for resolution, but continued to work feverishly toward a solution. At 6:30 a.m. on March 20, 1952, Feinsinger collapsed and lapsed into unconsciousness after 15 and a half hours of uninterrupted negotiations. Despite several additional proposed solutions, neither the employers nor the union agreed to a new contract.  The steelworkers set their strike to begin on April 9.  But at 10:30 p.m. on the evening of April 8, 1952, President Truman invoked his powers as commander-in-chief and seized the steel mills. On June 2, in a landmark decision, the United States Supreme Court ruled in Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U.S. 579, that the president lacked the authority to seize the steel mills. The steelworkers struck the next day to win their wage increase. The strike lasted 55 days, and ended on July 24 on essentially the same terms the union had proposed four months earlier.

New York City transit strike
One of his last major roles as a mediator occurred during the 1966 New York City transit strike. Feinsinger was appointed chairman of a three-member mediation panel by Mayor Robert F. Wagner Jr. and Mayor-elect John Lindsay. Although the city won an injunction against the strike and jailed the union's 61-year-old ailing president, Mike Quill, Feinsinger quickly led both sides into a rapid series of give-and-take bargaining sessions which ended the bitter wintertime strike after just 13 days.

Retirement, death and endowment
Throughout his life, Feinsinger mediated strikes and labor disputes in many industries, including steel, automobile manufacturing, maritime trades, meat-packing, airlines and transit industries. In the 1960s, Feinsinger was named an impartial arbitrator by General Motors and the United Auto Workers.

In 1967, Feinsinger founded the Center for Teaching and Research in Disputes Settlement at the University of Wisconsin. He retired from teaching in 1973.

Feinsinger suffered a stroke in May 1982. He died from complications related to the stroke on Wednesday, November 3, 1983, in Glenwood Springs, Colorado. He was survived by his estranged wife, Bettie, and his three children

The Nathan P. Feinsinger Professor of Law chair at the University of Wisconsin Law School was endowed in his name.

Notes