[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# States and territories of Australia

tier Island.
1910 – Britain claims Heard Island and the McDonald Islands.
1911 – The state of South Australia transfers control of northern central mainland Australia to the federal government, creating the Northern Territory. A small pocket of New South Wales around the city of Canberra is transferred to the federal government (who are seated within it), creating the Federal Capital Territory.
1913 – New South Wales transfers Norfolk Island to the federal government, making it a federal external territory.
1915 – A small pocket of New South Wales around Jervis Bay is transferred to the federal government and incorporated into the Federal Capital Territory.
1920 – Following the defeat of the German Empire in World War I, the League of Nations establishes an Australian mandate in northeastern New Guinea, it becomes the external Territory of New Guinea.
1923 – Another conquered German territory, the island of Nauru, is established as an Australian mandate and external territory by the League of Nations, this time as a co-mandate with Britain and New Zealand.
1927 – The Northern Territory is split into two territories – North Australia and Central Australia.
1930 – The remaining territory in eastern Antarctica is annexed by Britain as Enderby Land.
1931 – North Australia and Central Australia are reincorporated as the Northern Territory. Britain recognises Australia as possessors of the uninhabited Ashmore and Cartier Islands, making them an external federal territory.
1933 – Britain transfers Victoria Land and Enderby Land to Australia, creating the Australian Antarctic Territory, with ongoing limited international recognition.
1938 – The Federal Capital Territory is renamed the "Australian Capital Territory".
1942 – The Japanese Empire conquers Nauru from Australia, Britain and New Zealand as part of World War II. Japan also conquers much of the Straits Settlements, including Christmas Island. The Cocos (Keeling) Islands are not conquered and are transferred to the Colony of Ceylon.
1946 – The United Nations, the successor to the League of Nations, renews its mandate of New Guinea to Australia.
1947 – Following the defeat of Japan in World War II, the United Nations returns Nauru to Australia, Britain and New Zealand as a joint mandate. Christmas Island returns to Britain and is incorporated into the Colony of Singapore. The Cocos (Keeling) Islands are also transferred to Singapore.
1949 – Papua and New Guinea are incorporated into the singular Territory of Papua and New Guinea. Britain transfers Heard Island and the McDonald Islands to Australia, creating a federal external territory.
1955 – Britain transfers the Cocos (Keeling) Islands to Australia, they become an external territory.
1958 – Britain transfers Christmas Island to Australia, it becomes an external territory.
1966 – The Republic of Nauru is established, ending Australian-British-New Zealander control of the island.
1975 – Papua and New Guinea becomes the Independent State of Papua New Guinea, ending British-Australian control.
1978 – Northern Territory gains self-government with certain Commonwealth control.
1979 – Norfolk Island gains self-government with certain Commonwealth control.
1989 – The Australian Capital Territory gains self-government with certain Commonwealth control. Jervis Bay becomes independent of the ACT, becoming the Jervis Bay Territory.
2015 – Norfolk Island loses self-government with full Commonwealth control.

Comparative terminology

Politics

Governors and administrators

Premiers and chief ministers

Parliaments 

 Parliament of New South Wales
 Parliament of Victoria
 Parliament of Queensland
 Parliament of Western Australia
 Parliament of South Australia
 Parliament of Tasmania
 Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly
 Northern Territory Legislative Assembly

Supreme courts

 Supreme Court of New South Wales
 Supreme Court of Victoria
 Supreme Court of Queensland
 Supreme Court of Western Australia
 Supreme Court of South Australia
 Supreme Court of Tasmania
 Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory
 Supreme Court of the Northern Territory
 Supreme Court of Norfolk Island

Police forces

New South Wales Police Force
Victoria Police
Queensland Police Service
Western Australia Police Force
South Australia Police
Tasmania Police
Australian Capital Territory Policing (performed by Australian Federal Police)
Northern Territory Police Force
Law enforcement in Norfolk Island, also provided by Australian Federal Police

State and territory codes

See also 

 Australian regional rivalries
 ISO 3166-2:AU, the ISO codes for the states and territories of Australia.
 List of Australian demonyms
 List of Australian states by Human Development Index
 List of proposed states of Australia

Notes

References 

 
Australia geography-related lists
Australia 1
States, Australia
States and territories
Subdivisions of Australia