[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Gheorghe Pintilie

f power over Romanian police agencies. From March 1945, Pintilie was assigned to the Siguranța, which Bodnăraș had proceeded to communize. His takeover there ran parallel to a mass trail of the old Siguranța leadership, resulting in either imprisonment or execution for all those appearing in court. 

From 1945 to August 1948, Pintilie was also at the helm of the Central Committee's Political and Administrative Office. While here, he prepared a transition from the old-regime Siguranța to a new, fully communized structure, the Securitate. He personally oversaw a money laundering system, which saw the Siguranța dumping gold on the black market, then transferring it toward the PCR. Pintilie was seconded and succeeded at the PCR Office by Alexandru Drăghici, who also continued Pintilie's work in verifying the loyalties of PCR cadres. Troncotă additionally notes that this specialized position made Pintilie the éminence grise of inner-party "conflicts and intrigues". Alexandru Bârlădeanu, who also enjoyed Gheorghiu-Dej's confidence, made the following assessment: "In his line of work [Bodnarenko] was held to be a very honest man. Honest in that he only did what was asked of him. He never took any initiative, since these would've looked like intrigues, on that level of his. Chișinevschi was the opposite. Here's why Dej trusted Pantiușa, who only did things if so ordered by a superior."

Pintilie himself reminisced that, in early 1945, Gheorghiu-Dej was visibly irritated by the charismatic PCR man Lucrețiu Pătrășcanu, whom he called "that swine". A more urgent task was in neutralizing the Foriș faction—as allegedly reported by "Pantiușa", the Soviet embassy wanted Foriș to disappear before the Allied Commission could hear his story. Bodnarenko's rise was accelerated in summer 1946, when, along with his driver Dumitru Neciu, he kidnapped Foriș. Various accounts suggest that he then beat Foriș to death with a crowbar, though Câmpeanu credits Neciu as the actual killer. The Neciu–Pintilie team is also responsible for two other similar murders, which occurred in the aftermath of Foriș's, with the three bodies buried together at the same compound in Dorobanți. Various authors also implicate Pintilie in the murder of Foriș's mother by a Siguranța team in Oradea, though at least one researcher, Doina Jela, notes that the account may be inexact.

Also in 1946, Pintilie married Ana Grossman-Toma, noted for her wartime activities with the PCR underground; she had previously been married (or romantically linked) to Constantin Pîrvulescu, and then to Sorin Toma. Ana, who kept her second husband's name, became a highly visible asset of the PCR's agitprop section, where she worked under Leonte Răutu. They emerged as a power couple, noted for having equal access to both Gheorghiu-Dej and his rival Ana Pauker. Reportedly, Toma spied on Pauker for Dej, making use of her regular presence in Pauker's intimate circle (which saw her ironing Pauker's dresses). Both Gheorghe and Ana were directly involved in helping Pauker's father Herș Rabinsohn to embark on a Jewish migrant ship bound for Mandatory Palestine—the event was kept secret from others in the party leadership.

Several historians, who see Ana Toma as an MGB asset, propose that she either spied on her husband or existed as a supervising link between the MGB and Pintilie's offices in national security. Câmpeanu recalls that they formed a "bizarrely non-homogeneous couple", beyond their shared dislike for Foriș. Ana Toma had a Jewish-and-bourgeois background, being congenial, adaptable, and intelligent; Pintilie, meanwhile, was "structurally dogmatic, primitive, obtuse, [...] as inflexible as he was dull." Crăciun found that Pintilie's qualities were reduced to his being "slick" and "entertaining in that way circus clowns are". His main focus, Crăciun contends, was on lying by omission, and on formulating sentences that could mean two things at the same time. By contrast, a report compiled in March 1950 by the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs characterized Pintilie as "very gifted and intelligent".