[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Harold Weston

n—returned to America in 1930.

The Depression
 After living for a short period in Greenwich Village the Westons returned to their home and studio in the Adirondack mountains, again living simply. With a small family, he focused increasingly on the everyday: a quilt, plants in the garden, snowshoes.

Weston turned out prodigious amounts of artwork in the 1930s. His work was shown frequently in solo and group shows at galleries and museums, including the Phillips Memorial Gallery, the Art Institute of Chicago, and the Museum of Modern Art. His painting Green Hat won third prize in painting at the Golden Gate International Exposition in San Francisco in 1939. Duncan Phillips invited Weston to speak at his gallery several times. "We need you in this course of Gallery discussions for there is no man now painting better able to discuss color as an instrument of emotional expression and of plastic design," Phillips wrote to Weston.

In 1935 Weston competed for a Treasury Relief Art Project mural commission to paint murals depicting the government's efforts to speed the end of the Great Depression. For two-and-a-half years Weston worked 11 hours a day creating 840 square feet of 22 panels on canvas that were hung in the General Services Administration building in Washington, D.C., in 1938. At a time of intensive mural-painting in the country, Phillips said Weston's murals were "magnificent--the best by far of all the government murals."

Relief work and World War II

Humanitarian concerns at the advent of World War II compelled Weston to give up painting. "For the first time in my life, something seemed more important to me than painting," wrote Weston. First, in the Adirondacks, he organized a branch and 11 chapters of the Committee to Defend America by Aiding the Allies. Then after Pearl Harbor, with memories of the starvation he had seen during the war in the Middle East, he moved to Washington, D.C., to advocate full-time for humanitarian food relief. He outlined a plan that he called the Reconstruction Service Committee, for which he obtained the support of Eleanor Roosevelt, and which eventually evolved into the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. "[Weston] more than anyone else -- as Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt has written me -- was responsible for the original conception and carrying through of UNRRA," wrote Lewis Mumford. UNRRA saved millions of lives after the war.

To support UNRRA's governmental work, Weston founded Food for Freedom, a coalition of civic, religious, labor, and farm organizations representing more than 60 million Americans that advocated for food aid for refugees in Europe and Asia. He became an expert on food policy and the politics of farm policy in the U.S. Weston wrote a manuscript about his experiences, "Battle of Bread," that is now housed in the Library of Congress.

After seven years and wishing to return to painting, Weston seized on the idea of painting the United Nations headquarters that were under construction in New York City. He worked on the painting series, "Building the United Nations," from 1949 to 1952, further refining his hyper-realistic style. The painting series now belongs to the Smithsonian American Art Museum.

Post World War II life

Arts advocacy
In 1953, the Westons started renting a small railroad flat over an Italian bakery in Greenwich Village for a phase of their life that took them to the center of the art world in New York City. Weston was elected president of the Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors, and launched the museum gift plan, a scheme by which donors paid artists for their work and then subsequently donated it to museums. He also joined the International Association of Plastic Arts (later the International Association of Art [IAA]) and, as a delegate, vice president, or president, attended all of the group's international meetings between 1954 in Venice and 1966 in Tokyo.

Along with Lloyd Goodrich and Lillian Gish, in 1955 Weston founded the National Council on Arts and Government, an artists' group that lobbied for government support of the arts and that gathered the support of over 50 national organizations representing all of the arts. Weston served many years as its vice president and president. The group won passage of the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965 creating the National Endowment for the Arts. Weston, "more than any other private individual played a key role in the improvement of our government's relation to the arts in our time," wrote Lloyd Goodrich.