[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Winograd Commission

in the Security Council was, in the main, quick, systematic and efficient.

Members
Commission members as of 18 September 2006, include:
 Chair: Justice (ret.) Eliyahu Winograd
 Law Professor Ruth Gavison
 Political Science Professor Yehezkel Dror
 Aluf (ret.) Menachem Einan
 Aluf (ret.) Chaim Nadel

Criticism
Dutch-Israeli military historian and author Martin van Creveld criticized some of Winograd's findings. Israel's war against Hezbollah was indeed "marked by a long series of failures" but he criticized the Winograd Commission for its failure to take into account the substantial achievements of the war. He argued that Hezbollah "had the fight knocked out of it," lost hundreds of its members and that the organization was "thrown out of South Lebanon," replaced by "a fairly robust United Nations peacekeeping force." He also stressed that as a result of the war, Israel is experiencing a level of calm on the Lebanon border not seen in over four decades.

References

External links
 "Official website of the Winograd Commission"
(Hebrew) The final Winograd Commission report
 "Establishment of the Winograd Committee" (Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs)
 Official English summary of the Winograd's panel interim report Press Release (via The Wall Street Journal [PDF]), via The Jerusalem Post
 "Second Winograd War" – on the power Struggles Behind the Committee
 "Report of the Main Findings of the Winograd Commission" 
 The Winograd Report: The Political Arena 
 "Editor's Notes: A searing indictment," by Jerusalem Post Editor, David Horovitz
 In Washington: Winograd cracks the ice MJ Rosenberg, Jerusalem Post 9 May 2007
 Thomas Friedman: Hezbollah win negated by Israel's strength 
 Israel's Bombing of Civilians Extended War, Olmert Told Panel by Steven Erlanger, New York Times 11 May 2007
 Olmert's Troubles Test Israel's Democracy 
 In aftermath of bungled war, Israel embraces culture of criticism Dion Nissenbaum
 From the Israel Democracy Institute
 The Winograd Commission 
 Main Issues in the Interim Report of the Winograd Commission 
 Lessons of Winograd by Shlomo Avineri, Jerusalem Post 2 May 2007
 Winograd report prompts Lebanese to question Hezbollah by Yoav Stern, Haaretz 5 May 2007
 The Winograd report Ynetnews – all articles.
 Gabi Siboni, Command and Authority in the IDF: The Winograd Challenge, "Military and Strategic Affairs", Volume 10, No. 2, August 2007.
 Gabi Siboni, Victims of Friendly Fire: The Winograd Commission vs. the Citizens of Israel, "Military and Strategic Affairs", Volume 11, No. 1, June 2008.

Israeli commissions and inquiries
2006 Lebanon War
Israel Defense Forces