[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Treaty 1

to be too high, so they negotiated the land rights down to approximately "160 acres of land for a family of five"; which was similar to the land rights outlined in the Dominion Lands Act for British settlers. After much debating, the two sides came to an agreement and the treaty was signed August 3.

Articles and Memorandum of Treaty 1 
The final articles of Treaty 1 were outlined as follows: the indigenous peoples were to hand over a large portion of land in the southeast and south-central current-day Manitoba to Governor Archibald and the Crown. These lands were to include areas around Lake Manitoba and Winnipeg as well as around the Red River Valley.

In return, the Canadian government were to provide each band with a reserve large enough to accommodate each family of five with 160 acres of land (or a larger or smaller amount based on the size of the family). In addition, each member of these bands were to be given a gratuity of three dollars in accordance with a yearly sum of fifteen dollars based on a family of five. This annual payment could be provided in cash or items such as clothing, blankets, or hunting supplies based upon the desires of the family. The government also could provide and maintain a school on each reserve if one was desired. And the Crown would prohibit the introduction and sale of alcohol on reserves.

The Outside Promises 
Within a year of the signing of Treaty 1, word reached Governor Archibald that the Swampy Cree and Anishinabe peoples were declaring that some of the treaty terms were not being fulfilled. Known as the “Outside Promises”, numerous items the indigenous peoples were promised beyond the written text of the treaty had not been provided to them yet. These items included distinguished clothing for Chiefs and their councilors, farming supplies such as ploughs, and animals like oxen and cows for their agricultural needs.

While a new commissioner was appointed to deal with the needs of the indigenous peoples in the area and the issue was brought to court, the federal government did not resolve the “Outside Promises” until April 30, 1875, seven years later. It was then the council passed an order that stated that the memorandum of items orally promised to the bands were to be considered a part of Treaty 1 and therefore had to be carried out by the commissioner. Additionally, the annuity of three dollars to each band member was to be raised to five dollars a year. Finally, the order stated that each Chief was to be provided with additional payments of twenty dollars annually as well as be given extra items of clothing in addition to those stated in the memorandum.

Significance of Treaty 1 

The signing of Treaty 1 marked the beginning of a long list of treaties that were to come over the next couple of decades, signifying the Canadian government’s growing interest in the West as more than just a trading hub but as a suitable place for developing agriculture and growing populations of settlers; as well as a peaceful means to annex land. For Governor Adams Archibald the treaty would enable him to develop businesses such as mills and farms on the fertile land around Lakes Winnipeg and Manitoba and in the Red River Valley.

For the Anishinabe and Swampy Cree Nations, Treaty 1 held a much larger significance. They believed it was a way for them to survive and adjust into a new way of living with the drastic changes that were coming to their land and that were already beginning to take shape. Their leaders believed a treaty with the Crown would help give them security when the large groups of settlers would make their way into the land. In addition, the indigenous peoples believed that the treaty would also help elevate the threat of the serious decline of buffalo populations, which threatened their way of life. Ultimately, in signing the treaty the indigenous leaders hoped to gain a connection with the “Great White Queen Mother” that would ensure security and benefits for their people.

Controversy 

Treaty 1 is considered controversial due to the differing understandings of the treaty and what agreements were entailed within it.

Final Contract or Covenantal Relationships 
The Canadian government and its negotiators viewed the treaty as a mere contract in which the Anishinabe peoples surrendered land over to them in exchange for compensation. In addition, they viewed the signing of the treaty as “finalizing” or the end of negotiations and relations with the indigenous peoples in this area. For the Anishinabe, however, the treaty held a much greater significance as they regarded it as a “Creator-sanctioned covenant” that would guarantee the continuation of their livelihood. Unlike the Canadian government, the Anishinabe also saw the agreement as the beginning of a continuing relationship with the government in which both groups would provide benefits and maintain coexistence with each other.

Property Rights Under Differing Legal Frameworks