[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Avengers: The Initiative

o, is assigned to take down a HYDRA cell, led by former Initiative member Hardball, in Madripoor. After the mission briefing, Taskmaster senses something familiar about Mutant Zero and later confronts her. A fight ensues and Taskmaster goads Mutant Zero into revealing her true identity: Mary Walker.

The Shadow Initiative is dropped into Madripoor by S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. During the mission, Taskmaster, Constrictor, Bengal, Typhoid Mary and Komodo are confronted by Hardball, Scorpion and HYDRA agents. Komodo is shot with HYDRA changed S.P.I.N technology by Hardball, forcing the Shadow Initiative into a hasty retreat. They escape, but are forced to leave a depowered Komodo behind. Taskmaster calls off the mission in the light of HYDRA gaining S.P.I.N Tech. But before they can pull out of Madripoor, the Shadow Initiative learns that S.H.I.E.L.D. has since become defunct, leaving the team alone with no way out of the country. They then infiltrate HYDRA, send a wire for help, and continue their mission to capture Hardball and shutdown the HYDRA cell. During the fight, Typhoid Mary relapses into her dangerous personality and escapes, leaving the rest of the Shadow Initiative in trouble. But then help arrives as Ant-Man and H.A.M.M.E.R. agents. Hardball then surrenders himself to the Constrictor, citing that everything that he has done was to protect Komodo. Constrictor understands, given his similar relationship with his daughter, and arrests Hardball.

Batwing graduates from the Initiative programme and is assigned to the Shadow Initiative.

Dark Reign
Butterball, Ringer, Doctor Sax, Johnny Guitar, Badd Axe, Firearms, Slaughter Boy and Heavy Mettle (Barracuda, Blackwing, Riot, Stronghold and Warbow) join Bengal, Komodo and Batwing in a new look Shadow Initiative. But as Norman Osborn already has a covert team in the shape of the Thunderbolts, the Shadow Initiative is turned into a "cannon fodder" unit, purposely sent on suicide missions, a fact that is hidden from the Shadow Initiative members.

Before their first mission to take back Prison 42 from Blastaar's alien forces, Johnny Guitar overhears the Taskmaster and learns the Shadow Initiative's true purpose. After some consideration, he bravely goes through with the mission. But not before guaranteeing his family's compensation in the event of his death and deliberately injuring his best friend, Doctor Sax, washing him out of the Initiative and saving his life. During the siege to take back Prison 42, along with several other members of the Shadow Initiative, Johnny Guitar is killed in action. Also confirmed to be killed are Blackwing, Slaughterboy, and Firearms. Bengal, Komodo, Batwing, Butterball and the surviving members of the Shadow Initiative fight against the odds and take back prison 42. They are aided by Hardball, a Prison 42 detainee forced to join Blastaar's army, who suggests to Dr. Arthur Nagan that they should release Dragon Man, knowing that the creature would side with Komodo. Taskmaster, Constrictor, Penance, Living Laser and Scorcher arrive shortly after to finish the enemy. Bengal and the rest of the Shadow Initiative realized the true nature of their mission.

Osborn orders members of the Shadow Initiative (Badd Axe, Ringer, and Warbow) to attack the Heavy Hitters after they secede from the Initiative. They help the other Initiative teams to defeat and capture the Heavy Hitters' leader, Prodigy. The attack upon Prodigy is then uploaded onto YouTube by Telemetry and Non-Stop to show the aggressive tactics employed by Osborn.

Siege
Several members of the Shadow Initiative take part in the invasion of Asgard. During the battle, the Warbow of Heavy Mettle is apparently killed by a hail of arrows. Badd Axe and Ringer are among those defending Camp HAMMER when it is invaded by the Avengers Resistance.

Characters