[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Late Summer Blues

ld", Schorr and Nesher shared and studied a large collection of records (Bob Dylan, Leonard Cohen, Jimi Hendrix, The Doors, Janis Joplin), books (by Herbert Marcuse, Viktor Frankl and more) and films (Rebel Without a Cause, Hair, The Deer Hunter Alice's Restaurant, Breaking Away and more) with them.

Release and reception 
The film premiered as the 1987 Jerusalem Film Festival's opening film, the first Israeli film to do so. The film was released commercially immediately afterwards, gaining both critical and commercial success, eventually screening to over 250,000 cinemagoers. Distributed by Kino International and Janus Films, the film was released commercially in the United States and Canada, a rare achievement for an Israeli film at the time.

The film has been included on many critics' and public polls as one of the best Israeli films of all time.

New York Times Jerusalem bureau Chief Thomas Friedman was present at the premiere and subsequently wrote the cover story in the Arts & Leisure section of the Times on August 9, 1987. "The film ostensibly is about seven Israeli 18-year-olds during their summer break between high school graduation and induction into the army. Although the movie takes place in 1970, it could have been about last summer – and that is the point. For Israeli 18-year-olds nothing has changed," he wrote.

Festivals and awards 
The film won the 1988 "Silver Menorah" (an earlier version of the Ophir Awards) for Best Film, Best Screenplay and Best Original Score. In addition, the film won Best Film at the 1988 Israeli Film Festival both in New York and Los Angeles.

The film premiered internationally in competition at the 1987 Montreal International Film Festival. It was screened at over 30 international film festivals, including: Toronto, Moscow, Chicago, Los Angeles, Hong Kong, Dublin, Vienna, Vancouver and more.

References

External links 
 
 Movie Reviews : Personal View of War in Late Summer Blues by Kevin Thomas Los Angeles Times  October 21, 1988
 Restored ‘Late Summer Blues’ Wins New Generation of Fans, The Jerusalem Post, November 28, 2016
 So Stupid, Beautiful and Pure, OpEd by Gideon Levy, Haaretz, October 30, 2016
 Late Summer Blues on Israeli Film Database

Israeli teen drama films
1980s teen drama films
1987 films
Films about the Israel Defense Forces
Films set in 1970
Films set in Tel Aviv
1980s Hebrew-language films
1987 drama films