[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Transformers: The War Within

Transformers: The War Within (or simply TWW and WWi) is a series of comic book mini-series written by Simon Furman and published by Dreamwave Productions featuring Generation One characters with brand new pre-Earth designs.

The series focuses on the Transformers' past on Cybertron before they came to Earth. The series consists of three six-issue mini-series: Volume 1, Volume 2 ("The Dark Ages") and Volume 3 ("The Age of Wrath"). The Age of Wrath ran only for 3 issues due to Dreamwave's bankruptcy.

Story and background

Volume One

Plot

The plot revolves around the inception of an archivist named Optronix as leader of the Autobots after the death of their previous leader, Sentinel Prime, at the hands of Megatron. Optronix stands before the Council of the Ancients: a group of beings who maintain a psychic link with and interpret the wishes of the Creation Matrix. The will of the sacred life-force is clear: Optronix is to be the new leader, despite his protests that he is not suitable for the role. However, he is chosen anyway and renamed Optimus Prime, unaware that a group of Autobots led by Grimlock are considering overthrowing Prime if he turns out to be too weak. Prime silences those fears by single-handedly defeating a trio of Decepticon assassins during his inauguration ceremony, but then horrifies the assembled Autobots by declaring the war cannot be won, and that they should evacuate Cybertron. Meanwhile, Megatron has become aware of the potential of the Matrix as a source of power and plans to capture it to power Cybertron's planetary engines, turning it into an interstellar Warworld under his control. The Constructicons fire the engines, devastating Iacon while Shockwave leads an attack on what's left of the Autobots. Prime investigates the engines, but is attacked by Soundwave, Ravage and the Insecticons.

Prowl, realising they can't hold much longer, sends Grimlock to find Prime. Optimus has beaten his pursuers but is confronted by Megatron himself. They battle, and are sent deeper into Cybertron's depths by the ever-traitorous Starscream, who tries to seize command but is opposed by Shockwave. Both Prime and Megatron are pulled into the Matrix and given a glimpse of the future - the events on Earth in Dreamwave's G1 series. Grimlock's team try to shut the engines down as Starscream orders their activation, devastating much of the surface. Grimlock finds Prime and is grudgingly impressed as Prime fights Megatron, trying to prevent him from using the knowledge of the Matrix to cause more evil. Optimus seemingly defeats Megatron and leads a counterattack that routs the Decepticons. Prime resolves to stay on Cybertron and stop the Decepticons, while Megatron is pulled out of the rubble, minus his memory of the events he witnessed within the Matrix, and why he originally wanted it.

Volume Two: The Dark Ages

Plot

Set an unspecified period of time after the first series, Prime and Megatron have disappeared in a Space Bridge accident - the Space Bridge they go through that is configured just for one user self-destructs as a result of two going through. Without their leadership, the Autobots and Decepticons have split into smaller factions. Prowl now leads the Autobots, but Grimlock has founded the Lightning Strike Coalition, while Springer has established The Wreckers. Shockwave has taken command of the Decepticons, while Starscream has created the Predacons and Ratbat has established the Ultracons. Into this factional warfare comes The Fallen, a mysterious and ancient Transformer, who joins with one of the smaller Decepticon factions, the Chaos Trinity under Bludgeon, offering to expand their mystical knowledge if they serve him. Meanwhile, the Wreckers and Ultracons clash, and Ratbat reveals his secret weapon: Devastator, the combination of the Constructicons and the first Combiner group ever created - Ratbat unleashes him in flagrant defiance of treaties banning their use by the various factions. The Wreckers are saved from annihilation by the arrival of the Protectobots' combination, Defensor, leading to a clash of the combinations, with the Protectobots seeking to prevent a bloody arms race as everyone tries to acquire Combiners. After a huge battle, Defensor, after Springer tries to make the Protectobots regain control of their combined form, separates; Devastator himself is separated against his will at the hands of the Protectobots using a plug transmission of a powerful shock into his body in a sabotage strategy, and the Ultracons, now foiled, retreat.