[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National Alliance (Netherlands)

The National Alliance (, abbr. NA or N.A.) was a Dutch ultranationalist political party. It was disbanded in 2007.

The party was formed on 12 November 2003, by Jan Teijn and Virginia Kapić. Teijn kicked off his political career in the Centrum Democraten in Rotterdam, before going over to the CP'86, where he was one of the local council members in Rotterdam of a national socialist faction. Teijn was elected to the district council in the Feijenoord district for the NNP, before he moved to the NA midterm. They lost that seat in the 2006 elections (302 votes or 1.2%).

Ideology
The NA's ideology was based on nationalism and socialism. The party wanted to protect Dutch culture, was in favour of animal rights and against Battery cage farming, unnecessary animal testing, fur and leather for which animals have to be slaughtered independent from meat production, against the bio-industry in general, and wanted tougher sentences for criminals. The Party sought the withdrawal of the Netherlands from NATO and the EU and was strongly anticapitalistic. The party also rejected other sexual preferences than heterosexuality. The party displayed itself as a "social and democratic nationalistic political party". Although the party was non-sectarian, they nurtured the Christian standards and values as a part of their national heritage. In April 2005 the party organized a lecture about 'the Aryan roots of Christianity'. In preservation of their cultural heritage, the party celebrated Yule every year, a festivity on the Germanic calendar.

The NA's ideology, although more extreme, was often compared with the New Right of Alain de Benoist.

Organizational structure

The general members conference was the highest institution in the Nationale Alliantie. At this conference, practical and political decisions are made. Members were invited through the party magazine (Weerstand) and the website to participate in this conference. The general conference was organized once a year: as a rule in November. It was also possible to have a members consultation about a subject.

The Nationale Alliantie was run by the board of directors, which existed of a chairman, a treasurer and a secretary for the organisation, chosen by the general members conference. The meetings of the board of directors were attended with an advisory vote by the chairman of the youth organisation Dietsland Jeugd (Dietsland Youth). The members of the board of directors were chosen by the general conference for the period of three years and which were eligible for re-election once. The members of the board of directors had a mutual set of tasks. As of 2007, the board of directors included Jan Teijn (chairman), Mari Kostense (secretary) and Ronald Bredijk (treasurer).

The youth organisation Dietsland Jeugd was an independent political youth organization officially linked to the Nationale Alliantie.

Activities
The NA organized a petition to force Islam out of Europe. They announced its first demonstration, at the beginning of February 2004, in support of a demand for the release of Cees Gardien, who was in jail awaiting his trial for killing Yapcup Yuruyucu, a Turkish immigrant that robbed the garage firm owned by Gardien who uses a wheelchair and has a disability. In June 2004 the NA demonstrated in Utrecht against Turkey in the EU. On 11 June 2005, the NA held a demonstration against the construction of a Surinamese mosque and in November 2004 against Muslim violence after the murder on Theo van Gogh, Dutch writer and film producer who was killed by an extremist.

The party demonstrated repeatedly against paedophiliac association MARTIJN, and agitated against paedophilia. The newspaper Trouw reported on 19 September 2006 that the NA informed the neighbours of a minister from Rotterdam, Hans Visser, about the "paedophiliac nature of the minister". The party disapproved of the support of Visser to junks (instead of that the party refers to the organisation Victory Outreach) and illegals and had as a point of view that all paedophiles should be imprisoned for life. Visser, a member of the paedophiliac association MARTIJN considered reporting this to the police because of slander. In June 2006, the party launched a petition (, Citizen Initiative). With this, the Nationale Alliantie wanted to realize a ban on organizations that either glorify paedophilia, incite or have the goal to legalize adult-child sex.

In November 2005 the NA started an offensive against a Dutch company called Scarlet, which offers telephony and broadband internet. This was because of an advertising billboard in which a small girl in lingerie was used. A group of which the NA said it has no connections with spray-painted the billboard of Scarlet with the text "PEDO'S". A few days later, Scarlet announced that they would continue with an amended version of their ad, because of all the complaints.