[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jean Lee (murderer)

lient into the car and gotten him into a sexually compromising position, Clayton would appear as the 'wronged husband' and, threatening "a sordid divorce action with the man as co-respondent", demand compensation. If the man was married, this threat alone would usually ensure compliance.

The murder

By early October 1949 Lee and Clayton had gathered £250 from prostitution and 'ginger' game scamming and they decided to travel to Melbourne for a working holiday during the spring racing fixtures.  Lee and Clayton travelled from Sydney to Melbourne on 14 October 1949, the day before the Caulfield Cup.  They initially booked into Carlyon's Hotel in Spencer-street and embarked on a round of attending race-meetings and nightclubs, punctuated by bouts of hard drinking.  As their funds dwindled they booked into the more modest Duke of Windsor Hotel in Prahran.  In order to replenish their funds Lee and Clayton worked the 'badger' game.  On one occasion the intended victim fought back and repulsed Clayton; back at the hotel he "took out his anger and humiliation" on Lee, hitting her and giving her a bruise under one eye and a gash on the top of her nose.  At the Werribee Cup race meeting on October 26 the couple met up with Norman Andrews, another Sydney criminal who Clayton had known from his stint in Long Bay.  Andrews (real name Norman Anthes) had flown to Melbourne on October 18.

On the afternoon of November 7 Lee, Clayton and Andrews were drinking at the University Hotel, on the corner of Grattan and Lygon streets in Carlton, when an elderly man began speaking to Lee.  The man was William 'Pop' Kent, a 73-year-old SP bookmaker, who lived nearby in Dorrit-street.  The three began drinking with Kent, with Lee acting flirtatiously towards the old man.  Lee told Kent she was a dancer named Mesha Vetos, and her companions were her brother and his mate.  When Kent paid for drinks it was observed by his drinking companions that he peeled off the money from a thick roll of notes bound with an elastic band that he kept in the fob-pocket of his trousers.  When the bar closed at 6 p.m. the SP bookmaker invited the three strangers back to his place for drinks.

Kent lived in the front room of 'Mallow House' at 50 Dorrit-street.  The building operated as a boarding-house, with Kent as the landlord.  When they arrived Kent opened a bottle of white port and handed out glasses.  Kent sat on a cane armchair, Lee and Clayton were side-by-side on the bed and Andrews sat in one of the two wooden chairs in the room.  When Andrews first sat down, a leg of the chair gave way and sent him sprawling to the floor; he then sat in the remaining intact chair.  Within a short time the conversation between Lee and Kent again became flirtatious, and during a discussion about her weight, Lee rose from the bed and sat on the old man's lap.  Early in the evening another resident of the apartments, James Conole, briefly visited Kent's apartment where he witnessed Lee sitting on Kent's lap and all those in the room drinking wine.

After Conole left, Clayton and Andrews also departed from the room for about twenty minutes, leaving Lee to try to gain access to the roll of banknotes in Kent's fob-pocket.  Feigning intimacy with the old man she fumbled about, but was unable to get at the money "below the folds of his bulging belly".  She undid his shirt, unbuttoned his fly and took his penis in her mouth, but no matter what she tried she couldn't extract the money.  After Clayton and Andrews had walked slowly around the block, they knocked and entered the room where Kent was looking dishevelled and Lee was back on his lap.  Lee then left to use the toilet in the backyard.  Clayton followed her out of the room and they agreed for her to make another attempt, but this time Lee would try to take Kent's trousers off.