[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Archaeological looting in Iraq

ted to Director of Museums in 2004, and by summer 2006, a force of 1,400 guards were situated at sites around the country.

In 2016, the U.S. Government Accountability Office issued a report describing some of the United States’ cultural property protection efforts in Iraq and Syria.

Sites affected

Adab – an ancient city plagued by hundreds of looters.
 Babylon – saw the construction of "a 150-hectare camp for 2,000 troops. In the process the 2,500-year-old brick pavement to the Ishtar Gate was smashed by tanks and the gate itself damaged. The archaeology-rich subsoil was bulldozed to fill sandbags, and large areas covered in compacted gravel for helipads and car parks. Babylon is being rendered archaeologically barren".
 Hatra – looters with stonecutters have stolen elements of friezes and reliefs straight off the ancient architecture here.
 Isin – over two hundred looters' pits are organized around the former site of the Temple of Gula; countless artifacts have been removed from the site here, including innumerable cuneiform tablets, cylinder seals, and votive tablets, some of which could sell for as much as $30,000.
 Nimrud – home of the palace of Assurnasirpal II and described by the Old Testament as the "principal city" of Assyria, Nimrud is one of the few sites that is militarily protected. However, weeks before the arrival of the site's US guards, looters attacked the friezes and statues with stonecutting tools, stealing images distinctly belonging to Nimrud, and thus unmistakenly known to any potential buyers to be stolen; the items have been sold, presumably, nevertheless. Those few looters that managed to break into this site despite its protection have given every indication that they know precisely what they are looking for, where to find it, and how to get at it. Like many looters throughout Iraq and across the world, they have presumably been hired to obtain specific images; this separates them from the looters who dig up and sell whatever they can find.
 Nineveh – one of the more thoroughly researched sites, experts have little difficulty identifying objects stolen from Nineveh. The site was severely looted and damaged nevertheless after the first Gulf War, and chunks of its unique and ancient friezes have appeared on the European and American art markets.
 Nippur – the great ziggurat here has only three major looters' pits cut into it, which are the first in over forty years of valuable research and excavation.
 Umma – looters descended upon the site as soon as Coalition bombing began; the site is now pockmarked with hundreds of ditches and pits. When archaeologists "tried to remove vulnerable carvings from the ancient city of Umma to Baghdad, they found gangs of looters already in place with bulldozers, dump trucks and AK47s".
 Ur – one of the few sites protected by a US military presence. According to Simon Jenkins, "its walls are pockmarked with wartime shrapnel and a blockhouse is being built over an adjacent archaeological site".

See also
Art theft
Blood antiquities
Destruction of cultural heritage by ISIL or ISIS in 2014–2015
Hobby Lobby smuggling scandal
Illicit antiquities
Iraq Museum
Looted art
Mosul Museum

Notes

Sources

Further reading
Atwood, Roger (2004). Stealing History: Tomb Raiders, Smugglers, and the Looting of the Ancient World. New York: St. Martin's Press.
Bogdanos, Matthew. Thieves of Baghdad: One Marine's Passion to Recover the World's Greatest Stolen Treasures. Bloomsbury USA (October 26, 2005)   
 Global Heritage Fund, 
Looting of ancient sites threatens Iraqi heritage 6/29/2006
U.S.-Led Troops Have Damaged Babylon, British Museum Says, New York Times article
Zainab Bahrani. 2004. Lawless in Mesopotamia. Natural History 113(2):44–49
Farchakh, Joanne The massacre of Mesopotamian archaeology: Looting in Iraq is out of control, Tuesday, September 21, 2004
The massacre of Mesopotamian archaeology 
 Rothfield, Lawrence. The Rape of Mesopotamia behind the Looting of the Iraq Museum. Chicago: U of Chicago, 2009. Print.

External links
2003 UN Resolutions – Resolution 1483 concerns Iraq
"The Archaeological Map of Iraq" is a map from 1967 that shows all of the archaeological sites in Iraq

19th-century establishments in Asia
Archaeological theft
Art and cultural repatriation
Archaeology of Iraq
Looting