[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# May 1965

ast of its 272nd and final original episode.  The series closer was also a television pilot with Frank McGrath's character (Charlie Wooster) telling Terry Wilson's Bill Hawks about Charlie's days working at a trading post.  The pilot, Bend of the River, would not be picked up by any of the networks.

May 3, 1965 (Monday)
An earthquake measuring 7.5 on the Mercalli scale struck El Salvador at dawn.  Heaviest damage was in the Cisneros district of the capital, San Salvador, and the neighboring cities of Delgado and Mejicanos.  The official death toll was 120 people; more than 1,500 would die in a second earthquake on October 10, 1986, and "a significant number of the victims" would be "killed by the collapse of engineered structures that had been weakened in the 1965 event", most notably the 300 people dying in a five-story building that had been condemned after the 1965 earthquake. 
An article in Newsweek magazine prompted the breaking of diplomatic relations by Cambodia with the United States.  Prince Norodom Sihanouk cited a report about his mother, Queen Kossamak, that had accused her of involvement in "various money-making schemes".
President Sukarno of Indonesia called for volunteers to "dissolve the puppet state of Malaysia", both on the island of Java and on the Malay peninsula. 
Born: 
Gary Mitchell, Northern Irish playwright
Red Rum, champion thoroughbred racehorse, in Kells, County Kilkenny, Ireland (died 1995) 
Died: 
Árpád Szakasits, 76, President of Hungary 1948–1949, and chairman of the Presidential Council 1949–1950 after the post of president was abolished. 
Howard Spring, 76, British novelist and journalist

May 4, 1965 (Tuesday)
Pope Paul VI literally gave his blessing to the Italian space program, granting an audience to Luigi Broglio and a group of technicians and managers at the Vatican to discuss Broglio's successful effort in making Italy the third nation (in 1964, after the Soviet Union and the United States) to place an artificial satellite into orbit. The Pontiff of the Roman Catholic Church praised the San Marco project, saying, "You do have this deep faith; your presence here, with the humble Vicar of Jesus Christ, tells us that. The name San Marco tells us that, the name you gave your project as well as both satellites you produced, destined to carry into sidereal spaces, together with the presence of Italy, a sincere expression of complete and joyous confidence in heavenly protection too."
Colonel Francisco Caamaño was sworn in as President of the Dominican Republic at the presidential palace in Santo Domingo, after rebel forces convened a constitutional congress and voted to have him govern until the return of exiled ex-President Juan Bosch. Addressing a crowd of 2,500 supporters in Independence Plaza, Caamaño called for the immediate withdrawal of the 14,000 American troops that had arrived in the Caribbean nation during the past week.
The split capital investment trust, a form of investment that allows investors to choose between two or more classes of shares of stock, was introduced. The New York City offices of the British firm Samuel Montagu & Co. launched the program as the Dualvest Limited Fund.
The American version of That Was the Week That Was, hosted by David Frost on the NBC television network, was shown for the last time.