[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Blackstar (spacecraft)

clear if the Blackstar program became fully operational, although it may have been so since the mid-1990s. Aviation Week'''s article speculated that the success of Blackstar explains the Government's willingness to cancel the SR-71 Blackbird and Air Force satellite-launch programs.

Similar aircraft

During the 1970s, when studies were underway which led to the specification of the Space Shuttle, most leading US aerospace contractors explored orbital spaceplane designs, some based on a two-stage design. With the adoption of the Space Shuttle design, these avenues appear to have been abandoned. The use of a spaceplane as part of the launching system to replace the Space Shuttle has been suggested in programs such as VentureStar.

Some of the details of the SR-3 resemble the rumored Brilliant Buzzard or “Mothership” aircraft, which was alleged to carry reconnaissance aircraft on top, rather than on the bottom as with the SR-3. The second stage of Brilliant Buzzard was considered a hypersonic aircraft, and the lengthening of runways at facilities such as Area 51 (taken by some as evidence of Aurora) could instead be necessary either to support SR-3's takeoff or XOV's landing.

In the late 1960s North American studied conceptual designs using the B-70 bomber for small space launch of an X-15 type rocket plane. These were abandoned as unpromising.

What is known, and a matter of public record, is that, through the 1980s and 1990s, the USAF did undertake a series of projects to study, research, develop and test demonstrator vehicles capable of SSTO (single-stage-to-orbit) and TSTO (two-stage-to-orbit) missions. These programs were code-named, in order, Science dawn, Science realm, and Copper Canyon, and involved the development of three different competitive demonstrator vehicles. It was at the conclusion of Copper Canyon's design phase that President Reagan proposed the X-30 NASP, which is claimed to have been used to pay for development of this spaceplane.

According to one declassified Rand Corp. report, two of the three vehicles failed to achieve their full flight envelope (i.e. couldn't make orbit), while the third, an "assisted SSTO", did achieve orbital capability. Furthermore, three code-named programs to design the stealthing of these three vehicles fell under the programs known as Have blinders I, II and III. All of these programs can be found in US military budget documents with associated budget account numbers for years in the 1980s up into the mid-1990s, though the code name was dropped from the account number in the mid-1990s, even though many millions were budgeted up until recent years.

See also
 Boeing X-20 Dyna-Soar
 British Aerospace HOTOL
 Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird
 North American XB-70 Valkyrie
 Project ISINGLASS
 Rockwell X-30 National Aerospace Plane
 Saenger (spacecraft)
 VentureStar

References

Bibliography
 .

External links
 The Space Review: Six blind men in a zoo: Aviation Week’s mythical Blackstar Dwayne A. Day, The Space Review'', Monday, March 13, 2006
 RobotPig.net - TSTO spaceplanes presentation of a Boeing TSTO patent, the Blackstar TSTO and the respective technologies
 The Register: Blackstar: the US space conspiracy that never was?, Lester Haines, April 24, 2006

Spaceplanes
Crewed spacecraft
1990s United States experimental aircraft
Rocket-powered aircraft