[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fred Gray (attorney)

and subsequently served as president and board member of) the Tuskegee History Center. This nonprofit corporation operates a museum and offers educational resources concerning the Tuskegee Syphilis Study, as well as contributions made by various ethnic groups in the fields of human and civil rights.

Judicial nomination
On January 10, 1980, President Carter nominated Gray to be a judge on the United States District Court for the Middle District of Alabama, to fill a vacancy created by Judge Frank Minis Johnson's elevation to what then was the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Gray later asked his nomination be withdrawn, as happened on September 17, 1980; President Carter instead nominated Myron Herbert Thompson to that seat.

Personal life
Gray married the former Bernice Hill, his secretary, in 1955, and they had four children. He published his autobiography in 1995, Bus Ride to Justice: The Life and Works of Fred Gray. He is also a member of Omega Psi Phi and Sigma Pi Phi.

Awards

In 1980, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference awarded Gray its Drum Major Award. In 1996, the American Bar Association awarded Gray its Spirit of Excellence Award (having awarded him its Equal Justice Award in 1977). The National Bar Association awarded him its C. Frances Stradford Award. In 2002, Gray became the first African-American president of the Alabama Bar Association. In 2006, the NAACP recognized Gray's accomplishments with the William Robert Ming Advocacy Award, citing the spirit of financial and personal sacrifice displayed in his legal work.

Gray's hometown of Montgomery renamed the street he grew up on after him in 2021. The street was previously named Jefferson Davis Avenue, so the change is a potential violation of the Alabama Memorial Preservation Act.

In 2022, the University of Alabama School of Law and Princeton University awarded Gray honorary doctorates. President Joe Biden presented Gray with the Presidential Medal of Freedom on July 7, 2022.

In popular culture
Gray is portrayed by Cuba Gooding, Jr. in the 2014 film Selma, which dramatizes the Selma to Montgomery marches and Gray's argument before Judge Frank Johnson that the march should be allowed to go forward.

Shawn Michael Howard portrays Gray in the 2001 film Boycott, in which Gray, himself, plays a cameo role as a supporter of Martin Luther King Jr.

Gray was portrayed by London Carlisle in the 2016 stage play The Integration of Tuskegee High School. The production premiered at Auburn University, was written and directed by Tessa Carr, and dramatizes Gray's involvement in the case of Lee v. Macon County Board of Education.

Gray is portrayed by Aki Omoshaybi in a 2018 episode of Doctor Who, "Rosa".

References

External links

1930 births
Living people
20th-century African-American lawyers
20th-century American lawyers
Activists for African-American civil rights
Alabama State University alumni
Alabama lawyers
American civil rights lawyers
American members of the Churches of Christ
Case Western Reserve University alumni
Case Western Reserve University School of Law alumni
Lipscomb University alumni
Lawyers from Montgomery, Alabama
Montgomery bus boycott
Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients
Selma to Montgomery marches
21st-century African-American lawyers
21st-century American lawyers