[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ned Christie

e. After spending the day unsuccessfully seeking Trainer, Maples and posse member George Jefferson started back to their camp near Spring Branch Creek, outside Tahlequah. Maples was shot from ambush in the territory of the Cherokee Nation and died the next day of his wounds. The shooter had escaped.

"Ned Christie's War"
According to Frates's account, the other marshals suspected that Trainer had shot Maples, and began arresting his associates. Christie was accused of the murder by John Parris, a companion who had been arrested. Parris told authorities that Christie had fired the shot that killed Maples. But Christie was said to have been drinking with friends when the shooting occurred.

Friends convinced Christie to hide. Fearing a trial before white people in a U.S. court, Christie fortified his home to resist arrest. Christie's home was in the Rabbit Trap community of the Goingsnake District in the Cherokee Nation, where he lived with his wife, Nancy Greece, and their 13-year old son James Greece.

He learned that he had been indicted by a grand jury of the United States Court of the Western District of Arkansas in Fort Smith for Maples' murder and that Judge Isaac Parker had sent more marshals to arrest him. Reportedly, he wrote a letter to Judge Parker, saying that he was willing to surrender if Parker would promise to release him on bail so that he could look for evidence to prove his innocence. According to one account, Parker did not believe he could comply with that request; at any rate, he never responded to the letter. Christie never surrendered to the court.

Judge Parker was known for handling some sensational cases. Because of his tough stands and his sentencing of many criminals to death and was known as "the hanging judge." But he also worked to rehabilitate offenders, reform the criminal justice system, and advocate the rights of the Indian nations in the territory.

In 1889, Jacob Yoes was appointed as the U.S. Marshal in Fort Smith. Yoes assigned his top deputy, Heck Thomas, to lead the effort to bring in Christie. Thomas was assisted by Deputy Marshall L. P. Isbell of Vinita, two other marshals, and the notorious Bud Trainer.  In an attack in 1889, lawmen burned Christie's house to the ground, but Christie escaped with friends, although he was wounded by a gunshot. Christie never went to trial.

Deputy Thomas decided to burn Christie out: the marshals set fire to Christie's blacksmith shop and flames spread to the cabin. Christie's wife and his 18-year-old nephew, Little Arch Wolf (also spelled Wolfe), escaped the cabin but his nephew was wounded by gunfire. Believing that Christie had been killed, Heck and the posse left the scene to get medical attention for Isbell. Nancy Christie returned to the burned-out cabin and found her husband wounded but alive. She took him and his nephew to a local white doctor. The doctor and a Cherokee medicine man saved the lives of Christie and Wolf. According to Frates, at this point, Christie swore that he would never surrender.

Christie and his friends built a fort for protection. The fort was double-walled with logs and had sand packed between the two walls. It also had gun ports for rifles and was amply stocked with food, water and ammunition to withstand a siege. During this time, the U.S. Government increased the reward for Christie's capture from $500 to $1000. Sensational coverage of Christie continued.

In October 1892, Marshal Yoes sent a posse of six deputies to Christie's known location. This group withdrew after two men were wounded in a firefight. Yoes proposed a military-style raid on the fort. It was led by Deputy Gideon S. “Cap” White, a former captain in the U.S. Cavalry during the Civil War. Gus York, a civilian who was familiar with the territory, was hired to assist White, along with 14 other men. An army post in Kansas agreed to loan White a cannon for the expedition.

White's force surrounded the Christie fort on the morning of November 3, 1892. In addition to Christie, others at the fort included his wife Nancy, her son Albert, Ned's daughter, Mary; his granddaughter, Charlotte; nephew Little Arch Wolf, and Charles Hair, a 12-year-old Cherokee. After the first exchange of rifle fire, the marshals allowed the women to leave, and held them elsewhere.

The posse of lawmen killed Christie in their attack. The lawmen loaded a double charge of powder into the cannon for more power, but the next shot blew up the barrel. They pushed a wagon load of dynamite against one wall of the fort and detonated it. The explosion destroyed part of the fort and set the rest afire. Christie was fatally shot as he escaped the burning ruins.