[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Spanish Christmas Lottery

The Spanish Christmas Lottery (officially Sorteo Extraordinario de Navidad  or simply Lotería de Navidad ) is a special draw of the Lotería Nacional, the weekly national lottery run by Spain's state-owned Loterías y Apuestas del Estado. The special Christmas draw takes place every December 22 and it is the biggest and most popular draw of the year.

Lotería Nacional, with its first draw held on 4 March 1812, is the second-longest continuously running lottery in the world. This includes the years during the Spanish Civil War when the lottery draws were held in Valencia after the Republicans were forced to relocate their capital from Madrid. After the overthrow of the Republican government, the lottery continued uninterrupted in Francoist Spain. The first Christmas draw was held on 18 December 1812 in Cádiz and the grand prize was for the number 03604. The first time that the name Sorteo de Navidad was used was in 1892.

As measured by the total prize payout, the Spanish Christmas Lottery is considered the biggest lottery draw worldwide. In 2022, with 180 million pre-printed €20 tickets to sell (décimos), the maximum total amount available for all prizes would be €2.52 billion (seventy per cent of ticket sales). The total amount for the grand prize El Gordo ("the big one") would be €720 million.

In the Spanish-speaking and the English-speaking media it is sometimes just called El Gordo, even though that name really refers to the grand prize for any Spanish lottery.

Ticket numbers and prizes

As all Lotería Nacional draws, the special Christmas draw is based on tickets (billetes) which have five-digit numbers, from 00000 to 99999. Since this system only produces 100,000 unique ticket numbers, each ticket number is printed multiple times, in several so-called series (series). The series is also identified on each ticket by a series number. In this way, the lottery organizer is able to sell more than 100,000 tickets each year, numbered from "Series 001 Ticket 00000" through "Series xxx Ticket 99999", where xxx is the total number of series printed in a given year. In 2022, there are 180 series of 100,000 tickets each, for a total of 18,000,000 tickets available at €200 each. If all €3.6 billion tickets were sold, there would be €2.52 billion (seventy per cent of ticket sales) available for prizes.

Because the €200 ticket price may be prohibitive for many purchasers, each of the pre-printed tickets is actually a perforated tear-apart sheet of ten identical sub-tickets (or fractions) sold for €20 each. Each one of these fractions is known as a décimo (one-tenth). Each décimo is entitled a ten per cent of any prize that the ticket has won.

Tickets are officially sold in official lottery shops (administraciones) throughout the country as well as by licensed (and unlicensed) sellers on the street. Frequently a shop will sell a ticket number in all series meaning all the winners of that ticket will have purchased their tickets in that location. This sometimes leads to a small village full of grand prize winners. Locations where previous grand prize winners were sold (El Gordo) often becomes a location of lottery pilgrimage where thousands of people (both local and from far away) will queue and buy their ticket at this location "for luck". The tickets are also sold outside of Spain, usually online (legally or illegally) often with a notable markup in price.

On a private basis, or through associations, charities, workplaces, sports teams, cafés, shops, and other organizations, it is also possible to buy or be given a fraction of a décimo (one-tenth ticket), called a participación (a share). Many organizations buy décimos and divide them further into shares and sell them to the public, colleagues, or members of an association. Usually, with charities and special organizations, a small transaction fee is applied which is effectively a donation to the organization. Street sellers may take a commission earning a small profit. Participaciones (shares) are made by writing the ticket number and the amount paid on a piece of paper (possibly on a photocopy of the ticket) and then signed. The paper is a legal contract in Spain and proof of participation in the ticket. If the ticket is a winner, anyone holding a share will be entitled to their proportional amount of the prize payout. For example, a charity may buy a décimo (one-tenth ticket) and split it further into ten more participaciones (shares), in this case selling them for €2 each plus €1 extra as a donation to the charity. If their number wins, they will get a one per cent of the prize (one-tenth of one-tenth).

For 2022, there are 180 series of 100,000 billetes (from 00000 to 99999) at €200 each. The maximum ticket sales of €3.6 billion would produce a prize payout of €2.52 billion (seventy per cent of ticket sales). For each one of the 180 series, the prize structure is the following: