[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Thornton Chase

centering on that first graveside memorial visit with  ʻAbdu'l-Bahá. It was written from the point of view of a Catholic man in love with a Baháʼí and their struggle over unity being of different religions and their resolution at the interaction of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá, Thornton Chase's gravesite, and them.

Chase scholar Robert Stockman's 1985 book  Baha'i Faith in America: Origins 1892–1900 acknowledged Chase had served in the Civil War (and as a teenager) though not that his service was with black Americans. Neither did volume two in the series. An excerpt from a forthcoming book by Stockman was published in 1987 in the Baháʼí News. It noted Chase was 6' 2" and some 260lbs late in life, had suffered medical trouble some 20 years including a surgery in 1911 and held correspondence between Chase and Bosch. It also included a tribute by Stockman for Chase. It noted Chase was "exceptionally even-tempered and mild-mannered…scrupulously avoided arguing…. His capacity to love anyone, especially those who disagreed with him, is especially demonstrated in his words and actions.… He is perhaps the only person before 1912 who had a thorough understanding of the Baháʼí concept of consultation.… was the prime mover behind many of the (local council)'s activities." Yet none of these refer to his Civil War service being with African Americans. In 1989 Bob Quigley, a Baháʼí television producer who had worked closely with Hand of the Cause William Sears from the 1960s was buried in a grave very near to Chase'. So is that of Kazem Kazemzadeh, the first trustee of the Huququ'llah in the West, the father of Firuz Kazemzadeh.

In 1994 several centennial observances were noted. In January it was announced, in the third generation of Baháʼí national news, The American Baháʼí, that a massive granite monument was placed at the gravesite after a 7 year fundraising campaign. As of June it had cost $26,000. Contributions were sent from Baháʼís all over the United States and from Amatu'l-Baha Ruhiyyih Khanum. The black granite was specially ordered from India and is engraved with gold lettering. The architect who conceived and designed the monument was Arsalan Mottahedin then of Beverly Hills, California. The dedication and unveiling of the monument coincided with the annual memorial service for Thornton Chase. The sculptor for the eagle was Frederick ("Rik") Sargent, a Baháʼí then from Littleton, Colorado. Firuz Kazemzadeh was the keynote speaker at the dedication. A choir directed by Russ Garcia performed. At a June reception on the centennial of the religion in the West the Baháʼís presented a "family album" video narrated by Sylvia B.P. Parmelee which publicly mentioned Chase had served in the Civil War as an officer of black soldiers. The event was attended by over 500 people including dignitaries. A September centenary memorial at the gravesite of Chase's joining the religion was also advertised.

In 2002 Stockman published Thornton Chase: First American Baháʼí and it mentions Chase's war service in detail and with African-American troops. In 2009 an encyclopedic article published by Baháʼís written by Stockman includes his service and addressed Stockman's views of Chase's importance as an early North American Baháʼí thinker, publicist, administrator, and organizer being still underappreciated and that in many ways Chase's death left a gap in the North American Baháʼí community that remained unfilled until the rise to prominence in the early 1920s of Horace Holley, the chief developer of Baháʼí organization in the United States and Canada and included the picture of the 26th Colored Troops on parade as above.

A couple 2012 presentations recalled Chase's correspondence and activity in the religion, one of which included very early picture of Chase from 1884 as well as a picture with his son in Los Angeles. This presentation was republished separately in 2013.

Bibliography

Books

Shorter pieces

 Poem "Lo, the ranks are thinned and thinning" 1882/1883
 The Serpent (Chicago: n.p., 1900)
 What Went Ye Out for to See? ([Chicago: Bahai Publishing Society], 1904). 
  It was a chapter from Chase's The Bahai Revelation
 excerpts from his letters published as

Posthumous publications

  (republished in 1944.)
 ; written in 1902 to a Christian.

See also 

 Benjamin F. Randolph also in the 26th USCT, and Martin Delany and Henry Wilson also in the 104th USCI
 Other white officers in other USCT regiments: Walter Thorn, Edward Winslow Hinks, William Gould (W.G.) Raymond. Charles Henry Howard was leader of the Beaufort, SC training camp for new regiments organized there.
 Baháʼí Faith in North America
 Baháʼí Faith in South Carolina

Notes

References

Further reading

External links