[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Manfred Stern

sion of great dynamic force. He is a character possibly destined to play a great part in the troubled years which face the world... In thinking about him it is hard not to ponder on the ironical fact that Hitler is not the only native of Austria who is playing a great part in the Spanish Civil War."

In 1937 he led the newly established 45th Division, but a leadership dispute caused Kléber to be replaced by Hans Kahle as leader of the Republican Infantry division. Even so, Stern remained in Spain as liaison agent with the Republican Government and still enjoyed military prestige among Spanish Communist Party members. He left Spain when the International Brigades were withdrawn in October 1938.

Recall to Moscow, imprisonment, and death 
The NKVD chief in Spain, Alexander Orlov, knew that Stern's recall meant certain imprisonment and death because in Moscow Joseph Stalin and Nikolai Yezhov were busy purging the Red Army. He offered to employ Stern as a member of the NKVD. While awaiting orders, Stern spent his final months in Spain relaxing at a small orange plantation and entertaining his young Spanish mistress. Kliment Voroshilov denied his transfer and ordered his return to Moscow.

In May 1939 a Military Collegium condemned Stern to fifteen years of hard labor. He became a nonperson. His name was deliberately withheld from official Soviet histories of the Spanish Civil War. The remaining years of his life were spent in the Gulag and he  died of exhaustion at a labor camp in Sosnovka on February 18, 1954.

See also 
 Otto Braun (communist)

References

Sources 

1896 births
1954 deaths
People from Chernivtsi Oblast
Ukrainian Jews
Soviet spies against the United States
Soviet Jews in the military
German people of the Spanish Civil War
Soviet generals
Soviet people of the Spanish Civil War
GRU officers
Jewish Chinese history
Jewish socialists
Soviet people who died in prison custody
International Brigades personnel
Austrian emigrants to the Soviet Union
Frunze Military Academy alumni