[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zombie Prom

vision ("Come Join Us"). During a commercial break, he asks for the number to Our Lady of Divine Masochism, a Catholic orphanage, for unspecified reasons. While being interviewed by Flagrante, Jonny explains that he cannot give up love because it is what brought him back ("How Can I Say Good-Bye?").

Meanwhile, Toffee can't keep focused on her schoolwork. She debates with herself if she should take back Jonny. Her friends call on a party line and talk with her about her situation. None of them missed Jonny's TV appearance, which was broadcast on "all three channels". In the end, Toffee chooses to take Jonny back ("Easy to Say").

Flagrante tracks down Miss Strict and begins flirting with her ("Exposé"). It is revealed that they were lovers in high school, with a very physical relationship - the last time they were together, Miss Strict reminds him, was in the back seat of his father's Studebaker. Each feels that the other had abandoned them, but no specifics are revealed.

Prom night arrives, and the students marvel at how the school has been decorated ("Isn't It?"). Toffee approaches Jonny, who has snuck into the prom, and tells him that she'll always be with him. They dance and continue to profess their love for each other ("Forbidden Love"). However, Jonny is then caught by Miss Strict, who stops everything to kick him out. Before she can do so, Eddie Flagrante appears in order to confront Miss Strict about her secrets and her hostility towards Jonny, but she refuses to explain herself ("The Lid's Been Blown"). Pushed by Flagrante, Miss Strict reveals her past ("Delilah's Confession"); despite her mother's warnings, she had been dating "a boy from the wrong side of the tracks" - Flagrante. On the evening of her own prom, she and Flagrante drove around before stopping off an old highway and slept together, resulting in Miss Strict becoming pregnant. Once her parents found out, she was sent to a home for unwed mothers in Santa Fe, New Mexico to give birth. Her son was taken away to an orphanage, and Miss Strict was never able to identify the child. Flagrante, who had investigated the orphanage, reveals that Jonny is their long-lost son and proposes to Miss Strict. Overjoyed, Miss Strict allows the prom to continue and permits Jonny to come back to school. The students reflect on how their realities are so much different than their dreams, but still life's worth living, and Toffee and Jonny have one more dance before the curtain drops ("Zombie Prom").

Characters
Jonny Warner: a "bad boy" who becomes romantically involved with Toffee, his classmate. After Toffee breaks up with him under the orders of her disapproving parents, he commits suicide by jumping into a nuclear reactor and is buried at sea with the rest of the nuclear waste generated by the disaster his death caused. He then comes back from the dead as a zombie, due to the nuclear waste he was buried with, and sets out to return to school and win Toffee back. It is revealed at the end of the musical that he is Miss Strict and Eddie Flagrante's son. 
Toffee: Jonny's girlfriend. After his death, she is riddled with guilt, and becomes even more conflicted when he is revived. Eventually, she chooses him, even though it is the less safe thing to do.
Delilah Strict: the principal of Enrico Fermi High School, the school Jonny and Toffee attend. True to her name, she is extremely harsh and rigidly adheres to rules and tradition. This is later revealed to be due to her teenage pregnancy (which resulted in Jonny's birth).
Eddie Flagrante: An investigative reporter for Exposé Magazine. Very determined and inquisitive, he takes a strong interest in Jonny and his death and subsequent revival and discovers that Jonny is his son, conceived with his high-school girlfriend, Miss Strict.
Jake, Joey, and Josh: Jonny's friends, who berate Toffee for not wanting to take Jonny back. While Jake and Joey don't have much characterization (besides Jake's flirtatious comments towards Coco and Toffee), Josh is an amateur reporter for the Enrico Fermi High Gazette, and brings the stories from the high school - notably that of Jonny's death and zombification - to Exposé Magazine.
 Candy, Ginger, and Coco: Toffee's friends, who generally encourage Toffee not to take Jonny back. Candy is characterized by her anxiety and her declaration that she is "hanging on by her fingernails!" Ginger is a good girl who often speaks up in favor of the rules and social norms of the school, and Coco makes several promiscuous comments throughout the course of the show.

Musical numbers