[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

escape route. Grant ordered Sheridan to proceed to Dinwiddie, Virginia, where it could cut off Lee's escape route. The two divisions were joined by the Second Cavalry Division from the Army of the Potomac, which was led by General Crook. The three cavalry divisions totaled to a force of about 9,000.

Battle of Dinwiddie Court House
Sheridan now had three divisions, and reached Dinwiddie Court House on March 29. While most of his army went into camp at that location, Custer's Third Division (which included the 1st West Virginia Cavalry) guarded the wagon trains further back at Malone's Crossing. On the next day, Devin's First Cavalry Division, and a brigade from Crook's Second Division, were sent north toward Five Forks. Their reconnaissance found a strong enemy infantry force led by General George E. Pickett, and the Union cavalry was driven back. The Battle of Dinwiddie Court House occurred on March 31, and is considered a Confederate victory. While Sheridan again sent Devin and Crook north, Pickett’s infantry and cavalry led by Major General Fitzhugh Lee drove back infantry under the command of Union General Gouverneur Kemble Warren, located east of Sheridan's army. Then the attacking Confederate force turned its attention to Sheridan. This forced Sheridan's cavalry to face three enemy divisions: two infantries and one cavalry. As the Union cavalry was driven back toward Dinwiddie Court House, Capehart's 3rd Brigade was recalled from duty guarding the wagon train. They moved near what would soon become the front, an open area in front of Dinwiddie. Capehart's brigade used rails from a fence to quickly build a protective area for fighting while dismounted. The brigade was able to halt the Confederate attack in fighting that continued until after dark.

Battle of Five Forks
The Battle of Five Forks occurred on April 1, 1865. Five Forks is a small community in Dinwiddie County, located between Dinwiddie Court House and Petersburg. Sheridan received reinforcements from the Fifth Corps and a division of cavalry from the Army of the James. The Confederate force was again led by Pickett and Fitzhugh Lee. Both sides advanced and retreated, and soon the opposing forces were fighting in close combat using sabers. At times, the cavalry fought dismounted. A portion of Capehart's brigade drove the rebels to the end of the field, only to be partially driven back by a second group of Confederate cavalrymen. After the regiment was reinforced by the rest of Capehart's brigade, the Confederates were driven from the area, and numerous battle flags were captured.

Lieutenant Wilmon W. Blackmar, from CompanyH of the 1st West Virginia Cavalry, was awarded the Medal of Honor for extraordinary heroism in this battle. After Capehart's brigade began a charge, Blackmar observed that they were chasing a small detachment of Confederates, and the main body of the Confederates was about to isolate the cavalry from the Union infantry. Blackmar caught up with Capehart and informed him of the situation, and was ordered to reform the brigade in the correct line of battle. Blackmar reformed a portion of the brigade and led a charge without waiting for the rest of the brigade. The charging men took prisoners, and captured artillery, wagons, and ambulances. Custer and Capehart promoted Blackmar to captain immediately. Blackmar's Medal of Honor citation says "At a critical stage of the battle, without orders, led a successful advance upon the enemy."

Although the battle is considered finished on the day it started, skirmishing continued as Lee's army tried to escape to the west. On April 2, Capehart's brigade attacked the Confederates at Namozine Church. In this confrontation, Henry Capehart's horse was killed, and his clothing was pierced with several shots that did not seriously wound him. On the next day, another brigade from Custer's division attacked, and eventually the Confederates escaped toward Amelia Court House. This inconclusive battle, described as a Confederate rear guard action, became known as the Battle of Namozine Church. Total casualties for both sides are an estimated 75, and Confederate General Rufus Barringer was captured.