[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jorge Valdivia

Jorge Luis Valdivia Toro (, born 19 October 1983) is a Chilean national and former professional footballer who played as an attacking midfielder.

Product of Colo-Colo youth ranks, Valdivia had an impressing loan spell at Universidad de Concepción during his debut season in 2003. Then after another two loan spells in Europe, he definitely joined Colo-Colo in 2005 winning one year later the Torneo Apertura title, before moving to Palmeiras. Since joining Brazilian club, he spent seven years playing for Verdão — interrupted by his spell at Al Ain — and has appeared in more than 100 games, winning one Paulistão in 2008, a Copa do Brasil in 2012 and a Série B title in 2013.

A Chilean international between 2004 until 2017, he was an integral member of the 2015 Copa América winning squad (the first ever achieved by his national team in its history), having previously appeared in two past editions (2007 and 2011) and in the 2010 and 2014 World Cups. During his years active, Valdivia has reached 7 goals in 78 caps.

He is considered one of the greatest playmakers in the Chilean football history and has been praised by football legends like Pelé or Carlos Valderrama. His figure is very prominent at Palmeiras recent history, where he is mostly a divisive figure, but more often considered to be an idol. He also enjoys great fame at Al Ain.

Due to his talent, he was given the nicknames "El Mago" (the wizard) throughout his career. Valdivia was a "classic number 10", who was best known for his passing ability and skills.

Early life and background
Valdivia was born in Maracay, Venezuela, in 1983, to Chilean parents Luis Valdivia and Elizabeth Toro, because of his father's work as a correspondent for LAN airlines, which he did from 1974. In 1985, the Valdivia family returned their homeland moving to Santiago. There they settled in the commune of La Florida. Likely due to these years he spent in Venezuela, he was interested in baseball. After moving to Chile, he developed his taste for football.

Club career

Early career
In 1993, Valdivia joined Colo-Colo’s football academy. He was promoted to first team in 2003, at the age of nineteen. Nevertheless, he was demotivated by his teammates, like captain Marcelo Espina, complemented by the misbehavior outside the field.

Colo-Colo

Loan to Universidad Concepción
After falling out of Colo-Colo's first team figures, Valdivia was loaned to fellow Chilean Primera División side Universidad de Concepción. He made his professional debut for Concepción on 16 March 2003, coming on as a second-half substitute for Pablo Abdala in a 2–1 Primera División away loss against Cobresal. During his first start on 6 April, he scored his team's last in a 3–1 home win against Unión Española.

Following that match, Valdivia became an undisputed starter for the club, contributing with the opener in a 4–3 home win against Universidad de Chile on 16 June, as his side qualified to the quarterfinals of the Torneo Apertura. In his first season at Concepción-based side, he impressed for his skills. There, Valdivia scored seven goals in 30 games.

Loans to Rayo Vallecano and Servette
That allowed him to go on loan again, this time to Segunda División side Rayo Vallecano, where he only played five matches and failed to score a goal.

After another loan spell at Switzerland's Servette, Valdivia could have played for Boca Juniors, club that was willing to pay US$1.5 million dollars for him, but nevertheless the talks about the transfer didn't have success and, finally, he definitely returned to Colo-Colo.

Return and breakthrough
In 2005, he returned to Colo-Colo. Likewise, that year he complemented his football career with studies of journalism at the University of the Americas, career which he didn't finished.

Then, in 2006, Valdivia helped his club to achieve the Torneo Apertura, where once again he reached an impressive performance, which was polished by the coach in the age, Claudio Borghi. Noteworthy, he highlighted in a team which had players like Chilean internationals Claudio Bravo, Matías Fernández and Humberto Suazo.

Palmeiras
On 5 August 2006, Valdivia completed his move to Brazilian club Palmeiras for a US$3.5 million transfer fee. His signing was the club's most expensive transfer – in the year – for a foreign player. After an unsuccessful season, he had a revitalizing 2007 where he reached four honours for his performances: Campeonato Paulista Most Valuable Player, Prêmio Craque do Brasileirão, Bola de Ouro and Troféu Mesa Redonda, that put him as the season's best playmaker of Brazilian football. His further consecration at the Verdão was the obtention of 2008 Campeonato Paulista title, where for his performances he came to cost US$40 dollars.

Al Ain