[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Aldona Wos

McKillip received a $22,500 raise in April 2013, bringing his salary to $87,500. DHHS Communications Director Ricky Diaz, also 24 and also a former McCrory campaign worker, received a $23,000 raise in April, bringing his salary to $85,000 per year. Diaz resigned from the department in January 2014.

Wos resigned on August 15, 2015, stating in a press conference that it was "simply time to go home" and spend time with her family. Asked by the press if she would "change any of the decisions that she made over a sometimes rocky tenure," she replied, "not at all." Wos was replaced by Rick Brajer, a former medical technology executive. After being sworn in, Brajer asserted to the press that Wos's resignation was unrelated to the ongoing federal investigation into DHHS. In August 2016, federal officials ended the investigations into employee and consultant contracts "with no finding of criminal wrongdoing".

Although Wos's tenure as secretary earned criticism for issues such as computer glitches, McCrory praised how she "streamlined" the health care delivery systems. McCrory also praised Wos for the state's $130 million Medicaid budget surplus during her tenure, after years of major budget shortfalls. For her service to the state, McCrory awarded Wos with the Order of the Long Leaf Pine.

2015 to present 
In May 2017, President Donald Trump appointed her his vice-chairwoman of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. The president uses the commission to interview and recommend candidates for White House fellowships.  In June 2019, she was considered for the post of Ambassador to Canada, and Trump announced his intent to nominate her on February 11, 2020. On February 25, 2020, her nomination was sent to the Senate.  On July 23, 2020 she testified before the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. On January 3, 2021, her nomination was returned to the President under Rule XXXI, Paragraph 6 of the U.S. Senate.

In February 2022, she was appointed Interim President of the Institute of World Politics following the departure of her predecessor.

Family and charity work 
Wos's grandmother and aunts were imprisoned in Ravensbrück concentration camp, while her father and grandfather, Paul Wos, Sr., were held in Flossenbürg concentration camp. Her Catholic family helped twelve Jews escape from the Warsaw Ghetto. They were reunited after the Allied Forces liberated the concentration camps. She has spoken publicly about the need to remember Holocaust victims.

Wos and her husband Louis DeJoy have twin children and live in Greensboro, North Carolina, in an Irving Park Neighborhood home, which has been the location of several notable political fundraising events.

Her husband donated $747,000 to Duke University in 2014, funding Blue Devil Tower and the DeJoy Family Club at the football stadium. The same year, their son was accepted to the school and joined the school's tennis team as a walk-on.

Wos has been involved in efforts to raise money for a number of nonprofit organizations and private schools as well. She served on the board of the United Way of Greater Greensboro, and has been involved with the Family Services of the Piedmont, Hospice and Palliative Care of Greensboro, and the Triad Stage Theatre. She was also instrumental in raising the finances for the Greensboro Ballet gala, held in February 2011, to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the ballet company and school once attended by her children. Wos and DeJoy also founded The Louis DeJoy and Aldona Z. Wos Family Foundation which awards several scholarships to students. The foundation also hosts a professional–amateur golf championship as a prelude to the Wyndham Championship.

References

External links
 Official website of The Louis DeJoy and Aldona Z. Wos Family Foundation

1955 births
Living people
State cabinet secretaries of North Carolina
Ambassadors of the United States to Estonia
Polish emigrants to the United States
People from Greensboro, North Carolina
Recipients of the Order of the Cross of Terra Mariana, 1st Class
North Carolina Republicans
American women ambassadors
Recipients of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland
Medical University of Warsaw alumni
Trump administration personnel
21st-century American women