[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Turkey–United States relations

Normal diplomatic relations were established between the Republic of Turkey (Türkiye) and the United States of America in 1927. Relations after World War II evolved from the Second Cairo Conference in December 1943 and Turkey's entrance into World War II on the side of the Allies in February 1945. Later that year, Turkey became a charter member of the United Nations. Difficulties faced by Greece after the war in quelling a communist rebellion, along with demands by the Soviet Union for military bases in the Turkish Straits, prompted the United States to declare the Truman Doctrine in 1947. The doctrine declared American intentions to guarantee the security of Turkey and Greece, and resulted in significant U.S. military and economic support. This support manifested in the establishment of a clandestine stay-behind army, denoted the "Counter-Guerrilla", under Operation Gladio.

Relations between the countries began to deteriorate in 2003 as Turkey refused to allow the United States to use Incirlik Air Base for the invasion of Iraq, a process that intensified following the coup d'état attempt in Turkey in July 2016 as the country's foreign policy gradually shifted towards seeking partnerships with other regional powers, such as Russia, as well as the dispute over the Armenian genocide, which the United States recognized in 2021.

A 2019 survey conducted by the Pew Research Center showed 73% of Turks had a negative view of the United States, with only 20% having a positive view, the lowest among countries polled. The same study also showed only 11% of Turks had confidence in the US leader at the time of the survey, President Donald Trump, with 84% having no confidence in him.

Strategic partnership
The strategic partnership characterizes the exceptionally close economic and military relations between the two countries, particularly for relations since 1952.

Cold War (1946–91) 
From 1952 to 1991 the relationship premised upon the concept of a “mutuality of benefits”.

After participating with United Nations forces in the Korean War, Turkey joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in 1952.  The second-largest army belongs to Turkey in NATO and host of the Allied Land Command headquarters including the Incirlik (1955–present) and Konya Airbases (2000–present).

The US pressured and promised military and economic aid to Turkey to be one of the founding members of Central Treaty Organization (CENTO), which promoted shared political, and military economic goals similar to and modeled like NATO. The defensive organization never became functional partly due to the lack of leadership (the US being outside) as John Foster Dulles (United States Secretary of State) claimed that the administration could not obtain Congressional approval."

The US actively supported Turkey's membership bid to join the European Union and frequently lobbied on behalf of Ankara through its diplomatic missions in EU capital cities.

War on Terror 

In 2001, the relationship began with the premise of the United States' fostering cooperation on counterterrorism, law enforcement, and military training and education. Turkey remained a close ally of the United States and provided support in the War on Terror.

Deterioration of the partnership 

US Congressional Research Service (CRS) states that "Turkey’s relative importance for U.S. policymakers declined in the immediate aftermath of the "Gulf War" and the collapse of the Soviet Union, but focus remained on a number of regional developments involving Turkey." According to CRS a "reassessment period" established between 1991-2002. CRS timeline for 1991-2002 showed: After US established "No-Fly Zone" in the north of Iraq, withheld military loans to Turkey in 1994 on alleged human rights violations in relation to PKK. In 1997, US designated the PKK as a foreign terrorist organization and in 1999, PKK leader was captured with U.S. assistance (PKK activities stopped). In 2003, the Turkish parliament didn't allow US invasion of Iraq from Turkey, and the following year (2004) PKK resumed insurgency and attacks from northern Iraq.