[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Christian Social Union in Bavaria

e CSU had to form a new coalition government with the minor partner Free Voters of Bavaria.

The 2021 German federal election saw the worst election result ever for the Union. The CSU also had a weak showing with 5.2% of votes nationally and 31.7% of the total in Bavaria.

Relationship with the CDU 

The CSU is the sister party of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU). Together, they are called the Union. The CSU operates only within Bavaria, and the CDU operates in all states other than Bavaria. While virtually independent, at the federal level the parties form a common CDU/CSU faction. No Chancellor has ever come from the CSU, although Strauß and Edmund Stoiber were CDU/CSU candidates for Chancellor in the 1980 federal election and the 2002 federal election, respectively, which were both won by the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD). Below the federal level, the parties are entirely independent.

Since its formation, the CSU has been more conservative than the CDU. CSU and the state of Bavaria decided not to sign the Grundgesetz of the Federal Republic of Germany as they could not agree with the division of Germany into two states after World War II. Although Bavaria like all German states has a separate police and justice system (distinctive and non-federal), the CSU has actively participated in all political affairs of the German Parliament, the German government, the German Bundesrat, the parliamentary elections of the German President, the European Parliament and meetings with Mikhail Gorbachev in Russia.

Like the CDU, the CSU is pro-European, although some Eurosceptic tendencies were shown in the past.

Leaders

Party chairmen

Ministers-president 
The CSU has contributed eleven of the twelve Ministers-President of Bavaria since 1945, with only Wilhelm Hoegner (1945–1946, 1954–1957) of the SPD also holding the office.

Election results

Federal parliament (Bundestag)

European Parliament

Landtag of Bavaria

See also

 List of Christian Social Union of Bavaria politicians
 Politics of Germany

Notes and references

Further reading
 Alf Mintzel (1975). Die CSU. Anatomie einer konservativen Partei 1945–1972 . Opladen. .

External links
Christlich-Soziale Union – official website (English page)
Christian-Social Union (Bavaria, Germany)
Christian-Social Union of Bavaria (CSU)

1945 establishments in Germany
Bavarian nationalism
Catholic political parties
Centre-right parties in Europe
Christian democratic parties in Germany
Conservative parties in Germany
International Democrat Union member parties
Member parties of the European People's Party
Parties represented in the European Parliament
Political parties established in 1945
Politics of Bavaria
Pro-European political parties in Germany
Regional parties in Germany
Social conservative parties