[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# George Maior

George-Cristian Maior (16 November 1967, Cluj-Napoca) is a Romanian politician and diplomat. He was a member of the Romanian Parliament, elected as a senator from the Social Democrat Party. He was the head of the Romanian Intelligence Service between October 2006 – January 2015 and ambassador to the United States since September 17, 2015. His father, Liviu Maior, is the former Minister of Education (1992–1996) and ambassador to Canada.

Biography

George Cristian Maior was born on November 16, 1967. He is the son of the Romanian historian Liviu Maior. He graduated from the Law Faculty of Babeș-Bolyai University in Cluj-Napoca (1988–1991) and in 1992 he obtained a Master of Arts in International and Comparative Law from the Faculty of Comparative Law of George Washington University in Washington, D.C.

In 1998, he obtained the doctoral title in International Law at the Babeș-Bolyai University in Cluj-Napoca, with the thesis "National and European in the jurisprudence of the Strasbourg European Court" which was nominated for the Most Prize awarded by UNESCO. In 2001 he graduated the Defence National College from Bucharest.

After graduating with a Master in 1992, he worked as a diplomat in the Romanian Foreign Affairs Ministry, between 1997 and 1999 being appointed as chargé d'affaires at the Romanian Embassy in Ireland. After the Social Democrat Party won the election, George Maior was appointed as State Secretary and Head of the Euro-Atlantic and Defense Policy Department of the National Defense Ministry. From this position, he led the NATO accession negotiations, concluding with a successful active integration of Romania in the Alliance and the signing of several contracts for the acquisition of military equipment (2 frigates and numerous flying equipments). On August 24, 2004 he received the diplomatic rank of Ambassador.

At the election that took place in November 2000 he was elected as a senator for the Alba County, on the PSD lists. In this quality he was chairman of the National Security, Public Order and Defense Committee of the Senate of the Romanian Parliament (June 2005 – 5 October 2006), vice-president of the committee for the investigation of allegations regarding the existence of CIA detention centers on Romanian soil, member of the Committee for Human Rights, minorities and cults, member of the joint Standing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate for the exercise of parliamentary control over the activity of the Foreign Intelligence Service and member of the Romanian Parliament's delegation at the Occidental European Union's Gathering. In November 2005 he was the only Romanian guest at the international conference "Information in the XXIst century". He resigned from the Romanian Parliament on October 5, 2006, being replaced by Liliana Lucia Tomoiagă.

On the October 4th 2006 George Maior was validated by both the Romanian Parliaments' Chambers as Head of the Romanian Intelligence Service with 285 votes "for" and 123 "against" from the total of 408, after initially receiving 7 out of 9 favorable votes in the specialized committee of the Parliament. He was appointed through Decision no. 32 of the Romanian Parliament.

George Cristian Maior has been accredited as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Romania to the United States, as per Decree no 583 of June 29, 2015, signed by the President of Romania. He has officially commenced his mandate on September 17, 2015, upon presenting his Letters of Credence to the Honorable Barack Obama, President of the United States of America.

He is a university professor and PhD coordinator at the Department of International Relations and European Integration within the National School of Political Studies and Public Administration in Bucharest. He published a great number of articles and books covering topics from human rights and public law to international relations, strategic thinking, security and intelligence studies.

He was invited as keynote speaker at prestigious universities, organizations, and think-tanks (Harvard Kennedy School of Government, George Washington University, American University, National Intelligence University, Atlantic Council, Center for Strategic and International Studies, Chicago Council on Global Affairs, Center for European Policy Analysis, AIPAC, etc.). He is a member of the Honorary Board of Advisors of the "National Student Leadership Foundation."