[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Badger Army Ammunition Plant

me agricultural lands, and open grassy spaces around buildings maintained by grazing. Prairie restoration began in the 1970s and these areas were maintained by fire. Grazing ended in 2003 when demolition started, and the open areas are now growing up into shrubs such as autumn olive and honeysuckle.

Environmental contamination
32 areas within the plant are polluted with solvents, toxic metals and explosive wastes. Groundwater beneath the plant is contaminated with cancer-causing chemicals, including carbon tetrachloride, trichloroethylene and dinitrotoluenes. An area known as the Propellant Burning Grounds is the source of a three-mile long plume of contaminated groundwater that has migrated offsite, polluting private drinking water wells in its path and flowing into the Wisconsin River. Since December 2003, dinitrotoluene (DNT) has been found in a number of private wells near the Badger Army Ammunition Plant. DNT was found above the Wisconsin Enforcement Standard in three private wells and three other private wells had nitrates above the Wisconsin ES. As of 2021, regular groundwater monitoring found hazardous levels of contaminants located halfway between Baraboo and Prairie du Sac. Restoration Advisory Board members and the Town Administrator were displeased with the Army s inaction and attempted to lobby Congress for direct funding to create a public water system.

See also 
Companies/Contractors
 Olin Corporation, previous contractor
 SpecPro, Inc., previous contractor
 Badger Technical Services, LLC. previous contractor
 SpecPro Professional Services, LLC current contractor
 The Shaw Group, previous contractor

Materials
 Ammunition
 Ball propellant
 Dinitrotoluene
 Nitrocellulose
 Nitroglycerin
 Oleum
 Propellant
 Rocket propellant
 Smokeless powder

Other AAPs Associated with Badger
 Joliet Army Ammunition Plant
 Ravenna Army Ammunition Plant

Other Topics
 Environmental remediation
 Prairie restoration
 Restoration ecology

References

Further reading

External links

Historical information 
A Day at Badger, film produced by the U.S. Army in the early 1970s
Badger Ammo History, video produced by Wisconsin Public Television
Badger Ammo Demolition, video produced by Wisconsin Public Television

Site information 
Badger Reuse Plan
Plans for the Sauk Prairie Recreation Area
Badger Installation Action Plan (IAP)

SpecPro, Inc., provided site management through May 2012

Community groups 

Badger History Group
Sauk Prairie Conservation Alliance
Citizens for Safe Water Around Badger

Military installations in Wisconsin
United States Army arsenals during World War II
Ammunition manufacturers
Military logistics of the Korean War
Military logistics of the Vietnam War
Military installations closed in 1977
Olin Corporation
Buildings and structures in Sauk County, Wisconsin
Geography of Sauk County, Wisconsin
Historic American Engineering Record in Wisconsin
United States Army arsenals
Baraboo, Wisconsin
1942 establishments in Wisconsin