[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Human overpopulation

wrongly transfer the blame for their environmental impacts on to the birthrate of much poorer brown and black people, their finger-pointing reinforces [Great Replacement and white genocide conspiracy] narratives. It is inherently racist." Overpopulation is a common component of ecofascist ideology.

Scholar Heather Alberro rejects the overpopulation argument, stating that the human population growth is rapidly slowing down, the underlying problem is not the number of people, but how resources are distributed and that the idea of overpopulation could fuel a racist backlash against the population of poor countries.

In response, population activists argue that overpopulation is a problem in both rich and poor countries, and arguably a worse problem in rich countries, where residents’ higher per capita consumption ratchets up the impacts of their excessive numbers. Feminist scholar Donna Haraway notes that a commitment to enlarging the moral community to include nonhuman beings logically entails people’s willingness to limit their numbers and make room for them. Ecological economists like Herman Daly and Joshua Farley believe that reducing populations will make it easier to achieve steady-state economies that decrease total consumption and pollution to manageable levels. Finally, as Karin Kuhlemann observes, "that a population's size is stable in no way entails sustainability. It may be sustainable, or it may be far too large."

According to the writer and journalist Krithika Varagur, myths and misinformation about overpopulation of Rohingya people in Myanmar is thought to have driven their genocide in the 2010s.

Advocacy organizations 

The following organizations advocate for a limit to human population growth, although their focus may be on related issues such as environmental protection:

 Global Footprint Network, a coalition of NGOs that calculates the annual Earth Overshoot Day
 Millennium Alliance for Humanity and the Biosphere (MAHB)
 Negative Population Growth
 Population Matters
 Voluntary Human Extinction Movement
 Population Media Center
 Church of Euthanasia

Organization advocate against limits to human population growth.
 Population Research Institute (organization)

See also

 Demographic trap
 Demographic transition
 The Limits to Growth
 Human population planning
 Malthusian catastrophe
 Overshoot (population)
 Planetary boundaries
 Antinatalism
 Overpopulation in domestic pets

Documentary and art 
 Overpopulation fiction (category)
 Fatal Misconception
 Don't Panic — The Truth about Population
 What a Way to Go: Life at the End of Empire
Planet of the Humans
Ten Billion

Notes

References

 Bundled references

Further reading

Matthew Connelly, Fatal Misconception: The Struggle to Control World Population. Harvard University Press, 2010. 
David Foreman, Man Swarm: How Overpopulation is Killing the Wild World. Livetrue Books, 2015. 
Karen Shragg, Move Upstream: A Call to Solve Overpopulation.  (published November 2015). Discussion of the book by the author, March 2017 (video, 91 minutes).
Alan Weisman. Countdown: Our Last, Best Hope for a Future on Earth? Little, Brown and Company, (2013) 
 Thomas Robertson, The Malthusian Moment: Global Population Growth and the Birth of American Environmentalism (2012), Rutgers University Press
 J.R. McNeill, Peter Engelke, The Great Acceleration: An Environmental History of the Anthropocene since 1945 (2016)

 
Population ecology
World population
Demographic economic problems
Environmental controversies
Political controversies