[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Taliban insurgency

ch 26
 A suicide attack on a police station in Jalalabad, kills five police officers while seven attackers die.
 One British soldier is killed and nine are wounded by Taliban insurgents in an attack on a patrol base with a truck bomb and small arms fire in Helmand Province, Nad Ali District.

April 

 April 3 – more than 46 people are killed and more than 100 injured following an attack by Taliban militants armed with suicide vests on a courthouse in Farah.
 Taliban gunmen and bombers attacked Farah, killing 34 civilians and 10 members of the security forces. Nine attackers were killed.
 April 5 – An explosive-laden donkey is used in an attack on a police security post in the Alingar District of Laghman Province in eastern Afghanistan, killing a policeman and wounding three civilians.
 April 6 – A bombing in Qalat, capital of the southern Kabul Province, kills three U.S. soldiers and two U.S. civilians, along with an Afghan doctor. An American civilian dies in another attack in the east of the country.
 April 8
 Taliban fighters are suspected of being responsible for a bus explosion that kills at least nine people and injures more than twenty others in Maidan Wardak Province.
 April 12 – Thirteen soldiers of the Afghan National Army are killed and one is injured in an ambush in the eastern Kunar Province.
 April 22–11 people are kidnapped in Afghanistan after the helicopter they were in was forced to land. The Taliban takes responsibility for the abductions.
 April 26 – Six police officers are poisoned and fatally shot in Kunduz Province while another one is missing.
 April 26 – At least 30 people die in southern Afghanistan after a bus crashes into the wreckage of a truck attacked by Taliban insurgents.
 April 29 – A Boeing 747 crashes near an American military base in Bagram, killing all seven American crew members on board.
 April 30 – A roadside bomb kills three members of NATO's ISAF force in Afghanistan.

May 

 May 4 – Five US soldiers are killed when a bomb detonates in Kandahar. Additionally, three more are killed in separate incidents.
 May 6 – An Afghan border police guard is killed and two Pakistani troops are injured in border violence.
 May 13 – Three Georgian soldiers are killed and several wounded in a large-scale insurgent attack on an ISAF base in the Helmand Province.
 May 14 – The Taliban kills four US soldiers in Kandahar Province.
 May 16 – A suicide bomber killed 15 people including two US soldiers and four NATO employees in Kabul. The explosion also wounded 39 people.
 May 24 – Afghan security forces battle Taliban insurgents in central Kabul. An Afghan policeman, a Nepalese soldier, and numerous insurgents are killed.

June 

 June 2 – Taliban insurgents attack two checkpoints in the Kamdesh District in eastern Afghanistan killing four Afghan police officers.
 June 3 – A suicide bombing in eastern Afghanistan kills at least 20 people, including 10 children.
 June 6 – Seven Georgian servicemen are killed and nine wounded in an insurgent attack with a truck bomb on the ISAF base in Shir Ghazay.
 June 8
 In Afghanistan, a man wearing an Afghan military uniform attacks and kills three American soldiers, in what appears to be an insider attack on U.S. International Security Assistance Force soldiers, based in east Afghanistan's Paktika Province.
 In a separate unrelated incident, an Italian soldier is killed and three are wounded when a child throws a grenade at a NATO convoy in west Afghanistan's Farah Province.
 June 10 – Seven heavily armed Taliban militants launch a coordinated attack near the main international airport of Kabul and seize a five-story building under construction nearby. Afghan security forces retake the building, killing all seven militants and sustaining no military or civilian casualties.
 June 11 – A bomb detonates near the Afghan Supreme Court killing eight people and wounding dozens.
 On 11 June in Kabul, a Taliban suicide car bomber killed 16 people.
 June 18
 A bomb explodes in Kabul killing three people and wounding six.
 Four United States troops are killed near Bagram Airfield.
 June 25 – Taliban forces attack near the Presidential Palace in Kabul.
 On 25 June, Gunmen and bombers killed three security guards. On the same day the Taliban attacked the presidential palace, about seven or eight explosions happened and eight attackers were killed.

July 

 July 2 – Militants attack NATO headquarters in the north of Kabul resulting in at least two deaths.
 July 9 – Seventeen people are killed by a roadside bomb.
 July 23 – A bomb kills eight people in Awardak Province, including three United States Army soldiers, four Afghan National Army soldiers and an Afghan interpreter.

August