[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tang campaign against the Eastern Turks

f the eastern Khaganate and was blamed for the gradual independence of the Khitan and Xi tribes. Furthermore, Ashina Shibobi campaign against the Xueyantuo and Uyghurs was a failure and was arrested by Illig Qaghan for a few days. Upon release, Ashina Shibobi rebelled and fought Illig Qaghan in 628.

Taizong and Ashina Shibobi were blood brothers, and Taizong agreed to support Ashina Shibobi, using the opportunity to attack Liang Shidu while Illig Qaghan was occupied. In 628, the rival Liang claim was neutralized. Liang Shidu was assassinated by his cousin Liang Luoren (梁洛仁) while Shuofang (朔方, in modern Yulin, Shaanxi), the Liang capital, was besieged by Taizong's brother-in-law Chai Shao (柴紹); Liang Luoren then surrendered. Around the same time, the Xueyantuo were united by Yi'nan. Taizong sent General Qiao Shiwang (喬師望) to offer Yi'nan the title of Zhenzhupiqie Khan; Yi'nan accepted the title and an alliance with the Tang. Illig Qaghan attempted to counterbalance the alliance with by requesting a marriage alliance. Taizong ignored the request, instead making preparation for an offensive.

Another source says that Illig Qaghan's problems were caused by two unusually cold winters that led to mass livestock deaths and famine. Illig Qaghan responded by raising taxes rather than lowering them which provoked opposition.

Defeat of the Eastern Turks 

The Tang attack was commanded by General Li Jing, who was assisted by General Zhang Gongjin (張公謹). Li Jing had overall command of the army, and directly commanded the main column. Generals Li Shiji, Xue Wanche (薛萬徹), Wei Xiaojie, Li Daozong and Chai Shao commanded the other columns. Bauer describes this as six separate cavalry formations along a 1200 km front. In spring 630, the Tang surprised the Khaganate, captured the Wuyang Range outside the Dingxiang (定襄, in modern Hohhot, Inner Mongolia), and approached the Khaganate court. Li Jing sent spies into Illig Qaghan's camp, who convinced several of Illig Qaghan's close associated - including Kangsumi (康蘇密), Sui Empress Xiao and Yang Zhengdao - to surrender. Illig Qaghan withdrew to the Yin Mountains, where he entered negotiations with Taizong's envoy, Tang Jian (唐儉); Illig Qaghan offered to submit while at the same time considering withdrawing north of the Gobi Desert.

Li Jing and Li Shiji believed that Illig Qaghan was stalling for time; they and Su Dingfang's vanguard combined and attacked Illig Qaghan's tent. Illig Qaghan fled to subordinate khan Ashina Sunishi (阿史那蘇尼失); Princess Yicheng of Sui, his wife, was killed. Illig Qaghan was soon captured by the Tang generals Li Daozong and Zhang Baoxiang (張寶相) and delivered to Chang'an. Turkic nobles largely surrendered to the Tang. The population surrendered to the Tang or Xueyantuo, or fled west to the Western Turkic Khaganate and the nearby kingdoms such as Qocho, Kucha and Tuyuhun.

Aftermath in Mongolia

Initial attempt to settle Eastern Turkic Khaganate's people within the Tang state 

Taizong sought options for the disposition of the Khaganate's population. Reportedly, the majority opinion was for sinicization by scattered resettlement in the Tang prefectures of what are now modern Shandong and Henan. However, several officials are recorded as holding different opinions:

 Yan Shigu proposed settlement north of the Yellow River, remaining in tribes, as vassals.
 Li Baiyao proposed scattered settlement north of the Yellow River, with a khan for each tribe, all answering to a protector general at Dingxiang.
 Dou Jing (竇靜) proposed scattering chieftains and their people, and imperial clan daughters be given to chieftains as wives to better control them as vassals.

Two key opinions, given by two chancellors, emerged from the discussion:

 Wen Yanbo proposed settlement on vacant lands in the northern prefectures within Tang borders, remaining in tribal form.
 Wei Zheng proposed settlement outside of Tang boundaries on their own lands.

Wen Yanbo's proposal was accepted. Two commandants overseeing ten new nominal prefectures (four for Ashina Shibobi's people, and six for Illig Qaghan's people) were created. Ashina Sunishi was made a prince. Ashina Simo was made a prince and given the Tang imperial surname Li (and is also known as Li Simo.) A large number of other chieftains were given general ranks. The new nobility were settled in or near Chang'an. Taizong ransomed Han slaves from Turkic owners. Thereafter, Turkic cavalry were often requisitioned to supplement regular Tang troops on various campaigns, such as the 634 campaign against Tuyuhun.

Meanwhile, Xueyantuo largely inherited the Khaganate's former territory and vassals, creating the Xueyantuo Kaganate. Yi'nan remained nominally submissive to Tang, remaining formally respectful to Taizong, while at the same time trying to affirm Xueyantuo's control over the region. The Khaganate's former vassals of the Khitan, Xī (奚), and Xí (霫) tribes directly submitted to the Tang, as did the city kingdom of Yiwu (伊吾).