[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Snyder's Bluff

r was masked by decoy operations such as Steele's Greenville expedition, Streight's Raid, and Grierson's Raid.  Confederate regional commander John C. Pemberton fell for the Federal decoys (especially Grierson's Raid), and lost touch with the true tactical situation, believing Grant was withdrawing.

By late April, McClernand's men had made the march downriver, and Major General James B. McPherson's men were on the way.  Major General William T. Sherman's XV Corps was intended to follow later, but, on April 27, Grant changed his plan for Sherman's men.  An attack at Grand Gulf, Mississippi, followed by an amphibious crossing by McClernand's corps, was planned for April 29, and Grant wanted to divert Confederate attention away from the crossing attempt. Sherman and a detachment from the XV Corps were to, if practical, approach Confederate defensive works  northeast of Vicksburg at Snyder's Bluff and conduct a feint. Grant expressed some hesitancy about the feint, and left final judgment to Sherman; Grant feared that the failure of the mock attack would be viewed by the Northern public as another Chickasaw Bayou-style defeat.  Unconcerned about the opinions of the press, Sherman decided to continue on.  However, Sherman carried some doubts about Grant's overall plan, fearing that it might be necessary for Sherman to take his whole corps downriver and bail out Grant in case of failure.

Battle

Rear Admiral David Dixon Porter delegated responsibility for the naval portion of the operations to Lieutenant Commander K. Randolph Breese.  Breese supported the operation, but wanted to wait for the arrival of the ironclad USS Choctaw.  Waiting on April 28 for Choctaw to arrive, Major General Francis P. Blair Jr.'s division was issued three days' rations and 60 rounds of ammunition.  At about 5:00 pm, Choctaw arrived, and the expedition set off the next morning. Transportation up the Yazoo River was provided by ten troops transports, six of whom had ersatz defensive works made of hay bales on their decks. Those six transports each mounted two cannon, drawn from Battery A, 1st Illinois Light Artillery Regiment and Battery B, 1st Illinois Light Artillery Regiment.  The transports were escorted by a group of 11 naval ships: the flagship USS Black Hawk, Choctaw, the ironclad USS Baron DeKalb, the timberclad USS Tyler, the tinclads USS Romeo, USS Linden, USS Signal, and USS Petrel, and three mortar scows.

The vessels reached the junction of Chickasaw Bayou and the Yazoo River on the afternoon of April 29, and stopped for the night, in the vicinity of the old Chickasaw Bayou battlefield.  The next morning, the convoy resumed its movement, although Petrel was left behind as a guard, to prevent Confederates from placing naval mines in the river.  Firing began at about 10:00 am, when Baron DeKalb and Choctaw opened fire on Confederate positions at Drumgould's Bluff, a bluff located  downriver from Snyder's Bluff.  Black Hawk and Tyler also opened fire, and the mortar scows positioned themselves and opened fire. Linden guarded the mortar scows, while Romeo and Signal remained in the rear in a supporting position.  The Confederate defenses in the area were commanded by Brigadier General Louis Hébert, and contained 16 heavy cannon.  Defensive entrenchments were also present at the position.  A raft had previously been constructed near Snyder's Bluff to block passage up the river, but it had washed out on April 26.

The Federal ironclads were at a disadvantage, as they could only fire their broadside guns due to ships' positioning.  Hébert wanted to prevent the Federals from learning of his positions too quickly, and so he delayed ordering his guns to open fire.  Once the Confederates opened fire, the largest guns could only target Choctaw, although some of the other cannon were able to fire at other targets.  Tyler was damaged by a shot from a 12-pounder Whitworth rifle and had to withdraw, while Choctaw took 47 hits without serious damage.  Some men from the 3rd Louisiana Infantry Regiment attempted to harass Baron DeKalb, but were driven off by a landing party from the vessel.  During the artillery bombardment, Federal soldiers landed on shore and attempted to corral cattle, causing a stampede.

The Federal gunboats withdrew, and Hébert found that only two of his men had been wounded during the bombardment, and that the defenses had not suffered serious damage.  During the afternoon, some of Blair's men landed.  Due to flooding, the infantrymen were only able to advance over the path of a levee.  The Federals came under fire from the 3rd Louisiana and Confederate artillery, and were prevented from further advancing.  The Federal mock attack had not been convincing, and the Confederates suspected that it might be a demonstration.