[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sabrina Island (Azores)

Sabrina Island () was an islet formed during the months of June and July 1811 by a submarine volcanic eruption off the coast of Ponta da Ferraria, São Miguel Island, Azores. The first person to land on the island was Commander James Tillard, captain of the British warship , who hoisted the Union Jack on the island and claimed sovereignty for Great Britain. A diplomatic row with Portugal over the issue ensued, which the island's sinking back into the sea rendered moot.

History

Formation and discovery
Between January and February 1811 a prolonged period of seismic activity affected the settlements to the extreme southeast of São Miguel, in particular in the parishes of Ginetes and Mosteiros. During these months, gases emitted from the ocean around Ponta da Ferraria, but by the end of February they abruptly ceased. New tremors returned in May and June, destroying many homes in Ginetes. Finally on 10 June 1811, in an area about  from the original seismic zones and about  off the coast, a submarine eruption occurred alongside Ponta da Ferraria, killing many fish.

On 12 June, the eruption was seen from the British sloop-of-war HMS Sabrina, which was patrolling the Azores due to the then ongoing Peninsular War. Commander James Tillard, thinking the smoke from the eruption was a naval battle, sailed to the area but found a situation quite different than he imagined. He later wrote a description of the eruption and his visit to the island of Sabrina for the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society.

The next morning, 13 June,  HMS Sabrina landed in Ponta Delgada as Tillard had a pre-appointed meeting with William Harding Read, British consul general to the Azores. Read informed Tillard of the multiple earthquakes felt on São Miguel, especially in Ginetes and Mosteiros, which had caused panic among the island's residents. On 14 June Tillard desired to approach the eruption zone again by sea but wind conditions disallowed it, so instead he rode to Ginetes by horse, where he was able to observe the eruption from land. As Tillard lunched by the coast in Ginetes, seismic activity was so intense it caused a landslide destroying part of the cliff nearest him.

Tillard, even more enthusiastic, sailed HMS Sabrina toward the eruption area on the night of 15 June, but weak winds still kept him from approaching as closely as he hoped.

Again on 18 June HMS Sabrina approached the eruption zone. In an area where Sabrinas crew had previously measured a depth of , they now observed rock formations just below the water's surface, as well as constant emission of ash and steam. After three hours of observation, the growing volcanic landmass had reached an estimated altitude of  above sea level. Tillard christened the newly-formed island Sabrina after his ship. 

The following day, 19 June, Sabrina Island had grown to an estimated altitude of  above sea level and measured approximately  in diameter. Despite being  away from the island, Sabrina became covered in fine black ash and water thrown into the air by the eruption. The ship's crew unsuccessfully attempted a closer approach of the island, after which they returned to port in Ponta Delgada.

Diplomatic row between Great Britain and Portugal
On 4 July, the eruption appeared to stop and constant tremors—felt in Ginetes since May—ceased. In fair weather Sabrina finally approached the new island. Tillard and Read landed on the island, planted the Union Jack, and formally claimed the island for Great Britain and King George III.

This claim caused a diplomatic conflict with the Kingdom of Portugal, as the Azores were under Portuguese sovereignty and had been since their discovery. This was compounded by the fact England and Portugal have been allies continuously since at least 1386. In fact, as previously noted, Sabrina was in the Azores because Britain was assisting Portugal in the Peninsular War.

Because of the war, the Portuguese government and monarchy had relocated to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. As they were dependent on British aid against the French, they did not pursue the issue with too much zeal. The conflict petered out naturally by October of 1811, by which time water erosion had dismantled the new island, as is often the case with islands formed by certain types of volcanic eruptions.

Legacy
A member of HMS Sabrinas crew, Colonel John William Miles, drew Sabrina Island during the 19 June 1811 approach. His work is today exhibited at the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich, England, United Kingdom.

The eruption garnered international scientific interest and commentary at the time. Among others, Charles Darwin wrote a letter regarding the incident.