[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Andrew Jackson Bryant

Andrew Jackson Bryant, known as A.J. Bryant, (1831–1888) was the seventeenth mayor of San Francisco, California, serving from December 1875 to December 1879 during a lengthy economic depression that struck San Francisco and the rest of the country.  Bryant was a strong advocate for an eight-hour work day as well as legislation to halt the immigration of Chinese laborers into the state. A prominent insurance man and a sportsman, he drowned in the San Francisco Bay after falling from a ferryboat.

Biography

Youth and early life

As per his obituary, Bryant was born in Effingham, New Hampshire on October 30, 1831. As a young man, he sailed around the tip of South America to San Francisco, where he arrived in 1850 and went directly to the Gold Country of California. After a "year's hard work," however, he returned to San Francisco "for medical treatment," and then went to Benicia, California, where in 1854–55 was the city marshal and in 1856 he was a deputy sheriff.

In 1856 the California Legislature met in Benicia, and when it disbanded, Bryant moved to Sacramento, the new state capital, where he opened a general merchandising business with George W. Chesley and George L. Bradley, which lasted four years. He then "sold out, going into the wholesale liquor business with a Mr. Morrison." He moved back to San Francisco and worked in such enterprises as an insurance agency and an express business.

Family

Bryant was married twice, having six children by his first wife, his oldest daughter later becoming the wife of Mayor William Russell Grace of New York City. His second marriage was in 1870. In 1877 another daughter, Mary J., married George Avery.

Career

In San Francisco he became active in the Democratic Party, and in 1866 President Andrew Johnson commissioned him a naval officer "with all the honors and benefits to be derived therefrom." William Heintz, his biographer, said that Bryant "kept this position until 1870 without ever sailing beyond the Golden Gate."

In 1871 Bryant was a member of the Finance Committee of the State Investment Insurance Company. He continued his career in insurance while he was serving as mayor of San Francisco (below), and since 1882 he was president of the California Electric Lighting Company. He was known as a "prominent figure in insurance circles."

Memberships

Although Bryant was a Democrat, during the Civil War in the United States, he aligned with the Republican Party, and in 1871 he helped organize and was presiding officer of the [David C.] Broderick Union Republican Club of the State of California, named in honor of the California State Senator who was killed in a duel with California Chief Justice David S. Terry. The founding resolution noted that Broderick had sought to form an organization "whose main principle was opposition to the extension of slavery."

The next year, 1872, Bryant was active in  beginning a California branch of the Liberal Republican movement, or Central Greeley Club, that would support Horace Greeley for president instead of Ulysses S. Grant.

By 1873, Bryant was president of the Pacific Jockey Club, which presented horse races at a track in the city.

He was president of the Occidental Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons, and was a trustee of Mills College in Oakland. In 1875, he helped organize the Underwriters' Fire Patrol of San Francisco, whose object was "to discover and prevent fires and save property from conflagration."

Bryant was one of the organizers of the California Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children in 1876.

New York City

As mayor-elect, Bryant traveled to New York City in 1875, where he was received by public officials, inspected the Brooklyn Police Headquarters and was entertained with a dinner at the Windsor Hotel in Manhattan. He attended a meeting of the New York City Board of Aldermen, where he was seated beside President Samuel A. Lewis of the board.

Death

Bryant died on May 11, 1888, after he fell off a ferryboat in the San Francisco Bay, bound for Oakland. At first it was thought that the former mayor might have committed suicide, and three full columns in the San Francisco Chronicle were devoted to that theory:

The first conjecture was that the manner of the tragic death of the well-known citizen was the evidence of suicide. Subsequent developments only helped strengthen the opinion and remove all doubt that the untimely termination of the ex-Mayor's career was the act of a desperate man, goaded by financial and physical troubles.

The New York Times reported that:

A.J. Bryant, ex-Mayor of San Francisco, committed suicide this morning by jumping from the ferry steamer Encinal just after the boat had started on the 9:15 trip to Oakland. Mr. Bryant was very nervous and trembling when he bought his ticket, and the gate-keeper appears to be the last man who talked with him.