[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abuse of power

. The votes for acquittal on the charge of abuse of power in the Senate were 48 against (45 Democratic senators, 2 Independent senators, one Republican senator), and 52 in favor (All Republicans). Of the two articles of impeachment, Article I alleges abuse of power.

Other examples

Lois Lerner/IRS 

In October 2017, the Trump Administration agreed to settle a lawsuit filed on behalf of more than four hundred conservative nonprofit groups. These nonprofit groups claimed that they had been discriminated against by the Internal Revenue Service for an undisclosed amount. This amount was described by the plaintiffs' counsel as "very substantial." The Trump Administration also agreed to settle a second lawsuit brought by forty-one conservative organizations with an apology and an admission that subjecting them to "heightened scrutiny and inordinate delays" was wrongful.

These acts by Lois Lerner were performed between 2010 and 2012 as a way to try and deal with the massive number of applications from organizations that were wanting a tax-exemption status. Many of these organizations that were seeking the tax-exemption status did not agree with how the government was being run and had 'tea party' or 'patriots' in their name.

Joe Arpaio 

In February 2010, Judge John Leonardo found that Arpaio "misused the power of his office to target members of the Board of Supervisors for criminal investigation".

In 2008, a federal grand jury began an inquiry of Arpaio for abuse of power, in connection with a Federal Bureau of Investigation investigation. On August 31, 2012, the US Attorney's office of Arizona announced that it was "closing its investigation into allegations of criminal conduct" by Arpaio, without filing charges.

Arpaio was investigated for politically motivated and "bogus" prosecutions, which a former US Attorney called "utterly unacceptable". Phoenix Mayor Phil Gordon has called Arpaio's "long list" of questionable prosecutions "a reign of terror".

Fa Zheng 

In 215 CE in Eastern Han China, Fa Zheng was appointed as the Administrator (太守) of Shu commandery (蜀郡) and "General Who Spreads Martial Might" (揚武將軍) by Liu Bei. He oversaw administrative affairs in the vicinity of Yi Province's capital Chengdu and served as Liu Bei's chief adviser.

During this period of time, he abused his power by taking personal revenge against those who offended him before and killing them without reason. Some officials approached Zhuge Liang, another of Liu Bei's key advisers, and urged him to report Fa Zheng's lawless behaviour to their lord and take action against him. However, Zhuge Liang replied, "When our lord was in Gong'an (公安), he was wary of Cao Cao's influence in the north and fearful of Sun Quan's presence in the east. Even in home territory he was afraid that Lady Sun might stir up trouble. He was in such a difficult situation at the time that he could neither advance nor retreat. Fa Xiaozhi supported and helped him so much, such that he is now able to fly high and no longer remain under others' influence. How can we stop Fa Zheng from behaving as he wishes?" Zhuge Liang was aware that Liu Bei favoured and trusted Fa Zheng, which was why he refused to intervene in this matter.

Police officers 

In dictatorial, corrupt, or weak states, police officers may carry out many criminal acts for the ruling regime with impunity.

Individual officers, or sometimes whole units, can be corrupt or carry out various forms of police misconduct; this occasionally happens in many forces, but can be more common where police pay is very low unless supplemented by bribes. Police officers sometimes act with unwarranted brutality when they overreact to confrontational situations, or to extract a confession from a person that they may or may not genuinely suspect of being guilty. . Research released in October 2021 shows that from 1980 to 2018 there was an estimated 30,800 deaths due to police violence. That same study indicated that the National Vital Statistics System has misclassified/underreported over 55% of the estimated police-related deaths in the US.

Elliott Broidy 

Elliott Broidy was charged for illegally lobbying the US government officials for the government of the United Arab Emirates to influence the US foreign policy and run a disinformation campaign against the State of Qatar as well as Qatari-American businesses. Broidy, the former finance chairman of the Republican National Committee at the time of the Donald Trump administration was charged with the wrongdoing in a lawsuit filed by a Qatari luxury travel company, Abu Issa Holding. Broidy, according to the lawsuit was paid by the UAE government, for hiring internet-based influencers and trolls to spread misinformation against Qatar, stating that Qatari businesses sponsored terrorist groups.

See also

References

Further reading 
 
 

Abuse
Political corruption
Power (social and political) concepts