[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort Douglas

western section of the original fort remains in use by the U.S. Army Reserve. This portion of the fort is designated the Stephen A. Douglas Armed Forces Reserve Center. The reserve center consists of 51 acres, and includes the historic Soldier's Circle, along with several sub-installation buildings.

The center hosts offices, along with training and support space for 'headquarters staff for two Army Reserve commands, and staff from other Army, Navy and Marine Reserve units'. There have been some attempts to relocate the center to allow the University of Utah to grow its campus. A law requires the property be given to the University of Utah, without charge, once the military declares it surplus.

In 2023, the Utah State Legislature allocated $100 million, via Senate Bill 2, to facilitate the relocation of the Reserve Center away from Fort Douglas to land near Camp Williams in Bluffdale. The funds will be used to acquire property, and for the design and construction of facilities at the new site. As of 2023, no timeline for the relocation had been finalized.

Commands hosted
As of 2023, the commands hosted at the reserve center include:

 76th Operational Response Command
 807th Medical Command (Deployment Support)

University of Utah Campus
In 1991, the University of Utah received a significant portion of the fort's remaining property. During the 2002 Winter Olympics held in Salt Lake City, much of the university's campus was used to host events. The Olympic Organizing Committee and university built the Olympic Village to house participating athletes on former fort property; the village housing now serves as on-campus housing for university students. Stilwell Field is used as a parking lot during special events, such as football games. The Officers' Club building is used as a conference center by the university, and several of the officer's quarters house university departments (such as the American Indian Resource Center).

There has been some controversy surrounding the university's stewardship of the historic fort property. In 2015 it was revealed that during construction work to upgrade the university's electrical system, buried period artifacts had been removed and discarded at a landfill.

Cemetery

A cemetery was established in 1862 about a mile south of the original parade grounds. In 1864, the soldiers at the post improved the cemetery significantly. They erected a monument in the center dedicated to the memory of the soldiers killed during the Bear River Massacre. They also constructed a red sandstone wall around the cemetery, with a steel gate located at the north end. The following year, a smaller monument was added for Utah Gov. James D. Doty following his death and burial in the cemetery. Later, the cemetery was expanded to accommodate a larger number of burials, not only from the fort, but also from Fort Cameron following its closure. A special section of the cemetery was also added for the German prisoners of war who died here during World War II.

The Fort Douglas Cemetery continues to be an active federal military cemetery, actively maintained. A list of cemetery burials is available through the Utah History Research Center's cemetery database. The cemetery was damaged during the 2020 Utah windstorm, during which hurricane-force winds knocked down large trees, damaging headstones and other historic features of the cemetery.

See also

 List of National Historic Landmarks in Utah
 National Register of Historic Places listings in Salt Lake City, Utah
 Camp Floyd
 List of military installations in Utah
 Statue of Patrick Edward Connor

Notes

Sources
Madsen, Brigham D. The Shoshoni Frontier and the Bear River Massacre (Salt Lake City: University of Utah Press, 1985)
Hibbard, Charles G. Fort Douglas, Utah: A Frontier Fort (Vestige Press, 1999)

External links

Historic Fort Douglas, University of Utah (archived website)
Fort Douglas: Building History, a story map created by the Utah Division of State History and Fort Douglas Military Museum
Fort Douglas Military Museum Association 

American Civil War army posts
Douglas
Military and war museums in Utah
Museums in Salt Lake County, Utah
University of Utah
Closed installations of the United States Army
Formerly Used Defense Sites in Utah
Utah in the American Civil War
Utah Territory
1862 establishments in Utah Territory
Douglas
Historic districts on the National Register of Historic Places in Utah
Internment of German Americans
National Historic Landmarks in Utah
National Register of Historic Places in Salt Lake City
Historic American Buildings Survey in Utah
University and college buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Utah
World War I prisoner-of-war camps in the United States
World War I internment camps