[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Stephen Dawson

ogressing to play at a higher level."

Leyton Orient
On 4 June 2010 he signed for League One side Leyton Orient, signing a two–year contract for the side. Upon joining the club, he was given a number 8 shirt ahead of the new season and also became Leyton Orient's Captain, succeeding Stephen Purches.

Dawson made his Leyton Orient debut, starting the whole game, in a 2–1 defeat to Yeovil Town in the opening game of the season. Since making his debut, he established himself in the starting eleven and played in every match from the beginning until he suffered a groin injury, resulting him being on the substitute bench to heal his injury and eventually his illness. However, during 3–0 win over Bristol Rovers, in which he set up one of the goals, Dawson received a horror tackle from Carl Regan, resulted him being substituted, which he described it as "a leg-breaker." Dawson scored his first goal for the O's on his return in their 2–1 win against Tranmere Rovers on 11 December 2010. For his performance, Dawson was named League One's Team of the Week. It wasn't until on 8 February 2011 when he scored his second goal, in a 3–0 win over Swindon Town. Weeks later on 20 February 2011, Dawson played a vital role throughout a 1–1 draw against Arsenal in the 5th round of the FA Cup, naming him Man of the Match; but lost 5–0 in the FA replay. Despite suffering from another injury, Dawson finished his first season at Leyton Orient, making the total of 50 appearances and scoring 2 times in all competitions.

In the 2011–12 season, Dawson missed the opening game of the season, due to suffering from ankle injury, which he sustained in the club's pre-season tour. After returning, he made his first appearance of the season on 13 August 2011, in a 1–0 loss against Tranmere Rovers. However, after suffering another injury, Dawson continued to feature in the first team and wasn't until on 17 December 2011 when he scored, in a 2–1 win over Notts County. After the match, Dawson, along with teammate Scott Cuthbert, was named League One's Team of the Week for his display. In a 2–1 loss against Carlisle United on 7 January 2012, Dawson was substituted in the first half after a challenge from Jon-Paul McGovern, in what turned out to be his last appearance for Leyton Orient. After the match, it was announced that Dawson was sidelined for six weeks. By the time Dawson departed Leyton Orient, he made 24 appearances and scoring 2 times in all competitions.

Barnsley
His performance at Leyton Orient attracted interest from clubs keen on signing Dawson. On 31 January 2012, the club accepted a bid from Championship side Barnsley and later joined the club for an undisclosed fee.

Despite suffering with injuries during his time at Oakwell, Dawson made his Barnsley debut on 25 February 2012, where he made his first start for the side, in a 1–0 loss against Coventry City. Since returning from injury, Dawson established himself as a regular part of the first team and finished the rest of the season, making 12 appearances.

In the 2012–13 season, Dawson continued to establish himself as a first team regular in the midfield position and then scored his first Barnsley goal on 29 September 2012, in a 1–1 draw against Ipswich Town. Throughout December 2012, Dawson scored three times in six appearances during the month against Leicester City, Millwall and Blackburn Rovers. However, he suffered an ankle ligament damage after just playing 12 minutes and was substituted as a result, in a 1–1 draw against Ipswich Town on 19 January 2013. After the match, it was announced that Dawson was out for six weeks. After returning to the first team in March, Dawson remained on the substitute bench for three matches until making his return to the first team, in a 2–0 win over Leicester City on 1 April 2013. His return was soon short–lived when he was sent–off for a foul on Yann Kermorgant, in a 6–0 defeat to Charlton Athletic on 13 April 2013. After serving a three match suspension, Dawson returned to the side in the last game of the season, in a 2–2 draw against Huddersfield Town, a draw that saw Barnsley's safety in the Championship. In his first full season at Barnsley, Dawson made the total of 34 appearances and scoring 4 times in all competitions.