[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Monsieur Chouchani

rson and in a weekly study group that would study Talmud and which included in addition to them a small group of friends. In 1952 Chouchani left France for Israel, and came back in 1956 for about six months before leaving Europe definitely for South America where he remained until his death in 1968.

The influence of Chouchani on Levinas is most strongly felt in Levinas' famous series of Talmudic Readings. Levinas did not acknowledge his influence until late in his life. Levinas was powerfully impressed by Chouchani's total mastery of the texts, commentaries and meta-commentaries, as well as Chouchani's ability to "widen" the scope of the Talmud, using creative, dialectic methodology. One hallmark of the "Chouchani Style" in Levinas' work is the method by which the interpretation of a text is understood not just by the words of a particular citation, but rather the entire context of that citation. Levinas' hermeneutical expositions on the Talmud, which he credits to his "master," manage to be simultaneously traditional and radical in feeling. As a result of his studies with Chouchani, Levinas saw the ancient text of Talmud and its multiple layers of subsequent commentary not merely as a place where "all that can ever be thought has been thought of already,"  but also as a framework for his reconciliation of ethics, phenomenology and postmodernity.

Chouchani and Wiesel
Elie Wiesel described his initial 1947 encounter with Chouchani in "Legends of Our Times" (Chapter 10). Wiesel writes that Chouchani was "dirty," "hairy," and "ugly;" a "vagabond" who accosted and berated him in Paris in 1947, and then became his mentor. Wiesel wrote of him again in his memoir "All Rivers Run to the Sea" (pp. 121–130). Wiesel credits Chouchani as being one of his most influential teachers.

Film 
 The Lost Ones: Monsieur Chouchani - Genie voller Rätsel. Film by Mathilde Hirsch. France, 2020

See also
 Phenomenology

References

7. Hanoch Ben Pazi, "A Philosopher in the Eye of the Storm: Monsieur Chouchani and Lévinas’s “Nameless” Essay", AJS Review 41:2 (November 2017), 315 - 331

External links
 A new website only dedicated to Monsieur Chouchani www.chouchani.com
Talmudic thinker / The loneliness of the ethical philosopher,  at Ha'aretz
 Le maître et son disciple : Chouchani et Lévinas (The Master and his disciple: Chouchani and Lévinas) by Shmuel Wygoda
 Finding Chouchani

1895 births
1968 deaths
Talmudists
20th-century French rabbis
Year of birth unknown
Lithuanian emigrants to Uruguay
Uruguayan rabbis
Unidentified people
Burials at Cementerio Israelita, La Paz