[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert de Foy

kenhausen. The Belgian administration remained in place and, under German supervision, governed Belgium, according to the developed theory of "the lesser evil". The State Security was abolished by the Germans, but it remained in existence in exile in London, under the directorship of Fernand Lepage.

Upon the return in July 1940 of the deported Flemish nationalists, de Foy and other civil servants branded as responsible were arrested. He was transported to Germany, initially held in a hotel in Münster and then transferred to Berlin. Questioned and held for a few weeks, he was released and returned to Belgium. Police Chief Reinhard Heydrich communicated directly to General Eggert Reeder that de Foy was to remain untouched and resume his activities. Allowed to stay in position, de Foy was ordered by the Nazi-run government to share his lists of suspect persons with all state organisations and then to round them up. This included Flemish nationalists, communists and non-Belgian citizens, most of them Jewish refugees from Germany and Poland. These people were exported to France on so-called "phantom trains", the records for which were destroyed, but it is known that at least 3,000 were arrested in Antwerp alone. A phantom train on which Joris van Severen, leader of the pro-Belgian Fascist party, was among 79 people deported is well recorded, as 21 people were killed by French soldiers at Abbeville. Of the people deported on "phantom trains," most including the Belgian Jews were released by the Wehrmacht, the only Jews released by the Nazi German Army. 3,537 Jews holding German and Austrian passports were kept prisoner and transported to Auschwitz-Birkenau for processing.

On 1 October 1943, de Foy succeeded Gaston Schuind as Secretary General of the Department of Justice. At the same time, the Wehrmacht took over the policing of foreigners in Belgium, and arrests and deportation greatly escalated.

Upon the Allied Forces' invasion of Normandy in June, the Nazis relieved de Foy of his position. In part, this was driven by the rumours that he was "London's man", having made contact, according to post-war records, with the Belgian Resistance via both Walter Ganshof van der Meersch and William Ugeux.

After Robert Jan Verbelen was made head of the De Vlag Veiligheidscorps, a Nazi SS security force in Belgium, an attempt on the life of de Foy failed. During the last weeks of the occupation, he went into hiding.

Post World War II
On 1 September 1944, like most other Belgian officials in the administration, de Foy was suspended by the Belgian government returning from exile in London, although it was stated that he had acted correctly. A judicial investigation was initiated against him, but unlike many others, he was not jailed. The result was that his conduct was judged as having been blameless. From April 1946 to March 1947, he was appointed a judge in the international court seated in Tangier.

Upon his return to Belgium, de Foy resumed his duties as head of the State Security Service. The major part of his work consisted of tracking Soviet agents and spies as part of Cold War NATO activities. State Security was also tasked with organising "stay behind" groups, who would have resisted any Soviet Army invading force. De Foy retired in 1958, handing over operations to Ludovic Caeymaex.

Honours
De Foy was vice-president of the Carnegie Hero Fund.

On 1 December 1975 he was posthumously recognised as "Righteous Among the Nations" by Yad Vashem, for the help he had provided to Jews in Belgium.

He was the beneficiary of many honours, mainly after World War II, including:
 
Belgium:
Grand Officer of the Order of Leopold II
Commander of the Order of Leopold
Commander of the Order of the Crown
Civic Cross First Class
 Other Countries
Grand Officer of the Order of Ouissam Alaouite (Morocco)
Grand Officer of the Order of Merit (Italy)
Grand Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau (Netherlands)
Grand Officer of the Order of Vasa (Sweden) (1937)
Grand Officer of the Crown (Romania)
Grand Officer of the Order of the Phoenix (Greece)
Commander of the Order of the Redeemer (Greece)
Commander of the Legion d'Honneur (France)
Commander of The Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (CBE)
Commander of the Order of the White Eagle (Estonia)
Commander of the Order of Merit (Austria)
Commander of the Order of Polonia Restituta (Poland)