[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1914 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1914 in New Zealand.

New Zealand showed no hesitation in emulating Britain's declaration of war on Germany and entering World War I.  New Zealand troops became the first to occupy German territory when they took over Samoa in November.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
 Head of State – George V
 Governor – Arthur Foljambe, 2nd Earl of Liverpool

Government
The 18th New Zealand Parliament concludes, and the Reform Party is returned for its second term of office following the 1914 general election on 10 December.

 Speaker of the House – Frederic Lang (Reform Party)
 Prime Minister – William Massey
 Minister of Finance – James Allen

Parliamentary opposition
 Leader of the Opposition – Joseph Ward (Liberal Party).

Judiciary
 Chief Justice – Sir Robert Stout

Main centre leaders
 Mayor of Auckland – James Parr
 Mayor of Wellington – John Luke
 Mayor of Christchurch – Henry Holland
 Mayor of Dunedin – William Downie Stewart Jr, then John Shacklock

Events 
 17 January – Joseph Hammond is the first person to fly over Auckland city. He flies a Blériot monoplane (named Brittania) which has been donated to the New Zealand Government by the Imperial Air Fleet Committee, from Potter's Park (near One Tree Hill).
 20 February – James William Humphrys Scotland makes the first substantial cross-country flight in New Zealand. He flies from Invercargill to Gore, a distance of , in 40 minutes in a Caudron biplane. He continues on to Dunedin, Timaru and Christchurch where he arrives on 6 March.
 18 April – The Auckland Exhibition closes.
 4 August – New Zealand declares war on Germany.
 29 August – 1374 New Zealand troops land in Samoa and are offered no resistance by German colonial forces. This is the second German territory (after Togoland) to be captured by the Allies.
 25 September – The departure of the New Zealand Expeditionary Force (NZEF) for Europe is delayed due to concerns about the presence of German raiders.
 16 October – The main body of the NZEF, some 8000 troops, finally departs New Zealand for Australia where they will join with the First AIF.
 1 November – The 38 ships carrying the NZEF (10 ships) and the AIF (28 ships) leave Perth, Western Australia. Although expecting to sail to England, they will receive orders to land in Egypt while crossing the Indian Ocean.
 Early December – The NZEF and AIF land in Egypt.
 10 December – The 1914 general election is held.

Arts and literature

See 1914 in art, 1914 in literature, :Category:1914 books

Music

See: 1914 in music

Film

Hinemoa, the first feature film made in New Zealand, premieres at the Lyric Theatre, Auckland.

Sport

Chess
 The 27th New Zealand Chess Championship is held in Auckland, and is won by W.E. Mason of Wellington, his fifth title.

Golf
 The eighth New Zealand Open championship is won by Ted Douglas (his second consecutive victory).
 The 22nd National Amateur Championships are held in Auckland:
 Men – Arthur Duncan (Wellington) (eighth title)
 Women – Mrs G. Williams (second title)

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup – Win Soon
 Auckland Trotting Cup –  Steel Bell

Thoroughbred racing
 New Zealand Cup – Warstep
 Auckland Cup – Warstep
 Wellington Cup – Kilrain
 New Zealand Derby – Balboa

Lawn bowls
The national outdoor lawn bowls championships are held in Dunedin.
 Men's singles champion – J.S. Kilgour (Carlton Bowling Club)
 Men's pair champions – J. Johnson, E. Harraway (skip) (Dunedin Bowling Club)
 Men's fours champions – W. Grenfell, A.E. Erksine, W.J. Thompson, J. Porteous (skip) (Wellington Bowling Club)

Rugby league
 During the 1914 Great Britain Lions tour of Australia and New Zealand, the Kiwis lose to Great Britain 16–13 in Auckland

Rugby union
  defend the Ranfurly Shield against  (17–3),  (11–3), Horowhenua (14–3), Wairarapa (22–3),  (6–5) and  (6–0), before losing to  (6–12).

Soccer
 Provincial league champions:
 Auckland – Auckland Thistle
 Canterbury – Sydenham
 Hawke's Bay – Waipukurau
 Otago – Northern
 Southland – Rangers
 Wanganui – Eastbrooke
 Wellington – Wellington Corinthians

Tennis
 Anthony Wilding, partnered with Norman Brookes, wins the men's doubles at the Wimbledon Championship.
 The Davis Cup final is held in New York City. New Zealander Anthony Wilding and Australian Norman Brookes (playing as Australia rather than Australasia) beat the United States 3–2.

Births