[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Maria Rye

me.' It was opened on 1 December 1869. To this house Miss Rye drafted the children from Peckham, and after further training they were distributed in Canada as domestic servants among respectable families. The first party left England in October 1869. She received a civil list pension of £10 in 1871.

Poor law children were subsequently received at Peckham from St. George's, Hanover Square, Wolverhampton, Bristol, Reading, and other towns. By 1891 Rye had found homes in Canada for some five hundred children. She accompanied each batch of emigrants, and visited the children already settled there. The work was continued with great success for over a quarter of a century, and did much to diminish the vicious habits and the stigma of pauperism. Lord Shaftesbury remained a consistent supporter, and in 1884 Henry Petty-Fitzmaurice, 5th Marquess of Lansdowne, then governor-general of Canada, warmly commended the results of her pioneer system, which Thomas John Barnardo and others subsequently adopted and extended.

Later life
In 1895, owing to the continuous strain, Rye transferred the two institutions in Peckham and Niagara with their funds to the Church of England Waifs and Strays Society (now The Children's Society). In her farewell report of 1895 she stated that 4000 English and Scottish children then in Canada had been sent out from her home in England.

She retired with her sister Elizabeth to 'Baconsthorpe,' Hemel Hempstead, where she spent the remainder of her life. There she died, after four years' suffering, of intestinal cancer on 12 November 1903, and was buried in the churchyard.

See also
 Barbara Leigh Smith Bodichon
 Bessie Rayner Parkes
 The Langham Place Group
 Society for Promoting the Employment of Women

References

Attribution

Further reading

External links

 Biography at the Dictionary of Canadian Biography Online
 Young Immigrants to Canada
 Female Middle Class Emigration Society,  Women's Library , Appendix 1.4
 British Home Child Group International

English social justice activists
1829 births
1903 deaths
English women activists
English philanthropists
British social reformers
Child welfare in the United Kingdom
Child welfare in Canada
History of women in Canada
19th-century British philanthropists