[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Elizabeth Casson

Elizabeth Casson OBE (14 April 1881 – 17 December 1954) was a British medical doctor and an occupational therapy pioneer. Initially training as a secretary, Casson began studying medicine at the University of Bristol when she was 32. She received her medical degree in 1926, becoming the first woman to receive one from the University of Bristol. She also attained the Gaskell prize from the Royal Medico-Psychological Association and a diploma in psychological medicine from the University of London.

Casson set up a residential clinic for women with mental disorders at Dorset House in Bristol in 1929 with enough residential space for 800 patients, and she opened the first school of occupational therapy in the UK in the same building the following year. She took an active role in the therapeutic activities at Dorset House, even playing a part in the patients' production of Pride and Prejudice.

Casson moved control of the school to a non-profit company in 1948, remaining as vice-chairman and medical director. She created the Elizabeth Casson Trust in 1949, intended to improve occupation therapy education and treatment. In 1951, Casson was appointed an OBE for her work at Dorset House and was also made an honorary fellow of the World Federation of Occupational Therapists. A memorial lecture was set up in her name in 1973 with presenters being selected by their peers, and a psychiatric unit was named after her at Bristol's Callington Road Hospital.

Biography
Casson, known as Elsie, was born on 14 April 1881 in Denbigh, Wales. She was the sixth child of a bank manager and amateur organ-builder, Thomas Casson, from Wales, and his wife Laura Ann. One of her brothers, Lewis Casson, went on to be an actor and theatre director. Whilst living in Denbigh, the family encouraged the seven children to enjoy the arts.

In 1891, Thomas decided to set up a business in organ-building and the family moved to London. There, Casson was educated at St Mary's College, Paddington before going to secretarial college at her father's behest. After qualifying, she worked as a secretary for her fathers' organ-building business until his retirement. In 1908, Casson was a working as housing manager for the social reformer, Octavia Hill, taking care of the living conditions of residents at Red Cross Hall in Southwark. For the next five years she organised recreational activities at the hall, focusing on the arts. Octavia Hill's philosophy influenced Casson's work over the following years.

In 1911, Casson's uncle, Isambard Owen, vice-chancellor at University of Bristol, promised her a place studying medicine if she could be formally matriculated to the university. She struggled with her Latin exams for two years, but eventually passed them and registered to study medicine on 1 October 1913 at the age of 32. She graduated with her Bachelor of Medicine degree in 1919, and took on a role at the West Hertfordshire Hospital in Hemel Hempstead. There she noticed that patients in the women's wards were enjoying using artistic talents, and decided that such pursuits were important to treatment. She realised that these pursuits were not only keeping the patients occupied but also helping them to gain self-esteem and to work through their issues.

Casson became a medical officer at the Holloway Sanatorium in 1921, developing an interest in occupational therapy whilst working there until 1929. In that time she gained a diploma in psychological medicine from the University of London in 1922, achieved her Doctorate of Medicine from the University of Bristol in 1926 (becoming the first woman to do so), and winning the 1927 Gaskell prize from the Royal Medico-Psychological Association. She also helped set up the Standing Committee in Psychological Medicine of the Medical Women's Federation and the Gaskell club for those recipients of the prize.

Dorset House

In 1926, Casson visited an occupational therapy centre in Bloomingdale Hospital, New York City, whilst on holiday, and decided that the UK needed a similar facility; in the late 1920s, Casson decided to establish one. She borrowed £1000 () from her brother, Lewis, to help set up the occupational therapy centre. Dorset House opened in Clifton, Bristol, in 1929 as a residential centre for women with mental health issues. She expanded Dorset House and on 1 January 1930 the UK's first occupational therapy school, known as Dorset House School opened, and she became medical director herself.  Miss Constance Tebbit was the first Principal. The school's course would teach not only the medical subjects such as anatomy and physiology, but also occupational treatments such as weaving, bookbinding, and other crafts, as well as how to organise activities such as country dancing and how these activities applied to occupational therapy. Ciné films of these activities can be found at the Dorset House archive held by Oxford Brookes University library.