[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Newfoundland and Labrador Youth Parliament

commitment to other forms of community service. The only Youth Parliament in Canada to retain its TUXIS designation is that of Alberta. In addition to the provincial Youth Parliaments, the four westernmost provinces hold a Western Canada Youth Parliament annually.

Youth Parliament in Newfoundland 

The Newfoundland and Labrador Youth Parliament first met in 1960 as the "Older Boys’ Parliament of Newfoundland". In 1967, the Older Boys’ Parliament of Newfoundland changed its name to the Newfoundland Youth Parliament and made provisions for girls to be allowed to sit as members, the first in the country to do so. The Newfoundland Youth Parliament had a brief hiatus in the late 1970s, but has since reconstituted itself. The organization has also since changed its name again, to the present Newfoundland and Labrador Youth Parliament.

The NLYP holds an annual session every February. At the February session, delegates are assigned a provincial riding to represent, although not necessarily the one in which they reside. Currently, young people in grade ten up to and including 23 years of age are permitted to attend the NLYP, which meets in the House of Assembly in St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador.

The NLYP was one of the provincial youth parliaments that founded and participated in the Youth Parliament of Canada/Parlement jeunesse du Canada.

Senate 

In the long-standing history of the Newfoundland and Labrador Youth Parliament, many youth parliamentarians have made great contributions to the organization. In honour of their contributions, upon their retirement from the organization some of these members are given the title of Senator. This honorary position is a lifelong testament to the work the Senator has done in enhancing the quality of each session during their careers as youth parliamentarians.

As of the 56th session of the Newfoundland and Labrador Youth Parliament, 58 people have been given this honour.

External links 
Newfoundland and Labrador Youth Parliament

Canadian youth parliaments
Educational organizations based in Newfoundland and Labrador