[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Detroit Autorama

hibit within the show which showcases the owner/builder's previous work. Past "Builders of the Year" include the Alexander Brothers (2002), Blackie Gejeian (2004), Ed Roth (2006), So-Cal Speed Shop (2007), Gene Winfield (2008), Darryl Starbird (2009), Bobby Alloway (2011), and Troy Trepanier (2014).

To celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Ridler Award in 2013, the 61st annual Detroit Autorama "Builder of the Year" exhibit was replaced with the largest gathering of former Ridler-winning cars ever assembled. Some of the cars included in the exhibition were Al Bergler's Aggravation, the Alexander Brothers' Venturian, Pennington's Devilfish, Bob Rizzoli's '92 Mercedes, Rydell's Grandmaster, Reister's Impression, Ray's Gold Digger, Bruce Rick's |Suncammer, and Peace's '55 Thunderbird. In addition to the gathering of former Ridler-cars, the exhibit included a special Saturday-autograph session, which brought out names like Bergler, Alloway, and Foode-to sign commemorative "50th Anniversary Artwork" with each of their cars on it. To cap-off the celebration, the winners of the 50th Ridler Award (Rob & Deb Cizek & their 1940 Ford "Checkered Past") were presented with a one-of-a-kind Gold Ridler trophy unlike any given-before or after.

The Detroit Autorama has been put together in-collaboration between the Michigan Hot Rod Association (MHRA) and Championship Auto Shows (CASI) since 1961. In 1963, CASI President Bob Larivee Sr. helped the Michigan Hot Rod Association (MHRA) form a new governing body for show car events, titled the International Show Car Association (ISCA). The ISCA has since become the leading promoter and governing body of show car events and competitions in the country. Along with CASI (now "North America's largest producer of indoor hot rod shows") they co-promote and judge events from coast-to-coast, ranging from the Boston World of Wheels to the Grand National Roadster Show in Pomona, California. All ISCA events have a series of "Outstanding Awards" for more than three-dozen classes. Each one counts as a single point in the ISCA point standings, which is split into four overall classes: Rod, Custom, Truck, and Bike. If at the end of a season, a single contributor has four Outstanding Awards in a single category, they are locked-into the ISCA Championship Finals, which is held every as part of the Chicago World of Wheels, the week following the show at Cobo. Many Ridler Winners and Great-8 cars have gone-on to attend other ISCA shows and win an overall Class Championship. Most recently Tammy Ray and her '34 Gold Digger did so in back-to-back seasons in 2010 & 2011.

The most events ever on an ISCA schedule was 99, set during the 1982–83 season. The current schedule features 30 events, including the Detroit Autorama, and the ISCA Championship Finals-held within the Chicago World of Wheels. It promotes and judges shows in 14 states and four provinces, and typically runs from Thanksgiving weekend through mid-April.

Ridler Award
Autorama's "best in show" award is the Don Ridler Memorial Award, named after Don Ridler, a former Michigan State Football Player, Lawrence Tech Basketball and Football Coach and Athletic Director, and Autorama's first promoter from 1956–1963.

It was awarded for the first time at the 12th annual Autorama in 1964, and has been awarded every year since.

The Pirelli "Great 8" 

Since 1970, the Ridler Award recipient has been selected out of a pre-determined group of cars, known as "The Great 8", sponsored by Pirelli Tires.

On the application for Autorama, a box is to be checked to indicate to the promotional staff if the submitted entry is a Ridler contender. Those entries who've checked-off the box on their applications are told to move into Cobo the Wednesday before the show, a full day ahead of other exhibitors. Then on Thursday Night before the show opens, the ISCA judging staff goes through all the Ridler Contenders, and sort-out which eight of them outweigh the rest.  These "Great 8" entries were formally announced during the annual Ridler Ball inside the Cobo Ballroom the Friday Night of the show, but are now announced earlier in the day, usually before the show opens to the public at noon on Friday, in order to accommodate online-publications and social media outlets. Each car has a banner within its display, distinguishing it as part of the "Pirelli Great 8".On Friday night, while the owners and builders are attending the Ridler Ball, an entire staff of ISCA Judges are assigned to solely the Great 8 cars, and go through each one before making a final decision the following morning. Once a decision is made, the winner is announced during the Sunday Night Awards Ceremony-again in the Ballroom; after all Great-8 owners have been previously brought-up on stage, and a short video presentation showcasing all eight-nominees to the tune of Europe's "Final Countdown"-is completed.