[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 18]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

Two Brothers--Story of the Sailors on the Island of
     Spitzbergen.


In this manner did Mr Barlow begin the education of Tommy Merton, who
had naturally very good dispositions, although he had been suffered to
acquire many bad habits, that sometimes prevented them from appearing.
He was, in particular, very passionate, and thought he had a right to
command everybody that was not dressed as fine as himself. This opinion
often led him into inconveniences, and once was the occasion of his
being severely mortified.

This accident happened in the following manner:--One day as Tommy was
striking a ball with his bat, he struck it over a hedge into an
adjoining field, and seeing a little ragged boy walking along on that
side, he ordered him, in a very peremptory tone, to bring it to him. The
little boy, without taking any notice of what was said, walked on, and
left the ball; upon which Tommy called out more loudly than before, and
asked if he did not hear what was said. "Yes," said the boy, "for the
matter of that I am not deaf." "Oh! you are not?" replied Tommy, "then
bring me my ball directly." "I don't choose it," said the boy. "Sirrah,"
said Tommy, "if I come to you I shall make you choose it." "Perhaps not,
my pretty little master," said the boy. "You little rascal," said Tommy,
who now began to be very angry, "if I come over the hedge I will thrash
you within an inch of your life." To this the other made no answer but
by a loud laugh, which provoked Tommy so much that he clambered over the
hedge and jumped precipitately down intending to have leaped into the
field; but unfortunately his foot slipped, and down he rolled into a wet
ditch, which was full of mud and water; there poor Tommy tumbled about
for some time, endeavouring to get out; but it was to no purpose, for
his feet stuck in the mud, or slipped off from the bank; his fine
waistcoat was dirtied all over, his white stockings covered with mire,
his breeches filled with puddle water; and, to add to his distress, he
first lost one shoe and then the other--his laced hat tumbled off from
his head and was completely spoiled. In this distress he must probably
have remained a considerable time, had not the little ragged boy taken
pity on him and helped him out. Tommy was so vexed and ashamed that he
could not say a word, but ran home in such a plight that Mr Barlow, who
happened to meet him, was afraid he had been considerably hurt; but,
when he heard the accident which had happened, he could not help
smiling, and he advised Tommy to be more careful for the future how he
attempted to thrash little ragged boys.

The next day Mr Barlow desired Harry, when they were all together in the
arbour, to read the following story of


"ANDROCLES AND THE LION."

"There was a certain slave named Androcles, who was so ill treated by
his master that his life became insupportable. Finding no remedy for
what he suffered, he at length said to himself: 'It is better to die
than to continue to live in such hardships and misery as I am obliged to
suffer. I am determined, therefore, to run away from my master. If I am
taken again, I know that I shall be punished with a cruel death; but it
is better to die at once, than to live in misery. If I escape, I must
betake myself to deserts and woods, inhabited only by beasts; but they
cannot use me more cruelly than I have been used by my fellow-creatures;
therefore, I will rather trust myself with them, than continue to be a
miserable slave.'

"Having formed this resolution, he took an opportunity of leaving his
master's house, and hid himself in a thick forest, which was at some
miles' distance from the city. But here the unhappy man found that he
had only escaped from one kind of misery to experience another. He
wandered about all day through a vast and trackless wood, where his
flesh was continually torn by thorns and brambles; he grew hungry, but
could find no food in this dreary solitude! At length he was ready to
die with fatigue, and lay down in despair in a large cavern which he
found by accident."

"Poor man!" said Harry, whose little heart could scarcely contain itself
at this mournful recital, "I wish I could have met with him; I would
have given him all my dinner, and he should have had my bed. But pray,
sir, tell me why does one man behave so cruelly to another, and why
should one person be the servant of another, and bear so much ill
treatment?"

"As to that," said Tommy, "some folks are born gentlemen, and then they
must command others; and some are born servants, and then they must do
as they are bid. I remember, before I came hither, that there were a
great many black men and women, that my mother said were only born to
wait upon me; and I used to beat them, and kick them, and throw things
at them whenever I was angry; and they never dared strike me again,
because they were slaves."

"And pray, young man," said Mr Barlow, "how came