[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Slaughter of the Knezes

eir districts. Karađorđe survived attempts. According to contemporary accounts, heads were put on public display at the Valjevo town square to serve as an example to those who might plot against the rule of the Dahije. By 4 February, 72 decapitated heads were brought to Belgrade.

List of victims
  

Stevan Andrejević Palalija, knez of Begaljica in the Grocka nahiya. Lured and killed.
Marko Čarapić, knez of Beli Potok in the Grocka nahiya. Killed during a wedding.
Janko Gagić, kmet and buljubaša, from Boleč in the Grocka nahiya. Killed after giving himself up to save his kidnapped son.
Stanoje Mihailović, knez of Zeoke in the Belgrade nahiya. Killed in his home, on 24–25 January.
Aleksa Nenadović, knez of Tamnava in the Valjevo nahiya. Killed on 23 January.
Ilija Birčanin, knez of Podgor in the Valjevo nahiya. Killed on 23 January.
Hadži-Ruvim, archimandrite of Bogovađa in the Valjevo nahiya. Tortured to death at the hands of Kučuk-Alija on 28 January.
Three priests from the Šabac nahiya, Živko, Maksim, and an unnamed protosynkellos of the Bishop of Šabac, were killed in Šabac in the later phase. The former two were pierced in the legs with knives and taken to the fortress and killed there. The latter was cut into pieces in the town center (čaršija).
Radosav Kalabić, knez of Jadar in the Zvornik nahiya, and his friend priest Vilip.
Hadži-Ðera, hegumen of the  in the Rudnik nahiya. Killed in the monastery.
Gavrilo Buđevac, buljubaša, from the Rudnik nahiya.
Mata, buljubaša, from Lipovac in the Kragujevac nahiya. Cut down by the Kragujevac mutesellim or Kučuk-Husejin.
Jovica from Knić in the Kragujevac nahiya. Cut down by the Kragujevac mutesellim.
Nikola Ćirjanić from Orašje in the Kragujevac nahiya. Beaten to death by the Kragujevac mutesellim.

Teofan, knez of Orašje in the Smederevo nahija.
Petar, knez of Resava in the Jagodina nahija.
Jovan, knez
Mata, buljubaša, from Lipovac in the Kragujevac nahija.
Gavrilo Buđevac, buljubaša
Nikola Grbović, obor-knez of Mratišića
knez Tavnavski of Ljutica
knez Mačvanski of Bogatić
knez Pocerski of Metković
Hadži-Melentije Stevanović

See also

Uprising against the Dahije

References

Sources

 

 

Conflicts in 1804
First Serbian Uprising
Massacres in Serbia
Massacres of Serbs
Persecution of Serbs
Assassinated Serbian people
Ottoman Serbia
Valjevo
1804 in Serbia
1804 in the Ottoman Empire
Massacres in the Ottoman Empire
Trophy heads
Assassinations in the Ottoman Empire
January 1804 events
Murder in the Ottoman Empire
1804 murders in the Ottoman Empire