[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of 2006 human rights incidents in Egypt

members who were holding a meeting in Cairo's Zahraa el-Maadi district.
 
March 6:  	Police arrested 5 MB members in Giza and Ismaliya on charges of plotting to "revive the group's activities".
 
March 8:  	Police shut down the MB newspaper Afaq Arabiya (Arab Horizons) and arrested four MB members.

March 17:  	Nearly 1,000 Egyptian judges held a half-hour silent protest to demonstrate for full judicial independence and against the government's order to interrogate of six of their colleagues who criticized recent elections.
 
March 22:  	Prime Minister Nazif announced that the emergency laws would soon be replaced by new anti-terrorism laws.

April 2006 

April 3:	Authorities forced several Egyptian judges to cancel meetings they had scheduled with a delegation from the NGO Human Rights Watch.
April 9:	Egyptian authorities barred jailed opposition leader Ayman Nour from sending any more articles to his party's newspaper.
 
April 11:	Egyptian authorities released 300 former members of the al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya (Islamic Group) militant group.  650 others from this group had been released in the previous six weeks.
 
April 15:  	A mob of Muslim Egyptians attacked a funeral procession for Nushi Atta Girgis in the Sidi Bishr district of Alexandria.  Egyptian police intervened, using tear gas to disperse the violence.  15 Egyptians were injured and 15 were arrested.

April 15:  	Police arrested five MB publishers for printing material that opposed the upcoming renewal of the emergency law.
April 16:	Mobs of Muslim Egyptians and Christian Egyptians continued to attack each other in Alexandria.  Over course of the weekend, 2 were killed, 40 wounded, and over 100 arrested.

April 17:  	Authorities summoned judges Mahmud Mekky and Hisham Al Bastawissi to a disciplinary hearing for telling the press that they witnessed electoral fraud in the November–December parliamentary elections.

April 17:  	Police detained another Muslim Egyptian who entered a Cairo church with a knife, three days after the fatal Abdel-Rizziq knife attacks in Alexandria.

April 24:  	Three nearly simultaneous bombings in the Sinai resort town of Dahab kill 23.

April 24:	At a sit-in in front of Judges' Club, police arrested 15 activists who were demonstrating in solidarity with judges Mekky and Bastawissi.

April 24:  	At a sit-in in front of Egyptian Judges Club, police beat Judge Mahmoud Mohammed Abdel Latif Hamza, hospitalizing him with minor injuries.
April 24:  	Police arrested blogger Ahmed Droubi.

April 26:  	Police arrested Al-Jazeera's Cairo bureau chief, Egyptian Hussein Abdel Ghani.  Police then detained Ghani in Dahab on charges of propagating false news for his coverage of the aftermath of the April 24 bomb attacks.

April 26:  	Police violently broke up a pro-judges demonstration taking place outside the Judges' Syndicate.

April 26:  	Two suicide bombers attacked security personnel and foreign peacekeepers in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula, but did not cause any injuries to their targets.

April 27:  	Police arrested blogger Malek Mostafa at a pro-Judges rally.
April 27:  	An Egyptian court released Al-Jazeera's Cairo bureau chief Hussein Abdel Ghani on bail and charged him with propagating lies for his reporting on the April 24 Dahab bombings.
April 27:  	Over the previous four days, police arrested over 51 pro-Judges demonstrators.

April 28:  	Police arrested Amir Salem and Ehab el Kholy, the two main lawyers for Ayman Nour, on charges of inciting the masses and insulting the president.
April 30:  	Prime Minister Nazif called for a two-year extension of the Emergency Laws in light of the April 24 Dahab bombings.  The Egyptian parliament approved the extension that same day, by a 287–91 vote.

May 2006 

May 4:  	Police arrested 23 MB in response to the group's campaign against the Emergency Laws.

May 6:  	40 activists being held at Tora Prison launched a hunger strike in protest of being detained with criminal convicts.

May 7:	Police arrested blogger Alaa Seif al-Islam and ten other Egyptians demonstrating outside the South Cairo Court.

May 10:	Egyptian cleric Hassan Mustafa Osama Nasr, who allegedly was abducted from an Italian street by CIA officers and turned over to Egypt in 2003, made allegations that he was beaten repeatedly in the early stages of his imprisonment, including while he was in U.S. custody.

May 11:	A High Court summoned judges Mekky and Bastawisi to appear, but the two judges refused to enter the court amid such a large presence of police.