[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Andrey Arshavin

early December, Arshavin put in an excellent display against Stoke City, playing in an unfamiliar role as centre-forward left vacant after Robin van Persie's injury. He won a penalty which Fàbregas missed before scoring himself and later assisted the second goal, with Arsenal winning the match 2–0.

On 13 December 2009, Arshavin scored his fifth goal against Liverpool as Arsenal came from behind to beat Liverpool 2–1 at Anfield again, also winning the Man of the Match award in the end again. On 20 January 2010, he scored again in Arsenal's 4–2 victory over Bolton Wanderers, which helped Arsenal reach the top of the Premier League for the first time since August.
However, he suffered a calf strain against Barcelona, ruling him out for three weeks. Arshavin missed one of two games in May due to injury, but scored for the last time of the season against Fulham, in a match which Arsenal won 4–0.

2010–11
On 17 July 2010, Arshavin scored the opening goal against Barnet in Arsenal's first pre-season friendly match of the season, which Arsenal won 4–0. He then won the Man of the Match award for best performance by Arsenal fans according to Arsenal's official website. On 21 August 2010, Arshavin scored his first goal of the season via a penalty for Arsenal in a 6–0 win over Blackpool after Marouane Chamakh was fouled by Ian Evatt in the penalty area. He also scored in Arsenal's very next game on 28 August 2010, scoring the winning goal against Blackburn Rovers for the third time when Cesc Fàbregas' shot was blocked and fell into the path of Arshavin, Arsenal winning the match 2–1.

On 15 September 2010, Arshavin scored and provided two assists against Braga in Arsenal's first Champions League group stage match, with Arsenal winning 6–0. On 18 September 2010, Arshavin scored his first League Cup goal, which was also Arsenal's fourth goal during extra time, to defeat Tottenham in the third round of the League Cup, with Arsenal winning against their arch rivals 4–1. He later scored Arsenal's first goal in a 3–1 midweek Champions League away win against FK Partizan in the 15th minute after a backheel pass by Jack Wilshere. Vladimir Stojković saved Arshavin's penalty in the second half after Marouane Chamakh was fouled in the penalty area.

On 27 November 2010, Arshavin scored his first goal since September, which was the opening goal against Aston Villa in a 4–2 away win. On 29 December 2010, Arshavin scored a scissor kick volley to bring Arsenal level when they were 1–0 down to Wigan Athletic. He later made an assist for Nicklas Bendtner to put Arsenal 2–1 up, but after a Sébastien Squillaci own goal, the match ended 2–2. He then won the Man of the Match award for best performance by Arsenal fans for the second time.

On 1 February 2011, Arshavin came off the bench in the 62nd minute and scored his first 2011-goal and first goal since December just 8 minutes later to make Arsenal level when they were 1–0 down to Everton in a game that Arsenal won 2–1. He then won the Man of the Match award for best performance by Arsenal fans for the third time. On 16 February 2011, Arshavin scored as Arsenal beat Barcelona for the first time in their history in a 2–1 win in the Champions League round of 16. This was Arshavin's first Champions League goal for Arsenal not scored in the group stage. The next day, Arsenal centre back Johan Djourou stated that "Arshavin showed he is a great player," because of his winning goal and his rising performance from his recent dip in form. During his goal celebration against Barcelona, Arshavin memorably lifted up his jersey to reveal a t-shirt with an image of himself performing his normal finger-to-the-lips celebration.

On 20 February 2011, Arsenal faced Leyton Orient for The FA Cup fifth-round, a 1–1 draw in which Arshavin won the Man of the Match award for best performance by Arsenal fans for the fourth time, even though he did not score, though he did come close numerous times. Arshavin's next Premier League goal was away to West Bromwich Albion, bringing the score to 2–1 after West Brom had earlier taken a 2–0 lead. He also provided the cross for Robin van Persie's late equaliser in that game.

2011–12
On 10 September 2011, Arshavin scored his first goal of the season against Swansea City after a bizarre mistake by goalkeeper Michel Vorm. His other performances in the season were riddled with criticism about his refusal to track back and help with defense. During a home game against Manchester United, Arshavin was booed when he came on for Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain although it is believed that the booing was directed at the decision to make a substitution and not at Arshavin himself.