[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United Nations Office for Project Services

lations to UNOPS staff. Since 2009 the Executive Director has been able to sign host country agreements with governments, and direct service agreements in consultation with a Resident or Humanitarian Coordinator, as well as having the authority to directly appoint UNOPS representatives in the field.

UNOPS attained a ISO 9001 quality management system certification in June 2011. UNOPS gained an ISO 14001 certification for its commitment to protecting the environment in 2013. 

In 2014, Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon appointed Grete Faremo as head of UNOPS. Her appointment led to a change in direction for the organization. In 2015 and 2016, 2017 and 2018 UNOPS achieved gold level in sustainable procurement from the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply.

In 2016, UNOPS operating principles, in relation to governance, risk management, and compliance (GRC) framework, were rewritten to align to industry best practice. 
	
Between 2014 and 2021 its portfolio of projects expanded from a delivery of $1.14 billion to more than $3.4 billion 

During this period UNOPS accrued substantial surplus of funds, known as “operational reserves”, some of which were used  to embark on an impact investing initiative -  known as Sustainable Investments in Infrastructure and Innovation, or S3i for short, - a first for any UN organization.

UNOPS’s former Deputy Executive Director, Vitaly Vanshelboim, a key architect of the initiative, was appointed its Chief Executive. 

S3i’s initial focus was set on the building of affordable and sustainable homes in the Caribbean, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, India, and Pakistan. In total, the projects combined promised to deliver more than one million affordable homes over the next decade.

A few years into the initiative, S3i ran into serious controversy after it was discovered key investing recommendations were not implemented prior to issuing loans.
	
Instead, in the first three months of 2019, $50 million was given to a string of companies owned by British businessman David Kendrick - whom Faremo and Vanshelboim had both met at a party in 2015.

Additionally, a company run by Kendrick's daughter, Daisy, was given a $3 million grant to write a pop song and arrange the production of ocean-themed games.

Vanshelboim was placed on administrative leave in December 2021 as the United Nations Office of Internal Oversight Services investigated allegations of misconduct.

Faremo resigned in early May 2022 after the publication of The New York Times article on the issues surrounding S3i. This followed a series of posts written by the blogger Mukesh Kapila who drew attention to the problems under Faremo's tenure."   

Jens Wandel was appointed acting Executive Director of UNOPS by the Secretary General on 09 May 2022.
                                                                                                                                                  
Mr Wandel has served the UN in many different capacities over a long career, most recently as the Secretary-General’s Designate for the COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund. Previously, he served as Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on UN Reforms and before that, he was Director of UNDP’s Bureau for Management Services.

He has been tasked with correcting the serious failures surrounding UNOPS S3i initiative and reforming the organisation. His plans to realign UNOPS were accepted by the Executive Board in June 2022, the roll-out of which is currently on going.

Notes

References

External links

UNOPS News
UNOPS project data platform

Organizations established by the United Nations
Organizations based in Copenhagen
Organizations established in 1974
United Nations Development Group
Denmark and the United Nations