[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alliance to Save Energy

ve’s website, its activities include “deepening collaboration among stakeholders, cultivating champions, and developing strategies and policies to scale up Active Efficiency.” In 2021, the Collaborative was chaired by Sarah Orban Salati of the New York Power Authority and Bert Van Hoof of Microsoft.

CarbonCount
CarbonCount is a metric developed by the Alliance to Save Energy that quantifies the impact of investments in U.S.-based energy-efficiency and renewable-energy projects given the expected reduction in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions resulting from each $1,000 of investment. In 2015, Bloomberg New Energy Finance honored CarbonCount with its Finance for Resilience (FiRE) award.  FiRE is an open and action-oriented platform that collects, develops and helps implement powerful ideas to accelerate finance for clean energy, climate, sustainability and green growth. FiRe singles out ideas that have the potential for incremental finance of at least $1bn in clean energy in the first three years of implementation, that are achievable within 1–3 years. Hannon Armstrong's 2015 issuance of Sustainable Yield Bonds secured by a portion of its utility scale solar and wind real estate related assets was the first investment to be certified under the CarbonCount methodology, receiving a CarbonCount score of 0.39 metric tons of CO2 offset per $1000 of investment. In 2016, Deutsche Bank received a CarbonCount score of 0.18 metric tons of CO2 offset per $1000 of investment in a portfolio of rooftop solar PV systems.

EmPowered Schools 
Since 1996, the Alliance has led energy efficiency education programs in schools. In 2021, the EmPowered Schools program was active in more than 200 schools across the country, teaching students the fundamentals of energy efficiency and about opportunities in green careers. According to the Alliance, schools that participate in the EmPowered program generally see 5-15% energy savings on their energy bills.

Energy Efficiency Forums and Summits 
The Alliance hosts an annual forum for leaders in energy efficiency. The Energy Efficiency Global Forum website states that the event, “brings together the brightest minds in energy efficiency to discuss pressing issues, identify emerging trends, and connect with peers from dozens of countries around the globe.” The forum is typically hosted in Washington, D.C., but in 2018 it was held in Copenhagen, and in 2020 and 2021 it took place virtually due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Alliance recently hosted Policy Summits in 2020 and 2022 with a focus on federal energy policies and priorities.

Stars of Energy Efficiency Awards 
Since 1993, the Alliance has awarded progress in energy efficiency with its annual Star of Energy Efficiency Awards. Typically awarded at an annual dinner gala in Washington, D.C., winners have included individuals, government organizations, corporations, nonprofits, and utilities who demonstrated a commitment to advancing energy efficiency.

Board of directors
The Alliance to Save Energy board includes CEOs, presidents, and senior executives of companies, associations, consumer, and environmental organizations, as well as officials from state government, universities, and law firms.

The first board of directors and board of advisors were chaired by Senator Percy and Henry A. Kissinger, respectively. Honorary chairmen included Senators Daniel J. Evans, H. John Heinz III and Timothy E. Wirth.

The current board Honorary Board of Advisors is chaired by Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.). Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) and Sen. Chris Coons (D-Del.) serve as honorary vice-chairs. Honorary Board members include Rep. Michael Burgess, M.D. (R-Texas), Sen. Susan M. Collins (R-Maine), Rep. Mike Kelly (R-Pa.), Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.), Sen. Edward Markey (D-Mass.), Rep. David McKinley (R-W. Va.), Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Rep. Bobby Rush (D-Ill.), Rep. Paul Tonko (D-N.Y.), Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.), Rep. Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), and Kandeh Yumkella.

The Board of Directors is chaired by Georgia Power President, Chairman, and CEO Christopher Womack. Other officers include Puget Sound Energy President and CEO Mary Kipp, Johnson Controls Vice President of Global Consumer Relations Katie McGinty, EnerGreen Capital Management LLC Founder and Managing Partner Carolyn Green, and Alliance President Paula Glover.

The Chair Emeritus is Gil Quiniones, CEO of ComEd.

See also
 Energy conservation
Energy conversion efficiency
Sustainable energy
Energy poverty

References

External links
 

Energy conservation in the United States
Environmental organizations based in Washington, D.C.
International energy organizations