[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Dreamfall Chapters

ad been announced. For various reasons, several developers, including the design director Martin Bruusgaard (who was on a parental leave), couldn't participate in the creation of Book Three, with only eight RTG employees working on the game full-time, assisted by several part-timers and freelancers.

Since the first three books had suffered from graphical performance problems, RTG decided to develop Book Four in Unity 5 and to retroactively upgrade the previous Books to the new engine version in July 2015. The entire porting process took four months and cost the company between $100,000 and $150,000, due to a combination of factors, such as having to adopt new tools, to reapply all lighting effects to work with Unity's new "Enlighten" system, and to rewrite all shaders and scripts from scratch for the new engine version. Several engine patches that fixed critical errors introduced new bugs instead, eventually forcing the team to stop all work on Book Four until the finished port of the first three Books was released to Steam on 23 November 2015.

The production of the game was completed on 17 June 2016, with the release of Book Five. RTG has, however, promised long-term technical support for the game, with four developers and several freelancers dedicated to the task in the months following the release. The patches planned for early 2017 included the German translation update for Books Four and Five, the remaining in-game backer rewards, and the Final Cut update that "upgrades the game to match the console versions".

At the time of the Kickstarter campaign, the developers planned for it to become the final game in what they called "the Dreamer Cycle", but not in The Longest Journey series as a whole. This had changed during development, however, and Book Five was presented as the conclusion to the entire saga upon release. In October 2019, Red Thread Games have once again reiterated that "for various reasons, including licensing terms", they are not working on any projects in The Longest Journey/Dreamfall series.

Casting 
Many characters from the earlier The Longest Journey and Dreamfall were re-cast for the third game in the series, including both returning playable characters. Although Zoë Castillo's original voice actress, Ellie Conrad-Leigh, has expressed readiness to reprise this role, she was voiced by Charlotte Ritchie in Chapters instead. Likewise, Nicholas Boulton voiced Kian Alvane, taking over from Gavin O'Connor. Sarah Hamilton, the voice of April Ryan in the previous games, was announced to return in Chapters during the Kickstarter campaign, but is not credited in the final release. Returning actors included Roger Raines and Ralph Byers, with the former reprising his role as Crow, and the latter as both Brian Westhouse and Roper Klacks. The last playable character of Chapters, Saga, was voiced by Ava Khan, Eleanor Matsuura, and Susan Brown as a teenager, an adult, and an old woman (Lady Alvane), respectively.

Porting
The primary target platforms of the game are Microsoft Windows, OS X and Linux, because the developers believe "that's where [...] The Longest Journey fans are". At Gamescom 2014, RTG announced that the PlayStation 4 port would be the first console version to be released and would remain a PS4 exclusive for some time. It would be possible to play the game on PlayStation Vita through the Remote Play functionality of PS4, but its RAM requirements make a direct Vita port impossible. At the same time, RTG was working on an Xbox One port, as well, but the then-current Microsoft policy prevented them from publishing previously PS4-exclusive games on that console. Nonetheless, when the console release was finally announced, the publisher Deep Silver confirmed that both PS4 and Xbox One versions would be released simultaneously with the Final Cut for the PC, on 24 March 2017, which was later pushed back to 5 May for the console versions and to 21 July for the PC versions (Windows, Mac, Linux). The developers stated that the console ports had not been feasible until the game was upgraded to Unity 5.

Nintendo had approached Red Thread Games about a possible port of Dreamfall Chapters to Wii U immediately after the preproduction began, but it wasn't until July 2013 that the studio requested and received a dev kit to start working on the Wii U version. The developers considered the Wii U port "secondary" to the main target platforms. Porting the game to iOS and Android devices was one of the Kickstarter stretch goals that wasn't reached. Additional platforms, such as tablet computers and SteamOS, were also under consideration. During the pre-production, the developers experimented with the Oculus Rift virtual reality technology and, by April 2015, had a beta version running on it that had never been publicly released.