[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lamon

Lamon is a comune (municipality) in the province of Belluno in the Italian region of Veneto, located about  northwest of Venice and about  west of Belluno. As of 31 December 2004, it had a population of 3,322 and an area of .

The municipality of Lamon contains the frazioni (subdivisions, mainly villages and hamlets) Arina, Bellotti, Cess, Chioè, Oltra, Piei, Pian del vescovo, Rugna, Ronche, San Donato, Sala, and Zavena.

Lamon borders the following municipalities: Arsiè, Canal San Bovo, Castello Tesino, Cinte Tesino, Fonzaso, Sovramonte.

Geography 
The territory of Lamon is located between two long valleys, with the Cismon tributary to the east and the Senaiga tributary to the south, which flows into the Cismon tributary leading to the Lago di Senaiga. The municipality borders the municipalities of Belluno of Arsiè, Fonzaso and Sovramonte and the Trentino municipalities of Canal San Bovo, Castello Tesino and Cinte Tesino. The large territory of the municipality, which extends for over 54 km2, is divided into three hamlets corresponding to the historic communities of Lamon, San Donato and Arina.

The territory of Lamon starts at 360m asl in the Maoli hamlet and culminates at the Monte Coppolo, 2069m. The climate is alpine, with cold and dry winters and moderately hot summers with frequent breezes. The central plateau, which rises to about 600m asl, houses the capital and more than half of the entire municipal population.

At a first geographical analysis, the vast and mountainous Lamonese territory presents the particular characteristics of a marked asperity and discontinuity between the various low, medium and high mountain areas. With the exception of the plateau and other small flat alluvial terraces, the morphology of the soil is alternated by steep slopes, grandiose ridges, sunny ridges and rocky buttresses that slope down between narrow valleys of wild and rare beauty.

Origins of the name 
In the seventeenth century, a derivative exegesis of Castrum Ammonis was given, in reference to an alleged (and never proven) cult of Giove Ammone (Jupiter) on the hill of San Pietro.

In fact, the toponym Lamon could refer to the proto-Italian lama, attributable to the Etruscan lumena and the Latin lima ("pond", but also "landslide"). Evidence of this comes from the geological formation of the vast plateaus of Lamon and Sovramonte formed by the gradual filling of a large lake formed at the end of the last glacial period, about 15,000 years ago.

History

Pre-history and ancient era 
The Lamon plateau shows traces of frequentation since prehistoric times, as evidenced by the discovery of numerous objects in stone and flint. Among other things, the remarkable discovery of a prehistoric hunter occurred in 1988 in Val Rosna, on the supramontine side of the Cismon. More recently, remains of fauna fossils were found in the cave of San Donato, including the remains of the Ursus spelaeus, a large bear that was spread over the Alpine arc (today a skeleton, composed of bones of different specimens, is present in the atrium of the town hall). Research carried out by middle school students in the hamlet of Guana in 1997 uncovered arrowheads, scratchers, cores and sickle elements (flint blades) attributable to farmers who lived in the late Neolithic period (3000 BC).

In historical age, for the territory of Lamon, as the rest of Feltrino, the toponymic evidence confirms the news of Pliny the Elder, according to which the municipium of Feltria (and its territory which also included the Lamonese plateau) was inhabited by Rhaetian people, distinct from the Gallic people of nearby Bellunum. Also present were Etruscan populations who fled the territory of Felsina and the Etrurian plains between 450 and 350 BC. The latter, like the Reti, did not speak an Indo-European language, but instead included the Venetic language, Celtic dialects, Latin and Greek. The niches carved in the rock of the Colle di San Pietro, at the height of the cave now dedicated to the Marian cult, are perhaps attributable to this period.

With the establishment of the municipium of Feltria, the Lamon plateau was affected by Romanization, especially following the preparation of the Via Claudia Augusta (today in the Lamonese tract called 'via pagana') which from Altinum reached Augusta Vindelicum (Augusta), in the province of Raetia. The road, traced by Drusus and "fitted" by Claudius, passed directly (or a branch of it, the question is still debated) through the Lamonese territory in the direction of Castello Tesino.