[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Islam in Belgium

Islam is the second largest religion in Belgium after Christianity. The exact number of Muslims in Belgium is unknown but various sources estimate that 4.0% to 7.6% of the country's population adheres to Islam. The first registered presence of Islam in Belgium was in 1829, but most Belgian Muslims are first-, second-, or third-generation immigrants that arrived after the 1960s.

History 
The first registered presence of Islam in Belgium was in 1829, a year prior to the country's independence in 1830. In 1964, bilateral labour immigration agreement were signed between Belgium, Turkey, and countries in the Maghreb. Over 10,000 workers from these countries moved to Belgium and mostly worked in low-skilled jobs such as coal mining, steelmaking, the automobile industry, etc. This stopped in 1974 when all foreign manual labour was banned from entry into the country and, in the same year, Islam was officially recognised as a religion in Belgium.

According to a 2006 opinion poll, 61% of the Belgian population thought tensions between Muslims and other communities would increase in the future.

In 2011, Belgian authorities instituted a ban on face-covering attire in public, which meant the wearing of the niqāb and burqa were considered incompatible with Belgian society. The ban was challenged by two Muslim women in first the Constitutional Court and then the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), but was upheld.

Demographics
The Belgian government does not collect or publish statistics on religious affiliation, so the exact number of Muslims in Belgium is unknown. In 2014, various sources estimated Muslims to be 4.0% to 6.5% of the country's population. The Centre de Relations Européennes estimated in 2000 that there were around 30,000 converts to Islam in Belgium. The Pew Research Center estimated in 2016 that Muslims represented 7.6% of Belgium's population.

Muslims are unevenly distributed around Belgium with the majority concentrated in the working class districts of major cities around the country. Almost 40% of Belgian Muslims live in the capital, Brussels. Approximately 39% live in Flanders and 21% live in Wallonia.

Religious censuses are forbidden in Belgium, so no accurate numbers about the ethnicity of Belgian Muslims can be given. Nationality cannot be used as an indicator of religion, since most people with roots in Islamic countries have taken on Belgian citizenship. Their children are born Belgian citizens and often cannot be distinguished from non-Muslims in the statistics.

Branches and denominations

The overwhelming majority of Muslims in Belgium are Sunni. Isabelle Praille, vice-president of the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, estimated in 2010 that roughly 10% of the Muslim Belgians were Shia. There is also a small Ahmadi presence.

Shia-Islam 
The rise of Shiism in Belgium began with the arrival of Shiite Muslims from countries such as Lebanon, Iraq and Iran. Initially, the Shiite (Shia) presence in the country was limited to the capital, Brussels and Inverse, and now it has spread to other parts of the country, with the estimated Shiite population in Belgium at over 10,000. The majority of the population of Shiite Muslims in Belgium is from Lebanon, Iran, Syria, Iraq and other countries, and the Twelver Shiites (twelve Imams) in this country have five Islamic centers (and mosques).

Among the active centers/mosques of Shiite Muslims in Belgium (in Brussels):

Ahl al-Bayt Center.
Center of Thaqalain;
Al-Rahman Mosque;
Al-Huda Mosque;
Imam Reza Mosque (Friday prayers are held in this mosque);
Etc.

Identity
A 2011 Open Society Foundation report titled Muslim in Antwerp found that Muslims felt a "strong sense of belonging" to the neighborhood they lived in and the city of Antwerp but less to the country of Belgium in general.

Religiosity
Surveys conducted 1994 and 1996 observed a increase in religiosity based on increased mosque participation, increased in frequent prayers among those surveyed, increased importance attached to an religious education, etc. This increase in religiosity was more visible in younger Muslims; however, other more recent studies show that while participation in religious activities among young Muslims is increasing, they are more likely to identify with Islam culturally as well as religiously.

A 2005 Université Libre de Bruxelles study estimated that about 87% of the Muslim population are "practicing Muslims." A 2009 survey found that the majority of Muslims in Belgium supported "separation between religion and state." A 2010 study found that while Muslims put great emphasis on religious freedom and the overwhelming majority stated people should be free to leave Islam if they wanted, they were less comfortable with the idea of Muslims marrying non-Muslims.