[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of former Muslims

i – Iranian Christian pastor who has been sentenced to death for apostasy.
 Zachariah Anani – former Sunni Muslim Lebanese militia fighter
 Zaida of Seville – refugee Andalusian Muslim princess who was a mistress and then perhaps queen of Alfonso VI of Castile

Converted to the Bábí and Baháʼí Faith

These were mostly people who were followers of the Bahá'u'lláh at the time he founded the Baháʼí Faith. They were formerly Muslims.
 Hají Ákhúnd – eminent follower of Bahá'u'lláh. He was appointed a Hand of the Cause, and identified as one of the nineteen Apostles of Bahá'u'lláh.
 Ibn-i-Abhar – appointed a Hand of the Cause, and identified as one of the nineteen Apostles of Bahá'u'lláh.
 Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl – foremost Baháʼí scholar who helped spread the Baháʼí Faith in Egypt, Turkmenistan, and the United States. One of the few Apostles of Bahá'u'lláh who never actually met Bahá'u'lláh.
 Mírzá Mahmúd – eminent follower of Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Baháʼí Faith.
 Mishkín-Qalam – prominent Baháʼí and one of the nineteen Apostles of Bahá'u'lláh, as well as a famous calligrapher of 19th century Persia.
 Nabíl-i-A'zam – Baháʼí historian and one of the nineteen Apostles of Bahá'u'lláh
 Núrayn-i-Nayyirayn – two brothers who were beheaded in the city of Isfahan in 1879.
 Somaya Ramadan – 2001 winner of the Naguib Mahfouz Medal for Literature.
 Táhirih – Persian poet and theologian of the Bábí faith in Iran.

Converted to an Indian religion

Converted to Hinduism

 Annapurna Devi (born Roshanara Khan) – surbahar (bass sitar) player and music teacher in the North Indian classical tradition. She converted to Hinduism upon marriage.
 Anwar Shaikh – British author
 Aashish Khan (born Ustad Aashish Khan Debsharma) – Indian musician
 Asha Gawli – (born Ayesha) wife of Arun Gawli, notorious gangster turned politician from Mumbai, India. She converted to Hinduism upon marriage.
 Bukka I – King of Vijayanagara empire who converted to Islam, then reverted to Hinduism. The early life of Bukka as well as his brother Hakka (also known as Harihara I) are relatively unknown and most accounts of their early life are based on theories.
 Chander Mohan – former Deputy Chief Minister of Haryana State in India. He was born Chandra Mohan he converted to Islam after marriage and again reverted to Hinduism after his divorce.
 Happy Salma – Indonesian actress, writer, model, became princess and member of the Lordship of Ubud after marriage.
 Haridas Thakura – prominent Vaishnavite saint, instrumental in the early appearance and spread of Hare Krishna movement.
 Harihara I – King of Vijayanagara Empire who converted to Islam, then reconverted.
 Harilal Mohandas Gandhi – son of Mahatma Gandhi. Upon converting to Islam he adopted the name Abdullah Gandhi, but later again reverted to Hinduism.
 Ifa Sudewi – Indonesian chief judge for the 2002 Bali bombing trials.
 Khushboo Sundar – Tamil movie actress. She converted to Hinduism upon marriage.
Nargis – Bollywood film actress. Mother of Indian actor Sanjay Dutt.
 Netaji Palkar – Maratha noble and commander-in-chief of the army of Chhatrapati Shivaji, 19 June 1676.
 Sarmad – 17th-century mystical poet and sufi saint, arrived from Persia to India, beheaded for assumed heresy by the Mughal emperor, Aurungzebe. Sarmad renounced Judaism, briefly converting to Islam and then Hinduism. He later denounced all religions and rejected belief in god.
Sukmawati Sukarnoputri – daughter of Indonesia's founding president Sukarno and his wife Fatmawati. Sister of former Indonesian president Megawati Sukarnoputri, Sukmawati converted to Hinduism during a Sudhi Wadani ceremony in October 2021.
Zubeida – Bollywood film actress, on whose life story the film Zubeidaa was based. She converted to Hinduism upon marriage.
Wasim Rizvi – Indian Shia and WAQF board chairman, converted to Hinduism.
Ali Akbar – Kerala film maker, reverted to Hinduism.
Seema Haider – A woman, who in 2023, fled Pakistan with her four kids to be with her lover Sachin Meena, who she came into contact with while playing the game PUBG during the covid lockdown.  She converted to Hinduism and changed her name to Seema Sachin and her four children also converted to Hinduism and have changed their names too.

Converted to Buddhism

 Bunnag family – Thai family of Persian descent.
 Kenneth Hsien-yung Pai (b. 1937) – Chinese American writer of Hui descent.
 Napapa Tantrakul (b. 1986) – Thai actress
 Sri Sulalai (1770–1837) – princess of the royal family of the Sultanate of Singora. Rama II of Siam took her as a concubine.
 Suraj Randiv (b. 1985) – Sri Lankan cricketer
 Tillakaratne Dilshan (b. 1976) – Sri Lankan cricketer
 Tillakaratne Sampath (b. 1982) – Sri Lankan cricketer
 Wong Ah Kiu (1918–2006) – Malay woman born to a Muslim family but was raised as Buddhist; her conversion from Islam became a legal issue in Malaysia on her death

Converted to Sikhism
 Kuldip Manak – deceased Punjabi folk singer

Part of an unorganized religion or no religion