[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Blue Bird (1976 film)

Red Tent and spoke Russian, as producer. Principal photography took place from January 20 to August 11, 1975. Taylor spent $8,000 buying additional costumes for her roles.

Critical reception
The film premiered at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington D.C., on May 5, 1976.

Vincent Canby of The New York Times described the film as "two films that want to compete but don't, everyone being polite, accepting compromise, effectively neutered. One of these films is blandly American, like the sort of processed cheese sold in jars that can later be used as water glasses. The other is dimly Russian but without any real Russian character, except for the sets, which aren't great. They look like stuff left over from the Bolshoi Opera's last road tour...Spectacle for spectacle's sake no longer is the rage in this country. It can still work sometimes if it's put on a large patch of ice, but the romantic notions that motivate The Blue Bird are enough to send most American children, to say nothing of the ancients who may accompany them to the film, into antisocial states beginning with catatonia and ending in armed rebellion...Mr. Cukor...seems to have had less chance to direct in this case than to act as the goodwill ambassador who got his actors on and off the sets on time...None of the English-speaking actors can do much but behave as if he was in a very unlikely pageant...The Soviet cast members, who speak in badly dubbed English, are no better except when they are given a chance to dance."

Variety wrote "Nobody's going to laugh in ridicule at any of it (it's that good) but nobody's going to be strongly moved (it's that bad)."

Time Out New York called the film "a desperately pedestrian, hideously glitzy version of Maeterlinck's delicate fantasy" and added, "You'd never believe in a month of Sundays that Cukor directed it."

Gene Siskel of the Chicago Tribune gave the film one star out of four and said that its production problems "show on the screen. Elizabeth Taylor has never looked uglier than she does portraying the spirit of light. She wears a '50s-spangled gown topped by a lava-like tiara. The Russians in the cast appear as interlopers, their speeches badly dubbed. The two starring children are as disingenuous as most movie children. Artistically grotesque moments abound. The film couldn't have its heart in a more right place, but what's up on the screen make this "The Blue Bird" one of unhappiness."

Awards and nominations
The film was nominated for the Saturn Award for Best Fantasy Film but lost to The Holes.

See also
 The Blue Bird, a 1940 children's film, also released by 20th Century Fox and also based on Maurice Maeterlinck's play.

References

Works cited

External links

1976 films
1970s fantasy drama films
English-language Soviet films
Soviet fantasy drama films
Russian fantasy drama films
Russian children's fantasy films
American children's drama films
American children's fantasy films
American films based on plays
Films directed by George Cukor
20th Century Fox films
Lenfilm films
Films shot in Moscow
Films shot in Saint Petersburg
1970s Russian-language films
Films based on works by Maurice Maeterlinck
Films scored by Irwin Kostal
Films scored by Andrey Petrov
American multilingual films
Soviet multilingual films
1976 multilingual films
1976 drama films
Films produced by Paul Maslansky
Films about birds
Films about children
Works based on The Blue Bird (play)
Soviet Union–United States relations
1970s English-language films
1970s American films
Soviet children's fantasy films