[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2008 United States Senate election in Virginia

Northern Virginia known for his social conservative values, announced he would challenge Gilmore for the Republican nomination May 31, 2008. The convention was held on May 31, 2008, where Gilmore won the nomination with 50.3% of the vote, just 66 votes more than Marshall.

Republican Convention Vote

Democratic nomination 
On September 12, 2007, former Governor Mark Warner (no relation to John Warner) announced his candidacy.  Mark Warner had challenged John Warner for his Senate seat in 1996, but was narrowly defeated.  Mark Warner later won election in 2001 as Governor of Virginia, and left office with a high level of popularity in 2006. He was confirmed as the party nominee at the state convention on June 10, 2008, as he went unopposed.

General election

Candidates 
 Jim Gilmore, former Governor of Virginia (Republican)
 Glenda Parker, retired United States Air Force officer and candidate for U.S. Senate in 2006 (Independent Greens)
 Bill Redpath, national chair of the Libertarian Party (Libertarian)
 Mark Warner, former Govenror of Virginia (Democratic)

On March 29, 2008, the Libertarian Party of Virginia state convention nominated Bill Redpath as its Senate candidate. Redpath, who was serving as national party chair at the time, cited the importance of running a Libertarian candidate for federal office this election year, considering the fact that the Independent Greens have been fielding candidates so actively in recent years. Glenda Gail Parker from Alexandria, a retired U.S. Air Force officer, ran again for the Independent Greens as she did in the 2006 Senate election.

Campaign 

After the conclusions of the state conventions, Democrat Mark Warner had emerged as the front-runner for the Class 2 Senate seat from Virginia.  Some early polling showed Mark Warner leading Jim Gilmore by as much as 2-1.

Pundits and analysists believed Virginia to be the single strongest pickup opportunity for the Democrats due to Warner's consistent lead in the polls.

Jim Gilmore responded aggressively, mostly with ads on the Internet; his campaign had very little money.  Gilmore attacked Warner for raising taxes during his term as governor, when he had pledged not to do so, flip-flopping among many other topics.

On October 6, 2008, Mark Warner and Jim Gilmore debated various issues, including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Iraq War and Judicial nominees. The Richmond Times Dispatch sponsored the debate held at the Taubman Museum of Art, Roanoke, Virginia.

Mark Warner argued he'd be part of a radical centrist coalition, no matter who won the presidency. He claimed the coalition would improve cooperation in the Congress and its subsequent public perception. Warner spoke of alternative energy, and Gilmore argued for offshore drilling. The issue of the 2004 tax increase under then-Governor Mark Warner was raised at the first debate of the campaign between Gilmore and Warner.

The Washington Post reported on July 24, 2008, that Jim Gilmore "submitted false information on two financial disclosure forms that hid his ties to a government contractor embroiled in a legal dispute over allegations that two of its executives had conspired to defraud the federal government." The Gilmore campaign responded by saying, the controversy was due to a "clerical error."

On election night, Warner was declared the winner based on exit polls alone, before the votes were counted.

Fundraising 
Money played a large role in the campaign. By July, Mark Warner had raised $9 million, while Jim Gilmore had raised $1.2 million. This does not include money from the DSCC or NRSC.

Endorsements 
Mark Warner
 Bristol Herald-Courier
 Daily Press (Newport News)
 Danville Register & Bee
 Fredericksburg Free Lance-Star
 Loudoun Times-Mirror
 Martinsville Bulletin
 News and Advance (Lynchburg)
 The Roanoke Times
 The Virginian-Pilot (Norfolk)
 The Washington Post

Jim Gilmore
 Richmond Times-Dispatch

Predictions

Polling

Results

Counties and Independent Cities that flipped from Republican to Democratic

See also 
 2008 United States Senate elections

References

External links 
General
 Virginia State Board of Elections
 U.S. Congress candidates for Virginia at Project Vote Smart
 Virginia, U.S.  Senate from CQ Politics
 Virginia U.S. Senate from OurCampaigns.com
 Virginia Senate race from 2008 Race Tracker
 Campaign contributions from OpenSecrets
 Gilmore (R) vs M. Warner (D) graph of multiple polls from Pollster.com
Official campaign websites (Archived)
 Jim Gilmore for Senate, Republican nominee
 Mark Warner for Senate, Democratic nominee
 Bill Redpath for Senate, Libertarian nominee

2008
Virginia
United States Senate
Mark Warner