[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fürstenfeldbruck Air Base

trainers; to operate and maintain Fürstenfeldbruck Air Base; provide administrative and logistical support for tenant units; prepare for the reception and provide necessary support for tactical units using Fürstenfeldbruck as a staging base; and to operate and maintain the Siegenburg gunnery range.

In 1955 the French, British and American occupation of Germany ended and permission was given to the West German government to re-establish its armed forces. In 1957 Fürstenfeldbruck Air Base became a joint-use facility with the new West German Air Force.

Joint-use continued until 1958 with the 7330th wing, then the organization was redesigned as the 7367th Flying Training Group until it was discontinued in 1960.

1972 Munich Olympics 
During the 1972 Summer Olympics Munich International Airport was restricted for a short time for security reasons. Some civilian commercial tourist flights came into Fürstenfeldbruck instead during the Olympics. There was an extraordinarily heavy army presence on the base, with armoured vehicles escorting aircraft on landing and automatic weapons in common sight in the Terminal, something unheard of at this time. A military brass band was playing in the terminal to calm tourists' nerves at the sight of this extraordinary security.

The "Munich Massacre" 

On September 5, 1972, eight Palestinian terrorists from the group Black September took eleven members of the Israeli Olympic team hostage. Two hostages were murdered in one of the Israeli apartments in the Olympic Village. After lengthy negotiations with Olympic and government officials, the Palestinians demanded transport to Cairo via Munich-Riem Airport, but negotiators convinced them to take their nine surviving hostages to the Fürstenfeldbruck Air Base instead. The eight terrorists and their nine remaining Israeli hostages were transported in two helicopters from the Olympic Village to Fürstenfeldbruck, where a Boeing 727 was waiting. Five German police snipers, with no specialist terrorist training, proceeded to engage the Palestinians in an attempt to free the hostages. In the ensuing gun battle on the tarmac all nine Israeli hostages and one German police officer were killed. All of the hostages were killed while they were still tied up in the helicopters. Since the massacre, there has been much criticism levelled at the German authorities for the way they planned and executed the rescue attempt.
The year after the event, in response to the hostage crisis, West German government founded GSG9 a counter-terrorism and special operations unit of the German Federal Police.

References 

 Endicott, Judy G. (1999) Active Air Force wings as of 1 October 1995; USAF active flying, space, and missile squadrons as of 1 October 1995. Maxwell AFB, Alabama: Office of Air Force History. CD-ROM.
 Maurer, Maurer (1983). Air Force Combat Units Of World War II. Maxwell AFB, Alabama: Office of Air Force History. .
 Ravenstein, Charles A. (1984). Air Force Combat Wings Lineage and Honors Histories 1947–1977. Maxwell AFB, Alabama: Office of Air Force History. .
 USAAS-USAAC-USAAF-USAF Aircraft Serial Numbers—1908 to Present

External links 

 Fürstenfeldbruck Air Base
 Offizierschule der Luftwaffe Officer School Of the German Air Force (In German)
 Fursty Tree Movers Website
 BMW and Mini Driving Academy Maisach

Luftwaffe bases
Installations of the United States Air Force in Germany
Bases of the German Air Force
Buildings and structures in Fürstenfeldbruck (district)
Airports in Bavaria
Defunct airports in Germany
Training establishments of the Luftwaffe