[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thiago Silva

, three or four times a day, plus 10-15 pills." His illness became much worse over time and his doctors told him that if he had been hospitalized two weeks later, he could have died. During his recovery, Silva decided to retire from football but was persuaded to reconsider by his mother.

Fluminense

Silva returned to football with the help of his former coach, Ivo Wortmann. In 2006, Wortmann was signed as a coach by Fluminense and requested to bring Silva with him, despite Silva's health issues. On 14 January, Fluminense announced the signing of Silva from Dynamo Moscow. Fluminense struggled in the 2006 Brasileirão, finishing 15th out of 20 teams; however, Silva was described as one of the best players in the season. It is during this time where Silva developed the nickname of "O Monstro" — Portuguese for "The Monster".

2007 was a much better year for both Fluminense and for Silva. The club finished in fourth place in the 2007 Brasileirão, conceding only 39 goals in 38 matches, enough for the second-best defence in Brazil. More importantly, Fluminense managed a historic victory in the 2007 Copa do Brasil, winning the prestigious trophy for the first time. Silva played a decisive part in the victory; he started in every match, and scored the opening goal in the quarter-final, as well as the equalising goal in the semi-final. Silva's form through the season led him to be selected into Brazil national team manager Dunga's preliminary squad for the 2007 Copa América. After winning the Copa do Brasil, Silva was recognised by fans as the best defender in Brazil. At the end of the season, he was one of three nominees for the Best Central Defender award, alongside Breno and Fábio Luciano. The voting results were unveiled on 4 December, where Silva finished second, behind Breno.

2008 was a bad year for Fluminense, but Silva's best on an individual level. Having devoted much of their efforts towards the 2008 Copa Libertadores, the club's league form suffered, finishing in 14th place. On 18 January, Silva was rewarded by Fluminense's board of directors for his 100th match in the tricolor: He was awarded a shirt with the number "100" and a plaque in honour of his achievements. Silva became an idol for young Fluminense supporters with his level of performances — the white wristband that Silva would wear during matches became a trend amongst teenagers in Rio de Janeiro who supported the tricolor. In May 2008, four fans painted a flag of Silva to honour what they deemed "the best central defender in Brazil". It was first shown in the Copa Libertadores semi-final against Boca Juniors — Silva scored a crucial equaliser in the same match.

Silva was included in the 2008 Brasileirão Team of the Season and was selected as the Fans' Player of the Season. Silva was widely regarded as one of Fluminense's most important performers in the 2008 Copa Libertadores, reaching the finals only to lose on penalties to LDU Quito. Silva's form for Fluminense earned him a call-up to the Seleção to take part in the 2008 Summer Olympics. Silva was linked with many clubs in 2008, including the likes of Inter Milan, Chelsea and Villarreal, though ultimately he opted to join the Brazilian contingent already at AC Milan. The transfer was confirmed on 12 December. In his final match for Fluminense, Silva was cheered by 50,000 supporters who were witnessing his last performance at the Maracanã.

AC Milan
After a five-month rundown and a confusing four-hour negotiation period, Silva agreed to a move to Milan for a €10 million fee, with net wages of €2.5 million on a four-year contract. Although Silva could not play competitive matches, he was able to train with the first team. In his first month at Milan, he was taught new defending techniques from Paolo Maldini and manager Carlo Ancelotti. Silva played his first match for the Rossoneri in a friendly match against Hannover 96 on 21 January 2009; he played well, making ten tackles. His performance drew praise from Milan executive Adriano Galliani and teammate Clarence Seedorf. Silva was officially registered as a Milan player for the 2009–10 season.

2009–10: Debut season

Silva played his first competitive match of the season against Siena on 22 August 2009. After the match, he was praised for a strong individual performance alongside teammate Alessandro Nesta. Milan legend Paolo Maldini claimed that Silva had the "physical and technical characteristics of a champion", while Nesta said that Silva would "extend my life as a central defender". On 23 September, Silva left training with a muscle strain; he was inactive for the next four matches. In October, Silva followed a poor performance against Roma with two great displays against Real Madrid; Silva also had a wrongly disallowed goal in Milan's away victory.