[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Monarchy in Ontario

Quebec), respectively, and merging them to form the Province of Canada, with a governor general to represent the monarch and housed at Monklands, in Montreal. Five years later, the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada made Victoria's birthday, 24 May, a public holiday called Victoria Day.

When, in 1848, Robert Baldwin and Louis-Hippolyte Lafontaine were reappointed as Joint Premiers, responsible government was implemented in the colony, with the backing of Queen Victoria. This meant the governor general was to act on the advice of his co-prime ministers, who were responsible to the elected parliament. The first test of this came in the same year, when the Rebellion Losses Act was put to Governor General the Earl of Elgin for royal assent. Elgin had strong misgivings about the bill, and was pressured by the Tories to refuse assent, but he gave it approval, regardless, on 28 April 1849. As a result, the Anglophone population of Montreal (where the legislature was located) became incensed, the Governor General was assaulted, the parliament building was burned, and the Montreal Annexation Manifesto was issued, calling for the absorbption of the Province of Canada into the United States.

Still, all was not lost: The portrait of Queen Victoria that hung in the parliament, painted by John Partridge, was saved from the fire by Sandford Fleming (and hangs in the federal Parliament of Canada today), the colony did not join the US, and responsible government remained a part of the Province of Canada's constitutional order.

The Queen's eldest son and heir, Prince Albert Edward (later King Edward VII) for four months toured the Maritimes and Province of Canada in 1860, setting the cornerstone of the parliament building in Bytown (today Ottawa) and officially opening Queen's Park in Toronto. At Dundurn Castle, in Hamilton, Albert Edward met with Allan MacNab, a former joint premier of the Province of Canada. In a twist of fate, the Prince's great-great-grandson, King Charles III, married Camilla Shand (now Queen Camilla), the great-great-great-granddaughter of MacNab. The Prince also crossed the border to pay a visit to President of the United States James Buchanan at the White House.

Sectarian tensions were high in Canada at the time and Prince Albert Edward was cautioned not to do or say anything that might exacerbate the situation. The Duke of Newcastle, who accompanied the Prince, instructed the Mayor of Toronto to ensure Albert Edward's procession would not pass under any Orange Order arches. At Kingston, the Duke ordered the royal yacht not to dock, as the Orangemen had erected a welcoming arch on the pier, with an image of William of Orange on one side and a depiction of the Albert Edward with the anti-Catholic revolutionary Giuseppe Garibaldi on the other. Orangemen thereafter protested the Prince's steamer along part of its route.

Confederation

The province of Ontario was created from the boundaries of Canada West following Canadian Confederation in 1867. The next year, on 26 May, Queen Victoria issued a royal warrant granting the province its coat of arms. Several areas were incorporated into Ontario in the mid 19th and early 20th century, with Ontario reaching its final size in 1912.

See also
 List of royal tours to Hamilton, Ontario
 List of royal tours to London, Ontario
 Monarchy in the Canadian provinces
 Symbols of Ontario

References

External links
 The Monarchy in Ontario, from the Archives of Ontario
 

Ontario, Monarchy in
Politics of Ontario
Westminster system