[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iranians in Japan

n Iran or to start a business. Money earned abroad contributed significantly to their social mobility; 57 percent of a sample of 120 returnees used their savings to start their own business and become self-employed after holding unskilled jobs working for others or as farmers before their migration.

Demographics and distribution
Like other labour migrants from Muslim countries, most Iranians in Japan are middle-aged. Seventy-six percent are 30 to 40 years old; six percent are younger than 20, and less than three percent are older than 50. The overwhelming majority are male; most are single, in their 20s or 30s, and had never travelled abroad before their migration. Married men are typically unaccompanied by family members. Most lived in Iranian cities before their migration, and many came from the neighbourhoods of southern Tehran; most were Persian speakers. Iranian migrants to Japan were less educated than other Muslim groups, such as Bangladeshis. Less than two percent of a sample of 120 Iranian migrants to Japan who had returned to Iran had a university or college education, and 73.1 percent left school before college. In Japan, they sent an average remittance of US$712 per month. Most originally worked in the construction industry; after the number of construction jobs decreased, many became vendors near train stations and were known for selling illegal telephone cards.

Community spaces

Public parks, especially Ueno and Yoyogi Parks, were initially the primary gathering points for the Iranian community. Many Iranians set up small stands selling imported Iranian products, and Japanese and Iranian brokers made money helping new arrivals find jobs. Complaints from neighbours and media coverage of illegal-drug and counterfeit-phone-card sales in the parks resulted in an increased police presence, however, and immigration officers began to conduct regular sweeps of the parks for people without documentation. Iranians began to avoid the parks, hoping to avoid being stereotyped as the "bad Iranians" who still assembled there, and the importance of public parks to the Iranian community declined.

With the parks less attractive for communal gatherings, mosques began to take on a similar function. As in Iran, most Iranians in Japan are followers of Shia Islam. Early in their migration, Iranians lacked the funds to establish a mosque and often used the prayer facilities of the Iranian embassy in Tokyo. They later established a mosque in Kodenma-chō, Chūō-ku with a management board dominated by Iranians, but with representatives of other nationalities. The mosque is also a community gathering point on non-Islamic holidays, especially Nowruz.

Notable individuals

 Yu Darvish, professional baseball player
 Aria Jasuru Hasegawa, professional football player
 Shirin Nezammafi, Japanese language novelist
 May J., J-pop singer
 Sahel Rosa, model, television personality and actress
 Keihan Takahashi, professional volleyball player

See also
 Iran–Japan relations
 Persian manuscript in Japan
 Embassy of Iran, Tokyo
 Academic Society of Iranians in Japan

References

Notes

Sources

Further reading
 
 
 
 
 

Ethnic groups in Japan
Japan