[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Samar Mubarakmand

, Mubarakmand eulogised his memories in an interview with Hamid Mir's Capital Talk television show and said:

Recalling Munir Ahmad Khan and PAEC's role and its relation to the atomic bomb project priority dispute, Mubarakmand later said that:

Government work and political advocacy

Space programme

In 1990s, Mubarakmand took special initiatives in the advancement of the space program and led a team of engineers to successfully develop the Shaheen-I missile. He was the founding director of the National Defence Complex (NDC) bureau that initiated the work on the Shaheen-I and gathered support for the program. Necessary funding for the program was secured by the military. Mubarakmand oversaw the development of the solid-fuel rocket booster. Initiated in 1987 by the Pakistan Ministry of Defence in response to India's Integrated Guided Missile Development Programme, Pakistan's spin-off missile program was aggressively pursued by Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in 1993. The Shaheen-I missile was successfully test fired in 1999 by a team of engineers led by Mubarakmand. Key strategic weapon systems, such as the Babur and Ghaznavi missiles, were also built by his team.

In 2008, Mubarakmand joined the Planning Commission of Pakistan where he strongly advocated for peaceful usage of their space program. In 2009, he revealed the work on Paksat-1R, the nation's first geostationary satellite that was launched in 2011.

The satellite was described as being able to monitor agricultural programs, minerals programs and weather conditions and quoted that there were sufficient funds for the defence, nuclear and space programs. The satellite was launched in 2011 from  the Xichang Satellite Launch Centre in China. His relations with Abdul Qadeer Khan often remained tense over several scientific issues. He sees Mubarakmand as "no authority over materials as he is an expert on electromagnetism."

Thar Coal project

In 2013, Mubarakmand assisted the Provincial Government of Balochistan in mineral extraction. He lobbied heavily for the implementation of the Thar coal project initiated by the Provincial Government of Sindh despite strong public criticism by Abdul Qadeer Khan, which described it as "intellectual dishonesty". In 2015, a breakthrough in the Thar coal project was reported by the media.  According to Dr Samar, a massive coal reserve in Thar can provide affordable power for the next 600 years. When speaking to a large crowd at Cadet College Fateh Jang, he said that he had developed a solution to the growing power outage and was now waiting for the government to put it into action.

Misstatements

The Tethyan Cooper Company (TCC) has approached the High Court of Justice in the British Virgin Islands for the enforcement of the $5.97 billion award against Pakistan by the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) in the Reko Diq case in Dec-20.

A senior official revealed that the "misstatement" of scientist, Dr Samar Mubarakmand before the Supreme Court tribunal,  in 2011, was one of the main reasons behind the Supreme Court Decision On 7 January 2013, when a three-member bench of the apex court, headed by then Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, declared Chejva "illegal, void" and non-binding, causing ICSID slapping the heavy penalty on Pakistan. Dr Samar had claimed that the Reko Diq gold mines would fetch the country around $2.5 billion annually. He had also maintained Reko Diq and other gold reserves in the country will bring in $131 billion to the national exchequer. The tribunal relied on his statement.

State honours

Mubarakmand has been conferred with state honors for his services to the country by the Government of Pakistan. He is the recipient of the: Sitara-e-Imtiaz (1993); Hilal-e-Imtiaz (1998); and the Nishan-e-Imtiaz (2003), which is the highest civil honor of Pakistan. In addition, he is a Fellow of the Pakistan Academy of Sciences (PAS), inducted by Dr. Ishfaq Ahmad in 2000.

Nishan-e-Imtiaz (2004) 
Hilal-e-Imtiaz (1998)
Sitara-e-Imtiaz (1993)
PAS Nazir Ahmad Award (2005)
International Scientist of the Year (2007)
Life Member, Pakistan Nuclear Society
Roll of Honour GCU (1962)
Fellow, Pakistan Mathematical Society (2003)

Scientific journals and papers

Conference papers
 "A Science Oddyssey: Pakistans Nuclear Emergence", Samar Mubarakmand, Khalil Qureshi, Masoor Beg, Masud Ahmad.