[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Unidirectional network

A unidirectional network (also referred to as a unidirectional gateway or data diode) is a network appliance or device that allows data to travel in only one direction. Data diodes can be found most commonly in high security environments, such as defense, where they serve as connections between two or more networks of differing security classifications. Given the rise of industrial IoT and digitization, this technology can now be found at the industrial control level for such facilities as nuclear power plants, power generation and safety critical systems like railway networks.

After years of development, data diodes have evolved from being only a network appliance or device allowing raw data to travel only in one direction, used in guaranteeing information security or protection of critical digital systems, such as industrial control systems, from inbound cyber attacks, to combinations of hardware and software running in proxy computers in the source and destination networks. The hardware enforces physical unidirectionality, and the software replicates databases and emulates protocol servers to handle bi-directional communication. Data Diodes are now capable of transferring multiple protocols and data types simultaneously. It contains a broader range of cybersecurity features like secure boot, certificate management, data integrity, forward error correction (FEC), secure communication via TLS, among others. A unique characteristic is that data is transferred deterministically (to predetermined locations) with a protocol "break" that allows the data to be transferred through the data diode.

Data diodes are commonly found in high security military and government environments, and are now becoming widely spread in sectors like oil & gas, water/wastewater, airplanes (between flight control units and in-flight entertainment systems), manufacturing and cloud connectivity for industrial IoT. New regulations have increased demand and with increased capacity, major technology vendors have lowered the cost of the core technology.

History 

The first data diodes were developed by governmental organizations in the eighties and nineties. Because these organizations work with confidential information, making sure their network is secure is of the highest priority. Primary solutions used by these organizations were air gaps. But, as the amount of transferable data increased, and a continuous and real-time data stream became more important, these organizations had to look for an automated solution.

In the search for more standardization, an increasing number of organizations started to look for a solution that was a better fit for their activities. Commercial solutions created by stable organizations succeeded given the level of security and long-term support.

In the United States, utilities and oil and gas companies have used data diodes for several years, and regulators have encouraged their use to protect equipment and processes in safety instrumented systems (SISs). The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) now mandates the use of data diodes and many other sectors, in addition to electrical and nuclear, also use data diodes effectively.

In Europe, regulators and operators of several safety-critical systems started recommending and implementing regulations on the use of unidirectional gateways.

In 2013 the working, Industrial Control System Cybersecurity, directed by the French Network and Information Security Agency (ANSSI) stated that is forbidden to use firewalls to connect any class 3 network, such as railway switching systems, to a lower class network or corporate network, only unidirectional technology is permitted.

Applications 

Real time monitoring of safety-critical networks
Secure OT – IT bridge
Secure cloud connectivity of critical OT networks
Database replication
Data mining
Trusted back-end and hybrid cloud hosted solutions (private / public)
Secure data exchange for data marketplaces
Secure credential/ certificate provisioning
Secure cross-data base sharing
Secure printing from a less secure network to a high secure network (reducing print costs)
Transferring application and operating system updates from a less secure network to a high secure network
Time synchronization in highly secure networks
File transfer
Streaming video
Sending/receiving alerts or alarms from open to critical/confidential networks
Sending/receiving emails from open to critical/confidential networks
 Government
 Commercial companies