[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mark Noble

1, Noble came on as an 83rd-minute substitute for goal scorer and Hammers vice-captain – and captain of the fixture until being replaced – Declan Rice in a 2–0 away win over Dinamo Zagreb, making his first Europa League group stage appearance and his seventh European appearance for the club overall.

On 19 September, in the last minute of the game he had a penalty kick saved by David de Gea in a 2–1 loss against Manchester United after being substituted on just seconds before. On 25 November, Noble scored a penalty in a 2–0 Europa League tie against Rapid Wien, marking his third European goal for the club. The win confirmed West Ham winning group H. On 28  December, Noble started his first Premier League game of the season, in an away game to Watford. West Ham won 4–1 with Noble scoring the third goal, a penalty, marking his 47th Premier League goal, placing him level with Paolo Di Canio as West Ham's second highest scorer of Premier League goals.

In May 2022, West Ham announced that the Young Hammer of the Year award would be renamed the "Mark Noble Award" in honour of the player.

Noble played his last home game for West Ham on 15 May in a 2–2 draw with Premier League champions, Manchester City as he came on as a 77th-minute substitute in front of a sellout stadium. In the 16th minute of the match, there was a standing ovation from both sets of fans for the loyal Hammer that wore the 16 shirt.  West Ham marked the occasion with a film with a voiceover from Danny Dyer and Ben Shephard presenting on the pitch. At the end of the game City manager, Pep Guardiola hugged Noble. Albert II, Prince of Monaco, head of the House of Grimaldi and an admirer of West Ham, was in attendance to pay his respects to the player. Following the game  Noble was given a farewell by fellow players and supporters on the pitch. On 20 May West Ham named their new academy pitch at Chadwell Heath, the "Mark Noble Arena".

One week later, on 22 May 2022, Noble made his final appearance for the club, in a 3–1 loss against Brighton & Hove Albion, coming on as an 81st-minute substitute. In total, Noble made 550 appearances for West Ham, 414 of those coming in the Premier League, scoring 62 goals.

International career
Noble captained the England U18 team. He was a member of the England U19 team that beat Serbia and Montenegro U19s 3–1 in the 2005 European Championship semi-finals, although they subsequently lost the final to France.

Noble made his debut for the England U21 team on 11 June 2007, coming on as substitute in the 82nd minute for Tom Huddlestone in England's 0–0 draw with the Czech Republic during the 2007 UEFA European Under-21 Championship, held in the Netherlands. He established himself in the starting XI for the remaining matches and scored twice in a dramatic semi-final penalty shootout against the Netherlands where England lost 13–12.
On 11 September 2007, Noble scored his first international goal for the under-21 team against Bulgaria in a 2–0 victory, followed by two more against the Republic of Ireland on 16 October.

Noble captained the U21s at the 2009 European Championships as regular captain Steven Taylor had to withdraw due to injury. The Young Lions ended the tournament as runners-up, losing 4–0 to Germany, with Noble playing his last match for the U21s.

Noble was also eligible to play for the Republic of Ireland national side through his Cork-born grandparents. In August 2014, despite stating on numerous occasions about his ambition of playing for England at senior level, it was reported by the Irish Independent that he might've been willing to make himself available for the Irish national team.

Despite previous reports claiming Noble would accept a call up from Ireland, in February 2017 Noble rejected a call up to the Irish national side, stating: "There are young Irish kids playing well that deserve and would appreciate an Irish cap more than I would. I played through all the age groups as a youth international (with England), went to tournaments and sang the national anthem. But obviously I've never got a senior cap. So for me to turn up to play for Ireland without it having been a dream of mine, and there's an Irish kid out there who might miss out when it's their dream to play for Ireland, I couldn't do that."

Later career
In September 2022, it was announced that Noble would return to West Ham United as a sporting director from January 2023. He attended his first match as sporting director, a Premier League match fixture Leeds United which ended in a 2–2 draw, on 4 January 2023.

Personal life

In May 2016, Noble was granted freedom of the London Borough of Newham for his services to the borough.

Noble has been married to childhood sweetheart Carly since 2012. The couple have a son and a daughter. Their son, Lenny, plays at the West Ham United academy based in Chadwell Heath.

In April 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic, Noble donated £35,000 to help vulnerable people in Essex.