[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of Transmetropolitan characters

e contacting his old editor, Royce, in the hope of a steady contract job and the luxuries this would entail until he could sort out the book deal. As Spider stumbled from one high profile scoop to the next, he found himself being treated to better and better accommodations as his notoriety returned.

One of the main themes of the series was the relationship between Spider and Royce. Whilst the two share an antagonism that is almost a caricature of modern journalism, the two know how to get the other to co-operate. Also, Royce has saved Spider's life and reputation several times during the series (most notably in Year Five, in which he provides Spider with key, hard-earned leads to help Spider rebuild his case against Gary "The Smiler" Callahan). In issue #32, Spider mentions Royce in an interview,  describing him as "a good man"; high praise by Spider's standards. On leaving The Word, he also tells Royce that he "only ever did right" by him.

Royce is a chain smoker, often seen with an entire pack of cigarettes lit in his mouth at once - typically as a response to Spider's demands or lateness of his column. His favorite pick-up line is "Call me Mitchell Royce, Two-Fisted Editor". He mentions on at least two occasions that whenever he attends a party with Spider, he contracts some form of disease (which, of course, he blames on Spider). He is divorced, and claims at one point that at least one of his previous wives was a prostitute. His most uttered line is "Where's my fucking column?" to Spider, with varying levels of annoyance and emphasis. So ingrained is the phrase in the context of their relationship that Spider has occasionally pointed out when Royce failed to start their conversation with it, whilst at other times he has to point out that no column is due.

The Cat, a mutant white stray cat with two faces and three eyes who Spider finds lurking on the porch of his first apartment. He takes her in, and thereafter she lives a comfortable life eating lizards (which have replaced rats as dominant pests in the City), smoking Russian cigarettes, hunting or killing assorted other animals, and urinating when or where she pleases.
Tico Cortez, an old Mexican friend of Spider's from before he left the City. Tico remembers when Spider still had hair, and preferred him that way. He is a "foglet", a sentient cloud of nano-machines that can replicate any form and create matter or objects from thin air. Tico usually appears as a translucent pink cloud topped by the head of a Latino man with a goatee and small devil's horns.
Mary, a "Revival" woman and former photojournalist. At an unspecified time during the early 21st century, Mary suffered chronic heart disease, and she and her husband agreed to take part in a then-new cryogenic system that would allow her to be reborn in a newer younger body in the future. Upon being "revived", however, she found herself alone in a City that was more strange and complex than she could have imagined, and her husband having by misfortune been unable to join her in cryofreeze and thus long dead. She was initially placed in a hostel full of others like herself, and like most other Revivals, sank into depression and near-catatonia, mentally unprepared to handle their strange new future. Mary began to recover psychologically when Spider discovered and befriended her, lending Mary financial assistance so that she could get a room of her own, and giving her a camera, which allows her to aid Spider with photographic evidence in the Martial Law arc. 
Vita Severn, a political director for "The Smiler". Although her own support for "The Smiler" is not without sharp criticism, she does so because she believes that he is the only candidate who can unseat "The Beast", and that she can use her position to promote crucial issues and encourage the population to better themselves. Vita befriends Spider, and the two appear attracted to one another, but the beginnings of a romantic relationship are cut short when Vita is assassinated. A devotional cult which sees her as a martyr springs up after her death (with shrines that echo those of the late Princess Diana), and Spider makes it his personal mission to bring her killer and those who organized the assassination to justice.
Detective Malandra Newton, a CPD detective stationed at Dante Street precinct house, and one of the few honest cops in the City. She was involved in the Rory Lockwood investigation and was forced to remain silent about the fact that it was deliberately being buried by the police. However, she co-operates with Spider during his investigation prior to his incapacitation in the ruinstorm, and subdues and arrests the Smiler at the conclusion of the Martial Law arc.
Oscar Rossini, Yelena's father and a well-known political figure, who supported Senator Longmarch's campaign against "The Beast". Known for his philanthropy and good nature, he bears a striking physical resemblance to Spider, as well as sharing a similar sense of humour.