[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Pakistan studies

orces that may be working against Pakistan,' 'Make speeches on Jihad,' 'Collect pictures of policemen, soldiers, and national guards,' and 'India's evil designs against Pakistan'. However, according to Rasul Baksh Rais, a political scientist, he has yet to see proof of anti-India or anti-Hindu bias.

Referring to NCERT's extensive review of textbooks in India in 2004, Verghese considered the erosion of plural and democratic values in textbooks in India, and the distortion of history in Pakistan to imply the need for coordination between Bangladeshi, Indian, and Pakistani historians to produce a composite history of the South Asia as a common reader.

However, international scholars also warn that any attempt for educational reforms under international pressure or market demands should not overlook the specific expectations of the people at local levels.

Curriculum reforms 
Following the extensive media debate and academic reiteration on the need to update the curriculum at all levels of education, the Government of Pakistan carried out measures in 2006 to improve the national curriculum for Pakistan Studies. 
These actions were based on the earlier studies and recommendations by the former University Grants Commission in 2001 and then later by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan (HEC) in 2003.

The new curriculum, for secondary and higher school certificates, was implemented from 2007 to include the political history from pre-independence to the modern times, international relations, evolution of the country's economy and demographics, diversity of regional cultures and languages, and the status of religious groups with specific reference to Muhammad Ali Jinnah’s views that he expressed at his speech of 11 August 1947. It also eliminates prejudice against non-Muslims, efforts have been made to exclude all such material that promotes prejudice against the non-Muslims of pre-independence India.

Subsequently, the need was also realised to standardise the subject framework across the university degrees. As a result, in 2007, the Curriculum Division at the HEC revised the syllabus for the degrees of Bachelor of Science and Master of Science in Pakistan Studies. The new higher education course outline goes beyond the literature, politics, history and culture, and addresses the contemporary challenges of urbanisation, foreign policy and environment. The recommendations also imply the needs for training the teachers to improve their communication skills in accordance with the new structures.

See also
 List of books about Pakistan
 Sindhology
 Pakistani textbooks controversy

References

Further reading
EDITORIAL: Good news about curriculum; Daily Times (Pakistan) – A new voice for a new Pakistan, 8 December 2006.
Irfan Ghauri, School curriculum ‘enlightened’; Two-Nation Theory explained: ‘Muslim deprivation, not religion, led to independence’ – * New Pak Studies syllabus ‘eliminates prejudice against non-Muslims’ – * Includes concept of ‘enlightened moderation’, economic and privatisation policies, October 1999 coup; Daily Times – A new voice for a new Pakistan, 7 December 2006.
A. H. Nayyar and Ahmed Salim, Critical Issues in Education Policy: Citizens’ Review of the National Education Policy, SDPI, 2006.  
A. H. Nayyar and Ahmed Salim (eds.) The subtle Subversion: A report on Curricula and Textbooks in Pakistan – Urdu, English, Social Studies and Civics, 2004, Report of the project A Civil Society Initiative in Curricula and Textbooks Reform; Sustainable Development Policy Institute (SDPI), Islamabad, Pakistan . Also see Reactions to report posted at SDPI: . 
A. H. Nayyar, "Madrassa Education: Frozen in Time" in Education and the State: Fifty Years of Pakistan, Pervez Hoodbhoy (ed.) Oxford University Press, 1997. 
 A. H. Nayyar: Twisted truth: Press and politicians make gains from SDPI curriculum report. SDPI Research and News Bulletin Vol. 11, No. 1, January - February 2004
S. Khurshid Hasanain and A. H. Nayyar, "Conflict and Violence in the Educational Process", in Making Enemies, Creating Conflict: Pakistan's Crisis of State and Society, Zia Mian (ed.) Mashal Books, 1997. 
K K Aziz, The Murder of History in Pakistan: A critique of history textbooks used in Pakistan, Vanguard Books Pvt Ltd, Lahore (editor: Najam Sethi), 1993.
Pervez Hoodbhoy and A. H. Nayyar, "Rewriting the History of Pakistan" in Islam, Politics and the State: The Pakistan Experience, Asghar Khan (ed.) Zed Books, 1985.
 Pervez Hoodbhoy - What Are They Teaching In Pakistani Schools Today? (International Movement for a Just World) 
 Yvette Rosser: Islamization of Pakistani Social Studies Textbooks, RUPA, New Delhi, 2003.

 Masood Ashraf Raja. Constructing Pakistan: Foundational Texts and the Rise of Muslim National Identity, 1857–1947, Oxford 2010, 
 What is the most blatant lie taught through Pakistan textbooks? HERALD EXCLUSIVE, Aug 17, 2016, Dawn

External links 
Curriculum Revision at Higher Education Commission of Pakistan