[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# International Bible Contest

rmat.  After the judges combine each contestant's written score with his/her score from the video round, the winners are announced.

In a typical year, between 350 and 400 students take the preliminary exams.  Of these, approximately 185 students travel to New York to compete in the national finals.

Australian contest
In Australia, there are three competitions leading up to the International Bible Contest; the school test( top 3 go through, the state test (top 2 go through) and the federal test (top 2 in Australia go to the Israeli test). Competitors usually come from Melbourne, Victoria and Sydney, New South Wales, though in recent years participants from Perth in Western Australia have taken part. A national round consisting of the participants of each state (usually between 4-8 participants) sit a 1-hour written test and then a 2-hour public oral quiz, where participants sit on a stage and project their answers after hearing questions. Identical quizzes are sat by the participants in each state. The national syllabus usually consists of 100-150 chapters of Torah, Neviim and Later Prophets. The top three participants of the national quiz of each state are then selected to go through to the federal round, held either in Sydney or Melbourne. A further 50-70 chapters are then added to the initial national syllabus. The Federal round of the competition is identical to the National only there is more content, thus the questions are seemingly harder. The winner and the 2nd highest scorer are then given places at the International Bible Quiz camp. Only the winner's ticket is paid for by the Zionist Federation of Australia. The 2nd-place winner must pay for his or her ticket to come to the camp.
The author of the Australian Bible Quiz is the 1999 Diaspora Winner, Dr Shira Wenig.

British Contest
The British contest varies from year to year. The international final is held at LSJS in London. In some schools, the top scorers go through to the final but most schools let all teams compete. The topics are given approximately 6 months in advance, however the topics for 2014 were given to pupils at the beginning of September allowing the contestants 2 months to learn. The syllabus contains all of the Torah and some of Neviim and Ketuvim. The winning team (of 3-4) all go to Israel.

Winners

Hosts
Avshalom Kor

Venue
Jerusalem Theatre
International Convention Center

See also
Culture of Israel

References

External links 
International Bible Quiz - Official Site
American Chidon HaTanach Website

Competitions
Hebrew Bible in popular culture
Religious organizations based in Israel
Youth organizations based in Israel
Annual events in Israel
Channel 1 (Israel) original programming