[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brazilian presidential line of succession

sident

The vice-president, or, should the vice-presidency be vacant or the vice-president unavailable, the next person in the line of succession, takes office as acting president whenever the president is under an incapacity that impedes him from discharging the powers and duties of the presidency.

The vice-president, or the next available person in the line of succession, also assumes the powers of the presidency as acting president if, authorized by the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate votes to start a trial on charges of impeachment presented against the president. The admission of the charges requires the positive vote of two thirds of the members of the Chamber of Deputies. Once accepted, the charges are sent to the Senate for the trial of impeachment. The Senate, if it accepts to proceed with the trial (a decision that requires the positive vote of a simple majority of the Senators present), must then notify the president that he is now the accused in a trial of impeachment. From the receipt of that notice, the president is suspended from office for a period of 180 days. The suspension cannot be renewed, and ends when the president is acquitted, or automatically at the end of the 180 days, even if the trial of impeachment is not yet finished. During the president's suspension motivated by the acceptance of impeachment charges, the acting president discharges the duties of the presidency.

The situations of presidential incapacity (e.g. for medical reasons), and of presidential suspension due to the acceptance of impeachment charges, differ from the case of presidential travel abroad because, while the absence of the president from the country triggers the assumption of the powers of the office by an acting president, in that specific case, powers are not transferred from the president to the acting president, and instead two centers of authority remain in place personifying the presidency. In the cases of presidential incapacity or of suspension due to impeachment, however, the president is relieved of the powers of the office, and the duties of the presidency are therefore totally transferred to the acting president for the duration of his service.

Declaration of presidential incapacity

While the current Brazilian Constitution prescribes the procedure for impeachment and trial of the president, and speaks of the vice-president or others discharging the powers of the president in the case of an incapacity, no specific procedure is set out detailing how an incapacity of the president on medical grounds could be declared.

Constitutional custom and praxis in the federal and State levels dictate that, in cases when the head of the Executive Branch is unable to discharge the office for health reasons, temporary incapacity can be self declared by means of an executive message addressed to the Legislature; in such cases, the chief executive can reassume his powers by means of a further message to the Legislative Branch in which he declares that the temporary impediment has ceased and that he is thus resuming the duties of his office.

However, there is no clear procedure for a declaration of incapacity other than the self declared incapacity; thus if the president were to fall under a severe illness, and refused or were unable to sign a message to Congress spontaneously declaring his incapacity, there is no straightforward constitutional provision specifying the procedure required for the presidential impediment to be recognized. It is speculated that, if an incapacity were to exist, and if no spontaneous self declaration took place, it would fall to Congress to recognize such incapacity, but no procedure or quorum is clearly established.

Current order of presidential substitutes

As stated above, the only constitutional successor of a president is his vice president. Only a vice president becomes president in the event of death, removal or resignation of the elected president. 

However, the vice president, in addition to being the president's only potential successor, is also his first substitute, serving as acting president when the president is abroad, or when the president is suspended pending an impeachment process, or when the president is otherwise incapacitated (e.g., for medical reasons).