[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hell

punishment according to the Torah.

Many scholars of Jewish mysticism, particularly of the Kabbalah, describe seven "compartments" or "habitations" of hell, just as they describe seven divisions of heaven. These divisions go by many different names, and the most frequently mentioned are as follows:

Sheol (Hebrew: שְׁאוֹל – "underworld", "Hades"; "grave") 
Abaddon (Hebrew: אֲבַדּוֹן – "doom", "perdition") 
Be'er Shachat (Hebrew: בְּאֵר שַׁחַת, Be'er Shachath – "pit of corruption") 
Tit ha-Yaven (Hebrew: טִיט הַיָוֵן – "clinging mud") 
Sha'are Mavet (Hebrew: שַׁעֲרֵי מָוֶת, Sha'arei Maveth – "gates of death") 
Tzalmavet (Hebrew: צַלמָוֶת, Tsalmaveth – "shadow of death") 
Gehinnom (Hebrew: גֵיהִנוֹם, Gehinnom – "valley of Hinnom"; "Tartarus", "Purgatory")

Besides those mentioned above, there also exist additional terms that have been often used to either refer to hell in general or to some region of the underworld:

Azazel (Hebrew: עֲזָאזֵל, compd. of ez עֵז: "goat" + azal אָזַל: "to go away" – "goat of departure", "scapegoat"; "entire removal", "damnation")
Dudael (Hebrew: דּוּדָאֵל – lit. "cauldron of God") 
Tehom (Hebrew: תְהוֹם – "abyss"; "sea", "deep ocean") 
Tophet (Hebrew: תֹּפֶת or תוֹפֶת, Topheth – "fire-place", "place of burning", "place to be spit upon"; "inferno") 
Tzoah Rotachat (Hebrew: צוֹאָה רוֹתֵחַת, Tsoah Rothachath – "boiling excrement") 
Mashchit (Hebrew: מַשְׁחִית, Mashchith – "destruction", "ruin") 
Dumah (Hebrew: דוּמָה – "silence") 
Neshiyyah (Hebrew: נְשִׁיָּה – "oblivion", "Limbo") 
Bor Shaon (Hebrew: בּוֹר שָׁאוֹן – "cistern of sound") 
Eretz Tachtit (Hebrew: אֶרֶץ תַּחְתִּית, Erets Tachtith – "lowest earth").
Masak Mavdil (Hebrew: מָסָך מַבְדִּ֔יל, Masak Mabdil – "dividing curtain")
Haguel (Ethiopic: ሀጉለ – "(place of) destruction", "loss", "waste") 
Ikisat (Ethiopic: አክይስት – "serpents", "dragons"; "place of future punishment")

For more information, see Qliphoth.

Maimonides declares in his 13 principles of faith that the hells of the rabbinic literature were pedagogically motivated inventions to encourage respect of the Torah commandments by mankind, which had been regarded as immature. Instead of being sent to hell, the souls of the wicked would actually get annihilated.

In Judaism around the time of Jesus, almost all practitioners believed that their descent from Abraham automatically stopped them from going to hell. However, to earn this, a majority of Jews "acknowledge[d] their sinfulness and confess[ed] their sins."

Christianity

The Christian doctrine of hell derives from passages in the New Testament. The English word hell obviously does not appear in the Greek New Testament; instead one of three words is used: the Greek words Tartarus or Hades, or the Hebrew word Gehinnom.

In the Septuagint and New Testament, the authors used the Greek term Hades for the Hebrew Sheol, but often with Jewish rather than Greek concepts in mind. In the Jewish concept of Sheol, such as expressed in Ecclesiastes, Sheol or Hades is a place where there is no activity. However, since Augustine, some  Christians have believed that the souls of those who die either rest peacefully, in the case of Christians, or are afflicted, in the case of the damned, after death until the resurrection.

While these three terms are translated in the KJV as "hell" they have three very different meanings.
 Hades has similarities to the Old Testament term, Sheol as "the place of the dead" or "grave". Thus, it is used in reference to both the righteous and the wicked, since both wind up there eventually.
 Gehenna refers to the "Valley of Hinnom", which was a garbage dump outside of Jerusalem. It was a place where people burned their garbage and thus there was always a fire burning there. Bodies of those deemed to have died in sin without hope of salvation (such as people who committed suicide) were thrown there to be destroyed. Gehenna is used in the New Testament as a metaphor for the final place of punishment for the wicked after the resurrection.
 Tartaróō (the verb "throw to Tartarus", used of the fall of the Titans in a scholium on Illiad 14.296) occurs only once in the New Testament in II Peter 2:4, where it is parallel to the use of the noun form in 1 Enoch as the place of incarceration of the fallen angels. It mentions nothing about human souls being sent there in the afterlife.

According to the Roman Catholic Church, the Council of Trent taught, in the 5th canon of its 14th session, that damnation is eternal: "...the loss of eternal blessedness, and the eternal damnation which he has incurred..."