[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Wiper (occupation)

A wiper is a position responsible for both cleaning the engine spaces and machinery of a ship and assisting the ship's engineers as directed. Railroad workers who performed similar jobs were also known as wipers, or in the UK as "cleaners".

The most junior rate in a ship's engine room, the wiper position is an apprenticeship to become an oiler. In modern times, a wiper is required to work on a ship for a specific amount of time, gaining what is referred to as "sea time."

In the United States Merchant Marine, in order to be occupied as a wiper a person has to have a Merchant Mariner's Document and STCW certificate issued by the United States Coast Guard.  Because of international conventions and agreements, all wipers who sail internationally are similarly documented by their respective countries.

Duties 
As a wiper aboard a United States Merchant Marine vessel or any International Maritime Organization (IMO) certified merchant shipping vessel, the diversity of operational duties is inherent and must be approached as such. Typically, with little experience, a wiper may work under the close supervision of trained and qualified engineers of the engineering department belonging to the vessel.

Taking commands and directions from the 1st Assistant Engineer, the Chief Engineers’ foremost subordinate, the wiper is in charge of, but not wholly responsible for, maintenance ranging from chipping in the bilges to painting of the overhead in the machinery spaces. Additional duties include assisting of licensed engineers, filling in for Qualified Members of the Engine Department (QMED) when necessary, and standing as a member of the watch team but not assigned watches. Duties while serving day work, typically while in port or underway, involve cleaning and degreasing of equipment, greasing of parts, and oversight of all machinery spaces in terms of cleanness.

The Wiper position is the lowest-ranking unlicensed position in the engineering department. The Wiper position is designated for apprentices to the engineering department where a basic working knowledge of plant layout is learned. Work to be performed by a wiper is typically of low-stakes nature and is meant to create a work-positive environment where sea time may be secured towards licensure. As the typical wiper is aboard a vessel and underway, although they may be found in land-based operations such as railroading as well, they must be fluent in ship operations and have familiarity with safety equipment used.

As the United States Merchant Marine is strict in compliance of international organization's precedent in regards to regulations on shipping, having to adhere to the standards set by the IMO, many of the same requirements can be found for vessels that do not serve under the United States Jones Act. In relation to this requirement, a wiper is to be sufficiently trained on how to carry out firefighting operations; this includes the proper donning, assembly, use, and maintenance of all equipment involved should the need arise in order to facilitate the need for all seafarers to be fluent in lifesaving procedures. 

These requirements are mandatory and are also adhered to on an international and involuntary basis with the need to renew the very same preliminary physical and firefighting examinations found within CFR 46. The global institution responsible for mandating standards for lifesaving procedures and equipment is commonly known as the International Convention for the Safety of Life At Sea (SOLAS). 

A Wiper may undergo burnout syndrome and be overcome by increased anxiety and stress due to leadership, long hours, and high-risk applications. Work-related stress stemming from seafaring operations can be largely alleviated through clear communication between crew and leadership and occasionally moderation through a human resources department. For this reason, it is of medical importance that a wiper finds employment where the safety and well being of workers is held to a high standard. Seafarers and labor unions, necessitated from this occurrence, are closely related in this nature.

General Qualifications 
Little paperwork and qualification is needed to secure a position as a wiper as there are very few preliminary requirements to be found internationally. The only documentation needed is a Merchant Mariners Document (MMD) or a United States approved certification as a wiper. For those looking at work internationally, an IMO approved document will suffice for employment and will be required for any persons not sailing in the United States; A United States MMD is not recognized by international shipping organizations. A Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) is required to apply for an MMD or a QMED program.

Requirements for those applying for a QMED credential include the following: