[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Louis F. Schade

Louis Frederick Schade (April 4, 1829 – February 25, 1903) was a German-American lawyer and newspaper editor who was prominent in political and social circles of Washington, D.C., in the United States.  He is most famous for defending Confederate States of America Major Henry Wirz in a war crimes trial in 1865. Wirz was condemned to death for his supervision of the (Camp Sumter) prisoner-of-war camp.

Early life and career
Louis Schade was born on April 4, 1829, to Friedrich and Wilhelmina ( von Sydow) Schade in Berlin in what was then the Province of Brandenburg in the Kingdom of Prussia. He studied law and medicine at the Frederick William University in Berlin, graduating in 1848. He learned to speak four European languages fluently, and could translate another five. He participated in the Revolutions of 1848, erecting barricades in the streets, and was sentenced to death for his role in the revolution. He then fled the country for the United States in 1851.

Schade briefly lived in Weehawken, New Jersey, with German friends, but settled in Washington, D.C., where he worked as a correspondent for several foreign-language newspapers from 1851 to 1853. In 1853, he joined the Smithsonian Institution as an assistant librarian. He moved to the United States Census Bureau in 1854. His 1856 monograph, The Immigration Into the United States of America, From a Statistical and National-Economical Point of View, was a highly influential treatise on the benefits of immigration. Seeking more income, he joined the United States Department of State in 1855 as a translator and statistician.

Political work
In the United States, Schade was a prominent Forty-Eighter and very active in Democratic politics. Stephen A. Douglas, the Democratic Senator from Illinois, was impressed with his writing and political work, and in 1856 persuaded Schade to edit two newspapers he owned in Chicago, the English-language National Union and the German-language National Demokrat. In 1858, at the behest of Democratic National Committee chairman Charles Faulkner, he took a temporary leave of absence from his newspaper duties to campaign for Douglas in Illinois and Senator George Wallace Jones in Iowa. While on these trips, he was admitted to the bar association at Burlington, Iowa, in 1858. He returned to his editorial position after the election was over, an ardent Douglas supporter. He again campaigned for Douglas in the presidential election of 1860, which Douglas lost to Abraham Lincoln.

Schade was a strong supporter of the Union prior to and during the American Civil War. He was not, however, an abolitionist. In 1860, Schade published a pro-slavery book titled A Book for the 'Impending Crisis'! Appeal to the Common Sense and Patriotism of People of the United States; Helperism Annihilated! The 'Irrepressible Conflict' and Its Consequences!, in which he attacked Hinton Rowan Helper's economic studies which depicted slavery as an economic drag on the Deep South. Schade's book was also an anti-abolitionist tract. This work, the first book-length study of the Haitian Revolution of 1791-1804 in almost a half-century, gruesomely depicted the depredations of black ex-slaves on the white population of Haiti, and predicted that African American slaves would visit the same horrors on their former masters if slavery were abolished in America.

After the election was over, Schade returned to Washington, D.C., in late 1860, where he took up the practice of law. He also lobbied Congress on behalf of the United States Brewers' Association.