[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lithgow railway station

Lithgow railway station is a heritage-listed former station master's residence and railway station and now guest accommodation and railway station located on the Main Western line at Railway Parade, Lithgow, City of Lithgow, New South Wales, Australia. It was designed and built by New South Wales Government Railways and built from 1924 to 1925. It is also known as Lithgow Railway Station Group and Residence and Eskbank East. The property was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 30 August 2013. The station has frequent NSW TrainLink services running to and from Sydney Central.

History

With the completion of the Lithgow Zig Zag in 1869, the Western railway's terminus moved from  to Bowenfels, signifying the successful crossing of the Blue Mountains. Whilst the railway would continue west, Lithgow proved to be an important destination in itself due to coal and iron ore deposits. The line opened in 1869 but there was no station for Lithgow until 1877. The first station at Lithgow was located  east of the present site in June 1877. The former 1877 railway platform is still extant. The line was duplicated in 1880.

In the first half of the 1920s, it was decided to expand Lithgow as a regional headquarters for the NSW Railways. Apart from the new large locomotive depot, the Railways selected a new site west of Eskbank station for the development of a new passenger station to replace Eskbank Station, which remains but is unused.

Like most stations between Emu Plains and Lithgow, Lithgow received a standard Federation style set of two platform structures, a main face brick building and a detached brick "out-of" shed. There was also a footwarmer shed on the western end of the platform. The new station site featured two new buildings, both opened on 9 March 1925. The first was a timber booking and parcels office elevated on a steel beam frame with a concrete deck that was located adjacent to Eskbank Street. Access from this entry point was by a ramp and stepway to the island platform. One unusual feature was the installation of a lift for staff use only to handle baggage, parcels and "out-ofs".

It is assumed that the dry stone retaining wall is associated with the adjacent remnant concrete pedestrian ramp and therefore the original construction of the railway station.

A two-storey face brick office building for train controller and western communications was constructed at 12 Railway Parade at the corner of Railway Parade and Eskbank Street in 1954–56, and is still in use in 2009. In 1957 the line was electrified through Lithgow to Bowenfels, but Lithgow is the present limit of electric operations.

In 1961, the last traditional Railway Refreshment Room was built and opened in the Sydney end of the building, following the closure of a similar facility at Mount Victoria. The refreshment room closed in July 1990, being the last example in the state.

The station exit was originally located on the footbridge at the eastern end of the platform until replaced by the present concourse in August 1991. The overhead station offices and footbridge were constructed in  and access has been relocated to the western end of the station.

Description

Landscape features
The setting of the station within a relatively steep rock cutting provides a distinctive landscape presentation to Lithgow Railway Station. The northern embankment has been sealed with shotcrete and the same material has been used partway along the southern embankment. The exposed embankment surface is a friable composition of shale, rubble and soils. Removal of vegetation has revealed a dry stone wall of roughly shaped sandstone blocks set near to the top of the southern embankment, extending from the overhead footbridge for approximately  with a height ranging form  to the concrete ramp. Proximity to the ramp indicates the wall is an integral element of the original station construction. A "path" or bed for the concrete ramp runs across the embankment in front of the wall.

Apart from a couple of garden beds with shrubs (clipped into spheres and rounded shapes) and a small planting of annuals (traditionally) and hardy soft-wooded perennials (again, tightly clipped into shapes) along the eastern portion of the island platform there is no other landscaping at the station. The existing landscaping is not considered significant but contributes to the setting and character of the place and continues a tradition of railway gardening on this site for some time.

Structures and buildings
The heritage-listed complex comprises: 
Island platform – brick-faced (1925)
Old Station Platform – levelled rock face (1877)
Eskbank Street Overbridge (1924)
Station Building – type 11, island-building, brick (1925)
Former Booking/Parcels office & Goods lift tower – timber (1925)
Station Master's residence – 6 Railway Parade (c.1880)
Hayley Street Footbridge and Overhead Booking Office (1993)