[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Government of Oklahoma

t authorized to act without authorization by the governor through executive order.

The secretaries together make up the Oklahoma State Cabinet, which was created in 1986 under the Executive Branch Reform Act of 1986 to "improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and accountability of state government."

Within 45 days of assuming office, the governor must organize his or her cabinet. State law requires only the creation of a secretary for the state department of veteran affairs and for the information technology department. Within those first 45 days, the governor may create other secretary positions. The governor must create at least 10 positions, but no more than 16.

The Secretary of State of Oklahoma and the Adjutant General of Oklahoma are the only ex officio members of the Oklahoma State Cabinet. The Secretary of State does not head a department as the other secretaries do, but the Office of the Secretary of State instead. The Adjutant General is second-in-command of Oklahoma National Guard, under the governor, and serves as the chief military adviser to the governor and the head of the Military Department of Oklahoma as the Secretary of the Military.

Judicial branch

The judicial system of Oklahoma is the branch of the Oklahoma state government that interprets the state's laws and constitution. Headed by the Supreme Court, the judiciary consists of two courts of last resort, courts of general jurisdiction, and courts of limited jurisdiction. Also, the Oklahoma judiciary contains two independent courts.  The split court of last resort system (with the Oklahoma Supreme Court handling civil matters and the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals handling criminal matters) exists only in Oklahoma and neighboring Texas.

Judges and justices requiring appointment are appointed by the governor. Candidates must first go through a nominating process through the Oklahoma Judicial Nominating Commission, which selects three candidates to submit to the governor for a single selection to the office.

High court
The Oklahoma Supreme Court consists of chief justice, a vice-chief justice, and seven associate justices who are appointed by the governor from a list of three judges submitted by the Judicial Nomination Commission. Justices are put on the ballot during the next general election for the electorate to retain that justice or not. Justices serve six years terms and then are put up for another retention election. Justices serve until they resign, fail to be retained in office, are removed from office by the Court on the Judiciary, or are impeached by the legislative branch. The Supreme Court's decisions are binding on lower state courts.

The court has original jurisdiction and general superintendent control over inferior courts in the judiciary and agencies, commissions, and boards exercising power under the constitution. The court has appellate jurisdiction co-extensive with that of the state's borders on cases "at law and in equity" except criminal cases, in which the Court of Criminal Appeals has exclusive appellate jurisdiction. If in any event there is any conflict in determining which court has jurisdiction, the state supreme court is granted the power to determine which court has jurisdiction, with no appeal from the court's determination.

The Supreme Court is headquartered in the Oklahoma State Capitol in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and hears oral arguments each year.

The Supreme Court supervises the lower courts through the Administrative Office of the Courts and also supervises Oklahoma's legal profession through the Oklahoma Bar Association. Lawyer admissions and disbarment are done through recommendations of the association, which are then routinely ratified by the state supreme court. The association has approximately 11,000 active attorneys in Oklahoma and a total membership of more than 15,000.

Five of the nine justices are required to affirm, modify, or overturn any ruling of any lower court. Once the court has reached a decision, one justice is selected to write the court's opinion. Once published, the opinion becomes the controlling factor in the state's law surrounding the issue(s) it addresses. This is known as stare decisis.

The justices select from among their members a chief justice and vice chief justice to serve a two-year term. The Chief Justice of Oklahoma is responsible for the administration of the courts in the Oklahoma Judiciary and establishes rules for the courts to follow. The chief justice also oversees practicing attorneys in the state.