[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# War crimes trial

treatment. The tribunal also found that atrocities had been committed on a large scale and as a matter of official policy.

Of the seven indicted organizations, the tribunal declared criminal the Leadership Corps of the party, the SS, the SD (, 'Security Service'), and the Gestapo.

Ad hoc tribunals

In May 1993, during the Yugoslav Wars following the massive war crimes, and acts of "ethnic cleansing" in the former Yugoslavia by Bosnian-Serb forces, the United Nations established the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, to try war criminals of all nationalities. The crimes indicted included grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions, war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide; it was the first tribunal in which sexual assault was prosecuted as a war crime. The ICTY was the first international war crimes tribunal since the Nuremberg Trials.  Ultimately, nearly 161 individuals were indicted in the ICTY: 68% of Serb ethnicity. Croatian-Serb, Bosnian-Serb, Serbian, and Bosnian-Croat officials were convicted of crimes against humanity, and Bosnian-Serb leaders of genocide.

In 1994, the UN opened the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda following the April–June genocide in that country of Hutu nationals.

The tribunals, while effective in prosecution of individuals, proved to be a costly venture, and exposed the need for a permanent tribunal, which was eventually known as the International Criminal Court.

See also
United Nations War Crimes Commission
Harry Breaker Morant and Court martial of Breaker Morant
My Lai Massacre

Bibliography 

 Bloxham, Donald, & Waterlow, Jonathan. (2015). War crimes trials. In Richard Bosworth & Joseph Maiolo (Eds.), The Cambridge History of the Second World War (The Cambridge History of the Second World War, pp. 181-208). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/CHO9781139524377.011

References

External links
 International Center for Transitional Justice, Criminal Justice page

War crimes
Types of trials