[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Haitian diaspora

lity. It represents the awakening of a community which for a long time has lived in the shadow of its larger neighbor in Miami. The impressive growth has also brought about some strains within the Haitian community and in the community's interactions with the other residents of Delray Beach.

Canada

In the 1950s, the Haitian population in Canada only numbered in the forties. The emigration of Haitians in more substantial numbers began with the bloody dictatorship of François Duvalier in the early 1960s. With most Haitians being able to speak French, Canada is a natural destination as French is one of Canada's two official languages alongside English. The Haitian diaspora, including all emigrants and their immediate descendants, is estimated to number close to 18,200.

Many chose Canada as their new home, specifically Quebec, for linguistic and religious reasons. In coming to Canada, professional Haitians often had to bypass a Duvalier law forbidding them to leave Haiti. They frequently were forced to flee Haiti with false documents and with no legal proof of identity. Upon arrival in Canada they would declare their status as political refugees. The trend of French-speaking Haitian immigrants to Canada was to settle in Quebec. By 1965, some 2,000 Haitians had arrived. The period covering the late 1960 through the 1970s saw a dramatic change in both the volume and background of Haitian immigrants. This was the beginning of the massive exodus in response to the Duvalier regime.  From 1973 to 1976 an average of approximately 1,000 Haitians were admitted to Canada each year, with a peak of 1,750 in 1974. The settlement of Haitians in Canada by the end of the exodus was estimated to have reached 9,050, according to Citizenship and Immigration Canada.

Montreal
Immigration from Haiti to Quebec started in 1963. Haitian settlement in Montreal increased about 40 percent between the late 1960s and the early 1970s, rising from 55.1 percent in 1968 to 92.9 percent in 1973. The early Haitian immigrants, those who came between 1960 and 1970, were usually from the Haitian elite. They came from a comfortable life in terms of their social and professional status. Most were doctors, academics, teachers and pursued careers in the liberal professions. The increase in settlement within Montreal coincided with an increase in the number of high school educated immigrants; the percentage of immigrants that finished the 11th grade of high school increased alongside the growth of Haitian transplants in Montreal.

People of Haitian descent are estimated to number close to 150 000 in the Greater Montreal area. 54% are first-generation immigrants.

Ottawa
There are an estimated +1,200 persons of Haitian descent in the National Capital Region (including Ottawa and Gatineau).

Latin America and the Caribbean
Geographically, Haiti is in the Latin America & Caribbean region, and many slightly better-off Latin American countries have large Haitian populations. Historically, its neighbors, the Dominican Republic and Cuba, have had the bulk of the Haitian populations in the region outside of Haiti itself. Part of the reason for the ongoing Dominican-Haitian tension in the present day is because of strong illegal immigration in recent decades. Rapidly emerging Haitian populations have been popping up in Brazil, Mexico, Chile, Colombia, Panama, Costa Rica, Argentina, Jamaica, Barbados, Guyana, the Bahamas, and Trinidad and Tobago, among other places in the region. The Caribbean territories belonging to France or the United Kingdom have sizeable Haitian populations. In 2021, tens of thousands of Haitians previously residing in South America traveled north by caravan from Colombia, through Darién Gap into Panama, then northward through Central America and Mexico to the U.S. border.

The Bahamas

Dominican Republic

Cuba

Haitian Creole and culture first entered Cuba with the arrival of Haitian immigrants at the start of the 19th century. Haiti was a French colony, and the final years of the 1791–1804 Haitian Revolution brought a wave of French settlers and their Haitian slaves to Cuba. They came mainly to the east, and especially Guantanamo, where the French later introduced sugar cultivation, constructed sugar refineries and developed coffee plantations. By 1804, some 30,000 French were living in Baracoa and Maisí, the furthest eastern municipalities of the province. Later, Haitians continued to come to Cuba to work as braceros (hand workers, from the Spanish word brazo, meaning "arm") in the fields cutting cane. Their living and working conditions were not much better than slavery. Although they planned to return to Haiti, most stayed on in Cuba. For years, many Haitians and their descendants in Cuba did not identify themselves as such or speak Creole. In the eastern part of the island, many Haitians suffered discrimination. But according to the Castro regime, since 1959, when he took over, this discrimination has stopped.