[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Trade Union Congress of the Philippines

The Trade Union Congress of the Philippines (TUCP) is the largest national trade union center in the Philippines. Founded in 1975 by labor leader Democrito Mendoza, TUCP is affiliated with the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions and the International Trade Union Confederation.

House of Representatives Deputy Speaker Raymond Democrito Cañete Mendoza is a Filipino politician and labor leader, serving as the President of TUCP, the largest labor center and confederation of labor federations in the Philippines.

Party-list nominee 

Mendoza is TUCP's Representative to the 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, and 19th Congresses of the Republic of the Philippines. 
                        
Mendoza was one of the principal authors of landmark legislation: Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program (4Ps) Act which institutionalizes 4Ps as a national poverty reduction strategy; the Magna Carta of the Poor that guarantees the rights of the poor and establishes the necessary government interventions for poverty alleviation, and the Department of Migrant Workers (DMW) Act which establishes the DMW as the single home for all the needs and concerns of the Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs). He is also pushing for the passage of the Security of Tenure Bill which seeks to end the prevalent and abusive practice of labor-only contracting.

In the 15th Congress, he served as Chairperson of the Committee on Poverty Alleviation  and as vice chairperson of the Committee on Labor and Employment and the Committee on People's Participation.

In the 16th Congress, he served as chairperson in the following committees: Committee on East ASEAN Growth Area (EAGA) from August 2013 to June 2014, Special Committee on Food Security from July to October 2015, and the Committee on Overseas Workers Affairs from October 2015 to June 2016. He also served as the Senior Vice Chairperson of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Bangsamoro Basic Law and the Vice Chairperson of the Committee on Labor and Employment. He was also a member of the Commission on Appointments from July 2014 to June 2015.

In the 17th Congress, he served as the Chairperson of the Committee on Poverty Alleviation.

In the 18th Congress, he served as the Chairperson of the Committee on Overseas Workers Affairs and as Vice Chairperson of the Committee on Labor and Employment and the Committee on Civil Service and Professional Regulation.

He was also a member of the Philippine delegation to the 36th ASEAN Inter-Parliamentary Assembly (AIPA) General Assembly held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia in September 2015 and to the 24th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit and the 10th Brunei Darussalam–Indonesia–Malaysia–Philippines East ASEAN Growth Area (BIMP-EAGA) Summit in Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar in May 2014.

Currently, in the 19th Congress, he serves as a Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives.

References

National trade-union centers of the Philippines
International Trade Union Confederation
Trade unions established in 1975