[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267

United Nations Security Council resolution 1267 was adopted unanimously on 15 October 1999. After recalling resolutions 1189 (1998), 1193 (1998) and 1214 (1998) on the situation in Afghanistan, the Council designated Osama bin Laden and associates as terrorists and established a sanctions regime to cover individuals and entities associated with Al-Qaida, Osama bin Laden and/or the Taliban wherever located.

The regime has since been reaffirmed and modified by a dozen further UN Security Council Resolutions. It has been claimed the sanctions regime caused dire hardship to the people of Afghanistan under the Taliban regime at a time when they were heavily reliant on international food aid, while failing to satisfy any of its demands. Since the US invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, the sanctions have been applied to individuals and organizations in all parts of the world.

The regime is composed of a UN Security Council Committee, a "consolidated list" of people and entities it has determined as being associated with Al-Qaeda or the Taliban, and laws which must be passed within each member nation in order to implement the sanctions. The Committee receives reports from each nation as to how the work is proceeding, and is able to vary the conditions imposed on any individual as it sees fit.

There was no right of appeal against listing until December 2006.

Imposition of the sanctions
The first two Security Council Resolutions, 1267 and 1333 (2000), were adopted on 15 October 1999 and 19 December 2000 respectively.  They were warmly welcomed by the ambassador for Afghanistan who was not a representative of the Taliban regime that had conquered 80% of his country. Only Malaysia expressed reservations about their effectiveness and concern about the humanitarian consequences to the extent of abstaining on the second resolution. Although voting for the second resolution, United Kingdom privately opposed it on account of the already dire humanitarian situation and the expectation that there would be a backlash against UN aid organizations providing relief in the country.

The first resolution followed the sanctions regime imposed by the United States on 5 July 1999 by an executive order after intelligence officials had found bin Laden-controlled money flowing through banks.

The resolutions imposed a series of demands on member states as well as on Afghanistan under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter.  The first included:
 The Taliban must not allow territory under its control to be used for terrorist training.
 The Taliban must turn over Osama bin Laden to the appropriate authorities.
 All countries must deny flight permission to all Taliban operated aircraft.
 All countries must freeze all financial resources that could benefit the Taliban.
 All countries must report back within 30 days on what measures they had taken.

There were angry demonstrations at the UN offices in Kabul the day after the sanctions were imposed. The international postal service was shut down. A flight over Iran carrying supplies to Baghdad was blocked in October 2000, and another was allowed to Germany carrying sick children.

The December 2000 resolution strengthened the regime and imposed additional conditions:
 The Taliban must eliminate all illicit cultivation of the opium poppy.
 All countries must prevent the sale of all military equipment to the Taliban controlled territories.
 All countries must prevent the sale of acetic anhydride (a chemical used in the production of heroin) to territory of Afghanistan under Taliban control.
 All countries must restrict the entry and transit of all high ranking Taliban officials through their territories.
 All offices of Ariana Afghan Airlines must be closed down.

The following month the BBC reported that the list produced by the UN of officials against whom the sanctions were to be applied was inaccurate and failed to contain any military commanders. Senior UN officials said that the sanctions were completely inappropriate due to the chaos they were causing to the relief missions at a time of a famine.

Shortly thereafter the Taliban showed signs of willingness to strike a deal concerning bin Laden in spite of the political damage it would cause them. They had also substantially reduced the cultivation of opium poppies.

On 30 July 2001, UN Security Council Resolution 1363 established a Monitoring Team to monitor and assist implementation of the measures.