[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Interstate 74 in Illinois

Oakwood, and US 150. At this point, I-74 becomes a freeway bypass of Danville. In Tilton, it serves G Street as well as US 150/IL 1. After crossing the Vermilion River, it then meets Bowman Road and Lynch Road. Shortly after the Lynch Road interchange, I-74 crosses the Indiana state line.

History 

In November 2006, major work was completed on the Upgrade 74 project for the portion of I-74 in the Midwest. This multiyear project, begun in April 2002, saw the complete renovation of I-74 through East Peoria and Peoria. Most notably, the Interstate was widened to three lanes through the cities, many blind or hairpin exits and entrances to the highway were removed or corrected, and many bridges crossing the highway were replaced. The biggest part of this project was to work on the Murray Baker Bridge, over which I-74 crosses the Illinois River. The bridge was completely closed to traffic while being partially dismantled and reconstructed from April 2 to October 15, 2005. During this time, I-74 was disconnected between Peoria and East Peoria. In late March 2013, the biggest road reconstruction project in the Peoria area since the 2002–2006 project—a complete $86.6-million (equivalent to $ in ) revision of the Morton I-74/I-155 interchange system—started its beginning phases (Morton, a hub for the two Interstates and the site of facilities for Caterpillar Inc., PepsiCo, and Libby's, is a growing Peoria suburb, across the Illinois River, east of East Peoria and Pekin, in Tazewell County). This latest project was scheduled to be finished by mid-2016, and the reconstruction was being scheduled in phases to minimize traffic disruption. In 2020, the Murray Baker Bridge was closed for seven months for a $42.2-million project. At the end of October, it reopened with new decorative and traffic lights.

I-74 Bridge replacement project

The Iowa Department of Transportation (Iowa DOT) and Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) planned to build a new bridge to replace the aging I-74 Bridge. The Iowa-bound bridge opened in 1935; the Illinois-bound bridge in 1958. In addition to replacing the twin bridges, the scope of the bistate coalition's plan includes updating  of I-74 mainline and interchanges from 53rd Street in Davenport to the Avenue of the Cities in Moline. The new twin span fully opened on December 1, 2021.

Exit list

References

External links

 Illinois
74
Transportation in Rock Island County, Illinois
Transportation in Henry County, Illinois
Transportation in Knox County, Illinois
Transportation in Peoria County, Illinois
Transportation in Tazewell County, Illinois
Transportation in Woodford County, Illinois
Transportation in McLean County, Illinois
Transportation in DeWitt County, Illinois
Transportation in Piatt County, Illinois
Transportation in Champaign County, Illinois
Transportation in Vermilion County, Illinois