[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mikheyev v. Russia

strative arrest on A. Mikheyev and I. Frolov for 5 days until September 11, 1998.

From September 11 to 16, police officers intensely questioned Mikheev and Frolov for 10–12 hours at a time, forcing them to confess to rape and murder of Maria Savelyva and forcing them to write an admission of guilt.

On September 16, Frolov was released, and a criminal case was opened against Mikheyev for storing ammunition. The reason for initiating this case was the protocol of an illegal search of Mikheyev's car. Frolov was brought to this case as a witness. On September 16, Frolov was summoned for interrogation to the Leninsky police department, where after interrogation he was again illegally detained. After beating and threats from the deputy chief of the Nizhny Novgorod Region Department of the Internal Affairs, Pyotr Sibirev and the deputy prosecutor of the Nizhny Novgorod region, Vladimir Muravyov, he was forced to incriminate himself and admit that, together with Mikheyev, raped and killed Savelyeva. After recognition, Frolov indicated a fictitious place where he and his friend buried a corpse.

On September 17–19, A. Mikheyev was exposed to intensive interrogations. Although he was detained for storing ammunition, the police interrogated him about  the case of M. Savelyeva's disappearance.

On September 19, after the confession of Frolov and the unsuccessful search for a corpse, Mikheyev was subjected to torture using electric shock. Under the influence of torture and threats, Aleksey Mikheyev confessed to rape and murder of Savelyeva, after which he was offered to confess to several more unsolved murders, which he also agreed to. After receiving a confession, the police officers stopped torturing Mikheyev. Probably in a stunned state after being tortured, Mikheyev leapt from his chair and jumped out of the office window, breaking the glass with his head. Having fallen on a police motorcycle in the courtyard of the police department, Mikheyev got a severe compression fracture of spine (L-I) with a crush of spinal cord and other injuries.

On the same day - September 19, 1998 - Maria Savelyeva returned home by herself.

Public inquiry 

In July 1999, Aleksey Mikheyev applied to the Nizhny Novgorod Society for Human Rights for help in restoring his rights. The material was moved to Committee Against Torture, marked by the registration number "01". Thus, Mikheyev's case became the first case to the Committee Against Torture after the registration of the Regional Public Organization "Committee Against Torture". In this case, the human rights defenders from Nizhny Novgorod uncovered a large set of illegal police activities, and in the future the case got a name as 'public inquiry into torture'.

The public investigation was accompanied by the detection of many fabricated administrative and criminal cases regarding Mikheyev. The main avenues for investigation were criminal case No. 68241 (when Mikheyev fell from the window of building of the Lenin Regional Department of Internal Affairs) and criminal case No. 310503 (compiling false reports by the Bogorodsky employees of the City Department of Internal Affairs in regard to Mikheyev).

Human rights defenders interviewed Mikheyev and Frolov, their relatives and friends, the patients of the hospital where Mikheyev was on treatment and reviewed the medical records of his stay. Witnesses of Mikheyev's vehicle search claimed that cartridges were removed from the car when they were absent. Moreover, Maria S. said that she had no complaints regarding Alexei Mikheyev.

After receiving evidence of the torture, illegal search, and other significant violations of human rights to regard to Mikheyev, work on the case was conducted by human rights defenders in several ways at the same time. At first, the efforts of the Nizhny Novgorod Society for Human Rights and the Committee Against Torture were focused on identifying and prosecuting the persons who tortured Mikheyev in the Lenin Regional Department of Internal Affairs in Nizhny Novgorod. Secondly, human rights activists sought to prosecute police officers who fabricated administrative material in relation to Mikheyev in Bogorodsk. Also, having irrefutable evidence of Mikheyev's innocence, the Committee Against Torture also joined forces in defending Mikheev from prosecution. To represent interests and protect Mikheyev, Yuri Sidorov was provided as a lawyer. In addition, Igor Kalyapin became a representative of the interests of the victim.

Litigation in Russia 

On September 21, 1998, Mikheyev's mother, Lyudmila Nikolaevna Mikheyeva, filed an application with the prosecutor's office of the Leninsky district requiring prosecution against the police officers  who tortured her son. Criminal case No. 68241 was instituted on the signs of crime in accordance with Art. 110 of the Criminal Code (Incitement to Suicide) because of Mikheyev's falling out of the window.