[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Council of Europe

the new forum is that Russia and Belarus are deliberately excluded, which was not seen as explaining the need for a different entity, given that at the time, Russia was no longer a member of the Council of Europe and Belarus only participated partially, as a non-member.

"Caviar diplomacy" scandal 

After Azerbaijan joined the CoE in 2001, both the Council and its Parliamentary Assembly were criticized for having a weak response to election rigging and human rights violations in Azerbaijan. The Human Rights Watch criticized the Council of Europe in 2014 for allowing Azerbaijan to assume the six-month rotating chairmanship of the council's Committee of Ministers, writing that the Azeri government's repression of human rights defenders, dissidents, and journalists "shows sheer contempt for its commitments to the Council of Europe". An internal inquiry was set up in 2017 amid allegations of bribery by Azerbaijan government officials and criticism of "caviar diplomacy at the Council. A 219-page report was issued in 2018 after a ten-month investigation. It concluded that several members of the Parliamentary Assembly broke CoE ethical rules and were "strongly suspected" of corruption; it strongly criticized former Parliamentary Assembly president Pedro Agramunt and suggested that he had engaged in "corruptive activities" before his resignation under pressure in 2017. The inquiry also named Italian member Luca Volontè as a suspect in "activities of a corruptive nature". Volontè was investigated by Italian police and accused by Italian prosecutors in 2017 of receiving over 2.39 million euros in bribes in exchange for working for Azerbaijan in the parliamentary assembly, and that in 2013 he played a key role in orchestrating the defeat of a highly critical report on the abuse of political prisoners in Azerbaijan. In 2021, Volontè was convicted of accepting bribes from Azerbaijani officials to water down critiques of the nation's human rights record, and he was sentenced by a court in Milan to four years in prison.

See also 

 CAHDI
 Common European Framework of Reference for Languages
 Conference of Specialised Ministers
 Council of Europe Archives
 The Europe Prize
 European Anti-fraud Office
 Film Award of the Council of Europe
 Moneyval
 International organisations in Europe, and co-ordinated organisations
 List of Council of Europe treaties
 List of linguistic rights in European constitutions
 North–South Centre of the Council of Europe

Notes

Footnotes

References

Further reading 

 
 Dinan, Desmond. Europe Recast: A History of European Union (2nd ed. 2004). excerpt ; the excerpt covers the historiography
 Gillingham, John. Coal, Steel, and the Rebirth of Europe, 1945–1955: The Germans and French from Ruhr Conflict to Economic Community (Cambridge UP, 2004).
 
 Kopf, Susanne. Debating the European Union Transnationally: Wikipedians' Construction of the EU on a Wikipedia Talk Page (2001–2015). (PhD dissertation Lancaster University, 2018)online.
 Moravcsik, Andrew. The Choice for Europe: Social Purpose and State Power from Messina to Maastricht (Cornell UP, 1998). . .
 Stone, Dan. Goodbye to All That?: The Story of Europe Since 1945 (Oxford UP, 2014).

External links 

 
 General Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, Paris, 2 September 1949

 
1949 establishments in England
Councils
International organizations based in Europe
International organizations based in France
Organizations based in Strasbourg
Organizations established in 1949
Politics of Europe
United Nations General Assembly observers