[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Watson Kirkconnell

terature. Kirkconnell and MacGregor Fraser also collaborated upon a literary translation of the iconic poem A' Choille Ghruamach by Tiree-born Nova Scotia Gaelic poet Iain mac Ailein, which was published in the 1948-'49 theme issue of Dalhousie Review under the title, "John MacLean’s Gloomy Forest".

Following the 1950 rediscovery of a fraternal jewel dating back to 1785 and from St. George's Masonic Lodge No. 20 in Wolfville, Kirkconnell wrote a poem celebrating the return to the Lodge of what is still called "The Relic." In his 1967 memoirs, Kirkconnell had very high praise for Regular Freemasonry, but singled out Continental Freemasonry for very harsh criticism. Kirkconnell accused Continental Freemasonry of being "atheistic" and of having, "a zeal for political revolution in a spirit both anti-Christian and conspiratorial". Kirkconnell accordingly expressed relief that Freemasonry in the Anglosphere, "which today comprises over ninety per cent of the fraternity", refuses to recognize Continental Freemasonry, and considers it irregular.

During the early 1960s, the fruits of Kirkconnell's decades long collaboration with C.H. Andrusyshen were finally published in two volumes by the University of Toronto. 

In the 1963 volume The Ukrainian Poets: 1189-1962, Kirkconnell had translated Dr. Andrusyshen's selection from the whole literary canon of Ukrainian poetry, from their 12th-century national epic, the The Tale of Igor's Campaign, through the literary revival of the 19th century, the Executed Renaissance of the 1920s, and the many Ukrainian language poets, like The New York Group of Poets, who had escaped censorship in the Soviet Union by joining the Ukrainian diaspora throughout the Free World.

In 1964, Drs. Kirkconnell and Andrusyshen's joint literary translations of the selected verse of Ukrainian national poet Taras Shevchenko were also published by the University of Toronto.

In his memoirs, Kirkconnell recalled, "In 1963, public occasions evoked from me two blank verse plays, The Primordial Church of Horton and Let My People Go, a tragedy in strict Greek form with its mise en scène before the palace of Pharaoh on the night before the Exodus. The action may take place in the fifteenth century B.C., but the conflict of humanities is equally applicable to the world of our time. Pharaoh echoes Khrushchov in his indictment of the avante garde, while Moses is a spiritual brother of Madariaga in his insistence on liberty." In his stage directions for the play, however, Kirkconnell took equal aim at Fascism, by instructing that Pharaoh's soldiers were to greet their sovereign with arms raised in a Roman salute. 

When Let My People Go was published in his 1965 poetry collection Centennial Tales and Selected Poems, Kirkconnell summarized it as follows, "The guards of Pharaoh seek to arrest Moses on the night of the Passover but cannot find him. In his place they bring to Pharaoh Moses' sister Miriam and certain other Hebrew women. As Pharaoh threatens them with torture, Moses appears and orders him to stop. Pharaoh indulgently permits Moses to engage in a lengthy argument on the importance of freedom - for body, mind, and for soul. The death of Pharaoh's first-born son turns the scales and the Hebrews are permitted to depart." 

As Kirkconnell aged, his White Supremacist beliefs became increasingly overt. During the 1960s, he accordingly accused believers in racial equality of having views with no basis in modern science. This is why Kirkconnell's vision for multiculturalism in Canada was never able to widen enough to include the cultures, languages, or literatures of Indigenous Canadians or those of other non-Whites.

Due in large part to his involvement with prominent conspiracy theorist and former Canadian Intelligence Service operative William Guy Carr, Watson Kirkconnell also became, as he aged, a vocal conspiracy theorist. In 1959, he accused water fluoridation of being a Communist mind control plot and also became, under Carr's influence, a vocal adherent of both anti-Semitism and Holocaust revisionism. 

Similarly to American Formalist poets Anthony Hecht and Richard Wilbur, Kirkconnell, due to his preference for both writing and rendering his translations into both grammatically correct English and formal verse, had significant conflicts as he grew older against Silent Generation and Baby Boomer free verse poets, who preferred to emulate the work of Ezra Pound.

In 1968, Kirkconnell was made an Officer of the Order of Canada "for his services at home and abroad as an educator, scholar and writer".