[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Irrawaddy

r land seizures and education reforms.

Hacking attempts
The Irrawaddy's websites were subjected to Distributed Denial of Service attacks during the Saffron Revolution, and again on the uprising's anniversary in 2008 and 2010, which temporarily shut down both its English and Burmese online editions.

On 12 March 2011, The Irrawaddy was hacked by unknown attackers who posted fake articles on the magazine’s website. One of the articles alleged a feud between Aung Zaw and Aung San Suu Kyi, claiming that the National League for Democracy leader had encouraged funding cuts for exiled media that have forced a number of organisations, including The Irrawaddy and Democratic Voice of Burma, to cut programmes and fire staff. Another article alleged the death of popular singer May Sweet in a London traffic accident. Both stories were quickly flagged as fictitious, and Aung Zaw later speculated that the attack was launched by a pro-military junta group or Naypyidaw's cyber warfare department.

On October 2, 2014, The Irrawaddy’s website was hacked by a group apparently sympathetic to the radical Buddhist 969 Movement, which rose to prominence after the outbreak of intercommunal riots across Burma in 2012. Prompted by the website's syndication of a wire story reporting a cooperation agreement between the 969 Movement and Sri Lanka’s Bodu Bala Sena Buddhist nationalist organization, the front page was defaced to read: “Irrawaddy supports Jihad and Radical Muslims. For the defend of Muslims and Allah, Irrawaddy have shown attacking Buddhists and others Non-Muslims with Media News (sic).”

Awards
 In January 2014, Aung Zaw was announced as the 2013 winner of the Shorenstein Journalism Prize for his work with the Irrawaddy Publishing Group.
 In November 2014, Aung Zaw was presented with an CPJ International Press Freedom Award by the Committee to Protect Journalists, citing The Irrawaddy’s coverage of Burma as “authoritative and independent”.

Criticism
Before media reforms in 2012 allowed exile media organizations to establish an official presence in Burma, The Irrawaddy relied on a network of stringers and sources operating inside the country and communicating developments back to Chiang Mai by telephone. In some instances, inaccurate reports were published on political developments during the transfer of power from the State Peace and Development Council to the Pyidaungsu Hluttaw after the 2010 general elections:

 On August 27, 2010, The Irrawaddy reported the resignation of Senior General Than Shwe. The report proved to be false when state-run newspapers referred to him as Senior General three days later. Than Shwe ultimately resigned his commission six months later, dissolving the State Peace and Development Council in March 2011 as Thein Sein assumed the presidency of the new government. 
 On February 10, 2011, citing an anonymous senior government official and "sources close to the military", The Irrawaddy alleged that Tatmadaw Commander in Chief Than Shwe would head a 'State Supreme Council', an extra-constitutional body which would exercise power over the new parliamentary government. The report was soon further spread by other foreign and exile media including Asian Correspondent and Democratic Voice of Burma, and was eventually referred to in an April 2011 resolution by United States Republican senators Richard Lugar, Mitch McConnell and Jim Inhofe. Reports of the council’s existence eventually proved to be incorrect, although the amount of influence Than Shwe exerts on senior political and military leaders in Burma continues to be a matter of debate.

Notable op-ed contributors
 Khin Ohmar - Former All Burma Students' Democratic Front member and 8888 Uprising leader
 Bo Kyi - Former political prisoner and secretary of the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners
 Zin Mar Aung - Democracy activist and former political prisoner
 Myint Oo - Medical practitioner and public health advocate
 Thant Myint-U - Founding chairman of the Yangon Heritage Trust and grandson of former UN Secretary-General U Thant
 Bertil Lintner - Former contributor to the Far Eastern Economic Review and Burma expert

See also
 Democratic Voice of Burma
 Mizzima News
 Radio Free Asia
 Internet in Burma
 Media of Burma
 Censorship in Burma

References

External links
 The Irrawaddy (English edition)
 The Irrawaddy (Burmese edition)
 Aung Zaw Official Website

Mass media in Myanmar
Magazines established in 1990
News magazines published in Asia
Burmese magazines
Magazines disestablished in 2015
Defunct magazines published in Thailand
1990 establishments in Thailand
2015 disestablishments in Thailand
Magazines published in Thailand