[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Scandola Nature Reserve

The Scandola Nature Reserve  is located on the west coast of the French island of Corsica, within the Corsica Regional Park.  The reserve was established in 1975. The park and reserve has been recognized by the United Nations as a Natural UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1983 because of its beauty, rich biodiversity, and maquis shrubland.

Location 
The Scandola Reserve is situated on the west coast of Corsica between Punta Muchillina and Punta Nera and includes Cape Girolata and Cape Porto. The reserve covers an area of  of which  is land and  is sea.

Physical features 
The reserve has two sectors, the Elpa Nera inlet and the peninsula of Scandola.  The jagged and sheer cliffs contain many grottos and are flanked by numerous stacks and almost inaccessible islets and coves, such as Tuara.  The coastline is also noted for its red cliffs, sand beaches, and headlands.

The reserve has a Mediterranean climate, with hot, dry summers. The average yearly maximum temperature is 28 degrees C, whereas the average minimum temperature is 3 degrees C.

Biodiversity 
The coastal area around the Scandola Nature Reserve have open cliff-top  grass  swards  and  tall  maquis shrubland, although it has been degraded by historical fires and agriculture. Many species of lizards, snakes, birds, and geckos have been recorded within the park. Precious coral lives in the littoral zone directly off of the coast, and the strong currents in the Gulf of Porto allow for large numbers of fish to congregate. There was once a population of endangered Mediterranean monk seals of the coast of the nature reserve, but they have since disappeared.

Protection 
In 1930, a law was passed prohibiting destruction or modification within Corsica Regional Park.  Scandola Nature Reserve is strictly protected in order to return the area to its natural state.

Gallery

References 

 Bacar, H.  "A survey of Existing and Potential Marine Parks and Reserves of the Mediterranean Region." 1977.  IUCN/UNEP.
 Gryn-Ambroes, P. Preliminary Annotated Lists of Existing and Potential Mediterranean Protected Areas. 1980.  UNEP/IUCN.

External links 

UNESCO World Heritage Site profile
 UNEP-WCMC World Heritage Site datasheet 
 Pictures and description on https://web.archive.org/web/20070927231030/http://www.wikisailing.com/Ilot_Palazzu

World Heritage Sites in France
Geography of Corsica
Tourist attractions in Corsica