[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Movement for the Restoration of Democracy

The Movement for the Restoration of Democracy (MRD), , was a political alliance in Pakistan founded in 1981 by the political parties opposing the military government of Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, the sixth president of Pakistan. Headed by Benazir Bhutto of the Pakistan People's Party, its objective was the end of martial law and restoration of the democracy.

Formed in February 1981, the alliance was noted for its left-wing populism  orientation and had Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), Awami National Party (ANP), Pakistan Muslim League (Khwaja Khairuddin group), Pakistan Democratic Party, Tehreek-e-Istiqlal, Awami Tehreek, Jamiat-e-Ulema-e-Islam, and Mazdoor Kisan Party. The alliance was rooted in rural areas of Sindh Province and remained mostly nonviolent, was strongest among supporters of the Pakistan People's Party (PPP). Though it launched one of the most massive nonviolent movements in South Asia since the time of Gandhi, failure to expand beyond its southern stronghold combined with effective repression from the military led to its demise a year and half later. The alliance dissolved within a week after the death of Zia which marked its way for general elections, outlined the return of Pakistan Peoples Party in national power.

Formation
In the 1970s, the events leading to the success of right-wing alliance, PNA, toppled and overthrow the government of left-oriented PPP. At the time of death of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, nearly 3,000 PPP activists and supporters were jailed, many of whom remained imprisoned for the next decade. President General Zia-ul-Haq was particularly unpopular in the Sindh Province, where support for the PPP remained relatively strong. In 1979, President General Zia-ul-Haq announced the implementation of Islamization program and pressed his ultraconservatism policies in the country. Following the invasive Russian invasion of Afghanistan, President Zia exercised more repressive policies to curb the communist influence in the country, whilst escalating the insurgency in Pashtun-domaniated Khyber province in Western Pakistan. In response, the former rivals, ANP and CPP, decided to oppose President Zia's actions in the country, ultimately the left-wing sphere formed an alliance with the PPP which was the most influential of all left-wing parties.

In 1980, PPP persuasively reached out to left-wing organizations in the country and started its political function after calling for the end of the military regime of President Zia-ul-Haq. Negotiations between PPP leaders and the political parties that had formed the Pakistan National Alliance in 1977 started in October 1980. They led to the formation of the MRD on 6 February 1981, at 70 Clifton, the Bhuttos' family house in Karachi. The alliance was dissolved on 24 August 1988. The alliance launched a struggle against the regime of Zia ul-Haq: in the first weeks, 1999 people were arrested, 189 killed and 126 injured.

The movement is generally thought of as two separate outburst, one in August and September 1983, and one in 1986. It was particularly strong in rural Sindh, where it was fueled by people's resentment against the state, and it finally took 3 army divisions and helicopters to bring the uprising down.

Military force and repression was used against agitators and the movement was crushed. Despite its set backs, the MRD was significant for mounting a political pressure on President Zia to hold the elections. Convinced that party-based elections would not bring the "positive results" he had been talking of, he decided to hold non-party elections in 1985.  But before doing so, he secured his election as president through a referendum.

In 1984, Benazir Bhutto and the MRD notably boycotted the 1984 presidential referendum, following making another call for boycotting the 1985 general elections, to be held under President Zia-ul-Haq.  Successfully boycotting the 1984 referendum and 1985 election, proved to be a serious miscalculation despite confident of enjoying huge popular support.  Contrary to MRD's expectations, the voters turned to these polls were in large numbers. The MRD soon realized that it had miscalculated badly, that it should have fought the elections on Zia’s terms.