[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# International Bible Contest

The International Bible Contest (; Hidon HaTanakh also spelled Chidon HaTanach or Jidon Hatanaj [among Spanish and Portuguese speaking Jews]) is a worldwide competition on the Tanakh (Jewish Bible) for middle school and high school Jewish students. It is held annually in Jerusalem, on Yom Ha'atzmaut. Because the event is officially sponsored by the Israeli government and the Jewish Agency, it is attended by the Prime Minister of Israel, Minister of Education and the Chairman of the Jewish Agency.

Current format

Youth 
The winner of the International Bible Contest and the first runner up, win a four-year college scholarship to any Israeli University.

The international contest is on around 400 chapters. Since Israelis usually win, there is a separate 'Diaspora Contest', for the top non-Israelis. The contestants have a 2-week program known as the Bible Camp. During the Bible Camp, contestants travel throughout Israel, meet dignitaries, tour various sites and study Tanach. An initial fifty-question written test takes place within the first few days of the program. Of the contestants that take the written test, the top sixteen overall go on to compete in the international championship, and the top scorers from the top twelve countries (other than Israel), who did not qualify for the international final go to the Diaspora Contest. The main contest is broadcast live on Israel public television and radio. Though all proceedings of the contest are in general conducted in Hebrew, translations of the questions and answers are available, so language is not a barrier to participation.

The youth format is made up of four public rounds in the International Bible Contest for youth with separate forms of questions in each:

 First Round: Organizers show a video and relate it to the annual topic. They then ask each of the 16 contestants a two-part question, where each part is worth five points. The scores from this round are added to the fifty questions from the previous round and the top eight advance to the second round.
 Second Round: Contestants are given a hint which typically includes a place, name or item. They then can attempt to answer or request another hint (up to two extra for a total of three). A contestant, however gets fewer points for answering after a second or third hint. Then they go onto a series of five general questions whose value in points and difficulty increase. The top four advance to the third round.
 Third Round: Israel's Prime Minister asks a series of questions aloud. Contestants answer questions from this round in written format. Those with the two best scores from the second and third rounds advance, and the others receive prizes for coming in third and fourth place.
 Fourth Round: Two contestants are given a series of rapid answer questions. The questions are asked in a back-and-forth manner alternating between contestants. The contestant who answers the most questions correctly, irrespective of score in prior rounds, is crowned as the winner of the International Bible Contest.

Note: For the diaspora contest the first round is identical but with twelve competitors, the second round skips the guess the book by the hint question and there are only four questions that increase in difficulty and value. The third round is identical except for the absence of the Prime Minister and the fourth round is skipped, winners are declared based on the points they have after round three.

Adults 
The International Bible Contest for Adults occurs once every two years, alternately with the Israeli Bible Contest for Adults.

Winners of local competitions gather in Jerusalem, Israel, during Hanukkah.
After a written exam of 40 questions, 16 contestants (at most one per country, except for United States and Israel) appear in the public and oral quiz:
 The first round consists of individual questions.
 In the second round, 8 contestants are to respond to questions in a limited time.
 The final round consists in questions asked by the Prime Minister, to which the final 4 contestants reply in writing.

Questions
One of the formats of the questions is completing a Bible verse.
For example:
 “The king establishes the land by justice.”
“But he who receives bribes overthrows it”,  (2013 contest).
“Where there is no revelation, the people cast off restraint.”
“But happy is he who keeps the law.”,  (2013 contest).

History 

The international contest was founded by David Ben-Gurion. Originally, a Chidon Hatanach for adults was the main contest, and the contest for high school students was a relatively minor part. The Chidon for adults returned again in 2010.

Regional contests