[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Peace Mala

Peace Mala (The Peace Mala Project for Global Citizenship and World Peace), is a British Registered Charity based in Morriston in Swansea, Wales dedicated to fostering inter-cultural, inter-faith tolerance, and promoting international humans rights and dignity. According to Peace Mala’s memorandum, the project aims to:
To advance the education of the public in global citizenship through the promotion of understanding, respect, friendship, tolerance and peace between all communities, cultures and different faiths and,
To promote human rights as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and subsequent United Nations conventions and declarations. 

Peace Mala is an educational project which provides resources to schools and community groups. The symbolic double rainbow Peace Mala bracelet is one such resource, either provided pre-made, or through kits encouraging to schools and groups to create their own whilst contemplating the various world faiths and lessons represented by each bead.

Peace Mala focuses on the Golden Rule: "Treat others as you would wish them to treat you". Its intention is to educate and remind everyone that this rule is recognised by many scholars, teachers and philosophers.

History
Peace Mala was founded in 2002 by Pam Evans MBE, former Head of the Department of Religious Studies at Coedcae Comprehensive School in Llanelli, Carmarthenshire, Wales. The idea arose from class discussions about the contribution of the "9/11" attacks in New York to Islamophobia, racism, religious intolerance and fundamentalism worldwide, as well as local effects exemplified by the experience of the student Imran Sheikh: "I suffered from racist taunts and our local mosque was attacked following September 11 and that is when the Peace Mala all started." In 2005 Evans gave up her position as Head of Department at Coedcae School to focus on her work with Peace Mala.  On 16 November 2006, (25th Shawwal 1427 AH), Evans was awarded the Noble Soul Award 2006 in recognition of her outstanding contribution to challenging Islamophobia in schools.  The award was presented by RAHMA (Racial Attacks and Harassment Monitoring Association) on the International Day of Peace.

Launch
Peace Mala was officially launched in the UNA Temple of Peace in Cardiff on Wednesday 27 November 2002 by Archbishop of Wales Rowan Williams (later Archbishop of Canterbury). He was joined by members of the fourteen faiths represented on the Peace Mala bracelet, whose procession opened the ceremony, along with NGOs, students and teachers of schools from across Wales, lecturers from the University of Wales, and pupils and staff of Coedcae Comprehensive School.

Awards
Through the promotion of peace, tolerance and respect, Peace Mala has received numerous awards for their work, notably The Prince's Trust Millennium Award in 2003, the Co-op Community Dividend Award in 2003, the ChildLine Cymru CHIPS Friendship and Respect Award in 2003 (1st Prize), and the Carmarthenshire Police Community Challenge Award in 2004.  In 2004 Peace Mala was also awarded First Prize in the CEWC-Cymru "Right-On" National Competition to promote Human Rights in Welsh schools. In 2006 Peace Mala was awarded a grant by Awards for All (Wales) in support of the Peace Mala Awards for Youth. In 2007, Peace Mala was awarded the Community Development Foundation Award. Peace Mala was awarded the Unboxed Award for excellence in positive activities for young people that maximize youth participation, empowerment and potential, and was presented by the City of London Parochial Foundation in 2008. The Corus Community Award from Tata Steel was awarded to Peace Mala in 2009 and 2010.

Charitable status
On 21 February 2007, Peace Mala, already a company limited by guarantee and not having a share capital, was entered in the Central Register of Charities as Registered Charity No. 1118053.

Patrons
Rowan Williams, Archbishop of Canterbury, was patron of Peace Mala from 2003 until 2008, and was succeeded by Lama Khemsar Rinpoche, Spiritual Director of the Yundrung Bön Study Centre.

Rowan Williams
Williams and Evans first met when he visited Coedcae School to give talks to the pupils about his work as Archbishop of Wales, a position now held by Barry Morgan.  Williams was one of the first persons to be contacted by Evans when she came up with the idea of the Peace Mala. One of Williams's final acts as Archbishop of Wales was to join 14 other religious dignitaries in the launch of the Peace Mala in November 2002.

In 2003 Evans invited Williams to be a patron; he held the position until 2008.

Lama Khemsar Rinpoche
Lama Khemsar Rinpoche also visited Coedcae School prior to his involvement with Peace Mala.  Rinpoche left Tibet in 1959, and is the first resident Lama of the Yungdrung Bön tradition in Europe. He also teaches widely in the US.

Evans invited Lama Khemsar Rinpoche to be a patron of the organisation, and he accepted.