[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Phinehas

eir lands beyond the Jordan, they build a great altar on the other side; the remainder of the Israelites mistake this for a separatist move to set up a new religious centre, and send Phinehas to investigate.

According to , Phinehas owned land in the mountains of Ephraim, where he buried his father.

In addition to these episodes, Phinehas appears as the chief adviser in the war with the Benjamites. He is commemorated in . According to some rabbinical commentators, Phineas sinned due to his not availing his servitude of Torah instruction to the masses at the time leading up to the Battle of Gibeah. In addition, he also failed to address the needs of relieving Jephthah of his vow to sacrifice his daughter. As consequence, the high priesthood was taken from him and temporarily given to the offspring of Ithamar, essentially Eli and his sons.

According to , his relation to Zadok is the following: Phinehas begat Abishua, Abishua begat Bukki, Bukki begat Uzzi, Uzzi begat Zerahiah, Zerahiah begat Meraioth, Meraioth begat Amariah, Amariah begat Ahitub, and Ahitub begat Zadok.

According to 1 Maccabees, he is an ancestor of Matitiyahu.

In Jewish culture
Pinechas is the name of the 41st weekly Parashah or portion in the annual Jewish cycle of Torah reading and the eighth in the book of Numbers. The beginning of this parashah tells the judgement of Phinehas son of Eleazar; the end of the previous parashah tells of his zealous act.

The Hebrew expression "One who acts like Zimri and asks for a reward as if he were Phinehas" () refers to hypocrites who ask for undeserved rewards and honors. It derives from the Babylonian Talmud (Sotah, Ch.22, p. 2), where it is attributed to the Hasmonean King Alexander Jannaeus (see Hebrew Wikipedia ).

In some traditions (for example in the Targum Pseudo-Jonathan) Phinehas is identified with Elijah. This identification apparently arose during the first century A.D.

Veneration 

The Catholic Church commemorates him as a saint on 1 July and 1 March.
The Eastern Orthodox Church commemorates him as a saint on 12 March and 25 March.

Patrilineal ancestry

References

Sources

External links
 "Phinehas" at Jewish Encyclopedia

High Priests of Israel
Book of Numbers people
Christian saints from the Old Testament
Midian
Biblical murderers
Christian saints in unknown century
Military saints
Saints from the Holy Land