[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Melbourne Polytechnic

Melbourne Polytechnic, formerly NMIT, is an institute of higher education and vocational education (TAFE) located in Melbourne, Australia that has been operating since around 1910.

In October 2014, the institute was renamed to Melbourne Polytechnic, aided by a $19 million grant from the Victorian Government.

A wide selection of study options in vocational education are offered from short courses, pre-apprenticeships, apprenticeships and traineeships through to certificates, diplomas, advanced diplomas, and onto higher education, tertiary degrees under the Australian Qualifications Framework. In 2013, there were 511 Full Time Equivalent (FTE) teaching staff and 348.5 (FTE) support staff employed by Melbourne Polytechnic delivering over 500 courses. There were 50,203 total enrollments as of November 2014 including 6,284 off-shore students at overseas partner institutions.

Melbourne Polytechnic is the largest provider of primary industry training in Victoria and one of the largest in Australia offering a diverse range of courses from practical short-courses to a Bachelor of Agriculture and Technology focusing on Viticulture, Agronomy and Agribusiness.

Management and organisation structure

Melbourne Polytechnic is managed by a board of eleven directors appointed by the Victorian State Government with the Chief Executive appointed by the board. Recent Chief Executives (CE) appointments have included Brian MacDonald (1988 – March 2012), Dr Andrew Giddy (March 2012 to March 2014), Ron Gauci (March 2014 – April 2015) and Rob Wood (from May 2015 – September 2017). On 20 October 2017, Frances Coppolillo was appointed as Chief Executive.

Currently, the CE has six direct reports comprising Academic Operations; Curriculum Innovation and Teaching Excellence; Student Engagement, International and Community Partnerships; Strategy, Performance and Governance; People and Corporate Services; and Infrastructure, Sustainability and Precincts.

Faculties
Melbourne Polytechnic is structured with four faculties each containing a number of Vocational education and training (VET) Teaching Departments and Higher Education (Master, Bachelor and associate degrees and higher education diploma) programs. During 2014, under the interim CEO leadership of Ron Gauci, the Institute undertook a major restructure reducing the teaching faculties from six to four. An International Office coordinates enrolment and services provided to international students studying at Melbourne Polytechnic. Many of the bachelor's degree courses have associate degrees embedded within them for an interim qualification and exit point after 2 years study.

Courses

Short courses

Short vocational courses are offered in a variety of areas including: Beauty, Drafting, Multimedia, Hospitality, HR, IT, massage, Office Administration, Welding, Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) and Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE), Computer Aided Drafting (CAD), and Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) and Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP). Courses in IELTS – International English Language Testing system – are run from Preston and Collingwood campuses to enhance the English skills of students from non-English speaking backgrounds, particularly international students.

Certificate and diploma courses
As a major vocational education provider in Melbourne Melbourne Polytechnic offers Certificate, Diploma and Advanced Diploma Courses across all Faculties and teaching departments with many of the courses open for international students to enrol.

Degree courses
In 2002 the Victorian Education Minister, Lynne Kosky, announced that TAFEs would be able to offer bachelor's degrees in specialised vocational areas not catered for by universities. Legislation was passed in 2003 and NMIT became the first Victorian TAFE to offer an undergraduate degree in 2004: The Bachelor of Applied Aquaculture course with the first students enrolling at the start of 2005.

Melbourne Polytechnic has since added undergraduate degree courses in Viticulture and Winemaking (2006), Equine Studies (2006), Australian Popular Music (2007), Hospitality Management (2008), Illustration (2008), Accounting (2011), and two in Early Years Education (2011). In 2012 new bachelor's degrees are being launched in Business, Information Technology, and Music Industry.

Associate Degrees are also offered in Accounting, Agriculture and Technology, Business, Early Years Studies, Equine Studies, Illustration, Information Technology, International Business, and International Business Management, Music, Music Industry, Writing and Publishing, and Tertiary Studies.

The 2014 Annual report states that two new master's degree courses have been accredited by the Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency (TEQSA) for delivery: in Creative Industries, and Practising and Professional Accounting.

Bachelor of Accounting