[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 175]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

n a
mighty funeral-pile which was prepared for all the dead.

"The next day an immense quantity of spoil was collected, that had been
abandoned by the troops of Tigranes in their flight. The simple
inhabitants of Lebanon, the greater part of whom had never been beyond
the limits of their mountains, were astonished at such a display of
luxury and magnificence. Already the secret poison of sensuality and
avarice began to inflame their hearts, as they gazed on costly hangings,
enriched with gold and silver, on Persian carpets, and drinking-vessels
of the most exquisite workmanship; already had they begun to differ
about the division of these splendid trifles, when Sophron, who marked
the growing mischief, and remembered the fatal effects which Chares had
described in his travels, rose, and proposed to his countrymen that the
arms of their conquered enemies should be carefully preserved for the
public defence, but that all the rest of the spoil should be consumed
upon the funeral-pile prepared for the dead, lest the simplicity of the
inhabitants of Lebanon should be corrupted, and the happy equality and
union, which had hitherto prevailed among them, be interrupted. This
proposal was instantly applauded by all the older and wiser part of the
assembly, who rejoiced in seeing the evils averted which they had so
much reason to apprehend; nor did those of a different character dare to
express their sentiments, or attempt any open opposition.

"From this time Sophron was universally honoured by all as the most
virtuous and valiant of his nation. He passed the rest of his life in
peace and tranquillity, contented with the exercise of the same rural
employments which had engaged his childhood. Chares, whose virtues and
knowledge were equally admirable, was presented, at the public expense,
with a small but fertile tract of land, sufficient to supply him with
all the comforts of life. This the grateful inhabitants of the mountains
continually cultivated for him as a memorial of the signal assistance he
had afforded them; and here, contented with the enjoyment of security
and freedom, he passed the remaining part of his life in the
contemplation of nature and the delightful intercourse of virtuous
friendship."

When Miss Simmons had finished, Tommy expressed his astonishment at the
latter part of the story. "Is it possible," said he, "there can be
anything of so extraordinary a nature as to burst the very rocks
asunder, and destroy an army at once?" "Have you, then, never heard the
explosion of a gun, or are you ignorant of the destructive effects of
the powder with which they charge it?" said Mr Barlow.

_Tommy._--Yes, sir; but that is nothing to what Chares did in the story.

_Mr Barlow._--That is only because it is used in very inconsiderable
portions; but were you to increase the quantity, it would be capable of
effecting everything which you heard Miss Simmons describe. When nations
are at war with each other, it is now universally the agent of
destruction. They have large tubes of iron, called _cannons_, into which
they ram a considerable quantity of powder, together with a large iron
ball, as big as you are able to lift. They then set fire to the powder,
which explodes with so much violence, that the ball flies out and
destroys not only every living thing it meets with, but even demolishes
the strongest walls that can be raised. Sometimes it is buried in
considerable quantities in the earth, and then they contrive to inflame
it, and to escape in time. When the fire communicates with the mass, it
is all inflamed in an instant, and produces the horrible effects you
have heard described. As such are the irresistible effects of gunpowder,
it is no wonder that even a victorious army should be stopped in their
progress by such a dreadful and unexpected event.

_Tommy._--That is true, indeed; and I declare Chares was a very good and
sensible man. Had it not been for him, these brave inhabitants of
Lebanon must have been enslaved. I now plainly perceive that a man may
be of much more consequence by improving his mind in various kinds of
knowledge, even though he is poor, than by all the finery and
magnificence he can acquire. I wish, with all my heart, that Mr Barlow
had been so good as to read this story to the young gentlemen and ladies
that were lately here; I think it would have made a great impression
upon their minds, and would have prevented their feeling so much
contempt for poor Harry, who is better and wiser than them all, though
he does not powder his hair or dress so genteelly.

"Tommy," said Mr Merton, with a kind of contemptuous smile, "why should
you believe that the hearing of a single story would change the
characters of all your late friends, when neither the good instructions
you have been so long receiving from Mr Barlow, nor the intimacy you
have had with Harry, were sufficient to restrain your impetuous temper,
or preven