[Source: PubMed]

37. J Affect Disord. 2025 Dec 15;391:119987. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2025.119987. Epub
 2025 Jul 26.

Probable adjustment disorder in the UK Armed Forces: prevalence, stressors and 
risk factors among serving personnel and ex-serving personnel.

McKenzie A(1), Burdett H(2), Rafferty L(2), Greenberg N(2), Stevelink SAM(3).

Author information:
(1)King's Centre for Military Health Research (KCMHR), IoPPN, King's College 
London, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Electronic 
address: amber.1.mckenzie@kcl.co.uk.
(2)King's Centre for Military Health Research (KCMHR), IoPPN, King's College 
London, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
(3)King's Centre for Military Health Research (KCMHR), IoPPN, King's College 
London, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; Department of 
Psychological Medicine, IoPPN, King's College London, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland.

INTRODUCTION: Little research has focused on adjustment disorder (AjD) in the UK 
military despite being a frequently reported psychological diagnosis. The study 
aimed to report prevalence estimates for probable AjD in UK serving and 
ex-serving personnel and explore associations between stressors and risk factors 
for probable AjD.
METHODS: Data from the King's Centre for Military Health Research (KCMHR) Health 
and Wellbeing study was used. The KCMHR study investigated health and wellbeing 
outcomes for UK personnel deployed to Iraq/Afghanistan. Data from the third 
phase (2014-2016) were used (n = 4656); serving personnel (n = 1999) and 
ex-serving personnel (n = 2657).
RESULTS: A probable AjD prevalence of 6.0 % for serving personnel (95 % CI: 
4.9 % - 7.5 %) and 7.1 % for ex-serving personnel (95 % CI: 6.0 % - 8.3 %) was 
identified. Relationship dissatisfaction and financial difficulties had the 
strongest association with probable AjD. Being in a combat role and being single 
were positively associated with AjD, while senior rank was protective. Childhood 
adversities and externalising behaviours were associated with adult AjD. Risk 
factors differed depending on serving status.
LIMITATIONS: Several established mental health measures were used to identify 
probable AjD opposed to the 'gold-standard' screening tool, of which the 
development was too late to include in the study.
CONCLUSION: The findings provide foundational knowledge of AjD for the UK 
military. In addition to military-specific factors, non-military stressors and 
risk factors were identified, which mapped onto those seen in the general 
population. Further exploration is recommended to understand AjD differences 
between civilian and military populations.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2025.119987
PMID: 40721134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest This work was 
funded by The Colt Foundation. The views expressed are those of the author(s) 
and not necessarily those of The Colt Foundation. S.A.M.S.: this paper 
represents independent research part funded by the National Institute for Health 
Research (NIHR) Maudsley Biomedical Research Centre at South London and Maudsley 
NHS Foundation Trust and King's College London and an NIHR Advanced Fellowship 
[ref: NIHR 300592]. The views expressed are those of the author(s) and not 
necessarily those of the NHS, the NIHR or the Department of Health and Social 
Care. N.G. is funded by the National Institute for Health Research Health 
Protection Research Unit (NIHR HPRU) in Emergency Preparedness and Response, a 
partnership between Public Health England, King's College London, and the 
University of East Anglia. The views expressed are those of the author(s) and 
not necessarily those of the NIHR, Public Health England or the Department of 
Health and Social Care. A.M. H·B, and L.R. do not report any conflict of 
interest. For the purposes of open access, the author has applied a Creative 
Commons Attribution (CC BY) licence to any Accepted Author Manuscript version 
arising from this submission.