[Source: Gutenberg#2814 | Part 23]
# Utopia — Thomas More

ld or wet or windy there was sure to be a little
tumbler of punch ready for him. Perhaps they could be happy
together....

They used to go upstairs together on tiptoe, each with a candle, and on
the third landing exchange reluctant good-nights. They used to kiss. He
remembered well her eyes, the touch of her hand and his delirium....

But delirium passes. He echoed her phrase, applying it to himself:
_“What am I to do?”_ The instinct of the celibate warned him to hold
back. But the sin was there; even his sense of honour told him that
reparation must be made for such a sin.

While he was sitting with her on the side of the bed Mary came to the
door and said that the missus wanted to see him in the parlour. He
stood up to put on his coat and waistcoat, more helpless than ever.
When he was dressed he went over to her to comfort her. It would be all
right, never fear. He left her crying on the bed and moaning softly:
_“O my God!”_

Going down the stairs his glasses became so dimmed with moisture that
he had to take them off and polish them. He longed to ascend through
the roof and fly away to another country where he would never hear
again of his trouble, and yet a force pushed him downstairs step by
step. The implacable faces of his employer and of the Madam stared upon
his discomfiture. On the last flight of stairs he passed Jack Mooney
who was coming up from the pantry nursing two bottles of _Bass_. They
saluted coldly; and the lover’s eyes rested for a second or two on a
thick bulldog face and a pair of thick short arms. When he reached the
foot of the staircase he glanced up and saw Jack regarding him from the
door of the return-room.

Suddenly he remembered the night when one of the music-hall _artistes_,
a little blond Londoner, had made a rather free allusion to Polly. The
reunion had been almost broken up on account of Jack’s violence.
Everyone tried to quiet him. The music-hall _artiste_, a little paler
than usual, kept smiling and saying that there was no harm meant: but
Jack kept shouting at him that if any fellow tried that sort of a game
on with _his_ sister he’d bloody well put his teeth down his throat, so
he would.


Polly sat for a little time on the side of the bed, crying. Then she
dried her eyes and went over to the looking-glass. She dipped the end
of the towel in the water-jug and refreshed her eyes with the cool
water. She looked at herself in profile and readjusted a hairpin above
her ear. Then she went back to the bed again and sat at the foot. She
regarded the pillows for a long time and the sight of them awakened in
her mind secret amiable memories. She rested the nape of her neck
against the cool iron bed-rail and fell into a revery. There was no
longer any perturbation visible on her face.

She waited on patiently, almost cheerfully, without alarm, her memories
gradually giving place to hopes and visions of the future. Her hopes
and visions were so intricate that she no longer saw the white pillows
on which her gaze was fixed or remembered that she was waiting for
anything.

At last she heard her mother calling. She started to her feet and ran
to the banisters.

“Polly! Polly!”

“Yes, mamma?”

“Come down, dear. Mr Doran wants to speak to you.”

Then she remembered what she had been waiting for.




A LITTLE CLOUD


Eight years before he had seen his friend off at the North Wall and
wished him godspeed. Gallaher had got on. You could tell that at once
by his travelled air, his well-cut tweed suit, and fearless accent. Few
fellows had talents like his and fewer still could remain unspoiled by
such success. Gallaher’s heart was in the right place and he had
deserved to win. It was something to have a friend like that.

Little Chandler’s thoughts ever since lunch-time had been of his
meeting with Gallaher, of Gallaher’s invitation and of the great city
London where Gallaher lived. He was called Little Chandler because,
though he was but slightly under the average stature, he gave one the
idea of being a little man. His hands were white and small, his frame
was fragile, his voice was quiet and his manners were refined. He took
the greatest care of his fair silken hair and moustache and used
perfume discreetly on his handkerchief. The half-moons of his nails
were perfect and when he smiled you caught a glimpse of a row of
childish white teeth.

As he sat at his desk in the King’s Inns he thought what changes those
eight years had brought. The friend whom he had known under a shabby
and necessitous guise had become a brilliant figure on the London
Press. He turned often from his tiresome writing to gaze out of the
office window. The glow of a late autumn sunset covered the grass plots
and walks. It cast a shower of kindly golden dust on the untidy nurses
and decrepit old men who drowsed on the benches; it flickered upon all
the moving figures—on the children who ran screaming along the gra