[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Defence CBRN Centre

e Joint CBRN Medical Faculty. The centre provides CBRN medical training to all medical officers in the UK Armed forces and courses are available to NATO/Allied Nations. As well as military training, Defence CBRN Centre also supports civilian response in partnership with the Health Protection Agency.

The Joint CBRN Medical Faculty supports CBRN medical doctrine development, training and curriculum development and SME support to defence research programmes working closely with partners in the health sector.

CBRN medical centre
The Joint CBRN medical centre supports the medical response to a CBRN incident and the management of CBRN casualties. It is a cross-government group under the remit under the Surgeon-General to develop CBRN clinical guidance, medical training and research. The clinical training objectives are to:

"manage any CBRN casualties including trauma, manage the medical aspects of a CBRN incident, treat chemical casualties, treat biological casualties including sepsis, treat radiological casualties including nuclear.

CBRN Emergency Medical Treatment (Medical Officer) course
The Emergency Medical Treatment course is a 3-day course to provide military doctors with an awareness of the effects of CBRN agents and teach the competencies to provide Role 1 CBRN casualty management.

CBRN Clinical course
The CBRN Clinical course trains Role 1 (pre-hospital), 2 (hospital) and 3 (medical, nursing and allied health) professionals in the recognition and treatment of all casualties in a CBRN environment, through to Role 3 advanced medical care including critical care. This course supports the military competencies for emergency medicine, acute medicine, intensive care and specialist nurse training.

Defence Medic CBRN course
The Defence Medic CBRN course trains Role 1 (pre-hospital) medics in the recognition and treatment of all casualties in a CBRN environment. This course supports includes advanced first aid in the hot zone, emergency medical treatment and casualty decontamination.

Technical Support Group
The DCBRNC Technical Support Group provides an external training and trials function. The TSG External Training Team provides all three services with their CBRN defence training, inspecting the training at unit level. Secondly, the Trials part of TSG helps the development of Joint Service CBRN defence equipment and procedures, supporting the CBRN Delivery Team and DES. The team has contributed to Light Role Teams, G.S.R. and the ARTS system.

The Defence CBRN Centre assists with the military's annual chemical warfare exercise, Exercise TOXIC DAGGER, which in 2018 took place on Salisbury Plain and involved over 300 military personnel, including 40 Commando Royal Marine, the RAF Regiment and the Royal Marines Band Service for casualty treatment.

References

External links
 British Army – Defence Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Centre
 Defence CBRN Centre at GOV.UK

Chemical warfare facilities in the United Kingdom
Military installations in England
Military training establishments of the United Kingdom
Research institutes in Wiltshire
Chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear defense