[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

Capehart's Third Brigade after Rosser.  Capehart's brigade chased Rosser's cavalry from the area, captured 50 men, and captured all of the Laurel Brigade's artillery. Custer, with Capehart's Brigade (including the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry) leading, defeated one of the Confederacy's best cavalries.

Battle of Waynesboro
Two federal cavalry divisions encountered the remnants of General Early's army at Waynesboro, Virginia, on March 2. Most of Early's army was killed or captured, although Early evaded capture. Custer's division did the fighting. His 1st Brigade dismounted and attacked as infantry, then the 3rd Brigade charged and cut off over half of Early's force—which forced that portion of the rebels to surrender. All of Early's headquarters equipment was captured, as were 11 pieces of artillery. The 2nd West Virginia Cavalry captured 200 wagons loaded with supplies that were supposed to be sent to Lee's Army of Northern Virginia. Early's army was eliminated from the war.

Sheridan joins the Army of the Potomac near Petersburg
Sheridan's original orders were to destroy the Virginia Central Railroad and then meet with the army of Union General William Tecumseh Sherman in North Carolina. Sheridan reached Charlottesville on March 3, but faced delays caused by muddy roads. During that time, Custer's division (including the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry) destroyed the railroad line between Lynchburg and Amherst Courthouse, and Devin's division destroyed the James River Canal. Rainy weather had caused the James River to swell. The deeper and wider river became dangerous to cross, and fords became unusable. The swollen river, and bridges that had been destroyed by the Confederates, persuaded Sheridan to move east toward Richmond instead of moving south across the river to link with Sherman's army in North Carolina. Sheridan's army kept north of the James River, and reached Columbia, Virginia, on March 10.

Sheridan's two cavalry divisions continued their movement eastward, still staying north of the swollen James River. Both divisions reached a Union Army base at the river port community of White House, Virginia (not to be confused with the "White House" in Washington, D.C.), on March 18, 1865. At White House, the two divisions were resupplied, and rested for five days.

Sheridan's force departed from White House on March 24, and met the Army of the Potomac near Petersburg on March 27. The Army of the Potomac was "the Union's primary army operating in the East." It often confronted Lee's Army of Northern Virginia, and was tasked with protecting the capital in Washington, D.C., while attempting to capture the Confederate capital city of Richmond. Sheridan's Army of the Shenandoah was still considered separate from the Army of the Potomac, so he received orders directly from General Ulysses S. Grant (the Union's highest-ranking officer and future president of the United States). Grant was working on site with General George Meade, the commander of the Army of the Potomac. Meade had partially surrounded Lee's army at Richmond and Petersburg, but Lee still had a western escape route. Grant ordered Sheridan to proceed to Dinwiddie, Virginia. The two divisions were joined by the 2nd Cavalry Division from the Army of the Potomac, which was led by General Crook. The three cavalry divisions totaled to a force of about 9,000. Since Lee's Army of Northern Virginia was concentrated in Richmond and Petersburg, Sheridan's movement would flank Lee's army—and threaten Lee's escape route if he decided to abandon Richmond and Petersburg.

Battle of Dinwiddie Court House

Sheridan's army reached Dinwiddie Court House on March 29. His first two divisions went into camp at that location, while Custer's 3rd Division (which included the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry regiment) guarded the wagon trains further back at Malone's Crossing. The 3rd Division's Third Brigade, which included the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd West Virginia cavalry regiments, also included the 1st New York (Lincoln) Cavalry. On the next day, Devin's 1st Cavalry Division, and a brigade from Crook's 2nd Division, were sent north toward Five Forks. Their reconnaissance found a strong enemy force led by General George E. Pickett, and the Union cavalry was driven back.

The Battle of Dinwiddie Court House occurred on March 31, and is considered a Confederate victory. The same Union force that was driven back earlier was again sent toward Five Forks. The remaining portion of Crook's 2nd Division met the Confederates further west at Chamberlain's Creek. During this time, infantry under the command of Union General Gouverneur Kemble Warren, located east of Sheridan's army, was driven back. The attacking Confederate force then turned its attention to Sheridan—Sheridan's cavalry had to face two enemy infantry divisions and a cavalry.