[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Noolaham Foundation

on. Noolaham Foundation encourages a collaborative-leadership framework whereby contributors lead one another to achieve organizational and community goals. We steward community resources consciously to support social justice and knowledge based community development of all the communities we serve.

All of Noolaham Foundation ongoing activities have been organized into sectors, and sectors into processes. In addition, Noolaham Foundation undertakes time bound projects. Each process and project with the exception of governance, governance board meeting, and resource mobilization processes are managed by staff. Volunteers in Sri Lankan and diaspora contribute to processes and projects as process/project mentors, subject matter experts and contributors. Staff and volunteers of a process or project together consist of the team for that process or project. A Processed/Project Based Management (PBM) has been adopted to effectively manage Noolaham endeavors to serve the community needs. Currently, there are seven sectors and forty five processes.

Sector 00: Governance, Policy and Strategy

Sector 01: Organizational Management and Operations

Sector 02: Program and Projects

Sector 03: Digital Processing and Preservation

Sector 04: Digital Library, Archive and Information Services

Sector 05: Technology Infrastructure and Development

Sector 06: Finance, Human Resources and Administration

Sector 07: Advocacy, Communications and Public Relations

The Governance Board is the primary decision making body for Noolaham Foundation. It consults with Gray Board, Advisory Pool, Management, Staff as well as other stakeholders as needed to direct Noolaham Foundation activities.

In addition to volunteers and staff, Noolaham Foundation relies on and answerable to the wider Noolaham Foundation Community. The wider Noolaham Community consists of Content Contributors, Source Contributors, Donors, Supporters, and Users.

Further details about Chapters, governing bodies etc are discussed in the following chapters.

Reporting Flow 
Noolaham Foundation is organized as processes and projects to enable high level of collaboration while maintaining clear lines of communication and accountability. Noolaham Foundation reports to the wider community via monthly reports, project reports, audit reports and annual reports. These reports are the responsibility of the Chief Operating Officer, who shall engage appropriate staff resources in preparing these reports. These reports are to be reviewed and signed offed by the Governance Board.

Sector managers report to the Chief Operating Officer weekly. Project coordinators provide Project Status Report to Chief Program Officer weekly. Sector (including program) and project updates must be compiled into the Monthly Report for review & sign off by the Governance Board as well as the wider Noolaham Foundation community.

The stats compilation for sector, monthly and project reports for ongoing activities such as digital preservation, multimedia documentation etc should be automated as much as possible via the Noolaham Dashboard.

All recurring activities must be tracked using the Sector and Project Tracking sheets. Backlog tasks, new tasks, issues must be tracked using the Operational and Governance Tracking sheets. These items are also known as tickets. Sector managers should flag overdue or long pending tasks and bring to the COO attention as needed via the weekly sector reports. COO shall aid the Sector Managers to engage relevant parties as needed to address the overdue tasks. Any long standing tasks/issues with challenges should be brought to the Governance Board by the COO.

Volunteers are encouraged to contribute and collaborate on tasks, activities at process and project levels. However, please respect the reporting lines and don't ask for individual reporting.

Internal Communications Flow 
Noolaham Foundations seeks to build an open, positive, collaborative, respectful atmosphere for all staff and volunteers. Noolaham Foundation seeks to be a self-archiving, learning organization. Open communication and transparency are key to these goals.

All of Noolaham Foundation meetings must be pre-announced on respective process or project email threads, with reasonable notice period. Summary of all meetings should be shared via email or slack.

Sector Lead/Project Co-Ordinator and/or their Department Manager, and/or Chief Operating Officer must always be present at the meeting. The Chief Operating Officer must be present in all meetings where a job assignment/change or a priority establishment/change is needed. It is not mandatory for COO to attend technical advisory process/project meetings. However, the sector lead and/or department manager must be there and notify the summary of discussions in the slack thread or via email.