[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of Wild Cards characters

hat employed Shad's ability to absorb heat and induce hypothermia to eliminate his competition and terrorize local pimps. Something of a vigilante in his own right and more of a cover identity than a true personality. No Dice emerged as Shad's personalities were beginning to fuse together once more.

Blaise Jeannot Andrieux
Blaise Andrieux is the grandson of Dr. Tachyon, created by Melinda M. Snodgrass. Blaise's mother was Gisele Bacourt, who was Tachyon's illegitimate daughter. He was raised by a terrorist group who taught him to use his mental powers to dominate and to kill. When Tachyon discovered Blaise's existence during the WHO-sponsored tour of 1987, he brought the boy back to New York to live with him. Unfortunately, Tachyon is a terrible father, and tends to spoil Blaise terribly or rage at him for acting improperly. Blaise rapidly grows up to be an arrogant and cruel bully who enjoys using his mind control powers to make people around him act like total fools. Eventually, Blaise goes "wild", running free on the streets of New York and brutally turning on his grandfather. He eventually becomes a complete sociopath who revels in the suffering of others, especially his grandfather. In later books, Blaise becomes the de facto leader of the Jumpers, acquiring their power in addition to his own, and returns to Takis in a bid to conquer the planet.

Bloat
Bloat is an adolescent boy transformed by the Wild Card virus into a powerful psychic with a monstrous Joker body. He was created by Stephen Leigh. Introduced in One-Eyed Jacks as Governor of the Roxm he comes to prominence and full awareness of his vast powers in Jokertown Shuffle. He is ostensibly the primary antagonist of that book, although his character is depicted as being well-intentioned and idealistic, but who is surrounded by less positive allies, and has few options. When last seen, it appears he manages to take the Rox into a safe parallel universe, avoiding the death of many of his followers.

Captain Trips
Captain Trips, also known as Dr. Mark Meadows, is a renowned biochemist and a burned-out hippie, with the ability to use various drugs (usually derivations of psychoactive drugs such as LSD) to transform into several other forms, each with their own powers and individual personalities. He was created by Victor Milán. Trips himself and several of his alternate forms would be considered Aces in the lexicon of the Wild Cards universe, though a few of his "friends" (as he terms them) could be classified as Jokers. It is theorized that, since all Meadow's "friends" and their powers are ultimately derived from Meadows himself, he is essentially the ultimate manifestation of the Wild Card virus.

Brain Trust
Brain Trust (Blythe Stanhope Van Renssaeler) was a member of the Four Aces, appearing in the stories "Degradation Rites" by Melinda M. Snodgrass (who created the character) and "Witness" by Walter Jon Williams.

Blythe was the wife of domineering New York Congressman Henry Van Renssaeler. When the Wild Card virus infected her, she gained the power to absorb an exact duplicate of another's mind, to know everything they knew. The first time she used this power was when she involuntarily absorbed her husband's mind. Suddenly she knew it all; his dirty politics and criminal activities, his affairs, and what he really thought about his wife.

Overwhelmed to the point of withdrawal, she was found and brought to Dr. Tachyon, in the hope that he could help her. He used his telepathy to help stabilize her mind, and the two soon began an affair. She was afraid to go back to Henry, and instead joined the organization that would become known as the Four Aces. Unlike Golden Boy and Black Eagle, Blythe, codenamed "Brain Trust", was a behind-the-scenes member at first. She was sent around the country to copy the minds of some of the world's greatest scientists, such as Albert Einstein, Jonas Salk, J. Robert Oppenheimer, and Wernher von Braun, so that there would be "back-up" copies of their knowledge. This made it even more difficult for her to maintain her mental balance; so, Tachyon began tutoring her in Takisian methods of mental control, when he was not romancing her.