[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ron Tschetter

re necessary to ensure that our people are able to accomplish the long-term goals of that mission. And we believe that this was a prudent step based on the situation on the ground in Bolivia."  Referring to the decision to withdraw volunteers McCormack added that "Security played a big part in it." 

Mac Maroglis wrote in Newsweek on September 20 that after Bolivia expelled US Ambassador Goldberg that "Washington answered by sending off the Bolivian and Venezuelan ambassadors, and even suspending Peace Corps operations." The Peace Corps issued a press release on September 22 that "while the expulsion of the U.S. Ambassador was considered by the Peace Corps, the decision to temporarily suspend the Peace Corps program in Bolivia was based on the Peace Corps emergency action plan and its evaluation process for suspensions and evacuations. The safety and security of the Volunteers and their ability to do their work are the primary factors in such a decision. In the case of Bolivia, there was increasing civil unrest, including blockading of major transportation routes, a mass protest and march planned, and escalating violence against Bolivian citizens. We made the decision to consolidate the Volunteers and then to move all 113 Volunteers based on our own evaluation." 

On October 22, 2008  Associated Press published a story saying that several volunteers who had been serving in Bolivia believe that the US government overreacted with a blanket withdrawal of volunteers and that although some parts of Bolivia were unstable, most volunteers felt no security threat. "Peace Corps, unfortunately, has become another weapon in the U.S. diplomatic arsenal," said Sarah Nourse who had been serving as a volunteer in Bolivia. Thomas Shannon, the top US diplomat for Latin America, said that security had been the only reason for the pullout of Peace Corps volunteers. "We don't politicize the Peace Corps," Shannon said.

Joshua Partlow reported in the Washington Post on October 23, 2008, that when Peace Corps volunteers were being evacuated from Bolivia, volunteers were asked how many planned to return to Bolivia on their own and about half the group members raised their hands, according to participants.  The article stated that more than 15 volunteers have since returned to Bolivia after leaving the Peace Corps and are working on their own to complete the projects they began as Peace Corps volunteers. "I've never felt safer in my life than I was here," said volunteer Aaron York. "I needed to be back here. . . . There was no time to say goodbye to everyone, to achieve any kind of closure, in my service, in my life here, and I really felt like I needed that." A spokesman for the Peace Corps said that the Peace Corps does not anticipate being able to return volunteers to Bolivia and reopen the program until fall of 2009 at the earliest.

Liberia Program Reopened after 18 years
On October 22, 2008 the Voice of America reported that Peace Corps is re-opening its program in Liberia which closed in 1990 due to the Liberian Civil War.  "With the country enjoying a new period of peace and at the request of President Sirleaf, the Peace Corps is reestablishing a program to help rebuild Liberia's education infrastructure. And it was last year in October that the President of the United States told President Sirleaf that we would work to make that happen," said State Department Press Secretary Dana Perino. The original program in Liberia ran from 1961 to 1990 and over 4,400 volunteers served in Liberia during that period. Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf had requested that the Peace Corps re-establish its program. Peace Corps volunteers will work in teacher training programs, libraries, high schools, parent-teacher associations, and health care.

Proposal for Peace Corps Foundation
On October 23, 2008 Tschetter proposed the creation of a Peace Corps Foundation as a private charitable non-profit corporation "to advance the Peace Corps' third goal of inspiring a better understanding of other cultures through returned Volunteers in America" and "to increase public awareness within the United States of Peace Corps Volunteer experiences, and the diversity of the countries in which they serve." Tschetter proposed that the foundation not be a federal agency but that funding would be sought from corporations, foundations, and private individuals while grants would be provided for programs approved by a governing board. Tschetter proposed that the foundation have a building in Washington, DC that would serve as an education facility "where Americans, particularly children, would come and learn more about other cultures and countries, as well as how the Peace Corps fulfills its mission of promoting peace and friendship worldwide."

See also
Peace Corps

Citations