[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Vanished (TV series)

Vanished is an American serial drama television series produced by 20th Century Fox. The series premiered on August 21, 2006 on Fox and its last episode aired on November 10, 2006. Based in Atlanta, Georgia, the series begins with the sudden disappearance of the wife of a Georgia senator, which is quickly revealed to be part of a wider conspiracy. The family of the missing woman, a pair of FBI agents, a journalist and her lover/cameraman, are all drawn into an evolving mystery with political and religious undertones. The show was created by CSI writer Josh Berman, and executive produced by Mimi Leder, who also directed the show, and Paul Redford.

On October 26, 2006, USA Today reported that the planned 22-episode series was ordered to be wrapped up after the 13th episode. The story arc of finding Sara Collins was to be concluded, with the mystery of a larger conspiracy left dangling in the event the series was extended. On November 16, 2006, Fox confirmed that the show would end after a final episode in December.

On December 8, 2006, the final episode of Vanished appeared online. The production team was told a few months before the show was taken off the air to at least reveal Sara's fate by the 13th episode, but none of the other plotlines were resolved.

According to a report of E! Online's Kristin dos Santos on July 23, 2007, the unsolved mystery behind Vanished was to be the focus of an episode of Bones, during the third season. However, the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike shortened the season, and that episode was never developed.

Plot 
A secretive sect of Freemasons is trying to decipher several Dead Sea scrolls found in Jerusalem, Israel, and is willing to go to great length in order to do so. The key storyline revolves around an upcoming supreme court nomination of a new judge. In order to secure to the nomination, the conspirators kidnap the wife of a U.S. Senator, which is the trigger to the entire plot. The supreme court will soon rule on legal evidence issue, which will impact the faith of a renowned Dead Sea scholar currently awaiting execution for killing his research team as well as for his wife murder, although her body was never found. The conspirators are looking to overturn the scholar's conviction therefore freeing him and allowing the decipher of the scrolls. 

The story begins in Atlanta when Sara Collins (nee Jerome) vanishes from a dinner held in her honor. Sara is a teacher, in early 30's, and Senator Jeffrey Collins's second wife. She had previously told her husband that she had a secret to tell him, but disappeared before she could reveal it to him.

The investigation into her kidnapping starts to uncover secrets. While Senator Collins is clean and desperately wants his wife returned, even paying the ransoms will not get her back. He paid $5,000,000 in cash and then voted as requested by kidnappers to confirm a Supreme Court nominee. He initially held support for this nominee, despite being his long time close friend, because he knew the nominee seduced an underage girl.

What Senator Collins did not know was that the underage girl was actually his daughter, Marcy. Marcy ended the affair with the judge after being caught by Sara, but was later raped by him and subsequently became pregnant. Marcy believes she was then poisoned to induce a miscarriage. 

Senator Collins' son, Max, had gotten into trouble over underage drinking and DUI. Sara urged Jeffrey to put him in a rehab facility. There, Max expressed a hatred for his stepmother, which was used against her by the conspiracy (his counselor Quinn was one of the conspirators). 

Senator Collins' ex-wife worked her way back into Senator Collins's life via their mutual children. She confronted Sara over the birth of her child but despite her hatred of Sara, never revealed the truth, given her disappearance. Senator Collins' ex-wife was financially broke and eventually took a bribe from Senator Collins' chief of staff, which she gave to Marcy to help her daughter bail her boyfriend out of jail. 

Sara went through torture and manipulation when she was in captivity. She was fed certain information and that made her believe that Collins took her kidnapping as opportunity to advance his career. These lies led her to flee to the last place where she felt anonymous and safe - the same place she fled the rehab facility once before, Gloucester, Massachusetts.

FBI Agent Graham Kelton solved many aspects of the kidnapping, and even managed to contact the mysterious person leaving St. Nathan prayer cards with clues for him. He found out that the person wanted the conspiracy undone more than Sara's rescue. He eventually solved the real ransom demand of the conspiracy, the supreme court vote, but after stopping the vote with a bioterrorist attack simulation, he was shot and killed by one of the conspirators, before he can give any details.