[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# United States sanctions against Iran

on health

During the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic, health workers and sanctions experts said U.S. sanctions, including financial sanctions and lost oil revenues, were preventing the import of medicine and medical supplies including raw materials and equipment needed to manufacture medicines domestically.

The United States has ostensibly exempted humanitarian items from sanctions, but in practice the prohibition against business with Iranian banks and the reduction in issuance of certain medical export licenses by the United States Treasury Department enforcement agency have caused difficulties in Iran.  For example, Iran faces a critical shortage of spare parts that are needed to repair dual-use equipment used to produce medicine.  Sanctions have also prevented Iran from procuring active ingredients necessary to manufacture locally produced medicine to treat asthma, cancer, and multiple sclerosis.

In December 2020, according to the central bank chief of Iran, Iran could not pay for a COVID-19 vaccine because of U.S. sanctions against Iranian banks. In March 2020, during the first wave of the pandemic, the United States blocked Iran's request for an emergency $5 billion IMF loan.

After the United States withdrew from the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, many banks and businesses worldwide, including pharmaceutical and medical companies, decided not to conduct any business with Iran due to U.S. sanctions.

Impact on overseas students
As of December 2018, United States sanctions were reportedly affecting hundreds of Iranian university students in the United Kingdom, preventing them from being able to readily pay their tuition fees and forcing them to choose between abandoning their studies or using dangerous means to transfer funds.

Exceptions

In December 2010 it was reported that the United States Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control had approved nearly 10,000 exceptions to U.S. sanctions rules worldwide over the preceding decade by issuing special licenses for American companies.

European and United States sanctions do not affect Iran's electricity exports, which creates a loophole for Iran's natural gas reserves.

See also
 Sanctions against Iran
 Iran and Libya Sanctions Act of 1996
 Iran Freedom and Support Act of 2006
 Iran Sanctions Enhancement Act of 2007 (never passed)
 Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010
 National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012
 Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act
 Chicago's Persian heritage crisis
 Iran–United States relations
 Anti-Iranian sentiment
 Foreign direct investment in Iran
 Economy of Iran
 Instrument in Support of Trade Exchanges
 Iran and weapons of mass destruction
 Iran Mission Center

References

External links

 Iran Sanctions - Factbox (Summary and list of all sanctions on Iran since 1979)
 Iran Primer: U.S. Sanctions – PBS website
 Iran Sanctions: Strategy, Implementation, and Enforcement: Hearing before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Representatives, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Second Session, 17 May 2012

Iran–United States relations
Economy of Iran
Modern history of Iran
Politics of Iran
Sanctions against Iran
Iran