[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abahlali baseMjondolo

Occupation. There was also concern about the possibility of evictions linked to the 2010 FIFA World Cup.

Abahlali baseMjondolo is the largest shack dweller's organisation in South Africa and campaigns to improve the living conditions of poor people and to democratise society from below.

Campaigns 

Since 2005, the movement has carried out a series of large scale marches, engaged in direct action for various kinds, including such land occupations, arranging self organised water and electricity connections and making tactical use of the courts. The movement has often made anti-capitalist statements, has called for "a living communism", and has demanded the expropriation of private land for public housing.

Campaigning for well-situated urban land for public housing and has occupied unused government land. is central to its work, along with opposition to evictions. The movement has often used the phrase 'The Right to the City' to insist that the location of housing is critically important and it demands that shack settlements are upgraded where they are and that people are not relocated to out of town developments. 

It has also organised numerous land occupations.

The movement also campaigns for the provision of basic services to shack settlements and for equal access to school education for children from poor families. Shack fires are a major problem in South Africa - between 2003 and 2008, there was an average of ten shack fires every day and someone perishing every second day  - and the movement also campaigns against the living conditions that keep people at risk of fires.

It has organised a number of mutual aid projects: crèches, kitchens and vegetable gardens and runs political education projects through its 'University of Abahlali baseMjondolo, including regular seminars. It runs the Frantz Fanon School, a political school, in the eKhenana Commune.

The movement also campaigns against xenophobia. It took a strong stand against the xenophobic attacks that swept the country in May 2008 taking more than 60 lives. AbM released a statement in Afrikaans, English, isiZulu and Portuguese, declaring, "a person cannot be illegal [...] don't turn your suffering neighbours into enemies." Sociologist Michael Neocosmos saw this as the "most important statement on the xenophobic violence" and praised the fact that it was a shack-dweller group addressing the issue. There were no attacks in any Abahlali settlements and the movement was also able to stop an in-progress attack in the (non-Abahlali affiliated) Kenville settlement and to offer shelter to some people displaced in the attacks.

The movement has also organised numerous actions against police racism and brutality.

The movement has never run candidates for elections and, in its early years, it together with other grassroots movements in Johannesburg and Cape Town, called for election boycotts. It boycotted the local government elections in 2006, the national government elections in 2009 and the 2011 local government elections under the banner of No Land! No House! No Vote!. After its leaders began to be assassinated in 2013 it twice called for tactical protest votes against the ANC.

Philosophy 

Abahlali baseMjondolo describes itself as "a homemade politics that everyone can understand and find a home in" and stresses that it moves from the lived experience of the poor to create a politics that is both intellectual and actional. A slogan of the movement is 'Don't Talk About Us, Talk To Us'. Its key demand is that the social value of urban land should take priority over its commercial value and it campaigns for the public expropriation of large privately owned landholdings. The key organising strategy is to try "to recreate Commons" from below by trying to create a series of linked communes.