[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Killylea

parents. Check out school website www.killyleaps.com or Killylea Primary on Facebook.

Nightlife
Killylea is locally known as the 'village that never sleeps' and is a hive of constant activity, mainly centred on The Huntsman Inn. Other hotspots include Digby's Bar and Restaurant and Jimmy's Shebeen.

Killylea proverbs
"Once you break the head off your Orange Lily, you can't put it back on again". 
This proverb means that people should be careful not to do things that they may later regret because, very often, they cannot be undone.

"When the crows are flying backwards, its time to bring your washing in"
Being at the top of a hill Killylea is a windy place with large gusts being very common.

Religion
There are two places of worship in Killylea.  At the summit of Killylea's hill is the oldest of the two churches, St. Mark's Church of Ireland.  At the bottom of the hill is Killylea Methodist Church.

Sport
Killylea is home to a lawn bowls club who regularly compete in leagues in Armagh.

Although football is a popular sport in Killylea, the village does not have its own team. A team representing the village used to compete in local leagues under the name of Killylea Swifts Football Club.

Culture
The Orange Order has a strong presence in the village and district with 11 lodges in the surrounding area and two in the village itself.  Numerous marching bands also exist in the area.  Most notable amongst these would be Cormeen Rising Sons of William Flute Band, Killylea Silver Band, the Crozier Memorial Pipe Band and Ballyrea Boyne Defenders Flute Band.

Two of the largest band parades in Northern Ireland's parading calendar are hosted in Killylea.  Cormeen host their parade on St. Patrick's Day every year and Ballyrea hold a Battle of the Somme commemoration parade every year on 1 July.  In 2012 Cormeen's parade was, for the first time, held in Armagh City.

People
Although born in Belfast, one of Killylea's most famous residents was John Luke.  Luke is, perhaps, most famous for painting the dome of Belfast City Hall.  He moved to Killylea in 1941 in order to escape the dangers of living in Belfast during World War II and lived there until his death in 1975.

Barry Close, officer in the East India Company army, was born at Elm Park, near Killylea.

See also 

 List of towns and villages in Northern Ireland

References 

 Culture Northern Ireland

External links
 Massacre at Corr Bridge, near Killylea, 1641

Villages in County Armagh
Townlands of County Armagh
Civil parish of Tynan