[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Democratic Society Party

The Democratic Society Party (, DTP, Kurdish: Partiya Civaka Demokratîk, PCD) was a Kurdish nationalist political party in Turkey. The party considered itself social-democratic and had observer status in the Socialist International. It was considered to be the successor of the Democratic People's Party (DEHAP). The party was established in 2005 and succeeded in getting elected more than ninety mayors in the municipal elections of 2009. On 11 December 2009, the Constitutional Court of Turkey banned the DTP, ruling that the party has become "focal point of activities against the indivisible unity of the state, the country and the nation". The ban has been widely criticized both by groups within Turkey and by several international organizations. The party was succeeded by the Peace and Democracy Party.

History
The party was founded in 2005, as the merger of the DEHAP and the Democratic Society Movement (DTH). DTH was set up by the veteran Kurdish  politicians, former deputies Leyla Zana, Orhan Doğan, Hatip Dicle and Selim Sadak upon their release from prison in 2004. The party adopted a gender quota of 40% and the co-chair system on all decision making party levels. Ahmet Türk and Aysel Tuğluk were elected as the first co-chairs of the party. The party assumed the solving of the Kurdish question and a democratization of Turkey would also lead to the spread of democracy in the Middle East. Further it demanded the acceptance of the Kurdish identity in the constitution and education in the Kurdish language.

On the 9 November 2007, Ahmet Türk and Aysel Tuğluk were replaced by Nurettin Demirtaş and Emine Ayna. However, Nurettin Demirtaş was imprisoned the following month because of a fake health report that enabled him to avoid military service. In May 2008 Nurettin Demirtaş was forced to resign after being released from prison and conscripted into the Turkish Army. Emine Ayna, MP for Mardin, was elected leader of the DTP in his place. Later in May, Ayna also became Chair of the DTP Parliamentary Group, when Ahmet Türk resigned. However, in July 2008 Ahmet Türk became, once again, chairman of the DTP.

Peace process 
The AKP Government initiated a peace process in 2009 under the leadership of the Interior Minister Beşir Atalay. Despite the fact that the opposition parties of the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) and the Republican People's Party (CHP) would raise concerns over the ethnic and national unity of the state, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the AKP carried on with the peace process. In October 2009, thirty-four PKK militants entered Turkey on the request of Abdullah Öcalan, the imprisoned leader of the PKK. They surrendered to the Turkish authorities as a sign for the PKK support of the Government plans for greater Kurdish rights. The group was welcomed by a crowd of PKK supporters and several DTP politicians. The DTP supported an amnesty for the PKK militants and Ahmet Türk also reckoned that the PKK was in favor of peace and not war. The Turkish government was not pleased with the celebrated welcome, the PKK militants received and detained over 400 high ranking DTP politicians. Following a deadly attack on Turkish soldiers by PKK militants on the 7 December 2009, the peace process was over.

International outreach 
The party maintained an office in Brussels, Belgium, to engage into negotiations with politicians in the European Union.

October 2007 congress 
In October 2007, the DTP organized a Democratic Society Congress during which several reforms for more political and cultural rights within a so-called Democratic Autonomy were announced. The party demanded more liberties for the expression of non-Turkish languages, especially the Kurdish language. The party wanted a more decentralized style of government and supported the implementation of an administrative structure adapted to the local population. The aim was the implementation of a government in which allowed the cultural differences of the regions to emerge. Besides, the country should be divided into several autonomous regions and the decision making process be based on a local parliamentary system.

PKK connections and disbanding

Connection with the PKK
Since its inception, the party and its leaders have faced legal problems with the Turkish government since some critics  suspect the party of having ties to the PKK.

It was also criticized by observers for not distancing itself from PKK's armed actions to confirm its refutations of its claimed links with the PKK. A report from June 2007 by the European Union Institute for Security Studies (EUISS) stated that "It is an obvious secret that DTP is connected to PKK in a way and PKK is a terrorist group."