[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Body composition

In physical fitness, body composition refers to quantifying the different components (or "compartments") of a human body. The selection of compartments varies by model but may include fat, bone, water, and muscle. Two people of the same gender, height, and body weight may have completely different body types as a consequence of having different body compositions. This may be explained by a person having low or high body fat, dense muscles, or big bones.

Compartment models 

Body composition models typically use between 2 and 6 compartments to describe the body. Common models include:

 2 compartment: Fat mass (FM) and fat-free mass (FFM)
 3 compartment: Fat mass (FM), water, and fat-free dry mass
 4 compartment: Fat mass (FM), water, protein, and mineral
 5 compartment: Fat mass (FM), water, protein, bone mineral content, and non-osseous mineral content
 6 compartment: Fat mass (FM), water, protein, bone mineral content, non-osseous mineral content, and glycogen

As a rule, the compartments must sum to the body weight. The proportion of each compartment as a percent is often reported, found by dividing the compartment weight by the body weight. Individual compartments may be estimated based on population averages or measured directly or indirectly. Many measurement methods exist with varying levels of accuracy. Typically, the higher compartment models are more accurate, as they require more data and thus account for more variation across individuals. The four compartment model is considered the reference model for assessment of body composition as it is robust to most variation and each of its components can be measured directly.

Measurement methods 

A wide variety of body composition measurement methods exist. The "gold standard" measurement technique for the 4-compartment model consists of a weight measurement, body density measurement using hydrostatic weighing or air displacement plethysmography, total body water calculation using isotope dilution analysis, and mineral content measurement by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). However, it is also common to use a DEXA scan alone and refer to this as the "gold standard". These claims are somewhat dubious since measurements methods vary significantly from study to study. In practice, the measurement methods used will be a tradeoff between cost, availability, and accuracy.

DEXA 

Body composition measurement with dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) is used increasingly for a variety of clinical and research applications. A DEXA scan requires medical supervision by a radiologist. Total body scans using DEXA give accurate and precise measurements of body composition, including bone mineral content (BMC), bone mineral density (BMD), lean tissue mass, fat tissue mass, and fractional contribution of fat.

DEXA measurements are highly reproducible if the same type of machine is used, making them excellent for monitoring pharmaceutical therapy, nutritional or exercise intervention, sports training, and other body composition altering programs. They are also fast, simple, non-invasive, and expose the subject to a level of x-rays less than that of a cross-country flight. DEXA exams provide both total body and up to 14 regional (trunk, individual arms & legs, android, gynoid, etc.) results.  However, the role of DEXA in clinical evaluations and research studies has been questioned by Wang et al. who stated that "the errors of the DXA [DEXA] method are still of concern if it were to be used as the criterion."

Hydrostatic weighing

Hydrostatic weighing, also referred to as underwater weighing, hydrostatic body composition analysis and hydrodensitometry, is a technique for measuring the density of a living person's body. It is a direct application of Archimedes' principle, that an object displaces its own volume of water.

Air displacement plethysmography

Air displacement plethysmography is an alternative to underwater weighing for measuring body volume. The technique uses air as opposed to water and is known as air displacement plethysmography (ADP). Subjects enter a sealed chamber that measures their body volume through the displacement of air in the chamber. Next, body volume is combined with body weight (mass) to determine body density.  The technique then estimates the percentage of body fat and lean body mass (LBM) through empirically derived equations similar to those used with underwater weighing (for the density of fat and fat-free mass).

Isotope dilution analysis 

Total body water may be effectively measured using isotope dilution analysis of deuterium oxide.

Total body potassium