[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Cinema of Lebanon

Simple were part of the 2020 Official Selection of the Cannes Film Festival. Brokey Keys was submitted to represent Lebanon in the Best International Feature Film category at the 93rd Academy Awards. The Franco-Lebanese film, Skies of Lebanon by Chloé Mazlo was selected in the Cannes' Critics' Week.

We Are From There, a feature documentary by Wissam Tanios, premiered at the International Film Festival Rotterdam (IFFR). We Are From There also won the Saad Eldin Wahba Award for best non-fiction film at the Horizons of New Arab Cinema Competition at the Cairo International Film Festival while another Lebanese film, Under the Concrete by Roy Arida won the Saad Eldin Wahba Award for best fiction film.

The feature film Mafkoud, which was directed by Bachir Abou Zeid, was released in 2020 across the Arab world.

In 2020, Netflix established a film and television emergency fund in collaboration with the Arab Fund for Arts & Culture (AFAC) to support in the form of individual grants Lebanon's film and TV industries.

2021
Memory Box, written and directed by Joana Hadjithomas and Khalil Joreige, which had its worldwide premiere at the 71st Berlin International Film Festival in March 2021, competed for the Golden Bear and Eliane Raheb's Miguel's War screened in the Berlinale Panorama section where it was up for the audience award and took second prize.  Death of a Virgin and the Sin of Not Living, the first feature by George Peter Barbari, also premiered in the Berlinale Panorma section.

Ely Dagher's The Sea Ahead premiered at Cannes during the festival's Directors' Fortnight. Daizy Gedeon's documentary, Enough — Lebanon's Darkest Hour, screened at the Cannes Market and received the "Movie That Matters Award" sponsored by Film festivals and in association with Better World Fund.

Mounia Akl's first feature film Costa Brava Lebanon, starring Nadine Labaki, premiered at the Horizons Extra section of the 78th Venice International Film Festival. Its north American premier was at TIFF where it won the NETPAC award. The film also won the FIPRESCI award and the Green Star award for tackling environmental issues at El Gouna Film Festival. The film also won the Audience Award at the 65th edition of the BFI London Film Festival.

In addition to Costa Brava Lebanon, Memory Box and The Sea Ahead also screened at BFI London Film Festival.

Elie Khalifé's State of Agitation  premiered at the Mostra de Valencia, cinema del mediterrani and screened at the Malmö Arab Film Festival.

Ghassan Sahlab's The River, which is the last film of the trilogy after The Mountain (2010) and The Valley (2014), premiered at the 74th edition of the Locarno International Film Festival.

Karim Kassem's Octopus won the International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam Award for Best Film in the Envision Competition.

2022
Netflix released its first Arabic original film, Perfect Strangers, starring Nadine Labaki and directed by Lebanese director Wissam Smayra

"Warsha" a short film by director Dania Bdeir won the Short Film Jury Award at Sundance.

Nadim Mishlawi's documentary feature film, After the End of the World, premiered at Sheffield DocFest, one of the top three documentary festivals in the world.

2023
Arzé a feature film by Mira Shaib, starring Diamand Abou Abboud was selected to premier in the Main Competition of the 45th Cairo International Film Festival 

Carlos Chahine's feature La nuit du verre d'eau was released in 2023 in Lebanon and France

Several documentaries came out in 2023, including Q by Jude Chehab had its world premiered at Tribeca Film Festival Cyril Aris’ documentary film, Dancing on the Edge of a Volcano had its world premiere in the Main Competition at the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival.

See also
 Arab cinema
 Cinema of Egy

Film Institutes
Beirut DC
Fondation Liban Cinema
Metropolis
Screen Institute Beirut

Films
 List of Lebanese films

See also
 Arab cinema
 Cinema of Egypt
 Cinema of the Middle East
 Cinema of the world
 Television in Lebanon
 List of banned films > Lebanon

Notes

References

Further reading
 Lina Khatib, "Lebanese Cinema and the Representation of War" in: Josef Gugler (ed.) Film in the Middle East and North Africa: Creative Dissidence, University of Texas Press and American University in Cairo Press, 2011, , , pp 134–145
  Lina Khatib, Lebanese Cinema: Imagining the Civil War and Beyond, I.B. Tauris, 2008, 
 Raphaël Millet, Cinema in Lebanon / Le Liban au cinéma, Beirut, Rawiya Editions, 2017, 464 p. 
 Joseph Fahim, The Revival of Lebanese Cinema, Middle East Institute, 2016.

External links
 www.cinemalebnen.org – Number 1 movie guide in Lebanon
 Cinemas and movies in Lebanon – Di3aya Movies
 Cinemas in the Lebanon – TEN Movies

 
Mass media in Lebanon