[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# May 1974

thelioma)
Arbi Barayev, Chechen terrorist and leader of the Special Purpose Islamic Regiment; in Alkhan-Kala, Checheno-Ingush Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, Soviet Union (killed in gun battle, 2001)
Gürkan Uygun, Turkish TV actor known for 10 seasons of Kurtlar Vadisi (Valley of the Wolves); in İzmit, Kocaeli Province
Died: Kurt Wiese, 87, German-born American children's book author and illustrator, known for the pictures in 300 books, including the Freddy the Pig series

May 28, 1974 (Tuesday)
In Italy, a time bomb planted by the Ordine Nuovo right-wing terrorist group killed eight people and injured 102 at an anti-Fascist rally in Brescia.
The short-lived Northern Ireland Executive, the 11-member bipartisan government of Northern Ireland since January 1, collapsed along with the Northern Ireland Assembly as Chief Executive Brian Faulkner resigned. Faulkner's departure came 13 days after a general strike of union members had been called to put an end to the Sunningdale Agreement of December 9, that allowed Irish nationalists to join in sharing power with the Unionists who favored maintaining Northern Ireland as a part of the United Kingdom. The Executive had been composed of six members of Faulkner's Ulster Unionist Party and four members of the nationalist Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP).
The Magic Show, a one-act Broadway musical built around the act of illusionist and stage magician Doug Henning (who could neither sing nor dance), premiered at the Cort Theatre for the first of 1,920 performances, running until December 31, 1978.

In Long Beach, California, a young woman later known as the Long Beach Jane Doe was raped and strangled to death. In May 2013, Gary Stamp, then 61, was arrested and confessed to the murder, but the victim's identity remains unknown. Stamp died of cancer in January 2014.
Born: Misbah-ul-Haq, Pakistani cricketer with 166 Test matches and 142 ODIs for the Pakistan national team; in Mianwali, Punjab, Pakistan

May 29, 1974 (Wednesday)
The United States announced that Secretary of State Henry Kissinger had persuaded representatives of both Israel and Syria to reach an agreement on separation of their troops and a pullback within the Golan Heights.
Lightning struck and killed four teenage girls, ranging in age from 14 to 16, in the St. Louis suburb of Manchester, Missouri, who were on their way home on the last day of classes at John F. Kennedy Catholic High School.
France's President Giscard announced an immediate ban on government wiretapping and restraints against the press, and said that he would work toward welcoming political refugees. Giscard told the first meeting of his cabinet, "We are here to change France. France is a liberal country and we must set our sights even more firmly in that direction."
French publisher Maurice Girodias was ordered to leave the U.S. after he had announced that he planned to publish a book titled President Kissinger. The Immigration and Naturalization Service had received an anonymous complaint that permission for Girodias to remain in the U.S. had expired in January.
The UEFA Cup, a knockout tournament for the winners of the cup-winning soccer football teams in Europe, was won by Feyenoord, the 1974 champion of the Netherlands' KNVB Eredivisie, after the team had played to a 2-2 draw with Tottenham Hotspur (the 1973 English League Cup winner) in the first leg of the two-game final on May 21 in London. With the champion determined by the aggregate score of the two games, the winner of the second leg would win the UEFA Cup. Playing at home in Rotterdam, Feyenoord won, 2 to 0 on goals by Wim Rijsbergen and Peter Ressel, for an aggregate score of 4 to 2 overall.
Born:
Steve Cardenas, American martial artist and TV actor; in Hampton, Virginia
Aaron McGruder, American writer, comic strip artist known for The Boondocks; in Chicago

May 30, 1974 (Thursday)