[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Noise-induced hearing loss

ssive sound pressure. This form of NIHL commonly results from exposure to high-intensity sounds such as explosions, gunfire, a large drum hit loudly, and firecrackers. According to one US study, excessive noise levels in cinemas are sufficiently brief that movie-goers do not experience hearing loss.

Perceived harmfulness vs. actual harmfulness 
The discomfort threshold is the loudness level from which a sound starts to be felt as too loud and thus painful by an individual. Industry workers tend to have a higher discomfort threshold (i.e. the sounds must be louder to feel painful than for non-industry workers), but the sound is just as harmful to their ears. Industry workers often have NIHL because the discomfort threshold is not a relevant indicator of the harmfulness of a sound.

Gradually developing

Gradually developing NIHL refers to permanent cochlear damage from repeated exposure to loud sounds over a period of time. Unlike acoustic trauma, this form of NIHL does not occur from a single exposure to a high-intensity sound pressure level. Gradually developing NIHL can be caused by multiple exposures to excessive noise in the workplace or any source of repetitive, frequent exposures to sounds of excessive volume, such as home and vehicle stereos, concerts, nightclubs, and personal media players. Earplugs have been recommended for those people who regularly attend live music concerts. A range of earplugs are now available ranging from inexpensive disposable sets to custom fit, attenuated earplugs which provide true fidelity at reduced audio levels.

Personal listening devices 
Although research is limited, it suggests that increased exposure to loud noise through personal listening devices is a risk factor for noise induced hearing loss. A systematic review of adolescents and young adults reports that over half of the research subjects  had been exposed to sound through music exposure on personal devices greater than recommended levels. Research suggests stronger correlations between extended duration or elevated usage of personal listening devices and hearing loss.

Workplace 

About 22 million workers are exposed to hazardous noise, with additional millions exposed to solvents and metals that could put them at increased risk for hearing loss. Occupational hearing loss is one of the most common occupational diseases. 49% of male miners have hearing loss by the age of 50. By the age of 60, this number goes up to 70%. Construction workers also have an elevated risk. A screening program focused on construction workers employed at US Department of Energy facilities found 58% with significant abnormal hearing loss due to noise exposures at work. Occupational hearing loss is present in up to 33% of workers overall. Occupational exposure to noise causes 16% of adult disabling hearing loss worldwide.

The following is a list of occupations that are most susceptible to hearing loss:
 Agriculture
 Mining
 Police
 Construction
 Manufacturing
 Utilities
 Transportation
 Military
 Musicians
 Orchestra conductors

Among musicians
Musicians, from classical orchestras to rock groups, are exposed to high decibel ranges. Some rock musicians experience noise-induced hearing loss from their music, and some studies have found that "symphonic musicians suffer from hearing impairment and that the impairment might be ascribed to symphonic music."

In terms of the population of musicians, usually the rates of hearing disorders is lower than other occupational groups. However, many exposure scenarios can be considered a risk of hearing disorders, and many individuals are negatively impacted by tinnitus and other hearing problems. While some population studies have shown that the risk for hearing loss increases as music exposure increases, other studies found little to no correlation between the two. Experts at the 2006 "Noise-Induced Hearing Loss in Children at Work and Play" Conference agreed that further research into this field was still required before making a broad generalization about music-induced hearing loss.