[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Steve Nelson (activist)

Nelsons returned east, when he was elected to the National Board of the party. He settled in Pittsburgh as District Secretary of Western Pennsylvania.

Steve Nelson moved to California and in 1942 he became chairman of the San Francisco branch of the Communist Party of the United States.

Espionage

In 1942, Nelson also became involved in espionage activities, particularly the Manhattan Project: One part of Nelson's task was to gather information on the atomic bomb project. He was seen and overheard meeting with Communist scientists working at the radiation laboratory at Berkeley. Information gleaned from FBI bugging and wiretaps indicated that several had discussed the atomic bomb project with him. Nelson made notes of what the scientists told him regarding their work, and he was subsequently observed passing materials, which the FBI assumed were his notes, to a Soviet intelligence officer operating under diplomatic cover at the USSR's San Francisco consulate."  One of the scientists identified was Joseph Weinberg, who worked at the Radiation Laboratory at the University of California. FBI officials bugged Nelson's residence and discovered that Weinberg had delivered "highly secret information regarding experiments being conducted at the Radiation Laboratory, Berkeley, pertaining to the atomic bomb." Investigators reported that Nelson had "delivered this classified information to Soviet consular officer Ivan Ivanov for transmittal to the Soviet Union."

In April 1943, Nelson met with Vassili Zarubin, the most senior NKVD agent in the United States. Nelson was running a secret "control commission" to find informants and spies in the Californian branch of the Communist Party. During the meeting, Zarubin delivered money. The FBI, which had bugged Nelson's home, was able to listen in. The FBI thereby learned that the purpose of their efforts was to obtain information for transmittal to the Soviet Union."

Overall, the FBI deemed a failure this particular, early effort by the Soviet to obtain atomic information about the Manhattan Project.

(Prior to this trial, Emanuel Hirsch Bloch had represented Nelson in other legal efforts, as attested by Bloch. On December 14, 1948, Bloch appeared before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) as counsel for Marion Bachrach. At that time, Bloch answered questions that confirmed he had represented Steve Nelson in the past. Nelson was (according to a HUAC committee member) a "head of the Communist Party in western Pennsylvania, eastern Ohio, and northern West Virginia. He now lives in Harmarville, PA. I believe he served the Communist Party for a number of years as a sort of secretary of labor. He is an expert on so-called foreign groups and is currently working to keep the Tito Comimmists from jumping the line here as they did abroad"

In August 1950, after a raid on the Pittsburgh Party Headquarters, Nelson and two local party leaders were arrested and charged under the 1919 Pennsylvania Sedition Act for attempting to overthrow the state and federal government.  

Nelson initially received a 20-year prison sentence, $10,000 in fines and $13,000 in prosecution costs. He was jailed in Pittsburgh for seven months and then released on bail pending his appeal. In 1953 he and five others were indicted under the Federal Smith Act. This carried a sentence of 5 years of imprisonment and $10,000 in fines. All six were granted bail. In 1956 in Pennsylvania v. Nelson, the United States Supreme Court overturned the Pennsylvania Sedition Act, saying that the Federal Smith Act superseded this and all similar state laws. In the same year testimony at the first trial was found to have been perjured and a new trial was granted. In 1957, the government dropped all charges against the defendants.

Later years
In 1963 he became the National Commander of the Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade (VALB). In 1975 he retired with his wife of 50 years to a home he had built in Truro, Massachusetts on Cape Cod.

Personal life and death

In 1925, Nelson met Margaret Yaeger, a typist in the Pittsburgh office of the Party.

Nelson died age 90 on December 11, 1993.

Works

 The Volunteers: A Personal Narrative of the Fight Against Fascism in Spain (New York: Masses and Mainstream, 1953)
 The 13th Juror: The Inside Story of My Trial (New York: Masses and Mainstream, 1955)

See also

 Americans Battling Communism
 Foley Square trial
 William Albertson
 Albertson v. Subversive Activities Control Board

References

External links