[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# American Theocracy

leaders, such as Roman Dictator Julius Caesar who made similar statements. He points to hostility by the social conservatives towards science in general, and Darwinian evolution in particular, but particularly focuses on the end-times prophecies of what he refers to as Christian Reconstructionists.

Phillips starts this section by tracing the history of American religion. He argues that the pilgrims who emigrated to the New World before the American Revolution were religious outsiders, who were non-conformist and more radical than the establishment would allow (which was why they left Europe in the first place). He points to a history of highly emotional religious practices in the 17th and 18th centuries. He then argues that after "fundamentalist religion" (particularly Evangelical and the newly formed Pentecostal branches) were set back after the Scopes Monkey Trial, they appeared to have been dealt a permanent blow. Phillips cites statistical studies that suggest that after this point, fundamentalist religion grew at a rapid rate, while mainstream denominations actually declined (this was covered to most observers at the time due to other circumstances, such as the increase in population at the time.)

Phillips argues that religion is, by far, the most accurate predictor of political and ideological belief. He cites this as the primary determinant of who picked what side during what he refers to as the three great civil wars between English speaking people: the English Civil War in the 17th century, the American Revolution, and the American Civil War.

Borrowed Prosperity
Phillips points to the unprecedented national debt, currently approaching eighteen trillion dollars. He also points to a "debt culture." He suggests underlying problems because the "debt industry" is larger than industries that actually manufacture goods (such as the automotive industry). He suggests a coming debt bubble. He predicts a liquidation of U.S. government debt by foreign creditors, and mass insolvency of consumers.

See also
 The Scandal of the Evangelical Mind

References

External links
 A Political Warning Shot: 'American Theocracy' - Kevin Phillips interview on NPR's Fresh Air.
Unholy Alliance , a review by PBS journalist, Rev. Dr. Allen Dwight Callahan
After Words interview with Phillips on American Theocracy, March 25, 2006

2006 non-fiction books
Books about the Republican Party (United States)
Books about foreign relations of the United States
Christianity and politics in the United States
Books critical of conservatism in the United States