[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Variable Assembly Language

ld be entered in any of the following ways:
 BASE 0,0,300,0
 BASE ,,300,
 BASE ,,300

Note that the commas preceding the number 300 must be present to correctly to relate the number with a Z-direction change. Like angle brackets, square brackets are never entered as part of a command or instruction.

Several types of numerical arguments can appear in commands and instructions. For each type there are restrictions on the values that are accepted by VAL. The following rules should be observed:
 Distances are entered to define locations to which the robot is to move. The unit of measure for distances is  millimeter, although units are never explicitly entered for any value. Values entered for distances can be positive or negative, with their magnitudes limited by a number representative of the maximum reach of the robot (for example, 1024 mm and 700 mm for the PUMA 500 and PUMA 250 robots, respectively). Within the resultant range, distance values can be specified in increments of 0.01 mm. Note, however, that some values cannot be represented internally, and are stored as the nearest representable value.
 Angles in degrees are entered to define and modify orientations the robot is to assume at named locations, and to describe angular positions of robot joints. Angle values can be positive or negative, with their magnitudes limited by 1800 or 3600 depending on the usage. Within the range, angle values can be specified in increments of 0.01°. Values cannot be represented internally, however they are stored as
nearest representable value.

The VAL system
The function of VAL is to regulate and control a robot system by following user commands or instructions. In addition to being a compact stand-alone system, VAL has been designed to be highly interactive to minimize programing time, and to provide as many programming aids as possible.

External communication
The standard VAL system uses an operator's console terminal and manual control box to input commands and data from the user. The operator console serves as the primary communication device and can be either a direct play terminal or a printing terminal. Interaction with other devices in an automated cell is typically handled by monitoring input channels and switching outputs. By this means the robot can control a modest cell without the need for other programmable devices.

VAL Operating System
The controller has two levels or operation:
 the top level is called the VAL operating system, or monitor, because it administers operations of the system, including interaction with the user;
 the second level is used for diagnostic work on the controller hardware. The system monitor is a computer program stored VAL programmable read-only memory (PROM) in the Computer/Controller.
PROM memory retains its contents finitely, and thus VAL is immediately available when the controller is switched on. The monitor is responsible for control of the robot, and its commands come from the manual control unit, the system terminal, or from programs. To increase its versatility and flexibility, the VAL monitor can perform of its commands even while a user program is being executed. Commands that can be processed in this way include those for controlling the status of the system, defining robot locations, storing and retrieving information on the floppy disk, and creating and editing robot control programs.

References
 PUMA 560 VAL Manual

Robot programming languages
Robotics software
Robotics at Unimation