[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Syed Ameer Ali

dressed as The Right Honourable.

In 1908, he was an advisory member to the Muhammadan Art and Life in Turkey, Persia, Egypt, Morocco and India exhibition held at the Whitechapel Gallery. The Autumn Exhibition was held from 23 October to 6 December. The opening day to the public was on 27th Ramadan.

In 1910, he formally co-established the London Mosque Fund, alongside a group of prominent British Muslims, to finance the building of the first mosque in the capital: East London Mosque, today one of the largest mosques in Europe. His field of activities was now broadened, and he stood for Muslim welfare all over the world. He played an important role in securing separate electorates for the Muslims in India and promoting the cause of the Khilafat Movement.

He retired from Calcutta High Court in 1904 and decided to settle down, with his English wife (Isabelle Ida Konstam) in England where he was somewhat isolated from the main current of Muslim political life. Throughout his career, he was known as a jurist and a well-known Islamic scholar. He died on 4 August 1928 in Sussex (Rudgwick) and was buried in Brookwood Cemetery.

Personal beliefs
Syed Ameer Ali believed that the Muslims as a downtrodden nation could get more benefit from loyalty to the British rather than from any opposition to them. For this reason, he called upon his followers to devote their energy and attention to popularising English education among the Muslims. This perception and consequent activism have been known as the Aligarh Movement.

Referring to polygamy, Syed Ameer Ali wrote:

Opinions and legacy
David Samuel Margoliouth in the preface of his book Mohammed and the Rise of Islam wrote:

Syed Ameer Ali belongs to that generation of Indian Muslims who tried to defend their faith, Islam, at a time when Mughal empire had only recently collapsed in 1857 and the Muslims were generally out of favour with the British rulers. The prevailing environment was generally hostile to Islam and Muslims. That's why, to some people, he may appear somewhat apologetic in his narration of Muslim history. Like some other authors of that time, he tried to show that Islam was a rational religion. At that time, very little was being published about Islam that was positive. His works created a sense of hope for the Muslim youth and provided a much needed feeling of historical context in the colonized British India.

Honors and recognition
There is a very famous Hall in the University of Rajshahi the second largest university of Bangladesh which is named in his honour The "Sayed Ameer Ali Hall".
In recognition of his services, Pakistan Postal Service issued a commemorative postage stamp in 1990 to honor him in its 'Pioneers of Freedom' series.

See also
 The Nineteenth Century (periodical), for which Ameer Ali authored articles
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council
Shia Islam in India

Books
 A Critical Examination of the Life and Teachings of Mohammed (1873) — His first book, written when he was 24, while in England. The orientalist Major R. D. Osborn (1835–1889) wrote: "Regarded simply as a literary achievement, we have never read anything issuing from the educated classes in this country which could be compared with it; and the Muslims of India are to be congratulated on the possession of so able a man in their rank. It is impossible if his after-life accords with this early promise that he should not leave his influence for good stamped upon the country in deep and enduring characters."
 The Personal Law of Muhammedans (1880)
 The Spirit of Islam (editions in 1891, 1922, 1953) -  A book covering the life of Muhammad, and the political, cultural, literary, scientific, mystic, philosophical, and social history of Islam.
 Ethics of Islam (1893)
 A Short History of Saracens (1899)
 Islam (1906)
 The Legal Position of Women in Islam (1912)

References

External links

 Ameer Ali, Syad in the Dictionary of Indian Biography
 Ameer, Ali (Hon. Syed) in Men-at-the-Bar by Joseph Foster
 Ali, Syed Ameer, 1849-1928 at Online Books Page
 

1849 births
1928 deaths
Bengali Muslims
Bengali lawyers
19th-century Bengalis
19th-century Indian judges
20th-century Indian judges
Aliah University alumni
All India Muslim League members
Burials at Brookwood Cemetery
Companions of the Order of the Indian Empire
Indian members of the Privy Council of the United Kingdom
Judges of the Calcutta High Court
Leaders of the Pakistan Movement
Members of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council
Academic staff of Presidency University, Kolkata
Shia scholars of Islam
University of Calcutta alumni
Academic staff of the University of Calcutta
West Bengal politicians
People from Cuttack