[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Palestinian art

rough its activities, the organization encourages cultural art between Palestine and the West. The organization collaborated with major Palestinian artists including Larissa Sansour, Khalil Rabah, Sharif Waked, Taysir Batniji, Wafa Hourani, and Shadi Habib Allah.

International Art Academy Palestine

A Palestinian institution specializing in higher education programs in the field of visual art. The academy offers a BA in Contemporary Visual Art, and working on developing a range of courses at BA and MA level. Through its four-year program study, the academy provides Palestinians the opportunity to develop their talents and creativity. The academy promotes the potential of Palestinian artists' creativity and allows for the development of individual expression. Its aim is to develop a new generation of Palestinian artists to converse with contemporary debates and methods of artistic practise at the local and the international level. The academy is also keen to maintain a Palestinian collective memory, history, and identity through education and creative activities. The academy hosts a group of international students, artists, and visiting lecturers through its exchange programs.
The academy was funded by the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs during it first years 2006–2009.

Picasso in Palestine

One of the International Art Academy's main accomplishment was its co-operation with the Dutch Van Abbemuseum in Eindhoven in bringing a Picasso piece to Palestine in July 2011.  It took two years of planning until the "Buste de Femme" arrived to Ramallah in the West Bank. The piece is a Cubist rendition of a woman painted in 1943 with a value of $7.2M. "Buste de Femme" is the first modernist masterpiece to make it to Palestine where it is exhibited to a Palestinian audience.  Palestinians see that the Picasso piece made it through protocols, peace agreements, and checkpoints to demonstrate Picasso's saying: Painting is not made to decorate houses, it is an instrument of offensive and defensive war against the enemy.

Palestinian artists in Israel

There is a significant difference between the Palestinian artists beyond the Green Line and the ones called "the Palestinian artists of 48". The artists born after 1948 are usually divided between the older painters and sculptors who acted during the 1970s and the 1980s, and the younger generation of artists who became active in the 1990s. The first, older generation comprises about twenty painters and sculptors who were born into the period of military rule over the Palestinian minority (1948–1966) and who studied art in Israel and abroad in the 1970s and 1980s. They include artists such as Souad Nasr Makhoul, Terese Nasr Azzam, Ibrahim Nubani and Abed Abdi, the latter who is considered to be a pioneer in the Arab Israeli art movement. The younger generation of artists became active after the Oslo agreements and now amounts to more than 200 art school graduates creating mainly installations, photography, video art and performances. The last decade shows a noticeable increase in the number of Palestinian students in Israeli art academies such as in the Bezalel Academy of Art and Design.
Hisham Zreiq, Ahlam Shibli, Sami Bukhari, Reida Adon, Ashraf Fawakhry, Ahlam Jomah, Jumana Emil Abboud, and Anisa Ashkar are Palestinian artists—most of whom are graduates from art schools in Israel and form part of an entire generation of Palestinians, citizens of Israel born after 1967.

The issue of identity for Palestinian citizens of Israel is a key subject of importance to the artwork produced. This identity is described by Azmi Bishara as:
From both the historical and theoretical perspectives, the Arabs in Israel are part of the Palestinian Arab people. Their definition as 'Israeli Arabs' was formed concurrent with the emergence of the issue of the Palestinian refugees, and the establishment of the State of Israel on the ruins of the Palestinian people. Thus, the point of departure from which the history of the Palestinians in Israel is written is the very point in which the history of the Palestinians outside Israel was created. One cannot point at a nationality or national group called 'Israeli Arabs' or 'the Arabs of Israel'.

Ben Zvi suggests that this definition pinpoints the dialectic underpinning the identity of this group of artists who are identified "on the one hand, as part of a broad Palestinian cultural system, and on the other—in a differentiated manner—as the Palestinian minority in Israel."