[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marc Warren (attorney)

onze Star Medal (2); 
Defense Meritorious Service Medal; 
Meritorious Service Medal (3); 
Joint Service Commendation Medal; 
Army Commendation Medal (4); 
Joint Service Achievement Medal; 
Army Achievement Medal (2); 
Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal (2); 
Armed Forces Service Medal; and 
NATO Medal

Recent work 
Upon retirement from the army, Warren served as the deputy chief counsel for operations at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) from November 2007 to 2010.  He briefly left the FAA in 2010 to become the executive director of the American Inns of Court Foundation, a professional association dedicated to improving the skills, professionalism and ethics of the bench and bar.  He returned to the FAA to serve as the deputy chief counsel, the senior career executive attorney responsible for legal support to the agency.  Warren was named the "Transportation Lawyer of the Year" in 2012 by the Federal Bar Association.

Warren is a professorial lecturer in law at The George Washington University Law School, teaching courses on National Security Law and Nation Building and Rule of Law.  He is the co-holder of the Solf-Warren Honorary Chair of International and Operational Law at TJAGSA and is a frequent panelist and speaker at symposia on aviation, international, and operational law.  He is a member of the Governing Committee of the American Bar Association Forum on Air and Space Law and was a participant in the Operational Law Experts Roundtable that issued a report on the Gotovina judgment published in 2012 by the International Humanitarian Law Clinic at Emory University School of Law.  He is a former president of the Judge Advocates Association.

Publications 
Warren served as editor of the Operational Law Handbook and published articles in the Army Lawyer, Military Law Review, and various other military and legal professional publications.  Most recent article: "The Fog of Law: The Law of Armed Conflict in Operation Iraqi Freedom, 167 – 209" THE WAR IN IRAQ: A LEGAL ANALYSIS (Pedrozo ed., 2010) (Vol. 86, U.S. Naval War College International Law Studies).  He wrote the foreword to The Law of Armed Conflict: An Operational Approach (Aspen Casebook Series textbook) published in 2012 by Wolters Kluwer.

References

External links
Background info

United States Army officers
Living people
University of Florida College of Liberal Arts and Sciences alumni
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
Year of birth missing (living people)
Fredric G. Levin College of Law alumni