[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Non nobis

Non nobis is the incipit and conventional title of a short Latin Christian hymn used as a prayer of thanksgiving and expression of humility.  
The Latin text is from the Vulgate translation of the Book of Psalms, Psalm 113:9 in Vulgate / Greek numbering (Psalm 115:1 in Hebrew numbering): Nōn nōbīs, Domine, nōn nōbīs, sed nōminī tuō dā glōriam (KJV: "Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but to thy name give the glory").

History

Medieval
As part of Psalm 113 (In exitu Israel) it was recited liturgically as part of the Paschal vigil, the celebrants kneeling in a gesture of self-abasement when this verse was reached.

It was reported
that the war flag of the Knights Templar, Baucent, had been inscribed with the verse.

Renaissance
Jean Mouton (c. 1459–1522) composed a motet to a text beginning with the Non nobis to celebrate the birth of a daughter to Louis XII and Anne of Brittany in 1510.

Non nobis Domine is now known in the form of a 16th-century canon derived from two passages in the motet Aspice Domine (a5) by the South Netherlandish lutenist and composer Philip van Wilder, who worked at the English court from c. 1520 until his death in 1554. Van Wilder's motet contains both the two related motifs which were apparently extracted from the motet by a later musician during the reign of Elizabeth I to form the canon subject. Although the two passages are not heard consecutively, they are linked as they both set the text phrase non est qui consoletur ("there is none to console [her]"), which was presumably the text to which the canon was originally sung. 

Van Wilder's motet was widely sung in Elizabethan recusant circles, and is preserved in as many as seven Tudor manuscripts.. It provided a model for Byrd's famous Civitas sancti tui (Ne irascaris Domine Part II). One factor in its popularity was undoubtedly its text, a responsory from the Roman Breviary and Sarum Breviary which was sung during the weeks before Advent. It laments the desolation of the Holy City in language derived from Jeremiah:

Texts of this type (which also feature widely in Byrd's penitential and political motets of the 1580s) were widely read by the Elizabethan recusant community in contemporary terms as expressions of Catholic nostalgia for the old religious order. The Non est qui consoletur canon was probably widely sung in recusant circles with the same connotations. Although this version has not survived in written form, the canon subject was simple enough to have been memorized and transmitted orally.

Early modern period
The next stage in the development of the canon was the text substitution which occurred early in the 17th century. This is clear from the earliest known notated source, the so-called Bull MS (also known as Tisdale's Virginal Book) completed about 1620. There it is given with no text, but it is clear from the contour of the melody and the repeated notes that this version was designed to fit the Non nobis Domine text, which must have been in place by this time.

The new text had a liturgical significance for contemporary listeners which is not immediately obvious today. The words, which form the first verse of Psalm 115 in the Protestant translations of the Psalter, are quoted in the First Collect at Matins in the special Office of thanksgiving instituted by Act of the Parliament of Great Britain following the failure of the Gunpowder Plot in 1605 and added to the Book of Common Prayer.

The psalm text, which forms a focus for the rest of the collect, supplies the background to the new version of the canon, which must have been sung in many loyal Protestant households on 5 November (the anniversary of the discovery of the plot) as an act of thanksgiving for deliverance and a counterblast to the Catholic version. The collect, which remained in the prayer book until 1859, would have served as a constant reminder of the patriotic associations of the Non nobis Domine canon: this does much to explain its continued popularity in the 18th and 19th centuries.  The Matins service, and by association the canon, took on an additional layer of meaning in 1688, when William of Orange, with characteristic political astuteness, landed with his troops on November 5, thus creating an association in the popular imagination between William's invasion and the liberation of the realm from Popery, represented by his predecessor the Catholic King James II. A second collect, giving thanks for the Glorious Revolution, was then added to the service.