[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kazakhstan–United Kingdom relations

Kazakhstan – United Kingdom relations were formally established on 19 January 1992.  The UK opened an embassy in Kazakhstan in October 1992 and Kazakhstan opened an embassy in the UK in February 1996. Kazakhstan's relations with the West have greatly improved in the last few years as the Government has closely cooperated in the U.S.-led War on Terror.

Britain is the third-largest foreign investor in Kazakhstan with British companies making up 14% of foreign direct investment. Over 100 British companies do business in Kazakhstan.

BAE Systems has a 49% stake in Air Astana.

Kazakh-British Strategic Dialogue
The Kazakh-British Strategic Dialogue is a platform for mutual political communication and cooperation. It is chaired by each country's foreign minister.

Economic relations & trade 
The UK is one of the six largest investors in the Kazakh economy. Foreign direct investment inflow from the UK in 2005-2018 totalled $13 billion (£10.8 billion). British investors and companies have invested US$25 billion into Kazakhstan since 1991. In 2018, the gross inflow of FDI from the UK in Kazakhstan reached $593.1 million, an increase of 11.1% compared to 2017 ($533.8 million). Over 10 years, the influx of direct investment from the UK to Kazakhstan amounted to $8.8 billion. The most attractive industry in Kazakhstan for UK investors is professional, scientific and technical activities; the share of which is 34.3 percent of the total, or $7.8 billion. Investors from the UK also significantly financed financial and insurance activities ($2.4 billion) and mining and quarrying ($1.8 billion).

The UK is also among Kazakhstan's ten largest trading partners. In 2018, mutual trade amounted to $1.2 billion (£1 billion). The main share in the turnover is the export of Kazakh goods and services - 63 percent, or $793.9 million, while imports from the UK reached $466.8 million, or 37 percent.

The UK and Kazakhstan are cooperating to build the supporting infrastructure and commercial activity for the trans-Eurasian transport corridors and the Silk Road corridor.

In 2019, two-way trade amounted to $3.2 billion. British companies exported $2.6 billion in goods and services to Kazakhstan and the UK imported $737 million in goods from Kazakhstan.

Cooperation in digital field 
The United Kingdom occupies leading positions in the global rankings of developing digital technologies and artificial intelligence. Kazakhstan cooperates with the UK in order to adopt and implement Britain's best practices in the digital field. This is an integral part of the implementation of the Digital Kazakhstan programme, which aims to improve the standard of living in Kazakhstan through the use of digital technologies.

Cooperation in the law-enforcement field
in September 2020, President Kassym-Zhomart Tokayev, announced in his Address to the Nation the transition to the ‘service police model’ with the local police to be based on the principle of the ‘police close at hand’ (politsiya v shagovoi dostupnosti). According to one senior official from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, this model envisions having police precincts within walking distance of local communities and beat cops as authoritative and resourceful managers mobilising communities in solving their local problems. It tries to emulate community safety partnerships, which had been implemented in the UK in the late 1990s under Tony Blair who had been Nazarbayev’s consultant in the 2010s. While very few within the police understood what a ‘service police model’ meant in practice, the Minister of Internal Affairs Erlan Turgymbayev has already reported to President Kassym-Zhomart Tokayev about refurbishing dilapidated police precincts and the building of new ones.

Meetings and business relations
Foreign Minister Boris Johnson hosted Kazakh Foreign Minister Kairat Abdrakhmanov in London in November 2017.

Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev appointed Richard Evans, the former chief executive of BAE Systems, head of Samruk, a state-owned holding company that controls five Kazakh companies, on 23 October 2006.

Kazakhstan and the UK steadily advance their economic cooperation through various conferences and intergovernmental forums. One of such forums was held in London in October 2018. Titled as "Kazakhstan Global Investment Forum 2018," the event brought together more than 150 business executives. The outcome of the forum was the conclusion of a number of agreements with British companies in the fields of transport and logistics, metallurgy, energy, agriculture, engineering, and in the field of developing the healthcare system infrastructure.