[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Police misconduct

d it over to police, then sued to get it back for release to news outlets. The official inquiry found the RCMP were not justified deploying the taser and that the officers deliberately misrepresented their actions to investigators. The incident affected taser use in Canada and relations with Poland.

During the 2010 G-20 Toronto summit protests, police enacted regulations the Ombudsman found contributed to "massive violations of civil rights". One regulation made the security zone public works and police interpreted this to permit them to arrest anyone not providing identification within five-metres of the temporary fence. There were 1,118 arrests with 800 released without charge, Police Chief Blair conceded later no five-metre rule existed in law and Ontario Premier Dalton McGuinty was criticized for allowing this misinterpretation. In September 2011, officers who removed their name tags during the G-20 protests were refused promotion.

Security officers in Metrotown, Burnaby mall demanded pictures taken of an arrest be deleted from a teen's camera. This led to a verbal confrontation and the RCMP handcuffing the teen and cutting off his backpack to search it. While the mall supports its officers actions according to the teen's lawyer: "private mall security guards and police have no right to try to seize someone's camera or demand that photos be deleted – even on private property."

China
The collusion between local gangs and police officers is a serious problem in many Chinese cities. Local gang bosses make use of personal networks to bribe police officers, and police officers seek corrupt benefits by safeguarding their illegal businesses. A widely publicized case is the Wen Qiang Case. Wen Qiang a deputy police chief, along with family members, were arrested as part of a massive crackdown on corruption of the People's Armed Police and organized crime in Chongqing in late 2009. His crimes included bribes, rape and failing to account for assets. Wen was executed in July 2010. The trials highlighted the continued use of torture by police to obtain confessions, despite laws implemented in June 2010 excluding tortured confessions from being used in trials.

Egypt
A high profile rape case was reported  in Egypt by a woman in 2014, who as of 8 February 2021 still seeks justice. In addition, the key witness who offered to help his friend, Seif Bedour, was subjected to torture while in pretrial custody. Bedour has been put through extreme forms of police misconduct and reportedly subjected to virginity tests via forced anal examination and drug tests. His family has been subjected to public humiliation and trauma following his misconduct in the custody. Meanwhile, the lack of adequate investigation into the 2014 Fairmont Hotel rape case has caused an unusual delay in serving justice to the victim.

France
Recent social movements ("Gilets jaunes", 2019-2020 strikes against the pension system reform) brought to light a certain culture of violence ingrained within French police, particularly CRS. Although French President Emmanuel Macron denied police brutality and the use of this term, he acknowledged that there have been some "individual errors" that shouldn't tarnish the police corps as a whole.

A French newspaper has tracked various serious injuries that occurred during the yellow vests movement. The death of a French deliveryman from a heart attack in January 2020 in Paris, after police restraining him in a prone position following a traffic stop, prompted a debate in France over controversial restraint techniques used by police.

Police interventions are mostly to prevent violent actions from members of radical and anarchists groups ("black blocs"), but an important number of bystanders, journalists, and firefighters have also been targeted by the police.

United Nations High Commissioner on Human rights Michelle Bachelet compared the use of force in France to that seen in protests in Sudan and Haiti; in March 2019, the UN opened a formal inquiry into the use of police violence against France.

The right to film police was made known when the "Sécurité Globale" (Global security) law was put under review by the French Parliament.

Hong Kong