[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Legal Aid BC

,270 and poverty law referrals went from 40,279 to 0 (legal representation for poverty law – housing, welfare, disability pensions, debt – has been eliminated)." At a broader level, this decline in Provincial funding "has contributed to the court system being overwhelmed and cases being thrown out."

In March 2011, the Public Commission on Legal Aid in British Columbia was released. In it, "[the] overwhelming majority of [public and private] submissions spoke to the general failure of our legal aid system, the negative repercussions for needy individuals and families, and the consequent adverse impact on our communities and justice system."  The Commission went on to recommend, among other things, an increase in long-term, stable funding to the LSS, as well as an official recognition of legal aid as an essential public service. In November 2011, Robert J. Bauman, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of British Columbia, stated that the province's judicial system "is threatened, if not in peril.... Inadequate funding of courts [including legal aid] in British Columbia has been the reality for the last number of years. We are not at the tipping point yet- but we are steadily edging towards it."

According to a 2008 Ipsos Reid poll, public support for legal aid in British Columbia remains very high, with 93% of respondents saying they support these services.

The legal community in British Columbia strongly supports legal aid services and continues to protest the funding reductions. On November 30, 2011, the Trial Lawyers Association of British Columbia held a Rally in Ribbons and Robes, a province-wide protest on the steps of regional and provincial courthouses to raise awareness about the state of legal aid in British Columbia. The Association carried out job-action protests from January to April, 2012. The primary component of the job-action impacted the duty counsel services outlined above; these services were withheld for one week in January 2012, two weeks in February, three weeks in March, and throughout all of April.

On December 30, 2011, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of British Columbia, the Honourable Shirley Bond, announced an augmentation of LSS funding, by $2.1 million annually. This announcement was received positively by the LSS.

References

Legal aid
Crown corporations of British Columbia