[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Variety (cybernetics)

In cybernetics, the term variety denotes the total number of distinguishable elements of a  set, most often the set of states, inputs, or outputs of a finite-state machine or  transformation, or the binary logarithm of the same quantity. Variety is used in cybernetics as an information theory that is easily related to deterministic finite automata, and less formally as a conceptual tool for thinking about organization, regulation, and stability. It is an early theory of complexity in automata, complex systems, and operations research.

Overview 
The term "variety" was introduced by W. Ross Ashby to extend his analysis of machines to their set of possible behaviors. Ashby says:
The word variety, in relation to a set of distinguishable elements, will be used to mean either (i) the number of distinct elements, or (ii) the logarithm to the base 2 of the number, the context indicating the sense used. 

In the second case, variety is measured in bits. For example, a machine with states  has a variety of four states or two bits. The variety of a sequence or multiset is the number of distinct symbols in it. For example, the sequence  has a variety of four. As a measure of uncertainty, variety is directly related to information: .

Since the number of distinguishable elements depends on both the observer and the set, "the observer and his powers of discrimination may have to be specified if the variety is to be well defined". Gordon Pask distinguished between the variety of the chosen reference frame and the variety of the system the observer builds up within the reference frame. The reference frame consists of a state space and the set of measurements available to the observer, which have total variety , where  is the number of states in the state space. The system the observer builds up begins with the full variety , which is reduced as the observer loses uncertainty about the state by learning to predict the system. If the observer can perceive the system as a deterministic machine in the given reference frame, observation may reduce the variety to zero as the machine becomes completely predictable.

Laws of nature constrain the variety of phenomena by disallowing certain behavior. Ashby made two observations he considered laws of nature, the law of experience and the law of requisite variety. The law of experience holds that machines under input tend to lose information about their original state, and the law of requisite variety states a necessary, though not sufficient, condition for a regulator to exert anticipatory control by responding to its current input (rather than the previous output as in error-controlled regulation).

Law of experience
The law of experience refers to the observation that the variety of states exhibited by a deterministic machine in isolation cannot increase, and a set of identical machines fed the same inputs cannot exhibit increasing variety of states, and tend to synchronize instead.
Some name is necessary by which this phenomenon can be referred to. I shall call it the law of Experience. It can be described more vividly by the statement that information put in by change at a parameter tends to destroy and replace information about the system's initial state.

This is a consequence of the decay of variety: a deterministic transformation cannot increase the variety of a set. As a result, an observer's uncertainty about the state of the machine either remains constant or decreases with time. Ashby shows that this holds for machines with inputs as well. Under any constant input  the machines' states move toward any  attractors that exist in the corresponding transformation and some may synchronize at these points. If the input changes to some other input  and the machines' behavior enacts a different transformation, more than one of these attractors may sit in the same basin of attraction under . States which arrived and possibly synchronized at those attractors under  then synchronize further under . "In other words," Ashby says, "changes at the input of a transducer tend to make the system's state (at a given moment) less dependent on the transducer's individual initial state and more dependent on the particular sequence of parameter-values used as input."

While there is a law of non-increase, there is only a tendency to decrease, since the variety can hold steady without decreasing if the set undergoes a  one-to-one transformation, or if the states have synchronized into a subset for which this is the case. In the formal language analysis of finite machines, an input sequence that synchronizes identical machines (no matter the variety of their initial states) is called a synchronizing word.

Law of requisite variety