[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 31]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

r
attempt to shirk their lowly tasks on the plea of higher vocations. Not
one turns from the path marked out by our great Mother, who also teaches
her human children the same lesson of patient duty; but, alas! by them
is less faithfully obeyed."

"If our great Mother wanted instinct she should not have bestowed
reason," said Miss Du Prel impatiently.

Temperley had fallen into the dulcet strains of one who feels, not only
that he stands as the champion of true wisdom and virtue, but that he is
sure of support from the vast majority of his fellows. Miss Du Prel's
brusqueness seemed to suit her less admirable _rôle_.

Temperley was tolerant and regretful. If Miss Du Prel would think for a
moment, she could not fail to see that Nature ... and so forth, in the
same strain of "pious devotion to other people's duties" as his
companion afterwards described it. She chafed at the exhortation to
"think for a moment."

At that instant, the solitude was broken by the apparition of a dusty
wayfarer in knickerbockers and soft felt hat, coming towards them up the
road. He was a man of middle height and rather slim. He appeared about
five-and-thirty years of age. He had fair hair, and a strange, whimsical
face, irregular of feature, with a small moustache covering the upper
lip.

Miss Du Prel looked startled, as she caught sight of the travel-stained
figure. She flushed deeply, and her expression changed to one of
bewilderment and uncertainty, then to one of incredulous joy. She
hastened forward, at length, and arrested the wayfarer.

"Professor Fortescue, don't you remember me?" she cried excitedly.

He gazed at her for a second, and then a look of amazement came into his
kind eyes, as he held out his hand.

"Miss Du Prel! This is incredible!"

They stood, with hand locked in hand, staring at one another. "By what
happy misunderstanding am I thus favoured by the gods?" exclaimed the
Professor.

Miss Du Prel explained her presence.

"Prodigious!" cried Professor Fortescue. "Fate must have some strange
plots in the making, unless indeed we fall to the discouraging
supposition that she deigns to jest."

He said that he was on a walking tour, studying the geology of the
district, and that he had written to announce his coming to his old
friends, Mr. and Mrs. Fullerton, and to ask them to put him up. He
supposed that they were expecting him.

Miss Du Prel was greatly excited. It was so long since they had met, and
it was so delightful to meet again. She had a hundred enquiries to make
about common friends, and about the Professor's own doings.

She forgot Temperley's name, and her introduction was vague. The
Professor held out his hand cordially. Temperley was not allowed to feel
an intrusive third. This was in consequence of the new-comer's
kindliness of manner, and not at all because of Miss Du Prel, who had
forgotten Temperley's elegant existence. She had a look of surprise when
he joined in the conversation.

"I can scarcely believe that it is ten years since I was here," cried
the Professor, pausing to look over a gate at the stretch of country.

"I used to visit my friends at Dunaghee every autumn, and now if some
one were to assure me that I had been to sleep and dreamt a ten years'
dream, I should be disposed to credit it. Every detail the same; the
very cattle, the very birds--surely just those identical sparrows used
to fly before me along the hedgerows, in the good old times, ten years
ago! Ah! yes, it is only the human element that changes."

"One is often so thankful for a change in that," Temperley remarked,
with an urbane sort of cynicism.

"True," said Miss Du Prel; "but what is so discouraging is that so often
the charm goes, like the bloom of a peach, and only the qualities that
one regrets remain and prosper."

"I think people improve with time, as often as they fall off," said the
Professor.

The others shook their heads.

"To him that hath shall be given, but to him that hath not----" The
Professor smiled a little sadly, in quoting the significant words.
"Well, well," he said, turning to Miss Du Prel, "I can't say how happy I
am to see you again. I have not yet got over my surprise. And so you
have made the acquaintance of the family at Dunaghee. I have the warmest
respect and affection for those dear folks. Mrs. Fullerton has the
qualities of a heroine, kind hostess as she is! And of what fine
Scottish stuff the old man is made--and a mind like crystal! What
arguments we used to have in that old study of his! I can see him now.
And how genial! A man could never forget it, who had once received his
welcome."

Such was Miss Du Prel's impression, when ten minutes later the meeting
took place between the Professor and his old friend.

It would indeed have been hard to be anything but genial to the
Professor. Hadria remembered him and his kindness to her and the rest of
the children, in the old days; the sto