[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of Grey's Anatomy characters

's daughter, born prematurely on March 31, 2011, in the "Song Beneath the Song" episode. She is conceived after Mark and Callie begin several trysts when Callie is left in the airport by Arizona. Arizona now has sole custody of Sofia due to a family court ruling in season 12.

Jackson Avery's family

 Dr. April Kepner: Avery's ex-wife, current lover, and former Trauma surgeon at Grey Sloan Memorial Hospital. After Jackson confesses his feelings for April at the altar during her wedding to paramedic Matthew Taylor, April and Jackson elope. They have had an on and off again relationship and built-in sexual tension since Jackson took April's virginity before their board exam. April failed and blamed Jackson for Jesus punishing her for premarital sex. The two of them reconciled in season 18.
 Samuel Norbert Avery: Avery and Kepner's late son born at 24 weeks due to type II osteogenesis imperfecta. He was baptized before dying soon after in his parents' arms.
 Harriet Kepner-Avery: Avery and Kepner's daughter. She was conceived during a moment of passion between April and Jackson amid their fighting. Things aren't patched up after their one-night affair, and they decided to divorce. Before signing the divorce papers, April discovered she was pregnant. Overjoyed that she could still conceive, she decided to keep the pregnancy secret out of fear that something is wrong, like her last pregnancy. After a while, Arizona Robbins discovers that April is pregnant and urges her to tell Jackson, and when April doesn't do it, Arizona does it herself. Jackson is at first angry but comes to understand it, and they agree to raise her as co-parents. Harriet was born during a cesarean section with April under no anesthesia because April was in Meredith's kitchen, and there was no way to go to the hospital. Soon, Catherine comes to accept April as a mother, and since Jackson and April decided to give Harriet both of their last surnames, Catherine is finally happy to see the Avery name kept alive. She was named after the famous Harriet Tubman. 
 Dr. Catherine Fox (formerly Avery) (Debbie Allen): Avery's mother and a brilliant urological surgeon. She appears at Seattle Grace Mercy West to perform the "first" penis transplant in the U.S. She proctors the boards in San Francisco, where she also has a one-night affair with Dr. Webber. She and Dr. Webber eventually began a relationship and are now married.
 Dr. Richard Webber: Avery's stepfather, following his marriage to Catherine Fox.
 Dr. Harper Avery: Grandfather of Jackson Avery and a world-renowned surgeon.
 Robert Avery (Eric Roberts): Avery's father and Catherine Fox's ex-husband, appears in "Who Is He (And What Is He to You)?". He considered himself unsuited to being an Avery and living up his father's medical legacy, Dr. Harper Avery, and left his family behind and has not since thought of his son. Jackson meets him in Bozeman, Montana, where Robert is satisfied with owning a local diner. While Jackson is glad to have met him, he informs Robert that he does not consider him his father.

Guest stars 
 Marla Sokoloff as Glenda Castillo (2015)
 Neve Campbell as Lizzie Shepherd (2012)
 Summer Glau as Emily Kovach (2012)
 James Avery as Sam (2012)
 Nia Vardalos as Karen (2012)
 Demi Lovato as Hayley May (2010)
 Paola Andino as Lily Price (2010)
 Mandy Moore as Mary Portman (2010)
 Vanessa Martínez as Gretchen Price (2010)
 Ryan Devlin as Bill Portman (2010)
 Jennifer Westfeldt as Jen Harmon (2009)
 Faye Dunaway as Dr. Margaret Campbell (2009)
 Bernadette Peters as Sarabeth Breyers (2008)
 Seth Green as Nick Hanscom (2007)
 Maggie Siff as Ruthie Sales (2007)
 Bellamy Young as Kathy (2007)
 John Cho as Dr. Marshall Stone (2006)
 Laurie Metcalf as Beatrice Carter (2006)
 Christina Ricci as Hannah Davies (2006)
 Millie Bobby Brown as Ruby (2014)