[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 22]
# List of South African slang words

action like hit. For example: Don't choon me what what an' all, I slaat you one time laanie.
this thing/"dis ting" – watchamacallit
y'all – "you all"  appears across all varieties of South African Indian English. Its lexical similarity to the y'all of the United States is attributed to coincidence.

South African Jewish slang 
 chattis, khateis (plural chatteisim, khateisim. Yiddish: "a sinner"): approximately equivalent to "white trash". The word refers particularly to poor, white, Afrikaans-speaking communities with endemic social problems. Sometimes used as an ethnic slur against Afrikaners in general. From Talmudic phrase  Eyn bor yerey khet – a bor – (uncouth ignoramus) is not afraid of sin. The bor-Boer assonance gives a case for quibble: if not afraid of sin must be therefore a sinner.
 kugel: an overly groomed, materialistic woman (from the Yiddish word for a plain pudding garnished as a delicacy). Older-generation Jews coined this usage as a derogatory label for Jewish women who aspired to become part of the privileged English-speaking white community.  usage, often humorously intended, applies the word to any nouveau riche women in South African society who appear overly groomed and materialistic. Bagel and bagel-boy occur as labels for the male counterpart of the kugel. (Compare the American-English term Jewish-American princess which has subtly differing connotations.)
 Peruvian / Peruvnik: a low-class, unmannered and unsophisticated person regardless of wealth, usually Jewish. The etymology is unclear. (Theories: (a) Yiddish corruption of Parvenu; (b) derives from an acronym for "Polish and Russian Union", supposedly a Jewish club founded in Kimberley in the 1870s, according to Bradford's Dictionary of South African English.) The more assimilated and established Jews from Germany and England looked down on this group, and their descendants remain stigmatised.
 Schwarzer: Yiddish / German for "black" – a black person
 shiksa: as in other Jewish communities, this means "non-Jewish girl". Traditionally "slave-girl", from the Yiddish version of the Hebrew word for "dirty, unclean, loathsome" In South Africa, however, it has the additional meaning of a "female domestic worker".
 weisser: Yiddish for "white" – a white person

South African Lebanese slang 
 bint: from the Lebanese word for "girl"; used in reference to women in general (as in "check out that hot bint over there.")
 drib: from the Lebanese word for "hit" (as in "hey ghey ... if you don't stop talking gara, I may have to drib you!")
 khara: from the Lebanese word for "faeces" or "dung"; refers to something that is crap (as in "that guy is talking khara!")
 ghei: literally translated from the Lebanese word for "brother"; in colloquial South African refers to "a tinted-windows, lots-of-jewellery" kinda guy (pronounced like gHAY but with a /x/, like a guttural "g" or the "ch" in Scottish loch)
 stiffle: so what: "if you don't like it stiffle!"

Special-use slang