[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Nicolas Schöffer

k and concentration, separated from it are the residential and leisure areas. Schöffer distinguishes two levels of the city: a soft city and a hard city, which together make up the cybernetic city. It's similar to our terms when we talk about software and hardware that together make up the computer.

Schöffer emphasizes the leading role of art in the urban planning process, everything else should be subject to artistic considerations. The city is the extension of the sculpture. His formal considerations always come from the golden ratio. In the controversy between functionalists and formalists, Schöffer takes no position on either side. Formal and functional considerations go hand in hand, based on his conviction that only the harmony of parts can ensure a functional solution.

A third key aspect is that — unlike most urban planners — Schöffer does not design the city with hard materials (like brick, concrete, etc.). He was convinced that the immaterial factors have to be shaped first and foremost. Electricity and electronics should be in the foreground during planning and the planner should shape the five topologies: space, time, light, sound and climate.

In Schöffer's city cybernetics is the pinnacle of democracy: all controls, all regulations are always carried out through the actions of the majority. From the moment there is a majority to express a wish in a cybernetic city, that majority can immediately interpret their wishes and turn them into reality.

Schöffer saw the city as a relief, which is to be artistically designed in such a way that the parts are in a harmonious relationship to one another. He planned a vertical city for work with high-rise buildings: a cybernetic control centre, administrative centres, a university and office buildings. In contrast to the existing real cities this part of the cybernetic city is not dense. There are vast areas between the buildings.

The residential areas of the cybernetic city are dominated by horizontality. The ribbon-like blocks of flats on pilots could be adapted to all kind of terrains.  Schöffer imagined both the automatic distribution system for consumer goods and the car traffic underground.

Schöffer supposed that people will have more free time thanks to automation and cybernetic control, which is why the satisfaction of leisure demands played a central role in the planning of the cybernetic city. He planned a separate district for leisure but also every residential and working district in the cybernetic city had a smaller local leisure centre to avoid unnecessary traffic and waste of time.

Main feature of the leisure district was a Center Loisir Sexuel, a leisure centre dedicated to sexuality. In sharp contrast to a traditional brothel like Claude-Nicolas Ledoux's Oikema, it was a building dedicated to free love on equal terms. This type of building was an expression of the new conception of sexuality and relationship between the two sexes that resulted from the sexual revolution.

The Spatiodynamic Theatre is another special building designed by Schöffer for the leisure district. It is a cybernetic theatre where the spectacle has no beginning and no end, but is continuous according to the audience's feedback. One could compare the Spatiodynamic Theatre with today's shopping and entertainment complexes.

Maison à cloisons invisibles 
The theory of the fifth topology discussed climatic events and effects and focused on the optimization of climatic conditions according to the functions of the various space segments. These were planning considerations on two different scales. On the one hand, Schöffer planned climatic zones satisfying specific needs in buildings according to function, on the other hand he took climatic phenomena into account when planning on an urban scale.

The most extreme example of a building with controlled climatic zones designed by Schöffer was shown in 1957 at the BATIMAT International Public Works Salon in Saint-Cloud near Paris. The House with Invisible Partitions (Maison à cloisons invisibles) could also be called the House of Contrasts and is considered an experiment with the aim of satisfying the sometimes very different needs of the occupants in one and the same house without isolating them.

The aim of the international exhibitions of the construction industry was to present forms of living that could better fit the modern lifestyle than the typical old building with its little differentiated rooms. The development went in the direction of functional separation and individually used rooms. Schöffer decided to satisfy the different needs of family members in one and the same space without physical or visual separation.

The plan was based on  the observation that the older generations would generally feel comfortable in quiet, cooler rooms with a dimmed, diffuse light, while young people prefer bright and warm rooms and are not bothered by deafeningly loud music.