[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Israel–United States military relations

lementals are special one-time grants meant as a complement to already allocated aid
NADR-ATA – Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism, Demining & Related Programs
Source: "Congressional Budget Justification for Foreign Operations," Fiscal Years 2001–2007.

United States military equipment in Israeli use 

This is not a comprehensive list. In addition to indigenously developed military equipment, Israel has made a number of procurements from the United States in recent years, including systems procured directly from US manufacturers and ex-US Forces equipment. The Israel Defense Forces also makes use of US military systems not necessarily procured directly from the US. The list below includes US-made weapon systems paid for from funding provided by the US, by Israel alone, or by a combination of funding from both nations. All data is from Jane's Sentinel Eastern Mediterranean 2007 unless otherwise stated.

Israeli military equipment in U.S. use 

There are few statistics available about Israeli arms sales to the USA. The following weapons are known to be in use by the American military.
 ADM-141 TALD (Improved Tactical Air Launched Decoy) – device used to protect U.S. warplanes from enemy fire.
 AGM-142 Have Nap "Popeye" – a standoff air-to-surface missile with precision guidance
 M120 mortar – A 120 mm mortar developed by Soltam Systems.
 B-300 / Shoulder-launched Multipurpose Assault Weapon (SMAW) – An anti-tank or bunker buster recoilless rifle developed by Israel Military Industries. The SMAW is based on the Israeli B-300.
 Cardom – A 120 mm "recoil mortar system" using modern electronic navigation, self-positioning, and target acquisition.
 Gabriel (missile) – A sea skimming anti-ship missile.
 SIMON breach grenade – A rifle grenade designed to breach through doors. A variant is currently in service with the United States army.
 LITENING targeting pod – A precision targeting pod designed to increase combat effectiveness of aircraft.
 International MaxxPro – An MRAP armored fighting vehicle.
 Samson Remote Controlled Weapon Station – A remote weapon system.
 IAI Kfir – An all-weather multirole combat aircraft formerly used by the US Navy for training purposes.
 DASH III helmet-mounted display – The first modern Western HMD, upon which the JHMCS was based.
 Uzi submachine gun – compact submachine gun primarily used by the Zim Integrated Shipping Services merchant marine and formerly the United States Secret Service.

See also
 Israel–United States relations
 Israel lobby in the United States
 United States foreign aid
 United States security assistance to the Palestinian Authority
 2012 US-Israel military exercise
 United States support for Israel 2023 war against Gaza

References

 
United States
Bilateral military relations of the United States
Military
Military diplomacy