[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Black Moon (1975 film)

awakens to find the unicorn seated in front of the fireplace. Lily prepares to breastfeed the unicorn.

Production

Malle has characterized his film as "[o]paque, sometimes clumsy, it is the most intimate of my films. I see it as a strange voyage to the limits of the medium, or maybe my own limits."

Black Moon was shot in Malle's own 200-year-old manor house and its surrounding  estate in the lush, wild Dordogne valley in Quercy, near Cahors, called "Le Coual," or "The Crow's Call." The house and grounds were actually the initial inspiration for the film, according to Malle in an interview in Cinefantastique (Volume 5, Number 1): "It began with the fact that I wanted to shoot the film in my own house. Black Moon certainly comes very much from the place where I live, the kind of countryside around the house. There's something very ancient, maybe archaic, about it, also something...hostile." Malle also said that the film was influenced by his admiration for Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland.

Malle hired Sven Nykvist, Ingmar Bergman's cinematographer, to shoot the film, and wanted there to be no scenes in which there was direct sunlight. They shot indoor scenes on sunny days until the light was right for the exterior shots.

Thinking that the film would be difficult for audiences to sit through as a full-length feature, Malle considered releasing it in a shorter version, and prepared a one-hour cut, removing scenes that he felt did not work.

Release

Home media
A digitally restored version of the film was released by The Criterion Collection in June 2011.

Critical response
Vincent Canby of The New York Times praised the film's cinematography, performances, and imagery, calling the film "baffling and beautiful and occasionally very funny." Time Out wrote, "Malle offers no explanation for his heroine's visionary odyssey through a world in which all history runs parallel with all realities. Yet a logic is there, even if its reference point is jabberwocky." Dennis Schwartz from Ozus' World Movie Reviews awarded the film an A− rating, praising the film's cinematography and themes, calling it "an hysterical but absorbing Alice-in-Wonderland surrealist fantasy film." TV Guide gave the film a positive review, calling it "'[a] haunting, disturbing picture that is half-fantasy, half-reality, but we are never certain which is which." Joseph Jon Lanthier of Slant Magazine rated the film three out of five stars, concluding, "Suckling as it does from the budding teat of preadolescent sexuality, it’s not surprising that Black Moon is a tad Malle-nourished."

Awards and nominations
Black Moon won French César Awards for Best Sound and Best Cinematography.

References

Sources

External links 
 
 
 
 Black Moon at TCM
Black Moon: Louis in Wonderland an essay by Ginette Vincendeau at the Criterion Collection

1975 films
1970s avant-garde and experimental films
1970s fantasy films
1975 horror films
French avant-garde and experimental films
French fantasy films
Films about telepathy
Films about unicorns
Films directed by Louis Malle
Films set in country houses
German avant-garde and experimental films
West German films
English-language French films
English-language German films
1970s English-language films
1970s French films
1970s German films