[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 190]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

. That they "should not make
any Image to represent him;" that is to say, they were not to choose to
themselves, neither in heaven, nor in earth, any Representative of their
own fancying, but obey Moses and Aaron, whom he had appointed to that
office. 3. That "they should not take the Name of God in vain;" that is,
they should not speak rashly of their King, nor dispute his Right,
nor the commissions of Moses and Aaron, his Lieutenants. 4. That "they
should every Seventh day abstain from their ordinary labour," and employ
that time in doing him Publique Honor. The second Table containeth the
Duty of one man towards another, as "To honor Parents; Not to kill;
Not to Commit Adultery; Not to steale; Not to corrupt Judgment by false
witnesse;" and finally, "Not so much as to designe in their heart the
doing of any injury one to another." The question now is, Who it was
that gave to these written Tables the obligatory force of Lawes. There
is no doubt but that they were made Laws by God himselfe: But because a
Law obliges not, nor is Law to any, but to them that acknowledge it to
be the act of the Soveraign, how could the people of Israel that were
forbidden to approach the Mountain to hear what God said to Moses, be
obliged to obedience to all those laws which Moses propounded to them?
Some of them were indeed the Laws of Nature, as all the Second Table;
and therefore to be acknowledged for Gods Laws; not to the Israelites
alone, but to all people: But of those that were peculiar to the
Israelites, as those of the first Table, the question remains; saving
that they had obliged themselves, presently after the propounding of
them, to obey Moses, in these words (Exod. 20.19.) "Speak them thou to
us, and we will hear thee; but let not God speak to us, lest we die." It
was therefore onely Moses then, and after him the High Priest, whom (by
Moses) God declared should administer this his peculiar Kingdome, that
had on Earth, the power to make this short Scripture of the Decalogue
to bee Law in the Common-wealth of Israel. But Moses, and Aaron, and the
succeeding High Priests were the Civill Soveraigns. Therefore hitherto,
the Canonizing, or making of the Scripture Law, belonged to the Civill
Soveraigne.




Of The Judicial, And Leviticall Law

The Judiciall Law, that is to say, the Laws that God prescribed to the
Magistrates of Israel, for the rule of their administration of Justice,
and of the Sentences, or Judgments they should pronounce, in Pleas
between man and man; and the Leviticall Law, that is to say, the rule
that God prescribed touching the Rites and Ceremonies of the Priests and
Levites, were all delivered to them by Moses onely; and therefore also
became Lawes, by vertue of the same promise of obedience to Moses.
Whether these laws were then written, or not written, but dictated to
the People by Moses (after his forty dayes being with God in the Mount)
by word of mouth, is not expressed in the Text; but they were all
positive Laws, and equivalent to holy Scripture, and made Canonicall by
Moses the Civill Soveraign.




The Second Law

After the Israelites were come into the Plains of Moab over against
Jericho, and ready to enter into the land of Promise, Moses to the
former Laws added divers others; which therefore are called Deuteronomy:
that is, Second Laws. And are (as it is written, Deut. 29.1.) "The words
of a Covenant which the Lord commanded Moses to make with the Children
of Israel, besides the Covenant which he made with them in Horeb." For
having explained those former Laws, in the beginning of the Book of
Deuteronomy, he addeth others, that begin at the 12. Cha. and continue
to the end of the 26. of the same Book. This Law (Deut. 27.1.) they were
commanded to write upon great stones playstered over, at their passing
over Jordan: This Law also was written by Moses himself in a Book; and
delivered into the hands of the "Priests, and to the Elders of Israel,"
(Deut. 31.9.) and commanded (ve. 26.) "to be put in the side of the
Arke;" for in the Ark it selfe was nothing but the Ten Commandements.
This was the Law, which Moses (Deuteronomy 17.18.) commanded the Kings
of Israel should keep a copie of: And this is the Law, which having been
long time lost, was found again in the Temple in the time of Josiah,
and by his authority received for the Law of God. But both Moses at the
writing, and Josiah at the recovery thereof, had both of them the
Civill Soveraignty. Hitherto therefore the Power of making Scripture
Canonicall, was in the Civill Soveraign.

Besides this Book of the Law, there was no other Book, from the time of
Moses, till after the Captivity, received amongst the Jews for the
Law of God. For the Prophets (except a few) lived in the time of the
Captivity it selfe; and the rest lived but a little before it; and were
so far from having their Prophecies generally received for Laws, as that
their persons were per