[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Murder of Romona Moore

Romona Moore (October 8, 1981  c. April 27, 2003) was a 21-year-old Hunter College honors student who disappeared April 24, 2003, in Brooklyn, New York. Two months later, her body was discovered outside an abandoned house which an anonymous caller had directed her mother to. Two male suspects were arrested; they were convicted in 2006 of having kidnapped, raped, tortured, and murdered Moore. The young immigrant from Guyana had been living at home with her parents and relatives before she was kidnapped.

The two men were sentenced to life in prison without parole for the murder and other charges related to Moore, with an additional 22 years for their escape attempt in January 2006 during the trial. In a separate trial during this period, the two suspects were also convicted of having abducted and raped a 15-year-old girl in 2003 soon after Moore's murder. The girl had escaped from them and gone to police. Her report contributed to their apprehension in the Moore case.

In 2008, Moore's mother Ellie Carmichael filed a suit in federal district court against the New York Police Department (NYPD), charging its officials with racial bias in how they handled cases of missing persons; the suit was accepted for trial. Carmichael contrasted the NYPD's treatment of her daughter's case with that of Imette St. Guillen, a white graduate student from the Upper West Side who disappeared around the same time (having fallen victim to a similar crime, St. Guillen was found raped, tortured and murdered shortly after her disappearance was reported). In August 2014, the federal judge dismissed the case, saying there was no evidence of systemic racial bias within the department on this issue.

Background 

Born in Guyana, Moore immigrated with her parents to New York City, where they settled in the East Flatbush section of Brooklyn. Relatives from Guyana also lived there. After attending local schools, Moore entered Hunter College. A responsible high achiever, in 2003 she was a third-year psychology honors student.

Disappearance and murder 

Moore was last seen by her family when she left home on April 24, 2003, at approximately 7:30 p.m. to meet a friend. She left the friend around 9:00 p.m., saying she was going to eat at a Burger King restaurant at Church and Remsen avenues. Moore apparently never reached the restaurant, and was not seen again by family or friends. When Moore's mother reported her missing the next day, the police said that perhaps the girl was with friends, declining to open the case despite the mother's protests about knowing her daughter's habits. The family posted their own photos and fliers in the neighborhood, hoping to gain information about Romona's disappearance. The police did not open a case on the missing young woman until April 28. In addition to their downplaying family concern when the student disappeared, the initial police reports about her murder mistakenly spelled Moore's first name as "Ramona" rather than the correctly spelled "Romona."

Around the same time as Moore's disappearance, police in Manhattan were publicizing their investigation of the disappearance of Svetlana Aronov, a rare book dealer reported missing by her husband. They held a press conference and displayed a large photo of the missing woman to make the public aware. Aronov's body was found drowned in the East River a few months later.

Several days after Moore's disappearance, a 15-year-old girl in Brooklyn reported to police that she had been abducted by two men and taken to an empty house where she was raped by them. She escaped and contacted authorities.

Around two months after Moore disappeared, her mother Ellie Carmichael received an anonymous phone call, telling her to go to an address on Kings Highway. The police have not identified the caller. Carmichael contacted the police and officers from the 67th Precinct and Emergency Service Units searched the premises of an abandoned, burned house. They discovered Moore's nude body outside, wrapped in a blanket. Police sources said that the young woman had been beaten severely about her head and chest. The basement had been flooded in an apparent attempt to destroy forensic evidence.

Trial and details 

Two male suspects were arrested in the Moore case, in part aided by the report of the 15-year-old girl they had sexually attacked. In 2004 the Brooklyn DA was reported to be seeking the death penalty against the two defendants, who were indicted on five counts of 1st-degree murder, among other charges, for allegedly kidnapping, raping and murdering Romona Moore. They faced separate charges for their attack on the 15-year-old.

The details of Moore's kidnapping, captivity, and murder were recounted in the prosecutor's opening statement at the trial, which started on January 18, 2006: