[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William E. Ward

itorious Service Medal (with six Oak Leaf Clusters); the Joint Service Commendation Medal; the Army Commendation Medal (with three Oak Leaf Clusters); the Army Achievement Medal (with Oak Leaf Cluster); the Expert Infantryman's Badge; the Combat Infantryman's Badge; and the Master Parachutist Badge.

After he left U.S. Africa Command, Ward retired at the rank of lieutenant general in November, 2012.  He relinquished command of Africa Command to General Carter F. Ham. Before he retired, Ward reverted to the rank of major general and served as a special assistant to the army's vice chief of staff during which an investigation was conducted on his use of official funds. While an official retirement ceremony was held in April 2011, Ward remained on active duty pending a special Army investigation by the Office of the Inspector General, U.S. Department of Defense. The investigation ran 17 months and ended with a ruling by Defense Secretary Leon Panetta.  He was not found as being derelict in his duties or for improper performance, but for keeping poor official records of his travel expenses, for unnecessarily extending official trips for personal reasons, and allowing his wife to travel on military aircraft without sufficient justification. Ward then retired with the rank of lieutenant general in November 2012, which was determined to be the last rank in which he had satisfactorily served.

Career highlights
 2002: Commander, NATO Stabilisation Force, Operation Joint Forge, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
 2003: Deputy Commander, United States Army Europe.
 2005: Special Envoy to Israel and Palestine – working specifically to help reform the security services of the Palestinian authority – under George W. Bush and Condoleezza Rice.
 2007: Named inaugural commander of United States Africa Command (AFRICOM) by President George W. Bush. Chief of the Office of Military Cooperation at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo.

Post-military
Since retiring, Ward has served as President and chief operating officer of the logistics, IT, and engineering business, Vectrus (fka SENTEL).

Ward continues to engage the strategy and policy community on matters of global security, including his participation in the Atlantic Council's 2018 Roundtable on security in Mali and ongoing discussions on the role of diplomacy in global stability, including the American Academy of Diplomacy's podcast series, “The General and the Ambassador". He also speaks to student groups on issues surrounding peace and global security and leadership.

Ward also serves on the Advisory Board of Redwood Global, an infrastructure, energy and investment firm.

Awards and decorations
Ward received the following awards and decorations:

William E. Ward received the Trumpet Award in 2010 as well as the BEYA award for Lifetime Achievement.

Notable memberships 
 100 Black Men of America
 Omega Psi Phi
 Sigma Pi Phi
 The National Society of Pershing Rifles

References

External links

 
 

United States Army generals
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
African-American United States Army personnel
Pennsylvania State University alumni
Pershing Riflemen
Morgan State University alumni
United States Army Command and General Staff College alumni
Living people
Recipients of the Defense Superior Service Medal
Recipients of the Defense Distinguished Service Medal
Recipients of the Distinguished Service Medal (US Army)
1949 births
21st-century African-American people
20th-century African-American people