[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nelson Taylor

r was elected as a Democrat to the Thirty-ninth Congress (March 4, 1865 – March 3, 1867). He defeated the Republican William B. McCay with 51% of the vote. Taylor replaced ex-Tammany Hall leader Fernando Wood who was a key member of the Copperhead Democrats. Taylor was firmly seen as a War Democrat.

During his time in the House of Representatives Taylor served on the Select Committee on Freedmen and voted on many bills related to Reconstruction. He was a staunch opponent of the Freedmen's Bureau and voted for it to not be continued in 1866. Taylor believed that the Freedmen's Bureau went beyond protecting the rights of African-Americans in the South and that the law would "overleap the mark... and before we are aware of it, not have the freedmen equal before the law, but superior.” Specifically he was opposed to the expansion of the Freedmen's Bureau throughout the United States, and claimed that reports from General Grant had never asked for an increase in the powers of the bureau. Though he did often vote in protecting the right of African-Americans, Taylor was opposed to financial assistance to the South in any form. Taylor supported the President's plan to reincorporate the Southern States into the Union. He voted in favor of allowing elected members from designated districts in Arkansas to rejoin the House of Representatives, provided they had not participated in the government of the Confederacy.

Taylor was a strong supporter of expanding federal infrastructure into the West and supported federal aid to Native Americans who had been displaced due to the westward expansion. He often voted to raise the salary of soldiers in the army and voted in favor of back-payments to militia and irregular soldiers who had participated in the earlier phases of the war.

Taylor was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1866 to the Fortieth Congress. Taylor lost his reelection campaign to the infamous bare-knuckle boxer John Morrisey in 1866. Morrisey had the financial backing of Tammany Hall, which Taylor could not compete with.

Later life 
Taylor moved to South Norwalk, Connecticut in 1869 and continued the practice of law. He served several times as the city attorney. He died in South Norwalk, Connecticut, January 16, 1894. He was interred in Riverside Cemetery.

He was the father of Nelson Taylor Jr., the mayor of South Norwalk, Connecticut in 1885, and Connecticut State Senator until 1888. In 1888, Taylor helped found the Lockwood Manufacturing Hardware Company with Henry S. Lockwood. Taylor was President of the company, focusing on builder's hardware, until his death in 1894.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Union)

References

 
 Retrieved on 2008-02-12

1821 births
1894 deaths
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
Burials in Riverside Cemetery (Norwalk, Connecticut)
Democratic Party California state senators
Deaths from pneumonia in Connecticut
Excelsior Brigade
Harvard Law School alumni
Politicians from Norwalk, Connecticut
People of New York (state) in the American Civil War
Union Army generals
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from New York (state)
California sheriffs
19th-century American politicians