[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Spanish Maquis

"enlaces" (, literally, "links" or "relationships"). There were others called "passive militias", and "guerrilleros del llano" ("guerrillas of the plains"), who supplied aid, from food to armaments when necessary, as well as information. They would also deliver mail or correspondence for the groups.

The enlaces were much more exposed to the repressive actions of the government. However, they made up a source of combatants, since in the event of being discovered, their only chance to avoid being jailed was to flee to the mountains. Because of this, in the early 1950s when guerrilla activity was in its death throes, groups were still incorporating new men and women.

The number of enlaces was much higher than that of actual combatants. During the years of guerrilla activity, 20,000 people were arrested for collaborating with the maquis.

 Notable maquis 
 Benigno Andrade, also known as "Foucellas", a Galician maqui. He carried out actions against the Guardia Civil, mostly in Corunna Province. He was arrested March 9, 1952 and tortured during the following days, finally being executed in the prison of Corunna on August 7, 1952.
 Felipe Matarranz González, also known as "El Lobo", Manuel Zapico, also known as "El asturiano", Ángela Luzdivina García Fernández, Cristino García Granda, Asturian maquis.
 Joaquín Arasanz Raso, also known as "Villacampa" and "el maqui", active in Aragón.
 In Catalonia, the group of Francesc Sabaté Llopart, "El Quico", acted in cities like Barcelona. The group of Marcelino Massana, together with Ramon Vila Capdevila (also known as "Caraquemada") acted principally in the Catalan counties of Berguedà, Osona and Bages, and the Barcelona Province.
 Josep Lluís i Facerias, also known as "Face", and his group concentrated on robbing banks to financially support the families of people incarcerated by the Franco government.
 Casimiro Fernández Arias led a group of former Republican soldiers caught behind enemy lines who held out for nine years in the Cantabrian mountains, in the area surrounding La Vecilla, in the province of León. Their whispered history inspired the 1986 novel Wolf Moon by Julio Llamazares.
 Manuel Girón Bazán, also known as "Girón", maqui from León, carried out acts principally in Bierzo.
 Pablo Pérez Hidalgo, also known as "Manolo el Rubio", who headed up various groups operating in the mountains near Ronda in Málaga province and the Sierra Bermeja, near Cádiz, in the 1940s. He was finally captured by the Civil Guard in 1976.
 Antonio Téllez, fought in the invasion of the Val d'Aran, and later wrote biographies of Sabaté, Facerias, and Salvador Puig Antich.
Abel Paz, was jailed twice by the Franco government, has written several books on the Spanish Civil War.
Eduard Pons Prades, in 1942, formed part of an anti-fascist group in France, was in the group Solidaridad Española, initiating acts of sabotage, and worked with the group Ponzán.
La Pastora, nickname of Florencio Pla Meseguer, also known as Teresa (1917–2004), a Spanish Maquis born in Vallibona who used to disguise as a female and operated in the Maestrat area until the early 1960s.
Xosé Castro Veiga (1915–1965), the last guerrillero.

In popular culture

 Behold a Pale Horse, film loosely based on the life of Sabaté.
 Pan's Labyrinth, a 2006 film in which the insurgency of the Maquis plays a central role.
 Maquis (Star Trek) Luna de lobos (Wolf Moon), based on four post-war resistance fighters in Cantabria
 Caracremada, film about Ramon Vila i Capdevila

See also
Spain in World War II
Spanish National Liberation Front (FELN)
Maquis (World War II)
Japanese holdout
Armed resistance in Chile (1973–90)
Spanish transition to democracy (1975–82)
Republican insurgency in Afghanistan

References

Sources
 
 

External links
Maquis history at libcom.org
1939-1945: The Spanish Resistance in France
Articles on Anarchist resistance to Francoism at the Kate Sharpley LibraryAntifrancoist Resistance in Spain (1936-1952)'', by Jorge Marco Antifrancoist Resistance in Spain (1936-1952)
Postmemory - An article on Historical Memory by Julio Llamazares
Historical memory - La guerrilla de la memoria

 
 
Francoist Spain
French Resistance networks and movements
Maquis
Anti-Francoism
World War II resistance movements