[Source: PubMed]

6. BMC Public Health. 2020 Nov 13;20(1):1700. doi: 10.1186/s12889-020-09724-z.

Integration and social determinants of health and wellbeing for people from 
refugee backgrounds resettled in a rural town in South Australia: a qualitative 
study.

Ziersch A(1), Miller E(2), Baak M(3), Mwanri L(2).

Author information:
(1)Southgate Institute for Health, Society and Equity, Flinders University, GPO 
Box 2100, Adelaide, SA, 5001, Australia. anna.ziersch@flinders.edu.au.
(2)College of Medicine and Public Health, Flinders University, GPO Box 2100, 
Adelaide, SA, 5001, Australia.
(3)School of Education, University of South Australia, St Bernards Rd, Magill, 
SA, 5072, Australia.

BACKGROUND: There has been a recent focus on resettlement of migrants and 
refugee in rural settings in Australia and elsewhere. Rural resettlement is seen 
as an opportunity to revitalise rural communities, to fill the needs of 
employers in these areas, and to provide a welcoming community within which new 
arrivals can integrate and settle. However, challenges to rural resettlement 
have been identified including difficulties securing employment, discrimination 
and social isolation. These challenges can affect resettlement outcomes 
including health and wellbeing, though relatively little research has examined 
these links. In this paper we explored experiences of people from refugee 
background settling in a rural Australian town, examining interconnections 
between social determinants of health (SDH) and integration.
METHODS: Face-to-face interviews were conducted with 44 participants from 
Southeast Asia and Africa in a rural setting in South Australia, covering 
experiences of resettlement and impacts on health and wellbeing. Participants 
were recruited through existing connections within the community and snowball 
sampling. Audio recorded data were transcribed verbatim and analysed using 
framework thematic analysis.
RESULTS: The study findings revealed a mixture of settlement experiences for 
participants across a range of elements of SDH and integration. A sense of 
safety and some elements of social connectedness and support were key enablers 
for integration and health and wellbeing, with main challenges including 
limitations in employment opportunities, mismatched education provision, 
experiences of discrimination and constrained access to services.
CONCLUSIONS: Challenges experienced by refugees resettled in rural areas can 
affect integration, health and wellbeing and subsequent onward migration 
intentions. Attention to broader socioeconomic, cultural and environmental 
conditions, alongside tailored settlement support policies and practices for 
individual rural resettlement sites, is required to support integration and 
health and wellbeing.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-020-09724-z
PMCID: PMC7663864
PMID: 33187489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.