[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Udorn Royal Thai Air Force Base

Udorn Royal Thai Air Force Base (Udorn RTAFB) is a Royal Thai Air Force (RTAF) base, the home of 23rd Wing Air Command. It is in the city of Udon Thani in northeastern Thailand and is the main airport serving the city and province.

The RTAF 231 Squadron "Hunter" is assigned to Udorn, equipped with the Dassault/Dornier Alpha Jet-A.

History

Establishment
Udorn RTAFB was established in the 1950s.

The civil war inside Laos and fears of it spreading into Thailand led the Thai government to allow the United States to use covertly five Thai bases beginning in 1961 for the air defense of Thailand and to fly reconnaissance flights over Laos. Udorn was one of those bases.

Under Thailand's "gentleman's agreement" with the US, RTAF bases used by the US Air Force (USAF) were considered RTAF bases and were commanded by Thai officers. Thai air police controlled access to the bases, along with USAF Security Police, who assisted them in base defense using sentry dogs, observation towers, and machine gun emplacements.

The USAF forces at Udorn were under the command of the United States Pacific Air Forces (PACAF) Thirteenth Air Force. Udorn was the site of TACAN station Channel 31 and was referenced by that identifier in voice communications during air missions

The APO for Udorn was APO San Francisco 96237.

Air America

Udorn RTAFB was the Asian headquarters for Air America (), a US passenger and cargo airline covertly owned and operated by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) which provided essential resources for the war in Laos and elsewhere. Its predecessor, Civil Air Transport (CAT), started operations from Udorn on 11 September 1955 with the arrival of three C-46s delivering food and emergency aid into Indochina. By the end of September, CAT had flown more than 200 missions to 25 reception areas, delivering 1,000 tons of emergency food. Conducted smoothly and efficiently, this airdrop relief operation marked the beginning of CAT's and, later, Air America's support of US assistance programs in Laos.

Air America's roles supportive of covert and overt situations related to hostilities in Southeast Asia and elsewhere worldwide provided buffers and solutions to problems the United States faced in various locations. Operations were focused in Laos as part of the "secret war" the United States carried out against the Pathet Lao forces operating in the country. Udorn RTAFB also served as the site of "Headquarters 333", the Thai organization in charge of their forces in Laos.

Air America continued operations from Udorn into Laos until 3 June 1974.

US Marine Corps use during the Laotian Crisis
In 1961 the 300-man Marine Air Base Squadron Sixteen was deployed to Udorn to maintain helicopters supporting Royal Lao Army forces in Laos.

Following the defeat of Royal Lao Army in the Battle of Luang Namtha in early May 1962 by People's Army of Vietnam and Pathet Lao forces, it appeared that a communist invasion of northern Thailand was imminent and on 15 May the Kennedy Administration ordered US combat forces into Thailand to deter any attack. On 18 May VMA-332 equipped with 20 A-4 Skyhawks deployed to Udorn from Naval Air Station Cubi Point in the Philippines and HMM-261 helicopters flew into the base. On 19 May detachments of Marine Air Control Squadrons 1 and 4 and Marine Air Base Squadron 12 were also flown into the base. On 19 May the command group of the 3rd Marine expeditionary brigade and the Battalion Landing Team 3rd Battalion, 9th Marines began flying in from Bangkok and then moved north to the town of Nong Khai. The Marines conducted field training exercises with the Royal Thai Army and civic action with Thai civilians while Naval Mobile Construction Battalion Ten which arrived in late May established a base camp and repaired public buildings. In late June HMM-162 replaced HMM-261.

On 29 June 1962 with the situation in Laos stabilizing and international negotiations underway, the Kennedy Administration ordered all US combat forces to begin withdrawing from Thailand. On 1 July, VMA-322 departed Udorn for Cubi Point while HMM-162 flew to Bangkok and transports flew out the 3/9 Marines. By 6 July, fewer than 1000 Marines remained at Udorn. The International Agreement on the Neutrality of Laos was signed on 23 July 1962 and the remaining Marines began to withdraw with all combat units withdrawn from Udorn by 31 July.

USAF use during the Vietnam War
During the Vietnam War the base was a front-line USAF facility from 1964 through 1976.