[Source: PubMed]

91. EBioMedicine. 2025 Jan;111:105520. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2024.105520. Epub
2024  Dec 21.

The impact of information and communication technology on immunisation and 
immunisation programmes in low-income and middle-income countries: a systematic 
review and meta-analysis.

Zarekar M(1), Al-Shehabi H(2), Dörner R(2), Weishaar H(2), Lennemann T(3), El 
Bcheraoui C(4), Bernasconi A(5).

Author information:
(1)Evidence-Based Public Health, Centre for International Health Protection, 
Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, Germany; Institute of International Health, 
Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Evidence-Based Public Health, Centre for International Health Protection, 
Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, Germany.
(3)Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), Bonn, Germany.
(4)Evidence-Based Public Health, Centre for International Health Protection, 
Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, Germany. Electronic address: 
El-BcheraouiC@rki.de.
(5)Evidence-Based Public Health, Centre for International Health Protection, 
Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, Germany; Unité Epidémiologie et Recherche 
Clinique, Réseau de l'Arc, Saint-Imier, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Low-income and Middle-income Countries (LMIC) are continually 
working to ensure everyone can access life-saving vaccines. Recognising the 
considerable impact of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in 
healthcare, we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to summarise ICT 
effectiveness in improving vaccine delivery in LMICs.
METHODS: A systematic search from January 2010 to August 2023 in MEDLINE, 
EMBASE, Cochrane Library, BMJ Health & Care Informatics, and grey literature was 
performed. This search focused on randomised controlled trials (RCTs), non-RCTs, 
observational, and mixed-methods studies in English, examining ICT's effects on 
childhood immunisation in LMICs. Risk of bias in RCTs and non-RCTs was assessed 
using the Joanna Briggs Institute tool, and mixed-methods studies were evaluated 
with the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool. A meta-analysis summarised ICT's impact 
on third pentavalent dose coverage and full immunisation by age one. The study 
is registered with PROSPERO (CRD42023446062).
FINDINGS: Of 6535 screened studies, 27 involving 354,979 children were included. 
All apart from one study demonstrated a positive impact on immunisation coverage 
and timeliness, completeness and accuracy of records, number of adverse events 
reporting, vaccine stockouts, and cold chain expansion. The meta-analysis 
demonstrated that reminders effectively improved coverage rate of the third dose 
of the pentavalent vaccine (OR 2.32, 95% CI 1.34-4.03) and the full immunisation 
at one year of age (OR 2.61, 95% CI 1.2-5.67) with significant degrees of 
heterogeneity, respectively I2 82% and I2 89%. Main concerns for bias in RCTs 
included unblinded outcome assessors and intervention providers. Interpreting 
quasi-experimental studies was more challenging due to the higher risk of 
baseline differences between study arms, statistical methods, and dropouts. 
Mixed-methods studies often lacked clarity in integrating qualitative and 
quantitative data.
INTERPRETATION: This systematic review confirms the benefits of ICT in 
immunisation programmes by enhancing various stages of vaccine delivery. 
Specifically, reminders have been shown to enhance childhood immunisation 
coverage rates.
FUNDING: Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (German 
Corporation for International Cooperation, GIZ) as part of the Digital 
Innovation in Pandemic Control (DIPC) Initiative, financed by the 
Bundesministerium für Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit (Federal Ministry for 
Economic Cooperation and Development, BMZ).

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2024.105520
PMCID: PMC11732194
PMID: 39709769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare 
that there are no conflicts of interest regarding the publication of this 
manuscript. TL is employed by Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale 
Zusammenarbeit and this article reflects her personal opinion. All other authors 
have disclosed any financial or personal relationships with individuals or 
organisations that could potentially influence the work presented in this paper.