[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Brazilian Revolution of 1930

The Revolution of 1930 () was an armed insurrection across Brazil that ended the Old Republic. The revolution replaced incumbent President Washington Luís with defeated presidential candidate and revolutionary leader Getúlio Vargas, concluding the political hegemony of a four-decade-old oligarchy and beginning the Vargas Era.

For most of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Brazilian politics had been controlled by an alliance between the states of São Paulo and Minas Gerais. The presidency had largely alternated between the two states every election until 1929, when incumbent President Washington Luís declared his successor to be Júlio Prestes, both of them from São Paulo. In response to the betrayal of the oligarchy, Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul, and Paraíba formed a "Liberal Alliance," backing the opposition candidate Getúlio Vargas, president of Rio Grande do Sul.

When Prestes won the March 1930 presidential election, the Alliance denounced his victory as fraudulent, though no revolutionary fervor persisted until late July when Vargas's running mate, João Pessoa, was assassinated. Though the assassination was largely the result of a personal feud, Pessoa became a martyr for the revolutionary cause. On 3 October, Rio Grande do Sul, under the leadership of Vargas and Goís Monteiro, broke out in rebellion. By the next day, the revolution had reached the North and Northeast under Juarez Távora, and Minas Gerais formally declared allegiance to the revolution within a week of its start despite minor resistance. 

Chief military officers, acting independently of either the government or the revolutionaries, and worried of the potential of a protracted civil war in the country, swiftly led a military coup to depose Luís in Rio de Janeiro, the capital, on 24 October. Hoping to deter further bloodshed, three higher military officers, Generals Augusto Tasso Fragoso, João de Deus Mena Barreto, and Admiral Isaías de Noronha formed a military junta and briefly ruled the country for less than two weeks. After negotiations between the revolutionaries and the junta, Vargas arrived in Rio, taking power from the junta on 3 November. For the next seven years, Vargas would perform an unprecedented consolidation of power through transitory governments until proclaiming his Estado Novo dictatorship in 1937 via a military coup. Vargas was only forced out of office in 1945.

Causes

Economic crisis 
By 1900, Brazil was producing 75% of the world's coffee supply. However, the price of coffee had dropped since then, and in 1906, the states of Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais, and São Paulo, the largest coffee-producing states, signed an agreement to limit exports and production to manipulate the price of coffee. The attempt to raise the price of coffee failed but prevented it from declining even further.

Brazil had seen high inflation after World War I, but its economy saw great improvements in the 1920s. Although still dependent on coffee exports, the world prices for Brazil's coffee had more than doubled by 1925, with slight decline afterward. The economy saw turmoil with the Wall Street Crash of 1929, and coffee prices declined sharply as the economy failed. The mobilization of industrial workers throughout that period was another leading cause of the revolution.

Osvaldo Aranha, who became the first Minister of Justice and Internal Affairs after the revolution, described the state of the country shortly after the revolution:

"Coffee with milk" tradition 

The political life of the First Republic (1889–1930) was dominated by an alliance between the states of São Paulo and Minas Gerais. An oligarchic practice known as coffee with milk politics, it combined coffee producers in São Paulo with the dairy industry that dominated Minas Gerais. Taking advantage of their economic power and influence, it allowed the two states to alternate the presidency between each other.

The paulista Washington Luís won the 1926 Brazilian presidential election with 98% of the vote, and his administration was an unusual period of prosperity, domestic peace, and tranquility. In accordance with the coffee with milk tradition, the candidate for the 1930 election should have been Antônio Carlos Ribeiro, the Governor of Minas Gerais. However, Ribeiro's backing for mandatory religious instruction in state public schools, coupled with the close relationship between Luis and Júlio Prestes, the Governor of São Paulo, led the Paulista Republican Party to support Prestes instead.

That created an anti-Prestes opposition, mainly in Minas Gerais, Paraíba, and Rio Grande do Sul. The three states formed a "Liberal Alliance" backing Getúlio Vargas, the Governor of Rio Grande do Sul, as President of Brazil. João Pessoa, a politician from Paraíba, was selected as his running mate. In 1929, Ribeiro made a speech in which he stated: