[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ordered Bell number

In number theory and enumerative combinatorics, the ordered Bell numbers or Fubini numbers count the number of weak orderings on a set of  elements. Weak orderings arrange their elements into a sequence allowing ties, such as might arise as the outcome of a horse race). Starting from , these numbers are

The ordered Bell numbers may be computed via a summation formula involving binomial coefficients, or by using a recurrence relation. Along with the weak orderings, they count several other types of combinatorial objects that have a bijective correspondence to the weak orderings, such as the ordered multiplicative partitions of a squarefree number or the faces of all dimensions of a permutohedron.

History

The ordered Bell numbers appear in the work of , who used them to count certain plane trees with  totally ordered leaves. In the trees considered by Cayley, each root-to-leaf path has the same length, and the number of nodes at distance  from the root must be strictly smaller than the number of nodes at distance , until reaching the leaves. In such a tree, there are  pairs of adjacent leaves, that may be weakly ordered by the height of their lowest common ancestor; this weak ordering determines the tree.  call the trees of this type "Cayley trees", and they call the sequences that may be used to label their gaps (sequences of  positive integers that include at least one copy of each positive integer between one and the maximum value in the sequence) "Cayley permutations".

 traces the problem of counting weak orderings, which has the same sequence as its solution, to the work of . These numbers were called Fubini numbers by Louis Comtet, because they count the number of different ways to rearrange the ordering of sums or integrals in Fubini's theorem, which in turn is named after Guido Fubini. The Bell numbers, named after Eric Temple Bell, count the number of partitions of a set, and the weak orderings that are counted by the ordered Bell numbers may be interpreted as a partition together with a total order on the sets in the partition.

Formulas

Summation
The th ordered Bell number may be given by a summation formula involving the Stirling numbers of the second kind, which count the number of partitions of an -element set into  nonempty subsets. A weak ordering may be described as a permutation of the subsets in this partition, and so the ordered Bell numbers (the number of weak orderings) may be calculated by summing these numbers, multiplied by a factorial, , that counts the number of these permutations:

An alternative interpretation of the terms of this sum is that they count the features of each dimension in a permutohedron of dimension , with the th term counting the features of dimension . For instance, the three-dimensional permutohedron, the truncated octahedron,
has one volume (), 14 two-dimensional faces (), 36 edges (), and 24 vertices (). The total number of these faces is 1 + 14 + 36 + 24 = 75, an ordered Bell number, corresponding to the summation formula above for .

The same summation may be expanded out into a double summation involving binomial coefficients (using a formula expressing Stirling numbers as a sum of binomial coefficients), or given by an infinite series:

Another summation formula expresses the ordered Bell numbers in terms of the Eulerian numbers, which count the number of permutations of  items with  runs of increasing items:

where  is the th Eulerian polynomial.

Generating function and approximation
The exponential generating function of the ordered Bell numbers is

The form of this function corresponds to the fact that the ordered Bell numbers are the numbers in the first column of the infinite matrix , where  is the identity matrix and  is an infinite matrix form of Pascal's triangle. Based on a contour integration of this generating function, the ordered Bell numbers can be expressed by the infinite sum

and approximated (by keeping only the  term of the sum) as

Recurrence and modular periodicity
As well as the formulae above, the ordered Bell numbers may be calculated by the recurrence relation

The intuitive meaning of this formula is that a weak ordering on  items may be broken down into a choice of some nonempty set of  items that go into the first equivalence class of the ordering, together with a smaller weak ordering on the remaining  items. As a base case for the recurrence,  (there is one weak ordering on zero items). Based on this recurrence, these numbers can be shown to obey certain periodic patterns in modular arithmetic: for sufficiently large ,

Several additional modular identities are given by  and .