[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Margaret Chan

r a second term and was confirmed by the World Health Assembly on 23 May 2012. In her acceptance speech, Chan indicated that universal coverage is a "powerful equaliser" and the most powerful concept of public health. Chan's new term began on 1 July 2012 and continued until 30 June 2017.

First term

In February 2007, Chan provoked the anger of humanitarian and civil society groups including Doctors Without Borders by questioning the quality of generic medicines while on a visit to Thailand.

In 2010 Chan was criticised for "crying wolf" about the 2009 flu pandemic, which turned out to be much milder than expected.

After a visit to North Korea in April 2010, Chan said malnutrition was a problem in the country but that North Korea's health system would be the envy of many developing countries because of the abundance of medical staff. She also noted there were no signs of obesity in the country, which is a newly emerging problem in other parts of Asia. Chan's comments marked a significant departure from that of her predecessor, Gro Harlem Brundtland, who said in 2001 that North Korea's health system was near collapse. The director-general's assessment was criticised, including in a Wall Street Journal editorial which called her statements "surreal." The editorial further stated, "Ms. Chan is either winking at the reality to maintain contact with the North or she allowed herself to be fooled."

In 2011, because of financial constraints in donor countries the WHO slashed its budget by nearly $1 billion and cut 300 jobs at its headquarters under Chan's leadership.

Second term

The WHO was accused  of deferring to the Syrian government of President Bashar al-Assad when polio made a comeback in that country in late 2013.

In 2014 and 2015, Chan was again heavily criticised because of the slow response of the WHO to the Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa.

In 2016 at the request of the WHA, Chan launched the Health Emergencies Programme.

After WHO 
In 2018, Chan joined the Task Force on Fiscal Policy for Health, a group convened by Michael R. Bloomberg and Lawrence H. Summers to address preventable leading causes of death and noncommunicable diseases through fiscal policy. The same year, she was appointed to the Council of Advisors of the Boao Forum for Asia.

In December 2021, during the 2021 Hong Kong legislative election, Chan said, of the election where only "patriots" could serve in the government, "The new election system is going to be very good for Hong Kong, for Hong Kong's long-term development, and for Hong Kong's democracy to take a step by step approach."

In August 2022, after Nancy Pelosi visited Taiwan, Chan said "As the No 3 figure in the US government, Pelosi visiting Taiwan on a US military plane is a gross interference in China's internal affairs, seriously undermining China's sovereignty and territorial integrity, wantonly trampling on the one-China principle, seriously threatening the peace and stability of the Taiwan Strait, and seriously damaging Sino-US relations."

Other activities 
 Exemplars in Global Health, Member of the Senior Advisory Board (since 2020)

Recognition 
In 1997, Chan was given the distinction for the Fellowship of the Faculty of Public Health Medicine of the Royal College of Physicians of the United Kingdom and was also appointed as an Officer of the Order of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth II.

In 2014, Chan was ranked as the 30th most powerful woman in the world, based on her position as Director-General, by Forbes. Her ranking increased from 33rd in 2013.

Personal life 
Margaret Chan is married to David Chan, who is an ophthalmologist.

References

Further reading 
 Dr Chan's CV (Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China)
 Health, Welfare and Food Bureau, HK Government introduction
 China's Margaret Chan says to work tirelessly for world health (People's Daily Online)
 Bird flu expert set to lead WHO (BBC News)
 WHO Board Nominates Margaret Chan As Director General (Wall Street Journal Online)
 Who's Next at WHO? (Time online's blog)

External links 

 WHO website:
 Director-General's office
 Director-General: Dr Margaret Chan
 Director-General election (2006)
 Director-General nomination (2012)