[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Max Headroom: 20 Minutes into the Future

d Grossman. Meanwhile, recovering from his injuries, Carter escapes the body bank and reunites with Jones. With her help, and the help of Breughel and Mahler, Carter eventually reveals he is still alive and exposes the corruption of Network 23, Lynch and Grossman. Max Headroom remains with Big Time.

Cast
 Matt Frewer as Edison Carter / Max Headroom
 Nickolas Grace as Grossman
 Amanda Pays as Theora Jones
 W. Morgan Sheppard as Blank Reg
 Roger Sloman as Murray
 Hilary Tindall as Dominique
 Paul Spurrier as Bryce Lynch
 Hilton McRae as Breugel
 George Rossi as Mahler

Conception and development 
The character of Max Headroom and his nature as a computer-generated person was created by George Stone, Annabel Jankel, and Rocky Morton. With the rising popularity of music videos with youth culture and stations such as MTV, Channel 4 decided to host its own music video programme. Rocky Morton was tasked to come up with a graphic that would play before and after the videos, make it clear to audiences these were features of a special show and not just music videos airing at random between TV commercials. Taking inspiration from MTV video jockeys (VJs or "veejays") and US TV hosts, Rocky Morton decided a graphic or "bumper video" would not appeal to youth nearly as much as a host with a loud personality. He also thought British youth would be suspicious of a youthful personality attempting to appeal to them and might instead appreciate the cynical irony of a host who appeared to be a conservative man in a simple suit and tie attempting to appeal to youth but not having a true understanding of their culture. He saw the host as "the most boring thing that I could think of to do... a talking head: a middle-class white male in a suit, talking to them in a really boring way about music videos."

Morton thought the host should be computer-generated or animated. When this did not prove practical, it was decided to cast an actor who would present the illusion of a computer generated host. The character's name originated well before the other aspects of the character because the phrase "max. headroom" was often displayed over the entranceway of car parks and garages in the UK. George Stone remarked this gave the character "Instant branding, instant recognition." The creators also appreciated that "Max Headroom" was comically ironic since the character acted as if he knew and understood everything, while the name indicated his mind was actually empty of true knowledge and wisdom. Sometime after the popularity of Max Headroom as a character, it became more common in the UK for such signs to read "max. height" rather than "max. headroom."

Channel 4 executives enjoyed the idea Morton pitched and decided to first introduce Max as a character in an hour-long TV-movie before then presenting him as a programme host in The Max Headroom Show. Producer Peter Wagg hired writers David Hansen and Paul Owen to construct Max Headroom's "whole persona", which Morton described as the "very sterile, arrogant, Western personification of the middle-class, male TV host". The background story provided for the Max Headroom character was rooted in a dystopian near-future dominated by television and large corporations, devised by George Stone and eventual script writer Steve Roberts.

Canadian-American actor Matt Frewer tested for the role after a friend of his had already auditioned and then suggested him instead. Producer and Max Headroom co-creator  Annabel Jankel thought Frewer would be a good choice to masquerade as a person whose appearance was designed by a computer, seeing from his casting polaroid photo that he had "unbelievably well-defined features." Frewer was given "a few lines" of dialogue and then encouraged to improvise as he saw fit. Frewer did a comedic improvisation that lasted for more than ten minutes, impressing the production crew. The actor took inspiration from character Ted Baxter of The Mary Tyler Moore Show, saying in a 1987 interview, "I particularly wanted to get that phony bonhomie of Baxter ... Max always assumes a decade long friendship on the first meeting. At first sight, he'll ask about that blackhead on your nose."

The character of Max Headroom was advertised as the first "computer-generated" television presenter. The illusion of  a computer-generated character who only exists in computers and TV broadcast signals was accomplished by having Matt Frewer wear prosthetic make-up, contact lenses, and a plastic molded suit while sitting in front of a blue screen. Harsh lighting and other editing and recording effects heightened the illusion of a CGI character. Rod Lord and Peter Tupey won the award for best graphics at the 1986 BAFTA Television Craft Awards.