[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Camp Sovereignty

ttracted frequent headlines specifically from The Age which tracked the growth of Camp Sovereignty. During 2006, the coverage was constant with comments from various governments and the current Prime Minister, it was major at the time when there was uncertainty about when and how the camp would end.

The ABC have a podcast titled Shooting the Past which analyses an image from the past and dissects its meaning and discusses the significance of the events with relevant stakeholders. in 2019, the ABC dedicated an episode of its podcast Shooting the Past to focus on an image from Camp Sovereignty. The image analysed was taken by photographer Lisa Belair, depicting a shirtless Indigenous Australian man and a white police officer holding hands in the camp setting. The hosts attempt to dissect the events behind the image whether it was a moment of tension or more likely a possible connection and friendship amidst the tense situation.

The ABC also invited Robbie Thorpe to comprehensively describe the events of Camp Sovereignty as a primary witness 13 years later. Additionally, the ABC collaborated with Australian academics Richard Broome and Kim Krugar to provide historical backing and context explaining Camp Sovereignty in the podcast. The podcast revisits the events of Camp Sovereignty and is evidence of continued media coverage and discussion of the Camp Sovereignty movement more than a decade later.

Through continued podcasts, articles and further media coverage 15 years on from establishment, the Camp Sovereignty movement has continued to be referenced and acknowledged. Its continued publicity and lasting effects throughout the media are a testament to its credit as a protest movement by making media headlines and educating a wide audience nationally and internationally.

References

WikiNews: 2006 "Stolenwealth" Games to confront Commonwealth Games in Melbourne

Indigenous Australian politics
Separatism in Australia