[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Nick Xenophon

e might not have used parliamentary privilege had he known the person he accused was about to take a period of leave.

In November 2011, Xenophon voted against the Clean Energy Bill. The carbon pricing scheme passed with the Labor government receiving Green support for the legislation in the Senate.

In May 2012, Xenophon – a vocal supporter of opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim – visited Malaysia to independently observe anti-government protests. The New Straits Times questioned Xenophon's impartiality in an article, which included part of his 2009 speech criticising Scientology. The newspaper replaced Scientology with the word Islam. Xenophon threatened to sue for defamation, and the article was removed from the newspaper's website.

In February 2013, Xenophon attempted independently to revisit Malaysia but was detained by immigration authorities at Kuala Lumpur airport. He was later sent back to Australia. It was confirmed that Xenophon was not on an Australian Delegation list scheduled to meet the Malaysian parliamentary affairs minister.

2013 election campaign
During the 2013 federal election, Xenophon nominated four key policy issues; gaming machine reforms, stopping palm oil from being sold in Australia, breaking up the supermarket duopoly, and better deals for Riverland irrigators in the Murray-Darling basin rescue plan. Xenophon's voting result increased to 24.9 percent, a few percent short of two quotas. A record number of candidates stood at the election. Group voting tickets came under scrutiny because multiple candidates were provisionally elected with the vast majority of their 14.3 percent quotas coming from the preferences of other parties across the political spectrum.

Second term (2014–2016)

After returning to a balance of power position in the Senate, Xenophon focused on defence (particularly the Collins-class submarine replacement project) and cuts made by the Abbott government in the 2014 Australian federal budget.

In October 2014, Xenophon supported the Abbott government's Direct Action plan for combatting Climate Change, enabling it to pass the Senate. However, he later stated that the plan had been "neutered" because of changes made to it via regulation.

In December 2014, Xenophon voted against the tertiary education reforms proposed by Minister for Education and Training Christopher Pyne which would have seen a shift towards privatisation of universities in Australia.

In March 2015, Xenophon opposed the amendments to the national security legislative framework, particularly on the issue of telecommunications data retention. In his 2014 "spycatcher" speech to the Senate, Xenophon stated that the new laws would have a chilling effect on investigative journalism in Australia. Xenophon negotiated with then Minister for Immigration and Border Protection Scott Morrison for the reintroduction of the Temporary Protection Visa.

In March 2015, Xenophon independently travelled to Indonesia with an Adelaide sheikh to unconvincingly seek clemency for the Bali Nine duo who were on death row.

In November 2015, Xenophon joined calls for a royal commission into the Australia-East Timor spying scandal.

In February 2016, Xenophon joined with the Australian Greens and the Government to support a reform of the Senate election system. Other crossbench senators, including John Madigan and David Leyonhjelm, whose re-election prospects would be bleak under the new voting arrangements, accused Xenophon of "political trickery of the highest order".

2016 election campaign
During the 2016 federal election campaign, Xenophon was the subject of attacks from both major political parties, including his failure to declare a directorship of Adelaide Tower Pty Ltd, which involved his father. Xenophon accused proponents of a "partisan and personal campaign". Labor requested the Australian Electoral Commission investigate questionable loans given to Xenophon by businessman Ian Melrose.

Third term (2016–2017)
In August 2016, Xenophon and NXT colleagues opposed the proposed same-sex marriage plebiscite on the basis that it was not binding and a waste of public resources.

In March 2017, Xenophon announced that he would launch a new party in time for the 2018 South Australian state election. In July 2017, Nick Xenophon's SA-BEST was registered by the Electoral Commission of South Australia.

In August 2017, Xenophon became embroiled in the 2017 Australian parliamentary eligibility crisis and asked to be referred to the High Court for clarification of his 2016 eligibility. On 27 October 2017, the High Court found he had been eligible in 2016 to nominate and be validly elected.