[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Senate of Thailand

red to vote in the province which the candidate intended to represent. The candidate must not have been an ascendant, spouse or a child of a member of the House of Representatives or any person holding a political position and must not have been a member of a political party for at least five years.

All other disqualifications were similar to that of the House, the individual must not have been: addicted to drugs, been bankrupt, a convicted felon, a member of a local administration, a civil servant, a member of the judiciary or any other government agency. Being disenfranchised (being a member of the clergy, felon, or mentally infirm). If the candidate was a member of a local administration or a Minister he must have left his post for a period of at least five years before being eligible.

Appointment
Depending on the situation in each constitution.

Term
The term of the Senate is five years. The term is fixed, therefore the Senate cannot be dissolved under any circumstances and would be re-elected in accordance with a Royal Decree issued thirty days after the expiration of the term.

Membership
Members of the Senate are entitled use the title Senator in front of their names (. Membership of an elected Senator began on the senate election day, while an appointed senator became a member after the publication of the election result by the Electoral Commission. Senators could not hold more than one consecutive term, therefore senators could not be re-elected. A Senator whose membership expired before a new Senator could be named continued his or her duties until such seats were occupied. If there was a vacancy the seat was immediately filled either by election or appointment.

Powers 
The Senate shares many powers, if not more, than the House of Representatives; these include:

Legislation
Scrutiny
Passing of annual Appropriations Bills
Constitutional Amendments

Exclusive Powers:

Creating and appointing committee to examine and investigate affairs.
Passing approval resolutions advising the King in certain appointments.
Judges of the Constitutional Court of Thailand
Election Commissioners
Ombudsmen
Members of the National Anti-Corruption Commission, State Audit Commission (including the Auditor General) and National Human Rights Commission.
The Senate also advised the selection and the actual selection of certain members of the Judiciary.
Selection of its Officers.
Expulsion of members.
Determination of its own rules and procedures.
The Senate also takes part in a joint sitting of the bicameral legislature to appoint the Prime Minister of Thailand.

Leadership

The Senate elected three presiding officers; one president and two vice presidents. The president of the Senate was also the ex-officio vice president of the National Assembly of Thailand. The election was done by secret ballot, after a resolution finalizing the selection the name was submitted to the king for formal appointment. There were no partisan officers as the Senate of Thailand was a non-partisan chamber.

See also
Constitutions of Thailand
2007 Constitution of Thailand
National Assembly of Thailand

Notes

References

Further reading

External links
Inter Parliamentary Affairs, NLA
Thai Senate

Parliament of Thailand
1947 establishments in Thailand
Thailand