[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hinkley Point A nuclear power station

Hinkley Point A nuclear power station is a former Magnox nuclear power station. It is located on a  site in Somerset on the Bristol Channel coast,  west of the River Parrett estuary. The ongoing decommissioning process is being managed by Nuclear Decommissioning Authority licensee Magnox Ltd.

History 
Hinkley Point A was one of three Magnox power stations located close to the mouth of the River Severn and the Bristol Channel, the others being Oldbury, and Berkeley.

The construction of the power station, which was undertaken by a consortium backed by English Electric, Babcock & Wilcox Ltd and Taylor Woodrow Construction, began in 1957. The reactors and the turbines were supplied by English Electric.

In 1988, reactor 2 set a world record for the longest continuous period of power generation from a commercial nuclear reactor, of 700days and 7hours. Hunterston A Nuclear Power Station held the previous world record of 698 days.

The power station, which is undergoing decommissioning, had two Magnox reactors, each supplying steam to three English Electric  turbine generator sets which were all together across both reactors designed to produce  net but, after de-rating of the reactor power output due to corrosion concerns, both reactors combined produced 470MWe net.

The design followed the principles established by the Calder Hall nuclear power station, in that it used a reactor core of natural uranium fuel in Magnox alloy cans within a graphite moderator, all contained in a welded steel pressure vessel. The core was cooled by  pumped by six nominal 7,000hp (5.2MW) gas circulators, which transported the hot gas from the core to the six Steam Raising Units (boilers) via steel ducts. The gas circulators could be driven by induction motors supplied with mains electricity or, when steam was available, dedicated variable speed turbo alternator sets. The design pressure of the gas circuit was 185psig, and the temperature of the gas leaving the reactor was , although this was later reduced when the hot  was found to be corroding the mild steel components of the gas circuit more quickly than had been anticipated. Like all Magnox reactors, Hinkley Point A was designed for on-load refuelling so that exhausted fuel elements could be replaced with fresh without shutting down the reactor.

While primarily planned for peaceful electricity generation, Hinkley Point A was modified so that weapons-grade plutonium could be extracted for military purposes should the need arise.

Like all other British Magnox power stations, Hinkley Point A had numerous backup systems to maintain an excellent safety record throughout its life. Emergency backup systems consisting of five 1,050hp English Electric 8CSV Diesel Generating Sets were installed at the station, which provided power to both reactors gas circulation systems if external power was lost in the event of a SCRAM (emergency shutdown).

On 22 April 1966, the Minister of Power Richard Marsh officially opened the new nuclear power plant.

Specification

Capacity and output 
The generating capacity, electricity output, load factor and thermal efficiency was as shown in the table.

Gas circulator design problem

In August 1963, during a hot run test on the first reactor, which had not then been loaded with nuclear fuel, problems were encountered due to noise from the single stage axial flow gas circulators. This could be heard up to  away, and personnel working at the station had to wear ear defenders. After unexplained drops in the mass flow rate and motor driving current in number 3 and 5 gas circulators, the hot run tests were stopped and the gas circuit opened up. Severe mechanical damage to the blading and diffuser sections of the number 3 and 5 gas circulators was observed. Large sections of the diffusers had broken away, and extensive fatigue cracking was found in the outer tapering shell and central axial cone. Large pieces of the diffuser casing had entered the gas circulator blades and caused heavy impact damage, and large amounts of debris had been transported down the gas duct. The Inlet Guide Vanes (IGVs), which were provided to enable the performance of individual gas circulators to be "trimmed," were found to be extensively damaged, and the rotor blades and outlet guide vanes also had extensive impact and fatigue damage. Large numbers of the nuts and bolts involved had been shaken loose.