[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nancy Hart Douglas

ion the capture of Companies "A" and "F" of the 9th West Virginia Infantry at Summersville, West Virginia, July 25, 1862—but have no mention of an arrest/escape of a Nancy Hart in 1862. Likewise the Official W.V. Adjutant General Report on the 9th W.V. do not show any casualties for July 18–25, 1862

After the war
After the war, Hart married the former Ranger Joshua Douglas, and they lived in Spring Creek near Cordova in Greenbrier County during the remainder of their lives. They had two sons, George and Kennos. Nancy later lived with her son on Manning Knob seven miles south of Richwood where her grave now lies. Records of Nancy's death are conflicted.  Though her tombstone says she died in 1902, there are no official records of her death in Greenbrier County, where she lived, or in state records.  Her husband's death record in the Greenbrier County Courthouse lists him as "Married" at the time of his death in 1907.  Eyewitnesses put her alive and well in Richwood in 1911 when Halley's comet was visible.  "This means there will be another war," she is alleged to have said.  Her two granddaughters, Moppie McCollum and Myrtle Hollandsworth, were interviewed in 1992 and both recalled attending Nancy's funeral around 1913.  
     
The marker on Nancy's grave was erected by a 4th-grade class at Beaver Elementary School in Craigsville, WV, in 1987 as a class project.  The students got the date of Nancy's death from Boyd Stutler's account of her life in his 1963 book West Virginia in the Civil War. Her grave is located on Manning Knob in Greenbrier County, West Virginia, south of Richwood.

The grave of Joshua Douglas is in the Richwood City Cemetery in Richwood, WV. A mural depicting the famous photograph of Nancy Hart is also in Richwood.

Adaptation
Nancy Hart's story has been recreated in the novel Rebel Hart by Edith Hemingway and Jacquelin Shields.

In 1992, Susan Matthis Johnson's musical drama "Bury Me By Nancy Hart" was produced in Richwood, West Virginia by the Mill Whistle Players.  The play was produced with cooperation from the National Endowment for the Humanities and the West Virginia Department of Culture and History.  The musical drama retells the story of Nancy Hart's capture and escape in the early years of the Civil War.  But the story begins in April 1965 when a fire tower watchman was laid to rest beside the grave of the Confederate spy.  Ivan Morgan Hunter was a Southern sympathizer who had become enamored of Nancy's memory while working in a fire tower over her grave.  Ivan and his gravedigger recount through flashbacks the famous story of how Nancy outwitted her captors and escaped.  She led a cavalry of Stonewall Jackson's men into Summersville and burned it to the ground.

The play was produced in 1993 in Summersville, West Virginia, as an outdoor drama by the Old Main Players.

Johnson also wrote the script for "Nancy Hart, Live!" a one-woman show starring Pam Butcher also produced by the West Virginia Department of Culture and History's "History Alive" program in 1994.

In 2006, Johnson published an article in the Hur Herald entitled, "Will the Real Nancy Hart Please Come Forth." This article cites various historical accounts of Nancy Hart's life.

References

"Will the Real Nancy Hart Please Come Forth."  By Susan Matthis Johnson.  http://www.hurherald.com/cgi-bin/db_scripts/articles?Action=user_view&db=hurheral_articles&id=19728

External links
Nancy Hart bio and photograph

People of West Virginia in the American Civil War
Women in the American Civil War
People from Richwood, West Virginia
1846 births
1902 deaths
People from Raleigh, North Carolina
Female wartime spies
American spies
American Civil War spies
People from Tazewell, Virginia
People from Greenbrier County, West Virginia