[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Francis Xavier Pierz

ubbed Fr. Pierz, "Old Man, Black Gown." Viewing him as a man of great spiritual power, they occasionally stole his socks to use as a folk remedy against rheumatism. As he had previously done at Grand Portage, Fr. Pierz continued to both preach and to teach his converts hymns in the Ojibwe language. 

During an interview at White Earth during the 1920s, Mrs. Isabel (née Vanoss) Belcourt, formerly of Otter Tail Lake, recalled, "They fixed him a good bed, but he always slept on the floor wrapped in a blanket. He would pray all night instead of sleeping. At Ottertail, he held school teaching the children catechism, in the Indian language. In his sermons [in] Indian, he would often break out with 'Ya! Ya! Ya!' Always spoke in a very earnest, fatherly way. Once during a famous Sioux scare, the Sioux broke into Fr. Pierz's house and took his vestments and cassock. Later a Sioux Chief was seen decked out in these vestments."

John Fairbanks, also of White Earth, later recalled, "Indians had great respect for him. He had a holy picture or medal for anyone who did anything for him, saying, 'Now, wear and don't lose it my little child and keep this holy picture'. He carried rosaries constantly. He was great to joke and made constant fun and good cheer. On his long trips if he had nothing to eat, it was alright, and if he had it it was alright, too. It took a good singer to outbeat him in singing the Chippewa hymns which he constantly taught the Indians. He always had medicine of all sorts, especially round pills in vials or glass bottles and gave precise prescriptions."

After the United States Federal Government signed the Treaty of Traverse des Sioux with the Dakota people in 1851, it declared much of southern and central Minnesota open to White settlement. 

One of the first Catholics to settle in what is now Stearns County was former Sauk Rapids resident James Keough, who built a farmhouse and homestead on the modern site of the St. Cloud VA, later recalled, "About the time that the Treaty with the Sioux Indians was ratified, I asked Father Pierz to come across the Mississippi River and see what a fine country was there. He came across and was so delighted that he wrote about it in all directions... Father Pierz then came over to my house and celebrated Mass, and from that time visited us monthly. He usually stayed with us from Saturday till Monday, celebrating Mass on Sunday."

Other locations in St Cloud where Mass was said by Fr. Pierz before the first Catholic church was built on the future site of the Federal Building included the John Schwartz home at 10 North 15th Avenue and the Rothkopp homestead along and overlooking the Beaver Islands Trail, which later became the first location of St. John's Abbey and later of the St. Cloud Children's Home. Early Stearns County German settlers, however, dubbed the former Rothkopp claim (), meaning "The Morning Star", and (), meaning, "The Priests' Forest."

Noticing many Protestant Yankee settlers from the Northern Tier, Father Pierz tried at first to interest his fellow Slovenes to settle in the region, but with little success. He then decided to promote the territory among German-American Catholics. Writing in newspapers such as Der Wahrheitsfreund (The Friend of Truth), based in Cincinnati, Ohio, he wrote glowing descriptions of Minnesota's climate, its soil, and its large tracts of free land for homesteaders.

In one such letter, Fr. Pierz wrote, "Make haste, dear Germans, to precede all others and pick the best places that are to be found in America for your settlement. You will certainly find the best land, the healthiest region, and all freedom, and you will be provided for spiritually."

Fr. Pierz had previously brought with him from Slovenia his 12-year-old nephew Joseph Notsch Jr., the son of his sister, Mrs. Apollonia Notsch. Joseph Notsch would accompany him on his trips, assist by serving Mass, and when necessary do the cooking. In 1855, Notsch's parents and siblings became the first Slovenian family to emigrate to the New World, and carried with them an altarpiece for Fr. Pierz which had been painted by Matevž Langus. The Notsch family, however, was accused of foolishness by Janez Bleiweis in the newspaper Novice. Apollonia Notsch, however, later wrote a famous letter from her family's homestead in St. Joseph, Minnesota, describing the family's passage on the immigrant ship, her impressions of frontier life, and expressed joy for having emigrated to America. The letter was published by Janez Bleiweis in the newspaper Novice, and convinced many other Slovenes to follow the Notsch family's lead.

In May 1855, the first wave of German, Luxembourger, and Slovene settlers began to arrive in large numbers, staking out claims throughout what are today Morrison, Benton, and Stearns counties.