[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 158]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

yself of either voluntary unthriftiness or neglect of my
business, but there are some situations in which it seems impossible for
human exertion to stem the torrent of misfortune. But wherefore should I
give pain to such kind and worthy benefactors, by a detail of all the
miseries which I and many of my poor countrymen have endured? I will
therefore only mention that, after having suffered, I think, every
distress which human nature is equal to support--after having seen my
tender parents, and last, my dear unfortunate wife, perish by the
hardships of our situation--I took the resolution of abandoning for ever
a country which seemed incapable of supporting its inhabitants. I
thought that the milder climate and more fertile soil of America might,
perhaps, enable a wretched wanderer, who asked no more than food for his
starving children, to drag on, a little longer, a miserable life. With
this idea I sold the remainder of my stock, and, after having paid my
landlord, I found I had just enough to transport myself and family into
eternal banishment. I reached a seaport town, and embarked with my
children on board a ship that was setting sail for Philadelphia. But the
same ill-fortune seemed still to accompany my steps; for a dreadful
storm arose, which, after having tossed our vessel during several days,
wrecked us at length upon the coast. All the crew indeed escaped, and
with an infinite difficulty I saved these dear but miserable infants who
now accompany me; but when I reflect on my situation, in a distant
country, without resources, friends, or hopes, I am almost inclined to
think that we might all have been happier in the bosom of the ocean."

Here the Highlander finished his story, and all the company were
affected by the recital of his distresses. They all endeavoured to
comfort him with the kindest expressions and promises of assistance; but
Miss Simmons, after she had with some difficulty composed herself enough
to speak, asked the man if his name was not _Andrew Campbell_? The
Highlander answered, with some surprise, it was. "Then," said she, "you
will find that you have a friend, whom, as yet, you are not acquainted
with, who has both the ability and the will to serve you. That friend,"
added she, seeing all the company astonished, "is no other than my
uncle. That Colonel Simmons, whom you have described with so much
feeling and affection, was brother to my father, and consequently uncle
to myself. It is no wonder that the memory of such a man should be
venerated by his relations. I have often heard my uncle speak of his
untimely death as the greatest misfortune which ever happened to our
family; and I have often seen him read, with tears in his eyes, many of
his brother's letters, in which he speaks with the greatest affection of
his faithful Highlander, Andrew Campbell."

At these words the poor Highlander, unable to repress the strong
emotions of his mind, sprang forward in a sudden transport of joy, and,
without consideration of circumstances, caught Miss Simmons in his arms,
exclaiming at the same time, "Praised be to God for this happy and
unexpected meeting! Blessed be my shipwreck itself, that has given me an
opportunity of seeing, before I die, some of the blood of my dear and
worthy colonel!" and, perceiving Miss Simmons confused at this abrupt
and unexpected salutation, he added, in the most respectful manner,
"Pardon me, my honoured young lady, for the improper liberty I have
taken; but I was not master of myself to find, at a time when I thought
myself the most forlorn and miserable of the human race, that I was in
company with the nearest relation of the man, whom, after my own father,
I have always loved and reverenced most." Miss Simmons answered with the
greatest affability that she freely excused the warmth of his affection,
and that she would that very day acquaint her uncle with this
extraordinary event, who, she did not doubt, would come over with the
greatest expedition to see a person whom he knew so well by name, and
who could inform him of so many particulars of her uncle.

And now, the company being separated, Tommy, who had listened with
silent attention to the story of the Highlander, took an opportunity of
following Mr Barlow, who was walking out; and when he perceived they
were alone, he looked at him as if he had some weighty matter to
disclose, but was unable to give it utterance. Mr Barlow, therefore,
turned towards him with the greatest kindness, and taking him tenderly
by the hand, inquired what he wished. "Indeed," answered Tommy, almost
crying, "I am scarcely able to tell you. But I have been a very bad and
ungrateful boy, and I am afraid you no longer have the same affection
for me."

_Mr Barlow._--If you are sensible of your faults, my little friend, that
is a very great step towards amending them. Let me therefore know what
it is, the recollection of which distresses you so much; and if