[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Stalingrad (wargame)

Stalingrad is a strategic-level board wargame published by Avalon Hill in 1963 that simulates the first 24 months of the war between Germany and the Soviet Union during World War II. As one of the first board wargames (and the first one about the Eastern Front) it was extensively played and discussed during the early years of the wargaming hobby.

Description
Stalingrad is a two-player game that, despite its title, covers the entire East Front campaign between Germany and the Soviet Union from June 1941 to May 1943. Often criticized for lack of realism, Stalingrad is the predecessor of the many Eastern Front wargames that have since been published.

Components
The game box contains:
22" x 28" mounted hex grid map scaled at 50 km (31 mi) per hex
117 die-cut counters
 rule booklet
 battle manual and rules supplement
 various charts and player aids
 six-sided die

Gameplay
The Soviet player sets up their units first, then the German player is allowed to inspect the Soviet positions before deploying their forces. Each side may deploy freely, although the Germans are limited as to how many factors may be deployed in Finland.

As an early wargame, Stalingrad uses a simple "I Go, You Go" system: the Germans bring on reinforcements and replacements, then move, and engage in combat. Then the Russians bring on replacements, move and engage in combat. Each turn represents one month, and the game ends after 24 turns or if the Germans fulfill one of their victory conditions before the end of the game.

Movement
Key terrain features include major cities, rivers, rough terrain and swamps. Defenders can gain advantages in battle by occupying cities, rough terrain and defending behind rivers. Terrain costs are normal during summer, but halved in the winter, and are governed by a random terrain table in the fall and spring, when mud can halve movement rates.  Lakes are impassable most of the year, but may freeze enough to allow passage in the winter. Railroads add ten hexes to movement, but must be taken all at once.

Combat
Each unit has a zone of control around it. Units cannot move from one enemy zone of control hex into an adjoining hex also in the same zone of control. Two opposing units adjacent to each other must engage in combat. To resolve combat, the ratio of attacker to defender strength is calculated, a die is rolled, and the result taken from the appropriate column on the Combat Result Table (CRT). If the result is retreat, the loser must retreat up to 2 hexes, and the winner can advance one hex. Some commentary encourages players to use "soak-off" attacks, which give the attacker a good chance of eliminating an enemy unit, in return for the likely sacrifice of a friendly unit.

Victory conditions
The Germans win by either eliminating all Soviet units on the map, or by occupying Stalingrad, Moscow and Leningrad and holding them simultaneously for two complete turns. The Russians win by preventing the German victory conditions or by eliminating all German units on the map. The German player can usually capture at least one of the three key cities.

Publication history
Stalingrad was designed by Charles S. Roberts, and developed by Tom Shaw and Lindsley Schutz, and was published by Avalon Hill in 1963. Eleven years later, a slightly revised second edition was released.

Reception
Many critics have noted the game's inaccuracies, from geographical mistakes on the map to incorrect orders of battle.

Writing in 1980 for Moves, Steven List noted that "While still popular, the game was found to be flawed even in its early days."