[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Complex interdependence

erals believe that states can work together in order to enhance interdependence.
c. Transnational relations "applies when we relax the assumption that states are the only units." This take is more of the liberal perspective evident throughout international relations because of institutions' beliefs.

Absence of Hierarchy among Issues 
Foreign affairs issues are becoming increasingly crucial regarding complex interdependence. Countries' policies are all interconnected, even if they are merely domestic. Though the policies may appear to address one countries' issues, any laws may have regional and global implications. These implications have encouraged consulting agreements among countries through liberal institutions like the IMF and the European Community. The presence of Anarchy allows for International Politics to align favorably with domestic issues and laws determined by developed, pluralistic domestic countries.

Minor Role of Military Force 
Force has always been emphasized in international politics based upon the idea that (1) states compete for power, and that (2) survival is a state's chief goal under anarchy (security dilemma). However, military power and the role it has played has diminished for a few reasons. The first reason is because a state's fear of being attacked has declined (especially among industrialized, liberal states), because of the current lack of incentive among other countries to invade, as well as mutually beneficial relationships and cooperation (due to complex interdependence). With 20th century goals such as environmental and economic welfare, force is ineffective. The second reason is that we now see force used more as a deterrent (for example, Nuclear weapon). Goals that do relate to a state's security will most likely not use force to be achieved, and if used, could have steep consequences. This, as well as the domestic opposition that follows, are added reasons why states are hesitant to use force. One concern that stems from the diminishing role of military force is that Terrorism may be used more frequently, since most states are less likely to commit troops overseas.

The use of force, according to the author, will depend upon how much a state is affected by actions transpiring elsewhere. For example, if effects on that state are little, the chances of that state using force are also little. It will also depend on whether or not the issue is one of life or death. In this case, the realist theory would prevail and the state could very well end up taking forceful action. The author concludes that in each situation, we must decide which is more applicable, complex interdependence or realism.

Liberalism 
The Liberal perspective encourages the use of institutions, like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, to encourage cooperation for similar goals. Liberalism theory expands to include neoliberalism and liberal institutionalism. Neoliberals believe that these institutions provide states with absolute gains from complex interdependence while neglecting the idea of power. Cooperation may be achieved through complex relationships among states, limited to the liberal lens. Such cooperation leads to a peaceful world order among states to provide peace from shared cooperation as long as there are mutual gains. Economic gains through trade and foreign investments negate any power struggles among states, addressed by liberal theorists. Extending the complex interdependence, especially economically, works to better stabilize peace among states. Acting outside the complex relationships in means of isolating domestic economies or wars would, in turn, destabilize peace among states, disrupting world order.

In the concept of weaponized interdependence (see section below), liberal scholars Keohane and Nye suggest that network asymmetries will decrease over time. They also believe that the global network gives way to cybersecurity benefits because of mutual drawbacks, as they focus on Mutualism (economic theory) and collaborative gains. However Henry Farrell and Abraham Newman argue that emerging asymmetrical nodes in the network conceal those collaborative links, as states take advantage of the nodes to fulfill their own self-interests. They came to the conclusion that liberal ideas about a globalized network do not correspond with the examples we have seen of states weaponizing interdependence (for example, SWIFT).