[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ottawa Tribe of Oklahoma

The Ottawa Tribe of Oklahoma is one of four federally recognized Native American tribes of Odawa people in the United States. Its Algonquian-speaking ancestors had migrated gradually from the Atlantic coast and Great Lakes areas, reaching what are now the states of Michigan and Ohio in the 18th century. In the late 1830s the United States removed the Ottawa to west of the Mississippi River, first to Iowa, then to Kansas in what was Indian Territory. Following the United States Civil War, in 1867 they sold their land in Kansas to move again, to purchase land in another section of Indian Territory, in what would become northeast Oklahoma. They were authorized by Congress to buy land from the Quapaw, the predominant tribe in this area. 

The other three Ottawa tribes are located in the state of Michigan, part of the traditional Odawa territory. They are the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians, Little River Band of Ottawa Indians and the Little Traverse Bay Bands of Odawa Indians. In addition, there are First Nations of Odawa people in Ontario, Canada, including on Manitoulin Island, their original homeland.

Government
The headquarters of the Ottawa Tribe of Oklahoma is Miami. Their tribal jurisdictional area is in Ottawa County. In the early 21st century, the tribe has 2,500 enrolled members; some 737 live within the state of Oklahoma. The tribe bases membership qualifications on direct lineal descent; that is, they have no minimum blood quantum requirement.

The current administration is as follows:
 Chief: Ethel Cook
 Second Chief: Kalisha Burtrum
 First Councilman: John Charles Dawes
 Second councilman: Mikal Scott-Werner
 Treasurer: Brittany Bailey Long 

Former Chief:
 Charles [Red Cedar] A. Todd (1935–2014)
US Army- Korean War Decorated Combat veteran
 Council: 1983–2008
 Chief: 1999–2008

Todd was a descendant of former Ottawa Chief: Joseph,[Badger], King and Chief Pontiac.

The Ottawa Tribe is working to modernize its Constitution. It was to be voted on at the general council in 2019.  The current Business Committee; Ethel Cook, Suzy Crawford, J.C Dawes, Mikal Scott-Werner, Mary King and Charles Ulrey.  Previous administration includes, Dr. Kevin Dawes, Dr. Charla Dawes, Burt Kleindon, and John Robert Ballard, who have all been instrumental in helping to update the constitution.

Economic development
The Ottawa Tribe issues its own tribal vehicle tags. They operate two tribal smoke shops, two gas stations, the Otter Stop Convenience Store, and the Adawe Travel Plaza. In addition, they operate the High Winds Casino. In 2021 the tribe opened its first restaurant, the Otter Cove Diner. Their annual economic impact is estimated by the Oklahoma Indian Affairs Commissions to be $3 million.

Cultural, language, and programs
The tribe operates a Community Health Program and the Healthy Living Center in Miami, as well as a Department of Environmental Protection. The tribe publishes the Adawe News for its tribal members. It offers Ottawa language classes.

The Ottawa Tribe of Oklahoma's annual powwow is held every Labor Day weekend.

History

"Ottawa" or "Odaawaa" comes from the word , which means "to trade". They were known among other tribes as important traders before any European exploration. The French quickly realized how influential they were and used them as middlemen to the tribes to the north and west of them, who supplied them with furs from the 17th well into the 18th century.

The Ottawa are part of the Three Fires Confederacy, together with the Ojibwe and Potawatomi. The Oklahoma Ottawa are descended from Ottawa bands that moved south from Manitoulin Island and the Bruce Peninsula, both in Ontario, Canada, under pressure from the Iroquois and other tribes, and European encroachment. They settled near Fort Detroit and the Maumee River in Ohio.

They were pressured to move again by the United States, after Congressional passage of the Indian Removal Act of 1830, which authorized the government to make land exchanges with Native American tribes in order to remove them from east of the Mississippi River and extinguish their land titles there. The Ottawa of the Blanchard's Fork, Roche de Bœuf and Auglaize reserves of Ohio signed a treaty with the US in 1833. The treaty ceded their lands in Michigan, Ohio, and Illinois in exchange for lands in Iowa, then Kansas, part of what was known as Indian Territory under the federal government's plan.

The Ottawa did not relocate from Ohio until April 1837. Of the 600 Ottawa who migrated to Kansas, "more than 300 died within the first two years, because of exposure, lack of proper food, and the great difference between the cool, damp woods of Ohio and the dry, hot plains of Kansas."