[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Orlando Engelaar

rst goal of the season, in a 5–1 win over Heerenveen. He then came on as a 75th-minute substitute, in a 3–0 win against Heracles Almelo to win the KNVB Beker final on 8 April 2012. At the end of the 2011–12 season, Engelaar went on to make twenty–one appearances and scoring once in all competitions.

Ahead of the 2012–13 season, Engelaar said he wanted to leave PSV Eindhoven despite having a year to his contract left. Engelaar also switched number shirt from eight to sixteen. However, his first team opportunities was limited once again despite no longer feeling that he is serious risk of playing time. As a result, he found his playing time, coming from the UEFA Europa League and KNVB Beker matches. Engelaar then scored his first goal of the season, in a 6–1 win against ADO Den Haag. However in February, he was involved in the car accident, but escaped unhurt. Despite this, Engelaar went on to make eleven appearances and scoring once in all competitions at the end of the 2012–13 season. After four years at PSV Eindhoven, it announced that Engelaar will not have his contract renewed when it will expired at the end of the 2012–13 season. Following his release by the club, he was linked with a move to West Ham United and NAC Breda, having ruled out retirement.

Melbourne Heart
On 9 August 2013, Engelaar joined A-League club Melbourne Heart (now Melbourne City) from Dutch side PSV Eindhoven on a one–year contract.

On his preseason debut for the club, he suffered a fractured leg, which ruled him out for the first 14 rounds of the 2013–14 season. It wasn't until on 17 January 2014 when Engelaar made his long awaited debut for Melbourne Heart, coming on as a 59th-minute substitute, in a 3–1 win against Newcastle Jets. Two weeks later on 31 January 2014, he received a red card for a second bookable offence in the first 33 minutes to the match, in a 2–1 win against Sydney. After serving a one match suspension, Engelaar returned to the starting line–up against Wellington Phoenix on 16 February 2014 and helped the club win 5–0. He then made a strong impact, helping the Melbourne Heart win its first game of the season and going on a 5-game unbeaten run. On 23 March 2014, Engelaar scored a goal from inside his own half against the Central Coast Mariners, as the club lost 2–1. For his performance, he was later named as A-League Team of the Week on 24 March 2014. In the last game of the season, Engelaar scored his fifth goal for Melbourne City, in a 3–2 loss against Western Sydney Wanderers. At the end of the 2013–14 season, he went on to make twelve appearances and scoring five times in all competitions.

For his performance, Engelaar's goal against Central Coast Mariners earned the 2013–14 Goal of the Year and was included in the 2013–14 Team of the Year by Goal.com. However, he was among four players to leave the club. After leaving the club, Engelaar was considering retirement from football.

Return to Twente
On 2 October 2014, Engelaar signed a one-year contract with Twente in his second spell, having spend weeks on trial.

He made his second debut for the club, coming on as a substitute for Kamohelo Mokotjo in the 88th minute, in a 1–1 draw against Ajax on 18 October 2014. However, Engelaar suffered a calf injury that saw him miss two matches. He made his return to the first team, coming on as a 76th-minute substitute, in a 2–2 draw against Vitesse on 7 December 2014. A month later on 18 January 2015, Engelaar scored his first goal for FC Twente – his first goal for the club in seven years – in a 3–1 loss against Feyenoord. However, he suffered a calf-injury while warming up ahead of the match against PEC Zwolle and was out for two months. But Engelaar made his return from injury in the last game of the season against Heerenveen and scored his second goal of the season, in a 3–1 win, in what turned out to be last his appearances in professional football. At the end of the 2015–16 season, he went on to make fourteen appearances and scoring two times in all competitions.

In the wake of the club's financial trouble, Engelaar was among seven players to be released. Following his release, Engelaar said he's going to discuss his future in the summer, having seriously considering retirement from professional football.

Retirement
On 13 September 2015, during a radio interview on NPO 1 Engelaar announced that he had retired from professional football. Engelaar decided to start a new career as an entrepreneur in the company SeiSei in which he is one of the two partners. The company is specialised in talent management and its mission is to help talent (within the sports and entertainment) realise their dreams. SeiSei has a roster with several signings. Orlando will not disappear from football at all, since one of the company's subsidiary companies SeiSei Football Mgmt will focus on football management.

International career