[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Angie Brooks

iberia from August 1953 to March 1958. She also founded a Department of Law at the University of Liberia to ensure that other Liberians would be able to earn law degrees without having to leave their country. From 1954 to 1958, she served as a part-time Professor of Law at the University of Liberia.

Brooks trained as a diplomat with the United States Foreign Service, a skill she put to good use when, in 1954, she was asked to fill a last-minute vacancy in the Liberian delegation to the United Nations. While Brooks became a delegate almost by happenstance, she served as Liberia's permanent representative to the United Nations every year thereafter until being elected President of the UN General Assembly in 1969. Brooks was cognizant of the gulf between the UN's stated commitments to change and the actions that would make those commitments reality. She made it her personal mission to transform the United Nations into an institution capable of meeting the problems of the world head-on by cutting down on bloviating debate and focusing on substantive deliberation that addressed real issues in a meaningful way. In her first speech after being elected president of the General Assembly, Brooks stated:We have sometimes failed to realize that neither oratory nor agreements between delegations, nor even resolutions or recommendations have had much impact on the course of affairs in the world at large. The sense of satisfaction, upon adoption of a resolution … has helped to perpetuate the mythology of achievement, so that many of us tend to go happily from one agenda item to the next without seriously considering the possibility or even probability that the resolution adopted will not be implemented. We have lacked and we do lack in this respect a sense of reality.
Brooks was especially concerned with the welfare of newly independent nations that had previously been administered as colonies or UN mandates. In her first interview after being elected as President of the United Nations General Assembly, Brooks urged small nations to find common ground to unite them into a more powerful voice in order to push back and make themselves heard against the world’s superpowers.

She also expressed concern over the welfare and legal rights of women, arguing that they must have more of a voice in the political decisions of their nations in order to prevent warfare. In response to a reporter's question about the role of women as representatives, she stated, “If the men would give an opportunity to the women to be heard and would consider wisely some of the things that they are saying, perhaps the world would be in a better condition.”

Her fellow UN members described Brooks as "tough, resilient, patient, and unfailingly good-humored."

In 1958, President William Tubman appointed Brooks Assistant Secretary of State. Brooks wanted the law to be an attainable profession for women, free from discrimination. To that end, from 1956-59 she served as the vice president of the International Federation of Women Lawyers where she worked to advance women's rights and encourage women in the field of law.  In 1977, she was appointed Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of Liberia, the first woman to be so appointed. She served in this capacity until a coup d'etat in 1980.

Brooks had an intense interest in traditional African art and amassed an extensive collection which was eventually turned into a museum in Liberia.

UN Appointments 

 1956 Vice-chair of the General Assembly Fourth Committee
 1961 Chair of the UN committee on information from non-self-governing territories (colonies of European powers)
 1962 Chair of UN commission for Ruanda-Urundi, a commission dedicated to overseeing the division of the former Belgian colony into the separate states of Rwanda and Burundi
 1964 Chair of UN mission to the trust territory of the Pacific Islands
 1965 Vice president of the Trusteeship Council, an organization whose goal was to supervise the transition from colony to sovereign territory
 1966 President of the Trusteeship Council
 1969 President of the UN General Assembly
 1975 Permanent Representative of Liberia to the UN.

Family 

Angie Brooks had two biological sons, Richard A. Henries II and Wynston Henries from her first marriage to Richard A. Henries I. In addition, she was also a foster mother to daughters Marjorie and Eda. In total, Brooks fostered at least 47 Liberian children in honor of her own foster mother; many of them were raised on her rubber plantation in Wearleah. In addition, Brooks adopted a daughter, Aida, who had been orphaned during the war in Rwanda. Very interested in children's education, she donated large sums to projects devoted to this cause.

After her divorce from Richard A. Henries I, she later married Isaac M Randolph.