[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lokrum

, upon their eviction from the Island, the monks of Lokrum passed a curse on any who possessed the island.  A portion of the Monastery has been converted into a restaurant and another segment has been converted into a museum.  The replica of The Iron Throne can be found at the Benedictine Monastery.

Botanical Garden
On the eastern side of the island, protected from the open sea, there is a small natural harbour. The island covers an area of  and is covered in thick Mediterranean flora and woods: laurel, oak, pines, cypress and black pines. There are also olives, agaves, cacti, magnolia and palms. On the southern part of the island there is a small salt lake, 10 m deep, known as "the Dead Sea" (Mrtvo More). Nearby there is a deserted Benedictine monastery, founded in 1023. The triple-naved basilica, and a 14th-century part of the monastery were badly damaged in the 1667 Dubrovnik earthquake. The monastery was deserted in 1798. Today Lokrum is a Nature Reserve and a Special Forest Vegetation Reserve.  At some point after 2014, the European Rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus L.) was illegally introduced to Lokrum.  Since then, it has become highly invasive, causing large scale damage to the Botanical Gardens and destroying some of the 200 species of plant found in the Botanical Gardens.

Charlotte's Well

Charlotte's Well is an oval retaining pond dating from Maximilian of Habsburg's ownership of the island.

The Dead Sea
The Dead Sea is a small salt lake located on the southern side of the Island of Lokrum.  The lake is fed from a series of caves and fractures in the island.  These caves and fractures can be observed and, in some cases, traversed from the surrounding sea.  The lake itself is believed to have been formed by the collapse of a large cavern.

The lake is considered a tourist attraction and is regularly visited by tourists and scuba divers.

Fort Royal

Fort Royal is a military emplacement located on the highest peak of Lokrum overlooking Dubrovnik.  Construction of this fortress began under the French Empire in 1806 and was completed in 1835 by Austria.

Acknowledgements
 In June 2023 Croatian Post released commemorative postage stamps from the series "Croatian Tourism", featuring Lokrum Island, an aerial view of the island, and Maximillian’s Summer Residence with its gardens, designed by Ariana Noršić.

See also 
Dalmatia
SMS Lacroma

References

External links

 Botanical Garden on the Island of Lokrum
 Island of Lokrum, An Island of Legend and Authenticity
 The Legend of the Lokrum Curse

Dubrovnik
Islands of the Adriatic Sea
Islets of Croatia
Landforms of Dubrovnik-Neretva County
Nude beaches
Tourism in Dubrovnik