[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cary Fowler

Andes, and the international genebanks of the Consultive Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR).

He stepped down as Executive Director of the trust in late 2012 but continues to serve in an advisory role and chairs the International Advisory Council of the Svalbard Global Seed Vault.

Awards and honors
Fowler has received several honorary degrees, including an Honorary Doctorate of Law degree from Simon Fraser University, an Honorary Doctorate of Science degree from Rhodes College, and an Honorary Doctorate of Humanities degree from Oberlin College. He received the Right Livelihood Award with Pat Mooney in 1985 for his work in agriculture and the preservation of biodiversity. Fowler has also received the Vavilov Medal from the Russian Academy of Agricultural Sciences. In 2010, he was one of ten recipients of the 16th Annual Heinz Awards with a special focus on global change. In 2012, he was awarded the "Wind Beneath my Wings" award jointly with his wife Amy P. Goldman at Bette Midler's annual "Hulaween" party. He was the baccalaureate speaker at the 2013 Rhodes College commencement ceremonies and received the 2015 William L. Brown Award for Excellence in Genetic Resource Conservation from the Missouri Botanical Garden.

In 2016 Fowler received the Frank N. Meyer Medal for Plant Genetic Resources, given by the Crop Science Society of America. He and his wife Amy Goldman Fowler jointly received the "Visionary" Award from the American Visionary Art Museum.

Fowler's book Seeds on Ice: Svalbard and the Global Seed Vault was awarded the 2016 Nautilus Book Award Gold Medal for best book in the Ecology/Environment category.

Fowler received the 2018 Thomas Jefferson Medal in Citizen Leadership, awarded jointly by the University of Virginia and the Thomas Jefferson Foundation, and gave the keynote address at Monticello on the occasion of Jefferson's 275th birthday.

Media
Fowler has made many media appearances, including the CBS news show 60 Minutes. He has been profiled in The New Yorker magazine, presented at the Pop!Tech conference and spoken at the TED Global Conference in Oxford.

Fowler was the focus of the 2013 documentary Seeds of Time, directed by director Sandy McLeod. The film centers on Fowler's work to protect the world's food supply with the Svalbard Global Seed Vault and the challenges facing seed protection and genetic diversity efforts as a result of climate change. It was produced by J. D. Marlow, Emily Triantaphyllis, and Chiemi Karasawa. Seeds of Time won the Audience Award at the San Francisco Green Film Festival 2014, Best Film at the Portland EcoFilm Festival 2014, and Best Cinematography at the Costa Rica Film Festival (Internacional de Cine) 2014. It was an official selection at South by Southwest 2014 and the Full Frame Documentary Film Festival 2014, and has been screened more than 90 times.

Personal life
In 2012, Fowler married author, gardener, and seed saving advocate Amy P. Goldman. He has two children and is a melanoma and testicular cancer survivor.

Bibliography
In addition to authoring more than 100 articles in various agriculture, law development and biology journals, Fowler has authored and coauthored several books.

References

External links
 Global Crop Diversity Trust
 Speech given at Pop!Tech, 2007
 Speech given at The Do Lectures, 2008
 
 "One seed at a time, protecting the future of food" (TEDGlobal 2009)

American agronomists
American conservationists
20th-century American botanists
21st-century American botanists
Foreign Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences
Uppsala University alumni
People from Memphis, Tennessee
Scientists from Tennessee
1949 births
Living people
Sol Goldman family