[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ezriel Carlebach

Ezriel Carlebach (also Azriel; born Esriel Gotthelf Carlebach, , ; November 7, 1908 – February 12, 1956) was a leading journalist and editorial writer during the period of Jewish settlement in Palestine and during the early days of the state of Israel. He was the first editor-in-chief of Israel's two largest newspapers, Yediot Ahronot, and then Ma'ariv.

Biography 
Ezriel Carlebach was born in the city of Leipzig, Germany, descendant of a family of rabbis. His parents were Gertrud Jakoby and Ephraim Carlebach (1879–1936), a rabbi and founder of Höhere Israelitische Schule in Leipzig. Ezriel had three sisters, Hanna, Rachel (Shemut) and Cilly, and two brothers, David and Joseph (Yotti).

He studied at two yeshivot in Lithuania. First at the Slobodka yeshiva in Kaunas' suburb Slobodka (now Kaunas-Vilijampolė), then with Rabbi Joseph Leib Bloch at the Rabbinical College of Telshe () in Telšiai. He recalled this time in two articles in the journal Menorah.

In 1927 he immigrated to Palestine, there learning in Abraham Isaac Kook's Mercaz haRav yeshiva, though afterwards becoming secular. In Jerusalem, one family regularly invited him – as usual for Talmud students – on Shabbat for a free meal. His host had a son, Józef Grawicki, who worked in Warsaw as Sejm-correspondent for the Yiddish daily Haynt (הײַנט, also Hajnt, Engl.: Today).

On his way for a visit in Germany, Carlebach stopped in Warsaw, and visited Józef Grawicki, who encouraged him to write for Haynt in Yiddish. One of his articles explored the conflict between the Zionist Rabbi Abraham Kook and the anti-Zionist Rabbi Yosef Chaim Sonnenfeld in Jerusalem.

Carlebach's three uncles -  Emanuel Carlebach (1874–1927) and Leopold Rosenak (1868–1923; an uncle by marriage), both Field Rabbis of the imperial German Army, and the educator Rabbi Joseph Carlebach, who was assigned to them in 1915 - were active in promoting German culture among the Jews in Lithuania and Poland during the German occupation (1915–1918). Erich Ludendorff's intention was to evoke pro-German attitudes among Jews, in order to prepare the installation of a Polish and a Lithuanian state dependent on Germany. Part of the effort was the establishment of Jewish newspapers (e.g. the folkist Warszawer Togblat ווארשאווער טאָגבלאט), of Jewish organisations (e.g. Emanuel Carlebach initiated in Łomża the foundation of the Hassidic umbrella organisation Agudas Yisroel of Poland, part of a non-Zionist movement founded in Germany in 1912) and of modern educational institutions of Jewish alignment. Joseph Carlebach founded the partly German-language Jüdisches Realgymnasium גימנזיום עברי in Kaunas and directed it until 1919. Carlebach's uncles mostly came down for Hassidim and faced Zionists rather critically. Thus the name Carlebach sounded rather suspicious in the ears of Haynt's audience.

From 1929 Carlebach lived in Germany and studied at the Frederick William University of Berlin and the University of Hamburg, receiving a degree as a doctor of law.

Carlebach died of a heart attack on February 12, 1956, at the age of 47. Thousands attended his funeral.

Journalism career
Carlebach wrote for Israelitisches Familienblatt. When Haynt, stricken by a strike, asked for help, Carlebach  sent articles from Germany without payment. Haynt later  financed Carlebach's expeditions to Jewish communities all over Europe and the Mediterranean, covering communities like the Lithuanian Karaites, Sephardi Jews of Thessaloniki (to be later almost completely extinguished by the Nazi occupants), Maghrebian Mizrahi Jews, Yemenite Teimanim, and the crypto-Jewish Dönmeh (Sabbateans) in Turkey as well as Mallorquin Conversos, some of whom he detected while travelling.

Carlebach sent regular reports to Haynt, which later became the basis for a book. He also wrote a series of articles describing his travels through Germany, including an encounter with an anti-Semitic gang which left him severely beaten.

In June 1931 a publishing house in Leipzig, Deutsche Buchwerkstätten, awarded him its novelist prize of the year, which he shared with Alexander von Keller. Carlebach's novel is set in the Jewish quarter of Jerusalem's old city.

He also worked as a freelance journalist for newspapers such as the Hebrew Haaretz, and starting in 1931 – under a permanent appointment – with the Hamburg-based Israelitisches Familienblatt.  This paper presented in its cultural insert music, performing and visual art by examples of creative works by Jewish artists. Four to five evenings of the week Carlebach went to the theatre and afterwards composed his reviews, dictating them – freely phrasing – to his assistant Ruth Heinsohn, who right away typed them.