[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Ancient Celtic warfare

n the manner of heavy infantry. Using fear and shock tactics as a form of psychological warfare while closing in on enemy formations in dense masses in order to break enemy lines and rout formations. This was an incredibly successful and effective tactic at first, such as at the Battle of the Allia.

Celtic peoples were also renowned for their skill as equestrians both on and off the field of battle. As horses played an important role in overall Celtic culture, with ownership being linked with both social status and wealth. Strabo even wrote that though all Gauls are great warriors by nature, they fight better on horseback than on foot, and that the best of the Roman cavalry is drawn from their number.  Auxiliary Gallic horsemen were commonly used by the late Roman Republic and early Roman Empire. Having most notably fought for Crassus at the Battle of Carrhae. These Celtic mercenaries lead by Publius Licinius Crassus held their own against a superior Parthian force during the key engagement. However an ambush, the heavy armor of the Cataphracts combined with use of horse archers and the parthian shot all contributed to their defeat. Pausanias described Celtic Cavalry tactics while recounting the Celtic invasion of Greece by Brennus and Bolgios in his Description of Greece. He described a tactic called the Trimarcisia or the "feat of three horsemen" in which each mounted Gallic warrior was accompanied into battle by two attendants who each had a horse of their own. According to Pausanias when a Gallic horsemen was injured or killed, one attendant mounted the horse in his master's place ready to continue the fight. When the first rider was only wounded, one attendant brought back the wounded warrior to camp, while the other took his place in the height of the action.

The carnyx was a wind instrument of the Iron Age Celts, attested for ca. 300 BC to 200 AD. It is a kind of bronze trumpet, held vertically, the mouth styled in the shape of a boar's head. It was used in warfare, probably to incite troops to battle and intimidate opponents. The instrument's upright carriage allowed its notes to carry over the heads of the participants in battles and ceremonies.

In earlier encounters with the Romans such as the Battle of Sentinum, some Celts would employ the chariot. Although chariots had fallen out of use in continental Europe from the end of the 3rd century BC, Caesar found that they remained significant in Brittonic warfare. If his descriptions are to be believed, he encountered in Britain an army in transition, possessing cavalry but still with an elite fighting from chariots. He describes how these warriors would throw javelins from their vehicles before abandoning them to fight on foot and returning to them in order to retreat or redeploy. Cavalry proper is described as used for skirmishing. Gauls are said to have commented that they themselves had formerly used chariots but had abandoned them by this time.

Their mode of fighting with their chariots is this: firstly, they drive about in all directions and throw their weapons and generally break the ranks of the enemy with the very dread of their horses and the noise of their wheels; and when they have worked themselves in between the troops of horse, leap from their chariots and engage on foot. The charioteers in the meantime withdraw a little distance from the battle, and so place themselves with the chariots that, if their masters are overpowered by the number of the enemy, they may have a ready retreat to their own troops. Thus they display in battle the speed of horse, [together with] the firmness of infantry.

Mercenaries

Celtic warriors served as mercenaries in many of the great armies of the Classical period. Some of the best known were those who joined Carthage and Hannibal in his invasion of the Italian Peninsula during the Second Punic War and who contributed to his victories in Lake Trasimene and at the Battle of Cannae. Celtic mercenaries notably fought for the Romans against the Parthians at the Battle of Carrhae. The Roman cavalry, composed primarily of Gallic horsemen, fought bravely and held their own against the Cataphracts but the inferiority in armor and equipment was evident and contributed to their defeat. Celtic warriors would often fight for various powers as mercenaries throughout Classical antiquity such as the Romans, Greeks, Carthaginians and Macedonians. When a branch of Brennus' Balkan expedition turned East and crossed the Hellespont, they founded a Celtic-ruled state in Asia Minor known as Galatia. Galatia became well known as a source of mercenaries throughout the Eastern Mediterranean region. Illustrations showing troops armed with long, straight swords and oval shields have generally been taken to depict Galatians.