[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Citizenship and Entry into Israel Law

ace. On 11 January 2022, the Supreme Court issued an  order instructing the government "to act in accordance with existing law alone" and that "it is no longer authorized to act based on a law, emergency provisions or regulations that were issued pursuant to it as long as this law is not in effect."

The law was later reintroduced in Knesset and passed on 10 March 2022 by a 45–15 vote with the help of opposition lawmakers from Likud and the Religious Zionist Party, after Interior Minister Ayelet Shaked and Religious Zionist Party MK Simcha Rothman drafted a version that would be acceptable to the parties of the coalition government as well as the opposition. Coalition members Meretz and Ra’am voted against it. The new version allows the Interior Ministry to put quotas on permits granted under "exceptional humanitarian cases" and cancel permits of Palestinians for activities against the state like spying or terrorism.

Debate

Those in favor of the law, such as Ze'ev Boim, say it is aimed at preventing terrorist attacks and that "We have to maintain the state's democratic nature, but also its Jewish nature." In the Israeli Supreme Court decision on this matter, Deputy Chief Justice Mishael Cheshin argued that, "Israeli citizens [do not] enjoy a constitutional right to bring a foreign national into Israel ... and it is the right—moreover, it is the duty—of the state, of any state, to protect its residents from those wishing to harm them. And it derives from this that the state is entitled to prevent the immigration of enemy nationals into it—even if they are spouses of Israeli citizens—while it is waging an armed conflict with that same enemy."

Supporters also cite demographic concerns about the family reunification process. According to demographer Arnon Sofer, had the process continued unabated, 200,000 Palestinians would receive Israeli citizenship in the first decade alone, and the number of Palestinians in Israel would rise exponentially due to the law and high population growth. Within sixty years, Jews would be a minority within Israel (not including the West Bank and Gaza Strip), effectively destroying the Jewish character of the state.

Critics argue that the law is discriminatory because it disproportionately affects Israeli Arabs, since Israeli Arabs are far more likely to have spouses from the West Bank and Gaza Strip than other Israeli citizens. Such critics have included the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, which unanimously approved a resolution stating that the Israeli law violated an international human rights treaty against racism; and Amnesty International, which has argued that "[i]n its current form the law is discriminatory and violates fundamental principles of equality, human dignity, personal freedom and privacy, enshrined in the Basic Law: Human Dignity and Liberty, as well as the right of children to live with both parents, and other fundamental rights enshrined in international human rights treaties to which Israel is a party and which it is obliged to uphold." When the law was renewed in June 2008, the publisher of the Israeli daily Ha'aretz argued that its existence makes Israel into an apartheid state.

In January 2012, Arab Knesset member Jamal Zahalka expressed concern that the law would lead to large-scale emigration of Arab Israelis from Israel into Palestinian Authority areas, and claimed that Israel was taking advantage of the Supreme Court's decision to bring about an exodus of Arabs from Israel.

See also
Amendment No. 28 to the Entry Into Israel Law
Israeli nationality law
Visa policy of Israel
Visa requirements for Israeli citizens
Israeli passport
Israeli identity card
Who is a Jew?
Relationships between Jewish religious movements
Law of Return
Yom HaAliyah

References

External links
Unofficial translation of the full text of the law, from the Knesset site

Israeli immigration law
Politics of Israel