[Source: PubMed]

98. Health Policy Plan. 2019 Oct 1;34(8):618-624. doi: 10.1093/heapol/czz072.

Health system reconstitution syndrome: an often misunderstood phenomenon in 
global health practice.

Manzi A(1)(2), Ierardo A(3), Mugunga JC(1), Oswald C(1), Ulysse P(1), Hansen 
E(1), Davis S(1), Mukherjee J(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Department, Partners In Health, 800 Boylston Street Suite 300, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Community Health, University of Rwanda College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, KG 11 Ave, Kigali, Rwanda.
(3)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, Tufts University School 
of Medicine, 136 Harrison Avenue, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Global Health and Social Medicine, Harvard Medical School, 641 
Huntington Avenue Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Division of Global Health Equity, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, 300 The Fenway, Boston, MA, USA.

The beginning of the 21st century was marked by the new definition and framework 
of health systems strengthening (HSS). The global movement to improve access to 
high-quality care garnered new resources to design and implement comprehensive 
HSS programs. In this effort, billions of dollars flowed from novel mechanisms 
such as The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; Gavi, the 
Vaccine Alliance; and several bilateral funders. However, poor health outcomes, 
particularly in low-income countries, raise questions about the effectiveness of 
HSS program implementation. While several evaluation projects focus on the 
ultimate impact of HSS programs, little is known about the short- and mid-term 
reactions occurring throughout the active implementation of HSS interventions. 
Using the well-documented WHO framework of six HSS building blocks, we describe 
the evolution and phases of health system reconstitution syndrome (HSRS), 
including: (1) quiescent phase, (2) reactive phase, (3) restorative phase and 
(4) stability phase. We also discuss the implications of HSRS on global health 
funding, implementation, policy and research. Recognizing signs of HSRS could 
improve the rigour of HSS program design and minimize premature decisions 
regarding the progress of HSS interventions.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press in association with 
The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czz072
PMID: 31397481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]