[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Yank Levy

career and legacy 
In 1946, he sought to go to Palestine, and filed a passport request with the U.S. federal government.  His request was denied ostensibly because of potential diplomatic problems associated with his championing guerrilla warfare and "dirty tricks" that he taught to the Home Guard.

On April 15, 1954, he was pardoned by Pennsylvania Governor John S. Fine for the 1927 conviction for armed robbery.  He had served six years of a 2550 year sentence, before being deported to Canada.  He after that learned that he was by birth an American citizen, and that the deportation was illegal.  His lawyer invoked Levy's chronic arthritis and penury, his law-abiding conduct with his wife and daughter in Los Angeles, and his list of good works in helping the war effort.  The state parole board approved the petition for executive clemency, and then the governor.  He was represented by Hanley Rubensohn, a Philadelphia attorney, who said that Levy only wanted to wipe out the one blot on his record, so that he could live in peace.  At the time of his pardon, Levy was in hospital. Medical expenses had dissipated his earnings from lectures and book sales.  His attorney for the pardon proceeding believed that Levy had been punished enough.

Levy suffered a heart attack in 1965 that led to his death and the derailment of a planned biography, based on his memorabilia and correspondence, with writer Don Dwiggins; as of 2014, this source material survived in Los Angeles. In 2006 it was announced that an American writer, Todd Winer, was conducting research for a biography "which promises to be fascinating reading, with Levy as a latter day Stephen Crane or Jack London." Levy's reputation depends on his World War II textbook. Levy was also covered in Liberty Magazine, November 21, 1942; American Rifleman, May 1942; Coronet, October 1942; and The Christian Science Monitor, June 17, 1942.  The New York Times also carried an obituary on September 5, 1965.  In 1965, researcher and author Robert Emmett Johnson corresponded with Levy about the latter's involvement in Nicaragua.

Published works 
Guerrilla Warfare
1942 | Penguin Special 102. Introduction by Tom Wintringham. Harmondsworth: Penguin. .
1942 | Full text.  Melbourne: Lothian Publishing.
1964 | Boulder: Panther Publications. .
1964 | Full text. Introduction by Franklin Mark Osanka and "Editor's Notes" by Robert K. Brown. Boulder: Paladin Press. .
1968 | Arabic edition translated by Sami Kaaki. Beirut: House of Science for Millions / Dar Al-Adab.
2008 | "An Infantry Journal Penguin Special." London: Penguin. .

See also 
Guerrilla Warfare by Che Guevara
History of guerrilla warfare
International Brigades order of battle
Jewish Legion
Jewish volunteers in the Spanish Civil War
On Guerrilla Warfare by Mao Zedong

References 
Notes

Citations

Further reading

External links 

1897 births
1965 deaths
Canadian military personnel from Ontario
Canadian military personnel of World War I
People of the Mexican Revolution
People of the Banana Wars
Canadian people of the Spanish Civil War
Spanish Civil War prisoners of war
Guerrillas
Guerrilla warfare theorists
Canadian military historians
Canadian male non-fiction writers
Jews from Mandatory Palestine
Royal Fusiliers soldiers
British Army personnel of World War I
Jewish Canadian writers
International Brigades personnel
Jewish socialists
Jewish anti-fascists
Jewish Legion