[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of skateboarding terms

ut done on the front of the board, it could be added as a prefix to describe any other trick performed in fake or switch stance (Nollie 360 flip/Tre flip, Nollie kickflip/Nollie flip, etc.).
Nosegrind: A front truck grind with the rear of the board elevated over the obstacle.
Noseslide: Sliding the underside of the nose end of a board on a ledge, rail, or lip.
Ollie north: An Ollie in which the front foot is taken off the board.
Pop shove-it: A shove-it performed while popping the tail to make the board attain air. See: Air, Pop
Pop: The act of striking the tail of the board against the ground to propel the board upwards.
Regular foot: A skater who more comfortably rides with the left foot leading.
Shove-it: A trick where the front foot stays in one spot while the back foot pushes the raised tail to spin around the front 180 degrees or more without spinning the body.
Smith grind: A rear truck grind, with the nose hanging below and pointed slightly away from the obstacle.
Switch stance: Riding the board with the opposite footing than usual. A goofy skater uses their left foot forward (regular) in switch, and a regular skater uses their right foot forward (goofy) in switch.
Tailslide: Sliding the underside of the tail end of a board on a ledge or lip.
Tic-tac: repeated turning of whole body and skateboard from one side to the other 
Varial heelflip: Same as a hardflip, but heelflip and the board spins front side.
Varial flip: A trick consisting of a backside pop shove-it and a kickflip.

Skateboarding venues 

Street skateboarding: Skating on streets, curbs, benches, handrails or other elements typically found in urban and suburban landscapes. Ramps, rails, boxes and other man-made obstacles, especially in competition, are also referred to as "street" because they simply emulate a perfect "street" environment. Plus, man-made street ramps are mobile, making easy transport for competitions, local skaters and retailers alike.
Vert skateboarding: Skating on ramps and other vertical structures like empty, bowl-shaped swimming pools and storm drains.
Transition: Going from a horizontal surface to a vertical surface. "Tranny"
Half-pipe: A U-shaped ramp of any size, usually with a flat section between the opposing transitions.
Vert ramp: A transition ramp, usually at least 8 feet tall, with steep sides that are perfectly vertical near the top.
Mini ramp: Usually a half-pipe that is shorter than the rider; most mini ramps are not tall enough for the transition to reach vertical.
Mega ramp: A very big ramp, usually for vert skateboarding.
Quarter pipe: A single ramp transitioning from horizontal to any obtuse angle up to vert.
Bowl: Empty in-ground pools serve as good bowls. Concrete and wood bowls have been made for skating.

Skateboard phenomenon 
Friction: The resistance that one surface or object encounters when moving on another.
Speed wobble: At a certain speed the skateboard can become unstable, showing an oscillatory behavior that can lead to loss of control.
Death wobble: An irrecoverable speed wobble.

See also
Longboard
Skateboard

References

Skateboarding