[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Systems for Nuclear Auxiliary Power

ar too heavy to launch with the rockets available at that time. To protect the "crew" and "payload", the SNAP-2 system used a "shadow shield". The shield was a truncated cone containing lithium hydride. The reactor was at the small end and the crew capsule/payload was in the shadow of the large end.

Studies were performed on the reactor, individual components and the support system. Atomics International, a division of North American Aviation did the development and testing work. The SNAP-2 Shield Development unit was responsible for developing the radiation shield. Creating the shield meant melting lithium hydride and casting it into the form required. The form was a big truncated cone. Molten lithium hydride had to be poured into the casting mold a little at a time otherwise it would crack as it cooled and solidified. Cracks in the shield material would be fatal to any space crew or payload depending on it because it would allow radiation to stream through to the crew/payload compartment. As the material cooled, it would form kind of a hollowed vortex in the middle. The development engineers had to create ways to fill the vortex while maintaining the shield's integrity. And, in doing all this they had to keep in mind that they were working with a material that could be explosively unstable in a moist oxygen rich environment. Analysis also revealed that under thermal and radiation gradients, the lithium hydride could disassociate and hydrogen ions could migrate through the shield. This would produce variations of shielding efficacy and could subject the payloads to intense radiation. Efforts were made to mitigate these effects.

The SNAP 2DR used a similar reactor reflector moderator device as the SNAP-10A but with two movable and internal fixed reflectors. The system was designed so that the reactor could be integrated with a mercury Rankine cycle to generate 3.5 kW of electricity.

SNAP-8
The SNAP-8 reactors were designed, constructed and operated by Atomics International under contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Two SNAP-8 reactors were produced: The SNAP 8 Experimental Reactor and the SNAP 8 Developmental Reactor. Both SNAP 8 reactors used the same highly enriched uranium zirconium hydride fuel as the SNAP 2 and SNAP 10A reactors. The SNAP 8 design included primary and secondary NaK loops to transfer heat to the mercury rankine power conversion system. The electrical generating system for the SNAP 8 reactors was supplied by Aerojet General.

The SNAP 8 Experimental Reactor was a 600 kWt reactor that was tested from 1963 to 1965.
 
The SNAP 8 Developmental Reactor had a reactor core measuring , contained a total of  of fuel, had a power rating of 1 MWt. The reactor was tested in 1969 at the Santa Susana Field Laboratory.

SNAP-10A

The SNAP-10A was a space-qualified nuclear reactor power system launched into space in 1965 under the SNAPSHOT program. It was built as a research project for the Air Force, to demonstrate the capability to generate higher power than RTGs. The reactor employed two moveable beryllium reflectors for control, and generated 35 kWt at beginning of life. The system generated electricity by circulating NaK around lead tellurium thermocouples. To mitigate launch hazards, the reactor was not started until it reached a safe orbit.

SNAP-10A was launched into Earth orbit in April 1965, and used to power an Agena-D research satellite, built by Lockheed/Martin. The system produced 500W of electrical power during an abbreviated 43-day flight test. The reactor was prematurely shut down by a faulty command receiver. It is predicted to remain in orbit for 4,000 years.

See also
 List of nuclear power systems in space
 Nuclear power in space

Citations

General sources 
 "Nuclear Power in Space". U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Nuclear Energy, Science & Technology

External links

 SNAP-8 Electrical Generating System Development Program, Final Report
 SNAP-19, Phase 3. Quarterly Progress Report, 1 January – 31 March 1966
 SNAP 19, Phase 3. Quarterly Progress Report, 1 Apr. – 30 Jun. 1966
 Analysis of the need for Agena command destruct and/or generator eject systems on the Nimbus B/SNAP-19 mission
 SNAP-19/Nimbus B integration experience
 SNAP-27, Volume 1. Quarterly Report, 1 Jul. – 30 Sep. 1966
 SNAP-27, Volume 2. Quarterly Report, 1 Jan. – 31 Mar. 1966
 "Space Nuclear Power: Opening the Final Frontier" by G. L. Bennett (2006)
 "Space Nuclear Power Sources" (tables)

Atomics International
Electrical generators
NASA programs
North American Aviation
Nuclear power in space
Nuclear technology
United States Atomic Energy Commission