[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Deacon McGuire

od" by stuffing his glove with a piece of raw steak to absorb the shock.  Salsinger wrote that manufacturers took a hint from McGuire and began padding catcher's mitts with felt and hair.  Salsinger opined that modern catchers "should erect a monument" to repay the debt owed to McGuire's innovation.

McGuire claimed he came up with the idea when he was catching for pitcher Hank O'Day at Toledo in 1884.  McGuire said that O'Day "threw the heaviest and hardest ball I ever caught", and that O'Day's  pitches "came like a shell from a cannon."  McGuire recalled: "The reinforced full-fingered catcher's glove had just come into use the year before.  One day on my way to that old Toledo park on Monroe Street, I passed a butcher pounding round steak. It gave me an idea, and I went in and bought a lot of it. I put a piece of it in my glove at the start of every inning, and Hank's pitches beat that steak into a pulp."  McGuire's wife recalled her husband using "a piece of beefsteak" and noted: "At game's end it would be hamburger."

Gnarled hands

McGuire played before the advent of most modern protective equipment, and his fingers were reportedly "gnarled, broken, bent, split and crooked" by the end of his career.  One account, published in 1901, emphasized the physical beating:A picture of McGuire's hands would be an interesting and wonderful exhibit.  The maimed and misshapen members which he will carry with him after he quits the game and to the grave are mute reminders of many a foul ticked off the bat, a wild thrown ball stopped with the finger tips after a leap into the air, or a low one clawed up out of the roots of the plate, and an occasional one caught full on the end of a digit, splitting the flesh and nail.

In 1904, former teammate Sam Crane called McGuire "a wonder – physically and mentally" and "a human octopus." Crane also described McGuire's hands:His big, brawny, strong hands, now grotesquely disfigured by the continuous battering they have received from the viciously wicked inshoots, curves, slants and benders of the speediest pitchers known in the long history of the game, have acted as an unflinchable barrier to the accumulation of momentum that if concentrated would have an irresistible force capable of crushing a battleship or of pulverizing a backstop construction of Harveyized steel armor plate.

In 1907, newspapers across the country published an x-ray of McGuire's left hand (pictured, above at right), showing "36 breaks, twists or bumps all due to baseball accidents." The text accompanying the widely published photograph noted: "When the picture was developed the photographer was amazed to see the knots, like gnarled places on an old oak tree, around the joints, and numerous spots showing old breaks. In several joints the bones are flattened and pushed to the side."

Career statistics and records
Despite the injuries and physical demands of a catcher's duties, McGuire showed remarkable longevity. In 26 years in the major leagues, McGuire compiled a .278 career batting average, .341 on-base percentage and .372 slugging percentage. He appeared in 1,781 games and totaled 770 runs scored, 1,750 hits, 300 doubles, 79 triples, 45 home runs, 840 RBIs, 118 stolen bases and 515 bases on balls.