[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Infantry Regiment Großdeutschland

ded at Pillau. By 25 April 1945, the division ceased to exist, having been destroyed in the battles around Pillau. A few hundred of the surviving personnel made their way to Schleswig-Holstein and surrendered to British forces. The remainder surrendered to the Soviet army.

Großdeutschland Insignia 

Großdeutschland insignia consisted of intertwined GD displayed on the shoulder straps; a cuff title, of the type granted to Waffen-SS units, was also distributed. The original version (silver on green) was of the same colour as the LANDZOLL (Customs Service) cuff title. In 1940, a new cuff band (silver on black), similar to the SS, was introduced. The cuff titles may be one reason that the Großdeutschland is often mistakenly identified as a Waffen-SS formation. To distinguish between the two, the Großdeutschland was ordered to wear their cuff title on the right sleeve, while the SS wore theirs on the left.

The cuff band was not awarded until after a soldier had completed his trade training and was accepted into the division. As with all items of German military dress, older patterns were permitted to be "worn out" once newer patterns were available, and the older green cuff titles could still be seen worn in Russia by veterans of the original GD Regiment.

After expansion to a division, the regiment wore a white numeral "1" on the shoulder strap, later replaced with the wearing of white loops across the straps, to distinguish from the second GD regiment who wore red loops. Even after redesignation as a Panzergrendier regiment, the white waffenfarbe (branch colour) was retained.

Commanders

Bibliography
 de Lannoy, François and Jean-Claude Perrigault La division Grossdeutschland ("The Grossdeutschland Division from Regiment to Panzerkorps 1939–1945") French edition, Editions Heimdal
 Lee, Cyrus A. Soldat: The World War Two German Army Combat Uniform Collector's Guide (Volume V: Uniforms and Insignia of Panzerkorps Grossdeutschland 1939–1945) (Pictorial Histories Publishing Company, Missoula, Montana, 1993) 
 
 Sharpe, Michael and Brian L. Davis  GROSSDEUTSCHLAND: Guderian's Eastern Front Elite, Compendium Publishing Ltd, 2001 .

References

Regiments of the German Army in World War II
Mechanized units and formations
Guards regiments of Germany
1921 establishments in Germany
1945 disestablishments in Germany
Military units and formations established in 1921
Military units and formations disestablished in 1945

it:Divisione Grossdeutschland
fi:Großdeutschland-divisioona