[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Burnt Church Crisis

at and over 700 traps were seized. Indigenous fishermen protested by setting up a blockade on Highway 11, a major commercial route in the province. The Mi'kmaq claimed officers pointed guns at them, but the DFO denied the allegations, saying that only pepper spray was used, and one baton pulled out.

When Burnt Church fishermen continued their lobster catch, the Federal Government said fisheries officers would continue to seize traps and make arrests. But they also called the Indigenous leaders to return to the negotiating table, claiming the Burnt Church band refused to even meet with his federal negotiator. The Federal Government offered to pay for a $2 million fishing wharf and five new fishing boats for the Mi'kmaq. The Mi'kmaq rejected the offer, believing it could be interpreted as a surrender of their legal fishing rights. After the Mi'kmaq refused this offer the Department of Fisheries and Oceans boats became more aggressive with their attempts to prevent the Indigenous fishers from setting traps on the waters of the Miramichi Bay. They resorted to using their boats to run over the Mi'kmaq's fishing boats forcing the Indigenous people into the water. The intervention efforts cost over $15 million for the Federal Government, not including ensuing legal costs.

Report

In April 2002, a Federal report on the crisis suggested a number of police charges to be dropped and that fishermen should be compensated for damaged traps and boats. It also recommended, however, that First Nations fishermen should be allowed to fish only in season and that they should attain fishing licenses like non-Indigenous fishermen.

Agreement in Principle
The crisis concluded when an Agreement in Principle was signed with the Burnt Church community that allowed them the right to fish for subsistence purposes while it denied them the right to catch and sell the lobster.

Documentary film
The Burnt Church Crisis was the subject of a 2002 documentary film by Alanis Obomsawin, Is the Crown at War With Us?.

See also
Oka Crisis, land dispute between a group of Mohawk people and the town of Oka, Quebec, in 1990
Ipperwash Crisis, land dispute in Ipperwash Provincial Park, Ontario, in 1995
Gustafsen Lake Standoff, confrontation between police and Ts'peten Defenders in British Columbia in 1995
Caledonia Land Dispute, a demonstration to raise awareness about First Nation land claims in Ontario, beginning in 2006
2020 Mi'kmaq lobster dispute, dispute on a self-regulated indigenous fishery, similar to the Burnt Church Crisis

References

External links 
 
The Marshall decision, CBC, May 9, 2004
Burnt Church to vote on interim fishing deal, CBC, Aug 8, 2000 
Dhaliwal takes tough line with Burnt Church protesters, CBC, November 10, 2000
Is the Crown at war with us? an NFB documentary on the Burnt Church Crisis

First Nations history in New Brunswick
1999 disasters in Canada
2000 disasters in Canada
2001 disasters in Canada
2002 disasters in Canada
1999 in New Brunswick
2000 in New Brunswick
2001 in New Brunswick
2002 in New Brunswick
Burnt Church First Nation
Indigenous conflicts in Canada
Battles and conflicts without fatalities
Maritime incidents in 1999
Maritime incidents in 2000
Maritime incidents in 2001
Maritime incidents in 2002
Lobster fishing