[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human Security Act

animously ruled that the Human Security Act was constitutional. The court ruled that the petitioners had no legal standing because none of them have been charged under the said law. The Supreme Court ruled with finality on the matter in 2011, affirming its constitutionality.

International reaction 

Allies in the United States-led War on Terrorism expressed confidence in the Philippines with the signing of the law. In a statement, the US Embassy said "this new law will help provide Philippine law enforcement and judicial authorities with the legal tools they need to confront the threats posed by international terrorism, while ensuring protection and civil liberties and human rights". Australian ambassador Tony Hely hailed the signing of the law and called the Philippines "a key regional counter-terrorism partner" for Australia.

However, the Special Rapporteur of the UN on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism, Martin Scheinin, issued the following statement; that the Philippine Government should reconsider "Human Security Act of 2007" since implementation of this law can negatively affect the human rights. He stated that even though there are some positive aspects of this law, an overly broad definition can be incompatible with Article 15 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR).

Anti-Terrorism Act of 2020 

During the presidency of Rodrigo Duterte, the Senate approved Senate Bill No. 1083 on February 26, 2020, and later the House of Representative approved House Bill No. 6875 on June 3, 2020. Both bills sought to amend the Human Security Act by imposing stronger measures to combat terrorism but has garnered criticism from human rights advocates who say the law will curtail civil liberties and be prone to constitutional abuse.

Senator Panfilo Lacson, one of the principal authors of the new law, said that the Human Security Act of 2007 was a "dead letter law" because it has been "severely underutilized" as it only resulted in a single convicted felon and had only one prescribed organization, the Abu Sayyaf.

See also 

 Laws of the 13th Congress of the Philippines

References

External links 
Human Security Act of 2007

Repealed Philippine legislation
Terrorism laws
Presidency of Gloria Macapagal Arroyo