[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Lawson railway station

l drawings indicate a linear floor layout with offices around the perimeters opening into a central corridor. The main entrance to the building separates the building into two distinct layout with offices and staff amenities on one side and the general exchange and depot/services rooms on the other.

Workshops (1957)
External: There are seven workshops and stores on the depot site all of which are generally of similar construction with utilitarian appearance in various sizes and one or two storeys in height. They are constructed of brick bases with corrugated metal walls to about 1200mm high above with corrugated metal gabled roofs. All have timber framed multi-paned vertically proportioned windows and doors. They accommodate an electrical workshop, blacksmith and carpenter workshop, and stores for various goods.

Internal: Interiors were not inspected (2009).

Signals and earthworks depots
Two adjoining sites at the western side of the Station Master's residence and contain only demountable corrugated metal sheds and containers with carport and garages in between. They appear to be replaced over the years with relatively new fabric.

Sub-station (1956)
External: Located at the most western portion of the depot site, the substation is a two-storey face brick building in rectangular form with gabled roof covered with corrugated metal tray roof sheets. The substation combines a large relatively square shaped control house and a rectangular rectifier house at the back. The building elevations are strongly modelled with large vertical engaged piers. The gable end to the control house is parapeted with piers projecting horizontally. The rectifier house has a ventilation tower at the centre of the gable apex below which is a large roller shutter. All windows are steel framed with horizontal panes. The building is screened from the road by banks of outside transformers.

Internal: Interiors were not accessed (2009). However, it is noted to have a steel truss exposed roof structure and concrete slab floors with painted wall finishes to the essentially large warehouse type spaces.

Moveable items
Lawson Railway Station houses a number of movable items including:
A Milners' 2'2 Patent floor safe in the ticket office below the ticket window desk
A bubbler on platform next to the subway entrance
Three bench seats (2 in the waiting room, 1 in the ladies room)
16 lever frame and CTC panel in the disused signal box
A work bench for booking window

Landscape features
The setting of the station within the rock escarpment is the typical natural setting of the Blue Mountains stations. The island platform and stations buildings are a prominent aspect of the landscape and a local landmark. Most garden beds are built up with treated pine edges containing low to medium-sized shrubs. One mature tree exists at the northeast end of the platform. Brick dwarf walls to the subway tunnel entries on both sides of the trucks together with the low height plantings add to the overall setting of the site.

Potential archaeological features
There are no known potential archaeological elements on the station site with the exception of a remnant side platform and siding on the Down side. The recent findings during the widening of the Great Western Highway indicate the potential existence of surviving remnants of the former Goods Yard along the Highway. The Electrical Depot Site containing the substation and other associated structures may also have archaeological potential.

Condition 

Station Buildings and platform structures – Good
Island Platform- Good
Side Platform – No longer presents as a platform but in its garden bedlike form is in good condition
Subway – generally Good condition
Station Master's residence – Moderate externally, Very Poor internally
Electrical Depot Site – Generally Good externally
Signals and Earthworks Depot – Good externally
Substation – Good

The station building and associated shed are intact externally and maintain their overall integrity. The Station Master's residence has lost most of its internal and some of its external fabric. Its integrity is therefore moderate. The buildings within the Electrical depot have a high level of integrity and intactness externally. While most equipment originally installed has been removed from the Substation the building is relatively intact despite the fire damage in 2003.