[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Central Vigilance Commission

up before it are decided by the Union government; the committee can only consider the candidates put up before it.

As a result, the CVC has neither resources nor powers to inquire and take action on complaints of corruption that may act as an effective deterrence against corruption.

Controversies

Supreme court quashes appointment of CVC
PJ Thomas was appointed as the Chief Vigilance Commissioner in September 2010, on the recommendation of a High Powered Committee (HPC) headed by the Prime Minister. The selection of the new CVC was marked by controversies, after Sushma Swaraj, who was part of three-member selection committee, objected to the choice of Thomas, citing the pending chargesheet against him. A public interest litigation was filed in the Supreme Court by Centre for Public Interest Litigation and India Rejuvenation Initiative.

On March 3, 2011, the Supreme Court quashed the appointment of Thomas as the Chief Vigilance Commissioner, noting that the HPC did not consider the relevant materials on the pending chargesheet. Subsequently, Thomas resigned.

Whistleblower protection

A few years after the murder of IIT Kanpur alumnus NHAI engineer, the CVC launched an initiative to protect whistleblowers. However, this programme has been criticized by ex-Chief Justice of India R.C. Lahoti as being ineffective. He said that he had on previous occasions through his NGO India Rejuvenation Initiative, tried to draw the attention of high officials in the CVC to the unsatisfactory manner of its functioning, but with no results.

Petition against appointment of K V Chowdary
Before K V Chowdary's appointment, Supreme Court lawyer and Rajya Sabha MP Ram Jethmalani as well as lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan raised a red flag, asking the Prime Minister not to go ahead with his appointment, raising severe objections on Chowdary's tenure as CBDT Chief. After Chowdarywas appointed, Jethmalani expressed disappointment and wrote a letter to Narendra Modi questioning Chowdhary's credentials. NGO Common Cause represented by Prashant Bhushan has filed a petition in the Supreme Court challenging K V Chowdary's appointment as CVC and T M Bhasin's appointment as VC on 22 July.

New initiatives
The following initiatives have been taken by CVC:

 National Anticorruption Strategy
 Leveraging Technology to Prevent Corruption
 Integrity in Public procurement
 Awareness Campaign
 Provision for Whistle Blowers
 Improving the Standard of Vigilance Work
 Computerisation of Commission's Work
 Modern Preventive Vigilance Framework
 International Cooperation. etc.

Vigilance Awareness Week 
Driven by the Central Vigilance Commission, Vigilance Awareness Week (VAW) is being celebrated every year and coincides with the birthday of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, known to be a man of high integrity. To make a New India by the year 2022, which is the 75th anniversary of Indian independence from the British Raj, the VAW is being celebrated in promoting integrity and eradicating corruption.

Vigilance Awareness Week – Theme for 2019 
In 2019, the CVC observed VAW from 28 October 2019 to 2 November 2019 with the theme "Integrity – A way of life" ("ईमानदारी के साथ आत्म निर्भरता").

Vigilance Awareness Week – Theme for 2020 
The theme for VAW 2020, observed from 27 October to 2 November was "Vigilant India, Prosperous India"

Vigilance Awareness Week – Theme for 2021 
The theme for VAW 2021 was "Self Reliance with Integrity”.

Vigilance Awareness Week – Theme for 2022 
The theme for VAW 2022 is "Corruption Free India for a Developed nation"

Vigilance Awareness Week – Theme for 2023 
The theme for VAW 2023 is "Say no to corruption, commit to the Nation"

See also
 Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)
 Hawala scandal
 Ranjana Kumar
 Whistleblower protection in India

References

External links
 Official website – http://www.cvc.nic.in 
 The CVC Act, 2003 – https://web.archive.org/web/20110812233245/http://cvc.gov.in/cvcact.pdf
 Public servants of gazetted status of doubtful integrity

Indian commissions and inquiries
Anti-corruption measures in India
Anti-corruption agencies
1964 establishments in Delhi
Government agencies established in 1964