[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Tutor Perini

upported by five levels of low-rise that feature 89,000 square feet of ballroom/meeting space, retail, restaurants, spa and fitness center, and pool area, spas, bars, cabanas, tennis courts, gazebo, and reception areas.

LAPD Administration Building - Los Angeles Police Department in Los Angeles, CA

The new 500,000-square-foot Police Administration Building is located across the street from City Hall in downtown Los Angeles and includes below-grade parking for 350 cars. This project was one of the largest construction endeavors the City of Los Angeles had undertaken in over a decade. The building has areas dedicated to police administration and investigative operations and feature large assembly areas including a Police Commission hearing room, conference center, a 200-seat cafe and a 400-seat auditorium located outside the building footprint on Main Street to stimulate the street level and serve building occupants as well as serve the general public.

Air Warfare Center - Royal Saudi Air Force in Kingdom of Saudi Arabia

Perini Management Services is leading the design and construction of new facilities at King Abdulaziz Air Base for the Royal Saudi Air Force, though a Foreign Military Sales program administered by the U.S. Air Force. The building scope includes three aircraft maintenance hangars and a squadron operations facility. The civil work includes apron, shoulder, and taxiway paving. Other infrastructure includes 24 aircraft sunshades, aerospace ground equipment storage facility, domestic water and fire protection systems pump building, gatehouse and canopy, generator and enclosure, site preparation, and utility upgrades.

Allegations 

Tutor Perini has gained a reputation for low balling government contracts only to later increase prices at the expense of the taxpayer:

Since 2000 Tutor Perini has cost the state of California $765 million in additional unexpected costs on 11 different projects. This is mostly due to California law which requires the lowest bid to be selected.

In 2002, after an expansion at San Francisco International Airport went over budget by $360 million, City Attorney Dennis Herrera sued Tutor Perini for fraud and attempted to have it banned from bidding on city projects.

In March 2011, after a four-week trial a federal jury in Brooklyn found Zohrab B. Marashlian, the former president of Perini Corp.’s Civil Division, guilty of fraud and conspiracy to launder money. Tutor Perini had paid Marashlian $14 million during the investigation and trial. However, Marashlian committed suicide two days before he was to receive a prison sentence. A fellow employee is currently serving time in prison for the same case.

In April 2018, Tutor Perini had substituted weaker rails than those specified in the San Francisco construction contract, so the city ordered Tutor Perini to rip out much of the steel track it had already laid down. The San Francisco Examiner reported that this is likely to delay the opening of the subway and that Tutor Perini may file additional claims to recoup their costs.

Divisions and subsidiaries 

Civil

Tutor Perini Civil

Frontier-Kemper Constructors, Inc.

Lunda Construction Company

Black Construction Corporation

Becho, Inc.

Building

Tutor Perini Building Corp.

Rudolph and Sletten, Inc.

Roy Anderson Corp

Perini Management Services, Inc.

Specialty

Desert Mechanical, Inc.

Fisk Electric Company

Five Star Electric

Nagelbush Mechanical

Superior Gunite

WDF Inc.

References

External links 

Companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange
Construction and civil engineering companies established in 1894
Companies based in Los Angeles
1894 establishments in Massachusetts
Construction and civil engineering companies of the United States