[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Landon Carter Haynes

Landon Carter Haynes (December 2, 1816 – February 17, 1875) was an American politician who served as a Confederate States senator from Tennessee from 1862 to 1865. He also served several terms in the Tennessee House of Representatives, including one term as speaker (1849–1851).  In the early 1840s, Haynes worked as editor of the Jonesborough-based newspaper, Tennessee Sentinel, garnering regional fame for his frequent clashes with rival editor, William "Parson" Brownlow.

Following the Civil War, Haynes moved to Memphis, where he practiced law. His farm near Johnson City, the Tipton-Haynes Place, is now a state historic site.

Early life
Haynes was born near Elizabethton, Tennessee, the eldest child of David Haynes, a land speculator, and Rhoda (Taylor) Haynes.  He attended the Anderson School in Carter County, and graduated from Washington College near Jonesborough in 1838.  Returning to Elizabethton, he read law with T.A.R. Nelson.  When Nelson moved to Jonesborough in 1840, Haynes followed him to continue his study of law.  He was admitted to the bar in late 1840.

While still in Elizabethton, Haynes began to quarrel with William G. "Parson" Brownlow, a former circuit rider who had left the ministry in 1839 to publish and edit the Whig, a radically pro-Whig newspaper (he had been encouraged to establish this paper by Haynes's mentor, Nelson).  In March 1840, Brownlow accused Haynes of an assassination attempt after an unknown assailant fired two shots at him; Haynes suggested Brownlow fabricated the entire incident.  A few weeks later, Brownlow attacked Haynes with a cane, igniting a brawl that ended with Haynes drawing a pistol and shooting Brownlow in the thigh.

In 1841, Haynes was hired as editor of the Tennessee Sentinel, a pro-Democratic Party newspaper that had been published by his brother-in-law, Lawson Gifford, since 1835.  Over the next five years, Haynes and Brownlow engaged in a ruthless editorial war.  Brownlow described Haynes as a "public debauchee and hypocrite," and accused him of stealing corn and selling diseased hogs.  Haynes mocked Brownlow's lineage, dubbed him a "wretched abortion of sin," and charged that he had once been flogged for stealing jewelry in Nashville.

In 1842, Haynes converted to Methodism, and was licensed to preach as a Methodist minister.  In December of that year, he began to quarrel with long-time minister C.W.C. Harris, who questioned his behavior during his feud with Brownlow.  At a church conference in January 1843, Haynes charged Harris with falsehood, but Harris was acquitted.  Harris then charged Haynes with falsehood at a conference in February, and Haynes was found guilty and barred from the ministry.  Crowing about the incident in the Whig, Brownlow stated that Haynes had been hanged "on the gallows he prepared for another."

Tennessee politics, 1844–1859
Although a Whig in his youth, Haynes joined the Democratic Party in 1839.  In 1844, he was an elector for James K. Polk, while his old mentor, Nelson, was an elector for Henry Clay.  While canvassing for Polk, Haynes honed his skills as an orator, delivering eloquent speeches in favor of Democratic positions, such as the annexation of Texas.  At one event, he accused Whigs of being "latitudinarious," prompting taunts from Brownlow, who stated there was no such word.  Haynes and Nelson would later serve as the respective electors for Lewis Cass and Zachary Taylor in 1848.

Haynes was elected to the Tennessee House of Representatives in 1845.  As a legislator, he supported a repeal of the "quart" law (which banned the sale of liquor in quantities of less than one quart), tried to amend the bill chartering Jackson College to obtain funds for Washington College and Tusculum, and tried to amend a banking bill to establish branches of the state bank in each of the state's grand divisions.  In 1847, he was elected to the Tennessee Senate.  In this capacity, he helped obtain funding for railroad construction and improvements to the upper Holston River.  He returned to the House in 1849, where he was elected Speaker by a 38–31 vote, and continued championing railroad construction.

In 1851, a sizeable faction of the Democratic Party, angry with the policies of incumbent 1st district congressman Andrew Johnson, convinced Haynes to run against him in the general election (the Whig Party opted not to field a candidate).  In what would prove to be one of Johnson's toughest campaigns, the two candidates canvassed the district together, engaging in fierce debates in front of large crowds.  Haynes criticized Johnson's support for the Homestead Bill, arguing it was an abolitionist measure, and accused Johnson of having opposed railroad construction and supporting Whig candidates.  Johnson noted that Haynes had voted for Whig Governor Newton Cannon in 1839, and pointed out that Haynes had been expelled from the Methodist ministry.  Johnson won the election by just over 1,600 votes.