[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bibliothèques Sans Frontières

or young librarians.

Tools and Programs 
To carry out its projects, Bibliothèques Sans Frontières uses different technologies, tools, and programs including the Ideas Box, the Ideas Cube (formerly the Koombook), the Digital Traveller’s program, as well as the online learning platform, Khan Academy.

The Ideas Box 
The Ideas Box is a mobile, autonomous, and durable media center in a kit created in 2013 by BSF with the designer Philippe Starck and with the support of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees that provides educational and cultural resources, both physical and digital, to communities in need.  The Ideas Box is used in humanitarian and post-conflict situations to provide information and education, and delivers access and resources to underserved communities in industrialized countries. To date, BSF has run 140 Ideas Box programs in 23 countries, with more than a million total visits.

The Ideas Box contains four modules, beginning with an administrative one (yellow) that houses the network system (server, storage, and wi-fi signal) as well as an electrical system (battery, inverter). The second module is digital and includes e-readers, HD cameras, laptops, and more. The third is the cinema module that includes an HD TV and a projector.  Included in this module are pedagogic tools such as documentaries or learning resources developed for each context, as well as films of all kinds for children and adults. Finally, the fourth  module is a library (orange) with up to 300 books. These four modules come with stools and two big tables that use the Box itself.

BSF uses the Ideas Box in places touched by natural disasters or armed conflicts, including Burundi, but also among under-privileged and marginalized communities in the developed world. The provide in the local language tools that permit individuals and communities to better reconstruct themselves. BSF runs its programs in close collaboration with operational partners who help select the contents of each Ideas Box, customizing its contents to fit the occasion.  After a period of one year, BSF turns over possession and operation of the Ideas Box to local organizations.

Kajou 
In 2018 BSF created Kajou, a digital application that gives access to a large library of contents through an SD card. The initiative is designed for Sub-Saharan African populations who are disconnected from the internet.

Digital Travelers 
Digital Travelers (Les Voyageurs du numérique) is a program that provides to children and adults free workshops on computer literacy. These workshops aim to raise awareness about digital issues and teach computer competency. Previously called Code Travelers (Voyageurs du code) and focused on programming, the Digital Travelers today adheres to the open source movement..

Governance

President and Director General 
Patrick Weil has been president of the association since its creation in 2007.  Jérémy Lachal, the co-founder, was Secretary General until becoming Director General in February 2016.

Board of directors 
The board of BSF has an executive and deliberative role. It meets several times a year.  In France, the board is composed of 19 members:  Patrick Weil, Olivier Bassuet, Peter Sahlins, Véronique Brachet, Geneviève Brisac, Ghislaine Hudson, Jean-Baptiste Soufron, Julien Serignac, Constance Rivière, Farid Benlagha, Arnaud Delalande, Christian Connan, Mary Fleming, Antoine Boulay, Thierry Marembert, Silvère Mercier, Eros Sana, Anna Soravito, and Frédéric Régent. The 14 members. of the US board include Patrick Weil, Peter Sahlins, Noorain Khan, Katherine Reisner, Ramona Naddaff and Mark Cramer.

National Member Associations of the BSF Network

France 
The French association is the leader of the Bibliothèques Sans Frontières network, with its seat in Montreuil (just outside Paris), and its book collection center at  Épône in the Yvelines department. BSF France has regional bureaux in Marseille, Bordeaux, Lille, and Nancy.  Internationally, BSF has bureaux in Burundi, Bogotá (Colombia), Amman (Jordan), and Erbil (Irak).

United States 
The American association LWB US was established in 2008 and has its seat in Washington D.C. Its focus is on programming the U.S. and Puerto Rico among communities historically subject to discrimination. Aaron Greenberg is Executive Director of LWB US.

Belgium 
The Belgian association, BSF Belge, was founded in 2018 has its seat in Brussels.  Its focus is on strengthening educational activities, using among others the Khan Academy videos in French and its own Digital Travellers program. Dimitri Verboomen is Director of BSF Belge.