[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# January 1973

assassinate her by shooting down her airplane.  .
The Enemy is Dead, a play written by Don Petersen, opened on Broadway at the Bijou Theatre and closed after one performance.
Born: Artur Ayvazyan, Armenian Ukrainian sport shooter and 2008 Olympic gold medalist; in Yerevan, Armenian SSR, Soviet Union

January 15, 1973 (Monday)
Citing progress in peace negotiations, U.S. President Richard Nixon announced the suspension of offensive action in North Vietnam during the Vietnam War, to go into effect on January 27. On the same day, with the cessation of hostilities still 12 days away, the U.S. Navy's Strike Fighter Squadron 25 (VFA-25) carried out a bombing attack on 14 North Vietnamese bridges.
France's Department of the Overseas signed a treaty with representatives of the Comoro Islands, guaranteeing the African island territory full independence within five years, subject to a referendum of all residents of the four islands.
Six days of voting on approval of a new Constitution of the Philippines concluded, with a majority of 90.67% of the voters in favor.
On the same day in the Philippines, the execution in the electric chair of convicted drug trafficker Lim Seng was broadcast on national television, by order of President Ferdinand Marcos. 
Four additional defendants in the first Watergate burglary trial accepted a plea bargain rather than risk conviction by a jury and a longer prison sentence.  Miami real estate agent Bernard L. Barker and three of his associates, Frank A. Sturgis, Eugenio Martínez and Virgilio Gonzalez all pled guilty before Judge John J. Sirica.
The West Germany TV situation comedy Ein Herz und eine Seele ("One Heart and One Soul", adapted (as with the U.S. sitcom All in the Family) from the British series Till Death Us Do Part broadcast its first of 25 episodes.  Part of the schedule of the ARD network, the show featured Heinz Schubert in the (Alf Garnett/Archie Bunker) role as "Alfred Tetzlaff", a right-wing bigot, along with his wife "Else", a daughter ("Rita") and son-in-law ("Michael").
Born: 
Eduard Prutnik, Ukrainian mining entrepreneur and philanthropist who chairs the United World International Foundation; in Selydivka, Ukrainian SSR, Soviet Union (now Selydove, Ukraine)
Essam El Hadary, Egyptian soccer football goalkeeper with 159 appearances for the Egyptian national team; in Kafr El Battikh, Damietta Governorate
Tomáš Galásek, Czech soccer football midfielder with 69 appearances for the Czech Republic national team; in Frýdek-Místek, Czechoslovakia
Barrie-Jon Mather, English rugby player who became the first to play on the national teams for both rugby league (for the Great Britain team 1994–1996) and the rugby union team (for England in 1999); in Wigan, Lancashire
Died:Coleman Francis, 53, American film actor and "B movie" producer known for The Beast of Yucca Flats and two sequels

January 16, 1973 (Tuesday)

Luna 21, the uncrewed Soviet probe carrying the Lunokhod 2 lunar rover landed on the Moon at the Le Monnier crater at 1:35 in the morning Moscow time (2335 on 15 January UTC). The 8-wheeled Lunokhod rover was dispatched from the lander at 4:14 (0114 UTC) and began transmitting television images from three cameras back to Earth, along with data from telephotometric cameras, an x-ray spectrometer, and x-ray telescope, a radiation detector, an astrophotometer, a magnetometer and a photodetector.
The 431st and last episode of the NBC television western Bonanza, ending a run of 14 seasons. Number one in the ratings in three consecutive seasons from 1964–65 to 1966–67, the show had been in the five most popular for nine consecutive seasons until its penultimate season.  After the death of popular actor Dan Blocker (Hoss Cartwright) before the 1971–72 season, the once-popular show could not compete against Maude and Hawaii Five-O and was ranked 50th for the year. Lorne Greene and Michael Landon were the only actors left from the original members of the fictional Cartwright family, introduced on September 12, 1959, as one of 32 Western programs on television at that time.  Landon wrote and directed the final episode.
Born: Eriko Tamura, Japanese voice actress and singer, star of the anime series Idol Densetsu Eriko; in Ibaraki Prefecture
Died: 
Clara Ward, 48, American gospel singer, died after suffering two strokes
Earl S. Herald, 58, American zoologist and host of the TV science show Science in Action, drowned off the coast of Mexico while scuba diving in search of the rare golden angelfish. Centropyge heraldi, the yellow "Herald's angelfish", is named in his honor.