[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sinn Féin (slogan)

adopted by Arthur Griffith for the "Sinn Féin policy" he presented in 1905, and the Sinn Féin party formed over 1905–07. Irish poet Brian O'Higgins wrote Sinn Féin's first rallying song titled Sinn Féin Amháin in 1905 and the song was sung at all gatherings of the organisation for a number of years.

In the 1910s, "Sinn Feiners" was a common, often derogatory, label for militant nationalists, regardless of any connection to Griffith's movement. A 1915 mock-unionist article in a University College Dublin student journal distinguished types of Irish nationalist:
The principal factions are the Separatists, who want to set up a Republic by force of arms; the Sinn Féiners, who want to get the Union repealed by means of passive resistance; and the Constitutionalists, who want to win Home Rule by speechifying. There are also some people who want to set up Home Rule by force of arms, but they are not worth considering, for they haven't any arms.

When the Irish Volunteers split in September 1914, the more militant group was soon dubbed the "Sinn Féin Volunteers" by the security forces of the Dublin Castle administration. Likewise, the 1916 Easter Rising was quickly dubbed the "Sinn Féin rebellion" by British-oriented newspapers. However, the Sinn Féin party had no role in the Volunteers or the Rising, although many members had participated. All members of the party's National Council were interned after the Rising. The distinction between the specific party and the broader slogan of radical nationalism was finally blurred in 1917, when Griffith yielded leadership of the party to Éamon de Valera, the senior surviving leader of the Rising. In the revolutionary period the future national flag and national anthem were dubbed the "Sinn Féin flag" and "Sinn Féin anthem" not only by unionists but also by IPP supporters, who favoured the green flag with gold harp and "God Save Ireland".

Sir Warren Fisher was sent by the UK government in 1920 to report on the Dublin Castle administration; in his highly critical report, he stated:
the phrase 'Sinn Fein' is a shibboleth with which everyone not a 'loyalist' is denounced, and from listening to the people with influence you would certainly gather that Sinn Fein and outrage were synonymous.

References

Sources

Citations

External links
Sinn Féin and Sinn Féin article from An Phoblacht

Political catchphrases
History of Ireland (1801–1923)
Irish words and phrases
History of Sinn Féin