[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ping Chong

Ping Chong (; born 1946) is an American contemporary theater director, choreographer, video and installation artist. Born in Toronto and raised in the Chinatown section of Manhattan, Chong is a creator of and early pioneer in interdisciplinary theater work, and the integration of media into it. Chong is considered a seminal figure in Asian American theater and the Asian American arts movement.

Career and works
Originally trained as a visual artist and filmmaker at the School of Visual Arts and Pratt Institute, Chong studied dance/performance with Meredith Monk and began his theatrical career as a member of Monk's company, The House in 1971. Chong was both a performer and collaborator in it. His co-created work include The Travelogue Series: Paris 1972, Chacon 1974, and Venice/Milan 1976. His final collaboration with Monk was The Games in 1983 which premiered at the Schaubuhne in Berlin, in then-West Germany. 

Chong created his first independent theatre work, Lazarus, in 1972. In this work his interest in an interdisciplinary approach to theater as a guiding principle is apparent. His roots are in the visual arts, in film, in dance and in the Chinese opera (both his grandfather and father were director/librettists). Central to Chong's work is the theme of Otherness. As a non-white, immigrant and an artist growing up in a highly segregated city and white art world it is no surprise that this theme proved central to his work. In the earliest works such as Lazarus, Fear and Loathing in Gotham (1975), and Humboldt's Current (1977), the theme of Otherness reflected Chong's personal sense of estrangement from the society he grew up in as a first generation immigrant. Later the theme became more universal, encompassing a broader range of material. Many of Chong's works concern colonialism and the collision of cultures and/or issues of cultural diversity, and frequently draw on documentary and interview-based materials (as in the Undesirable Elements series.)

Ping Chong + Company (originally called The Fiji Theatre Company) was founded in 1975. The company's mission is "to explore the meaning of contemporary theatre and art on a national and international level," and "to create and tour innovative multi-disciplinary works of theater and art, which explore the intersections of history, race, art and technology in the modern world." The company has created and toured more than 100 works by Chong and his collaborators, which have been presented at major theaters, performing arts centers, and arts festivals around the world.

Key works in Chong's evolution include Humboldt's Current (1977) from his first decade. It is an early work anticipating Chong's interest in geopolitical and historical subjects. It received an Obie award. In 1980 Ping Chong formed a small ensemble, and it is with this group of performers which includes, Jeannie Hutchins, Louise Smith, John Fleming, and Brian Hallas that he evolved his performance style. A.M./A.M - The Articulated Man (1981) marked Chong's full bloom interest in evolving a choreographic, non-literary kind of theater. This, The 2nd decade of Ping Chong's works include 3 major works back-to-back. Nosferatu, A Symphony of Darkness (1985), a work straddling the allegorical with Chong's increasing interest in art as activism. This was followed by another dance/theater work Angels of Swedenborg (1985) and Kind Ness (1986), two very different works though nevertheless informed by a strong physicality. Both works speak to in very different ways, Chong's lifelong engagement with the profound issue of Otherness. Kind Ness was the recipient of a USA Playwright's Award in 1988. The 1990s, marked major changes and innovations in Ping Chong's work. It is at this time that he disbanded his decade old ensemble in order to explore new directions and collaborations. While the works of the early decades were devised, Chong would have a much more active role in writing new work often in collaboration with a partner. From 1990 with the East/West Quartet: Deshima (1990), Chinoiserie (1996), After Sorrow (1997), Pojagi (1999) and in 1992 with the launch of the Undesirable Elements series the work took a 180-degree turn toward poetic documentary and historical subjects. The exception to this are the puppet theater works beginning with Kwaidan (1998) which largely nods toward Chong's earlier allegorical works.