[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# American Airlines Theatre

e the theater and office building's construction. The project was expected to cost $200,000 in total, and the theater would be known as the Selwyn. At the time, it was one of three theaters being erected on the block of 42nd Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, which already had nine theaters.

By September 1917, the site of the Selwyn Theatre was being cleared. The Selwyn brothers had announced two additional theaters on an adjoining site to the east, later the Apollo (42nd Street) and Times Square theaters. In February 1918, the Selwyn brothers agreed to give the exclusive booking rights for their plays to the Shubert family. Thereafter, the Shuberts held a partial interest in the three theaters that the Selwyns were constructing. The gangster Arnold Rothstein reportedly provided some financing for the project. Work was halted temporarily in early 1918 due to legal issues and material shortages. Construction of the office building resumed that April, at which point the auditorium had been completed. The same month, the Selwyns announced that the theater's first production would be a play written by Jane Cowl. By that July, the Selwyn brothers' company Selwyn & Co. indicated it would relocate its offices to the new building. Edgar Selwyn's wife Margaret Mayo also had an office in the building.

The theater informally opened for media tours on October 1, 1918, and Cowl's Information Please opened at the theater the next day. To mark the theater's official opening, the Selwyn brothers decorated the stage curtain with World War I Allied nations' flags, and they played the United States' national anthem, "The Star-Spangled Banner", before the first performance. Information Please flopped with 46 performances. This was followed the same November by The Crowded Hour, in which Cowl also starred. Because of the theater's acoustic qualities, Selwyn & Co. announced in December 1918 that it would host concerts in the Selwyn on Sundays. The first such concert took place on December 30, 1918. This was followed in 1919 by Rudolf Friml and Otto Harbach's musical Tumble In and Eugene Walter's play The Challenge. The first hit at the theater was George V. Hobart's musical Buddies, which opened in October 1919 and ran for 269 performances over the next eight months.

1920s and early 1930s 
Oscar Hammerstein II, Otto Harbach, and Frank Mandel's musical Tickle Me opened at the Selwyn in 1920. This was followed the next year by the revue Snapshots of 1921, as well as W. Somerset Maugham's comedy The Circle, the latter of which was the theater's first non-musical hit. The theater also hosted films around this time, including a Greek war film. In 1922, the Selwyn brothers purchased the site of the Selwyn Building on 42nd Street from Mary Cassidy. Most of the Selwyn's productions in 1922 and early 1923 were not hits. The musical The Blue Kitten opened in January 1922 with Joseph Cawthorn and Lillian Lorraine, followed by Partners Again that May. At the end of that year, the theater installed a Teleview projection system for screening stereoscopic motion pictures. The theater hosted three short-lived productions in early 1923. The next hit was the Marc Connelly and George S. Kaufman musical Helen of Troy, New York, which opened in June 1923 and ran for several months before moving to the Times Square Theater. Also popular was the musical Battling Buttler, which arrived that October and ran for nearly 300 performances.

French impresario André Charlot hosted his popular Charlot Revue at the Selwyn during early 1924. It was followed immediately afterward by the musical Kid Boots, which had transferred from the Earl Carroll and ran for 489 total performances. The Selwyn housed several flops in early 1925, including The Gorilla. Charlot hosted another edition of his revue later that year, which continued for 138 performances. The Shubert brothers also negotiated to operate the Selwyn, but that deal was canceled in September 1925 because the Selwyn brothers felt they could manage the theater themselves. The hypnotist Fakir Rahman Bey performed at the Selwyn in May 1926, and the comedy The Man from Toronto had a short run the same year. George White took over the Selwyn's operation that July. Afterward, the theater hosted the musical Castles in the Air, which opened that September and ran for 160 performances. That October, Arch Selwyn assumed responsibility for the theater's bookings for one year. The play The Constant Nymph also opened at the Selwyn in 1926; despite a successful West End run, it stayed on Broadway for a relatively short 148 performances.