[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kdam Eurovision

razi to Eurovision  in light of the achievements of previous competitions. Yardena Arazi performed four songs with selected the song "Ben Adam". Kdam returned in 1989, with Gili & Galit with "Derekh Hamelekh" but in 1990 Rita (actually Rita Kleinstein) was selected without competition one more time.

1990s
In 1991, 1992, 1993, 1995 and 1996, the Kdam Eurovision competitions were held (in 1994 Israel did not participate in the Eurovision Song Contest). The 1993 Kdam was won by the band Sarah'le Sharon and The Shiru Group, a band formed especially for the competition. It finished 24th place in the Eurovision Song Contest itself. Due to the changed policies in the Eurovision Song Contest (brought about by many Eastern European countries joining the competition), 24th place prevented Israel from participating in Eurovision Song Contest 1994. In 1996 Kdam was won by Galit Bell, an unknown singer at the time, whose song never managed to reach the Eurovision finals. This is because in that year the European Broadcasting Union reestablished an early selection process eliminating seven songs that they felt were the worst. The Israeli song "Hello World" was one of those seven.

In 1997, Eurovision was scheduled to take place on Yom HaShoah. A few months earlier, the Knesset passed an amendment to postpone Holocaust Remembrance Day by a day if it fell on a Saturday, Jewish Sabbath. IBA tried to register for competition after the Knesset decision, but late registration meant Israel could not compete.

In 1998, IBA decided to select the song through a committee. That year, Israel went on to win with the song "Diva" by Dana International. The following year, in 1999 the Eurovision Song Contest took place in Jerusalem, with the Israeli entry "Yom Huledet (Happy Birthday)" by Eden.

2000s
In 2000 IBA Authority's committee chose the song "Sameach" by PingPong, a band consisting of two journalists  Roy Arad and Guy Asif, with girls Yifat Giladi and Tahal Aden. The selection process caused controversy  after radio entertainer/writer Irit Linor, one of the committee members declared that she was uninterested. When Linor was asked whether she thought PingPong's singing stood a chance, Linor replied: "Who cares?". The band's performance was based mainly on provocative gimmicks with the music video performed with cucumbers (as a metaphor for male genitalia). In addition, the lyrics were considered by many as being shallow, superficial and stupid. The PingPong band members also declared their intention to appear on stage in Stockholm, where they would raise the flags of Israel and Syria (The song mentioned the words: "I have now a new friend from Damascus"; "I want to do it with him all day"). Opponents claimed to the band that Syria is an enemy state, hence raising the flag for the State of Israel is an embarrassment. Others said they were bothered with two controversial kisses, one between two men and one between two women. During the week before the Eurovision Song Contest, the band visited the Syrian community in Stockholm, to perform. The band eventually appeared on stage in Stockholm with the Israeli and Syrian flags.  Israel finished 22nd out of 24 songs.

In 2001, Kdam returned for one more year picking Tal Sondak who placed 16th with "En Davar". From 2002 to 2004, Israel chose  Sarit Hadad, Lior Narkis and David D'Or in a selection procedure similar to the selection of Yardena Arazi in 1988.

The Kdam Eurovision competition took place again in 2005, and was won by Shiri Maimon. She came in fourth in the Eurovision Song Contest itself. In 2006,  Eddie Butler won the Kdam. In 2007, Mordechai Shklar canceled the competition for budgetary reasons.

In 25–26 February 2008, Kdam Eurovision was broadcast, first by the Channel 2 concessionaire "Keshet", in cooperation between the IBA and the Israeli reality television show "Kokhav Nolad" modeled on the British Pop Idol and American Idol. The show had a pre-produced format in which the privately pre-selected artist (Boaz Mauda) presented 4 different songs in front of a panel of judges to by selection of the viewing public. The song "Ke'ilu Kan" was chosen. In 2009, Kdam Eurovision returned, to be produced by the IBA only. Noa and Palestinian-origin Mira Awad were pre-selected as a duo and performed four songs "There Must Be Another Way" ("Einaiych" in Hebrew) was chosen. In 2010, Harel Skaat was chosen by the IBA and upon presenting 4 songs, "Milim" was chosen.

In 2011, both the singer and the song were chosen by the public. IBA contacted various artists through their agents asking them to participate. The national final was broadcast on March 8, 2011  from the culture hall in Rishon LeZion. The winner was Dana International and her song "Ding Dong."

Prominent singers