[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Government of Oklahoma

serve public records essential to maintaining individual property rights
 Building and maintain public roads, highways, and bridges
 Providing facilities for courts and the administration of justice through the District Court system
 Caring for the needy and indigent, orphaned children, and the aged

Each county government is composed of eight elected officials and a district attorney. County officials serve four-year terms beginning on the first Monday in January following their election. Each county is headed by a Board of County Commissioners consisting of three elected county commissioners. The board serves as the quasi-head of government, with the chair of the board as the quasi-head of state, of the county. Each county is divided into three districts drawn based on equal population. From each of the three districts, a county commissioner is elected independently from the other two commissioners. The three commissioners serve collegiately, with each having equal voting powers and a yearly rotating chairmanship.

The board supervises county administration, manages property owned by the county, prepares the county budget (unless the county has adopted the County Budget Board), and advertises bids for major county purchases and contracts. The commission is also empowered to audit and approve claims against the county, propose county bonds, and audit the accounts of all other county offices. The board's other duties include the maintenance of traffic control devices, the power to approve zoning applications, and the administration of federal funds provided to the county.

Only the board may purchase equipment, machinery, supplies, or materials of any kind for the county, and all contracts and agreements relating to the leasing or rental of county equipment or otherwise relating to the business of the county are negotiated by the commission. It is in the name of the county commission that the county sues and is sued. The board meets on or before the first Monday of each month and may stay in session for as long as the commission determines. However, the board must adjourn by the last business day of each month. Should the board adjourn before the last business day of a month, the county clerk may call the board into a special session. Meetings of the board are open to the public.

The County Sheriff is the chief law enforcement officer in the county and peace officer. The sheriff must be at least 25 years old, have been a resident of Oklahoma for two years, a qualified elector in the county, and possess at least a high school diploma. In counties with over 80,000 citizens, the sheriff must be a certified peace officer at the election. However, in counties with under 80,000 citizens, the sheriff is given up to 12 months after the election to become certified.

When it comes to the responsibilities of the sheriff, Oklahoma's outlaw history has bestowed the sheriff with what is seen as full services, that is, providing traditional law-enforcement functions, including countywide patrol and investigations irrespective of municipal boundaries. As the chief peace officer, the sheriff is responsible for ensuring the peace is preserved, riots are suppressed, and that unlawful assemblies and insurrections are controlled. The sheriff is vested with the power to form a posse of able-bodied men to assist him in controlling riots and lawlessness. The sheriff also serves as the executor of court orders and other lawful authorities within the county. To ensure justice is administered, the sheriff is empowered to apprehend any person charged with a felony or breach of the peace and may attend any court within the county.

In order to prevent the sheriff from abusing their position, the sheriff is required to account for funds collected by the office and to make a monthly report to the county commissioners.

While not a county official since 1967, the District Attorney replaced the County Attorney as the chief legal officer of the county. There are 27 judicial districts with one District Attorney serving all counties located within their district. The main purpose of the office is the prosecution of all criminal actions that occur in counties in their district as well as prosecuting and defending all civil action in which any county in their district is concerned. To perform their duties, the district attorneys are empowered to appoint assistant district attorneys, investigators, and clerks so that each county in their districts has at least one assistant district attorney. As members of the state executive branch, officers and offices under the district attorney are paid by the state and not the county.