[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Baton Rouge Area Foundation

undertake on an annual basis. Without membership dues the staff could not continue to provide the support that they offer to both the nonprofit agencies and their donors.

Mission
The Baton Rouge Area Foundation unites human and financial resources to enhance the quality of life in South Louisiana.

To achieve the mission, The Foundation:
 Serves donors to build the assets that drive initiatives and solutions
 Engages community leaders to develop appropriate responses to emerging opportunities and challenges
 Partners with entities from its service area, as well as with other community foundations, in order to leverage collective resources and create the capacity to be a stimulus of positive regional change
 Evaluates their work and shares the results with its stakeholders.

Geographical areas
The foundation serves eight parishes that make up the Greater Baton Rouge Area:  Ascension, East and West Baton Rouge.  East and West Feliciana, Iberville,  Livingston, and * Pointe Coupée

Funds
Establishing a fund with the foundation allow donors to connect their philanthropic giving to the issues and nonprofits that interest them most. Different types of funds that can be established.; they provide a tax deduction associated with a charitable donation. They are: 
Donor Advised Fund 

A donor-advised fund is a charitable giving vehicle administered by the Foundation and created for the purpose of managing charitable donations on behalf of the donor. A donor-advised fund offers the opportunity to create an easy-to-establish, flexible vehicle for charitable giving as an alternative to direct giving or creating a private foundation.
Field of Interest Fund 
A field of interest fund is a fund created to help a specific area, such as education, that the donor is interested in.  Field of interest funds are managed by the Foundation and its board of directors.
Unrestricted Fund 
Unrestricted funds, to pay for emerging opportunities that benefit the community as a whole. Such Unrestricted funds allow the  Foundation' o have flexibility in funding large projects such as the Shaw Center for the Arts.
 T

Scholarship Fun
Scholarship funds are established to assist college students with grants that help cover the cost of tuition, room, and board.  The foundation assists the donor in the selection process.

References

External links
 Baton Rouge Area Foundation
 www.ernestjgainesaward.org

Area Foundation
Community foundations based in the United States