[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Scouts BSA

Scouts BSA (previously known as Boy Scouts, the official name until 2019) is the flagship program and membership level of the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) for boys and girls between the ages of typically 11 and 17. It provides youth training in character, citizenship, and mental and personal fitness. Scouts are expected to develop personal religious values, learn the principles of American heritage and government, and acquire skills to become successful adults.

To achieve these, Scouting applies eight methods of Scouting: scouting ideals (as exemplified by the Scout Oath, the Scout Law, the Scout Motto, and the Scout Slogan), the patrol method, participation in outdoor programs, advancement, adult association, personal growth, leadership development, and the uniform.

The participants, known as Scouts, are organized in Scout troops, led by leaders known as Scouters. In February 2019, the program began admitting girls as well as boys, and the name of the program was changed from "Boy Scouts" to "Scouts BSA".

Aims and Methods

Scouts BSA has four aims: Character, Citizenship, Personal Fitness, and Leadership. To achieve this, the program applies eight methods of Scouting: scouting ideals (as exemplified by the Scout Oath, the Scout Law, the Scout Motto, and the Scout Slogan); the patrol method;  advancement;  adult association; participation in outdoor programs; personal growth; leadership development, and the uniform.

Program and activities
The troop program and activities are determined by the senior patrol leader and the patrol leaders council under the oversight of the Scoutmaster. Troops generally hold meetings weekly, although they can be irregular during the summer. Troop meeting activities may vary from training in Scout skills to planning camping trips or playing games.

Troops may plan outings and activities outside the troop meeting. These may involve camping, backpacking, hiking, canoeing, rafting, climbing, caving, rappelling, and other activities. These outings are an important place for Scouts to work on skills and rank advancement, have fun, and engage in productive outdoor activities.

Most councils own and operate one or more permanent camps. These camps may host a variety of activities throughout the year. The summer camp program provides a week-long session for troops that includes merit badge advancement and adventure activities. Facilities may include ranges for shooting sports – archery, rifle, and shotgun – and for climbing and rappelling.

It is common for several troops within a district or council to gather at least once a year at a special weekend campout called a camporee. A camporee is a district- or council-wide event where several units camp and engage in activities, Scoutcraft competitions and learn specialized skills.

The national Scout jamboree usually occurs every four years and draws more than 30,000 Scouts from across the country and the world. The last jamboree took place in 2017 at The Summit Bechtel Family National Scout Reserve in West Virginia. The Summit is to be a permanent place for the Jamboree and an opportunity to construct a new high-adventure base.

Ideals

The Scout Law, Scout Oath, Scout Motto, Scout Slogan, and Outdoor Code are the cornerstones of Scouts BSA. Each Scout learns to make these ideals a part of their way of life and personal growth. Scouts must memorize and understand these ideals. They also represent these ideals symbolically in official emblems.

The Scout Sign is used when giving the Scout Law or the Scout Oath and as a signal for silence. The Scout Salute is used when saluting the flag of the United States. The left-handed handshake is used as a token of friendship and as an identity with Scouts worldwide.

Emblems