[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# East Asian Community

tegic interactions and the belief to continue to engage all interested countries and organisations towards the realisation of an open regional architecture capable of adapting to changes and new dynamism.

The Chairman's Statement of the 3rd East Asia Summit Singapore, 21 November 2007  also states:

21. We stressed our conviction that the EAS should continue to help build a united and prosperous East Asia, with ASEAN as the driving force working in close partnership with other participants of the East Asia Summit. We reaffirmed that the East Asia Summit is an important component of the emerging regional architecture and would help build an East Asian community. It should play a complementary and mutually reinforcing role with other regional mechanisms, including the ASEAN dialogue process, the ASEAN Plus Three process, the ARF, and APEC in community building efforts.

A first stage of a future community may be seen in the Comprehensive Economic Partnership for East Asia (CEPEA) proposed by Japan for the members of the East Asia Summit. The reality appears, however, that movement towards such a relationship is a long way off. Lee Kuan Yew has compared the relationship between South-East Asia and India with that of the European Community and Turkey, and has suggested that a free-trade area involving South-East Asia and India is 30 to 50 years away.

Japanese proposals in 2009 

The concept of the community, if not the details, was promoted during the 2009 Japanese general election campaign. After the change of government in Japan the details of what Japan was proposing was unclear.

The Japanese Foreign Minister Katsuya Okada in early October 2009 indicated that what was proposed was a Community based on the members of the East Asia Summit focusing on political links with a common currency "very far off in the future".  The Japanese proposal is for a regional trade grouping. This proposal was based on the 16 member countries of the East Asia Summit.

The subsequent ASEAN Plus Three and East Asia Summit meetings did not clarify what role or shape the community would have.

The Chairman's Statement for the ASEAN Plus Three meeting stated:

20. We reaffirmed our commitment to the ASEAN Plus Three process as a main
vehicle towards the long-term goal of building an East Asian community with
ASEAN as the driving force. We noted Japan’s aspiration to reinvigorate the
discussion towards building an East Asian community based on the principle
of openness, transparency and inclusiveness and functional cooperation.

ASEAN Plus Three was noted as "a" main vehicle whereas earlier language had been "the".

The Chairman's Statement Fourth East Asia Summit stated:

21. We acknowledged the importance of regional discussions to examine
ways to advance the stability and prosperity of the Asia Pacific region.
In this connection, we noted with appreciation the following:
(a) the Philippines’s proposal to invite the heads of other regional fora
and organizations in Asia-Pacific to future EAS meetings to
discuss measures that will protect the region from future economic
and financial crisis and strengthen Asia economic cooperation,
including through the possible establishment of an economic
community of Asia.
(b) Japan’s new proposal to reinvigorate the discussion towards
building, in the long run, an East Asian community based on the
principle of openness, transparency and inclusiveness and
functional cooperation.
(c) Australia’s proposal on the Asia Pacific community in which
ASEAN will be at its core, will be further discussed at a 1.5 track
conference to be organized by Australia in December 2009.

In addition to these proposals India also has its proposal for an Asian Economic Community.

2010 

The Chairman's Statement of the 16th ASEAN Summit (9 April 2010) stated:

ASEAN’s  External Relations

40.    We expressed  our  overall  satisfaction with the progress in ASEAN’s cooperation with external partners within the frameworks of ASEAN+1, ASEAN+3 and East Asia Summit processes. We appreciated the valuable  support and financial assistance accorded to ASEAN by  its external partners.

41.    We reaffirmed the importance of ASEAN’s  cooperation  with external partners in maintaining peace and stability in the region, enhancing  ASEAN’s internal regional integration, narrowing the development gap, enhancing intra-ASEAN connectivity and expanding ASEAN’s connectivity to the wider region.

42.    Emphasizing the need to successfully conclude action plans/work programmes, cooperation agreements in trade, economic and socio-cultural fields with ASEAN’s dialogue partners, we tasked our sectoral Ministers to work closely with their external partners towards that aim.