[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# ADIVIMA

ADIVIMA (The Association for the Integral Development of the Victims of the Violence of the Verapaces, Maya Achí) is a non-profit human rights organization in Guatemala that works to find solutions to the social, economic, political, cultural, and educational problems that resulted from the Guatemalan Civil War.  The organization is based in Rabinal, Baja Verapaz, and concentrates its work in the surrounding communities that were some of those most affected by the violence of the internal conflict.

History
ADIVIMA was officially formed in 1994 when three survivors of the Rio Negro Massacre – Carlos Chen, Jesus Tecu Osorio and Pedrina Burrero Lopez – expanded their community group for orphans, widows, widowers, displaced persons and survivors of the internal conflict to form an official organization. The initial project of ADIVIMA was to work to get exhumations from the Rio Negro massacres and prosecute those responsible for the human rights violations. Jesus Tecu Osorio was essential in leading this project, and through his efforts and those of ADIVIMA, some of the mass graves of the Rio Negro massacre were exhumed and nine of those responsible were prosecuted and convicted. In 1996, Jesus Tecu Osorio won the Reebok Human Rights Award for his work in the case.

Organizational structure
ADIVIMA's work to assist survivors falls into three main categories: Human rights, socioeconomic development, and community organization.

Human rights legal support
During the past 13 years ADIVIMA has accompanied and supported survivors in many different human rights legal cases that the victims of the internal conflict have brought against the government. These include the cases of the numerous massacres and acts of genocide that occurred in the Maya Achí communities due to the active participation and action of the Guatemalan National Army and Civil Defense Patrol (PAC) squads as a part of the strategies of the governments of Lucas García, Benedicto Lucas y Efraín Ríos Montt.

The legal and penal processes of the cases in which ADIVIMA has accompanied have lasted more than thirteen years with some positive results, although there are many difficulties that exist that do not allow the goals and objectives of these cases to be completely met. Some of these difficulties include the use of resources by the defense teams to prolong trials and outlast the lesser resources of ADIVIMA, as well as the delay of the release of legal resolutions by the Constitutional Court, which can take up to two years.

In the case of the massacre that occurred in community of Río Negro on March 13, 1982, which killed 107 children and 70 women, the work of ADIVIMA, along with other individuals and organizations, has sent to prison nine PAC members responsible for the massacres, three of whom were sentenced to 50 years in prison. In 2006, during a public forum, an order was issued to capture three more PAC members responsible for the massacres.  Although the motion was presented before the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, the state has shown little will to capture or punish the three PAC patrol men.  The case against the military detachment responsible in this situation is another circumstance that qualifies under this paradigm. They have also been denounced by ADIVIMA before the Public Minister for their crimes against humanity.

Legal and psychosocial accompaniment to exhumations
Undertaking exhumations is a lengthy and complex process that can last anywhere from several months to several years. ADIVIMA works to facilitate and coordinate this process so as to make it as simple as possible for the families of the victims. This process involves identifying sites of clandestine mass graves, gathering testimony from eyewitness survivors, planning traditional Mayan ceremonies before the exhumations, coordinating the efforts of the forensic anthropologists at the FAFG to exhume the graves, creating a petition from information from the forensic anthropologists, presenting the cases before the Public Ministry, and coordinating proper funerals and burial ceremonies with families of the victims.
This long process is important in the documentation of the events that occurred during the internal conflict as well as to allow the families of the victims to bury the deceased in legal cemeteries. ADIVIMA has worked on more than 250 investigations and denunciations of clandestine cemeteries in Baja Verapaz and more than 25 in Alta Verapaz. ADIVIMA has provided legal accompaniment in 59 of the exhumations executed in Baja Verapaz and 6 in Alta Verapaz.  In 2006 alone, ADIVIMA provided accompaniment and support in more than 14 exhumations of clandestine graves.