[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Worldwar: Striking the Balance

Worldwar: Striking the Balance is an alternate history novel by American writer Harry Turtledove. It is the fourth and final novel of the Worldwar tetralogy and the fourth installment in the extended Worldwar series, which includes the Colonization trilogy and the novel Homeward Bound.

In this book, while the Race considers total annihilation or continuing hostilities, the humans make a stand for the sovereignty of the planet.

Plot summary

At the beginning of 1944, the Battle of Chicago has ended with the Race's forces decimated as a result of an American atomic bomb detonated in the heart of the city, destroying most of it. German forces in Western Europe have successfully kept the Race from reaching the Rhine and managed to hurl back the Race's troops in Poland after a nuclear attack on Breslau. The Soviets have managed to stop the Race's assault on Moscow and accepted the surrender of a band of disillusioned alien soldiers. After a landing in the United Kingdom, Winston Churchill inflicted a massive victory against the Race by using mustard gas, gaining much abandoned technology, and inspiring other nations to use poison gas.

The United States attempts to reverse engineer captured Race technology in an effort to create ballistic missiles at a military base in Couch, Missouri. Sergeant Yeager attempts to help Robert Goddard and other scientists with that research by interrogating captured aliens. By now, Yeager has become an expert translator of the Race's language, making him an invaluable asset to Goddard. In the process of his work, Yeager has developed a friendship with two of the alien prisoners: Ristin and Ulhass. Both members of the Race show an alarming adaptability to American customs, learning to play baseball and adopting human slang, along with a surprising willingness to help their human captors.

The Race has apparently lost interest in Chicago and seeks instead to capture Denver. Captain Rance Auerbach is among the US Army soldiers who are ordered to try to halt the new offensive. However, the Race's superior firepower and mobility crush American resistance with relative ease. During the fighting, Rance is critically wounded and incapacitated. He awakens in a refugee hospital to find that the Race is advancing rapidly on Denver. General Omar Bradley prepares defenses around Denver; as the site of America's nuclear weapons program, it must be defended at all costs. Fortunately, Brigadier General Groves and the metallurgical laboratory manage to produce an atomic bomb, which they use to halt the Race. Fleetlord Atvar considers a nuclear strike against Denver in retaliation but decides against it since the nuclear fallout would harm the Race's forces. Instead, he orders the detonation of one over the front lines in Florida, causing the collapse of the entire American position in that state. Americans are upset by the recent death of President Franklin Roosevelt, and Atvar hopes that will cause a succession crisis, tearing the United States apart, but that does not happen inasmuch as the Presidency is smoothly transferred to US Secretary of State Cordell Hull.

The US Army, under the command of General George Patton, launches a counteroffensive down the Mississippi River that slowly liberates it from the Race. It manages to reach Quincy, Illinois, but begin taking higher and higher casualties as it progresses. The first American ballistic missiles are also launched against the Race, but they are so crude and unsophisticated that they do little damage against the invaders. Many of the missiles are easily destroyed by the Race's anti-missile systems. However, stocks of anti-missile weapons are low since the Race already expended many to shoot down German missiles. The speed with which the Americans and Germans have developed such weapons stuns and frightens the Race.

In Poland, the Wehrmacht continues its advance eastward toward Lodz. However, as they get deeper and deeper into Polish territory, it encounters Jewish partisans whose sympathies lean toward the Race. Mordechai Anielewicz and his fellow Jews do not trust the Germans and do not wish to see them in control of Poland, but they do not wish to see the Race rule the world either. That situation is exacerbated by the realization that Soviet forces in Ukraine are slowly making their way toward Poland as well. No one is sure what will happen if and when the Wehrmacht and the Red Army meet on the battlefield.

Colonel Heinrich Jäger, a tank commander who has had experience with the partisans, manages to convince Anielewicz that the German forces will not repeat their previous persecution of the Jews. For a time, the Wehrmacht and the partisans manage to work together against the Race.