[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Combat Assault Vehicle

ire Support.
Flight sections consists of 2 Gunship models.
Mortar platoons have 4-6 Infantry models with the Fire Support role and Transports to carry them.
Recon sections have 4-6 CAV or Vehicle models with Model Role: Recon.
Transport sections have 4-6 models with Model Role: Transport.

Game Play

CAV games are usually played on either a 4’x6’ or 4’x8’ area.  4’x4' areas are also acceptable for games 2,000 points or smaller.  Each Task Force will have its own Deployment Zone; this is the area where all of a player's models begin the game.  Each player's Deployment Zone is usually as far away from the other players’ as possible.  In a game with two sides, this usually means opposite sides of the table.  If there are multiple players or sides involved, the Zones are usually equally spread out around the table.

To determine when each player gets to take a turn, CAV utilizes an Initiative Deck.  Using a standard set of playing cards, each player is assigned a color, suit or number, depending on the number of players involved.  They are then given 1 card for each Section that they have in their Task Force.  These cards are all combined to create the Initiative Deck, which now has one card for each Section in the game.  The Initiative Deck is shuffled and the first card turned over. The player who “owns” that card gets to select one of his Sections to Activate.

When a Section is Activated, each model in the Section gets to perform two Actions.  Actions come in two varieties: Repeatable and Non-Repeatable.  Non-Repeatable Actions cover things like firing a model's weapons, performing special actions, initiating close combat or using a models electronics (ECM/Targeting).  Each model may only perform a Non-Repeatable action once per turn.  Repeatable Actions consist of things like moving, loading or unloading infantry from a transport and a model attempting to repair itself.  Each model may perform the same Repeatable Action twice in the same turn.

The two basic mechanics of the game are Movement and Ranged Combat. Each model has a Mov rating on its Data Card that is the number of inches it can move when performing a Movement Action.  So a model with a Mov of 12 could move up to 12” during its turn.  Since Movement is a Repeatable Action, the model could perform two Movement Actions during its turn and move up to 24”.  However a model's movement may be slightly altered by terrain on the battlefield.  Items such as rough terrain, water, trees and hills can hinder a model, forcing it to pay additional movement costs.

Ranged Combat deals with four primary stats in CAV: # of Attacks (#DA or #IA), Ranged Attack Value (RAV), Range (Rng) and Defensive Value (DV).  First off, there are two different types of Ranged Attacks: Direct Attacks (DA) and Indirect Attacks (IA).  Direct Attacks may only be performed in there is an un-interrupted Line Of Sight between the acting model and its target.  Indirect Attacks may be performed against any target, regardless of Line Of Sight.  All weapon systems in CAV are designated as either DA or IA and may only be used to perform those types of attacks.

The basics of resolving an attack are: 
Declare which of your models is attacking, the type of attack it is using (DA or IA) and its target.
Roll 1d10 and add your model's RAV to the die roll
Subtract any modifiers the target might have for range or cover
If your modified roll is equal to or greater than the target's DV, you inflict a point of damage.

CAV also has a mechanic for Critical Hits, which can inflict multiple points of damage.

After all of the models in the active Section have performed their attacks, any enemy models that were attacked get a chance to perform Defensive Fire.  The Defensive Fire mechanic represents the level of automation and advanced technology that exists in the CAV game world.  Each time a model is attacked, its on-board computer automatically retaliates by firing back at its attacker.  In game terms, when a model is the target of one or more Ranged Attacks during an enemy Section's Activation phase, it gets to perform one Defensive Shot. The player who controls the targeted model gets to choose one of the attacking models to be the target of his Defensive Shot.  The model may only perform one Defensive Shot per Activation, regardless of how many models attacked it or how many Ranged Attacks were performed against it.  However Defensive Fire is triggered by the simple act of declaring a Ranged Attack against a model, so even if the attacks do no damage, the target model still gets to perform his Defensive Shot.

If any models ever sustain more points of damage than they have Damage Tracks, they are destroyed.  Destroyed models may be replaced with counters to represent their location or simply laid on their side.