[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vremya

of Education and were also seen on Programme 4. Later, a live morning edition was shown at 6:30 am, before the breakfast programme 120 minut (which continues today on Channel One Russia as Dobroye Utro, Russian: ) on weekdays (on weekends a morning edition of Vremya aired at 8:00 am after sign-on).

News summaries were added as the transmissions increased during the day. There was a bulletin at the end of the morning and midday programmes (i.e. around 1:00 pm), an afternoon edition at 3:00 pm, and another at 6:30 pm on the first channel. From 1989, the latter bulletin began to use the two presenter format of Vremya, as well as the Vremya moniker, and its corresponding studio and graphics (including the title sequence and theme music), looking as it was the program's first edition (the 6:30 am program was the morning news edition while the one at 1 pm was the midday update), with the 9:00 pm telecast as the second (main) edition and the one at 11:00 pm as the third or late edition or the late night replay. The All-Union Programme's daytime schedule always began with the news at around 15:00. Midnight newscasts did not appear until the 1980s, when the First Programme screened a headline update preceding the closedown sequence, usually after midnight. All of these bulletins were known as Novosti (Russian: , "The News"). From 1989, the 15:00 news round-up on the All-Union Programme and the midnight news round-up on the First Programme were known as TSN: Television News Service (Russian: TCH: , TSN:Televizionnaya sluzhba novostey), which ended in 1991. Today the news on Channel One Russia follows a similar schedule to this one, with Vremya, Novosti, and the all-Russian and regional news updates.

The majority of Russians rely on Vremya as a trusted news source.

Between 1980 and 1984, and since 1986, Vremya has used the theme song from Time, Forward! as its signature tune and opening sequence.

In a two-week test that lasted from 12 to 23 February 1990, more than 100 PBS member stations across the United States broadcast Vremya. The test was coordinated by WGBH-TV. The test was then extended for another two weeks, but was not carried by all of the same stations.

Coverage during the last days of the USSR
After the introduction of the glasnost and perestroika, Vremya loosened its fidelity to the party line and began presenting fair reports about the events transforming Eastern Europe at the time. On 15 March 1989 150 million Soviet citizens watched as the station aired an 85-page speech by Gorbachev to a plenum of the CPSU Central Committee criticizing the poor state of agriculture and setting out the case for reforms, the highlights of that address being featured on that day's telecast.

In the 1980s, 86% of Soviet adults relied on television coverage as their primary source of news. Yet Vremya was seen as "a joke" by many Soviet citizens due to its poor coverage of news events. The coverage of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, for example, was often relegated to lesser news items during the ongoing coverage of the disaster; in contrast, western news media such as CBS Evening News led with the story for six consecutive weekdays. Following the evacuation of the nuclear workers' closed city of Pripyat, Vremya issued the following brief announcement:

In 1987 the program logo appeared for the first time in its studio. 1988 saw a big change for the newscast as its studios featured picture backdrops for the first time, and debuted a new logo, with a styled letter В in a box (this was the year of its 20th anniversary). On 19 August 1991 it showed pictures of the impending coup d'etat in Moscow for the first time, albeit in the new styled studios which opened in 1990.

Vremya covered highlights of the March 1989 elections for the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union and the sessions of the Congress in Moscow, making interviews with its leadership and deputies.

Transition
The last Soviet-era Vremya newscast was broadcast on 27 August 1991 and replaced with another news programme known as TV-Inform (ru: ) the following day. The closure was due to pressure from RSFSR President Boris Yeltsin claiming that the programme was "too tied to the CPSU", but according to the news anchors themselves it was due to CT USSR being forced to lay off a large number of their staff which were said to be KGB agents. When the USSR dissolved in December that year, the programme, now Novosti Ostankino, changed broadcasters from Soviet Central Television to the new Ostankino Television 1 and 4. During the network's name change to ORT-1 (Public Russian Television-1, Russian: ) in April 1995, and Ostankino 4's earlier 1994 reformatting into NTV, the newscast was integrated as part of the Novosti ITA brand of newscasts with the 9pm edition being the flagship.