[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Grand Bay-Westfield

John) operates a Zodiac Hurricane 733 fast rescue craft in the lower Saint John River, covering all areas downstream from Evandale to the Reversing Falls, including the Kennebecasis River and Belleisle Bay. IRB Station Saint John is tasked by Joint Rescue Coordination Centre Halifax.

Neighbourhoods

Grand Bay 
Grand Bay – These three neighbourhoods (areas around Murray St, Thompson Rd & Bayview Rd) constitute the original village of Grand Bay. It is the downtown core of the town. Most businesses are located here and the area borders the city of Saint John.
Highlands/Round Lake – heavily wooded and very steep, wind through the backlands and end at Round Lake.
Pamdenec – The town hall and fire department are located here at 609-615 River Valley Drive. 
Epworth Park – Loyalist Captain John Hayter was granted 400 acres on land on the St. John River and settled at what is now Epworth Park. His brother William later built the first frame house near Epworth Park, to which his brother John Hayter and his family moved when they left the log house which they had erected in 1783. About 1907, two Saint John Methodist Ministers, Rev. James Crisp and Rev. Neil MacLaughlan hoped to establish a campground in the area similar to the Beulah Camp at Browns Flat. Charles Hayter, a descendant of John Hayter, sold the pair a parcel of land near the river for $1500 which they named Epworth Park after the hometown of John Wesley, the founder of the Methodist Church. Cottages began to be built, mainly for Methodist familiar from Saint John. Eventually the Church campground idea was abandoned and families of various denominations started building summer cottages. 
Brandy Point Estates – A suburban-type neighbourhood built in the 1970s and 1980s. Historically part of Epworth Park, it is now much larger in population than Epworth.
Ingleside – The last community before Milligan Brook before you enter Westfield.
Panoramic Estates – This is a new neighbourhood being built just north of the Centrum.
Epworth Park Heights – This neighbourhood is west of Epworth Park and is much higher. Epworth Park Heights is very distinct from Epworth Park proper.
Beverly Hills & Valley View Estates – This growing neighbourhood is located off Woolastook Drive. The streets of the area are characterized by extremely steep hills and dense woods.
Brookdale Heights – A hilly neighbourhood on the edge of Milligan Brook. Brookside Park is a small garden area located near the entrance to the neighbourhood.

Westfield 
Ononette – In 1902, the name Ononette was given to the Canadian Pacific Railway station serving the area from Milligan Brook to the Inglewood Road. The name Ononette was given to the community by William Francis Ganong. Prior to 1902, the station had been named Riverbank. The name is derived from Pointe au Ognonette, the Acadians' name for Brandy Point. Although Brandy Point had once been its own flag station on the Canadian Pacific Railway, by 1898 the flag station and surrounding neighbourhood had been renamed Ingleside. Since he liked the name and it was no longer in use elsewhere, Ganong reappropriated the name Ononette for the next station up the river. 
Hillandale – Formerly called Ballentine or Woolastook, Hillandale was the name given to the Canadian Pacific Railway station serving the area from Inglewood Road to the ferry landing at Brundage Point. Hillandale remains the name of a prominent road stretching all the way to the backlands, but the name also saw a brief resurgence in popularity as a finalist on the ballot for the new town name during the Higgs-Allain Local Governance Reforms.
Westfield Beach – In the 1800s this sandy stretch along the banks of the Wolastoq was a summer community for residents of Saint John. The Westfield Beach station became a hub for two railways, where one from Maine and the other from Fredericton joined here en route to Saint John. Accordingly, the Westfield Beach station was larger than others in the area, housing a telegraph office and manicured park. 
Lingley – Lingley was named for Peter and Mary Lingley, Loyalists from New York State who established a large farm there. This community, extending from the mouth of the Nerepis River to the lower end of Chestnut Drive, sustained more damage than any other during the Great Fire of 1921.
Sagwa – The entire community was part of the 6000-acre grant known as Glazier's Manor, which was acquired by General John Coffin in 1783. 
Nerepis – The railway station at Nerepis was only a shelter and quite small. It was built on the downriver side of the beginning of the Brittain Road. Boxcars were often left here on a siding near the station. This community around the former Nerepis Station, commonly called Nerepis, is not to be confused with the separate community of Nerepis, which lies on the other side of the Nerepis River across the Brittain Road Bridge. Nerepis is part of Grand Bay-Westfield.

Municipal Symbols