[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alan Hart (writer)

Alan Hart (17 February 1942 – 15 January 2018) was an author, conspiracy theorist, former Middle East Chief Correspondent for Independent Television News, and former BBC Panorama presenter specialising in the Middle East. He wrote the three-part series Zionism: The Real Enemy of the Jews, and promoted 9/11 conspiracy theories about Israel, which were deemed antisemitic by the Anti-Defamation League.

Career
Hart began his career as a reporter in Central Africa, on the Nyasaland Times, and served as a war correspondent in Vietnam.  He tells of having been the first Western correspondent to reach the banks of the Suez Canal with the Israeli army in 1967. He recounted having been friendly with both Golda Meir and Yasser Arafat at roughly the same time and having been on friendly terms with such leaders as Saudi Arabia's King Faisal, Jordan's King Hussein, and both Egyptian presidents Nasser and Sadat.

Hart said he was told by his editor Geoffrey Cox early in his career: "Never forget that leaders are the most lonely people in the world because they are surrounded by sycophants who only tell them what they want to hear. They, the leaders, are crying out for honest conversation."  Inspired by this advice, he says, he held "private one-on-one conversations over the years with leaders on both sides of the Arab-Israeli connection, giving him a rare insight into the truth of what they really believed and feared as opposed to what they said in public for propaganda and myth-sustaining purposes."

In 1973, Hart addressed global poverty with a two-hour film titled Five Minutes to Midnight. Its world premiere was hosted by Secretary General Kurt Waldheim at the opening of the 7th Special Session of the UN General Assembly that had been called to discuss a new world economic order.

Hart was involved in the failed attempt by the last Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, to gain exile in the UK after he was deposed in the Iranian Revolution. On 9 February 1979, as a freelance journalist close to the Shah, Hart contacted Downing Street to say the deposed royal was interested in living full-time at his lavish estate in Surrey, southwest of London.

Hart also told of having been the unofficial linkman in a secret exploratory dialogue between Arafat and Shimon Peres in 1980.

Hart was never a member of any political party or group. When asked what drove him he said, "I have three children, and, when the world falls apart, I want to be able to look them in the eye and say, "Don't blame me.  I tried."

Views

Israel
Hart was a critic of Zionism, writing in 2007 that:
The colonial enterprise that Zionism is has corrupted everything it touched, beginning with the United Nations and including the mainstream media, what passes for democracy in the Western world (America especially) and Judaism itself.

In an article published on the Iranian Press TV, Hart described Zionists as "The New Nazis" and argue that "Europeans and Americans could have stopped the original Nazis and prevented the extermination of six million Jews. If Europeans and Americans do not stop the New Nazis, it is likely that their end game will be the extermination of millions of Palestinians."

In a letter to British Conservative Party leader David Cameron in August 2007, Hart wrote that "the Zionist state, which came into being as a consequence of Zionism terrorism and ethnic cleansing, had no right to exist and, more to the point, could have no right to exist unless ... it was recognised and legitimized by those who were dispossessed of their land and their rights during the creation of the Zionist state. In international law only the Palestinians could give Israel the legitimacy it craved. And that legitimacy was the only thing the Zionists could not and cannot take from the Palestinians by force." He also stated that the "Jews who went to Palestine in answer to Zionism's call had no biological connection to the ancient Hebrews. The incoming Zionist Jews were mainly foreign nationals of many lands... The notion that there are two entire peoples with an equally valid claim to the same land is an historical nonsense.". Hart has also suggested that the United States is in danger of an Israeli nuclear strike with a stolen nuclear weapon to trigger a war with Iran and "finish the ethnic cleansing of Palestine" under cover of war, which Hart claims that Israel is planning to do "as soon as the opportunity presents itself."