[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Soulton Hall

to be used to hide scholars and priests from the authorities during the turmoil of the sixteenth century.
This memorial honours all who have suffered persecution for their beliefs.

On the beams in this room there are also quotations from Michel de Montaigne.

Epidaurus Court, a Tudor theatre space 

A theatre court, modelled on the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus, was built by Hill in the precinct of the house to the east of the current hall: the hall itself forms the theatre screen.

This was completed by 1560 and therefore predates Teatro Olimpico and the Elizabethan Theatres such as The Globe and The Rose.

Parlours in the basement and Rithmomachia Floor 

Some of the basement rooms retain their original Tudor treatment, including flooring, indicating that these were 'polite' rooms, rather than service spaces.

One of these rooms (The Rithmomachia Room) contains in the tiles a games board for Rithmomachia, which is an early European bard game also known as The Philosopher's Game, an account of which Sir Rowland Hill printed with the title The most ancient and learned Playe, called the Philosopher's Game invented for the honest recreation of Students and other sober persons, in passing the tedious of tyme to the release of their labours, and the exercise of their Wittes.

Other features

Curtilage buildings 
The broader precinct incorporates a number of 18th-century farm buildings constituting a 'model farm' from the Regency Era Age of Improvement. Most intact among these is a linear range now known as Soulton Court bearing a 1783 datestone relating to later work, but incorporating an earlier manorial hall or courtroom of unknown date prior to the mid-1600s.

This courtroom is traditionally associated with an aborted witch trial of the 17th century.

Restoration door case 
In 1668 a semi-circular door case bearing the marital coat of arms of Thomas Hill, a descendant of Sir Rowland's and a friend of Samuel Pepys was added above the front door.

Lost buildings 
A dovecot once existed to the south west of the garden wall which was dismantled by the end of the 1800s.

An octagonal horse engine existed in the 1780s buildings just outside the base court to the north west.

Landscape gardens 
The landscape across the current farm and beyond to Hawkstone was recruited by Hill to make allegorical references to scripture.

Symbols

Coat of arms 
The arms of Thomas Hill, sometime high sheriff of Shropshire were added above the senior door in 1668.

Flag and badge 
The house flag is a square teal banner with an eight-pointed star inside a circle, with looping garlands between the points of the star: three of these garlands are shaded and five are not. This symbol is taken from the preserved Dancing Pavement on the site and found in documents in the hall's archive.

Linked buildings

In the region 

The house of Bachegraig/Bach-y-Graig is understood to be 'the first brick house in Wales', built by Sir Rowland Hill's associate Richard Clough has been argued to have been based on Soulton Hall. That house is acknowledged to the be in an Antwerp style by Flemish craftsmen and were the first brick houses in Wales. While Clough's house has been demolished it shows important features in the Soulton design that were altered in later phases.

The architectural and political project that Sir Rowland Hill instigated is understood to have continued to yield fruits in the immediate area, Hawkstone Abbey Farm and Hawkstone Hall are both buildings taking stylistic cues from the building. Attingham Park, also a Hill house, is also thought to be within the wider cultural project. 

The house is historically associated with St Mary's Church, Edstaston: the name of the house and family is carved into the church porch in the 1600s signifying their patronage.

In London 
The historian James D. Wenn has noted a close connection with Sir Christopher Wren's St Mary Abchurch, which is the same size and shape.

In the United States 

Some affinity both architectural, and by family connections has been attributed to Soulton with various early colonial American buildings, in particular Rosewell (plantation) in Virginia.

History

Saxon and earlier

Within the manor is evidence of Bronze Age habitation, and some signs of Neolithic activity.

The name of the manor is Saxon and means either 'settlement with a plough' or 'settlement with reeds' or possibly 'settlement in/near a gully' .

The manor of Soulton existed at the time of the Domesday Book in 1086 (see: PASE Domesday) and is recorded as "Svltune". The Domesday Book records the manor as having previously been freely held by Brihtric — most likely the same Brihtric who was the brother of Eadric Streona the Ealdorman of Mercia from 1007 to 1017. Both Brihtric and Eadric were slain by King Cnut on Christmas Day, 1017.