[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yeshivat HaHesder Yerucham

ety in general. The yeshiva believes that the keys to solving Israel's socioeconomic gaps lie in integration and education. All the students volunteer in the community mainly in the field of education. Many of the yeshiva's alumni settle in Yeruham instead of heading to the country's central cities.

The yeshiva also promotes other programs, among them:
 Ye'adim (goals) - Concern of the Ethiopian Jewry in Israel's situation led Yerucham students to create a leadership training program for Ethiopian students with the intention of their returning to their communities. During the 5 years of Hesder the students synchronize their full Yeshiva studies with a B.Ed. degree in Herzog College.
 Young Study Partners - First and second year students dedicate 2 hours weekly to studying Torah subjects with children from the local elementary school. They also serve as positive role models for the local youth and look to form a connection with their families.
 Charity Fund - The goal of the Fund is to help the needy of Yeruham become self-sufficient and better managers of their money. The Fund uses the cooperation of the local welfare and professional financial advisors to this end.
 B'levav Shalem Yeshiva High School – Because of the lack of high quality religious high schools in the Negev, and as a part of the integration program the Hesder Yeshiva believes in, it was decided by alumni, residents of Yerucham, to open a Yeshiva High School for the local and general population.

Educational staff

The original Rosh Yeshiva was Rabbi Eliyahu Blumenzweig. In 2018, Rabbi Blumenzweig retired, and Rabbi Uriel Eitam and Rabbi Chaim Wolfson were appointed to be the new roshei yeshiva. Rabbi Uriel Eitam and Rabbi Chaim Wolfson had previously both worked as teachers (ra'amim) in the yeshiva for a number of years.

The other rabbis who teach in the Yeshiva are Rabbi Shmuel Gleizer, Rabbi Achiya Ben Pazi, Rabbi Shmuel Ariel, Rabbi Shai Gnizi, Rabbi Asher Weiss, Rabbi Ido Heber, and Rabbi Elyakim Sharir. Rabbi Gnizi, Rabbi Gleizer, Rabbi Asher Weiss, and Rabbi Ben Pazi all began as students in the yeshiva. There are also rabbis who come from afar to give weekly classes, such as Rabbi Eliyahu Bazak and Rabbi Meir Kahana. Previously there were other teachers who have since left. These include Rabbi Dr. Michael Abraham, Rabbi Ehud Barzilai, Rabbi Yair Ya'acobi (who is now serving as the rosh yeshiva of yerucham's religious highschool "B'levav Shalem"), Rabbi Avi Luria, Rabbis Yoseph Elitzor, and Rabbi Nir Weinberg (who left to establish and head the Hazor'im Yeshiva High-School in the lower Galilee).

Yeshiva's publications
Here are some of the publications from the yeshiva's collective student body that have come out over the past number of years:

Kutanot Or (Coats of Light) - "A Jewish Perspective on the meaning of modesty and its value", collection of essays edited by Yeshiva's students.
Mimidbar Matana (A Present From The Desert) - A monthly newsletter which is sent out to students in the IDF and alumni.
Meisharim (Righteous) - A journal of articles on a variety of Torah topics, written by the students and teachers, published annually by the Yeshiva.
Hahazit ShebaOref (The Home-Front Front) - A collection of essays dealing with the trials and challenges of a non-combat soldier. The book's intention is to answer some of the questions that soldiers serving in non-field units, such as the importance of their service, and halakhic perspective on different situations.

Many of the rabbis that teach in the yeshiva have also published a number of sefarim.

See also
Hesder
Yeshiva
Yerucham 
Torah 
Israel 
Gemara
Brisker method

References

External links
Yeshivat HaHesder Yerucham (Hebrew)
Midreshet Beyahad (Hebrew)

Bibliography 

Yerucham
Educational institutions established in 1993
1993 establishments in Israel