[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Photophoresis

25 km altitude. Payload capacity is 300 mg and could support bidirectional radio communication at over 10 Mb/s and some navigational control. By upscaling the structure  it might carry payloads of a few grams. They suggest uses for telecommunications, and deployment on Mars.

Theory of photophoresis

Direct photophoresis is caused by the transfer of photon momentum to a particle by refraction and reflection. Movement of particles in the forward direction occurs when the particle is transparent and has an index of refraction larger compared to its surrounding medium. Indirect photophoresis occurs as a result of an increase in the kinetic energy of molecules when particles absorb incident light only on the irradiated side, thus creating a temperature gradient within the particle. In this situation the surrounding gas layer reaches temperature equilibrium with the surface of the particle. Molecules with higher kinetic energy in the region of higher gas temperature impinge on the particle with greater momenta than molecules in the cold region; this causes a migration of particles in a direction opposite to the surface temperature gradient. The component of the photophoretic force responsible for this phenomenon is called the radiometric force. This comes as a result of uneven distribution of radiant energy (source function within a particle).
Indirect photophoretic force depends on the physical properties of the particle and the surrounding medium.

For pressures , where the free mean path of the gas is much larger than the characteristic size  of the suspended particle (direct photophoresis), the longitudinal force is 

where the mean temperature of the scattered gas is (thermal accommodation coefficient , momentum accommodation coefficient )

and the black body temperature of the particle (net light flux , Stefan Boltzmann constant , temperature of the radiation field )
.
 is the thermal conductivity of the particle.
The asymmetry factor for spheres  is usually  (positive longitudinal photophoresis).
For non-spherical particles, the average force exerted on the particle is given by the same equation where the radius  is now the radius of the respective volume-equivalent sphere.

References

External links
Photophoresis in the context of astrophysics
Negative photophoresis

Atomic, molecular, and optical physics
Physical phenomena