[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# HASTAC

HASTAC (/ˈhāˌstak/'), also known as the Humanities, Arts, Science and Technology Alliance and Collaboratory, is a virtual organization and platform of more than 18,000 individuals and 400+ affiliate-institutions dedicated to innovative new modes of learning and research.  HASTAC network members contribute to the community by sharing work and ideas with others via the open-access website, by hosting HASTAC conferences and workshops online or in their region by initiating conversations, or by working collaboratively with others in the HASTAC network.

Until 2016, HASTAC administered the annual $2 million MacArthur Foundation Digital Media and Learning Competition. The 2011 Competition, “Badges for Lifelong Learning,” launched in collaboration with the Mozilla Foundation, focused on digital badges as a means to inspire learning, confirm accomplishment, or validate the acquisition of knowledge or skills.

HASTAC has been funded by Digital Promise, the National Science Foundation, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Duke University and Arizona State University. As of 2021, it is jointly administered and funded by The Graduate Center, CUNY and Dartmouth College.

Founding 
HASTAC was founded in 2002 by Cathy N. Davidson, Ruth F. DeVarney Professor of English, John Hope Franklin Humanities Institute Professor of Interdisciplinary Studies and co-director of the PhD Lab in Digital Knowledge at Duke University and co-founder of the John Hope Franklin Humanities Institute at Duke University, and David Theo Goldberg, Director of the University of California's statewide Humanities Research Institute (UCHRI).

At a meeting of humanities leaders held by the Mellon Foundation in 2002, it was clear that Davidson and Goldberg had each, independently, been working on a variety of projects with leading scientists and engineers dedicated to expanding the innovative uses of technology in research, teaching, and electronic publishing.  They resolved to contact others who were building and analyzing the social and ethical dimensions of new technologies and soon formed the HASTAC consortium with a dozen or so other noted educators, scientists, and technology designers.

Currently, HASTAC is governed by a Steering Committee of individuals from different institutions and disciplines.

Membership

According to its website, “HASTAC members are motivated by the conviction that the digital era provides rich opportunities for informal and formal learning and for collaborative, networked research that extends across traditional disciplines, across the boundaries of the academy and the community, across the "two cultures" of humanism and technology, across the divide of thinking versus making, and across social strata and national borders."

HASTAC's members include professors, students, public intellectuals, artists, educators, software or hardware designers, scientists, gamers, programmers, librarians, and social and political organizers. Specializations include the full range of the humanities and social sciences, the arts, journalism, digital humanities, computational fields, sciences, information science, and engineering, plus those interested in intellectual property issues  and public policy on a local or global scale.

Programs

HASTAC Scholars program 
In 2008, HASTAC initiated the HASTAC Scholars Program, an annual fellowship program that recognizes graduate and undergraduate students who are engaged in innovative work across the areas of technology, the arts, the humanities, and the social sciences. As of 2021, over 1,800 people from 260 institutions have been named HASTAC Scholars, functioning as links between their home institutions and the virtual community they foster on the HASTAC site. "HASTAC scholars participate in and encourage conversations often by blogging, tweeting, podcasting, or co-hosting forums with HASTAC scholars
from other universities, among other various means of connection".

HASTAC/MacArthur Foundation Digital Media and Learning Competition 
Created in 2007, the HASTAC/MacArthur Foundation Digital Media and Learning Competition  is designed to find and inspire the most innovative uses of new media in support of connected learning.  Awards have recognized individuals, for-profit companies, universities, and community organizations using new media to transform learning. Information about Digital Media and Learning Competition winners can be found on HASTAC.

The Digital Media and Learning Competition is funded by the MacArthur Foundation and administered by HASTAC. For the fourth competition, other partners included the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and Mozilla.