[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 26]
# List of coups and coup attempts

d carry out the plot.
Sarıkız, Ayışığı, Yakamoz and Eldiven were the names of alleged Turkish military coup plans in 2004.
2004 Sudanese coup attempt was a coup d'état attempt in March 2004 against the president Omar al-Bashir and his cabinet, orchestrated by opposition leaders and Hassan Al-Turabi.

2005
 Peru coup attempt next to civil uprising known as the Andahuaylazo, directed by Antauro Humala in the city of Andahuaylas
 Ecuador civil coup d'état of 2005. It resulted in the premature end of President Lucio Edwin Gutiérrez Borbúa's term
 Coup in Togo legalized by parliamentary vote but unrecognized by international community.
 King Gyanendra of Nepal overthrows the government in a self-coup, making him the head of government. The government is reestablished 24 April 2006 after a massive democracy movement.
2005 Mauritanian coup d'état: A military coup in Mauritania overthrows President Maaouya Ould Sid'Ahmed Taya. A new government is set up by a group of military officers headed by Colonel Ely Ould Mohamed Vall. The group formed the Military Council for Justice and Democracy (CMJD) to act as the governing council of the country.

2006

The Armed Forces of the Philippines allegedly attempted a military coup in the Philippines targeting President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, which led to a state of emergency in the country.
The United Front for Democratic Change allegedly attempts to instigate a military coup in Chad to overthrow President Idriss Déby.
The Royal Thai Army orchestrates a coup in Thailand that overthrows Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra while he is out of the country.
The Malagasy Popular Armed Forces allegedly attempt a military coup in Madagascar against President Marc Ravalomanana.
The military of Fiji overthrows President Josefa Iloilo and Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase in a bloodless coup.
The military of Côte d'Ivoire claims to foil a coup attempt targeting President Laurent Gbagbo.
A military attempted coup in Madagascar on 18 November 2006 led by General Andrianafidisoa against  President Marc Ravalomanana

2007
An alleged coup attempt by General Vang Pao and others in the United States to overthrow the Laotian government is foiled.
Philippines rebel forces led by opposition politician Sen. Antonio Trillanes from the Magdalo Group, storm the Peninsula hotel in an attempted coup.

2008
East Timorese President José Ramos-Horta is shot and injured in what Prime Minister Xanana Gusmão describes as an attempted coup.
2008 Mauritanian coup d'état: A military coup took place in Mauritania involving the seizure and the capture of the President Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi, Prime Minister Yahya Ould Ahmed El Waghef, and Interior Minister after the official sacking of several military officials. The coup was led by general Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz and general Mohamed Ould Ghazouani. 
A military coup occurs in Guinea after the death of President Lansana Conté.
2008 Sudanese coup attempt on 10 May was an attack by Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) rebel group on Omar al-Bashir's government around the capital Khartoum.

2009
Coup in Madagascar: the army seized one of the presidential palaces on 16 March 2009, at which president Marc Ravalomanana was not present. The proposal offered by the president for a referendum to solve the crisis was rejected. On 17 March 2009, Marc Ravalomanana resigned under pressure from the military.
 In Honduras, the army seized one of the presidential palaces on 28 June 2009, kidnapped president Manuel Zelaya Rosales due to his endeavor for an unconstitutional reelection and extradited him from the country. The 23-nation Rio Group & the United Nations General Assembly condemned the coup d'état.
 On 24 April 2009, the Ethiopian government claimed, through the Ethiopian News Agency, that it had foiled a coup attempt led by members of Ginbot 7 to overthrow the government. Ginbot 7 described the allegation that it had attempted a coup as a "baseless accusation" that fitted a pattern of distraction and scapegoating by the government.

2010–2019

2010
 On 18 February a Nigerien coup by Salou Djibo against President Mamadou Tandja.

2011
 2011 Bangladesh coup d'état attempt
 2011 Egyptian revolution – The Egyptian Supreme Council of the Armed Forces takes power after two weeks of mass protests, forcing long-time President Hosni Mubarak to step down and relinquish power to the council.

2012