[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Abdel-Wahed El-Wakil

ontemporary Mosque Architecture.
In 2008, El-Wakil was named the 2009 winner of the Richard H. Driehaus Prize for his contributions to classical architecture.

Memberships 

El-Wakil has also participated as a member of several juries on architecture and advisor to several institutions. He has been:

A Member of the Board of Trustees of the International Heritage Trust (founded by Lord Duncan Sands);
A Member of the Academic Board of the Prince of Wales school of Architecture;
Advisor to Astronaut Prince Sultan bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud High Commissioner of Tourism and of Saudi Heritage Trust;
President of the Jury for the reconstruction of the Old Souks of Beirut;
A member of the Jury and Think tank for the Aga Khan Prize for architecture;
Advisor to UNESCO for the development of a village to relocate the Bdul tribe in Petra, Jordan;
A member of the King Fahd award for the International Youth of the World Competition for Islamic Architecture;
A Member of the Jury for the competition of the urban development for Samarkhand historical centre;

El- Wakil has also participated in many International symposiums and lectures; in the US at Pratt Institute and the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the Rowlett Lectures at Texas A&M University, and the University of Texas at Austin.

Recent Activities 
El Wakil continues in vigorous professional activity, dividing his time between Middle Eastern capitals.

In Beirut, Lebanon, he has designed three projects including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on a prominent downtown site within the Solidere master plan; a town house re-interpreting traditional Levantine architecture to accommodate  contemporary usage; and the Bank of Kuwait in the downtown Solidere district.

In Qatar he is undertaking the Master Planning of a city quarter, integrating best contemporary low-energy planning practice with climate-tempered Islamic built form.

El Wakil has recently designed a boutique hotel in El-Gouna, Red Sea, Egypt, and a mixed-use residential quarter within the Solidere International project Cairo Eastown.

He is also doing small town houses, and a new mosque, in Riyadh.

With Prince Sultan, the Saudi astronaut, he worked on developing and restoring a  the old Al-'Udhaibat traditional farm in the Wadi Hanifa in Diriyah on the western outskirts of Riyadh. A book ‘Back to Earth’ recorded the project.

On a recent visit with the President of Senegal, El-Wakil was invited to develop experimental social housing in mud brick.

He has also been involved in the design development of a compressed-earth brick making machine in South Africa with the development of interlocking brick shapes.

El Wakil, empowered now with third-generation CAD programmes, is very technologically savvy. He retains his aim of designing, one day, in homage to Fathy, a sustainable village retaining the culture and forms of tradition. He avows that green architecture need not look industrial.

References

 Holod, Renata (1983) Architecture and community : building in the Islamic world today : the Aga Khan Award for Architecture Millerton, NY: Aperture;
"The Mosques of Abdel Wahed El-Wakil"  Al-Asad, Mohammed (1992) "The Mosques of Abdel Wahed El-Wakil" in MIMAR 42: Architecture in Development Concept Media Ltd., London;

External links

 Official website
 Wakil, Abdel Wahed el-  Artnet;
 Information on Archnet.org with links to plans.
 Corniche Mosque, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
 Halawa House, Agamy, Egypt.
 feat. Wakil, Driehaus Prize ceremony, Notre Dame School of Architecture

1943 births
Living people
People from Cairo
Ain Shams University alumni
New Classical architects
Driehaus Architecture Prize winners
20th-century Egyptian architects
21st-century Egyptian architects