[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Constructive set theory

unded if the following existence statement holds

This or the contrapositive variant

are statements of finiteness. For decidable properties, these are -statements in arithmetic, but with the Axiom of Infinity, the two quantifiers are set-bound. Denote an initial segment of the natural numbers, i.e.

for any  and including the empty set, by
.
This set equals  and so at this point "" is mere notation for its predecessor (i.e. not involving subtraction function).
To reflect more closely the discussion of functions below, write the above condition as
.
For a class , the logically positive unboundedness statement

is now also one of infinitude. It is  in the decidable arithmetic case. To validate infinitude of a set, this property even works if the set holds other elements besides infinitely many of members of .

Moderate induction in ECST 
Is instructive to recall the way in which a theory with set comprehension and extensionality ends up encoding predicate logic. Like any class in set theory, a set can be read as corresponding to predicates on sets. For example, an integer is even if it is a member of the set of even integers, or a natural number has a successor if it is a member of the set of natural numbers that have a successor. 
For a less primitive example, fix some set  and let  denote the existential statement that the function space on the finite ordinal into  exist. The predicate will be denoted  below, and here the existential quantifier is not merely one over natural numbers, nor is it bounded by any other set. Now a proposition like the finite exponentiation principle  and, less formally, the equality  are just two ways of formulating the same desired statement, namely an -indexed conjunction of existential propositions where  ranges over the set of all naturals. Via extensional identification, the second form expresses the claim using notation for subclass comprehension and the bracketed object on the right hand side may not even constitute a set. If that subclass is not provably a set, it may not actually be used in many set theory principles in proofs, and establishing the universal closure  as a theorem may not be possible. The set theory can thus be strengthened by more set existence axioms, to be used with predicative bounded Separation, but also by just postulating stronger -statements.

The second universally quantified conjunct in the strong axiom of Infinity expresses mathematical induction for all  in the universe of discourse, i.e. for sets. This is because the consequent of this clause, , states that all  fulfill the associated predicate. Being able to use predicative separation to define subsets of , the theory proves induction for all predicates  involving only set-bounded quantifiers. This role of set-bounded quantifiers also means that more set existence axioms impact the strength of this induction principle, further motivating the function space and collection axioms that will be a focus of the rest of the article. Notably,  already validates induction with quantifiers over the naturals, and hence induction as in the first-order arithmetic theory . 
The so called axiom of full mathematical induction for any predicate (i.e. class) expressed through set theory language is far stronger than the bounded induction principle valid in . The former induction principle could be directly adopted, closer mirroring second-order arithmetic. In set theory it also follows from full (i.e. unbounded) Separation, which says that all predicates on  are sets. Mathematical induction is also superseded by the (full) Set induction axiom.