[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Oliver H. Prince

en the state capital. He purchased and became the editor of the Georgia Journal, an influential newspaper.

He sold the journal in 1835, retiring with his family at the age of 48 to a  farm he bought in Athens, Georgia. Their son Oliver, Jr. attended a preparatory school in Gwinnett County, Georgia.

Prince and his wife left in May 1837 for a trip to New York and Boston, where he worked with his publisher for some months preparing the second edition of his Law Digest for publication. They missed their children and were looking forward to their return. After sailing from New York on October 7, 1837, both Prince and his wife died in the wreck of the steam packet ship SS Home, which was caught in Racer's Storm, a destructive hurricane that hit both the Gulf and Atlantic coasts. Although the ship had been converted for ocean going, it carried only three lifeboats and two life preservers. It grounded near Ocracoke Inlet, North Carolina on October 8, 1837, and broke up the next day. The ship was 537 tons,  long and  wide. The remains of the estimated 90 victims, mostly women and children, were never recovered. Years later, the three Prince children erected a cenotaph in Rose Hill Cemetery in Macon in their parents' honor.

Legacy and honors
Prince's most famous sketch was published anonymously in The Monitor on June 6, 1807, but it was reprinted, translated into several foreign languages, and published in Augustus Baldwin Longstreet's Georgia Scenes (1835), which went through several editions in the 19th century. Most famously, the sketch of Captain Clodpole and his Georgia militia recruits is believed to have been plagiarized by the British author Thomas Hardy in his The Trumpet Major (1888), in a chapter on an English rural militia. Such charges were ignored and then denied by Hardy but critics think the similarities are too strong to be coincidence. 
In 1859 Prince Avenue, the section of the Federal Road west of downtown in Athens, Georgia, was named for him. It had led from town to his plantation. Later in the road's development, it was described as "once one of the nation's finest boulevards."

References

External links
Donald E. Wilkes Jr, "Oliver H. Prince (1782-1837)" , New Georgia Encyclopedia (May 15, 2009)

Further reading
Virginia King Nirenstein, With Kindly Voices (1984)

1782 births
1837 deaths
People from Montville, Connecticut
Georgia (U.S. state) state senators
Writers from Athens, Georgia
Georgia (U.S. state) lawyers
Accidental deaths in North Carolina
Georgia (U.S. state) Jacksonians
Democratic Party United States senators from Georgia (U.S. state)
Deaths due to shipwreck at sea
United States senators who owned slaves