[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 168]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

nts; but horsemanship is the greatest pride
and passion of their souls; nor is there an individual who does not at
least possess several of these noble animals, which, though small in
size, are admirably adapted for the fatigues of war and the chase, and
endowed with incomparable swiftness. As to the Scythians themselves,
they excel all other nations, unless it be the Arabs, in their courage
and address in riding; without a saddle, or even a bridle, their young
men will vault upon an unbacked courser, and keep their seats, in spite
of all his violent efforts, till they have rendered him tame and
obedient to their will. In their military expeditions they neither
regard the obstacles of nature nor the inclemency of the season; and
their horses are accustomed to traverse rocks and mountains with a
facility that is incredible. If they reach a river, instead of waiting
for the tedious assistance of boats and bridges, the warrior divests
himself of his clothes and arms, which he places in a bundle upon the
horse's back, and then, plunging into the stream, conducts him over by
the bridle. Even in the midst of winter, when the hatred of other
nations gives way to the inclemencies of the season, the Scythian
follows his military labours, and rejoices to see the earth thick
covered with frost and snow, because it affords him a solid path in his
excursions; neither the severest cold nor the most violent storms can
check his ardour. Wrapped up in the thick furs of animals, the patient
horseman pursues his march, while all his food for weeks together is
comprised in a little bag of seeds or corn. Javelins, and bows and
arrows, are the arms which these people are taught from their infancy to
use with surprising dexterity; and, no less dangerous when they fly than
when they charge the enemy in front, they are accustomed to shoot with
an unerring aim at their pursuers, and turn the fortune of the battle.
Such men are scarcely to be conquered by the efforts of the most
powerful nations or sovereigns; and therefore the proudest conquerors of
the world have failed in their attempts to subdue them.

"'Darius, one of the greatest kings which the vast empire of Persia ever
obeyed, once attempted the exploit, and had nearly perished in the
attempt. He advanced with a powerful army, but ill prepared for such an
expedition, into the Scythian wastes. The inhabitants, well acquainted
with the most effectual methods of defence, transported their families
and herds into the interior parts of the country, and mounting their
fleetest horses, seemed to fly before the monarch, who, infatuated with
pride and confidence, pursued the chase for several days, until he found
himself in the midst of solitary deserts, totally destitute of all that
human wants require, where his army could neither advance nor retire
without equal danger of perishing by thirst and famine. When the
Scythian horsemen saw him thus involved, they began to check their
speed; instead of flying, as usual, they hemmed him in on every side,
and harassed the army with continual attacks. It was then they sent a
present to the Persian king, the mysterious meaning of which increased
the terrors of his situation. A Scythian, mounted upon a fiery steed,
entered the camp at full speed, and, regardless of danger or opposition,
penetrated even to the royal tent, where Darius was holding a council
with his nobles. While they were all amazed at this extraordinary
boldness, the man leaped lightly from his horse, and placing a little
bundle upon the ground, vaulted up again with inconceivable agility, and
retired with the same happy expedition. The curiosity of the monarch
made him instantly order the packet to be examined, which contained only
a mouse, a bird, a fish, and a bundle of arrows. Silence and
astonishment for some time seized the assembly, till at length the king
observed, that he thought the present which the Scythians had sent could
signify nothing but their submission to his arms. 'The mouse,' said he,
'must represent the earth, because he resides in holes which he digs in
the soil; the fish inhabits the water, and the bird resides in the air.
By sending me, therefore, all these various animals, they mean to
signify that they resign their air, their waters, and their earth to my
dominion. Nor is the bundle of arrows more difficult to be explained;
these constitute their principal defence, and, by sending them to an
enemy, they can intimate nothing but terror and submission.' All who
were present applauded this discourse of the monarch, excepting Gobrias,
a man of singular wisdom and experience, who, when he was pressed to
declare his sentiments, spoke to him thus:--'It is with the greatest
reluctance, O king, that I find myself compelled to explain these
presents of our enemies in a very different manner. That the Scythians,
who have hitherto shown no marks either of fear or submission, should,
on a su