[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Institute for Defense Analyses

ematical investigations to writing advanced computer programs to sophisticated statistical analyses of data. The research environment is distinctive in encouraging close collaboration, multidisciplinary teams, tight coupling between theory and practice, and strong connections with the other Centers.

Center for Computing Sciences (CCS) was founded in 1985 in Bowie, Maryland. CCS focuses the skills of some of the country’s best computer scientists, engineers, and mathematicians on solving intelligence-related problems of importance to national security, and also on tackling problem sets of interest to the entire computational science world. CCS's original mission, the development and use of high-end computing, has expanded over the years to reflect global political and technological changes. In addition to high-performance computing for cryptography, it now includes cryptography itself, extensive projects in network security and related cyber issues, signal processing, and emerging algorithmic and mathematical techniques for analyzing extremely complex data sets. CCS works closely with National Security Agency and with US industry on the development of high-performance computing platforms – an effort that senior technology policymakers believe will require government research and development support. These platforms, aimed at meeting the specialized requirements of the most demanding national-security-related computations, will have to far exceed the capabilities of even the most sophisticated computers today. The Center is uniquely qualified to provide significant insight into this challenge, given its depth of experience in NSA’s most advanced computing problems; history of sustained and vigorous dialog with many of the nation's leading high-end computer makers; and active collaborations with the united States Department of Energy’s Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Sandia National Laboratories, and the Los Alamos National Laboratory.

Notable people associated with the Center for Communications and Computing

 Abraham Adrian Albert, CRD director (1961–1962)
 Leonard E. Baum
 Joe P. Buhler, CCR La Jolla director
 Don Coppersmith
 Alfred W. Hales, CCR La Jolla director
 Gustav A. Hedlund, CRD director
 Donald Knuth, 1968-1969
 Richard Leibler, CRD director
 Jill P. Mesirov
 Victor S. Miller, co-inventor of Elliptic Curve Cryptography
 Nick Patterson
 Eric M. Rains
 Coke Reed, CCR Princeton and CCS staff member
 Mary Lynn Reed
 David P. Robbins, CCR Princeton staff member (1980-2003)
 J. Barkley Rosser, CRD director (1958–1961)
 Jim Simons, CRD staff member (1964-1968)
 Lloyd R. Welch
 Malcolm J. Williamson, inventor of Diffie-Hellman key exchange

Staff
IDA employs approximately 1,500 research, professional, adjunct, and support staff. Many have attended the nation's military service academies or served in the military. Approximately 56% hold doctoral degrees; 36% hold master's degrees; and 8% hold bachelor's degrees. The staff specializes in the following research disciplines:

References

External links
 
 Science and Technology Policy Institute

Think tanks based in Washington, D.C.
Non-profit organizations based in Alexandria, Virginia
Federally Funded Research and Development Centers
Research institutes established in 1956
1956 establishments in Virginia
Research institutes in Virginia