[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Chappaquiddick incident

s released to her family, and the funeral was held on Tuesday, July 22, in Plymouth, Pennsylvania.

Medical Examiner Nevin strongly disagreed with Mills' decision to forgo an autopsy, believing that ruling out foul play would work to Kennedy's advantage by laying prurient public speculation to rest.

After President Richard Nixon's security operative Jack Caulfield learned of the incident, he dispatched Anthony Ulasewicz to Dike Bridge in disguise as a newspaper reporter to collect information since he believed Kennedy would be his rival in the 1972 presidential election. Although Ulasewicz was able to interview several witnesses before law enforcement authorities, he found no useful information.

Disputed cause of death

Farrar, who recovered Kopechne's body from the submerged car, believed that Kopechne died from suffocation, rather than from drowning or from the impact of the overturned vehicle, based upon the posture in which he found the body in the well of the back seat of the car, where an air pocket would have formed. Rigor mortis was apparent, her hands were clasping the back seat, and her face was turned upward. Bob Molla, an inspector for the Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles who investigated the crash at the time, said that parts of the roof and the trunk appeared to be dry. Farrar publicly asserted that Kopechne likely would have survived if a more timely rescue attempt had been conducted.

Defense strategy

Kennedy returned to his family's compound in Hyannis Port. Stephen Smith, Robert McNamara, Ted Sorensen, Richard N. Goodwin, Lem Billings, Milton Gwirtzman, David W. Burke, John Culver, Tunney, Gargan, Markham, and others arrived to advise him. Smith, the Kennedy family business manager and "master fixer", decided the political damage was catastrophic and eliminated Kennedy's chance to run for President in 1972, and recommended focusing efforts on protecting Kennedy from a charge of manslaughter.

Arraignment
Kennedy's court hearing was held before Massachusetts District Court Judge James Boyle on July 25, seven days after the incident. Kennedy pleaded guilty to a charge of leaving the scene of an accident causing bodily injury. His attorneys argued that any jail sentence should be suspended, and the prosecutors agreed by citing his age (37), character, and prior reputation. "Considering the unblemished record of the defendant, and insofar as the Commonwealth represents this is not a case where he was really trying to conceal his identity...", Boyle sentenced him to the statutory minimum two months in prison, which he suspended, saying that he "has already been, and will continue to be punished far beyond anything this court can impose."

Despite an Associated Press story published that morning, Boyle was unaware that Kennedy's driving record was, in fact, far from "unblemished". While attending University of Virginia School of Law (1956–1959), he had compiled a record of reckless driving and driving without a license. In one particular March 14, 1958, incident, Kennedy ran a red light, then cut his tail lights and raced to avoid a highway patrol officer. When Kennedy was caught, he was cited for reckless driving, racing to avoid pursuit, and driving without a license.

Kennedy's wife Joan was pregnant at the time of the Chappaquiddick incident. She was confined to bed because of two previous miscarriages, but she attended Kopechne's funeral and stood beside her husband in court. Soon after, she suffered a third miscarriage, which she blamed on the Chappaquiddick incident.

Kennedy's televised statement
At 7:30 p.m. on July 25, Kennedy delivered a lengthy speech about the incident, prepared by Sorensen and broadcast live by the three television networks. He began by reading the speech off a prepared manuscript.

Kennedy explained that his wife did not accompany him to the regatta due to "reasons of health". He denied he engaged in any "immoral conduct" with Kopechne or driving under the influence of alcohol that evening. He said that his conduct during the hours immediately after the accident "made no sense to me at all", and said that his doctors had informed him he had suffered "cerebral concussion and shock". He said he regarded his failure to report the accident to the police immediately as "indefensible". To the horror of Gargan's attorney, his statement revealed his enlistment of the help of Gargan and Markham to try to rescue Kopechne (despite assurances he had made to the effect that he would not involve them).