[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# History of immigration to Canada

in by the Dunsmuir coal interests and used to break the back of strikers at Cumberland in the Comox Valley, which then became one of British Columbia's largest Chinatowns, as white workers hsd residded there were displaced by armed force.

Indian immigration and Continuous Journey Regulation of 1908

The Canadian government's first attempt to restrict immigration from India was to pass an order-in-council on January 8, 1908, that prohibited immigration of persons who "in the opinion of the Minister of the Interior" did not "come from the country of their birth or citizenship by a continuous journey and or through tickets purchased before leaving their country of their birth or nationality." In practice, that applied only to ships that began their voyage in India, as the great distance usually necessitated a stopover in Japan or Hawaii. The regulations came at a time while Canada was accepting massive numbers of immigrants (over 400,000 in 1913 alone), almost all of whom came from Europe. Gurdit Singh was apparently aware of regulations when he chartered the Komagata Maru in January 1914, but he continued with his purported goal of challenging these exclusion laws in order to have a better life. The Komagata Maru, a Japanese steamship that sailed from Hong Kong to Shanghai, China; Yokohama, Japan; and then to Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, in 1914, carried 376 passengers from Punjab, India. The passengers were not allowed to land in Canada, and the ship was forced to return to India. The passengers consisted of 340 Sikhs, 24 Muslims, and 12 Hindus, all of whom were British subjects. That was one of several incidents in the early 20th century involving exclusion laws in Canada and the United States designed to keep out immigrants of Asian origin. Times have now changed, and India has become the largest source of immigrants for Canada. In 2019, India topped the list of immigrants admitted to Canada. Canada welcomed 85,590 Indian nationals, followed by 30,245 from China and 27,820 from the Philippines.

Early European settlements

German colonists and settlement
German colonists, like the Scandinavians, were among the earliest to arrive from California and established themselves beyond mining in areas such as ranching and construction and specialized trades. Until World War I, Vancouver was a major centre of German investment and social life, and German was commonly heard on the city's streets and bars. The Germans remained the largest non-British group in the province until they were eclipsed in that capacity by the Chinese in the 1980s.

Doukhobor settlement and communities
The Doukhobors were assisted in their immigration by Count Leo Tolstoy, who admired them for their collectivist lifestyle, beliefs, ardent pacifism, and freedom from materialism. Originally settled in Saskatchewan and resistant to the government's desire to send their children to public school and other matters, they migrated en masse to British Columbia to settle in the West Kootenay and Boundary regions.

Waves of migration

Great Migration 

The Great Migration of Canada (also known as the Great Migration from Britain) was a period of high immigration to Canada from 1815 to 1850 involving over 800,000 immigrants chiefly from the British Isles. Unlike the late 19th and early 20th centuries, when organized immigration schemes brought in many of the new immigrants to Canada, this period of immigration was driver by demand, based on the need for infrastructure labour in the burgeoning colonies, the filling of new rural settlements, and the poor conditions in some source places such the Highland Clearances in Scotland and later the Great Famine of Ireland. Europe was overall becoming richer through the Industrial Revolution, but steep population growth made the relative number of jobs low, and overcrowded conditions forced many to look to North America for economic success.

Immigration to the West

Attempts to form permanent settlement colonies west of the Great Lakes were beset by difficulty and isolation until the building of the Canadian Pacific Railway and the second of the two Riel Rebellions. Despite the railway making the region more accessible, there were fears that a tide of settlers from the United States might overrun the British territory. In 1896, Interior Minister Clifford Sifton launched a program of settlement with offices and advertising in the United Kingdom and Continental Europe. That began a major wave of railway-based immigration, which created the farms, towns, and cities of the Prairie Provinces.

Third wave (1890–1920) and fourth wave (1940s–1960s)