[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shahawar Matin Siraj

rks he had made, some far before he had been encouraged into the bomb plot. These remarks, which would be regarded as reprehensible by the far majority of Americans, served to alienate the defendant as an ally to terrorist regimes and characterized him as a terrorist, despite the absence of weapons.

They were very convincing in showing that Siraj would have committed the crime if given the adequate weaponry. His sympathy of terrorist organizations such as Al-Qaeda and Hamas gave him a strikingly dangerous set of role models that would have meant he could have become violent and committed a terrorist act at any time if given the right amount of pressure. When Eldawoody told him that he was part of a terrorist organization from his country and that he could produce the materials to build a subway bomb, Siraj jumped onto the idea, they claim. They dismissed any allegations that Siraj was duped into the crime, stating that he was trying to "play dumb" rather than admit to his actual intentions. The fiery statements he made regarding the United States and his anti-American sentiment made him a dangerous individual at best. Eldawoody testified that "The defendant said that if anyone did... [a rape or murder] to his family, he would do the same thing, meaning a suicide bomb."

Verdict 
The jury reached a guilty verdict for all four charges brought against him, leading to four charges of bomb plotting and conspiracy.

The defense's lead Defense Attorney, Martin Stolar, was disappointed and highly critical of the implications this case had for the civil rights of New Yorkers with these tactics being used by the NYPD. It represented the court precedent for a "police state" that gave the police license to instigate and eavesdrop on unfairly targeted people, especially Arab-Americans. He rejected any statements that this guilty verdict was a success in the war on terrorism, or that convicting Siraj had made New York safer.

Conviction

On January 8, 2007, a New York court sentenced Siraj to 30 years in prison. Siraj is housed in a highly restrictive Communication Management Unit.

References

External links
Police: Bomb plot suspects scouted many sites, CNN

American Muslims
Islam and antisemitism
American people imprisoned on charges of terrorism
American people of Pakistani descent
Pakistani Islamists
Prisoners and detainees of New York (state)
Living people
Year of birth missing (living people)