[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Radio Zamaneh

Radio Zamaneh () is an Amsterdam-based Persian language exile news platform and former radio broadcaster with a leftist approach. "Zamaneh" is the Persian literary term for "time".

Radio Zamaneh is an independent Persian-language exile media and former radio broadcaster that was founded in 2005, after the parliament of The Netherlands passed a resolution calling for support to free Iranian media. Radio Zamaneh is the recipient of various Human Rights and Press Freedom grants, with the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the European Union being amongst the major contributors. The broadcaster's content is provided by Radio Zamaneh's Persian-speaking, almost all Iranian editorial staff and contributors. Radio Zamaneh is an independent broadcasting organization, registered as a non-profit organization in the Netherlands, with its headquarters and studio in Amsterdam.

Radio Zamane is considered an leftist media, with anti-NATO, anti-American and anti-Israel tendencies, which criticizes Western democracies. The media is sometimes also considered pro-Russian.

Radio Zamaneh broadcasts in Persian via satellite and the internet. The programs contain general news and bulletins, philosophical, social and cultural topics and issues, with special attention for free thought, critical thinking, arts and culture, women's rights, LGBT and minorities. Radio Zamaneh is an alternative voice in the foreign-based Iranian media-landscape, focusing on taboo and using humor and satire as a frequent tool.

Radio Zamaneh develops and provides e-learning on various topics related to journalism, democracy and human rights, and international relations, in Persian, to an Iran-based audience.

The broadcaster produces and supports documentary films. Two new documentaries, one torture-victims and one on the position of LGBTI-individuals in Iran, are set to be released in 2013.

Radio Zamaneh is engaged in advocacy for Iranian media development and to promote access to information for Iranians by speaking out and actively countering satellite jamming and online censorship.

Currently, Radio Zamaneh operates a 24-hour radio channel, a Persian-language news and current affairs website, an English-language summary website, a secure e-learning environment and Tribune Zamaneh, a platform for citizen reporters and e-learning journalism students.

Radio Zamaneh was among a list of foreign organizations, including media outlets and human rights groups, which Iran’s Intelligence Ministry placed on a blacklist over their alleged role in fomenting the unrest that followed the disputed presidential election in June 2009.

Its founder, Farah Karimi, is a member of the Dutch Parliament and a former member of the MEK, and the current editor-in-chief, Mohammad Reza Nikfar, is a former member of the OIPFG.

Mehdi Jami was the director of Radio Zamaneh from the beginning until October 2008. Persian-born Dutch politician and MP, Farah Karimi, was among the founding members of the media. After Jami, from November 2008 until July 2009, Zoran Djukanovic, who is program coordinator of Radio Zamaneh at Press Now, was the Interim Director, with Hossein Alavi as Interim Editor-in-Chief. In July 2009, Farid Haerinejad and Ruth Kronenburg joined Radio Zamaneh as the new Editor-in-Chief and Director of the organization. Since January 2019, Joris van Duijne is the executive director. Mohammad-Reza Nikfar is Radio Zamaneh's chief-editor.

Aims 

The aim of Radio Zamaneh, according to its administrators, is "to produce and broadcast informative programs of high journalistic quality, independent from any governmental, political, or social forces inside or outside of Iran". 

In its press release, Radio Zamaneh announced that "[it] intends to increase and intensify working relations with online bloggers. The Iranian blog sphere is representing one of the largest web communities in the world. They are considered the preserve of young urban Iranians both inside and outside the country. Their voices are not heard by the mainstream media, neither in Iran itself nor in West-based Iranian media. Radio Zamaneh will serve as a platform for Iranian bloggers and reflect their grassroots opinions and views."

History 

In 2003, the Dutch parliament planned to establish a Persian-language television station in the Netherlands, but after negative reactions from the Iranian government, the project was halted. Proposals were put forward for promoting independent journalism in Iran and eventually the budget was divided between a number of projects, with Radio Zamaneh and Shahrzad News receiving the bulk of the funding.