[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Virginia in the American Civil War

or iron, and (though as the war progressed, shortages in manpower limited their production). In southwest Virginia, the large salt works at Saltville provided a key source of salt to the Confederacy, essential in preserving food for use by the army. It was the target of two battles.

Major campaigns

The first and last significant battles of the war were held in Virginia, the first being the First Battle of Bull Run and the last being the Battle of Appomattox Courthouse. From May 1861 to April 1865, Richmond was the capital of the Confederacy. The White House of the Confederacy, located a few blocks north of the State Capital, was home to the family of Confederate President Jefferson Davis.

1861

The first major battle of the Civil War occurred on July 21, 1861. Union forces attempted to take control of the railroad junction at Manassas for use as a supply line, but the Confederate Army had moved its forces by train to meet the Union. The Confederates won the First Battle of Bull Run (known as "First Battle of Manassas" in southern naming convention) and the year went on without a major fight.

1862

Union general George B. McClellan was forced to retreat from Richmond by Robert E. Lee's army. Union general Pope was defeated at the Second Battle of Manassas. Following the one-sided Confederate victory Battle of Fredericksburg.

1863

When fighting resumed in the spring of 1863, Union general Hooker was defeated at Chancellorsville by Lee's army.

1864

Ulysses Grant's Overland Campaign was fought in Virginia. The campaign included battles of attrition at the Wilderness, Spotsylvania and Cold Harbor and ended with the Siege of Petersburg and Confederate defeat.

In September 1864, the Southern Punch, a newspaper based in Richmond, reiterated the Confederacy's cause:

1865
In April 1865, the Confederate government fled Richmond as U.S. forces approached the city. As the Confederates fled, they set fire to Richmond's public works to prevent them from being used by U.S. forces. A fire set in Richmond by the retreating Confederate army burned 25 percent of the city before being put out by the Union Army. It was the Union Army that saved the city from widespread conflagration and ruin. As a result, Richmond emerged from the Civil War as an economic powerhouse, with most of its buildings and factories undamaged.

Battles in Virginia

 Battle of First Bull Run (July 21, 1861)
 Battle of Hampton Roads (USS Monitor and CSS Virginia)
 Peninsula Campaign 
 Seven Days Battles 
 Battle of Malvern Hill
 Northern Virginia Campaign 
 Battle of Second Bull Run 
 Battle of Fredericksburg 
 Battle of Chancellorsville 
 Bristoe Campaign 
 Mine Run Campaign 
 Overland Campaign 
 Bermuda Hundred Campaign 
 Battle of Cold Harbor
 Richmond-Petersburg Campaign 
 Battle of the Crater (July 30, 1864)
 Valley Campaigns of 1864 
 Appomattox Campaign 
 Battle of Brandy Station
 Battle of Ball's Bluff

Involvement (by location)

Alexandria in the Civil War 
Fort Monroe in the Civil War 
Fredericksburg in the Civil War
Norfolk Naval Shipyard in the Civil War
Northern Virginia in the Civil War
Petersburg in the Civil War
Richmond in the Civil War 
Williamsburg in the Civil War
Winchester in the Civil War

Notable Confederate leaders from Virginia

Notable Union leaders from Virginia

West Virginia enters the Union

On April 17, 1861, when the Richmond convention voted in favor of Virginia's secession from the United States, the 49 delegates that represented the 50 counties of the future state of West Virginia voted 32 to 13 against secession, with 4 delegates absent or abstaining. With the beginning of the war in western Virginia on May 26, however, most of the delegates returned to Richmond and signed the ordinance, 29 of the 49 delegates signed. A public vote to confirm the ordinance was held on May 23, 1861. Historian Richard O. Curry estimated the vote for West Virginia was approximately 34,677 against it and 19,121 in favor. He concluded that 24 counties favored secession and 26 opposed it.

The successive defeats of Confederate forces under the commands of Col. Porterfield, Gen. Robert Garnett and Robert E. Lee enabled the establishment of a Unionist government in Wheeling, one of Virginia's largest cities. Known as the Restored Government of Virginia, it was officially recognized by the Lincoln administration. Francis H. Pierpont was selected as governor of Virginia and a rump legislature was composed of former members of the Virginia Assembly who supported the Union. Many western members of the assembly however assumed their offices in Richmond, which reflected the deep divisions among the western counties. The Pierpont government found support among the counties along the Pennsylvania and Ohio borders and the counties along the B&O railroad line. In most of West Virginia however Pierpont's government was weak.