[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Loughborough Students' Union

air's (originally Head of Media) responsibilities are aiding the Station Managers of LSUTV and LCR, providing support to the Head of Lens, and being Editor in Chief of Label. There are four production outlets (sections), each which operate semi-autonomously, with their own committees and leadership.

Label Magazine 
Label is the magazine of Loughborough Students' Union. Evolving from a previous newspaper format inventively titled The Newspaper, Label was launched in 1997 and was distributed around campus and town with 2,500 copies printed each issue. Previously a weekly publication, from 2007 to 2017 it was fortnightly, when the role of editor changed from a paid sabbatical officer to a student volunteering position. The magazine launched its website in 2010, and from 2018 is now solely an online publication, with occasional special print editions published.

Loughborough Campus Radio
LCR broadcasts 24 hours a day during term time through its website. One of the oldest student radio stations in the UK, LCR started as a pirate radio broadcast from a suitcase in Hazelrigg Hall of residence in 1970. Known as Radio Mule - a Small Station with a Kick, it had become so popular after 3 years that the students voted to turn it into a legitimate station, over a student magazine. University Radio Loughborough was born, and went live on-air in 1973 (two years before LSU itself was founded), with the name was changing to LCR in 1983. Initially broadcast through induction loops on the roofs of each hall of residence, it was one of the first UK student stations to move to the new free radiating low-powered AM licence in October 1999, with webcasting starting later the same academic year. In 2007 the AM transmitter was severely damaged in a fire, and LCR have continued to be a solely online station since.

LCR has a regular term-time schedule, including weekday breakfast show Good Morning Loughborough, mid-afternoon entertainment show The Bubble, and non-stop DJ mixes throughout the night in The Nightshift. Aside from this, LCR hosts a regular BUCS live show on Wednesday afternoons as well as commentary live streams on major university games, and records weekly live music from the Coffee House Sessions. As well as its regular programming, LCR also plays host to specialist shows such as the UK's longest running student radio show - The Alternative Alternative Show - which has been broadcasting continually since the 1980s, with its monthly jazz chart is published in the Jazzwise magazine. The station also provides special live coverage of major events both in the university and across the UK, such as the LSU Executive Elections, major sporting events and general elections.

LSUTV 
Established in 2001 as an expansion of the Media Centre, LSUTV originally broadcast online and via SUBtv plasma screens. It works at a professional level and as an independent production company, producing news, sport and documentaries alongside what The Independent described as one of the best student programmes, Totty TV (now known as Freshen Up). Running industry-standard  shows both from a gallery and studio in the Students' Union as well as outside broadcasts across campus, LSUTV is known for its live broadcasting, and a number of notable alumni have continued within the industry after being members, including broadcasters Ore Oduba, Radzi Chinyanganya, Ben Croucher, Hannah Wilkes, Lewis Prince, Laura Winter and Katie Shanahan, and journalist Bryony Hopkins.

LSUTV has been extremely successful on a national level at the NaSTA Awards. In recent years, Ore Oduba has collected Best On-Screen Male, Loughborough Gold has scooped Best Sport and Best Title Sequence and LSUTV's coverage of the Real Varsity in 2008 picked up Best Live. In the 2010s, LSUTV was one of the most successful NaSTA stations, picking up 21 awards and over 15 commendations. In 2011, LSUTV was the host station, and Loughborough Gold scooped Best Sport Programme for a second year, and their coverage of the Dan James Memorial Match won Best Live Programme. LSUTV hosted the NaSTA Awards once again in 2014 and won four awards, with alumna Radzi Chinyanganya hosting, and in 2015 and 2016 picked up two more awards. NaSTA 2017 saw LSUTV pick up three more (all for their sports coverage), and in 2018 came a win for Goodbye Carolyn in the Best Writing category. At the 2019 edition, LSUTV won Best Animation and Best Live Programme, for their coverage of the Fight Night kickboxing competition held between Lougborough and Edinburgh universities, and in 2020 the station brought home six awards, including Best Documentary, Best Sport and Highly Commended Best Broadcaster.