[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rodman M. Price

governors Daniel Haines and George F. Fort. Price himself participated in the 1854 Sussex Institute and urged state support for its extension to all counties. In January 1855, he called for the establishment of a state training school and drafted the bill that established the Trenton Normal School.

Later career
Barred from a second term in office by the Constitution of New Jersey, Price unsuccessfully sought to serve as ambassador to Mexico under President Buchanan.

Instead, Price devoted himself to business ventures, particularly in industries which had blossomed under his policy as governor. He engaged with his business partner Horace P. Russ in quarrying his father's property on the Hackensack River, using the minerals to produce pavement for Russ construction projects in New York, Brooklyn, and Philadelphia. While still in office, Price and his father established a privately owned ferry from Weehawken to New York; its flagship vessel was named the Rodman M. Price. Price also established a barge commerce on the inland waterways of New York state and speculated in land in the south Bergen hills.

During the American Civil War, Price was largely silent on politics except to participate as one of nine delegates from the state to the Peace Conference of 1861 and an April 4, 1861 editorial urging New Jerseyans not to take up arms. He spent the remainder of his life as a gentleman farmer and struggled financial after his father's death; his various businesses failed until 1890, when the United States Congress provided him a bill of relief in his longstanding claims against the Navy. The money was immediately appropriated to settle another debt arising out of his California real estate holdings. Before his death, he spent time in a debtors' prison at the Hackensack jail.

Death
Price died in Oakland, New Jersey on June 7, 1894. He was buried in the Reformed Cemetery, in Mahwah, New Jersey.

References

Notes

External links
*New Jersey Governor Rodman McCauley Price, National Governors Association
Rodman McCamley Price, The Political Graveyard

Dead Governors of New Jersey bio for Rodman McCamley Price
Guide to the Rodman M. Price Papers at The Bancroft Library

1816 births
1894 deaths
Democratic Party governors of New Jersey
People from Newton, New Jersey
Princeton University alumni
United States Navy officers
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from New Jersey
American Presbyterians
American people of Welsh descent
Lawrenceville School alumni
Burials in New Jersey
19th-century American politicians
Military personnel from New Jersey