[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Culture during the Cold War

t. Dissident science fiction writers emerged, such as the Strugatski brothers, Boris and Arkadi, with their "social fantasies," problematizing the role of intervention in the historical process, or Stanislaw Lem's tongue-in-cheek exposures of man's cognitive limitations.

Films depicting nuclear war

 Duck and Cover, a 1951 educational movie explaining what to do in the event of a nuclear attack.
 Five, a 1951 film about five survivors, one woman and four men, of an atomic war that has wiped out the rest of the human race (while leaving all infrastructure intact). The five come together at a remote, isolated hillside house in Southern California, where they try to figure out how to survive while also being forced to face an unknown future.
 On the Beach (1959) depicted a gradually dying, post-apocalyptic world in Australia that remained after a nuclear Third World War.
 Ladybug Ladybug (1963) an elementary school nuclear bomb warning alarm sounds.
 Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (1964) – A black comedy film that satirizes the Cold War and the threat of nuclear warfare.
 Fail-Safe (1964) – A film based on a novel of the same name about an American bomber crew and nuclear tensions.
 The War Game (BBC, 1965; aired 1985) – Depicts the effects of a nuclear war in Britain following a conventional war that escalates to nuclear war.
 Damnation Alley (20th Century Fox, 1977) – Surprise ICBM attack launched on the United States, and the subsequent efforts of a small band of survivors from a missile silo in the Mojave Desert in California to reach another group of survivors in Albany, New York.
 The Children's Story (1982) short film, which originally aired on TV's Mobil Showcase, depicts the first day of indoctrination of an elementary school classroom by a new teacher, representing a totalitarian government that has taken over the United States. It is based on the 1960 short story of the same name by James Clavell.
 The Day After (1983) – This made-for-television-movie by ABC that depicts the consequences of a nuclear war in Lawrence, Kansas and the surrounding area.
 WarGames (1983) – About a young computer hacker who unknowingly hacks into a defense computer and risks starting a nuclear war.
 Testament (PBS, 1983) – Depicts the after-effects of a nuclear war in a small town, 100 miles north of San Francisco, California.
 Countdown to Looking Glass (HBO, 1984) – A film that presents a simulated news broadcast about a nuclear war.
 Threads (BBC, 1984) – A film that is set in the British city of Sheffield and shows the long-term results of a nuclear war on the surrounding area.
 The Sacrifice (Sweden, 1986) – A philosophical drama about nuclear war.
 The Manhattan Project (1986) – Though not about a nuclear war, it was seen as a cautionary tale.
 When the Wind Blows (1986) – An animated film about an elderly British couple in a post-nuclear war world.
 Miracle Mile (1988) – A film about two lovers in Los Angeles leading up to a nuclear war.
 By Dawn's Early Light (HBO, 1990) – About rogue Soviet military officials framing NATO for a nuclear attack in order to spark a full-blown nuclear war.
 On the Beach (Showtime, 2000) – A remake of the 1959 film.
 Fail-Safe (CBS, 2000) – A remake of the 1964 film.

Films depicting a conventional United States–Soviet Union war
In addition to fears of a nuclear war between the United States and the Soviet Union, during the Cold War, there were also fears of a direct, large scale conventional conflict between the two superpowers.
 Invasion U.S.A. (1952) – The 1952 film showed a Soviet invasion of the United States succeeding because the citizenry had fallen into moral decay, war profiteering, and isolationism. The film was later parodied on Mystery Science Theater 3000.
 Red Nightmare, a 1962 government-sponsored short subject narrated by Jack Webb, imagined a Soviet-dominated United States as a result of the protagonist's negligence of his "all-American" duties.
 World War III, a 1982 NBC miniseries about a Soviet invasion of Alaska.
 Red Dawn (1984) – presented a conventional Soviet attack with limited, strategic Soviet nuclear strikes on the United States, aided by allies from Latin America, and the exploits of a group of high schoolers who form a guerrilla group to oppose them.
 Invasion U.S.A. (1985) – This film depicts a Soviet agent leading Latin American Communist guerillas launching attacks in the United States, and an ex-CIA agent played by Chuck Norris opposing him and his mercenaries.
 Amerika (ABC, 1987), a peaceful takeover of the United States by the Soviet Union.