[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joseph Maguire

then announced he would be replacing Maguire, who resigned on February 21, 2020, and was immediately replaced with Richard Grenell as acting chief. Reactions of concern were published quickly by former military and intelligence professionals such as William McRaven.

Ukraine whistleblower complaint

Maguire was acting DNI at the time that a member of the United States Intelligence Community (IC) submitted a formal whistleblower complaint to the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community (IGIC), regarding President Donald Trump's communications with a foreign leader; the complaint said Trump had made a troubling "promise" to the foreign leader. (It was subsequently revealed that the complaint related to a July 2019 phone call between Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, in which Trump pressed the Ukrainian government to investigate Trump's political rival, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., and his family).

The whistleblower's complaint was deemed credible and a matter of "urgent concern" by the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community (IGIC). Under federal law, when the IGIC determines that a complaint credibly raises an urgent concern, he or she forwards it to the relevant agency head (here, the DNI), who is required to forward it to the congressional intelligence committees within seven days. In this case, however, Maguire, withheld the complaint from Congress.

Maguire's refusal prompted the House committee to issue a subpoena to Maguire, ordering him to either immediately hand over the whistleblower's complaint to Congress or give testimony to the House Intelligence Committee explaining why he was refusing to do so. Schiff accused Maguire of illegally withholding a properly submitted whistleblower complaint in an unprecedented way, and said that the matter raised "serious concerns about whether White House, Department of Justice or other executive branch officials are trying to prevent a legitimate whistleblower complaint from reaching its intended recipient, the Congress, in order to cover up serious misconduct." Schiff said Maguire has cited a "higher authority, someone above the DNI" in his refusal to turn over the whistleblower complaint.

According to a report in The Washington Post, Maguire threatened to resign as acting DNI over concerns that the Trump administration might attempt to constrain his testimony to Congress over the intelligence whistleblower's complaint. The report said Maguire had "expressed his displeasure to White House counsel Pat Cipollone and others that the White House had put him in the untenable position of denying the material to Congress over a claim that it did not fall within his jurisdiction as leader of the intelligence community". In a statement, Maguire denied that he had contemplated resigning saying, "At no time have I considered resigning my position since assuming this role."

Maguire initially refused to testify before the House Intelligence Committee at a hearing on September 19, but later agreed to give testimony on the whistleblower complaint in an open session of the House Intelligence Committee on September 26. It was unclear whether Maguire had "forced the White House to acquiesce and allow him to testify without constraint". In a statement, Maguire said he had followed the law "every step of the way... [was] committed to protecting whistleblowers and ensuring every complaint is handled appropriately... [and aimed to] work with the Administration and Congress to find a resolution regarding this important matter".

Personal
Maguire and his wife have two children.

Awards and decorations

Image gallery

References

External links

 United States Navy Biography
 

1951 births
Booz Allen Hamilton people
Harvard University staff
Living people
Manhattan College alumni
Naval Postgraduate School alumni
People from Brooklyn
Trump administration cabinet members
United States Directors of National Intelligence
United States Naval Special Warfare Command
United States Navy admirals
United States Navy SEALs personnel
Recipients of the Meritorious Service Medal (United States)
Recipients of the Humanitarian Service Medal