[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Green Party of Texas

d at TXGreens.org.

2010
The Green Party's efforts to get its candidates on the ballot for the 2010 elections was successful. Nearly 92,000 petition signatures were gathered in support of granting the Green Party ballot access. The petitions were immediately challenged by the Texas Democratic Party.

The challenge was based on Texas's corporate contribution bans, but corporations are allowed to donate for administrative costs, which ballot access is according to the author of the legislation enacting this restriction, in his testimony to the Texas Legislature.  The petition drive had been funded by one Republican through a 501c(4), which was presented to the Green Party leadership as a non-incorporated entity.

The news media circus that resulted was based on a press release and blogs put out by a group started merely to disseminate propaganda around this lawsuit. That site no longer exists, likely due to a settlement the Texas Democratic Party (TDP) accepted from the Republican operatives named as defendants - a $760,000 deal reported only as $250,000 by the TDP.
The court challenge resulted in the Green Party candidates being allowed to remain on the ballot.

In 2010, in the election for Comptroller of Public Accounts, Ed Lindsay received more than 6 percent of the vote, which allowed the Green Party to stay on the ballot for the presidential election in Texas in 2012.

2012 candidates
In 2012, with an "Occupy the ballot" campaign, the Green Party of Texas ran a record number of candidates, including for president (Jill Stein), U.S. Senate (David Collins), Supreme Court of Texas (Charles Waterbury for Place 4 and Jim Chisholm for Place 6), and railroad commissioner (Chris Kennedy for the post normally renewed this cycle and Josh Wendel for the unexpired term), as well as 13 U.S. House candidates, 13 Texas House candidates, two Texas Senate candidates, and nominees for more than a half dozen other positions. Statewide judicial races secured the party access for 2014.

Elected officials
The following are known elected Green Party officeholders in Texas.

Current officials:
 George Altgelt, City Council District 7, Laredo (through Nov. 2020)

Past officials:
 Debbie Russell, School Board, Del Valle I.S.D. Austin
 La'Shadion Shemwell, City Council District 1, McKinney
 David Lanman, mayor, Marfa
 Bob Brewer, city council, Ward 5, Alpine
 Flynn Wright, city council, Sommerville
 George Rice, water board, Bexar County

Presidential nominee results

References

External links
 

TX
Political parties in Texas