[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cáin Adomnáin

n, to a wider Christian movement to restrain violence.

It was an early example of international law in that it was to be enforced in Ériu and Albu, (Ireland and Britain) although Britain refers to only what is now northern Scotland for it was the kings of that region who were guarantors of the Law.

As with later clerical efforts, such as the Peace and Truce of God movement in millennial France, the law may have been of limited effectiveness. Fergus Kelly notes that no cases relating to the Cáin Adomnáin have been preserved. Thus, it is unknown whether the harsh penalties which it mandates, which may have contradicted the general character of Irish law, were rigidly enforced.

There are annalistic examples of the justice of the Cáin Adomnáin being applied, such as here by Cenél nEógain High King Niall Glúndub, for whom the O'Neill Clan of Ulster are named.

 In 907 the sanctuary of Ard Macha was violated by Cearnachan mac Duilgen who took a captive from the church and drowned him in Lough Cier nearby.
 This perpetrator was taken by Nial Glundub mac Aedha, Righ an Tuaisceirt, having replaced his brother Domnall as king of the north, and he drowned Cearnachan in the same lake Lough Cier in revenge for the violation of Padraicc.

Notes

Further reading
  Cáin Adomnáin, 697: the Irish ‘Geneva Convention’, History Ireland. Issue 1 (January/February 2015), Volume 23.
Adomnán's Law of the Innocents - Cáin Adomnáin: A seventh-century law for the protection of non-combatants, translated by Gilbert Márkus. Kilmartin, Argyll: Kilmartin House Museum, 2008. 
 Adomnán of Iona, Life of St Columba, edited & translated Richard Sharpe. London: Penguin, 1995. 
 
 Adomnán at Birr, AD 697: Essays in Commemoration of the Law of the Innocents. Edited by Thomas O'Loughlin. (Dublin: Four Courts Press. 2001)

External links
 translation of the Cáin Adomnáin by Kuno Meyer at the Internet Medieval Sourcebook.

Early Gaelic legal texts
Medieval legal codes
7th century in Scotland
697
7th century in Ireland
Law of war
7th century in law