[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Lee Peltier

he made his debut for the club, a week later in a 2–0 loss to Derby County, and went on to help Cardiff push away from a relegation battle and finished mid-table. The following season, Peltier became an ever-present member of the team which just missed out on a play-off place to Sheffield Wednesday.

The appointment of Paul Trollope in 2016 as Slade's successor threatened to displace Peltier from the side with the new manager favouring more attack minded full-back Jazz Richards. However, Trollope was sacked after three months in charge and was replaced by Peltier's former Leeds manager Neil Warnock. In February 2017, Peltier underwent an operation on his ankle, which resulted in a long-term absence from the first-team squad. He eventually made his return on 17 April, having missed nearly three months, against Nottingham Forest. Despite an injury-ridden season, he made 28 appearances and was rewarded with a two-year contract extension.

Peltier was part of the side that won promotion to the Premier League during the 2017–18 season, making 30 appearances for the club as they finished as Championship runners-up. In the opening match of the following season, he made his Premier League debut in a 2–0 defeat to Bournemouth. He was dropped from the first team following the match with manager Neil Warnock favouring playing centre-back Bruno Ecuele Manga at right-back, not making a league appearance for over a month when he suffered a shoulder injury during a 5–0 defeat to Manchester City on 22 September.

West Bromwich Albion
On 31 January 2020, Peltier signed for Cardiff's fellow Championship side West Bromwich Albion. However, he did not make any appearances for the Baggies and was released by the end of the extended season. Peltier rejoined the club in September 2020, and made his debut for the club in the EFL Cup against Harrogate. On 29 December 2020, he made his first league start for West Brom in a 5–0 home defeat to Leeds.

On 27 May 2021 it was announced that Peltier would leave West Bromwich Albion following the conclusion of his contract, thus ending an 18-month spell at the club.

Middlesbrough
On 2 July 2021, Peltier joined Middlesbrough on a one-year contract. Peltier left the club at the end of the 2021–22 season upon the expiration of his contract.

Rotherham United
On 28 July 2022, Peltier joined Rotherham United on a one-year contract.

Following the departure of Paul Warne as Rotherham United's manager in September 2022, Peltier was installed as caretaker manager along with Richard Wood as the club searched for a permanent option. Peltier was in the technical area and Wood played as the duo oversaw a 2–0 home loss to Wigan Athletic, this was the only game overseen by the duo before the appointment of Exeter City's Matt Taylor.

He scored his first goal for the South Yorkshire club in a 2-1 defeat to Reading F.C. - his first netting in almost a decade.

International career
Peltier is a former youth international player having represented his native England at international level. He was capped at under-18 level three times during his time as a player at hometown club Liverpool but has not been capped at a higher level than under-18s to date.

In 2012, Peltier was approached by the Antigua and Barbuda Football Association to represent the Benna Boys at international level.

Style of play
Though mainly a right-back, Peltier also plays in the centre-back position. He has said that right-back is his favourite position and has described himself as "a hard working defensive type of player who likes to tackle and pass the ball. [He gets] about the pitch quite well and keep it simple." He does not move up the flanks and shoot crosses; instead he only plays as a defender. Scott Johnson from WalesOnline wrote that he "does not fit the modern stereotype of what we now expect from a full-back, as he is not particularly swashbuckling or flashy."

Personal life
In March 2009, Peltier was shopping with fellow footballer Victor Anichebe in Knutsford when the pair were stopped by police officers after being accused of theft. During the incident, Peltier was handcuffed by officers and Anichebe's crutch was confiscated. The pair were not arrested over the claim and Anichebe received a public apology from the assistant chief constable of the Cheshire Constabulary over the claims.

Career statistics

Honours
Cardiff City
EFL Championship runner-up: 2017–18

Individual
Yeovil Town Young Player of the Year: 2007–08
Huddersfield Town Players' Player of the season: 2009–10

References

External links