[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 189]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

auty, compounded of sorrow and delight.

Ah! if only its owner could come and take up his abode here. If only he
would get well! Hadria's thoughts wandered backwards to that wonderful
evening, when she had played to him and Algitha, and they had all
watched the sunset afterwards, from the terrace. How long was it since
she had touched the piano in this old drawing-room? Never since she
returned from Paris. Even her own piano at home had been almost equally
silent. She believed that she had not only quite abandoned hope with
regard to music, but that she had prepared herself to face the
inevitable decay of power, the inevitable proofs of her loss, as time
went on. But so far, she had only had proofs that she could do
astonishingly much if she had the chance.

To-day, for the first time, the final ordeal had to be gone through. And
her imagination had never conceived its horror. She was to be taken at
her word. The neglected gift was beginning to show signs of decay and
enfeeblement. It had given fair warning for many a year, by the
persistent appeal that it made, the persistent pain that it caused; but
the famine had told upon it at last. It was dying. As this fact
insinuated itself into the consciousness, in the teeth of a wild effort
to deny it, despair flamed up, fierce and violent. She regretted that
she had not thrown up everything long ago, rather than endure this
lingering death; she cursed her hesitation, she cursed her fate, her
training, her circumstances, she cursed herself. Whatever there was to
curse, she cursed. What hideous nonsense to imagine herself ready to
face this last insult of fate! She was like a martyr, who invites the
stake and the faggot, and knows what he has undertaken only when the
flames begin to curl about his feet. She had offered up her power, her
imperious creative instinct, to the Lares and Penates; those greedy
little godlets whom there was no appeasing while an inch of one remained
that they could tear to pieces. She clenched her hands, in agony. The
whole being recoiled now, at the eleventh hour, as a fierce wild
creature that one tries to bury alive. She looked back along the line of
the past and saw, with too clear eyes, the whole insidious process, so
stealthy that she had hardly detected it, at the time. She remembered
those afternoons at the Priory, when the restless, ill-trained power
would assert itself, free for the moment, from the fetters and the
dismemberment that awaited it in ordinary life. But like a creature
accustomed to the yoke, she had found it increasingly difficult to use
the moments of opportunity when they came. The force of daily usage, the
necessary bending of thoughts in certain habitual directions, had
assisted the crippling process, and though the power still lay there,
stiffer than of yore, yet the preliminary movements and readjustments
used up time and strength, and then gradually, with the perpetual
repetition of adverse habits, the whole process became slower, harder,
crueler.

"Good heavens! are _all_ doors going to be shut against me?"

It was more than she could bear! And yet it must be borne--unless--no,
there was no "unless." It was of no use to coquet with thoughts of
suicide. She had thought all that out long ago, and had sought, at more
than one crisis of desperate misery, for refuge from the horror and the
insults of life. But there were always others to be considered. She
could not strike them so terrible a blow. Retreat was ruthlessly cut
off. Nothing remained but the endurance of a conscious slow decay;
nothing but increasing loss and feebleness, as the surly years went by.
They were going, going, these years of life, slipping away with their
spoils. Youth was departing, everything was vanishing; her very self,
bit by bit, slowly but surely, till the House of Life would grow narrow
and shrunken to the sight, the roof descend. The gruesome old story of
the imprisoned prince flashed into her mind; the wretched captive, young
and life-loving, who used to wake up, each morning, to find that of the
original seven windows of his dungeon, one had disappeared, while the
walls had advanced a foot, and to-morrow yet another foot, till at
length the last window had closed up, and the walls shrank together and
crushed him to death.

"I can't, I _can't_ endure it!"

Hadria had leaned forward against the key-board, which gave forth a loud
crash of discordant notes, strangely expressive of the fall and failure
of her spirit.

She remained thus motionless, while the airs wandered in from the
garden, and a broad ray of sunlight showed the strange incessant
gyrations of the dust atoms, that happened to lie within the revealing
brightness. The silence was perfect.

Hadria raised her head at last, and her eyes wandered out to the sweet
old garden, decked in the miraculous hues of spring. The unutterable
loveliness brought, for a second, a strange, inconsequent sens