[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Danny Rozin

Daniel Rozin (born in 1961) is an Israeli-American artist working in the area of interactive digital art. As an interactive artist Rozin creates installations and sculptures that have the unique ability to change and respond to the presence and point of view of the viewer. In many cases the viewer becomes the contents of the piece and in others the viewer is invited to take an active role in the creation of the piece.

Biography

Rozin was born in Jerusalem in 1961. He studied industrial design at the Bezalel Academy in Jerusalem. Rozin lives and works in New York City.

Rust Mirror 
"Rust Mirror" is the eighth piece in a series of works that Rozin has created since 1999 called ‘mechanical mirrors’. In this series Rozin creates large-scale displays that recreate the viewer’s reflection by means of the manipulation of a multitude of tiles in a variety of materials, in effect turning these into physical pixels. Rust Mirror creates the viewer’s image by tilting tiles of rusted steel up and down in relation to a light source above the piece. As a person interacts with the piece, a trickle of ‘rain’ starts to flow onto the piece in the form of sequences of moving tiles. The more the person interacts with the piece the more it rains, until finally the storm of rain droplets completely overcomes the image of the viewer, accompanied by a loud rumble of rain produced by the motors and tiles. When the viewer steps out, the piece gradually settles down and returns to a still state. Rusted steel is one of the least reflective of materials, and also a material that suggests outdoor dilapidation rather than precise digital accuracy and control. The piece is presented on a bed of gravel that produces a crunching sound as the viewer interacts with the piece and emphasizes the outdoor/architectural style that the piece implies. To interact with the piece, stand in front of it at a distance of a few meters, see yourself reflected on its surface, note that the more you move in front of the piece the more it ‘rains’, move closer to the piece to get a more ‘zoomed-in’ image of your reflection.

Awards

His work has earned him numerous awards including:

 Honorary Mentions, Prix Ars Electronica
 ID Design Review
 Chrysler Design Award

Solo exhibitions

 2018 "MIRROR MIRROR" - Arts Brookfield NY 
 2015 "South Dakota" - Angostura Dam (U.S.)
 2013 "Angles" - Bitforms gallery NY 
 2012 "Mirrors" - Universidad Veritas San Jose, Costa Rica
 2011 "Daniel Rozin" - Museum of the Moving Image NY
 2010 "Contrast" - Chrysler Museum Norfolk VA
 2010 X by Y - Bitforms gallery NY 
 2009 "Reflections" - Exploratorium SF
 2007 "Fabrication" - Bitforms gallery NY 
 2006 "Daniel Rozin" - Bitforms gallery, Seoul Korea
 2005 “New Work” at Bitforms gallery NY
 2004 “Mirror image” - John Michael Kohler Art Center WI
 2003 “Mirrors” - Liquid Space, Israel Museum, Jerusalem
 2002 “Mirrors” - Bitforms gallery NY

Group exhibitions