[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Tom Sturdivant

own company, King Truck Leasing. It was really hard work. I worked there a while, but for someone as high-strung as Tom, it maybe wasn’t best for husband and wife to work together." He later served on the board of directors of Metro Tech in Oklahoma City and the Integris Hospice of Oklahoma County.

Personal life
On May 9, 1952, Tom married Paula Whitten, who went by her middle name, Reba. They had two sons, Thomas Virgil ("Tommy") II and Paul Marshall. The couple eventually divorced, and Tom remarried to Elaine in 1980. His son, Tom III acted in The Young Riders, though he spent most of his life working in sales. By the end of 2006, both Paul and Tommy had passed away. In the 2000s, Sturdivant and his wife attended Grace Community Baptist Church, a Southern Baptist church founded and pastored by Don Demeter, who was also a former MLB player.

During his time with the Yankees, Sturdivant played golf with Mantle. The two were golfing together late in the 1957 season, when Mantle suffered a massive gash in his shin after frustratedly throwing a putter and had to miss five games. Sturdivant remained a Yankee fan after his career ended, subscribing to a television package that allowed him to watch all the games, even in the Midwest. In 1976, he organized an Allie Reynolds Appreciation Day in Oklahoma to help the former pitcher's Hall of Fame chances. Sturdivant participated in baseball fantasy camps.

Just before 2000, Sturdivant's pickup truck rolled over five times while he was visiting Texas. He was hospitalized for a few weeks and underwent two surgeries, but the accident affected his health permanently. On Valentine's Day, 2009, his wife woke up to find him on the floor, having suffered a seizure. He never regained consciousness and died on February 28 at Integris Southwest Medical Center in Oklahoma City.

Bibliography
 Forker, Dom. Sweet Seasons: Recollections of the 1955–64 New York Yankees. Dallas, Texas: Taylor Publishing Co., 1990.

References

External links

1930 births
2009 deaths
Baseball players from Kansas
Beaumont Exporters players
Birmingham Barons players
Boston Red Sox players
Columbus Jets players
Detroit Tigers players
Kansas City Athletics players
Kansas City Blues (baseball) players
Major League Baseball pitchers
New York Mets players
New York Yankees players
Oklahoma City 89ers players
People from Butler County, Kansas
Pittsburgh Pirates players
Quincy Gems players
Baseball players from Oklahoma City
Washington Senators (1961–1971) players