[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# VLDL receptor

The very-low-density-lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) is a transmembrane lipoprotein receptor of the low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) receptor family. VLDLR shows considerable homology with the members of this lineage. Discovered in 1992 by T. Yamamoto, VLDLR is widely distributed throughout the tissues of the body, including the heart, skeletal muscle, adipose tissue, and the brain, but is absent from the liver. This receptor has an important role in cholesterol uptake, metabolism of apolipoprotein E-containing triacylglycerol-rich lipoproteins, and neuronal migration in the developing brain. In humans, VLDLR is encoded by the VLDLR gene. Mutations of this gene may lead to a variety of symptoms and diseases, which include type I lissencephaly, cerebellar hypoplasia, and atherosclerosis.

Protein structure 
VLDLR is a member of the low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) receptor family, which is entirely composed of type I transmembrane lipoprotein receptors.  All members of this family share five highly conserved structural domains: an extracellular N-terminal ligand-binding domain with cysteine-rich repeats (also called ligand-binding repeats), an epidermal growth factor (EGF), an O-linked glycosylation sugar domain, a single transmembrane sequence, and a cytoplasmic domain which contains an NPxY sequence. The NPxY motif functions in signal transduction and the targeting of receptors to coated pits and consists of the sequence Asparagine-Proline-X-Tyrosine, where X can be any amino acid. Mimicking this general structure, VLDLR has eight, 40 amino acid long cysteine-rich repeats in its extracellular N-terminal ligand-binding domain. This is the main difference from the main member of the LDL receptor family, LDLR, which has only seven cysteine-rich repeats which are also 40 amino acids long. Each of these cysteine-rich repeats, in both VLDLR and LDLR, has three disulfide bonds and a coordinated Ca2+ ion. The N-terminus also consists of a glycine residue followed by 27 hydrophobic residues that constitute the signal peptide.  Following this region is an EGF repeat, a β-propeller segment that plays a role in the pH-dependent dissociation of the ligand-receptor complex, and two more EGF repeats. The VLDLR O-linked glycosylation domain, next in the sequence, has many threonine and serine residues and totals 46 amino acids. The transmembrane domain, which functions in anchoring the receptors to the membrane, is 22 amino acids long. Final in the sequence is the 54 amino acid cytoplasmic domain, which contains the NPxY motif.

Isoforms 
The full-length human VLDLR genome is located on locus 9p24 on chromosome 9. It consists of a 40 kb segment that includes 19 exon-coding sequences, which is one more exon than encoded by LDLR. This extra exon in the VLDLR gene accounts for the extra cysteine-binding repeat not found in LDLR. Together, the exons making up the VLDLR gene encode a protein that is 873 amino acid residues long. VLDLR is known to exist as four different protein isoforms: type I, II, III, and IV. These different isoforms result from variations in alternative splicing. The transcript of type I VLDLR (VLDLR-I) is composed of all 19 exons. VLDLR-II, on the other hand, lacks exon 16, which encodes for the O-glycosylation domain between sugar regions. VLDLR-III lacks exon 4 that encodes the third ligand-binding repeat. Finally, VLDLR-IV transcripts lack both exon 16 and exon 4. It has been shown that 75% of VLDLR transcripts exist as isoform type II in mouse brain models. This shows that most VLDLRs in the brain are not glycosylated, as type II lacks exon 16 which encodes the O-glycosylation domain. Isoform type IV is known to be the second most prominent.

Evolutionary conservation 
There is a high level of conservation within the LDL receptor family. In particular, there is 50% overall sequence homology between VLDLR and ApoER2, another lipoprotein receptor of this family. Comparing LDLR and VLDLR, it was found that their primary structures are 55% identical within their ligand-binding regions. The modular structures of these two proteins are almost superimposable, with the only difference being the additional cysteine-rich repeat in VLDLR. This is demonstrated through the alignment of the two receptors according to their linker region; in LDLR, the linker region is located between cysteine-rich repeats four and five of its seven repeats while in VLDLR, the linker region appears to be between repeats five and six of its eight repeats.

VLDLR also shows high homology among various species. VLDLR of humans, mice, rats, and rabbits have been identified as 95% identical. Furthermore, there is approximately 84% conservation with the respective protein in chickens. This level of homology between species is much higher than that found for LDLR. Hence, these gene comparisons suggest that VLDLR and LDLR diverged before the LDLRs did among vertebrates.