[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mamoru Shinozaki

pre-war Malaya who had applied to remain in Singapore. Because he was ruled guilty as a spy in 1940, there was little hope of approval, so he cooperated with the British Field Security Force by prosecuting his colleague, a member of the Kempeitai as a war criminal, to obtain forgiveness for himself.

In 1946, public opinion was not against to him, because he apologized for the fault of JMA and the Sook Ching Massacre, and he agreed to compensate for those crimes. He also argued the Collaborator Case in January 1946 for Dr. Pagular, the leader of EWA, and said: "Please punish me".

But his testimony at the War Criminal Court of Sook Ching Massacre in 1947 drew strong protests from Singaporean residents. In Court, though he was one of the prosecution witnesses, he said that , commander of the Syonan Defence Garrison and who was the commander of Sook Ching Massacre, had ordered Shinozaki to save thousands of Chinese and Eurasians and that he had complied. He also said that each of the three defendants who were facing the death penalty had very kind and merciful characters, but were following orders.

Chuang Hui Tsuan blamed Shinozaki as the "wire-puller" of Sook Ching Massacre, required that all the defendants be executed and that Shinozaki be deported from Singapore. Though not all of the defendants were sentenced to death, Shinozaki was deported from Singapore in 1948. He was blocked from re-entering Singapore until 1973, though other Japanese people were allowed back from 1953.

Sales of autobiography 
In February 1972, New Nation reported that Shinozaki returned to Singapore as an industrialist, and that he had just completed a book.

His memoir in Japanese was first published serially on Southern Cross, the journal of  from Jul./Aug. 1972 to Mar./Apr. 1974. From 28 August 1972 to 5 October 1972, his autobiography was translated into Chinese by Chin Kah Chong, published serially on Nanyang Siang Pau. Then in May 1973, the Chinese version of his autobiography was published in the book form , which was reprinted in June 1973 and in August 1973.

In the same year, he was interviewed by Lim Yoon Lin of the Institute of South-East Asian Studies for its oral history programme and the record of the interview, which was written in English,  was published.

From July 1974 to December 1974, the Japanese version of his autobiography was published serially on Syokun!, a Japanese journal by Bungeishunjū. It was published in the book form in 1976 .

In 1975, the English version of his autobiography Syonan - My Story was published by Asia Pacific Press. His autobiography was later reprinted in 1982.

Criticisms

Self-praise
On 1 November 1972, on Sin Chew Daily, Chuang Hui Tsuan wrote an article which criticized Shinozaki's self-praising in his autobiography. Then in 1973, on Sin Chew Daily, Lee Kim Chuan and Qing Mu-duan also criticized Shinozaki for his boastfulness.

Distorting the function of "Good Citizen's Ticket" and the purpose of OCA foundation 
On 18 June 1973, Wu You on Nanyang Siang Pau criticized Shinozaki's autobiography as unworthy as a historical resource of Singapore, and to allow their history to depend on his autobiography was a fearful thing. He wrote that Shinozaki wrote about saving the life of one person, which was his heroic and voluntary action, but didn't write about JMA killing and afflicting hundreds of citizens and Shinozaki implementing it as a member of staff of JMA. On 7 July 1973, on Nanyang Siang Pau, Shinozaki pleaded to Wu You that he merely wrote of his own experiences. Then Wu You again criticized Shinozaki for distorting their painful history. He pointed out that the "Good Citizen's Ticket" was not so special but required for all staff who cooperated with JMA during the occupation period, so each member of the Japanese staff of Syonan Municipal, not only Shinozaki but other staff too got it. He also criticized Shinozaki for writing that the OCA was founded to save the life of Chinese leaders. Anybody who lived through that period knew that the Japanese Army, after occupying Malayan City, set up a "Security Preservation Committee" or similar organization, so Singapore couldn't be an exception.

On 30 and 31 July 1973, Tan Y. S. on Nanyang Siang Pau commented that Shinozaki's autobiography wrote many things about JMA which Tan didn't know, but Shinozaki didn't know the sorrows of Singaporean citizens. Then he corrected some "mistakes" of Shinozaki based on Tan's own experience and asked readers to report their own experiences to compare with what Shinozaki wrote.