[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 38]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

o?
_H._--Why, I should endeavour to build myself a house, if I could find
myself materials. _T._--And what materials is a house made of? I thought
it had been impossible to make a house without having a great many
people of different trades, such as carpenters and bricklayers.
_H._--You know there are houses of different sizes. The houses that the
poor people live in are very different from your father's house.
_T._--Yes, they are little, nasty, dirty, disagreeable places; I should
not like to live in them at all. _H._--And yet the poor are in general
as strong and healthy as the rich. But if you could have no other, you
would rather live in one of them than be exposed to the weather?
_T._--Yes, certainly. And how would you make one of them? _H._--If I
could get any wood, and had a hatchet, I would cut down some branches of
trees, and stick them upright in the ground, near to each other.
_T._--And what then? _H._--I would then get some other branches, but
more full of small wood; and these I would interweave between them, just
as we make hurdles to confine the sheep; and then, as that might not be
warm enough to resist the wind and cold, I would cover them over, both
within and without, with clay. _T._--Clay! what is that? _H._--It is a
particular kind of earth, that sticks to your feet when you tread upon
it, or to your hands when you touch it. _T._--I declare I did not think
it had been so easy to make a house. And do you think that people could
really live in such houses? _H._--Certainly they might, because many
persons live in such houses here; and I have been told that in many
parts of the world they have not any other. _T._--Really, I should like
to try to make a house; do you think, Harry, that you and I could make
one? _H._--Yes, if I had wood and clay enough, I think I could, and a
small hatchet to sharpen the stakes and make them enter the ground.

Mr Barlow then came to call them in to read, and told Tommy that, as he
had been talking so much about good-nature to animals, he had looked him
out a very pretty story upon the subject, and begged that he would read
it well. "That I will," said Tommy; "for I begin to like reading
extremely; and I think that I am happier too since I learned it, for now
I can always divert myself." "Indeed," answered Mr Barlow, "most people
find it so. When any one can read he will not find the knowledge any
burthen to him, and it is his own fault if he is not constantly amused.
This is an advantage, Tommy, which a gentleman, since you are so fond of
the word, may more particularly enjoy, because he has so much time at
his own disposal; and it is much better that he should distinguish
himself by having more knowledge and improvement than others, than by
fine clothes, or any such trifles, which any one may have that can
purchase them as well as himself."

Tommy then read, with a clear and distinct voice, the following story of


"THE GOOD-NATURED LITTLE BOY."

"A little boy went out one morning to walk to a village about five miles
from the place where he lived, and carried with him in a basket the
provision that was to serve him the whole day. As he was walking along,
a poor little half-starved dog came up to him, wagging his tail, and
seeming to entreat him to take compassion on him. The little boy at
first took no notice of him, but at length, remarking how lean and
famished the creature seemed to be, he said, 'This animal is certainly
in very great necessity; if I give him part of my provision, I shall be
obliged to go home hungry myself; however, as he seems to want it more
than I do, he shall partake with me.' Saying this, he gave the dog part
of what he had in the basket, who ate as if he had not tasted victuals
for a fortnight.

"The little boy then went on a little farther, his dog still following
him, and fawning upon him with the greatest gratitude and affection,
when he saw a poor old horse lying upon the ground, and groaning as if
he was very ill; he went up to him, and saw that he was almost starved,
and so weak that he was unable to rise. 'I am very much afraid,' said
the little boy, 'if I stay to assist this horse, that it will be dark
before I can return; and I have heard that there are several thieves in
the neighbourhood; however, I will try--it is doing a good action to
attempt to relieve him; and God Almighty will take care of me.' He then
went and gathered some grass, which he brought to the horse's mouth, who
immediately began to eat with as much relish as if his chief disease was
hunger. He then fetched some water in his hat, which the animal drank
up, and seemed immediately to be so much refreshed that, after a few
trials, he got up and began grazing.

"The little boy then went on a little farther, and saw a man wading
about in a pond of water, without being able to get out of it, in spite
of all his endeavours. 'What is the matter, good man,' said the little
boy to hi