[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Energy policy of India

dized LPG / Kerosene permits or are eligible for subsidized LPG / Kerosene permits may be given free electricity connection and a subsidized electricity tariff. To avoid the possibility of fatal electric shocks, power is supplied to the electric cook stove through a residual-current circuit breaker.

Since December 2018,  IPPs have been offering to sell solar power below 2.90 Rs/kWh to feed into the high-voltage grid. This price is below the affordable electricity tariff for the solar power to replace LPG, PNG, and Kerosene use at a subsidized price of LPG or Kerosene in the domestic sector. Two wheelers and three wheelers consume 62% and 6% of petrol respectively in India.  The saved LPG/Autogas replaced by electricity in the domestic sector can be used by two and three wheelers with operational cost and least pollution benefits. LPG is also used in heavy-duty vehicles/boats / trains / off-road construction or mining or farming or other equipment to replace diesel or petrol with economy and environmental advantages.  It is also possible to convert the existing heavy-duty diesel engines to dual fuel with LPG for reducing the PM10 particulate emissions. Existing petrol engines can be converted at low cost into 100% LPG or dual fuel with LPG for achieving enhanced fuel efficiency and economy with drastically reduced emissions. Non-subsidy LPG prices are below the diesel or petrol prices in India in terms of heat content (heat content-wise one kg of LPG is equal to 1.85 liters of LPG or 1.37 liters of diesel oil or 1.48 liters of petrol). Cheaper butane, a constituent of LPG (propane and butane mixture), can be directly mixed with petrol/gasoline for better use in vehicles. Instead of using LPG as a heating fuel in the domestic sector, for higher-end usage, propane can also be converted into alkylate which is a premium gasoline blending stock because it has exceptional antiknock properties and gives clean burning. Propane can be used in hydrogen/Ammonia production with advantages compared to natural gas and also can be transported much cheaper than LNG or natural gas.

Energy trading with neighboring countries
The per capita electricity consumption is low compared to many countries despite cheaper electricity tariff in India. Despite low electricity per capita consumption in India, the country is going to achieve surplus electricity generation during the 12th plan (2012 to 2017) period provided its coal production and transport infrastructure is developed adequately. India has been exporting electricity to Bangladesh and Nepal and importing excess electricity in Bhutan. Surplus electricity can be exported to the neighbouring countries in return for natural gas supplies from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar.

Bangladesh, Myanmar, and Pakistan are producing substantial natural gas and using for electricity generation purposes. Bangladesh, Myanmar and Pakistan produce 55 million cubic metres per day (mcmd), 9 mcmd and 118 mcmd out of which 20 mcmd, 1.4 mcmd and 34 mcmd are consumed for electricity generation respectively. Whereas the natural gas production in India is not even adequate to meet its non-electricity requirements.

Bangladesh, Myanmar, and Pakistan have proven reserves of 200 billion cubic meters (bcm), 1200 bcm, and 500 bcm respectively. There is ample opportunity for mutually beneficial trading in energy resources with these countries. India can supply its surplus electricity to Pakistan and Bangladesh in return for the natural gas imports by gas pipelines. Similarly India can develop on BOOT basis hydro power projects in Bhutan, Nepal and  Myanmar. India might also be able to enter into long-term power purchase agreements with China for developing the hydropower potential of the Yarlung Tsangpo Grand Canyon in the Brahmaputra River basin of Tibet. There is ample trading synergy for India with its neighboring countries in securing its energy requirements.

India's National Grid is synchronously interconnected to Bhutan, and asynchronously linked with Bangladesh, Myanmar and Nepal. An undersea interconnection to Sri Lanka (India–Sri Lanka HVDC Interconnection) have been proposed. Sri Lanka can also export its surplus renewable energy (solar, onshore wind, offshore wind, etc) to india in future.

In 2015, Nepal imported 224.21 MW of electric power from India, and Bangladesh imported 500 MW. In 2018, Bangladesh proposed importing 10,000 MW power from India. To encourage the carbon neutral solar power generation, plans are made to transform the Indian national grid into a transnational grid expanding up to Vietnam towards east and Saudi Arabia towards west spanning nearly 7,000 km wide. Being at the central location of the widened grid, India will be able to import the excess solar power available outside its territory at cheaper prices to meet the morning and evening peak load power demands without much costly energy storage.