[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Erlan Idrissov

was relieved on 28 December 2016. On 30 December 2016, he was reappointed as the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to the United Kingdom.

From January 1, 2017 - August 2022 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

From August 2017 - August 2022 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Iceland, the Republic of Ireland concurrently.

US relations
On 8–10 July 2013, Idrissov paid an official visit to the United States and held meetings with Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz, National Security Adviser Susan Rice, Deputy National Security Adviser Antony Blinken, U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman, and Deputy Secretary of State William Burns. In his talks with high ranking U.S. officials the two sides highlighted the robust and growing bilateral ties between Kazakhstan and the United States and the Strategic Partnership Dialogue, and reaffirmed their commitment to deepen US–Kazakhstan relations.

Idrissov took part in the meeting of foreign ministers of Central Asia and the United States in the C5+1 format. The meeting took place in Washington, D.C., on 3 August 2016. The six ministers agreed to launch five projects aimed at developing the transport, logistics and energy potential of Central Asia, as well as improving border infrastructure and strengthening regional security. The U.S. plans to support these projects with up to $15 million.

Latin America
On 1 October 2013, Minister Idrissov became the first Kazakhstan Foreign Minister to visit South America. He visited the countries of Ecuador, Argentina and Chile. The purpose of the visit was to speak about the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy, Expo 2017, and creating bilateral cooperation. During his meeting with Chilean Foreign Minister Alfonso Navarro, the milestone agreement was the abolishment of visas between Chile and Kazakhstan. Chilean and Kazakhstan citizens can visit these countries without the need for a visa. In Ecuador, the same agreement was made for a 30-day trial period to strengthen trade, business, and tourism for both countries. While visiting Argentina, Idrissov discussed areas in travel, tourism, technology, energy, agriculture, beef, nuclear energy, and space.

United Nations

Minister Idrissov has led Kazakhstan's candidacy for Kazakhstan's election to be a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for 2017–18.  Idrissov highlighted the key elements of the country's candidature since formally initiating the process in September this year, which is focused on ensuring global nuclear, water, food and energy security. Idrissov has led Kazakhstan's advocacy effort at the United Nations to achieve a nuclear weapons-free world.

On 6 May 2016, Foreign Minister Erlan Idrissov represented Kazakhstan at the high-level forum titled Religions for Peace at the United Nations General Assembly. He stressed that it was important to break the links between terrorism and religions and noted that on May 31 Astana would host an international conference under the title “Religions Against Terrorism.”

Erlan Idrissov contributed to Kazakhstan's election as a non-permanent member of UN Security Council. It was announced in June 2016 that Kazakhstan would serve on the UNSC in 2017-2018.

In September 2016, Erlan Idrissov participated in the 71st session of the UN General Assembly. Within the session, Erlan Idrissov met with Foreign Ministers of other countries, including U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry. During his visit to New York Erlan Idrissov also participated in the meeting of Central Asian Foreign Ministers. The meeting had a symbolic meaning, since 2016 is the year when all Central Asian countries celebrate the 25th anniversary of their independence.

Non-permanent membership in UNSC 2017–2018
Kazakhstan set priority questions for its non-permanent membership in the UN Security Council in 2017–2018. One of them is security and development issues in the Central Asian region. In order to represent the interests of the entire region, Kazakhstan's Foreign Minister Erlan Idrissov conducted trips to the capitals of the Central Asian states and Afghanistan in late 2016.

Small Island Developing States