[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Evropesma

ngosi on stage and they performed their song with the other finalists from Beovizija present on stage.

As a result, the Executive Board of UJRT did not accept the victory of No Name, stating that voting violated the merits of the competition, albeit not being found irregular. Source: UJRT statement

The Director General of the RTS and the head of UJRT, Aleksandar Tijanić, wrote a letter to his counterpart at the RTCG, Radovan Miljanić, suggesting that a new contest be held, featuring five songs from both semi-finals that got the most points. The winner would be selected solely through televoting. At the same time, RTCG requested from the European Broadcasting Union that they intervene in accepting the voting results from the controversial contest. The European Broadcasting Union responded on March 18, 2006, two days before the deadline for the submission of the national entry to the 2006 Eurovision Song Contest, by suggesting that the broadcasters find a solution on their own. This was to no avail, and finally, on March 20, 2006, Serbia and Montenegro officially withdrew from the 2006 Eurovision Song Contest. As the UJRT broadcast the semifinal and final, the viewers were able to vote.

As the withdrawal left an empty slot in the final, Croatia and their representative Severina took it. The 2005 Eurovision Song Contest Croatian representative Boris Novković won 11th place, one place below the cutoff for the direct entry into the final.

In this table, red color denotes songs and jurors from Montenegro, blue those from Serbia.

See also
 Serbia and Montenegro in the Eurovision Song Contest

References

External links
BBC News: Serbia and Montenegro pulls pop entry
Radio Television of Serbia Eurovision Page
Radio Television of Montenegro Eurovision Page

Eurovision Song Contest selection events
Serbia in the Eurovision Song Contest
Montenegro in the Eurovision Song Contest
Serbia and Montenegro in the Eurovision Song Contest
Music festivals in Serbia
Recurring events disestablished in 2006
2004 establishments in Serbia and Montenegro
Music festivals established in 2004
Pop music festivals
Rock festivals in Serbia