[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 26]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

a gun battle takes place between the National Army and Irregulars. During the previous night, around 100 Irregulars enter Charlestown, raided some houses and set up a roadblock preventing traffic to Swinford. On 13 March the National Army barracks in Swinford hear about the incident and send troops to investigate. As they approach Charlestown, the patrol is ambushed. In the ensuing gun battle, the National Army suffer two dead. Irregular casualties are one dead and three wounded.
The bodies of two civilians are found at Morehill, Tallow on the Waterford/Cork border.
14 March – 
Two Republicans are executed for their part in a bank robbery in Mullingar.
Two National Army soldiers are shot and killed in Dublin. One is seized when unarmed and off duty in Portobello and shot in the head. The other is killed in an exchange of fire when he tries to search two republican fighters near Mountjoy Prison.
Anti-Treaty IRA officer Charlie Daly and three other Republican fighters are executed by Free State troops at Drumboe Castle, near Stranorlar in County Donegal where they had been held since January. They are executed in reprisal for the death of a Free State soldier in a nearby ambush the day before.
15 March – 
Anti-Treaty officer John Kevins killed in Beaufort, County Kerry.
A Free State soldier is shot dead near Wellington Barracks, Dublin.
Two soldiers of the Railway protection Corps go missing in County Louth. The body of one is found shot dead.
16 March – National Army troops sweep the vicinity of Newport in County Mayo, resulting in some arrests.
A Free State sweep in County Wexford encounters an anti-Treaty column. One National Army soldier and two republicans are killedi n the fire fight.
Anti-Treaty fighters explode a bomb at the Customs and Excise Offices in Dublin. One CID man is killed and another wounded.
17 March – 
A major boxing match between Mike McTigue and Battling Siki takes place in Dublin city centre, despite the Anti-Treaty prohibition of public entertainments. A battalion of Free State troops guards the fight on Princes street. Anti-Treaty fighters detonate a mine beside the theater and fire on the spectators after the fight.
There is also a bomb attack on the Custom and Excise office in Dublin. One CID man is killed and another is wounded. A National Army Intelligence Officer, Frank Bolster, is shot and wounded while attending the theater in Dublin.
Another Free State soldier, John Little, is accidentally shot dead by his comrades in Collins Barracks, Dublin.
An elderly civilian is shot dead during a Post Office robbery in Monaghan town.
19 March – Free State troops of Costume Barracks, Athlone, shoot dead a civilian, John Murphy, they said they were pursuing escaped prisoners. 
22 March – A fire fight takes place at Windgap on the County Kilkenny–Tipperary border between an IRA column and NA troops from Kilkenny sweeping the area. One NA soldier Vol. Brown is killed and press reports three 'Irregulars' also killed.
23 March – A detachment of National Army troops surrounds a house on Albert Road, Dalkey, County Dublin, which contains six Anti-Treaty fighters. One Free State soldier is killed and two wounded when the house is stormed, one Republican is also killed and another is wounded in the fire fight. The remaining four and a woman civilian are arrested. Some arms and hundreds of rounds of ammunition are seized by the Free State troops. In a separate incident, another Anti-Treaty fighter is killed in Rathmines. Another is shot dead trying to blow up the Carlton cinema in O'Connell Street.
March – In retaliation for the execution of three Wexford Republicans on 13 March, Bob Lambert, the local Republican officer, orders the killing of three National Army soldiers captured while drinking at a pub in the county. The soldiers were taken by Anti-Treaty IRA from a Public House at Ballagh, parish of Adamstown. They were taken to the village of Adamstown where they were shot dead later that night or early next morning, on 24 March 1923. A fourth Free State soldier, John Croke, was badly wounded when he was shot in the leg when he resisted the Anti-Treaty IRA as they initially entered the Pub.
23 March – 
A civilian, Michael Muldoon is shot dead by unknown gunmen Mohill, County Leitrim. 
National Army troops based in Swinford, County Mayo, arrest an irregular named Halligan from the Kiltimagh area. He was found to be in possession of gelignite, ammunition and a bomb.
24 March – Anti-Treaty IRA executive meets in County Waterford to discuss the war's future. Tom Barry proposes a motion to end the war, but it is defeated by 6 votes to 5. Éamon de Valera is allowed to attend, after some debate, but is given no voting rights.
25 March – 
Republican leader in County Leitrim, Ned Bofin and three of his men are captured in the Arigna Mountains.
Free State soldiers in Wexford shot dead Michael Furlong (of Ballagh) at Oldcourt, in revenge for the previous days killing of three Free State troops as they su