[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Collision Course (Space: 1999)

"Collision Course" is the thirteenth episode of the first series of Space: 1999.  The screenplay was written by Anthony Terpiloff; the director was Ray Austin.  The final shooting script is dated 13 August 1974.  Live-action filming took place Tuesday 27 August 1974 through Tuesday 10 September 1974.

Story 
A large asteroid hurtles through space on collision course with the Moon.  As Moonbase Alpha is located within the impact area, the staff formulates a plan to avert disaster.  To guarantee the asteroid's destruction, twelve nuclear charges will be planted at strategic locations.  The Eagle task force delivers eleven charges.  However, due to a malfunction of Eagle One, Alan Carter fails to deliver the twelfth charge within the original timeline.

The charges are detonated as first Carter's Eagle, then the Moon, are engulfed in a debris cloud billowing outwards from the volatilised asteroid.  Radiation interference blots out communications and scanners.  The staff compiles damage reports and monitors the functioning of the protective radiation screens. John Koenig repeatedly tries to contact Eagle One, refusing to believe Carter is dead.  When discovering that signals transmitted on the interstellar frequency can penetrate the radiation field, he reckons that three-way contact could be established between Moonbase, a rescue Eagle equipped with a more powerful transmitter, and Carter.

Paul Morrow voices the danger of the pilots' potential exposure to radiation.  Koenig disagrees, feeling the Eagles' radiation screens are sufficient.  Victor Bergman stresses there is an unknown class of radiation present in the cloud against which they may have no defence.  The Commander disregards his advice and lifts-off in Rescue Eagle Four, with Morrow as co-pilot, flying blind through the plasma cloud, sending out hails.

Though unconscious and unable to hear Morrow's signal, Carter stirs at the whisper of a woman's voice.  She instructs him to answer his friend, which he does while unconscious. When trying to determine Carter's position, the same disembodied voice whispers coordinates in Koenig's ear.  Watched by a puzzled Morrow, the Commander programmes a course without computer assistance.  They soon find Eagle One drifting beyond the boundary of the cloud.

They move in and dock, Carter's mysterious benefactor urging him to perform all necessary actions on his end.  She then takes her leave, assuring him she is a friend.  When Koenig boards the ship, he finds Carter insensate.  He is stunned by what he sees through the forward ports, a huge planet that has appeared out of nowhere and bearing down on the Moon.

Facing another collision, they make their way back to Alpha with Carter. As Carter is conveyed to Medical, Koenig rushes to Main Mission with the data from his on-board computer.  After a quick analysis, David Kano reports the planet will impact with the Moon in 105 hours.

Bergman proposes exploding a series of nuclear charges between the Moon and the planet to create a shock wave powerful enough to force the two bodies apart.  With no other options, Koenig orders him to start planning the operation.  An in-depth analysis of the planet reveals it is marginally habitable and could support life.  Should 'Operation Shockwave' fail, the Alphans could evacuate to the far side of the planet—if it withstands the collision.  With sensors still scrambled by the radioactive cloud, Koenig opts for a reconnaissance flight.

In the Medical Centre, Carter awakens to see a mysterious figure cloaked in black, standing at the foot of his bed.  Speaking with the voice he heard earlier, the woman assures him he is safe.  He lifts her veil...only to find his hands raising Helena Russell's hair.  Koenig enters the care unit as Carter desperately searches for the apparition.  After struggling with the nurses, he is sedated.  Helena is certain the hallucinations are symptomatic of radiation sickness. Koenig dismisses her concerns and lifts off alone in the reconnaissance Eagle as a giant spaceship rises to intercept and swallow Eagle Four.

Koenig is left alone in the dark as the ship's hatches spontaneously open. The Eagle hatch closes behind him, and he enters a vast chamber draped with cobwebs.  He arrives at a throne on which is seated a mysterious figure. Her veil is raised to reveal the wizened yet still beautiful face of an ancient woman. She introduces herself as Arra, Queen of Atheria—the planet whose course has terrified the Alphans.

She announces she has been anticipating this encounter for millions of years. Koenig is confounded when informed the Moon being blasted out of orbit was no random accident.  Their worlds have been destined to meet in the body of time for the purpose of mutation.  The collision will act as a catalyst, allowing her people to evolve into a noncorporeal form of existence.  To achieve this, she asks the Alphans do...nothing.