[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Siamak Pourzand

inal stenosis and became unable to walk.

In March 2004, Pourzand suffered a severe heart attack, following which prison officials allegedly delayed treating him until another prisoner demanded that they do so. In 2006, in light of his ongoing health issues, Pourzand was transferred to house arrest.

Suicide and funeral
Pourzand died on 29 April 2011. According to his daughters, he committed suicide by jumping from the sixth-story balcony of his apartment in Tehran. His daughter, Banafsheh Zand, stated after his death that "He leapt to his own death to prove his disgust for a regime that is inhumane and un-Iranian", while another daughter, Azadeh Pourzand, commented that "I would like to think of his death as a way for him to finally find freedom." Banafsheh also alleged that state security forces continued to threaten the family by telephone, saying "Now that we're rid of your father... don't go thinking you can fill his place. We know how to deal with you and the rest of your family." The journalist-protection organization Reporters Without Borders issued a press release mourning Pourzand's death and calling the Iranian government "responsible for Siamak Pourzand's death". Leili and Azadeh Pourzand appeared on the Voice of America's Persian program Parazit, explaining how they found out about their father's death.

The Telegraph reported that Iranian authorities initially refused to hand over Pourzand's body to his family for burial, imposed restrictions on the eulogies at his funeral, and confiscated the cell phones and cameras of reporters.

Family
Pourzand's wife Mehrangiz Kar is an internationally noted feminist and winner of National Endowment for Democracy's Democracy award.

Pourzand was a first cousin of Persian poet Ahmad Shamlou on his mother's side.

Litigation in United States 
In 2019, Mr. Pourzand's wife Mehrangiz Kar, and two of his daughters, Azadeh Pourzand and Banafsheh Zand file a complaint against Islamic Republic of Iran and IRGC for torturing, hostage taking, and extrajudicial killing of Mr. Pourzand under FSIA. On September 30, 2022, Judge John Bates ordered that Iran is liable for torturing and hostage taking of Mr. Pourzand. The Court awarded compensatory damages totaling, with prejudgment interest, $17,403,063.01 for Plaintiffs. The Court will also award punitive damages of $17,403,063.01. Plaintiffs’ total award is $34,806,126.02. Ali Herischi was the attorney for Plaintiffs.

References

External links

Mockery of Justice: The Framing of Siamak Pourzand, a report by the Iran Human Rights Documentation Center

Iranian journalists
1931 births
2011 deaths
Imprisoned journalists
Suicides in Iran
Iranian prisoners and detainees
Amnesty International prisoners of conscience held by Iran
Iranian dissidents
2011 suicides
Suicides by jumping