[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tactics of terrorism

me time that he kills himself. Usually these tactics are used for a demonstrative purposes or to targeted assassinations. In most cases though, they target to kill a large number of people. Thus, while coercion is an element in all terrorism, coercion is the paramount objective of suicide terrorism.

The number of attacks using suicide tactics has grown from an average of fewer than five per year during the 1980s to 180 per year between 2000 and 2005, and from 81 suicide attacks in 2001 to 460 in 2005. These attacks have been aimed at diverse military and civilian targets, including in Sri Lanka, in Israel since July 6, 1989, in Iraq since the US-led invasion of that country in 2003, and in Pakistan and Afghanistan since 2005.

Between 1980 and 2000, the largest number of suicide attacks was carried out by separatist Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam of Sri Lanka. The number of attacks conducted by LTTE was almost double that of nine other major extremist organizations.

In Israel, Gaza and the West Bank, suicide bombings are an anti-Israel strategy perpetrated generally by Islamist and occasionally by secular Palestinian groups including the PFLP.

India has also been the victim of suicide attacks by groups based in Pakistan, a recent example taking place in February 2019. An attack by the Pakistan based Jaish-e-Mohammed group on Indian security forces  Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, India, resulted in the loss of 40 security personnel of the CRPF. This eventually resulted in the India–Pakistan border skirmishes of 2019.

Shootings 
Assassinations

Despite the popular image of terrorism as bombings alone, conventional firearms are as much if not more pervasive in their use for extremism. Assassinations while not the number one tactic, are extremely commonly used to further terrorist agendas. Not only this but the frequency and number of assassinations by terrorist organizations is far larger than any other group/perpetrator(s). More often then not, these assassinations target political figures but this is not always the case. For example the recent case (2020) of Samuel Paty, in which a teacher in France was beheaded over his lesson that included caricatures of the prophet Muhamed. 

Mass Shootings

Shootings also take the form of less targeted but far more deadly mass shootings. Terrorists often use this tactic to employ fear as generally the targets are civilian or military and get mass amounts of media coverage. Often these mass shootings are carried out by only a singular terrorist or a small group but generally they require less man power for more damage. Yet another reason they are such a popular tactic. In the second part of the 2011 Norway attacks, 69 people were killed by Anders Behring Breivik, a man armed with two guns. Additionally In 2016, Omar Mateen killed 49 people with firearms during Orlando nightclub shooting. More recently we have seen a rise in mass shootings from lone-wolf terrorists as well.

Suicide attacks 

Suicide terrorism is the most aggressive form of terrorism, pursuing coercion even at the expense of losing support among terrorists' own community. What distinguishes a suicide terrorist is that the attacker does not expect to survive a mission and often employs a method of attack that requires the attacker's death in order to succeed (such as planting a car bomb, wearing a suicide vest, or ramming an airplane into a building). In essence, a suicide terrorist kills others at the same time that he kills himself. Usually these tactics are used for a demonstrative purposes or to targeted assassinations. In most cases though, they target to kill a large number of people. Thus, while coercion is an element in all terrorism, coercion is the paramount objective of suicide terrorism.

The number of attacks using suicide tactics has grown from an average of fewer than five per year during the 1980s to 180 per year between 2000 and 2005, and from 81 suicide attacks in 2001 to 460 in 2005. These attacks have been aimed at diverse military and civilian targets, including in Sri Lanka, in Israel since July 6, 1989, in Iraq since the US-led invasion of that country in 2003, and in Pakistan and Afghanistan since 2005.

Between 1980 and 2000, the largest number of suicide attacks was carried out by separatist Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam of Sri Lanka. The number of attacks conducted by LTTE was almost double that of nine other major extremist organizations.

In Israel, Gaza and the West Bank, suicide bombings are an anti-Israel strategy perpetrated generally by Islamist and occasionally by secular Palestinian groups including the PFLP.