[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Robert Dollard

Robert Dollard (March 14, 1842 - April 28, 1912) was an American attorney and politician.  A native of Massachusetts, he was a Union Army veteran of the American Civil War and attained the rank of major.  After the war, he moved to Illinois, where he studied law and was admitted to the bar.  He later moved to South Dakota and served as its first attorney general.

Early life
Dollard was born in Fall River, Massachusetts, on March 14, 1842, the son of Thomas Dollard and Mary (Collyer) Dollard.  His mother died when he was two years old, and his father soon remarried.  Dollard was raised by his father and stepmother Ann, and according to an 1855 state census, his siblings included an older sister named Mary and a younger half-sister named Elisabeth.  Dollard was educated through the high school grades in the public schools of Fall River and Stoughton and by the time of the 1860 federal census, Mary and Robert Dollard were living in Easton, Massachusetts, where Mary worked in a thread factory and Robert was employed as a moulder.

American Civil War
On April 16, 1861, Dollard enlisted as a private in Company B, 4th Massachusetts Volunteer Militia.  During the regiment's three months of Union Army service at the start of the American Civil War, it performed garrison duty at Fort Monroe and took part in the Battle of Big Bethel.  The 4th Massachusetts Volunteers were mustered out in late July, and in September Dollard returned to service when he enlisted in Company E, 23rd Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry Regiment.  He attained the rank of sergeant before receiving his commission as a second lieutenant, and he later received promotion to first lieutenant.  The 23rd Massachusetts was part of Burnside's North Carolina Expedition, and engagements in which Dollard took part included the battles of Roanoke Island,  New Bern, and Fort Macon.

Following the North Carolina expedition, the 23rd Massachusetts was part of a Union force sent to South Carolina, where it performed occupation duty before returning to North Carolina to perform occupation duty there.  In the summer of 1863, the 23rd Massachusetts left North Carolina and bivouacked at Fort Monroe, Virginia.

Dollard left the 23rd Massachusetts in December 1863 for promotion to captain in the 2nd United States Colored Cavalry Regiment.  Battles in which Dollard was a participant included the Siege of Suffolk and Second Battle of Suffolk, and the Siege of Petersburg.

In September 1864, Dollard received a head wound during the Battle of Chaffin's Farm, and his heroism and coolness under fire while directing troops to maintain their lines resulted in his promotion to major.  After the war ended, Dollard's regiment performed occupation duty in Texas, and he was mustered out at Brazos Island on February 12, 1866.  After the war, Dollard was an active member of the Grand Army of the Republic, Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States and other veterans groups.  He took part in numerous reunions and other public events to commemorate the war, and published several newspaper articles and other writings about his experiences.

Post-Civil War
After the war, Dollard decided to move to Chicago and go into business with a friend and former officer who had served with him during the war.  They moved from Chicago to Galesburg, but soon had a falling out.  Dollard traveled to San Antonio, Texas and New Orleans, Louisiana in search of other opportunities, but returned to Galesburg several months later to begin studying law with a local attorney.  He was admitted to the bar in 1870 and practiced throughout Knox, Peoria, and Fulton Counties.  In 1876 he was the unsuccessful Democratic candidate for State's Attorney of Knox County.

Move to Dakota Territory
In 1878, Dollard traded parcels with another landowner and later that year he visited the one he had acquired in the Dakota Territory. Deciding to relocate to Dakota in 1879, Dollard filed for five claims under the Homestead Acts in what is now Douglas County, South Dakota, where he began to farm. According to the records of the U.S. Land Office, Dollard was the first permanent settler in the county. While farming most of the year, Dollard resided in Scotland, South Dakota during the winter and practiced law, including travel to the territorial capital of Yankton for trials.