[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of Jewish leaders in the Land of Israel

The following is a list of Jewish heads of state and/or government in the Land of Israel.

House of Saul
 King Saul (c. 1037–1010 BCE)
 King Ish-bosheth (II Samuel 2:8–9)

House of David
 King David (II Samuel 5:3) c. 1010–970 BCE – who made Jerusalem the capital of the United Kingdom of Israel.
 King Solomon (I Kings 2:12)
 King Rehoboam (I Kings 11:43)

After Rehoboam
After Rehoboam reigned three years (1 Chronicles 11:17), the kingdom was divided in two – the northern kingdom of Israel under Jeroboam, with its capital, first in Shechem (Nablus), then Tirzah, and finally Samaria, and ruled by a series of dynasties beginning with Jeroboam; and the southern kingdom of Judah with its capital still at Jerusalem and still ruled by the House of David. The following list contains the kings of Judah with the kings of Israel in the summaries. See also: the dynasties of the northern kingdom of Israel.
 King Abijam (I Kings 14:31) c. 913-911 BCE
 King Asa (I Kings 15:8) – under whose reign, the following were kings in Israel: Nadab, Baasha, Elah, Zimri, Omri, and Ahab.
 King Jehoshaphat (I Kings 15:24) – under whose reign, Ahaziah and Jehoram reigned in Israel.
 King Jehoram ben Jehoshaphat (I Kings 22:50)
 King Ahaziah ben Jehoram (II Kings 8:24) – under whose reign, Jehu ruled in Israel.
 Queen Athaliah (II Kings 11:3) mother of Ahaziah
 King Jehoash (II Kings 11:21) – son of Ahaziah, under whose reign, Jehoahaz and another Jehoash ruled in Israel.
 King Amaziah (II Kings 14:1) – under whose reign, Jeroboam II ruled in Israel.
 King Uzziah referred to as Azariah (II Kings 15:1) – under whose reign, the following ruled over Israel: Zachariah, Shallum, Menahem, Pekahiah, and Pekah.
 King Jotham (II Kings 15:32)
 King Ahaz (II Kings 16:1) – under whose reign, Hoshea ruled as the last king of Israel.
 King Hezekiah (II Kings 18:1) – under his reign, the Assyrian Empire conquered and destroyed the northern kingdom 722 BCE leaving only the southern kingdom of Judah.
 King Manasseh (II Kings 20:21)
 King Amon (II Kings 21:18)
 King Josiah (II Kings 21:26)
 King Jehoahaz (II Kings 23:30) son of Josiah
 King Jehoiakim (II Kings 23:34) son of Josiah
 King Jeconiah (II Kings 24:6) son of Jehoiakim
 King Zedekiah (II Kings 24:17) – son of Josiah, last king to rule over, and in, Judah. Overthrown by the Chaldean Empire (which succeeded the Assyrian Empire) and exiled, along with most of the rest of the population, to that kingdom, where his 10 sons were executed in front of him, then he was blinded and imprisoned. [All thought he was released later on along with Jeconiah (who was imprisoned some 14 years before Zedekiah) when Nebuchadnezar died and was succeeded by his son Evil Moredach]
 Gedaliah (II Kings 25:22–23) son of Ahikam advisor to King Josiah; he became governor over the remnant of Judah in their homeland and was assassinated the next year [This ended all Jewish settlement in Israel for that period]

Governors of the Persian Province of Judea
 Zerubbabel (Ezra 3:8) son of Shealtiel. In the first year of the reign of Cyrus, successor to Darius, the Jews were allowed to return to their homeland. Zerubbabel led the first group of returnees and ruled in Judea for two years. The date is generally thought to have been between 538 and 520 BC. The House of David had survived, but struggled to reclaim its place as the ruling House of Israel.
 Nehemiah (Book of Nehemiah) arrived in Jerusalem in 445 as governor of Judah, appointed by Artaxerxes.
 Hananiah (Nehemiah 7:2)

Hasmonean dynasty 168–37 BCE

The Maccabees founded the Hasmonean dynasty, which ruled from 168 BCE – 37 BCE, reasserting the Jewish religion and expanding the boundaries of the Land of Israel by conquest. In the post-Maccabean period the high priest was looked upon as exercising in all things, political, legal, and sacerdotal, the supreme authority.
 Mattityahu – who began a war for independence.
 Judah – during whose reign, Alcimus succeeded Menelaeus as high priest.
 Jonathan – assumed the high priesthood.
 Simon – succeeded his brother Jonathan as high priest and was also installed as ethnarch. Under his reign, Judea gained its independence.
 John Hyrcanus I – also succeeded as ethnarch and high priest.
 Aristobulus – succeeded his father John Hyrcanus I as high priest and was also installed as king.
 Alexander Jannaeus – high priest and king.
 Salome Alexandra - reigning as queen only.
 Hyrcanus II – succeeded his father Alexander as high priest beginning with the rule of Salome. Became king upon the death of Salome.
 Aristobulus II – succeeded as high priest and king. During his reign, Judea lost its independence and passed under the rule of Rome (63 BCE) who overthrew him and reinstalled:
 Hyrcanus II as high priest only.
 Antigonus – high priest and king.

Herodian dynasty (37 BCE – 70 CE)

 King Herod the Great
 Ethnarch Herod Archelaus (4 BCE – 6 CE), ruler of Samaria, Judea, and Idumea, known as the Tetrarchy of Judea