[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yves Edwards

r Isaac Vallie-Flagg on February 2, 2013, at UFC 156. He lost the fight via split decision.

Edwards was expected to face Spencer Fisher on July 27, 2013, at UFC on Fox 8. However, on July 11, Fisher was removed from the bout due to injury and replaced by Daron Cruickshank. He lost a split decision.

Edwards made his nineteenth UFC appearance when he took on Yancy Medeiros at UFC Fight For The Troops 3 on November 6, 2013. He lost the fight via knockout in the first round. The loss, however, was subsequently overturned to a no contest when Medeiros tested positive for marijuana.

Edwards was expected to face Piotr Hallmann at UFC 173 on May 24, 2014.  However, the bout was moved and took place on June 7, 2014, at UFC Fight Night 42 instead. Edwards lost the fight via rear-naked choke submission in the third round.

Edwards faced Akbarh Arreola on November 22, 2014, at UFC Fight Night 57. He lost the fight via armbar submission in the first round.

Retirement 
Following the loss, Edwards announced his official retirement from mixed martial arts, closing out his career after seventeen years. Edwards said on Facebook "Fighting has been a part of my life ever since I was 17 and that makes this a hard pill to swallow but it's time for me to end this chapter and move on to the next part of my life." Edwards is the only mixed martial arts fighter that competed for UFC, PRIDE, WEC, Strikeforce and Bellator.

Professional grappling career
Edwards competed against Joshua Sharpless at Submission Hunter Pro 84 on July 22, 2023, losing by unanimous decision.

Fighting style

Thugjitsu 
The term "Thugjitsu" first emerged with Edwards, its proclaimed founder. Edwards was seen by many as an unorthodox fighter. This was exemplified by Edwards's flying head kick KO of Josh Thomson at UFC 49. Edwards's fighting style led to his nickname "Thugjitsu Master".

Edwards defined Thugjitsu as "The combination of every range of fighting and is the ultimate combat sport. Boxing, Thaiboxing, Wrestling and BJJ all play an equally important role in Thugjitsu; yet none of these arts is enough to be successful alone. A solid combination of two, three or more these and other arts help in the make-up of the complete fighter."

UFC Lightweight Dustin Poirier proclaimed himself to be a Thugjitsu practitioner in honor of Edwards.

Influences 
Edwards has stated that UFC Hall of Famer Bas Rutten is his idol. Bas Rutten watched Edwards's third pro-MMA fight in 1998, in which Edwards defeated Tim Horton in the first round via TKO. Edwards was invited by Rutten to spend time with him in his car. "Bas is always an awesome guy," said Edwards, "He's cool as hell. One of the nicest guys in the game."

Personal life 
Edwards has a daughter named Destiny and a son named Yvan.

Filmography

Film and documentary

Television

Championships and accomplishments 
 Ultimate Fighting Championship
 Fight of the Night (Two time) vs. Joe Stevenson; Cody McKenzie  
 Knockout of the Night (One time) vs. Jeremy Stephens 
 Submission of the Night (One time) vs. Cody McKenzie 
HOOKnSHOOT
HnS Middleweight Championship (One time)

Mixed martial arts record