[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rainforest Foundation Fund

nt for the project.
 
 --Working with the Kandozi and Sharpa indigenous peoples of Datem del Marañón in the Peruvian Amazon to ensure that their right to health care is respected and fulfilled by the State, particularly that the government work to address a Hepatitis B epidemic in their communities.

 --The Rainforest Fund also recently undertook a special emergency project to provide support for the legal defense of the indigenous leaders facing charges from by the government due to the 2009 incident in Bagua, wherein police attacked the crowd after 55 days of nonviolent demonstrations supporting of indigenous rights, leaving 34 people dead.  109 cases were filed against 362 Peruvian indigenous leaders.

Criticisms
In January 1990 the fund's first campaign came under fire by the French edition of 'Rolling Stone' magazine in an article that mentioned the failings of Dutilleux's previous work in the rainforest and criticized the organization for holding lavish fundraising banquets.

The 'Rolling Stone' article was used as the basis for a documentary by Granada Television's 'World in Action' program. The show, called 'Sting and the Indians', was re-broadcast in the United States on the A&E cable network hosted by Bill Kurtis.

The primary claim of both was that the project in Brazil was misrepresenting the facts to donors, as some of the Kayapo's traditional land was already "protected" within the Xingu National Park. In fact, the Xingu Park is actually a large indigenous-controlled area, the first in Brazil, so it is an indigenous territory, not a national "park".  Moreover, the Fund's initial project supported demarcation of the Mengkragnoti Area, which is right next to/contiguous with the Xingu Park, and did not demarcate the park itself.

In 2002, 2003, and 2004 the US branch of the organization was given zero stars out of four by Charity Navigator, primarily because only 43-60% of funds during those years were spent on programs on the ground.  For example, in 2008 the US Foundation had total revenues of $1.27 Million of which only $404,000 went to 'Project Payments' according to the Foundation's very own 2008 IRS tax filings.

However, since 2008, the Rainforest Foundation US has received four stars out of four, with an efficiency score of 38.93 out of 40.

See also
Deforestation
Indigenous peoples
Related charities such as the Prince's Rainforests Project, Save the Amazon Rainforest Organisation and the Rainforest Action Network
United Nations Environment Programme
Yayasan Merah Putih
 Environmental problems caused by deforestation
 Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation
 Self-determination
 Traditional Ecological Knowledge
 Sustainable development
 Indigenous land rights
 Global warming
 Indigenous peoples of the Americas
 Amazon Rainforest
 Deforestation of the Amazon Rainforest
 Deforestation in Brazil
 Conservation movement
 Environmental movement

Footnotes

External links 
 Rainforest Foundation Fund
 Rainforest Foundation US
 Rainforest Foundation UK
 Rainforest Foundation Norway

Organizations established in 1989
Foundations based in the United Kingdom
Charities based in New York City
Indigenous rights organizations
International forestry organizations
Forest certification
Forest conservation organizations