[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2006 Islamist demonstration outside the Embassy of Denmark in London

the protests; one of them was charged and held in custody, two were charged and released on police bail to attend court, and the remaining two were released on police bail for further inquiries. Further arrest were made in the following months and a total of six people have been criminally charged.

 Anjem Choudary, 39, was originally released on bail to return to a police station on 19 April "pending investigations into material recovered in searches". However, he was arrested again on 7 May at Stansted Airport and taken into custody at a London police station. Choudary was charged under the Public Order Act with organising a procession without the required written notification to the police. Choudary was the leader of al Ghurabaa and the "right-hand man of radical Muslim cleric, Omar Bakri Mohammed" who is banned from the UK.
 Abdul Muhid, was also bailed to return to a police station on 19 April after further enquiries. Muhid was arrested with Choudary again on 7 May at Stansted Airport. He was charged with two counts of soliciting to murder.   On 7 March 2007 he was found guilty of both charges and later sentenced to six years in jail. Muhid is a prominent member of The Saviour Sect and was also arrested in 2005 after complaints that a man had called for British troops in Iraq to be killed and for homosexuals to be hurled from cliff tops, but the charges were dropped by the CPS due to there "not [being] a realistic prospect of conviction" because of problems of proving identity.
 Mizanur Rahman, was charged with soliciting murder and inciting racial hatred. He was found guilty of inciting racial hatred in December 2006 where the same jury was unable to reach a verdict on the charge of soliciting murder, at a retrial in 2007 he was convicted on the soliciting murder charge as well.  Rahman was sentenced to six years in jail.
 Umran Javed was charged with soliciting murder and inciting racial hatred and remanded in custody. He was denied bail and not asked to enter a plea. On 5 January 2007, he was found guilty of those charges. He was later sentenced to six years in jail.
 Omar Zaheer was charged with racially aggravated disorderly behaviour and disorderly behaviour and released on bail to appear at Bow Street Magistrates' Court on 31 March.
 Abdul Rahman Saleem was charged with using words likely to stir up racial hatred and released on bail to appear at West London Magistrates' Court on 31 March. On 1 February 2007, he was found guilty, and was later sentenced to four years in jail.

Omar Bakri Mohammed, speaking from Lebanon, issued a warning to Britain after a police raid on his London home, "I am warning the British government – you are playing with fire. Let them go to hell – all of them. Play with fire and you burn your fingers." He said his family was "terrified" as the police searched his London home, adding, "They took my computers".

See also
 Islam
 Muhammad

 Timeline of the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy
 International reactions to the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy
 al Ghurabaa
 The Saviour Sect
 Hizb ut-Tahrir
 Al-Muhajiroun
 Islamism in London

References

External links

Video
  London demonstration in front of the Danish embassy 3 Feb 2006
 Anjem Choudary interviewed by Jeremy Paxman Newsnight, BBC
 Muslim protest – Snopes.com

Islamist groups involved
 al Ghurabaa press release – A call to all muslims to rise and defend muhammad
 Archive of threatening article, now removed from al Ghurabaa’s site

The Guardian
 Threats that must be countered
 Downing Street statement on the weekend's cartoon demonstrations
 Scotland Yard sets up squad to track protesters
 Police reaction to protest slogans
 Reborn extremist sect had key role in London protest
 Violence in the name of Islam has done more to damage the Prophet than any Danish cartoon – Fareena Alam
 I'm proud of my son – whatever's said about him
 'The laws will increase tensions'

BBC
 Cartoon protest sparks outrage
 In quotes: Protests over cartoons
 Pressure on police over protest
 Fury over lack of protest arrests
 Cartoon protests test legal minds
 Man apologises for bomber protest
 Protester is returned to prison
 Three charged over cartoon demos

The Daily Telegraph
 Islamic group behind protests 'peddles race and religious hatred'
 Muslim protests are incitement to murder, say Tories

The Times
 Focus: How liberal Britain let hate flourish

Islamist Demonstration Outside The Embassy of Denmark in London, 2006
Islamist demonstration outside the Embassy of Denmark in London
2006 in Islam
Events relating to freedom of expression
Islamism in the United Kingdom
Islamism in Denmark
Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy
Protest marches
Islam in London
Denmark–United Kingdom relations