[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# History of the Jews in Kosovo

se to immigrate to Israel after World War II.  The Jewish community of Serbia, and indeed of all constituent republics in Yugoslavia, was maintained by the unifying power of the Federation of Jewish Communities in Yugoslavia. However, this power ended with the dissolution of Yugoslavia in the 1990s.

Yugoslav wars 
The Jews of Serbia lived relatively peacefully in Yugoslavia between World War II and the 1990s. According to the 1991 census, there were 112 Jews in Kosovo, though it is possible that there have been more. However, the end of the Cold War saw the breakup of Yugoslavia, and wars in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The war for Kosovo began in the 1990s, when Serbian leader Slobodan Milošević began consolidating power in Kosovo and the Kosovo Liberation Army waged a separatist insurgency. In 1999, international forces expelled Serbian forces from Kosovo. During the conflict, the 50 remaining Jews in the provincial capital city of Pristina fled to Albania, because they had close cultural and linguistic ties with Albanians.

Post-war Kosovo 
Currently there are very few Jews in Kosovo, according to Čeda Prlinčević, the leader of Pristina's small Jewish community.

The lone Jewish community in Prizren speaks Albanian and Turkish, and has remained for the time being. This community numbers around 50 members, divided among three families. There are no Jewish schools. Unemployment is prevalent, and support for the community comes from the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee. There has been some amount of intermarriage with the surrounding Albanian community. The father of Votim Demiri, Prizren's Jewish community leader, is Albanian.  Israel has good relations with the Kosovans, with the Israeli government sending massive humanitarian aid during and after the 1998-99 war with Slobodan Milošević's regime. As of 2020 Israel has recognized Kosovo's independence and Kosovo will move its embassy to Jerusalem.

Kosovo has adopted the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance's  Working Definition of Antisemitism to support international efforts in combating antisemitism.

See also
 The Holocaust in German-occupied Serbia
 Israel–Kosovo relations

Notes and references

Notes:

References:

Jewish
Jewish
Kosovo