[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Alfred Gibbs

lost one killed and five wounded. The Confederates broke off the siege on May 3, 1863. The brigade took part in Maj. Gen. Erasmus Keyes's abortive Peninsular Campaign toward Richmond between June 13, 1863, and July 12, 1863, while the Army of Northern Virginia was engaged in the Gettysburg Campaign.

On August 11, 1863, this regiment was reorganized as a mounted troop named the 1st New York Dragoons, also known as and quite often referred to in reports and sources as the 19th New York Volunteer Cavalry Regiment. The regiment trained at Manassas and guarded the line of the Orange and Alexandria Railroad until November 1863. The regiment also participated in the Bristoe Campaign in September 1863 through November 1863. The Official Records of the Union Army show an order of battle for August 31, 1863, in which the 19th New York Volunteer Cavalry Regiment was assigned to the Headquarters of the Cavalry Corps of the Army of the Potomac, Maj. Gen. Alfred Pleasonton, commanding. Later the regiment was part of the Cavalry Reserve Brigade, Army of the Potomac ("Reserve Brigade") commanded by Brig. Gen. Wesley Merritt when it was not under Gibbs's command. The 19th New York Volunteer Cavalry Regiment, the 6th Pennsylvania Cavalry Regiment and the 1st, 2nd, 5th and 6th U.S. Cavalry Regiments comprised the brigade, which was occasionally called the "Regular Brigade."

On and after August 12, 1863, Gibbs was intermittently assigned to temporary brigade, and briefly to division, command in the cavalry corps of the Army of the Potomac and the Army of the Shenandoah through the rest of the war. Gibbs assumed command of the Reserve Brigade, guarding trains between August 12, 1863, and September 12, 1863, and, after Merritt was in command during the Bristoe Campaign, Gibbs resumed command of the brigade between November 21, 1863, and April 10, 1864. Bowen, one of Gibbs's men, states that Gibbs was in command of the brigade when the regiment became engaged at the Battle of Manassas Junction during the Bristoe Campaign on October 17, 1863. The regiment suffered 3 killed, 3 wounded, 1 captured and several injuries from falling horses. The brigade guarded a supply train during the Mine Run Campaign in December 1863. After much picket duty, scouting and guarding trains, the regiment went into winter quarters at Mitchell's Station, Virginia, on December 27, 1863.

Overland Campaign; Trevilian Station
As preparations began for the Overland Campaign, the Reserve Brigade became part of the 1st Division of the Cavalry Corps of the Army of the Potomac under the new corps commander, Maj. Gen. Philip Sheridan, who was appointed April 4, 1864. Command of the Reserve Brigade was transferred to Brig. Gen. Wesley Merritt from April 10, 1864, through the Battle of the Wilderness, May 5–6, 1864 and Gibbs resumed command of the 19th New York Cavalry (1st New York Dragoons). Then, on May 7, 1864, Merritt had to take command of the 1st Division of the Cavalry Corps to which the Reserve Brigade was assigned because its commander, Brig. Gen. Alfred T. A. Torbert needed an emergency operation to remove a painful abscess from his spine. Gibbs again assumed command of the Reserve Brigade, which saw much hard duty at the Battle of Todd's Tavern.  At these battles, Merritt led the First Division of the Cavalry Corps and Gibbs was in command of the Reserve Brigade (which was the third brigade of three in the division).

As the Battle of the Wilderness wound down, the commander of the Army of Northern Virginia, General Robert E. Lee, anticipated Union Army General-in-Chief, Lt. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant's move to the south and west. Lee sent cavalry to block the roads in the direction of Spotsylvania Court House, Virginia, near Todd's Tavern, about a mile from the edge of the Wilderness battlefield. Todd's Tavern and the Brock Road, which had been abandoned on May 6, had to be retaken by Union forces on May 7. The fight at and near the tavern became the largest dismounted cavalry fight during the war. The 1st and 2nd brigades of the Army of the Potomac's 1st Cavalry Division drove the Confederate forces of Brig. Gen. John Gregg to the south across the Po River (Virginia) and the forces of Maj. Gen. Fitzhugh Lee back to Todd's Tavern. In the afternoon, Sheridan committed the Reserve Brigade, then under Gibbs, to the battle. Gibbs ordered the 6th Pennsylvania Cavalry to probe Fitzhugh Lee's line and to dismount and the other regiments to dismount and drive the Confederates back. By dark, Lee's men had been pushed so far south that the Brock Road was open to immediate use by Grant and Meade. Gibbs's brigade lost the majority of the 154 Union casualties. Most of them were in his own regiment, which suffered more than 80 casualties, the most casualties of any mounted Union regiment in a single engagement.