[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jenny Mikakos

om experts a month earlier warning of an opportunity to prevent a further outbreak; Mikakos claimed she was unsure whether her government had received a copy of the report and attempted to distance herself from the scandal. In August 2020, Mikakos was stripped of responsibility for hotel quarantine.

In August 2020, Mikakos was criticised for providing inadequate and insufficient PPE to hospital staff.  Mikakos claimed that only 10-15% of healthcare workers with COVID-19 became infected through their workplace, and the government was later forced to correct that figure to 70-80%.

Beginning in March 2020, Mikakos resisted calls to resign for her handling of the pandemic, including from the medical profession, the opposition, and the disgraced Health Workers Union. In August 2020, Mikakos was criticised for declining to answer questions in Parliament and for failing to meet Parliamentary deadlines to provide promised written responses to questions. She stated that she was declining to answer questions relating to the breakdown of hotel quarantine until a result came out of the independent inquiry led by former Justice Jennifer Coate. Justice Coate announced that the inquiry did not prevent any person from commenting publicly or answering questions on the matters covered by the inquiry. Under the convention of individual ministerial responsibility in the Westminster system, Ministers are expected to be accountable to Parliament, including by answering questions, and to resign for major failures in their department regardless of whether they were aware of them.

On 24 September 2020, Mikakos appeared before the board of inquiry into the hotel quarantine program, where she stated that she had not made the decision to use private security contractors to manage the quarantine program, and had not been aware of the arrangement until an outbreak at a Melbourne hotel became apparent in mid-May. Footage emerged of Mikakos at a media briefing on 29 March with jobs minister Martin Pakula as he announced that security guards would be used to patrol hotels, and media also reported that the premier's office had sent a briefing note to caucus outlining this arrangement. Mikakos tendered a supplementary statement on 25 September, denying that she had misled the inquiry and reiterating that she had no recollection of the matters raised.

Premier Daniel Andrews faced the inquiry on 25 September, at which he stated that he regarded Mikakos as "accountable" for the program. The following day, Mikakos resigned from cabinet. Mikakos made a statement suggesting that the reason for her resignation was that she disagreed with "elements" of the Premier's statement, and was no longer able to serve in his cabinet.

Personal life
Jenny Mikakos attended Ivanhoe Girls' Grammar School and then The University of Melbourne where she obtained arts and law degrees. Before her election to Parliament, Mikakos worked as a commercial and tax lawyer at top-tier accounting firm Coopers & Lybrand and law firm King & Wood Mallesons, as well as Jerrard & Stuk. She was briefly a Councillor with the City of Northcote 1993-1994.

References

Further reading
 Healy, Ernest (1995), 'Ethnic ALP Branches - The Balkanisation of Labor Revisited,' in People and Place, Vol.3, No.3, Pages 48–53.
 Lovell, D.W.; McAllister, I.; Maley, W.; Kukathas, C.; (1998), The Australian Political System, Longman, South Melbourne.

External links 
  Austin, P., ALP heavies tackle faction fracas before poll, The Age, 27 February 2006
  With Crikey's Delia Delegate, all the ALP dirty laundry is on the table, 16 June 2002
  Carney, S., Labor supremos back new alliance, The Age, 18 June 2002
  Parliamentary handbook
  Jenny Mikakos MP Member for Jika Jika Province
  Women’s Correctional Services Advisory Committee
 Boyle, P., The Australian Political Situation and the Coming Federal Election,
 Hannan, E., Pre-election Labor split looming, The Age, 8 June 2002
 Parliamentary voting record of Jenny Mikakos at Victorian Parliament Tracker
 

Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of Victoria
1969 births
Living people
Politicians from Melbourne
Members of the Victorian Legislative Council
Ministers for Health (Victoria)
Australian women lawyers
University of Melbourne alumni
University of Melbourne women
Australian people of Greek descent
21st-century Australian politicians
21st-century Australian women politicians
Women members of the Victorian Legislative Council
20th-century Australian lawyers
Ministers for Children (Victoria)
Ministers for Youth (Victoria)