[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 116]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

he Past joined hands with visions of the Future. In these
sweet green meadows, men had toiled, as thralls, but a few lifetimes
ago, and they had gathered together, as Englishmen do, first to protest
and reasonably demand, and then to buy their freedom with their lives.
Their countrywoman sent a message of thanksgiving, backward through the
centuries, to these stout champions of the land's best heritage, and
breathed an aspiration to be worthy of the kinship that she claimed.

The rattle and roar grew into a symphony--full, rich, magnificent, and
then, with a rush, came a stirring musical conception: it seized the
imagination.

Oh, why were they stopping? It was a little country station, but many
passengers were on the platform. A careworn looking woman and a little
girl entered the carriage, and the little girl fixed her eyes on her
fellow-traveller with singular persistence. Then the more practical
features of the occasion came into view, and all had an enthralling
quality of reality--poetry. The sound of the waiting engine breathing
out its white smoke into the brilliant air, the powerful creature
quiescent but ready, with the turn of a handle, to put forth its
slumbering might; the crunching of footsteps on the gravel, the
wallflowers and lilacs in the little station garden, the blue of the
sky, and ah! the sweetness of the air when one leant out to look along
the interminable straight line of rails, leading--whither? Even the very
details of one's travelling gear: the tweed gown meet for service, the
rug and friendly umbrella, added to the feeling of overflowing
satisfaction. The little girl stared more fixedly than ever. A smile and
the offer of a flower made her look down, for a minute, but the gaze was
resumed. Wherefore? Was the inward tumult too evident in the face?
Well, no matter. The world was beautiful and wide!

The patient monster began to move again, with a gay whistle, as if he
enjoyed this chase across country, on the track of Time. He was soon at
full speed again, on his futile race: a hapless idealist in pursuit of
lost dreams. The little girl watched the dawn of a smile on the face of
the kind, pretty lady who had given her the flower. A locomotive
figuring as an idealist! Where would one's fancy lead one to next?

Ah the sea! heaving busily, and flashing under the morning radiance.
Would they have a good crossing? The wind was fresh. How dreamy and
bright and windy the country looked, and how salt was the sea-breeze!
Very soon they would arrive at Folkestone. Rugs and umbrellas and
handbags must be collected. The simple, solid commonplace of it all,
touched some wholesome spring of delight. What a speed the train was
going at! One could scarcely stand in the jolting carriage. Old Time
must not make too sure of his victory. One felt a wistful partisanship
for his snorting rival, striving for ever to accomplish the impossible.
The labouring visionary was not without significance to aspiring
mortals.

The outskirts of the town were coming in sight; grey houses bleakly
climbing chalky heights. It would be well to put on a thick overcoat at
once. It was certain to be cold in the Channel.

Luckily Hannah had a head on her shoulders, and could be trusted to
follow the directions that had been given her.

The last five minutes seemed interminable, but they did come to an end.
There was an impression of sweet salt air, of wind and voices, of a
hurrying crowd; occasionally a French sentence pronounced by one of the
officials, reminiscent of a thousand dreams and sights of foreign lands;
and then the breezy quay and waiting steamboat.

The sound of that quiet, purposeful hiss of the steam sent a thrill
along the nerves. Hannah and her charge were safely on board; the small
luggage followed, and lastly Hadria traversed the narrow bridge,
wondering when the moment would arrive for waking up and finding herself
in her little bedroom at Craddock Dene? What was she thinking of? Dream?
_This_ was no dream, this bold, blue, dancing water, this living
sunshine, this salt and savour and movement and brilliancy!

The _other_ was the dream; it seemed to be drifting away already. The
picture of the village and the house and the meadows, and the low line
of the hills was recalled as through a veil; it would not stand up and
face the emphatic present. At the end of a few months, would there be
anything left of her connexion with the place where she had passed
six--seven years of her life? and such years! They had put scars on her
soul, as deep and ghastly as ever red-hot irons had marked on tortured
flesh. Perhaps it was because of this rabid agony undergone, that now
she seemed to have scarcely any clinging to her home,--for the present
at any rate. And she knew that she left only sorrow for conventional
disasters behind her. The joy of freedom and its intoxication drowned
every other feeling. It was sheer relief to be away, to