[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Donato Cabrera

Director of the San Francisco Symphony Youth Orchestra, Cabrera took the group on two European tours, winning an ASCAP Award for Adventurous Programming of American Music on Foreign Tours, and receiving critical acclaim for its live recording from the Berlin Philharmonie of Mahler's Symphony No. 1.

In 2013, Cabrera was appointed Music Director of the California Symphony.  With its expanded concerts, dramatically increased ticket sales, and innovative programming, the California Symphony and Cabrera are redefining what it means to be an orchestra in the 21st Century.  Through the California Symphony’s celebrated Young American Composer in Residence program, Cabrera has supported the burgeoning careers of composers including D.J. Sparr, Dan Visconti, and the current Composer-in-Residence, Katherine Balch.  Sound Minds, California Symphony’s nationally recognized music education program, reflects Cabrera’s commitment to diversity and education through the arts.

In 2014 Cabrera was appointed Music Director of the Las Vegas Philharmonic.  Through his creation of the very popular Spotlight Concerts, which showcase the musicians of the Las Vegas Philharmonic in intimate chamber music concerts, as well as initiating community outreach concerts throughout the city, and expanding and revamping the Youth Concert Series, Cabrera has completely reshaped the relationship between the orchestra and the community.

Awards and fellowships include a Herbert von Karajan Conducting Fellowship at the Salzburg Festival and conducting the Nashville Symphony in the League of American Orchestra’s prestigious Bruno Walter National Conductor Preview. Donato Cabrera was recognized by the Consulate-General of Mexico in San Francisco as a Luminary of the Friends of Mexico Honorary Committee, for his contributions to promoting and developing the presence of the Mexican community in the Bay Area.

References

External links 
 Donato Cabrera official website
'Ep. 125: Donato Cabrera, conductor' Interview by Tigran Arakelyan

American male conductors (music)
Living people
21st-century American conductors (music)
21st-century American male musicians
Year of birth missing (living people)
20th-century American conductors (music)
20th-century American male musicians
Musicians from Pasadena, California
Musicians from Las Vegas
Classical musicians from California
Classical musicians from Nevada
University of Nevada alumni
University of Illinois alumni
Indiana University alumni
Manhattan School of Music alumni