[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# United States National Grid

ed several naming conventions—both sequential and hierarchical—with confusing and disappointing results. We converted to USNG asset naming and have used this successfully for over 4 years!"  -- Elisabetta T. DeGeronimo, Watershed/GIS Coordinator at Mohawk Valley Water Authority, Utica, New York 

--

"Hundreds of thousands of roadside assets—culverts, drains, signs on ground mounts, signs on overhead support structures, signs on span wires, and guide rails—are found along the routes maintained by the New York State Department of Transportation. In the past, the existence of these assets was only recorded in construction plans and the minds and memories of dedicated career staff. Our new asset naming convention, based upon the U.S. National Grid, benefits the entire department and particularly the field forces."  -- Mary Susan Knauss, Senior Transportation Analyst, Office of Transportation Management, New York State Department of Transportation, Albany, New York These and other contributors at Florida State University and elsewhere have collaborated to produce a manual to guide GIS users and others through the practical steps of naming assets using the USNG.

Recreation and other uses
There has been a concerted outreach to educate the public in the uses and advantages of USNG. Sharing USNG maps and apps with friends and families encourages them to keep each other informed of their locations when traveling off-road (i.e., in wilderness or on the water) for work or recreation.  In addition, USNG can be used to mark and communicate locations in busy or remote urban areas, including where to meet friends in a wooded park, locating a car in a mall parking lot, or requesting help inside a large warehouse or business complex. One doesn't even need compass directions.

Scientific research fieldwork can also benefit.

Future direction and initiatives 
The USNG has seen steady but gradually increasing adoption and use since the standard was approved in 2001.  Formal adoption by other standards bodies has taken place, while practical adoption in actual use has been more uneven in achieving its full potential.  In 2018, the USNG Institute (UGNGI) was established "to study and report on USNG implementation efforts taking place across the United States" , as was a USNG Implementation Working Group (USNG IWG) to help assist and coordinate implementation efforts.

Further adoption of USNG for public safety and the Emergency Location Marker (ELM) system may depend in part on greater coordination of USNG adoption at Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs, or 911 centers), in their procedures and Computer-Aided-Dispatch (CAD) systems.  Currently such implementations, being generally under local control, have been more fragmented than some national adoption initiatives.

Proponents of the USNG envision many other ways in which it could play roles in improving safety, convenience, and quality of life.

See also 

Cartesian coordinate system
Grid reference
Ordnance Survey National Grid (British National Grid)
Irish national grid reference system
Spatial Reference System
List of National Coordinate Reference Systems
Universal Transverse Mercator coordinate system (UTM)
Military Grid Reference System (MGRS)
Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC)
Public Land Survey System (PLSS)
State Plane Coordinate System (SPCS)

References

Further reading 
A Quick Guide to Using USNG Coordinates (MapTools)
How to Read US National Grid (USNG) Coordinates  (FGDC/NGA)
How to Read USNG Spatial Addresses (FGDC)
A Quick Guide to the USNG  (NAPSG via USNG Center)
United States National Grid Standard (FGDC-STD-011-2001)  (FGDC, official standard)
FEMA Directive 092-5:  Use of the United States National Grid (USNG)  (FEMA policy directive)
Implementation Guide to the USNG (NAPSG)
Emergency Location Marker (ELM) system (USNG Florida on Medium)
Hikers, Know Your Grid! (USNG Florida on Medium)
911 Caller Location Solutions (USNG Florida on Medium)
Why PSAPs Should Be Using The U.S. National Grid To Find 911 Callers (Kova Corp)
An Introduction to Standards-Based GIT and the US National Grid
Instructions for GIS Asset Naming Using the U.S. National Grid (USNG)

External links