[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Timeline of the 2007 Lebanon conflict

s said to involve Jund al-Sham militants. Two people - a soldier and a civilian - were injured when suspected militants fired a grenade at an army checkpoint. Army troops responded to the rocket propelled grenade attack with gunfire. In subsequent fighting, two soldiers and two militants were killed

June 5: Lebanese troops continue to pound refugee camp  
While the Lebanese army intensified its offensive on the refugee camp in Nahr al-Bared, seven Fatah al-Islam members surrendered to mainstream Fatah Palestinian faction. Fatah is the first Palestinian faction present in the numerous refugee camps in Lebanon to take action against the allegedly al-Qaeda linked group since the fighting began. Khaled Aref, a representative of the mainstream Fatah group in the Ein al-Hilweh camp, said Palestinian factions there had decided to "isolate Jund al-Sham and not give way to any attempt to import any of what's happening in Nahr al-Bared."

June 6–7: Calm days 

Only sporadic gunfire and some mortar rounds and artillery shells were heard these days. A Lebanese soldier was killed by Islamist sniper fire in the Nahr el-Bared refugee camp.

June 8: Heavy fighting erupts once again 

After mediators failed to convince the Islamists to surrender, the Lebanese army attacked Nahr el-Bared once again. Witnesses inside the camp said over the weeks, the army has conquered more and more positions from Fatah al-Islam inside the camp. Fatah al-Islam has threatened to spread fighting to other parts of the country.

June 9–10: Heavy casualties for the army 

As Lebanese troops attacks the Islamists inside, they meet stiff resistance from Islamist militiamen from their positions. 9 soldiers died on Saturday alone. Casualties on the Fatah al Islam side remain unknown. The army said they were on the winning hand, but the Islamists said they are holding their ground. A spokesman for FaI said they had seized Lebanese Army weapons in an attack   A huge rally with tens of thousands of demonstrators was walked in Tripoli to thank and support the Lebanese Army.

June 13–14: Relative calm
Two days of relative calm followed heavy fighting.

June 25: Continued advancements 

Heavy fighting continued between the Lebanese army and Fatah al-Islam. Reports from army sources stated that 3 army soldiers and 15 militants were killed. About 40 bodies of killed militants were cleared from the camp and 40 Fatah al-Islam militants were arrested.
In a report by Lebanon's Defense Minister Elias Murr to al Arabiyeh TV recounted that the attack on UNIFIL was not a suicide bomb but it was a remotely activated car bomb.

September 2: camp taken 
Lebanese troops took control of the Palestinian refugee camp, killing at least 31 fighters who tried to flee

September 7: victory declared 
The Lebanese Army officially declares victory in Naher al-Bared.

References 

Conflicts in 2007
2007 in Lebanon