[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dubai Media Incorporated

re, specifically with the highly successful reality series Al Meydan, which took the traditional yowlah dancing (which was not widely known at the time) and created competition similar to the format American Idol whereby viewers can vote on the best dancers.

Official Site : http://www.samadubai.ae/

Dubai One 
Dubai 33 (also called "Channel 33") was originally a terrestrial Analog television channel which catered, mostly, to the expatriate community living in Dubai. Through a number of Western cartoons, series, soap operas and films, as well as weekly Hindi cinema along with a nightly local news broadcast. Since the expansion of pay TV networks like Showtime Arabia along with Free-to-air channels like MBC 2 which provided newer Western content, the popularity of Channel 33 declined heavily.

In 2004, DMI launched One TV (which later became Dubai One) as a 24-hour free-to-air Digital satellite channel targeting a pan-Arab audience interested in Western content, this was done by subtitling content in Arabic and creating mostly Arabic and English (with an Arabic accent) on-air promotions. The channel did not include any of the previous content like soap operas, Bollywood cinema or local news. The channel was intended to compete with MBC Group's MBC 2, which was a considerably successful strategy, until MBC launched a number of other Western-content channels, with newer films and TV series than Dubai One.

Since the channel was launched, many of the labouring class expatriates living in Dubai were disappointed with removal of some of their most popular shows including The Bold and the Beautiful and the local news broadcast in English (which was, at the time, the only one of its kind in the UAE). The complaints were done through directly contacting DMI along with letters featured in local newspapers like Gulf News.

Due to these shifts in market share, audience requests, as well as the Dubai government's strategy to make the channel promote the events and developments of the city, a daily news program called Emirates News was launched in 2007. The program was similar to the old format local news of Channel 33, but it was based in DMI's State of the art News Center in Dubai Media City which was also used for Dubai TV's and Sama Dubai's news broadcasts (as well as Dubai Sports' news as of the 2010 relaunch), the program managed to successfully produce local news by sharing resources and news content with the other channels.

Dubai One soon began launching more locally produced programs like Out & About, Studio One, World of Sports, Understanding Islam and Emirates 24/7 which was co-branded with the online news website. The channel also brought back The Bold and the Beautiful and began featuring more Hindi cinema along with its Western content, which became more targeted to offer films and TV shows that were not available on competing free-to-air channels.

Emirates 24/7
Emirates 24/7 is a 30-minute segment broadcast weekly, as well as the name of their news website.

Noor Dubai 
In 2008, AMG launched Noor Dubai TV on the first day of Ramadan that year, solidifying its Islamic views. The channel was originally an experimental radio and television hybrid, with a limited budget, significantly lower production values than competing Dubai-owned channels and with dual-broadcasts of radio programs on television along with new television-only shows. While the radio station was only available in Dubai, the TV channel was a pan-Arab satellite broadcast, so its popularity grew far beyond the intended audience with a significant following of conservative Muslims living around the Middle East due to the heavy Islamic content, which was based on the radio station format.

After the 2009 AMG-DMI merger, the new channel, along with the radio station, joined DMI and the offices and studios were moved from Dubai Studio City to DMI's headquarters next to Al Maktoum Bridge. DMI relaunched the TV channel in an attempt to separate it from the radio channel and to suppress the ultra-conservative brand. The new target audience was similar to Sama Dubai's Emirati and Gulf target, but instead was an older audience. This was done through programming about cultural and traditional topics as well as a re-broadcasting of decades-old series and programs from the DMI library. DMI also gave Noor Dubai its own broadcast of Emirates news, from DMI's News Center using the same news content that's broadcast on Sama Dubai and Dubai TV's Emirates news.

Dubai Sports 
Dubai Sports Channel was launched in 1998 to cover local sports events in the UAE and to have exclusive Middle East broadcast rights for some of Dubai's sports events like the Dubai World Cup. It was later expanded to include international sports by acquiring Middle East broadcast rights for events like the Olympic Games and Wimbledon Championships.