[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# South Dakota-class battleship (1939)

72 Oerlikon and 72 Bofors guns. In March 1945, the battery was modified for the last time: 5 Oerlikon were added and 4 Bofors were removed. This provided the maximum number of anti-aircraft guns, at 145 guns. The other three ships followed a similar pattern of upgrades to the anti-aircraft armament.

Propulsion
The South Dakotas had eight Babcock & Wilcox three-drum express type boilers that had a steam pressure of  and a temperature of . The steam drove four geared turbines, one for each propeller shaft. General Electric provided the turbines for the South Dakota and the Massachusetts, while identical machinery for Indiana and Alabama were provided by Westinghouse. Similar to the North Carolina-class, the machinery was divided into four machinery spaces, each with two boilers and one set of turbines in order to ensure isolation of main propulsion machinery. No longitudinal bulkheads were fitted in the machinery spaces; this was to reduce the risk of asymmetric flooding and capsizing.

The vessels had four screws, with the two outboard screws mounted in skegs. Two semi-balanced rudders were mounted behind the two inboard screws. As completed, the ships had all four-bladed propellers, but vibration tests would result in the ships of the class having different propeller blade arrangements throughout the war. The Massachusetts and Alabama had five blades in the outboard propellers and four blades inboard, while the Indiana had three blades inboard. The power output was , while overloading permitted up to , which drove the ships at a design speed of . The displacement of the vessels gradually increased over World War II, mainly due to additional light anti-aircraft gun placements and greater fuel oil carriage to refuel smaller escorts. By 1945, the Alabama achieved  at  on . The ships carried about  of fuel oil, which gave a range of  at .

Each ship had seven 1,000 kW ship service turbogenerators (SSTG) as well as two 200 kW emergency diesel generators. Total electrical power output was 7,000 kW at 450 volts alternating current.

Electronics
The South Dakotas were able to reap the benefits of developments in radar technology during World War II. By the end of the war, the ships were equipped with air and surface-search radars and radar fire-control. When commissioned, the ships were equipped with the SC air-search radar. This radar would eventually get replaced by the SK and SK-2 air-search radar. The main battery directors were fitted with Mark 3 fire-control radar, which were replaced by the Mark 8 starting in 1942. This radar gave these ships a significant advantage over ships of the Imperial Japanese Navy, which for the most part relied on optical systems.

The Mark 37 directors for the secondary batteries were fitted with the Mark 4 radar. With this system and the VT fused shells, the secondary batteries became formidable anti-air weapons, as well as being capable of using against surface targets. The Mark 4 was eventually replaced by the Mark 12/22.

Armor
Unlike the preceding North Carolina-class battleships, the South Dakotas were designed to be resistant against 16-inch shellfire. The protection zone against the 2,240 lb projectile fired by the 16-inch/45 cal. guns of the  was . To remain within treaty displacement limits, the belt armor was only slightly thicker while being considerably more inclined; this necessitating an internal belt arrangement in order to retain adequate waterline beam for stability. The immune zone of the side armor against the 16-inch guns used by the South Dakotas themselves was smaller due to the introduction of the 2,700 lbs Mark 8 Super Heavy shell; against such a shell, the armor was effective only at ranges between .

Abreast of the  Special Treatment Steel (STS) outer hull plating, the South Dakotas' internal armor belt consists of  thick Class A Krupp cemented (K.C.) armor mounted on  thick STS plate, and was inclined 19° from the vertical. This was equal to  of vertical belt armor at . The belt armor extended to the triple bottom with a Class B homogeneous Krupp-type lower belt and tapered from its maximum thickness of  down to  at the lowest portion at the triple bottom. This feature was chosen to protect against penetration of heavy-caliber gun projectiles that managed to hit the ship below the waterline. The ends of the armored citadel are protected by  thick traverse bulkheads. The horizontal deck protection is made of three layers: a  STS weather deck (also called "bomb deck"), a combined  Class B and STS second deck, and a  STS splinter deck over the machinery spaces. Over the magazines, the splinter deck is replaced with a  STS third deck.