[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stewardship (theology)

he Earth is the Lord's and all that is in it, the world, and those who live in it".

A broader concept of stewardship is illustrated in Jesus’ parable of the "talents", which refer to an amount of money but by implication (and by common use of the word in English) as "abilities."

Matthew 25.14-30 –

14 "Again, it will be like a man going on a journey, who called his servants and entrusted his property to them.
15 To one he gave five talents of money, to another two talents, and to another one talent, each according to his ability. Then he went on his journey.
16 The man who had received the five talents went at once and put his money to work and gained five more.
17 So also, the one with the two talents gained two more.
18 But the man who had received the one talent went off, dug a hole in the ground and hid his master's money.
19 After a long time the master of those servants returned and settled accounts with them.
20 The man who had received the five talents brought the other five. 'Master,' he said, 'you entrusted me with five talents. See, I have gained five more.' 
21 His master replied, 'Well done, good and faithful servant! You have been faithful with a few things; I will put you in charge of many things. Come and share your master's happiness!' 
22 The man with the two talents also came. 'Master,' he said, 'you entrusted me with two talents; see, I have gained two more.' 
23 His master replied, 'Well done, good and faithful servant! You have been faithful with a few things; I will put you in charge of many things. Come and share your master's happiness!' 
24 Then the man who had received the one talent came. 'Master,' he said, 'I knew that you are a hard man, harvesting where you have not sown and gathering where you have not scattered seed.
25 So I was afraid and went out and hid your talent in the ground. See, here is what belongs to you.' 
26 His master replied, 'You wicked, lazy servant! So you knew that I harvest where I have not sown and gather where I have not scattered seed?
27 Well then, you should have put my money on deposit with the bankers, so that when I returned I would have received it back with interest.
28  'Take the talent from him and give it to the one who has the ten talents.
29 For everyone who has will be given more, and he will have an abundance. Whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
30 And throw that worthless servant outside, into the darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.' 

Additionally, frequent references to the "tithe", or giving of a portion are found throughout the Bible as part of the Jewish law.  The tithe represents the returning to God a significant, specific, and intentional portion of material gain; under the Jewish law, the first ten percent of one's food product (produce or animal livestock) was to be sacrificed at the temple for the sustenance of the Levites. Giving is not limited to the tithe or any specific amount, illustrated by Jesus’ comment that a woman who gave a very small amount had given more than those had given large amounts because "while they gave out of their abundance, she gave all she had to live on" (the lesson of the widow's mite, Mark 12.41-44; Luke 21.1-4).

Examples
The Dutch political party "CDA" (Christian Democratic Appeal) lists stewardship as one of its four key ideals. This refers not only to taking care of the environment, but also a principled stand towards human as well as natural resources. A commitment to clear principles, rather than pragmatism, is another facet of stewardship.

Many Christians practice the spiritual discipline of intentional financial stewardship, giving to churches or other ministries.  Fewer, though still a significant number, commit time in service to the needy or in other areas, often utilizing and donating specialized skills and abilities.

Christians Stewardship Ministry
Christian Stewardship Ministries have been growing in popularity around the United States, seeing rapid growth in the 2000s and 2010s. Inspired by leaders like Larry Burkett, Howard Dayton, and Ron Blue, the growth of these ministries has been championed by national leaders and pastors in the stewardship (theology) arena like radio host Dave Ramsey, Pastor Dave Briggs (Central Arizona Church), Pastor Chris Goulard (Saddleback Church), Pastor David Thompson (Gateway Church), Pastor Andy Stanley (North Point Church), and Pastor Rick Warren (Saddleback Church)3.