[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mud March (American Civil War)

ide angrily protested that these officers, whoever they were, deserved to be court-martialed. General-in-Chief Henry Halleck (who was in the room just then) agreed. More importantly, Lincoln argued that there seemed to be a considerable disconnect between the commanding general and his subordinates.

Burnside then requested a private discussion with the president, where he proceeded to denounce Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton and General Halleck, arguing that "it would be for the good of the nation if both were replaced". He also added that none of his senior officers supported his plan for a midwinter offensive. Finally, the general said that the way things were going, he might as well resign both command of the Army of the Potomac and his commission and leave the military entirely.

Once Burnside left, Lincoln told Halleck that none of his generals were willing to cooperate with his plans, and he (Halleck) ought to go down to Fredericksburg himself and assess the situation. Halleck for his part had no advice to offer Burnside except to destroy the Confederate army while taking as little damage as possible. Lincoln also told Burnside to reconsider resigning from the army.

Burnside revived his plan with changes. Instead of crossing the Rappahannock south of Fredericksburg, he initially planned to move upstream and cross at U.S. Ford, due north of the Chancellorsville crossroads.

The offensive began with a westward move on January 20, 1863, in unseasonably mild weather. Burnside, with a head start, altered his plan to aim at Banks' Ford, a closer, quicker crossing.  At dawn of January 21, engineers would push five bridges across; after that, two grand divisions would be over the river in four hours.  Meanwhile, another grand division would distract the Confederate troops by repeating the December crossing at Fredericksburg. During the night of the 20th, the rain began, and by the morning of the 21st, the earth was soaked and the river banks had the appearance of a quagmire. Already, fifteen pontoons were on the river, nearly spanning it, and five more were amply sufficient. Burnside began at once to bring up his artillery, which had the effect of making a perfect mortar bed. For a considerable area around the ford all day the men worked in the rain but to little purpose. Quite a number of cannon were advanced near the ford, but the 22nd only added to the storm, and the artillery, caissons and even wagons were swamped in the mud.

The storm had delayed Burnside's movements, giving Lee ample time to line the other shore with his army, although there was no attempt to interfere with his crossing except from the sharpshooters, who peppered away on all occasions. No doubt Lee was hoping Burnside would effect a crossing; with a swollen river in his rear; it would have been a sorry predicament for the Union Army indeed, but Burnside finally became resigned to his fate and gave the order for the army to retire to its quarters, and thus ended the famous mud march.

The Mud March was Burnside's final attempt to command the Army of the Potomac. Lincoln replaced him with Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker on January 26, 1863.

Union forces
Further information:

Strength

 Strength of the Army of the Potomac, Maj. Gen. Ambrose E. Burnside commanding, December 31, 1862: Official Records, Series I, Volume XXI, Part 1, page 924.

Organization

 Organization of the Army of the Potomac, Maj. Gen. Ambrose E. Burnside commanding, December 31, 1862: Official Records, Series I, Volume XXI, Part 1, pages 925-938.

Notes

References
 Boatner, Mark Mayo, III. The Civil War Dictionary. New York: McKay, 1988. . First published 1959 by McKay.
 Furgurson, Ernest B. Chancellorsville 1863: The Souls of the Brave Vintage Books, 1992. .
 Stine, James H. History of the Army of the Potomac Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: J. B. Rodgers Printing Co., 1892. ISBN ASIN: B004IN3KF2.
 U.S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: a Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies. Series 1, Vol. XXI, Part 1, and Vol. XIX, Part II, Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1880–1901.

Further reading
 Catton, Bruce. Glory Road. Garden City, NY: Doubleday and Company, 1952. .

Mud March
Mud March
Mud March
Conflicts in 1863
Mud March
Rappahannock River
January 1863 events