[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Toy theater

iends, neighbors, relatives, and themselves. Contemporary toy theater may use any available technology and cover any subject, and numerous international toy theater festivals occur regularly throughout the Americas and Europe, attracting many well-known actors, musicians and authors to their stages.

Construction and format
Mass-produced toy theaters are usually sold as printed sheets, either in black and white to be colored as desired, or as full-color images of the proscenium, scenery, sets, props and characters. The sheets are pasted onto thin cardboard, cut out, and then assembled for the purposes of the reenacting of a play. Figures are attached to small sticks, wires, or configurations of strings that allow them to move about the set. Some toy theaters and figures are enhanced with moving parts and special effects, and it is common for performances to include live or pre-recorded sound effects and music.

In modern media
 Adam Keen, when proprietor of the Pollock Toy Shop, published a toy theatre version of Laurence Olivier's film of Hamlet (1948) with characters and a short playscript.
 A toy theater appears near the end of The Railway Children (1970 film).
 Author/artist Edward Gorey designed a mass-produced toy theater based on his set designs for the 1977 stage production of Dracula.
 A toy theater is featured at the beginning of Ingmar Bergman's award-winning 1982 film Fanny and Alexander.
 Carroll Ballard and Maurice Sendak's 1986 film version of The Nutcracker featured toy theater.
 Set designer Heidi Landesman based her designs for the 1991 musical The Secret Garden on toy theatres.
 Julie Taymor used toy theater puppets in a scene for the 2002 film Frida.
 Sean Meredith's comedic Dante's Inferno (2007) is an entire toy theater film.
 Toy theaters are a motif in a number of Jan Švankmajer's films.
 A toy theater is featured at the conclusion of Terry Gilliam's 2009 film The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus, both as a feature of the plot and the format of the end credits.
 In the 2011 horror-themed video game, Shadows of the Damned, players battle against a demon in a toy theater like screen with characters appearing as toy theater puppets for the level.
 The 2019 Japanese film Violence Voyager claims to use a new technique called 'gekimation' (taken from the Japanese word 'gekiga' which is a term for adult manga).  However, the "animation" style is more in line with toy theater.

Notable people who have dabbled in toy theater
 Hans Christian Andersen, Danish author
 Jane Austen, British novelist
 Edmund Bacon, American city planner
 Peter Baldwin, actor and owner of Benjamin Pollock's Toy Shop
 Ingmar Bergman, Swedish film, stage and opera director
 Jim Copp and Ed Brown, American producers of children's records
 James Burke, British science historian
 Edward Gordon Craig, British designer, theorist, theatre practitioner
 Lewis Carroll, British author
 Karl Dane, American silent film actor
 Thomas John Dibdin, British dramatist and songwriter
 Charles Dickens (1812–1870), British novelist
 Ian Falconer, American children's book author/illustrator and theater designer
 Ralph Fiennes, British actor
 Lynn Fontanne, British actor
 W. S. Gilbert, British playwright
 Terry Gilliam, American animator and film director
 Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, German author
 Edward Gorey, American author
 Emma Lomax, English composer and pianist, Early Victorian Theatre, Brighton
 Alfred Lunt, American actor
 Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, Italian poet and founder of the Futurist movement
 Ian McKellen, British actor
 Michel Ocelot, French writer and director of animated films
 Laurence Olivier, British actor
 Pablo Picasso, Spanish painter and sculptor
 J. B. Priestley (1894–1984), English novelist, playwright and broadcaster
 Brian Selznick, American children's book author
 Edwin Smith, British photographer
 Robert Louis Stevenson, British author
 Jan Švankmajer, Czech animator and filmmaker
 Andrew Lloyd Webber, British composer
 Orson Welles, actor and director of radio dramas and films
 Oscar Wilde, British author
 Jack Butler Yeats, Irish artist
 William Butler Yeats, Irish poet, dramatist and literary luminary
 Paul Zaloom, American puppeteer and children's television host

See also
 Puppetry
 Kamishibai
 Little Theatre Movement
Pollock's Toy Museum
Benjamin Pollock's Toy Shop

ToyTheater.com – Website with educational games for children.

References

External links
The collection of Lucía Contreras in English and Spanish
Toy Theatre Representation of Dante's Inferno
Arthur Weyhe toy theatre collection, 1812–1895, held by the Billy Rose Theatre Division, New York Public Library for the Performing Arts

Theatrical genres
19th-century theatre
Theatre
Puppetry
Paper art
Paper toys