[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dead Hand

ff of Strategic Rocket Forces, in 1992 said that the Russians had a system, to be activated only during a crisis, that would automatically launch all missiles, triggered by a combination of light, radioactivity and overpressure, even if every nuclear-command center and all leadership were destroyed.

Colonel General Andrian Danilevich, Assistant for Doctrine and Strategy to the Chief of the General Staff from 1984 to 1990, stated in 1992 that the Dead Hand had been contemplated, but that the Soviets considered automatic-trigger systems too dangerous. Furthermore, such systems became unnecessary with the advent of efficient early-warning systems and increased missile readiness, so the idea had been rejected.

In 1993, Vitaly Katayev, Senior Advisor to the Chairman of the Defense Industry Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party in 1967–1985, responsible for strategic arms and defense policy, arms control negotiations and military doctrine, confirmed that the Dead Hand had been "definitely operational" by the early 1980s. According to Katayev, it was not completely automatic but was intended to be activated manually during a threatening crisis. It was to be triggered by numerous sensors sensitive to light, seismic shock, radiation or atmospheric density.

Although both Katayev and Korobushin claimed that the mechanism had already been deployed, Viktor Surikov, Deputy Director of the Central Scientific Research Institute for General Machine Building (TsNIIMash) in 1976–1992, confirmed in 1993 that the Soviets had designed the automatic launch system with seismic, light and radiation sensors, but said that the design had been ultimately rejected by Marshal Sergey Akhromeyev on advice of Korobushin and never materialized.

Accounts differ as to the degree of automation of Dead Hand. A 1993 issue of The New York Times spoke to Bruce G. Blair, senior fellow with the Brookings Institution:

However, more recent sources indicate the system was semi-automatic. In a 2007 article, Ron Rosenbaum quotes Blair as saying that Dead Hand is "designed to ensure semi-automatic retaliation to a decapitating strike". Rosenbaum writes, "Of course, there's a world of difference between a 'semi-automatic' doomsday device and the totally automatic—beyond human control—doomsday device."

David E. Hoffman wrote on the semi-automatic nature of Dead Hand:

Current use
In 2011, the commander of the Russian Strategic Missile Forces, Colonel General , in an interview with Komsomolskaya Pravda, confirmed the operational state of the Perimeter assessment and communication system.

In 2018, Colonel General , the former chief of Russia's Main Staff of the Strategic Missile Forces, stated that the Perimeter system might become ineffective in the wake of the United States' withdrawal from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty.

See also

 AN/DRC-8 Emergency Rocket Communications System
 1983 Soviet nuclear false alarm incident
 Doomsday device
 Dead man's switch
 Dr. Strangelove (film)
 Fail Safe (1964 film)
 "Dead Man's Switch" (The Outer Limits)
 Herman Kahn
 Lethal autonomous weapon
 Letters of last resort
 Mount Yamantaw
 Mutual assured destruction
 On Thermonuclear War (book)
 Operation Looking Glass
 Samson Option
 Space Cowboys (film)
 UVB-76, a Russian numbers station sometimes rumoured to be connected to the Dead Hand facility

References

Nuclear command and control
Nuclear strategy
Strategic Rocket Forces