[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Michael Malley

Michael "Tanker" Malley (born July 8, 1962) is a Canadian former politician in New Brunswick, Canada. He represented the riding of Miramichi-Bay du Vin in the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick from 1999 to 2006 and served as Speaker of the Assembly for part of 2006.

Political career
Malley, a former Miramichi city councillor and bus driver, was first elected to the legislature in the 1999 election and was re-elected in 2003.

The 2003 election returned his Progressive Conservatives to a majority government of just a one-seat margin.  Malley was named whip, a position of expanded importance in a legislature with such close numbers.  He was widely called upon by leaders in his community to leave the government in 2004 if the Lord government did not back away from rumoured health care cuts in the region.  In the end the cuts were not as severe as had been rumoured and Malley remained in caucus.

On February 17, 2006, shortly after a cabinet shuffle, Malley announced he would leave the Conservative caucus to sit as an independent.  He expressed disappointment in the government's overall direction and in his not being included in cabinet despite being the only representative of Miramichi in the Conservative caucus   He argued that whereas Miramichi is the province's fourth largest city and where the three larger cities have significant representation (Moncton with 4, Saint John with 3 and Fredericton with 3), Miramichi ought to have had a member in the cabinet.  His argument here was somewhat flawed, in that the cities proper have 2, 1 and 1 respectively, the numbers above include surrounding areas; the Miramichi area, if viewed through the same lens, has one cabinet member in Rogersville-Kouchibouguac MLA Rose-May Poirier.

Premier Bernard Lord has alleged Malley had less savory motives for leaving Lord's governing Conservative party.  Lord alleged at a news conference that Malley made five specific demands in exchange for staying with the Conservatives, including: more money for his constituency office, more help for the Miramichi's troubled paper mill and the appointment of a female friend as his special assistant
. Lord further alleged that Malley demanded he immediately appoint Fredericton lawyer Cleveland Allaby, who Lord called a "good friend" of Mr. Malley's, as provincial court judge in the Miramichi. Allaby, however, denied this allegation and Lord admitted that he had no proof of any of the alleged demands. Malley has also denied these allegations.

Malley's floor crossing was especially significant because it changed Lord's Progressive Conservative government from a majority to a minority with the standings becoming: Progressive Conservatives 27, opposition Liberal Party 26 and two independents including Malley and former Liberal Frank Branch.  When Malley announced he was leaving the Conservatives, he stated that he would use his new position of influence to support legislation that helps the poor people of New Brunswick and residents of the Miramichi region.

Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick
On March 28, 2006, Malley was acclaimed as Speaker of the Legislature after Tony Huntjens, the nominee of Bernard Lord, withdrew his name.  Electing Malley as speaker, a position in which one only votes in the case of a tie, instead of a member of the government caucus, provides the government considerable more flexibility.  Though still technically a minority government, by tradition, should there be a tie on a vote of confidence, the Speaker would vote in favour of the government.