[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chris Alexander (politician)

was the first time he had been on a Power & Politics panel discussion on the topic" Barton responded that Alexander's comments were "completely false", noting that the show had covered the events in Syria 32 times since 2011 and that Alexander himself had been involved in several of these segments.

The next day, rumours circulated that in March 2015, New Westminster—Coquitlam MP Fin Donnelly had personally requested that Alexander look into the refugee application of the Kurdis, who were privately sponsored by Alan's aunt, one of Donnelly's constituents. Alan's aunt clarified that the application was for Alan's uncle, Mohammed, and his family, but that she was planning to apply for Alan's father, Abdullah, once she had enough funds, so she had her MP deliver a letter to Alexander pleading her case. On the same day, Alexander announced that he would be temporarily suspending his campaign for re-election the next morning to return to Ottawa to resume his ministerial duties, receive updates on the refugee crisis, and investigate the case of Alan Kurdi.

On 8 October it was revealed that Canadian immigration officials had been ordered to stop processing all claimants from Syria earlier in the year, and that all such claims would have to be vetted by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) and personally signed off by the Stephen Harper. Processing was stopped for several weeks, and all previous referrals from the UN in 2014 and 2015 were put under review. Alexander stated that this was done to ensure the security of process. The same day, Harper personally denied that his staff had anything to do with the process. He did agree that a review had been started, but he stated that this was not carried out in the PMO, and that no security threats were discovered as a part of the investigation.

Days later, just two weeks before the election, sources reported to CTV News that Alexander was one of a dozen Tory MPs in the Greater Toronto Area at risk of being defeated. This came to pass as Alexander won only 16,611 votes to Holland's 27,039—a deficit of almost 12,000 votes—as part of the Conservatives' collapse in southern Ontario (the Tories only retained three seats in the GTA).

A week after the election, Alexander repeated his claim that the media had not sufficiently covered the Syrian refugee crisis and the defeated government's plans in a scrum with Global News. He has subsequently argued in media interviews that in the context of the election he was prevented by his own party from advertising his government's achievements on immigration and refugee policy.

2017 Conservative Party of Canada leadership election 
On October 12, 2016, Alexander announced his intention to run for the leadership of the Conservative Party of Canada. His leadership platform detailed policies on employment, taxation, innovation, families, education, competitiveness, energy self-sufficiency, cities, agriculture, poverty, homelessness, First Nations peoples, the Métis, refugees, the Monarchy, justice, health care, protecting wilderness, forestry, mining, international diplomacy, terrorism, democratic reform, cyber-security, Canadian culture, northern development, and national defence.

During the campaign he advocated increased immigration as the key to economic growth; in this regard he proposed increasing immigration to 400,000 a year, to include 40,000 refugees. He also called for doubling defence spending and "for an accelerated push to settle all outstanding land claims and to sign treaties with First Nations communities that would empower them to govern themselves".

Alexander finished 10th in a field of 14 candidates (the 11th-place candidate having withdrawn several weeks before the ballot). He received a maximum of 1.23 percent of the total vote before being eliminated in the fifth of thirteen rounds of voting.

Post-political career
Since the 2017 Conservative Party leadership election, Alexander has maintained a relatively low public profile. He remains an occasional commentator in Canadian media, offering views that are sometimes at odds with those of the Conservative Party; for example, Alexander has defended the UN Migration Pact which is criticized by Conservatives.

During the 2021 fall of Kabul, Alexander commented in a Globe and Mail op-ed entitled "The strategy for Afghanistan went off course long before the U.S. exit" that beginning with the January 2010 International Conference on Afghanistan, UN and Western officials "ignored Pakistani goals hiding in plain sight", and quoted "former army chief and ideological godfather of Pakistan's proxy war in Afghanistan" Mirza Aslam Beg's partisanship as far back as August 2011 and as recently as March 2021. He observed that two of Beg's "successors as Pakistan's top general" commanded Pakistani forces "in Abbottabad when Osama bin Laden was living there" prior to his death in May 2011, while he called for sanctions against Pakistan.