[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# On the Beach (2000 film)

ey are unlikely to survive the trip, they wish to die together on the Charleston, the only real home they have left. Towers agrees, apparently abandoning Moira to be with his men. As Moira, about to take her own suicide pill, watches the Charleston sail away, she is joined by Towers after all.

Cast

 Armand Assante as Captain Lionel Dwight Towers
 Rachel Ward as Moira Davidson
 Bryan Brown as Dr. Julian Osborne
 Jacqueline McKenzie as Mary Holmes
 Grant Bowler as Lt. Peter Holmes
 Allison Webber and Tieghan Webber as Jenny Holmes
 Steve Bastoni as First Officer Neil Hirsch
 David Ross Paterson as Chief Wawrzeniak (credited as David Paterson)
 Kevin Copeland as Sonarman Bobby Swain
 Todd MacDonald as Radioman Giles
 Joe Petruzzi as Lt. Tony Garcia
 Craig Beamer as Crewman Reid
 Jonathan Oldham as Crewman Parsons
 Trent Huen as Crewman Samuel Huynh
 Donni Frizzell as Crewman Rossi
 Jonathan Stuart as Crewman Burns
 Sam Loy as Seaman Sulman
 Charlie Clausen as Seaman Byers
 Robert Rabiah as Cook Gratino
 Marc Carra as Cook Walmsey
 Rod Mullinar as Admiral Jack Cunningham
 Felicity Boyd as Lt. Ashton
 Bill Hunter as Prime Minister Seaton
 Bud Tingwell as Professor Alan Nordstrum (credited as Charles Tingwell)
 David Argue as Jimmy Nofly 
 Mark Mitchell as Reg

Production
In the film, the Morse code signal picked up by the submarine crew in the original novel and film was updated to an automated digital broadcast powered by a solar-powered laptop computer. The film's picture of human behaviour is darker and more pessimistic than in the original 1959 adaptation, in which social order and manners do not collapse.

Alterations from the book and original film adaptation are made, including an ending differing from both the novel and film in that the submarine commander chooses to die with his newfound love instead of scuttling the submarine beyond Australian territorial waters (as in the novel) or attempting to return with his crew to the United States (as in the earlier film). In this version, the Golden Gate Bridge has collapsed and the city shoreline is in ruins, indicating an adjacent nuclear detonation, as in the book but not the first film version. The film ends with the reunion of Towers and Moira while their implied suicides occurring offscreen, as did the original version of Moira in the first film. Unlike the first film, there is no final postmortem scene of deserted Melbourne streets, with the absence of human life depicted.

The film contains various technical errors, such as in military uniforms and terminology.

The film ends with a quotation from Walt Whitman's poem "On The Beach at Night", describing how frightening an approaching cloud bank seemed at night to the poet's child, blotting the stars out one by one, as the father and child stood on the beach on Massachusetts' North Shore. As much as it resembles the plot of the movie and of Shute's novel, however, the book gives only an incidental reference to the Whitman poem, and the phrase "on the beach" is a Royal Navy term that means "retired from the Service". However, there seems to be little doubt about the provenance of the book's title, since at least some editions of it bear on the flyleaf two stanzas from the T.S. Eliot poem "The Hollow Men":

In this last of meeting places / We grope together / And avoid speech / Gathered on this beach of the tumid river.

This is the way the world ends / This is the way the world ends / This is the way the world ends / Not with a bang but a whimper.

Reception
The film received mixed reviews because with its three-hour account of impending doom, reviewers considered it "slow going". Some film reviewers still found aspects to praise, however. Richard Scheib, the Science Fiction, Horror and Fantasy Film Review critic, saw the film as benefiting from the lengthier timeline: "The mini-series certainly has the luxury to pad the story out and tell it with more length than the film did. As a result there is a greater degree of emotional resonance to the characters than the 1959 film had ... Mostly the mini-series works satisfyingly as a romantic drama, which it does reasonably depending on the extent to which one enjoys these things. Crucially though the mini-series does manage to work as science-fiction and Russell Mulcahy delivers some impressive images of the aftermath of the nuclear holocaust. There are some fine scenes with Armand Assante and the submarine crew walking through the ruins of Anchorage discovering how the people there committed suicide en masse, and some excellent digital effects during the periscope tour of the ruins of San Francisco".

On the Beach received two Golden Globe award nominations and was nominated as Best Miniseries or Television Film. Rachel Ward was nominated in the Best Performance by an Actress in a Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for Television category for her role as Moira Davidson.

References

Citations

Bibliography