[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Bridge at No Gun Ri

resistance by AP executives.) The second epilogue details the serious irregularities in the U.S. Army report on the No Gun Ri investigation prompted by the AP disclosures. (Co-author Hanley later published a more extensive analysis of what the Korean survivors described as a "whitewash.")

Reviews 

The Bridge at No Gun Ri is "one of the best books ever to appear on Americans in foreign wars," wrote historian Bruce Cumings, an American scholar of East Asia and the Korean War. On the cover, Pulitzer Prize-winning war correspondent Sydney Schanberg said the book is "in a class to stand with such work as Hersey's Hiroshima and Keneally's Schindler's List … powerful history." The New Yorker magazine said it "raises questions about military preparedness and civilian involvement that are as relevant today as they were half a century ago. ... The book is a sobering testament to the ravages of combat." The Far Eastern Economic Review declared it "great journalism and scholarship and also a great read." In a starred review, Kirkus Reviews said, "In crisp and forceful prose, the authors explain how No Gun Ri, like My Lai, was only the tip of the civilian-killing, scorched-earth iceberg. ... A wrenching story." Library Journal said it "tells a grim but true story. The authors have done their research and tell an excellent tale -- one that the U.S. Army tried to forget." The Economist also cited its "faithful" and "meticulous" research. Publishers Weekly described the  book as "advocacy reportage" that "eschewed critical analysis by concentrating on the victims on both sides of the rifles."

Writing in The Journal of Military Ethics, Lieutenant Commander Greg Hannah of Canada's Royal Military College said of The Bridge at No Gun Ri, "Interviews with survivors and soldiers provide vivid and compelling narrative details for this book. ... Compelling documentary evidence is offered that makes it clear that official policy authorized killing of refugees and that written orders to do so were issued."

Publication 

Several months after the September 29, 1999, publication of the AP's initial news report on No Gun Ri, the journalists signed a contract with Henry Holt and Company to write a book, working with Holt editor Liz Stein. The Bridge at No Gun Ri led Holt's catalog list for the fall 2001 season. But its publication date of September 6, 2001, came just five days before the 9/11 terror attacks, which jolted the publishing industry, caused the cancellation of the authors' national promotional tour, and dried up the book's promising sales.

The 313-page book, later released in paperback, features 35 photographs, two maps, two charts explaining the U.S. Army command structure in Korea and the villagers' family relationships, and reproductions of three key documents among the many demonstrating the policy of shooting refugees. The authors conducted some 500 interviews, chiefly with 24 ex-soldier witnesses and 36 Korean survivors. The AP journalism had drawn criticism in 2000 when it emerged that one of nine ex-soldiers quoted in the original story was not at No Gun Ri, as purported, but was passing on second-hand information. That source doesn't appear in the book's account of the massacre.

Translation, adaptations 

In 2003, a Korean-language translation of The Bridge at No Gun Ri was published in Seoul. The Seoul movie studio Myung Films partly based its 2009 feature film about the massacre, A Little Pond, on The Bridge at No Gun Ri. Three major television documentaries, by the British Broadcasting Corporation, Germany's national ARD television and South Korea's Munhwa Broadcasting Corporation, drew heavily on The Bridge at No Gun Ri.

References

External links 

•	Henry Holt and Company website for ‘’The Bridge at No Gun Ri”

•       C-SPAN book discussion, The Bridge at No Gun Ri, Berkeley, CA, September 10, 2001.

2001 non-fiction books
Korean War books
Henry Holt and Company books