[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1942 Luxembourgish general strike

to be a traitor and was thus decapitated. Two thousand Luxembourgers were arrested, 83 were tried by the special tribunal and transferred to the Gestapo. 290 high school children, boys and girls, were arrested and sent to re-education camps in Germany, as were 40 ARBED trainees and 7 young postmen.

The first two strikers to be shot, on September 2, 1942, at 18:30, were Michel Worré and Nicolas Müller, from Wiltz. Their last words, according to an SS who witnessed the execution, were "Vive Lëtzebuerg" (Long live Luxembourg!).

A series of black on red posters were then posted throughout Luxembourg announcing the death of the strikers as a consequence of the strike, bearing the names, occupation, and residency of each victim. Their families, including their children, were subsequently transferred to work camps, many in Silesia, under very harsh conditions.

Executed persons

The Luxembourg spelling of the names is respected

 Strikers executed on September 2, 1942
Worré, Michel – Head of the local economic council, Wiltz
Müller, Nicolas – Secretary of the local authority, Wiltz
 Strikers executed on September 3, 1942
Kons, Nicolas – Postal Underinspector, Luxembourg
Meyers, Charles – Teacher, Wiltz
Ewen, Josy – Teacher, Wiltz
Brück, Alfred – Teacher, Wiltz
Lommel, Célestin – Teacher, Wiltz
Weets, Alphonse – Turner, Differdange
Schneider, Jean-Paul – Toolmaker, Differdange
Toussaint, Ernest – Miner, Differdange
Betz, Nicolas – Toolmaker, Kahler
 Strikers executed on September 4, 1942
Zeimes, Léon – Typographer, Itzig
Mischo, Robert – Worker, Differdange
Angelsberg, René – Worker, Differdange
Schroeder, Jean – Postman, Luxembourg City
 Strikers executed on September 5, 1942
Dax, Michel – Railway worker, Ettelbruck
Heiderscheid, Emile – Worker, Diekirch
Schmit, Alphonse – Professor, Echternach
Thull, Jean – Railway worker, Ettelbruck
 Strikers executed on September 9, 1942
Biren, Eugène – Schifflange
Other executed strikers
Adam, Henri – Worker, Schifflange, executed by decapitation in Cologne.

Commemoration of the Strike
The 1942 Luxembourg general strike strongly marked Luxembourg's resistance to the German occupier, and represents one of the proudest moments of the history of the Grand-Duchy. Each year, the Strike is commemorated on August 31 by the head of state and government officials.

In 1965, a lighthouse-shaped "National Monument to the Strike" was opened in Wiltz.  Luxembourg's most famous 20th-century sculptor Lucien Wercollier created the two reliefs on the lighthouse displayed there. Wercollier was himself imprisoned at the Hinzert concentration camp.

See also

Luxembourgish Resistance,
February strike of 1941, protesting against the German anti-Jewish measures in the Netherlands,
Strike of the 100,000 of 1941 in south-eastern Belgium, 
Milk strike of September 1941 against food rationing in Occupied Norway.

References

Luxembourg general strike
Luxembourg in World War II
General strikes in Europe
Luxembourgian General Strike, 1942
Labor in Luxembourg
Luxembourg Resistance