[Source: PubMed]

39. BMJ Paediatr Open. 2019 Jan 31;3(1):bmjpo-2018-000364. doi: 
10.1136/bmjpo-2018-000364. eCollection 2019.

Children on the move in Europe: a narrative review of the evidence on the health 
risks, health needs and health policy for asylum seeking, refugee and 
undocumented children.

Kadir A(1), Battersby A(2), Spencer N(3), Hjern A(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Studies of Migration, Diversity and Welfare, Malmo Hogskola, 
Malmo, Sweden.
(2)Kaleidoscope Centre for Children and Young People, London, UK.
(3)Division of Mental Health and Wellbeing, Warwick Medical School, University 
of Warwick, Coventry, UK.
(4)Clinical Epidemiology, Department of Medicine, Karolinska Institutet and 
Centre for Health Equity Studies (CHESS), Karolinska Institutet/Stockholm 
University, Stockholm, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Europe has experienced a marked increase in the number of children 
on the move. The evidence on the health risks and needs of migrant children is 
primarily from North America and Australia.
OBJECTIVE: To summarise the literature and identify the major knowledge gaps on 
the health risks and needs of asylum seeking, refugee and undocumented children 
in Europe in the early period after arrival, and the ways in which European 
health policies respond to these risks and needs.
DESIGN: Literature searches were undertaken in PubMed and EMBASE for studies on 
migrant child health in Europe from 1 January 2007 to 8 August 2017. The 
database searches were complemented by hand searches for peer-reviewed papers 
and grey literature reports.
RESULTS: The health needs of children on the move in Europe are highly 
heterogeneous and depend on the conditions before travel, during the journey and 
after arrival in the country of destination. Although the bulk of the recent 
evidence from Europe is on communicable diseases, the major health risks for 
this group are in the domain of mental health, where evidence regarding 
effective interventions is scarce. Health policies across EU and EES member 
states vary widely, and children on the move in Europe continue to face 
structural, financial, language and cultural barriers in access to care that 
affect child healthcare and outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Asylum seeking, refugee and undocumented children in Europe have 
significant health risks and needs that differ from children in the local 
population. Major knowledge gaps were identified regarding interventions and 
policies to treat and to promote the health and well-being of children on the 
move.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjpo-2018-000364
PMCID: PMC6361329
PMID: 30815582

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.