[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Safety and Health in Mines Convention, 1995

Safety and Health in Mines Convention, 1995 is  an International Labour Organization Convention. It was adopted at the 82nd International Labour Conference (ILC) of the International Labour Organization (ILO). The ILO is an agency under the United Nations that deals with international labor issues while promoting workers rights and opportunities. One of ILO's goals is to hold annual labor conventions to create legally binding contracts for participating nations to ratify. During the Safety and Health in Mines Convention (C176), it was recognized that there are inherent hazards in the mining workplace, and a need for a convention was mandatory.

The outcome of the Convention is that miner's health and safety is upheld and monitored through various actions involving the mining workplace. The responsible parties would be the government and employer of the countries that ratified the Convention. The laws outlined in the Convention ensure the health and safety of miners. The ILO adopted the Convention on June 22, 1995.

As of the end of 2015, 31 nations have ratified the Convention. The ILO requires any nation that ratifies a convention to be legally bound to its rules. Because ratifying the convention is optional, many prominent mining nations (including those notorious for mining incidents) have chosen not too participate.

It was established in 1995, with the preamble stating:
Recognizing that it is desirable to prevent any fatalities, injuries or ill health affecting workers or members of the public, or damage to the environment arising from mining operations, and

Having regard to the need for cooperation between the International Labour Organization, the World Health Organization, the International Atomic Energy Agency and other relevant institutions and noting the relevant instruments, codes of practice, codes and guidelines issued by these organizations, and

Having decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to safety and health in mines, ...

The need for international mining regulation

Due to the hazardous conditions of the mining workplace, the Governing Body of the ILO recognized the need for a convention regarding the health and safety of miners. The ILO wanted to prevent fatalities, injuries and environmental damage as a result of mining.

Hazards in the mining industry

Mining safety has always been a large issue in the overall working industry as numerous fatalities occur each year. As a result of the workplace being underground, the threat of harmful gases being trapped in the workplace is present. Additionally, if any miner were to become trapped due to a cave-in, the extraction process can be extremely difficult and hazardous. There is also a risk of having a secondary collapse since the necessary infrastructure to support the new topography would not be in place after an initial collapse.  This would result in additional trapped miners and rescue workers. Since miners are trapped in pockets of rock, the risk of an explosion and oxygen deprivation is high.

As of 2001, more than 30 million people were employed in the mining industry. Despite that being only 1% of the world's workforce, mining holds over 8% of workplace fatalities. These statistics concerned the ILO, forcing them to hold a convention in order to decrease these statistics.

Relevant pre-exiting conventions

Before the Safety and Health in Mines Convention, there were numerous other conventions that were slightly relevant to health and safety in the mines such as The Safety and Health in Construction Convention and Recommendation, The Prevention of Major Industrial Accidents Convention and Recommendation, and The Medical Examination of Young Persons (Underground Work) Convention. However, despite the many conventions that were relevant, there were not enough laws and conditions specifically laid out for miner's health and safety. Therefore, the Safety and Health in Mines Convention was created.

The Convention
The document consists of 24 articles contained within 5 parts, preceded by a preamble.