[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arizona Snowbowl

, though no scientific studies have been conducted to verify this. Twenty-five people were arrested between May and August 2011, including author and NPR commentator Mary Sojourner and Klee Benally, Diné singer/guitarist for the rock group Blackfire, who has been arrested twice since protests began.

On August 8, 2014, the city of Flagstaff approved a 20-year deal to sell reclaimed water to Arizona Snowbowl. Despite the adverse ruling allowing Snowbowl to use reclaimed water on the slopes, the Hopi Tribe filed a lawsuit to challenge the city's right to sell reclaimed water to Snowbowl. 

Native American tribes and organizations, such as Protect the Peaks, continue to protest. In 2014 and 2015, the Snowbowl opened to protests of upwards of 50 people.

Proponents of this artificial snow say that with climate change, Snowbowl does not have to worry about losing business and helps Flagstaff's overall economy by bringing in tourists.

Also in 2014, Snowbowl was acquired by a group led by James Coleman, who also has ownership stakes in Pajarito and Sipapu in New Mexico. In the summer of 2015, Snowbowl announced $10 million in resort improvements as further development plans, including adding a new high-speed chairlift.    To that end, the Grand Canyon Express (high-speed six-person chair) was installed and opened in late 2016.   Additionally, in late 2020, the Arizona Snowbowl opened their new hybrid lift, called a Chondola, which is aptly named the Arizona Gondola (hybrid between a high-speed six-person chair and 8-person gondola after every 2 chairs). The new high-speed Arizona Gondola replaced the slow and outdated Agassiz lift.   In the summer, the Arizona Gondola is fully flexible, and allows for varying combinations of gondola cabins and chairs.

Local economy 
Arizona Snowbowl does not publish their revenue or make it public knowledge, which makes it hard to calculate its impact on the Flagstaff economy. The Snowbowl supports approximately 200 full-time jobs and $12.08 million in economic output for the city of Flagstaff. Artificial snow allows Snowbowl to open earlier in the winter season and stay open later into the spring season.

See also
 Sunrise Park Resort

References

External links

 

Ski areas and resorts in Arizona
Buildings and structures in Flagstaff, Arizona
Tourist attractions in Flagstaff, Arizona