[Source: PubMed]

16. Med J (Ft Sam Houst Tex). 2023 Jan-Mar;(Per 23-1/2/3):74-80.

Clinical Assessment of Low Calcium In traUMa (CALCIUM).

Mendez J(1), Jonas RB(2), Barry L(2), Urban S(3), Cheng AC(4), Aden JK(5), Bynum 
J(1), Fisher AD(6), Shackelford SA(7), Jenkins DH(2), Gurney JM(8), Bebarta 
VS(3), Cap AP(9), Rizzo JA(10), Wright FL(3), Nicholson SE(2), Schauer SG(9).

Author information:
(1)US Army Institute of Surgical Research, JBSA Fort Sam Houston, TX.
(2)University Hospital at University of Texas Health San Antonio, San Antonio, 
TX.
(3)University of Colorado, Denver, CO.
(4)Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN.
(5)Brooke Army Medical Center, JBSA Fort Sam Houston, TX.
(6)University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM; and Texas National Guard, Austin, 
TX.
(7)US Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO.
(8)Brooke Army Medical Center, JBSA Fort Sam Houston, TX; and Joint Trauma 
System, JBSA Fort Sam Houston, TX.
(9)US Army Institute of Surgical Research, JBSA Fort Sam Houston, TX; Brooke 
Army Medical Center, JBSA Fort Sam Houston, TX; and Uniformed Services 
University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, MD.
(10)Brooke Army Medical Center, JBSA Fort Sam Houston, TX; and Uniformed 
Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, MD.

Major trauma frequently occurs in the deployed, combat setting and is especially 
applicable in the recent conflicts with explosives dominating the combat 
wounded. In future near-peer conflicts, we will likely face even more profound 
weapons including mortars and artillery. As such, the number of severely wounded 
will likely increase. Hypocalcemia frequently occurs after blood transfusions, 
secondary to the preservatives in the blood products; however, recent data 
suggests major trauma in and of itself is a risk factor for hypocalcemia. 
Calcium is a major ion involved in heart contractility; thus, hypocalcemia can 
lead to poor contractility. Smaller studies have linked hypocalcemia to worse 
outcomes, but it remains unclear what causes hypocalcemia and if intervening 
could potentially save lives. The objective of this study is to determine the 
incidence of hypocalcemia on hospital arrival and the association with survival. 
We are seeking to address the following scientific questions, (1) Is 
hypocalcemia present following traumatic injury prior to transfusion during 
resuscitation? (2) Does hypocalcemia influence the amount of blood products 
transfused? (3) To what extent is hypocalcemia further exacerbated by 
transfusion? (4) What is the relationship between hypocalcemia following 
traumatic injury and mortality? We will conduct a multicenter, prospective, 
observational study. We will gather ionized calcium levels at 0, 3, 6, 12, 18, 
and 24 hours as part of scheduled calcium measurements. This will ensure we have 
accurate data to assess the early and late effects of hypocalcemia throughout 
the course of resuscitation and hemorrhage control. These data will be captured 
by a trained study team at every site. Our findings will inform clinical 
practice guidelines and optimize the care delivered in the combat and civilian 
trauma setting. We are seeking 391 patients with complete data to meet our a 
priori inclusion criteria. Our study will have major immediate short-term 
findings including risk prediction modeling to assess who is at risk for 
hypocalcemia, data assessing interventions associated with the incidence of 
hypocalcemia, and outcome data including mortality and its link to early 
hypocalcemia.

PMID: 36607302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]