[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sirius Dog Sled Patrol

six dog sled teams for the duration of the year, each consisting of two men, and 11 to 15 dogs. When traveling, each team carries approximately , depending on the distance to the next depot.

As of 2015, the Sirius Dog Sled Patrol consisted of 12 patrolmen and two radio operators.

Responsibilities 

Sled patrolling is divided into two periods. Depending on when the ice becomes thick enough, the autumn patrol starts sometime in November, and lasts until late-December. The sun sets for the last time around the beginning of November, and in the increasing darkness the winter storms get progressively worse, and more frequent. Getting home before Christmas is therefore not always possible for members of the unit. Around the end of January, when the weather stabilizes, and the sun reappears, the longer journeys begin and last until June, when the ice begins to break apart and drift southwards. During this period, the six sled teams will cover a large part of the coastline, and within a period of three to four years all areas will be visited.

Recruitment and training 
Candidates for the Sirius Dog Sled Patrol must have completed their compulsory service in the Danish Defense. At the tryouts, seven men are selected to start on about six months of various training courses. Women can apply, but none have yet.
Survival course in Greenland (five weeks)
Shooting course
Demolition course
Engine and mechanics course
Reconnaissance course
Firefighter course
Radio and communications course
First aid course
Extended first aid course
Sewing course
Truck course

The courses run from December to the end of May. The final group consisting of twelve men is picked as late as two to three weeks before they depart to Greenland for 26 consecutive months.

Equipment 

Because of the special nature of the Sirius Dog Sled Patrol operations, a wide range of unique equipment is required that is not normally used by the Danish armed forces.

The weapons carried also reflect the harsh conditions. Among the equipment used by the Sirius Dog Sled Patrol is the M1917 Enfield bolt-action rifle chambered in .30-06 Springfield, known in Danish  service as the Gevær M/53 (17), and the Glock 20 pistol chambered in 10mm Auto.

The Sirius Dog Sled Patrol uses the standard .30-06 Springfield  M2 armor-piercing military rifle round (normally intended for use against lightly armored vehicles, protective shelters, and personnel, and can be identified by its black bullet tip) and also civilian hollow-point rounds. The patrolmen feel that the M2 armor-piercing military round is best against aggressive polar bears at long range, but that the hollow-point rounds are better against an enraged musk ox. Typically, the patrolmen arrange their magazine so every third round is a hollow-point.

The Sirius Dog Sled Patrol formerly used Pistol M/49 sidearms chambered in 9×19mm Parabellum, but they proved insufficient as a last resort defence against the polar bears encountered causing the adoption of the current issue 10mm Auto Glock 20's.

See also 
Joint Arctic Command
Military of Greenland
Military of Denmark
Nanok East Greenland Fishing Company
Sirius Passet

References

External links 

Slædepatruljen SIRIUS (in Danish) - Official homepage for Sirius Patrol
The Sirius Patrol - Destination East Greenland Palle Norrit, former manager of the Patrol service, North and Northeast Greenland
Kursus for personnel til slædepatruljen SIRIUS (Army Combat Training School, Course for slædepatruljen SIRIUS personnel) 

 
Military units and formations of Denmark
Special forces of Denmark
Royal Danish Navy
Military units and formations established in 1941