[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

120,000 to 135,000 Jewish men were reportedly stripped of their right to vote between 1920 and 1935. Only some thousands of Jews had moved to Palestine, although Landau had obtained a 75% reduction in passport fees for all Romanian Jewish emigrants. He himself left, with his entire family, in 1935.

CCER
By 1934, the party inner circle had been joined by Benvenisti, who formed and chaired a PER youth organization (Tineretul Partidului Evreiesc, TPE) alongside Sami Iakerkaner; new arrivals included Jean Cohen, a radical Zionist. Through Benvenisti and Cohen, the PER also acquired its only two Sephardi leaders. The 1937 issue of Romania's Jewish Yearbook listed Tivadar Fischer as the PER president, and Weissman as vice president; Benvenisti was simultaneously serving as general secretary and youth leader. A steering committee had been formed, counting as its members József Fischer, Wilhelm Fischer, Landau, Marton, L. B. Wexler, R. Bauberger, Cornel Iancu, Iancu Mendelovici, as well as Sami and Carol Singer. The party's Bucharest chapter was under Rosenstein, assisted by Segall. R. Bauberger, József Fischer, Landau, Marton, Segall and Sami Singer were also members of a Special Committee for the Jewish National Fund (JNF), which sought to help German Jews escape to Palestine.

The conflict with radical-right Romanians highlighted the political work of Zionist radicals. The Siguranța followed Zissu, who had returned from an extended stay in Berlin, as he resumed contacts with the Renașterea Noastră group and discussed sponsoring them. In February 1934, Hasmonaea club hosted a conference on the "Jewish Question" in Romania, with Romanian philosopher Constantin Rădulescu-Motru as arbiter. Guest speakers included Sami Singer (who introduced the general public to Zionist tenets), Mihai Ralea (who discussed sociological issues), and Henric Streitman (who spoke about Judaism). In late 1934, the party as a whole declared its support for government bonds which were meant to resupply the Romanian Land Forces. In mid 1934, the PER was still backing PNȚ candidates for the municipal elections of Iași, with Moscovici and Bercu Kelpner appearing on the campaign trail. During early 1935, there were municipal elections in Suceava. Rohrlich and five other "leading Jews from the Jewish party", as well as two UER men, were included on the PNL list, running against a PNȚ-led alliance that had no Jewish candidates. The situation was repeated for the elections in Orhei, where the PNL had a deal with both the PER and the "Israelite community" as a whole.

In April 1935, the Jewish Party lamented the "systematic and continuous persecution" of Jews by antisemitic forces, asking government to intervene; the PER noted that its constituents had "proven their love and devotion toward Country and Throne." Its activists were also facing violent opposition from the assimilationist youth. In February 1935, a rally of the Bucharest PER, hosted by Tivadar Fischer and Sami Singer at Izbânda Cinema, was crashed by "some two hundred Jewish students [...] shouting that Jews should not have their own separate party, but that they should be active within the existing parties. The scandal degenerated into a brawl opposing the students to other participants in that reunion."

Also in 1935, the PER, alongside the PNȚ and the Social Democrats, was approached by the illegal Romanian Communist Party (PCR) with an offer to form an antifascist "popular front", but the negotiations stalled. Gheorghe A. Lăzăreanu-Lăzurică, an organizer of the Romani minority and ally of the Romanian far-right, suggested at the time that all Jews "practice communism": "Depending on how the winds blow, sometimes they pretend to be assimilated, and sometimes national, Jews, [but] they all want to bring together a popular front, so they come under the protection of the International Jewish Alliance and threaten Romania with the intervention of foreign forums." According to Filderman, the PER was instead admired by Vaida-Voevod's breakaway group, the Romanian Front. Vaida had come to support a platform of racial segregation and Jewish quotas, and was seeking "collaboration" with the anti-assimilationist Jews. In early 1936, both the PER and the UER found themselves criticized by Grigore Iunian, of the left-wing nationalist Radical Peasants' Party. Iunian suggested that a popular front with the Jewish nationalists was out of the question: "We have been accused of philosemitism. We reject this insult; though we are also not antisemitic. [...] We fight against the Jewish Party and against the Union of Native Jews [...] for they stand as separate coalitions within our country, and are at risk of colliding with each other. We want instead a unitary coalition, to restore the people as a working force."