[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Convention on Cybercrime

e Convention.

Accession by the United States

Its ratification by the United States Senate by unanimous consent in August 2006 was both praised and condemned. The United States became the 16th nation to ratify the convention. The Convention entered into force in the United States on 1 January 2007.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist said: "While balancing civil liberty and privacy concerns, this treaty encourages the sharing of critical electronic evidence among foreign countries so that law enforcement can more effectively investigate and combat these crimes".

The Electronic Privacy Information Center said:

Although a common legal framework would eliminate jurisdictional hurdles to facilitate the law enforcement of borderless cyber crimes, a complete realization of a common legal framework may not be possible. Transposing Convention provisions into domestic law is difficult especially if it requires the incorporation of substantive expansions that run counter to constitutional principles. For instance, the United States may not be able to criminalize all the offenses relating to child pornography that are stated in the Convention, specifically the ban on virtual child pornography, because of its First Amendment's free speech principles. Under Article 9(2)(c) of the Convention, a ban on child pornography includes any "realistic images representing a minor engaged in sexually explicit conduct". According to the Convention, the United States would have to adopt this ban on virtual child pornography as well, however, the U.S. Supreme Court, in Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition, struck down as unconstitutional a provision of the CPPA that prohibited "any visual depiction" that "is, or appears to be, of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct". In response to the rejection, the U.S. Congress enacted the PROTECT Act to amend the provision, limiting the ban to any visual depiction "that is, or is indistinguishable from, that of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct" (18 U.S.C. § 2252(B)(b)).

Accession by other non–Council of Europe states
The Convention was signed by Canada, Japan, the United States, and South Africa on 23 November 2001, in Budapest. As of April 2023, the non–Council of Europe states that have ratified the treaty are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Cabo Verde, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ghana, Israel, Japan, Mauritius, Morocco, Nigeria, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Tonga and the United States.

Although Egypt has not signed off on the Convention, Egyptian President el-Sisi's government in 2018 has legislated two major computer-crime related laws. Targeting social networking service such as Facebook and Twitter, the legislation criminalizes fake news and terrorism, setting a flag on accounts which carry more than 5,000 subscribers or followers. The early legislation had been criticized by Amnesty International, thus websites can appeal to the courts within 7 days of blacklisting.

In fact India too "was reconsidering its position on becoming a member of the Budapest Convention because of the surge in cyber crime, especially after a push for digital India."

See also
 Cyberstalking legislation
 List of Council of Europe treaties
 2015 U.S. China Cybersecurity Agreement

References

Further reading
 Dennis Jlussi: Handle with care, but don't panic - Criminalisation of hacker tools in German criminal law and its effect on IT security professionals, Hanover 2007. View online or Download as pdf file.
Center for Democracy and Technology
United States Department of Justice - Computer Crime & Intellectual Property Section Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime

External links
 Convention on Cybercrime homepage from the Council of Europe