[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Su Excelencia

Su Excelencia (aka Your Excellency) is a 1967 Mexican political satire film directed by Miguel M. Delgado and starring Cantinflas and Sonia Infante. The film is set in a parody universe where "Red" and "Green" countries are the political equivalents of the socialist and capitalist countries of the Cold War, which the film satirizes. Cantinflas portrays Lupitos, a chancellor stationed in his country's (Republica de Los Cocos) embassy in the communist country of Pepeslavia who later ascends to the role of ambassador and has to decide the pivotal vote of joining the "Reds" or the "Greens", therefore deciding the fate of the entire world.

Su Excelencia, the fourth Cantinflas film distributed by Columbia Pictures, boasted box-office success and is among Cantinflas' most successful films. with its New York premiere scoring a box office victory over Charlie Chaplin's last film, A Countess from Hong Kong, which opened the same week.

Plot
In a world where countries are divided into 3 subgroups (green, red, and sweet countries, a reference to First, Second and Third World countries), Lopez (known affectionately as "Lopitos") is a bureaucrat from the sweet Latin American "Republica de Los Cocos" (a play on the term "banana republic") who is stationed in the embassy of the Communist bloc country "Pepeslavia" (a play on words of Joseph Stalin, the nickname for Joseph in Spanish (José) is "Pepe", and the inflection "-slavia" of Slavic peoples under the rule of the USSR).

Lopitos, who is horribly inefficient but quick-witted, is invited (because of the current ambassador's superstition about 13 sitting down to a meal) to a banquet attended by the ambassadors of both superpowers. After the news of a series of coups d'état in Los Cocos arrives throughout the meal, Lopitos quickly rises to the position of ambassador.

At a summit of world leaders, the representatives of the two world superpowers, "Dolaronia" (referring to the American dollar) and "Pepeslavia", court the allegiances of third-world diplomats to tilt the balance of global power in their favor. The last diplomat to remain unaligned is Lopitos, who shocking announces that he will remain neutral. In a heartfelt speech he denounces the superpowers for infringing on the rights of developing countries to self determination, and attacks policies like state atheism and globalization. He speaks of a Christian stance of love and acceptance and then admits to no longer have the power of an ambassador as he solicited his resignation and thus spoke like a common citizen. After a surprising agreement of both parties Lopitos leaves the summit. His secretary goes after him and both leave hoping for the best.

Cast
Cantinflas – Lopitos, current ambassador of Los Cocos embassy.
Sonia Infante – Lolita, personal secretary of Los Cocos embassy.
Guillermo Zetina – Tirso de la Pompa y Pompa, counselor of Los Cocos embassy.		
Tito Junco – General León Balarrasa, military attaché of Los Cocos embassy.
Miguel Manzano – Serafín Templado, main secretary of Los Cocos embassy.		
José Gálvez – Osky Popovsky, bureaucrat of Pepeslavia and ardent supporter of the "Red" countries.		
Víctor Alcocer – Admiral Neptuno Aguado, naval attaché of Los Cocos embassy.		
Maura Monti – Tania Mangovna, Agent KGD007 of the Pepeslav government.
Jack Kelly – Ambassador of Dolaronia and supporter of the "Green" countries.
Eduardo Alcaraz – Salustio Menchaca, ex-ambassador of Los Cocos embassy. 		
Fernando Wagner – Ambassador of Salchichonia who remains neutral.		
Carlos Riquelme – President of Pepeslavia who greets Lopitos.		
Quintín Bulnes – Petrovsky, butler of Los Cocos embassy.	
Eduardo MacGregor – Vasily Vasilov, prime minister of Pepeslavia.	
Luis Manuel Pelayo – Counselor of Pepeslavia
Fernando Mendoza – Commissar
Antonio Medellín – Ambassador of Karamba
Alberto Galán – General Secretary
Alberto Catalá – Doorman
Ricardo Adalid – Assembly Doorman (uncredited)
Daniel Arroyo – Assembly Spectator (uncredited)
Victorio Blanco – Don Milos Popovich (uncredited)
Queta Carrasco – Guest at reception (uncredited)
Jorge Casanova – Secretary (uncredited)
Farnesio de Bernal – Assembly Representative (uncredited)
Gerardo del Castillo – Ambassador of Tequesquite (uncredited)
Victor Eberg – Commissar at dinner (uncredited)
Pedro Elviro – Commissar at dinner (uncredited)
Enrique García Álvarez – Guest at reception (uncredited)
Aarón Hernán – Representative of Bolognia (uncredited)
Velia Lupercio – Guest at reception (uncredited)
Rubén Márquez – Commissar at dinner (uncredited)
Manuel Trejo Morales – Guest at reception (uncredited)
Fernando Yapur – Commissar at dinner (uncredited)
Manuel Zozaya – Guest at reception (uncredited)