[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Samaria Ostraca

The Samaria Ostraca are 102 ostraca found in 1910 in excavations in Sebastia, Nablus (ancient Samaria) led by George Andrew Reisner of the Harvard Semitic Museum. Of the 102, only 63 are legible. The ostraca are written in the paleo-Hebrew alphabet, which very closely resemble those of the Siloam Inscription, but show a slight development of the cursive script. The primary inscriptions are known as KAI 183–188.

These ostraca were found in the treasury of the palace of Ahab, king of Israel (Samaria) and probably date about his period, 850–750 BC. They are currently held in the collection of the Istanbul Archaeology Museums.

Description

They are written on fragments of five different types of vessels—large thick amphorae, with a drab or grey surface; large thin amphorae, with a drab or grey surface; jugs of soft brown ware with a reddish slip; basins of the same ware; and bowls of coarse ware with a red or yellow slip, all of these presumably being vessels that were used in receiving and storing the revenue. Sherds with a smooth surface or a slip would naturally be preferred for writing.

These ostraca are evidently part of a somewhat clumsy method of book-keeping. Either they were a "day-book," notes of daily receipts to be written up in some form of "ledger" afterwards; or they were the sole record kept of the amount of wine and oil received in various years from various places. It is possible they were written and handed in by the payer, not by the receiver.

All of them began with a date, such as "In the ninth, tenth, or fifteenth year" presumably of the reign of Ahab. This is followed by the amount and quality of wine or oil received, with the name of the place where it came from and of the giver, such as "in the tenth year wine of Kerm-ha-Tell for a jar of fine oil" where evidently wine was accepted in place of fine oil. "A jar of old wine" and "a jar of fine oil" are the most usual descriptions.

Examples
Ostracon No. I contains a list of amounts paid in by five people. It reads : IN THE TENTH YEAR. To SHEMARYAU. FROM BEER-YAM Jars of Old Wine. Rage', son of Elisha'......  'Uzza, son of ( ) .. i Eliba, son of ( ) i Ba'ala, son of Elisha...... i Yeda 'Yau, son of ( ) .. i

Ostracon No. 2 is a similar document: IN THE TENTH YEAR. To GADDIYAU. FROM AZAH Jars of Old Wine. Abi-ba'al Ahaz .. Sheba' Meriba'al

Ostracon, No. 18 In the tenth year. From Hazeroth to Gaddiyau. A jar of fine oil.

Ostracon, No- 30 In the fifteenth year. From Shemida to Hillez (son of) Gaddiyau. Gera (son of) Hanniab.

Samaria Ostracon, No. 55 In the tenth year. (From the) vineyard of Yehau-eli. A jar of fine oil.

Names of places
Some names are of the villages or districts, and others are names of the peasant farmers who paid their taxes in the form of jars of wine. Of the places mentioned on these Ostraca, Shechem is the only one that can be identified with a text occurring in the Hebrew Bible (Christian Old Testament). In Kerm-ha-Tell, and Kerm-Yahu-'ali, the word Kerm must mean " the village, or vineyard," Tell means "mound", maybe referring to modern Tulkarm in Samaria. Six of these place-names occur in the Hebrew Bible as "tribal subdivisions of Manasseh", in Joshua 17:2. and :
Abi-'Ezer
Khelek
Shechem
Shemida'
No'ah
Hoglah

The names of the seventeen places occurring on these Ostraca are: 
Abi-'ezer
Azat Par'an (?)
Azzo, possibly the current village of Azzun
Beer-yam
Elmatan, possibly Immatain
Gib, possibly the current village of Gaba or Jaba'
Haserot, possibly Asira ash Shamaliya  
Yasot, possibly the current village of Yasid
Kerm-ha-Tell, possibly the current town of Tulkarm
Sepher, possibly the modern-day Saffarin
Shemida'
Shiftan, possibly the current village of Shoufa
Kheleq
Khoglah
No'ah Shekem
Shereq

Names of royal officials
These names are preceded by the word " to," indicating that they were the recipients. The names occurring are:

Ba'alzamar (cf. Baal-saman, Stele of Zakir)
Akhino'am
Shemaryau
Gaddiyau
Isha Akhimelek—/ Isha, son of Akhimelek
Nimshi (?)
Bedyau (?)
Akhima
Kheles
Kheles Gaddiyau—i.e., Kheles, son of Gaddiyau
Kheles Afsakh—/.*., Kheles, son of Afsakh
Khanan Ba'ara
Gomer
Khanndno 'ana
Yeda'yau
Yeda'yau Akhimelek—; Yeda'yau son of Akhimelek

Most of these names sound very unusual and un-Biblical. In form they recall more strongly names occurring in the Tell-el-Amarna Letters and the records of Thothmes III's conquests in Syria.

Names of taxpayers
Some of the names of taxpayers on these sherds are:

Names with "son of."
Rage' Elisha
'Alah Ela
Gera Khaimi'ab
Ye'ush of Yasheb (?)
Ba'al combinations
Ba'ala of El Mettan
Ba'ala Elisha
Ba'al B(asalme'oni ?)
Isha Ba'al'azkar
Abi-Ba'al
Meri-ba'al
Ba'ala Za(kar)
Single
Eliba
Akhima
Akhaz
Sheba
Qedar of Saq
Uzza
Kheles of Khaserot
Akhzai of Khaserot
"Yau" Combinations
Yeda'yau
Gera Yauyosheb. (Gera son of Yauyosheb)
Mafna-yau Natao (son of) of Yasot
Abed-yau. (Servant of Yau)
Abi-yau. (Child of Yau)
Marnayau Gaddiyau. (Marnayau son of Gaddiyau)