[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ilya Kaminsky

essay about deafness and his return to Odesa, Ukraine, after many years away.
	 
He also writes essays on various subjects such as borders, creative life in the age of surveillance, and poetics of Paul Celan, for publications such as The Guardian, The New York Times, and Poetry.

Critical reception

Writing for The New Yorker, Kevin Young calls Deaf Republic "a contemporary epic. Evident throughout is a profound imagination, matched only by the poet's ability to create a republic of conscience that is ultimately ours, too"
	 
In The New York Times, Parul Sehgal says: "I was stunned by Ilya Kaminsky's Deaf Republic, lyric poems presented as a play in two acts, set in a country in crisis, inspired both by Odesa, where Kaminsky grew up, and America, where he now lives. It's a book about censorship, political apathy, torture — "the nakedness / of the whole nation" — but also about tomato sandwiches, the birth of a daughter and the sudden, almost shocking joys of longtime married life."
	 
In The Guardian, Fiona Benson says: "I fell hard for Ilya Kaminsky's Deaf Republic. Part folklore, fable, war story and love poem, it imagines an occupied town falling deaf in response to the shooting of a child. Often devastating, always humane, this is a book of the century, let alone this year."
	 
Washington Examiner calls Deaf Republic "a contemporary masterpiece. This book is proof that in 2019 great poetry can enjoy tremendous popularity."
	 	 
About Kaminsky's first book, Dancing in Odesa, Robert Pinsky writes: "Passionate, daring to laugh and weep, direct yet unexpected, Ilya Kaminsky's poetry has a glorious tilt and scope."

Selected poems and essays 

Poems
	 
 Poems from Deaf Republic in The New Yorker
 A Selection of Kaminsky's Poems at Poetry website
 A Selection of Kaminsky's Poems at The Academy of American Poets website 
 A Selection of Kaminsky's Poems at The Massachusetts Review website
 Musica Humana at Poetry International Rotterdam website
 Elegy for Joseph Brodsky at Poetry International Rotterdam website
 We Lived Happily During the War  at Poetry Magazine website
 Author's Prayer at Poetry website
	 
Essays

 Searching for a Lost Odesa -- and a Deaf Childhood in The New York Times Magazine
 Of Strangeness that Wakes Us: On Mother Tongues, Fatherlands, and Paul Celan in Poetry

References

External links
 
Profile at The Whiting Foundation
 Tupelo Press > Author Page > Ilya Kaminsky 

1977 births
Ukrainian emigrants to the United States
American male poets
Odesa Jews
Georgia Tech faculty
Georgetown University alumni
University of California College of the Law, San Francisco alumni
Deaf poets
Living people
Ukrainian male poets
Chapbook writers
Russian male poets
American deaf people
21st-century American poets
Writers from Odesa
21st-century American male writers
American writers with disabilities