[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arava Institute for Environmental Studies

nd Environmental Network (AAPEN) brings together alumni from all years of study during an annual conference held in varying locations in the Middle East, as well as an online presence on Facebook, a private online network (NING), updated pages on the Arava website for alumni, a newsletter, and more.

Research centers 
In addition to its academic programs, the Arava Institute conducts cross-border studies in four research centers:
 
 The Center for Hyper-Arid Socio-Ecology (CHASE), directed by Dr. Miri Lavi Neeman, is dedicated to the study of the natural ecosystems in the Arava valley and the interaction between those ecosystems and the region's people. The center brings together Jordanian and Israeli researchers to map the biodiversity of the region, in order to better protect natural resources while enabling sustainable human development in the region. Projects include monitoring of the 2014 Evrona Oil Spill.
 The Center for Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation (CREEC), directed by Dr. Tareq abu Hamed, conducts research in a wide variety of subjects focusing on energy policy, solar fuels, photovoltaic technologies, biomass, wind and solar thermal energy, as well as innovative building construction techniques customized to conserve energy in desert climates.

 The Center for Sustainable Agriculture (CSA), directed by Dr. Elaine Solowey, is dedicated to the investigation and preservation of arid lands and their natural resources. Among the center's notable projects are the sprouting of a 2,000 year old date seed, nicknamed "Methuselah", and the revival of the frankincense tree in Israel 1,500 years after its last appearance in the region.
 The Center for Transboundary Water Management (CTWM), directed by Dr. Clive Lipchin, provides a platform for water professionals and policy makers from Israel, Palestine and Jordan to cooperate in water conservation, desalination, wastewater treatment and education. Its project include the installation of greywater treatment systems in Israel and the West Bank, and research on sinkholes and desalination in the Dead Sea basin.

In addition, the Arava Center for Sustainable Development (ACSD), under the supervision of Dr. Shmuel Brenner, aims to reduce poverty, enhance sustainability and empower communities by supporting locally driven, environmentally focused development programs worldwide. One of those programs is the agricultural development program "Furrows in the Desert" in Turkana, Kenya, which intends to create greater food security to the region by building local capacity in sustainable agriculture.

See also 
 Alon Tal

References

External links 

Leichman, Abigail Klein. (2012, May 29). "The surprising source of Israel’s edible exports," Israel21c

Ben-Gurion University of the Negev
Education in Israel
Environmental research institutes
Environmental studies institutions in Israel
International educational organizations
International research institutes
Judaism and environmentalism
Ketura, Israel
Research institutes in Israel
Study abroad programs