[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# CornerShot

ere not done based on the CornerShot.

The third one, known as the CS/LW9, was developed by the China Ordnance Industry Research Institute in 2005 in an attempt to do a similar system to the Israeli-made Cornershot. It has a handle at the bottom that can be used to turn the LW9 to the left or right.

The three systems use the QSZ-92 as the main pistol, although the LW9 also uses the NP22/34 pistols.

Pakistan

Iran
Iran has demonstrated a weapon that is a clone of the Israeli CornerShot.

As of 2016, there's no information on whether the Iranian military has fielded it.

South Korea
South Korea had publicly unveiled their own version of the CornerShot on March 23, 2010, created and developed by the Agency for Defense Development. The ADD had ₩350 million invested for research and development of their own CornerShot in September 2008 to 2015 Its functions are similar to the original version, with the exception of a laser target designator and a pixel sensor included to assist in locating hostile targets.

The CornerShot made in South Korea was developed by S&T Daewoo. It's unveiled in 2016 as the Korea Special-Purpose Weapon and mounts a S&T K5 pistol, although it can be used with other pistols. The K1A can be attached to the KSPW if necessary for additional firepower.

The KPSW has MIL-STD-1913 rails to allow attachment of optics and other tactical accessories.

India

DRDO
An Indian-made Cornershot weapon was first reported to be in development in 2014. A cornershot weapon system (CSWS) is designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The CSWS is planned to have a pistol and 40mm GL variant. Development was reportedly done by 2019. It's known as the Trikaal.

It is made in aluminum alloy to make it light and durable. The CSWS's camera, laser, infrared illuminator, and torch are positioned in the front while the display, electronics, battery, and swivelling mechanism are located in the back. It can be equipped with the Glock 17/19 and the Indian-made 1A pistol. The DRDO version is being made in collaboration with Zen Technologies.

On March 26, 2022, the Central Reserve Police Force and the Jammu and Kashmir Police are in the process of adopting it after putting the CSWS through multiple tests.

Zen Technologies
Zen Technologies unveiled the ShootEdge at India International Security Expo 2015, New Delhi.

Users

 
 : Used by the State Investigation and Protection Agency (SIPA) and the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs Special Police Unit.
 : Beijing SWAT
 : Used by the Delhi and Punjab Police forces.
 : KOPASKA
 :  Used by Shayetet 13
 : Special Forces Corps (CFE)
 : Unknown number of Cornershots sold to Myanmar.
 : Used by the Special Tasks Unit "Tiger".
 
 : The ROK Army Special Forces uses the Israeli model.
 : Singapore Army.
 : Special Forces, Gendarmerie Special Operations Command and Police Special Operation Department
 : Used by the Special Police Force (Cảnh sát Cơ động) and the Vietnamese Army's 113th Special Forces Brigade.

Notes

Assault rifles
Weapons of Israel
Israeli inventions