[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Treaty of Point Elliott

ington Territory
 James Doty, Secretary
 George Gibbs, Surveyor [witness at treaty signing.  Gibbs also kept extensive records and made expansive reports through his career; became a prominent historical primary source.]
 H. A. Goldsborough, Commissary
 B. F. Shaw, Interpreter
 Colonel M. T. Simmons

Point Elliott Treaty, advisers to Washington Territory
 M. T. Simmons, Special Indian Agent, [witness at treaty signing]
 H. A. Goldsborough, Commissary, [remaining member of the initial staff, witness at treaty signing]
 B. F. Shaw, Interpreter, [remaining member of the initial staff, witness at treaty signing]
 James Tilton, Surveyor-General, Washington Territory
 F. Kennedy
 J. Y. Miller
 H. D. Cock, [witness at treaty signing]

Native Americans
Chiefs, as such, were appointed by Governor Stevens, though the treaty states "on behalf of said tribes, and duly authorized by them".

Signatory tribes

 Dwamish (Duwamish), two peoples, the "People of the Inside (the environs of Elliott Bay)" and the "People of the Large Lake (Lake Washington)" (together known as the Duwamish)
 Suquamish
 Sk-kahl-mish (Skokomish), "River People" (one of nine historic Twana tribes)
 Sam-ahmish (Sammamish)
 Smalh-kamish (Smulkamish / Smalhkamish), "People of White River"
 Skope-ahmish (Skopamish), "The People of the variable stream" or "Green ('fluctuating') River People"
 St-kah-mish (Stkamish / Skekomish), "People of the village named log jam"
 Snoqualmoo (Snoqualmie), "Strong People of Status"
 Skai-wha-mish (Skykomish), "Upriver People" (originally considered a subdivision of the Snoqualmie)
 N'Quentl-ma-mish (Kwehtlamamishes) (a Snohomish band)
 Sk-tah-le-jum (perhaps a Snohomish band)
 Stoluck-wha-mish (Stillaguamish)
 Sno-ho-mish (Snohomish), "The Lowland People"
 Lummi, "Facing one another"
 Skagit, ″The Hiding place″ up river where people hid from northern attackers (who came by canoe), a place name for the Skagit River″
 Kik-i-allus (Kikia'los) (a Swinomish band, but sometimes considered a Lower Skagit band)
 Swin-a-mish (Swinomish) (sometimes considered a Lower Skagit band)
 Squin-ah-mish
 Sah-ku-mehu (Sauk-Suiattle) (misidentified as a Skagit band) 
 Noo-wha-ha (beside Upper Skagit, Lower Skagit and Kikiallus a fourth major regional Skagit group)
 Nook-wa-chah-mish (perhaps the Nookachamps band of the Skagit tribes)
 Mee-see-qua-guilch
 Cho-bah-ah-bish (perhaps the Tcubaa'bish band of the Skagit tribes)

Non-signatory tribes
For various reasons, the Nooksack, Semiahmoo, Lower Puyallup and Quileute tribes did not take part in the treaty councils, though the rights of the Nooksack were signed over by the Lummi chief Chow-its-hoot, without their presence.  Samish attendance was documented by ethnologist George Gibbs and officially reported by Governor Issac Stevens. Although the Samish were listed next to the Lummi in the first draft of the treaty, it appears that line was inadvertently omitted during transcription of the final draft.  Several tribes, such as the Duwamish and Snohomish, continue working toward official federal recognition.  See also, for example, Duwamish (tribe).

Selected articles
The treaty includes the following provisions: 
ARTICLE 5.
The right of taking fish at usual and accustomed grounds and stations is further secured to said Indians in common with all citizens of the Territory,Following a challenge by Native Americans in the late twentieth-century to federal policy excluding them from certain properties for fishing, they filed a suit. Judge George Boldt in the Boldt Decision (1974, upheld 1979) upheld their traditional right of access for fishing and hunting, as it was not restricted by the treaty.

ARTICLE 7.
The President may hereafter, when in his opinion the interests of the Territory shall require and the welfare of the said Indians be promoted, remove them from either or all of the special reservations herein before make to the said general reservation, or such other suitable place within said Territory as he may deem fit, on remunerating them for their improvements and the expenses of such removal, or may consolidate them with other friendly tribes or bands; and he may further at his discretion cause the whole or any portion of the lands hereby reserved, or of such other land as may be selected in lieu thereof, to be surveyed into lots, and assign the same to suc[h] individuals or families as are willing to avail themselves of the privilege, and will locate on the same as a permanent home on the same terms and subject to the same regulations as are provided in the sixth article of the treaty with the Omahas, so far as the same may be applicable.An attorney in the employ of the Natives during negotiations was concerned on their behalf with this language.