[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Geneva Call

lacement, protecting health care in armed conflict, preventing starvation and promoting the respect of humanitarian norms.

Since 2000, Geneva Call has engaged more than 100 armed non-State actors on eight thematic areas and to date 66 groups have signed one of the Deeds of Commitment.

Landmine ban

The struggle against anti-personnel mines was the original focus of Geneva Call. Geneva Call engages armed non-State actors to reduce the impact of anti-personnel mines on the civilian population by promoting the ban and encouraging cooperation in mine action.

In 2000, Geneva Call launched a first Deed of Commitment under Geneva Call for Adherence to a Total Ban on Anti-Personnel Mines and for Cooperation in Mine Action.

By signing the Deed of Commitment banning anti-personnel mines, armed non-State actors agree, inter alia, to:
Prohibit under any circumstance the use, production, stockpiling, and transfer of anti-personnel mines;
Undertake and cooperate in stockpile destruction; mine clearance; victim assistance; mine awareness; and various other forms of mine action, in cooperation with specialized organizations.

In November 2003, the Deed of Commitment banning anti-personnel mines mines was included in the UN Mine Action Guidelines for Ceasefire and Peace Agreements as a mechanism for armed non-State actor engagement. To this date, 54 ANSAs have signed this Deed of Commitment.

Child protection

Geneva Call has been involved with child soldiers as early as 2001, when it invited the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers to a conference on engaging non-state actors to discuss their experiences in that field.

Geneva Call engages armed non-State actors to reduce the effects of armed conflict on children by promoting respect for children’s rights, in particular the prohibition of the recruitment and use of children in hostilities.

In November 2010, Geneva Call launched a second Deed of Commitment, the Deed of Commitment under Geneva Call for the Protection of Children from the Effects of Armed Conflict. To this date, 31 ANSAs have signed this Deed of Commitment.

By signing the Deed of Commitment protecting children in armed conflict, armed non-State actors agree, inter alia, to:
Prohibit the use of children in hostilities;
Ensure that children are not recruited into, or forcibly associated with, armed forces;
Release or disassociate children in safety and security;
Protect children from the effects of military operations;
Do their best to provide children with the aid and care they need, in cooperation with specialized child protection agencies.

Gender issues

Geneva Call engages armed non-State actors to reduce conflict-related sexual violence, to eliminate gender discrimination and to promote greater participation of women in decision-making processes.

In June 2012, Geneva Call launched a third Deed of Commitment, the Deed of Commitment under Geneva Call for the Prohibition of Sexual Violence in Situations of Armed Conflict and towards the Elimination of Gender Discrimination'. To this date, 25 ANSAs have signed this Deed of Commitment.
By signing the Deed of Commitment prohibiting sexual violence and gender discrimination, armed non-State actors agree, inter alia, to:
Prohibit all forms of sexual violence;
Prevent and sanction acts of sexual violence;
Provide victims with access to the assistance and care they need;
Ensure confidentiality and protection of victims of sexual violence;
Eliminate discriminatory policies and practices against women or men;
Ensure greater participation of women in decision-making processes.

Cultural heritage
Given the increasing number of deliberate attacks on cultural heritage (including on the part of ANSAs), in 2015, Geneva Call started engaging ANSAs on the protection of cultural heritage in situations of armed conflict. Geneva Call organizes activities addressing the cultural heritage aspect in different contexts, such as Mali, Syria, Iraq and Myanmar.

In 2018, Geneva Call published a report entitled “Culture under fire: armed non-State actors and cultural heritage in wartime”, which focuses on three case studies (Iraq, Mali and Syria) and recommends ways to enhance the protection of cultural heritage in armed conflict.

Displacement
In a context where each year, millions of people become internally displaced persons (IDPs) due to armed conflict, Geneva Call has organized events on this issue since 2011 and has started to formally engage ANSAs on displacement issues since 2018.
For example, Geneva Call organizes training sessions on displacement with ANSAs. Those activities were undertaken in various countries, such as the DRC, Myanmar, Iraq and Syria.