[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Apostolic-Prophetic Movement

racter, gifts, and abilities to successfully reach and establish people in the Kingdom's truth and order, especially through founding and overseeing local churches, according to David Cannistraci, author of two books on the movement and the lead pastor of Gateway City Church in San Jose, California.

In another sense, an apostle is a church planter: "the apostolic gift leaves churches in its wake." It is characterized by a "paternal bond between apostles and pastors."

Apostolic networks 
Apostolic networks are non-denominational alliances of independent churches and ministries. Apostolic networks are among the fastest growing movements in the modern Christian world.

Network of Christian Ministries 
In July 1982, while guest speakers at Emanuele Cannistraci's church, Evangel Christian Fellowship, Bishop John Gimenez (founder of Rock Church and Washington for Jesus), Charles Green, and Mel Davis, along with Cannistraci, conceived the idea to form the Network of Christian Ministries (the Network), which was a major apostolic network formally established in 1984 in Washington D.C. By 1989, most of the national leaders of the charismatic movement had joined the Network.

The Network was founded by Cannistraci, Gimenez, Green, Davis, Paul Paino, Thomas Reid, David Schoch, Dick Iverson, Bob Weiner, and John Meares. Other prominent ministers on the board of governors included Kenneth Copeland, Charles Simpson, Ken Sumrall, Charles Blair, and Roderick Caesar, Sr.

The twelve national leaders and apostles, called the Apostolic Presbytery, were from all parts of the full gospel charismatic movement and were representatives of the movement. The twelve apostles included Cannistraci, Green, Paino, Caesar, Iverson, Simpson, Sumrall, Dick Benjamin, John Hagee, John Casteel, and Houston Miles. The leaders met as a larger congress of elders and board of governors "to address issues confronting the church and society." The apostles were recognized as national leaders that were truly representative of the myriad of Christian fellowships across the country.

The Network started a national movement that united leaders from diverse fellowships, denominations, and ministries across the nation. Thousands of ministers across the US were invited to be part of the Network, whose purpose was to unify and strengthen the Church. Its constitution also included the power to establish churches, missions, schools, colleges, and hospitals, to train chaplains for government and military service, and to set up an affiliated political action committee. The Network spread internationally as ministers in other countries joined it.

At the 1989 convention in Anaheim, there was a collective appeal from younger ministers for mentorship to pass on the elders' "reservoir of knowledge", "giftings", and "legacy" to the "next generation of world changers". The Network ultimately disbanded as it was unable to adapt to the appeal for mentorship.

Other networks 
 The Antioch Network of Churches and Ministries (Evangel Christian Fellowship, San Jose, California)
 Antioch Churches and Ministries, exemplifies how apostolic teams resolve issues in contrast to denominational structures
 Apostolic Missions International
 The International Fellowship of Faith Ministries (2,000 churches)
 International Convention of Faith Churches & Ministries (495 churches; headquarters in Tulsa, Oklahoma)
 Faith Christian Fellowship International (1,000 ordained ministers)
 National Leadership Conference (represents other networks)
 Fellowship of Christian Assemblies (101 churches)
 Harvest International Ministries (HIM) (ministries and organizations in over 65 nations)

See also 
 Charismatic movement
 Charismatic Christianity

References 

Charismatic and Pentecostal Christianity