[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Doris Stevens

the world peace delegates to support an equal rights treaty. They were dismissively described by a journalist who did cover the event as "militant suffragettes," and a Paris paper called the protest "an amusing incident." Though arrested, they were released upon providing proof of their identities.

In 1929, Stevens returned to the United States and began to study law, taking classes at the American University and Columbia University in international law and foreign policy. In 1930, she returned to Havana in February for the first meeting of the CIM women which included Flora de Oliveira Lima (Brazil), Aída Parada (Chile), Lydia Fernández (Costa Rica), Elena Mederos de González (Cuba), Gloria Moya de Jiménez (Dominican Republic), Irene de Peyré (Guatemala), Margarita Robles de Mendoza (Mexico), Juanita Molina de Fromen (Nicaragua), Clara González (Panama), Teresa Obregoso de Prevost (Peru). From Cuba, she went to The Hague for the first World Conference on the Codification of International Law held on March 13. Presenting her data on what had been accomplished in the Americas, Stevens asked that the international community enact laws to protect women's citizenship. She returned to the United States and her studies. Though she didn't graduate, in 1931 she became the first woman member of the American Institute of International Law. That same year, she, Belmont and Paul attended the League of Nations meeting in September to present their nationality findings.

Seventh Pan-American Conference
Stevens was very active in working with Latin American feminists through the CIM, even though focused on perusing her own interests over the concerns of many Latin American feminists.  Historian Katherine Marino describes in Feminism for the Americas (2019) how Stevens refused to fund conference travel for fellow Latin American CIM members like Clara Gonzalez and effectively sidelined the well-known and respected Uruguayan feminist Paulina Luisi from the CIM. At the Seventh Pan-American Conference, held in 1933 in Montevideo, Uruguay, the women presented their analysis of the legal status of women in each of the 21 member countries. The first report ever to study in detail the civil and political rights of women, it had been prepared solely by women. They proposed a Treaty on the Equality of Rights for Women, and it was rejected by the conference, though it was signed by Cuba, Ecuador, Paraguay, and Uruguay. Three of those states had already granted suffrage to women, and none of the four ratified the Treaty after the conference. However, the women had presented the first international resolution to recommend suffrage for women. Next, Stevens presented their materials which showed the disparity between rights of men and women. For example, in 16 countries of the Americas women could not vote at all, in two countries they could vote with restrictions, and in three countries they had equal enfranchisement. In 19 of the American countries, women did not have equal custody over their children, including in seven US states, and only two countries allowed joint authority for women of their own children. None of the Latin American countries allowed women to serve on juries, and 27 US states prohibited women from participating in juries. Divorce grounds in 14 countries and 28 states were disparate for men and women, and a woman could not administer her own separate property in 13 countries and two US states.

After reviewing the data, the conference approved the first international agreement ever adopted on women's rights. The Convention on the Nationality of Women made it clear that should a woman marry a man of a different nationality, her citizenship could be retained. The text stated, "There shall be no distinction based on sex as regards to nationality". The conference also passed the Convention on Nationality, which established that neither marriage nor divorce could affect the nationality of the members of a family, extending citizenship protection to children as well. The Roosevelt administration, hoping to get rid of Stevens, then argued that the women's task was completed and the CIM should be abandoned. Not wanting to bow to US pressure, the Conference did not vote to continue the CIM, but instead voted as a unit, with the exception of Argentina, to block the US proposal.