[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Louis Dodds

s a late substitute. After Gannon left the club just two weeks later, Dodds admitted that he probably would have left the club had Gannon remained in charge much longer. He scored his first hat-trick in the English Football League on 30 April, along with Justin Richards, in a 7–2 win over Morecambe.

He was not in the first team at the start of the 2011–12 campaign, but instead came off the bench in five of the "Valiants"' first six games. Having started just three league games by the half-way stage, Dodds admitted that his versatility was preventing him from nailing down a specialized role in the first eleven. His third goal of the season came on 14 February, when he scored a "sensational"  volley past Bradford City at Valley Parade. This was later voted as the club's Goal of the Season. He struck twice in a 2–1 win at Aldershot on 6 April, and was named on the League Two team of the week. He agreed to commit his future to the club in May 2012.

Desperate to play as a striker in the 2012–13 season, he got his wish as he was played as a deep-lying striker in partnership with Tom Pope. Combined with wingers Jennison Myrie-Williams and Ashley Vincent, the four-man strike force fired Vale into second place in the league over the first quarter of the campaign. On 18 September, he converted a "stunning strike with the outside of his foot" in a 5–2 victory over Fleetwood Town at Highbury Stadium – later this was voted the club's goal of the season. However, he lost his first team place, before "a heart-to-heart with boss Micky Adams... got him back on track", and on 15 December he marked his first start for a month with his first goal in three months – it proved to be a crucial goal against promotion rivals Cheltenham Town in a 1–1 draw at Whaddon Road. Vale secured promotion with a third-place finish at the end of the season, with Dodds finishing on seven goals in 36 games. He agreed to sign a new two-year contract in the summer.

Towards the end of the 2013–14 campaign Dodds was utilized in central midfield. He ended the campaign with four goals in 34 games, helping the club to a ninth-place finish in League One.

After impressing in caretaker manager Rob Page's first game in charge on 20 September, Page said Dodds was "magnificent" but needed to improve his consistency. Dodds fitted in well to Page's system, with a greater emphasis on possession than under Micky Adams. It took him 21 games to get on the scoresheet in the 2014–15 season, when he put in a man of the match performance in a 2–1 victory over Crawley Town on 20 December. He was named in the Football League team of the week for his performance in a 2–1 home win over Gillingham on 3 January. He passed the 300 career league game mark during the campaign, but admitted he was worried about his future at the club as his contract was due to expire in the summer and chairman Norman Smurthwaite was in no hurry to negotiate new deals with any of the playing squad. He signed a one-year contract with the option for a further year in June 2015.

He scored twice in a 3–0 win over Crewe Alexandra on 9 April, which relegated Crewe and earned himself a place on that week's Football League team of the week. He ended the 2015–16 campaign with eight goals in 44 appearances, and was voted Away Travel Player of the Year. After choosing to leave the club in the summer, he described how it was "an honour and a privilege to represent the club for eight years of my career" and that "I will always have a huge amount of love and respect for both the club and the fans".

Shrewsbury Town
Dodds signed a two-year contract with Micky Mellon's League One side Shrewsbury Town in May 2016. His first goal for the club was a 77th-minute winner in a first-round EFL Cup tie against Championship side Huddersfield Town on 9 August. He went on to finish the 2016–17 campaign as Shrewsbury's top-scorer with ten goals in all competitions. Paul Hurst, who was appointed as manager mid-way through Dodds first season at the club, admitted that the player presented him with "a nice problem" regarding team selection, having been deployed successfully either wide left, wide right or in a central attacking midfield role in his preferred 4−4−2 system. However he was only a squad player in the first half of the 2017–18 season, featuring in just nine league games for the "Shrews".

Chesterfield
Dodds signed an 18-month contract League Two side Chesterfield on 31 January 2018 after leaving Shrewsbury on a free transfer. He initially failed to secure a first-team spot for Jack Lester's "Spireites" after a series of niggling injuries caused his form to dip. Chesterfield were relegated out of the English Football League at the end of the 2017–18 campaign and he was made available for a free transfer by new manager Martin Allen in May 2018.