[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Brazilian Marine Corps

well as instrumental and sung songs. It is composed of two officers (the Director of Music and Bandmaster) and 118 military musicians who are NCOs. The band was created in the 1970s and belongs to the Band Company of the Naval Battalion, located at São José Fortress on Cobras Island, Rio de Janeiro.

Pipes, Drum and Bugle Corps
The Pipes, Drum and Bugle Corps is the official marching band of the CFN and one of the only field bands in service in the Brazilian Navy. Although it is based in Rio de Janeiro, it has taken part in all parades held in the federal capital of Brasilia, since 1960. It is notable for its use of the bagpipe, bugles, marching percussion, and the Turkish crescent in its ranks. The BMPDC has been deployed to many countries in its 100-year history, such as the United Kingdom to take part in the Coronation of Elizabeth II and France in 2005 for the Bastille Day military parade. It has also taken part in many domestic events such as the 2011 Military World Games and the 2016 Summer Olympics. The pipe portion of the BMPDC has been trained by pipe units and institutions in the United Kingdom such as the Army School of Bagpipe Music and Highland Drumming.

Methods 

To fulfill its missions, the Marines land off the ships of the Brazilian Navy, be it using landing boats, amphibious vehicles or helicopters. For this, they count on the support of the navy and/or sea and air support.

On land, it operates its normal way, which includes tanks, field artillery, antiaircraft artillery, combat engineering, communications and electronic warfare.

Training 

New recruits to the Corps must pass a rigorous physical training program, normally with many runs, calisthenics, sleep deprivation, swimming while holding their breath, practice shooting with diverse armaments, especially metal rings, rappeling and, in some cases, combat simulations, and when they passed all these then they achieve primary qualification as soldiers of the Corps and thus capable to fulfill the missions and responsibilities assigned to the Corps.

Uniforms 

The Brazilian Marines wear the variation of the Brazilian Lizard Pattern, known as navy lizard.
Vests: The marines for a long time used the IBA "Interceptor body armor" in woodland, but they are now being replaced by Eagle industries Maritime Ciras with Woodland Cover, and Black for SOF.
For the Comandos Anfibios is also issued a green version and black version of the WTC Recon Plate Carrier.
Boot: They use Atlas Atalaia combat boots, in coffee brown.

Ranks

Gallery

Main Equipment

Light tank

Infantry fighting vehicles

Artillery

Anti-aircraft missiles

Radar

Vehicles

Unmanned aerial vehicle

Motorcycle

Individual weapons and equipment

Pistols

Submachine guns

Rifles

Machine guns

Grenade launchers

Anti-armor

Historical equipment

See also 

 Marines
 Naval infantry
 Submarine Development Program

References

External links 

  (in Portuguese only)
 Fleet Marine Force website (in Portuguese only)

Commands of the Brazilian Armed Forces
Brazilian Navy
 
Marines
Military units and formations established in 1808