[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John Eustace

arriers, signing a one-year contract until the end of the 2016–17 season. While at the club, Eustace transformed the side's style of play, with the Harriers being dubbed the "non-league Barcelona". Eustace led his side to the play-offs in two seasons, as well as the First Round Proper of the FA Cup.

He left the club on 25 May 2018 to join former manager Steve McClaren at Queens Park Rangers as assistant manager. At QPR, he had a brief spell as caretaker manager in 2019, helping the club avoid relegation from the Championship with 7 points from his 7 games in charge. Following Mark Warburton's arrival as manager in May 2019, Eustace remained as his assistant and began studying for his UEFA Pro Licence.
In March 2022 he was named as Assistant Manager of the Republic of Ireland team under manager Stephen Kenny, while he would also continue his existing role at QPR.
Eustace, along with Matt Gardiner, left his role at QPR in June 2022 following the appointment of new manager Michael Beale.

Birmingham City

Eustace succeeded Lee Bowyer as head coach of Championship club Birmingham City on 3 July 2022. His first managerial role in the football league, he signed a three-year contract. Eustace's first competitive game in charge was a 0–0 draw away to Luton Town. Eustace would gain his first victory as Birmingham manager in the following match day, beating Huddersfield Town at home on the 5th August 2022. Despite his side being the bookies' odds-on favourite to finish 24th in the 2022-23 EFL Championship, Eustace was able to guide the club to its highest points tally since 2016, successfully avoiding relegation amid a backdrop of off-field struggles.

On 9 October 2023, Eustace was sacked with the club citing the importance of the board of directors and management being fully aligned on the culture of the football club as the reason behind the decision. An impressive start to the season had seen the club sitting in sixth position with eighteen points from eleven matches.

Career statistics

As a player
Source:

As a manager

References

External links

1979 births
English men's footballers
Living people
Men's association football midfielders
Coventry City F.C. players
Derby County F.C. players
Dundee United F.C. players
Middlesbrough F.C. players
Stoke City F.C. players
Hereford United F.C. players
Watford F.C. players
Premier League players
Footballers from Solihull
Scottish Premier League players
English Football League players
English football managers
Kidderminster Harriers F.C. managers
Birmingham City F.C. managers
Queens Park Rangers F.C. non-playing staff
Association football coaches
National League (English football) managers
English Football League managers