[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# 6th Cavalry Regiment

The Germans in the area had held off the 26th, 35th, and 90th IDs for eleven days, but the 6th MCG defeated them and seized eight 88mm guns, five Nebelwerfer launchers, and 300 prisoners.  For their actions in this battle, the 6th Mechanized Cavalry Group was awarded the Presidential Unit Citation.

Advance into Germany
On 20 January 1945, 28th SQDN relieved the 26th ID and promptly seized a bridgehead over the Wiltz River, the town of Winseler, and then the town of Wiltz.  The Cavalry continued the advance and maintained the lines of communication between III Corps and XII Corps as the Third Army attacked across the Our River. By 4 February, TF Fickett was given a five-mile frontage to cover on the opposite side of the Siegfried Line, so they were given the 1255th Combat Engineer BN to assist in improving their positions.  On 12 February, the 1255th Engineers seized the town of Viandan with the assistance of the 6th MCG's assault guns and tanks, setting the stage for TF Fickett's attack across the Our River.  On 14 February, the engineers left the Task Force.  On 19 February, TF Fickett was at the southern end of III Corps' line and its mission was to attack across the river in order to fix the German defenders there to prevent them from interfering with VIII Corps' main effort.  German resistance was fierce, and B TRP, 28th SQDN lost 27 men near the town of Viandan.  Enemy resistance faltered by 24 February, and TF Fickett attacked towards the towns of Waxweiler, Bitburg, and Mauel in Germany. On 28 February, the 6th MCG crossed the Prüm River and engaged the Germans in a pitched battle to take the town of Waxweiler and the surrounding high ground.  In the fight to clear the roads east of Waxweiler, one platoon of the 6th SQDN had every single NCO become a casualty in one day’s fighting.  In a rough two-day fight, TF Fickett crossed the Nims River at Lasel and continued moving east, culminating their advance with the seizure of Neuheilenbach on 4 March.

On 5 March, the 6th MCG was sent to protect VIII Corps' Northern flank.  Here they assisted the 87th Infantry Division and the 11th Armored Division as they attacked east across the Rhine River.  On 26 March, TF Fickett was ordered to pass through the two divisions and serve as the Corps' advance guard into Germany.  For this mission, TF Ficket consisted of the 6th and 28th SQDNs of the 6th MCG, 1 BN of artillery, 2 Tank Destroyer COs, 1 CO of Engineers, and 2 Infantry COs of the 76th Infantry Division. TF Fickett further divided itself into five independent Task Forces centered around the Reconnaissance Troops.  On 27 March 1945 the advance began and moved swiftly.  The next day, 28th SQDN encountered the 6th SS Mountain Division Nord in the town of Schmitten, Germany.  A platoon from C TRP was ambushed and shattered by the SS soldiers as well as the platoon that came to rescue them.  By the end of the day, the cavalrymen suffered 36 casualties including a tank, a tank destroyer and every Jeep that entered the town.  SS resistance was so great, that the TF bypassed Schmitten altogether.  By the 29th, the TF had traveled 50 miles and encountered only sporadic German resistance. By the end of March, TF Fickett was stripped of its Tank Destroyer and Infantry augmentations, and was sent to act as a rear guard for the VIII Corps advance to round up German stragglers bypassed by the rapids columns of advancing armor and infantry.

On 11 April, Third Army began advancing toward Czechoslovakia, and 6th MCG was split into two elements; 28th SQDN committed a TRP to act as a liaison between XX Corps and VIII Corps, while 6th SQDN operated in a security role on the edges of the VIII advance.  On 15 April, the 6th MCG crossed the Saale River, fighting their way through light German resistance, and encouraging pockets of Germans to surrender, or bypassing those who didn't and reporting their location to the following larger forces.  Seizing and securing bridges for the VIII Corps advance, the 6th Cavalry entered Czechoslovakia on 20 April 1945.  On 12 April, Third Army was ordered to assault into Bavaria, the "National Redoubt" of Nazi Germany. While Third Army advanced into Bavaria, VIII Corps and the 6th MCG remained in Czechoslovakia along defensive position on the Weisse Elster River between Gornitz and Rossbach.  The Cavalrymen's last attack occurred on 6 May when they drove across the river, but were stopped on 7 May due to the ceasefire.

The 6th Mechanized Cavalry Group's exemplary service during the Second World War acting as Army level reconnaissance led to their deserved nickname; "Patton's Household Cavalry."  The Regiment would not go home immediately after the war, however, and it remained as part of the United States Constabulary in West Berlin until 1957.