[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 28]
# List of coups and coup attempts

Gabriel Mugabe under house arrest. The military police also captured and detained some cabinet ministers whom they labelled criminals around the president. It would succeed with the resignation of Mugabe on 21 November 2017.
 In December an attempted coup against the government in Equatorial Guinea.

2019
2019 Gabonese coup d'état attempt: On 7 January 2019, members of the Armed Forces of Gabon announced a coup, claiming to have ousted President Ali Bongo.  Gabon's government later declared that it had reasserted control.  
2019 Sudanese coup d'état: On 11 April 2019, the Sudanese Army overthrew Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir after popular protests.
2019 Venezuelan uprising attempt: On 30 April 2019, Juan Guaidó attempted to overthrow the government of Nicolás Maduro during the Venezuelan presidential crisis.
2019 Amhara Region coup d'état attempt: On 22 June 2019, factions of the security forces of Amhara Region, Ethiopia, attempted a coup against the regional government after a series of assassinations.
2019 Bolivian political crisis: On 10 November 2019, the Armed Forces of Bolivia suggested that President Evo Morales resign, leading to Jeanine Áñez assuming the presidency.

2020–present

2020
 On 7 March, the Saudi Arabian government arrested Princes Ahmed bin Abdulaziz, Muhammad bin Nayef, Nayef bin Ahmed, Nawwaf bin Nayef and Muhammad bin Saad for allegedly planning a coup attempt.
 2020 Malian coup d'état: On 18 August, Mutinying soldiers within the Malian Army attacked the capital and the nearby army base. The soldiers arrested both the democratically elected President Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta and Prime Minister Boubou Cissé after months of anti-government protests. President Keïta resigns and dissolved both the government and parliament just after midnight. A military junta was soon after installed under Colonel Assimi Goita.
 On 20 October, a senior army officer in Sudan announced that some retired members of the Popular Defence Forces and officers under leader Brigadier General Mohammed Ibrahim Abdul-Jalil had foiled a coup plot. The Sudanese government has not confirmed this claim.
 2020–21 Central African Republic coup d'état attempt: In December 2020 major rebel groups in Central African Republic led by former president François Bozizé formed Coalition of Patriots for Change trying to overthrow the government. Rebel groups attacked Bangui on 13 January but were repulsed by government forces.

2021
2021 United States Capitol attack: President Donald Trump refused to concede to Joe Biden after losing the 2020 United States presidential election, leading, for the first time in at least 220 years, to a failure of the peaceful transition of power. Supporters of the president stormed the Capitol building during the counting of electoral votes, and temporarily halted the process. Early the next morning the counting resumed and Joe Biden was confirmed as president, being inaugurated two weeks later.
As early as January 2021, several European security officials described the events as an attempted coup. Federal Judge David O Carter ruled that Trump's efforts to overturn the election were a "coup in search of a legal theory". In a televised hearing on 9 June 2022, Congressman Bennie Thompson, Chair of the United States House Select Committee on the January 6 Attack, described Trump's campaign to overturn the 2021 presidential election as an attempted coup. On 4 January 2021, Steve Bannon stated on The War Room podcast, while discussing the planning for the upcoming events and speech by Trump on 6 January at The Ellipse, said: "Live from our nation's capital, you're in the field headquarters of one of the small divisions of the bloodless coup."
2021 Myanmar coup d'état: On 1 February, State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint were arrested by the military of Myanmar. The military announced that power had been handed to Min Aung Hlaing, the commander-in-chief of the armed forces. The military announced on state-run TV that they would be in control of the country for one year.
2021 Armenian coup d'état attempt: On 25 February, the Armenian Armed Forces chief of staff Onik Gasparyan called on Prime Minister of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan to resign due to his handling of the 2020 Nagorno-Karabakh war and after the dismissal of the first deputy-head of army.
2021 Nigerien coup d'état attempt: On 31 March, elements within the military attempted a coup. After gunfire at the presidential palace, Presidential Guard fended off the attack and many of its alleged perpetrators were later detained.
2021 arrests in Jordan: On 3 April, Jordanian authorities arrested top officials and members of the royal family, including former Crown Prince Hamzah bin Hussein, for involvement in an attempted coup.
2021 Malian coup d'état: On 24 May, the president, prime minister, and defense minister of Mali were detained by the military.
2021 Guinean coup d'état: On 5 September, military forces of Guinea lead by Mamady Do