[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Darren Barnard

ritional advice and a regular appraisal to monitor each player's development both on and off the pitch. Players had the opportunity to represent the Football club through the academy, youth, and college or reserve team, with the aim to progress into the first team or progress to higher placed teams.

Barnard was appointed Academy Manager of Aldershot Town in August 2013 just after the club had come out of administration following relegation from the Football League the previous season.
Barnard was approached by Aldershot Town Football Club to reinstate the club's Youth Academy after coming out of administration. Barnard very quickly formed a squad of 30 players and although very successful on the pitch it was Barnard's organisational and man-management skills behind the scenes molding the players into a well-drilled unit both on and off the pitch that really stood out. With a vast amount of experience having played himself at the highest level, Barnard understood the welfare and player liaison duties that go with a modern managers position. 
Once the academy was established and running the decision was taken for Barnard to go and explore alternative routes in his football career. Barnard left Aldershot Town in December 2013.

He is currently in charge of Farnham Town F.C. Under 23 development team.

Masters Football
Masters Football is a branded six-a-side game designed for older (35+) former professional footballers. Barnard also played for Chelsea in 2007 London masters. Chelsea won the trophy with Barnard collecting the Golden Boot award. Barnard also played for the PFA in the Hong Kong 2007 Sevens, losing in the Finals. Barnard collected the Golden Boot award for the second time in 2008 for Chelsea in the London Masters. In 2009 Barnard played for Wales in the Sky Masters, losing out in the final to Ireland. Barnard got his third Golden Boot award in 2010 for Chelsea in the London Masters. Barnard also scored his first hat trick for Chelsea old boys against Reading old boys in 2010.

References

External links
rsssf.com – Welsh International Matches
sporting-heroes.net – Player Profile (Chelsea)
Reading FC International players
Barnard's Wonder goal against Huddersfield (video)

1971 births
Living people
People from Rinteln
English men's footballers
English people of Welsh descent
England men's youth international footballers
Welsh men's footballers
Wales men's international footballers
Grimsby Town F.C. players
Chelsea F.C. players
Barnsley F.C. players
Reading F.C. players
Bristol City F.C. players
Aldershot Town F.C. players
Premier League players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Wokingham & Emmbrook F.C. players
Camberley Town F.C. players
Welsh football managers
Camberley Town F.C. managers
Men's association football fullbacks
Men's association football midfielders
Footballers from Lower Saxony