[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rejoice in the Lamb

"more than well chosen", amounting to a "biopsy" of the entire work. In an analysis of Rejoice in the Lamb, Hilary Seraph Donaldson writes that Britten – who at the time of writing the piece was in a taboo same-sex relationship – may have empathised with Smart, who was also a misunderstood outcast.

Composition
Rejoice in the Lamb is written for organ and SATB choir with treble/soprano, alto, tenor and bass soloists. The piece has a duration of about 16 minutes. It is divided into nine sections, which Riddles and Donaldson further collate into five groups: Opening Hymn, Animistic Praise, Lament, Mystic Praise and Closing Hymn.

I. Opening Hymn

 Rejoice in God, O ye Tongues (Chorus) – The opening of the piece sets the opening text of Jubilate Agno, which paraphrases Psalm 150: "Rejoice in God, O ye Tongues; give the glory to the Lord, and the Lamb..." The whole chorus sings the text on a quiet middle C, accompanied by an 8 ft C pedal on the organ. The organ occasionally punctuates the music with quaver staccato triads. The chorus finally changes note and crescendos on the word "magnify". The pieces then moves into a fast, declamatory passage, marked With vigour, which Riddles and Donaldson characterise as a "processional". Smart's text summons a collection of characters from the Old Testament, including Nimrod, Ishmael, Balaam, Ithamar, Jakim and David. Each line begins with "Let", for instance: "Let Nimrod, the mighty hunter, bind a Leopard to the altar, and consecrate his spear to the Lord." The rhythm of the section changes rapidly between time signatures 7/8, 6/8, 9/8, 5/8, 4/8 and 11/8. The final phrase of the 'Opening Hymn' section sets Smart's text "Hallelujah from the heart of God, and from the hand of the artist inimitable, and from the echo of the heavenly harp in sweetness magnifical and mighty." The voice parts sing in a quasi-canonical manner and with dotted rhythms in a "gently moving" 3/4 time. Michael Oliver, in his biography of Britten, remarks that the Hallelujah section resembles a similar passage in Igor Stravinsky's Symphony of Psalms (1930), of which Britten was a great admirer.

II. Animistic Praise

 For I will consider my Cat Jeoffrey (Treble/Soprano soloist) – This section is devoted to the depictions of Smart's cat Jeoffrey in Jubilate Agno and the ways in which he praises God. The soloist moves largely in a stepwise motion, juxtaposing triplet and duple rhythms. Britten uses trills and semiquavers in the organ part to depict the cat "wreathing his body seven times round with elegant quickness".
 For the Mouse is a creature of great personal valour (Alto soloist) – This section depicts a mouse which Smart writes is "a creature of great personal valor" who defends the female mouse against a cat.  Michael Oliver describes this section as a "nimble march", marked fast and light, with what Kumbier calls "mocking" quavers and semiquavers in the upper register of the organ. Humphrey Carpenter writes that Britten may have been inspired here by cat and mouse cartoons he was known to enjoy. Donaldson further suggests that the passage is like a musical number inspired by Broadway or Rodgers and Hammerstein.
 For the flowers are great blessings (Tenor soloist) – Smart's text depicts the beauty of flowers, suggests they have some form of consciousness and compares them to the Christian concept of Resurrection. In this slow, pianissimo section, the organ plays alternating quavers, accompanying the tenor solo.

III. Lament

 For I am under the same accusation with my Saviour (Chorus) – In this passage, Smart writes of God's authority, his duties under him and anguishes over how he can preserve his cause. This section can be considered the high point of the piece. The chorus opens with a quiet unison passage on fifths, moving to an unexpected C minor chord to punctuate the word "saviour". The words "Silly fellow" are set to a musical motif which consists of two rising semitone quavers followed by a descending semitone semiquaver plus dotted quaver. Imogen Holst compares this motif to the crying out of "Peter Grimes! ... Peter Grimes!" from the chorus in Britten's opera Peter Grimes (1943). A chromatic canonical passage follows, echoing the Hallelujah passage from earlier in the piece, setting the text "For I am in twelve hardships". William Kumbier describes the canon as "dark" and writes that it shows the "pathetic prolongation and dismantling of the persecution figure".

IV. Mystic Praise