[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Osoaviakhim

The Society for the Assistance of Defense, Aircraft and Chemical Construction (, romanized as Obshchestvo sodeystviya oboronye, aviatsionnomu i khimicheskomu stroitelstvu or academically transliterated as Obščestvo sodejstvija oboronje, aviacionnomu i himičeskomu stroitel'stvu, abbreviated as Osoaviakhim) was a Soviet socio-political defense organization and mass voluntary society that existed from 1927–1948. It was the predecessor of DOSAAF.

History
In 1920, during the Civil War, the Military Scientific Society was created as a voluntary defense organization in the Russian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic. This would later be renamed the Society for the Assistance of the Defense of the Soviet Union (OSO). A few years later, in the summer of 1925, the Aviakhim society was formed through the merger of the Society of Friends of the Air Fleet and the Society of Friends of Chemical Defense and the Chemical Industry (Dobrokhim).

On January 23, 1927, at the joint meeting of the First All-Union Congress of Aviakhim and the Second Plenary Session of the Central Council of the Society for the Assistance of the Defense on the report of the People's Commissar for Military and Naval Affairs Kliment Voroshilov, it was decided to merge the two societies into one under the name Aviakhim-OSO. Over time, it was renamed to the "Society for Assistance to the Defense and Aviation-Chemical Construction of the Soviet Union", abbreviated Osoaviakhim of the Soviet Union.

On February 10, 1927, Osoaviakhim's first conference in Moscow took place.

In 1931, the All-Union Physical Culture Complex program "Ready for Labour and Defense of the Soviet Union" was introduced in the country.

In 1932, at Moscow Aviation Plant No. 22, the country's first public aviation school was created by the Osoaviakhim and Komsomol organizations, which trained pilots and other aviation specialists for the job. It had six sections: flight, glider, aircraft engine, parachute, glisser, model aircraft, and a group for the design and construction of sports aircraft.

On October 29, 1932, the Presidium of the Central Council of Osoaviakhim of the Soviet Union and the Russian Socialist Federal Soviet Republic approved the provision on the creation of the title Voroshilov Shooter, and on December 29, 1932, the badge Voroshilov Shooter. The magazine "Voroshilov Shooter" started publication.

In 1933, the first parachute squad was created at Krasnaya Presnya in the Bolshevik confectionery factory, which laid the foundation for mass parachuting in the country. At the factory Red Manufactory, the country's first female parachute sanitary squad was organized, which included 20 employees of the All-Union Central Council of Trade Unions, the Central Committee of the All-Union Leninist Communist Youth Union, and the Central Council of Osoaviakhim. The squad and factory received the collective title and sign "Fortress of Defense". It was awarded to teams of factories and factories, which, with the successful implementation of production plans, achieved widespread youth engagement in military affairs and the development of physical education.

On March 10, 1934, the Central Council of Osoaviakhim approved the new regulation on the Voroshilov Shooter badge, establishing the 1st and 2nd classes, and in July of the same year, the regulation on the Young Voroshilov Shooter badge.

In April 1934, the country's first title "Fortress of Defense" was awarded to the Valerian Kuybyshev Electric Plant, whose Osoaviakhim organization achieved high performance in its activities.

In the autumn of 1934, the country's first club of Voroshilov Shooters opened in the Bauman district. This club was honored to represent the Defense Society for the first time at international competitions – the teams of the Voroshilov Riflemen Club and the team of the Portsmouth Rifle Club of the United States met. Muscovites won against American shooters by 207 points.

On August 13, 1934, Moscow sportswoman Nina Kámneva made a record parachute jump. She left the plane at an altitude of 3,000 m and opened a parachute 200 m from the ground.

On September 20, 1934, in the newspaper of the Defense Society, On Guard, published the standards of the complex "Ready for Air Defense and Chemical Defense".

On November 19, 1935, the Presidium of the Central Council of Osoaviakhim approved the Regulation on the primary organization of Osoaviakhim.

In the summer of 1936, the Central Council of Osoaviakhim, taking into account the massive nature of the work on passing the standards "Ready for Air Defense and Chemical Defense", introduced the standards "Ready for Air Defense and Chemical Defense" of the 2nd class.