[Source: PubMed]

76. Int Migr. 1988 Jun;26(2):133-46. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-2435.1988.tb00618.x.

The protection of migrant workers and international labour standards.

Bohning WR.

PIP: International labor standards take the form of Conventions and 
Recommendations that embody the agreements reached by a 2/3 majority of the 
representatives of Governments, Employers, and Workers of International Labour 
Office (ILO) member states. Originally designed to guard against the danger that 
1 country or other would keep down wages and working conditions to gain 
competitive advantage and thereby undermine advances elsewhere, international 
labor standards have also been inspired by humanitarian concerns--the visible 
plight of workers and the physical dangers of industrialization and by the 
notion of social justice, which embraces wellbeing and dignity, security, and 
equality as well as a measure of participation in economic and social matters. 
ILO standards apply to workers generally and therefore also to migrant workers, 
irrespective of the fact that the general standards are complemented by 
standards especially for migrant workers. The social security protection of 
migrant workers has been dealt with in ILO instruments primarily from the angle 
of equality of treatment but also from that of the maintenance of acquired 
rights and rights in course of acquisition, including the payment of benefits to 
entitled persons resident abroad. The ILO Conventions on migrant workers and the 
Recommendations which supplement them deal with practically all aspects of the 
work and life of non-nationals such as recruitment matters, information to be 
made available, contract conditions, medical examination and attention, customs, 
exemption for personal effects, assistance in settling into their new 
environment, vocational training, promotion at work, job security and 
alternative employment, liberty of movement, participation in the cultural life 
of the state as well as maintenance of their own culture, transfer of earnings 
and savings, family reunification and visits, appeal against unjustified 
termination of employment or expulsion, and return assistance. ILO's supervisory 
mechanism consists basically of a dialogue between the ILO and the Government 
that is responsible for a law, regulation, or practice alleged to be in 
contravention of principles it voluntarily accepted. The control machinery is 
often set in motion by workers' organizations. The UN General Assembly is 
currently elaborating a new instrument designed to cover both regular and 
irregular migrant workers and their families.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-2435.1988.tb00618.x
PMID: 12342038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]