[Source: PubMed]

22. Infect Dis Poverty. 2023 Aug 3;12(1):70. doi: 10.1186/s40249-023-01124-w.

Tackling global health security by building an academic community for One Health 
action.

Zhang XX(#)(1)(2), Li XC(#)(1)(2), Zhang QY(#)(1)(2), Liu JS(1)(2), Han 
LF(1)(2), Lederman Z(3), Schurer JM(4), Poeta P(5)(6)(7)(8), Rahman MT(9), Li 
SZ(1)(2)(10), Kassegne K(1)(2), Yin K(1)(2), Zhu YZ(1)(2), Xia S(10), He 
L(1)(2), Hu QQ(1)(2), Xiu LS(1)(2), Xue JB(10), Zhao HQ(1)(2), Wang XH(1)(2), Wu 
L(1)(2)(11)(12), Guo XK(1)(2), Wang ZJ(1)(2), Schwartländer B(13), Ren MH(14), 
Zhou XN(15)(16)(17).

Author information:
(1)School of Global Health, Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases Research, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)Institute of One Health, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, People's 
Republic of China.
(3)Medical Ethics and Humanities Unit, Hong Kong University, Hong Kong, People's 
Republic of China.
(4)Center for One Health, University of Global Health Equity, Butaro, Rwanda.
(5)Microbiology and Antibiotic Resistance Team, Department of Veterinary 
Sciences, University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, Vila Real, Portugal.
(6)Associate Laboratory for Green Chemistry, Chemistry Department, University 
Nova of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal.
(7)Veterinary and Animal Research Centre, University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto 
Douro, Vila Real, Portugal.
(8)Associate Laboratory for Animal and Veterinary Sciences, University of 
Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, Vila Real, Portugal.
(9)Department of Microbiology and Hygiene, Bangladesh Agricultural University, 
Mymensingh, Bangladesh.
(10)National Institute of Parasitic Diseases at Chinese Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention (Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases Research), NHC Key 
Laboratory of Parasite and Vector Biology, WHO Collaborating Centre for Tropical 
Diseases, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(11)Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, Parkville, Australia.
(12)Department of Medical Biology, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(13)German Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Former Assistant Director General and 
Chef de Cabinet of Dr Tedros at the World Health Organization), Berlin, Germany.
(14)School of Public Health, Peking University, Beijing, People's Republic of 
China.
(15)School of Global Health, Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases Research, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, People's Republic of 
China. zhouxn1@chinacdc.cn.
(16)Institute of One Health, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, People's 
Republic of China. zhouxn1@chinacdc.cn.
(17)National Institute of Parasitic Diseases at Chinese Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention (Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases Research), NHC Key 
Laboratory of Parasite and Vector Biology, WHO Collaborating Centre for Tropical 
Diseases, Shanghai, People's Republic of China. zhouxn1@chinacdc.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: One Health approach is crucial to tackling complex global public 
health threats at the interface of humans, animals, and the environment. As 
outlined in the One Health Joint Plan of Action, the international One Health 
community includes stakeholders from different sectors. Supported by the Bill & 
Melinda Gates Foundation, an academic community for One Health action has been 
proposed with the aim of promoting the understanding and real-world 
implementation of One Health approach and contribution towards the Sustainable 
Development Goals for a healthy planet.
MAIN TEXT: The proposed academic community would contribute to generating 
high-quality scientific evidence, distilling local experiences as well as 
fostering an interconnected One Health culture and mindset, among various 
stakeholders on different levels and in all sectors. The major scope of the 
community covers One Health governance, zoonotic diseases, food security, 
antimicrobial resistance, and climate change along with the research agenda to 
be developed. The academic community will be supported by two committees, 
including a strategic consultancy committee and a scientific steering committee, 
composed of influential scientists selected from the One Health information 
database. A workplan containing activities under six objectives is proposed to 
provide research support, strengthen local capacity, and enhance global 
participation.
CONCLUSIONS: The proposed academic community for One Health action is a crucial 
step towards enhancing communication, coordination, collaboration, and capacity 
building for the implementation of One Health. By bringing eminent global 
experts together, the academic community possesses the potential to generate 
scientific evidence and provide advice to local governments and international 
organizations, enabling the pursuit of common goals, collaborative policies, and 
solutions to misaligned interests.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40249-023-01124-w
PMCID: PMC10398903
PMID: 37537637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Xiao-Nong Zhou is the Editor-in-Chief of the 
journal Infectious Diseases of Poverty. He was not involved in the peer-review 
or handling of the manuscript. The authors have no other competing interests to 
disclose.