[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Shalom Hanoch

and Moshe Levi, who since then became his musical partner. Hanoch planned a tour in small halls, but eventually he decided to risk putting on four stadium shows.  In 1988 Hanoch created another album, "Rak Ben-Adam" (Only human) which wasn't very successful because it was partially made in England.

The 1990s
In 1991 Hanoch recorded his album BaGilgul Haze which was a big success. One of the songs, Kacha VeKacha, was written as a joke but was very successful.

In 1992 Hanoch released a collection of  songs, partially from a live show, called Lo Yechol Lishon Achshav (Can't Sleep Now). In 1994 he recorded A-Li-Mut (Violence); in 1997 he released Erev Erev (Evening Evening), which also included a few translated songs from his English album. In the same year he composed Shalom Haver (Goodbye Friend), in the memory of prime minister Yitzhak Rabin, for Einstein's album LeAn Parhu HaParparim. This was the first cooperation between Einstein and Hanoch after 17 years. The cooperation resulted in a joint album by Einstein and him – Muskat (1999).

New Millennium

In 2001 an independent label, "C90", produced a bootleg from Hanoch's White Wedding tour. The album, distributed in 20 numbered copies only under the name "Lavan Shel Hatuna", featured a recording of a concert that took place in "Hadar" theatre in Givataym in January 1982. In 2002, 25 years after the release of Adam Betoch Azmo, the album was reissued with a bonus song recorded in 2000 with David Broza. In 2003 Hanoch recorded Or Israeli with the rock band Monica Sex. Amongst the songs on the album, Ahavat Neuray, Hayom, Rosh Hamemshala and the album's theme song stood out and gained the most recognition.
In 2004 the Yetzia tour was released as a live album. At the end of that year, a five-disk collection was released summing up Shalom's career up to that point. In the summer of 2005 Hanoch joined Shlomo Artzi, and they went on a tour called Hitchabrut, which was very successful and was released as a double album and a DVD. Hanoch and Artzi wrote the song Ani RoE Otach especially for the tour.

Ever since 2005 Hanoch has been regularly performing at the Barby club in Tel Aviv with a show called "Hayot Layla" (Night Animals), a name that was given to it because of the late hours of the night in which it takes place. The show was documented and released on DVD in 2009.

In 2008 Hanoch guest starred as himself on the comedy show "Red Band" that deals with the Israeli music industry.

In 2009 Hanoch released the album "Shalom Hanoch", with music production done by Moshe Levi and Eyal Katzav. The singles that preceded the album were Ptuchim Leahava, the protest song Elohim and Omeret Li La'Ad.

In September 2009 Hanoch's song Mehakim LaMashiach won the title "Best Song Of All Time" on "Yedioth Ahronot"'s Rosh Hashana holiday paper, as rated by senior music industry personas.

The 2010s

In 2010 Shalom Hanoch launched a new concert named "Arba Tachanot" (Four Stations), taking a tour through stations in his entire career.  The first station was dedicated to the albums "Shablul", "Plastelina" and "Shalom"; The second one to "Adam Betoch Atzmo" and "Sof Onat Hatapuzim"; Third station focused on "Hatuna Levana" and "Al Pney HaAdmaa" and the fourth to "mechakim LaMashiach" and "Rak Ben Adam". These concerts were custom to feature surprise guests such as Ehud Banay, Berry Sakharof, Rita, Aviv Geffen, Tom & Orit Petrober (Hayehudim), Ninet Tayeb, Romi Hanoch, Assaf Amdursky, Dana Berger, Yizhar Ashdot and Keren Peles. The concerts were documented on a live concert album of 4 Cds, as well as on DVD.

Discography

References

External links

A voracious appetite for Hebrew music, Haaretz, Nissim Calderon
 
 Shalom Hanoch biography from the All Music Guide (also quoted in Spotify, Apple Music, Tidal and more)

1946 births
Living people
Israeli composers
20th-century Israeli male singers
Israeli rock singers
21st-century Israeli male singers
Beit Zvi School for the Performing Arts alumni
Kibbutzniks
Israeli male singer-songwriters
Israeli singer-songwriters
Israeli atheists
Jewish atheists
israeli Ashkenazi Jews