[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Andrew R. Heinze

ng told that could not enter the Promised Land."  Moses, The Author had a World Premiere at the New York International Fringe Festival in 2014, won a place in the Harriet Lake Festival of New Plays at the Orlando Shakespeare Theater (2014), and had an extended run at the SoHo Playhouse in Manhattan.

Heinze has written a number of one-act plays and believes the short-play format can teach a writer "the basics of dramatic structure." His short plays have been produced across the United States and have won numerous awards. In 2010 his one-act comedy, The FQ, won "Audience Favorite" at the New York City Fifteen-Minute Play Festival, and at the same festival, the following year, his short comedy, The Bar Mitzvah of Jesus Goldfarb, won "Judges' Choice" and "Audience Choice for Best Play." The FQ was published in The Best Ten-Minute Plays 2011, by Smith & Kraus. His one-act drama Masha: Conditions in the Holy Land won the Jury Prize for Best Script at the Fusion Theatre Company's 2012 Short Play Festival (Albuquerque, New Mexico), and in 2013 it was produced for the 38th Annual Samuel French Off-Off-Broadway Short Play Festival in New York City.

Asked by Samuel French, Inc. if he could name the playwright who had most influenced him, Heinze said, "If I were darker, it would be Orton. If I were more laconic, it would be Pinter. If I were more lyrically erudite, it would be Stoppard. If I had ten additional brains, it would be Shakespeare. Hm. Everyone seems to be English.  If I were more Irish, it would be Beckett. (And if I had more savoir faire, it would be Molière.)" He added, "I think all my sources of inspiration are unconventional. It's the feeling of something unconventional that makes me want to write the play. At least for a full-length play that’s true. I think I wouldn't want to invest the time if I didn’t have that feeling."

Selected works

Selected non-fiction Books
Adapting to Abundance: Jewish Immigrants, Mass Consumption and the Search for American Identity (Columbia University Press, 1990) 
Jews and the American Soul: Human Nature in the Twentieth Century (Princeton University Press, 2004) 
He is a co-author of the following books:
Race and Ethnicity in America: A Concise History (Columbia University Press, 2003), 
The Columbia Documentary History of Race and Ethnicity in America (Columbia University Press, 2004),

Selected scholarly articles
His scholarly articles have appeared in a wide variety of scholarly journals including, Journal of American History, Judaism. American Quarterly, Religion and American Culture, American Jewish History, Journal of the West, American Jewish Archives, and Reviews in American history.

Selected essays and opinion pieces 
His essays and opinion pieces have been widely published. His work has appeared in various newspapers, journals, periodicals and online publications, including Chronicle of Higher Education, The Wall Street Journal, The San Francisco Examiner, Taki's Magazine, History News Network, San Francisco Gate, and The Jewish Daily Forward.

Selected theatrical plays
 The Invention of the Living Room (2009)
 The FQ (2010) 
 The Bar Mitzvah of Jesus Goldfarb (2011) 
  Hamilton (2012)
 Masha: Conditions in the Holy Land (2012)
  Please Lock Me Away (2013) 
 What It Takes to Get Things Done in Washington (2014)
  Moses, The Author (2014)