[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Immigration and Checkpoints Authority

nt level.

At present, ranks in the ICA are similar to those in the Singapore Police Force with some changes in insignia and naming (see table below).

Awards and decorations 
The Long Service medals were introduced in 2013 to recognise the dedication and performance of senior ICA officers.

Medals 

  Pingat Kepujian (Commendation Medal) - The medal may be awarded to any of the following persons who has distinguished himself through commendable performance and conduct, or significant efficiency, competence and devotion to duty.
  Pingat Berkebolehan (Efficiency Medal) - The medal may be awarded to any of the following persons for exceptional efficiency or exceptional devotion to duty or for work of special significance.
 Pingat Bakti Setia (Long Service Award) - The medal may be awarded to any person who has completed 25 years continuous service in the service of the government or associated agencies.
 Good Service Medal
Long Service and Good Conduct Medal (10 Years)

 A Clasp may be awarded to a recipient of the 10 Years Medal on his completion of at least 15 years of continuous and unbroken qualifying service and a second Clasp on his completion of at least 20 years of continuous and unbroken qualifying service.
 Long Service and Good Conduct Medal (30 Years)
 Long Service and Good Conduct Medal (35 Years)
 A Clasp may be awarded to a recipient of the 35 Years Medal on his completion of at least 40 years of continuous and unbroken qualifying service. The ICA also gives a Special Appreciation Award (SAA) for retired officers who are re-employed to service for every five years.

Equipment

Firearms 
Under Section 38A of the Immigration Act, all immigration officers shall be issued arms and ammunition as necessary. In practice, only qualified officers serving in protective security related roles are issued firearms. 

The service firearm is the 5-shot Taurus Model 85 revolver. Other equipment include handcuffs, flexicuffs and expandable batons.

Uniform 
Since 2003, the uniform has not changed from its current Navy Blue design which was chosen to establish ICA as a member of the Home Team.

The uniform comes in different designs to suit the varied operating environments of ICA. The basic field uniform consists of a short-sleeved dress shirt and pants with a dress or duty belt as appropriate. This uniform can be most often seen in the Land and Sea checkpoints. Inspectors and above typically wear a bush jacket (for men) or a tunic (for women). A dress skirt is also available for female officers. Air Domain officers working at Changi Airport wear two-piece suits with ties to conform with airport guidelines, while sea-going clearance team officers wear long-sleeve coastal uniforms that resemble the SAF's Number 4 uniform. Cargo examination officers are issued polo shirts due to their warm operational environment.

A unique ICC domain insignia was created in 2016 for each domain of the ICC, which symbolizes a shared identity for all HT officers working in that domain.

Technology 
ICA integrates information technology to streamline the entry and exit procedure at checkpoints. Singapore citizens, permanent residents and other registered travelers can use automated lanes called enhanced-Immigration Automated Clearance System (eIACS). The Biometric Identification of Motorbikers (BIKES) System at ICA's land checkpoints can be used by residents and work pass holders entering and leaving Singapore by motorcycles.

In 2007, the Central Identification and Registration Information System (CIRIS) was introduced. CIRIS was a digital database which replaced the National Identification Databank/Passport and Employment (NID/PEM) System that was in use.

In 2018, the ICA released the MyICA app which allowed citizens to process multiple transactions in a single payment.

At ICA's 2019 Workplan Seminar, the New Clearance Concept was introduced. Foreign visitors would fill in an electronic disembarkation card or e-DE card. They would be then allowed to use ICA's automated immigration gates upon arrival.  Singaporeans will no longer have to present their passports or their thumbprints for immigration clearance at the automated gates. Instead, facial recognition technology will be utilised.

In 2020, ICA announced the cessation of physical embarkation cards. Arriving travellers would be directed to use the SG Arrival Card, an electronic embarkation card with apps in Google Play and Apple's App Store. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, all travellers entering Singapore from 27 March 2020 were to fill in electronic health declaration cards integrated into the SG Arrival Card website.

Biometric verification 
ICA has progressively implemented the use of biometric verification to improve security at its checkpoints. ICA employs the use of biometry to find persons of interests and has deployed a suitcase sized facial recognition system to different checkpoints