[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William P. Hepburn

arty's nomination and the general election, and was re-elected seven more times. During this period he served as Chairman of the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce.

In 1894, Hepburn finished a distant second in the Republican caucus to nominate a successor to retiring U.S. Senator Wilson.

In 1899, Hepburn briefly became a candidate for election as Speaker of the House, but soon deferred to the successful candidacy of fellow Iowan and Civil War veteran David B. Henderson. Hepburn became notorious for his disdainful treatment on the House floor of newer members, prompting the New York Times to refer to him as the "House Terror."  However, Hepburn was also an enduring but outspoken advocate to reform House rules that vested autocratic powers in Speakers of the House.

Even before the publication of Upton Sinclair's expose The Jungle, Hepburn led efforts to adopt federal laws regulating food quality.  In 1902 the Hepburn Pure Food Act passed the House (but not the Senate). When such a bill finally passed both houses as the Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 (following the publication of Sinclair's book), Hepburn was the bill's floor manager.

Hepburn was also instrumental in appropriating funds for a canal connecting the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.  Hepburn initially preferred a route through Nicaragua over a route through Panama, but ultimately became a key House sponsor of appropriations measures necessary for completion of the canal through Panama.

Hepburn Act of 1906
He also sponsored the Hepburn Act of 1906, a major priority in the second term of President Theodore Roosevelt.  The Act gave the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) the power to set maximum railroad rates and led to the discontinuation of free passes to loyal shippers. Scholars consider the Hepburn Act the most important piece of legislation regarding railroads in the first half of the 20th century, while economists debate whether it went too far, and if its passage contributed to the Panic of 1907.

Surprise defeat, and success at House reform
When running for his twelfth term in 1908, Hepburn was upset in the general election by his Democratic opponent, William D. Jamieson.  In a year of strong Republican victories in Iowa (led by Presidential candidate William Howard Taft), Jamieson won majorities in eight of the district's eleven counties.  Hepburn's loss was attributed to "purely local conditions and local strife," such as anger over bank failures and Hepburn's choices for local postmasters.

After his defeat but before his final term ended, he became the chairman of a 25-member group seeking once again to reform House rules that allowed Speaker Joe Cannon to amass even greater powers.  This time, Hepburn's reform efforts succeeded; Speaker Cannon was forced to surrender the power to block bills he did not like from coming to the floor once they received committee support.

After Congress
Hepburn returned to the practice of law, first in Washington, D.C., then in Clarinda.  He died on February 7, 1916.

Honors
The small town of Hepburn, Iowa, a few miles north of Clarinda, was named in his honor.

His home in Clarinda, known as the William P. Hepburn House, is a National Historic Landmark.

References

 Retrieved on 2009-05-06

1833 births
1916 deaths
People from Wellsville, Ohio
Politicians from Iowa City, Iowa
Iowa lawyers
People of Iowa in the American Civil War
Union Army officers
People from Clarinda, Iowa
Progressive Era in the United States
Washington, D.C., Republicans
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Iowa
Chittenden family
19th-century American politicians
19th-century American lawyers