[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Australia–China relations

leged foreign interference.

On 8 December 2021, prime minister Morrison announced that the Australian government would not send any diplomats or officials to the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing, following a similar announcement by the United States government over human rights concerns in Xinjiang.

Call for independent inquiry on COVID-19 
According to The New York Times, many countries including Australia saw worsening relations with China during the COVID-19 pandemic. In June 2020, China's foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying criticised Prime Minister Morrison after responding to a European Union report alleging that Beijing was disseminating disinformation about the pandemic. The Australian government's call for an independent investigation into the causes of the pandemic provoked angry responses from China, with Beijing calling it "a joke". Western commentators, including those at The Washington Post, identified China's subsequent targeting of Australian trade, particularly beef, barley, lobsters and coal, as being "de facto economic sanctions".

A spokesman for China's ministry of foreign affairs, Geng Shuang, said, "The urgent task for all countries is focusing on international cooperation rather than pointing fingers, demanding accountability and other non-constructive approaches." Chinese ambassador Cheng Jingye said that tourism and trade to Australia would suffer due to Australia's "attitude", adding "if the mood is going from bad to worse, people would think, 'Why we go to such a country that is not so friendly to China? Hu Xijin, editor-in-chief of the Global Times, stated "Australia is always there, making trouble. It is a bit like chewing gum stuck on the sole of China's shoes. Sometimes you have to find a stone to rub it off." Such statements have been interpreted as attempted economic coercion against Australia. Australia's proposal, however, later evolved into a compromise motion endorsed by a record 137 countries including Australia and China at the World Health Assembly.

By April 2020, some analysts concluded China's trade sanctions were simply an attempt to punish Australia for adopting policies and positions that China dislikes, and had been planned well before Australia's call for an independent inquiry.

"14 grievances" - China's demands to Australia 
On 17 November 2020, an official from China's embassy in Canberra presented a Jonathan Kearsley, a journalist from Nine, with a list of 14 Chinese grievances against Australia. The official added at the time that "China is angry. If you make China the enemy, China will be the enemy" and that if Australia backed away from the policies on the list, it would be "conducive to a better atmosphere". The statement was seen as an open threat towards Australia. The list, that became known as the "14 grievances" read as follows: