[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# People's Seimas

e presidency was illegal and unconstitutional, since Smetona never resigned. Therefore, Lithuania contends that all subsequent actions leading up to the Soviet annexation were ipso facto void.

On June 27, Paleckis dissolved the Fourth Seimas of Lithuania, citing the Constitution of 1938.

Elections

On July 1, the Paleckis government announced elections to a new parliament, the People's Seimas, to be held on July 14. The Communist Party of Lithuania emerged from underground with 1,500 members after the Soviet invasion. Soon afterward, the government announced the formation of the Union of the Working People of Lithuania (), ostensibly a popular front. Voters were presented with a single list of candidates, including some non-Communists. No other organizations were allowed to participate. On July 11 and 12, the Soviet authorities reduced the possible points of opposition by arresting leading figures of the old regime and deporting some of them to the interior of the Soviet Union – even though Lithuania was still formally an independent state. Later elections were extended into July 15. Each voter had his or her passport stamped after voting. According to the official results, voter turnout reached 95 percents. Most of the original election records were destroyed. The remaining bits show that turnout was indeed high, but many ballots were invalid (missing, destroyed, left blank, or marked with anti-Soviet slogans). The Union list received over 99% of the votes, a total that was announced even before the polls closed—classic signs of massive election fraud.

Annexation

The People's Seimas met on July 21, 1940. Its sole order of business was a resolution creating the Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic and requesting the Soviet Union to admit Lithuania into the Union. This resolution was passed by acclamation. Twenty representatives were to deliver the declaration to the Supreme Soviet of the USSR: acting President Justas Paleckis, Minister of the Interior Mečys Gedvilas, Minister of Agriculture Matas Mickis, Minister of Education Antanas Venclova, Minister of Defence and Commander of the Army Vincas Vitkauskas, former priest and chief control inspector Liudas Adomauskas, chairman of the trade unions Motiejus Šumauskas, Communist Party activists Karolis Didžiulis-Grosmanas and Icikas Meskupas-Adomas, writers Liudas Gira and Petras Cvirka, poet Salomėja Nėris, Palanga mayor Stasė Vaineikienė, soldier Viktoras Ditkevičius, farmers Juozas Demskis and Birutė Abdulskaitė, workers Kazys and Pranas Petrauskas, Pranas Zibertas, and Marija Kutraitė. Each member of the delegation received 5,000 litas payment for their signatures, which was a substantial sum for that time.

The Soviet Union approved the Lithuanian resolution on August 3, and the People's Seimas declared itself the provisional Supreme Soviet of the Lithuanian SSR.

References

People's Government of Lithuania
1940 in Lithuania
Legal history of Lithuania
Occupation of the Baltic states
Seimas