[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hope Town District Council

The Hope Town District Council is a local government council in the Bahamas. It is a third schedule district council located within the Abaco Islands of the northwest Bahamas.

After the implementation of local government in the Bahamas in 1996, the Ministry of Local Government approved the creation of the Hope Town District in 1999. The initial council makeup included seven councillors, three from Hope Town, three from Man-O-War Cay, and one from Great Guana Cay. During the 2008 local government elections, the council makeup was downsized to five councillors, with two for Hope Town, two for Man-O-War Cay, and one for Great Guana Cay.

The Hope Town District Council is an amalgamation of thirteen islands: Great Guana Cay, Scotland Cay, Foot's Cay, Fowl Cay, Man-O-War Cay, Sandy Cay, Dickie's Cay, Garden Cay, Johnny's Cay, Elbow Cay (where the capital settlement Hope Town is located), Lubber's Quarters, Tilloo Cay, and the Pelican Cays.

Pre-existence
When local government was introduced to the Bahamas in 1996, the Hope Town District Council did not exist. Hope Town had its own town committee and the neighboring communities of Man-O-War Cay and Great Guana Cay shared a town committee. The seat of Council was in Marsh Harbour that involved the Central Abaco area and the cays. The Town Committees of both Hope Town and Man-O-War Cay/Guana Cay each sent a Council member to sit on the Central Abaco Council.

Creation of the council
Local government terms in the Bahamas are three years. After the first term of local government (1996–1999), the Minister of Local Government saw the need for the Cays to have its own council, and thus the Hope Town District Council was formed. The council consists of three settlements and surrounding cays, including the settlements of Great Guana Cay, Man-O-War Cay, and Elbow Cay. The other cays that are included are:
Scotland Cay
Canes Cay
Sandy Cay
Garden Cay
Johnny's Cay
Lubber's Quarters
Parrot Cays
Tilloo Cay
Pelican Cays

Council representation
The Hope Town District Council consists of seven members, all elected. Three members represent Elbow Cay, three members represent Man-O-War Cay, and one represents Great Guana Cay. These numbers are based on registered voter population, meaning that Elbow Cay and Man-O-War Cay have larger populations than Great Guana Cay.

The residents of Great Guana Cay have voiced concern over their representation feeling that they deserve equal representation with the other two towns. The Minister of Local Government was considering a change in the member structure for the 2008 local government elections.

History

Hope Town Council 1999–2002
This was the first council to serve on the actual Hope Town District Council. Elbow Cay (Hope Town) needed no elections as Suzanne Bethel, Scott Patterson, and Kevin Albury were elected unopposed. The same situation followed in Man-O-War; Roy Russell, Arthur Elden, and Richard Roberts were elected unopposed. In Great Guana Cay, Glenn Laing defeated Donna Sands in an election. The Chief Councillor and Deputy Chief Councillor are elected amongst the council, not directly by the people. After this group was elected, they choose Roy Russell as first Chief Councillor and Suzanne Bethel as Deputy Chief Councillor.

After three months into the term, Chief Councillor Russell insisted that the main office be in Man-O-War Cay, where he is resident. The Island Administrator disagreed and stated that Hope Town is the capital for the district and the office should always remain in Hope Town (Elbow Cay). As a result, the Man-O-War Council members resigned in protest. Man-O-War Cay went without representation for almost a year until Harcourt Thompson, Jimmy Albury, and Tony Albury were appointed to serve out the term.

The resignation of Chief Councillor Russell and the Man-O-War members left the Chief Councillor's position vacant and the council elected Suzanne Bethel as Chief Councillor and Kevin Albury as Deputy Chief Councillor. Into the term, Scott Patterson resigned, and Roscoe Thompson finished out his term.

No major dilemmas occurred during the term of this council, other than that being a new district, Chief Councillor Bethel and other councillors quickly discovered various challenges. The biggest is the diverseness of the different settlements even though they are within a tight-knit district. Under this term, Chief Councillor Bethel also undertook the establishment of the Pelican Cays' Land and Sea Park. As the term ended, Chief Councillor Bethel, after being active in local government and the Board of Works for almost forty years, retired from local government. Local residents still recognize her as their "Iron Lady" or "Margaret Thatcher"..