[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Constructive set theory

ification over the sets . Note that if this subclass  of  is provenly a set, then this subset itself is also in the unbounded scope of set variable . In other words, as the subclass property  is fulfilled, this exact set , defined using the expression , would play a role in its own characterization.

While predicative Separation leads to fewer given class definitions being sets, it must be emphasized that many class definitions that are classically equivalent are not so when restricting oneself to constructive logic. So in this way, one gets a broader theory, constructively.
Due to the potential undecidability of general predicates, the notion of subset and subclass is more elaborate in constructive set theories than in classical ones. This remains true if full Separation is adopted, as in the theory , which however spoils the existence property as well as the standard type theoretical interpretations, and in this way spoils a bottom-up view of constructive sets. As an aside, as subtyping is not a necessary feature of constructive type theory, constructive set theory can be said to quite differ from that framework.

Replacement 
Next consider the

It is granting existence, as sets, of the range of function-like predicates, obtained via their domains. In the above formulation, the predicate is not restricted akin to the Separation schema, but this axiom already involves an existential quantifier in the antecedent. Of course, weaker schemas could be considered as well.

With the Replacement schema, this theory proves that the equivalence classes or indexed sums are sets. In particular, the Cartesian product, holding all pairs of elements of two sets, is a set. In turn, for any fixed number, the corresponding product expression, say , can be constructed as a set. The axiomatic requirements for sets recursively defined in the language are discussed further below. Equality of elements inside a set  is decidable if the corresponding relation as a subset of  is decidable, in which case  is sometimes called discrete.

Replacement is not necessary in the design of a weak constructive set theory that is bi-interpretable with Heyting arithmetic . However, some form of induction is. Replacement together with Set Induction (introduced below) also suffices to axiomize hereditarily finite sets constructively and that theory is also studied without Infinity. For comparison, consider the very weak classical theory called General set theory that interprets the class of natural numbers and their arithmetic via just Extensionality, Adjunction and full Separation.

Replacement is relevant for function comprehension can be seen as a form of comprehension more generally. Only when assuming  does Replacement already imply full Separation. In , Replacement is mostly important to prove the existence of sets of high rank, namely via instances of the axiom schema where  relates relatively small set  to bigger ones, .

Constructive set theories commonly have Axiom schema of Replacement, sometimes restricted to bounded formulas. However, when other axioms are dropped, this schema is actually often strengthened - not beyond , but instead merely to gain back some provability strength. Such stronger axioms exist that do not spoil the strong existence properties of a theory, as discussed further below.

The discussion now proceeds with axioms granting existence of objects which, in different but related form, are also found in dependent type theories, namely products and the collection of natural numbers as a completed set. Infinite sets are particularly handy to reason about operations applied to sequences defined on unbounded domains, say the formal differentiation of a generating function or the addition of two Cauchy sequences.

ECST 
For some fixed predicate  and a set , the statement  expresses that  is the smallest (in the sense of "") among all sets  for which  holds true, and that it is always a subset of such . The aim of the axiom of infinity is to eventually obtain unique smallest inductive set.

In the context of common set theory axioms, one statement of infinitude is to state that a class is inhabited and also includes a chain of membership (or alternatively a chain of supersets). That is,
.
More concretely, denote by  the inductive property,
.
In terms of a predicate  underlying the class so that , the latter translates to .

Write  for the general intersection . (A variant of this definition may be considered which requires , but we only use this notion for the following auxiliary definition.)