[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jaws: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack

elodies with "bright tibres of violins, flutes and trumpets", whereas as the shark's music is "low pitched, mechanical, with dark timbre".

Legacy
Spielberg later said that without Williams's score the film would have been only half as successful, and according to Williams it jumpstarted his career.

Williams went on the work on the film's sequel, Jaws 2. Although the bulk of the score for Jaws 2 was original, Williams retained the shark's motif , which he says is in "the great tradition" for repeating musical themes in Hollywood serials such as Roy Rogers and The Lone Ranger. Although the soundtracks for the subsequent sequels were written by different composers, Alan Parker and Michael Small incorporated the main shark theme into both of their scores, with credit to Williams. I.Q. Hunter highlights Small's score for Jaws The Revenge as "effective variations on John Williams’ classic theme".

The shark theme has become highly recognisable. As scholar Amanda Howell says, "the widely reproduced and widely recognised leitmotif ... ultimately achieved a life of its own beyond the haunted waters of the film -- and well past the classical score's aesthetic of audibility." It has been used in several other films  for comic effect. Spielberg himself used it in a sequence in his comedy 1941, which spoofed the opening scene of Jaws, with actor Susan Backlinie being attacked by a nuclear submarine.  It is also used in the opening of the comedy Airplane!, when it transpires that what appears to be a shark's fin is the tail fin of an airplane. The Spielberg-produced Back to the Future Part II uses the theme in a sequence set in the then-future 2015, when Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) comes across a cinema showing Jaws 19. The animated films Finding Nemo and Shark Tale both use the music, often as part of a comment, Matthew Lerberg argues, about restoring the negative representation of Great Whites created by Spielberg's film. Characters in Finding Nemo hum the theme for Bruce the shark, while Shark Tale opens with Williams' theme.

Releases
The original soundtrack for Jaws was released by MCA Records on LP in 1975, and as a CD in 1992, including roughly a half hour of music that Williams redid for the album. In 2000, two versions of the score were released: Decca/Universal reissued the soundtrack album to coincide with the release of the 25th-anniversary DVD, featuring the entire 51 minutes of the original score, and Varèse Sarabande released a rerecording of the score performed by the Royal Scottish National Orchestra, conducted by Joel McNeely.

In 2015, Intrada Records released a special edition of the soundtrack, featuring recordings of the film versions of the cues, the remastered original 1975 soundtrack album, and also the diegetic music played by the Amity town band. Intrada transferred the original three-track split mono to 24-bit resolution. However, it became apparent that this element was never intended to be mixed into true stereo. Because the film music was recorded at Fox Studios rather than Universal, the recording format was closer to what would later become standard.

The cover of the three releases recorded by Williams (1975, 2000, 2015) features the painting from original film poster, often described as "iconic", by artist Roger Kastel, whereas the McNeely release features a photograph of a shark.

Track listings

* = Previously unreleased

** = Includes unreleased music

† = Includes music not used in the film

2015 Intrada Records 2CD release

Disc 1

Disc 2

References

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

John Williams soundtracks
Soundtrack
1975 soundtrack albums
1970s film soundtrack albums
MCA Records soundtracks
Grammy Award for Best Score Soundtrack for Visual Media
Scores that won the Best Original Score Academy Award