[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Music of Final Fantasy XII

of RPGFan. Heemsbergen added that "Ormond shows reverence for Sakimoto's original material while exploring musical ideas in a style all his own" and praised the variety of the music. Kotowski praised both the "variety of moods" covered by the pieces as well as the overall cohesiveness of the album.

The Zodiac Age
Corresponding with the release of a high-definition remaster of the International Zodiac Job System version of Final Fantasy XII, subtitled The Zodiac Age, Square Enix released an album of music from the game. The 102-track album, released digitally and physically on Blu-ray on July 19, 2017, contains new compositions and arrangements of the original tracks by Sakimoto. A limited edition of the album included an additional CD of just the arrangements. Tien Hoang of VGMOnline reviewed the album, and found it a "great update to a complex score"; they felt that the live instruments improved the score, though not as much as a full orchestra could have, and found the new tracks to be "fine but not groundbreaking".

Singles

Kiss Me Good-Bye

Kiss Me Good-Bye is the theme song of Final Fantasy XII, and is the third Japanese single by Angela Aki. The only vocal piece in the game, it was set to tunes composed by Nobuo Uematsu, arranged by Kenichiro Fukui and produced by Motoki Matsuoka. The single was released by Epic Records in Japan on March 15, 2006, covering a duration of 19:59 and bearing the catalog number ESCL-2810. A limited edition was also released bearing the catalog number ESCL-2808 featuring a DVD containing the Kiss Me Good-Bye video clip which included both shots of Aki performing the single and clips from the video game. Unlike previous Final Fantasy games, the theme song is sung in English in both the Japanese and North American versions of the game. The version featured on the CD single has a slightly different arrangement and Japanese lyrics; however, the English version that was featured in the game is included as a bonus track. An English version of the single was released as a digital single on May 16 the same year under the title Kiss Me Good-Bye [EP] in North America through Tofu Records.

"Kiss Me Good-bye" reached #6 on the Oricon charts and remained on the charts for 18 weeks. The release was seen by critics as an excellent single, with Gann feeling that both the Final Fantasy XII and non-game tracks held their weight equally.

Symphonic Poem "Hope"
 is a single released by violinist Taro Hakase and is the full version of the game's ending credits music. The piece has been described as a "mini-symphony" for Final Fantasy XII inspired by the main theme for the game. The single contains five tracks, arranged by Taro Hakase and Yuji Toriyama and produced by Taro Hakase, and features performance by the London Philharmonic Orchestra. A shorter edit blending the first, second and fifth movements of the symphonic poem was used in a promotional video for the game, and appears as a single track in the official soundtrack release. Symphonic Poem "Hope" was released on March 1, 2006 by Hats Unlimited bearing the catalog number HUCD-10015.

Hope was found by critics to be an enjoyable single, though at only 9 minutes long, Gann felt he could have "gotten by without it", although he said that for other listeners, their "collection may not be complete without this little gem". Dave of Square Enix Music Online concurred with that sentiment, saying that "despite the length of the album, it easily grew on" him. "Hope" reached #15 on the Oricon charts and remained on the charts for 16 weeks.

Legacy
"Kiss Me Good-bye" was performed by the Chicagoland Pops Orchestra and Angela Aki for Play! A Video Game Symphony, a worldwide video game music orchestral concert series. The Eminence Symphony Orchestra performed "Victory Fanfare", "Clan Headquarters", and "Penelo's Theme" at the three "Passion" concerts held in Australia and Singapore in December 2006. "Penelo's Theme" was again played at the Fantasy Comes Alive concert in Singapore on April 30, 2010. Selections of music from the game also appear on Japanese remix albums, called dojin music, and on English remixing websites.

References

External links
 Official Angela Aki Site
 
 Final Fantasy XII Original Soundtrack home page at Square Enix

Final Fantasy music
Music
Video game soundtracks
Video game music discographies