[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Semidefinite programming

s bounded below and strictly
feasible (i.e., there exists
 such that , ).
Then there is an optimal solution  to (D-SDP) and

(ii) Suppose the dual problem (D-SDP) is bounded above and strictly
feasible (i.e.,
 for some ).
Then there is an optimal solution  to (P-SDP) and
the equality from (i) holds.

A sufficient condition for strong duality to hold for a SDP problem (and in general, for any convex optimization problem) is the Slater's condition. It is also possible to attain strong duality for SDPs without additional regularity conditions by using an extended dual problem proposed by Ramana.

Examples

Example 1 
Consider three random variables , , and .  A given set of correlation coefficients  are possible if and only if

This matrix is called the correlation matrix. Suppose that we know from some prior knowledge (empirical results of an experiment, for example) that  and .  The problem of determining the smallest and largest values that  can take is given by:

We set  to obtain the answer.  This can be formulated by an SDP.  We handle the inequality constraints by augmenting the variable matrix and introducing slack variables, for example

Solving this SDP gives the minimum and maximum values of  as  and  respectively.

Example 2 

Consider the problem

 minimize 
 subject to 

where we assume that  whenever .

Introducing an auxiliary variable  the problem can be reformulated:

 minimize 
 subject to 

In this formulation, the objective is a linear function of the variables .

The first restriction can be written as

 

where the matrix  is the square matrix with values in the diagonal equal
to the elements of the vector .

The second restriction can be written as

 

Defining  as follows

 

We can use the theory of Schur Complements to see that

(Boyd and Vandenberghe, 1996)

The semidefinite program associated with this problem is

 minimize 
 subject to

Example 3 (Goemans–Williamson max cut approximation algorithm) 

Semidefinite programs are important tools for developing approximation algorithms for NP-hard maximization problems.  The first approximation algorithm based on an SDP is due to Michel Goemans and David P. Williamson (JACM, 1995).  They studied the max cut problem: Given a graph G = (V, E), output a partition of the vertices V so as to maximize the number of edges crossing from one side to the other.  This problem can be expressed as an integer quadratic program:
Maximize  such that each .

Unless P = NP, we cannot solve this maximization problem efficiently.  However, Goemans and Williamson observed a general three-step procedure for attacking this sort of problem:
 Relax the integer quadratic program into an SDP.
 Solve the SDP (to within an arbitrarily small additive error ).
 Round the SDP solution to obtain an approximate solution to the original integer quadratic program.
For max cut, the most natural relaxation is
 such that , where the maximization is over vectors  instead of integer scalars.

This is an SDP because the objective function and constraints are all linear functions of vector inner products.  Solving the SDP gives a set of unit vectors in ; since the vectors are not required to be collinear, the value of this relaxed program can only be higher than the value of the original quadratic integer program.  Finally, a rounding procedure is needed to obtain a partition.  Goemans and Williamson simply choose a uniformly random hyperplane through the origin and divide the vertices according to which side of the hyperplane the corresponding vectors lie.  Straightforward analysis shows that this procedure achieves an expected approximation ratio (performance guarantee) of 0.87856 - ε.  (The expected value of the cut is the sum over edges of the probability that the edge is cut, which is proportional to the angle  between the vectors at the endpoints of the edge over .  Comparing this probability to , in expectation the ratio is always at least 0.87856.)  Assuming the unique games conjecture, it can be shown that this approximation ratio is essentially optimal.

Since the original paper of Goemans and Williamson, SDPs have been applied to develop numerous approximation algorithms.  Recently, Prasad Raghavendra has developed a general framework for constraint satisfaction problems based on the unique games conjecture.

Algorithms 
There are several types of algorithms for solving SDPs.  These algorithms output the value of the SDP up to an additive error  in time that is polynomial in the program description size and .

There are also facial reduction algorithms that can be used to preprocess SDPs problems by inspecting the constraints of the problem. These can be used to detect lack of strict feasibility, to delete redundant rows and columns, and also to reduce the size of the variable matrix.