[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of former Muslims

Former Muslims or ex-Muslims are people who were Muslims, but subsequently left Islam. Although their numbers have increased, ex-Muslims still face ostracism or retaliation from their families and communities due to beliefs about apostasy in Islam. Depending on what country they reside in, with 23 countries having apostacy listed as a punishable crime (13 of which consider it to be a capital offense).

Converted to an Abrahamic religion

Converted to Judaism

  – Jordanian Muslim of Circassian origin, converted to Judaism upon marrying an Israeli Jewish pilot in secret in Vienna. She later became a spy for Mossad. An Arabic TV series called An Eastern Girl (فتاة من الشرق) (Fatah min Asharq) was made about her starring Suzan Najm Aldeen as Amina. The book (مذكرات أخطر جاسوسة عربية للموساد .. أمينة المفتي) was written about her.

 Avraham Sinai – Lebanese former Shi'ite who converted to Judaism. He served as an informant for the Israelis while serving in Hezbollah, until his actions were uncovered. He fled to Israel and subsequently converted.
 Dario Hunter – American politician. Became the first Muslim born individual to be ordained a rabbi.

Converted to Christianity

 Abdul Rahman – Afghan convert to Christianity who escaped the death penalty because of foreign pressure.
 Aben Humeya – (born Fernando de Valor) Morisco Chief who was crowned the Emir of Andalusia by his followers and led the Morisco Revolt against Philip II of Spain.
 Abo of Tiflis – Christian activist and the Patron Saint of the city of Tbilisi, Georgia.
 Abraham of Bulgaria – martyr and saint of the Russian Orthodox Church.
 St. Adolphus – Christian martyr who was put to death along with his brother, John, by Abd ar-Rahman II, Emir of Córdoba for apostasy.
 Akbar Gbaja-Biamila – American football player.

 Albertus Soegijapranata – born in Surakarta, to a Muslim courtier and his wife who later converted to Roman Catholicism; the first native Indonesian bishop; a National Hero of Indonesia; known for his pro-nationalistic stance, often expressed as "100% Catholic, 100% Indonesian".
 Alexander Bekovich-Cherkassky – Russian officer of Circassian origin who led the first Russian military expedition into Central Asia.
 Alexander Kazembek – Russian Orientalist, historian and philologist of Azeri origin .
 Aman Tuleyev – Russian governor of Kemerovo Oblast.

 Amir Sjarifuddin – Indonesian socialist leader who later became the second prime minister of Indonesia during its National Revolution.
 Aslan Abashidze – former leader of the Ajarian Autonomous Republic in western Georgia.
 Asmirandah – Indonesian actress of Dutch descent converted to Protestantism in December 2013. Zantman owes her conversion to an experience of having dreamed three times of Jesus Christ.
 Aurelius and Natalia – Christian martyrs who were put to death during the reign of Abd ar-Rahman II, Caliph of Córdoba for apostasy.
 Bahaa el-Din Ahmed Hussein el-Akkad – former Egyptian Muslim sheikh.
 Basuki Abdullah – Indonesian painter; converted to Roman Catholicism.
 Begum Samru – powerful lady of north India, ruling a large area from Sardhana, Uttar Pradesh.
 Bob Denard – French soldier and mercenary leader. Converted from Roman Catholicism to Judaism, then Islam and eventually back to Roman Catholicism.
 Broery – Indonesian singer (from Christianity to Islam back to Christianity).