[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John Newman Edwards

Major John Newman Edwards (January 4, 1839 – May 4, 1889) was famed General Joseph O. Shelby's adjutant during the American Civil War, an author, and a pro-Confederate journalist who founded the Kansas City Times. He is perhaps best known for contributing to the folk hero status of outlaw Jesse James.

Early life
John N. Edwards was born in Warren County, Virginia on January 4, 1839, and moved to Missouri around 1855. As a child, he learned type-setting in Front Royal, Virginia. After settling in Lexington, Missouri, Edwards became a printer for "The Expositor."

War years
In 1862, Confederate General Joseph O. Shelby, raised a cavalry regiment near Waverly, Missouri, in Lafayette County. Edwards joined it. In September 1863, he was appointed brigade adjutant, with the rank of major. In this position he handled various staff affairs for this commander, including the reconnaissance and intelligence required for effective military command. As a result of his great ability in recruiting agents and knowledge of the territory, when Shelby was promoted to command a division, Edwards became the division's adjutant.  He held the position until the war ended in May 1865, when Shelby's command disbanded.

Consequently, Edwards participated in every one of Shelby's noted campaigns including the early battles at Prairie Grove and Wilson's Creek. When Shelby had formed his full strength "Iron Brigade" of Missouri volunteers in 1863, Edwards helped organize, provision, reconnaissance, and gather intelligence on what was to be the longest cavalry raid of the war at that time, Shelby's Great Raid. Between September 22 and November 3, 1863, Edwards helped maintain and keep the brigade intact as it travelled 1,500 miles through Missouri, inflicting over 1,000 casualties on Union forces, and capturing or destroying an estimated $400,000,000 worth of Federal supplies and property in 2000 year prices. When Shelby was promoted to brigadier general on December 15, 1863, at the successful conclusion of his raid, Edwards was also promoted.

In 1864, Union General Steele's Camden Expedition (March 23–May 2, 1864) was initiated to destroy all remaining Confederate forces to the east of the Mississippi and drive out all remaining Confederate sympathizers throughout Missouri and Arkansas and Mississippi. Due to Edwards' now vast intelligence network and clandestine cache system of supplies, Shelby was able to lead a brilliant and determined harassment of the larger Union Army and in concert with other Confederate forces defeat the army and force it back into Little Rock, where it was placed under siege after Shelby located and destroyed or captured the Army's entire supply train at Mark's Mill.

Reassigned with Shelby to the Clarendon, Arkansas area, Edwards' intelligence network located the Union ironclad USS Queen City. When Shelby's feint northward encouraged its Union Army defenders to leave the ironclad, thereby leaving it essentially undefended, Shelby silently returned and captured it. However, hot on his heels was the larger Union Army, and Shelby destroyed it to avoid recapture.

As summer was ending Shelby then commanded a division during Sterling Price's Missouri raid. Edwards distinguished himself at the battles of Little Blue River and Westport, and organized the loot captured at many Union held towns, including Potosi, Boonville, Waverly, Stockton, Lexington, and California, Missouri. Organizing these provisions was a feat in itself, and it enabled Shelby's force to make magnificent inroads into Union territory.

Post war
After Robert E. Lee's army surrendered in Virginia, in June 1865, rather than surrender, Shelby along with Edwards and approximately 1,000 of his remaining troops rode south into Mexico. For their determination not to surrender, they were immortalized as "the undefeated". A later verse appended to the angry post-war Confederate anthem, "The Unreconstructed Rebel" commemorates the defiance of Shelby and his men:

I won't be reconstructed, I'm better now than then.
And for a Carpetbagger I do not give a damn.
So it's forward to the frontier, soon as I can go.
I'll fix me up a weapon and start for Mexico.

Their plan was to offer their services to Emperor Maximilian as a 'foreign legion.' Maximilian declined to accept the ex-Confederates into his armed forces, but he did grant them land for an American colony in Mexico near Veracruz. Organized as a great troop train of 1,000 men, Edwards and the other cavalry made a defiant portrait as they rode south with the Union Army hot on their heels. Once again Edwards' network and what remained of the Confederate Secret Service managed a remarkable feat in disguising the troop and providing it with supplies in its long march. Additionally, they had already managed to negotiate the purchase of hundreds of thousands of acres around Veracruz, Mexico, to which the Shelby and other Confederate army exiles would regroup.