[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Antoninus Pius

n praised not only by ancient Romans, but also by later scholars of classical history, such as Edward Gibbon or the author of the article on Antoninus Pius in the Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition.

Some historians have a less positive view of his reign. According to the historian J. B. Bury,

German historian Ernst Kornemann has had it in his Römische Geschichte [2 vols., ed. by H. Bengtson, Stuttgart 1954] that the reign of Antoninus comprised "a succession of grossly wasted opportunities", given the upheavals that were to come. There is more to this argument, given that the Parthians in the East were themselves soon to make no small amount of mischief after Antoninus' death. Kornemann's brief is that Antoninus might have waged preventive wars to head off these outsiders. Michael Grant agrees that it is possible that had Antoninus acted decisively sooner (it appears that, on his death bed, he was preparing a large-scale action against the Parthians), the Parthians might have been unable to choose their own time, but current evidence is not conclusive. Grant opines that Antoninus and his officers did act in a resolute manner dealing with frontier disturbances of his time, although conditions for long-lasting peace were not created. On the whole, according to Grant, Marcus Aurelius' eulogistic picture of Antoninus seems deserved, and Antoninus appears to have been a conservative and nationalistic (although he respected and followed Hadrian's example of Philhellenism moderately) Emperor who was not tainted by the blood of either citizen or foe, combined and maintained Numa Pompilius' good fortune, pacific dutifulness and religious scrupulousness, and whose laws removed anomalies and softened harshnesses.

Krzysztof Ulanowski argues that the claims of military inability are exaggerated, considering that although the sources praise Antoninus' love for peace and his efforts "rather to defend, than enlarge the provinces", he could hardly be considered a pacifist, as shown by the conquest of the Lowlands, the building of the Antonine Wall and the expansion of Germania Superior. Ulanowski also praises Antoninus for being successful in deterrence by diplomatic means.

Descendants 
Although only one of his four children survived to adulthood, Antoninus came to be ancestor to four generations of prominent Romans, including the Emperor Commodus. Hans-Georg Pflaum has identified five direct descendants of Antoninus and Faustina who were consuls in the first half of the third century.
 Marcus Aurelius Fulvus Antoninus (died before 138), died young without issue
 Marcus Galerius Aurelius Antoninus (died before 138), died young without issue
 Aurelia Fadilla (died in 135), who married Lucius Plautius Lamia Silvanus, suffect consul in 145; no children known for certain.
 Annia Galeria Faustina the Younger (21 September between 125 and 130–175), had several children; those who had children were: 
 Annia Aurelia Galeria Lucilla (7 March 150–182?), whose children included:
 Tiberius Claudius Pompeianus
 Annia Galeria Aurelia Faustina (151–?), whose children included:
 Tiberius Claudius Severus Proculus
 Empress Annia Faustina, Elagabalus' third wife
 Annia Aurelia Fadilla (159–after 211)
 Annia Cornificia Faustina Minor (160–213)

References

Sources
Primary sources
 Cassius Dio, Roman History, Book 70, English translation
 Aurelius Victor, Epitome de Caesaribu", English translation
 Historia Augusta, The Life of Antoninus Pius, English translation. Note that the Historia Augusta includes pseudohistorical elements.

Secondary sources

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  This source lists:
 Bossart-Mueller, Zur Geschichte des Kaisers A. (1868)
 Bryant, The Reign of Antonine (Cambridge Historical Essays, 1895)
 Lacour-Gayet, A. le Pieux et son Temps (1888)

External links

Itinerarium Prouinciarum Antonini Augusti: Vibius Sequester, de fluminum & aliarum..., 1550, at the National Library of Portugal

 
86 births
161 deaths
2nd-century Gallo-Roman people
2nd-century Roman emperors
Adult adoptees
Aelii
Ancient Roman adoptees
Arrii
Aurelii Fulvi
Burials at the Castel Sant'Angelo
Deified Roman emperors
Gaulish people
Imperial Roman consuls
Imperial Roman praetors
Nerva–Antonine dynasty
People from Gallia Narbonensis
People from Lanuvio
Roman governors of Asia
Roman quaestors
Roman pharaohs