[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Robert Nimmo

uited to the role. From November 1956, Nimmo made it his practice to appoint a Canadian colonel as his chief of staff. A hard worker himself, Nimmo also had high expectations of his staff. He progressively expanded the field regulations for UNMOGIP and provided copies to both sides of the conflict. 

In 1964, the UN Secretariat reported that Nimmo was "by far the most successful United Nations observer ever", and the official war historians assert that "his professional expertise and diplomatic skills" ensured UNMOGIP was well run, despite its inability to solve the Kashmir problem. Nimmo led UNMOGIP through the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965, which he was powerless to prevent, and played an important part in trying to end. When the war broke out, Nimmo requested an additional 100 observers from troop-contributing countries, but no additional Australians were provided. According to the official historians, Nimmo's actions and correspondence during the war indicate that he had "thought deeply about ways of easing the conflict in Kashmir and was trying to impose realistic solutions". Immediately after the war concluded he raised and initially commanded the United Nations India-Pakistan Observation Mission (UNIPOM) outside Kashmir, and thereafter had oversight of UNIPOM as well as UNMOGIP. According to the historian Peter Londey, Nimmo had an extraordinary understanding of his role, which he fulfilled "through maintaining an open, firm but tactful relationship with both the belligerent parties, and [showing] favour to neither".

At the time of the 1965 war, Nimmo was beginning to feel the stress of his long period of command. For the first time, there were complaints about Australian bias, and the Pakistani government apparently asked for his replacement. UN Secretary-General U Thant refused, but told Nimmo of the complaints when Nimmo visited New York in December 1965. Nimmo was surprised by the complaints, but continued to lead UNMOGIP until his death of a heart attack in his sleep on 4 January 1966 at Rawalpindi, Pakistan, aged 72. By this time Mary and their daughter were living in London. Nimmo's death may have been accelerated by the pressures associated with the 1965 war. He was the first Australian to command a multinational peacekeeping force, and at 15 years and 2 months, his command of UNMOGIP remains the longest-ever command of a UN operation. After an Anglican service in Rawalpindi with Pakistani military honours and fellow Australian observers as pall bearers, his body was flown to Karachi and then Brisbane. His funeral was held at St John's Cathedral, and the gun carriage carrying his coffin was led by a 500-strong guard of honour. His funeral was attended by senior representatives of both India and Pakistan. He was buried in the Anzac section of the Mount Gravatt Cemetery in MacGregor, Brisbane, with full UN and military honours, including two 15-gun artillery salutes. He was survived by his second wife Mary and their son and daughter, and the daughter of his first marriage. His obituary in The Morning Bulletin newspaper in Rockhampton, Queensland, stated that he performed his duties "impeccably" and had "added considerably to Australia's stature internationally". In response to his death, U Thant issued a statement which read:

Footnotes

References

Books

News, gazettes and web sources

War diaries

Further reading
 

1893 births
1966 deaths
Military personnel from Queensland
Australian Commanders of the Order of the British Empire
Australian expatriates in Pakistan
Australian generals
Australian military personnel of World War I
Australian Army personnel of World War II
People from Far North Queensland
Royal Military College, Duntroon graduates
United Nations Military Observers (people)
Australian officials of the United Nations
People educated at the Southport School
Australian male field hockey players