[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of mountain lists

Perhaps the first of what would become many notable mountain lists around the world was Sir Hugh Munro’s catalogue of the Munros, the peaks above 3,000’ elevation in Scotland. Once defined the list became a popular target for what became known as peak bagging, where the adventurous attempted to summit all of the peaks on the list.

Over time the peaks on such lists grew more challenging, with perhaps the eight-thousanders as the most notable (the mentioned list being first fully completed by Reinhold Messner in 1986).  Other extreme examples are the Seven Summits, defined as the highest peaks on each of the seven continents.

An ever-growing collection of peak lists is maintained and published on mountaineering-related websites.

Worldwide 
The Eight-thousanders are the fourteen mountains over  in height, all in the Himalaya and Karakoram ranges in Asia.
The Seven Summits are the highest peaks on each continent, from the Vinson Massif in Antarctica to Everest in Asia.
The Seven Second Summits are the second highest peaks on each continent.
The Volcanic Seven Summits are the highest volcanoes on each of the continents.
The Ultras are mountains worldwide that have a topographic prominence of at least , regardless of location, absolute height or other merit.
The Snow Leopards are the five peaks of the former Soviet Union over  in height.

Europe
The Alpine four-thousanders are the 128 summits (82 'official summits' and 46 'lesser summits') of  or more  in the Alps in France, Italy and Switzerland as defined by the UIAA.
The Six mountains of the Alps with the most difficult north faces.
The Pyrenean three-thousanders are the 129 summits of  or more in the Pyrenees in France and Spain as defined by a UIAA-sponsored joint Franco-Spanish team.

British Isles

The hills of Britain and Ireland are classified into various lists for 'peak-bagging' purposes. Among the better-known lists are the following:

The Munros: important mountains in Scotland over ; there are 282 Munros and 226 Munro Tops.
The Furths: mountains in the British Isles, but not in Scotland, which would otherwise qualify as Munros; there are 34 Furths in the British Isles.
The P600 (the "Majors"): mountains in the British Isles with a prominence above ; there are 120 P600s.
The Corbetts: mountains in Scotland between  and , with a prominence above ; there are 222 Corbetts.
The Marilyns: hills and mountains in the British Isles with a prominence above , regardless of height or other merit;  there are 2,011 Marilyns
The Simms: mountains in the British Isles above , with a prominence above ; there are 2,754 Simms.
 The Wainwrights: the 214 fells in the English Lake District that have a chapter in one of Alfred Wainwright's Pictorial Guides to the Lakeland Fells.
The Vandeleur-Lynams: those mountains in Ireland over  in height, with a prominence over .  There are 273 Vandeleur-Lynams in Ireland.
The Nuttalls : A list of all mountains in over 2,000 ft (609.6m) with more than a  49.2 ft (15m) prominence. See lists for England and for Wales.

North America
The 125 major 4000-meter summits of North America.

Canada
The 19 major 4000-metre summits of Canada.

Mexico
The eight major 4000-meter summits of Mexico.