[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Great White Shark (character)

ox and the Vulture pledged their allegiances to White.

Gotham Underground
During the recent takeover of Gotham's criminal underworld by Metropolis outfits the 100 and Intergang during the Gotham Underground storyline, the Great White Shark is badly beaten and locked away following his displacement.

The Resurrection of Ra's al Ghul
After the defeat of the newly resurrected Ra's al Ghul, Warren White makes a little appearance in the final strip. He is shown clearly controlling the majority of Arkham Asylum, including its corrupt staff, and he threatens Ra's al Ghul.

Batman R.I.P. / The Battle For The Cowl
After the apparent death of the original Batman, Warren White was one of the many criminals who was being transferred from Arkham to a secure place. A new Black Mask then drugs the criminals, which causes instant death at Mask's will. Acknowledging Black Mask as their leader, Warren and his group were armed to wreak havoc on the city once again by ending Two-Face and Penguin's reigns and ultimately making Black Mask the supreme ruler of Gotham's underworld once again.

The New 52
Warren White made his first brief appearance in The New 52 (a reboot of the DC Comics universe) where he was seen attacking guards in Arkham while on Venom.

Great White Shark was later seen at Arkham Asylum at the time when Resurrection Man was incarcerated there.

DC Rebirth
In DC Rebirth, Great White appears as one of Gotham's most powerful crime lords. He is allied with Penguin and Black Mask in an alliance known as "The Blacks & Whites". Together, they hire KGBeast to defeat Batman.

Powers and abilities
The Great White Shark has no superpowers but is a skilled organizer and negotiator with a high-level intellect. After being deformed, he files his teeth to the point of being razor sharp.

In other media

Video games
 The Great White Shark is referenced in the 2009 video game Batman: Arkham Asylum. Solving one of the Riddler's riddles unlocks his in-game bio. The answer to the riddle lies in a jar found in the game's morgue, which contains his nose, lips, an ear, and two of his fingers. This jar of parts is seen again in the 2015 sequel Batman: Arkham Knight in the Gotham City Police Department evidence room with a brief description from Officer Cash.

References

Comics characters introduced in 2003
Fictional businesspeople
Fictional gangsters
Fictional money launderers
Fictional murderers
DC Comics male supervillains
DC Comics supervillains
Characters created by Dan Slott
Fictional characters with disfigurements
Fictional crime bosses
Fictional con artists