[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Counterintelligence Corps

to be CIC's last chance to enjoy resources and recruits.

The proliferation of intelligence agencies had meant duplication of effort and disputes over responsibility, so in 1961 the CIC ceased to exist as an independent organization, as it was rolled into the Army's new Military Intelligence Branch.

While serving in the U.S. Army in the 1960s, Christopher H. Pyle learned that "Army intelligence had 1500 plain clothes agents watching every demonstration of 20 people or more throughout the United States". Pyle’s disclosures led to Congressional investigations and a crackdown on what was regarded as the Army’s investigative excesses. This ended what advocates regarded as the peak of counterintelligence efficiency: "At the height of the disturbance period, a CIC agent could get a report from the street to Fort Holabird HQ in 20 minutes, from practically any city in the U.S., seconds or brief minutes later the report was in Operations Center in a lower basement of the Pentagon".

The "ratline" controversy

One of CIC's operations in post-war Europe was the operation of a "rat-line" – a conduit for spiriting informants and defectors out of the Soviet Zones of Occupation to safety in South America, via Italy, with false identities paid for by CIC. However, in 1983 the arrest of former SS officer Klaus Barbie in Bolivia raised questions as to how the "Butcher of Lyon" had escaped. It was then revealed that Barbie had worked for CIC from 1947, and in 1951 had been provided with the means of escape in return for his services as an agent and informant.

A Department of Justice investigation also uncovered the CIC's dealings with Father Krunoslav Draganović, a Croatian cleric based in Rome, who while working for CIC, also operated his own clandestine rat-line to transport Ustaše war criminals to Latin America. 

A further report in 1988 also examined the CIC's use of Nazi war criminals and collaborators as informants in the years after World War II. In June 1988, Office of Special Investigations within the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice issued a public report which revealed that "at least 14 suspected Nazi war criminals, a number of whom likely were involved in the murder of Jews in occupied Europe, had been employed as intelligence informants by the CIC in Austria."

Notable CIC agents

Leroy Anderson, composer 
Donald L. Barlett, journalist
Noel Behn, writer and theatrical producer
Willy Brandt, later German chancellor
John F. Collins, Mayor of Boston
Miles Copeland Jr., musician
Philip J. Corso, Lieutenant Colonel at Roswell, New Mexico
J. Griffin Crump, editor, The Journal of Intergroup Relations
William E. Dannemeyer, California congressman
Foxtrot, Art Dealer
Mike Gravel, Alaska senator
Bill Hartman, athlete
Anthony Hecht, poet
Clint Hill. former United States Secret Service Agent
Henry Kissinger, Secretary of State
Arthur Komori, District Court judge, Military Intelligence Hall of Fame inductee.
Morton Kondracke, journalist
Robie Macauley, editor and novelist 
John J. McFall, California congressman
William A. McNeill, DET 430th CIC
Ib Melchior, film producer 
George J. Mitchell, Maine senator
Tom Moody, Mayor of Columbus, Ohio
William Hughes Mulligan, Federal judge
Walter Pincus, journalist
Cruz Reynoso, lawyer and jurist
Richard Sakakida, USAF Lt Col after war, Military Intelligence Hall of Fame inductee.
J. D. Salinger, novelist
Jerry Seltzer, roller derby promoter
Richard A. Snyder, Pennsylvania State Senator
Bob Shamansky, Ohio congressman
Michel Thomas, Linguist, Language Teacher
William Lewis Uanna, Security Expert
Dr. Donald Lunde, psychiatrist of Ed Kemper and Patty Hearst

See also
 Corps of Intelligence Police
 Klaus Barbie
 The History of the Counter Intelligence Corps
 United States Army Counterintelligence

Footnotes

Sources
CIC Records: A Valuable Tool for Researchers (scroll down)
Counter Intelligence Corps History and Mission in World War II (PDF)