[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Terminator: Dawn of Fate

eviewers for Game Informer gave differing opinions on the quality of the game's storyline. Ryan MacDonald of GameSpot opined that the story "isn't especially compelling even for die-hard Terminator fans". Some critics believed that the game adequately captured the atmosphere of the Terminator films.

The gameplay received criticism from some reviewers who considered it repetitive. Nick Valentino of GameZone complained of "seemingly never-ending Terminator hordes." The artificial intelligence also received criticism. The changing camera angles were largely criticized, with some reviewers stating that it caused in-game disorientation. The targeting system received some criticism as well. Kristian Brogger of Game Informer stated that because of the changing camera perspectives, "Many times you'll find yourself firing at something you can't see, but which your targeting system has locked on to." Kennedy stated that the camera angles "almost always lead to confusion—not to mention lots of walking into walls—and the targeting system is so haphazard that you never quite feel comfortable." The controls were also criticized. Ham stated, "Just when you think you're walking in one direction, the camera switches angles and you have to switch the way you were holding the analog stick because now you're facing an alternate direction. In a combat situation, this can prove fatal."

Some reviewers praised the graphics, while others considered them to be average. GamePro, in its review of the PS2 version, wrote that the graphics have "moments of brilliance with cinematic FMVs and well-rendered environments; however, sometimes the animation is a bit clumsy as figures seem to just glide across the screen." Valentino, also reviewing the PS2 version, gave a mixed opinion of the graphics: "Characters, for instance, aren't rendered as well as the wonderful environments. Yet in the cut scenes, the graphics improve greatly. The background details are plentiful". IGN complained that Kyle Reese "looks like his head is about to burst. Understandable that they couldn't get the rights to the likeness, but does that mean he can't even look human?" Some praise went to the lighting effects. Critics considered the graphics of the Xbox version to be somewhat superior to the PS2 version. MacDonald believed that the Xbox version had better lighting effects, and Ham believed it had a better framerate. GameZone's Eduardo Zacarias believed that the Xbox version could have had better graphics, while stating that it was better-looking than its PS2 counterpart.

The sound effects and music were praised, although criticism went to the voice acting, which some critics perceived as over-dramatic. However, GamePro considered the voice acting decent, while Brogger disliked the sound. Ham was critical of the "cheesy guitar music". IGN considered the voice acting average.

Notes

References

External links

2002 video games
Infogrames games
Dawn of Fate
PlayStation 2 games
Video games developed in the United States
Video games set in Colorado
Video games set in Los Angeles
Xbox games
Single-player video games
Paradigm Entertainment games