[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# History of the Arab–Israeli conflict

return for normalized relations, Israel agreed to suspend controversial plans to annex portions of the West Bank.  This was the first time a Gulf Arab country established diplomatic relations with Israel. Shortly after Bahrein, Sudan and Morocco followed and established relations with Israel.

Syria

Some Israeli officials asserted in January 2007 that there had been some constructive progress in unpublicized talks with Syria.
Syria has repeatedly requested that Israel re-commence peace negotiations with the Syrian government. The United States demanded that Israel desist from even exploratory contacts with Syria to test whether Damascus is serious in its declared intentions to hold peace talks with Israel. U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice was forceful in expressing Washington's view on the matter to Israeli officials that even exploratory negotiations with Syria are not to be attempted. Israel has thus far obeyed Washington's demand to desist. Syrian Ba'ath government representative was expelled from the Arab League in 2012, upon the Syrian Civil War.

Lebanon

Israel–Hezbollah conflict of 2006

The 2006 Lebanon War began on 12 July 2006, with an attack by Hezbollah on Israel. Three Israeli soldiers were killed, and two were kidnapped and taken prisoner into Lebanon. In a search and rescue operation to return the captured soldiers, a further five Israeli Defense Forces troops were killed. It marked the beginning of a new wave of clashes between Israel and Hezbollah which saw the Lebanese capital, the sole Lebanese international airport, and much of southern Lebanon attacked by the Israelis, while Lebanese militias, presumably Hezbollah, bombarded northern Israeli cities, striking as far south as the city of Haifa. The conflict killed more than a thousand people, most of whom were Lebanese civilians and Hezbollah fighters; and displaced 974,184 Lebanese and 300,000–500,000 Israelis. Fears were growing that the situation could deteriorate further, with the possibility of either Syria or Iran becoming involved. But a ceasefire was signed, and went into effect 14 August.

2007 rally
In January 2007, thousands gathered in Lebanon in a rally to support Hezbollah, and to celebrate the resignation of Israel's top military commander, Dan Halutz. However, in some Lebanese communities, Hezbollah lost popularity, for opposing Lebanon's national government.

Gaza conflict

Abbreviated timeline
1948 Declaration of the Establishment of the State of Israel
1948 Arab–Israeli War
1948 Establishment of the All-Palestine Protectorate
1949 Armistice Agreements
Jewish exodus from Arab and Muslim countries
1956 Suez War
1967 Six-Day War
Khartoum Resolution
1970 War of Attrition
1973 Yom Kippur War
Geneva Conference (1973)
1978 Camp David Peace Accords between Egypt and Israel
1982 Lebanon War
1993 Oslo Peace Accords between Palestinians and Israel
Israel–Jordan peace treaty, 1994
Camp David 2000 Summit between Palestinians and Israel
Israel's unilateral disengagement plan

See also

 History of the Israel Defense Forces
 Israeli–Palestinian peace process
 Timeline of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict
 Israeli casualties of war
 List of wars involving Israel
 Outline of the 2023 Israel–Hamas war
 Palestinian casualties of war
 Timeline of Israeli history

References

External links
 Source Documents and texts on the Arab-Israeli and Palestinian-Israeli conflict, and history of Israel and Palestine
 Documents related to the Mideast Conflict  from Mt. Holyoke College
 The Avalon Project at Yale Law School records from 1916–1999
 "A Brief History of the Arab-Israeli Conflict" by Jeremy Pressman

Arab history
Military history of Israel
History of Palestine (region)
Political history of Israel