[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Education in Mozambique

to the establishment of the private universities, student numbers rose from below 4000 in 1990 to almost 12,000 in 1999.  Nevertheless, UEM and UP remain by far the largest HE institutions, with approximately 7000 and 2000 students respectively, compared to around 1000 each for UCM and ISPU.

Access

There are almost twice as many male students as female (1.8:1 in 1999); this discrepancy is more severe in the government universities, where men outnumber women 3:1.   There are also substantial class inequalities in access to education.   HE students are disproportionately likely to have Portuguese as their native language, and are far more likely than the general population to have educated parents.   The two main universities have markedly different catchment patterns: almost 60% of UEM students are from urban areas, and a quarter from rural areas, while for UP these proportions are reversed.

Until 1990, access to HE at UEM was guaranteed for all those completing secondary school. This changed with the introduction of entrance exams the following year.  Demand for places now substantially outstrips supply: in 1999, there were 10,974 applicants for 2,342 places.   This over-subscription generally applies only to the government schools, with the non-governmental institutions having roughly equal numbers of applicants and places.

Completion rates

Completion rates at Mozambican HE institutions are extremely low.   In the late 90s, only 6.7% of UEM students and 13.1% of UP students eventually graduated.  Mario et al. have suggested that the difference between these two rates can be attributed to UEM's requirement of a final dissertation. They caution that the low proportion of students completing their studies can actually be a sign of success, as many students find work before ending their courses, and so do not feel the need to formally graduate.

Non-governmental institutions

The advent of the non-governmental universities has prompted some controversy.   They have been criticised for their motivations (financial and religious, rather than purely educational), and for luring teachers away from the state sector.   Many teachers work part-time at the private institutions in addition to their government jobs, so it has been argued that the private universities do at least increase the amount of education which they are providing.   As noted above, the new universities have also helped to increase the number of places available and the geographical range of provision.

Institutions

Universities include:
 Universidade Eduardo Mondlane - Maputo public
 Universidade São Tomás de Moçambique private
 Universidade Católica de Moçambique - Nampula, Sofala, Cabo Delgado private
 Universidade Mussa Bin Bique private
 Instituto Superior Politécnico e Universitário - Maputo, Quelimane private
 Instituto Superior de Ciências e Tecnologia de Moçambique private
 Instituto Superior de Relações Internacionais private
 Instituto Superior de Transportes e Comunicações private
 Maputo University - Maputo public
 Universidade Técnica de Moçambique 
 Academia Militar Samora Machel public
 Universidade de Lúrio- Nampula, Cabo Delgado, Niassa public
 Academia de Ciencias Policiais - Maputo private
 Universidade Zambeze - Beira public

References 

 Mario, Mouzinho; Fry, Peter; Leve, Lisbeth (2003). Higher Education in Mozambique.  .
 Mungazi, Dickson.  To Honor the Sacred Trust of Civilization: History, Politics, & Education in Southern Africa.
 Mungazi, Dickson and Walker, L Kay.  Educational reform and the transformation of southern Africa.
 Newitt, Malyn.  A History of Mozambique.

External links 
 Education Statistics and Quality of Education in Mozambique, Southern and Eastern Africa Consortium for Monitoring Educational Quality (SACMEQ)
 INHEA country profile: Mozambique
 Education project in Pemba
 Basic Education Quality in Mozambique