[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Defense Production Act of 1950

ates to prevent the industrial base from being destroyed by a single nuclear attack. During the late 1960s and early 1970s, the DPA increasingly was used to diversify the US energy mix by funding the trans-Alaskan pipeline, the US synthetic fuels corporation, and research into liquefied natural gas.

Technological innovation
Beginning in the 1980s, the DOD began using the contracting and spending provisions of the DPA to provide seed money to develop new technologies. The DOD has used the act to help develop a number of new technologies and materials, including silicon carbide ceramics, indium phosphide and gallium arsenide semiconductors, microwave power tubes, radiation-hardened microelectronics, superconducting wire, metal composites and the mining and processing of rare earth minerals.

FEMA National Security Resource Preparedness
In June 1994, President Bill Clinton invoked the law to implement national security resource preparedness during disasters under the advisement of the FEMA director. The order allows FEMA work with other federal departments to order producers and distributors to prioritize resources in preparation of and in times of disasters.

21st century

California energy crisis
In January 2001, President Bill Clinton invoked the law to force gas suppliers to continue to supply Pacific Gas and Electric Company, the largest California energy provider, with gas regardless of loss as a result of suppliers shutting off gas supplies due to the PG&E's non-payment during the 2000–01 California electricity crisis. The order was later rescinded under the George W. Bush administration but, resulted in the expansion of blackouts in California for several months and PG&E's bankruptcy.

Cyberespionage
In 2011, President Barack Obama invoked the law to force telecommunications companies, under criminal penalties, to provide detailed information to the Commerce Department's Bureau of Industry and Security on the use of foreign-manufactured hardware and software in the companies' networks, as part of efforts to combat Chinese cyberespionage.

Materials critical to national defense
On June 13, 2017, President Donald Trump invoked the law to classify two sets of products as "critical to national defense". The first referenced "items affecting aerospace structures and fibers, radiation-hardened microelectronics, radiation test and qualification facilities, and satellite components and assemblies". The second referenced "items affecting adenovirus vaccine production capability; high strength, inherently fire and ballistic resistant, co-polymer aramid fibers industrial capability; secure hybrid composite shipping container industrial capability; and three-dimensional ultra-high density microelectronics for information protection industrial capability".

COVID-19 pandemic 
On March 18, 2020, in response to the COVID-19 outbreak, President Trump issued an executive order that defined ventilators and protective equipment as "essential to the national defense", the standard required by the DPA. Later that day, he indicated that he would not make immediate use of DPA authority, writing, "Hopefully there will be no need"; he indicated that he would do so in a "worst-case scenario". Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi called upon Trump to "immediately use the powers of the DPA" to produce and distribute critically needed hospital equipment. On March 20, Trump said that he would use the DPA. The next day General Motors (GM) CEO Mary Barra spoke to Trump administration officials about how GM could support production of ventilators without the use of DPA. All this was set into motion by a grandiose academic paper.

On March 23, Trump issued an executive order classifying "health and medical resources necessary to respond to the spread of COVID-19" as subject to the authority granted by DPA to prohibit hoarding and price gouging.

Trump's initial reluctance to use the act's authorities prompted criticism. On March 27, 2020, after negotiations with GM had broken down over costs, estimated at over $1 billion, but primarily due to GM's inability to commit to timely delivery of the number of required ventilators, Trump ordered HHS Secretary Alex Azar to use the DPA to require GM to accept and prioritize contracts for as many ventilators as Azar determines to be appropriate. Trump also named Peter Navarro national policy coordinator for the DPA.

On April 2, Trump said he was invoking the DPA to require 3M, General Electric, and Medtronic to increase its production of N95 respirators.