[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# North and South (trilogy)

star-crossed love Madeline, but he is later killed at the Battle of Petersburg by a wounded soldier he tries to help. His older brother Cooper, who had a passion for shipbuilding, is sent to Britain to buy ships for the Confederacy. Both families have their share of suffering before the war is over.

Reception
Love and War debuted at No. 5 on The New York Times Best Seller list, and rose as high as No. 2. It was later ranked the No. 4 hardcover fiction bestseller of 1984 by Publishers Weekly, and No. 7 by The New York Times.

Heaven and Hell (1987)  

The trilogy concludes with 1987's Heaven and Hell, as the Mains and Hazards face more challenges and obstacles while weathering the post-war Reconstruction era. Set chiefly between 1865 and 1869, the novel follows Orry's cousin Charles Main, a veteran of the Confederate Army who fights in the subsequent wars with the Native Americans and must recover from the trauma of his violent life. The presumed-dead Elkanah Bent murders George Hazard's wife, Constance, and targets the Mains and Hazards for complete destruction, while Orry Main's widow Madeline, previously revealed to be an octoroon, becomes a target of the newly established Ku Klux Klan.

One chapter of the book has the Main and Hazard families, finally at peace, gathering together at the 1876 Centennial Exposition. The final chapter flashes forward to 1883 when the sons of Charles Main (who by now had become a successful rancher in Texas) and Billy Hazard (who was now a successful land baron in California) enter West Point, just as their fathers did and just as George and Orry did in 1842.

Reception
Heaven and Hell debuted at No. 8 on The New York Times Best Seller list, and rose as high as No. 2. It was later ranked the No. 9 hardcover fiction bestseller of 1987 by Publishers Weekly.

TV adaptations

North and South was adapted into a six-part television miniseries for ABC, which premiered on November 3, 1985. Starring Patrick Swayze as Orry Main and James Read as George Hazard, it remains the seventh-highest rated miniseries in TV history. Its sequel, an adaptation of Love and War called North and South: Book II for television, debuted on May 4, 1986, with similar success. A final installment, Heaven and Hell: North and South Book III, premiered on February 27, 1994, but it failed to match the success of its predecessors.

The miniseries follow the general plot of the novels, although the focus is shifted from the friction between the North and South to the love story between Orry Main and Madeline Fabray LaMotte. Notable departures from the books are Swayze's Orry surviving through the end of Love and War (only to be murdered by Bent at the beginning of Heaven and Hell), Kirstie Alley's Virgilia Hazard not surviving, Elkanah Bent being a wiry Georgian instead of an obese Ohioan, and Orry Main's older brother Cooper Main being omitted from the first two series.

References

External links
 North and South: JohnJakes.com

Novels set during the American Civil War
Family saga novels
Charleston, South Carolina in fiction
Works about women in war
American novels adapted into television shows