[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

ll's division (including the regiment) fought in the Battle of Cove Mountain in northern Wythe County, Virginia. Averell was eventually able to destroy 26 bridges and portions of railroad track near Dublin (Newbern on old maps), Virginia. The division returned to its base in West Virginia on May 18.

On May 22, the regiment was fording the Greenbrier River just upriver from a waterfall. Their objective was to eliminate some Confederate sharpshooters that were harassing the cavalry. Colonel Henry Capehart stationed himself between the falls and the crossing. His standard procedure was to position himself down river at crossings, which would enable him to rescue men having trouble crossing the water. He was an expert rider and had a horse that was a good swimmer. In this circumstance, a private from Company B was swept out of his saddle while attempting to cross a swollen river with a swift current. Not only was the private swept over the falls, but Capehart and his horse were too. Capehart was able to rescue the private while both were being shot at by enemy sharpshooters. On February 12, 1895, Henry Capehart was awarded the Medal of Honor for this action. His citation read "Saved, under fire, the life of a drowning soldier."

Hunter's Lynchburg Campaign
During early June, various Union forces met in Stanton, Virginia, and were resupplied. After a reorganization on June 9, Averell commanded the Second Cavalry Division, and its 3rd Brigade (1st and 2nd West Virginia Cavalry regiments) was commanded by Colonel William H. Powell. The infantry was led by General George Crook. General David Hunter was the commander of the entire cavalry and infantry force. On June 10, they moved toward Lexington, Virginia as part of a plan to capture Lynchburg. The force arrived in Lexington on June 11, and occupied the town for several days. On June 14, Powell's brigade was sent forward Liberty, and drove away Confederate cavalry. During this time, Confederate reinforcements were arriving at Lynchburg.

On June 16, the entire Union force left Liberty and approached Lynchburg from the southwest. The Battle of Lynchburg was fought on June 17 and 18. Approximately 44,000 soldiers participated in this Confederate victory. The Union force could not capture Lynchburg, and was forced to retreat toward West Virginia as supplies dwindled. The force reached Charleston on July 1. Losses for Hunter's entire army totaled to 940 men.

Shenandoah Valley
During July, the 1st West Virginia Cavalry left Charleston, West Virginia, for Parkersburg—where they boarded the B&O Railroad with their horses to begin a three-day trip to the other side of the state. Their destination was the rail station at Martinsburg. The regiment was commanded by Henry Capehart, and was part of the 2nd Brigade, Second Cavalry Division, Army of West Virginia. Hunter commanded this army while Averell commanded its Second Cavalry Division. Powell commanded the 2nd Brigade of the Second Division.

Battle of Rutherford's Farm
The Battle of Rutherford's Farm, also known as the Battle of Carter's Farm, occurred on July 20, about  north of Winchester, Virginia. While portions of Hunter's army were still arriving in the Martinsburg area, Hunter sent Averell from Martinsburg toward Winchester to meet a perceived threat to the B&O Railroad from General Jubal Early's Army of the Valley. Averell did not have his entire cavalry force when he started, but had about 1,000 men from the 1st and 3rd West Virginia Cavalry Regiments. He also had another 1,350 infantrymen. He advanced southwest down the Valley Turnpike, and was attacked by Confederate troops under the command of General Stephen Dodson Ramseur. Although the attack was initially successful, Averell was reinforced by 300 men from the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry who had arrived at Martinsburg after Averell had departed. The unexpected reinforcement led to a Confederate panic, and Averell won the battle. The Confederate loss was about 400 to 450 men, and Averell's men collected 500 rifles from the battlefield. Averell's casualties were about 220.

Second Battle of Kernstown
After Averell's victory at Rutherford's Farm, he was joined by another cavalry division and infantry. Crook commanded the entire force. Both cavalry divisions sent men on scouts to find Early's army. Crook believed that most of Early's army had left the valley to defend the Confederate capital, Richmond, Virginia. He did not believe the reports of Averell and General Alfred N. Duffié (commander of the First Cavalry Division) that said enemy infantry, artillery, and cavalry were in the area.  Crook was mistaken, and both cavalry units made accurate reports.