[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stephen Minot Weld Jr.

lived on a  estate he named "Rockweld" in Dedham, most of which was surrounded by a high stone wall.  He created one of the finest rock gardens in the country and employed eight gardeners.  His estate had a water tower and a dozen greenhouses, one of which was dedicated to growing grapes year round.

He built his mansion on a craggy hill with a dramatic view of the Charles River valley. Outcrops, boulders, woodlands, and ponds dotted the surrounding property, offering endless opportunities to satisfy Weld's passion for horticulture.

Frederick Law Olmsted sited the house and planned the driveway and west terrace. Weld designed the grounds, pathways, and an extensive rock garden. He brought plants from around the world to embellish his designs.  At its peak, Rockwell had 500 varieties of flowering plants.

A few years after Weld's death, the estate was sold to H. Wendell Endicott, son of Henry B. Endicott, who founded the Endicott Shoe Company.  Endicott maintained and expanded the gardens, but razed Rockweld to build a Normandy French-style chateau designed by Charles Platt.  This edifice, known as Endicott House, is now a conference facility maintained by MIT.

Indian Neck
In his later years, Weld spent much of his time at the family compound he established near Cape Cod at Indian Neck, a spot which commands a majestic view of Bourne Cove and the Atlantic Ocean.  There he created another spectacular garden and built a private 18-hole golf course as well as several comfortable houses.  In addition to time playing golf, Weld enjoyed fishing and shooting on the Cape.

A transitional figure between the nineteenth century and the modern era, Weld also acquired hundreds of acres along the shores of Buzzards Bay and transferred lots to friends at cost.  This created an enclave of old Yankee stock with similar values in a part of Massachusetts that was increasingly heterogeneous.

Descendants of "the General" still own a cluster of six separate houses at the family compound in Wareham, although in recent decades a preponderance of female offspring has made the Weld surname rare among them.  The historic cottages now house Edges, Bigelows, Bentons, and Baldwins.

Family
Weld married Eloise Rodman (of the Forest Hills family of that name) in 1869 and they lived together on the Dedham estate. Stephen and Eloise had six boys and one girl before she died in 1898.

Among these children, twins Stephen and Alfred succumbed to rheumatic fever at 17 and tuberculosis at 32, respectively.  Eight-year-old Lothrop Motley Weld drowned in the channel at Bourne Cove in Wareham a year after the family purchased their property there.  In 1907, his daughter, Eloise, died in England at the age of 28. A granddaughter, Eloise Rodman Weld (1911–2001), married firstly Wiliam Lukens Elkins III, a grandson of William Lukens Elkins, secondly William Thomas Fleming Jr., and thirdly, Arthur Osgood Choate Jr., a grandson of George Cheyne Shattuck Choate.

In 1904, Weld married Susan Edith Waterbury, who was 24 years younger than he was and had been governess to his younger sons.  On their honeymoon they toured the Civil War battlefields where Weld had fought 40 years earlier.

Death
"The General" died in the winter of 1920 in Boca Grande, Florida.  Befitting his status as a Civil War veteran, a single bugler played taps at his funeral.

Trivia
Actress Tuesday Weld is his great-granddaughter.
Former Governor of Massachusetts William Weld is his first cousin twice removed.
His wife was the niece of the historian John Lothrop Motley.  Lothrop Motley Weld (the son described above) is John Lothrop Motley's namesake.

Archives and records
Stephen M. Weld and Company records at Baker Library Special Collections, Harvard Business School.

Notes

References
Eicher, John H. and Eicher, David J. Civil War High Commands. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
Hunt, Roger D. and Brown, Jack R. Brevet Brigadier Generals in Blue. Gaithersburg, MD: Olde Soldier Books, Inc., 1990. .
Harvard Magazine November-December 1998, "The Welds of Harvard Yard" by associate editor Craig A. Lambert
Jamaica Plain Historical Society, "The Weld Family"
Project Gutenberg, Book of Annals and Reminiscences of Jamaica Plain by Harriet Manning Whitcomb
Technology Review, "Endicott House"

1842 births
1920 deaths
History of Boston
Harvard College alumni
Union Army colonels
Arnold Arboretum
Military personnel from Dedham, Massachusetts