[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# AQA Anthology

ummer...”
Percy Bysshe Shelley: "Ozymandias"

English Literature: Prose
Doris Lessing: "Flight"
Sylvia Plath: "Superman and Paula Brown's New Snowsuit"
Michèle Roberts: "Your Shoes"
Joyce Cary: "Growing Up"
Ernest Hemingway: "The End of Something"
Graham Swift: "Chemistry"
Leslie Norris: "Snowdrops"

2008 Reissued Anthology 
In 2008 the Anthology was reissued without "Education for Leisure" following complaints about its reference to knives and concerns about rising levels of knife crime in schools. In the new Anthology the poem was replaced with a "This page is left intentionally blank" notice. After removing "Education for Leisure" from the anthology the exam board was accused of censorship.

2010 Anthology 
The fifth anthology was produced for first teaching in 2010.

The anthology includes poems under the heading "Moon on the Tides" and prose under the heading "Sunlight on the Grass". Some of the poems are by authors of poems in the first anthology such as Agard and Armitage.

The poetry anthology was divided into four clusters, titled "Character and voice", "Place", "Conflict", and "Relationships".

Poems

Character and voice 
'The Clown Punk' by Simon Armitage
'Checking Out Me History' by John Agard
'Horse Whisperer' by Andrew Forster
'Medusa' by Carol Ann Duffy
'Singh Song!' by Daljit Nagra
'Brendon Gallacher' by Jackie Kay
'Give' by Simon Armitage
'Les Grands Seigneurs' by Dorothy Molloy
'Ozymandias' by Percy Bysshe Shelley
'My Last Duchess' by Robert Browning
'The River God' by Stevie Smith
'The Hunchback in the Park' by Dylan Thomas
'The Ruined Maid' by Thomas Hardy
'Casehistory: Alison (head injury)' by U. A. Fanthorpe
'On a Portrait of a Deaf Man' by John Betjeman

Place 
'The Blackbird of Glanmore' by Seamus Heaney
'A Vision' by Simon Armitage
'The Moment' by Margaret Atwood
'Cold Knap Lake' by Gillian Clarke
'Price We Pay for the Sun' by Grace Nichols
'Neighbours' by Gillian Clarke
'Crossing the Loch' by Kathleen Jamie
'Hard Water' by Jean Sprackland
'London' by William Blake
'The Prelude' extract by William Wordsworth
'The Wild Swans at Coole' by W. B. Yeats
'Spellbound' by Emily Brontë
'Below the Green Corrie' by Norman MacCaig
'Storm in the Black Forest' by D. H. Lawrence
'Wind' by Ted Hughes

Conflict 
'Flag' by John Agard
'Out of the Blue' extract by Simon Armitage
'Mametz Wood' by Owen Sheers
'The Yellow Palm' by Robert Minhinnick
'The Right Word' by Imtiaz Dharker
'At the Border' by Choman Hardi
'Belfast Confetti' by Ciaran Carson
'Poppies' by Jane Weir
'Futility' by Wilfred Owen
'The Charge of the Light Brigade' by Alfred Lord Tennyson
'Bayonet Charge' by Ted Hughes
'The Falling Leaves' by Margaret Postgate Cole
'Come On, Come Back' by Stevie Smith
'next to of course god america i' by E. E. Cummings
'Hawk Roosting' by Ted Hughes

Relationships 
'The Manhunt' by Simon Armitage
'Hour' by Carol Ann Duffy
'In Paris With You' by James Fenton
'Quickdraw' by Carol Ann Duffy
'Ghazal' by Mimi Khalvati
'Brothers' by Andrew Forster
'Praise Song for My Mother' by Grace Nichols
'Harmonium' by Simon Armitage
Sonnet 116 by William Shakespeare
Sonnet 43 by Elizabeth Barrett Browning
'To His Coy Mistress' by Andrew Marvell
'The Farmer's Bride' by Charlotte Mew
'Sister Maude' by Christina Rossetti
'Nettles' by Vernon Scannell
'Born Yesterday' by Philip Larkin

Modern Prose
'My Polish Teacher's Tie' by Helen Dunmore
'When the Wasps Drowned' by Clare Wigfall
'Compass and Torch' by Elizabeth Baines
'On Seeing the 100% Perfect Girl One Beautiful April Morning' by Haruki Murakami
'The Darkness Out There' by Penelope Lively
'Anil' by Ridjal Noor
'Something Old, Something New' by Leila Aboulela

2015 Anthology 
The newest edition of the anthology was produced for first teaching in 2015, in line with the reformed GCSE English Literature qualification. The anthology includes poems under the title "Poems Past and Present", and prose under the title "Telling Tales".

The poetry anthology is divided into two clusters - "Love and Relationships" and "Power and Conflict".

Poems Past and Present

Love and Relationships 

 'When We Two Parted' by Lord Byron
 'Love's Philosophy' by Percy Bysshe Shelley
 'Porphyria's Lover' by Robert Browning
 'Sonnet 29 - 'I think of thee!'' by Elizabeth Barrett Browning
 'Neutral Tones' by Thomas Hardy
 'Letters from Yorkshire' by Maura Dooley
 'The Farmer's Bride' by Charlotte Mew
 'Walking Away' by Cecil Day-Lewis
 'Eden Rock' by Charles Causley
 'Follower' by Seamus Heaney
 'Mother, any distance' by Simon Armitage
 'Before You Were Mine' by Carol Ann Duffy
 'Winter Swans' by Owen Sheers
 'Singh Song!' by Daljit Nagra
 'Climbing My Grandfather' by Andrew Waterhouse

Power and Conflict