[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lucas Biglia

Sint-Truiden. Despite missing out with a shoulder injury, Biglia helped the club win the league this season, his first in two years, and went on to make 38 appearances and scored two goals in all competitions. For his performance, Biglia was awarded the club's Player of the Year by club supporters.

In the 2012–13 season, Biglia was linked with a move away from Anderlecht, with Arsenal, Norwich City, Real Madrid and Internazionale showing interest. However, he remained at Anderlecht when the summer transfer window closed. In the first half of the season, Biglia continued to impress as a captain and performance and scored three times by the end of 2012 against Waasland-Beveren, Club Brugge and Cercle Brugge. In the January transfer window, Biglia again said he wanted to leave Anderlecht, with Southampton wanting to sign him. Biglia attempted to force a move by failing to show up for training. After the transfer window ended, the club announced Biglia would leave the club in the summer, along with Dieumerci Mbokani. Biglia would claim his absence was due to depression. He also said he never wanted to leave the club. Later in the 2012–13 season, Biglia scored his fourth goal of the season, but received his first red card in his Anderlecht career, as they drew 2–2 against Standard Liège on 3 February 2013. In the last match of the Pro League play-off, Biglia scored the equaliser against Zulte Waregem, which gave Anderlecht the title. Again leading the club to the league title, Biglia made 51 appearances and scored five goals in all competitions.

Shortly after winning the title, general manager Herman Van Holsbeeck confirmed Biglia would leave the club. During the final match, he performed a lap of honour for the fans. During his time at Anderlecht, Biglia's playing style was often compared with that of compatriot Fernando Redondo due to his accurate passing and hard tackling.

Lazio
On 23 July 2013, Italian side Lazio announced Biglia would be signing a five-year contract for an undisclosed fee. Previously, the club had been Biglia's main transfer target since 2010. According to Lazio's financial report, Biglia cost Lazio about €8.4 million, including €750,000 to his agent.

Biglia made his Lazio debut in the opening match of the season, starting and playing the entirety of a 2–1 win over Udinese. Later in the season, he was sidelined with a calf injury that kept him out twice throughout 2013. Despite this, Biglia established himself in the starting 11 under the management of Vladimir Petković, becoming the club's first-choice defensive midfielder. Biglia then scored his first goal for the club on 22 December in a 4–1 loss against Hellas Verona. In a match against AC Milan on 23 March 2014, he set up a goal for Álvaro González to score the equaliser in an ultimate 1–1 draw. However, after being sidelined with a rib injury, Biglia was sent-off on his return from injury after a second bookable offence in a 2–0 victory against Sampdoria on 6 April. In the last match of the season, Biglia scored the only goal in a 1–0 win over Bologna. In his first season at the club, in all competitions, Biglia made 32 appearances and scored 2 goals.

In the 2014–15 season, Biglia continued to start in the first team before suffering a foot injury during a match against Genoa that kept him out for weeks. After returning to the first team, he scored his first goal of the season on 26 October 2014 in a 2–1 win over Torino. He then suffered another injury by the end of the year, but this time, it was a tear in the abductor muscle. Biglia then scored a penalty in the quarter-final of Coppa Italia in a 1–0 win over Milan. Subsequently, he helped the club reach the final, but he did not play, due to injury and Lazio lost 2–1 to Juventus. It was not until 9 March 2015 when Biglia scored again, in a 4–0 win over Fiorentina. He then scored again on 4 April 2015 in a 3–1 win over Cagliari. Despite suffering from another injury, Biglia finished his second season, making 31 appearances and scoring 4 goals in all competitions.