[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Columbus Comets

The Columbus Comets were a women's professional American football team based in Columbus, Ohio.  They played in the Women's Football Alliance.  The Comets played in the National Women's Football Association from their inception in 2003 until 2008 (in 2003 they were known as the Columbus Flames).  Their home games were played at Grove City Christian School in Grove City, Ohio.

History
The Columbus Comets were founded as the Columbus Flames in 2003 as part of the National Women's Football Association. The founder was Donna Ford, but she sold the team for the second year and the team name was changed to the Comets by new owner Lori Davis. 

In 2004, the Comets became the first Women's Professional Football team to play at an National Football League stadium, when they defeated the Cleveland Fusion at Cleveland Browns Stadium 20-7. 

The team played in the 2007 NWFA Championship, but lost to the Pittsburgh Passion. 

The team began playing their games at Grove City Christian School's Huffaker Community Sports Complex in 2008.

Move to the WFA 
The team joined the Women's Football Alliance in 2009 following the disbanding of their previous league and long-time head coach Hank Patterson, purchased the team. The team made the WFA Championship in 2010, but lost to the Lone Star Mustangs 12-16, in their only loss of the season.

In 2016, the team dropped to WFA Division II and remained in the division until they folded following the cancelation of the 2020 season due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Season-by-season results

Source

References

External links
Columbus Comets website
Women's Football Talk Interview with Coach Patterson

National Women's Football Association teams
Women's Football Alliance teams
American football teams in Columbus, Ohio
American football teams established in 2003
2003 establishments in Ohio
Women's sports in Ohio
Franklin County, Ohio
Defunct American football teams in Ohio
American football teams disestablished in 2020