[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Czech nationality law

The citizenship law of the Czech Republic is based on the principles of jus sanguinis or "right by blood". In other words, descent from a Czech parent is the primary method of acquiring Czech citizenship (together with naturalization). Birth on Czech territory without a Czech parent is in itself insufficient for the conferral of Czech citizenship. Every Czech citizen is also a citizen of the European Union. The law came into effect on 1 January 1993, the date of the dissolution of Czechoslovakia, and has been amended in 1993, 1995, 1996, 1999, 2002, 2003, and 2005. Since 1 January 2014, multiple citizenship under Czech law is allowed.

Acquisition

Citizenship by birth

The principle of jus sanguinis is used to determine eligibility for citizenship, as is typical in Europe. In principle, any person born to a Czech citizen is a Czech citizen at birth. If both grandparents on someone's maternal lineage or paternal lineage, Czech nationality will be transmitted down to the family lineage up till grandchildren. Whether a person is born in the Czech Republic or elsewhere is irrelevant. 
Where only the father is Czech, and the parents are unmarried, proof of paternity is required — by the parents making a concerted declaration before the Registry Office or a court, submission of a DNA test, or a court determination relating to the paternity of the child.

Children born in the Czech Republic to non-Czech parents do not acquire Czech citizenship unless:

 the parents are stateless; and
 at least one parent is a legal resident of the Czech Republic (ie. that they are permitted to reside in the Czech Republic for more than 90 days).

Abandoned children aged less than 15 years found on the territory of the Czech Republic (where the identity of the parents cannot be established) are deemed to be Czech citizens.

Naturalization
Resident foreigners or stateless persons who have held a right of permanent residence for at least five years (reduced to three years for EU citizens) and have resided in the Czech Republic for most of that time can apply for Czech naturalization if they can prove they are of good character and are proficient in Czech (current or former Slovak citizens are exempt from language requirements). Parents can apply for their children under 15 years of age, and naturalization occurs at the discretion of the Interior Ministry.

The residence requirement can be waived if the person has a permanent residence permit and
Has lived there for at least 10 years continuously, or
Was born on the territory of the Czech Republic, or
Has held Czech or Czechoslovak citizenship before, or
At least one of his or her parents is a Czech citizen, or
Was adopted by a Czech citizen, or
His or her spouse or registered/civil partner is a Czech citizen, or
Is under 18 years of age, or
Is stateless or has refugee status in the Czech Republic., or
Is applying for naturalization by Section 16 and whose grant of citizenship would be a significant benefit to the Czech Republic from a sports, scientific, cultural, or other perspective

Declaration
If a person was a citizen of the Czech and Slovak Federative Republic as of 31 December 1992, he may declare citizenship of either the Czech Republic or Slovakia (gaining Slovak citizenship) assuming he does not have any other citizenship. The Slovak provision allowing for this grant expired in 1993, however, the Czech equivalent remains in the citizenship law.

The children and grandchildren of former Czech or Czechoslovak citizens who lost their citizenship on or before December 31, 2013 are also eligible to claim citizenship by declaration, also known as citizenship by descent.

Since the new amendment allowing children and grandchildren to renew their Czech citizenship through the descent route was enacted in September 2019, only about 280 children or grandchildren have taken advantage of the fast-track citizenship as of April 2021. This in spite of over an estimated 1 million Czech descendants living in the United States and an estimated 100,000 or more being eligible for the citizenship.

Due to the fact that Czechoslovakia and the United States had a treaty that forbade dual nationality for those who were naturalized in the other country at the age of 21 or older, the new citizenship by descent (declaration) mainly concerns US citizens with Czech ancestry, as it is easy to prove loss of citizenship with a US naturalization certificate. Before 1993, simply naturalizing in another country did not automatically mean loss of citizenship unless the individual who lost it was at least 21 years and naturalized in the United States or was a minor child whose US citizenship was derived from his/her parents who naturalized in the United States.