[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Corpus separatum (Jerusalem)

y See
The Holy See has previously expressed support for the status of corpus separatum. Pope Pius XII was among the first to support such a proposal in the 1949 encyclical Redemptoris nostri cruciatus, and the concept was later re-proposed during the papacies of John XXIII, Paul VI and John Paul II.

Consulates in Jerusalem
Various countries maintain consulates-general in Jerusalem. These operate in a unique way, at great variance with the normal diplomatic practice. The countries which maintain these consulates do not regard them as diplomatic missions to Israel or the Palestinian Authority, but as diplomatic missions to Jerusalem. Where these countries also have embassies to Israel, usually located in Tel Aviv, the Jerusalem-based consul is not subordinate to the ambassador in Tel Aviv (as would be the normal diplomatic usage) but reports directly to the country's foreign ministry. This unique diplomatic situation could be considered, to some degree, as reflecting the corpus separatum which never came into existence.

Status after 1967

Following the Six-Day War of 1967, Israel gained military control of all Jordanian territory west of the Jordan. On 27 June 1967, it extended its law and jurisdiction to 17,600 acres of formerly Jordanian territory, including all of Jordanian Jerusalem and a portion of the nearby West Bank; the area is now known as East Jerusalem, and widely referred to as occupied Jerusalem. The extension was widely regarded as tantamount to annexation and had widely not been recognized internationally. The present municipal boundaries of Jerusalem are not the same as those of the corpus separatum set out in the Partition Plan and do not include, for example, Bethlehem, Motza, or Abu Dis.

In 1980,  the Israeli Knesset passed a Jerusalem Law declaring united Jerusalem to be Israel's capital, although the clause "the integrity and unity of greater Jerusalem (Yerushalayim rabati) in its boundaries after the Six-Day War shall not be violated" was dropped from the original bill. United Nations Security Council Resolution 478 of 20 August 1980 condemned this and no countries located their embassies in Jerusalem, until the United States moved its embassy from Tel Aviv in 2018.

In numerous resolutions, the UN has declared every action changing the status of Jerusalem illegal and therefore null and void and having no validity. A recent such resolution was Resolution 66/18 of 30 November 2011.

See also
Positions on Jerusalem
UN General Assembly Resolution 194, (1948)
United Nations Conciliation Commission, (1949)
Free City of Danzig

References

External links
Official map of the Jerusalem corpus separatum 
IMEU: Maps: 2.7 – Jerusalem and the Corpus Separatum proposed in 1947. Map from Institute for Middle East Understanding.

1947 establishments in Mandatory Palestine
Jerusalem
Israeli–Palestinian peace process
Late modern history of Jerusalem
Power sharing
1947 in the United Nations
United Nations peacekeeping