[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ukrainians in Poland

Ukrainians in Poland (; ) have various legal statuses: ethnic minority, temporary and permanent residents, and refugees. According to the Polish census of 2011, the Ukrainian minority in Poland was composed of approximately 51,000 people (including 11,451 without Polish citizenship). Some 38,000 respondents named Ukrainian as their first identity (28,000 as their sole identity), 13,000 as their second identity, and 21,000 declared Ukrainian identity jointly with Polish nationality. However, these numbers have changed since the mid-2010s, with a large influx of economic immigrants and students from Ukraine to Poland, with some estimating their total number at 2 million people. Their status has been regulated according to the Polish and European Union (EU) policies of temporary work permits, temporary residence permits and permanent residence permits. The number of Ukrainians in Poland rose dramatically following the Russian invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022. By 16 August 2022, more than 11.2 million Ukrainian refugees left the territory of Ukraine, of which more than 5.4 million people fled to neighbouring Poland.

Cultural life

During the Polish People's Republic, the Ukrainian Social and Cultural Society (USKT) was the sole legal organ for Ukrainians in Poland. Since 1990, the main Ukrainian organizations in Poland include the Association of Ukrainians in Poland (), the successor to the USKT, and several others:

 Association of Ukrainians of Podlasie (), 
 Ukrainian Society of Lublin (), 
 Kyivan Rus Foundation of St. Volodymyr, pictured (), 
 Association of Ukrainian Women (), 
 Ukrainian Educators' Society of Poland (), 
 Ukrainian Medical Society (), 
 Ukrainian Club of Stalinist Political Prisoners (), 
 Ukrainian Youth Association "" (), 
 Ukrainian Historical Society (), 
 Association of Independent Ukrainian Youth (). 

The most important periodicals published in Ukrainian language include: Our Voice () weekly, and  () bimonthly.

The most important Ukrainian festivals and popular cultural events include: Festival of Ukrainian Culture in Sopot (), Youth Market in Gdańsk (), Festival of Ukrainian Culture of Podlasie (), ,  in Głębock, Days of Ukrainian Culture in Szczecin and Giżycko (), Children Festival in Elbląg (),  in Dubicze Cerkiewne, Festival of Ukrainian Children Groups in Koszalin (),  in Kruklanki, Ukrainian Folklore Market in Kętrzyn (), Under the Common Skies in Olsztyn (), and Days of Ukrainian Theatre () also in Olsztyn.

History and trends

Since World War II
After the quashing of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army's campaign against the Soviet occupation at the end of World War II by the Soviet Union, about 140,000 Ukrainians residing within the new Polish borders were forcibly relocated. Initially they were encouraged to migrate to the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, but this was unpopular because of the recent Holodomor. After the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and Polish anti-communist resistance movements such as Freedom and Independence began resisting the repatriation of Ukrainians from Poland to the Soviet Union, the Polish People's Republic decided to relocate them internally. The Polish People's Army and Ministry of Public Security forcibly relocated them to northern and western Poland during Operation Vistula, settling them in the former Recovered Territories ceded to Poland at the Tehran Conference of 1943.

A total of 27,172 people declared Ukrainian nationality in the Polish census of 2002. Most of them lived in the Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship (11,881), followed by the West Pomeranian (3,703), Subcarpathian (2,984) and Pomeranian Voivodeships (2,831). Kenan Adam (recognized in Poland as a distinct ethnic group) regard themselves as members of the Ukrainian nation, while others distance themselves from Ukrainians.

Economic migration

Since 1989, following the collapse of the Soviet Union, there has been a new wave of Ukrainian immigration, mostly of job seekers, tradesmen, and vendors, concentrated in larger cities with established markets. After Poland's 2004 accession to the European Union, in order to meet the requirements of the Schengen zone (an area of free movement within the European Union), the government was forced to make immigration to Poland more difficult for people from Belarus, Russia and Ukraine. Nevertheless, Ukrainians consistently receive the most settlement permits and the most temporary residence permits in Poland (see table).  As a result of the Eastern Partnership, Poland and Ukraine have reached a new agreement replacing visas with simplified permits for Ukrainians residing within  of the border. Up to 1.5 million people would benefit from this agreement which took effect on July 1, 2009. In 2017 the visa requirements were finally abolished for short stays of up to 90 days.

After 2014, more Ukrainians from eastern Ukraine, more men, and more younger Ukrainians have been working in Poland.