[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lotus 23

ears and a forward-facing selector rod on the right side in a bespoke (Hewland made) tail casing.

The intake funnels on the Weber carburetors on 23B (and the 23C) were housed in a "cold air box" which received fresh air from two oval holes cut out on the top side of the rear body behind the driver.

The 23C
The 23B proved to be very successful in being a "giant killer" often beating cars in larger classes, but the limited road adhesion due to the narrow tyre width became apparent as the shortcoming in running with the larger cars.  The 23C was developed using much wider Formula Two tyres mounted on wider 6-stud, six-spoke magnesium wheels front and rear.  The body received wing-extensions to cover the wider tyres, with the characteristic 23/23B rear wings (covering the top half of the wheels on the outside) cut-out to expose the entire tyre/wheel in the side view.

Lotus 23 proved a competitive, durable, and popular race car.  These cars are still a mainstay of vintage racing in Europe and the United States today.
Including the 23B and 23C, about 130 examples were made in period, but the popularity of the model led to many additional cars assembled from replacement and reproduction parts.  The current estimate on the total number ranges between 200 and 400 excluding Xanthos and Noble.

Debut at the Nürburgring
The debut of the 23 was at the Nordschleife on 27 May in the 1962 1000km of Nürburgring. The tiny  Lotus 23 with the newly developed Cosworth Mk.X 1.5 litre based on the Lotus TwinCam engine shot away from the field of Aston Martin DBR1, Ferrari 330LM/GTO, Ferrari Dino 246SP, Porsche 718WRS and others with Jim Clark at the wheel in the rain. Even though some cars had almost four times the power of the Lotus, Clark was 27 seconds ahead of Dan Gurney's Porsche 718GTR after the first lap in the wet. Extending his lead on each lap until the track dried, Clark was overcome by exhaust fumes from a damaged exhaust manifold on lap 12 and crashed out in the 44 lap race.

Another 23 with a 997cc pushrod Cosworth Mk.III driven by Peter Ashdown and Bruce Johnstone also attended this race, entered by Ian Walker Racing, and won the 1L Sportscar class with the 8th overall result, beating the winners of 3L Prototype class (Maserati Tipo 61 CDM) and 1L Prototype class (Midship DOHC engine René Bonnet Djet III) by 3 laps.  It also beat a 3L Sportscar class Ferrari 250 Testa Rossa, 2L Prototype class Alfa Romeo Giulietta SZ and a 4L Prototype class Jaguar E-Type.

Banned from Le Mans
With the sensational Nürburgring debut well publicised in the press, two 23s were entered at Le Mans in June 1962. One with a  aluminium-block DOHC Coventry Climax FWMC with drivers Les Leston / Tony Shelly, and another with one litre Iron block pushrod Cosworth Mk.III with drivers Jim Clark / Trevor Taylor.

The 23s failed to pass the scrutineering on several technical grounds, including an insufficient windscreen height, fuel tank capacity being too large, turning circle too large, ground clearance too small, and the spare tyre requirement not met. Fitted with a makeshift tall wind screen, all but the spare tyre issue was rectified almost immediately.

The original 23 and the later 23B had 4 stud front and 6 stud rear wobbly-web wheels, and carried the narrower and lighter front wheel with its tyre mounted as the spare. (23C had wider 6 stud front and rear wheels.)

The French scrutineers argued the requirement to carry a spare tyre is for the purpose of changing a flat, which is not satisfied by the 23 in the case of a flat occurring on one of the rear tyres. So the Lotus factory had a 4 stud rear hubs drafted and machined over-night, and had a person carry them and flown to Le Mans the next day. After being presented with the 23s with 4 stud rears installed, the scrutineers rejected again on the grounds that the 6 stud configuration must have been a reflection of strength requirement in the original design, so the 4 stud configuration was deemed unsafe. This is a rare  of Les Leston Lotus 23 with tall windscreen and 4 stud rear hub.

The scrutineers and the ACO did not change this position even after Mike Costin, the Lotus engineer on site, offered to go over structural analysis calculations showing the difference falls within the safety margin built in the design to accommodate more powerful  Cosworth Mk.IV and  Cosworth Mk.VII engines.

One of the two Lotus 23s with 4 stud rears, with Cosworth Mk.III  engine, was sold off sans engine on the spot to the 1 litre class winning driver of the event, with a lease on the engine and support contract attached, on a strict condition imposed by Chapman to keep the 4 stud configuration for longer than one racing season. The French driver/buyer, :fr:Bernard Consten, not only obliged but won Clermont-Ferrand 6 Hours and 1000 km of Montlhery that year with this 23 without breaking the studs, the hub, or the wheel.