[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Holden Commodore (VN)

aceway) whereas the NASCAR's being left hand drive raced anticlockwise. The theory being that the driver was positioned on the side of the car that was furthest from the outside wall. Also unlike NASCAR, AUSCAR's used a control tyre with tread that was more like a road tyre than a pure racing slick.

The VN was instantly successful in AUSCAR racing and was soon a popular choice as a replacement for the older VK and VL models. Albury based touring car driver Brad Jones won three straight Australian championships driving his CooperTools Racing VN Commodore in 1990/91, 1991/92 and 1992/93.

NASCAR 
A VN model Commodore was also developed for NASCAR racing in Australia. Bob Jane, wanting local involvement from Holden (Ford was already represented with the American Thunderbird model), pushed development of a left hand drive VN. Highly respected Roadways Racing chief mechanic Les Small developed the car which Allan Grice drove to a number of race wins in 1990 at both the Calder Thunderdome and Adelaide. The VN used a 358-cubic-inch (6.0 L) Chevrolet engine such as used in the Chevrolet Monte Carlo, Chevrolet Lumina and Pontiac Grand Prix NASCAR's.

Bob Jane had hoped to take the VN NASCAR for Grice to the United States to race in the NASCAR's Winston Cup series, but a fallout between himself as the sanctioning body in Australia, and NASCAR in the USA saw the VN remain in Australia. However, Bob Jane's dream of bringing a Commodore to race in NASCAR in the United States would come into fruition in 2013 with NASCAR's premiership, as General Motors made the decision to use a VF Commodore for the series in the United States, as the VF is sold in the United States as a niche market performance sedan known to Americans as the Chevrolet SS.

Notes and references

External links 

 Holden Model History – Holden Commodore / Calais – VN Series 17 August 1988 – October 1991
 The Commodore Info Page – Holden Commodore / Calais – VN Series 17 August 1988 – October 1991
 The Unofficial Holden Commodore Archive – VN Commodore / Calais
 The Unofficial Holden Commodore Archive – VN Commodore / Calais Specifications
 Unique Cars and Parts: Holden Commodore VN

Cars of Australia
Cars of China
VN
Full-size vehicles
Rear-wheel-drive vehicles
Coupé utilities
Sedans
Station wagons
Cars introduced in 1988

1990s cars
Cars discontinued in 1991