[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Armenians in Syria

in Aleppo:
Armenian General Benevolent Union (1910)
Armenian Syrian Red Cross Association (1919)
National Orphanage (1920)
Armenian Old Age Home (1923)
Howard Karageozian Commemorative Corporation (1941)
Jinishian Memorial Foundation (1966)
Social Service Consultation of the Diocese of Beroea (1993)

Sports associations based in Aleppo:
Armenian Sports Union, known as Homenmen sports and scouting organization established in Aleppo in 1921
Ararat Sports Union, founded in 1923, represented to the Syrian General Sports Federation under the name Ouroube SC
Armenian General Athletic Union, known as Homentmen sports and scouting organization, established in Istanbul in 1918 and opened branches in Syria in 1925, represented to the Syrian General Sports Federation under the name al-Yarmouk SC

Students associations based in Aleppo:
Karen Jeppe College Graduates Union (1947)
Syrian-Armenian University Students Union (Ս.Հ.Մ., est. 1968)
Graduates Union of Higher Institutions of Armenia (1982)
Syrian Universities' Armenian Graduates Union (Ս.Հ.Շ.Հ.Մ., est. 1985)
Dkhrouny Students-Youth Association (1969) of the Hunchakian party
Christapor Students Union (2001) of the Dashnak party

Most associations have their branches in many other Syrian cities: Qamishli, Damascus, Latakia, Kessab, etc.

The Armenians of Aleppo have also formed compatriotic unions based on their roots, named after towns and villages where their ancestors have migrated from, during the Armenian genocide. Nowadays, there are 11 compatriotic organizations operating in Aleppo: Dikranagerd, Daron-Duruperan, Marash, Urfa women's, Urfa youth, Palu, Zeitun, Kilis, Berejik, Musa Ler and Garmouj compatriotic unions.

Other notable community structures in Aleppo include:
The National Cemetery, opened in 1927 on a state-owned piece of land. It became the property of the prelacy after the independence of Syria in 1946. The chapel of Surp Hripsimé stands at the centre of the cemetery since 1970.
Avetis Aharonian theatre hall of the Armenian Prelacy, opened in 1959, renovated and renamed in 1989 (450 seats)
Zavarian theatre hall of the Armenian Prelacy, opened in 1965, renovated in 2002 (350 seats)
Kevork Nazarian theatre hall of AGBU, renovated and renamed in the mid-1990s (550 seats)
Zohrab Kaprielian theatre hall of Grtasirats Cultural Association, opened in 1973, renovated and renamed in 1999 (600 seats)
Kevork Yesayan theatre hall of the Armenian Prelacy, opened in 2005 (700 seats)
Zarehian Treasury, opened in 1991 in the 15th-century building of the former Holy Mother of God church, near Forty Martyrs Cathedral. More than 650 valuable pieces are exhibited in the museum.
Vergin Gulbenkian Hospital

Language

Original Armenians of Syria, known as al-arman al-qidam () traditionally spoke Arabic. With the arrival of more Armenians following the genocide, the linguistic composition of Syrian Armenians became more diverse, as one could hear the Armenian dialect of Zeytun and the Turkish dialects of Marash and Aintab in the courtyard of a church at the same time.

Religion

Armenians in Syria are mainly followers of the Armenian Apostolic Church, with a minority of Armenian Catholics and Armenian Evangelicals. The Church has a very important role in unifying Armenians in Syria.

After 301 AD, when Christianity became the official state religion of Armenia and its population, Aleppo became an important centre for the Armenian pilgrims on their way to Jerusalem. Yet, not considered an organized community in the city, Armenian presence was notably enlarged in Aleppo, during the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia (12th century), when a considerable number of Armenian families and merchants settled in the city creating their own businesses, residencies, and gradually schools, churches and prelacy. The Armenian church of the Forty Martyrs in Aleppo was mentioned for the first time in 1476. In 1624, as a result of the growing number of Armenian residents and pilgrims, the Armenian prelacy started to build a quarter near the church which kept its original name Hokedoun (Spiritual House), up to now. It was designated to serve as a settlement for the Armenian pilgrims on their way to Jerusalem.

Apostolic Armenians

The majority of Armenians of the Armenian Apostolic (also known as Oriental Orthodox Armenian) faith are under the jurisdiction of the Holy See of Cilicia (based in Antelias, Lebanon) of the Armenian Apostolic Church. However, the Diocese of Damascus pledges allegiance to the Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin.