[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yitzhar

Yitzhar () is an Israeli settlement located in the West Bank, south of the city of Nablus, just off Route 60, north of the Tapuach Junction. The predominantly Orthodox Jewish community falls under the jurisdiction of Shomron Regional Council. In , it had a population of .

The international community considers Israeli settlements in the West Bank illegal under international law, but the Israeli government disputes this.

In 2008, the New York Times described Yitzhar as "an extremist bastion on the hilltops commanding the Palestinian city of Nablus ... [where] a local war is ... being waged". The inhabitants of Yitzhar have a reputation as being among the most extreme Israeli settlers, and regularly clash with members of the Israeli security forces and local Palestinian civilians. The settlement is at the forefront of the settler movement's so called "price tag" policy, which calls for attacks against Palestinians in retaliation for actions of the Israeli government against West Bank settlements. In May 2014, Shin Bet said the price-tag hate crimes were mainly attributable to about 100 extremist youth, mostly from Yitzhar, acting on ideas associated with rabbi Yitzchak Ginsburg at the community's Od Yosef Chai yeshiva.

History
The settlement was originally established in 1983 as a pioneer Nahal military outpost, and de-militarized a year later, when turned over to residential purposes in 1984 with the assistance of Gush Emunim's settlement organization, Amana. The settlement continuously grew from a population of 200 in 1994 to almost 400 in 2002, and reached a population of 895 in 2009, predominantly strictly religious Jewish settlers.

The Nahal settlement was called "Rogen", a play on words from the Hebrew root meaning "annoyance". The Hebrew term "yitzhar" was already used in biblical times (f.e. Deuteronomy 7:13), meaning "high quality olive oil", and derives from one of the region's major industries.

According to ARIJ, Israel confiscated land from six Palestinian towns/villages nearby in order to construct Yitzhar:
495 dunams from Asira al-Qibliya,
282 dunums from Huwara,
233 dunums from Burin,
139 dunams from Madama,
114 dunums from Einabus,
58 dunums from Urif.

Geography
Yitzhar is situated east of the Israel–West bank separation barrier, 20.5 kilometers from the Green line, in the mountain-range area about 10 km southwest of Nablus. One of the Jewish settlements ringing the city of Nablus, Yitzhar is built on the ridge of Salmen al Parsi, a mountain 808 meters above sea level south of Mount Grizim.
 
The settlement has a total area of 1,663 dunams, and is zoned for over one thousand families in single family homes.

Outposts
Yitzhar has several unauthorized outposts which are illegal according to Israeli law. Lehavat Yitzhar, established in 1998, has ten families and five caravans, and six permanent structures.
Shalhevet Farm (Yitzhar West), established in 1999, has eight families and thirteen caravans, and nine permanent houses.
Hill 725, established in 2001 outside the boundaries of the parent settlement Yitzhar, has 23 inhabitants and six caravans, and two permanent structures.
Mitzpe Yitzhar, established in 2002 outside the boundaries of the parent settlement Yitzhar, has six structures, and was dismantled in May 2004 for the third time, but in early 2005, it was re-established.
Shalhevet Ya has three permanent houses and a caravan.

On 21 August 2013, settlers razed Palestinian land with bulldozers to expand the Yitzhar settlement. They were protected by Israeli soldiers.

Economy
The settlement has, olives, vineyards, a winery, and wheat fields. Only Jewish labor is employed, and all private homes, community buildings, and internal roads and development are done by Jews only, mainly residents of the settlement itself, according to the Shomron Regional Council's website.

Education
Education is a priority of the community, and several institutions operate locally: a day-care center, pre-schools, the boy's Zilberman Talmud Torah, and the Od Yosef Chai ("Joseph Still Lives") institutions headed by Rabbi Yitzhak Shapira, comprising the Dorshei Yichudcha yeshiva high school, a post-high school yeshiva gedola, previously located in Joseph's Tomb Nablus, headed by Rabbi Yitzhak Ginzburg, and a kollel. The yeshiva, built illegally according to the IDF military prosecutor, supports the so-called "price tag" policy, and senior rabbis of the yeshiva are suspected to encourage students to attack Palestinians and Palestinian property, and the Israeli security forces. Several students affiliated with the yeshiva were forbidden to enter the West Bank on "well-founded suspicions that these students had been involved in attacks on Arabs, including 'price tag' attacks on Arab property".