[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joel Salatin

iculture magazine Stockman Grass Farmer promoting pasture-grazed lifestock, and teaches a two-day course on agribusiness marketing in conjunction with this magazine. He has authored twelve books including Folks, This Ain't Normal, You Can Farm, Salad Bar Beef and  Everything I Want To Do Is Illegal.

In November 2019 Salatin wrote a blog post responding to a blog post by Chris Newman, another Virginia farmer and owner of Sylvanaqua Farms, in which Newman critiques the small family farm model and describes an alternative, vertically integrated system rooted in collective ownership. Salatin said in his article that Newman, who is Black and Native American, was too early in his farming career to know whether he would be successful in the long-term, and that Newman would only "push would-be team players away" by complaining. In August 2020, Agdaily described Salatin's blog post as racially inappropriate, and criticized that he had described Native Americans as "hostile" to William Cody (Buffalo Bill). After Salatin's remarks, Mother Earth News asked Newman to write for the publication for diversity in the wake of the murder of George Floyd. Newman declined the invitation raising concerns about Salatin's article. After public criticism of the publication's support for Salatin, Mother Earth News ultimately severed its relationship with Salatin. Salatin said that his blog "routinely offends big ag, bureaucrats, big pharma, etc, on purpose. But I never intend to offend people due to their race, religion, culture, gender, or creed and I’m sorry that this post did."

In March 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic, on his website, Salatin said he wanted coronavirus. Salatin was widely condemned for his comments by the public and his peers.

Speaking 
Salatin has spoken as a farming educator at a wide range of organizations including the University of California at Berkeley, and the Stone Barns Center for Food and Agriculture. In 2020, he spoke at the Libertarian National Convention about limiting regulation.

Media 
Salatin's farm, Polyface, is featured prominently in Michael Pollan's book The Omnivore's Dilemma (2006) and the documentary films, Food, Inc. and Fresh. Pollan became interested in Salatin because of his refusal to send food to locations beyond a four-hour drive of his farm, i.e. outside his local "foodshed". "We want [prospective customers] to find farms in their areas and keep the money in their own community", he said. "We think there is strength in decentralization and spreading out rather than in being concentrated and centralized."

Salatin and his farm have also been featured in radio, television and print media including Smithsonian Magazine, National Geographic, Gourmet, and ABC News.

Awards
Salatin received the 15th Annual Heinz Award with special focus on the environment.

Works

 Salad Bar Beef (1996). 
 Pastured Poultry Profits (1996). 
 You Can Farm: The Entrepreneur's Guide to Start & Succeed in a Farming Enterprise (1998). 
 Family Friendly Farming: A Multigenerational Home-Based Business Testament (2001). 
 Holy Cows And Hog Heaven: The Food Buyer's Guide To Farm Friendly Food (2005). 
 Everything I Want To Do Is Illegal: War Stories From the Local Food Front (2007). 
 The Sheer Ecstasy of Being a Lunatic Farmer (2010). 
 
 Fields of Farmers: Interning, Mentoring, Partnering, Germinating (2013). 
 The Marvelous Pigness of Pigs (2016). 
 Your Successful Farm Business: Production, Profit, Pleasure (2017). 
 Polyface Designs: A Comprehensive Construction Guide for Scalable Farming Infrastructure (2020).  (together with Chris Slattery)
 Polyface Micro: Success with Livestock on a Homestead Scale (2021).

See also
 Methanotroph
 Permaculture
 Regenerative agriculture

References

External links
 Polyface Farm
 The Lunatic Farmer

1957 births
Living people
American agricultural writers
American male non-fiction writers
American environmentalists
Farmers from Virginia
American libertarians
Writers from Virginia
People from Augusta County, Virginia
Permaculturalists