[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Krišjānis Kariņš

a phone interview with Latvian Public Radio, he committed to canceling the subsidy within a reasonable timeframe and argued that the Minister of Economics, Ralfs Nemiro, Gobzems's former party member, had already published a report proving that doing so by the end of March was a legal impossibility.

Administrative territory reform 
On 9 April 2019, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūce announced a controversial plan for the Kariņš government to reduce the number of municipalities in Latvia from 119 to 35, eliminating the "republican city" status for all cities aside from the capital of Rīga. The government attempted to block the town of Ikšķile from holding a survey regarding citizen's opinions about the reform, claiming that municipalities only have the legal right to hold public debates on municipal issues, but the survey continued as planned and found that 98.45% of respondents were opposed to the reforms. After a number of amendments, such as granting ten cities the status of "national city" with seven remaining separate municipalities and increasing the amount of municipalities to 43 overall, the new system of municipalities came into effect on 1 July 2021.

Foreign policy 

Like his predecessors, Kariņš has stressed a commitment to a western-oriented foreign policy and has expressed caution regarding Russia's foreign policy intentions. On 7 January 2019, he announced that fellow party member Edgars Rinkēvičs, who had already at the time been Latvia's longest-serving foreign minister and had worked under prime ministers Valdis Dombrovskis, Laimdota Straujuma, and Māris Kučinskis, would continue in his current role. On 8 February, he made his first foreign visit to the neighboring country of Estonia, stressing the importance of relations between the two nations.

European Union 

On his first official visit to Brussels on 22 February 2019, Kariņš assured that Latvia would maintain a "Euro-Atlantic course," and that Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier had his full support. He addressed European Parliament on 17 April, arguing that it was "useless" to fight against the rise of populism and that it was necessary to understand why people listened to the promises of populists.

In a 9 May meeting with other EU leaders in Sibiu, Romania, he expressed support for the Spitzenkandidat process of electing a new European Commissioner used in 2014 that had come under fire by other leaders such as President Emmanuel Macron of France and President Dalia Grybauskaitė of Lithuania. Along with prime minister Andrej Plenković of Croatia, Kariņš represented the governments ruled by the center-right European People's Party (EPP) in the negotiations on new appointments to top posts in the European Union following the 2019 European elections, including the European Council, the European Commission and the European Central Bank.

Belarus 
During Kariņš' tenure, relations with neighbouring country Belarus have become increasingly strained. In January 2021, Kariņš declared that he would not see it possible for Minsk to host the 2021 IIHF World Championship because of violent suppression of peaceful protests in Belarus. On 12 August 2021, a state of emergency was declared at the Belarus-Latvia border following a surge of immigration. On 23 August, Kariņš joined the prime ministers of Poland, Lithuania, and Estonia in releasing a statement that blamed Belarusian president Alexander Lukashenko for "using immigrants to destabilize neighbouring countries".

Russia 
Throughout Kariņš' term as prime minister, relations between Latvia and Russia significantly worsened, particularly following the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine. At the Riga StratCom Dialogue in May 2022, Kariņš said that, "in order to ensure peace and security in Europe and the world, Russia must lose this war. Ukraine must win. This is the only way we can return to a peaceful life". At the same meeting, he also criticized certain western European leaders' perceived willingness to negotiate with Russia over the conflict. In a summit of Baltic sea countries in Copenhagen, Kariņš said that "countries surrounding the Baltic Sea should minimise economic cooperation with Russia, especially in the energy sector". On 25 August 2022, a Soviet war memorial that had been protected under a treaty between Latvia and Russia was torn down. Kariņš said that along with decreasing energy dependence on Russia, this action "freed Latvia from the lasting consequences of occupation." On 8 September 2022, the Kariņš government approved additional restrictions on the entry of Russian citizens into Latvia via the external border of the European Union, with Kariņš saying that Russian citizens freely moving around the EU while Russia invaded Ukraine was " unacceptable both from a moral and security considerations".