[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sascha Riether

eason, Riether scored his first goal for the club, in a 4–2 win over Borussia Dortmund, a win that saw Wolfsburg qualify for the UEFA Cup for next season. At the end of the 2007–08 season, he went on to make thirty–two appearances and scoring once in all competitions at his first season at the club.

Ahead of the 2008–09 season, Riether was expected to compete with Cristian Zaccardo over the right–back position, though he stated his preference to play in the midfield position. In the opening game of the season against 1. FC Köln, Riether came on as a second-half substitute for Zaccardo and set up a goal for Christian Gentner, who scored an equaliser, as Wolfsburg went on to win 2–1 at the end of the game. Since the start of the 2008–09 season, he regained his first team place in the right–back position, putting Zaccardo on the substitute bench at the start of the season. It wasn't until on 13 September 2008 when Riether scored his first goal of the season, when he scored in injury time, in a 2–2 draw against Hertha BSC. Five days later, on 18 September 2008, he made his UEFA Cup debut, starting the whole game, in a 1–0 win over Rapid București; the club went on to go through to the group stage after drawing 1–1 in the return leg. However, Riether soon suffered injuries on two separate occasions between November and March. After returning from injury, he made his first appearance on 21 March 2009, in a 3–0 win over Arminia Bielefeld. Due to Zaccardo's playing time in the right–back position, Riether occasionally played in the midfield position, which he later played more active role later in the season. Riether was instrumental in the campaign, featuring in 28 league games as part of a solid defense helping his side record 10 straight Bundesliga victories, including a memorable 5–1 thrashing of Bayern Munich. He also helped on the attacking side of the undefeated run, scoring the game winner against Borussia Mönchengladbach on 11 April 2009. Riether went on to help the club achieve their first Bundesliga title in 2008–09 season after beating Werder Bremen 5–1 in the last game of the season. At the end of the 2008–09 season, he went on to make 37 appearances and scoring two times in all competitions. Shortly after the end of the season, Riether signed a contract extension, keeping him until 2012.

In the 2009–10 season, Riether started the season well when he set up two goals in two matches, both were a win against VfB Stuttgart and 1. FC Köln. He continued to regain his first team place at the club, playing in the right–back position following Zaccardo's departure back to Italy. Riether then made his UEFA Champions League debut on Matchday 1 Group Stage, in a 3–1 win over CSKA Moscow. He went on to make six Champions League appearances, as they were eliminated in the Group Stage. A week later on 23 September 2009, Riether scored his first goal for the club, in a 3–2 loss against 1. FC Köln in the second round of DFB-Pokal. In the second half of the season, he began rotating in playing either the right–back position, centre–back position and right–midfield position. After missing one match against Borussia Dortmund on 1 May 2010, Riether returned to the starting line–up in the last game of the season against Eintracht Frankfurt and scored his second goal of the season, in a 3–1 win. At the end of the 2009–10 season, he went on to make a total of forty–two appearances and scoring two times in all competitions.