[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Gretchen Whitmer

billion economic development fund to attract manufacturers to Michigan. The bill had bipartisan support. In a public Facebook post dated April 19, 2012, Whitmer criticized Governor Rick Snyder and his handing over public funds to big business. Her complaint was attached to an article by Tim Skubick.

On February 13, 2023, Whitmer attended a press conference with Ford Motor Company executives at Ford's Romulus facility to announce the creation of Ford Blue Oval Battery Factory on the Marshall Megasite, 1,900 acres of farmland in Marshall Township, Calhoun County. The state has allocated over $1.8 billion to purchase land and prep it for Ford Blue Oval. The move proved contentious as the property, purchased with state funds, was not zoned for heavy industry. Public backlash to the project ensued against the Marshall Megasite and the Ford Motor Company's Blue Oval Battery Park. On May 1, 2023, after a six-hour public hearing, the Marshall City Council voted to change the zoning on the Marshall Megasite to allow for heavy industrial site. Council members had rejected the Joint Planning Committee's recommendation to reject the zoning changes. Marshall residents collected 810 signatures of registered voters within the City of Marshall asking for a referendum. The Marshall City Council rejected the petition submitted by the Committee for Marshall-Not the Megasite. The committee then filed suit against the City of Marshall and the Clerk for refusing to accept the petition. The Detroit Free Press uncovered a connection between Whitmer's campaign connection and a ballot committee which filed a lawsuit against the Committee for Marshall-Not the Megasite. Neither Whitmer's campaign committee nor Whitmer herself confirmed or denied the connection to the ballot committee that filed the lawsuit.

Cannabis legalization

In 2018, as a candidate for governor, Whitmer spoke at Hash Bash to endorse Proposal 1 to legalize recreational cannabis in Michigan. Whitmer said that she had been a longtime supporter of legalizing cannabis, "before it was politically fashionable", and that the time was right to "get it done" so "maybe we can get to work filling those damn potholes" and "regulate it so it doesn't get in the hands of kids". In 2019, as governor, she reappeared at Hash Bash via recorded video message, saying: "We worked hard, we got it done, we made recreational marijuana legal in the state of Michigan."

Education
Whitmer has said she would like to phase in full-day universal pre-k for 4-year-olds in Michigan. She eliminated Michigan's third-grade "read-or-flunk" policy, which she says penalizes students the education system has failed; she wants to work to improve their reading skills. She proposes that all high school students be offered two years of debt-free higher education, either college or post-secondary training for skilled trades.

Whitmer established the Michigan Reconnect program passed with bipartisan support in 2019 after first proposing the program in her State of the State speech as part of her "60 by 30" goal to address workforce talent shortages: having 60% of working-age adults in Michigan with a skill certificate or college degree by 2030. The program allows any Michigander 25 or older without a college degree to enroll tuition-free in an associate degree or professional skills certificate program. In her 2023 State of the State Address, Whitmer called for expanding the program by lowering the minimum age to 21. As of 2023, over 113,000 people had been accepted into the program.

In 2020, Whitmer launched the Futures for Frontliners program, providing tuition-free access to an associate degree or professional certification program for Michiganders who served as essential workers during the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic. By 2021, more than 120,000 people had applied for the first-of-its-kind program.

Whitmer signed bipartisan legislation in 2022 establishing the Michigan Achievement Scholarship and providing $560 million to fund it. The "sweeping college scholarship program" is the state's largest effort to date to expand affordable access to college education, estimated to provide scholarships for 94% of students at community college, 76% of students at public universities, and 79% of students at private universities and colleges.