[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bridget of York

Bridget of York (10 November 1480 – before December 1507), was the seventh daughter of King Edward IV and his queen consort Elizabeth Woodville.

Shortly after the death of her father and the usurpation of the throne by Richard III, Bridget, who was not even three years old, was declared illegitimate among the other children of Edward IV by Elizabeth Woodville. The girl's mother, fearing for the lives of the children, moved them to Westminster Abbey, where the family of the late king received asylum and spent about a year. After the king's promise not to harm his brother's family, the elder sisters of the princess went to the court; Bridget, along with another sister Catherine, presumably stayed with her mother.

When Richard III died, and Henry Tudor took on the throne under the name of Henry VII, the act recognizing the children of Edward IV as bastards was canceled. Henry VII married Bridget's eldest sister, Elizabeth. Bridget was considered as a possible bride of a Scottish prince, but in the end it was decided to send the princess to a nunnery, to which she herself was inclined. Bridget settled at Dartford Priory in Kent, leaving only once to attend her mother's funeral. After becoming a nun, she kept in touch with her sister the queen, who paid for her petty expenses. Bridget died and was buried in Dartford Priory, which was turned into a royal residence after the English Reformation.

Life

Birth 

Bridget was born on 10 November 1480 at Eltham Palace as the seventh daughter and youngest of ten children of King Edward IV of England and Elizabeth Woodville. Bridget had six older sisters, of whom only four reached adulthood (Elizabeth, Cecily, Anne, and Catherine); Mary died at the age of 14 from an illness in 1482, and Margaret died in infancy in 1472, nearly eight years before Bridget was born. She also had five brothers: three full-blooded elders and two half-blooded elders from her mother's first marriage to John Grey of Groby: Thomas and Richard Grey. Bridget's youngest full brother, George, died at about two years of age, while the other two brothers, Edward V and Richard, disappeared from the Tower in 1483 during the reign of their uncle Richard III. Bridget's paternal grandparents were Richard of York, 3rd Duke of York (who claimed the rights of the House of York to the English throne) and Cecily Neville, and her maternal grandparents were Richard Woodville, 1st Earl Rivers, and Jacquetta of Luxembourg, Dowager Duchess of Bedford.

Bridget was born on St. Martin's Eve and was baptized the next day by Edward Story, Bishop of Chichester. Her godmothers at the baptismal font were her paternal grandmother, Cecily Neville, Duchess of York, and her oldest sister, Elizabeth of York; her godfather was the aged William Waynflete, Bishop of Winchester. At the christening ceremony, the newborn princess was carried by Lady Margaret Beaufort, the wife of Lord Stanley, the steward of Edward IV's household. When the princess was confirmed (which immediately followed the baptism), her maternal aunt, Margaret Woodville, Lady Maltravers, acted as her godmother. The princess was named presumably in honor of St. Bridget of Sweden. The name was unusual for the English royal family, and the princess became the first bearer of it; it is likely that the name Bridget was chosen by her paternal grandmother Cecily Neville, who was interested in the Order of the Bridgettines, of which St. Bridget of Sweden was the founder.

Childhood
On 9 April 1483, when Bridget was not even three years old, Edward IV died suddenly. This was followed by a political crisis that dramatically changed the position of the former queen and her children. Bridget's older brother, Edward V, who succeeded to the throne, was captured by his uncle Lord Protector Richard, Duke of Gloucester on his way from Wales to the capital; at the same time, Anthony Woodville and Richard Grey (Bridget's uncle and half-brother, respectively) who accompanied the young king, were arrested. The king was moved to the Tower of London, where he was later joined by his only full-brother, Richard; during the night of 29–30 April, Elizabeth Woodville, with all her daughters (as well as much treasure and other possessions) fled to Westminster Abbey, where she asked for sanctuary, for fear of the Duke of Gloucester. There are conflicting reports as to whether Bridget was at the sanctuary with her mother: Mary Anne Everett Green writes that there were accounts that indicated the princess was in poor health, and thus she could have been left with one of the Queen Dowager's confidants; however, most of the medical bills came from the brief reign of her brother Edward V before the late king's family moved to Westminster Abbey, and was also recorded that for much of 1483 and the early months of 1484, Bridget was with her mother and older sisters in semi-confinement within the sanctuary.