[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# ITV Studios

Little Star for ITV and Coach Trip for Channel 4.

Currently, as of 2022, 12 Yard currently produce shows such as Celebrity Coach Trip for E4, a revival of Eggheads for Channel 5, and the British version of ITV Studios/John de Mol's Let Love Rule format for ITV2, under the local name of The Cabins.

5 Acts Productions
A new label founded by David P. Davis, formerly of Sony Pictures Television-owned Bad Wolf, which will be based in Cardiff and operate under Patrick Spence's scripted division at ITV Studios.

Big Talk Productions
Big Talk Productions is a film and television production company founded on 11 February 1994 by Nira Park and was acquired by ITV Studios on 26 July 2013.

The company has produced critically acclaimed films such as Baby Driver, Edgar Wright's Three Flavours Cornetto trilogy, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, Paul and Sightseers. Television series produced by Big Talk include Mum, Back and the revived Cold Feet.

Boom Group
On 29 June 2015, a majority stake of Boom Supervisory Ltd was acquired by ITV Studios, which had acquired Twofour five days earlier. Boom Supervisory was the holding company for subsidiaries such as Boomerang, Boom Cymru and Indus. The Boom Group is currently one of the largest Welsh entertainment production companies, comprising four production divisions, Boom Cymru, for Welsh productions, Boom for productions for the rest of the United Kingdom outside of Wales as well as international markets, Boom Kids for children's programming and Boom Social for digital content.

On 9 September 2020, Boom Cymru, along with Twofour, took over production of some series from sister label Boomerang when ITV shut the label down.

Happy Prince
Happy Prince is a label of ITV Studios run by Dominic Treadwell-Collins.

The Garden
The Garden was created in 2010 to produce "cutting edge, ambitious, distinctive factual programmes for major broadcasters in both the United Kingdom and outside and to be the most ideal production company we can be, where programming producers can do their very best work and that always delivers exceptional television." On 22 April 2013, The Garden was acquired by ITV Studios. It is known for producing 24 Hours in A&E for Channel 4 and Inside Claridge's for BBC Two.

ITV Studios Continuing Drama
ITV Studios Continuing Drama is an in-house division that handles the production of the soaps Coronation Street and Emmerdale.

ITV Studios Daytime
ITV Studios Daytime is another in-house division that handles the production for the weekday daytime programmes Good Morning Britain, Lorraine, This Morning, and Loose Women.

Lifted Entertainment
Lifted Entertainment (formerly known as ITV Studios Entertainment) is the unscripted production division of ITV Studios that rebranded under its current name in early 2021. The label is known for producing many ITV programmes such as Love Island, Dancing on Ice, In for a Penny and The Voice UK, as well as programmes for other broadcasters such as Channel 4's Countdown and BBC Two's University Challenge.

In June 2021, it was announced that Simon Cowell's new Syco game show  Walk the Line would be developed with Lifted Entertainment rather than with Thames/Fremantle (known for The X Factor and Britain's Got Talent).

Mainstreet Pictures
Mainstreet Pictures is a drama label of ITV Studios run by joint MDs Sally Haynes and Laura Mackie. Mainstreet Pictures is well known for producing the hit ITV series Unforgotten.

Mammoth Screen
Mammoth Screen is a British television drama production company that was established in 2007 by Michele Buck and Damien Timmer and is a subsidiary of ITV Studios. It produces drama for key British broadcasters, especially ITV and the BBC, and also for international distribution. Examples of Mammoth Screen productions are Endeavour, Poldark, Victoria and the ITV/Amazon Prime Video co-production Vanity Fair.

Monumental Pictures
Monumental Pictures was founded in 2014 by producers Alison Owen and Debra Hayward, well known for their participation in films such as Les Misérables and Saving Mr. Banks, to produce film and television content. At the end of April 2015, ITV Studios acquired a minority stake in Monumental Pictures, which later became 51% on 18 July 2019 four years later. Examples of Monumental Pictures productions are Will for TNT, Anne with an E for CBC Television and Netflix and Harlots for Hulu.