[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1916 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1916 in New Zealand.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
 Head of State – George V
 Governor – Arthur Foljambe, 2nd Earl of Liverpool

Government
The 19th New Zealand Parliament continued as a grand coalition led by the Reform Party.
Speaker of the House – Frederic Lang (Reform Party)
Prime Minister – William Massey (Reform Party)
Minister of Finance – Joseph Ward

Parliamentary opposition
 Leader of the Opposition – Joseph Ward (Liberal Party). Ward retained the title even though he was part of the coalition government.

Judiciary
 Chief Justice – Sir Robert Stout

Main centre leaders
Mayor of Auckland – James Gunson
Mayor of Wellington – John Luke
Mayor of Christchurch – Henry Holland
Mayor of Dunedin – James Clark

Events 
 January – The New Zealand Expeditionary Force (NZEF) becomes the New Zealand Division.
 April – The New Zealand Division leaves Egypt and travels via Marseilles to northern France.
 12 May – First patrol by the New Zealand Mounted Rifles Brigade in the Sinai desert.
 13 May – New Zealand Division moves into front-line trenches at Armentières.
 7 July – The New Zealand Labour Party is founded in Wellington.
 13 July – Vivian Walsh is the first New Zealander to obtain a pilot's licence while resident in New Zealand.
 15 September – First major action by New Zealand Division in France, at Flers in the Somme. Over the following 23 days, 1560 New Zealanders are killed and 5440 wounded.
 16 September – William Jolliffe is appointed New Zealand's first censor (on his birthday)
 20 September – The Canterbury (NZ) Aviation Company is established in Christchurch. Henry Wigram is the main instigator. The Company's aims are to train pilots for the war, promote local aviation defence and pioneer commercial aviation.
 15 October – The 16th New Zealand national census is taken.
 October – The Canterbury (NZ) Aviation Company purchases land at Sockburn near Christchurch. The first planes will not arrive until the following year.
 16 November – First ballot held for reinforcements for the NZEF.

Arts and literature

See 1916 in art, 1916 in literature, :Category:1916 books

Music

See: 1916 in music

Film
The Mutiny of the Bounty

See: 1916 in film, List of New Zealand feature films, Cinema of New Zealand, :Category:1916 films

Sport

Golf
 The New Zealand Open championship and National Amateur Championships are not held due to the war.

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup – Cathedral Chimes
 Auckland Trotting Cup – Admiral Wood

Thoroughbred racing
 New Zealand Cup – Ardenvhor
 Auckland Cup – Depredation
 Wellington Cup – Bee
 New Zealand Derby – The Toff

Lawn bowls
The national outdoor lawn bowls championships are held in Christchurch.
 Men's singles champion – E.H. Fountain (Roslyn Bowling Club)
 Men's pair champions – V. Dimock, Charles Parata (skip) (Thorndon Bowling Club)
 Men's fours champions – C.W. Davis, A. E. Davis, A.B. Duff, J. Laughton (skip) (Newtown Bowling Club)

Rugby union
 The Ranfurly Shield (held by ) is not contested as interprovincial matches are cancelled due to the war.

Soccer
 Provincial league champions:
 Auckland – North Shore
 Canterbury – Christchurch Rangers
 Hawke's Bay – Waipukurau
 Otago – Mornington
 Southland – No competition
 Wanganui – No competition
 Wellington – No competition

Births

January
 4 January
 Stuart Babbage, Anglican priest, civil rights advocate, writer
 John Reid, English literature academic
 7 January – John Brown, cyclist
 11 January – Alan Low, economist
 13 January – Joy Drayton, teacher, academic leader, politician
 15 January – Ron Guthrey, soldier, politician, disabled sports advocate
 25 January – Ernest Duncan, mathematician and professor
 29 January – Esther Blackie, cricketer
 31 January – Jack Finlay, rugby union player and coach, soldier

February
 10 February – Manuhuia Bennett, Anglican bishop
 17 February – Geoffrey Fisken, World War II fighter pilot
 21 February – Mick Connelly, politician

March
 6 March – Te Kari Waaka, Ringatū minister, Tūhoe leader
 8 March – Norman Fisher, boxer
 9 March – Ron Withell, boxer
 19 March – Joan Donley, midwife
 21 March – Max Brown, novelist, journalist
 23 March – Vince McGlone, seaman, television personality

April
 4 April – Selwyn Toogood, radio and television personality
 12 April – Russell Garcia, composer
 14 April – Lawrence Hogben, naval officer, meteorologist
 17 April – Robert Menzies, cricketer
 21 April – Harry Frazer, rugby union player
 25 April – Keith Elliott, soldier

May
 3 May – Keith Bracey, television personality
 5 May – Doris Lusk, artist
 9 May – Bob Whaitiri, Ngāi Tahu leader
 14 May – Joan Dingley, mycologist
 20 May – Clifford Dalton, nuclear scientist
 24 May – Noel McMahon, cricketer

June
 3 June – Lorelle Corbin, naval officer
 11 June – Bob Berry, dendrologist
 14 June – Gordon Bromley, long-distance runner