[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bangla Desh (song)

l issues of poverty: that the problems appear to be too big and too distant for individuals to be able to solve. Author Ian Inglis comments that the line "Now won't you give some bread to get the starving fed" contains a "clever pun", whereby the word "bread" is used to refer to both money and food.

Recording
With little time to begin rehearsing for the New York shows, the "Bangla Desh" single was rush-recorded in Los Angeles. Sources differ over the venue and date: the Record Plant West seems the most likely studio, with sessions taking place on 4–5 July and horn overdubs perhaps on 10 July. Phil Spector again co-produced with Harrison. As with the recording details for the sessions, the exact line-up of musicians is a matter of conjecture. According to Simon Leng, the line-up comprised Harrison, Leon Russell (piano), Jim Horn (saxophones), Klaus Voormann (bass), Starr, Jim Keltner (both on drums) and Billy Preston (organ). Horn's recollection is that only Harrison, Russell, Voormann and Keltner were present at the first session. Leng and Beatles historian Bruce Spizer credit a "horn section" led by Jim Horn. The latter went on to lead the six-piece "Hollywood Horns", which included trumpeter and trombonist Chuck Findley, at the New York concerts on 1 August.

The recording begins with Harrison's emotive introduction backed by what Lavezzoli describes as a "rolling piano figure" from Russell. Following the words "help us save some lives", the piano sets up the song's "driving groove", Lavezzoli continues, as the rhythm section and Harrison's electric guitar join in, creating the same musical blend of gospel and rock that Harrison had adopted on much of All Things Must Pass. In a review for the NME in August 1971, Derek Johnson wrote of "Bangla Desh": "Opens almost like a sermon, then the beat come is ... as George wails fervently to a backing of a solid rhythm section and handclaps." The track retains an "urgent 'live' mood", according to Leng, and features solos shared between Russell, Horn (on tenor sax) and Harrison (slide guitar). It fades out with the ensemble playing in double time, similar to a fast gat section (or drut) used in Hindustani classical music. In journalist Richard Williams' description: "[Harrison] put a lot of feeling into the record. His voice takes on unusually sad inflections – at times he is almost unrecognisable – and Spector backed him well with leaping riffs supported by a grunting baritone sax."

"Bangla Desh" marked the first occasion that Harrison worked with Horn, who would go on to become a regular collaborator. Already a veteran of the LA music scene by 1971, Horn recalls his "jaded" mindset before meeting Harrison, but describes the session as a "real turning point" in his career, "because we were doing something for a cause". It was also the first time that Keltner played on a Harrison session, the two musicians having recently worked together on Lennon's Imagine album. The "Bangla Desh" session was the beginning of a lifelong friendship, with the pair remaining "as brothers", Keltner has said, until Harrison's death in 2001. Together with Clapton, Preston, Bob Dylan and the group Badfinger, all these musicians joined Harrison and Shankar on stage at Madison Square Garden.

Ravi Shankar cut a benefit record of his own at this time, the Harrison-produced Joi Bangla EP. The A-side contained two vocal compositions sung in Bengali – the title track (which translated to mean "Victory to Bangladesh") and "Oh Bhaugowan" – while on the reverse was a six-minute recital of "Raga Mishra Jhinjoti", featuring Shankar, sarodya Ali Akbar Khan, and Shankar's regular tabla player, Alla Rakha.

Release

At Harrison's urging, Capitol Records, Apple's distributor in the United States, set all four of its manufacturing plants to producing copies of the "Bangla Desh" single; one-sided, white label promo discs were also rushed through to ensure immediate radio play for the song. For the US picture sleeve, designer Tom Wilkes chose a suitably topical image, incorporating headlines and text from New York Times articles about the Bangladesh crisis. The articles made mention of vultures being the "happiest creatures" amid the chaos in Dacca, and India's "wait and see" policy regarding events in East Pakistan. The front of the picture sleeve was topped with the line "(We've Got to Relieve)" before the words "Bangla Desh", leading a number of publications to include the parenthetical text as part of the official song title. Boxed off at the foot of the front sleeve were details of the George Harrison–Ravi Shankar Special Emergency Relief Fund (care of UNICEF's New York headquarters), to which proceeds of the single would go and further donations were encouraged. The back cover of the US sleeve was taken from a UPI news agency photograph – an "emotional" image showing a mother comforting her starving child. This photo was also used in the aid project's magazine advertising campaign.