[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Alberto Aquilani

ate winner in a friendly against defending world champions Spain.

Aquilani took part at the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup under manager Cesare Prandelli, where Italy managed a third-place finish; in the victorious bronze medal match against Uruguay, he converted a penalty in the resulting shoot-out.

On 11 October 2013, Aquilani scored the late equalizing goal in Italy's 2–2 away draw against Denmark during the team's 2014 FIFA World Cup qualifying campaign; this was his fifth goal for Italy. He was an unused member of Italy's 2014 FIFA World Cup squad, as the Italians suffered a group-stage elimination.

Style of play
Aquilani was a modern, hard-working and versatile playmaker who was capable of functioning in a number of midfield roles, from a holding role as a deep-lying playmaker, to a more advanced trequartista or attacking midfielder. His favoured position was that of an offensive-minded central midfielder or box-to-box midfielder, a position known as the "mezz'ala" role, in Italy, which enabled him to make late attacking runs from behind into the penalty area or create space for team-mates with his movement, despite his lack of notable pace or physicality; he was also used on the wing, or even as a wing-back on occasion. With the Italy national team, he was also deployed in a different role, as a false-attacking midfielder on occasion, under manager Cesare Prandelli. Throughout his career, Aquilani drew praise for his vision, creativity, technique, quick incisive passing, which enabled him to dictate the tempo of his team's plays in midfield, and was also noted for his energy and long-range shooting ability with either foot. Due to his eye for goal, height, and heading accuracy, he was also effective in the air, and was also accurate from set-pieces, which enabled him to contribute to his team's offensive play with additional goals from midfield. Despite his talent in his youth, he was often injury prone throughout his career, which limited his playing time and affected his fitness and consistency, and as a result, he has been accused by some in the sport of not living up to his initial potential.

Managerial career
On 11 July 2019, Aquilani was announced as the head coach of Fiorentina's under-18 team, remaining in that position until December, when he joined the first team staff as an assistant to Giuseppe Iachini. On 19 July 2020, he was appointed as head coach of the Primavera squad. On 26 August 2020, the side successfully defended the Coppa Italia Primavera title, beating Hellas Verona 1–0 in the final.

Personal life
Aquilani married Michela Quattrociocche on 4 July 2012. Together, they have two daughters: Aurora (b. 2011) and Diamante (b. 2014). On 11 May 2020, it was announced that the two had separated.

Career statistics

Club

1Europe includes UEFA Champions League, UEFA Cup and UEFA Europa League
2Other includes Supercoppa Italiana, Football League Cup, Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira, and Taça da Liga

International
Appearances and goals by national team and year

International goals
Scores and results list Italy's goal tally first.

Managerial

Honours

Player 
Roma
 Coppa Italia: 2006–07, 2007–08
 Supercoppa Italiana: 2007
Italy
 FIFA Confederations Cup: Third place 2013

Italy U-19
 UEFA European Under-19 Championship: 2003
Individual
 UEFA European Under-19 Championship Player of the Tournament: 2003
 UEFA European Under-21 Championship Team of the Tournament: 2007

Manager 
Fiorentina Primavera

 Coppa Italia Primavera: 2019–20, 2020–21, 2021–22

 Supercoppa Primavera: 2021, 2022

References

External links

 
 LFChistory.net player profile
 
 FIGC National Team Archive 
 
 
 
 

1984 births
Living people
Footballers from Rome
Italian men's footballers
Italy men's youth international footballers
Italy men's under-21 international footballers
Italy men's international footballers
Italian expatriate men's footballers
Italian expatriate sportspeople in Spain
Men's association football midfielders
AS Roma players
US Triestina Calcio 1918 players
Liverpool F.C. players
Juventus FC players
AC Milan players
ACF Fiorentina players
Sporting CP footballers
Delfino Pescara 1936 players
US Sassuolo Calcio players
UD Las Palmas players
Serie A players
Serie B players
Premier League players
Primeira Liga players
La Liga players
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Expatriate men's footballers in Portugal
Italian expatriate sportspeople in England
Italian expatriate sportspeople in Portugal
UEFA Euro 2008 players
2013 FIFA Confederations Cup players
2014 FIFA World Cup players
Italian football managers