[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# RNAD Coulport

Kingdom is between the Atomic Weapons Establishment in Berkshire and RNAD Coulport in Argyll, in both directions. Because the warheads need to be constantly refurbished, batches are shuttled by road convoy several times a year. Convoys use staging posts and crew change locations during this journey.

The Truck Cargo Heavy Duty (TCHD) carriers containing the weapons are escorted in a convoy of MoD vehicles commanded by a Ministry of Defence Police (MDP) Chief Inspector. The crew, of up to 50 people, includes a first aid team, fire crew and personnel equipped to monitor for radiological hazards. The convoy maintains contact by radio and telephone with Task Control, MDP Central Control Room, Wethersfield, Essex, which monitors its movement, and with the civil police forces in the affected areas.

Police forces are notified at least 24 hours in advance of a convoy being routed through their area; this enables them to advise the convoy about any local traffic problems. Police forces may advise fire brigades of the presence of the convoy if it is moving into the vicinity of a fire brigade operation.

Details of nuclear warhead convoys are kept secret by the UK government and the MoD who operate a "Neither Confirm Nor Deny" policy on informing the public regarding convoys. Evidence given by the Nuclear Information Campaign to the Defence Select Committee (based on figures from campaign group Nukewatch UK for 2000 to 2006) give the number of convoys as ranging from two to six return journeys per year from Aldermaston to Coulport. Estimates of the warhead numbers transported during this period are that 88 were moved from Aldermaston to Coulport while 120 were returned, indicating a withdrawal of between 30 and 50 warheads leaving an operational stockpile of between 170 and 150 warheads.

In the event of a nuclear accident the SSC would activate the MoD's Nuclear Accident Response Organisation and would alert the local police constabulary immediately. The responsibility for these operations rests with the Director Nuclear Movements & Nuclear Accident Response Group.

Protesters regularly try to stop the convoy and climb onto the TCHDs. The MDP are trained on a regular basis to counter any protest. MDP motorcyclists and traffic car officers make arrests and then hand over responsibility to the local police force.

See also
 1958 US–UK Mutual Defence Agreement
 British replacement of the Trident system
 DM Glen Douglas
 Nuclear weapons and the United Kingdom
 Polaris Sales Agreement
 Scottish Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament
 Special Relationship
 UGM-27 Polaris

References

Further reading

External links
 Official page at the Royal Navy website
 Floating Trident Submarine Dry Dock at Coulport

1963 establishments in Scotland
Ammunition dumps in Scotland
Buildings and structures completed in 1968
Buildings and structures in Argyll and Bute
Royal Navy bases in Scotland
Nuclear bunkers in the United Kingdom
Nuclear stockpile stewardship
United Kingdom nuclear command and control
Ports and harbours of Scotland
Royal Navy shore establishments
Scottish coast
Royal Navy submarine bases
Trident (UK nuclear programme)
United Kingdom–United States military relations
Polaris (UK nuclear programme)
Drydocks