[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alexander Schimmelfennig

iding capture. (There is a marker outside the Garlach house commemorating this event.) After the battle, he rejoined the corps, much to the joy of the troops who thought he was dead. However, Schimmelfennig's story was seized upon by news writers and presented as another example of German cowardice.

After the Battle of Gettysburg, from mid-July until early August 1863, Schimmelfennig was moved to command a brigade in 1st Division, XI Corps. He and his brigade were reassigned to the Southern District of the Department of the South, in the Carolinas, serving on Folly Island. He commanded the District of Charleston, then part of the X Corps during Sherman's March to the Sea. After being sidelined for some time by a bout with malaria, Schimmelfennig had the honor of accepting Charleston's surrender on February 18, 1865. His headquarters was the Miles Brewton House.  During his time of service in the swamps about Charleston, he contracted a virulent form of tuberculosis which ultimately led to his death in Wernersville, Pennsylvania, where he visited a mineral springs sanatorium in an effort to find a cure.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Union)
 German Americans in the Civil War

Notes

References
 Bostick, Douglas W., Charleston Under Siege: the Impregnable City, Charleston: History Press, 2010.
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher. Civil War High Commands. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Pfanz, Harry. Gettysburg, The first day. — Chapel Hil: University of North Carolina Press, 2001. — 496 p. — .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Blue: Lives of the Union Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1964. .

Further reading
Carl Schurz.  New York: The McClure Company. 1907.  Schurz knew Schimmelfennig (or Schimmelpfennig — it is spelled both ways in his Reminiscences) in Germany and in the United States and places in between.  In Chapter VIII of Volume One, Schurz reflects on the irony of commanding Schimmelfennig in the United States who was Schurz's military instructor in Germany.  They were also both members of the Brüning Salon in England (see Chapter XIV of Volume One).
Abraham Jacobi relates an encounter in Germany with Schimmelfennig in his speech  (Banquet to the Honorable Carl Schurz. March 2, 1899)

External links
 Photograph of Schimmelfennig's grave site

1824 births
1865 deaths
Prussian emigrants to the United States
Burials at Charles Evans Cemetery
Military personnel from Bydgoszcz
Military personnel from the Province of Posen
Union Army generals
People of New York (state) in the American Civil War
German-American Forty-Eighters
19th-century deaths from tuberculosis
Tuberculosis deaths in Pennsylvania
German communists
American communists
Prussian Army personnel