[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Lithuanian Territorial Defense Force

ian relations were particularly damaged by the May–June 1944 massacres in Glitiškės and Dubingiai. On 6–7 July 1944, the Polish Home Army unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Vilnius, which led to several hundred of its soldiers being killed in clashes with German soldiers.

Formation and organization

February 
The formation of the LTDF began from its headquarters. On February 3, Colonel Oskaras Urbonas was appointed the LTDF's chief of staff. On February 4, the following were invited as heads of departments of the headquarters:

 General Staff Colonel Antanas Rėklaitis (Department I)
 General Staff Lieutenant Colonel Aleksandras Andriušaitis (Department II)
 General Staff Colonel Antanas Šova (Department III) 
 Lieutenant Colonel  (Department IV)

Captain Justinas Liaukus was appointed adjutant of the LTDF's staff. By February 8, the headquarters were almost completely formed. Then began the formation of local military headquarters, whose task it was to organize the LTDF's volunteer units. On February 10-12, 25 county commandants were appointed. The Germans agreed to form 10 battalions, each of about 500 men. It was planned to increase the number of battalions to 20. The Germans promised to provide the LTDF with weapons, ammunition and food. 

On February 16, the Lithuanian Independence Day, Plechavičius made a radio appeal to the nation for volunteers. The appeal was very successful and estimates put the number of volunteers between 20,000 and 30,000. On February 21, the county commandant offices started registering volunteers.  

Seven battalions stationed in Marijampolė, Kalvarija and Seredžius were to form the core of the LTDF and would be used for larger operations according to Plechavičius' orders. Small units were kept at the disposal of county commandants. A training battalion in Marijampolė was planned for the training of officer cadres and non-commissioned officers. The Supreme Committee for the Liberation of Lithuania that was the anti-Nazi resistance in Lithuania also approved the organization of the LTDF. 

The Germans were surprised by the number of volunteers, as their previous appeals had gone unheeded. Possibly perceiving the growing popularity of the unit as a threat, they began to interfere, against the signed agreement. On March 22, SS Obergruppenführer and SD General Friedrich Jeckeln called for 70–80,000 Hiwis for the Wehrmacht. Chief-of-Staff of the Northern Front Field Marshal Walter Model further demanded that the Lithuanians provide personnel for 15 security battalions for the military airports. General Commissioner of Lithuania Adrian von Renteln added his demand for laborers to be sent to work in Germany. They were not the only German officials to issue demands for Lithuanian recruits. Plechavičius rejected and resisted such demands.

March 
By March 1, more than 19,500 men had already registered. It was decided to organize 13 battalions, which were numbered 301st, 302nd, 303rd, 304th, 305th, 306th, 307th, 308th, 309th, 310th, 241st, 242nd and 243rd, and a separate training battalion. March 1 can be considered the beginning of the formation of the LTDF. As of March 3, the LTDF already had 553 officers, 1,522 non-commissioned officers, 3,879 who had served in the pre-war Lithuanian army, while the remaining soldiers had not served before. 

The creation process was not smooth because Germans did not trust the LTDF. They ordered the reorganization of already formed battalions of four companies into battalions of three companies and were constantly delaying delivery of arms, munitions, means of transportation and communication. Because SS did not trust the Lithuanian officers, they demanded that German officers, called Zahlmeisters, be inserted into LTDF units. 

An oath, similar to one used by the Lithuanian armed forces, was prepared. The oath was altered by SSPF Hermann Harm to include a personal oath to Hitler. Knowing that such an oath was unacceptable to the Lithuanian soldiers, the ceremony was delayed every time and the oath was not taken until the formation disbanded itself.

April 
On April 6, Plechavičius was given an order to mobilize the entire country. He refused, saying that it was impossible until the formation of his existing detachment was finished; this increased the Germans' displeasure with him. Plechavičius wrote in his postwar memoirs that in late April, as the German plans to mobilize Lithuanians into the Wehrmacht became obvious, LTDF headquarters started secretly organizing underground armed forces, which would include Lithuanian Army officers, veterans of the Lithuanian Wars of Independence, and former members of Lithuanian Riflemen's Union. All across Lithuania, a network was secretly organized by territorial LTDF officers. The plans were to assemble around 75–80,000 men. Most of the organizational structure was laid, and it served as a basis for the armed anti-Soviet resistance.