[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Detroit Medical Center

hen he left to mount a campaign to become mayor of Detroit.  Joseph Mullany succeeded Duggan as CEO.  Former WDIV journalist Emery King is contracted to serve as the voice commonly heard on DMC commercials, and presents the Emery King Healthcare Video Library at the Detroit Medical Center's website.

Recognition
Two of the Detroit Medical Center hospitals ranked in the top one percent in heart failure outcomes in the U.S. DMC Harper University Hospital and DMC Sinai-Grace Hospital ranked above the national average in a survey compiled by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Department of Health and Human Services. The list included data from 4,807 hospitals across the United States. Of those hospitals, only 38 were ranked above the national average. The results are meant to assist the public in assessing how well their area hospitals care for patients with specific types of medical conditions including heart failure and heart attacks. The Detroit Medical Center is the only health system in the state of Michigan with two hospitals ranked at this level.

The Detroit Medical Center was named to the list of the nation's 100 Most Wired Hospitals and Health Systems in July 2007.  The list is the result of the Most Wired Survey and Benchmarking Study conducted since 1999 by the American Hospital Association and published in the July 2007 issue of Hospitals & Health Networks Magazine.  The survey focuses on how hospitals use information technologies for quality, customer service, public health and safety, business processes and workforce issues.

The hospitals in the "Top 100" show superior outcomes in four key areas: mortality rate, patient safety measures from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), core measures from Hospital Compare and average length of stay.  Based on analysis of the ninth annual Most Wired Survey and Benchmarking Study results, hospitals are embracing technology as a key tool for healthcare quality improvements.

The Detroit Medical Center received the prestigious "Best Practices in Infrastructure Management" award in 2006.  The award is given annually by Computerworld’s Infrastructure Management World, the premier conference for leaders in the data center and infrastructure Management sector. The award recognizes DMC's leadership and excellence among users of infrastructure management technology across the nation.  The DMC was one of only two organizations bestowed the annual award that year.

Harper University Hospital ranked as one of the top 30 hospitals in the country for Neurology and Neurosurgery by U.S. News & World Report. Children's Hospital of Michigan was ranked one of the top 30 hospitals in the country for children by the same publication.

References

Further reading 
  - PhD thesis - Info page

External links

Detroit Medical Center−DMC Homepage
DMC Children's Hospital of Michigan Homepage
DMC Detroit Receiving Hospital Homepage
DMC Harper University Hospital Homepage
DMC Huron Valley-Sinai Hospital Homepage
DMC Hutzel Women's Hospital Homepage
DMC Kresge Eye Institute Homepage
DMC Surgery Hospital Homepage
DMC Rehabilitation Institute of Michigan Homepage
DMC Sinai-Grace Hospital Homepage
DMC University Laboratories Homepage
DMC Emery King Health Video Library
List of US Trauma Centers

 
Hospitals in Detroit
Teaching hospitals in Michigan
Midtown Detroit
Economy of Detroit
Healthcare in Michigan
Hospital networks in the United States
Tenet Healthcare
1985 establishments in Michigan