[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Demy de Zeeuw

C Nijmegen, he scored his eleventh goal of the season, as Ajax won 4–1 to finish second place after finishing behind FC Twente, who won the league title. In the final of KNVB Cup, de Zeeuw played in both legs and in the second leg, he set up a goal for Siem de Jong, as the club beat Feyernood 6–1 on aggregate to win the tournament. Throughout the 2009–10 season, he suffered minor setbacks that saw him miss matches. Despite this, de Zeeuw finished his season with a positive one, as he scored eleven goals in forty-seven appearances in all competitions.

Ahead of the 2010–11 season, de Zeeuw switched number shirt from 40 to 20. He also stated his prediction that Ajax could be title contenders. De Zeeuw helped the club reach the Group-Stage of the UEFA Champions League after beating PAOK Salonika and Dynamo Kiev. De Zeeuw played a role in the league when he set up three times in the first four league matches of the season for Ajax. In a match against Real Madrid on 15 September 2010, de Zeeuw played 68 minutes before being substituted, in which he was unhappy with Jol's decision to have him substituted. As a result, de Zeeuw was dropped to the substitute bench for the match against the club's rival, Feyenoord on 19 September 2010. He scored his first UEFA Champions League goal, as Ajax beat Auxerre 2–1 on 19 October 2010. Despite this, de Zeeuw continued to feature in and out of the first team under the management of Martin Jol and this lasted until Jol was sacked and replaced by Frank de Boer. In de Boer's first game, he scored his second UEFA Champions League goal, in a 2–0 win over Milan on 8 December 2010, as the club finished third place in the group stage, resulting in them playing in the UEFA Europa League. Under de Boer, de Zeeuw's playing style changed after de Boer made changes to the club's style of play. On the last day of the January transfer window, he was linked with a move to the Turkish team Fenerbahçe who even made a bid for him, which was rejected by Ajax. De Zeeuw then scored his third goal of the season, in a 5–1 win against RKC Waalwijk in the semi–finals of the KNVB Cup. Three days later on 6 March 2011 against his former club, he scored his fourth goal of the season and was named man of the match after beating AZ Alkmaar 4–0. In the final of the KNVB Cup against Twente, de Zeeuw scored the opener after just 19 minutes, but unfortunately, Ajax would go on to lose 3–2 to Twente. Seven days later on 15 May 2011, Ajax and Twente decided the Eredivisie title in the last league match of the season, and de Zeeuw started the whole hame, as the club won 3–1 to win the league title. Throughout the 2010–11 season, he suffered minor injuries but didn'r affect his first team place. Despite this, de Zeeuw went on to make 47 appearances and scoring five times in all competitions.

At the end of the 2010–11 season, de Zeeuw was linked with a move to Spartak Moscow. Manager de Boer was willing to sell him at the right price. On 29 June 2011, it was reported by De Telegraaf Ajax agreed to sell de Zeeuw to Spartak Moscow.

Spartak Moscow

The transfer move was officially confirmed on 6 July 2011 when de Zeeuw had transferred to the Russian club for an estimated €7 million. As a result of the move to Spartak Moscow, his first club, Go Ahead Eagles, received 5% transfer move. Upon joining Spartak Moscow, de Zeeuw would play in the same position, just like he did at Ajax, as manager Valeri Karpin suggested. In addition, de Zeeuw was given a number sixteen shirt.