[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Raven Rock Mountain Complex

n nuclear bunker was being completed for tbd psi. The USAF's subsequent IBM 473L Command and Control System with AN/FYA-2 Integrated Data Transfer Consoles and Large Panel Display Subsystem had equipment deployed at both the NMCC and ANMCC (a 2nd IBM 1410 computer was installed by 15 December 1966.)

1976 Telecommunications Center
The USACC Site R Telecommunications Center was designated in 1976, and the 1977 Alternate National Military Command and Control Center Improvement Program was worked on by the DoD Special Projects Office (later renamed Protective Design Center) for a new deep underground C2 center with > of air entrainment tunnels (cancelled in 1979.) After the 2001 September 11 attacks, Vice President Dick Cheney used Raven Rock as a protected site away from President George W. Bush. Notably, United States Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz remained at Raven Rock during the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks as Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld refused to evacuate the Pentagon.

The Raven Rock Mountain Complex was declared part of the Pentagon Reservation under  and on May 25, 2007, DoD policy declared it is unlawful for any person entering or on the property ..."to make any photograph, sketch, picture, drawing, map or graphical representation of the Raven Rock Mountain Complex without first obtaining the necessary permission."

In 1977, the bunker had an Emergency Conference Room, and the Current Action Center was a military intelligence unit (an Air Force general was responsible for overseeing the installation's communications).

In popular culture
 In the Fallout series of video games, it is home to the Enclave, a post-apocalyptic successor to the U.S. government. It was featured in the 2008 video game Fallout 3 and referenced in both Fallout 4 (in a Boston Bugle article readable on a RobCo terminal at the Bugle's offices in Beacon Hill), and Fallout 76 as having been in contact with the AI at the Whitespring Bunker (the real world Project Greek Island) until communications between them were deliberately cut. The games' developer, Bethesda, also used the name for a location in the Elder Scrolls series of video games.
 In the TV series Jeremiah, Raven Rock is where the sinister Valhalla Sector survived the pandemic which killed almost all of the other adults on the planet before emerging with plans of conquest.
 In Prison Break, Raven Rock is an identified location.
 The complex has an important role in the 2013 sci-fi movie Oblivion, in which it is the headquarters of an underground resistance movement against an alien invasion.
 In the third book of the One Second After series, Raven Rock is referred to as "Site R" and is used by the U.S. government to house highly important citizens and government officials.
 In the TV series Salvation, Raven Rock is referred to as a site to house government officials in the case of an asteroid collision with earth.
In the book series Mitch Rapp, the president and his cabinet are moved to "Site R" multiple times throughout the series.
The book Inside Threat by Matthew Quirk takes place almost entirely inside the Raven Rock Complex

Further reading

 Mcyntire, H. J. (2000) Department of Defense Freedom Of Information Act Inquiry 00-F-0019 Site R Civil Defense Site

References

Military facilities in Pennsylvania
Nuclear bunkers in the United States
United States nuclear command and control
Continuity of government in the United States
Disaster preparedness in the United States
South Mountain Range (Maryland−Pennsylvania)
1951 establishments in Pennsylvania