[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# May 1974

John F. Kennedy Jr.  was mugged by a boy of around 18, who took the young Kennedy's bicycle and tennis racket.
Died: Jacob L. Moreno, 82, Romanian-born American psychiatrist, pioneer in group psychotherapy  and developer (with his wife, psychologist Zerka T. Moreno, of the technique of psychodrama.

May 15, 1974 (Wednesday)
An attempt by Israel's Sayeret Matkal to free 115 hostages, most of them students at the Netiv Meir Elementary School in Ma'alot-Tarshiha, resulted in the deaths of 25 captives and the injury of 68 others. All three of the terrorists, members of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine who had crossed over from Lebanon into Israel, were killed. Prior to seizing the school the terrorists had killed five other civilians. The next day, Israeli planes retaliated by bombing Palestinian targets in Lebanon, killing more than 20 people.
Walter Scheel was elected to the ceremonial position of President of West Germany.
General António de Spínola took office as President of Portugal. Hours after being sworn in, Spinola named Adelino da Palmas Carlos as Prime Minister of a cabinet that included Communists for the first time in Portugal's history, with Avelino Pacheco Goncalves as Minister of Labor and Communist Party Chief Alvaro Cunhal as a minister without porfolio.
By the margin of a single vote, 47 to 46, the U.S. Senate tabled further discussion of an amendment to the $25 billion education funding bill that would have required an end to desegregation busing to achieve racial integration in U.S. schools receiving federal funding. 
The first game of the 6-team National Lacrosse League, the first professional box lacrosse circuit in North America, was played as the NLL made its debut before 9,120 fans at The Forum in Montreal. The Montreal Quebecois defeated the visiting Toronto Tomahawks, 14 to 8. John Davis of the Quebecois made the league's first score, 13 seconds into the game, with a shot past Tomahawks goalie Ron Thomas. In addition to the two Canadian franchises, the NLL had four U.S. teams: the Maryland Arrows, the Philadelphia Wings, the Rochester Griffins and the Syracuse Stingers.
Died:
Lieutenant-General Guy Simonds, , 71, English-born commander of the Canadian Armed Forces in World War II
Harrison M. Sayre, 79, co-founder of My Weekly Reader magazine
Paul Gonsalves, 53, American jazz saxophonist in Duke Ellington's band, died of complications from narcotics abuse, 9 days before Ellington's death.

May 16, 1974 (Thursday)
Helmut Schmidt was elected as the new Chancellor of West Germany by the Bundestag by a vote of 267 to 225 along party lines.

In Belgrade, Marshal Josip Broz Tito was unanimously re-elected by the 300-member Chamber of Deputies as the President of Yugoslavia and, at the age of 81, given an unlimited term to effectively make him president for life. The Communist nation's parliament also unanimously approved the selection of the first eight members of the new, nine-member "collective presidency" which would rotate to a new member each year after Tito's death. Petar Stambolic of the Socialist Republic of Serbia was the first person selected to the new office of Vice President of Yugoslavia for one year, after which the job would rotate to another member of the collective presidency.
In voting in the Dominican Republic, Joaquín Balaguer was re-elected President with more than 84% of the vote against his challenger, Luis Lajara Burgos. Balaguer's Partido Reformista won 75 of the 91 seats in the House of Deputies, and 23 of the 27 seats in the Senate.
In South Vietnam, the Battle of the Iron Triangle began in the Binh Duong Province to repel an invasion by North Vietnam, and would last more than six months. Although the South Vietnamese repelled the invasion and thousands of soldiers of North Vietnam's People's Army of Viet Nam (PAVN) were killed, the South's Army of the Republic of Viet Nam (ARVN) lost hundreds of soldiers. The counterattack came on the same day 5,000 North Vietnamese troops overran the Dak Pek Camp and its 369-member South Vietnamese Rangers battalion.
Dybbuk, a ballet by Jerome Robbins with music by Leonard Bernstein, premiered in New York City at the Lincoln Center.
Born: Laura Pausini, Italian pop music singer; in Faenza, Province of Ravenna, Emilia-Romagna
Died:
Ruth McGinnis, 64, American straight pool player, and women's champion in 1946, died of cancer.
Billy Welu, 41, American professional bowler and commentator, winner of the American Bowling Congress Masters championship in 1964 and 1965

May 17, 1974 (Friday)