[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# January 1973

which had offered degrees to older and working students through distance learning with early morning broadcasts on BBC-2 that started on January 3, 1971, awarded its first diplomas. 
Members of the all-male Harvard Club of New York City voted overwhelmingly, 2,097 to 695, to admit women to the private social group for Harvard University alumni.  On May 4, 1972, more members voted in favor of admitting women than had voted against (1,654 to 854), but the move fell 18 votes shy of the two-thirds majority required by the Harvard Club's bylaws.
Born: 
Paul Kehoe, Irish politician; in Bree, County Wexford
Rahul Dravid, Indian cricketer; in Indore, Madhya Pradesh

January 12, 1973 (Friday)
The General Electric Company of the United States signed an agreement with the Soviet Union's State Committee for Science and Technology (GKNT, Gosudarstvennyi Komitet po Nauke i Tekhnike) for a joint research project to develop new electric power generating technology.  The G.E.—U.S.S.R. pact was the first direct cooperative agreement between the Communist nation and a major capitalist corporation.

Former U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson recorded his final interview, inviting CBS Evening News anchorman Walter Cronkite to the LBJ Ranch in Stonewall, Texas.  Johnson died of a heart attack 10 days later.  Cronkite's interview was telecast on February 1 on CBS.
The secret police agency of Morocco, the Direction de la Surveillance du Térritoire (DST, or Directorate of Territorial Surveillance) was created along with its foreign intelligence spy agency, the Direction générale des études et de la documentation (DGED or General Directorate for Studies and Documentation) by a dahir or royal decree by King Hassan II in the aftermath of a second attempted coup d'état. 
Les Halles, which had operated as the central food market in Paris since the 18th century, closed permanently to make way for construction of the Westfield Forum des Halles, a modern shopping mall built largely underground.
The Perth suburb of Pickering Brook, Western Australia was officially created.
Born: 
Hande Yener (stage name for Makbule Hande Özyener), popular Turkish singer; in Kadıköy, Istanbul
A. Lee Martinez, American fantasy fiction author; in El Paso, Texas
Died: 
Roy F. Nichols, 76, American Pulitzer Prize-winning historian (in 1949 for The Disruption of American Democracy)
Albert "Turk" Edwards, 65, American NFL tackle and later coach for the Washington Redskins, and inductee into the Pro Football Hall of Fame, died two days before the Redskins were scheduled to play in their first Super Bowl.

January 13, 1973 (Saturday)
Eric Clapton's Rainbow Concert was recorded in London's Rainbow Theatre.
The Pro Football Hall of Fame welcomed 3 new inductees. Baltimore Colts' gift of grab wide receiver Raymond Berry, and Berry's teammate also from the Colts, Jim Parker and from the Detroit Lions' Joe Schmidt.
Died: 
Mohamed Amekrane, 35, Moroccan Air Force lieutenant colonel who had been convicted of treason for the attempted assassination and coup d'état of King Hassan II on August 16, was executed by a firing squad at the prison in Kenitra.
Prince Ranieri, Duke of Castro, 89, pretender to the throne of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies