[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Constitutionalist Revolution

tion of 1932, and is a holiday and the most important civic date of the state of São Paulo. The Paulistas (as the inhabitants of São Paulo are known) consider the Revolution of 1932 as the greatest movement of its civic history. It was the first major revolt against the government of Getúlio Vargas.

Opposing forces
According to García de Gabiola, when the revolution began the Paulistas only swayed one of the 8 divisions of the Brazilian Army (the 2nd Division, based in São Paulo), and half of the Mixed Brigade based in the southern part of Mato Grosso. These forces were reinforced by the Força Pública Paulista (the military police of São Paulo state), and the MMDC militias. In all, there were some 11,000–15,000 men at the beginning of the conflict, later joined by thousands of volunteers. In fact, according to authors such as Hilton, São Paulo equipped some 40 battalions of volunteers, but García de Gabiola states that he had identified up to 80 of them, of some 300 men each. At the end, taking into account that in the São Paulo state armory's there were only between 15,000 and 29,000 rifles depending on the source, the Paulistas were never able to arm more than 35,000 men maximum. Additionally, the Paulistas had only 6 million cartridges, failing their attempts to acquire some additional 500 million, so, for an army of some 30,000 men fighting for 3 months, it represented a mere 4.4 cartridges a day per soldier. Brazil equipped approximately 100,000 men, but taking into account that a third of this amount never went to the front (they were kept to protect the rearguards and for security purposes in the other states), their numerical superiority was of some 2 to 1.

Course of the conflict
The main front was initially the eastern Paraíba Valley that led to Rio de Janeiro, then the capital of Brazil. The 2nd Division revolted and advanced against Rio de Janeiro, but was stopped dead by the loyal 1st Division based there under the command of General Góis Monteiro, on the border between the states of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. According to Hilton, General Tasso Fragoso, the chief of staff of the Brazilian Army, tried to oppose the deployment of the 1st Division in the valley, believing they were friendly to the rebels, but according to García de Gabiola he was likely just trying to protect the government based in Rio de Janeiro in case of a similar revolt happening there. In any case, Monteiro finally overruled Fragoso and the 1st Division was placed there just in time to block the Paulista advance. In the Paraíba, Góis Monteiro created the East Detachment, reaching some 34,000 men, against some 20,000 Paulistas, but after 3 months of trench warfare and despite advancing some 70 km, the government forces were still some 150 km  from the capital São Paulo when the war ended.

In the south of São Paulo, government forces created the South Detachment, made of the federal 3rd and 5th divisions, 3 cavalry divisions and the gaucho brigade of Rio Grande do Sul reaching 18,000 men against just 3-5,000 Paulistas depending on the date. The federal forces broke through the rebel defensive line in Itararé on July 17, producing the largest advance in the war, but they were still very far from São Paulo when the war ended. Finally, the decisive front was the Minas Gerais Front, which was only active after August 2. The 4th Federal Division, based in Minas Gerais,together with the Police of Minas Gerais and other states' troops, broke through the rebel defensive line in Eleutério (a district of Itapira) on August 26, advancing some 50 km towards Campinas, adding 18,000 soldiers against some 7,000 Paulistas. The 4th Division was only 70 km from São Paulo. The Paulistas surrendered in October 2 to General Valdomiro Lima, uncle of Vargas' wife, Darci Vargas.

Naval Task Force and naval blockade of São Paulo
In the naval theater, the Brazilian Navy had designated a naval task force to blockade São Paulo's main port, the Port of Santos, aiming to cut the rebels' only supply line by sea.

On July 10 the destroyer Mato Grosso left the port of Rio de Janeiro. The following day, the cruiser Rio Grande do Sul, escorted by two destroyers, Pará and Sergipe. To support the mission, the Naval Aviation sent three Savoia-Marchetti S.55A (numbers 1, 4 and 8) and two Martin PM (numbers 111 and 112) planes. These five planes left Galeão on July 12. All were temporarily based at the caves of the Island of São Sebastião, near the village of Vila Bela (current Ilhabela). The Navy also intended to send some Vought O2U-2A Corsairs to Vila Bela, but the Naval Aviation did not trust them to operate as floatplanes from the caves of the island, so it decided to expand the small airstrip next to the village so that they could operate with landing gear.

In popular culture

The Revolution plays a key role in the setting of Peter Fleming's book Brazilian Adventure, an offbeat portrayal by a British man caught in the midst of the fighting.

Gallery