[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Avraam Papadopoulos

Avraam Papadopoulos (; born 3 December 1984) is a Greek former professional footballer who played as a centre-back. He was born in Melbourne, Australia, to Greek parents.

Club career

Aris
Papadopoulos started his professional career with Aris in 2003 after stepping up from the Aris Youth with another promising attacking youngster, his friend Ethimios Pantelidis. Before, he had been with Digenis Lakkomatos Chalkidiki youth.

At the beginning of his career, he started as a striker or attacking midfielder. In the period between 2003 and summer 2006, Aris lived some darker days of their history in Greek football also tangled with a defensive philosophy of football, financial problems in the club, Papadopoulos experienced some gradual "demotions" into the more defensive positions by his coaches. Firstly into defensive midfielder, then also right back and finally central defender.

He is quite tall, with very tough body constitution, but not slow for his physical appearance, with pretty good awareness and tackling, sometimes reckless which leads him to getting yellow cards, but also this can be partially explained by more attacking football of the post-2006 Aris that can expose a defender like Papadopoulos to the situations of must-break the opponents' attacks. The scorer of several goals through his career generally by his strong headers and penalties. The best example is his only goal/header in the final qualifiers with Zaragoza in the UEFA Cup group stage at the Kleanthis Vikelidis stadium, which, at the end of the day, turned out to be the crucial and historic goal after Aris' loss 2–1 in Spain that ensured Aris the progression to the group stage. Yet he has been sent up in front, whenever Aris needed an extra striker in the dying minutes of matches.

As an "Aris kid" playing for his beloved club, but also with the fact that he experienced dark days as well as lighter, he was one of the fans' favourites logically, also one of the "last Mohicans" in the club ("Mohicans"- figuratively related to the players as Giorgios Koltsidas, Kostas Nebegleras, Papadopoulos, Georgios Gougoulias, Ronald Nacho Garcia, Efthimios Kouloucheris, Kristi Vangjeli, Petros Passalis, Spyros Gogolos, that were with this team in the second division, season 2005/06, as well as the season's after that, when the club experienced its promotion and then a total rebirth in the first division with good football and higher standing positions). Aris' number 4 was also known for his passion. For many years' transfer windows he used to be linked to Athenian giants (especially Olympiacos) by media/usually the sports news-papers, but yet had never changed his club, by then. Also as stories were circulating during the season (2006/07), he had been watched closely by some bigger clubs' scouts like Benfica or Chelsea, and Zenit of Russia as well. In last season of his residence in Thessaloniki before moving into Piraeus, he was considered one of the Aris top stars along with Sergio Koke, Ronald Nacho Garcia and experienced ex-super star and big Marcio Amoroso.

At the end of the 2007–08 season, after three offers, he refused to renew his contract up to 2013, although he had previously expressed a likelihood to renew. That act, which took its culmination right after he accepted to join Olympiacos, caused many Aris fans to rage at him pronouncing the same as a traitor to them.

Olympiacos

On 4 July 2008 the player was transferred to Olympiacos for 2.5 million euros on a four-year contract. Avraam stated this during a press conference, "I came to Olympiacos, and not Panathinaikos, because it was the best choice for me. The ideal choice. I would not like to say anything else and it does not make sense to talk about the past. I will work as hard as I can to make the team reach its goals and objectives in both Europe and Greece".

Papadopoulos made his debut against Anorthosis Famagusta FC in a 3–0 away loss. He finished 2008–09 season with 22 league matches. He started the next season by scoring against ŠK Slovan Bratislava in a 0–2 away win. This was his first goal for Olympiacos. He managed to score a crucial goal against P.A.O.K. F.C. in a 1–2 away win. He also scored against AEK Athens F.C. in a 1–2 home loss. He completed 28 league appearances and he scored 2 goals. His partnership with Olof Mellberg at the centre of defence played a vital role for Olympiacos as they won back-to-back championships in the 2010–11 and 2011–12 seasons.

On 24 June 2011 he was accused by the Athens prosecutor for his alleged involvement in match-fixing, as the list of those implicated in the scandal that has rocked Greek football grew. Papadopoulos, who plays for champions Olympiacos, was also included in the list along with another high profile player, Kostas Mendrinos, who is on the books of Aris. Finally, he was acquitted by these allegations by the Five Member Court of Appeal of Athens.