[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bad River train blockade

The Bad River train blockade was a 1996 action on the Bad River Ojibwe Reservation in Ashland County, Wisconsin, carried out by Ojibwe activists against train shipments of sulfuric acid. The activists blocked the railroad tracks that would have brought the acid to a mine in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. The action brought national scrutiny on the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and demonstrated the power of Indigenous rights in environmentalism.

Background
Copper Range Mine Company's copper mine in White Pine, Michigan, had been an employer of thousands in the Upper Peninsula until massive layoffs in the early 1990s that put the region into economic despair. In Wisconsin, several Ojibwe bands were battling to stop sulfide mining at the proposed Crandon mine with newfound political power stemming from the Walleye War.

In 1995 two Bad River tribal members, Lawrence "Butch" Stone and Alan "Buster" Couture, began having dreams that an environmental disaster was coming to the Bad River Reservation. While taking part in traditional sweats, Stone and Couture, among others who would form the Anishinabe Ogichidaa activist group, began receiving messages through dreams and visions from Native American spirits and ancestors. The messages began a year before the EPA published an announcement that sulfide would be moved by rail over the reservation on Wisconsin Central Railroad tracks.

In their dreams, Stone and Couture saw a train derail while crossing the Bad River Reservation, spilling a white powder into the river. The white powder caused disease and death of animals, plants and people, including the destruction of the sacred wild rice sloughs on the reservation at the delta where the Bad River meets Lake Superior. These sloughs had been the reason the Ojibwe settled in northern Wisconsin during their migration from the east coast four hundred years earlier. In that migration, the Ojibwe had, following a prophecy, followed a miigis (cowry) shell to a place where "food grows on water," a prophecy held to be fulfilled when they reached the wild rice waters of Wisconsin.

History
Neither Stone nor Couture knew what the white powder in their dreams was until the EPA's announcement of the sulfide shipment. The Anishinabe Ogichidaa activists made a point of carrying out the blockade in a way that was consistent with their beliefs. They had prepared throughout the prior year with sweats and prayer. Before blockading the tracks, they and other Ogichidaa members consulted with spiritual leaders and tribal elders. On arriving at the tracks to begin the blockade, they prayed, and then laid out sacred ground in a way specified by spiritual leaders, to add strength to their actions, including a sacred fire near the tracks, singing and drum sessions on the tracks, tobacco placed in the four directions and eagle feather lances in the four directions on and near the tracks. Before the blockade Stone and Couture vowed to Gichi Manidoo (Great Spirit) that they would be willing to sacrifice their lives if need be to stop the train from going through.

On July 22, 1996, the activists stopped a train bound for the copper mine as it crossed the reservation. The train was carrying tankers of sulfuric acid for use in pilot solution mining. The mine had drastically scaled back operations and laid off thousands the previous year due to its diminishing profits. Inmet, a Toronto-based corporation, hoped to inject  of acid into the mine to bring out any remaining ore. This plan raised concerns among environmentalists that the acid would contaminate groundwater and nearby Lake Superior. The EPA granted permission for the experiment without requiring a hearing or an environmental impact statement. Among those astounded by this decision was Walter Bresette, a Red Cliff Ojibwe activist and Indigenous chair of the EPA'S National Environmental Justice Advisory Council. Bresette resigned his position and joined with the Native rights group Anishinabe Ogichidaa, Ojibwe for "Protector of the People," on a new course of action.