[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Roi Klein

elled in his engineering studies, and qualified for the honors' scholarship every year, meaning the army did not need to pay his tuition. He graduated with honors.

In 2006, Klein was appointed deputy commander of the 51st Battalion of the Golani Brigade, a position he held at the time of his death.

Death in action
During the 2006 Lebanon War, Klein and his unit took part in the Battle of Bint Jbeil. During a Hezbollah ambush, a hand grenade was thrown over the wall that was between Hezbollah militants and Klein and his unit.  Klein jumped on the live grenade and muffled the explosion with his body. The soldiers reported that Klein recited the Jewish prayer, Shema Yisrael, as he jumped on the grenade. After the grenade exploded and critically wounded him, he reported his own death, yelling "Klein's dead, Klein's dead" over the radio. In the following minutes, as he lay dying, he ordered soldiers who came to administer first aid and evacuate him to focus on Lieutenant Amichai Merhavia, another soldier who had been hit (and later died also) instead. He then handed over his encoded radio to another officer, who took command of the force, and died. According to The Telegraph he yelled "Long live Israel", although this was probably a misinterpretation of "Shema Yisrael".

Legacy
Roi Klein became a symbol for heroism in Israel. New schools in Netanya and Raanana have been named after him. Institutions named after Klein exist throughout Israel, and Torah scrolls were written in his honor.
The Senior Class 2006 from Leon Pinelo Jewish High School in Lima, Perú, have been named after him.

For his actions during the war, Klein received the Medal of Courage posthumously.

Klein's home was among 12 homes that were subject to a petition by the Israeli group Peace Now demanding they be demolished, claiming they were built on private Palestinian land. In July 2009, the Israel High Court of Justice ordered Israeli Civil Administration to check the legal status of Klein's home, where his family was still residing. Due to the court ruling, the Israeli Civil Administration surveyed the land and found that among the 12 homes, 8 homes including Klein's home were built on land that got leased by Israel, and later they got regulated by Israel. Eventually, out of the 12 homes, 1 home got demolished in 2015. the Israeli Ministry of Defense said that someone will get financial compensation if they can prove that they are the original owner of the land.

In 2016, Klein's widow Sarah married Rabbi Yigal Levinstein, who had been one of Klein's teachers.

References

External links
About Roi Klein in the Israeli Prime Minister's website

1975 births
2006 deaths
Deaths by hand grenade
Israeli Jews
2006 Lebanon War
Israeli military personnel killed in action
Israeli settlers
Recipients of the Medal of Courage
Burials at Mount Herzl
People from Ra'anana
Ariel University alumni