[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Pentomic

s in a chaotic fashion that eliminated regimental cohesion.
Loss of a level of command: Previously there had been Company Commanders (captain), Battalion Commanders (major or lieutenant colonel), and Regimental Commanders (colonel); the pentomic structure eliminated the level of Battalion Commander.

Other nations
Even before the adoption of the pentomic organization by the US Army, the French Army adopted a very similar organization in 1955, called Javelot (Javelin), although with some differences. While in the pentomic structure, the maneuver units of the divisions were called battle groups, in the javelot model they were called regiments. Also, each javelot type regimental headquarters was able to establish two small subordinate tactical headquarters to control groups of companies which formed a kind of provisional battalion, which was not foreseen in the pentomic battle groups. These features prevented some of the flaws of the pentomic structure, including the issues related to span of control, loss of the level of command between company and regiment, and loss of regimental cohesion caused by the removal of the traditional regiments from the tactical organization. Because of the lack of the flaws associated with the pentomic organization and the successful employment of javelot type units in the Suez Crisis and in the Algerian War, this model of organization was kept and is still the basis of the French Army organization today.

The Australian Army implemented a similar structure, called the pentropic organisation, between 1960 and 1965 but reverted to its previous structure after experiencing difficulties similar to those experienced by the US Army.

The New Zealand Army planned to reorganize its forces around a derivative of the Australian concept, but the Australians abandoned the concept before the New Zealanders could start the change.

The Turkish Army utilised the pentomic structure in 1960s for a period before adopting the American ROAD divisional organisation.

The West German Army attempted reorganization around the pentomic structure in 1957, abandoning the idea within a few years.

After the signature of the Pact of Madrid with the United States, the Spanish Army abandoned the organization inherited from the Spanish Civil War to adopt the pentomic structure. Three experimental pentomic infantry divisions were created in 1958, followed by five additional ones in 1960. The pentomic structure was abandoned in 1965, when the Spanish Army adopted the French doctrine and organization of the era.

See also
 Combat command
 Regimental combat team
 Transformation of the United States Army

References

External links
"West Germany: The Pentomic Army", Time 1957
"The Pentomic Division", Time 1957

United States Army organization
Divisions (military formations) by type
Structure of contemporary armies