[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Court of Cassation (Belgium)

edings nonetheless. The aforementioned attorneys form a kind of extrajudicial filter to help reduce the court's caseload.

As described in other parts of this article, additional measures to reduce the caseload of the court have been introduced over the last years as well. This for example concerns:

 The possibility to have simple cases heard by a limited panel of only three judges (since 2014);
 The possibility for the section president to summarily dismiss non-admissible criminal cases (since 2014);
 The abolishment of "double cassation", where a ruling of the court was only binding for a lower court after a second cassation on the same grounds, in favour of the court's rulings being immediately binding for a lower court (since 2017).

No individual opinions 
The court always issues one single ruling on a case before it, which represents the (majority) opinion of the court. The Court does not have a tradition of dissenting opinions or concurring opinions since the deliberations of the judges are in principle secret. The individual opinions of the judges regarding the Court's rulings are thus not publicly known. Moreover, the Court of Cassation has ruled that any violation of the secrecy of deliberations of judges can be punished under article 458 of the Belgian Penal Code, which penalizes violations of professional secrecy requirements.

No binding case law
By virtue of Article 6 of the Belgian Judicial Code, no Belgian court may issue a ruling that amounts to a generally binding rule, as that is considered the purview of the legislative power. As a consequence, the rulings of the Court of Cassation only ever apply to the case at hand, and do not have the value of stare decisis. This means that the court's rulings are not formally binding for lower courts in a general sense, and thus do not create case law in an official sense. However, the court's rulings have an important persuasive value for lower courts, since the court is likely to annul any lower court judgment conflicting with one of its earlier rulings. The most persuasive form of precedent by the court is the jurisprudence constante, which follows from a series of rulings in which a particular principle or rule was applied in a likewise manner by the court. Although the court itself aims to adhere to its own precedents, peculiar and extraordinary circumstances may nonetheless compel the court to depart from its prior precedents. This way, the court ensures the evolution of the law in conjunction with the evolution of the rest of society.

This principle does not apply to a court to which the Court of Cassation has referred a case for retrial after a judgment was annulled. After a 2017 amendment, Article 1110 of the Belgian Judicial Code and Article 435 of the Belgian Code of Criminal Procedure oblige any such court to adhere to the ruling of the Court of Cassation with regards to the points of law on which it ruled. Before 2017, any court retrying a case referred to it by the Court of Cassation was not formally bound by the court's ruling. This could result in the judgment following the retrial being appealed to the court again. In this event, the case was to be heard by the court in joint chambers. If the court would then annul the judgment again on the same grounds as the first time, the case would again be remitted to a different court for a retrial. Only this time, the court in question would be bound by the ruling of the Court of Cassation with regards to the points of law on which it ruled.

No constitutional review 
The Belgian Constitution, at its adoption in 1831, did not contain any provision either allowing or either prohibiting the Belgian judiciary to engage in the constitutional review of legislative acts. In a ruling rendered on 23 July 1849, the Court of Cassation ruled for the first time on the topic that the Belgian judiciary, including the court itself, cannot review the constitutionality of legislative acts. The court considered that reviewing or considering the constitutionality of legislative acts is the sovereign purview of the legislature. The court has since not deviated from this point of view, and has reaffirmed it in a number of subsequent rulings. The court has however tested the limits of this legal doctrine in for example its "Waleffe" ruling (see further below).