[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Giannis Mantzourakis

gainst Liverpool.

This, along with an argue with Lampros Choutos, forced Matzourakis to leave the club, while Olympiacos was first in the league, 4 points over Panathinaikos and AEK. His successor Takis Lemonis continued, winning the championship 12 points over Panathinaikos and 17 points over AEK.

After 2000
Back in Cyprus in 2002, he coached Anorthosis Famagusta and AEL Limassol, and in 2003, AEL qualified to the Cypriot Cup final after 14 years, and was beaten on penalties by Anorthosis 5–3 after a draw 0–0.

After working in Xanthi for two years, he gave up by coaching the team on 26 September 2006, after the bad results of the team. He returned to Cyprus in January 2007, this time for AC Omonia, replacing their previous coach Ioan Andone without success. He was fired after his team was beaten in the Cypriot Cup Final by Anorthosis Famagusta.

On 14 December 2007 he was appointed manager of Veria, and his spell there was followed by good results. The team escaped the relegation zone, but on 11 March 2008 he was sacked after a home loss to his former club Olympiacos 0–1. Rumours suggested that Matzourakis will become the manager of Olympiacos for the second time after he left Veria, because Olympiacos' coach Takis Lemonis was also sacked after that match. However, Jose Segura succeeded Lemonis at Olympiacos, and Veria was relegated after Matzourakis left.

After that season, Matzourakis returned to Xanthi, but he was sacked before the start of the 2008–09 season. On 20 November 2008 he became the coach of OFI Crete but he could not prevent the team from relegation and was sacked after the end of the season. On 22 September 2009 he once again returned to Xanthi, although the team's results were disappointing and he was sacked on 23 February 2010.

In March 2011 he signed as the head coach of Kavala's local team, Kavala FC. His debut was not good, because his team lost 0–1 from Olympiakos Volou. In April, he was quit from the Macedonian Team and his last match with Kavala, was Kavala versus Atromitos.

On 5 March 2012 he signed as the head coach of AEL Kallonis and for the first time in his career, he would coach a team playing in the Football League. He managed to achieve promotion to the Superleague, as well as securing relegation-safe status in the club's first season in the competition, despite playing all home games at neutral ground. The next season however, the club's board of directors surprisingly terminated Mantzourakis' contract in mid-season in favour of Vangelis Vlachos, who was hired a day later.

On 12 February 2015, Mantzourakis was appointed head coach of competing Superleague side Ergotelis. Not two weeks later, on 25 February 2015 Mantzourakis resigned his position. In this short period, he coached the club in two crucial competition matches, recording a draw against Panionios and a loss against Atromitos.

On 8 October 2015, he was appointed head coach of Panetolikos. He led the team to 11th place in the 2015–2016 Greek Superleague and his contract was renewed for the 2016–17 season. On 17 January 2017, he parted ways with Panetolikos.

Managing career

Managerial statistics

References

1948 births
Living people
Footballers from Bucharest
Greek men's footballers
Greek expatriate men's footballers
Greek football managers
Greek people of Romanian descent
Athlitiki Enosi Larissa F.C. managers
Olympiacos F.C. managers
AC Omonia managers
Anorthosis Famagusta FC managers
AEL Limassol managers
CFR Cluj players
FC Rapid București players
PAOK FC players
Athlitiki Enosi Larissa F.C. players
Terrassa FC footballers
Iraklis F.C. (Thessaloniki) players
Expatriate football managers in Cyprus
Expatriate men's footballers in Spain
Canadian National Soccer League players
Liga I players
Super League Greece players
Super League Greece managers
OFI Crete F.C. managers
APOEL FC managers
Veria F.C. managers
Ergotelis F.C. managers
Panetolikos F.C. managers
APOP Paphos FC managers
Men's association football forwards
Greek expatriate football managers