[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United States rainfall climatology

tation falls during the winter tends to stay throughout the season.  La Niña events lead to drier than normal conditions, while El Niño events do not have a correlation towards dry or wet conditions.  Precipitation increases by 10 to 40 percent when the Pacific decadal oscillation is positive.

West

From September through May, extratropical cyclones from the Pacific Ocean move inland into the region due to a southward migration of the jet stream during the cold season.  This shift in the jet stream brings much of the annual precipitation to the region, and also brings the potential for heavy rain events.  The West Coast occasionally experiences ocean-effect showers, usually in the form of rain at lower elevations south of the mouth of the Columbia River.  These occur whenever an Arctic air mass from western Canada is drawn westward out over the Pacific Ocean, typically by way of the Fraser Valley, returning shoreward around a center of low pressure.  Strong onshore flow is brought into the mountain ranges of the west, focusing significant precipitation into the Rocky Mountains, with rain shadows occurring in the Harney Basin, Great Basin, the central valley of California, and the lower Colorado River valley.  In general, rainfall amounts are lower on the southern portions of the West coast.  The biggest recipients of the precipitation are the coastal ranges such as the Olympic Mountains, the Cascades, and the Sierra Nevada range.  Lesser amounts fall upon the Continental Divide.  Cold-season precipitation into this region is the main supply of water to area rivers, such as the Colorado River and Rio Grande, and also acts as the main source of water to people living in this portion of the United States.  During El Niño events, increased precipitation is expected in California due to a more southerly, zonal, storm track.  California also enters a wet pattern when thunderstorm activity within the tropics associated with the Madden–Julian oscillation nears 150E longitude.  During La Niña, increased precipitation is diverted into the Pacific Northwest due to a more northerly storm track.

Lake-effect snow off Great Salt Lake

The southern and southeastern sides of the Great Salt Lake receive significant lake-effect snow.  Since the Great Salt Lake never freezes, the lake-effect can affect the weather along the Wasatch Front year round.  The lake-effect largely contributes to the  to  annual snowfall amounts recorded south and east of the lake, with average snowfall amounts exceeding  in the Wasatch Mountains.  The snow, which is often very light and dry due to the desert climate, is referred to as "The Greatest Snow on Earth" in the mountains. Lake-effect snow contributes to approximately 6-8 snowfalls per year in Salt Lake City, with approximately 10% of the city's precipitation being contributed by the phenomenon.

North American Monsoon 

The North American Monsoon (NAM) occurs from late June or early July into September, originating over Mexico and spreading into the southwest United States by mid-July.  This allows the wet season to start in the Southwest during the summer rather than early fall as seen across the remainder of the West.  Within the United States, it affects Arizona, New Mexico, Nevada, Utah, Colorado, West Texas,  and California.  The North American monsoon is known to many as the Summer, Southwest, Mexican or Arizona monsoon.  It is also sometimes called the Desert Monsoon as a large part of the affected area is desert.

When precipitable water values near , brief but often torrential thunderstorms and the hurricane force winds and hail can occur, especially over mountainous terrain.  This activity is occasionally enhanced by the passage of retrograding (westward-moving) upper cyclones moving under the subtropical ridge and the entrainment of the remnants of tropical storms.  Tropical cyclones from the eastern Pacific contribute to the moisture within the monsoon system, and bring up to 20 percent of the average annual rainfall to southern California.  Flash flooding is a serious danger during the monsoon season. Dry washes can become raging rivers in an instant, even when no storms are visible as a storm can cause a flash flood tens of miles away.  Lightning strikes are also a significant danger. Because it is dangerous to be caught in the open when these storms suddenly appear, many golf courses in Arizona have thunderstorm warning systems.