[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Mind control in popular culture

ps Sonic's assistant Miles "Tails" Prower and Sonic's love interest Amy Rose, ties them up to a chair, puts them on a device and brainwashes them.
In the MMORPG Star Wars: The Old Republic, players that choose a force user class can occasionally force persuade a NPC during conversations, which sometimes allow the player to manipulate the actions and decisions of NPCs. This ability may change the outcome and situation of the dialogue.
The Dark Archon, a unit in the computer game StarCraft, has the ability to psionically mind control other units, indefinitely taking complete control of them.
In Super Mario Odyssey, Mario can throw Cappy on enemies or other objects to temporally control them.
In Super Paper Mario, the character Nastasia has the ability to brainwash people by looking them in the eyes, this is the way she brainwashes Luigi as well as Bowser's Goomba and Koopa army, although Luigi is later freed from her brainwashing by the character Dimentio, who can also brainwash people by making sprouts appear on their heads. An mentioned character called the Pixl Queen has the ability to brainwash other Pixls. 
In the MMORPG World of Warcraft, players of the priest class gain the ability to mind-control other humanoid characters, gaining full control over their actions for a short period. (Due to interface limitations, priests cannot do anything else while controlling a target.)
In the X-COM series, mind control is a possible ability certain aliens or soldiers are able to employ against each other in the game.
In Far Cry 5, two of the game's antagonists use mind control. Jacob Seed uses the song "Only You" by The Platters to brainwash the player, while Faith Seed uses a hallucogenic drug called Bliss.
In The Stanley Parable if the player follows the Narrators instructions exactly, Stanley will stumble upon the Mind Control Device, the device used to control Stanley and his coworkers until the events of the main game.
In Scooby-Doo! Mystery Mayhem, the characters Fred, Daphne, and Velma are brainwashed by the antagonist Selena Drake using a mind control device, but Shaggy and Scooby later free them by destroying the machine. The giant antennas found throughout the game are also used for mind control.

Other fiction

 The TV series The Prisoner featured mind control as a recurring plot element.
 in the MIraculous: tales of ladubug and cat noir show, the main villan hawkmoth can "akumatize" people with negitive emotions using a "akuma" (a butterfly that has the power to control the supervillans).
 In the Korean mini-series Winter Sonata the protagonist has his memory altered by a clinical psychiatrist at his mother's request which forms the crux of the plot as he struggles to overcome it.
 In the movie Conspiracy Theory, Mel Gibson plays Jerry Fletcher, a cab driver and a conspiracy theorist who accidentally hits a truth involving a secret government-funded mind control program, as it turns out Jerry himself is one of the subjects of the program.
 In Judy Malloy's Revelations of Secret Surveillance, a group of artists and writers struggle to understand and expose a covert system that utilizes psychodrama and brain scanning surveillance to interfere with the lives of artists, activists, and many other people.
 The novel Trilby (1894) features the character Svengali, who hypnotizes the novel's heroine to enhance her singing performance. The character gained popularity as the stereotype of an evil hypnotist, and became the basis for feature films throughout the 20th century.
 In Aldous Huxley's Brave New World, a technique called hypnopaedia is used to condition children to be obedient citizens.
 An adaptation of Kurt Vonnegut's "Harrison Bergeron", was made into a film Harrison Bergeron, a 1995 production. Everyone but the elite had "handicapping" devices attached to their brains.
 Mr. Big, one of the antagonists in the PBS Kids GO! series WordGirl, frequently uses mind control to entice people to buy his products.
 In “The Phoney Booths” episode of the 1960s TV series Underdog, Simon Bar Sinister uses telephone booths named “Phoney Booths” to brainwash people and put them into his power.
 Queen Chrysalis, a powerful antagonist of the Hub series My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic, has the gift of mind control via emotional manipulation and metamorphic abilities. In "A Canterlot Wedding", she uses this ability to disguise herself as Princess Cadence and bring the princess's fiancée Shining Armor under her spell, as well as manipulating Cadence's bridesmaids to become her servants. Starlight Glimmer, another antagonist, used a combination of a magic staff and more traditional forms of mind control (including solitary confinement, denial of care, and constantly broadcasting messages via loudspeaker) to create a cult of ponies obsessed with the idea of conformity.
 In the Monkees episode "The Frodis Caper", an insane wizard captures a sentient potted plant from outer space and attempts world domination by broadcasti