[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Amphipolis

ory is that the tomb was built for the mother of Alexander the Great, Olympias.

Restoration of the tomb is due for completion in 2023 in the course of which building materials of the grave site which were later used by the Romans elsewhere will be rebuilt in their original location.

The city walls

The original 7.5 km long walls are generally visible, particularly the northern section which is preserved to a height of 7.5m. 5 preserved gates can be seen and notably the gate in front of the wooden bridge.

In early Christian times another, inner, wall was built around the acropolis.

The ancient wooden bridge of Amphipolis

The ancient bridge that crossed the river Strymon was mentioned by Thucydides, was strategic as it controlled access between Macedonia and the Chalkidike in the west to Thrace in the east, and was important for the economy and trade. It was therefore incorporated into the city walls.
 
It was discovered in 1977 and is a unique find for Greek antiquity. The hundreds of wooden piles have been carbon-dated and show the vast life of the bridge with some piles dating from 760 BC, and others used till about 1800 AD.

The Gymnasium

This was a major public building for the military and gymnastic training of youth as well as for their artistic and intellectual education. It was built in the 4th c. BC and includes a palaestra, the rectangular court surrounded by colonnades with adjoining rooms for many athletic functions. The covered stoa or xystos for indoor training in inclement weather is a long portico 75m long and 7m wide to allow 6 runners to compete simultaneously. There was also a parallel outdoor track, paradromida, for training in good weather and a system of cisterns for water supply. 

During the Macedonian era it became a major institution.

The stone stela bearing the rules of the gymnasium was found in the north wing, detailing the duties and powers of the master and the education of the athletes.

After it was destroyed in the 1st c. BC in the Thracian rebellion against Roman rule, it was rebuilt in Augustus's time in the 1st c. AD along with the rest of the city.

Amphipolitans
Demetrius of Amphipolis, student of Plato
Zoilus (400–320 BC), grammarian, cynic philosopher
Pamphilus (painter), head of Sicyonian school and teacher of Apelles
Aetion, sculptor
Philippus of Amphipolis, historian
Nearchus, admiral
Erigyius, general
Damasias of Amphipolis 320 BC Stadion Olympics
Hermagoras of Amphipolis (), stoic philosopher, follower of Persaeus
Apollodorus of Amphipolis, appointed joint military governor of Babylon and the other satrapies as far as Cilicia by Alexander the Great
Xena - In the television series Xena Warrior Princess, Amphipolis is the main character's home village.

Municipality
The municipality Amfipoli was formed at the 2011 local government reform by the merger of the following four former municipalities, that became municipal units:
Amfipoli
Kormista
Proti
Rodolivos

The municipality has an area of 411.773 km2, the municipal unit 152.088 km2.

See also
Archaeological Museum of Amphipolis
List of ancient Greek cities

References

External links

 Official site about Amphipolis
 Demographic Information from Greek Travel Pages
 Livius.org: Amphipolis 
 The tomb of Amphipolis

Populated places in Serres (regional unit)
Amphipolis (municipality)
437 BC
5th-century BC establishments
8th-century disestablishments in the Byzantine Empire
Ancient Amphipolis
Ancient Greek archaeological sites in Central Macedonia
Archaeological sites in Macedonia (Greece)
Athenian colonies
Former populated places in Greece
Populated places established in the 5th century BC
Populated places disestablished in the 8th century
Populated places in ancient Macedonia
Populated places in ancient Thrace
Roman towns and cities in Greece
Populated places of the Byzantine Empire