[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Enrique Angelelli

ed by Judge Morales in La Rioja, the hierarchy of the Church continued to avoid any references to murder. In 2001, a declaration by the Argentine Episcopal Conference stated, "Death found him while fulfilling a difficult mission, accompany[ing] the communities hurt by the murder of their shepherds."

Homages to Angelelli
In February 1986, U.S. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, during a journey to South America to highlight human rights, paid homage to Angelelli at the La Rioja Cathedral. In 1993, Martin Edwin Andersen, the former Newsweek and Washington Post special correspondent in Buenos Aires who travelled with Kennedy to La Rioja, dedicated his investigative history, "Dossier Secreto: Argentina's Desaparecidos and the Myth of the Dirty 'War,'" to Angelelli, and to human rights heroes Patricia Derian, who spearheaded the U.S. human rights revolution of President Jimmy Carter, and Emilio Mignone, the founder of the Centro de Estudios Legales y Sociales (CELS), "three people who spoke out and made a difference."

On 2 August 2006, two days before the 30th anniversary of Angelelli's death, President Néstor Kirchner signed a decree declaring 4 August a national day of mourning, and gave a speech in the Casa Rosada "commemorating the religious workers [who were] victims of state terrorism". Alba Lanzillotto, a member of the Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo who used to attend mass sung by bishop Angelelli, spoke then regarding the belated homage of the Catholic hierarchy: "I don't want Monsignor to be made into a stamp. He has to be alive in our memory."

On the day of the anniversary, Jorge Bergoglio, Archbishop of Buenos Aires (later Pope Francis), celebrated Mass in the Cathedral of La Rioja in memory of Angelelli. In his homily he said that Angelelli "got stones thrown at him because he preached the Gospel, and shed his blood for it". Bergoglio also quoted Tertullian's sentence "thé blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church". This was the first official homage of the Church to Angelelli, and the first time that the word martyr was used with reference to his murder by Church authorities in this context. After the Mass, about 2,000 people, including the governor of La Rioja Ángel Maza, paid homage to Angelelli in Punta de los Llanos, the site of his death.

On 27 April 2019, shortly before his beatification, Congregation for the Causes of Saints Prefect Cardinal Angelo Becciu compared Angelelli to assassinated Catholic saint Oscar Romero and even labelled Angelelli as "Argentina's Romero."

Beatification
Pope Francis voiced support for the cause of sainthood for Angelelli which commenced on 21 April 2015 with the formal declaration of "nihil obstat" (nothing against) to the cause. He was bestowed the title of Servant of God as a result. The official diocesan process commenced on 13 October 2015. On 8 June 2018 Francis approved the decree that Angelelli and three others murdered in La Rioja at the time–Carlos Murias, Gabriel Longueville, Wenceslao Pedernera–were martyred out of hatred for the faith and called the Bishop of Rioja, Marcelo Colombo with the news. The beatification ceremony then took place on 27 April 2019 and Cardinal Giovanni Angelo Becciu presided over the celebration, which took place at La Rioja City Park in La Rioja, on the Pope's behalf.

See also
 Roman Catholicism in Argentina

References

Additional sources
 Nunca Más. Report of CONADEP, 1984.  The case of the Bishop of La Rioja, Monsignor Enrique Angelelli...
 
 Argentine Episcopal Conference, Diocesan Bulletin, May 2001. Mons. Angelelli: Vivió y murió como pastor.
 
 
 
 
 
Document collection

External links

  Centro Tiempo Latinoamericano  — Photo-audio-video gallery, biography, bibliography.
  Enrique Angelelli – Pastor y Mártir de tierra adentro — Biography, photographic gallery, online resources.

1923 births
1976 deaths
People from Córdoba, Argentina
Argentine people of Italian descent
Beatifications by Pope Francis
People killed in the Dirty War
20th-century Roman Catholic bishops in Argentina
People murdered in Argentina
20th-century Roman Catholic martyrs
Participants in the Second Vatican Council
Argentine beatified people
Roman Catholic bishops of Córdoba
Roman Catholic bishops of La Rioja