[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Robert Nimmo

t on 30 August. He was admitted to hospital in Alexandria in Egypt on 6 September then evacuated to the UK on 23 September where he was admitted to hospital in London on 5 October. Due to his absence from his unit, he was placed on the supernumerary list on 13 December.

Sinai and Palestine campaign

On 20 December 1915 the 5th Light Horse Regiment was withdrawn from Gallipoli when all Australian forces were evacuated. On 4 February 1916 Nimmo reported to the Australian personnel depot in the UK after recuperating from his illness, and a month later he departed to return to the Middle East, sailing on the , another converted liner used as a troopship. He disembarked at Alexandria on 16 May. In March 1916 the 5th Light Horse Regiment had joined the ANZAC Mounted Division forming in Egypt, and was involved in the defence of the Suez Canal from an Ottoman advance, although its main task was long-range patrolling. Nimmo was posted back to his former regiment on 25 June, but the following day was appointed as second-in-command of an ad hoc subunit, the 2nd Double Squadron. He was temporarily promoted to captain on 1 July to fulfil this role. He returned to the regiment on 22 July and his promotion to captain was made substantive. In July he was designated as a staff trainee within the "G" (Operations) Branch of the headquarters of the ANZAC Mounted Division. By this time, the 5th Light Horse Regiment was based at Dueidarwest of Katia on the northern Sinai Peninsula, from where extensive patrolling and reconnaissance was conducted. On 17 October Nimmo was again appointed as regimental adjutant.

On 12 December Nimmo was temporarily detached to the 3rd Light Horse Brigade, but returned to his regiment on 27 December. On 24 February 1917 he was seconded to the headquarters of the 2nd Light Horse Brigade for training as a staff captain. In February and March, the 2nd Light Horse Brigade conducted brigade-level reconnaissance into Palestine towards Gaza. Nimmo's secondment to headquarters of the 2nd Light Horse Brigade included the failed First Battle of Gaza on 26 March. On 15 April Nimmo was seconded as a staff captain to the British 160th Infantry Brigade which was part of the 53rd (Welsh) Infantry Division. The 53rd (Welsh) Infantry Division had received significant casualties in the First Battle of Gaza. While Nimmo was with the British division, it was involved in a second failure to capture Gaza on 17–19 April, in which the 160th Infantry Brigade managed to capture Samson's Ridge following many unsuccessful attempts and serious losses. After three months with the British, Nimmo returned to the 5th Light Horse Regiment on 14 July on promotion to major, posted as officer commanding B Squadron. Nimmo led B Squadron during several minor brigade and regimental operations targeting enemy patrols and outposts in the vicinity of Beersheba in July, and August, before spending September engaged in training and inspections at the rest camp at Tel el Marakeb. 

Between 21 and 29 October, Nimmo and his squadron were detached to the Imperial Camel Corps Brigade for patrol and outpost duty. Nimmo led his squadron during the successful Battle of Beersheba on 31 October, where the 5th Light Horse Regiment helped cut the Beersheba-Hebron road at Sakati to isolate the Ottoman defenders. The presence of the 2nd Light Horse Brigade across the Beersheba-Hebron road helped to give the German general commanding the Ottoman forces in the sector, Friedrich Freiherr Kress von Kressenstein, the false impression that the Allied advance would now be aimed at Jerusalem, and he made troop dispositions that weakened the defences at Gaza. Nimmo's squadron then participated in the follow-up operations around Tel el Khuweilfe in the first few days of November, which were initially led by the 5th Light Horse Regiment. Soon after, the 5th Light Horse Regiment participated in the successful Third Battle of Gaza on 7 November, where it advanced quickly with exposed flanks to attempt to cut off the retreating Ottoman forces at Huj, but was unable to reach its objective despite fighting "dashingly". Later that day the 5th Light Horse Regiment attacked the Tel Abu Dilakh ridge, covering the  to the ridge at a gallop under heavy artillery fire. While the regiment was held up by guns firing from a distant village, they pushed forward in the morning and captured the enemy artillery.