[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bad Nenndorf interrogation centre

The Bad Nenndorf interrogation centre was a British Combined Services Detailed Interrogation Centre (CSDIC) located within the Winckler-Bath () complex and adjacent buildings, in the West German town of Bad Nenndorf, district of Schaumburg, Lower Saxony. This was located in the British Occupation zone in Germany.  The interrogation centre operated from June 1945 to July 1947.  Allegations of mistreatment of detainees by British troops resulted in a police investigation, a public controversy in both Britain and Germany, and the eventual closure of the interrogation centre.  Four of the centre's officers were brought before courts martial in 1948; one of the four was convicted on charges of neglect, and Dismissed from Service.

The Winckler-Bath complex was named after Axel Winckler, a doctor from Bad Nenndorf and a leading balneologist.

Background
The British authorities opened No. 74 Combined Services Detailed Interrogation Centre (74 CSDIC) in June 1945.  The interrogation centre was based in the Schlammbad (peat pulp bath or mud bath) complex in Bad Nenndorf, with the former bathing chambers being converted into prison cells.  It was the successor to an earlier interrogation centre at Diest in Belgium, and was run by a combination of military and intelligence officers under War Office authority.  Several other CSDIC interrogation centres had existed during World War II, in the UK at Ham in London, and Huntercombe near Henley-on-Thames, and in the Mediterranean [CMF] Rome at Cinecittà, Middle East [MEF] centre Ma'adi near Cairo, and South Asia, but these had closed by the time No. 74 CSDIC had opened.

The interrogation centre was originally intended to intern former Nazis (Schutzstaffel (SS), Sturmabteilung (SA), and Gestapo) for interrogation, but its remit was expanded to include a number of people suspected of carrying out espionage for the Soviet Union.  As well as Germans, these included Russians, Czechs, and Hungarians.  During the interrogation centre's two years of operation, a total of 372 men and 44 women were held there.

Allegations of abuse

From the outset, the interrogation centre appears to have had organisational problems.  The commanding officer, Lieutenant colonel (Lt Col) Robin Stephens, noted that its staffing "was generous, but in practice was never filled.  Later there was a reduction to the bone.  That was inevitable owing to Treasury requirements.  Then trouble began.  Work was on the increase, demobilisation took [a] heavy toll and replacements were inexperienced".

In January and February 1947, a number of prisoners from No. 74 CSDIC were taken to a civilian hospital in Rotenburg, near Bremen, suffering from frostbite, malnutrition, and a variety of physical injuries.  Two of the prisoners subsequently died.  British medical and military personnel at the hospital were shocked at the poor condition of the prisoners, and complained to their superiors, prompting senior British Army officers to commission an investigation by Inspector Thomas Hayward of the Metropolitan Police.

In March 1947, the British Labour Party Member of Parliament Richard Stokes (Ipswich) visited the interrogation centre to perform an apparently ad hoc inspection as part of a long-running effort on his part to promote the welfare of prisoners of war and other post-war detainees.  He told the House of Commons that "in cross-examining some of these [prisoners] it may be necessary to indulge in forms of verbal persecution which we do not like, but there is no physical torture, starvation or ill-treatment of that kind".  However, he criticised the poor conditions at the interrogation centre.  The 65 men and four women being held there were mostly in solitary confinement, in unheated cells at temperatures of ; the interrogation centre had no coal for heating, so the prisoners had instead been given seven blankets each.

Inspector Hayward's investigation, which appears to have been concluded after Richard Stokes' visit to No. 74 CSDIC, produced a list of serious allegations of abuse.  These were later summarised in a Foreign Office memo:

The report caused dismay among British government officials, who recognised the serious damage that the case could do to Britain's international image.  The Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, Frank Pakenham, noted that "we are alleged to have treated internees in a manner reminiscent of the German concentration camps".  The junior Foreign Office minister, Hector McNeil, told Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin: "I doubt if I can put too strongly the parliamentary consequences of publicity.  Whenever we have any allegations to make about the political police methods in Eastern European states, it will be enough to call out in the House 'Bad Nenndorf', and no reply is left to us".