[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# New Worlds Project

The New Worlds Project is a creative writing project launched in August 2003 to the public after several years of development. The Project centers on an original science fiction setting that enables the creative writing project and its supporting role-playing game. It was co-founded by Alex Perry and Kim Leonard Smouter, and is a registered non-profit corporation in the United States and the European Union.

Origins
The New Worlds Project was inspired by a similar play-by-post game entitled Star Trek: Independence. The game used the Star Trek setting and modified it so as to create a setting compatible with the methods of play-by-post gaming.

The New Worlds Project's co-founders served as administrators within that game and were able to see the strengths and weaknesses of Star Trek: Independence. Also inspired to create a wholly original setting, the administrators inspired themselves from the gameplay of Star Trek: Independence as the basis for their own project.

The co-founders spent two years perfecting their concept, focusing particular attention around their original setting. The Project opened with much fanfare in August 2003 to the public, receiving a hundred applications within a month.

Four Seasons of Existence
The New Worlds Project catalogues its years of existence by calling each year a season, this borrowing the idea from TV series. In its first "season", 2003–04, New Worlds further expanded its setting and featured its first role-plays. The first generation of role-players brought to life the war-torn setting that had been created by the co-founders.

The second season, 2004–05, was affected by a website domain name change and featured for the first time the "Starport Nuribis Personal Access Network" a full-featured website for just members. The second generation of role-players brought to life Starport Nuribis through numerous civilian storylines that further enriched the original setting. These civilian storylines would be the inspiration for the Season II finale taking place on the civilian Starport Nuribis, featuring a blockade on the symbol of peace.

By the third season, the New Worlds Project continued to professionalise its services, in December 2005 the website was closed in order to upgrade back-end software and further enhance the setting. Re-opening in February 2006, a full-month behind schedule, the Project's website has since returned to service.

A new generation brought with them renewed interest in the main war-torn setting that had been created. As a result, whilst stories involving civilians and civilian storylines became less present, storylines focusing on the war increased sensitively. This renewed interest in military storylines allowed for the Season III finale to be a massive battle between the Gohorns and the Terrans.

In the following year, Season IV, New Worlds Project announced the bifurcation of its game-play between New Worlds: Target Locked and New Worlds: Weapons Free. The bifurcation was motivated by a need to offer new players an easier integration process. The new arrangement has meant that for the first time in the game's history, writing groups are being organised and minimum posting requirements created. The bifurcation was preceded by the implementation of a brand new website which fundamentally changed the navigational structure of the RPG's homepage.

In 2010, the New Worlds Project forums succumbed to inactivity as the administrators encountered offline issues with employment and medical conditions. It remains to be seen if they will be relaunched.

New Worlds Project Reboot

On 28 September 2013, New Worlds Project's leadership announced plans to reboot the creative community. The community would expand its focus to include writers, graphic artists, and musicians. A new website was to be developed by Corllete Ltd using a heavily modified e107 content management system. The community was to be driven by the 360° Creativity Concept which would allow contributors to the community to be published and earn royalties for their contributions.

Initially the community was slated to come online in November 2013 but development delays led to the public launch date being pushed back to 2 January 2016.

Setting
The New Worlds Project centers on its original science-fiction setting. The setting has evolved since it was launched to the public in 2003 and is continually adapted by both staff and members of the New Worlds Project. The Project's setting is characterized by a rich atmosphere. It is estimated over 1000 pages combined form it.

Concept
The New Worlds Project's story begins in the 26th century, in the year 2501. Humanity has learned to travel at faster than light speeds safely and has made first contact with a number of alien species. Humanity has united under a single banner, the United Nations governs the Terran Democratic Republic. For almost a century, peace has been administered by the Organisation For Interstellar Peace.