[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# December 1979

.  General Chun followed with a demand that Prime Minister Shin fill the vacancies, left by the arrest of 16 senior officers, with men of Chun's choice.
The unrecognized state of Zimbabwe Rhodesia returned to British control and resumed using the name Southern Rhodesia.

December 13, 1979 (Thursday)

The Progressive Conservative Party government of Canada's Prime Minister Joe Clark, installed less than seven months earlier, lost a vote of no confidence in the House of Commons by six votes, 139 to 133, after "its failure to make good on its promises to cut taxes and stimulate the economy."  Clark then announced that he would ask Governor General Edward Schreyer to call for new elections to be held in February. The vote came a day after the government excise tax on a gallon of fuel was increased another 18 cents per gallon immediately as a means of curbing energy use, and an announcement that a 12 cent increase would be added on January 1. 
Shin Hyun-hwak became the new Prime Minister of South Korea after being nominated by President  (and former Prime Minister) Choi Kyu-hah and confirmed by the National Assembly.
Died: Jon Hall (stage name for Charles Locher), 64, American film and television actor known for the series Ramar of the Jungle

December 14, 1979 (Friday)
East Germany completed a 68-day amnesty program that it had started on October 7, 1979, the 30th anniversary of the creation of the  German Democratic Republic from the Soviet occupation zone of Germany.  The Communist government announced that during the amnesty period, 21,928 prisoners, or more than two-thirds of the incarcerated population, had been set free.  Excluded from consideration were "murderers, war criminals, people convicted of brutal crimes and those jailed under international agreements".
Born: 
Chris Cheng, American marksman and sport shooter; in Mission Viejo, California
Michael Owen, English soccer football striker and national team member; in Chester, Cheshire

December 15, 1979 (Saturday)
The former Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, quietly departed the United States after the Republic of Panama agreed to accept him.  The Shah and his family were flown to Contadora Island, one of the Pearl Islands roughly  from the Panamanian coast.
In a harbinger of the failure of the European Space Agency's plans to launch a rocket into orbit, a test-firing of the Ariane rocket's engines ended abruptly with an automatic shutdown.
Born: Adam Brody, American television and film actor; in San Diego
Died: Ethel Lackie, 72, American swimmer and 1924 Olympic gold medalist

December 16, 1979 (Sunday)
The United States ended its embargo against Rhodesia for imports and exports after 14 years.
Born: 
Trevor Immelman, South African professional golfer and 2008 Masters Tournament champion; in Cape Town
Daniel Narcisse, French team handball player and national team member; in Saint-Denis, Réunion island
Died: Vagif Mustafazadeh, 39, Soviet Azerbaijani jazz musician

December 17, 1979 (Monday)
American film stuntman Stan Barrett became the first person to travel faster than the speed of sound on land, reaching Mach 1.01 when he attained a maximum velocity of  in a 60,000 horsepower rocket-powered vehicle on Rogers Dry Lake at California's Edwards Air Force Base.  Under conditions at the time, with a temperature of , the speed of sound was .
Born: Jaimee Foxworth, American TV actress; in Belleville, Illinois

December 18, 1979 (Tuesday)
The Roman Catholic Church issued a censure against a liberal Swiss theologian and priest, Father Hans Küng, for his continued questioning of "age old tenets of the Roman Catholic faith."  Father Küng, a professor at Germany's University of Tübingen, was named specifically in a Vatican declaration written in Latin and signed by Cardinal Franjo Šeper, Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, declaring that "this sacred congregation by reason of its duty is constrained to declare that Professor Hans Küng, in his writings, has departed from the integral truth of Catholic faith, and therefore he can no longer be considered a Catholic theologian nor function as such in a teaching role."
The Black Hole, the first Walt Disney Productions film to ever receive a parental guidance (PG) rating, premiered in the United Kingdom (with an "A" rating)  and was released in the United States and Canada three days later.  With a total budget of $26 million for production and promotion, the film was the most expensive produced by the Disney studios up to that time.