[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# New immigrants in Hong Kong

New immigrants in Hong Kong () generally refers to migrants from mainland China (Mainlanders). Despite its literal meaning, the term is rarely used to describe newly arrived immigrants from regions other than Mainland China. Since the transfer of sovereignty over Hong Kong to The People's Republic of China,  of migrants from mainland China have been coming to the territory.

Family reunification and Right of abode 

Immediately after the handover of Hong Kong back to Chinese rule, Hong Kong's Legislative Council passed an amendment to the Basic Law that would restrict immigration to children born outside of Hong Kong that were born to Hong Kong residents. The constitutionality of this amendment came to be challenged in court, and in January 1999, the Court of Final Appeal ruled against the amendment. This ruling immediately granted up to 300,000 people in mainland China the right of abode in Hong Kong, and it was estimated that within the next ten years, about 1.6 million people in mainland China would become eligible for right of abode in Hong Kong.

Immigration and Cross-border Families
Hei Hang Hayes Tang (2003) gave the following account: after the first influx of refugee capitalists and workers from Mainland China in the late 1940s, Hong Kong experienced another influx in the late 1970s.  The migrants of this second wave were mainly young male mainlanders who made their living by working in the manufacturing industry.  Being less attractive in the eyes of Hong Kong local born women, many of these young mainlanders generally had to find spouses in Mainland China.  Soon after the Mainland government opened its door for economic development and after the signing of Sino-British Joint Declaration in 1984, there was a massive relocation of industrial activities from Hong Kong to the Pearl River Delta.  Such industrial relocation has accentuated the trend of marriage between Hong Kong working-class men and Mainland women (So, 2002).  According to the General Household Survey 1991, some 95,200 Hong Kong residents who were married in Mainland China had spouses still in Mainland.  It was estimated that 149,500 had children living in China and the total number of children was around 310,000 (Fung, 1996).

Family Reunification Process and Family Strategies
For working-class newly arrived families, the family reunification process is typically long and difficult with a number of obstacles to overcome.  There are complicated procedures and a long waiting time for getting a one-way permit. Therefore, cross-border family members need to formulate their own strategies for immigration and reunification.  The families have to plan the ‘best’ time for reunification, decide who will take care of the children, and discuss where and in what school the children should receive their education (Ku, 2001).  Rational and strategic use of family resources, including maximisation of family social capital is essential. Middle-class families tend to have an advantage in this process because of the financial capital and cultural capital they accumulated, but it is not the case for working-class newly arrived families.

The various scenarios in the family reunification process affect the social relations in the family, and therefore impact on the utilisation of family resources as well as its capital accumulation.  The scenarios could be:
1. The mother migrates first, and the children receive education and are taken care of by their grandparents, relatives or school in the Mainland;
2. The child migrates first, and leaves behind his/her mother and possibly also siblings to join the father in Hong Kong.

In the latter case, the father needs to take up the role of nurturing which was previously played by the mother.  Such a social phenomenon may create tension in family functioning (So, 2002:20).  Rao and Yuen (2001) suggest that psychiatric problems in newly arrived students may rise owing to the disruptions in family relations and changes in family ecologies.  It is also claimed that home-school co-operation can hardly be established if the mother, who has arrived in Hong Kong, does not know Cantonese.

Influx of mainland women coming to Hong Kong to give birth