[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Keren Hayesod

aspora. Thus, for example, Keren Hayesod, in partnership with the Jewish Agency, Cisco Systems Inc. and the Appleseeds Academy, initiated the Net@ project, which provides hi-tech training to youth in the suburbs.  Keren Hayesod was also a lead partner in the Jewish Agency Fund for Victims of Terror.

Tens of thousands disadvantaged children and adults are served by social and cultural programs established by Keren Hayesod. The organization also provides financial support to educational youth villages,  after-school programming, and youth mentoring projects.  Sheltered housing has been constructed to enable Holocaust survivors and the needy elderly live out their lives in dignity and comfort.

Keren Hayesod marked its 90th anniversary in 2010. A major priority is now financial aid to peripheral cities in Israel and programs to bridge the social gap.

Social aid programs
Ayalim movement social, cultural, educational and infrastructure projects to better the lives of adults and children in the Negev and Galilee.  
 Youth Futures mentoring program for at-risk youth 
Amigour network of sheltered homes for low-income elderly individuals
Four educational youth villages for disadvantaged youngsters
The Net@ after-school training project for at-risk youth 
 Selah-Mir higher education preparatory course in partnership with academic institutions  
Yesodot after-school enrichment program at absorption centers
WINGS program to support lone soldiers

Zionist education in the Diaspora
Jewish summer camps in former Soviet republics to cultivate Jewish and Zionist identity 
 Hebrew language ulpan and cultural events        
Masa Israel Journey for study, volunteering or internships in Israel  
Taglit-Birthright experience     
Nativ Jewish education program for new immigrant soldiers.
Net@, an intensive hi-tech training program course for high school students

Emergency campaigns
Keren haYesod provided assistance to residents of southern Israel under daily rocket attack in the summer of 2014.  
Following the kidnapping and murder of three teenage boys by Hamas in early June, rocket fire from Gaza intensified into round-the-clock attacks with only 15 seconds to run for safety. Keren Hayesod financed the construction of portable bomb shelters in residential areas. These shelters were purchased with funds collected in Keren Hayesod's Emergency Solidarity Campaign launched after Operation “Protective Edge.” Funds were also used to provide fun days for children, giving them a break from the rocket fire, and for professional counseling for traumatized residents.  Medical equipment was acquired for hospitals in the south where injured soldiers and civilians were brought for treatment.  Other support included financial assistance to families of fallen soldiers and civilians killed in terror attacks, as well as injured soldiers and families whose homes were destroyed by rockets.

References

External links

 
 UIA – United Israel Appeal, in Australia
 A Collection of Keren haYesod historical posters
The Central Zionist Archives in Jerusalem: Collections of Keren haYesod since its foundation.
 

Zionist organizations
Jewish community organizations
International Jewish organizations
Jewish Agency for Israel
Organizations established in 1920