[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ashkan Dejagah

0 March, he scored a similar goal against Everton, cutting into his right foot and shooting from outside the 18-yard box. He was named the man of the match after scoring a goal against Hull City on 26 April. Dejagah was voted by fans as Fulham's player of the year at the end of the season.

Al-Arabi

On 29 July 2014, Dejagah joined Qatari club Al-Arabi. In his first season with Al-Arabi, Dejagah scored 5 goals in 24 appearances and helped Al-Arabi to an eight place finish. Dejagah scored his first goal of the 2015–16 season on 9 December 2015 in Al-Arabi's 4–1 victory against Al-Mesaimeer. Dejagah was named as Al-Arabi's player of the season for 2015–16. Despite this, the new board members of the club sought to remove him from the squad. In July 2016 Dejagah was linked with loan moves to German club Hertha BSC and English club Watford.

After two years with Al Arabi, Dejagah was removed from the clubs squad on 16 September 2016. Al Arabi could not loan out Dejagah, and in January 2017, after not coming to an agreement with the club, Dejagah was released.

Return to Wolfsburg
On 30 January 2017, Dejagah signed with his former team VfL Wolfsburg on a six-month deal. He was given the shirt number 25. Shortly after joining Wolfsburg however, Dejagah suffered a hamstring injury and was sidelined for an extended period of time. Dejagah made his return to the pitch on 29 April 2017 with VfL Wolfsburg II. Playing 45 minutes in their 3–0 victory.

Dejagah made his competitive first team debut on 25 May 2017 in the first leg of the relegation play-off against Eintracht Braunschweig. He came on as a late substitute in the second half as Wolfsburg won the match 1–0. He also appeared in the return leg as a second half substitute, a match that Wolfsburg again won 1–0. In June 2017, Wolfsburg announced that Dejagah would leave the club and would not be returning for the 2017–18 season.

Nottingham Forest
On 31 January 2018, Dejagah joined EFL Championship club Nottingham Forest on a short-term deal until the end of the 2017–18 season. He made his debut on 3 February against his former club Fulham appearing as a second-half substitute in a 2–0 defeat. On 14 February, Iran's coach Carlos Queiroz announced on his Facebook that Dejagah had gone through surgery.

He was released by Forest at the end of the 2017–18 season.

Tractor
On 2 August 2018, Dejagah signed a three-year contract with Tractor in the Iran Pro League.

International career

Germany
In 2004, upon being called up to the German U-19 team, Dejagah scored seven goals in 15 international games, including two against the Netherlands after his team was down 2–0. In 2005, he was invited to play for Germany's U-21.

In October 2007, Dejagah refused to play an under-21 international match for Germany against Israel, in Tel Aviv.  He cited "very personal reasons", and said, variously: "There are political reasons. Everyone knows I'm a German-Iranian", "I have more Iranian than German blood in my veins. Besides, I'm doing this out of respect. After all, my parents are Iranian"; and "I have nothing against Israel. But I'm worried about having problems later when travelling to Iran". Bild (Germany's top-selling newspaper), Ronald Pofalla and Friedbert Pflüger (the General Secretary and a leading member of the Christian Democratic Union), and Charlotte Knobloch (President of the Central Council of Jews in Germany) demanded that Dejagah be excluded from Germany's national team.

Dejagah said in a Stern interview that he chose not to play in Israel because, since the Iranian Revolution, Iranians travelling to Israel are subjected by the Iranian government to harsh punishments and several years in prison, and he had concern for his parents who travel to Iran and his other relatives who live in Iran. He also said he did not make his choice because of personal political, antisemitic, or racist reasons. Since the revolution, the Iranian government has warned Iranian athletes not to travel to Israel or compete against Israeli athletes.

After a meeting with Theo Zwanziger, the president of the German Football Association, and national technical director Matthias Sammer, Dejagah stated that his reason was that he was concerned because of his Iranian origins about the welfare of his family and relatives if he were to play in Israel; therefore, he was not excluded from Germany's national team. Zwanziger said, "He clearly stated that his request not to be nominated for the game in Israel had no racist or anti-Semitic background. He credibly assured us that, because of his Iranian origins, he had only been concerned with the well-being of his family and relatives." Zwanziger added that Dejagah was now prepared to play in the home tie against Israel if selected.

Seven years later, in April 2014, Dejagah spoke on the matter, saying, "This was a long time ago; it is in the past. Yes, it helped me grow up but now I only look to the future."