[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Welshman Ncube

learance. In 2015 the new government reopened negotiations with Essar. The government and Essar Africa Holdings agreed on an improved Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company (Ziscosteel) deal, providing for a complete overhaul of the company's equipment that has been lying idle for years.

Political career 

Before he was elected President of the MDC in 2011, Ncube had been its Secretary General from 2000 to 2011. He served as a Member of Parliament of Zimbabwe from June 2000 until March 2008. During his time in Parliament he served in various committees including the Standing Orders and Rules Committee and the Parliamentary Legal Committee- which he chaired between 2004 and 2008.

Ncube was very active in civic society where he was founder member of the Zimbabwe Human Rights Association (Zim-Rights); Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights; the National Constitutional Assembly (NCA) where he was the Spokesperson between 1998 and 2000; Women and Law in Southern Africa and Amani Trust.

When Ncube took over the leadership of the MDC in February 2011, his party nominated him to replace Professor Arthur Mutambara as the Deputy Minister in the Inclusive Government. Robert Mugabe refused to swear him in as Deputy Prime Minister.

Ncube ran as his party's presidential candidate in the highly disputed July 2013 harmonized elections and came third after Robert Mugabe and Morgan Tsvangirai.

Ncube has considerable influence in Zimbabwe and among fellow politicians. He is revered for his upfront attitude, negotiation skills, and resourcefulness. His cabinet in the GNU proved popular with the likes of individuals such as David Coltart, who brought much-needed innovation to the Sports and Education Ministry. Using a peaceful non-violent approach to issues, many respect Ncube as a leader with great potential to effect lasting change and lead in a professional, open manner.

According to The Independent, Ncube is perceived by Zimbabwean media to be pro-Mugabe.

Honors
 He has been awarded honorary doctorates from the Faculty of Law, University of Oslo, Norway.

References

1961 births
Living people
Citizens Coalition for Change politicians
People from Gweru
Academic staff of the University of Zimbabwe
Members of the National Assembly of Zimbabwe
Movement for Democratic Change – Mutambara politicians
Government ministers of Zimbabwe
Alumni of Mzilikazi High School
University of Zimbabwe alumni
Northern Ndebele people
20th-century Zimbabwean politicians
21st-century Zimbabwean politicians
Zimbabwean businesspeople
Zimbabwe African People's Union politicians