[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Brussels Airlines

such as a fully refunable ticket, and the option to take an earlier flight on the same day of travel (depending on availability).

On medium-haul and long-haul flights (to Africa and North America) 
Brussels Airlines offers a variety of different fares depending on the travel class.

Economy class 

 Economy Light offering a standard economy seat with meals & beverages included, no check-in luggage allowance, and very little flexibility.
 Economy Basic offers the same amenities and flexibility options as Economy Light, but with one check-in bag weighing a maximum of  included.
 Economy Basic Plus offers everything included in Economy Basic, but it is a refundable fare (with the exception of 190 EUR)
 Economy Flex is the same as Economy Basic Plus, but there is no cancellation fees, meaning a passenger can get a full refund. This is the most flexible economy ticket available. Selecting Economy Flex also allows the passenger to select their seat free of charge.

Premium economy 

 Premium Economy Basic offers free meals and beverages and two checked bags. It has very limited flexibility (rebooking costs €150 plus possible fare difference). Seat selection is not included in this fare.
 Premium Economy Basic Plus offers everything Premium Economy Basic offers, but with more flexibility options (rebooking without a fee, but a fare difference may apply. The ticket is refundable with the exception of €190).
 Premium Economy Flex is the most flexible economy plus fare class, as it is fully refundable. The rebooking option is the same as is offered in Premium Economy Basic Plus. Free seat selection is also included in this fare class.

Business Class 

 Business Flex is the full-service business class fare offered by Brussels Airlines on long-haul flights. It also offers full flexibility.

The fare offerings on medium and long-haul flights offered by Brussels Airlines may be different if a passenger has a connecting flights.

See also
List of airports in Belgium
Transport in Belgium

References

External links

Official website

Airlines of Belgium
Belgian brands
Airlines established in 2006
Star Alliance
Lufthansa Group
Machelen
Companies based in Flemish Brabant
Belgian companies established in 2006