[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Treaty of Stuhmsdorf

nstierna and a partial victory of his opponents in the Riksdag, but Oxensierna, who was hoping Sweden would not be forced into so many concessions, succeeded in keeping Sweden involved in the German war despite many calls from the Riksdag for the complete withdrawal of Swedish forces from that area.

George William's desire for a settlement giving him undisturbed possession of Ducal Prussia prevailed over the imperialist policy, which Adam von Schwarzenberg had successfully advised, acceding to the Peace of Prague. The Treaty of Stuhmsdorf left Brandenburg in full possession of Ducal Prussia, but by freeing the Swedish troops under Lennart Torstenson, which had been occupying Prussia and Livonia, it placed both Mecklenburg and Pomerania in the power of Sweden. The treaty also jeopardised the prospect of the acquisition of Pomerania by the House of Hohenzollern on the death, which was imminent, of Duke Bogislaw XIV, and seriously threatened the security of the County of Mark. Therefore, the treaty could be seen as a political mistake by George William, whose gains in the short term were outweighed by his losses in the long term.

Terms
The treaty signed on 12 September introduced a truce for 26-and-a-half years. The truce was an extension of the Truce of Altmark. The Swedes retained the Duchy of Livonia north of the Daugava River and the town of Riga but had to guarantee its Catholics the right to worship. Further, the Swedes had to return the territories they occupied in Baltic Prussia (Elbing (Elbląg), Memel (Klaipėda) and Pillau (Baltiysk), the last two returning to George William, Elector of Brandenburg, and to withdraw their garrisons from them. The Swedes also ceded the right to collect tariffs (3.5%) from the Polish trade through the Baltic Sea passing through Danzig, which had been a sore spot to the szlachta for whom the grain trade through Danzig had been a major source of income. The Swedes also were to return the ships of the Commonwealth Navy they seized in the past years, but the Commonwealth Navy was forbidden from supporting enemies of Sweden.

References

External links
Scan of the treaty at IEG Mainz
Annotated edition of the treaty at IEG Mainz
Sztumska Wieś

Poland–Sweden relations
Stuhmsdorf
Stuhmsdorf
1635 treaties
1635 in Europe
1635 in Sweden
1635 in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth