[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alexander King (scientist)

fears of others that there was an emerging environmental crisis. The United Nations Environment Programme was established a few months after [the book] appeared. The word 'environment' does not even appear in the 1945 UN Charter, and King helped expand the UN's role into environmental protection." 

After Peccei's death, King served as the Club's President from 1984 to 1990. He was the recipient of many honours: in 1975 he was made a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG) and in 1987 he was awarded the Erasmus Prize for his contribution to raising awareness of "the positive and negative impact of technological progress on society."

Works 
King's autobiography, Let the Cat Turn Round: One Man's Traverse of the Twentieth Century, was published in 2006 and acclaimed by the scientist, and Limits to Growth co-author Dennis Meadows, as "a chronicle of a century": "Few science policy advisors were better situated than Alex King to observe the way technology co-evolved with politics and economics in the 1900s. This book summarizes his contributions and offers his insights. Both are of major importance." Other books by King include The State of the Planet (Pergamon, 1980) and, with Bertrand Schneider, The First Global Revolution (Pantheon, 1991).

King wrote a monograph, Science, Technology and the Quality of Life (1972) and co-authored An Eye to the Future (1975) for the London-based Institute for Cultural Research, which was founded and directed by the writer and thinker, Idries Shah, a fellow member of the Club of Rome.

Personal life 
The King family originated from Dunblane and Doune in Scotland. Alexander King's father, James Mitchell King, worked for the Nobel Explosives Company and eventually became a director of Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI). On his mother's side, King was a descendant of the industrialist and philanthropist David Dale (1773–1806), the founder of the New Lanark Mills and father-in-law of the utopian socialist Robert Owen (1771–1858). In 1933, King married Sarah Maskell Thompson whom he had met in Munich, a niece of the Liberal politician Walter Runciman, Viscount Runciman of Doxford, and granddaughter of the Liberal MP and industrialist James Cochran Stevenson. King's daughter, Catherine Peckham, is a well known doctor, who became the first Professor of Paediatric Epidemiology in the UK.

References

External links

The Club of Rome: Beginnings
Memoirs of a Boffin contains some biographical material on King
CPTM contains information about Alexander King's autobiography Let the cat turn round: one man's traverse of the Twentieth century published by CPTM, November 2006
  

1909 births
2007 deaths
Academics of Imperial College London
Alumni of the Royal College of Science
British scientists
Companions of the Order of St Michael and St George
Commanders of the Order of the British Empire
Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich alumni
People educated at Highgate School
People associated with The Institute for Cultural Research