[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Juju Chang

even-part television series called The Art of Women's Health. She hosts an interactive digital show for ABC News NOW called Moms Get Real, which aims to show the realities of modern motherhood, she also made a cameo appearance in episode 19 of the second season of ABC's hit primetime drama, Revenge.

Awards
For her work in television journalism, Chang has received a number of awards. Her earliest journalistic award was an Alfred I. duPont Award in 1995 for a series on women's health produced with Peter Jennings. In addition to the duPont Award, Chang has won two Gracie Awards, one for a report on judicial activism for NOW, a newsmagazine on PBS, and one for Women and Science, a profile of Ben Barres, a transgender neurobiologist, for 20/20. She has won three Emmy awards for her work with ABC, including one for her role as a correspondent on ABC's live coverage of California wildfires in 2008. She has also received a Freddie award (for health and medical media) for The Art of Women's Health, a series she hosted for PBS.

Personal life
Chang married news executive Neal Shapiro on December 2, 1995. At that time, she converted to Judaism. Chang and Shapiro have three sons: Jared (b. 2000), Travis (b. 2003), and Mason (b. 2007). She is active in the Asian-American community as a founding board member of the Korean American Community Foundation and an active member of the Council on Foreign Relations. As of 2011, the family lived on the West Side of Manhattan. 

In 2015, Chang co-hosted the annual Spring Luncheon held by The New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. 

Chang is the aunt of Toronto Blue Jays pitcher Mitch White.

See also
 Korean Americans in New York City
 New Yorkers in journalism

References

External links
Official biography at ABCNews.com

1965 births
Living people
ABC News personalities
American television news anchors
American television reporters and correspondents
American women television journalists
American writers of Korean descent
South Korean emigrants to the United States
Mass media people from Seoul
Stanford University alumni
People from Sunnyvale, California
Converts to Judaism
News & Documentary Emmy Award winners
20th-century American women
21st-century American women
20th-century converts to Judaism
21st-century converts to Judaism
Jewish American journalists
20th-century American Jews
21st-century American Jews