[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Point Pleasant High School (West Virginia)

of the school in the State Literary contests.  Under the direction of Miss Edith Jordan the club has won first place in the state contest at Morgantown, Peggy McCulloch having first in essay.  Edith Kenny and Elaine Burdette won two first places in debate in the district contest held at Huntington.

The Thespian Society, directed by Miss Jordan, is an honorary national dramatic organization.  It participates in the one-act play contest each year and has won: 1931 second place “Fixins,” in 1933 first place “Quare Medicine,” 1935 second place “Smokescreen.”  Four students, Edith Kenny, Edwin Curry, Peggy McCulloch, and Saraphamas Candas have won places on the all-state cast.

The Tu-Endie-Wei, the school paper, is well planned by Miss Margaret Somerville.  It has had All American rating in the National Scholastic Press Association Critical Survey in 1932 and Select rating in the West Virginia press contest sponsored by West Virginia University.

From 1921 to 1932 the school had a well-organized and well-directed band and orchestra conducted by Mr. E.S. Matheson.  After several years intermission we again have a band conducted by Mr. E. S. Vanover, which is beginning to make public appearances.

From 1928 to 1933 Miss Charlotte Johnson supervised music in Point Pleasant Public Schools, sponsoring two glee club meetings in the high school and presenting many enjoyable concerts and operettas.  This work was discontinued because of lack of funds.

The Music Club, directed by Mr. N.M. Powell, has had a representative in all the all-state orchestras of the SEA and for the third consecutive year has won recognition in the State Federation of Music Club Contests.

Three Point Pleasant High School students under the supervision of Miss Leta Ball, entered the National essay contest “ The American Revolution and its effect on American and World History” which was sponsored by the DARs in 1932.  Fifty thousand papers representing work of students from every other state in the Union were sent to Washington to be graded.  Floris Fierbaugh (Mrs. Pascal Worley) won third place and a prize of $75.  Elaine Burdette placed fifth and received a prize of $25.  These were the only West Virginia students who received recognition in the contest.  The names of these winners were read at the Yorktown Continental Celebration.

Other worth-while clubs in Point Pleasant High School are the Girl’s Friendship Club, Sub-Deb Club, Leathernecks, Checker Club, WAA, and Current Events Club.

Both boys and girls, under the excellent training of Miss Elizabeth Franklin and Mr. Isaac Lewis, have highly developed program of interscholastic and intramural sports.   The games develop good sportsmanship and the spirit of friendly competition, which are needed in school life as well as in later life.

Intramural athletes serve as recreational period during the noon hour and after school.  In this, boys and girls who are not able to take part in inter-scholastic events, gain valuable recreation and perhaps even become interested in trying out for the inter-scholastic teams.

Athletics, such as football, baseball, tennis, wrestling, boxing, and track have long been a part of the co-curricular activities and have been conducted by such able instructors as Leidig, Williams, Law, Van Meter, Hickman, Martin, Harrick and Lewis.

In 1926 Point Pleasant High School won first place in the Quadrangle Track and Field meet in Pomeroy, Ohio and received a handsome loving cup.  In 1927 the High School was runner-up for the state championship in basketball and that same year the team went to Chicago.  In 1932 the school had an excellent basketball team, winning the sectional tournament held here, and being runner-up at the regional tournament held in Huntington.

In 1933-34 girls’ interscholastic basketball was re-instated under the direction of Miss Elizabeth Franklin.  The girls have an annual gymnastic exhibition, which is a demonstration of the work done in the girls’ physical education classes for the entire year.

Point Pleasant High School is closely linked with the life of the city and county.  This s shown in a number of ways – perhaps most through the giving of prizes.  The Joseph Friedman Memorial prize of $50, the Kiwanis prize of $25 and the alumni prize of $25 are given outstanding students in the high school each year.