[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Blockade of Wonsan

ng ships but without results. USS Los Angeles and  evaded two rounds, the enemy also continued their bombardment of friendly islands off Wonsan. On April 8, at least sixty-four shots were fired at the fleet and a couple days after, USS Eversole and Los Angeles engaged in a duel with shore batteries.

On April 16, Maddox was hit with one shot out of 156 fired at her during a forty-minute action against a ten-gun battery. The shot, a 76-millimeter, hit port side on the main deck, tearing a sixteen-inch hole and wounding three men. Maddox responded with counter fire but failed to silence the hostile guns. USS Shelton was fired at three times on April 17. April 19 was a lively day during the Blockade of Wonsan. Twenty-five rounds from 105-millimeter guns were fired at Eversole but as was typical, the North Koreans did not strike the ship.  also received three shots and another forty-one at New Jersey and . The only ship damaged in action that day was USS James E. Kyes. One 155-millimeter round, out of sixty, tore a three-foot hole through James E. Kyes, wounding four men in the process, one seriously.

North Korean bombardment of UN held islands 
On April 22, the North Korean bombardment of UN held islands continued, with dozens of rounds being fired each day, some of which hit but only slightly damaged USS Manchester. Between 2:30 and 4:00 pm on April 23, the island of Tee-do came under intense enemy fire from gun positions on Kalma Pan-do. Five marines were wounded, including one American.  provided counter fire while  took aboard the casualties. During the mission, Henderson and Owen were fired on so they withdrew and TF-77 aircraft took over by bombing the area.

On the next day, Wonsan guns fired around 100 rounds of 76-millimeter to 105-millimeter rounds at the  and USS Henderson. No damage or casualties were reported. James C. Owens was attacked on April 25 though again there was no damage sustained. On April 29, as the bombardment of UN held islands continued, an HU-1 helicopter received fourteen rounds of VT fuzed enemy shells while on a mine reconnaissance flight over Wonsan Harbor. The aircraft was not damaged but the encounter told the Americans that another new type of weapon was being used by North Korean forces.  also avoided six enemy shells that day.

April 1953 was reported by the United States Navy as being the height of the three-year battle with enemy forces. The North Koreans fired over 2,000 artillery rounds in defiance of the blockade alone, and over 1,000 more at the friendly guerrilla-held islands. Usually the average was about 500 rounds a month. North Koreans troops also constructed hidden batteries on Ho-do Pan-do, which the Americans bombarded with 5-inch guns but to no effect. Because of this, UN naval forces were ordered to stay out of the area in daylight until the weapons could be destroyed by cruisers and battleships or naval aircraft.

Mine warfare also increased during the month of April. After months of finding nothing, thirty-two new mines were found in Wonsan Harbor. On May 2 the hidden guns made two hits and two near misses each on USS Maddox and USS Owen. Both ships received slight damage but suffered no casualties. Over two hundred shells were fired by the enemy. Gurke came under fire on the following day, along with the friendly islands of Wonsan Harbor.  engaged in a heavy gun strike against enemy batteries eighteen rounds of 76-millimeter to 105-millimeter shells flew by. One near miss gave two men minor wounds and the ship received superficial damage topside.  was hit by a 90-millimeter shell on May 8 but it did no significant damage. The round hit starboard side just above the waterline. The same battery fired at , sixty-four total.

Allied air strike against Yo-do island 
On May 15, TF-77 aircraft attacked an airfield on Yo-do island while American ships silenced the batteries on the islands. USS Brush was hit in the mount that day, making it inoperable, and nine men were wounded, four seriously. The battleship New Jersey was fired at on May 27 but her 16-inch guns quickly put an end to it. Meanwhile the islands were still receiving their daily barrage which continued in June. Heavy gun strikes also continued and the communists resisted every UN attack but very few hits were made. On June 3, Wonsan shore batteries fifteen 105-millimeter shells at  and USS Lofberg but no damage occurred. The guns were silenced by return fire.