[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lee Mantle

as telegrapher by Wells Fargo & Company and also started the city's first insurance brokerage. Entering politics as a Republican, Mantle was one of the leaders of the effort to incorporate Butte as a city. The effort was successful, and in 1880, Mantle was elected to Butte's first board of aldermen.

Continued career
In 1881, Mantle started the Daily Inter Mountain, the first Republican newspaper in Western Montana. Through the paper's editorial stance, Mantle became a Republican leader and largely shaped the party's organization and policies in Montana. He was elected to the legislature of Montana Territory in 1882. When John Schuyler Crosby left the territorial governorship in 1884, Mantle was the candidate of Western Montana to replace him, but Eastern Montana Republicans prevailed in obtaining the appointment for B. Platt Carpenter. Mantle was a delegate to the 1884 Republican National Convention, and supported George F. Edmunds for president. In 1886, Mantle was elected to a second term in the Territorial House.

When the Northern Pacific Railway attempted to obtain large grants of land in Montana from the federal government, Mantle was chosen president of the Mineral Land Association, the citizens' group formed to oppose the Northern Pacific. The association's lobbying and legal efforts proved successful, and the NP did not acquire the land it sought. In 1888, Mantle was again elected to the legislature, the territory's last, and he was chosen to serve as Speaker of the House. When Montana was admitted to the Union in 1890, Mantle was a candidate for the U.S. Senate, and narrowly lost in the legislature's Republican caucus to Wilbur F. Sanders and Thomas C. Power, who were elected.

In 1890 and 1892, Mantle was chairman of Montana's state Republican convention. In 1892 he was elected chairman of the state Republican executive committee. He was also elected mayor of Butte in 1892, and he served one term. When Sanders' U.S. Senate term expired in 1893, the Montana Legislature was unable to agree on a successor. Governor John E. Rickards appointed Mantle to fill the vacancy, but the Senate refused to seat him on the grounds that the governor could not make an appointment while the legislature was in session. Also in 1893, Mantle was named chairman of the state commission that organized Montana's participation at the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago.

United States Senator
Sanders' seat remained vacant until January 1895, when the legislature elected Mantle as his successor. He served one partial term, January 16, 1895, to March 3, 1899. In the Senate, Mantle served on the Finance Committee, where he worked to obtain passage of amendments to the Dingley Act tariff which were favored by the National Wool Growers Association.

Mantle was also an advocate of the Free silver movement, which many Montana miners favored in the belief that it would make their holdings more valuable. As a result of this view, in 1896, Mantle joined the Silver Republican Party and became its chairman in Montana. He was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection to the Senate in 1899. In 1900, he returned to the Republican Party.

Another Mantle cause in the Senate was protecting Montana timber interests. In 1897, outgoing President Grover Cleveland withdrew six million acres of forest land from the public domain to be set aside as a timber reserve. In Mantle's view, this move threatened Montana's mining interests, which depended on timber when opening and expanding mines. He also viewed Cleveland's move as a threat to Montana logging companies, since removing the land from public domain prevented them from harvesting trees for production of wood and paper products. After William McKinley succeeded Cleveland, he reduced the size of the timber reserve by more than 700,000 acres.

Later life
After leaving the Senate, Mantle resumed his business interests. With partner Charles S. Warren, he held ownership stakes in the Silver Bow Electric Company, commercial real estate, mines, insurance companies, and publishing houses. He was a noted civic activist, and his memberships included the Masons, Elks, Knights of Pythias, and the Rocky Mountain Club of New York City.

In 1901, Mantle was again a candidate for the U.S. Senate. Both seats were up for election, and former Senator William A. Clark was chosen for one. Mantle was a major candidate for the other, but after the legislature was deadlocked for over a month, Republican legislators decided to back Thomas H. Carter, who lost to Democrat Paris Gibson.