[Source: PubMed]

18. BMC Psychiatry. 2009 Mar 4;9:7. doi: 10.1186/1471-244X-9-7.

Post-conflict mental health needs: a cross-sectional survey of trauma, 
depression and associated factors in Juba, Southern Sudan.

Roberts B(1), Damundu EY, Lomoro O, Sondorp E.

Author information:
(1)Conflict and Health Programme, Health Policy Unit, Department of Public 
Health and Policy, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK. 
bayard.roberts@lshtm.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement in January 2005 
marked the end of the civil conflict in Sudan lasting over 20 years. The 
conflict was characterised by widespread violence and large-scale forced 
migration. Mental health is recognised as a key public health issue for 
conflict-affected populations. Studies revealed high levels of post-traumatic 
stress disorder (PTSD) amongst populations from Southern Sudan during the 
conflict. However, no studies have been conducted on mental health in post-war 
Southern Sudan. The objective of this study was to measure PTSD and depression 
in the population in the town of Juba in Southern Sudan; and to investigate the 
association ofdemographic, displacement, and past and recent trauma exposure 
variables, on the outcomes of PTSD and depression.
METHODS: A cross-sectional, random cluster survey with a sample of 1242 adults 
(aged over 18 years) was conducted in November 2007 in the town of Juba, the 
capital of Southern Sudan. Levels of exposure to traumatic events and PTSD were 
measured using the Harvard Trauma Questionnaire (original version), and levels 
of depression measured using the Hopkins Symptom Checklist-25. Multivariate 
logistic regression was used to analyse the association ofdemographic, 
displacement and trauma exposure variables on the outcomes of PTSD and 
depression. Multivariate logistic regression was also conducted to investigate 
which demographic and displacement variables were associated with exposure to 
traumatic events.
RESULTS: Over one third (36%) of respondents met symptom criteria for PTSD and 
half (50%) of respondents met symptom criteria for depression. The multivariate 
logistic regression analysis showed strong associations of gender, marital 
status, forced displacement, and trauma exposure with outcomes of PTSD and 
depression. Men, IDPs, and refugees and persons displaced more than once were 
all significantly more likely to have experienced eight or more traumatic 
events.
CONCLUSION: This study provides evidence of high levels of mental distress in 
the population of Juba Town, and associated risk-factors. Comprehensive social 
and psychological assistance is urgently required in Juba.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-244X-9-7
PMCID: PMC2656503
PMID: 19261192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]