[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Catholic Church in Europe

SE (International Cooperation for Development and Solidarity):  CIDSE is an umbrella organization for Catholic development agencies from Europe and North America.

World Movement of Christian Workers consists of Catholic workingmen and workingwomen.

Important sites for the Catholic Church in Europe

Vatican City and Rome
According to the Catholic tradition, Saint Peter, one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus Christ and leader of the early church, was crucified and buried in Rome under Emperor Nero Augustus Caesar. On the place supposed to be the burial site of Saint Peter the Saint Peter's Basilica was built. Rome is also the residence city of the Pope, the leader of the Catholic Church, who at the same time is also the Bishop of Rome. Until today the Pope rules over an ecclesiastical state, the Vatican City, which encompasses 44 hectares of the city area. Rome hosts also the Papal Major basilicas. Besides the Saint Peter's Basilica there are three other Major basilicas: Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran, Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls and Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore.

Santiago de Compostela
One of the most important and famous sites for pilgrimages for the Catholic Church is Santiago de Compostela in Galicia, Spain. The cathedral of the city hosts the shrine of Saint James, one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus, and traditionally considered the first apostle to be martyred. Santiago de Compostela is the final destination of the Way of Saint James (Galician: O Camiño de Santiago).

Assisi
Assisi, a town in the Umbria region in Italy, hosts two more papal basilicas: the Basilica of San Francesco d'Assisi and the Basilica of Santa Maria degli Angeli. The Basilica of San Francesco d'Assisi is the mother church of the Order of Friars Minor, commonly known as the "Franciscan Order". Assisi is the town in which the founder of the order, Saint Francis of Assisi, was born and died.

See also
Catholic Church by country
Catholic Church in Africa
Catholic Church in Asia
Catholic Church in North America
Catholic Church in Latin America
Catholic Church in Oceania
List of Catholic dioceses in Europe

References

Further reading
 Bireley, Robert. The Refashioning of Catholicism, 1450-1700: A Reassessment of the Counter Reformation (1999)
 Burson, Jeffrey D., and Ulrich L. Lehner. Enlightenment and Catholicism in Europe: A Transnational History (2014)
 Chamedes, Giuliana. A Twentieth-Century Crusade: The Vatican’s Battle to Remake Catholic Europe (Harvard UP, 2019)
CIA Factbook 
 Gehler, Michael, and Wolfram  Kaiser, eds. Christian Democracy in Europe since 1945 (Routledge, 2004)
 Kent, Peter C. and J.F. Pollard, eds. Papal Diplomacy in the Modern Age (Praeger 1994), 
 Kselman, Thomas, and Joseph A. Buttigieg, eds. European Christian Democracy: Historical Legacies and Comparative Perspectives (Notre Dame University Press, 2003)
 Kosicki, Piotr H.  Catholics on the Barricades:  Poland, France, and “Revolution,” 1891-1956 (Yale University Press, 2018) multiple online reviews
 Latourette, Kenneth Scott. A history of expansion of Christianity. vol 4. The great century: in Europe and the United States of America; A.D. 1800-A.D. 1914 (1941)
 Latourette, Kenneth Scott. Christianity in a Revolutionary Age, I: The Nineteenth Century in Europe: Background and the Roman Catholic Phase (1969) 
 Latourette, Kenneth Scott.  Christianity in a Revolutionary Age, IV: The Twentieth Century in Europe: The Roman Catholic, Protestant, and Eastern Churches (1958) 
 MacCulloch, Diarmaid. Christianity: The First Three Thousand Years (2011)
 Misner, Paul. Social Catholicism in Europe: From the Onset of Industrialization to the First World War (1991)