[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Noise regulation

irectly next to their neighbors NYC building codes require the "acoustical isolation of dwelling units." Through the use of thick concrete walls or flooring to make sure the condo or cooperative is able to pass a warranty of habitability each unit must be able to withstand a certain amount of noise.

Construction
This provision can be both a subjective immission control and an objective emission control. Normally there are daily curfews and in some case weekend curfews.  The subjective aspect is to prevent noise disturbance in the adjacent community.  The objective aspect is to control the sound output of specific machines.  There are four major sources of site noise: (1) direct sound from continually operating equipment such as air compressors; (2) intermittent sound from equipment such as jack hammers;(3)backup alarms; and (4) hauling equipment such as trucks. Air compressor noise is regulated by CFR 204 and backup alarms are regulated by CFR 1926.  Boston, MA(Section 16–26.4)  permits construction on weekdays between 7am and 6 pm. Madison, WI (Chapter 24.08) limits sound levels to 88 dB(A) at 50 Feet. Miami, FL (Section 36-6) considers the noise a noise disturbance if it occurs between 6pm and 8am during the week and any time on Sunday. Dallas, TX (Section 30-2 (9)) permits construction in residential zones from 7am to 7pm on weekdays, from 9am to 7pm on Saturdays and Holidays, and prohibits construction on Sundays.  Albuquerque, New Mexico (Section 9-9-8) has a more complex control. It prohibits construction and demolition within 500 feet of noise sensitive properties (residences included) if the equipment sound control devices are less effective than the original equipment and if noise mitigation measures are not used when the levels exceed 90 dB (weighting not specified) or more than 80 dB during the day for three days.

Domestic and commercial power tools
This provision is a subjective immission control with a curfew.  It is used in residential zones as well as in commercial areas abutting residential zones.  Portland, OR (Title 18.10.030) has several ways to handle these tools. They separate outdoor and indoor use to different maximum levels at the property line. They have a night curfew and separate 5 HP tools from higher powered tools.  Madison WI (Chapter 24.08) has similar HP restrictions.  Albuquerque, NM (Title 9-9-7) restricts locations to more than 500 feet from residential and noise sensitive zones. Dallas, TX(Sec. 30-2) exempts lawn maintenance tools during daylight hours. Green Bay, WI (Subchapter II – 27.201) exempts snow removal tools.

Explosives, firearms, impulsive sources, and similar devices
This provision is a subjective immission control with a curfew.  It is for impulsive sound sources that are not associated with construction activities or shooting ranges. Many communities use the Maximum Permissible Sound Levels criterion (see below), with a correction for the character of the sound. Illinois () sets maximum blasting levels by land use zone and in three time categories. Portland, OR (Section 18.10.010.F) limits levels to 100 dB (peak) from 7am to 10pm and 80 dB (peak) from 10pm to 7 am.

Fracking operations
Hydraulic Fracturing operations generate site sound as well as vehicle sound and several different provisions are required to control it.  Federal law regulates the levels of certain site machinery.  A subjective immission control or an objective immission control can be applied to surrounding neighborhoods. See maximum Permissible Sound Levels.  Motor vehicle sound is mostly off-site so vehicle noise regulations are applicable. See Motor Vehicles on a Public Right-of-way.
The State of New York has announced a statewide ban on such operations. Buffalo, NY and Pittsburgh, PA have announced a ban.  Colorado has numerous activities to stop fracking.

Funerals
This is a subjective emission control to reduce the excessive shouting and protests that can surround funeral proceedings.  It makes use of the plainly audible term and so adds a distance criterion.  There are certain groups, particularly those that object to involvement in foreign wars, who believe it is an obligation to disrupt and picket funerals, especially those of deceased military veterans.  This provision must not infringe on Constitutionally protected free speech. Illinois h(720 ILCS 5/26 6)has a comprehensive provision covering more aspects of this event than noise.  They failed to use “plainly audible” which is narrower than “audible”.  Utah(Section 76-9-108) restricts disruptive activity to beyond 200 feet.