[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yissachar Shlomo Teichtal

n without the need of human intervention. The Holocaust caused him to re-think this approach, and he came to the conclusion that the reason the Jewish people had not been redeemed was because they had not returned to their homeland, the land of Israel, to resettle and rebuild it to its former glory.

Legacy 
Teichtal wrote other works besides Eim HaBanim Semeicha, in particular, a book of responsa entitled Mishneh Sochir. He was a prolific writer, and miraculously a number of his other works survived both his murder and the Holocaust. Some works are still in manuscript form and have not yet been published. The Mishneh Sachir Center located in Bnei Brak, Israel is an advanced Talmudic learning academy named in Teichtal's memory, carrying on his work and preserving his legacy. Teichtal's sermons for the festivals and his Torah commentary were published in 2011 and 2015 respectively, also with the title Mishneh Sochir.

Lately, Isaac Hershkowitz has completed a comprehensive study on Teichtal's works. He demonstrated that some of Teichtal's ideological changes that had been attributed to the war had indeed occurred even earlier – in the early 1930s. This metamorphosis is reflected both in his views and even more significantly in his halakhic methodology.

Moreover, by means of examining the dates of various parts of Eim Habanim Semeichah, and by analyzing Teichtal's ideological stances during the various stages of his compilation, it becomes clear that the book does not present a clear-cut stand on any of the basic issues of Religious Zionism's conceptions, as well as Orthodoxy's beliefs. Moreover, Teichtal's doctrines are filled with retractions and contradictions, and his positions swing from Hungarian Orthodoxy to Religious Zionist thought.

In the earlier stages of Eim HaBanim Semeicha, Teichtal spoke more of the importance of the Land of Israel and its building as a crucial stage of the Redemption, in order to stimulate significant down-to-earth developments. However, in the latter parts of his book, he granted theological and mystical value to indexes measuring inner unity in the Jewish nation, thus protesting actively against the creators of the Orthodox-Neolog schism in Hungarian Jewry.

Hershkowitz argues that Eim HaBanim Semeicha should be analyzed as a dialectical compilation, and not as a canonical work. Accordingly, it is not meant to outline a world with only one meaning, and consequently, Teichtal is not obligated to explain each
division. The objective of the compilation is to float fundamental issues of nationalism and derivative ideas such as the link between God and Israel during the Redemption, the nature of Redemption, and methods of its implementation. Teichtal wanted to include within his book the boundaries various implications arising from an open discussion, and not to dictate only one world view. Thus, he did not attempt to obscure this tension; on the contrary, he gave it expression in various ways.

The essence of Eim HaBanim Semeicha, and of the other shifts in Teichtal's religious concepts ever since the rise of the Nazi regime, is affixed to his ability to express harsh criticism of those rabbinic personalities who had shaped his own world, as well as the entire world of Hungarian Orthodoxy for close to eighty years, and publicly criticize the schism within Hungarian Jewish communities in addition to Orthodoxy's shirking of a vision of Redemption.

Rabbi Eli Kavon, while talking about his legacy, said,  "His life and death – are a testament to the vibrancy and relevance of the ideas and theology of ultra-Orthodox Jewish rabbis who were murdered by the Nazis and their collaborators during the devastating events of 70 years ago."

See also
 Eim HaBanim Semeicha

References

Further reading
Eim Habanim Semeichah: on Eretz Yisrael, Redemption, and Unity, by Harav Yisachar Shlomo Teichtal published 2000 by Kol Mevaser Publications, Israel.  Translated by Moshe Lichtman.
Theology after the Shoah: The Transformation of the Core Paradigm, by Irving Greenberg; (2006) Modern Judaism, Volume 26, Number 3, pp. 213–239
Faith, Ethics and the Holocaust:  Some Personal Theological and Religious Responses to the Holocaust by Immanuel Jakobovits; (1988) Holocaust and Genocide Studies; Volume 3: pp. 371–381

External links
Complete text of Eim Habanim Semeichah Online The Jews of Hungary During the Holocaust 
Article from the Orthodox Union 
Zionist Leaders 
Chaburat Eim Habanim Semeichah—On-line study of Eim Habanim Semeichah and related topics 
Daniel Reiser Aspects in the Thought of Rabbi Yisachar Shlomo Teichtal and a Study of New Documents, Yad Vashem Studies, vol. 43:2 (2015), pp. 143–190
The Vision of Redemption in Rabbi Yissakhar Shlomo Teichtal's Writings: Changes in his Messianic Approach During the Holocaust, by Isaac Hershkowitz; Ph.D. dissertation, Bar-Ilan University (2009).