[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Campaign Against Nuclear Energy

ites for a nuclear power station. On 4 July 1979 a Public Meeting was conducted jointly by CANE and FOE at the Perth Town Hall in response to the announcement. Three speakers (Peter Brotherton of FOE; Peter G. Cook of CANE and Peter F. Cook of the WA Trade and Labour Council) addressed the audience.

The Government responded by attacking CANE. The West Australian newspaper on 25 August 1979 reported: "The Premier, Sir Charles Court, last night warned of a subtle new propaganda offensive against democracy.  He said that the susceptibility of democratic governments to electoral pressure was being exploited as never before…  Locally, mysteriously financed pressure groups were trying to force governments into irrational decisions through high powered arousal of emotions based on false evidence.  Sir Charles said: 'When you consider that governments make thousands of decisions a year on the basis of close-contact experience of what they are doing backed by outside top-level advice on critical matters, it is clearly against the public interest to exchange this process for one of street-march campaigns and loaded opinion polls.'"

Senator Ruth Coleman (Australian Labor Party) established another anti-nuclear group Women Against Uranium Mining and started collecting anti-nuclear information about nuclear accidents from every media source. She presented this list of accidents for public distribution, with relevant sources, to raise awareness among West Australians.

'Desperate Measures' was a group of street theatre activist actors based in Fremantle who wrote their own material. They provided social commentary at numerous anti-nuclear events that brought home the messages better than a speech. They presented a show for the finale of CANE's Wilbinga bike ride again the proposed nuclear power station and it including burying a papier mache nuclear reactor on the site.

Fundraising events included the CANE 'Concert-in-the-Sun' on 19 December 1981. The concert was organised by Peter Kaldor and featured local rock acts Dave Warner, Matt Taylor-Phil Manning Band (see Matt Taylor, Phil Taylor), the Essentials and the Eurogliders. The audience of around 3,500 people raised $8,000, enough to fund a substantial number of CANE activities throughout the following year.

CANE was a member of the Coalition for a Nuclear Free Australia (CNFA), a coalition from across Australia of 79 organisations, unions, anti-nuclear groups, environment centres and Friends of the Earth.

People
CANE was set up under the aegis of FOE after a meeting at University of Western Australia in late 1975.
John Carlin, Barrie Machin, Michael Thomas and Peter Brotherton were present.  Ken Strahan was an important part of the group and member of FOE.  Barrie Machin was the first enrolled member of CANE and still has the founding membership card.   Mike Thomas was the first Chairman.  R. M. Hart's signature is on this card as a witness.  Barrie Machin was Chairman of the movement from 1977–1978.  This can be verified by checking the West Australian Newspapers for the period. There are many letters to the editor from the Chairman.  Other Perth media archives, like the ABC, Channel Seven and Nine and Radio Stations carry records of interviews and appearances.  Important eyewitnesses of the early days of CANE would include Bill Hare, Andrew Masterson, the novelist and John Hallam (who joined CANE from the Australia Party, John is still very active on nuclear issues with FOE, Kim Doohan, Peter Garrett, Professor Ian Clark, Robyn Juniper, ex-Minister of Aboriginal Affairs- Judyth Watson, Kingley Palmer ex-head of Institute of Aboriginal Studies in Canberra.  Under Dr. Machin's guidance the first Hiroshima Day was held this coincided with his Hiroshima Exhibition at the University of WA.
Bill Hare, who later became active in ACF and Greenpeace, was also part of the team headed by Barrie Machin.  John Hallam was also a key member in this period, Andrew Masterson was a very valuable and young contributor. Peter Brotherton of FOE played a key role in all activities and advice. Barrie Machin and Kim Doohan with one other person broadcast Alternative News on FM 6NR for six months at Western Australian Institute of Technology now Curtin University.
It is unfortunate that some of these facts of history have been ignored in a recent account of CANE called  'Stepping Out' the authors of which have admitted they did not check the archives and based their book on limited interviewing, which excluded many key personnel, activists and witnesses. They argue that theirs is a postmodernist interpretation.  They did not interview Barrie Machin, who was relegated to the status of a volunteer, nor does it seem to be the case that they interviewed other key founders and later chairperson-Peter Kaldor. Paul Keating was at the Labour Party conference and could have been interviewed as well.  Many of the facts of CANE in this book and in the previous Wikipedia content for CANE were unve