[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# TrawsCambria

uses: it provides long-distance journey opportunities between Welsh towns while also catering for shorter-distance passenger flows along its route. Following on from the introduction of the X32 in October 2003, several additional routes were added and TrawsCambria evolved into a network of services.

The withdrawal of service 701 and introduction of the new low-floor bus fleet for the replacement Aberystwyth to Cardiff (X40) service sparked concerns and complaints about the suitability of a service bus for the four-hour journey. There was no on-board toilet, which did not make an ideal situation for such a distance. Toilet breaks (even though there are limited facilities along the rural route) would be frowned upon as they would interfere with the timetable. The X40 also did not accept concessionary travel passes for travel over the section south of Carmarthen. However some of the complaints, particularly those related to luggage space, may have been the result of Arriva Buses Wales using buses on Aberystwyth to Cardiff services other than the two specially equipped Optare Tempos ordered with Aberystwyth to Cardiff services in mind.

701 Revival
In 2007 a private company trading as Coach Travel Wales sought to compete for passengers with the X40, re-introducing service 701 as an Aberystwyth to Cardiff Bay via Aberaeron, Lampeter, Carmarthen, Swansea, Port Talbot and Cardiff service.

Initially this ran twice-weekly with one journey from Aberystwyth in the morning, returning from Cardiff in the afternoon. This service runs using coaches with toilets and concessionary passes are accepted along the whole route.

On 29 September 2013 was later taken over by Bryan's Coaches.

The service proved popular and that popularity has continued to increase. At its peak in 2013 it operated twice daily Monday-Saturday, except for Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year's Day.

In 2014 a new 750 service was established, running on Thursdays and Saturdays from Aberystwyth to Cardiff via New Quay, Llandysul, Carmarthen and Swansea. The service was less successful and was terminated in 2015.

In 2015, Bryan retired, and the 701 service transferred to Lewis's Coaches of Llanrhystud. The transfer of the service was the end of an era as George Bryan had been depot manager at Crosville's Aberystwyth depot when the service was introduced.

Lewis's Coaches started their operation of the service with former Green line coaches, equipped with wheelchair lifts thus introducing accessible vehicles to the service for the first time.

Lewis Coaches closed in 2016, and Ceredigion CC  has issued an amendment to its online timetable confirming the cessation of service 701 from that date.

Attempted Relaunch As TrawsCymru

Following a Welsh Assembly Government consultation on improvements to the TrawsCambria network, in 2010, a programme of improvements for TrawsCambria services X40 and 704/T4 was announced. New buses were the main improvement identified. These would be equipped with coach style seating, greater luggage space, real time information and WiFi. The Welsh Assembly Government decided these upgraded routes, and eventually the network as a whole, were to be re-launched under the new TrawsCymru brand. As part of the re-branding, service X40 was to be re-numbered TC1 and T4 would have become TC4. The T4 upgrade and re-branding went ahead, but without the planned renumbering to TC4.

CymruExpress
However, before the contract for the TC1 service could be let, Arriva Buses Wales decided to cease operation of the TrawsCambria X40 and their section of the TrawsCambria 550 service from 26 February 2012. Instead they introduced their own services along the routes on a fully commercial basis, under the brand 'CymruExpress', meaning these routes no longer formed part of the TrawsCambria network. The CymruExpress services were: