[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 25]
# Constructive set theory

a theory proving the same theorems as classical  minus Regularity!
Thus, adding Regularity as well as either  or full Separation to  gives full classical .
Adding full Choice and full Separation gives  minus Regularity.

So this would thus lead to a theory beyond the strength of typical type theory.

Category and type theoretic notions 
So in this context with Exponentiation, first-order arithmetic has a model and all function spaces between sets exist. The latter are more accessible than the classes containing all subsets of a set, as is the case with exponential objects resp. subobjects in category theory.
In category theoretical terms, the theory  essentially corresponds to constructively well-pointed Cartesian closed Heyting pretoposes with (whenever Infinity is adopted) a natural numbers object. Existence of powerset is what would turn a Heyting pretopos into an elementary topos.
Every such topos that interprets  is of course a model of these weaker theories, but locally Cartesian closed pretoposes have been defined that e.g. interpret theories with Exponentiation but reject full Separation and Powerset.
A form of  corresponds to any subobject having a complement, in which case we call the topos Boolean. Diaconescu's theorem in its original topos form says that this hold iff any coequalizer of two nonintersecting monomorphisms has a section. The latter is a formulation of choice. Barr's theorem states that any topos admits a surjection from a Boolean topos onto it, relating to classical statements being provable intuitionistically.

In type theory, the expression "" exists on its own and denotes function spaces, a primitive notion. These types (or, in set theory, classes or sets) naturally appear, for example, as the type of the currying bijection between  and , an adjunction.
A typical type theory with general programming capability - and certainly those that can model , which is considered a constructive set theory - will have a type of integers and function spaces representing , and as such also include types that are not countable. This is just to say, or implies, that among the function terms , none have the property of being a surjection.

Constructive set theories are also studied in the context of applicative axioms.

Analysis 
In this section the strength of  is elaborated on.
For context, possible further principles are mentioned, which are not necessarily classical and also not generally considered constructive.
Here a general warning is in order: When reading proposition equivalence claims in the computable context, one shall always be aware which choice, induction and comprehension principles are silently assumed.
See also the related constructive analysis, feasible analysis and computable analysis.

The theory proves uniqueness of Archimedean, Dedekind complete (pseudo-)ordered fields, with equivalence by a unique isomorphism. The prefix "pseudo" here highlights that the order will, in any case, constructively not always be decidable. This result is relevant assuming complete such models exist as sets.

Cauchy sequences 
Exponentiation implies recursion principles and so in , one can comfortably reason about sequences , their regularity properties such as , or about shrinking intervals in . So this enables speaking of Cauchy sequences and their arithmetic. This is also the approach to analysis taken in .

Cauchy reals 
Any Cauchy real number is a collection of such sequences, i.e. subset of a set of functions on  constructed with respect to an equivalence relation. Exponentiation together with bounded separation prove the collection of Cauchy reals to be a set, thus somewhat simplifying the logically treatment of the reals.

Even in the strong theory  with a strengthened form of Collection, the Cauchy reals are poorly behaved when not assuming a form of countable choice, and  suffices for most results. This concerns completeness of equivalence classes of such sequences, equivalence of the whole set to the Dedekind reals, existence of a modulus of convergence for all Cauchy sequences and the preservation of such a modulus when taking limits. An alternative approach that is slightly better behaved is to work a collection of Cauchy reals together a choice of modulus, i.e. not with just the real numbers but with a set of pairs, or even with a fixed modulus shared by all real numbers.

Towards the Dedekind reals 
As in the classical theory, Dedekind cuts are characterized using subsets of algebraic structures such as : The properties of being inhabited, numerically bounded above, "closed downwards" and "open upwards" are all bounded formulas with respect to the given set underlying the algebraic structure. A standard example of a cut, the first component indeed exhibiting these properties, is the representation of  given by

(Depending on the convention for cuts, either of the two parts or neither, like here, may makes use of the sign .)