[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# History of the Jews in Malta

0, Jewish and Hindu groups in Malta urged Pope Benedict XVI to intervene to ensure that Malta treats all religions equally before the law.

In 2013 the Chabad Jewish Center in Malta was founded by Rabbi Haim Shalom Segal and his wife, Haya Moshka Segal.

Jewish families in Malta in the 20th century 

 Fortunato Habib (1885-1963) was born in Tripoli, the son of Abraham Habib, the chief Rabbi of Benghazi and Tripoli. He moved to Malta in his 20s, soon to start a successful trade in sugar, coffee, and olive oil. Habib established the Lafayette House in Zachary Street, Valletta, upon the franchise of Paris' Galeries Lafayette, dealing in ready-made ladies' fashion, the first such shop in Malta, later expanding in Britannia Street and in Tower Road, Sliema. He is credited (together with the Pace brothers) to have introduced cinema in Malta and to have created the first recordings of Maltese folklore music in 1931, when he accompanied local folk singers, including Is-Semenza and Ix-xudi, to Tunis; 15 titles were recorded there for the German Polyphon label and sold in Malta and to the Maltese communities in Tunis, Alexandria and beyond, via the "Bembaron and Cie" shop. His daughter, Daphne Habib, became a leading concert pianist. Fortunato Habib took over from Achille Tayar as head of the Jewish community during World War II in 1944, leading it till his death in 1963. He is remembered for having helped several other Jewish refugee families, including the Eder, settle in Malta during and after the war; he rests at the Jewish cemetery in Kalkara.
 Hammus and Hannah Reginiano moved to Malta, where he worked as a tailor, from Italian Libya following the 1938 Race Laws. Hammus died in 1941, and his son Menasse was killed in 1942 during the bombing of the Regent Cinema in Valletta. Their other sons and grandchildren remained in Malta.
 Hirsch Herman and Helene Eder moved from Vienna with their children to Malta in 1938. With the start of the war, they were interned with other German, Austrian and Italian citizens; they were released after three months. The following year they were interned again in the old convent of Rabat. Once released a year later, they found their hat factory in Msida had been destroyed by Nazi bombing. After the war, they slowly built a chain of five clothing outlets, Haro, which were quite popular among the first ones to sell ready-made women's clothes. The first was in Britannia St in Valletta, later managed by their daughter Lisl Berger. They also owned the Le Roy Hotel in Qui-Si-Sana, Sliema.
 A Budapest trade unionist, Bela Lowinger (1906-1994), traveled via Trieste and Naples to find refuge in Malta in 1939. His family ran a small shop in Main Street, Rabat, where they were known as the ungerizi. In 1948 he served as an interpreter during the trip to Malta of the Vasas SC football club. He later opened a carpet shop in Tower Rd, Sliema
 Another prominent Maltese Jewish family, Marco and Clare Aroyo, arrived in Malta in the 1930s from Bulgaria. They ran the Swiss House textile shop in Britannia St c/w Zachary St., Valletta in the 1960s-1970s, before moving to the United Kingdom in 1988. Their son Dorian was an accomplished pianist. Another son, Robert, moved to the United Kingdom and later to Israel with his wife Preeti; their two sons were killed in a bomb attack in Gaza in 1971.
 Among the descendants of the first rabbi Jacob Tajar, Ondina, who worked at the Kingsway Pharmacy, and Margot Tayar in the 1960s and 1970s run the "Tayar's Sportex and Tweed " textile shop in Palace Square, Valletta.
 George and Gita Tayar were another prominent family; George Tayar was a big shareholder of Marks and Spencer and introduced it in Malta with Berti Mizzi. Gita Tayar pioneered knitting-at-home in the late 1960s, introducing the textile industry to Gozo with the Levison-Tayar firm. The street in San Ġwann where they used to live is now called Triq George Tayar.

Jewish cemeteries in Malta 

Jewish cemeteries in Malta include the Kalkara cemetery (1784-1833), the Ta' Braxia Cemetery (1836-1891), and the Marsa Jewish Cemetery (opened 1887).

In 1372 King Fredrick III granted a piece of land at Tabia (today's Qbur il-Lhud at Ghariexem, Mtarfa) to the Universitate Judeorum, the Jewish community, for use as a cemetery. A Hebrew-language tombstone, found on site, was dedicated to Rach[el], spouse of Yeshu’a; it is now preserved at Rabat's Domvs Romana.

A Jewish cemetery was established in Kalkara (Strada Rinella) in 1784 "by the Leghorn fund for ransoming Hebrew slaves, at its own expense, for the burial of the dead of its race". The site was likely an earlier burial place for non-Christians on the island. It contains today twelve identifiable graves from burials in 1820–1834, and other gravestones and fragments. It was refurbished by the Local Council in 2003.