[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Factions in the Somali Civil War

Over the course of the Somali Civil War, there have been many revolutionary movements and militia groups run by competing rebel leaders which have held de facto control over vast areas within Somalia.

Prior to the fall of Siad Barre (through 1991)

Somali Salvation Democratic Front (SSDF) 
First Somali resistance group.

Leaders: Dr. Hassan Ali Mireh, Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, General Mohamed Abshir Musa, Mohammed Abshir Waldo (General Secretary)
Area of Operations: 1988: Mudug region in central Somalia and Nugaal and Bari regions in northeastern Somalia; 1991: northeast Somalia (Puntland)
Tribal Affiliation: Majerteen and Darood clans
Founded: 1978 by several army officers, it was the first of several opposition groups dedicated to ousting the authoritarian regime of Mohamed Siad Barre.

Took part in a 1982 Ethiopian border offensive against Somalia.

The SSDF also propped up and trained the SNM.  Both SSDF and SNM leaders met in Ethiopia’s capital in September 1987 to unite and devise a plan to topple Siad Barre’s regime but they failed to agree on a common strategy.

Somali National Front (SNF) 
The SNF was a political revolutionary movement and armed militia in Somalia. Initially made up of loyalists to former President of Somalia Siad Barre and the remnants of the Somali National Army forces after his ouster from office, the SNF's intent and goal was to recapture Mogadishu and reinstate Barre's regime. Later, under General Omar Hagi Masallah and General Ahmed Ali, the SNF united the Marehan with the other Darod clans led by General Mohammed Said Hersi "Morgan", and then attempted to conquer the region around Kismayo to form the autonomous district of Jubaland.

 Leaders: General Siad Barre, General Ahmed Ali, Mohammed Said Samatar "Gacaliye", Ahmed Sheikh Ali Ahmed "Burale", Dr. Ali Nur, General Mohammed Hashi Gaani, Col Barre Hiiraale, Gen Omar Hagi Massale, Col. Abdirizak Issak Bihi.
 Area of Operations: Southern and Central Somalia; occasional forays to outskirts of Mogadishu and neighboring borders.
 Tribal Affiliation: Marehan (Mareehaan)
 Founded: March 1991

Somali National Movement (SNM) 

Leaders: Ahmad Mahammad Culaid, Ahmad Ismaaiil Abdi, Abdulqaadir Kosar Abdi, Ahmed M. Mahamoud Silanyo, Abdirahman Ahmed Ali Tuur
Area of Operations: Northwestern Somalia (Somaliland)
Tribal Affiliation: Isaaq
Founded: 1981

Isaaq tribe members had founded the movement in 1981 as emigres to London with the express purpose of overthrowing the Barre regime. They eventually moved to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, and gained the support of the Ethiopian government.

On January 2, 1982, operating near Berbera, the group attacked Mandera Prison to free political prisoners while simultaneously raiding Cadaadle armory.

Between 1985 and 1987, the SNM conducted many attacks on government facilities and troops based out of camps in Ethiopia.

By 1988, the SNM moved out of their camps in Ethiopia and began operating in northern Somali republic, the area now known as Somaliland. They even temporarily occupied the provincial capitals of Burao and Hargeysa.

They captured government Toyota Land Cruisers turned them into technicals by mounting 12.7 mm and 14.5 mm machineguns, 106 mm recoilless rifles, and BM-21 rocket launchers. They also operated various antiaircraft guns, such as the ZU-23-2.

By 1991, they had taken control of Hargeysa, Berbera, Burao, and Erigavo. On May 18, 1991, they declared the Republic of Somaliland.

Somali Patriotic Movement (SPM) 
Leaders: Colonel Shugri Weyrah Kariye Colonel Bashir Bililiqo, Colonel Ahmed Omar Jess, General Aden Abdullahi Nur ('Gabyow'), General Mohammed Said Hersi "Morgan"
Area of Operations: southern Somalia
Tribal Affiliation: Ogaden (SPM 'Ogadeni') and Wardey (known as SPM 'Harti')
Founded: 1989

Begun by a group of disaffected Ogadeni officers.

A key accomplishment was the seizure of Balli-Dogle air base in the days prior to Barre's flight from Mogadishu.

Somali Democratic Alliance (SDA) 

 Leaders: Mohamed Farah Abdullahi, Mohamed Rashiid Sheekh also called sheekh malee, Zak Fergason, and Jamac Rabile(SDA)
 Area of Operations: Awdal, Somaliland
 Tribal Affiliation: Gadabursi
 Founded: 1989

Pro-Barre faction. Fought against other liberation movements during Barre's reign.

United Somali Congress (USC) 
Leaders: Dr. Omar M. Hassan, Hussein Ahmed Mohamed, Abdi Hilowle Hassan, Hassan Mohamud Moheddin, Hassan Omar Mohamed (Founders, 1989 Ali Mohamed Osoble (Ali Wardhiigley) And Dr. Ismael Jimaale) (Mogadishu section founder, 1989); General Mohamed Farrah Aidid, Ali Mahdi Mohamed, Mohamed Qanyare Afrah (November 1991)
Area of Operations: South Central Somalia
Tribal Affiliation: Hawiye (Habar Gidir, Xawaadle, Murusade and Abgaal clans)
Founded: February 1, 1989 in Rome

On January 26, 1991, the USC stormed the Presidential palace in Mogadishu, taking control of the capital and forcing Siad Barre into exile.