[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yangtse Incident: The Story of H.M.S. Amethyst

ieutenant Peter Egerton Capel Berger, RN
 Richard Coleman as Lieutenant-Commander Bernard Morland Skinner, RN, Commanding Officer
 Gordon Whiting as Surgeon Lieutenant John Michael Alderton, RN, Medical Officer
 Rhett Ward as Lieutenant Mirehouse, RN
 Philip Vickers as Surgeon Lieutenant Packard, RN

Crew of Amethyst
 William Hartnell as Leading Seaman (Quartermaster) Leslie Frank, RN, Acting Coxswain
 Barry Foster as Stores Petty Officer John Justin McCarthy, RN
 Thomas Heathcote as Commissioned Gunner Monaghan, RN
 Sam Kydd as Able Seaman Walker, RN
 Ewen Solon as Engine Room Artificer 2nd Class Leonard Walter Williams, RN
 Brian Smith as Boy 1st Class Keith Cantrill Martin, RN
 Kenneth Cope as Stores Rating
 Alfred Burke as Petty Officer
 Ian Bannen as Stoker Mechanic Sammy Bannister, RN
 Ray Jackson as Telegraphist Jack Leonard French, RN
 Bernard Cribbins as Able Seaman James Bryson, RN
 Keith Faulkner as Ordinary Signalman
 Simon II as Simon (cat)

Staff and embassy
 John Paul as Staff Officer Operations
 Basil Dignam as Sir Lionel Henry Lamb, British Ambassador to the Republic of China
 Ralph Truman as Vice-Admiral
 John Horsley as Chief Staff Officer
 Jeremy Burnham as Flag Lieutenant to Vice-Admiral
 Cyril Luckham as Commander-in-Chief, Far Eastern Station
 Allan Cuthbertson as Captain Donaldson, RN, British Naval Attaché, Nanking
 Ballard Berkeley as Lieutenant-Colonel Raymond Dewar-Durie, British Assistant Military Attaché, Nanking

PLA
 Akim Tamiroff as Colonel Peng, PLA Political Officer
 Keye Luke as Captain Kuo Tai, PLA
 Anthony Chinn as PLA Officer

Other
 Sophie Stewart as Miss Charlotte Dunlap, hospital matron
 Gene Anderson as Ruth Worth, nurse
 Tom Bowman as Commander Ian Greig Robertson, DSC, RN, Commanding Officer, HMS Consort
 Tsai Chin as Sampan Woman

Production
The film was produced by Herbert Wilcox who raised part of the budget from RKO and American investors. At one stage the film was called The Sitting Duck and The Greatest Glory.

HMS Amethyst was due to be broken up; however the scrapping was delayed to allow her to participate in the film as herself. As the Amethyst's main engines were no longer operational, her sister   stood in for shots of the ship moving and firing of her guns.

John Kerans, by then promoted to commander, served as technical advisor during the production.  All shipping between the Ipswich and Harwich Estuary was halted for two hours in September 1956 to allow filming. During production live charges detonated and the Amethyst almost sank but Kerans managed to save the ship.

The rivers Orwell and Stour - which run between Ipswich and Manningtree, in Suffolk, England - doubled as the Yangtze River during the making of this film. The Chinese PLA gun batteries - depicted by old Royal Navy field guns on land carriages - were deployed on the sloping banks of the Boys' Training Establishment HMS Ganges which was sited at Shotley Gate, facing Felixstowe on the Orwell, and Harwich on the Stour, where the rivers converge.

The destroyer  stood in for both HMS Consort and HMS Concord. As Consort, down from Nanking, she wore the correct pennant number D76; as Concord, up from Shanghai, her pennant number was covered by Union flags. Teazer is depicted firing her guns broadside and turning at speed in the narrow confines of the Stour estuary as Consort attempts to get a towing line to Amethyst under heavy gunfire.

During filming, Wilcox's bank told him they would not accept a guarantee of £150,000 from RKO London unless supported by its parent company in New York. This did not happen and Wilcox had already spent £70,000 of the £150,000. He went personally into debt for £150,000. The National Film Finance Corporation stepped in to make up the short fall. However Wilcox would be plagued with financial troubles for the rest of his career.

Reception
The film had its premiere with the Lords of the Admiralty and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh in attendance. It also screened at the Cannes Film Festival.

The film was the 15th most popular movie at the British box office in 1957. According to Kinematograph Weekly the film was "in the money" at the British box office in 1957.

Wilcox thought the film's box office performance was hurt by the fact that its general release came so long after the premiere and so soon after the release of The Battle of the River Plate (1956). In 1967, when he wrote his memoirs, Wilcox said the film had yet to recover its production costs.

See also
 Simon (Amethysts cat)
 Yangtze Incident

Notes

References

External links
 
 Yangtse Incident: The Story of H.M.S. Amethyst at the British Film Institute