[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anarchism in Mexico

er week were made available for MLP revolutionary causes. Smaller sums of money were received from outside donors to the organization. Regeneración was published until 1918. It was distributed in Mexican communities in the United States and used in literacy lessons there, as books were often scarce.

Juana Belén Gutiérrez de Mendoza was an anarchist and feminist activist, typographer, journalist and poet born in San Juan del Río, Durango, Mexico. While many women contributed in the Mexican Revolution 1910-1920 by fighting alongside their husbands, others wrote against the injustices of the Díaz regime. In May 1901 she found an anti-Díaz newspaper called Vésper. She attacked the clergy in Guanajuato and wrote against foreign domination in Mexico. She also wrote against the Díaz regime and criticized Díaz for not carrying out the requests and needs of the  people. As a result, her newspaper was confiscated and she was also put in jail several times by Díaz between 1904 and 1920. She established a new newspaper called El Desmonte (1900-1919) and continued her writings. She translated the works of Peter Kropotkin, Mikhail Bakunin, and Pierre Joseph Proudhon to Spanish. She was also a Caxcan Indian from the state of Durango.

The Mexican Anarchist Federation
The Mexican Anarchist Federation (sp: Federación Anarquista Mexicana) was a Mexican anarchist organization that existed from December 28, 1945, until the 1970s. It appeared as the Anarchist Federation of the Center joined with the Anarchist Federation of the Federal District. It published the periodical Regeneración. It received the energy of recent Spanish anarchists who sought refuge in Mexico escaping from Francisco Franco's dictatorship.

Shortly after its establishment it gained the attention of the Mexican police forces and the Mexican government after some Spanish exiled anarchists along with members of the Mexican Anarchist Federation were arrested after trying to rob a truck that carried large amounts of money from a beer industry. Also linked to the Mexican Anarchist Federation was the Libertarian Youth (sp:Juventudes Libertarias) and the publication Tierra y Libertad.

Present day 
Formed in 1997, the Popular Indigenous Council of Oaxaca "Ricardo Flores Magón" (CIPO-RFM) is a grassroots organization based on the philosophy of Ricardo Magón.

Anarcopunk In Mexico 
Anarco-punk is a subsect of the larger punk scene primarily associated with political activism and anarchist beliefs. Anarcopunk is a well-entrenched part of the punk scene, but their presence has been most heavily felt in Mexico City and Oaxaca in recent years. The political climate in these cities means that protests and political activism have been near-constant, and anarcho-punks have significantly participated in these movements. The most notable of these events was the Oaxaca protests of 2006. During these protests, anarcho-punks made a name for themselves due to their willingness to engage directly with police forces, often becoming the targets of police brutality. Despite their political activism supporting many marginalized groups, these punks still have a tenuous and occasionally contentious relationship with other activists.

Politics 
Anarcho-punks are known for being the most politically active and motivated subsect of the punk scene, and these politics are a core part of their identity[1]. The specific politics of any self-identifying anarcho-punk are likely to vary, but they all share common traits. They are profoundly anti-authoritarian and anti-capitalist and view the Mexican government’s tactics of control to be particularly repressive. With these antiauthoritarian politics comes a belief in the concept of Autogestión or self-determination[1]. The political activism of the anarcho-punk movement has led them to be significant participants in several activism groups. These groups include Autonomy, Autogestión, Self-Determination Collective (AAA), and the Autonomous Block of Liberationist Resistance (BARL).

Timeline