[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Treasure hunting

e, excavating, gathering or examining, and the museum where the artifact will be shown and preserved. Each permit will only be granted for 3 years or less.  An extension can be granted if progress is shown. Permits will not be in effect if work does not begin within six months of getting the permit.

The United States federal Abandoned Shipwrecks Act, which asserts the federal government's ownership of abandoned United States water shipwrecks, was put into place in 1988. Any shipwreck that is embedded in submerged lands and/or in coralline formations protected by a State on submerged lands of a state is property of the government. The Abandoned Shipwrecks Act then transfers ownership to the appropriate State government. The Supreme Court upheld the Abandoned Shipwrecks Act constitutionality in 1998. In the US, the finder of a ship not abandoned could seek a salvage award.
The countries England, Wales, and Northern Ireland claim gold and silver finds that are more than three hundred years old for the crown by way of the Treasure Act of 1996. Any found treasure in these nations must be reported within fourteen days of uncovering.

The United States awards ownership to the landowner. If finds occur on federal land it can be considered a federal offense. Most of the United States prosecutes the unearthing of burial grounds.

Criticism
Treasure hunting is condemned by a growing number of nations, and UNESCO issued a charter for the protection of the underwater cultural heritage in 2001: the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. This convention is a legal instrument helping states parties to improve the protection of their underwater cultural heritage. In 2013 the National Geographic Channel set off a firestorm of controversy with its reality show Diggers. Spike TV's similar program, American Diggers, also created an outcry. Professional archaeologists from the Society for Historical Archaeology, the largest scholarly group concerned with the archaeology of the modern world (A.D. 1400–present), roundly criticised the network for promoting the theft of cultural materials on public and private land.

Notable treasure hunters 

 Martin Bayerle discoverer of the White Star Liner RMS Republic in 1981.
 Brent Brisben founder of 1715 Fleet - Queens Jewels, LLC owners of the identified remains of the 1715 Plate Fleet. 
 John Chatterton (discoverer of the Pirate Ship of Joseph Bannsister Golden Fleece)
 Mel Fisher (discoverer of the Spanish galleon Nuestra Señora de Atocha)
 Cork Graham (war correspondent, author)
 Mike Hatcher (discoverer of the "Nanking Cargo")
 Robert F. Marx (underwater archaeologist, author)
 John Mattera (author and discoverer of the Pirate Ship of Joseph Bannsister Golden Fleece)
 Juan Ponce de León  (searched the new world for gold and the Fountain of Youth)
 E. Lee Spence (pioneer underwater archaeologist, discoverer of the Hunley, SS Ozama, SS Georgiana. etc.)
 Phillip Masters, founder of Intersal, Inc., discovered Blackbeard's flagship, the Queen Anne's Revenge in 1996.

Notable treasure hunting companies 
 Columbus-America Discovery Group located and salvaged treasure from 1857 shipwreck of the SS Central America, using research by Dr. E. Lee Spence
 Intersal, Inc., while working under permit from the state of North Carolina, discovered the pirate Blackbeard's flagship, the Queen Anne's Revenge, on November 21, 1996.
 Lords Of Fortune LLC is engaged in the recovery of The Tsar's Treasure from the famous treasure shipwreck RMS Republic.
 Odyssey Marine Exploration located and salvaged treasure from 1865 shipwreck of the SS Republic, using research by Dr. E. Lee Spence
 Shipwrecks, Inc. chartered in 1967 by Dr. E. Lee Spence, received 1st salvage license issued in South Carolina, for work on CSS Georgiana
 Treasure Salvors, Inc., founded by Mel Fisher, located the Nuestra Señora de Atocha wreck and its mother lode of silver, gold and emeralds, in July 1985.

See also
 Black Swan Project
 Buried treasure
 Geocaching
 Grave robbery
 Letterboxing
 List of missing treasures
 List of lost mines
 Magnet fishing
 Marine salvage
 Metal detector
 Nuestra Señora de Atocha
 Oak Island
 On the Trail of the Golden Owl
 Queen Anne's Revenge
 RMS Republic
 Shipwreck
 The Secret (treasure hunt)
 Treasure hunt (game)

References