[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Loughborough Students' Union

Loughborough Students' Union (otherwise known as LSU) is the students' union serving members from Loughborough University, Loughborough College and the RNIB College Loughborough.

The Union is unique amongst British universities, in that its premises are owned by the students themselves. The union building sits in the North-Eastern corner of the campus, and consists of two floors. The Union is managed on a day-to-day basis by the Executive, with scrutiny from the Democracy and Representation Committee.

History
The union has somewhat unusual origins. Dr Hebert Schofield (q.v.), Principal of Loughborough College from 1915 to 1950, was closely associated with the Students’ Association, even serving as its president despite being the College Principal. He was far-seeing and accumulated land to the East of Loughborough for the college. However, when he could not persuade Leicestershire County Council to pay for the land, he used student monies. Thus, land became vested in the name of the Union of Loughborough Colleges.

In the early 1970s, the Union of Loughborough Colleges was relatively asset rich, whereas it had low income. Conversely, Loughborough University of Technology Students’ Union had relatively high capitation fees and income, but few assets. Both unions wanted to develop student facilities on the campus, but there was a dispute as to how best to do this.

A scheme was devised whereby the university bought most of the land from Union of Loughborough Colleges and agreed on a land swap so the students would own an area of land adjacent to the Ashby Road on which a new student building was subsequently built. Both student groupings agreed to this and voted to adopt a new joint constitution.
Elections were held in March and Loughborough Students’ Union was founded on 1 August 1975. Its founder president was David S Dixon, who held the position in 1975–76.

The Union of Loughborough Colleges
Established as an umbrella body to represent the students of Loughborough College of Technology, Loughborough College of Education, Loughborough Training College and Loughborough College of Art and Design, the Union of Loughborough Colleges operated from Rutland Lodge. Over the first half of the 20th century, the ULC acquired land which has continued to place its successor unions in a unique position.

Loughborough University of Technology Students Union
With the splitting of Loughborough College in 1965, and the by-then College of Advanced Technology's subsequent application for University status, LUTSU was created to represent the students of the university. At the time the legislation which enabled the creation of the university was understood to require an autonomous Union. LUTSU was created with the approval of Loughborough University of Technology's royal charter by the Privy Council in 1966.

LUTSU operated from the Edward Herbert Building (EHB) at the centre of the campus, and hosted concerts with artists such as the Rolling Stones. During the first 3 years of the new institutional arrangements there were various disputes over who owned the land acquired by ULC, which the continuing ULC wanted to sell to fund their own new building. Negotiations led by the university resolved the dispute in August 1975, when LUTSU and ULC merged to form Loughborough Students' Union.

Loughborough Students' Union
Following the merger the construction of a new students' union building began, although this project was placed in jeopardy by the liquidation of the building firm employed, almost leaving the building unfinished, however the building was completed and opened by Terry Jones and Michael Palin on 20 February 1979

Governance

LSU Executive 
The LSU Executive (frequently known as 'The Exec') are the leading representative body of the Students' Union. They are composed of twelve sabbatical officers. Since 2019, it has consisted of five Executive Officers. 'Exec Elections' occur each year in February and March, whereby a new Executive Team is voted in by the students. Candidates release manifestos, get interviewed in 'The Soapbox' and promote themselves across campus and on social media in hope of being elected.