[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 34]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

having ground it to a very sharp point,
and heated red-hot a kind of wire forged for that purpose, they pierced
a hole through one end; and by whetting and smoothing it on stones,
brought the other to a point, and thus gave the whole needle a very
tolerable form. Scissors to cut out the skin were what they next had
occasion for; but having none, their place they supplied with the knife;
and, though there was neither shoemaker nor tailor amongst them, yet
they had contrived to cut out the leather and furs well enough for their
purpose. The sinews of the bears and the reindeer--which, as I mentioned
before, they had found means to split--served them for thread; and thus,
provided with the necessary implements, they proceeded to make their new
clothes."

"These," said Mr Barlow, "are the extracts which I have made from this
very extraordinary story; and they are sufficient to show both the many
accidents to which men are exposed, and the wonderful expedients which
may be found out, even in the most dismal circumstances." "It is very
true, indeed," answered Tommy; "but pray what became of these poor men
at last?" "After they had lived more than six years upon this dreary and
inhospitable coast," answered Mr Barlow, "a ship arrived there by
accident, which took three of them on board, and carried them in safety
to their own country." "And what became of the fourth?" said Tommy.
"He," said Mr Barlow, "was seized with a dangerous disease, called the
scurvy; and, being of an indolent temper, and therefore not using the
exercise which was necessary to preserve his life, after having lingered
some time, died, and was buried in the snow by his companions."




CHAPTER III.

     Harry's Chicken--Tommy tries kindness on the Pig--Account of the
     Elephant--Story of the Elephant and the Tailor--Story of the
     Elephant and the Child--Stories of the Good Natured Boy and the Ill
     Natured Boy--The Boys determine to Build a House--Story of the
     Grateful Turk--The Boys' House blown down--They rebuild it
     stronger--The Roof lets in the Rain--At last is made Water-tight.


Here little Harry came in from his father's house, and brought with him
the chicken, which, it had been mentioned, he had saved from the claws
of the kite. The little animal was now perfectly recovered of the hurt
it had received, and showed so great a degree of affection to its
protector, that it would run after him like a dog, hop upon his
shoulder, nestle in his bosom, and eat crumbs out of his hand. Tommy was
extremely surprised and pleased to remark its tameness and docility, and
asked by what means it had been made so gentle. Harry told him he had
taken no particular pains about it; but that, as the poor little
creature had been sadly hurt, he had fed it every day till it was well;
and that, in consequence of that kindness, it had conceived a great
degree of affection towards him.

"Indeed," said Tommy, "that is very surprising; for I thought all birds
had flown away whenever a man came near them, and that even the fowls
which are kept at home would never let you touch them." _Mr B._--And
what do you imagine is the reason of that? _T._--Because they are wild.
_Mr B._--And what is a fowl's being wild? _T._--When he will not let you
come near him. _Mr B._--Then a fowl is wild because he will not let you
come near him. This is saying nothing more than that when a fowl is wild
he will not let you approach him. But I want to know what is the reason
of his being wild. _T._--Indeed, sir, I cannot tell, unless it is
because they are naturally so. _Mr B._--But if they were naturally so,
this fowl could not be fond of Harry. _T._--That is because he is so
good to it. _Mr B._--Very likely. Then it is not natural for an animal
to run away from a person that is good to him? _T._--No, sir; I believe
not. _Mr B._--But when a person is not good to him, or endeavours to
hurt him, it is natural for an animal to run away from him, is it not?
_T._--Yes. _Mr B._--And then you say he is wild, do you not? _T._--Yes,
sir. _Mr B._--Why, then, it is probable that animals are only wild
because they are afraid of being hurt, and that they only run away from
the fear of danger. I believe you would do the same from a lion or a
tiger. _T._--Indeed I would, sir. _Mr B._--And yet you do not call
yourself a wild animal? Tommy laughed heartily at this, and said No.
"Therefore," said Mr Barlow, "if you want to tame animals, you must be
good to them, and treat them kindly, and then they will no longer fear
you, but come to you and love you." "Indeed," said Harry, "that is very
true; for I knew a little boy that took a great fancy to a snake that
lived in his father's garden; and, when he had the milk for breakfast,
he used to sit under a nut tree and whistle, and the snake would come to
him and eat out of his bowl." _T._--And did it not bite him? _H._--No;
he sometimes used to give it a pat w