[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Israeli–Lebanese conflict

ebanon and northern Israel was disrupted, in addition to the deaths in combat.

A United Nations-brokered ceasefire went into effect on 14 August 2006. The blockade was lifted on 8 September.

After the 2006 Lebanon War 
Since the end of the 2006 Lebanon War, there have been only isolated incidents.

Israel–Lebanese military border incidents 
 On 7 February 2007, there was an exchange of gunfire near Avivim between the Lebanese Armed Forces and the Israel Defense Forces, culminating in the firing of two IDF tank shells over the border. There were no injuries on either side. The UN Secretary-General stated it was first armed incident since the end of the last war and that the first fire was by the Lebanese army without any provocation since the IDF was operating inside Israeli territory.
 On 3 August 2010, IDF forces clashed with the Lebanese army. The clash began when the Lebanese army attacked an IDF post with sniper fire, killing an Israeli officer and wounding another. IDF troops at the scene returned fire, and Israel retaliated with air and artillery strikes at Lebanese army positions, killing two Lebanese soldiers and wounding five. A Lebanese journalist was also killed, and one was wounded. The Lebanese claimed they were responding to an Israeli violation of their sovereignty when Israeli troops crossed the border and began cutting down a tree that was in Lebanese territory. The Israelis denied violating Lebanese sovereignty and claimed the tree was in their territory. The United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) confirmed Israel's position, adding that Israel had informed them of the border work beforehand.
 On 1 August 2011, Israeli soldiers and Lebanese soldiers exchanged fire. At first it was reported that a Lebanese soldier was killed, but UNIFIL later said no one was killed. UNIFIL findings showed that Israeli troops had not crossed the border, and there was no cause for the clash.
 On 16 December 2013, a Lebanese soldier, acting without orders, fired at a civilian vehicle being driven by an Israeli naval officer along the border, killing him. The soldier then fled the scene and turned himself in to Lebanese authorities. Shortly afterward, IDF troops operating on the Israeli side of the border in the area where the officer was killed fired at what an IDF spokeswoman called "suspicious movement" on the Lebanese side of the border, hitting two Lebanese soldiers.

Israel-Hezbollah border clashes 
 On 7 August 2013, four Israeli soldiers were wounded in a landmine explosion allegedly by Hezbollah. The Lebanese army said that the soldiers were  into Lebanese territory.
 On 14 March 2014, after a detonation of an explosive device in the area of Mt. Dov that wounded three soldiers, the Israeli army fired a number of shells at the village of Kafr Kila in southern Lebanon. In retaliation for the detonation of the explosive device, an Israeli armored force attacked a Hezbollah position in the city of Halata near the Shebaa Farms. A few hours after the incident, the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS) announced that it was taking responsibility for the attack on the Lebanese border.
 On 18 January 2015, an airstrike on a convoy in the Quneitra District of Syria took place, killing six Hezbollah members and at least one IRGC officer. The UN observers attributed the attack to Israel, which did not officially comment. In response, on 28 January, Hezbollah fired missiles at Israeli convoy in the Shebaa farms disputed territory in the Israeli occupied Golan Heights, killing two soldiers. IDF fired shells into southern Lebanon, killing one Spanish peacekeeper.
 On 1 September 2019, Hezbollah launched rockets from Lebanon into Israel, targeting a military base and an IDF vehicle. Hezbollah claimed Israeli casualties. An IDF vehicle first identified as armored jeep painted with a red Jewish star, later clarified as a vehicle used as an ambulance at the moment was targeted by an anti-tank missile fired by Hezbollah. There were conflicting reports, some stating that the missiles hit, or even destroyed the IDF vehicle and others sources indicating it missed the target. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said no Israelis were wounded. Two IDF servicemen apparently wounded were sent to Haifa's Rambam Medical Center, but released without getting any medical treatment according to Israel.
 On 27 July 2020, there was an exchange of fire between Israeli soldiers and four Hezbollah members.