[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

omrade Abraham", attended a rally of the BPD's Union of Progressive Youth. On July 21, Zissu accepted his defeat and resigned from the PER presidency (being followed shortly after by general secretary Moscovici); he was later forced out from the Zionist Executive by a cartel of CDE and Ihud members.

Taking over as interim president, Benvenisti appointed S. Segall as the PER's new secretary. These developments reportedly alarmed Filderman, who asked Cohen to reintegrate with the PER and stem its infiltration by communism. On October 10, 1946, PER delegates Ebercohn and Rohrlich sealed an alliance with the BPD; this policy was reaffirmed on October 27, when a "shared meeting of all Jewish organizations" was held at Izbânda of Bucharest. Shortly after, Zissu voiced his regret "that the Jewish party never managed to present its own lists", but encouraged PER members "to vote for the government lists." The resulting Jewish Representation, also including the UER and the CDE, was assigned three positions on the BPD list; it had for a main candidate Rohrlich, who ran in Botoșani County. Benvenisti claims that this was an act of dissidence by other PER members: they allegedly profited from Benvenisti's brief absence from the country to strike him off the shared list, assigning his place to Rohlich, who was not as friendly toward the CDE; during that interval, the PER was steered by a triumvirate comprising Ebercohn, Tumarkin, and Iakerkaner. On the campaign trail, communist leaders embraced Zionist slogans, with Luca declaring himself favorable to a Jewish state in Palestine, when addressing an all-Jewish audience, and the official newspaper Timpul hosting reportage pieces about life in the Yishuv. The campaign saw Zionists participating on BPD electoral squads, which destroyed propaganda presented by opposition parties, but also witnessed attempts at anti-BPD resistance by Jewish defectors from the PCR. During the race, an independent, religious Zionism was only represented by Tnuat HaMizrahi.

The PER failed to get any of its candidates elected, its votes having only helped CDE front-runners. On November 30, Zionists had a final public rally in Bucharest, celebrating the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine. In the post-election interval, the PER returned to anti-communism. Shortly before the eruption of a civil war in Palestine, Siguranța men reported that Zissu still directed the PER from the shadows, noting his Revisionist, anti-British, stance and his support of "terrorist action" in Palestine. In March 1947, Benvenisti made a show of his own disappointment with the BPD government, accusing Prime Minister Petru Groza of tolerating antisemitism. By then, PCR cadres defected to the PER, including two who helped found a PER section in Fălciu County; one of them was also a leader of the local Betar organization, which the CDE described as "fascist". Some members of the PER elite were leaving Romania for Palestine, as was the case with Wilhelm Fischer in summer 1947.

According to an overview by historian Claudiu Crăciun, "communist attempts to assume control over the Jewry were effectively damaged, for the long term, by its majority Zionist orientation." During August 1947, the group assisted in forming new local bodies for the Jewish communities. The one in Iași was led by L. Weiselberg of the PCR, with PER man Aron Alter as general secretary. In late November 1947, Enercohn was registered as a PER delegate on the board of "Jewish obști and democratic organizations" which visited with Culture Minister Stanciu Stoian to demand from him that Filderman be ousted from his job at the Federation of Jewish Communities.

Following the establishment of a Romanian communist regime on the last days of 1947, Benvenisti still made an appearance at the WJC in Montreux, sharing the stage with CDE representative Bercu Feldman. He recalls that the PER was dissolved at some point in 1947, upon Feldman's suggestion. Benvenisti elaborates: "I dissolved the Jewish Party, believing that there is no longer a need for it under the current regime." According to a notice in Adevărul: "The steering committee of the Jewish Party of Romania has decided to dissolve the party on December 4, 1947". Other reports suggest that a PER was still functioning in May 1948, when its representatives issued a statement regarding the Israeli Declaration of Independence, and that communist censors intervened to have it unpublished. On June 11, 1948, all Zionist organizations were shut down. The TPE wing and HeHalutz still existed to July 1948, when, together with the CDE, UER and Hașmonea youth movements, they were voluntarily absorbed into the National Federation of Democratic Youth (FNTD). The latter acted as a front for the PCR until March 1949, when it was altogether absorbed by the Union of Working Youth—presided upon by the last FNTD chairman, Gheorghe Florescu.