[Source: Gutenberg#2814 | Part 46]
# Utopia — Thomas More

alking.”

Here two men entered the room. One of them was a very fat man whose
blue serge clothes seemed to be in danger of falling from his sloping
figure. He had a big face which resembled a young ox’s face in
expression, staring blue eyes and a grizzled moustache. The other man,
who was much younger and frailer, had a thin, clean-shaven face. He
wore a very high double collar and a wide-brimmed bowler hat.

“Hello, Crofton!” said Mr Henchy to the fat man. “Talk of the
devil....”

“Where did the boose come from?” asked the young man. “Did the cow
calve?”

“O, of course, Lyons spots the drink first thing!” said Mr O’Connor,
laughing.

“Is that the way you chaps canvass,” said Mr Lyons, “and Crofton and I
out in the cold and rain looking for votes?”

“Why, blast your soul,” said Mr Henchy, “I’d get more votes in five
minutes than you two’d get in a week.”

“Open two bottles of stout, Jack,” said Mr O’Connor.

“How can I?” said the old man, “when there’s no corkscrew?”

“Wait now, wait now!” said Mr Henchy, getting up quickly. “Did you ever
see this little trick?”

He took two bottles from the table and, carrying them to the fire, put
them on the hob. Then he sat down again by the fire and took another
drink from his bottle. Mr Lyons sat on the edge of the table, pushed
his hat towards the nape of his neck and began to swing his legs.

“Which is my bottle?” he asked.

“This lad,” said Mr Henchy.

Mr Crofton sat down on a box and looked fixedly at the other bottle on
the hob. He was silent for two reasons. The first reason, sufficient in
itself, was that he had nothing to say; the second reason was that he
considered his companions beneath him. He had been a canvasser for
Wilkins, the Conservative, but when the Conservatives had withdrawn
their man and, choosing the lesser of two evils, given their support to
the Nationalist candidate, he had been engaged to work for Mr Tierney.

In a few minutes an apologetic “Pok!” was heard as the cork flew out of
Mr Lyons’ bottle. Mr Lyons jumped off the table, went to the fire, took
his bottle and carried it back to the table.

“I was just telling them, Crofton,” said Mr Henchy, “that we got a good
few votes today.”

“Who did you get?” asked Mr Lyons.

“Well, I got Parkes for one, and I got Atkinson for two, and got Ward
of Dawson Street. Fine old chap he is, too—regular old toff, old
Conservative! ‘But isn’t your candidate a Nationalist?’ said he. ‘He’s
a respectable man,’ said I. ‘He’s in favour of whatever will benefit
this country. He’s a big ratepayer,’ I said. ‘He has extensive house
property in the city and three places of business and isn’t it to his
own advantage to keep down the rates? He’s a prominent and respected
citizen,’ said I, ‘and a Poor Law Guardian, and he doesn’t belong to
any party, good, bad, or indifferent.’ That’s the way to talk to ’em.”

“And what about the address to the King?” said Mr Lyons, after drinking
and smacking his lips.

“Listen to me,” said Mr Henchy. “What we want in this country, as I
said to old Ward, is capital. The King’s coming here will mean an
influx of money into this country. The citizens of Dublin will benefit
by it. Look at all the factories down by the quays there, idle! Look at
all the money there is in the country if we only worked the old
industries, the mills, the ship-building yards and factories. It’s
capital we want.”

“But look here, John,” said Mr O’Connor. “Why should we welcome the
King of England? Didn’t Parnell himself....”

“Parnell,” said Mr Henchy, “is dead. Now, here’s the way I look at it.
Here’s this chap come to the throne after his old mother keeping him
out of it till the man was grey. He’s a man of the world, and he means
well by us. He’s a jolly fine decent fellow, if you ask me, and no damn
nonsense about him. He just says to himself: ‘The old one never went to
see these wild Irish. By Christ, I’ll go myself and see what they’re
like.’ And are we going to insult the man when he comes over here on a
friendly visit? Eh? Isn’t that right, Crofton?”

Mr Crofton nodded his head.

“But after all now,” said Mr Lyons argumentatively, “King Edward’s
life, you know, is not the very....”

“Let bygones be bygones,” said Mr Henchy. “I admire the man personally.
He’s just an ordinary knockabout like you and me. He’s fond of his
glass of grog and he’s a bit of a rake, perhaps, and he’s a good
sportsman. Damn it, can’t we Irish play fair?”

“That’s all very fine,” said Mr Lyons. “But look at the case of Parnell
now.”

“In the name of God,” said Mr Henchy, “where’s the analogy between the
two cases?”

“What I mean,” said Mr Lyons, “is we have our ideals. Why, now, would
we welcome a man like that? Do you think now after what he did Parnell
was a fit man to lead us? And why, then, would we do it for Edward the
Seventh?”

“This is Parnell’s anniversary,” said Mr O’Connor, “and don’t let us
stir up any bad