[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Vuk Jeremić

n" regarding each of the candidates. He finished the race with the second highest cumulative number of positive votes in the six rounds of straw polls carried out by the UN Security Council, behind eventual winner António Guterres. By the same measure, he was first among Eastern European candidates.

Serbian presidential candidacy

In January 2017, Jeremić announced that he would run for president in the 2017 election. On March 10, 2017, he officially submitted his nomination as presidential candidate to electoral commission with 14,360 valid signatures as a proof of nomination. His candidacy was endorsed by organizations such as New Serbia, Together for Serbia and Social Democratic Party, People's Movement of Serbia, as well as current and former public officeholders such as Dušan Petrović, leader of the Together for Serbia, former Minister of Justice (2007–2008) and Minister of Agriculture (2011–2012), Sanda Rašković Ivić, member of the National Assembly of Serbia and former leader of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Veroljub Stevanović, leader of the Together for Šumadija and former Mayor of Kragujevac (1996–2000; 2004–2014) and  Borislav Novaković, former Mayor of Novi Sad (2000–2004) and  vice-president of the Assembly of Vojvodina (2004–2008).

Although many thought that opposition would have better chances against Vučić if united, and considered Saša Janković a better option for a single opposition presidential candidate, Jeremić announced his candidacy nevertheless. He finished fourth, with little less than 6% of the vote.

People's Party
In the aftermath of the presidential election, though his result of little less than 6% was quite disappointing, he announced formation of a party. He gathered support for such move mainly from conservative intellectuals who were opposing Vučić's government, and were previously tied with DSS (most notably Sanda Rašković-Ivić, a former DSS president). He formed the People's Party in October 2017. The party is positioned as a centre-right political organisation, which cooperates closely with Saša Janković's Movement of Free Citizens. People's Party currently polls around 4%, which is considered a good result since the party was recently formed. In late March 2021, Jeremić stated his opposition to the legalization of civil unions. In May 2022, Jeremić expressed his opposition to sanctions against Russia following the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Personal life
Jeremić is married to Nataša Jeremić (née Lekić), a former journalist and news anchor for Serbia's state broadcaster, Radio Television of Serbia. The couple have one daughter, who was born in April 2018. Between 2011 and 2015, Jeremić served as the president of the Tennis Federation of Serbia. Jeremić is a Serbian Orthodox Christian.

References

External links

 Jeremić's official web site
Official biography

1975 births
Living people
Alumni of Imperial College London
Alumni of Queens' College, Cambridge
Candidates for President of Serbia
Democratic Party (Serbia) politicians
Eastern Orthodox Christians from Serbia
Foreign ministers of Serbia
Harvard Kennedy School alumni
Members of the Serbian Orthodox Church
Politicians from Belgrade
People's Party (Serbia, 2017) politicians
Pozderac family
Presidents of the United Nations General Assembly
Serbian democracy activists
Diplomats from Belgrade
Serbian people of Bosnia and Herzegovina descent
Serbian people of Bosniak descent
Presidents of the Tennis Federation of Serbia