[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 39th District corruption scandal

xception of Philadelphia Police Detective James Dambach, who upon returning to regular police duties found himself to be a pariah within the ranks. Labelled a "Gink" (Philadelphia police term for rat), Dambach endured the label and eventually attained the rank of lieutenant.

Convicted PPD officers 

The following members of the Philadelphia Police Detective's Special Narcotics Unit, also known as The Five Squad, were convicted:
 Officer John Baird
 Lt. Frank Dubundo 
 Sergeant Thomas DeGovanni
 Officer Steven Brown
 Officer James Ryan
 Officer Thomas Ryan (police officer) (on leave from the PPD at the time of conviction).
 Officer Louis J. Maier, convicted on separate charges of robbery and battery.

Other key figures 
 Ed Rendell, Mayor
 Lynne Abraham, District Attorney.
 Pamela Jenkins (informant), paid PPD informant and key government witness.
 James Dambach, Philadelphia Police detective credited with breaking loose the stalled federal investigation.
 James Williamson, FBI agent who headed the investigation of the 39th District 5 Squad.

Aftermath

Raymond Carter trial
Raymond Carter achieved notoriety for being the subject of a murder case that arose in the aftermath of the corruption scandal, resulting in his release from prison on December 30, 1996.  Key figures in his conviction (and release) were PPD officer Thomas Ryan and Pamela Jenkins, who also played roles in the more famous trial of Mumia Abu-Jamal.

Carter, a former heroin dealer, was sentenced in 1988 to life imprisonment for the slaying of Robert "Puppet" Harris, of North Gratz Street, at the Pike Bar in North Philadelphia on September 18, 1986. His conviction was secured largely on the testimony of Pamela Jenkins, who testified that she saw Carter pick up a gun and fire at Harris from a distance of about three feet.

Ten years later, as Ryan's reputation began to unravel after his conviction on a federal corruption charge related to the 39th district scandal, Jenkins came forward and asserted that she had been paid $500 by a group of PPD officers, including Ryan, to testify against Carter.  This resulted in Common Pleas Court Judge Joseph I. Papalini throwing out Carter's first-degree murder conviction in late 1996, stating that it was simply impossible to determine whether Carter had killed Harris, and ordering a new trial.

The fact of Jenkins's reversal of testimony in the Raymond Carter case coming to light during the PCRA appellate hearings in the Mumia Abu-Jamal case led to her 1982 testimony being re-evaluated as well.  In particular, in 1997, lawyers for Abu-Jamal produced an affidavit by Jenkins stating that Ryan had repeatedly pressured her to provide false testimony against Abu-Jamal, and corroborating the testimony of Cynthia White that she had also been coerced into providing false testimony.

References

Bibliography
 Don Terry, "Philadelphia shaken by criminal police officers," New York Times, August 28, 1995.
 Michael Kramer, "How cops go bad," Time magazine, December 15, 1997.
 Mark Fazlollah, "From prison, ex-cops call offenses routine," Philadelphia Inquirer, May 12, 1996.
 Mark Fazlollah, "Phila. ordered to report on police," Philadelphia Inquirer, March 28, 1997
 Christopher McDougall, "Law and Disorder," Philadelphia Weekly, June 18, 1997
 Interview with Brad Bridge, city public defender's office, August 20, 1996.
 McDougall, "Law and Disorder," Philadelphia Weekly.
 Shielded from Brutality:  Police Corruption in the United States.
 New Jersey Crime Line - Special Issue on Police Corruption
 Trampling the Public Trust:  Philadelphia Police Abuses Reveal Systemic Injustice

1995 in Pennsylvania
Scandals in the United States
Philadelphia Police Department
Crimes in Philadelphia
Law enforcement scandals