[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Treaty of Waitangi claims and settlements

el ignore the rights of hapū (clans or subtribes), and that settlement redress is too parsimonious.

While some disagreement remains, parties unanimously supported the legislation to implement the Te Roroa, Affiliate Te Arawa and Central North Island settlements, which were passed in September 2008.

Not addressing overlapping interests in claims early in the process is a criticism made in 2019 over the Pare Hauraki Treaty settlement, a criticism made by Ngāti Wai and acknowledged by Treaty Negotiations Minister Andrew Little as a failing in the process. 

Academic Linda Te Aho (Associate Professor, Te Piringa Faculty of Law, University of Waikato) summarises criticisms of the Treaty settlement processes as being 'too heavily weighted in the government's favour', not enough compensation for losses and that the process pits 'Māori against Māori'. Research conducted by academics Professor Margaret Mutu and Dr Tiopira McDowell of the University of Auckland found that the purpose of the settlements was to extinguish claims so that claimants cannot have State Owned Enterprise and Crown Forest lands returned to them through binding recommendations. They also interviewed more than 150 claimants and negotiators and found that 'the process has traumatized claimants, divided their communities, and returned on average less than one percent of their stolen lands' with negotiators and claimants reporting that 'despite what settlement legislation may say, the settlements are not full, not fair and not final and that, like all previous settlements, they will be revisited...the Crown adopts divide-and-rule tactics and pursues them ruthlessly...there is no negotiation, the Crown dictates...Public servants and ministers frequently mislead claimants and misrepresent facts in order to entice claimants into negotiations and then push settlements through...Negotiators frequently report being bullied by public servants and Crown agents and many report having settled under duress. As a result, many do not accept Crown apologies as they are meaningless. Academic Carwyn Jones in his PhD (published in 2016 by UBC Press, Vancouver) is critical of The Treaty of Waitangi settlement process as 'undermining Māori legal traditions' and sees this as 'impeding the reconciliation of Māori law with the New Zealand legal system'.

References

Further reading
 
 
 
 Simon, Hemopereki (2017). Te Arewhana Kei Roto i Te Rūma: An Indigenous Neo-Disputatio on Settler Society, Nullifying Te Tiriti, ‘Natural Resources’ and Our Collective Future in Aotearoa New Zealand, Te Kaharoa. 9 (1), https://www.tekaharoa.com/index.php/tekaharoa/article/view/6/4
 Janine Hayward and Nicola R. Wheen (eds.). Treaty of Waitangi Settlements. Wellington: Bridget Williams Books.
 Malcolm Mulholland and Veronica Tawhai (2017). Weeping Waters: The Treaty of Waitangi and Constitutional Change. Wellington: Huia.
 Katarina Gray-Sharp and Veronica Tawhai (2011). Always Speaking: The Treaty of Waitangi and Public Policy. Wellington: Huia.
 Jones, Carwyn (2017). New Treaty, New Tradition: Reconciling New Zealand and Maori Law. Vancouver: UBC Press.
 
 McDowell, Tiopira (2018). Diverting the Sword of Damocles: Why did the Crown Choose to Settle Māori Historical Treaty Claims? Australian Journal of Politics and History 2018, 64 (4), pp. 592-607. https://doi.org/10.1111/ajph.12517
 Mutu, Margaret (2019). The Treaty Claims Settlement Process in New Zealand and its Impact on Māori. Land 8(10), 152. https://www.mdpi.com/2073-445X/8/10/152

External links
 Key Māori claims, New Zealand Herald

Politics of New Zealand
Treaty of Waitangi
Race relations in New Zealand
Māori politics
Aboriginal title in New Zealand
Transitional justice