[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# African Union Mission to Somalia

himself up near a convoy of AU peacekeepers in Mogadishu.
 29 October – Al-Shabab militants attacked an AMISOM compound injuring two AU soldiers in the Somali capital Mogadishu.
 25 December – A Burundian soldier was killed by an improvised explosive device, and two others were wounded in Mogadishu.

2012
 14 January – A Ugandan soldier was killed by a Somali soldier in Mogadishu. The reasons for the act are unknown.
 20 January – Two AU soldiers were injured in a military offensive to consolidate security in Mogadishu.
 2 March – Two Ugandan soldiers were injured during the capture of the city of Maslah.
 29 March – Four Burundian soldiers were wounded in a battle on Daynile District on Mogadishu.
 31 – 5 August Kenyan soldiers were missing after the capture of Miido. A search and rescue was mounted. Three other soldiers were injured. Three of the soldiers were found alive two days later, but the fate of the other two soldiers remained unknown. A few days later, their bodies were shown in a video posted by the insurgents.
 19 September – Two AMISOM troops were injured during the capture of Janaa Cabdalla town located 50 kilometres to the west of the port city of Kismayo in the Lower Jubba region.
 24 October – Four Ugandan soldiers were killed by a bomb while advancing towards Baidoa.
 29 – 3 October–4 Ugandan soldiers were killed and seven wounded in an attack by two suicide bombers on an AMISOM base in Mogadishu.
 19 November – At least two Kenyan soldiers who are part of the African Union (AU) peacekeeping force in Somalia were killed in Garissa, a base for security forces in Kenya fighting insurgents in neighbouring Somalia, Kenya's army spokesman said on Monday.

2014
 11 March 2014 – At least two AMISOM peacekeepers were injured as AMISOM and Somali troops advanced into areas close to coastal town of Barawe and Qoryoley.
 18 March 2014 – At least three Dijiboutian soldiers were killed in a hotel attack on the town of Bulo-burde.
 5 April 2014 – During joint AMISOM-Somali incursion to liberate the town of Wabxo, Al Shabaab fighters claimed to have killed Ethiopian troops from AMISOM and posted photos on social media showing fighters posing over two unidentified bodies in uniform with AMISOM patches, Ethiopian script, helmets, and various weapons.
24 May 2014 – Three Ugandan peacekeepers died in an attack by thirteen Al Shabaab militants on the Somali Parliament alongside four Somali soldiers and a police officer. In addition, four Ugandans were wounded but in stable condition. The attack started with a car bomb driven into the parliament building's entrance  and ended with eleven of the attackers killed while the other two detonated suicide bombs. 
 26 May 2014: Two Kenyan soldiers in a supply convoy were killed in an ambush by suspected Al Shabaab militants near the town of Lamu in an area close to the Ras Kamboni region. Kenyan officials confirm that some other Kenyan soldiers were wounded while one militant was killed. They also state that they are in pursuit of the attackers, who fled after the ambush.
 13 June 2014: A roadside bomb that was detonated near the town of Bulo Burde injured six AMISOM and Somali soldiers. At least three of the casualties were from the Djibouti contingent and were airlifted to Mogadishu for medical attention after the attack.
 26 June 2014: Militants from Al-Shabaab launched an attack on the town of Bulo-Burde, which has been besieged by militants and cut off from road access since it came under government control in March. Witnesses say that the attack lasted thirty minutes and began when militants stormed a military base established in a hotel complex before they were driven back by the combined force of the SNA and AMISOM. Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility and claimed to have killed six soldiers while the AU commander, Ibrahim Ali, stated that two Djiboutian peacekeepers, one civilian, and two militants were killed.
 16 August 2014: AMISOM, accompanied by FGS forces, launched Operation Indian Ocean against Al-Shabaab-held pockets in the countryside.
 25 August 2014: Ethiopian AMISOM troops assisted by Somali government forces capture Tiyeglow from Al-Shabaab, as part of Operation Indian Ocean. Situated around 530  km northeast of Mogadishu along the main road linking Beledweyne and Baidoa, Tiyeglow previously served as a base for the insurgent group. Witnesses indicate that the Al-Shabaab fighters gave no resistance during the raid, fleeing instead to adjacent forested areas. However, al-Shabaab planted roadside explosive devices before fleeing. According to AMISOM, the successful military operation deprives the insurgent group of high extortion fees that it would previously charge to vehicles traveling along the town's principal road. The siege also now gives the Somali government full control of the Bakool province.
 September 2014: Human Rights Watch published a report accusing a few soldiers within the Ugandan and Burundian contingents of AMISOM of sexual miscon