[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 26]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

e pursued by ten thousand
girls. I deeply sympathize, though it is not an inconvenience that has
troubled me, even in my palmiest days."

"Why, how old are you? Surely you are not going to talk as if those days
were over?"

"Oh, I am moderately palmy still!" Temperley admitted. "Still, the hour
approaches when the assaults of time will become more disastrous."

"You and Hadria Fullerton ought to get on well together, for she is very
musical," said Harold Wilkins.

"Ah!" cried Temperley with new interest. "I could have almost told that
from her face. Does she play well?"

"Well, I suppose so. She plays things without any tune that bore one to
death, but I daresay you would admire it. She composes too, I am told."

"Really? Dear me, I must make a point of having a talk with her, on the
earliest opportunity."

Meanwhile, the occupants of the pony-cart had arrived at Darachanarvan,
where they were to put up the pony and have luncheon. It was a prosaic
little Scottish town, with only a beautiful survival, here and there,
from the past.

After luncheon, they wandered down to the banks of the river, and
watched the trout and the running water. Hadria had long been wishing
to find out what her oracle thought about certain burning questions on
which the sisters held such strong, and such unpopular sentiments, but
just because the feeling was so keen, it was difficult to broach the
subject.

An opportunity came when Miss Du Prel spoke of her past. Hadria was able
to read between the lines. When a mere girl, Miss Du Prel had been
thrown on the world--brilliant, handsome, impulsive, generous--to pass
through a fiery ordeal, and to emerge with aspirations as high as ever,
but with her radiant hopes burnt out. But she did not dwell on this side
of the picture; she emphasized rather, the possibility of holding on
through storm and stress to the truth that is born in one; to belief in
"the noblest and wildest hopes (if you like to call them so) that ever
thrilled generous hearts."

But she gave no encouragement to certain of her companion's most
vehement sentiments. She seemed to yearn for exactly that side of life
from which the younger shrank with so much horror. She saw it under an
entirely different aspect. Hadria felt thrown back on herself, lonely
once more.

"You have seen Mrs. Gordon," she said at length, "what do you think of
her?"

"Nothing; she does not inspire thought."

"Yet once she was a person, not a thing."

"If a woman can't keep her head above water in Mrs. Gordon's position,
she must be a feeble sort of person."

"I should not dare to say that, until I had been put through the mill
myself, and come out unpulverised."

Miss Du Prel failed to see what there was so very dreadful in Mrs.
Gordon's lot. She had, perhaps, rather more children than was necessary,
but otherwise----

"Oh, Miss Du Prel," cried Hadria, "you might be a mere man! That is just
what my brothers say."

"I don't understand what you mean," said Miss Du Prel. "Do explain."

"Do you actually--_you_ of all people--not recognize and hate the idea
that lies so obviously at the root of all the life that is swarming
round us----?"

Valeria studied her companion's excited face.

"Are you in revolt against the very basis of existence?" she asked
curiously.

"No: at least ... but this is not what I am driving at exactly," replied
Hadria, turning uneasily away from the close scrutiny. "Don't you
know--oh, don't you see--how many women secretly hate, and shrink from
this brutal domestic idea that fashions their fate for them?"

Miss Du Prel's interest quickened.

"Nothing strikes me so much as the tamely acquiescent spirit of the
average woman, and I doubt if you would find another woman in England
to describe the domestic existence as you do."

"Perhaps not; tradition prevents them from using bad language, but they
_feel_, they _feel_."

"Young girls perhaps, brought up very ignorantly, find life a little
scaring at first, but they soon settle down into happy wives and
mothers."

"As the fibre grows coarser," assented Hadria.

"No; as the affections awaken, and the instincts that hold society
together, come into play. I have revolted myself from the conditions of
life, but it is a hopeless business--beating one's wings against the
bars."

"The bars are, half of them, of human construction," said Hadria, "and
against _those_ one may surely be allowed to beat."

"Of human construction?"

"I mean that prejudice, rather than instinct, has built up the system
that Mrs. Gordon so amiably represents."

"Prejudice has perhaps taken advantage of instinct to establish a
somewhat tyrannical tradition," Miss Du Prel admitted, "but instinct is
at the bottom of it. There is, of course, in our society, no latitude
for variety of type; that is the fault of so many institutions."

"The ordinary domestic idea may have been suitable when women were
e