[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dietzenbach

rpreted as being from the Old High German for “babbling brook” or “Brook of Dietz” (compare here 775 Jahre Dietzenbach, published by Dietzenbach town executive). The town's current arms were determined by its community councillors in 1957 and approved by the then Hessian Interior Minister Schneider.

The town's flag consists of two narrower blue bands framing the broader yellow band in the middle, upon which appear the town's arms.

Transport 

Since late 2003, Dietzenbach is connected as the end-station with the suburban metropolitan network Frankfurt. Dietzenbach, Dietzenbach-Mitte and Dietzenbach-Steinberg stations have been served by the S-Bahn Line 2 (S2), which runs on the Niedernhausen – Hofheim – Frankfurt – Offenbach – Dietzenbach route. Dietzenbach moreover has at its disposal its own town bus network with a central bus station at the Dietzenbach Mitte S-Bahn station. Bus lines which cross Dietzenbach are the town lines OF-56 and 57, the county lines OF95, 96, 97 and 99 as well as night line n71. Bundesstraße 459, the Autobahnen A 3 and  A 661 can be reached in a few minutes through the Offenbach interchange.

Culture

Festival 
Each year in Dietzenbach, the following festivals offer a chance to pursue social contacts:
 Apfelblütenfest is being held in April.
 Fest ohne Grenzen (“Festival Without Borders”), held at the Hessentagspark
 Fest der Biere (“Festival of Beers”), held at the Harmonieplatz, lasts five days
 Weinfest in the New Town Centre, runs ten days
 Nacht der Lichter(“Night of the Lights”)with "Museumsnacht" and "Heimatfest" held in the Old Town Centre
 Trinkbornfest in the Old Town on the first weekend in September
 Dietzenbacher Kelterfest about the "Äbbelwoi" and the making of it
 Kerb or Kirchweih, always held on the last weekend in October. It stretches along Landwehrstraße from Harmonieplatz to the Dietrich-Bonhoeffer-Schule (school). The revived tradition of the Kerbborsche – a group of young men who perform part of the ceremony – is an important part of the kermis.

Markets 

So do the markets of the Town

 Altstadtmarkt (Old City Centre Market) where the old, traditionell Art is shown together with the modern, young Artists
 Kreativmarkt (creative Market) is a market for Creatives and Hobby Artists of the whole Rhein-Main-Area
 Weihnachtsmarkt (Christmas Market) on the first weekend in Advent

Places to Pray and to Believe 
 The Earth
 Catholic parish of “Sankt Martin”
 Catholic church of “Hildegardis-Haus”
 Evangelical parish of “Martin-Luther”
 Evangelical Free Church (Pentecostal parish) of “Jesus-Gemeinde”
 Evangelical parish of “Rut”
 Evangelical “Christuskirchengemeinde”

 Free and Independent Life in Love
 Jehovah's Witnesses in Germany, K.d.ö.R.
 DitiB Fatih Moschee e. V. (Turkish mosque)
 Tawhid Mosche e.V. (Moroccan mosque)
 Baitul Hadi (House of Leading to the Right Way, Ahmadiyya Muslim Jamaat Deutschland e.V.)

Sport clubs 
 SG Dietzenbach (longtime team handball Bundesliga participant)
 TG Dietzenbach (on the Wingertsberg: gymnastics, dancing, fitness, tennis, association football, team handball)
 SC Steinberg
 FC Dietzenbach 1971 e.V

Radio station 
Dietzenbach features an own radio station called "Radio Dietzenbach" with a 24/7 service.

Notable people
Cornelia Hanisch (born 1952), Olympic fencing champion
Monika Staab (born 1959), football player and coach
Götz Otto (born 1967), actor

Twin towns – sister cities

Dietzenbach is twinned with:

 Vélizy-Villacoublay, France (1976)
 Masaya, Nicaragua (1985)
 Rakovník, Czech Republic (1986)
 Neuhaus am Rennweg, Germany (1990)
 Oconomowoc, Wisconsin, United States (2008)
 Kastsyukovichy, Belarus (2009)
 Kunming, China (2020)

References

External links 

 Town's official webpage 
  

Offenbach (district)