[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Moss Cass

announced in June 1982 that he would not recontest his seat at the next election.

Later life and death
In 1983, Cass chaired a review into the Australian Institute of Multicultural Affairs. In the same year he was appointed by the Hawke government to the council of the National Museum of Australia.

Cass served as chair of the Australian National Biocentre from 2002 to 2003. He was also patron of the Sustainable Living Foundation and an honorary fellow at the Melbourne University School of Land and Environment.

In 2007, Cass was a founding member of Independent Australian Jewish Voices, a "breakaway group from Australia's main pro-Israel Jewish lobby organisations". During the Gaza War of 2009, he signed a statement condemning Israel's "grossly disproportionate military assault".

His second child Deborah Cass was an academic lawyer at the London School of Economics whose writings and teaching were widely admired in Australia and overseas. The Deborah Cass writing prize, a national writing prize for first and second generation migrant writers, was created after her death.

Cass died on 26 February 2022, at the age of 95.

Quotes
Cass is incorrectly believed by some to be the originator of the saying, "We do not inherit the earth from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children" (although a similar paraphrase was used earlier by the environmental activist Wendell Berry). On 13 November 1974, when Cass was environment minister, he gave a speech in Paris to the meeting of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Borrowing heavily from Native American proverbs and traditions, he said:

"We rich nations, for that is what we are, have an obligation not only to the poor nations, but to all the grandchildren of the world, rich and poor. We have not inherited this earth from our parents to do with it what we will. We have borrowed it from our children and we must be careful to use it in their interests as well as our own. Anyone who fails to recognise the basic validity of the proposition put in different ways by increasing numbers of writers, from Malthus to The Club of Rome, is either ignorant, a fool, or evil."

Cass's version was a longer explanation than the original, traditional proverb.

Cass has been cited as the first person to use the term "queue jumping" in reference to asylum seekers, in a 1978 opinion column in The Australian.

References

Further reading

1927 births
2022 deaths
1975 Australian constitutional crisis
20th-century Australian politicians
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of Australia
Australian abortion-rights activists
Australian medical doctors
Australian medical researchers
Australian people of Polish-Jewish descent
Jewish Australian politicians
Members of the Australian House of Representatives for Maribyrnong
Members of the Cabinet of Australia
People from Narrogin, Western Australia
Place of death missing
University of Sydney alumni