[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Palestinian art

"liberation art of Palestine" where Palestinian artists use art to communicate their narrative beyond the level of straightforwardness that is presented by media. There is a deep connection between the visual production of Palestinian art and the physical makeup of the land of historical Palestine.

Palestinian art has gone through multiple phases where the Palestinian artists dealt with cycles of production, destruction, and reestablishment due their diaspora from one area to another. With the continuation of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, the artists like any other segment of the Palestinian community in the Occupied Palestinian Territory suffer from Israeli exaction such as confiscation of art work, refusal to license artists' organizations, arson of exhibit halls, surveillance, arrests.
Palestinian art narrative does not exclusively criticize the Israeli occupation, it also speak of the neglect of the Arab states, and the world at large of their struggle. A famous short novel by the Palestinian writer Ghassan Kanafani, Men in the Sun, speaks of the Palestinian struggle and the astonishing neglect of the international community towards their cause.

Several comic artists have also used the visual medium to express their anguish of being denied the "right to return". One among them is the popular artist Naji al-Ali whose figure  of Handala is commemorated as the symbol of Palestinian resistance. Naji al-Ali produced several caricatures right after al-Nakba which expressed his determination for a Palestinian revolution.

Galleries and museums
The Palestinian Museum

The newly established Palestinian Museum will be dedicated to Palestinian art and culture. It plans to host a variety of exhibitions, education and research programs, and cultural events. It is located in Birzeit which is 7 km north of the city of Ramallah. It will be led by the curator Mahmoud Hawari.

The Ethnographic and Art Museum at Birzeit University

The Ethnographic and Art Museum at Birzeit University is a permanent museum with two main collections: The Palestinian Costumes, and The Tawfiq Canaan Amulet Collection.
The Virtual Gallery at Birzeit University is a leading art gallery in the Palestinian Territory promoting visual art through exhibitions, training and educational workshops.

Al-Ma'mal Foundation for Contemporary Art

Al Ma'mal Foundation for Contemporary Art was established in 1998 as a development of the Anadiel Gallery work, which started in 1992.  It was founded by a group of Palestinian artists who with an aim of promoting the Palestinian art scene. Anadiel was the first independent gallery in Palestine. The Gallery hosts Palestinian artists from the Diaspora some of whom have never visited Palestine. They participate in these artistic activities as tourists with foreign passports. Al-Ma'mal focusses on projects with youth and women. 
Al- Ma'mal is an Arabic word meaning workshop or a small factory. The name was given because of the initial home of the foundation which was in a small factory in the old city of Jerusalem built in 1900.

Palestinian Art Court - al Hoash

Al Hoash is a non- profit Palestinian cultural organization established in 2004 with a mission "To provide and sustain a knowledge based platform for Palestinians to express, explore, realize and strengthen their national and cultural identity through visual practice." We seek the development and elevation of arts as we recognize its role in the welfare, development, free will and expression of people and emphasize its role as a constituent and representative of the cultural identity as part of the national identity.

Contemporary art institutions
Palestinian Association for Contemporary Art

A nongovernmental and non profit organization working mainly in the field of visual arts. It was established by Palestinian artists and individuals who have an interest in developing the field of visual art in Palestine. Its mission is to bridge the Palestinian and Arab culture with international cultures abroad.  The Association established the International Art Academy in Ramallah, and continues to work on other projects. The founders believe that art and culture play a major role in the realization of the Palestinian dream of freedom and self- determination. Featured artists of the association include: Ahmad Canaan, Houssni Radwan, Tayseer Barakat, Nabil Anani, Munther Jawabra, Ahlam Al Faqih, and Dina Ghazal.

Art Palestine international

A New-York-based cultural organization dedicated to Palestinian contemporary art. It cooperate with museums, galleries, and NGOs to produce events, exhibitions and publications on Palestinian contemporary art. Through its activities, the organization encourages cultural art between Palestine and the West. The organization collaborated with major Palestinian artists including Larissa Sansour, Khalil Rabah, Sharif Waked, Taysir Batniji, Wafa Hourani, and Shadi Habib Allah.

International Art Academy Palestine