[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of S.H.I.E.L.D. members

d – Pilot and mechanic aboard Behemoth IV Helicarrier, charged with capturing Godzilla. The name is a reference to aviator, engineer, and multi-billionaire Howard Hughes.
 Jerry Hunt – Agent assigned to Scotland Yard. Former lover of Jessica Drew.
 Horatio Huxley – Ranking executive of Level 13. He was previously involved in Alpha Flight.
 Jackson – Pilot in Unit 6 of the Air Cavalry.
 Karl Janáček – Rank L-3.
 Valerie Jessup Toomes – Daughter of supervillain the Vulture.
 Johnson – Attempted to free agents from the City of the Space Gods.
 Daisy Johnson – Seismic-powered "super-agent". She is the only known agent with "Level 10" security clearance aside from Fury and the Black Widow (Natasha Romanova).
 Jones (Jonesy) – Youthful field agent involved in the operations against the Pantheon and the Punisher.
 Gabriel "Gabe" Jones – Former private first class in Fury's World War II squad.
 Kallebach – Field agent during investigation of assassinations at J-2 conference.
 Kelso – Pilot in Unit 6 of the Air Cavalry.
 Derek Khanata – Ex-Hatut Zeraze operative from Wakanda. He was Carmilla Black's carrier and the senior investigator on the "Agents of Atlas" cases. After S.H.I.E.L.D. is dismantled, he later joins the group.
 Helen Kim – Agent investigating the Brothers Grace crime family.
 Veronica King
 Judith Klemmer (Agent 324) – Agent charged with tracking down Baron Ludwig von Schtupf, a.k.a. the Monster-Maker.
 Cameron Klein – Grade T-7 technician. Became field agent and helped capture supervillain Cache.
 Eric Koenig – German defector. He was a replacement member of the World War II Howling Commandos.
 Ali Kokmen – Interfered with Khanata in the Scorpion affair.
 Bruno Kreah – Low-level engineer. He worked on the surveillance equipment used to infiltrate Datalink Systems.
 Sayuri Kyota (M-80) – Demolitions expert of the Elite Agents.
 Sidney "Gaffer" Levine – Primary ordnance inventor and gadgeteer.
 Charles Little Sky – Mutant Director of A.R.M.O.R.
 Alphonso "Mac" MacKenzie – Senior liaison officer to CIA.
 Dr. Myron MacLain – High-ranking scientist who is a seminal adamantium researcher.
 Dino Manelli – Former private in Fury's World War II squad. He was an Italian-American star.
 Kirby Martell – S.H.I.E.L.D. scientist. She operated a captured neo-Nazi time machine.
 Chastity McBryde – Squad leader. Fought against Elektra and other rogues that S.H.I.E.L.D. suspected to be Elektra's accomplices.
 Tony Masters – An agent of S.H.I.E.L.D. who would go on to become the Taskmaster. Because of his abilities, Masters has forgotten his S.H.I.E.L.D. past and unknowingly works as an undercover agent.
 Chris McCarthy – Low-level agent. He was the first person to wear Hank Pym's 2006 Ant-Man suit.
 Mercedes Merced – Undercover agent and Taskmaster's handler.
 Alisanda "Ali" Morales – Undercover in Cuba. She helped Captain America and Falcon track down "Anti-Cap". Stayed with S.H.I.E.L.D. when it became H.A.M.M.E.R.
 Murray – Agent working in reactor core of Central.
 Kate Neville  - Aid to Nick Fury and trained marksman. Killed by Baron Strucker.
 N'Gami – Technological advisor and a Wakandan government liaison officer.
 Noriko Nagayoshi – Tech Directorate under Agent Khantana during operation to outfit Camilla Black as the Scorpion.
 Niles Nordstrom – Rank L-8.
 Brady O'Brien – Nearly had affair with Mary Jane Parker when she was separated from Peter. He later attempted to force her to give up Spider-Man or face arrest.
 Eric O'Grady (Ant-Man) – Third known Ant-Man.
 Jake Oh – Field operative stationed at Weapon Plus Headquarters.
 Kara Lynn Palamas (Agent 33) – Researcher; recruited Hercules for operation against Ares and Warhawks.
 Jeffery Parks – Infiltrated the City of the Space Gods. He was reduced to basic matter. Rank L-6.
 Paulo – Technician at Venice station.
 Pandora Peters – Director of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s magic response unit, the Wizardry Alchemy and Necromancy Department W.A.N.D.
 Farrell Phillips – Commander for Dawn Helicarrier. Captain in Black Bird of the Gold Squadron.
 Mr. Postal – Mission coordinator for cyborg agents.
 Emily Preston  –  Agent whose human consciousness was transferred into a LMD after she was killed by zombie George Washington.
 Clay Quartermain – Former liaison officer of the "Hulkbusters", the Hulk-hunting operations of the U.S. Armed Forces. Supervisor for Nick Fury's Howling Commandos. Level 8 agent. Stated in transcripts of Nick Fury's "Secret Files" in Secret War.
 Cliff Randall – Pilot. He later learned he was an extraterrestrial.
 Red (Agent 1–16)
 Steve Rogers (Captain America) – Has regularly undertaken missions for S.H.I.E.L.D.
 Jack Rollins – Infiltrated Roxxon for the uncovered Delta program, the catalyst for Deltite Affair.
 Natasha Romanova (Black Widow) – First known Black Widow. Was a level 10 agent before S.H.I.E.L.D. was restructured. One of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s top agents.
 Colonel Michael "Mickey" Rossi – Former lover of Carol Danvers.
 Gail Runciter – Trained alongside