[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Morning Dew

"Morning Dew," also known as "(Walk Me Out in the) Morning Dew," is a contemporary folk song by Canadian singer-songwriter Bonnie Dobson.  The lyrics relate a fictional conversation in a post-nuclear holocaust world. Originally recorded live as a solo performance, Dobson's vocal is accompanied by her finger-picked acoustic guitar playing.

In 1962, "Morning Dew" was included on the live Bonnie Dobson at Folk City album. Subsequently, the song was recorded by other contemporary folk and rock musicians, including the Grateful Dead, who adapted it using an electric rock-ensemble arrangement for their debut album.

Background and lyrics
The song is a dialogue between the last man and woman left alive following an apocalyptic catastrophe. Dobson stated that the inspiration for "Morning Dew" was the film On the Beach, which is about the survivors of virtual global annihilation by nuclear holocaust. Dobson wrote the song while staying with a friend in Los Angeles; she recalled how the guests at her friend's apartment were speculating about a nuclear war's aftermath and "after everyone went to bed, I sat up and suddenly I just started writing this song [although] I had never written [a song] in my life." In 1961, Dobson premiered "Morning Dew" at the inaugural Mariposa Folk Festival and a live recording appeared on Dobson's At Folk City album in 1962. In 1969, she recorded a studio version for her self-titled album.

Renditions
The earliest release of a studio version of "Morning Dew" was on the 1964 self-titled album by the Goldebriars, using the title "Come Walk Me Out" and without giving songwriter credit to Dobson. It was followed about a month later by a recording by singer and guitarist Fred Neil with Vince Martin, for their album Tear Down The Walls.  Tim Rose followed with a version for his self-titled debut album; according to Dobson, "all Tim Rose did was take Freddie Neil's changes."  Dobson claimed she never met Rose, but she received 75% songwriting royalty as she retains sole writing credit for the song's music.

"Morning Dew" became part of the Grateful Dead's repertoire after frontman Jerry Garcia was introduced to the Fred Neil recording by roadie Laird Grant in 1966. The group first played the song as their opening number at the Human Be-In in January 1967; the same month the group recorded it for their self-titled debut album, which was released that March.

American psychedelic rock band The West Coast Pop Art Experimental Band released their cover of "Morning Dew" under the title "Will You Walk With Me" in February 1967 on their album Part One.    The Pozo-Seco Singers also released a single of the song in 1967, as did Episode Six in the U.K. British pop singer Lulu recorded a version of "Morning Dew" for her album Love Loves To Love Lulu, produced by John Paul Jones, in 1967, and this was released as a single in the U.S., Canada and Australia in 1968.

References

External links
 The Story of Bonnie Dobson's Morning Dew (CBC hour-long radio documentary Inside the Music)

1962 songs
Contemporary folk songs
Songs about nuclear war and weapons
Grateful Dead songs
Jeff Beck songs