[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Science and technology in the Philippines

es numerous specializations. It is commonly defined by sciences that pertain to living organisms including microorganisms, plants, animals, and human beings. Some of the well-known fields in the Life Sciences include zoology, botany, biology, microbiology, biotechnology, and biomedical technologies.

In the Philippines, the life sciences are under the Department of Science and Technology (DOST), a government office that coordinates and funds researches by Filipino scientists and inventors. This can assist the progress of science and technology within the Philippines. There are multiple agencies under DOST that cater to specialized fields - the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA), Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS), and the Philippine Council for Agriculture, Aquatic, and Natural Resources Research Development (PCAARRD).

Botany and biology 

Several Filipino scientists have pioneered in the field of biology. For example, Eduardo Quisumbing, a biologist who graduated MS in Botany at the University of the Philippines Los Baños in 1921, and Ph.D. in Plant Taxonomy, Systematics and Morphology at the University of Chicago in 1923. He conducted research on taxonomic and morphological papers deal with orchids and authored the book Medicinal Plants of the Philippines. The species of Saccolabium quisumbingii was named after him. Dioscoro L. Umali, is an agriculturist that was dubbed as the Father of Philippine Plant Breeding due to the programs he conducted that are related to rainfed and upland agriculture, social forestry, and environmental preservation. Marine biologists helped improve the knowledge on aquatic resources such as Angel Alcala, a biologist who was recognized for his research on amphibians and reptiles diversity and marine biodiversity in the country and served as a consultant on marine and aquatic projects under the United Nations Environment Programme, World Bank, Asian Development Bank and others, Gavino Trono, a biologist who was dubbed as the Father of Kappaphycus farming for his contributions to the study of tropical marine phycology, focusing on seaweed biodiversity, established the largest phycological herbarium in the country – the G.T. Velasquez Herbarium in the University of the Philippines’ Marine Science Institute, and authored a book that was considered as the most authoritative books in the country on the seaweed flora titled Field guide and atlas of the seaweed resources of the Philippines.

Biotechnology 

The Philippines Biofuel Act of 2006, RA 9376 mandates an increase of the minimum 5% bioethanol blend (E5) in gasoline to 10% ethanol blend (E10). In 2011, 600 million liters of gasoline was consumed by car owners in the Philippines, if the 10% bioethanol blend would be followed, this would be equivalent to 1 million metric tons of sugar.

Ethanol is an alcohol produced from fermenting carbohydrates in plants. Bioethanol can be produced mainly from three different kinds of raw materials, namely simple sugars, starch, and lignocellulosic biomass. Since the prices of the raw materials are very volatile and can easily change, lignocellulosic biomass has been extensively studied due to its cheap price and abundance in agricultural countries like the Philippines. Some of the top sources of lignocellulosic biomass include forest residues, municipal solid wastes, and agricultural wastes such as sugarcane baggase, nipa sap, rice straws, etc.

Numerous studies have been done by Filipino scientists on the raw materials that will achieve an efficient and cost-effective bioethanol production. Studies on nipa sap showed that molasses is more advantageous to use, as for the same amount of bioethanol produced, a greater amount of nipa sap was needed compared to molasses. A study by Tan et al.reports on corn as being viable for bioethanol production, and has the potential to yield around 0.37 Liters per kilogram of corn used. Other studies highlighted that sugarcane juice produced approximately 70 Liters per ton of sugar. However, using sugarcane juice as the primary feedstock for bioethanol production is deemed problematic, as this would mean it would be competing with the sugar production in the country. Filipino scientists continue to search for alternatives to sugarcane. The field of lignocellulosic agricultural wastes provides opportunity for abundant and very cheap resources.