[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Help Afghan School Children Organization

have been collected during first part of Hope's Journey in United States by Cary Ragsdale, director of Hope's Journey Organization, Beau Moore, his closest friend, and tens of school children and teachers in United States for supporting Afghanistan school children.

School rehabilitation programme 

With deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan, tens of schools have burned by Taliban extremists in south and eastern part of Afghanistan. With burning each school once again hundreds of innocent Afghan children have been deprived from their basic right of education.
These schools were set alight at the time while education authorities still are not able to rebuild hundreds of destroyed schools during civil war in Afghanistan and most of schools in Afghanistan are without class, desks and chairs. Children are sitting on the floor during school time.

Under HASCO School Rehabilitation programme five schools have been rehabilitated in eastern province of Laghman.

Backpacks for Afghan school children 

Most of schools in Afghanistan province and districts are far and children have a long daily walk ahead of them in order to reach their schools. In some areas, children cross several hinders such as rivers, bridges and mountainous terrain to reach their school.
Providing Afghan children with schoolbag will help them to carry more easily their daily school materials.

Furthermore, to encourage Afghan families keep their children in school, additional to backpack and school supplies, other needs of school children such as school caps, thermos and school clothes were distributed by HASCO in different part of Afghanistan.

Orphan sponsorship programme 

As a result of long year's civil war and bloodshed today there are a huge number of orphans and disabled children in Afghanistan. Most of Afghan poverty stricken families are living without regular income. Their everyday life is a struggle for survival.
The aim of HASCO orphans sponsorship programme is to assist Afghan orphans and poor families by providing a specific amount of monthly contribution to cover school supplies and other necessities of their school children.

External links 

 Help Afghan School Children Org (HASCO)
 Education in Afghanistan
 (HASCO)

Charities based in Austria
Foreign charities operating in Afghanistan
Education in Afghanistan