[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Macedonian Australians

h Wales is the second largest in Australia. By 2001, 30,658 people were speaking Macedonian at home with 19,057 of these born in the North Macedonia. In 2006, 34,316 people claimed Macedonian ancestry but community spokesperson claim that in New South Wales there are over 70,000 Macedonians.

Sydney

Sydney is home to one of the largest concentrations of Macedonians in Australia and in the diaspora. The first Macedonians came to Sydney in the early 1920s before making their way to the coal fields of the Illawarra or Hunter Valley, the heavy industrial centers of Port Kembla and Newcastle, or heading inland to places like Broken Hill and Richmond. The first Macedonian to settle in Rockdale was Risto Belcheff from the village Capari in 1945. By 1946 a branch of the Macedonian-Australian People's League was opened in Sydney, it was known as Vesela Makedonija. The Vesela Makedonija branch founded the Ilinden Soccer Club in the same year. In 1948 the group established a KUD also known as "Vesela Makedonija". From 1948 - 1953 the Macedonian Newspaper "Makedonska Iskra" was published in Sydney. From 1946 to 1960 Macedonian dances were often held in the Zora Hall. In 1957 the first Easter dance took place in the Trades Hall, the Russian Club was also a common hall for dances and celebrations. From 1960 onwards thousands of Macedonians from the Bitola and Prespa regions of Macedonia settled in Sydney, most notably: Rockdale, Arncliffe, Bexley, Bankstown, Yagoona and Banksia. The Macedonians started to meet every Christmas Day in the Royal National Park, this tradition continues today. A second, KUD Ilinden was set up. In 1969 and the only Macedonian Orthodox Cathedral in NSW and the first Macedonian Church in Sydney, Свети Кирил и Методиј/Saints Cyril and Methodius of Rosebery was built.

In 1975 the Macedonian Orthodox Church, Света Петка/Saint Petka of Rockdale was established by Macedonians from the village of Capari. In 1976 the Macedonian Ethnic School, 11 October was founded in Yagoona followed by a second in Canley Vale, St Nikola, in the following year. In 1977 the foundation stone was laid for Свети Никола/Saint Nikola of Cabramatta was laid. Soccer clubs such as Bankstown City Lions (Sydney Macedonia), Rockdale City Suns (Rockdale Ilinden), Yagoona Lions Soccer Club and Arncliffe Macedonia Soccer Club were all founded by Macedonians. The Macedonian Literary society of "Gligor Prličev" was founded in Sydney in 1978. The Society releases a quarterly journal called Povod. The society maintains a Macedonian-language library. The society organises competitions for literature. And in 1985 the society published a volume of poems called Vidici (Vistas) with poems from 31 Australian Macedonian poets, this was done with the help of the Australia Council. Members of the Society have been invited to the prestigious Struga Poetry Evenings. In 1983 ties with SR Macedonia were strengthened as Bitola and Rockdale became sister cities.

In 1985 the Macedonian-language newspaper "Makedonski Vesnik was first printed in Rockdale, New South Wales, while The Australian Macedonian Weekly was another Macedonian-language newspaper that was printed in Victoria. The First Macedonian Cultural Day was held in Rockdale in 1986. By 1987 two more ethnic schools had opened in Arncliffe and Rockdale. By 1989 nearly 20 additional KUD's were operating in Sydney they were; KUD Tanec, KUD Orce Nikolov, KUD Mirče Acev, KUD Dame Gruev, KUD Sv Naum, KUD Kiril I Metodij, KUD Kitka, KUD Karpoš, KUD Makedonka, KUD Makedonski Orel, KUD Egejska Makedonija, and KUD Gerdan. The "Australian-Macedonian Mountaineering Association" was established by Dimitar Illievski. After the Breakup of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s many more Macedonians began to immigrate to Sydney. Much of the second generation began to migrate westwards to Fairfield and Liverpool as they gained affluence. It soon emerged that there were three major concentrations of Macedonians in Sydney, the Rockdale-Hurstville Area, Bankstown-Yagoona and Bonnyrigg-Fairfield. Today around 12 Radio programs service the Macedonian community in Sydney. Another church Света Богородица Пречиста/Holy Mother of God in Liverpool has also opened and Macedonian is now taught at Macquarie University.