[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Raffaele Longo

Raffaele Longo (born 6 September 1977) is a Italian football coach and former player who is assistant manager at Olympique Lyonnais.

Playing career
Longo was born in Naples. A midfielder, he started his career with hometown club Napoli, making his debut in the 1994–95 Serie A season under head coach Vujadin Boškov. He left Napoli for Parma in 1998 and then Vicenza in 2000, and later went on to a career in the minor leagues of professional football.

With the Italy Olympic team, he won the 1997 Mediterranean Games on home soil.

Coaching career
After retiring as a player, Longo took on a coaching career, first as a technical collaborator to Cristiano Bergodi at Modena and Brescia and then as a youth coach at Bari.

In 2019, Longo joined Padova's coaching staff. On 21 February 2022, following the dismissal of head coach Massimo Pavanel, he was appointed caretaker in charge of the first team. After having been in charge for a 1–1 home draw against Legnago, he left his caretaker role on 24 February following the announcement of Massimo Oddo as the new manager.

In October 2023 he sustained injuries from projectiles thrown at the team bus by opposing fans while serving as assistant to Lyon manager Fabio Grosso.

References

External links
genoacfc.it 
FIGC 

1977 births
Living people
Italian men's footballers
Italy men's youth international footballers
Italy men's under-21 international footballers
SSC Napoli players
Parma Calcio 1913 players
LR Vicenza players
Palermo FC players
ACF Fiorentina players
Torino FC players
AS Roma players
Genoa CFC players
US Salernitana 1919 players
Modena FC 2018 players
Benevento Calcio players
UEFA Cup winning players
Serie A players
Serie B players
Serie C players
Men's association football defenders
Footballers from Naples
Mediterranean Games gold medalists for Italy
Mediterranean Games medalists in football
Competitors at the 1997 Mediterranean Games
Calcio Padova managers
Italian football managers
Serie C managers