[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dutch Ethical Policy

genous Indonesians began only in the early 20th century. In 1900, only 1,500 went to European schools compared to 13,000 Europeans. By 1928, however, 75,000 Indonesians had completed Western primary school and nearly 6,500 secondary school although that was still a tiny proportion of the population.

Assessment
The policy was the first serious effort to create programmes for economic development in the tropics. It differed from the "civilising mission" of other colonial powers in emphasising material welfare, rather than a transfer of culture. The policy's educational component was mainly technical, as it did not aim at creating brown Dutchmen and women. The policy foundered on two problems. Firstly, the budgets allocated to the policy's programmes were never sufficient to achieve its aims, with the result that many colonial officials became disillusioned with the possibility of achieving lasting progress. The financial stringencies of the Great Depression put a definitive end to the policy. Secondly, the educational programmes of the policy contributed significantly to the Indonesian National Revival, which gave Indonesians the intellectual tools to organise and to articulate their objections to colonial rule. As a result, many in the colonial establishment saw the policy as a mistake, which was counter to Dutch interests.

Notable supporters
 Willem Anthony Engelbrecht

See also

 Cultivation System
 Dutch East Indies
 Dutch Empire
 History of Indonesia
 Indonesian National Revolution

References

Notes

General references
 Robert Cribb 'Development policy in the early 20th century', in Jan-Paul Dirkse, Frans Hüsken and Mario Rutten, eds, Development and social welfare:  Indonesia’s experiences under the New Order (Leiden: Koninklijk Instituut voor Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde, 1993), pp. 225–245.

External links
 Article: Ethical Policy

Social policy of the Dutch East Indies
Economic history of Indonesia