[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Human rights in Somalia

no response). Regarding their general state of happiness, 86% of children reported feeling happy, 10% were neither happy nor unhappy, and 3% were unhappy. A majority of the children also indicated that the quality of their relationship with their parents was very good (72%), followed by good (17%).

In terms of the proportion of children working for money, 93% reported that they don't work. 6% indicated that they were carrying out a regular part-time job, 6% stated that they were carrying out an occasional or part-time job, and 4% asserted that they were carrying out a full-time job. 64% of children reported not being engaged in unpaid work, 20% indicated that they were carrying out a regular unpaid part-time job, 15% stated that they were carrying out an occasional part-time unpaid job, and 0% indicated that they were carrying out a full-time unpaid job.

In March 2014, Prime Minister Abdiweli Sheikh Ahmed ratified three core International Labour Organization conventions on behalf of the Federal Republic of Somalia, including the Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention. In December 2014, the Federal Parliament also passed a new 54-point national Child Protection Act, which had been formulated by the Ministry for Women Affairs and Human Rights. Additionally, the legislature concurrently ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud later signed the treaty in January 2015, making Somalia the 195th state party to ratify the global Convention.

Ethnic minority rights
Article 11 of the national constitution stipulates that the state must not discriminate against any individual on the basis of race, colour, tribe or ethnicity.

The Gabboye occupational clans, which include the numerically few Madhiban, Yibir and Tumaal (collectively referred to as sab) and the Wardei clan, have over the years obtained little political representation within Somalia. Their general social status has correspondingly improved with the expansion of urban centers. However, due to their foreign, non-Somali origins, people from the Bantu and Wardei ethnic minority groups still often face societal marginalization.

In 2013, the federal government announced that it would establish its Directorate General for Human and Minority Rights and Rule of Law within the Office of the Prime Minister. Through the Ministry of Interior and Federal Affairs, it also launched a new national Agency for Refugees and IDPs, which is tasked with handling legislation, response initiatives, advocacy and implementation vis-a-vis returning and internally displaced citizens.

Freedom House index
The following chart shows Somalia's ratings since 1972 on Freedom House's annual Freedom in the World index. A rating of 1 is "free"; 7, "not free".

International treaties
International human rights treaties that Somalia has signed or ratified include:

See also

Judiciary of Somalia
LGBT rights in Somalia

Notes
1.Note that the "Year" signifies the "Year covered". Therefore the information for the year marked 2008 is from the report published in 2009, and so on.
2.The 1982 report covers the year 1981 and the first half of 1982, and the following 1984 report covers the second half of 1982 and the whole of 1983. In the interest of simplicity, these two aberrant "year and a half" reports have been split into three year-long reports through extrapolation.

References

External links
Assistance to Somalia in the Field of Human Rights

 
Government of Somalia
Society of Somalia
Law of Somalia