[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Richard Löwenthal

d for his defense of the Federal Republic. Löwenthal felt that the Federal Republic was the most democratic government in German history, and criticized the left-wing philosopher Jürgen Habermas for utopianism when the latter asserted in the 1970s that the Federal Republic was not democratic enough.

During the Historikerstreit of the 1980s, Löwenthal argued for the "fundamental difference" in mass murder in Germany and the Soviet Union, and against the "balancing" of various crimes in the 20th century as he accused Ernst Nolte of doing Löwenthal contended that comparisons between Hitler and Stalin were appropriate, but comparisons between Hitler and Lenin were not For Löwenthal, the decisive factor that governed Lenin’s conduct was that right from the onset when he took power, he was involved in civil wars within Russia Löwenthal argued that “Lenin’s battle to hold on to power” did not comprise “one-sided mass annihilation of defenceless people” Speaking of the Russian Civil War, Löwenthal argued that “In all these battles there were heavy losses on both sides and horrible torture and murders of prisoners”  Speaking of the differences between Lenin and Stalin, Löwenthal argued that “What Stalin did from 1929 on was something entirely different” Löwenthal argued that with dekulakization, the so-called “kulaks” were to be destroyed by the Soviet state as:“...a hindrance to forced collectivization. They were not organized. They had not fought. They were shipped to far-away concentration camps and in general were not killed right away, but were forced to suffer conditions that led in the course of time to a miserable death”  Löwenthal argued that: “What Stalin did from 1929 both against peasants and against  various other victims, including leading Communists (among them, incidentally, Bucharin, who in 1929 had already publicly taken a position against the “new system”) and returned soldiers, was in fact historically new in its systematic inhumanity, and to this extent comparable with the deeds of Hitler. Certainly, Hitler, like all his contemporaries, had a preconception of the civil wars of Lenin’s time. Just as certainly his own ideas about the total annihilation of the Jews, the Gypsies, the “unworthy of life”, and so on, were independent of Stalin’s example. At any rate the idea of total annihilation of the Jews had already been developed in the last work of Hitler’s mentor, Dietrich Eckart, who died in 1924. For the reference to this source, which leaves no room for “balancing”, I am grateful to Ernst Nolte’s first large book, which appeared in 1963, Faschismus in seiner Epoche [Fascism in Its Epoch] 

A major intellectual in the SPD, Löwenthal was often consulted by the SPD’s leaders, especially Willy Brandt and Ernst Reuter.  He died, aged 83, in Berlin.

Work 
 Co-written with Willy Brandt: Ernst Reuter, ein Leben für die Freiheit; eine politische Biographie, München: Kindler, 1957.
 “Diplomacy and Revolution: The Dialectics of a Dispute”, pages 1–24 from The China Quarterly, Issue # 5 January- March 1961.
 “Factors of Unity and Factors of Conflict”, pages 106-116 from Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Volume 349, September 1963.
 World Communism: the Disintegration of a Secular Faith, New York: Oxford University Press, 1964.
 “The Soviets and the West: A European View”, pages 83–91 from Proceedings of the Academy of Political Science, Volume 28, Issue 1, April 1965.
 (Editor) Issues in the Future of Asia: Communist and Non-Communist Alternatives, New York: Praeger, 1969.
 Romantischer Rückfall, Stuttgart, Kohlhammer Verlag 1970.
 Die zweite Republik. 25 Jahre Bundesrepublik Deutschland: eine Bilanz, Stuttgart: Seewald Verlag 1974.
 Vom Kalten Krieg zur Ostpolitik, Stuttgart: Seewald, 1974 .
 Model or Ally? The Communist Powers and the Developing Countries, New York: Oxford University Press, 1977 .
 (Editor) End and beginning on the Generations of cultures and the Origins of the West by Franz Borkenau, New York: Columbia University Press, 1981, 0231050666.
 Widerstand und Verweigerung in Deutschland 1933 bis 1945, Berlin: Dietz, 1984 .
 Social Change and Cultural Crisis, New York: Columbia University Press, 1984 .

See also 
 Union of German Socialist Organisations in Great Britain

Endnotes