[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bayt Daras

ted into the State of Israel. In 1950 the moshav of  Giv'ati was built on the site of the village, with two other moshavim, Azrikam, Emunim, established on land that had belonged to Bayt Daras. Later in the 1950s a farm called Zemorot was built on Khirbat Awda, which had also belonged to Bayt Daras.

In 1992 the village site was described: "The only remain of village buildings are the foundations of one house and some scattered rubble. The site is overgrown with wild vegetation interspersed by cactuses and eucalyptus trees. At least one of the streets is clearly recognisable. The surrounding fields are cultivated by the settlements."

Culture
A woman's thob (loose fitting robe with sleeves) dated to about 1930 from the village of Beit Daras is part of the Museum of International Folk Art (MOIFA) collection at Santa Fe. The dress fabric is called abu hizz ahmar (black cotton ground with purple, orange and green stipes of cotton and silk), from Majdal. The only embroidery on the front is below the neck opening. The back panel has three horizontal bands of embroidery, and a local version of the khem-el-basha ("the pashas tent") motif along the hem.

See also
Depopulated Palestinian locations in Israel
Abdul Rahman Ahmed Jibril Baroud
Mohammed Assaf

References

Bibliography

 

 

  

Nasser, G.A. (1955/1973):  "Memoirs" in Journal of Palestine Studies    
“Nasser's Memoirs of the First Palestine War” in 2, no. 2 (Win. 73): 3-32, pdf-file, downloadable

 
 

Stillman, Yedida Kalfon (1979):  Palestinian costume and jewelry,  Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press,   (A catalog of the  Museum of International Folk Art (MOIFA)  at Santa Fe's  collection of Palestinian clothing and jewelry.)

External links
Welcome to Bayt Daras Palestine Remembered
 Bayt Daras,  Zochrot
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 16:   IAA, Wikimedia commons
Dome structure in ‘Azrikam
Bayt Daras from the Khalil Sakakini Cultural Center

Zionist political violence
District of Gaza
Arab villages depopulated prior to the 1948 Arab–Israeli War