[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# P. Subbarayan

ongress Committee (TNCC).

Member of Indian Parliament 
Subbarayan also served as a member of Rajya Sabha from 1954 to 1957. In 1957, Subbarayan was elected to the Lok Sabha from Tiruchengode and served as a member till 1962. He was elected again in 1962 but was instead made Governor of Maharashtra.

Subbarayan was a member of the first Official Language Commission constituted by Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru on 7 June 1955, under the chairmanship of B. G. Kher. The commission delivered its report on 31 July 1956. It recommended a number of steps to eventually replace English with Hindi as the sole official language of India. Subbarayan and another member – Suniti Kumar Chatterji from West Bengal – did not agree with its findings and added dissenting notes to the report. Later when the Indian President Rajendra Prasad sought his opinion on making Hindi as the sole official language, Subbarayan advised against it.

In the Union cabinet 
Subbarayan served as the Minister of Transport and Communications in the Government of India union cabinet from 1959 to 1962.

Other interests 
Subbarayan took a keen interest in sports during his lifetime. He wrote numerous articles on cricket and was the Founder-president of the Indian Cricket Federation, the first association in the Madras Presidency to represent Indian cricketing interests. He also served as the president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) during the Second World War. With Sir John Beaumont and Sikandar Hayat Khan, he formed the commission that investigated the return of Lala Amarnath from the India's tour of England in 1936. He also served as the president of the Madras Olympic Association and the Madras Hockey Association.

Death 
Subbarayan died at the age of 73 on 6 October 1962.

Family and legacy 
Subbarayan married Kailash Radhabai Kulmud, a Mangalorean Brahmo of Brahmin parentage, who was his colleague in Presidency College, by Brahmo rites despite opposition from family members. Radhabai Subbarayan was an active campaigner for women's rights and served as a member of the Indian parliament.

Subbarayan's eldest son Mohan Kumaramangalam was a minister in Indira Gandhi's cabinet. His second son, General P. P. Kumaramangalam was a Second World War veteran and served as India's Chief of Army staff. A third son Gopal Kumaramangalam headed important public sector undertakings. Mohan's son and Subbarayan's grandson Rangarajan Kumaramangalam was a minister in Indian National Congress and NDA governments. Subbarayan's daughter Parvathi Krishnan was a politician belonging to the Communist Party of India. She was a Member of the Rajya Sabha from 1954 to 1957 and represented Coimbatore in the Lok Sabha three times.

A portrait of Subbarayan was unveiled in the central hall of the Indian Parliament on 16 October 1989.

See also 
 Political families of the world

Notes

References

External links 

1889 births
1962 deaths
Union ministers from Tamil Nadu
Tamil Nadu politicians
Indian cricket administrators
Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu
Governors of Maharashtra
Brahmos
Alumni of Trinity College Dublin
Alumni of the University of London
Alumni of Christ Church, Oxford
Presidency College, Chennai alumni
Tamil Nadu ministers
Members of the Constituent Assembly of India
Ambassadors of India to Indonesia
People from Salem district
Madras Presidency
Indian independence activists from Tamil Nadu
India MPs 1957–1962
India MPs 1962–1967
Lok Sabha members from Tamil Nadu
University of Madras alumni
Kumaramangalam family
Presidents of the Board of Control for Cricket in India
People from Namakkal district