[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William A. Newell

cean, lower taxes, temperance, and forced acculturation of Native Americans. He served until 1884, and then was United States Indian inspector for a year. He then resumed the practice of medicine, this time in Olympia, and remained there 14 more years. While living in Olympia, he was elected mayor. 

In 1899, at the age of 82, he returned to Allentown, continuing the practice of medicine, and took an active role in the Monmouth County Historical Association.

Personal life 
Newell married Joanna VanDusen from New Brunswick. They had three sons and a daughter, with one son dying in early childhood.

Death and legacy 
He died at his home in Allentown on August 8, 1901, after a brief illness. Following his death, Governor Foster McGowan Voorhees draped the State House in black as a show of mourning. He lay in state at the State House in Trenton for three days, and his body was interred in a vault in Greenwood Cemetery before being moved to his family plot at Allentown Presbyterian Cemetery.

Legacy and honors 
An on-campus apartment complex at Cook College, the agricultural school of Rutgers University, is named for him.

References

Further reading
Available online through the Washington State Library's Classics in Washington History collection

External links

Biography of William A. Newell (PDF), New Jersey State Library
 New Jersey Governor William Augustus Newell, National Governors Association

William Augustus Newell at The Political Graveyard

1817 births
1901 deaths
People from Franklin, Ohio
American Presbyterians
New Jersey Whigs
Washington (state) Republicans
Governors of New Jersey
Governors of Washington Territory
Physicians from New Jersey
Rutgers University alumni
People from Allentown, New Jersey
People from Stafford Township, New Jersey
People of New Jersey in the American Civil War
Whig Party members of the United States House of Representatives
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from New Jersey
Republican Party governors of New Jersey
Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania alumni
American people of Dutch descent
American people of Irish descent
19th-century American people
19th-century American politicians