[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George Munro, 1st of Newmore

, 1st Earl of Callendar who was the second in command under the Duke of Hamilton. An argument had ensued, and as a result, Munro's involvement in the battle was limited. George Munro had an intense dislike for Callender, and Callendar saw no reason why Munro should be allowed an independent command.

The Duke of Hamilton (Earl of Lanark) had raised three regiments of royalist horse, which were now under his command. These, with the accessions of forces which were daily arriving from different parts of the kingdom, were quite sufficient to have put down the insurrection in the west; but instead of marching, Lanark, to everyone's surprise, proceeded through East Lothian towards the eastern borders to meet up with Sir George Munro, who was retiring upon Berwick before the army of Cromwell. The Earl of Lanark declined to attack Covenanter David Leslie, Lord Newark, acting contrary to the advice of George Munro and his other officers. According to Dr Wishart, Lanark's advanced guard, on arriving at Musselburgh, attacked some of Leslie's Covenanter outposts who defended the bridge over the River Esk, and Lanark's advanced guard, though inferior in number, immediately put them in great disorder, and killed some of them without sustaining any loss. This success was reported to the Earl of Lanark, and it was represented to him that by following it up immediately, while the enemy continued in the state of alarm, he might perhaps obtain a bloodless victory, secure possession of the city of Edinburgh and the town of Leith. However, Edinburgh had already been taken by the Whig party in what was known as the Whiggamore Raid.

Ever since the Earl of Lanark's march to the borders to meet Munro, Archibald Campbell, 1st Marquess of Argyll had been busily employed in raising men in his own territory to assist the Covenanters. Shortly afterwards, Munro and his clansmen who acted as the Earl of Lanark's advance force defeated the forces of the Marquess of Argyll at the Battle of Stirling (1648). Munro had moved in on his own initiative and succeeded in entering Stirling before any of Argyll's commanders were aware of his presence. Munro even personally kicked down a postern door to chase out Argyll's men. Argyll lost about 200 men in the battle. After this victory, Munro urged Lanark to continue and attack David Leslie, but he was overruled and in the following weeks the Earl of Lanark made peace with the Marquess of Argyll and with Leslie.

Knighthood
In 1649 Munro visited Charles II of England in Holland where he received the honour of knighthood with a new commission from the exiled King.

Return to Ireland
In 1649 Munro returned briefly to Ireland where he opposed Cromwell's Irish campaign and supported the royalist siege of Derry. George Munro left the siege on 7 June 1649 and proceeded to Coleraine which he also laid siege to and successfully captured. He then left Coleraine on 17 July 1649 and rejoined the siege of Derry. The besiegers built a fort at the Knock of Ember which they named Fort Charles in recognition of the king. The fort was itself besieged by the Parliamentarians who were repulsed by George Munro and his forces. The siege of Derry however was not successful and Munro was forced into a final return to Scotland in April 1650 as a result of the rout of the Scottish royalist army at the Battle of Lisnagarvey.

Royalist rising of 1651 to 1654

After the defeat of the royalists in England, Oliver Cromwell came to occupy Scotland, but many of the Highlanders waged war against him. The royalist uprising, led by William Cunningham, 9th Earl of Glencairn in support of the exiled King Charles II, began in 1651. General John Middleton, 1st Earl of Middleton, a veteran of the wars against Cromwell, was appointed commander-in-chief of the royalist forces, and both he and Glencairn agreed to unite their respective forces at Dornoch in Sutherland. Munro served as an officer in General Middleton's force.

However, the two factions of the royalist force engaged in petty disputes and quarrels with each other. This eventually led to a duel between Munro and the Earl of Glencairn himself, with broadswords (known in Scotland as claymores), in which both were wounded. Soon afterwards Glencairn was placed under arrest by the orders of Middleton and his sword was taken from him. However, the following day two junior officers from the two camps had a duel of their own in which one was killed and the other was later arrested and hanged. The royalist rising of the Highlanders and Lowlanders, although having various successes in skirmishes against Cromwell, was not enough and ended by the autumn of 1654.

Restoration

The Restoration of King Charles II took place in 1660 and Sir George Munro, 1st of Newmore commanded the King's forces between 1674 and 1677.

Member of Parliament