[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sisters of Charity of the Incarnate Word

he elderly and social justice.

The Village at Incarnate Word is a not-for-profit corporation, established by the Sisters of Charity of the Incarnate Word of San Antonio in 1988, to provide a retirement community for people of all faiths.

The sisters work in United States, Mexico, Peru, and Zambia.

Saint Mary's Orphanage and the Galveston Hurricane
The Galveston Hurricane of 1900 was one of the most destructive hurricanes ever to hit the United States. More than 6,000 people died, one-sixth the population of Galveston, Texas.

The Saint Mary's Orphan Asylum housed at that time 93 children (ages 2 to 13) and 10 sisters. The hurricane arrived quietly on September 7, 1900. The full force of the Galveston Hurricane of 1900 would not be felt until the next day, September 8 and began to erode away the sand dunes that surrounded St. Mary's Orphanage. The sisters in charge decided to move the children into the girls' dormitory, as it was newer and stronger (and thus potentially safer) than the boys' dormitory.

The sisters led the children in singing (in English) the old French hymn, Queen of the Waves. Eventually, the boys' dormitory failed and collapsed into the sea. When the waters started to fill the first floor of the girl's dormitory, the sisters moved the children to the second floor, and again led in singing Queen of the Waves. The sisters put clothes line around their waists and connected themselves to six to eight children each in an attempt to save the children. Three of the children (older teens) were left loose.

Finally, the girls' dormitory collapsed. All ten sisters and ninety children perished; only the three teenage boys survived: William Murney, Frank Madera and Albert Campbell.

As a result of this tragedy, the Sisters of Charity of the Incarnate Word across the world sing Queen of the Waves every year, on September 8, and remember the sisters and the children that died in Galveston that fateful day.

On September 8, 1994, a Texas historical marker was placed at 69th Street and Seawall Boulevard, marking the site of the former orphanage.

See also
Galveston Hurricane of 1900
Queen of the Waves
Catholic sisters and nuns in the United States
History of nursing in the United States

References

Footnotes

Sources

External links
 Sisters of Charity of the Incarnate Word, San Antonio, Texas
 Sisters of Charity of the Incarnate Word, Houston, Texas
Story of the Orphanage told by the Sisters of Charity of the Incarnate Word
Queen of the Waves: Centennial Remembrance of The Great Storm of 1900

Religious organizations established in 1866
Catholic female orders and societies
Catholic religious institutes established in the 19th century
History of Galveston, Texas
1866 establishments in Texas
History of women in Texas
Catholic health care