[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Du Yuesheng

any Chinese-language biographies of Du were banned, and writers and sellers of these books were arrested. Only until recently did critical studies on Du become more open, but the official ban has never been entirely lifted by the Chinese government.

Some depictions of Du in popular culture include:

 The novel White Shanghai by Elvira Baryakina (Ripol Classic, 2010, ) mentions the story of Du's coming to power.
 The short story "Mother Tongue" by Amy Tan mentions Du's early days and purported visit to Tan's mother's wedding.
 Lord of the East China Sea (歲月風雲之上海皇帝), a 1993 Hong Kong film loosely based on Du's life. The lead character Lu Yunsheng (陸雲生), played by Ray Lui, is loosely based on Du. It has a sequel, Lord of the East China Sea II (上海皇帝之雄霸天下).
 The Founding of a Republic (建国大业), a 2009 Chinese historical film commissioned by the Chinese government. Du was portrayed by Feng Xiaogang as a minor character in the film.
 The Last Tycoon (大上海), a 2012 Hong Kong film loosely based on Du's life. The main character Cheng Daqi (成大器), portrayed by Chow Yun-fat and Huang Xiaoming at two different stages in his life, is loosely based on Du.
 In the 2015 Hong Kong TVB Drama Lord of Shanghai. The main character of the drama is based on Du Yuesheng which is named Kiu Ngo Tin. Kiu Ngo Tin is portrayed by Anthony Wong and the younger version of Kiu Ngo Tin is portrayed by Kenneth Ma.
 A cancelled video game Whore of the Orient was going to be set in 1936 Shanghai during Du's rule.
 Fictionalized characters, which to various extents were inspired by Du and by events from his life, were featured in the 1976 film Ba bai zhuang shi, the 1986 film Da Shang Hai 1937, the 2016 film Luo man di ke xiao wang shi, and the 2017 film Jian jun da ye.

References

1888 births
1951 deaths
People of the Northern Expedition
Chinese people of World War II
Chinese crime bosses
People from Shanghai
Chinese Civil War refugees
Hong Kong criminals
Chinese exiles
Deaths in Hong Kong
Chinese emigrants to Hong Kong