[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Al-Azraq Treaty of 1245

p and servitude while the Arabic conveys only a brief truce.

Castilian Lines 
The fourteen lines of Castilian (which is influenced by Aragónese) are crowded onto the page and make up the first and last lines of the treaty. This portion of the treaty is broken up into two parts:

Al-Azraq's Portion 

 Al-Azraq is Alfonso's vassal.
 Specifically aligning with the Aragónese form.
 Eight castles and their surrounding lands are given to Alfonso at the time the treaty was signed.
 The castles Alcalá and Perpunchent are given to al-Azraq's family.
 These were al-Azraq's main territories.
 Allowed to keep his other four castles for three years, giving half the profits to Alfonso when the treaty was signed.
 All revenue was handed over at the end of the three years.
 A provision is included that allows him to acquire more castles from other rebels.
 If he does this, he must also give half the revenue to Alfonso immediately and all revenues to him after three years.

Alfonso's Portion 

 Alfonso received al-Azraq as a vassal.
 Two castles are given to al-Azraq
 The revenue from the villages of Ebo and Tollos are also given to him for three years.
 The Castilian lines end with Alfonso swearing to honor the treaty as long as al-Azraq remains his vassal.

Arabic Lines 
There are thirteen lines in Arabic (written in Maghribī script) that appear larger, more evenly spaced, and fainter due to oxidation of the ink.

 The tone is business-like and there is no mention of vassalage as in the Castilian lines.
 The mention of Alfonso as "the Exalted Prince" is the only reference to al-Azraq holding a lower status.
 There is no mention of time other than the statement that al-Azraq could keep his "own main castles for 'the duration of the reign of the Exalted Prince.'"
 Al-Azraq's rights are then outlined.

This was not the first time that a Christian monarch had tried to make a vassal out of a defeated Muslim leader in a surrender treaty. A peace treaty between Alfonso VIII of Castile and Zayd, a king of Valencia, also acts as a vassalage agreement since Alfonso VIII is described as receiving Zayd as a vassal. Furthermore, the treaty between the two leaders also illustrates that  al-Azraq was also not the first Muslim leader to break a vassalage agreement with a Christian monarch. Alfonso VIII's chronicler states that "A peace treaty was signed between them, which later the aforementioned Zayd of Valencia broke like a vile apostle, without any just cause."

Influences on the Treaty 

There were multiple factors that influenced the wording of the treaty and the terms that were set forth:

 Al-Azraq was surrounded and potential support from allies had disappeared since Mudéjar strongholds of Xátiva and Dénia had surrendered to James I and the rest of the country was in Christian hands. His allies in North Africa were also locked in conflict and were unable to offer him aid.
 James I's territory had been facing encroachment from Francia for around a decade and by 1245 they had begun to take portions of Western Occitania. In order to regain this territory, James had planned the marriage between the Count of Toulouse and the heiress of the county of Provence, Beatriu, which the father was a first cousin of James I. This would, in theory, void any treaty made by Francia and place the territory back in his hands.
 It did not work out this way and the territory ended up staying with Francia, now part of modern-day France.
 Pope Innocent IV had announced another crusade that was intended to aid Jerusalem after crusader armies had lost the city to Muslims in July 1244. King Louis IX of France announced that he would join the Pope's crusade. Since they were rivals, James I declared that he would not be joining the Pope's crusade, but instead would be starting his own. He intended to "rescue" Byzantium while on his way to Jerusalem. This crusade was set to begin in 1246 and was announced three months before the al-Azraq treaty was signed.

James I needed to wrap things up with the Valencian Crusade in order to be able to shift his troops to protect Aragón borders from Francia and prepare the rest of his troops for another crusade to the Holy Land. Al-Azraq had run out of allies by this point and was forced to accept the terms of surrender. The desperation both parties felt also gives context to why it is lenient in al-Azraq's favor since James I did not know how close his opponent was to defeat.