[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sabarmati Riverfront

za at Vallabhsadan is also proposed as a market along upper promenade.

Sports complexes
Three sports complexes are proposed; at Paldi (7.1 ha) for city-level sports, at Pirana (4.2 ha) for informal sports and at Shahpur (2.3 ha). The Paldi and Shahpur sports complexes were opened in September 2023.

Residential and commercial development
It is planned to use nearly 14% of the reclaimed land for residential and commercial purposes. Total 52 buildings will be constructed including eight museums. For maximum usage of land, the floor space index (FSI) has been raised up to 5. The funds raised by selling the land will recover the cost of the construction and sustain the management of the riverfront. All construction will have to follow certain design guidelines. Four of these 42 proposed buildings will be 101 metres tall. 

In 2017, the SRDFL attempted to sell the development rights of the land but failed. In 2020, the SRFDCL appointed JLL India to monetise around  land which is valued . As of 2023, the plots are yet to be sold.

The SRFDCL office complex was constructed at the cost of  in 2015.

Riverfront Phase 2 
In 2019 state budget, total  was provisioned for Phase 2. The Phase 2 was approved by SRFDCL in October 2020.

Under Phase 2 of the project, the riverfront will be extended towards north, up to Indira bridge, 5.8-km on east side and 5.2-km on west side. After completion, the total length of the Riverfront will be . The Phase 2 will cost about . The Ahmedabad Cantonment Board gave around  land while additional  land was acquired.

A 30-metre long barrage-cum-bridge will be constructed at the cost of  connecting Torrent Powerhouse on the west and Sadar Bazar on the east. It will connect Sabarmati, Chandkheda, Motera to Hansol. Two additional bridges are also proposed.

Phase 2 proposes stepped promenades, parks, roads and other public amenities. It also proposes residential buildings as well as commercial buildings on the reclaimed land.

Culture
The riverfront is featured in several Gujarati as well as Bollywood films. It hosts several annual events like Sabarmati Marathon, Sabarmati Cyclothon, flower shows, International Kite Festival and airshows. Its continuous promenade attracts runners and fitness enthusiasts. It also hosts trade shows, exhibitions and private wedding events.

Criticism and controversy
The peak discharge in the Sabarmati in August 2006 was between 260,000 and , which caused floods that washed away hundreds of hutments. However, Gujarat state irrigation department measured a peak flow of  in 1973, before construction of Dharoi dam. So the project is criticized for lower capacity of . There are also concerns regarding perennial status of the river as it depends on the Narmada canal for water. The channelization of the river is also criticised by hydrologists and environmentalists.

The project was delayed several times due to issues regarding relocation and rehabilitation of more than 10000 slum dwellers along the river banks. After petitions by activists, the Gujarat High Court intervened and ordered to stop demolition of slums until proper planning is implemented. The relocation and rehabilitation is completed later and faced criticism of activists for delays. Around 5000 families were relocated.

Recognition and impact
 1999: Prime Minister's Award for excellence in urban planning and design
 2006: Prime Ministers Award for excellence in “Urban Design & Concept” Award - Excellence in “Urban Design and Concept”
 2006: National Safety Council of India - Safety Award (Prashansa Patra)
 2011: Housing and Urban Development Corporation Award (HUDCO) - Innovative Infrastructure Development
 2012: Housing and Urban Development Corporation Award (HUDCO) - Best Practices to Improve the Living Environment
 2014: Construction Industry Development Council (CIDC) Vishwakarma Award - Best Construction Project

Several other cities planned to follow the model for riverfront development including Vadodara, Surat, Pune, Varanasi, Chennai, Noida.

Gallery

See also
 Hooghly Riverfront
 Kolkata Eye
 Law Garden

References

External links 
 Official website of SRFDCL

Economy of Ahmedabad
Redeveloped ports and waterfronts in India
Tourist attractions in Ahmedabad
Waterfronts
Gardens in India
Chief Ministership of Narendra Modi