[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Sustainable city

ion Living PlanIT is currently constructing a city from scratch near Porto, Portugal. Buildings will be electronically connected to vehicles giving the user a sense of personal eco-friendliness.

Pakistan 
Islamabad The capital of Pakistan is full of green spaces and is an eco friendly city.

Spain 

 Bilbao: The city faced economic turmoil following the decline of the steel and port industries but through communication between stakeholders and authorities to create inner-city transformation, the local government benefited from the increase in land value in old port areas. The Strategic Plan for the Revitalisation of Metropolitan Bilbao was launched in 1992 and have flourished regenerating old steel and port industries. The conversion from depleted steel and port industries to one of Europe's most flourishing markets is a prime example of a sustainable project in action.
 Barcelona: The city is planning an urban redesign of civic super blocks, they plan to convert nine-block areas into unified mega block neighbourhoods. The aim is to decrease car-related traffic, noise and pollution by over 20% and to free up to 60% of road areas for reuse as citizen spaces. This is being done because they realized that people in Barcelona die prematurely due to poor air quality and everyday noise levels are deemed harmful. By converting roads to spaces for festivals, farmer markets, bikes, and walkability it promotes a healthier lifestyle and potentially a happier one. In 2020, the European Investment Bank approved a €95 million loan to assist Barcelona in the completion of approximately 40 projects, with an emphasis on climate change and social inequity. The city plans to redevelop streets to create more space for pedestrians and bicyclists, enhance building energy efficiency, and expand social, cultural, and recreational opportunities.
Madrid: In 2018, Madrid banned all non-resident vehicles from its downtown areas.

Saudi Arabia

Saudi Arabia recently unveiled a proposed one of the most ambitious eco-city projects; Neom. Development is planned in the northwest region of the country along the Red Sea and would cover over 26,500 sq-km (10,230 sq-miles). Some of the most notable aspects of this development are The Line and Oxagon. The Line is advertised as a smart city that will stretch for 170 km with easily accessible amenities throughout. Oxagon is a planned floating city off the coast. If built, it will be the largest city.

Sweden 

 Norra Älvstranden (Swedish), in Gothenburg by the river Göta älv, is an example of a sustainable city in Sweden. It has low environmental impact, and contains passive houses, recycling system for waste, etc.
 Hammarby Sjöstad
 Västra Hamnen or Bo01, Malmö
 Stockholm Royal Seaport

United Arab Emirates 

 Masdar City, Abu Dhabi is a planned city that relies entirely on solar energy and other renewable energy sources, with a sustainable, zero-carbon, zero-waste ecology.
 Dubai The Sustainable City, Dubai

United Kingdom 

 London has committed to reaching net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. To do so, it aims to drastically reduce the proportion of trips made by cars and also ban all new petrol and diesel cars by 2035. Similarly, according to the UK Green Building Council, 40 per cent of UK's total carbon footprint comes from the built environment. Steel, which is used to make skyscrapers, is responsible for 7 per cent of the global  emissions. Timber, especially CLT is a being considered as a great alternative to reduce construction-based emissions. 
 The built environment is responsible for around 40% of the UK's total carbon footprint, according to the UK Green Building Council
 London Borough of Sutton is the first One Planet Region in the United Kingdom, with significant targets for reducing the ecological footprint of residents and creating the UK's greenest borough.
 Middlesbrough is another One Planet Region in the United Kingdom.
Milton Keynes' original design concept aimed for a "forest city" and the foresters of the designers planted millions of trees from its own nursery in Newlands in the following years. Parks, lakes and green spaces cover about 25% of Milton Keynes; , there are 22 million trees and shrubs in public open spaces.
 St Davids, the smallest city in the United Kingdom, aims to be the first carbon-neutral city in the world.
 Leicester is the United Kingdom's first environment city.

United States
 Arcosanti, Arizona
Coyote Springs Nevada largest planned city in the United States.
Babcock Ranch Florida a proposed solar-powered city.
Douglass Ranch in Buckeye Arizona
Mesa del Sol in Albuquerque, New Mexico
San Francisco, California is ranked the most sustainable city in the United States according to the 2019 US Cities Sustainable Development Report. Treasure Island, San Francisco: is a project that aims to create a small eco city.
Sonoma Mountain Village in Rohnert Park, California*

See also
See also the Sustainability navigational box at the bottom of the page.