[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701

eli soldiers whose capture by guerrillas sparked the conflict. Tzipi Livni, Israel's foreign minister, insisted that Israeli troops would remain in southern Lebanon until a multinational UN force is deployed, implying that deployment of Lebanese forces would not be sufficient for Israeli withdrawal.

Initial reactions
Leaders around the world praised the agreement, while noting this was not the end of the crisis. The Lebanese cabinet voted unanimously to accept the terms on 12 August.  Nasrallah, in a speech televised on Hezbollah's Al-Manar television on 12 August, said:  "We will not be an obstacle to any decision taken by the Lebanese government".

The Israeli government accepted the terms on 13 August, but did not cease offensive actions until its deadline at 8:00 a.m. (local time) 14 August.   On 13 August, Israel advanced to capture as much high-ground territory as possible before the ceasefire, and bombed targets up to 15 minutes before the deadline.  Hezbollah also continued what they called "defensive operations," and vowed not to cease their operations as long as Israel occupies Lebanon.

The French government criticized the rules of engagement.  "I remember the unhappy experiences of other operations where UN forces had neither a sufficiently precise mission nor the means to act," French Defence Minister, Michèle Alliot-Marie, said.  "You cannot send out men and tell them that they should watch what's happening but that they have no right to defend themselves or fire."

Aftermath
In the UN's 2015 report on the matter, it states that:
The situation in the area of operations of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) and along the Blue Line remained generally calm, despite the tense regional context and following the serious breach of the cessation of hostilities between Lebanon and Israel on 28 January.  Overall, despite escalatory rhetoric on both sides, the Lebanese and Israeli authorities displayed resolve to maintain calm along the Blue Line, continued to engage constructively with UNIFIL through the established liaison and coordination arrangements and reaffirmed their commitment to the implementation of resolution 1701 (2006). There was no progress, however, on their outstanding obligations under the resolution and no movement towards a permanent ceasefire.

It states that "Israeli violations of Lebanese airspace continued almost daily with unmanned 
aerial vehicles, and often with fixed-wing aircraft, including fighter jets".

On the Lebanese side, it noted: "In accordance with its mandate, UNIFIL does not proactively search for weapons in the south" and "UNIFIL observed civilians with unauthorized weapons in the area of operation...Those mostly involved individuals carrying hunting weapons. However, there were a number of instances where small arms, including rifles and, at least on one occasion, rocket-propelled grenades, were fired during commemorative events, including funerals".

It also noted: "The maintenance of arms by Hizbullah and other groups outside the control 
of the Lebanese State" violates the resolution. Hizbullah states that such weaponry "serves as a  deterrent against potential aggression from Israel".

In 2011, following the appointment of Najib Mikati as Prime Minister of Lebanon, the United Nations reiterated its call on Lebanon to adhere to the terms of Resolution 1701.

Alleged Hezbollah violations
As of February 2009, many key points in the resolution remained insufficiently addressed. In a special report, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon mentions that "Hezbollah continues to refuse to provide any information on the release or fate of abducted soldiers, and places conditions and demands for the release that are far outside the scope of resolution 1701," Ban wrote in the report. The report also points out that Hezbollah has replenished its stock of rockets and missiles in South Lebanon, and is now in possession of 10,000 long-range rockets and 20,000 short-range projectiles.

Alleged Israeli violations
The Lebanese government claims that Israel has violated the resolution over 7,000 times "by crossing Lebanese airspace," waters, and border on an almost daily basis since the implementation of the resolution with fighter jets and daily unmanned aerial vehicles flights across the southern Lebanese region.

During the south Lebanon bombings in August 2021, Lebanese state politicians stated concern over violations of Resolution 1701. Prime minister former at the time, Saad Hariri, posted on twitter, "... The situation on the border with the Israeli enemy is very, very dangerous and an unprecedented threat to Resolution 1701".