[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Minuta Molchanya

Minuta Molchanya () known for its full title as To the Bright Memory of the Fallen in the Fight Against Fascism () was an annual simultaneous broadcast aired at 18:00 UTC annually on 9 May dedicated to the victims of Great Patriotic War. It broadcast public events on all radio and television stations across Russia and ex-USSR during its Victory Day yearly. It was first broadcast on Soviet Central Television in 1965, 20 years after the Allied victory over Nazi Germany.

History 
The idea of the program was suggested by Irana Kazakova. Other people of the team who produced the first version were Ekaterina Tarkhanova, Svetlana Volodina, Arkadi Revenko, Mesyatsev, Khazanov, Levitskaya, and other people assistants, artists, musical editors, etc. At the suggestion of the director of the All-Union Radio, The shooting of the television version for the first two years was carried out in the pavilion of the Ostankino television centre, where the scenery of a fire burning in a plaster bowl against the background of a built wall was built. After the construction of the Eternal Flame at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, filming began to take place there. The musical compositions that sounded in the background were also selected by Tarkhanova. The program was started with the call signal of Radio Moscow and the announcement by the Soviet radio voice Yuri Levitan, famous for his announcements during the Second World War. The address was initially narrated by well-known Soviet radio commenter and actress Vera Enyutina to a choral version of Träumerei by Schumann in the background, followed by a piece from Symphony No. 6 by Tchaikovsky. The very "minute of silence" was sounded with the toll of the Moscow Kremlin bells and the clock at the Spasskaya Tower striking seven in the evening. The TV version was showing the flame on the background of a wall with the text "To the Memory of the Fallen." The program ended with pieces from Piano Concerto No. 2 by Rachmaninoff, Toccata, Adagio and Fugue in C major (BWV 564) by Bach, and Symphony No. 3 by Scriabin. Due to its solemnity the address was informally known as "the prayer".

From the moment Sergei Lapin took over as chairman of the State TV and Radio in 1970, the minute of silence for the first time underwent a number of changes. Evgeny Sinitsyn and Galina Shergova were involved in writing the new text. At one time, the program included the reading of excerpts from the book "Small Land", written by the then General Secretary of the CPSU Central Committee Leonid Brezhnev, the practice ended on Victory Day 1982. In 1973, the program began to be aired in colour.

After Yenyutina defected to the United States shortly in 1976, some TV and radio announcers began to read the text and the minor revisions changing of graphics conceptuals.

On November 7, 1987, on the day of the 70th anniversary of the October Revolution, at 13:50, a similar program, “In Memory Of The Fallen Fighters For Soviet Power", aired. The tradition which not followed the sequencing of particular matter.

From 1988 to 1991, the Second Program of the Central Television of the USSR simulcast the Minute with sign language interpretation for the deaf.

After the collapse of the USSR, the program format was redesigned to fit the new democratic Russia. In particular, the footage of the burning Eternal Flame was removed, while the rest of the video sequence, now pre-recorded, was also completely updated which including the Red Square and the veterans assembled on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, as well as crowd shots of those visiting. According to some reports, in the first post-Soviet years of broadcasting, the producers tried to make shots from Red Square, attracted Nikita Mikhalkov, who filmed "the crosses and domes of Russia" from a bird's eye view and personally read the offscreen text. The broadcast was aired simultaneously on state channels like First Channel Ostankino, RTR, MTK, Forth Channel Ostankino (now NTV), 2X2, TV6, and Channel 5 in Saint Petersburg. During the 1995 golden jubilee edition marking the 50th anniversary of the conclusion of the war, Moscow University Channel, TV6, REN-TV, STS, TNT, Muz-TV and other Russian private television channels began simulcasting the Minute.

In 1996, the programme was redesigned to an old Soviet-format once again, while Igor Kirillov rejoined the reading of the text from the pre-1976 version, with production now taken over by a joined group of stations. In 2003, the long overtune was cut from the programme and its running time was cut  to 6 Minutes. By then, a Belarusian version featuring the Eternal Flame in Minsk and guards of honour of the Military Commandanture had been airing since then, produced by Belteleradio for Belarus 1, whose feed is simucast on all public and private TV stations.