[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hladno pivo

er Croatian citizens, including a human rights activist, was arrested in Zambia for suspicion of human trafficking after they tried to adopt smuggled Congolese children.

Discography

Džinovski
Džinovski is the first album by Hladno Pivo. It was recorded in September 1992 and released in March 1993.

Track listing
 Pjevajte nešto ljubavno - Sing something about love
 Marija - Mary
 Princeza - Princess
 A što dalje - What next?
 Marihuana
 Buba švabe - Cockroaches
 Sarma - Cabbage rolls 
 Für immer Punk - Forever punk
 Dobro veče - Good evening
 Narcisoidni psi - Narcissistic dogs
 Marginalci - People from the edges of society
 Zakaj se tak oblačiš - Why do you dress like that?
 Heroin
 Trening za umiranje - Practice for dying
 Čelične zavjese - Iron curtains
 Odjava programa - Closing statement
 Buntovnik - Rebel
 Niemals - Never
 Outro

Desetka
Desetka is the third album by Hladno pivo. It was recorded in May 1997.

Contents
 Nema više... - There is no more...
 Tema je - žena - Subject is: Woman
 Sex bez kondoma i zvijezda iz Hong Konga - Sex without a condom, and a star from Hong Kong
 Ne volim te - I don't love you
 101 
 Grčenje ispred pojačala - Convulsion in front of  amplifier 
 Krepaj, budalo! - Die fool!
 Studentska - Student song
 Anoreksik 
 Blagdanska pjesma - Holiday song
 U sobi on i brat - In room he and his brother
 PDOP 
 Roštilj - Barbecue

Pobjeda

Pobjeda () is the fourth album by Hladno pivo. It was released in 1999.

Track listing
 Kad ti život udahnem - When I breathe life in you
 Svi smo ga mi voljeli - We all loved him
 Debeli - Fat boy
 Sastanak u parku - Meeting in the park
 Šef gradilišta - Foreman
 Pijan - Drunk
 Trijezan - Sober
 Politika (video) - Politics
 Aleksandar Veliki - Alexander the Great
 Bačkizagre stuhpa šeja - Zagreb's stallion rides
 Svirka - Jam
 Nije sve ni u pari - Not everything is in money
 Madarfakersi - Motherfuckers
 Motor -  Motor car

Istočno od Gajnica

Istočno od Gajnica is the fifth album by Hladno pivo. It was released in 2000. This album is the first release of an Hladno pivo live performance. The concert was held in Zagreb, Croatia.

Track listing
 Dobro veče
 U sobi on i brat...
 Kad ti život udahnem
 Ne volim te
 Buba švabe
 Will the circle be unbroken
 Šank
 Debeli
 Ljetni hit
 Sarma
 Rigoletto
 Pjevajte nešto ljubavno
 Princeza
 Kristofor Kolumbo
 Utjeha kose - Comfort of Hair (Antun Gustav Matoš) poem,
 Trening za umiranje
 Bečkizagre stuhpa šeja
 Marihuana
 Nema više
 Roštilj
 Mile, Suba, Šoki, i Zoki
 Für immer Punk

Šamar

Šamar (Slap) is the sixth album by the Croatian punk rock band Hladno pivo. It was released in 2003.

Track listing

Knjiga žalbe

Knjiga žalbe is the sixth studio album released by the Croatian punk rock band Hladno pivo. It was released in 2007 by Menart Records.

Track list
 "Couvert" (instrumental) – 1:32
 "Carstvo pasea" – 3:13
 "Nije sve tako sivo" – 3:46
 "Superman" – 3:44
 "Planeta" – 4:59
 "Ranjeni i ludi" – 3:06
 "Biološki sat" – 2:58
 "Kaže stari šta nam fali" – 2:17
 "Konobar" – 3:13
 "Sreća" – 3:39
 "Pitala si me..." – 4:01
 "Džepni bog" – 5:01

Svijet glamura

Svijet glamura () is the seventh studio album by the Croatian punk rock band Hladno pivo. The album was released on 18 April 2011.

This is the band's first studio album in four years after their 2007 album Knjiga žalbe. Tracks were composed in January 2011 in Jelov Klanac near the Plitvice Lakes National Park and then recorded in February at the RSL Production recording studio in Novo Mesto, Slovenia before the final audio mastering was done at Cutting Room Studios in Stockholm, Sweden.

The band's frontman Mile Kekin described the album's sound as influenced by the music of Foo Fighters and Gogol Bordello.

The album's first single was "Ezoterija", released simultaneously in all six ex-Yugoslav countries.

Track listing
"Svijet glamura"
"Ima da te lajkam"
"Fotoaparat"
"Premali grad"
"Evo mene na ručku"
"Pravo ja"
"Kirbaj i kotlovina"
"Može"
"Lift"
"Bilo koji broj"
"Slobodni pad"
"Ezoterija"

Awards
 Porin 1993 – Best Alternative Rock Album (Džinovski)
 Porin 2000 – Best Video ("Politika"), Best Alternative Rock Album (Pobjeda)
 Porin 2004 – Best Video ("Zimmer frei"), Best Vocal Collaboration ("Teško je ful biti kul", with Edo Maajka), Best Group Performance With a Vocal ("Zimmer frei"), Best Rock Album (Šamar)
 Porin 2008 – Best Rock Album (Knjiga žalbe), Best Art Design (Knjiga žalbe)
 Porin 2010 – Best Art Design (Knjiga postanka), Best Video Program (Knjiga postanka)
 Porin 2012 – Best Art Design (Svijet glamura)
 Porin 2016 – Best Rock Album (Dani zatvorenih vrata)

References

Further reading
 Albumi Hladnog piva: od najgoreg do najboljeg

External links

 
 Unofficial site

Musical groups established in 1988
Croatian punk rock groups
Musicians from Zagreb