[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 26]
# History of Cumbria

and antiquary, was more interested in the mines of Whitehaven than the Lakes (A Tour in Scotland, and voyage to the Hebrides, 1772); and Arthur Young more interested in the social and agricultural state of the area (A Six-months' tour through the North of England vol. 2, 1770) than in the landscape.

The Picturesque
Towards the end of the 18th century, the prevailing attitude to mountain and lake scenery, as noted above, underwent a profound change. This was in large part due to the effects of upper-class British travellers returning from the Grand Tour. The trip to see the sites related to classical antiquity, to be found in Italy and Greece, often took the travellers across the Alps, which started out as an obstacle to be overcome, and ended up as being a looked-for part of the adventure. The influence of Roman history (for example, Hannibal and his elephants crossing the Alps); of painters such as Claude Lorraine, Nicolas Poussin and Salvator Rosa; of literary men such as Joseph Addison, Horace Walpole and Thomas Gray (the latter two travelling on the Grand Tour together until they fell out and parted company); as well as of the literary take-up of the myth of Arcadia (by Alexander Pope, among others), all fed into the greater appreciation of the rugged Alpine scenery around them. This feeling was allied to notions of the Noble savage, and of a life to be lived away from the growing effects of the Industrial Revolution in Britain. At the end of the century, the onset of the Napoleonic Wars meant that trips to France, Italy and Greece could no longer be made; the search for Romantic scenery had to be confined to other, more local, areas, and the English Lake District fitted the bill perfectly.

Two (relatively) local clergymen who helped to promote a more receptive view of mountains and lakes were Dr. John Dalton of Dean (not to be confused with the scientist John Dalton of Eaglesfield) (A descriptive poem addressed to two young ladies at their return from viewing the mines near Whitehaven, 1755) and Dr. John Brown of Wigton (Description of the Lake and Vale of Keswick, 1767). The former spoke of: "Horrors like these at first alarm/But soon with savage grandeur charm/And raise to noblest thoughts the mind." The latter, in an (at first) privately circulated letter, compared Derwentwater favourably to Dovedale. This description persuaded Thomas Gray (Journal in the Lakes) to visit the Lake District in 1769, and, despite his sometimes rather overheated comments and timid nature, "no one doubts that it was he who cranked the tourist engine into life." As opposed to the Greek and Roman Classical view of the Lakes as being Arcadian, Gray emphasised the Miltonic Paradisical aspects.

The first to write a guidebook, pointing out Picturesque views from "stations" (places to station oneself), was Thomas West (A Guide to the Lakes of Cumberland, Westmorland and Lancashire, 1778), which remained in print for over fifty years. West promoted a "static, pictorial sense of landscape" as well as the Englishness of the Lakes, on a par with the Swiss and Italian models.

Once people were at the "station", it was William Gilpin (Observations, relative chiefly to picturesque beauty, made in the year 1772, on several parts of England; particularly the mountains, and lakes of Cumberland, and Westmoreland, 1786)  "who told them how to look." Gilpin's "obsessive pictorialism and tendency to vagueness and generalistion" led to criticism of his rather theoretical and topographically inaccurate approach. Nevertheless, his "wider practical usefulness" made him influential. Both West and Gilpin recommended the use of a Claude glass (which Gray had also used) in looking at the "best" views. 

If West and Gilpin were concerned with aesthetics, and Pennant with science, William Hutchinson concentrated on historical and topographical matters (An Excursion to the Lakes in Westmoreland and Cumberland, August 1773 [anon.], 1774. An Excursion to the Lakes in Westmoreland and Cumberland, with a Tour through part of the Northern Counties in 1773 and 1774, 1776.  History of the county of Cumberland and some places adjacent, 1794). He and some friends rowed a boat to the middle of Ullswater and fired cannons to hear the echoes reverberate around the valley. For Nicholson, this was the high-water mark of the Picturesque as an egoistical "sounding-board" – concern, not for the landscape of people of the area, but for their own sensations.

Indeed, Nicholson, like others before him, aimed his critical venom at the Picturesque, calling it "an appalling distortion of perception," and argued that it "reduces the world to a mere scribbling-pad for man; it makes a convenience of nature." Also, "It denies the intricate reality of the world, the biological, geological, organic, physical complexity of which rock, water, air, grass, tree, bird, beast, and man himself are all part."