[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Somali Americans

pendence Day of Somalia, which is annually celebrated on the same day. The council also approved a resolution making Minneapolis and Bosaso in northeastern Somalia sister cities. Additionally, the Federal Government of Somalia announced that it would start officially keeping count of Somalis abroad.

Employment
Many Somali refugees in the US have experienced difficulties accessing the labour market. According to the 2010 census, 47% of Somalis in Minnesota were employed, 13% unemployed and 40% were economically inactive. By comparison, the unemployment amongst the state's overall foreign-born population was 6%. At the national level, survey data over the period 2011 to 2015 shows that 58% of working age Somali Americans were employed and 5.1% self-employed.

Community organizations

The Somali community in the United States is represented by various Somali-run organizations. Somali Community Services in San Jose and the Somali American Council of Oregon (SACOO) on the west coast offer guidance to new Somali families and works closely with the municipal authorities to strengthen civic relations. The Somali Community Access Network (SomaliCAN) is one of several groups serving Columbus' Somali community. In Minnesota, the Confederation of Somali Community in Minnesota (CSCM), Somali American Parent Association (SAPA), and Somali Action Alliance also offer various social services to the state's resident Somalis.

Politically, a Somali American Caucus in the Minnesota Democratic–Farmer–Labor Party (DFL) was formed to represent the Somali community. A Somali American also chairs the Republican Party's Immigrant Relations Committee in Minnesota.

Diplomatic missions
Somalis in the United States are represented by the embassy of Somalia in Washington, D.C. The embassies of Djibouti and Ethiopia in the capital provide additional diplomatic representation for resident ethnic Somalis. The self-declared republic of Somaliland maintains a representative office in Washington as well.

Notable people

Barkhad Abdi, actor, Academy Award nominee
Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, diplomat, professor and politician; former President of Somalia (2017–2022)
Ilhan Omar, congresswoman, first Somali American elected to US House of Representatives
Dahir Adan Elmi  Chief Commander of Somali National Army 2000s
Mohammad Ali Samatar Former Somali Prime Minister 1987–1990
Ali Khalif Galaydh  Somali Politician and Former Minister 1980s
Abdiweli Mohamed Ali, An Economist,  Former Somali Prime Minister

See also

Somali diaspora
Dalmar TV, a Somali-language television network
History of the Somalis in Minneapolis–Saint Paul
Somalia–United States relations

References

External links
Somali American media

Horn Africans in the United States
 
American
 
 
Political refugees in the United States
African-American society