[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Treaty of Granada (1491)

That the Muslims should be exempted from all taxation for a certain number of years.
 That the Lord of Rome, the Pope, should be requested to give his assent to the above conditions, and sign the treaty himself. [This request by the Moorish side was not carried out.]

Implementation and breakdown 

Initially, the Catholic conquerors implemented and reinforced the generous terms of the treaty. A joint municipal council was established in Granada, and the Muslims were allowed to elect their own representatives. Despite pressure from the Spanish clergy, Ferdinand chose a laissez-faire policy towards the Muslims, in the hope that interaction with Catholics would make them "understand the error" of their faith and abandon it. Hernando de Talavera, a friar of converso origins known for his moderation and piety, was appointed as the archbishop of Granada. He was known for his preference of preaching based on "Catholic reasoning", as opposed to "punishments and lashes". When Ferdinand and Isabella visited the city in the summer of 1499, they were greeted by enthusiastic crowd, including Muslims.

At the same time, Cardinal Francisco Jiménez de Cisneros, the archbishop of Toledo, arrived in Granada and began working alongside Talavera. Cisneros disliked Talavera's approach, and began sending uncooperative Muslims, especially the noblemen, to prison where they were treated harshly until they agreed to convert. Emboldened by the increase in conversions, Cisneros intensified the efforts and in December 1499 he told Pope Alexander VI that three thousand Muslims converted in a single day. Cisneros' own church council warned that these methods might be a breach of the Treaty, and 16th-century hagiographer Álvar Gómez de Castro described the approach as "methods that were not correct".

In December 1499, amid the increasingly forced conversions and triggered by an incident involving an attempt by the authorities to reconvert a Muslim woman who had converted from Christianity, the population of Albayzín, the Muslim quarter of Granada, began an open and armed revolt. Talavera and Captain-General Tendilla resolved the situation by negotiating with the Muslims. Meanwhile, Cisneros was summoned to the court in Seville to account for his actions. He convinced the Catholic monarchs to issue a collective pardons on the rebels on the condition that they converted to Christianity. Consequently, the whole city of Granada nominally became Christian, and the treaty began to unravel.

See also
 List of treaties
 Reconquista
 Morisco Revolt
 Timeline of the Muslim presence in the Iberian Peninsula

Notes

References

 Early Modern Spain: A Documentary History, ed. Jon Cowans, University of Pennsylvania Press, 2003. pp. 15–19 Conditions
 In Spanish, the original source is Historia de la Rebellión y Castigo de los Moriscos del Reino de Granada by Luis del Mármol Carvajal.
 See also El Reino Nazarí de Granada by Cristobal Torrez Delgado and Los Moriscos del Reino de Granada by Julio Caro Barrata.

Granada
1490s treaties
Granada (1491)
Peace treaties of Spain
Granada (1491)
Granada (1491)
History of Granada
Ferdinand II of Aragon
Isabella I of Castile
Treaties of the Emirate of Granada
1491 in Spain
15th century in Aragon
15th century in Castile
1491