[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# John Solomon Cartwright

did not agree to join the government. The moderate Reformers also refused to enter government, as did  Reformers of Canada East, who continued to support Lafontaine.  The result was that for a year, Metcalfe governed with a ministry of only three members, and did not recall the Legislative Assembly.

Proposal for reform schools
Cartwright was interested in penal reforms for juveniles, and thought that they should not be treated in the same way as adult offenders.   In 1843, he proposed a form of juvenile reform school that he called "Juvenile Houses of Refuge", to shelter juvenile offenders.  They would no longer be housed in the same facilities as adult offenders, and "... by labor and attention to their moral culture, they would become good members of society."  Not all of the other members of the Assembly approved of his proposal.  Cartwright's approach to the issue contrasted sharply with the harsher views of the outspoken member for Huron, William "Tiger" Dunlop, who said in the debates that Cartwright was displaying "maudlin sensibility", and if he had his way the children would be whipped and sent to bed.  Cartwright had some support from other members, including Thomas Cushing Aylwin, the Solicitor-General for Canada East, and the matter was referred to a special committee of the Assembly.  However, the proposal never came to a vote, as the Legislative Assembly was prorogued in December 1843, upon the resignation of the Lafontaine–Baldwin ministry.  Juvenile reform schools would not be implemented until fifteen years later, long after Cartwright's death.

Mission to London, 1844

In 1843, the Legislative Assembly passed a motion proposing that the provincial capital be moved from Kingston to Montreal.  Cartwright opposed the move.  He believed that it was important to keep the capital amongst the British colonists, and that relocating it to Montreal, where the French influence would be stronger, would weaken the Province's attachment to Britain.  Although in failing health from tuberculosis, in March 1844 he travelled to England to present a petition to the British government, with 16,000 signatures, opposing the proposal to move the capital.  He was unsuccessful in his mission, and Montreal became the capital later in 1844.

The lengthy voyage was hard on Cartwright's health, and he realised that he no longer could participate in political life.  He announced his retirement to his constituents in Kingston in October 1844.  Governor General Metcalfe regretted Cartwright's retirement, as he had come to rely on Cartwright as an informal advisor.

Patron of architecture 
Cartwright and the Cartwright family are credited in having a major effect on the architecture of public buildings in Kingston by choosing or helping influence the selection of architects.  He and his brother Robert are believed to have commissioned the architect Thomas Rogers for their two townhouses in Kingston:  John Cartwright's house at 221 King Street East, and Robert Cartwright's house at 191 King Street East.  Cartwright also built an office building for his law practice at 223 King Street East, connected to his residence.  As president of the Commercial Bank for the Midland District, Cartwright likely commissioned Rogers for the bank's Kingston building.

In nearby Napanee, it was said that every public building, including schools and churches, was built on land donated by Cartwright, including both the land and the building for the Anglican church of St. Mary Magdalene.  He may have commissioned Rogers for that building as well.

In addition to Rogers, Cartwright commissioned another significant architect, George Browne, to build his country villa, Rockwood.  Cartwright likely also helped Browne obtain the commission to build the Kingston Town Hall, which was designated a National Historic Site in 1961.

Death 
In 1843, Cartwright began to close down his farming activities.  He sold off some of his property for building lots at the same time, as the town of Kingston had expanded to the area. He died at his home of tuberculosis January 15, 1845, two years after his twin brother Robert, also living in Kingston, died of the same disease.  Their widows then joined households.

Archives 

Queen's University at Kingston holds some of Cartwright's library in its rare books collection.  It includes books on philosophy, religion, literature, law, history and politics.  There are several volumes of bound pamphlets, piano music, and family photographs.  The Queen's University Archives also include a large collection of Cartwright family documents.

There is a Cartwright Family Fonds with the Ontario provincial archives, consisting of documents from 1799 to 1913.  The documents were generated by John Solomon Cartwright, his father Richard Cartwright, his brother Reverend Robert David Cartwright, Robert's wife Harriet (Dobbs) Cartwright and their son, Sir Richard Cartwright.

References