[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Treaty 4

n 8 September 1875, by Cree, Saulteaux, and Stony Indigenous; on 9 September 1875, by Cree, Saulteaux, and Stony; on 24 September by Cree, Saulteaux, and Stony; on 24 August 1876, by Cree and Saulteaux; and on 25 September 1877, by Stony.

Terms of the treaty 
The terms of the treaty are as follows:

The Canadian Government will establish reserves in areas of land selected by them. This land cannot be sold by the Indigenous, but can be sold or leased by the Government in order benefit the Indigenous, and only with their consent. When they are prepared for a teacher, schools will be provided on each reserve. 640 acres will be distributed to each family of five. Liquor is forbidden on the reserves. Every year, each man, woman, and child will be given $5; every chief will be given $25; all headman will be given $15 (with the exception of four headmen per band); as well as every chief and headman will get one set of clothing every three years. Powder, shot, ball, and twine is distributed and replaced every year, to help with hunting, fishing, and trapping – rights that they were still able to enjoy. To allow for a transition for the Aboriginal peoples to acquire agricultural skills, each willing family will be given two hoes, one spade, one scythe, and one axe. One plough and two harrows is given to be shared among ten families. The bands interested in agriculture will be given supplies as well. The chiefs receive one crosscut saw, one pitsaw, one grindstone, five augers, five handsaws, and a box of carpenter tools for band use. They get one yoke of oxen, one bull, four cows, and "enough" wheat, barley, potatoes, and oats for planting. Furthermore, the treaty states that the Indigenous must recognize the treaty and promise to be "loyal subjects". They need to obey Canadian laws, keep the peace, and notify the Government when there are people who break the laws. They must also agree not to disturb the settlers or anyone who travels through the land. Further the treaty explicitly provides that the government may utilize the surrendered lands "as may be required or taken up from time to time for settlement, mining or other purposes, under grant or other right given by Her Majesty's said Government" and does not give any right of veto, while ensuring any lands used on the reserve by the government must be offset with matching grant of non-reserve lands.

Timeline
 15 September 1874: first signings at Fort Qu'Appelle by Cree, Saulteaux, and Assiniboine bands
 21 September 1874: Fort Ellice adhesion by Saulteaux band
 8 September 1875: Qu'Appelle Lakes adhesion by Cree, Saulteaux, and Stony bands
 9 September 1875: additional Qu'Appelle Lakes adhesion by Cree, Saulteaux, and Stony bands
 24 September 1875: Swan Lake adhesion by Cree, Saulteaux, and Stony bands
 24 August 1876: Fort Pelly adhesion by Cree and Saulteaux bands
 25 September 1877: Fort Walsh adhesion by Stony and Assiniboine bands