[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert S. Garnett

nd killed during a Union volley. A friend in the Union Army recovered his body after Garnett's remaining men had fled. A participant in the battle related his coming upon the body of Gen. Garnett as he was dying and expressed the belief that he had been killed mistakenly by his own men.

In memoriam

In recognition of Garnett's service during the Mexican–American War, a Federal honor guard conveyed his body under a flag of truce to his relatives, who buried Garnett in Baltimore, Maryland. He was later re-interred next to his wife in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York, one of two Confederate generals buried there. His grave monument, which he had erected for his wife and child, does not have his name on it.  One face mentions his wife, one face his son, and one face has the words "To My Wife and Child."  The fourth face is blank.

In California, the General Robert S. Garnett Chapter 2570 of the United Daughters of the Confederacy was named in his memory and honor. In 1957, they established a monument to Garnett, who had designed California's State Seal during his brief service at the Presidio in Monterey in 1849. In 2017, after the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, the city of Monterey installed a new plaque omitting mention of Garnett's Confederate history; it was stolen in 2020.
There is a Sons of Confederate Veterans camp in West Virginia named Robert Garnett Camp 1470 in his honor.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

Notes

References
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Fout, Frederick W. The Dark Days of the Civil War, 1861 to 1865. St. Louis: F.A. Wagenfuehr, 1904. .
 Sifakis, Stewart. Who Was Who in the Civil War. New York: Facts On File, 1988. .
 Depiction and history of the State Seal of California 
 Military biography of Robert S. Garnett from the Cullum biographies
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .

External links

 Robert S. Garnett in Encyclopedia Virginia
 Green-Wood Cemetery Burial Search

1819 births
1861 deaths
Burials at Green-Wood Cemetery
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
People from Essex County, Virginia
Tucker County, West Virginia in the American Civil War
United States Military Academy alumni
Commandants of the Corps of Cadets of the United States Military Academy
People of Virginia in the American Civil War
Confederate States of America military personnel killed in the American Civil War
Garnett family of Virginia