[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hilf al-Fudul

Hilf al-Fudul () was an alliance or confederacy created in Mecca in the year 590 AD, to establish justice for all through collective action, especially for those who were not under the protection of any clan. Because of Muhammad's role in its formation, the alliance plays a significant role in Islamic ethics. Because  commonly means "virtuous" the alliance is often translated as League of the Virtuous.

Historical background
The pact, or  in Arabic, took place one month after the end of the Fijar Wars, in month of Dhu al-Qi'da. Montgomery Watt notes that the war resulted in Meccan control of the commercial road between Iraq and al-Hirah.

Martin Lings notes the historical importance of a justice system in Mecca. In the years preceding the pact, the Quraysh were involved in intermittent conflicts. The war, as usual, was a result of an unsettled murder. The effect was growing discontent with the form of justice that required fake war. Many Quraysh leaders had travelled to Syria, where they found relative justice prevailed. Similar conditions also existed in Abyssinia. No such system, however, existed in Arabia.

The principle of  was established previously by Hashim ibn Abd Manaf as a way to set up new alliances between merchants of similar power, whether they be Meccans or foreigners. It allowed the formation of alliances outside of Mecca and the modification of the balance of power with respect to trade inside Mecca.  sometimes resulted in the formation of new tribes, as with the Banu Hashim. Those transformations reshaped the traditional tribe colonisation and the social relations in Mecca.

Formation
A Yemeni merchant from Zabid had sold some goods to al-As ibn Wa'il al-Sahmi (the father of Amr ibn al-As). Having taken possession of the goods, the Qurayshi refused to pay the agreed price, knowing that the merchant had no confederate or kinsman in Mecca whom he could count upon for help. The Yemeni merchant, instead of letting it pass, appealed to the Quraysh to see that justice was done. But due to al-As ibn Wa'il's preeminent place among the Quraysh, they refused to help the Yemeni merchant. So the merchant went to the mountain Abi Qays to recite poems asking for justice :

Al-Zubayr ibn ‘Abd al-Muttalib, Muhammad's uncle, is believed to have been the first to call for a pact. Muhammad, the future prophet of Islam, took part in the . A few clans met in Dar al-Nadwa, a building north of the Kaaba, the gathering place of the clan's leader (malaʾ), where they decided to take up the defense of the Yemeni merchant and to cover his losses. A meeting was hosted at the house of Abdullah ibn Jad'an. At the meeting, various chiefs and members of tribes pledged to assist anyone who was treated unjustly, to collectively intervene in conflicts to establish justice and to defend people who were foreigners in Mecca or who were not under the protection of a clan: Al-Zubayr b. c Abd al-Muttalib spoke the following verses about this pact: 

To make the pact imperative and sacred, the members went into the Ka'aba and poured water into the receptacle so it flowed on the black stone. Thereupon each man drank from it. Then they raised their right hands above their heads to show they would stand together in this endeavor. The pact was written and placed inside the Ka'aba, the place where the participants believed it would be under the protection of God.

They retrieved the goods from al-As ibn Wa'il. Another aspect of the pact was that it would open up the Meccan market to Yemenite merchants, who were hitherto excluded.

Clans involved

The following clans joined this pact : Banu Hashim, Banu Zuhra, Banu Muttalib, Banu Asad and Banu Taym. Montgomery Watt notes the continuity with the previous hilf al-Muthayyabun during the conflict for Qusay's succession. It featured the same opposing groups of clans, with a group of clans known as the  opposing the Banu Makhzum and the Banu Sahm, grouped in the . An exception to this were the Banu Nawfal and the powerful 'Abd Shams (Banu Umayya), that had become wealthy from their commercial enterprise, split from the Muṭayyabūn faction in 605 and engaged in business with the Aḥlāf.

According to Watt, the fact that Makhzum and 'Abd Shams had taken control of the trade routes with Yemen following the Fijar war meant that lesser clans would be excluded from commerce with Yemen if Yemeni merchants were to stop coming to Mecca. This would explain the necessity for them to defend the Yemeni merchant. He also notes that the same clans remained in conflict until the Battle of Badr, where all Meccan leaders belonged to the same clans who opposed the .