[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Heckler & Koch G41

und a central coil. This reduced recoil.

The revised buttstock on the G41 is held in place by two pins. Unlike the earlier HK33, the G41’s pistol grip assembly is not retained by a pin at the front of the assembly behind the magazine well housing and can be removed by the user during a field strip.

The spent cartridge casing extractor is installed inside the bolt head, while the tilting lever ejector is contained in the trigger housing. The rifle is hammer-fired and has a trigger group with a fire control selector that enables selecting safe, semi-automatic, burst and continuous fire modes. The fire selector's positions are marked with bullet pictograms and it also serves as a manual safety against unintentional discharge. The selector is ambidextrous and its lever is mirrored on both sides of the trigger housing. In the "safe" position, the trigger and sear are disabled.

The G41 uses NATO STANAG magazines (from the M16 rifle) with a capacity of 30 rounds. The magazine release is located on the left side of the rifle, above the magazine well.

The weapon incorporates a manual forward assist that can be used to positively close the bolt, similar to the one used on the American M16A1 rifle, and a side-folding heavy-gauge wire carrying handle near its point of balance which resembles that of the FN FAL. It also has a "hold-open" bolt catch which holds the bolt open after the last round in the magazine has been fired (the bolt release button is just above the magazine release) and has a spring-loaded polymer dust cover that seals the ejection port from debris.

Despite reducing the weight of some components the weight of the HK41 exceeded the weight of the preceding G33, making the HK41 relatively heavy compared to other 5.56×45mm NATO chambered assault rifles of its era.

Barrel
The cold hammer-forged barrel has a hexagonal polygonal bore. It comes rifled for either the NATO-standard, Belgian SS109 62 grain bullet with a twist of 178 mm (1:7 in) or in a 305 mm (1:12 in) twist for use with American .223 Remington/5.56×45mm ammunition with the M193 55 grain projectile. The bore chamber is fluted to assist in the extraction of spent cartridges. The barrel is equipped with a flash suppressor that is also designed to launch rifle grenades.

Sights

The firearm is equipped with a relatively low iron sight line that consists of a Drehvisier rotary rear drum and hooded front post. The rear sight is mechanically adjustable for both windage and elevation with the help of tools. This deliberately prevents non-armorers from (re)zeroing the iron sight line. The rotary drum features an open V-notch (numbered 1) for rapid target acquisition, close range, low light and impaired visibility use and three apertures (numbered 2, 3 and 4) used for:  in  increments for more precise aiming. The 1 V-notch and 2 or  aperture settings have an identical point of aim. The V-notch and apertures are calibrated for 5.56×45mm NATO ball ammunition.

The receiver housing has a NATO pattern optics mount (meeting STANAG 2324) that replaced HK’s claw-mount system used to mount day (typically the Hensoldt 4×24 telescopic sight) or night aiming optics.
The Hensoldt Fero 4×24 telescopic sight and mount assembly were developed for designated marksman use. The Fero elevation knob features Bullet Drop Compensation (BDC) settings for  in  increments calibrated for 5.56×45mm NATO ball ammunition.

Accessories
Many accessories are based on NATO standard or previously issued items.

The rifle can be fitted with a barrel-mounted bipod based on the one issued with the M16A1's cleaning kit. It also uses the bayonet from the G3. It also can mount the FERO Z24-G 4×24 optical sight on a proprietary detachable bracket on the receiver and a clip-on winter trigger.

The G41 can also mount a detachable 40 mm HK79 grenade launcher that replaces the synthetic forearm. The weapon in this configuration is known as the G41TGS, or "Tactical Group Support".