[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

as captured, and Jenkins himself barely escaped. The rebel force, which was much larger than Paxton's cavalry, was driven up (southward) the Guyandotte River. It was discovered that Jenkins planned to move his cavalry toward Charleston the next day—to intercept Lightburn if his Union Army retreated.

Siber's brigade moved from Raleigh Court House to Fayette Court House, which was easier to defend. His brigade was attacked (and briefly surrounded) by Loring on September 10, prompting a retreat toward Ohio with continuous skirmishing from Gauley Bridge to Charleston. The portion of the 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry that was not pursuing Jenkins' cavalry was involved in fighting in the region between Charleston and Fayetteville/Fayette Court House. Siber was assisted in his brigade's escape from Fayetteville by a 25-man detachment from the 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry. On September 12, Lieutenant George K. Weir from the regiment's CompanyI was killed near Fayetteville.

After the 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry removed Jenkins' cavalry from the Ohio River area, it escorted Lightburn's retreating army and supplies to Ohio. Over 700 wagons were involved in this retreat. Lightburn and his infantry crossed the Ohio River at Ravenswood, and moved down the Ohio side of the river to Point Pleasant, Virginia. Most of the 2nd Virginia did not cross the river, and camped on the Virginia side at Point Pleasant. Lightburn's report said "The Second Virginia Cavalry, under Colonel Paxton, did good service in keeping Jenkins' force at bay, thereby preventing an attack in our rear. I wish, also, to state that Colonel Paxton, with 300 men, attacked Jenkins' whole force (from 1,200 to 1,500), and drove them from Barboursville, which, no doubt, kept them from an attempt to harass our retreat."

Colonel Lightburn was replaced shortly after the retreat. General Cox returned to the area and reorganized the cavalry and infantry. The Confederate Army did not remain in Charleston, and Cox returned there on October 20, 1862. The 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry made winter quarters  away at Camp Piatt on the Kanawha River. Camp Piatt was strategically located at the intersection of the Kanawha River, James River, and the Kanawha Turnpike.  Union soldiers and supplies were often moved by steamboat up the Kanawha River to this location.  On November 16, Cox put newly promoted Brigadier General George Crook in command of the Kanawha Division.

Sinking Creek raid

During November 1862, the 2nd Loyal Virginia Volunteer Cavalry camped a few miles upriver from Charleston. On November 23, Colonel Paxton was ordered to attack two rebel cavalry camps in Sinking Creek Valley, located north of Lewisburg near the Greenbrier County border. One regiment of infantry, which was camped in Summerville, was supposed to assist Paxton. The cavalry departed on the next day, and traveled over  in two days. They used less-traveled roads to conceal their movement, and endured a snowstorm while ascending a mountain during the latter half of their journey. The infantry that was supposed to assist them was caught in a rain storm and then the same snow storm. The infantry men were soaking wet and their gear was freezing. After conferring with Paxton, the infantry returned to its camp.

The cavalry continued with its plan to attack. Paxton sent the regiment's advance guard, led by Major Powell, down the mountain to scout the rebel camps in Sinking Creek Valley. Each man in the 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry's 22-man advance guard was armed with two six-shot revolvers and a saber. The advance guard discovered that the rebels in the first camp were focused on staying warm, and many did not have their one-shot muskets loaded. Powell and his advance guard decided to try to capture the camp by themselves, and were successful in persuading a 500-man rebel camp to surrender. Rebel weapons were destroyed, and over 100 prisoners on horses were brought up the mountain to the remaining portion of the regiment. Union casualties in the raid were 2 horses killed.