[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Discovery doctrine

e, wrote to Pope Francis asking him to formally revoke the  papal bull of 1493.

At the 2016 Synod, 10–17 June in Grand Rapids, Michigan, delegates to the annual general assembly of the Christian Reformed Church rejected the doctrine of discovery as heresy in response to a study report on the topic.

At the 222nd General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) (2016), commissioners called on members of the church to repudiate the doctrine of discovery. The commissioners directed that a report be written reviewing the history of the doctrine. That report was approved by the 223rd General Assembly (2018), along with recommendations for a variety of additional actions that could be taken by the church at all levels to acknowledge indigenous peoples and to confront racism against them.

In 2016, the Churchwide Assembly of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA) adopted Assembly Action CA16.02.04 titled "Repudiation of the Doctrine of Discovery" by a vote of 912–28, describing the doctrine as "an example of the 'improper mixing of the power of the church and the power of the sword.

On November 3, 2016, a group of 524 clergy publicly burned copies of , as part of the Dakota Access Pipeline protests near the Standing Rock Indian Reservation. As part of their demonstration, they invited a number of indigenous elders to authorize the burning.

The Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples, and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada have repudiated the doctrine and called on governments to remove it from laws and policies.

During Pope Francis's July 2022 penitential pilgrimage to Canada in light of the abuses of Canadian Indigenous children in residential schools, Canadian bishops requested that the Catholic Church issue a new statement on the doctrine of discovery.

On March 30, 2023, the Vatican's Dicasteries for Culture and Education and for Promoting Integral Human Development jointly repudiated the doctrine of discovery as "not part of the teaching of the Catholic Church". The Vatican's statement pointed to the 1537 papal bull, Sublimis Deus, which affirmed the liberty and property rights of indigenous peoples and prohibited their enslavement.

See also
 Aboriginal title
 Americentrism
 Colonialism
 Eurocentrism
 First contact (anthropology)
 Frontier thesis
 Imperialism
 Manifest destiny
 Monroe Doctrine
 Terra nullius

References

Further reading 
 Lawlor, Mary. Public Native America: Tribal Self Representation in Casinos, Museums and Powwows, Rutgers University Press, 2006
 Robert J. Miller and Elizabeth Furse, Native America, Discovered and Conquered: Thomas Jefferson, Lewis & Clark, and Manifest Destiny, Westport, CT: Praeger Publishers, 2006
 Miler, Robert J., and Jacinta Ruru. "An Indigenous Lens into Comparative Law: The Doctrine of Discovery in the United States and New Zealand". West Virginia Law Review 111 (2008): 849.
 Miller, R. J., Ruru, J., Behrendt, L., & Lindberg, T. (2010). Discovering indigenous lands: The doctrine of discovery in the English colonies. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

External links 
 

Aboriginal title
Colonialism
European colonization of the Americas
Human rights in the United States
Imperialism
International law
John Marshall
Legal doctrines and principles
Property law in the United States