[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# American English

mples include the modern RP features of a  trap–bath split and the fronting of , neither of which is typical of General American accents. Moreover, American dialects do not participate in H-dropping, an innovative feature that now characterizes perhaps a majority of the regional dialects of England.

Innovative phonology
However, General American is also innovative in a number of ways:
 Unrounded : The American phenomenon of the  vowel (often spelled  in words like box, don, clock, notch, pot, etc.) being produced without rounded lips, like the  vowel, allows father and bother to rhyme, the two vowels now unified as the single phoneme . The father–bother vowel merger is in a transitional or completed stage in nearly all North American English. Exceptions are in northeastern New England English (such as the Boston accent), the Pittsburgh accent, and variably in some older New York accents, which may retain a rounded articulation.
Cot–caught merger in transition: There is no single American way to pronounce the vowels in words like cot  (the ah vowel) versus caught  (the aw vowel), largely because of a merger occurring between the two sounds in some parts of North America, but not others. American speakers with a completed merger pronounce the two historically separate vowels with the same sound (especially in the West, northern New England, West Virginia, western Pennsylvania, and the Upper Midwest), but other speakers have no trace of a merger at all (especially in the South, the Great Lakes region, southern New England, and the Mid-Atlantic and New York metropolitan areas) and so pronounce each vowel with distinct sounds . Among speakers who distinguish between the two, the vowel of cot (usually transcribed in American English as ), is often a central  or advanced back , while  is pronounced with more rounded lips and/or phonetically higher in the mouth, close to  or , but with only slight rounding. Among speakers who do not distinguish between them, thus producing a cot–caught merger,  usually remains a back vowel, , sometimes showing lip rounding as . Therefore, even mainstream Americans vary greatly with this speech feature, with possibilities ranging from a full merger to no merger at all. A transitional stage of the merger is also common in scatterings throughout the United States, most consistently in the American Midlands lying between the historical dialect regions of the North and the South, while younger Americans, in general, tend to be transitioning toward the merger. According to a 2003 dialect survey carried out across the United States, about 61% of participants perceive themselves as keeping the two vowels distinct and 39% do not. A 2009 follow-up survey put the percentages at 58% non-merging speakers and 41% merging.
 in special words: The  vowel, rather than the one in  or  (as in Britain), is used in function words and certain other words like was, of, from, what, everybody, nobody, somebody, anybody, and, for many speakers because and rarely even want, when stressed.
 Vowel mergers before intervocalic : The mergers of certain vowels before  are typical throughout North America, the only exceptions existing primarily along the East Coast:
Mary–marry–merry merger in transition: According to the 2003 dialect survey, nearly 57% of participants from around the country self-identified as merging the sounds  (as in the first syllable of parish),  (as in the first syllable of perish), and  (as in pear or pair). The merger is already complete everywhere except along some areas of the Atlantic Coast.
Hurry–furry merger: The pre- vowels in words like hurry  and furry  are merged in most American accents to  or a syllabic consonant . Roughly only 10% of American English speakers acknowledge the distinct hurry vowel before , according to the same dialect survey aforementioned.
Mirror–nearer merger in transition: The pre- vowels in words like mirror  and nearer  are merged or very similar in most American accents. The quality of the historic mirror vowel in the word miracle is quite variable.
Americans vary slightly in their pronunciations of R-colored vowels such as those in  and , which sometimes monophthongizes towards  and  or tensing towards  and  respectively. That causes pronunciations like  for pair/pear and  for peer/pier. Also,  is often reduced to , so that cure, pure, and mature may all end with the sound , thus rhyming with blur and sir. The word sure is also part of the rhyming set as it is commonly pronounced .
 Yod-dropping: Dropping of  after a consonant is much more extensive than in most of England. In most North American accents,  is "dropped" or "deleted" after all alveolar and interdental consonants (that is: everywhere except after /p/, /b/, /f/, /h/, /k/, and /m/) and so new, duke, Tuesday, assume are pronounced , , ,  (compare with Standard British , , , ).