[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Constructive set theory

object maybe be understood as witnessing the proposition. Consider for example the notions of proof in through realizability theory or function terms in a type theory with a notion of quantifiers. The latter captures proof of logical proposition through programs via the Curry–Howard correspondence.

Depending on the context, the word "function" may be used in association with a particular model of computation, and this is a priori  narrower than what is discussed in the present set theory context. One notion of program is formalized by partial recursive "functions" in computability theory. But beware that here the word "function" is used in a way that also comprises partial functions, and not just "total functions". The scare quotes are used for clarity here, as in a set theory context there is technically no need to speak of total functions, because this requirement is part of the definition of a set theoretical function and partial function spaces can be modeled via unions. At the same time, when combined with a formal arithmetic, partial function programs provides one particularly sharp notion of totality for functions. By Kleene's normal form theorem, each partial recursive function on the naturals computes, for the values where it terminates, the same as , for some partial function program index , and any index will constitute some partial function. A program can be associated with a  and may be said to be -total whenever a theory proves , where  amounts to a primitive recursive program and  is related to the execution of . Kreisel proved that the class of partial recursive functions proven -total by  is not enriched when  is added. As a predicate in , this totality constitutes an undecidable subset of indices, highlighting that the recursive world of functions between the naturals is already captured by a set dominated by . As a third warning, note that this notion is really about programs and several indices will in fact constitute the same function, in the extensional sense.

A theory in first-order logic, such as the axiomatic set theories discussed here, comes with a joint notion of total and functional for a binary predicate , namely . Such theories relate to programs only indirectly. If  denotes the successor operation in a formal language of a theory being studied, then any number, e.g.  (the number three), may metalogically be related to the standard numeral, e.g. . Similarly, programs in the partial recursive sense may be unrolled to predicates and weak assumptions suffice so that such a translation respects equality of their return values. Among finitely axiomizable sub-theories of , classical Robinson arithmetic  exactly fulfills this. Its existence claims are intended to only concern natural numbers and instead of using the full mathematical induction schema for arithmetic formulas, the theories' axioms postulate that every number is either zero or that there exists a predecessor number to it. Focusing on -total recursive functions here, it is a meta-theorem that the language of arithmetic expresses them by -predicates  encoding their graph such that  represents them, in the sense that it correctly proves or rejects  for any input-output pair of numbers  and  in the meta-theory. Now given a correctly representing , the predicate  defined by  represents the recursive function just as well, and as this only validates the smallest return value, the theory also proves functionality for all inputs  in the sense of . Given a representing predicate, then at the cost of making use of , one can always also systematically (i.e. with a ) prove the graph to be total functional.

Which predicates are provably functional for various inputs, or even total functional on their domain, generally depends on the adopted axioms of a theory and proof calculus. For example, for the diagonal halting problem, which cannot have a -total index, it is -independent whether the corresponding graph predicate on  (a decision problem) is total functional, but  implies that it is. Proof theoretical function hierarchies provide examples of predicates proven total functional in systems going beyond .
Which sets proven to exist do constitute a total function, in the sense introduced next, also always depends on the axioms and the proof calculus. Finally, note that the soundness of halting claims is a metalogical property beyond consistency, i.e. a theory may be consistent and from it one may prove that some program will eventually halt, despite this never actually occurring when said program is ran. More formally, assuming consistency of a theory does not imply it is also arithmetically -sound.