[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marcus Bignot

the path of Bignot who shot home from close range after skillfully controlling the ball. Bignot turned down a new contract at QPR at the end of the 2001–02 season, Holloway stating this was due to QPR working on a reduced wage structure and only offering him 50 per cent of what he earned that year.

Rushden & Diamonds
Bignot signed for Rushden & Diamonds in the Third Division on a short-term deal at the start of 2002–03 season, however, having played on the opening day of the season at Swansea City, three days later he sustained a medial knee ligaments only 11 minutes into his home debut against Torquay United. He returned to training in the second week in September and extended his stay at Nene Park for another month. He extended his stay by agreeing a new month's contract in November having taken over the right-back slot for the past couple of games. He turned down a move to an unnamed Second Division side and signed an 18-month contract with Rushden & Diamonds. Bignot played a key role to keep Diamonds in the third division's automatic promotion places, completing the last 16 games since October and earned the official Diamonds player of the month award for his impressive form in December 2002. In April 2003, his side beat Carlisle 1–2 at Brunton Park, having set up one of the goals to seal promotion. A month later his team were crowned champions of the Third Division in the 2002–03 season.

Return to Queens Park Rangers
Due to a consequence of the financial meltdown at Rushden & Diamonds, Bignot was sold back to QPR in March 2004. QPR finished the 2003–04 season in second place, Bignot being part of the team that clinched promotion to the Championship. He captained a cash-strapped QPR to Championship survival in his final season. Bignot was released in January 2008 after his contract had expired.

Millwall
Having joined Millwall on loan in November 2007. Bignot extended his stay at Millwall for a further two months following an injury crisis at the club. On 15 January 2008, Bignot was released by QPR, however, he rejoined Millwall on a permanent basis just a few hours later an 18-month contract. He was drafted in by Millwall to help them avoid the drop into League Two. Having successfully helped the club avoid relegation, his playing time was limited at the start of the 2008–09 season due to a knee injury. He was part of the squad that eventually lost 3–2 in the 2009 Football League One play-off final against Scunthorpe.

On 1 February 2010, he had his contract cancelled by mutual consent, and rejoined Conference side Kidderminster Harriers on a non contract basis until the end of the season on 17 February 2010. He was released in May 2010, Bignot had a trial at Conference North club Gainsborough Trinity in July 2010. Later that month, he joined Southern League Premier side Brackley Town on 30 July 2010. His time at Brackley was limited to just five games, having mainly been on the subs bench.

International career

Whilst at Kidderminster Harriers, Bignot played once for the England semi-pro (now England C) Team in May 1997, against the Scottish Highland Football League at Cove Rangers, the Highland Football League Team whose Allan Park ground is six miles south of Aberdeen, his side won 5–0 that Saturday afternoon, with strikers Barry Hayles, Lee Hughes, and goalkeeper Billy Stewart in the England team, all three players who subsequently went on to play at high levels in the English Football League.

Managerial and coaching career

Birmingham City Ladies
Bignot at the age of 24 became manager of Birmingham City Ladies in 1998, and immediately revamped the entire youth structure at the club. He continued his own playing career in the Football League while managing the side in the newly created Midland Combination League and in their first season won the league, gaining automatic promotion into the FA Women's Premier League Northern Division in 2002. Also in 2001–02 Bignots team upset Doncaster Belles 4–3 in the FA Women's Premier League Cup semi-final. Having reached the final at Adams Park, Wycombe, Birmingham were thrashed 7–1 by full-time professional Fulham Ladies. After two seasons, Bignot clinched promotion to the top flight of women's football, joining the FA Women's Premier League National Division. He left his post with Birmingham in the 2005 close season after the club ran into financial difficulties.

For the 2011 FA WSL season Bignot returned to Birmingham Ladies as a Football Consultant.

Solihull Moors
Bignot initially joined Conference North club Solihull Moors as assistant manager towards the end of the 2010–11 season. On 27 June 2011, following the resignation of Micky Moore for the 2011–12 season, Bignot was appointed manager.