[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# College tuition in the United States

College tuition in the United States is the cost of higher education collected by educational institutions in the United States, and paid by individuals. It does not include the tuition covered through general taxes or from other government funds, or that which is paid from university endowment funds or gifts. Tuition for college has increased as the value, quality, and quantity of education have increased. Many feel that increases in cost have not been accompanied by increases in quality, and that administrative costs are excessive. The value of a college education has become a topic of national debate in the U.S.

History
Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, the powers of the federal government are limited to those mentioned explicitly in the Constitution. As education is not mentioned, educational policy and schools are state matters in the United States. The federal government operates military academies, but there is no national university nor national academic standards. The development of national standards has been driven from outside, especially the accounting industry, as more and more money became involved.

An important predecessor was the Morrill Act of 1862, which provided for land-grant colleges using surplus federal lands recently acquired.

The size and cost of U.S. public higher education increased dramatically after World War II with the introduction of the GI bill and greater federal funding for higher education. Policy makers believed that university-based research had played a critical role in determining the outcome of World War II and would be essential for success in the Cold War.  With the launch of the Sputnik satellite by the Soviet Union, many feared that the United States was falling behind on science and technology because it relied on private wealth to fund higher education, in contrast to the Soviet system, which was publicly funded and perceived by some to be more meritocratic and more closely tied to the needs of the economy and the military. In the United States, many families were unable to borrow sufficient funds to finance a high-quality education for their children, and to thereby increase their children's earning capacity and standard of living, until after the introduction of federal student loans.  As public subsidies fell and costs and quality of education increased, loans played an increasingly important role in higher education finance.

During the late 1960s, as the nation's economic growth slowed, the question of who should pay for higher education came
under fresh political scrutiny. Decades-old no-tuition policies at some campuses fell by the wayside as politicians promoted new austerity policies. In California, Governor Ronald Reagan promoted cuts to higher education as a way to win favor with business interests and conservative voters. He justified tuition as necessary given voters' aversion to any increase in taxes. In New York, federal and state politicians forced austerity on New York city to satisfy bond holders. New York reformers claimed that The City University of New York's longstanding no-tuition policy was no longer financially feasible. In the context of a stagnant economy and a growing conservative movement embracing government austerity, no-tuition policies fell out of favor in many areas of the country during this period.

Overview of tuition rates in the U.S.

The United States has one of the most expensive higher education systems in the world, and also one of the most successful in terms of the boost to earnings from higher education.  Public colleges have no control over one major revenue source — the state. In 2016–17, the average cost of annual tuition in the United States ranged from $9,700 for public four-year institutions to $33,500 for private four-year institutions. Private colleges increased their tuition by an average of 1.7 percent in 2016–17, the smallest rise in four decades, according to the U.S. Consumer Price Index. The average college tuition has decreased in the 2020-2021 school year in both private and public schools. Due to the high price of college tuitions about 43 percent of students have to reject their first choice of schools.

Causes of tuition increases

Cost shifting and privatization