[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dental education throughout the world

Dentistry throughout the world is practiced differently, and training in dentistry varies as well.

Africa and Middle East

Egypt 

Dentistry in Egypt has a long history, with the dentist occupation first appearing as early as 3000 BC.

There is a syndicate for all dentists which regulate the work in dental clinics in association with the Ministry of Health.
For dental clinicians to practise, they should be enrolled in the dental syndicate.
Dentists complete a 5-year-study course plus 1 year of practice in their dental school or general hospitals in the country.
Most governmental dental schools give degrees of Bachelor, Master's degree & PhD in all dental fields. However, obtaining a chance for postgraduate studies in the field of orthodontics is somehow difficult according to many of Egypt general dental practitioners.

Iran 
In Iran dentists require six years of post-secondary education. The whole program is one single degree of D.D.S. (Doctor of Dental Surgery). After this, those wishing to specialize in a particular field may pursue higher education. Upon graduation, a dentist may need to fulfill two years of military service (as a dentist in uniform for males) or governmental service (both males and females) in order to collect enough scores to start in private practice. 
The current universities offering Dentistry are:
Tehran University of Medical Sciences خانه
Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences
Shiraz University of Medical Sciences
Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences
Kermanshah University
Ghazvin University
Zahedan University
Tabriz University of Medical Sciences
Babol University
Rasht University
Yazd University
Kerman University
Hamedan University
Azad (Khorasgan-Isfahan) University
Azad (Tehran) University
Qom University of Medical Sciences (Dentistry school of MUQ)

Israel 

In Israel there are two dental schools, The Hebrew University-Hadassah School of Dental Medicine in Jerusalem, founded by the Alpha Omega Fraternity, and The Tel Aviv University School of Dental Medicine in Tel Aviv. The two schools provide Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD) degrees. In addition, there are several post-graduation training centers such as Rambam Health Care Campus in Haifa and Barzilai Medical Center in Ashkelon. The post-graduation programs in the Sheba Medical Center in Tel Hashomer are held by the Medical Corps of the Israel Defense Forces.

Americas

Brazil 

The first step to becoming a dentist in Brazil is to take a 10-subject examination (Biology, Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Literature, Foreign Language, Portuguese, History, Geography and an Essay) which might be compared to the SAT exam in the US. These examinations vary from institution to institution; however, dentistry is one of the hardest courses to get in and most students come from upper classes due to the level of difficulty and steep tuition prices. Students must complete the 4 or 5-year Bachelor of Dental Surgery (B.D.S.). Skills capacitation courses after graduation are required in different dental areas, which take between 2 and 3 years (D.D.S). Universities of dental care are provided by both the private and public sector. The course's conclusion must be registered and licensed by the nationalized Dental Board of Brazil so that the students obtain the Dentistry Diploma. However, private clinics are the most common place a person would go if a dentist is needed. Today, the private market is dominated by large companies that hire mostly recently graduated dentists. Nevertheless, there are thousands of small clinics spread throughout the country. The practice of dentistry in Brazil is overseen by CFO Conselho Federal de Odontologia, a federal entity that coordinates the 26 state bodies plus Federal District. This institution has 340,000 registered dentists and 191 dental schools in Brazil. Brazil has become a leading country at the international level in areas such as Dentistry International Research, Implantology, Periodontics, Endodontics, Phrosthodontics, Aesthetics Dentistry, Pedodontics, Orthodontics, and Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery. Brazilian Dentistry Department develops, all over the country, many innovative techniques and conducts dentistry research related to different aspects. Dentists in the Mercosur are eligible to work in Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay and Peru.

Canada 

The practice of dentistry in Canada is overseen by the National Dental Association Examination Board of Canada (NDAEB), while specialization is overseen by the Royal College of Dentists. Today, Canada has about 16,000 dentists. Canadian dentistry is not publicly run (see Medicare (Canada)); however, some provinces provide for free dental care for children and the elderly. Other Canadians are mostly covered by workplace dental plans, but many have to pay out-of-pocket.