[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# Air transports of heads of state and government

by the Antigua and Barbuda Defence Force Air Wing for short-haul trips.

The Bahamas 
The government travels on turbo-prop and commercial aircraft.

Barbados 
The government travels on turbo-prop and commercial aircraft.

Belize 
The government travels on turbo-prop and commercial aircraft.

Canada 

The Royal Canadian Air Force operates five CC-150 Polaris aircraft (Airbus A310-300), flown by crews of 437 Transport Squadron based at CFB Trenton; four are configured as normal airliners with cargo transport and aerial refuelling capability, while one, No. 001, is operated in a VIP configuration and charged with flying the monarch, other members of the Royal Family, the governor general, the prime minister, and other high-ranking government officials and foreign dignitaries. This aircraft flies under the callsign "CFC01". The CC-150 Polaris is primarily used for long-distance trips; for short-distance trips, four CC-144 aircraft (Bombardier Challenger 600), operated by 412 Squadron are used. On 5 June 2020, it was announced that two of the CC-144 aircraft based on model 601 would be replaced by newer airframes based on model 650 due to issues of compatibility of the upcoming ADS-B standards.

Costa Rica 
The Air Surveillance Service is a department in the Ministry of Public Security which is in charge of police surveillance in airspace. This department has one Beechcraft King Air F90-1 and one MD 600N helicopter. The aircraft are available for surveillance and transportation for the president of Costa Rica and other government dignitaries. In 2018 Costa Rica bought one Beechcraft King Air 250. Commercial aircraft are also used when necessary.

Cuba 
Transportation for the First Secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba, President and Prime Minister is the responsibility of Cubana de Aviación, one of Cuba's state-owned airlines. Although the entire fleet is available for presidential use, the most commonly used aircraft is an Ilyushin Il-96 registered CU-T1250. The government has also been known to utilise aircraft from ally Venezuela's flag carrier Conviasa.

The aircraft fly under special Cubana callsigns.

Dominica
The government flies on turbo-prop or commercial aircraft.

Dominican Republic
The Air Force of the Dominican Republic or Fuerza Aérea de República Dominicana maintains the presidential helicopter fleet, which includes a Bell 430 and Eurocopter AS365 Dauphin and Eurocopter EC155 models, to transport the President of the Dominican Republic. For overseas and long-distance travel the president is transported on an Aero Commander 500 or on commercial or private aircraft.

The government of the Dominican Republic operated a Beech Super King Air in 2015.

El Salvador
El Salvador's President Nayib Bukele uses a version of the Bell 412 helicopter for local flights. The president also has military aircraft, helicopters and a presidential turboprop for his use.

For short-haul flights, a Beechjet 400A is used from its base at Ilopango Airport in the capital, San Salvador, and for long-haul flights, commercial aircraft are used.

Grenada
The government uses turbo-prop or commercial aircraft for travel.

Guatemala

The Guatemalan President usually travels in a Guatemalan Air Force Beechcraft King Air 300 turboprop aircraft, with capacity for 10 passengers, for international travels, or in a Guatemalan Air Force Bell 412 helicopter for travels inside Guatemala. For longer flights, or flights when the Guatemalan Air Force aircraft are unavailable, the president has been known to travel using commercial travel, or rented civilian aircraft.

Haiti 
The government uses turbo-prop and commercial aircraft.

Honduras 

The Honduran President used an IAI Westwind aircraft owned by the Honduran Air Force until October 2014 when it was changed for an Embraer Legacy 600. Newly elected president Xiomara Castro (2022) promised during her presidential campaign to sell the aircraft and fly commercial and use the money for social projects for the poor. She was later spotted using commercial aircraft during a state visit to China. The Embraer flies under the callsign FAH001.

Jamaica
The Jamaican government charters either commercial or private aircraft for use. Various helicopters from the Jamaica Defense Force fleet may also be used.

Mexico 

Current President Andrés Manuel López Obrador strictly flies commercial flights where possible.

His predecessors maintained a large fleet of aircraft for VIP use, including a Boeing 787 which was acquired under the Presidency of Felipe Calderón, and first and last used by president Enrique Peña Nieto in 2016. President Obrador has since sold most of these aircraft or stored them; in particular, the Boeing 787 was sold to the Government of Tajikistan in 2022.

Nicaragua
The government uses turbo-prop or commercial aircraft for travel.

Panama