[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# New Zealand nuclear-free zone

lear weapons is rooted in the belief that the proliferation of such weapons of mass destruction does not reflect an attempt to preserve peace in the form of a nuclear deterrent. New Zealand's nuclear-free zone option looks to remove the nation from under the nuclear umbrella.

Rainbow Warrior affair

Greenpeace continued an unrelenting protest offensive in French Polynesia until 1996. The Greenpeace vessel Rainbow Warrior was sunk by the French foreign intelligence agency (DGSE) while docked in Auckland harbour, New Zealand, on 10 July 1985.

It is often speculated that the sinking of the Rainbow Warrior was an act of revenge against Greenpeace and New Zealanders themselves for their successful campaigns to enforce a nuclear weapons test ban at Mururoa. When the French DGSE agents Commander Alain Mafart and Captain Dominique Prieur were captured in New Zealand and eventually sentenced to 10 years prison for their roles in sabotage of the Rainbow Warrior and manslaughter of Fernando Pereira, the French government threatened New Zealand with trade sanctions to the European Economic Community if the pair were not released.

Impact on diplomatic relationships

United States

New Zealand's nuclear movement had a major impact on diplomatic relationships with the United States. On 4 February 1985, Prime Minister David Lange declined a visit from the nuclear-capable USS Buchanan destroyer. The United States responded swiftly and stopped all intelligence flow to New Zealand. When the Labour government turned their policy into law with the New Zealand Nuclear Free Zone, Disarmament, and Arms Control Act 1987, New Zealand was effectively frozen out of ANZUS by the United States. New Zealand's diplomatic position was downgraded from being an ally to a "friend". Robert Muldoon called the Act the "ANZUS termination bill".

Despite this conflict, the bilateral trade and cultural relationship between the United States and New Zealand continued to flourish. The proportion of United States imports and exports in 1990 were greater than in 1984. Today, the ban on nuclear arms is no longer a factor straining United States and New Zealand diplomatic relations. The New Zealand Ministry of Foreign Affairs states that New Zealand and United States are close strategic partners, and they have a deep and longstanding friendship.

France

The French attack on the Rainbow Warrior "produced a sense of outrage and a serious deterioration in relations between New Zealand and France". 
France demanded New Zealand release the agents captured after the attack. To enforce their demand, the French Government threatened to strain New Zealand's access to the European market, and New Zealand exports to France were boycotted. Almost a year after the bombing, on 8 July 1986, United Nations Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar announced, that New Zealand would receive an apology and compensation of $13 million from France. The attackers, Dominique Prieur and Alain Mafart were to serve their sentences in full on Hao Atoll in French Polynesia. However, both prisoners were released early and were celebrated on their arrival home to France.

In 2016, French prime minister Manuel Valls said the Rainbow Warrior bombing that took place 30 years ago was a huge mistake. France is now New Zealand's third largest trading partner within Europe. New Zealand exports goods worth more than $373 million to France and the French Pacific Islands every year, according to New Zealand Trade and Enterprise.

Australia

New Zealand has a very close and significant relationship with Australia. When New Zealand passed the New Zealand Nuclear Free Zone, Disarmament, and Arms Control Act 1987, Australia found itself torn between not offending its longstanding ally (New Zealand) and upsetting its more strategic relationship with the United States. The Australian Government was unwilling to adopt New Zealand's nuclear stand. In November 1987, the summit between the prime ministers of Australia and New Zealand avoided the discussion of nuclear policy and concentrated on strengthening economic ties between the nations. However, New Zealand's relationship with Australia was not strained. The end of the ANZUS alliance saw Australia and New Zealand embark on the Closer Defence Relations (CDR) in 1991.

On 15 September 2021, Australia entered into AUKUS pact. As per this, Australia will get support from UK and US to develop and deploy nuclear-powered submarines. New Zealand will prohibit Australian nuclear-powered submarines from entering its waters.

Pacific Islands