[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mediatization (media)

age in English despite sounding awkward. Mediatization theory is part of a paradigmatic shift in media and communication research. Following the concept of mediation, mediatization has become a major concept for capturing how processes of communication transform society in large-scale relationships.

While the early theory building around mediatization had a strong center in Europe, many American media sociologists and media economists made observations about the effects of commercial mass media competition on news quality, public opinion, and the political processes. For example, David Altheide discussed how media logic distorts political news 
and John McManus demonstrated how economic competition violates media ethics and makes it difficult for citizens to evaluate the quality of the news. 
The European theorists readily embraced Altheide's concept of media logic, and the two lines of research are now integrated into one common paradigm.

The Schools of Mediatization 

Theorists have distinguished three theoretical schools of mediatization, listed below.

Institutionalist 
The main scholars of this school of mediatization are David Altheide and Robert Snow who coined the term media logic in 1979. 
Media logic refers to the form of communication and the process through which media transmit and communicate information. The logic of media forms the fund of knowledge that is generated and circulated in 
society.

Building on Marshall McLuhan, Altheide is discussing the role of communication formats for the recognition, definition, selection, organization, and presentation of experience. A central thesis is that social activities are affected more by knowledge than by wealth and force. A consequence of this is that power is influenced by the technology of communication. For example, Gutenberg's printing press enabled wide distribution of his Bible which was a threat to the dominance of the Catholic Church.

Altheide has emphasized that social order is communicated. It has severe consequences if this communication is exaggerated and dramatized to fit the media logic. The media may create moral panics by exaggerating and misrepresenting social problems. One example documented by Altheide is a media panic over missing children in the 1980s. The media gave the impressions that many children were abducted by criminals, when in fact most of the children listed as missing were runaways or involved in custody disputes.

The penchant of the media for emotional drama and horror may lead to gonzo journalism and perversion of justice. Altheide describes "gonzo justice" as a process where the media become active players in the persecution of perceived wrongdoers, where public humiliation replaces court trials without concern for due process and civil liberties. Gonzo journalism can have severe consequences for democracy and international relations when, for example, international conflicts are presented by dramatizing the evil of foreign heads of state, such as Muammar Gaddafi, Manuel Noriega, and Saddam Hussein.

Socio-constructivist 
The social constructivist school of mediatization theory involves discussions at a high level of abstraction in order to embrace the complexity of the interaction between mass media and other fields of society. The theorists are not denying the relevance of empirical research of causal connections, but they are warning against a linear understanding of process and change.

The theorists want to avoid the extreme positions of either technological determinism or social determinism. Their approach is not media-centric in the sense of a one-sided approach to causality, but media-centered in the sense of a holistic understanding of the various intersecting social forces at work, but allowing a particular perspective and emphasis on the role of the media in these processes.

The concept of media logic is criticized with the argument that there is not one media logic but many media logics, depending on the context.

Andreas Hepp, a leading theorist of the constructivist school of mediatization theory, is describing the role of the mass media not as a driving force but as a molding force. This is not a direct effect of the material structure of the media. The molding force of the media only becomes concrete in different ways of mediation that are highly contextual.