[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sustainable Development Strategy in Canada

es and responsibilities in achieving conformance with the environmental policy and procedures and with the requirements of the environmental management system, including emergency preparedness and response requirements; and
The potential consequences of departure from specified operating procedures.

Personnel performing the tasks which can cause significant environmental impacts should be competent on the basis of appropriate education, training and/or experience.

Managers

Managers need to be knowledgeable of Sustainable Development and the action plan commitments that encompass their office. Goal one should be a strategy to prepare managers to contribute to Sustainable Development. As the organization moves towards meeting commitments presented in this report, managers will be able to readily access resources to aid them.  The integration of 'sustainable' thinking into existing management tools and processes and daily practices is an important component of Sustainable Development strategy.  As a manager, they are responsible to enable their employees to contribute to Sustainable Development by providing them with information about the Sustainable Development and other resource information available to them. They should also be supporting employee initiatives to contribute to Sustainable Development, including actions such as recycling, green procurement of supplies, organizing 'green' meetings, and integrating Sustainable Development into their day-to-day activities.

Action plan

The average federal employee generates 190 kilograms of solid non-hazardous waster per year. 74% is paper, including fine paper, low grade paper, paper towels, newsprint, coated paper and cardboard.

The 3Rs
To be effective, the organization has to incorporate waste minimisation with the waste hierarchy known as the 3Rs: (i) Reduce; (ii) Reuse; and (iii) Recycle into their daily routine.

Reduce

Reducing the amount of waste produced is by far the most effective way to battle the flow of garbage into the landfill.  Reduce because what is not produced cannot pollute. Reducing consumption saves money and reduces pollution. There are many opportunities to reduce the amount of waste generated simply by changing individual habits and office procedures.

Reuse

Reuse means suitable to use again or for further use.  It is the quality or state of being to be reusable.  What cannot be reduced they should try to reuse.  After a product or material has been used once, every effort should be made to reuse it. Products that can be reused should be favored over those that are non-reusable.

Recycling

Recycling is the process of returning to a previous stage of a cyclic process; converting waste into usable form; the ability to use again with little or no alteration.  Once a product or its packaging has reached the end of its useful life and cannot be reused, it should be recycled. Recycling moderates demand for natural resources and it contributes positively to waste management by reducing the amount of waste destined for landfill.

Computer

Computer equipment includes desktop personal computers (PCs), laptops, monitors and peripherals: i.e., cables, printers, scanners, keyboards and speakers. In 1998, nearly 50% of households in Canada had computers and that number is steadily increasing. Due to technological innovations and market expansion of computer equipment and software, PCs are now becoming obsolete at increasing rates and are globally one of the fastest-growing components of municipal waste streams.  The average first life, the amount of time the PC is useful to its original owner, is now 2–4 years. In the year 2005, a PC's first life was decreased by another year.  Considering reuse and storage options, the total lifespan, the period from manufacture to disposal, of a PC is estimated at 3–6 years.

Some materials in computer equipment, such as heavy metals, including lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium, cadmium and brominated flame-retardants are highly toxic to the environment, wildlife and human health if mismanaged. InKind Canada donated 1092 used computers to charitable organizations in 1999  and reBOOT Canada, a non-profit charity in Toronto, resold 3000 computers in 1999. In addition, there is a program called "Computers for Schools" co-founded in 1993 by Industry Canada and the TelecomPioneers, refurbishes computers and related equipment donated by governments and businesses. These computers are distributed across Canada to schools, libraries and registered not-for-profit learning organizations.

Between 70-90% of the material in scrap computer equipment, by weight, is potentially recyclable or reusable. For instance, materials such as steel, aluminum, copper, glass and some plastics, can be recovered. Obsolete computer equipment that is properly pre-treated: i.e., toxic components removed, and disassembled can promote the conservation of natural resources and prevent hazardous substances from entering the environment.