[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human rights in Greece

stained from brutal police beatings. Amnesty International called for action to prosecute those who were behind the assaults, stating that within the Greek police there is a culture of "abuse and impunity" which remains as authorities have taken very little action to address the root of the problem.

A German exchange student said he was beaten randomly by riot police in the Exarheia district, stating his only reason for being there was that he was eating with other students. The student gave a horrifying description of the violence he endured and cowered in a corner when he saw police because a few weeks before he had witnessed police beating a man they had arrested. He claimed that upon spotting him, about six police officers began assaulting him with their batons, and when they left they were replaced by another group of police. The student was unarmed and posed no threat but the police were ruthlessly brutal in their actions. It has been indicated that riot police left beaten and gravely injured individuals without any medical assistance. Amnesty International urges Greece to effectively and promptly investigate these crimes against civilians, which violate human rights, and hold perpetrators accountable.
 May 2011: student Yannis Kafkas suffered an almost fatal head injury after a police officer hit him with a fire extinguisher. Kafkas spent 20 days in intensive care.
 June 2011: Manolis Kipraios, journalist, was covering protests against austerity measures when a member of the riot police fired a stun grenade at him and caused him to suffer from permanent hearing loss.
 February 2012: photojournalist Marios Lolos had to have surgery done after being beaten in the head by police at a protest. The day before this attack another journalist Rena Maniou was allegedly severely beaten by security forces. Dimitris Trimis, the head of The Greek Journalist Association (ESEA) broke his arm after he was violently pushed and kicked by police.

There have been instances where protesters were used as human shields – a photo of a female protester in handcuffs ahead of policeman as people threw rocks at the police has gained considerable media attention.

None of the cases of police brutality above resulted in any prosecution of police force members. One case that sparked nationwide riots was the death of 15-year-old Alexis Grigoropoulos, who was shot dead by a police officer in December 2008 during demonstrations in Athens, sparkling large riots against police brutality. Unlike other cases, the police officer responsible was convicted of murder.

Reports of police brutality have again increased in the end of 2019, including against journalists and students demonstrating against the abolition of a law restricting officers from accessing university campuses. Arbitrary strip-searches have been documented in a variety of cases as part of the ill-treatment. There were significant suspicions that these frequent events were not rare and were not immune to the omnipresent atmosphere of impunity for such behavior.

Conscientious objection 
In 2020, Amnesty International reported that a continuation of "serious violations" of the rights of conscientious objectors occurred resulting in arrests, prosecutions, fines, trials in military courts, repeated punishment and suspended prison sentences. The replacement service is also much longer than the military service and is therefore regarded as a punishment for prisoners of conscience.

Amnesty International
According to Amnesty International's 2007 report on Greece, there are problems in the following areas:
Treatment of migrants and refugees by the Greek police.
Treatment of conscientious objectors to military service.
Failure to grant necessary protection to women victims of domestic violence or trafficking and forced prostitution.
The report also highlights cases involving arbitrary arrests in the context of the 'war on terror' and Greece's conviction by the European Court of Human Rights for violating Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights by convicting an unofficial mufti for 'usurping the function of a minister of a "known religion"'.

US State Department

The US Department of State's 2007 report on human rights in Greece identified the following issues:
Cases of abuse by security forces, particularly of illegal immigrants and Roma.
Overcrowding and harsh conditions in some prisons.
Detention of undocumented migrants in squalid conditions.
Restrictions and administrative obstacles faced by members of non‑Orthodox religions.
Detention and deportation of unaccompanied or separated immigrant minors, including asylum seekers.
Limits on the ability of ethnic minority groups to self-identify, and discrimination against and social exclusion of ethnic minorities, particularly Roma.