[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals

ke recommendations for consideration by the next COP
 To provide advice and guidance to the secretariat
 To represent the COP in negotiations with the Host Government and UNEP with regard to the secretariat
 To act as a bureau at the COP
 To undertake any other ad hoc task assigned to it by the COP.

The committee is composed of 15 members who are elected to serve three-year terms, or from the end of one COP until the end of the next. Alternate members are also selected. Under Resolution 9.15, the composition is as follows:
 Three members from each of the geographic regions of Africa and Europe,
 Two members from each of the geographic regions of Asia and South and Central America and the Caribbean,
 One member from each of the geographic regions of North America and Oceania;
 The Depositary, and Host Government of the secretariat
 The Host Government of the next and previous meetings of the COP

Scientific Council (ScC) 
The main objective of the Scientific Council is to provide advice on scientific matters to CMS bodies, as well as CMS states parties. The council makes recommendations to the COP issues such as research on migratory species, specific conservation and management measures, the inclusion of migratory species in the Appendices and designation of species for Concerted or Cooperative Actions under the convention.

The functions of the Scientific Council are enumerated in Article VIII of the convention. However, it was not established until 1985 under Resolution 1.4 of COP 1. Each state party is entitled to appoint one qualified expert as a member of the Scientific Council, as well as one alternate scientific councillor. Additionally, the COP may also appoint to the council other experts to cover fields of particular interest to the convention.

Sessional Committee 
In 2014, at COP 11, a new sub-body of the Scientific Council was created via Resolution 11.4. This representative selection of the membership of the Scientific Council is called the Sessional Committee. It is composed of nine COP-appointed councillors, as well as fifteen party-appointed councillors (three from Africa; three from Asia; three from Europe; three from Oceania; three from South and Central America and the Caribbean).

The Sessional Committee works during the intersessional period between two consecutive meetings of the COP, and is responsible for the implementation of the mandate assigned to the Scientific Council by the COP. All work done by the Sessional Committee is considered work of the Scientific Council.

Secretariat 
THE CMS secretariat acts as the convention's coordinating body. The CMS Secretariat is provided and administered by the United Nations Environment Programme.

The functions of the secretariat are laid out in Article IX of the convention. They include: arranging for and servicing meetings of the COP, Scientific Council and Standing Committee, maintaining liaison between the states parties, disseminating information that furthers the objectives and implementation CMS, preparing COP reports, promote the conclusion of CMS Agreements, among other functions.

The secretariat has been based in Bonn, Germany, since its creation, but was relocated to the United Nations Campus in Bonn in 1998. Additionally, since 2009, the secretariat also maintains an out-post office in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The Abu Dhabi office oversees implementation of the MOU on the Conservation of Migratory Birds of Prey in Africa and Eurasia, and the MOU on the Conservation and Management of Dugongs and their Habitats throughout their range. The office is hosted by the Environment Agency – Abu Dhabi.

The current executive secretary of the convention is Amy Fraenkel.

Implementation

Reporting
Article 6(3) requires parties which are range states for migratory species listed in Appendix I or II to inform the CoP through the secretariat, at least six months prior to each ordinary meeting of the conference, on measures that they are taking to implement the convention for these species.

Domestic legislation
To varying degrees the Bonn Convention has been incorporated into domestic law by the parties.