[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Subtitle B of Title III of the Patriot Act

y to U.S. government authorities who conduct investigations or intelligence or counter-intelligence activities in relation to domestic or international terrorism. Financial records that are obtained under a subpoena from a Federal grand jury can now also be used for the purposes of counter-terrorism

The Fair Credit Reporting Act was amended to require consumer reporting agencies provide customer reports of a customer and all other information in a customer's file available to a government agency that is authorized to conduct counter-terrorism activities when presented with a written certificate by the agency. The consumer agency may not disclose to anyone that they have provided such information to the agency who requested the information. The consumer reporting agency, and any employee of the agency, is given safe harbor for providing such information, if it can be proven that it was done in good faith.

All the amendments made by section 358 of the Patriot Act apply with respect to reports filed or records maintained on, before, or after the date of enactment of the Act.

Sec. 359. Reporting of suspicious activities by underground banking systems
Under the BSA, any person or group of people who transfer money as a business are defined as a money services business in order to bring those who operate informal value transfer systems outside of the mainstream financial system under the law. The amendments include "a licensed sender of money or any other person who engages as a business in the transmission of funds, including any person who engages as a business in an informal money transfer system or any network of people who engage as a business in facilitating the transfer of money domestically or internationally outside of the conventional financial institutions system" in the definition of a "financial institution" under the BSA. The BSA definition of a "money transmitting business" was also similarly amended. The rules promulgated under section 21 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act was amended to apply to "any person that engages as a business in the transmission of funds, including any person who engages as a business in an informal money transfer system or any network of people who engage as a business in facilitating the transfer of money domestically or internationally outside of the conventional financial institutions system". This makes it easier for authorities to regulate, and investigate anti-money laundering operations in this segment of the U.S. economy.

The section also called for a report to congress on the need for any additional legislation relating to such people. The report found that:
 Existing BSA regulations are applicable to the U.S.-based operators of informal value transfer systems.
 That research did not suggest an immediate need for additional legislation, and neither did it suggest a need to change the threshold for the filing of Suspicious Activity Reports.
 The adequacy of the existing BSA rules should be reexamined over the course of U.S. Treasury's multi-year effort to enhance regulatory compliance among the operators of informal value transfer systems.
 The law enforcement and regulatory communities should undertake a comprehensive program to enhance their knowledge concerning the range of mechanisms used in informal value transfer systems in order to better understand them and to determine whether they think that any additional legislation is needed.

Sec. 360. Use of authority of U.S. Executive Directors
The Patriot Act allows the United States President to instruct any United States Executive Directors of the international financial institutions (for example, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank) to use their authority (termed "voice and vote") to support any loan or other utilization of the funds of respective institutions for countries that have shown to "take actions that contribute to efforts of the United States to respond to, deter, or prevent acts of international terrorism". The Secretary of Treasury is also given the authority to instruct the Executive Directors to aggressively use the voice and vote of the Executive Director to require an auditing of disbursements made from their institutions to ensure that no funds are paid to persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism.