[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Filipino immigration to Mexico

arrio San Juan of Mexico City, although in modern times, the area has become more associated with later Chinese migrants. A notably large settlement of Filipinos during the colonial era is Coyuca de Benítez along the Costa Grande of Guerrero, which at one point in history was called "Filipino town".

In the late 19th and early 20th century some Filipinos came to Mexico as refugees from Spain during Francisco Franco’s dictatorship. These Filipinos were descendants of Filipino and Filipino mestizo settlers who entered Spain after the Spanish–American War. Smaller waves of Filipino migration to Mexico took place in the late 19th and 20th centuries after the Philippines was annexed by the U.S. during the Spanish–American War of 1898–1900. A number of Filipino farm laborers and fishermen arrived to work in the Mexican west coast. These areas included the Baja California, Sonora and Sinaloa, while some had awaited to enter the United States to reunite with family members in Filipino American communities in California, and elsewhere. Mexican immigration law continues to grant special status for Filipinos.

Today, newly arrived Filipinos are overseas or contract workers who came to Mexico to obtain employment. Most of these individuals speak at least one of the Philippine languages.

Influence
The Filipinos introduced many cultural practices to Mexico, such as the method of making palm wine, called "tubâ",  the mantón de Manila,  the chamoy, and possibly the guayabera (called filipina in Veracruz and the Yucatán Peninsula). Distillation technology for the production of tequila and mezcal was also introduced by Filipino migrants in the late 16th century, via the adaptation of the stills used in the production of Philippine palm liquor (lambanog) which were introduced to Colima with tubâ.

Filipino words also entered Mexican vernacular, such as the word for palapa (originally meaning "coconut palm leaf petiole" in Tagalog), which became applied to a type of thatching using coconut leaves that resembles the Filipino nipa hut.

Various crops were also introduced from the Philippines, including coconuts, the Ataulfo and Manilita mangoes, abacá, rice, and bananas.

A genetic study in 2018 found that around a third of the population of Guerrero have 10% Filipino ancestry.

Historical records
Colonial-era Filipino immigrants to Mexico are difficult to trace in historical records because of several factors. The most significant factor being the use of the terms indio and chino. In the Philippines, natives were known as indios, but they lost that classification when they reached the Americas, since the term in New Spain referred to Native Americans. Instead they were called chinos, leading to the modern confusion of early Filipino immigrants with the much later Chinese immigrants in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Intermarriage and assimilation into Native American communities also buried the true extent of Filipino immigration, as they became indistinguishable from the bulk of the peasantry. 

Another factor is the pre-colonial Filipino (and Southeast Asian) tradition of not having last names. Filipinos and Filipino migrants acquired Spanish surnames, either after conversion to Christianity or enforced by the Catálogo alfabético de apellidos during the mid-19th century. This makes it very difficult to trace Filipino immigrants in colonial records.

Notable Mexicans of Filipino descent
 Ramón Fabié - Lieutenant Colonel commander of Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla
 Luis Pinzón - Military commander of José María Morelos
 Isidoro Montes de Oca – Mexican General and Lieutenant commander of Vicente Guerrero
 Francisco Mongoy - Military commander of Vicente Guerrero
 Romeo Tabuena – painter and printmaker
 Alejandro Gómez Maganda – Governor of Guerrero (1951–1954)
 Guadalupe Gómez Maganda - Daughter of Alejandro Gómez Maganda and Senator of the Republic/Mexico (1982-1988,1994-2000)
 Lili Rosales – Representative of Mexico in the Reina Hispanoamericana 2011 beauty contest
 Miguel A. Reina -  Mexican filmmaker, screenwriter and film producer.

See also

Mexico–Philippines relations
Manila galleon
Mexican settlement in the Philippines
Mestizos in Mexico
Filipino mestizo

References

External links
Color Q World: Asian-Latino Intermarriage in the Americas
Filipinos in Mexican History
Afro-Filipino Mongoys  (Photo of General Francisco Mongoy's descendants in the State of Guerrero)
Insurgent Leaders during Mexican War of Independence against Spain

Asian Mexican
 
Ethnic groups in Mexico
Mexico
Filipino Latin American
Immigration to Mexico
Mexico–Philippines relations