[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kosher locust

while for other species the reliability of local traditions is more speculative. Both the desert locust, and the less common migratory locust, are classified as arbeh. So too, presumably, is the Moroccan locust (Dociostaurus maroccanus), which may have been traditionally eaten by North African Jews.

The greyish or brownish Egyptian locust is thought by some to belong to the category of hagav, though other opinions identify it with tziporet hakeramim (a variation of arbeh). In Yemen it was known by the generic Arabic name al-Jaraad (), which generally referred to arbeh. However, the terms hagav in Hebrew and al-Jaraad in Arabic could both be used as generic names for all kosher locusts, causing some confusion in terms of this species' classification. Apparently, the hagav category is similar in appearance to arbeh, except that it does not swarm.

The tradition of recognizing and eating chargol and sal'am was lost by Yemenite Jews (except Habbani Jews) prior to their migration to Israel in the mid-20th century. Amar speculates that sal'am might refer to the Acrida and Truxalis families, while chargol might refer to species in Tettigoniidae such as Decticus albifrons.

According to Yemenite Jewish tradition, the edible locust referred to in the Torah is identified by the figure resembling the Hebrew letter chet (ח) on the underside of the thorax. Some explain that a distinguishing characteristic of kosher grasshoppers is that they sometimes swarm.

In Yemen, the locust and the grasshopper share the same Arabic name, although Jews in Yemen recognize the differences between the two.

In 1911, Abraham Isaac Kook, the chief rabbi of Ottoman Palestine, addressed a question to the rabbinic Court at Sana'a concerning their custom of eating grasshoppers, and whether this custom was observed by observing their outward features, or by simply relying upon an oral tradition.
 The reply given to him by the court was as follows: "The grasshoppers which are eaten by way of a tradition from our forefathers, which happen to be clean, are well-known unto us. But there are yet other species which have all the recognizable features of being clean, yet we do practice abstaining from them. [Appendage]: The clean grasshoppers () about which we have a tradition are actually three species having each one different coloration [from the other], and each of them are called by us in the Arabian tongue, ğarād (locusts). But there are yet other species, about which we have no tradition, and we will not eat them. One of which is a little larger in size than the grasshoppers, having the name of `awsham. There is yet another variety, smaller in size than the grasshopper, and it is called ḥanājir (katydids)."

Ruling of ibn Attar
In the Jewish community of Djerba, the consumption of locusts was forbidden by a takkanah of Rabbi Aharon Perez in the mid-18th century. According to his letter to Rabbi David Eliyahu Hajaj, eating locusts was still an accepted practice in Tunisia at the time.

Although Perez was consumer of locusts himself, he quit the habit after reading Rabbi Chaim ibn Attar's book Peri To`ar, and moved in favour to prohibit consumption. Rashi explained that the term "jumping legs" in the Mishnah refers to legs that are adjacent to the locust's neck. However, no locust consumed in ibn Attar's time possesses such a body plan (instead, the jumping legs are located at the back of the animal), leading ibn Attar to conclude that the species being consumed were not the Torah's permitted locusts.

However, as the practice was still widely accepted in the city of Tunis—the rabbinical court of which was considered to have the higher authority—Perez kept his decision to himself without making it public. After the prohibition against eating locusts was finally declared in Tunis, Perez encouraged banning the practice in Djerba as well.