[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Exit & Entry Permit Taiwan

The Exit & Entry Permit for Taiwan, Republic of China, literally the Exit & Entry Permit for the Taiwan Area of the Republic of China (Chinese:中華民國臺灣地區入出境許可證), is the document for the bearer to enter into and/or depart from the Taiwan Area, namely Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu. Currently, there are several types of Exit & Entry Permit that reflect the bearer's residency status. The permit is issued by the National Immigration Agency of the Republic of China (Taiwan). For different purposes, the permit is also known as:

 Taiwan Entry Permit (), the travel document issued to the residents of the People's Republic of China (PRC) (including Mainland China, Hong Kong, and Macau) for short term visits to Taiwan. The single-entry permit is a color printed A4 paper, while the multiple-entry permit is a sky blue passport-size booklet. Despite its name, the permit must be used in conjunction with a valid travel document when entering Taiwan, as the permit itself is not a travel document. Specific permanent residents of Hong Kong and Macau are eligible to apply for the permit online or upon arrival in Taiwanese airports.
 Kinmen–Matsu Permit (), the travel document issued to the people who has household registration in Kinmen, Matsu, and Penghu to travel to and back from the People's Republic of China through the designated sea ports in these three places. In 2017, a new design of biometric IC card has replaced the historical sky blue passport-size booklet. This type of permit is a valid travel document and the holder can pass the Taiwanese border control without a Taiwan passport. However, to enter Mainland China, a Mainland Travel Permit for Taiwan Residents issued by the PRC is required.

History
Prior to the handover of Hong Kong and Macau, the permit was a passport-like booklet, with the flag of the Republic of China imprinted on the cover. Holders of PRC passports, ROC passports or any travel documents not issued by Hong Kong or Macau were not eligible for the permit.

When Hong Kong was under British rule, holders of British Dependent Territories citizen and British National (Overseas) passports were required to apply for the permit to visit Taiwan, but British citizens were eligible for visa-free access. The permit was also required for holders of Hong Kong Certificate of Identity. Prior to 1997, the permit had to be applied at the Chung Hwa Travel Service in Hong Kong or the Taipei Trade and Tourism Office in Macau. Since the handovers of sovereignty, the application procedures have been eased over time. In 2010, Hong Kong and Macau residents can apply for the simplified Entry Permit without fee charges and can be approved instantly, or they can use the permit-on-arrival service.

As travelling to Taiwan for tourism purposes was not legalized until 2008 for Mainland residents, very few of the permits were issued before then. Since then, travel restrictions for Mainland Chinese have been gradually lifted by the Taiwanese government, although a quota system remains in place.

Eligibility

Residents in Hong Kong and Macau
For residents in Hong Kong and Macau, only holders of HKSAR, MSAR and BN(O) passports with no other travel documents issued by any other country (thereby excludes anyone with multiple citizenship, except persons with both BN(O) and HKSAR passports) are eligible for the permit. Under Taiwanese law, those with nationality or citizenship in another country are no longer considered as "residents in Hong Kong and Macau" and must comply with the visa requirements of their non-Chinese (or BN(O)) nationality or citizenship. For example, a resident in Hong Kong with both HKSAR and British citizen passports must use their British citizen passport to enter Taiwan. Likewise, a resident in Macau with both MSAR and Portuguese passports will need to use the Portuguese one as well. Those with HKSAR, MSAR or BN(O) passports who also have nationalities or passports from a non-visa-exempt country (e.g., Brazil) are required to apply for a Taiwanese visa.

Unlike most Chinese residents, residents in Hong Kong and Macau are not subject to a daily quota of this permit regardless of place of application.

Chinese residents
Chinese residents who apply from China are subject to the quota set forth by the Taiwanese and Chinese governments. As of May 2016, Chinese resident visitors applying from China are subject to a daily quota imposed by Taiwan of 14,600 persons per day, with half of the quota available to individual tour applicants. It was reported that the Chinese authorities also has an unofficial "soft cap" on the numbers of individual and group tourists, ranging from 40% to 50% of the Taiwanese quota. If the daily quota is met, then subsequent applications will no longer be processed until the day with sufficient spaces is reached. In contrast, Chinese residents who hold permanent or non-permanent residence status in a third country or region (including Hong Kong and Macau) are not subject to the quota.