[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Ștefan Voitec

was simultaneously promoted to its Politburo. Voitec's merger still created situations in which noted anti-communists had found themselves as card-carrying members of a communist party. One such case was that of Ecaterina Bălăcioiu, widow of the culture critic Eugen Lovinescu.

Collective presidency

Voitec's work was still deemed unreliable by the PMR, which organized its own "Political Education Commission", effectively doubling and controlling his Ministry. Under its auspices, Voitec prepared for an overhaul of Romanian education, which was now set to copy the Soviet model; in 1947, he himself led a delegation to study Soviet education practices. Some thirty years later, he acknowledged having received only three directives from Soviet advisors: he was to preserve French as a preferred second language of study, but progressively introduce Russian as the third, substitute Marxism for divinity, and introduce a heavy reliance on mathematics. Applied and "cooperative sciences" were the focus in his creation of Craiova University. Formally established in 1947, it was only partly functional from March 1948, and only existed as a school of agronomy until 1966. 

In October 1947, Voitec addressed a congress of the teachers' unions, underscoring the education was to be reformed to "remove destructive ideology from Romanian culture and, above all, from the minds of youths"; in the coming age, dialectical and historical materialism were to be recognized as the bases of all schooling. His measures at the time included opening up Hungarian schools for the Csángós of Cleja, Gârleni and Răcăciuni—as noted by Hungarian journalist Elvira Oláh-Gál, he was mimicking Soviet nationalist policy "in the Stalinist tradition." From November, communist Gheorghe Vasilichi became Minister Voitec's Secretary, and, effectively, his supervisor. Under Vasilichi's watch, the PMR issued circular letters referring to the "messy chaos at the Ministry", and compiled evidence that Voitec had done little to replace old-regime legislation. 

Together with Parhon, Mihail Sadoveanu, Gheorghe Stere, and Ion Niculi, Voitec was a member of the People's Republic Presidium—created by Law No. 363 after Michael I's forced abdication on December 30, 1947. Initially, this was designed as a regency, as prescribed under the 1923 Constitution of Romania, but Groza prohibited all mention of the old institutions even before the country could be formally proclaimed a republic. Voitec was one of the first appointees to the Presidium, before Groza ceded his seat to Sadoveanu. Four of the Presidium members were sworn in on the evening of December 30; Stere was only found and inducted on December 31. On January 1, 1948, the Presidium members attended a public rally outside the Royal Palace. Diarist Pericle Martinescu reports that the affair was unusually low-key, with unenthusiastic chants by PMR cadres braving the heavy snowfall, but nonetheless "interesting".

According to historian Apostol Stan, this new constitutional arrangement signaled the introduction of "communist totalitarianism under a republican guise." During his brief tenure within the Presidium, Voitec traveled to the newly proclaimed Hungarian Republic, invited there for the Revolutionary Centennial. As noted by Victor Eftimiu, his speech to the Hungarian Assembly marked the first time a Romanian could report there about "the good relations being formed between the Romanian people and co-inhabiting nationalities, of which the Hungarian group is the most important." From April 14, Voitec served as Deputy Prime Minister in Groza's second cabinet, coordinating all cultural offices. This made him "the highest-ranking among members of [the formerly Social Democratic] group" in government. He had nevertheless lost his Ministry on December 29 or 30, 1947, after falling out of favor with Stalinists. Reportedly, Voitec himself blamed Pauker, who, according to his account, had claimed that Voitec had misquoted the advice of his Soviet contacts, to make it seem more liberal.