[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vampire Hunter D (1985 film)

ket due to its violent content and influence from European horror mythology (such as the films of British film studio Hammer Film Productions). The film's limited budget made its technical quality comparable to most anime television series and other OVAs, but not with most theatrical animated films.

During the film's production, director Toyoo Ashida stated that his intention for the film was to create an OVA that people who had been tired from studying or working hard would enjoy watching, instead of watching something that would make them "feel even more tired".

Yoshitaka Amano, the illustrator of the original novels, acted as character designer for the OVA. However, alternative designs were provided by Ashida (who also acted as the film's animation director), and elements from both artists’ works were combined to create final designs by the animators. Acclaimed pop artist Tetsuya Komuro was responsible for the film's soundtrack, and also performed the film's ending theme, 'Your Song', with his fellow members of TM Network.

Vampire Hunter D was the first of several film adaptations (both live-action and animated) of Hideyuki Kikuchi's works. Several of these (Wicked City, Demon City Shinjuku and Vampire Hunter D: Bloodlust) were directed by Yoshiaki Kawajiri of Madhouse.

Release 
Vampire Hunter D was released on theatrically on December 21, 1985 where it was distributed by Toho. A laserdisc by CBS Sony Group Inc. was released on the same date. A Region 2 DVD release of the film was released by SME Visual Works in Japan on February 21, 2001. An English-language version of the OVA was produced in 1992 by Streamline Pictures, and was shown on the fine-arts theatrical circuit in the US in August 1992. The Streamline dub was then released on VHS on March 26, 1993. This initial release was followed by a re-release on VHS by Streamline's parent company, Orion Pictures, and a laserdisc release by Lumivison. The film was also shown several times on American television during the 1990s, including on TBS, Cartoon Network and the Sci-Fi Channel. Vampire Hunter D is considered a flagship title for Streamline, and was marketed in the US as ‘the first animated horror film for adults.’

In 2000, Urban Vision Entertainment, the US production partner and distributor of Vampire Hunter D: Bloodlust, re-released the OVA on a ‘Special Edition’ bilingual DVD on October 17 containing the original Japanese audio and a Dolby Digital 5.1 remix of the Streamline dub, as well as releasing dubbed and subtitled versions of the film on VHS. The Special Edition DVD release was duplicated by Manga Entertainment for a UK release on July 5, 2004, as well as by Madman Entertainment in Australia on August 31, 2005. Madman reissued their Special Edition DVD on July 23, 2014.

On April 16, 2015, Sentai Filmworks announced their license to the film in North America for digital and home video release. The film was released on August 25, 2015 on Blu-ray and DVD with a new English dub.

Footnotes

References

External links 
 
 
 

Vampire Hunter D
1985 action films
1985 fantasy films
1985 anime films
1985 films
1985 horror films
Action anime and manga
Aniplex
Ashi Productions
Dark fantasy anime and manga
Dracula films
Fiction set in the 7th millennium or beyond
Films directed by Toyoo Ashida
Animated films set in castles
Animated films set in the future
Japanese action horror films
Japanese animated horror films
Japanese supernatural horror films
Sentai Filmworks
Toho animated films
Animated films about vampires
Animated films about werewolves
1980s American films

ja:吸血鬼ハンターD#OVA