[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Armenians in Syria

rity of Armenians of the Armenian Apostolic (also known as Oriental Orthodox Armenian) faith are under the jurisdiction of the Holy See of Cilicia (based in Antelias, Lebanon) of the Armenian Apostolic Church. However, the Diocese of Damascus pledges allegiance to the Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin.

The Apostolic Armenian population in Syria belongs to one of the 3 following prelacies:
Diocese of Beroea (in Aleppo), was founded in 1432 by the Great House of Cilicia. Hovakim of Beroea became the first bishop of Aleppo between 1432 and 1442. The estimated population of the diocese all over Syria is about 70,000 Armenians. The prelacy has the following church buildings under its jurisdiction in Syria:
Forty Martyrs Cathedral of Aleppo (1491)
Surp Krikor Lusavorich (Saint Gregory the Illuminator) Church of Aleppo
Surp Hagop Church of Aleppo (1943)
Surp Kevork Church of Aleppo (1965)
Church of the Holy Mother of God of Aleppo (1983)
Surp Hripsime Church of Yacoubiyah village
Surp Anna Church of Yacoubiyah village
Holy Mother of God Church of Latakia
Holy Mother of God Church of Kessab
Holy Mother of God Church of Karadouran, Kessab
Surp Stepanos Church of Karadouran, Kessab
Surp Kevork Armenian Church of Ghnemiyeh village
Surp Stepanos Church of Aramo village
Holy Cross Church of Tell Abyad
Armenian Genocide Martyrs' Memorial Church-Complex of Deir ez-Zor
Holy Resurrection Chapel of Margadeh village
Diocese of Jezireh (in Qamishli) under the jurisdiction of the Great House of Cilicia. The prelacy has the following church buildings under its jurisdiction in Syria:
Surp Hagop Cathedral in Qamishli
Surp Hovhannu Garabed Church in Al-Hasakah
Holy Mother of God Church in Al-Malikiyah (formerly Dayrik)
Holy Mother of God Church in Ras al-Ayn
Diocese of Damascus under the jurisdiction of the Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin. The prelacy has the following church buildings under its jurisdiction in Syria:
Surp Sarkis Cathedral of Damascus
Surp Mesrob Mashdots Church of Homs

Catholic Armenians

Catholic Armenians are members of the Armenian Catholic Church. The Catholic Armenian population in Syria belongs to one of the 4 following prelacies under the jurisdiction of the Armenian Catholic Patriarchate of Cilicia:
Archeparchy of Aleppo: the first official Armenian Catholic Prelate in Aleppo was Bishop Abraham Ardzivian (1710–1740). In 1740, he became the first Armenian Catholic Catholicos-Patriarch of Cilicia, appointed by Pope Benedict XIV in 1742 in Lebanon. Currently, the number of the Catholic believers of the Armenian Catholic Archeparchy of Aleppo is approximately 15,000. The prelacy has the following church buildings under its jurisdiction in Syria:
Cathedral of Our Mother of Reliefs of Aleppo (1840)
Holy Saviour – Saint Barbara Church of Aleppo (1937)
Church of Our Lady of Annunciation of Aleppo (1942)
Holy Trinity Church of Aleppo (1965)
Holy Cross Church of Aleppo (1993)
Holy Mother of God – Martyrs Church of Raqqa
Patriarchal Exarchate of Damascus: the Armenian Catholic community in Damascus was organized in 1763 during the period of Catholicos Michael Petros III Kasparian. In 1863, the first Armenian Catholic church in Damascus was consecrated. The ground-breaking of the new church and the prelacy building in Bab Touma district took place in 1959. In 1969, the first Armenian Catholic bishop in Damascus was appointed. Since 1984, the Armenian Catholic bishop carries the title of Patriarchal exarchate. The prelacy has the following church building under its jurisdiction in Syria:
Notre-Dame Cathedral of the Universe of Damascus
Eparchy of Qamishli: covers the eastern regions of Syria (Al-Jazira, Upper Mesopotamia) including the governorates of Al-Hasakah and Deir ez-Zor. The prelacy has the following church buildings under its jurisdiction in Syria:
Saint Joseph Cathedral of Qamishli
Holy Family Church of Al-Hasakah
Saint Gregory the Illuminator Church of Deir ez-Zor
Diocese of Kessab: covers the Catholic Armenian population in the Latakia Governorate. The prelacy has the following church buildings under its jurisdiction in Syria:
Saint Michael the Archangel Church of Kessab
Church of Our Lady of Assumption of Baghjaghaz, Kessab

The Armenian Catholic Church has 2 Convents in Syria:
The convent of the Immaculate Conception Sisters in Aleppo
The convent of Mekhitarist Fathers in Aleppo

Evangelical Armenians

Armenian Evangelicals (also known as Armenian Protestants), belong to Union of the Armenian Evangelical Churches in the Near East of the Armenian Evangelical Church.

The Armenian Evangelical community in Syria has the following church buildings:
Emmanuel Church of Aleppo
Bethel Church of Aleppo
Martyrs' Church of Aleppo
Church of Christ of Aleppo
Holy Trinity Church of Kessab
Emmanuel Church of Ekizolukh, Kessab
The Armenian Evangelical Church of Keorkeuna, Kessab
The Armenian Evangelical Church of Karadouran, Kessab

Education