[Source: PubMed]

36. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2022 Jan 10;19(2):748. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph19020748.

Ecologies of Resilience for Australian High School Students from Refugee 
Backgrounds: Quantitative Study.

Miller E(1), Ziaian T(1), de Anstiss H(1), Baak M(2).

Author information:
(1)Justice and Society, University of South Australia, Adelaide 5001, Australia.
(2)Education Futures, University of South Australia, Adelaide 5001, Australia.

Forced displacement of refugees, currently at record levels, leads to increased 
cultural diversity in many countries with benefits and challenges for 
individuals, communities, and societies. Refugees often face significant 
stressors both pre- and post-migration, and hence are at increased risk of poor 
mental health and wellbeing. Children and adolescents make up a significant 
proportion of refugees globally, and hence mental health supports for these 
young people are crucial. Current mental health research often uses pathologized 
approaches that focus on trauma, although there is growing literature 
highlighting the importance of a sense of belonging and the reduction in 
discrimination and social exclusion, emphasizing strengths and agency of 
individuals and communities. Resilience is often noted for its positive 
influence on mental health and wellbeing; however, research regarding how 
mechanisms of resilience function is still developing. This study investigated 
mental health and wellbeing of refugee-background Australian youth to better 
understand the role and function of resilience. Findings suggest that 
intersecting social ecologies, such as those within family, school, or community 
networks, contribute to development of identity and a sense of belonging for 
youth, which together form a resilient system that provides resources for 
wellbeing. Adaptations of school policy and practice can support positive mental 
health and wellbeing outcomes by contributing to and developing resilient 
environments, such as through building connections to family, improving positive 
recognition of cultural identity for individuals and across the whole school 
community, and actively working to minimize discrimination.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph19020748
PMCID: PMC8775447
PMID: 35055569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study aside from the initial approval 
to grant funding to the project as described in the project proposal; in the 
collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the 
manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results.