[Source: PubMed]

68. Johns Hopkins Mag. 1995 Feb;47(1):56-62.

Stories of survival.

Hendricks M.

PIP: Grants are provided by the US Agency for International Development (USAID) 
to private volunteer organizations (PVO) to teach health workers in the poorest 
communities of developing countries about the growth monitoring of children, 
oral rehydration therapy, breastfeeding, and immunization. Trained workers of 
these child survival programs then emphasize preventive health care in the 
community. Child survival programs also include interventions in different 
areas, education programs, and economic development schemes. The Johns Hopkins 
University (JHU) School of Hygiene and Public Health's Child Survival Support 
Program over the past ten years has managed 199 of these grants worth a total 
$15 million per year. PVOs are typically strong in identifying people most in 
need of help and getting resources to them. The 15-person JHU staff therefore 
simply selects grant recipients, trains PVO workers, and monitors recipients' 
expenditures in the field. PVOs in the program must account for every penny they 
spend, specifying the money spent per resident within a community, the number of 
mothers educated, children vaccinated, and lives saved. USAID, JHU, and PVO 
representatives from sixteen countries met for one week in early October 1994 on 
the outskirts of Bangalore in Karnataka State, India, to show how they have 
helped children in the world's poorest communities. The projects overall have 
reduced the child mortality rate at project sites by an estimated 50% with an 
average cost of $1.92 per person served. Measles, pneumonia, respiratory 
infections, and malaria, however, remain major causes of infant and child 
mortality. AIDS is a relatively recent and deadly challenge to child survival. 
The author stresses the need for local communities, governments, organizations, 
and local health personnel to work together to ensure that project 
accomplishments carry over once PVOs close shop in any given community. The 
background and activities of a female health worker from Nawapur are described.

PMID: 12288378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]