[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Israeli citizenship law

eli law for the partner of a citizen to be eligible for citizenship under the 4.5-year naturalization process. Common-law or same-sex partners are subject to a longer 7.5-year gradual process that grants permanent residency, after which they may apply for naturalization under the standard procedure.

Male spouses under the age of 35 and female spouses under 25 ordinarily resident in the Judea and Samaria Area or the Gaza Strip (excluding Israeli settlements within those areas) are prohibited from obtaining citizenship and residency. The 2003 Citizenship and Entry into Israel Law effectively discouraged further marriages between Israeli citizens and Palestinians by preventing couples in these circumstances from cohabitation. About 12,700 Palestinians married to Israeli citizens are prevented from obtaining citizenship under these restrictions. Affected Palestinians are only allowed to remain in Israel on temporary permits, which would lapse on the death of their spouses or if they fail to receive regular reapproval by the Israeli government.

These restrictions were challenged as unconstitutional for violating the Basic Law: Human Dignity and Liberty on the basis that the legislation was discriminatory by disproportionally affecting Israeli citizens who were ethnically Arab. However, in its 2006 ruling upholding the legislation, the Supreme Court held that the admittance of noncitizen spouses was not a constitutional right held by Israeli citizens and that Israel was entitled to limit the entrance of any aliens into its borders. The court further ruled that because Israel was in a state of war with the Palestinian National Authority (consequently making Palestinians enemy subjects), that Israel held a right to forbid Palestinian residents from entering the state. The legislation was upheld again by the Supreme Court in 2012 and continued to be effective until the law's expiration in July 2021, before later being reimplemented in March 2022.

Honorary citizenship 
In recognition of aid provided to Jews during the Holocaust, non-Jews may be recognized as Righteous Among the Nations. These individuals may additionally be granted honorary citizenship. This type of citizenship is a substantive status and gives its holders all the rights and privileges that other Israeli citizens have. About 130 Righteous Gentiles resettled in Israel; they are entitled to permanent residency and a special pension from the state.

See also 
 Visa policy of Israel
 Visa requirements for Israeli citizens

References

Citations

General sources

External links 
 Ministry of Aliyah and Immigration

Israeli nationality law
Zionism