[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors

Maharashtra State Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) is an association of resident doctors of all the government and corporation Medical colleges and hospitals of Maharashtra, India. It was formed to address the problems faced by the resident doctors in all the Govt and Municipal Corporation run hospitals across the states by maintaining the Unity among Resident doctors of Maharashtra by standing for each and every problem of resident doctor.

Resident doctors are the one who have completed their MBBS – Junior residents and who have completed their postgraduation – Senior Residents. The major workload and burden of any government run medical college and hospital is shared by Resident Doctors. Resident doctors work day in and out , sacrificing countless hours of sleep for the treatment, cure and help of common people and patients visiting at the hospital. Along with routine outpatient care (OPD), admitted patient care (IPD), academic activities, resident doctors have to study the subject thoroughly in order to provide quality care to the patients. 

As a whole, the life of a resident doctor is pretty busy and lack of proper hostel and food facilities adds up to the physical and mental stress. Despite all these hurdles and obstacles, a resident doctor is cheerful and is ready to cater to patient care 24 X 7 at any point of time . But when the basics rights of a resident doctors are denied and facilities are not provided , a tired Resident doctor seeks the help of MARD. Maharashtra State Association of Resident Doctors is an assembly and representation of resident  doctors to represent their fraternity and provide timely and speeded solutions to their problems . All the MARD of each Govt medical college and hospital work in accordance with a elected representative body called as CENTRAL MARD. The current president of CENTRAL MARD is Dr Abhijit Rajesh Helge, he is pursuing  his MD Dermatology from Grant Govt Medical College and JJ Hospital, Mumbai . He has done his MBBS from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Bhopal.

External links
Mard Strike Photograph
Mard Support Blog
Mard Strike Blog

Medical associations based in India