[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Remediation of contaminated sites with cement

r to performing the process to these types of sites, treatability studies need to be conducted in order to conclude if the solidification/stabilization process will be beneficial. These cement processes can result in major volume changes to the site, often up to double its original volume.

Projects

Sydney Tar Ponds
The governments of Canada and the province of Nova Scotia agreed in January 2007 to clean up the infamous Sydney Tar Ponds contaminated site using S/S technology. Cement was mixed into the contaminated waste to solidify and stabilize it. When the S/S process was complete, the solidified areas were covered with an engineered cap consisting of a  clay, followed by layers of gravel and soil. Finally, the surface was planted with grass and other vegetation.

Former wood treating facility in Port Newark, New Jersey
S/S technologies were used to treat a contaminated former wood treating facility in Port Newark, New Jersey. Approximately  of soil was contaminated by wood with arsenic, chromium, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. 8% of Portland cement was used by wet weight of contaminated soil. Both in situ and ex situ processes were utilized to treat over 35,000 cubic meters of contaminated soil. The ex situ treated soil was mixed with Portland cement by a pugmill then placed on top of the in situ treated soil. This created an excellent base for pavement to be placed over the site. The proposed use for the treated site is a shipping container storage area.

Former electric generating station in Boston, Massachusetts
Abandoned warehouses in Boston, Massachusetts are being renovated or torn down in order to build new structures. On this site is the former Central Power System, built in 1890. When built, this power station was considered to be the biggest electric generating plant in the world. This building has been abandoned since the 1950s and has not produced electricity in over 90 years. In the early 90s, renovations were started but were quickly shut down when free-floating oil was discovered in the sewers. Cleanup efforts were unsuccessful as they brought more oil onto the site. In 1999, cement-based S/S treatments were utilized to treat 2,100 cubic meters of contaminated materials. Lead and Petroleum contaminated soils were managed and treated successfully at this site.

Dockside Green in Victoria British Columbia
A  complex of mixed residential, office, retail and commercial space is being built on  of former industrial land in downtown Victoria that was contaminated by lead. 10 tonnes of soil was treated with cement, which was mixed into the soil on site simply by using an excavator bucket. The soil was thus rendered completely safe as was shown by tests on soil samples.

Former battery breaking site in Brandon, Manitoba
A 10,000 square metre lot formerly occupied by the Brandon Scrap Metal and Iron Company was chosen by the City of Brandon for the site for its new fire and police headquarters. For many years, lead cell batteries were destroyed there and the lead was extracted, leaving the untreated cases on site. An environmental assessment showed that the site was contaminated due to the presence of heavy metals, lead and hydrocarbon pollution. Cement based S/S was employed to successfully remediate 600 tonnes of contaminated soil.

Skeet shooting range near St. Catharines, Ontario
A vacant 5-hectare property near the Welland Canal in St. Catharines had surface soil containing dangerous concentrations of lead and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) to a depth up to 0.4 m due to the past operations of an adjacent skeet shooting range. About 26,000 tonnes of soil were treated using S/S to bring the contamination levels below the Ontario Land Disposal Regulations criteria.

See also
 Hazardous Waste
 Pondcrete
 Salt-concrete
 Saltcrete
 Soil vapor extraction
 Soil contamination
 Water pollution
 Environmental remediation
 Radioactive waste

References

External links
 A Citizen’s Guide to Solidification/Stabilization
 Technical References from U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and U.K Environment Agency:  https://web.archive.org/web/20110317002710/http://www.cetco.com/ccs/Literature.aspx

Waste treatment technology