[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Davie Irons

up that same season. However, after a poor start to the 2009–10 season, losing five of the first six league matches and with the club at the basement of the First Division, Irons contract was terminated with immediate effect on 21 September 2009, alongside the club's assistant-manager Derek Collins.

Threave Rovers
After being sacked by Greenock Morton, Irons was appointed the player-coach of South of Scotland League club Threave Rovers from Castle Douglas. When Irons appeared as a used substitute in the final minute of a match versus Whitehill Welfare on 24 October 2009, Irons was the oldest player to have played in a Scottish Cup match at the age of 48 years and 98 days. Irons then replaced Gerry Britton as the assistant-manager of Partick Thistle in January 2010 but Irons' contract was terminated by the club on 26 February 2010. After leaving the Jags, Irons returned to Threave Rovers as a player-coach once again. Irons then superseded his own record as the oldest player to appear in a Scottish Cup match, when aged 49 and a number of days, he played for Threave Rovers on 20 November 2010 in the third round of the Scottish Cup in a 2–2 draw versus Stenhousemuir at Ochilview Park.

Stenhousemuir
Irons was then appointed manager of the Warriors at the end of December 2010. Irons then resigned as the club's manager in July 2012 due to personal reasons.

Carlisle United
Following his resignation of the Stirlingshire club, Irons joined Police Scotland and was also working part-time as a scout for Carlisle United.

After a short term job as a coach with Northern Football League club Celtic Nation, Irons departed the club to rejoin the Brunton Park club as the full-time youth team manager in July 2013, after the departure of former coach Eric Kinder to Blackburn Rovers. Irons had also started attending friendly matches with the Cumbrians manager Greg Abbott around the same time. Following a poor start to the 2013–14 season, Irons was appointed caretaker-manager of the Cumbrians after the departure of Abbott, alongside Graham Kavanagh and Tony Caig. On 30 September 2013 Irons was appointed Kavanagh's permanent assistant-manager of Carlisle United.

Gretna 2008
On 8 August 2017, Irons was appointed manager of Gretna 2008, alongside Andy Aitken. Both resigned their position as joint managers on 27 November 2018.

Second spell as Stenhousemuir manager
Irons began a second spell as manager of Stenhousemuir in September 2019. Stenhousemuir announced on 20 April 2021 that Irons would leave the club by mutual consent after their game later that day.

Personal life
Irons daughter, Amy, is a former DJ on Capital Scotland who now presents the sports bulletin on BBC Scotland's The Nine.

Managerial statistics

 statistics available from soccerbase.com

Honours 

 Dunfermline Athletic
Scottish First Division: 1988–89

 Partick Thistle
Scottish First Division promotion: 1991–92

Gretna
Scottish First Division: 2006–07

References

Sources

Profile at Profile at Playerhistory.com

External links
"First for thrills", Irons gives his opinion on the 2007–08 Scottish First Division season – BBC Sport website

1961 births
Living people
Footballers from Glasgow
Footballers from Dumfries
Scottish men's footballers
Queen of the South F.C. players
Kello Rovers F.C. players
Ayr United F.C. players
Clydebank F.C. (1965) players
Dunfermline Athletic F.C. players
Greenock Morton F.C. non-playing staff
Partick Thistle F.C. players
St Johnstone F.C. players
Annan Athletic F.C. players
Gretna F.C. players
Scottish Football League players
Scottish football managers
Annan Athletic F.C. managers
Gretna F.C. managers
Greenock Morton F.C. managers
Scottish Junior Football Association players
Stenhousemuir F.C. managers
Scottish Premier League managers
People educated at Dumfries Academy
Scottish Football League managers
Clydebank F.C. (1965) managers
Carlisle United F.C. non-playing staff
Men's association football defenders
Scottish Professional Football League managers
Men's association football midfielders
Scottish police officers
Association football coaches
Police Scotland officers