[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lai Kew Chai

m was arrested and sentenced to death in 1993, Asokan was arrested and detained for a robbery case in Malaysia before being sent back to Singapore for trial. Asokan was later found guilty and sentenced to death. On the morning of 8 September 1995, both Asokan and Maniam were hanged at Changi Prison.

On 24 June 1995, Lai found mechanic Nadasan Chandra Secharan guilty of murdering his lover Ramapiram Kannickaisparry and sentenced him to death. Ramapiram was stabbed thirteen times and ran over several times by a vehicle, which led to her sustaining rib and pelvis fractures, and a broken tooth belonging to her led to Nadasan being arrested and charged for the brutal murder. However, the Court of Appeal found that Nadasan was not involved in the murder and decided that he indeed had an alibi, leading to Nadasan being acquitted in January 1997.

On 12 May 2005, Singapore saw for the first time, a case involving exercise rights of discretion in the amendment of patent specifications for commercial products in the Trek Technology (Singapore) Pte Ltd v. FE Global Electronics PTE Ltd and others, and other suits [2005] (SGHC 90) Lai ruled on all counts, in favour of Trek 2000 International that their USB portable mass storage device patent to be valid, enforceable and infringed by Israel's M-Systems Flash Disk Pioneers Ltd, and Hong Kong's Ritronics Components.

Lai's last major case heard was that of the sexual assault cum murder of 8-year-old Chinese national Huang Na on 26 August 2005, by the accused Took Leng How. He ruled all forensic evidence pointed to Took's guilt and to his admission of sexual assault and murder of Huang Na, as well as dismissing Took's defence that he was schizophrenic. Took was hanged in Changi Prison on Friday, 3 November 2006 before dawn.

Personal life and death
Lai Kew Chai was an active church worker and an avid traveller outside of his legal and judicial career, for he was a devoted Protestant Christian belonging to the Anglican church. In his lifetime, he was made Honorary Secretary to the Parochial Church Council of St. John's – St. Margaret's Church from 1973 to 1978, and a member of the Council between 1978 and 1981. He was also a Registrar of the Diocese of Singapore, appointed by The Bishop of Singapore.

Lai was married to Dorothy and had two children, both of whom became lawyers, as well as two granddaughters.

Lai died on 27 February 2006 after a seven-month battle against stomach cancer.

References

1941 births
Malaysian people of Chinese descent
2006 deaths
Malaysian emigrants to Singapore
People who lost Malaysian citizenship
Malaysian people of Hakka descent
Naturalised citizens of Singapore
Singaporean people of Hakka descent
Singaporean people of Chinese descent
20th-century Singaporean judges
National University of Singapore alumni
Singaporean Anglicans
Judges of the Supreme Court of Singapore
21st-century Singaporean judges