[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Milton Brannan

from his post at Fort Trumbull for duty in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where he was in command of three engineer companies, an artillery company (Battery C, 3rd U.S.), and a detachment of United States Marines. He left Fort Trumbull on July 23, 1877, and returned to command of the post on August 16.

Brannan transferred to the 4th U.S. Artillery Regiment in 1877. He retired from the U.S. Army with the rank of colonel on April 19, 1882, and moved to New York City.

Brannan was a member of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States.

Brannan died in New York and was buried at Woodlawn Cemetery, later reinterred at the West Point Cemetery.

An Endicott Era coast artillery mortar battery at Fort Worden was named after Brannan in 1904.

Personal life

Disappearance of Eliza Brannan 
Brannan was married to Eliza Crane, daughter of Colonel Ichabod Bennet Crane (colonel of the 1st U.S. Artillery), on September 16, 1850.

While Brannan was posted in Key West, Florida from 1856, his wife lived in Staten Island with her young daughter and mother.

On July 20, 1858, Eliza Brannan disappeared while she was out shopping in New York City. After days of searching for the missing woman, it was believed by officials that she was dead. Captain Brannan himself reportedly feared she had committed suicide in a moment of temporary insanity. In 1860, however, Eliza Brannan contacted her brother (Dr. Charles Crane) and notified him that she was, in fact, alive: having originally fled to Italy, she was now remarried and living in Paris, France. Dr. Crane notified Captain Brannan of the news that his wife still lived.

Brannan soon learned that the man who Eliza had remarried was Powell Tremlett Wyman. A career artillery officer of the 1st U.S. Artillery regiment, Wyman met Mrs. Brannan through a mutual acquaintance and the two corresponded after her flight to Europe. In 1860, First Lieutenant Wyman was denied a leave of absence to visit his lover, and instead resigned his commission and traveled to Italy to join (and later marry) Eliza Brannan. At some point between 1860 and 1862, Wyman and Eliza Brannan returned to the United States, where they lived openly as a married couple.

With the advent of the American Civil War, the matter was set aside: John Brannan remained in Key West throughout 1860 and the first half of 1861, soon accepting a commission as a brigadier general of volunteers and engaged in action throughout the duration of the war. Meanwhile, Powell Wyman accepted a volunteer commission as colonel of the 16th Massachusetts Infantry in August 1861, and he was killed in action in June 1862 at the Battle of Glendale.

John Brannan never reconciled with his wife; he obtained a decree of divorce in 1863, and remarried in 1870.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Union)

Notes

References
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher. Civil War High Commands. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Hubbell, John T., James W. Geary, and Jon L. Wakelyn, eds. Biographical Dictionary of the Union: Northern Leaders of the Civil War. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1995. .
 Johnson, Rossiter, and John Howard Brown, eds. The Twentieth Century Biographical Dictionary of Notable Americans. 10 vols. Boston: The Biographical Society, 1904. .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Blue: Lives of the Union Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1964. .
 Wilson, James Grant, and John Fiske, eds. Appletons' Cyclopaedia of American Biography. 6 vols. New York: D. Appleton and Co, 1887. .

External links
 
 

1819 births
1892 deaths
United States Military Academy alumni
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
Members of the Aztec Club of 1847
Union Army generals
People of the Fenian raids
People of Washington, D.C., in the American Civil War
Burials at West Point Cemetery
Crane family of New Jersey