[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Architecture of Hungary

Kanizsa by Pietro Ferrabosco, and the Castle of Egervár.

The memories of the late Renaissance in transdanubia are mainly castles, such as the Deutschkreutz (current Austria), the dominant form of the -loggia of the Firewatch Tower of Sopron, which also appeared on residential houses.

Upper Hungary

The distinctive Upper Hungary style has developed into an upper Italian effect and has an extraordinary variety. The Castle of Sárospatak can be built at the beginning of the development. The 16th century construction site is located in the Perényi district. In the second half of the century, a lot of construction followed, at first Lombard and later Renaissance forms (Trenčín castle (current Slovakia), 1540; Markušovce (current Slovakia), 1567; Orava Castle (Slovakia), 1561-1611; Town hall of Banská Bystrica (Slovakia), 1564–65; Nitra Castle's gate (Slovakia), 1582–87; Ugruțiu Castle (Romania), 1589; Bytča Castle (Slovakia), 1571-1605).

The late Renaissance ruled in the 17th century, and this was reflected in the building and form of the castles (Budatín Castle (Slovakia), Beniczky's Castle in Dolná Mičiná (Slovakia), 1667; Topoľčianky Castle (Slovakia), 1662; houses in Levoča and Prešov (Slovakia)). The architecture of the old Szepes County and Sáros County, which was named the "Paris Renaissance", represents a particular colour, and because of its local character, it is easily distinguished from Polish, Austrian and Czech houses. Its most beautiful memories are the Thurzó's Betlanovce Castle (Slovakia) (1564), the belfry of Kežmarok (Slovakia) (1591), the church tower of Svinia (Slovakia) (1628), the Emeric Thököly's Castle of Kežmarok (Slovakia), the Castle of Fričovce (1623–30) (Slovakia), and several houses of Levoča and Prešov (Slovakia).

Transylvania (current Romania)
It was here that the Renaissance developed its most peculiar image, which was formed after Italian designs, under the direction of the regal centre. The mecenatura has intensified the building mood. The cinquecento felt its effects between 1530–70, from this period the Gherla Castle, The Humanist dwelling house of Adrianus Wolphard in Cluj-Napoca, the southern wing of Bethlen Castle in Vințu de Jos, the Palace of Mănăstirea.

From the second half of the 16th century the late Renaissance, which started with castle construction (Oradea Castle, Făgăraș Castle, Șimleu Silvaniei Castle, István Kokas's house in Cluj-Napoca) is counted. The stone carving of the Cluj-Napoca School was established, which can be monitored for 150 years for orders and operations throughout Transylvania.

The architecture of the 17th century coincides with the flower age of Transylvania, huge castle buildings, royal palaces were built, which also served as a model (Váradi pentagonal interior castle, Medieșu Aurit Castle, Iernut Castle and Ineu Castle).

In the second half of the 17th century, construction sites of national importance stopped, senior palaces were built instead of castles, like the Bethlen Castle in Sânmiclăuș, which was based on the own designs of Miklós Bethlen. At the late of the 17th century the Transylvanian floral Renaissance was founded, which was manifested primarily in decorative design. Most falls in the 18th century, the last appeared in the stone carving work of Dávid Sipos in Chidea.

Ottoman-Islamic architecture in Hungary
Apart from Spain, there are hardly any European countries in which Muslim memories complement the range of architectural styles. This is why special attention is paid to these works of art, although not of outstanding value, which are still available in Hungary.

The Turks built only where no suitable, usable old building was available, or a new type of building was needed due to their culture. That wasn't much quantitatively.

Baroque
The Baroque art of Hungary has long lived with the late Renaissance. It came in with European currents and was first established in literature following the Péter Pázmány's work. It has a tendency to spread from the west to the east and has been established throughout the country after the expulsion of Turkey.

Early Baroque