[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stephen Atkins Swails

hat he had deployed to shoot the trainmen if they tried to escape. Mistaking him for a white engineer, they fired at and wounded him.

Second Lieutenant Swails was promoted to 1st lieutenant on 28 April 1865 and discharged on 20 August 1865, when the regiment mustered out at Boston.

Post-war career

After the war, Swails worked as an agent for the Freedmen's Bureau, practiced law in the South, and became active in the political life of South Carolina.  He married Susan Aspinall, a mixed-race Charlestonian, who bore him three children, Irene, Stephen Jr. and Florine. (Because Sarah Thompson bore him a son named Stephen Jr., he had two children with that name.) He was the mayor of Kingstree, where he lived from 1868 to 1879. He served as a state senator for ten years (1868–1878), including three terms as president pro tem.

Swails was a delegate to the 1868, 1872 and 1876 Republican national conventions. He became a member of the U.S. Electoral College, and also edited a newspaper, the Williamsburg Republican.

He was forced out of politics after Reconstruction. After a white mob tried to assassinate him, he resigned from office and, through his Republican connections, obtained jobs in Washington, D.C., with the U.S. Postal Service and the United States Treasury Department.

Stephen Swails is buried in the Friendly Society Cemetery, Charleston, South Carolina.

Family

Because of his complicated private life, Stephen Swails' descendants are plentiful, and live in Toronto, upstate New York, Philadelphia, and Atlanta.

One of his surviving grandchildren was James Swails Sr., of Rochester, New York, who died in 2004. His granddaughter, Carolyn Janet Rollins,  and another grandson, Robert Swails, are also deceased. Caroline Janet Rollins was a counselor in New Jersey. She married Joseph Tyler Jefferson. They have eight surviving children. Robert Swails Rollins was a Doctor of Internal Medicine, graduated from Lincoln University in Pennsylvania. He had two sons and a daughters and lived on Long Island, New York. Dr. Robert Swails Rollins was a flight surgeon in the United States Air Force and, after military service, had a practice on Long Island, New York.

Citations

References

Egerton, Douglas (2016). Thunder at the Gates: The Black Civil War Regiments That Redeemed America. Basic Books. .

External links
Stephen Atkins Swails Memorial, Charleston, South Carolina

African Americans in the American Civil War
Union Army officers
People from Columbia, Pennsylvania
People from Williamsburg County, South Carolina
People of Massachusetts in the American Civil War
Republican Party South Carolina state senators
African-American mayors in South Carolina
1832 births
1900 deaths
People of the Reconstruction Era
African-American history of South Carolina
19th-century American politicians
Military personnel from Pennsylvania