[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Granville Conway

administrator. He shipped millions of tons of coal, grain, and relief supplies in the midst of one of Europe's worst winters and, in the words of Secretary of State Dean Acheson, "his actions prevented mass starvation in many areas and certainly enhanced our position as a great humanitarian nation."

In 1947, he was asked by President Truman to serve on a committee of 19 private citizens headed by W. Averell Harriman, Secretary of Commerce. The Harriman Committee analyzed the aid needs for Europe and made the specific policy recommendations which became the Marshall Plan. Captain Conway headed the Transportation Committee.

From 1948 to 1950, he also served as Director of the Transportation Office of the National Security Resources Board responsible for developing a mobilization plan for international control and operation of the fleets of all the North Atlantic Pact nations in the event of war. The plan covered rolling stock as well as other transport needs.

In 1956, at the request of the Grace National Bank and the U.S. Department of Justice, he became President of Victory Carriers, Inc. and United States Petroleum Carriers, Inc. These companies owned and controlled the U.S. shipping interests of Aristotle Onassis, in trust for his two American-born children, Alexander and Christina. Under the settlement terms of a questionable criminal and civil suit brought by the United States for the "illegal" purchase by an alien of U.S. World War II ships, Onassis was required to transfer full operating control and ownership of his fleet to U.S. citizens.

At the time of Captain Conway's death in September 1969, he was President of the Cosmopolitan Shipping Company and the Home Lines Agency and Chairman of Commercial Tankers of Liberia. Cosmopolitan owned and operated oil tankers and were agents for a number of steamship companies, including the passenger ship owner and operator, Home Lines.

Decorations
In addition to his Merchant Marine, World War I, and World War II decorations, he was awarded the Order of Olav, Knight 1st Class by the Norwegian Government, the Officer, Legion of Honour from France, the Officer, Order of Leopold (Belgium) (military division), the Commander of Orange Nassau from the Netherlands, the Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire and the Medal for Merit from the U.S. President.

The Medal for Merit, the highest ranking civilian award at the time of war, was signed by President Truman on July 16, 1947, and awarded on his behalf by Conway's good friend, Navy Under Secretary W. John Kenney in a ceremony at the Navy Building in Washington, D.C., on November 3, 1947. The Citation which accompanied the Medal for Merit stated:

GRANVILLE CONWAY, for exceptionally meritorious Conduct in the performance of outstanding services to the United States throughout the period of the recent war. Mr. Conway, who served successively as Atlantic Coast Director, Deputy Administrator, and Administrator of the United States War Shipping Administration, and as Special Expert and Special Assistant to the United States Maritime Commission, as Shipping Advisor to the President at the Yalta Conference and to the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the Quebec Conference, was singularly outstanding in the accomplishment of the movement of millions of tons of military cargo and millions of military personnel in vessels of the Merchant Marine. His sound judgment in cooperation with the Army and Navy Transportation services in the Allocation of available ocean shipping to the multitude of tasks facing the country both for military purposes and for the war-making capacity of the United States will always stand out in transportation history. Further, his knowledge of merchant ship capabilities and characteristics, ship operations and shipping control proved invaluable in the successful accomplishment of ocean transportation. He also rendered immeasurable assistance in the expeditious demobilization of the Army and Navy by promptly making ships available for an enormous troop lift in all theaters, thus utilizing all merchant ships to the maximum of their capabilities. In these accomplishments, Mr. Conway contributed to a most successful and outstanding transportation operation with a spirit of loyalty which is in keeping with the highest traditions of American citizenship.

HARRY S. TRUMAN

THE WHITE HOUSE
July 16, 1947.

References

1898 births
1969 deaths
Honorary Commanders of the Order of the British Empire
Medal for Merit recipients
American sailors
Officers of the Legion of Honour
Commanders of the Order of Orange-Nassau
People from Cambridge, Maryland