[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jean-Paul Kalala

. On 19 January 2008, Kalala returned to Huish Park in a League One clash versus Yeovil Town, his first trip back to his former club. The game ended in a 0–0 draw.

On 13 May, after returning from his Grimsby Town loan, Kalala was released by Oldham, after the club decided not to renew his contract.

Grimsby Town (loan)
On 30 October 2008 it was announced that Kalala would return to Grimsby, He joined his former side, struggling in League Two, and at and opposite end of the table to when he left them. He joined the club on an initial loan deal until 3 January and was Mike Newell's first signing as the new manager of the club. In his first game back he scored Grimsby's only goal in a 2–1 defeat against Darlington. It was announced in late December, Newell's desire to sign Kalala on a permanent basis along with fellow loanees Adam Proudlock and Rob Atkinson. On 9 January 2009, Kalala began to hold talks over a permanent switch back to the club. Newell had hoped the further acquisitions of fellow French speaking players Jean-Louis Akpa Akpro and Mickael Buscher would sway his decision to re-join the club permanently. However, due to the club's current low league position, Kalala snubbed a permanent contract, but did however extend his loan stay with the North East Lincolnshire club until the end of the season. Little under two months later, Kalala got injured, forcing him to spend the last two months of the season on the sidelines. He played 21 times in his loan spell, scoring twice. His final game for the club was on 11 March 2009, in a 2–1 defeat against Chesterfield.

Return to Yeovil Town and move to Bristol Rovers
Yeovil Town resigned Kalala in August 2009. Kalala joined fellow League One side Bristol Rovers on 31 January 2011. He was one of seventeen players released by the team in May 2011.

Southend United
On 27 July 2011, Kalala signed a one-year contract with Southend United with the option of a further year after impressing on trial. He scored his first and only goal for the club in a 4-1 loss to Swindon Town. Following the conclusion of the 2011–12 season, manager Paul Sturrock opted against extending his contract and he was subsequently released. Kalala returned to Southend in the summer to train with the club, but after picking up an injury he returned to France to help with his rehabilitation.

International career
Kalala was part of the Congolese 2004 African Nations Cup team, who finished bottom of their group in the first round of competition, thus failing to secure qualification for the quarter-finals. In 2006 he was again part of the squad that reached the quarter-finals, but did not get on the pitch.

Personal life
Kalala abruptly retired from football in 2012. He now resides in Nice, France where he works as a barber in a beauty salon he owns named "Estika". He holds French nationality.

Honours
Grimsby Town
League Two play-off final runner-up: 2005–06

Yeovil Town
League One play-off final runner-up: 2006–07

References

External links
 
 

1982 births
Living people
Sportspeople from Lubumbashi
Men's association football midfielders
Democratic Republic of the Congo men's footballers
Democratic Republic of the Congo men's international footballers
French men's footballers
2004 African Cup of Nations players
2006 Africa Cup of Nations players
Democratic Republic of the Congo expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in France
Expatriate men's footballers in England
OGC Nice players
Grimsby Town F.C. players
Yeovil Town F.C. players
Oldham Athletic A.F.C. players
Bristol Rovers F.C. players
Southend United F.C. players
Ligue 1 players
English Football League players
21st-century Democratic Republic of the Congo people