[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yocheved Weinfeld

graphed, led way to works that became increasingly less concerned with esthetics or style and more conceptual in nature. The scarred, stitched "drawings" along with the stitched body parts, caused some critics to place Weinfeld's art within the Body-Art movement, and within it as feminist in nature.

In 1975, following her interest in synaesthesia and the definition of art as "an expression of what cannot be expressed otherwise,"  Weinfeld  explored the capability of visual art to transmit tactile physical bodily sensations, such as the sensation of hunger, or pain in the roots of hair. She juxtaposed scientific and descriptive text with objects that strove to transmit bodily sensations visually.  Unfortunately, with the exception of Yigal Zalmona (Maariv, 3.21.75), most critics missed the point, and saw the topics as unworthy of artistic endeavor.

In 1976, after reading the Code of Jewish Law (Shulhan Arukh), texts which she found fascinating and evocative, Weinfeld created a performance as part of her exhibition at the Debel Gallery. During the performance the artist explored visual, mythical images of prohibitions and rituals related to cleanliness and mourning, prompted by those texts. She acted out her own interpretation of the proscribed rituals. The content of the performance was, by virtue of the topic and the female artist's prism, feminine, but not Feminist, in nature. In an artistic environment that shunned the mention of the Holocaust and Jewish religious topics, it was one of the first times that an artist used Jewish ancient and modern heritage as an inspiration for what was considered at the time an avant-garde work of art. In his article about the exhibition in Art News, ("Whimsey and poetry; traumas and taboos" September, 1976), Meir Ronnen wrote: "One left the gallery questioning many aspects of our Judeo-Christian cultural heritage – a heritage of pain, suffering, superstition and a mystic belief in man's ability to rise above the physical in purification rites." Despite the fact that the original video documentation of the performance was lost, and only still photographs remain, the performance is often cited in studies, journals and books as a seminal work in Israeli art.

In 1979 Weinfeld's interest turned to primary images in memory and the ways they change and reoccur in subsequent memories. In her one-person show at the Israel Museum she exhibited ten large complex works, each based on a childhood memory represented by a text.  Each work consisted of posed photographs of herself, three-dimensional objects and painted surfaces.  Stephanie Rachum, the exhibition's curator wrote in the catalogue: "The deliberate disregard for the aesthetic aspect coupled with the stress on the ideational process which exist in Weinfeld's work is part of her Conceptual art background. --- This lack of transposing imbues the objects with vitality, energy and potency. --- Often the spectator feels that he has a 'direct line' to the sources that motivated or instigated the image."

In the fall of 1979 Weinfeld moved to NY where she continued her work on complex memory pieces in the work "You look so typically Jewish" and in the series "Stories for Little Children", exhibited at the Gordon Gallery in Tel-Aviv in 1981. The following year, Weinfeld experimented with posing figures painted in diverse styles in realistic scenes. The works, titled "Sentences" were exhibited at the Gordon Gallery in Tel-Aviv in 1982.

In 1991 Weinfeld exhibited two series of works, "Mother's Clichés," and "For the initiated history consists of just a few words." The exhibition, at the Bograshov Gallery in Tel-Aviv was curated by Ariella Azoulay Armon  who wrote an essay in the accompanying catalogue.

Gallery

References

External links
A biography from the Legacy Project (includes list of her works)
Short biography from the Israel Museum, Jerusalem

1947 births
Living people
20th-century Israeli women artists
21st-century Israeli women artists
Israeli women painters
Tel Aviv University alumni
Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni
People from Legnica
Museum educators