[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 143]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

Where manifestly
is meant, not so many Ghosts, but so many eminent Graces that God would
give him.




Thirdly, For Extraordinary Affections

In the Book of Judges, an extraordinary Zeal, and Courage in the
defence of Gods people, is called the Spirit of God; as when it excited
Othoniel, Gideon, Jeptha, and Samson to deliver them from servitude,
Judg. 3.10. 6.34. 11.29. 13.25. 14.6,19. And of Saul, upon the newes of
the insolence of the Ammonites towards the men of Jabeth Gilead, it is
said (1 Sam.11.6.) that "The Spirit of God came upon Saul, and his Anger
(or, as it is in the Latine, His Fury) was kindled greatly." Where it is
not probable was meant a Ghost, but an extraordinary Zeal to punish the
cruelty of the Ammonites. In like manner by the Spirit of God, that came
upon Saul, when hee was amongst the Prophets that praised God in Songs,
and Musick (1 Sam.19.20.) is to be understood, not a Ghost, but an
unexpected and sudden Zeal to join with them in their devotions.




Fourthly, For The Gift Of Prediction By Dreams And Visions

The false Prophet Zedekiah, saith to Micaiah (1 Kings 22.24.) "Which way
went the Spirit of the Lord from me to speak to thee?" Which cannot be
understood of a Ghost; for Micaiah declared before the Kings of Israel
and Judah, the event of the battle, as from a Vision, and not as from a
Spirit, speaking in him.

In the same manner it appeareth, in the Books of the Prophets, that
though they spake by the Spirit of God, that is to say, by a speciall
grace of Prediction; yet their knowledge of the future, was not by a
Ghost within them, but by some supernaturall Dream or Vision.




Fiftly, For Life

Gen. 2.7. It is said, "God made man of the dust of the Earth, and
breathed into his nostrills (spiraculum vitae) the breath of life, and
man was made a living soul." There the Breath of Life inspired by God,
signifies no more, but that God gave him life; And (Job 27.3.) "as long
as the Spirit of God is in my nostrils;" is no more then to say, "as
long as I live." So in Ezek. 1.20. "the Spirit of life was in the
wheels," is equivalent to, "the wheels were alive." And (Ezek. 2.30.)
"the spirit entred into me, and set me on my feet," that is, "I
recovered my vitall strength;" not that any Ghost, or incorporeal
substance entred into, and possessed his body.




Sixtly, For A Subordination To Authority

In the 11 chap. of Numbers. verse 17. "I will take (saith God) of the
Spirit, which is upon thee, and will put it upon them, and they shall
bear the burthen of the people with thee;" that is, upon the seventy
Elders: whereupon two of the seventy are said to prophecy in the campe;
of whom some complained, and Joshua desired Moses to forbid them; which
Moses would not doe. Whereby it appears; that Joshua knew not they had
received authority so to do, and prophecyed according to the mind of
Moses, that is to say, by a Spirit, or Authority subordinate to his own.

In the like sense we read (Deut. 34.9.) that "Joshua was full of the
Spirit of wisdome," because Moses had laid his hands upon him: that is,
because he was Ordained by Moses, to prosecute the work hee had himselfe
begun, (namely, the bringing of Gods people into the promised land), but
prevented by death, could not finish.

In the like sense it is said, (Rom. 8.9.) "If any man have not the
Spirit of Christ, he is none of his:" not meaning thereby the Ghost of
Christ, but a Submission to his Doctrine. As also (1 John 4.2.) "Hereby
you shall know the Spirit of God; Every Spirit that confesseth that
Jesus Christ is come in the flesh, is of God;" by which is meant the
Spirit of unfained Christianity, or Submission to that main Article of
Christian faith, that Jesus is the Christ; which cannot be interpreted
of a Ghost.

Likewise these words (Luke 4.1.) "And Jesus full of the Holy Ghost"
(that is, as it is exprest, Mat. 4.1. and Mar. 1.12. "of the Holy
Spirit",) may be understood, for Zeal to doe the work for which hee was
sent by God the Father: but to interpret it of a Ghost, is to say, that
God himselfe (for so our Saviour was,) was filled with God; which is
very unproper, and unsignificant. How we came to translate Spirits, by
the word Ghosts, which signifieth nothing, neither in heaven, nor earth,
but the Imaginary inhabitants of mans brain, I examine not: but this I
say, the word Spirit in the text signifieth no such thing; but either
properly a reall Substance, or Metaphorically, some extraordinary
Ability of Affection of the Mind, or of the Body.




Seventhly, For Aeriall Bodies

The Disciples of Christ, seeing him walking upon the sea, (Mat. 14.26.
and Marke 6.49.) supposed him to be a Spirit, meaning thereby an Aeriall
Body, and not a Phantasme: for it is said, they all saw him; which
cannot be understood of the delusions of the brain, (which are not
common to many at once, as visible Bodies are; but singular, because of
the