[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Christopher Flynn

Christopher Flynn (born 5 November 1987) is a Welsh footballer who plays for Nantwich Town.

Career
Born in Market Drayton, England, Flynn is one of many players to be produced by the Crewe Alexandra production line. He first joined the club at the early age of nine, before making his way up the ranks at Crewe's academy, playing as a defender. However, Flynn soon moved out of his defensive position to take up a midfield role during his time in the under-18s squad. His has also gained a reputation for being utilised in several different positions

In June 2006, Flynn turned professional, following his impressive displays in the youth teams. The Welshman made his Crewe debut in their 5-1 League One defeat to Rotherham United. Three days later, he played his first cup match for Crewe against Rochdale, which Crewe won on penalties.

In an attempt to gain first team experience, Flynn was loaned out to Conference National side Cambridge United. There he played a single match, Cambridge's 4–0 away win over Northwich Victoria. Chris has played for the under 21s Welsh National Club in 2006.  He was asked to return in 2008 however due to a date conflict, he was unable to commit to the signing.

Flynn joined Stafford Rangers in August 2007, and was signed by Northwich Victoria in 2008.  In January 2009 he returned to Stafford Rangers on a non-contract basis. A month later he joined Eastwood Town, but ended up signing with Nantwich Town.

References

External links

1987 births
Living people
People from Market Drayton
Welsh men's footballers
Wales men's youth international footballers
Wales men's under-21 international footballers
Crewe Alexandra F.C. players
Cambridge United F.C. players
Stafford Rangers F.C. players
Northwich Victoria F.C. players
Eastwood Town F.C. players
Nantwich Town F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Northern Premier League players
Men's association football defenders
Men's association football midfielders
Footballers from Shropshire