[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alaska political corruption probe

led the extent of political campaign donations contributed between 1998 and 2004 by the top seven VECO executives to Alaska lawmakers who were in office at the time her article was written. The figures were based on reports made by contributors and recipients to the Alaska Public Offices Commission.

 Senator John Cowdery (R-Anchorage), Senate Rules Committee Chair: $24,550.
 Representative Pete Kott (R-Eagle River), former speaker of the House: $21,300.
 Representative Norman Rokeberg (R-Anchorage), House Rules Committee Chair: $18,000.
 Representative Vic Kohring (R-Wasilla), House Oil and Gas Committee Chair: $14,708.
 Governor Frank Murkowski (R): $6,500 (excluding donations to prior U.S. Senate races).
 Representative (later state Senator and Lieutenant Governor) Kevin Meyer (R-Anchorage), House Finance Committee Co-Chair: $12,300.
 Representative Mike Chenault (R-Nikiski), House Finance Committee Co-Chair: $12,000.
 Representative (later Senator) Lesil McGuire (R-Anchorage), House Judiciary Committee Chair: $12,000.
 Senator Con Bunde (R-Anchorage), Senate Labor and Commerce Committee Chair: $11,500.
 Senator Lyda Green (R-Anchorage), Senate Finance Committee Co-Chair: $28,000.
 Representative Mike Hawker (R-Anchorage): $8,050.
 Representative Tom Anderson (R-Anchorage), House Labor and Commerce Chair: $8,000.

Additionally, Backes noted the consulting contract Senate President Ben Stevens (R-Anchorage) had with VECO Corporation and financial relationships other lawmakers had with other companies active in the oil and gas industry, including ConocoPhillips and ASCG Incorporated, the latter a subsidiary of the Alaska Native-owned Arctic Slope Regional Corporation which is heavily involved in oilfield business in Alaska.
 
According to Chenault, one of the lawmakers named in the article: "Somebody walked up [in the bar] and said, 'You corrupt bastards,' and that name stuck." Hats with the label "CBC," standing for "Corrupt Bastards Club" or "Corrupt Bastards Caucus," were later printed up, but according to Chenault "that was the extent of the CBC deal."

In the first week of August 2006, an ill Representative Carl E. Moses returned to the state capitol in Juneau after receiving medical treatment in Anchorage, to cast a critical vote that ensured passage of a bill giving tax breaks to the oil industry. The vote took place, shortly after Moses received campaign contributions from Bill Allen and five other VECO executives, the only Democrat to receive any from that source.

The FBI had set up in a Baranof hotel suite just three blocks away from the capitol building in Juneau. There they videotaped VECO's CEO Bill Allen, peeling off bills for legislators to stuff in their pockets. According to the Juneau Empire, Ray Metcalfe said he had spoken with FBI agents about the case, but didn't know how the feds first got interested in Alaska. "I think the jury is still out on what started this," said Metcalfe. Juneau Mayor Bruce Botelho, the longest-serving attorney general in the state's history, appointed during the successive administrations of Republican Wally Hickel, and Democrat Tony Knowles said it appeared that those state agencies responsible for ensuring ethical government had failed to do their jobs, but it was too soon to tell for sure.

Raids on legislative offices
On August 31 and September 1, 2006, the FBI served some 20 search warrants in Anchorage, Juneau, Wasilla, Eagle River, Girdwood, and Willow, primarily on the district and capitol offices of several legislators. Republican legislators whose offices were searched included Senator John Cowdery, Senate President (and son of U.S. Senator Ted Stevens) Ben Stevens, Representatives Vic Kohring, Bruce Weyhrauch, Pete Kott and Bev Masek as well as Democratic Senator Donny Olson. The warrants permitted the search of computer files, personal diaries, Alaska Public Offices Commission reports, and any other items showing evidence of financial ties between legislators and the oilfield services company VECO Corporation, as well as clothing items with the phrase "Corrupt Bastards Club" or its related acronym printed on it. A search warrant for Sen. Olson's Juneau office, made available by his office to the public, specifically authorized the seizure of documents relating to VECO Corporation executives Bill Allen (CEO), Richard Smith (vice president), Pete Leathard (president), and Roger Chan (chief financial officer). The warrant also authorized the seizure of clothing, including hats, bearing the logos or phrases "VECO," "Corrupt Bastards Caucus," "Corrupt Bastards Club," or "CBC" printed on them.

John Cowdery was indicted for bribery and extortion under official right and bribery concerning programs that receive federal funding.