[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Avrupa Yakası

in a commercial for Garanti Bank, while Gülse Birsel appeared in a commercial for Whirlpool, and Sarp Apak in an advertisement for Turkcell. Hasibe Eren portrayed a fictional character called Şekure in a commercial for Akpet, while Binnur Kaya appeared as Dilber Hala in an advertisement for D-Smart.

Actors such as Sarp Apak and Bülent Polat gained immense popularity and were cast in feature films. Meanwhile, the series' scenarist and one of the actors, Gülse Birsel, who had published a number of books in the past, including Gayet Ciddiyim in 2003, Hâlâ Ciddiyim in 2004 and Yolculuk Nereye Hemşerim in 2005, claimed that she could not write a new book at the time because she had to prepare the scenario for the episodes which were scheduled to last for 90 minutes and also deal with RTÜK's rule of including a 20-minute commercial during the broadcast of each episode.

Release
Hakan Algül directed the first season of the series, which was a completely domestic production. The first season ended on 23 June 2004 with 19 episodes in total. Jale Atabey directed the 39 episodes of the second season which began to air on 8 September 2004 and ended on 15 June 2005. Engin Günaydın joined the main cast in the role of the managing director on the third season, which was first broadcast on 14 September 2005 and finished with the 93rd episode on 21 June 2006. Peker Açıkalın, Tolga Çevik, Hasibe Eren and Sarp Apak joined the main cast in season 4, which started on 13 September 2006 and ended with a finale featuring Serdar Ortaç on 27 June 2007. On 19 September 2007 the fifth season started, and it ended on 4 June 2008. During the broadcast of season 4, it was reported that the series would be concluded with 100 episodes, but it was later decided that it should continue. The series sixth season started on 24 September 2008. Scenarist Gülse Birsel later announced that the series would end in June 2009. It ended on Wednesday, 24 June 2009, with 190 episodes in total.

Awards 

 Radio and Television Journalists Association (RTGD) Awards
 Actress of the Year: Binnur Kaya
 Bonus Card International Comedy Film Festival
 Comedy Honorary Award: Gazanfer Özcan 
 35th Golden Butterfly Awards (2008)
 Best Actress (Comedy): Binnur Kaya 
 Best Actor (Comedy): Tolga Çevik
 Galatasaray University "The Bests of the Year" (2008) Awards:
 Best TV Series: Avrupa Yakası
 Best Cinema and TV Actress of the Year: Binnur Kaya
 34th Golden Butterfly Awards (2007)
 Best TV Series (Comedy): Avrupa Yakası 
 Best Actress (Comedy): Hasibe Eren 
 Best Actor (Comedy): Peker Açıkalın

 33rd Golden Butterfly Awards (2006)
 Best TV Series (Comedy): Avrupa Yakası 
 Best Comedy Actress: Gülse Birsel 
 Best Comedy Actor: Engin Günaydın 
 32nd Golden Butterfly Awards (2005)
 Best Comedy Series: Avrupa Yakası
 Best Comedy Actress: Gülse Birsel
 Best Comedy Actor: Ata Demirer
 1. Beyaz İnci Television Awards (2005):
 Best TV Series (Comedy), Avrupa Yakası 
 Best Actor (Comedy), Ata Demirer
 Best Supporting Actor (Comedy), Gazanfer Özcan 
 Best Supporting Actress (Comedy), Hümeyra
 Jetix-Kido Child Awards (2005):
 Best TV Series: Avrupa Yakası
 Best Actress: Gülse Birsel
 Best Actor: Ata Demirer

DVD 
The first season of the series was released on DVD, containing the first 19 episodes. The DVD was released on 7 March 2005, consisting of the episodes, behind-the-scene videos and special interviews with the actors. There are also two episodes on the VCDs. A special banner was prepared for the prevention of pirate sales of the DVDs and VCDs of Avrupa Yakası, which was launched in partnership with Plato Film, Palermo and ATV.

Development

Censorship 
Avrupa Yakası was exposed to various censors. Particularly, the show was forced to follow the strict rules set by RTÜK. In the 6th season, Ata Demirer's character, Volkan, wore a t-shirt inspired by the "Hotmail" website, which had the word "Hotmale" on it. ATV was later ordered by the supreme council to censor the t-shirt. The word "hotmale" was the name of a popular Internet site known for its content for gays, and it was equivalent to "horny" or "sexy" in Turkish. Ata Demirer later said that he did not know that the word was the name of a gay porn site. RTÜK's censorship appeared again in the 166th episode of the series with checkering of a section of Sabah newspaper held by Tahsin Bey. It was later found out that the section featured an advertisement. Before the broadcast of episode 169, a message of warning by RTÜK appeared on the screen, addressing the use of unsuitable words in the previous episode of the series. The episode was then beeped approximately 80 times during its broadcast time. According to the information given, 'maniac', 'fool', 'jerk', and 'idiot' were the words that had been censored out.