[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Japanese invasion of Taiwan (1895)

ivision, and shipped back to Japan for burial aboard the steamer Saikio Maru.  The cruiser Yoshino escorted the prince's body back to Japan.  A story widely circulated in Taiwan at the time, that the cause of the prince's death was a wound he received during the Battle of Baguashan, is quite untrue.

Chinese and Formosan casualties were far higher, but are difficult to estimate.  The Japanese recovered the dead bodies of around 7,000 enemy soldiers from the various battlefields of the war, and the total number of Chinese and Formosan dead has been estimated at around 14,000.

Aftermath

The cession of the island to Japan was received with such disfavour by the Chinese inhabitants that a large military force was required to effect its occupation. For nearly two years afterwards, a bitter guerrilla resistance was offered to the Japanese troops, and large forces – over 100,000 men, it was stated at the time – were required for its suppression. This was not accomplished without much cruelty on the part of the conquerors, who, in their march through the island, perpetrated all the worst excesses of war. They had, undoubtedly, considerable provocation. They were constantly attacked by ambushed enemies, and their losses from battle and disease far exceeded the entire loss of the whole Japanese army throughout the Manchurian campaign. But their revenge was often taken on innocent villagers. Men, women, and children were ruthlessly slaughtered or became the victims of unrestrained lust and rapine. The result was to drive from their homes thousands of industrious and peaceful peasants, who, long after the main resistance had been completely crushed, continued to wage a vendetta war, and to generate feelings of hatred which the succeeding years of conciliation and good government have not wholly eradicated. - The Cambridge Modern History, Volume 12

The Japanese went on six weeks of killing spree massacring Hakka village peasants en masse in retaliation for the murder of Japanese teachers by Hakkas in the Shihlin suburb of Taipei.

The last Formosan militia units still under arms were defeated on 26 November 1895 at the Battle of Changhsing, popularly known in Taiwan as the Battle of the Burning Village. During this battle Japanese troops set alight and stormed the village of Changhsing, Pingtung, against determined resistance by a force of Hakka militiamen and armed Hakka villagers under the command of Chiu Feng-yang (邱鳳揚).  The surviving Formosans dispersed after this defeat.

Japan had won its title to Taiwan and the Penghu Islands with the Treaty of Shimonoseki, and the successful Japanese invasion of Taiwan confirmed the Japanese in their possession.  Taiwan remained firmly under the control of Japan until 1945, and all regular units of the Chinese army still on the island were either disbanded or shipped back to China.  Businessmen who had backed the Japanese during the invasion prospered under their rule. Koo Hsien-jung, who had invited the Japanese into Taipei in the early days of June 1895, was granted exclusive business rights in Taiwan, making him the wealthiest Taiwanese of his time. His son Koo Chen-fu inherited his wealth and founded the Koos Group, which dominated the business sector of modern Taiwan.

Although the Japanese army had defeated the Chinese regular and Formosan militia forces with little difficulty, a number of locally raised guerrilla bands maintained an insurgency against the Japanese for the next seven years.  The insurgency initially flourished because the bulk of the invasion force was repatriated after the surrender of Tainan, so that for several months there were relatively few Japanese troops left on the ground in Taiwan.  The Japanese responded to the continuing resistance with a carefully calibrated 'stick and carrot' policy, granting clemency to insurgents who laid down their arms while hunting down and annihilating those that did not, and taking brutal reprisals against villages believed to be sheltering guerrillas.

Nitobe Inazō, a former Director of the Bureau of Industries in the Government of Formosa, wrote, "Though the island was pacified no one knew what was to happen next. We did not understand the character of the people. Very few Japanese could speak Formosan and fewer Formosans could speak Japanese. There was naturally mutual distrust and suspicion. The bandits abounded everywhere. Under these conditions military rule was the only form of government that could be adopted until better assurance could be obtained of the disposition of the people. For this purpose it was calculated that some ten million yen, I may say five million dollars, was yearly needed for the pacification and government of Formosa."

Deaths in battle and illness plagued the Japanese forces and resulted in heavy losses for them.