[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2007 Hong Kong Chief Executive election

The 2007 Hong Kong Chief Executive election was held on 25 March 2007 to select the Chief Executive of Hong Kong. Incumbent Chief Executive Donald Tsang was re-elected, defeating the pro-democracy challenger, legislator Alan Leong of the Civic Party by 649 to 123 votes in the 796-member Election Committee dominated by the pro-Beijing electors.

It was the first competitive Chief Executive election featuring two candidates from different political camp as the pan-democracy camp were able to field their candidate to challenge the Beijing-favoured candidate for the first time. It has been said that the competitive nature of this election, with debates held between the candidates, changed Hong Kong's political culture.

Election Committee election

The Election Committee subsector elections was held on 10 December 2006 to form the 800-member Election Committee to select the Chief Executive. Out of 134 candidates, the pro-democrats won 114 seats. All pro-democracy candidates in Accountancy, Education, Engineering, Health services, Higher education, Information Technology and Legal subsectors won, of which the pro-democracy Legal candidates won all the seats in the subsector. Together with the 20 ex officio pro-democrat members of the Legislative Council, the pro-democrats were able to nominate their Chief Executive candidate.

Barrister Alan Leong, member of the Civic Party and Legislative Council first expressed his interest in running as early as September 2006. A consensus was reached between the divided pro-democracy camp, despite the opposition from the radical democrats including the League of Social Democrats (LSD). Leong announced his candidacy in October 2006.

Pre-nomination campaign
Alan Leong centred his campaign on democratic reforms, labour issues, anti-discrimination, solving the income disparity, education, employment, environment and public finance reforms. Incumbent Chief Executive Donald Tsang was noted for his impassiveness in the campaign. On announcing his candidacy, Tsang evaded all media invitations, and ignore Leong's constant pressure. He did not formally declare his run until early February, stressing that his priority was to fulfil his job expectations as the Chief Executive rather than a Chief Executive candidate. Tsang's slogan was "I will get the job done".

Nominations
Donald Tsang had been widely expected to secure re-election by a landslide, as he had received nominations from 641 members of the same body. The pro-democracy candidate, Alan Leong secured 132 nominations, ensuring that he would contest the election, the first opposed Chief Executive election.

Although the outcome of the election was a foregone conclusion, it was hoped that the debates would stimulate discussion about the future direction of Hong Kong, were meant for the respective candidates to put forward their political visions for public scrutiny.

Other minor candidates included The Bus Uncle.

Debates

This was the first time for Hong Kong to have a broadcasting debate between the Chief Executive candidates. Two debates were held – one on 1 March and the other on 15 March.

The first debate consisted of an audience of 900, mainly the politicians, including the 530 Election Committee members. The public was excluded. The second debate consisted of an audience of 200 people randomly chosen by the University of Hong Kong and the Lingnan University. The first debate was held on 1 March 2007, at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre from 7:00 pm to 8:30 pm, presided by Rita Fan; the second 90-minute debate was held on 15 March 2007 at the TVB City in Tseung Kwan O, co-organized by the 8 main media corporations in Hong Kong. Both debates were broadcast live by TVB, ATV and RTHK.

The first debate

Format
530 members of the Election Committee attended the forum, which was stage-managed. The general public was not allowed to attend the debate but their questions to the candidates were collected in advance through fax or e-mails. A total of 3,409 questions were submitted, and 6 of them were selected for the candidates to answer in the debate.

Direct questioning between the candidates was prohibited. The 90-minute debate was divided into 4 sessions.  The two candidates were first given 3 minutes to deliver their election platform; Leong went first. After that there was a question-and-answer session. Each of the chosen questioners had 30 seconds in which to raise questions, and the candidates were allowed 20 minutes to respond to each question without using any props, notes, charts or diagrams. After the Q&A, Tsang was the first one to give his conclusion of the debate.

Issues
Questions raised by 22 members of the Election Committee and 7 citizens covered areas of democracy (doubts on universal suffrage), economic development, educational reform, etc. The issues which drew most heated argument from both candidates concerned democratic development and the relationship between central and SAR governments.