[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Roy Farran

On 2 March 1947, martial law was declared throughout Tel Aviv and the Jewish sector of Jerusalem, with the intended aim of differentiating the paramilitary members from the civilian population and ending the attacks. However, this had the opposite effect, and the number of attacks actually doubled.

"A free hand for us against terror"
After two high-profile kidnappings, the Cabinet acceded to Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery's request for the restrictions on force employed in security operations to be lifted, despite opposition from the Colonial Office and the fact that the Cabinet had signalled an intention to withdraw from Palestine. Former Royal Marine Nicol Gray, the Inspector General of the Palestine Police, impressed by the wartime exploits of special forces units behind the lines, authorized Brigadier Bernard Fergusson (who had served in the Chindits with Orde Wingate, the leader of the Special Night Squads) to create covert teams along similar lines.

Those in the police who heard of the new unit were aghast, and even Gray's tough-minded predecessor, Brigadier John Rymer-Jones, was moved to warn that the tactic would end in catastrophe. Fergusson ignored him and recruited two former 2nd SAS men as commanders: Alastair MacGregor (then with MI6) and Roy Farran. Some authors  have seen Farran as an odd choice for the assignment given his propensity to contravene direct orders, lack of experience in security or police work, and (by his own later account) drink problem.

MacGregor was to operate in north Palestine and Farran the south, while Fergusson took the Jerusalem squad pending the arrival of a third squad commander; these areas conformed to military zones, not the six Palestine Police districts. Subsequently, Fergusson said the concept was to provoke contact and give insurgents a 'bloody nose', while Sir Henry Gurney insisted that the squads had never been authorized to use anything outside normal police methods. Farran, or so he later claimed, thought he had been given "carte blanche... a free hand". There was only a short period of training and it largely consisted of intensive pistol and close quarters battle practice. Utilizing jeeps, a citrus-fruit delivery truck and a dry-cleaner's lorry, Farran's team "moved among Jewish civilians in Jewish clothing" and made several arrests in the month they were active, although alert insurgents recognized them as British forces more than once. Farran did not have any fluent Hebrew speakers, but didn't liaise with the Criminal Investigation Department out of security concerns, and his unit (2001) lacked accurate intelligence on insurgents.

Alexander Rubowitz affair
On 6 May 1947, 16-year-old Alexander Rubowitz disappeared while putting up posters for Jewish paramilitary group Lehi. Palestine police CID believed he had been caught and killed by Farran's squad; Gurney ordered them "to proceed with the case as an ordinary criminal offence with the object of bringing Farran and any other accused to trial".

According to an account ruled inadmissible at Farran's trial, Rubowitz was taken to a remote location where, after brutal attempts to extract information, he was killed by Farran with a rock and the body given to an Arab for disposal. His body was never found. Suspicions of Farran's involvement were first raised after a grey trilby hat, bearing the name Farran or Farkan, was found near the street corner where a struggling Rubowitz was seen being pushed into a car. Farran claimed he was being framed and fled to Syria. Colonel Bernard Fergusson persuaded Farran to return voluntarily. However, when, contrary to Fergusson's assurances, he was arrested, Farran escaped to Jordan, finally returning when he heard of reprisals being planned against British officers. He was brought to trial in a British military court in Jerusalem.

Farran was court martialled on a charge of murdering Alexander Rubowitz. Colonel Fergusson, to whom Farran was said to have confessed his guilt, refused to testify, on the grounds that he might incriminate himself.

Notes made by Farran while in custody and found after his escape reportedly contained a confession but were judged to be preparation for his defence and thus inadmissible under the rules of lawyer-client privilege. The prosecution failed to prove the hat was Farran's or even that Rubowitz was actually dead. The result was that the case collapsed for lack of evidence. Rubowitz's family made many unsuccessful attempts to revive the case. Alexander Rubowitz's body has never been found. After the trial, Fergusson was told to resign and leave the country within 36 hours.