[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Maria Komnene, Queen of Jerusalem

Maria Komnene (;  – 1217), Latinized Comnena, was the queen of Jerusalem from 1167 until 1174 as the second wife of King Amalric. She occupied a central position in the Kingdom of Jerusalem for twenty years, earning a reputation for intrigue and ruthlessness. 

Maria was a grandniece of Byzantine Emperor Manuel I Komnenos. Her marriage to Amalric in 1167 served to establish an alliance between the Byzantine Empire and the Kingdom of Jerusalem. When Amalric died in 1174, the crown passed to Maria's stepson, Baldwin IV, and she withdrew with her daughter, Isabella, to the city of Nablus, which she was to rule as queen dowager. Due to Baldwin's leprosy, Maria's stepdaughter, Sibylla, and daughter, Isabella, were regarded as potential successors. Maria married the lord of Ibelin, Balian, in 1177, with whom she had four more children.

From 1180, Maria was one of the leaders of the faction opposing Sibylla and her husband Guy of Lusignan. Baldwin IV died in 1185, leaving Sibylla's son, Baldwin V, as king. When Baldwin V died the next year, Maria and her party planned to crown her daughter Isabella and son-in-law Humphrey IV of Toron, but Humphrey submitted to Sibylla and Guy, who thus solidified their hold on the kingdom. The Egyptian ruler Saladin invaded in 1187, capturing Jerusalem and most of the kingdom. Sibylla died in 1190 while Guy was retaking Acre, and his opponents asserted that his reign had thus ended and that Maria's daughter Isabella was the rightful heir. Maria had Isabella's marriage to Humphrey annulled so that the new queen could marry the more capable candidate, Conrad of Montferrat. Maria died in the reign of her great-granddaughter Isabella II, having outlived all her allies and adversaries.

Background
Maria was the daughter of the Byzantine protosebastos John Doukas Komnenos and Maria Taronitissa, and grandniece of Emperor Manuel I Komnenos. The Byzantine Empire was a Greek Orthodox state that claimed suzerainty over the crusader states in the Levant. Nearly all of the Christian peasants in the Kingdom of Jerusalem belonged to the Greek Orthodox Church, but the ruling class, the Franks, were Roman Catholics. The crusader states were constantly threatened by neighbouring Muslim powers.

Maria's cousin Theodora Komnene was queen of Jerusalem as the wife of King Baldwin III. Their marriage was childless, and he was succeeded upon his death in 1163 by his brother, Amalric. Amalric was forced by the High Court of Jerusalem to agree to an annulment of his marriage to Agnes of Courtenay, but he successfully appealed to Pope Alexander III to have their children, Sibylla and Baldwin, declared legitimate.

Queenship

Wishing to restore alliance with the powerful Byzantine Empire, King Amalric took his vassals' advice and sent his butler, Odo of St Amand, and the archbishop of Caesarea, Ernesius, as envoys to Emperor Manuel. Negotiations for Amalric's marriage with one of the emperor's relatives lasted two years. Maria was eventually selected and sent to the Levant. She landed with the butler and the archbishop at Tyre in August. The Latin patriarch of Jerusalem, Amalric of Nesle, celebrated her marriage to the king at the Cathedral of Tyre on 29 August 1167. Historian Bernard Hamilton concludes that the new queen was neither particularly attractive, as not even her supporters flattered her, nor endowed with an impressive dowry, as her cousin Theodora had been.

Maria and her household represented Byzantine interests in the crusader states, but like Theodora in Baldwin III's reign, she had no influence on the government as queen. Mindful of the power wielded by their mother, Queen Melisende, King Amalric and his brother, King Baldwin III, were keen to avoid sharing authority with their wives. Maria was also disadvantaged by having no son. A daughter who died in infancy was likely born to the queen in 1171. The royal couple's only surviving child was Isabella, born in 1172. There was little affection in the relationship between the queen and her stepson, Baldwin. She proved markedly ambitious, and probably resented Baldwin's precedence over her own progeny in the line of succession. The lack of a son in the royal marriage became troubling as suspicion grew that Baldwin had contracted leprosy, which was then an incurable and much stigmatised illness.

Dowager

Maria's husband, Amalric, came down with dysentery in June 1174. On his deathbed, he granted the city of Nablus, formerly held by his mother, to Maria to be held in fief as dower. He died on 11 July. Maria may have taken part in the ensuing discussion about succession to the throne. Having no other son, Amalric was succeeded by 13-year-old Baldwin, who had not yet been formally diagnosed with leprosy. Despite ominous symptoms, he was seen as a better candidate than his slightly older sister, Sibylla, because she was a girl and unmarried. The claim of Maria's daughter, Isabella, was unviable because she was only two years old.