[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Telerehabilitation

ehabilitation and maintenance rehabilitation delivered through telerehabilitation for people with chronic respiratory disease reaches outcomes similar to centre-based rehabilitation. While there are no safety issues identified, the findings are based on evidence limited by a small number of studies.

Cardiovascular disease 
Telerehabilitation for cardiovascular disease

A systematic review of ten studies to measure the effectiveness of telerehabilitation as a means to reach "cardiac rehabilitation" has shown to be considered as an effective and appropriate measure to increase participation in underdeveloped areas. The issue noted in the review was the technical drawbacks of broadband and limited internet connectivity, which limited the participation of willing participants of the study. Addressing this technological gap could help showcase the potential impact of telerehabilitation on cardiac rehabilitation accessibility and participation as well as person-centered, health, and economic outcomes.

Stroke survivors

Telerehabilitation for stroke survivors 
In a 2018 systematic review of 15 studies it was found that there were no significant differences in given tests and measures between telerehabilitation and control groups when it came to post stroke care. This was supported through tests such as Barthel Index , Berg Balance Scale , Fugl-Meyer Upper Extremity , and Stroke Impact Scale.  Furthermore, the study goes on to conclude that “Telerehabilitation can be a suitable alternative to usual rehabilitation care in post stroke care especially in remote or underserved areas. Larger studies are needed to evaluate the health-related quality of life and cost-effectiveness with the ongoing improvements in telerehabilitation networks.”

Standards and training requirements 
 Telerehabilitation standards
 Reimbursement policies/Reimbursement in telerehabilitation
 Legislative activities/Legislative activities in telerehabilitation
 Ethics and privacy issues/Ethics and privacy issues in telerehabilitation
 Clinical and technology training issues

History
In 1999, D.M. Angaran published "Telemedicine and Telepharmacy: Current Status and Future Implications" in the American Journal of Health-System Pharmacy. He provided a comprehensive history of telecommunications, the internet and telemedicine since the 1950s. The Department of Defense (DoD) and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) spearheaded the technology in the United States during the Vietnam War and the space program; both agencies continue to fund advances in telemedicine.

Three early adopters of telemedicine were state penitentiary systems, rural health care systems, and the radiology profession. Telemedicine makes business sense for the states because they do not have to pay for security escorts to have a prisoner receive care outside the prison.  Rural telemedicine in the United States is heavily subsidized through federal agency grants for telecommunications operations, starting in the 1990s. Most of this funding comes through the Health Services Research Administration and the Department of Commerce. Some state universities have obtained state funding to operate tele-clinics in rural areas. However, few (if any) of these programs are known to financially break-even, mostly because of reimbursement challenges.  For instance, the Medicare program for people over age 65 (the largest payer) has been very restrictive about paying for telehealth. This appears to be changing, as in response to the health access challenges during the COVID-19 pandemic, new opportunities for telehealth have emerged within many healthcare networks, including for rehabilitation services.  

In contrast, the Veterans Administration is relatively active in using telemedicine for people with disabilities. There are several programs that provide annual physical exams or monitoring and consultation for veterans with spinal cord injuries. Similarly, some state Medicaid programs (for poor people and people with disabilities) have pilot programs using telecommunications to connect rural practitioners with subspecialty therapists. A few school districts in Oklahoma and Hawaii offer school-based rehabilitation therapy using therapy assistants who are directed by a remote therapist. The National Rehabilitation Hospital in Washington DC and Sister Kenny Rehabilitation Institute in Minneapolis provided assessment and evaluations to patients living in Guam and American Samoa. Cases included post-stroke, post-polio, autism, and wheel-chair fitting.