[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Agricultural Information Management Standards

ce tool that assists bibliographic data providers in selecting appropriate encoding strategies according to their needs in order to facilitate metadata exchange by, for example, constructing crosswalks between their local data formats and widely used formats or even with a Linked Data representation

Tools 
 AgriDrupal  is both a suite of solutions for agricultural information management and a community of practice around these solutions.  The AgriDrupal community is made up of people who work in the community of agricultural information management specialists and have been experimenting with IM solutions in Drupal.
 AgriOcean DSpace  is a joint initiative of the United Nations agencies of FAO and UNESCO-IOC/IODE to provide a customized version of DSpace. It uses standards for metadata, thesauri and other controlled vocabularies for oceanography, marine science, food, agriculture, development, fisheries, forestry, natural resources and other related sciences.
 VocBench is a web-based multilingual vocabulary management tool developed by FAO and hosted by MIMOS Berhad. It transforms thesauri, authority lists and glossaries into SKOS/RDF concept schemes for use in a linked data environment. VocBench also manages the workflow and editorial processes implied by vocabulary evolution such as user rights/roles, validation and versioning. VocBench  supports a growing set of user communities, including the global, distributed group of terminologists who manage AGROVOC.
 WebAGRIS is a multilingual Web-based system for distributed data input, processing and dissemination (through the Internet or on CD-Rom), of agricultural bibliographic information. It is based on common standards of data input and dissemination formats (XML, HTML, ISO2709), as well as subject categorization schema and AGROVOC.

Services 
 AgriFeeds is a service that allows users to search and filter news and events from several agricultural information sources and to create custom feeds based on the filters applied. AgriFeeds was designed in the context on CIARD (Coherence in Information for Agricultural Research for Development). Within CIARD, the partners who designed and implemented AgriFeeds are FAO and GFAR. AgriFeeds is currently maintained by FAO.
 AGRIS is a global public domain database with nearly 3 million structured bibliographical records on agricultural science and technology. The database is maintained by FAO, with the content provided by more than 100 participating institutions from 65 countries.
 CIARD Routemap to Information Nodes and Gateways (RING) is a project implemented within CIARD and is led by GFAR. The RING is a global registry of web-based services that give access to any kind of information pertaining to agricultural research for development (ARD). It allows information providers to register their services in various categories and so facilitate the discovery of sources of agriculture-related information across the world.
 Since January 2011, AIMS supports E-LIS, the international electronic archive for library and information science (LIS). E-LIS is established, managed and maintained by an international team of 73 librarians and information scientists from 47 countries and support for 22 languages. It is freely accessible, aligned with the Open Access (OA) movement and is a voluntary enterprise. Currently it is the largest international repository in the LIS field. Searching or browsing E-LIS is a kind of multilingual, multicultural experience, an example of what could be accomplished through open access archives to bring the people of the world together.
 VEST Registry is a catalog of controlled vocabularies (such as authority files, classification systems, concept maps, controlled lists, dictionaries, ontologies or subject headings); metadata sets (metadata element sets, namespaces and application profiles); and tools (such as library management software, content management systems or document repository software). It is concerned primarily with collecting and maintaining a consistent set of metadata for each resource. The scope of the VEST Registry is to provide a clearing house for tools, metadata sets and vocabularies used in food, agriculture, development, fisheries, forestry and natural resources information management context.

See also
 AGRIS
 AGROVOC
 E-LIS
 IMARK
 Geopolitical ontology

References

External links 
 Agricultural Information Management Standards

E-agriculture
Food and Agriculture Organization
Standards
Information science
Knowledge representation
Library science