[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ice Station Zebra

ions 
Ice Station Zebra was nominated in two categories at the 41st Academy Awards, for Best Special Visual Effects (nominees: Hal Millar and Joseph McMillan Johnson, won by 2001: A Space Odyssey) and Best Cinematography (nominee: Daniel L. Fapp, won by Romeo and Juliet).

Similar historical events 

The plot has parallels to events from April 1959 concerning Discoverer 2, a missing experimental US Corona satellite capsule that inadvertently landed near Spitsbergen, Norway, in the Arctic Ocean on April 13.  It was believed to have been recovered by Soviet agents. In 2006, the US National Reconnaissance Office declassified information stating that "an individual formerly possessing Corona access was the technical adviser to the movie" and admitted "the resemblance of the loss of the Discoverer II capsule, and its probable recovery by the Soviets" on Spitsbergen Island. The story has parallels with the CIA's Project COLDFEET, which took place in May and June 1962. In this operation, two American officers parachuted from a CIA-operated Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress to an abandoned Soviet ice station. They were picked up three days later by the B-17 using the Fulton surface-to-air recovery system.

The sabotage aboard the submarine that nearly resulted in its sinking is based on the loss of the Royal Navy's  in Liverpool Bay in 1939. In that case, however, the drip cock was accidentally blocked on the newly built craft by fresh paint, which led to the rear cap being opened while the bow cap was already open to the sea. Water entered at the rate of one ton per second and Thetis sank with the loss of 98 lives. In the movie, the drip cock was intentionally blocked with epoxy glue.

See also

 List of American films of 1968

Notes  
References

Bibliography

External links

 
 
 
 
 
 Movie review at AlistairMacLean.com
 “Ice Station Zebra”: The North American Roadshow and 70mm Engagements

1968 films
1960s action thriller films
1960s English-language films
American action thriller films
Cold War submarine films
Cold War spy films
Films scored by Michel Legrand
Films based on British novels
Films based on works by Alistair MacLean
Films directed by John Sturges
Films set in the Arctic
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer films
Techno-thriller films
Films about the United States Marine Corps
Filmways films
1960s American films