[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# King Fisher

nniversary of Tom Hannehan's death. She would build a fire on top of the grave and then dance around it. According to reporter Carey McWilliams, when asked about how many notches he had on his gun (how many people he had killed), he replied, "thirty-seven, not counting Mexicans."

Ambush and murder 

In 1884, while in San Antonio, Texas, on business, Fisher came into contact with his old friend, gunfighter and gambler Ben Thompson. Thompson was unpopular in San Antonio, since he had earlier killed a popular theater owner there named Jack Harris. A feud over that killing had been brewing since between Thompson and friends of Harris. Fisher and Thompson attended a play on March 11 at the Turner Hall Opera House, and later, about 10:30 p.m., they went to the Vaudeville Variety Theater. A local lawman named Jacob Coy sat with them. Thompson wanted to see Joe Foster, a theater owner and friend of Harris's, and one of those fueling the ongoing feud. Thompson had already spoken to Billy Simms, another theater owner, and Foster's new partner.

Fisher and Thompson were directed upstairs to meet with Foster. Coy and Simms soon joined them in the theater box. Foster refused to speak to Thompson. Fisher allegedly noticed that something was not right. Simms and Coy stepped aside, and as they did Fisher and Thompson leapt to their feet just as a volley of gunfire erupted from another theater box, a hail of bullets hitting both Thompson and Fisher. Thompson fell onto his side, and either Coy or Foster ran up to him and shot him in the head with a pistol. Thompson was unable to return fire and died almost immediately. Fisher was shot thirteen times, and did fire one round in retaliation, possibly wounding Coy, but that is not confirmed. Coy may have been shot by one of the attackers and was left crippled for life.

Foster, in attempting to draw his pistol at the first of the fight, shot himself in the leg, which was later amputated. He died shortly thereafter. The description of the events of that night is contradictory. There was a public outcry for a grand jury indictment of those involved. However, no action was ever taken. The San Antonio police and the prosecutor showed little interest in the case. Fisher was buried on his ranch. His body was later moved to the Pioneer Cemetery in Uvalde, Texas.

In popular culture
Fisher is portrayed by Jack Lambert (American actor) in the 1959 episode "Incident in Leadville" of the television series Bat Masterson starring Gene Barry.
 Fisher is portrayed by Robert Yuro in "King of the Uvalde Road," a 1970 episode of the syndicated television series Death Valley Days, with Dale Robertson as host and co-star.
Alfred Molina plays Fisher in the 2001 film Texas Rangers.
In William W. Johnstone's Flintlock: A Time For Vultures, King Fisher appears as a mechanical man who after his apparent death is saved by an engineer who gives him clockwork parts.

Bibliography
Fisher, O.Clark and Dykes, Jeff C. King Fisher: His Life and Times. Norman, OK: University of Oklahoma Press, 1966.

References

External links 
 
 John King Fisher
 Kingfisher County at Encyclopedia of Oklahoma History & Culture

1853 births
1884 deaths
Cowboys
People from Collin County, Texas
People from Williamson County, Texas
People from Goliad, Texas
People from Maverick County, Texas
People from Uvalde County, Texas
Outlaws of the American Old West
Lawmen of the American Old West
Gunslingers of the American Old West
Ranchers from Texas
American cattlemen
 deaths by firearm in Texas