[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# First Strike (Stargate Atlantis)

leaders. The scene where Ronon Dex says he needs to learn more science was written to parallel Ronon's appearance in only a few scenes. Gero also wrote the Fantastic Four into the scene, where Sheppard compared Teyla Emmagan to the Invisible Woman, paralleling the lack of Teyla's appearance as well.

"First Strike" introduced Jewel Staite as Jennifer Keller. Staite was originally cast because the producers loved her appearance as Ellia, a Wraith adolescent in season two episode "Instinct". Gero created the character to not take over Carson Beckett, but to fill in for him, and thought it endearing to have Keller uncomfortable in her new position. She was originally meant to be a Canadian character, but because fellow executive producer Paul Mullie thought there were already enough Canadian characters, she was turned into an American instead. The third season saw less of Mitch Pileggi as Colonel Caldwell, commander of the Daedalus, due to other commitments (including Day Break). The writers didn't want to kill him off, so they chose to introduce a new character instead, which was where the Apollo was introduced, as well as Abe Ellis, the ship's commander. Gero added a list of actors that would be suitable to play him. When Michael Beach was suggested, the crew decided to go with him. However, Beach wasn't familiar with the Stargate franchise, and was compelled to join the series by his mother, who was a fan. David Ogden Stiers again guest starred as Oberoth. Stiers actually drove from Los Angeles to Vancouver, though he was only wanted for one scene. A retired Colonel of the United States Air Force and his wife made cameo appearances.

Filming 
The episode was filmed during the end of September/ beginning of October, 2006. One of the first scenes, where Keller talks to Weir was done on one long take. In the middle of the scene, the two entered an Atlantis transporter to another floor. The scene was filmed on the same floor, and during the time on the transporter, around 40 people quickly redecorated the hallway. The first scene Michael Beach appeared in was the conference at the beginning of the episode. Despite his lack of knowledge to the series, Beach still acted the scene in one take, where the writers were convinced at his acting style. Beach also asked several questions about the direction and characteristics of his character. Martin Wood noted that he asked "all the right questions." The scene showing McKay and Zelenka below the horizon was filmed from above by Brad Wright's request, though Gero and Wood wanted the scene shot horizontally. The one scene featuring Stiers as Oberoth was the conversation between him and Weir, which was filmed on the same large room, only Stiers and Torri Higginson had their back to each other around five to ten feet apart.

Three camera angles were used during Lorne's scene in the F-302. To save costs, one of the camera angles was operated by Kavan Smith himself, who held it on his lap. Elsewhere, the producers wanted to make the control chair rotate as Sheppard flies the city to make it different than any other actions involving the control chair. A stunt towards the end of the episode was used where Weir gets thrown after the beam grazes the tower. The stunt was not originally approved by the producers. A stuntwoman doubled Higginson as Weir during the sequence. The scene was rehearsed several times before filming the actual sequence. During the actual sequence, the stuntwoman wore a plastic mask to prevent the flying glass from injuring her face.

Visual effects 
The episode's visual effects were produced by Rainmaker Digital Effects. Gero wrote the scene involving the minute long sequence where the Horizon weapon fires from the Apollo to the Asuran homeworld. He made contact with Mark Savela to see if it could be done; Savela was up to the challenge. The sequence was costly, since the visual effects team had to make a 3D world that would last a minute long to ensure that the sequence followed Gero's script. The sequences where Atlantis takes off from the bottom of the ocean were stock footage from "Rising", with the shield and beam added on. Another reason to keep the scenes was because the writers liked the scene to be reused. Another visual effect was used to switch Keller's flag patch from Canadian to American, since the decision to have Keller an American character was made after filming.

Reception