[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Reservation (law)

into eventually accepting all the provisions in the treaty.

Another source of difficulty is that human rights treaties do not create relations, per-se, between the states but create a system of protecting human rights. It is harder to find an objection to that which does not fail the legality test.

With some human rights treaties there are monitoring bodies like tribunals who can make binding decisions; e.g. the European Court of Human Rights in the 1988 Belilos case. In this case, the court decided that a certain reservation by Switzerland was an invalid one. It could, according to the court, therefore be disregarded but Switzerland remained bound by the treaty.

The court chose here for the option ‘The state which made the reservation is bound by the treaty including the parts on which it made the reservation’.  Although Switzerland could have chosen to withdraw from the treaty, it chose not to do so.

Monitoring bodies are generally not allowed to make binding decisions; e.g. the Human Rights Committee which monitors the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. However this committee gave the impression in its General Comment no.24 that it could. In this case the committee stated that 
the normal consequence of an unacceptable reservations is not that the covenant will not be in effect at all for a reserving party. Rather such a reservation will be generally be severable, in the sense that the covenant will be operative for the reserving party without benefit of the reservation.
As in Belilos, the result is that the committee chose the second option.

The committee decided that they were competent to make this decision because: 
It necessarily falls to the Committee to determine whether a specific reservation is compatible with the object and purpose of the Covenant. This is in part because, as indicated above, it is an inappropriate task for States parties in relation to human rights treaties, and in part because it is a task that the Committee cannot avoid in the performance of its functions. …Because of its special character of a human rights treaty, the compatibility of a reservation with the object and purpose of the Covenant must be established objectively, by reference to legal principles, and the Committee is particularly well placed to perform this task.

This has been criticized for the reason above-stated regarding option three.

The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action affirms that "all States are encouraged to accede to the international human rights instruments; all States are encouraged to avoid, as far as possible, the resort to reservation.

The International Law Commission

Because of a high number of reservations against human rights treaties, the International Law Commission (ILC) has, since 1994, included the topic in its work program. Originally the topic was named as “the law and practise relating to reservations to treaties” but this was later changed into “reservations to treaties”.  For this topic a special Rapporteur, Mr. Alain Pellet, was appointed. As of 2009, the handling of this topic is still a work in progress.

The ILC was asked to check if the VCLT would have to be changed with reservations against human rights treaties. In the 1997 report  the ILC rejected this idea. According to the ILC, the reasons why there were problems with reservations against human rights were the same reasons why there were problems with reservations against other treaties. Therefore, the ILC decided that no special regime for human rights treaties would be required.

Suggestions by the ILC concerning reservations were the following:

 Making provisions in the treaty itself which limit the opportunity of making reservations.
 Making clear in the treaty what exactly the object and purpose of the treaty is.
On this suggestion, the ILC stated that this solution could work only if there is political will for such a provision. 
 Help facilitating mediation and negotiations between reserving states and objecting states.
 Human rights bodies should continue monitoring all the reservations to ensure the compliance of the treaty.
 States should add a clause in existing treaties to give monitoring bodies the power to determine the admissibility of a treaty.

However, when a monitoring body is established by a human rights treaty, it is allowed only to comment on or make recommendations about reservations. The ILC did not agree with General Comment 24 of the Human Rights Committee.  The fact that the monitoring body can comment upon the admissibility of reservations has no effect on the principle of state consent. The Human Rights Committee stated that they themselves can decide what the consequence will be of an inadmissible reservation. The ILC states that only the reserving state can decide what action it will follow. The state can decide to withdraw or change its reservation or decide not to become a party to the treaty in question.