[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# L'Oréal-UNESCO For Women in Science Awards

alent deserve, but dod not always receive, both within their country and by their peers. International Rising Talents are chosen from countries in each world region, Africa & Arab States, Asia-Pacific, Europe, Latin America and North America. The 2016 L'Oréal-UNESCO International Rising Talents are:

2017 International Rising Talents 
In 2014, the L’Oréal-UNESCO programme has established the International Rising Talent Grants, awarded annually to 15 PhD students and post-doctoral Fellows.
These young researchers are chosen among the former winners of the 250 fellowships awarded locally by L’Oréal subsidiaries and UNESCO Field Offices around the world.  By recognizing their achievements at a key moment in their careers, the For Women in Science programme aims to help them pursue their research.

2018 International Rising Talents 
Each year, the International Rising Talents programme selects the 15 most promising women scientists among the 275 national and regional fellows of the L’Oréal-UNESCO For Women In Science programme. These young women are the very future of science and recognizing their excellence will help ensure that they reach their full potential.

2019 International Rising Talents 
Among the 275 national and regional fellowship winners supported each year, the For Women in Science programme selects the 15 most promising researchers for this international recognition.

2020 International Rising Talents 
Among the national and regional fellowship winners supported each year, the For Women in Science programme selects the 15 most promising researchers for this international recognition.

2022 International Rising Talents

Regional programmes 
"Women in Science" has national and regional awards.

See also 

 Women in science
 Women in chemistry
 Women in medicine
 Women in physics
 List of science and technology awards for women
 List of general science and technology awards

References

External links 

 
 For Women in Science at UNESCO
 UNESCO: Gender and Science

Awards established in 1998
French science and technology awards
 
 
Lists of women scientists
UNESCO awards