[Source: PubMed]

62. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2012 Apr;26(2):237-49. doi: 
10.1016/j.berh.2012.03.002.

Improving musculoskeletal health: global issues.

Mody GM(1), Brooks PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine, University 
of KwaZulu-Natal, Congella, Durban, South Africa. modyg@ukzn.ac.za

Musculoskeletal (MSK) disorders are among the leading reasons why patients 
consult a family or primary health practitioner, take time off work and become 
disabled. Many of the MSK disorders are more common in the elderly. Thus, as the 
proportion of the elderly increases all over the world, MSK disorders will make 
a greater contribution to the global burden of disease. Epidemiological studies 
have shown that the spectrum of MSK disorders in developing countries is similar 
to that seen in industrialised countries, but the burden of disease tends to be 
higher due to a delay in diagnosis or lack of access to adequate health-care 
facilities for effective treatment. Musculoskeletal pain is very common in the 
community while fibromyalgia is being recognised as part of a continuum of 
chronic widespread pain rather than a narrowly defined entity. This will allow 
research to improve our understanding of pain in a variety of diffuse pain 
syndromes. The availability of newer more effective therapies has resulted in 
efforts to initiate therapy at an earlier stage of diseases. The new criteria 
for rheumatoid arthritis, and the diagnosis of axial and peripheral involvement 
in spondyloarthritis, permit an earlier diagnosis without having to wait for 
radiological changes. One of the major health challenges is the global shortage 
of health workers, and based on current training of health workers and 
traditional models of care for service delivery, the global situation is 
unlikely to change in the near future. Thus, new models of care and strategies 
to train community health-care workers and primary health-care practitioners to 
detect and initiate the management of patients with MSK disorders at an earlier 
stage are required. There is also a need for prevention strategies with 
campaigns to educate and raise awareness among the entire population. Lifestyle 
interventions such as maintaining an ideal body weight to prevent obesity, 
regular exercises, avoidance of smoking and alcohol abuse, intake of a balanced 
diet and nutrients to include adequate calcium and vitamin D, modification of 
the work environment and avoidance of certain repetitive activities will prevent 
or ameliorate disorders such as osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, rheumatoid 
arthritis, gout and MSK pain syndromes including low back pain and work-related 
pain syndromes. These prevention strategies also contribute to reducing the 
prevalence and outcome of diseases such as hypertension, cardiovascular 
diseases, diabetes and respiratory diseases. Thus, prevention strategies require 
urgent attention globally.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.berh.2012.03.002
PMID: 22794096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]