[Source: PubMed]

30. BMC Public Health. 2025 May 19;25(1):1839. doi: 10.1186/s12889-025-22749-6.

Exploring barriers and facilitators to physical activity participation and food 
security among the Rohingya community living in Australia: a socio-ecological 
perspective.

McKeon G(1), Mastrogiovanni C(2), Weber D(3), Le Compte E(3), Némorin S(4), 
Teasdale S(2), Fatima R(5), Bahadurmia S(5), Rosenbaum S(2).

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Psychiatry and Mental Health, School of Clinical Medicine, 
University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia. g.mckeon@unsw.edu.au.
(2)Discipline of Psychiatry and Mental Health, School of Clinical Medicine, 
University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
(3)New South Wales Refugee Health Service, Sydney, Australia.
(4)The New South Wales Service for the Treatment and Rehabilitation of Torture 
and Trauma Survivors, Sydney, Australia.
(5)Australia Rohingya Women's Development Organisation (ARWDO), Sydney, 
Australia.

INTRODUCTION: Many Rohingya people from Myanmar have sought refuge and resettled 
in Australia due to persecution and genocide. Like many people from refugee and 
asylum seeker backgrounds who resettle in Australia, the Rohingya community face 
significant mental, physical and psychosocial challenges. Physical activity and 
nutrition are interrelated, modifiable risk factors associated with a range of 
health and psychosocial outcomes. Therefore, this study aimed to explore 
barriers and facilitators to physical activity and food security among the 
Rohingya community who have resettled in Sydney, Australia to inform 
intervention development.
METHODS: In-depth interviews and focus groups with Rohingya community leaders 
and members were conducted. Community leaders were identified as individuals 
from the same community who have lived experience of displacement and advocate 
for the community's needs. Reflexive thematic analysis and framework analysis 
were used to identify and then allocate themes to theoretically-driven domains 
according to the socio-ecological model.
RESULTS: In total, sixteen participants were interviewed, including n=7 via 
one-one-one interviews and n=9 via a focus group. Of the 16 participants, five 
were community leaders. Ten themes for physical activity and twelve themes for 
food security were identified and mapped onto the socio-ecological model. The 
impact of insecure visa status was identified as a significant macro-level 
barrier affecting both physical activity and food security. Lack of culturally 
responsive services and increased barriers to physical activity for women due to 
cultural expectations and gender roles were also identified. However, increased 
opportunities to engage in healthy lifestyles in Australia compared to Myanmar, 
social support and physical and mental health benefits as motivating factors 
were discussed as key facilitators.
CONCLUSION: Health promotion efforts targeting physical activity and food 
security require a multifactorial approach which prioritises cultural 
sensitivity, acknowledges gender roles and expectations, and considers past 
experiences including the impacts of migration.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-025-22749-6
PMCID: PMC12087233
PMID: 40389873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Ethics approval was gained from South West Sydney Local Health 
District (2021/ETH01115) and University of New South Wales (2021/ETH01115 
External Human Research Ethics Approval) prior to recruitment. All participants 
provided informed consent prior to participating. Consent for publication: All 
participants provided consent. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.