[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lithuanian Americans

her U.S. immigration requirements and the entry of Lithuania into the EU have made countries such as Ireland and the United Kingdom a more accessible option for potential Lithuanian emigrants.

Lithuanian Days in Pennsylvania is the longest-running ethnic festival in the United States.

Distribution

Chicago has the largest Lithuanian community in the United States and with approximately 100,000 self-identified ethnic Lithuanians has the largest population of Lithuanians of any municipality outside Lithuania itself. The old "Lithuanian Downtown" in Bridgeport was once the center of Lithuanian political activity for the whole United States. Another large Lithuanian community can be found in the Coal Region of northeastern Pennsylvania, particularly in Schuylkill County where the small borough of New Philadelphia has the largest per capita percentage of Lithuanian Americans (20.8%) in the United States. There is also a large community of Lithuanian descent in the coal mining regions of Western Pennsylvania, northern West Virginia Panhandle and Northeastern Ohio tri-state area. Grand County, Colorado's Lithuanian-American community has the unusual distinction in that it is the only sizable immigrant population in an otherwise fairly homogeneous population in a rural, mountainous community. There is also a small but vibrant Lithuanian community in Presque Isle, Maine. Many Lithuanian refugees settled in Southern California after World War II; they constitute a community in Los Angeles. The majority of the Lithuanian community resides around the St. Casimir Lithuanian church in Los Feliz, in so-called "Little Lithuania.

The states with the largest Lithuanian-American populations are:
 Illinois – 87,294
 Pennsylvania – 78,330
 California – 51,406
 Massachusetts – 51,054
 New York – 49,083

Lithuanian-born population
Lithuanian-born population in the U.S. since 1920:

See also

 Lithuania–United States relations
 Destination Lithuanian America
 American Lithuanian Cultural Archives
 European Americans
 Hyphenated American
 Lithuanians in the Chicago area
 Our Lady of Vilnius Church

References

Further reading

 Fainhauz, David. Lithuanians in the U.S.: Aspects of Ethnic Identity (Chicago: Lithuanian Library Press, Inc., 1991).
 Gedmintas, Aleksandras. “Lithuanians.” In American Immigrant Cultures: Builders of a Nation, Vol. 2, edited by David Levinson and Melvin Ember, (Macmillan, 19970 pp 588–96..
 Granquist, Mark A. "Lithuanian Americans." in Gale Encyclopedia of Multicultural America, edited by Thomas Riggs, (3rd ed., vol. 3, Gale, 2014), pp. 111–127. Online
 Grazulis, Marius K. Lithuanians in Michigan ((Michigan State University Press, 2009).
 Kuzmickaitė, Daiva Kristina. Between Two Worlds: Recent Lithuanian Immigrants in Chicago (1998–2000). (Vilnius: Versus Aureus, 2003).

 Ališauskas, Arūnas. "Lithuanians" in Thernstrom, Stephan; Orlov, Ann; Handlin, Oscar, eds. Harvard Encyclopedia of American Ethnic Groups. Harvard University Press, , (1980) available to borrow online

External links
  Lithuanian American Cultural Archives
 "Baltics in Boston" (Archive). WGBH-TV. August 22, 1989.
Lithuanian Music Hall Association (Philadelphia)

 
European-American society
American