[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 97]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

es, mum, I see un go up to the churchyard. He's tidyin' up the place a
bit for the weddin'."

"The wedding?" repeated Hadria vaguely. Mrs. Gullick looked at her as at
one whose claims to complete possession of the faculties there seems sad
reason to doubt.

"Oh, Miss Jordan's, yes. When is it?"

"Why, it's this mornin', ma'am!" cried Mrs. Gullick.

"Dear me, of course. I _thought_ the village looked rather excited."

People were all standing at their doors, and the children had gathered
at the gate of the church, with hands full of flowers. The wedding party
was, it appeared, to arrive almost immediately. The children set up a
shout as the first carriage was heard coming up the hill.

The bride appeared to be a popular character in Craddock. "Dear, dear,
she will be missed, she will, she was a real lady, she was; did her duty
too to rich _and_ poor."

The Professor asked his companion if she remarked that the amiable lady
was spoken of universally in the past tense, as some one who had passed
from the light of day.

Hadria laughed. "Whenever I am in a cynical mood I come to Craddock and
talk to the villagers."

Dodge was found resting on a broom-handle, with a flower in his
button-hole. Marion Jordan had supplied him with port wine when he was
"took bad" in the winter. Dodge found it of excellent quality. He
approved of the institution of landed property, and had a genuine regard
for the fair-haired, sweet-voiced girl who used to come in her pony-cart
to distribute her bounty to the villagers. Her class in the
Sunday-school, as he remarked, was always the best behaved.

The new schoolmistress, a sour and uncompromising looking person, had
issued from her cottage in her Sunday best to see the ceremony.

"That's where little Martha's mother used to live," said Hadria, "and
that is where she died."

"Indeed, yes. I think Mr. Walker pointed it out to me."

"Ah! of course, and then you know the village of old."

"'Ere they comes!" announced a chorus of children's voices, as the first
carriage drove up. The excitement was breathless. The occupants alighted
and made their way to the church. After that, the carriages came in
fairly quick succession. The bridegroom was criticised freely by the
crowd. They did not think him worthy of his bride. "They du say as it
was a made up thing," Dodge observed, "and that it wasn't _'im_ as she'd
like to go up to the altar with."

"Well, _I_ don't sort o' take to 'im neither," Mrs. Gullick observed,
sympathizing with the bride's feeling. "I do hope he'll be kind to the
pore young thing; that I do."

"She wouldn't never give it 'im back; she's that good," another woman
remarked.

"Who's the gentleman as she had set her heart on?" a romantic young
woman enquired.

"Oh, it's only wot they say," said Dodge judicially; "it's no use a
listening to all one hears--not by a long way."

"You 'ad it from Lord Engleton's coachman, didn't you?" prompted Mrs.
Gullick.

"Which he heard it said by the gardener at Mr. Jordan's, as Miss Marion
was always about with Mr. Fleming."

The murmur of interest at this announcement was drowned by the sound of
carriage wheels. The bride had come.

"See the ideal and ethereal being whom you have been so faithfully
impersonating all the afternoon!" exclaimed Hadria.

A fair, faint, admirably gentle creature, floating in a mist of tulle,
was wafted out of the brougham, the spring sunshine burnishing the pale
hair, and flashing a dazzling sword-like glance on the string of
diamonds at her throat.

It seemed too emphatic, too keen a greeting for the faint ambiguous
being, about to put the teaching of her girlhood, and her pretty hopes
and faiths, to the test.

She gave a start and shiver as she stepped out into the brilliant day,
turning with a half-scared look to the crowd of faces. It seemed almost
as if she were seeking help in a blind, bewildered fashion.

Hadria had an impulse. "What would she think if I were to run down those
steps and drag her away?" Professor Theobald shook his head.

Within the church, the procession moved up the aisle, to the sound of
the organ. Hadria compared the whole ceremony to some savage rite of
sacrifice: priest and people with the victim, chosen for her fairness,
decked as is meet for victims.

"But she may be happy," Lady Engleton suggested when the ceremony was
over, and the organ was pealing out the wedding march.

"That does not prevent the analogy. What a magnificent hideous thing the
marriage-service is! and how exactly it expresses the extraordinary
mixture of the noble and the brutal that is characteristic of our
notions about these things!"

"The bride is certainly allowed to remain under no misapprehension as to
her function," Lady Engleton admitted, with a laugh that grated on
Hadria. Professor Theobald had fallen behind with Joseph Fleming, who
had turned up among the crowd.

"But, after all, why mince