[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kentucky State Police

The Kentucky State Police (KSP) is a department of the Kentucky Justice and Public Safety Cabinet, and the official State Police force of the  Commonwealth of Kentucky, responsible for statewide law enforcement. The department was founded in 1948 and replaced the Kentucky Highway Patrol. The department's sworn personnel hold the title State Trooper, and its nickname is The Thin Gray Line.

History
In 1948, the Kentucky General Assembly enacted the State Police Act, creating the Kentucky State Police and making Kentucky the 38th state to create a force whose jurisdiction extends throughout the given state. The act was signed July 1 of that year by Governor Earle C. Clements. The force was modeled after the  Pennsylvania State Police. The force was the successor agency to the Kentucky Highway Patrol, and inherited the equipment and officers from that organization. KSP is the premier law enforcement agency of Kentucky, having full jurisdiction in all 120 counties and all 33 independent cities. Guthrie F. Crowe served as the force's first commissioner.

Until 2013, KSP training materials instructed officers to "meet violence with greater violence" and to be "ruthless killer[s]", and featured a quotation from Adolf Hitler.

Posts
Kentucky State Police troopers operate from 16 regional posts: West Troop contains Posts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 12, 15 and 16. East Troop contains Posts 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13 and 14. there is also Regional Offices of the KSP Division of Commercial Vehicle Enforcement. West Troop contains Regions 1, 2 and 3. East Troop contains Regions 4, 5 and 6. The Special Enforcement Troop contains Cannabis Suppression, West Drug Enforcement, East Drug Enforcement, Aircraft Support, Vehicle Investigations, Special Operations and the Critical Incident Response Team.

West Troop
Post 1: Mayfield
Post 2: Madisonville
Post 3: Bowling Green
Post 4: Elizabethtown
Post 5: Campbellsburg
Post 12: Frankfort
Post 15: Columbia
Post 16: Henderson

East Troop
Post 6: Dry Ridge
Post 7: Richmond
Post 8: Morehead
Post 9: Pikeville
Post 10: Harlan
Post 11: London
Post 13: Hazard
Post 14: Ashland

The KSP Division of Commercial Vehicle Enforcement operates from six regional offices:

West Troop
Region 1 Henderson
Region 2 Louisville
Region 3 Georgetown

East Troop
Region 4 London
Region 5 Morehead
Region 6 Pikeville

In addition, the Special Enforcement Troop includes the following branches:
Cannabis Suppression
West Drug Enforcement
East Drug Enforcement
Aircraft Support
Vehicle Investigations
Special Operations
Critical Incident Response Team (CIRT)

Organization

Uniforms of the KSP

Troopers wear the standard French gray KSP uniform, consisting of a short sleeve and long sleeve version. Winter trousers are charcoal gray with a 1" black stripe down the side. Summer trousers are French gray with 1" black stripe. Patent leather chukka high top shoes are worn with both uniforms. The badge is worn on the left side of the shirt, with the trooper's name plate directly below on the left breast pocket flap. Officers wear their rank insignia on the shirt collar while all other troopers wear their rank, if applicable, on their shirt sleeves. A white crew neck T-shirt is worn under the uniform shirt. KSP requires a tie with long sleeve it is tucked into the uniform shirt. The campaign hat is French gray in color, and troopers are issued two hats: straw for summer and felt for winter. A Kentucky State Police full color brass seal is worn on the front of the hat. The hat cord is light gray. Commercial Vehicle Enforcement officers uniforms are identical to that of troopers except that the uniform are tan instead of French gray.

Vehicles
The Kentucky State Police use a variety of police cruisers and patrol vehicles. The current fleet consists of:
Dodge Charger 5.7L AWD PPV
Ford Super Duty Crime Scene Response vehicle (one unit per post)
Ford Explorer Utility Police Interceptors (Commercial Vehicle Enforcement & Post Supervisor)
Ford Taurus Police Interceptors (Facilities Security)
Chevrolet Tahoe PPV

The Dodge Charger 5.7L AWD PPV currently serves as the primary KSP fleet vehicle. Due to Ford's discontinuation of the CVPI in 2011 KSP tested a series of vehicles to replace the CVPI between 2012 and 2013.  These tests included the Chevy Caprice PPV, Ford Taurus, and Dodge Charger PPV.  The KSP Division of Commercial Vehicle Enforcement currently utilize the Chevy Tahoe Utility Police Interceptor as they retire their fleet of CVPI's and Chevrolet Caprice PPV's. The KSP Facilities Security Branch will replace their CVPI's with Ford Taurus-based Police Interceptors.