[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mind control in popular culture

fers from impulsive violence. The plan is to stimulate certain nerves to ease the violent impulses. Instead, the violence becomes even more irresistible.
 In the anime, movie and video game series Street Fighter 2, the main villain, known as M. Bison uses his "Psycho Power" to brainwash and corrupt street fighters across the world into joining his criminal organization known as Shadowloo, turning them into remorseless killing machines fully under his control.
 In the X-Men comic book series, Professor Xavier, can read and control people's minds. Mind control and other psychic abilities are relatively common mutations in the X-Men universe; other people with this ability include Emma Frost and, to a lesser degree, Jean Grey.
 The House of the Scorpion is a science fiction book in which people have computer chips implanted in their brain, allowing them to only do what they are 'programmed' to do. These people are referred to as 'Eejits'.
 In the anime series, Code Geass, the protagonist, Lelouch Lamperouge, gets the ability, Geass, which gives him a form of mind control by allowing him to give someone an absolute order, by looking them in the eye.
 In the film Control Factor, an unsuspecting "everyman" slowly realizes he is an unwitting guinea pig being used in a mind control test. If successful, the test will then expand to behavioral control of an entire population.
 In the Resident Evil films, based on the video game series of the same name, the fictional Umbrella Corporation captures and brainwashes the protagonist, Alice (portrayed by Milla Jovovich), as part of their "Program: Alice" experiment.
 In the Bionicle storyline, a Kanohi mask called Komau allows the user the power to control minds of beings.
 In John Christopher's Tripods trilogy, the alien Masters control all of humanity via devices called Caps which are permanently affixed to the skull. The Caps received signals broadcast by equipment in the Masters' cities.
 In Empire of the Ants, giant ants used a white gas to control the minds of humans.
 In Stargate SG-1, the Goa'uld had brainwashing technology that is used several times over the show and proves both easy and difficult to defeat depending on what technique is used.
 In Stargate Universe, using presumably left-over Goa'uld technology, the Lucian Alliance are able to brainwash their enemies into becoming spies for them as they do with Colonel David Telford.  This brainwashing is difficult to break as shown with Telford: the characters were forced to evacuate the air in the room he was in, let him die for a short period of time then revive him.  Those brainwashed are shown to remember their actions as Telford remembers everything he did.
 In Star Trek: The Next Generation, there are at least three episodes featuring Mind Control:
In "The Mind's Eye",  Geordi La Forge is brainwashed into becoming an assassin by the Romulans to reignite hostilities between The Federation and the Klingon Empire.  The depiction of brainwashing in the episode relies upon feeding images and impulses directly into La Forge's cortex via his VISOR interface.
In "The Game", the crew of the Enterprise is controlled using a device that has the user playing a simple 3D game and provides direct stimulation to the pleasure centers of the brain while affecting their higher reasoning functions.  The Ktarians use this to attempt to get the crew to entice other members of Starfleet to play the game, eventually controlling the entire Federation.
In the two-part "Chain of Command" episode Captain Picard is captured and a Cardassian agent uses traditional methods of brain-washing (sensory deprivation, sensory bombardment, forced nakedness, stress positions, dehydration, starvation, physical pain, and cultural humiliation).
In the episode "Conspiracy" alien brain parasites have taken control of key Starfleet officers in an attempt to take over that organization.
 In the Monster Rancher anime, the character Metalner has the ability to brainwash his victims by attracting himself to them.
 In the South Korean-Japanese manhwa Blade of the Phantom Master and the film based on it, the character Chun Hyang (later called Sando) is brainwashed into becoming the bodyguard of a corrupt lord, but she is later freed by the main character Munsu.
 In the Japanese fantasy light novel series Redo of Healer and the anime based on it, the anti-hero Keyarga uses his powers to brainwash Flare, the corrupt princess of Jioral, into becoming his companion, and later does the same to her younger sister Norn.
 In the film MirrorMask, the main character Helena is brainwashed by the Queen of Shadows into becoming her daughter. 
 In the TV show Codename: Kids Next Door, a group of villainous kids called the Delightful Children from Down the Lane are revealed to be brainwashed Kids Next Door member of Sector Z, having been delightfulized by the villain Father. The effects of their brainwashing is permanent, but can be temporarily undone.  
 In the anime seri