[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Lithuanian Territorial Defense Force

ence, and former members of Lithuanian Riflemen's Union. All across Lithuania, a network was secretly organized by territorial LTDF officers. The plans were to assemble around 75–80,000 men. Most of the organizational structure was laid, and it served as a basis for the armed anti-Soviet resistance.

According to the LTDF's commander's order of 28 April 1944, nine of the LTDF's battalions were combined into larger units. The 303rd, 305th, 306th and 309th Battalions were combined into the Vilnius Infantry Regiment. Before that, the movement of the battalions to their intended destinations began. Thus, the 303rd Battalion was moved from Marijampolė to its new garrison in Trakai on April 15. General Staff Colonel Jonas Šlepetys was appointed commander of the Vilnius Infantry Regiment after being dismissed from the position of commander of the 306th Battalion. 

The 301st, 308th and 310th Battalions were combined into the Kaunas Infantry Regiment, with Colonel  its commander. At the beginning of May, the regimental commander received an order for the regiment to go to the Vilnius region. There, at the request of the SS leadership, the regiment was to be split up and deployed in companies. 

In April, the Polish AK in the Vilnius region attempted to begin negotiations with Plechavičius, proposing a non-aggression pact and cooperation against Nazi Germany. The Lithuanians refused and demanded that the Poles either abandon the disputed Vilnius region or subordinate themselves to the Lithuanians in their anti-Soviet struggle. Justina Smalkyté claims that the 305th Battalion, together with Lithuanian auxiliary policemen, was involved in the round-up of peasants from a predominantly Polish village on April 29 who ended up being deported as forced labourers to Germany. In early May, the LTDF initiated a widespread anti-partisan operation against the Polish and Soviet partisans in the area.  

Even before the combat against Polish partisans, Plechavičius issued an order condemning unkind or even brutal treatment of any inhabitants of Lithuania, no matter what language they spoke, meaning that he forbade anti-Polish actions. Still, reports within the Polish Home Army (AK) accused the LTDF of anti-Polish aggression and murdering Polish civilians. The Lithuanian historian Arūnas Bubnys wrote that these casualties were most likely collateral damage in the crossfire between the Polish AK and the LTDF. Regardless, Polish researchers such as the sociologist Tadeusz Piotrowski, accuse LTDF units of committing atrocities against Polish civilians.

Kaunas Infantry Regiment 
By May 3-4, all three battalions of the Kaunas Infantry Regiment were already in the Vilnius region and deployed in the places designated for the companies. All battalions, without exception, were composed of volunteers with no previous military service, and were poorly armed and equipped. Despite their unpreparedness, they had to face the Polish partisan units active in that area on May 4.

May 4 
On May 4, the 310th Battalion's 2nd Company, marching from Jašiūnai to , was attacked by Polish partisans from the 3rd AK Brigade on the way and forced to withdraw to Jašiūnai. Company commander Major Narkevičius and two soldiers were captured and shot by Polish partisans because civilians had been killed in  (also referred to as Paulava, ).

May 5 
The Polish historian Piotr Łossowski claims that the Lithuanian 301st Battalion suffered 47 casualties at Hraŭžyški, and was dispersed by the 8th and 12th AK Brigades on May 5.

May 6 
On May 6, two companies of the 308th Battalion, marching to  (; ), fought with Polish partisans from the 8th, 9th and 13th AK Brigades. Henryk Piskunowicz claims that the unit burned the villages of Sienkaŭščyna and Adamkaŭščyna and murdered their inhabitants. With about 20 people killed, 15 wounded and 70 captured, the battalion retreated to Ashmyany. The Poles undressed the captives and returned them to Ashmyany wearing only their underwear.

May 13 

On the night of May 13, large groups of Polish partisans surrounded two companies of the 301st Battalion in Muravanaja Ašmianka (; ) and one company in  (; ) . The surrounded company was almost destroyed by the Poles.  

Notably, the AK organized a concentrated assault against the fortified Lithuanian positions around Muravanaja Ašmianka. The defences, reinforced with concrete bunkers and trenches, were manned by the 301st Battalion. During the night of May 13–14, the 3rd AK Brigade assaulted the village from the west and north-west, while the 8th and 12th Brigades attacked from the south and east. The remainder of the Polish forces (13th and 9th Brigades) secured the Muravanaja Ašmianka – Talminava road. During the battle, the Lithuanian force lost 60 men, while 170 were taken prisoner of war.