[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ramat Gan Safari

the international registry for zoo animals.

Breeding and conservation
The Safari participated in 60 international and local endangered species breeding programs primarily within the European Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EEP European Endangered Species Programs, ESB European Studbook programs).

Local projects
The Safari participates also in local captive breeding projects which support declining or extinct raptor populations in Israel. Over the years 2003-2012 the Safari bred griffon vultures and white-tailed sea eagles. Six of the eagles were reared and released in the wild by the government Israel Nature and Parks Authority (INPA). A collaborative attempt of the Safari, INPA and the Jerusalem Biblical Zoo to release zoo bred sand cats in 2009 in the desert sands of Kibbutz Lotan was not successful.

Elephants
The outstanding breeding records for both African and Asian elephants are internationally acknowledged. The first African elephant 'Yossi' born in 1974 in the Safari, became a legendary breeding male. His first offspring were born in 1987, a remarkable year, since all six female African elephants delivered calves, two of them on the same day.

The Asian elephants 'Motek' and 'Warda' had already begun breeding in the old Tel Aviv Zoo before being transferred to Ramat Gan.

As of 2013, 21 African and 14 Asian elephants were born (and survived) in the Safari.

Rhinos
In 1978 the first white rhino was born at the Safari; he was named 'Shalom' since he was born on the day of signing of the Camp David Peace Agreement. Since 1978 (and up to 2013), a total of 17 surviving rhino calves were born. As a commitment to breeding this highly endangered species two young females were imported from Pretoria Zoo in 2012.

Hippos
The hippo family grew from a pair originating in the old Tel Aviv Zoo and at its peak reached 40 animals. This is truly one of the largest and most spectacular herds for this species in a captive collection.

Gorillas
The current family group of gorillas, established in 1997, is well known for a stable social structure and its fertility. 'Lukas' the male came from Apenheul Zoo in Apeldoorn, Netherlands while females 'Leah' and 'Anya' came from Frankfurt and Rotterdam Zoos. As of 2013, nine surviving youngsters have been born and of these six have been sent to other zoos.

Animal welfare

A 'Training & Enrichment' department was established in 2008 to improve the quality of the animals' lives. Animals are now trained to voluntarily participate in their own care. This technique is known to reduce stress caused by medical and husbandry procedures. A study conducted on the Safari's chimpanzees has shown that protected contact training significantly reduces the chimpanzees' social stress.
Behavioral enrichment is incorporated into daily animal care routine. Enrichment encourages natural behaviors and provides interesting experiences for both animals and zoo visitors.

Special tours

The Safari offers a variety of classes, programs and activities for the general public; school groups, adult education, summer camps, and special education.

Safari around the clock: Guided tours on the Safari train takes visitors on pre-booked visits in the early morning and cooler hours of afternoon and evening.

V.I.P tour: special behind-the-scenes tour for small groups.

Workshops for families: the theme of parents and offspring is the favorite topic.

Day camp: activities for children age 5-11 for 5 day sessions during the school holidays. The topics change annually.

After school club: for children who are interested in animals.

Teen keepers: junior animal keepers work in animal care and study animal behavior during a one-week summer camp.

Zoo-ology: courses for adults interested in animals. Topics include animal life history, biodiversity and conservation issues. Sequential units include basic introduction, animal behavior, bio-inspiration.

Seniors group tours: the focus is on the third age in the animal kingdom.

Schools connected in depth with the Safari: A nearby magnet school for natural sciences and environment has a spiral program of learning at the Safari from Grades 1-8, integrating zoo activities and visits. The program is jointly planned by the zoo and the school.

Special needs education: Teens at risk, rehabilitation institutions, and many other special needs groups make use of the Safari facilities and guides.

Israel Wildlife Hospital