[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Dimitri Payet

ue 1 matches. At the season's winter break, Payet was recognised by the Ligue de Football Professionnel as the league's highest assist-maker, with 7 in the team's 19 matches. He had also reached six goals at the halfway stage, having scored in each of Lille's three matches prior to the winter break.

On 18 May 2013, Payet was named in the UNFP's Ligue 1 team of the season. He ended the season as the league's joint-top assist-maker, alongside Mathieu Valbuena, with 12 goals created. He also scored 12 league goals to register the second-highest scoring season of his career.

Marseille

On 27 June 2013, Marseille signed Payet for a fee in the region of €11 million. On his debut, he scored a brace within the first 15 minutes of the game, helping his side to a 3–1 victory over newcomers Guingamp at the Stade de Roudourou on 11 August.

In his second and final season with Marseille, Payet made more successful through-balls than any other player, with the exception of Lionel Messi, in European football's top five leagues.  He made almost twice as many key passes as any other player, and made 17 assists in 36 league appearances, topping the Ligue 1 assist charts. Payet credited his excellent 2014–2015 Marseille season which transformed his career to Marcelo Bielsa, who was appointed the head coach of Marseille on a two-year contract in May 2014. "I clicked with him", he later told L'Équipe. "He made me more mature and consistent. He put order into my game. I still have his advice in my head." The key, according to Jan Van Winckel (who was Bielsa's assistant during the 2014–2015 season), was giving him the pivotal No. 10 role and making him the focal point of attacks. 
On 17 May 2015, he was named in the Ligue 1 Team of the Season by the UNFP for the second time.

West Ham United

On 26 June 2015, Payet joined Premier League club West Ham United on a five-year contract, with the option for an extra 12 months. The transfer fee West Ham paid to Marseille was reported to be £10.7 million. Payet had not intended to leave Marseille in the summer of 2015. Rather, his sale was subject to Marseille's concern with financial stability after the sale of players such as Florian Thauvin and Giannelli Imbula had stalled. On 9 August, he made his Premier League debut against Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium and provided the free kick assist for Cheikhou Kouyaté to head in the opening goal of a 2–0 win. Six days later, he scored his first goal for the team, albeit in a 1–2 home defeat to Leicester City. Payet scored twice against Newcastle in a 2–0 win at the Boleyn Ground on 14 September. On 9 November, he was ruled out with an injury for an estimated three months after damaging his ankle in a tough challenge from Everton's James McCarthy in a 1–1 home draw on 7 November. He scored his first goal from his return from injury in a 3–1 comeback win against AFC Bournemouth on 12 January 2016, equalising with a curling hit free-kick that went in off the underside of the crossbar, which was praised by several pundits. His Man of the Match performance received a standing ovation from West Ham fans as he was substituted in the 78th minute for Alex Song.

In February 2016, Payet signed a new five-and-a-half-year contract with West Ham that would pay him £125,000 a week, committing him to the club until the summer of 2021. That March, Payet was named the Premier League Player of the Year at the 2016 London Football Awards. On 13 March, he scored a free kick, described by some journalists as "sublime" and "spectacular", from  as West Ham drew 1–1 at Old Trafford against Manchester United in an FA Cup quarter-final.

Following an outstanding first season in English football, Payet was named Premier League Player of the Year at the London Football Awards in March and shortlisted by the Premier League for the 2016 PFA Players' Player of the Year Award. In May 2016, Payet became the 38th recipient of the West Ham United Player of the Year award.

Return to Marseille

After the takeover by American businessman Frank McCourt, Marseille introduced their "OM Champions" Project, one that would be fueled by a new influx of talent. This prompted the purchase of Morgan Sanson and Patrice Evra. However, both the coaching staff and the Marseille board had been keen on bringing Payet back to the club since the beginning of 2017 January transfer window.