[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo

Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo (Urdu/Baloch: میرغوث بخش بزنجو ) was a Pakistani politician from Balochistan. He served as the 3rd Governor of Balochistan.

Early life
He was born in Nall Khuzdar Balochistan in either December 1917 or 1919. His father's name was Safar Khan. One of the founding members of the National Awami Party, he served as the Governor of Balochistan from 1972 to 1973 and was a key signatory to Pakistan's Third constitution - Constitution of Pakistan of 1973.

Education 
Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo obtained his high school education up to the 8th Grade from Sandeman High School Quetta. After the 1935 earthquake, he got admission in Sindh Madrasa tul Islam, Karachi.

Then, for further education, Ghaus Bakhsh enrolled into Aligarh University where he studied for four years, thus completing his formal education.

Entry into politics 
In 1938, after returning from Aligarh, Ghaus Bakhsh joined the Baloch League, a party based in Karachi which was formed by some Baloch intellectuals.

In 1939 the Kalat State National Party (KSNP) arranged its annual convention in Mastung. The Baloch League sent Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo as a representative to attend the convention. On 6 July 1939 an armed tribal force was sent by the Sardars of Balochistan to disrupt the annual rally of the KSNP. This tribal force opened fire on the participants of the rally but police and Levies Force interfered in time and a potential bloodbath was averted. After this incident many of the KSNP workers and leaders were either arrested or exiled from Kalat. Abdul Rahim Khwaja Khel, Babu Abdul Karim Shorish and others who were at Government Posts resigned. Mir Gul Khan Nasir who was the Secretary Judicial Affairs, Mir Hammal Khan who was the Custom Officer, Mir Mohammad Faazal Khan Mohammad Shahi who was Education Minister and Faiz Mohammad Yousafzai who was Assistant Collector also tendered in their resignations though it is believed that the resignations of Mir Gul Khan and Mir Hammal Khan were accepted in 1941. After this incident Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo joined the KSNP. In fact, the resignations of Mir Gul Khan Nasir, Mir Abdul Aziz Kurd and Mir Hammal Khan are believed to have been tendered in as a result of Mir Ghaus Bakhsh's efforts. Initially he was against independence.

Muslim League 
After Balochistan joined Pakistan, the Khan of Kalat Ahmed Yar Khan decided to join the Muslim League. He sent Ajmal Khan to go and persuade Mir Ghaus Bakhsh and Gul Khan Nasir to join the party with him. Both Ghaus Bakhsh and Gul Khan thought this would be a good opportunity to further their political cause so, they joined the party. Ghaus Bakhsh also persuaded Abdullah Jan Jamaldini, Ghulam Mohammed Baloch and Bahadur Khan to join Muslim League. In 1955, all of West Pakistan's provinces and princely states were merged into one unit. This was not acceptable to the Baloch nationalists. So, on 14 July 1955, Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo, Abdul Karim, Gul Khan Nasir, Mohammad Hussain Anqa and Qadir Bakhsh Nizamani formed the Usthman Gal which means "The People's Party".

Usthman Gal 
In 1955, all of West Pakistan's provinces and princely states were merged into one unit. This wasn't acceptable to the Baloch nationalists. So, on 14 July 1955 Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo, Prince Abdul Karim, Mir Gul Khan Nasir, Mohammad Hussain Anqa and Qadir Bakhsh Nizamani formed the Usthman Gal which means "The People's Party".

Pakistan National Party 
In 1956, Usthman Gal and Warur Pashtun from Balochistan, Khudai Khidmatgar from North-West Frontier Province, Azad Pakistan Party from Punjab, Sindh Mahaaz and Sindh Hari Committee from Sindh merged to form the Pakistan National Party. PNP was an umbrella for progressive people from all walks of life. It was composed solely of ethnic nationalists, socialists and communists.

National Awami Party 
In 1957, Maulana Bhashani broke off from Awami League and joined the Pakistan National Party (PNP), thus, the National Awami Party came into being. This became the biggest party of Pakistan containing within its folds, some of the most prominent progressive politicians of that era.

Ayub's martial law 
In 1958, Field Marshal Ayub Khan imposed martial law in Pakistan. One day Mir Ghaus Bakhsh bought some shot gun cartridges from an ammunition store. One of the notes that he used to pay for the cartridges had an inscription "Down With One Unit" on it. When the Government found out about this, Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizenjo was arrested and sent to the "Quli Camp" which was quite a notorious and infamous torture camp located in Quetta Cantt. Other Baloch leaders like Mir Gul Khan Nasir and Faiz Mohammad Yousafzai were also imprisoned and put in the "Quli Camp".

Here they were subjected to inhumane torture and abuse. Ataullah Mengal quotes Mir Gul Khan Nasir as saying: