[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# August 1976

consecutive world championships in the women's events between 1997 and 2003 (including 6 in a row in the 1000m race) 2002 Olympic gold medalist in the 500m and 1000m races; in Jiamusi, Heilongjiang
Alex O’Loughlin, Australian TV actor known as the star of the second Hawaii Five-0 series; in Canberra

August 25, 1976 (Wednesday)
Jacques Chirac resigned as Prime Minister of France in anger over the lack of authority given to him by President Valery Giscard d'Estaing.  Chirac was replaced by Foreign Trade Minister Raymond Barre.  "I am quitting because I don't have the means I consider necessary for the effective performance of my functions as Prime Minister," Chirac said, "and in these conditions I've decided to end them."
The International Track Association (ITA), the first professional track and field athletics association, announced that it was suspending operations after having had only six track meets in its 1976 season.  Michael F. O'Hara, the ITA president, made the announcement as the sixth ITA meet of the season concluded at Mount Hood Community College in the Portland suburb of Gresham, Oregon, attracted a crowd of only 1,000 paying customers, and told reporters "We're not closing down, but merely curtailing our season."  Scheduled ITA events at Minneapolis, Cleveland and Boston were canceled.  The ITA had been created in 1972 to pay track athletes who had been forbidden by amateur rules from accepting compensation.  In the final meet, "Nineteen athletes competed and only six of nine scheduled events took place."  Winners of the final ITA competition were Rod Milburn in the 120-yard hurdles over Lance Babb; Ed Lipscomb in the pole vault over Steve Smith; John Radetich in the high jump; Warren Edmonson over John Smith and Larry James in the 300-meter race; Ken Swenson in the 880-meter race over Tommie Fulton and John Kipkurgat; and Brian Oldfield as the only competitor in the shot put.  In the final event, "A print medley team  Edmonson, Smith, J.J. Johnson and Kipkurgat, running against no one, finished with a time of 3:19.6."  Ironically, the concept of a professional track and field league failed because amateur athletes received more money by being paid covertly and not being caught.  O'Hara explained "We did not anticipate the amateur athlete making the dollar he now is making." 
Born: Alexander Skarsgård, Swedish TV and film actor, Emmy Award winner; in Stockholm
Died: Eyvind Johnson, 76, Swedish novelist and co-winner of the 1974 Nobel Prize in Literature

August 26, 1976 (Thursday)

The first known outbreak of Zaire ebolavirus occurred in the village of Yambuku in northern Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo, when Mabalo Lokela, a 44-year-old teacher at the Yambuku Mission School, first sought treatment at a clinic. His condition worsened, and Lokela was admitted to the Yambuku hospital on September 5, dying on September 8.  Within a week, nine other village residents had died after developing similar symptoms.  From August 10 to 22, Mr. Lokela and six co-workers had been on vacation, traveling to villages and towns and he had experienced symptoms of what he thought was malaria.
Prince Bernhard of Lippe-Biesterfeld, Prince Consort of the Netherlands husband of Queen Juliana, resigned from almost all various posts over a scandal involving alleged corruption, in connection with business dealings with the Lockheed Corporation.  Prime Minister Joop den Uyl told a session of Parliament that a board of inquiry said that there was no firm evidence to confirm allegations the Prince Bernhard had accepted $1.1 million in bribes, but noted that he had "allowed himself to be tempted to take initiatives which were completely unacceptable." 
Died: 
Lotte Lehmann, 88, German operatic soprano
Geraldo Assoviador (nickname for Geraldo Cleofas Dias), 22, Brazilian national team soccer football midfielder, died from cardiac arrest from an anaphylactic reaction to a local anesthetic during an outpatient tonsillectomy
Domenico Tripodo, 53, Italian mob boss and jailed leader of the 'Ndrangheta syndicate, was stabbed to death by a fellow inmate at the Poggioreale prison in Naples on orders from his rival, Paolo De Stefano.