[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Taxonomy of Banksia

was somewhat heterogeneous. The fourth, Cyrtostylis, was erected to contain the species that did not belong in the other sections, and was therefore highly heterogeneous. Despite these shortcomings, this arrangement would stand for over 100 years.

Classification and relationships within Proteaceae

The framework for classification of genera within Proteaceae was laid by L. A. S. Johnson and Barbara Briggs in their influential 1975 monograph "On the Proteaceae: the evolution and classification of a southern family". Their arrangement has been refined somewhat over the ensuing three decades, most notably by Peter H. Weston and Nigel Barker in 2006. Proteaceae is divided into five subfamilies, with Banksia placed in subfamily Grevilleoideae because the individual flowers in its inflorescence occur in pairs. On the basis of certain characters of the leaf venation, hairs and pollen, it is grouped with three other genera in the tribe Banksieae. Two small genera, Austromuellera and Musgravea, both of which occur only in the rainforests of Queensland, are placed in subtribe Musgraveinae. Banksia is placed subtribe Banksiinae on a number of grounds of which the most obvious and easily recognised is the occurrence of flowers in condensed heads. The placement of Banksia in Proteaceae can be summarised as follows:
Family Proteaceae
Subfamily Bellendenoideae
Subfamily Persoonioideae
Subfamily Symphionematoideae
Subfamily Proteoideae
Subfamily Grevilleoideae
Tribe Roupalae
Tribe Banksieae
Subtribe Musgraveinae
Subtribe Banksiinae
Genus Banksia
Tribe Embothrieae
Tribe Macadamieae
Although the taxonomic legitimacy of tribe Banksiinae is universally recognised, there has been some debate about the legitimacy of the tribe's resolution into genera Banksia and Dryandra. For a number of years this debate centred on similarities between the inflorescences of Banksia subg. Isostylis species and those of Dryandra. These similarities led to calls for the genera to be merged, or for Isostylis to be moved across to Dryandra. However, Alex George and other supporters of the status quo argued that the similarities between Isostylis and Dryandra were matters of superficial appearance, whereas similarities between Isostylis and other Banksia species were far more important diagnostically. Recent DNA analyses led by Austin Mast have confirmed George's position that Dryandra and Isostylis are not especially closely related, but have also provided powerful evidence that Banksia is paraphyletic with respect to Dryandra (that is, Dryandra is a sub-group of Banksia. Mast suggested that the least disruptive approach to restore monophyly would be to sink Dryandra into Banksia. This has been put into effect in a 2007 paper by Mast & Thiele, in which all existing species of Dryandra were transferred into Banksia.

Classical taxonomic treatment

In 1981, Alex George published his classic 1981 monograph The Genus Banksia L.f. (Proteaceae). George's arrangement was based on a variety of properties including leaf, style, pollen-presenter, follicle and seed characters, with the criterion that a taxon was considered a distinct species only if it exhibited a "significant and consistent difference in the morphology of flowers and/or fruit". It was the first thorough revision of the taxonomy of Banksia for over a century, and formed the basis for George's 1984 The Banksia Book, which remains the standard text on the genus, and the treatment of Banksia in the Flora of Australia series.

George followed Brown in dividing Banksia into two subgenera, Banksia and Isostylis. He then divided subgenus Banksia into two sections: Banksia for species with straight or slightly curved styles, and Oncostylis for species with hooked styles. These two sections were then divided into nine and three series respectively. The arrangement into series largely followed Bentham, with series Orthostylis remaining somewhat heterogeneous, and Cyrtostylis remaining highly heterogeneous.