[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Immigration to Peru

Immigration to Peru involves the movement of immigrants to Peru from another country. Peru is a multiethnic nation formed by the combination of different groups over five centuries. Amerindians inhabited Peruvian territory for several millennia before Spanish Conquest in the 16th century. Spaniards and Africans arrived in large numbers under the Viceroyalty. Many people from European backgrounds mixed with the Amerindians or Asians creating an entirely new demographic group called "mestizos".

Various European ethnic groups settled in Peru following their 1824 independence from Spain, and the majority settled in the coasts and urban areas like Lima. After the abolition of slavery in 1854, immigrants from countries such as China, Northern Europe, and Japan arrived to do labor work in areas such as farming.  In 2005, the UN put the number of immigrants in Peru at 42,000, which accounted for less than 1% of its population. However, a more recent report from the Peruvian Directorate of Migrations has put the number at 64,303.  The largest group of foreign residents is from Argentina, which accounts for about 14% of the total with over 9000 Argentineans living in Peru. Immigrants from the United States make up just over 9% of the total with 5,800 US citizens now residing in Peru.  Other large groups of immigrants in Peru include Chileans, Bolivians, Colombians, Brazilians, Uruguayans, Spanish and Chinese.  The majority of foreign residents in Peru live in Lima, with other communities found in Cusco and Arequipa.

Pre-Colonial and Post-Colonial Patterns 
Before colonialism, Andean communities were connected through the coast, jungles, and highlands, as well as Andean centers. As a civilization, they managed to produce, distribute, and exchange goods throughout Peru and the Andes region. When Spanish conquistadors conquered the Andes region, new forms of regulations developed over the land. Trade, Indigenous people, and government institutions were controlled to fit the colonialist mold, with changes in class and power structure. During the colonial period, African and European movement to Peru increased the population's diversity, with the post-colonial immigration patterns increasing due to the expansion of capitalism, industrialization, and urbanization. Lima's population was 4.6 million residents in 1981, in comparison to 645,000 residents in 1940.

Peru's political crisis and rising unemployment rate in the late 1980s and early 1990s caused Peruvians to immigrate to other countries, such as the United States, Japan, Spain, and Italy. The latter three countries had a demand for foreign workers to fill jobs in manufacturing and domestic work. The former implemented policies that made it difficult for immigrants to arrive and stay, including border patrol measures. This happened following the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act granted around 3 million undocumented immigrants legal status. In the mid-1990s, immigration to Argentina and Chile increased due to the proximity of those countries and the ability to enter on a tourist visa. In two or three days, a bus can arrive to Argentina or Chile from Peru.

Current Patterns and Foreigner Demographics 
As of 2012, 3.5 million Peruvians have emigrated to other countries, with The United States, Spain, Argentina, Italy, Chile, Japan, and Venezuela containing 90% of them. The foreign population of Peru was 103,654 in 2016, with the top 5 countries represented being Colombia, Spain, the United States, Argentina, and Ecuador. Nearly half of the immigrant population (46.1%) at the time consisted of experts, such as scientists, engineers, teachers, and missionaries. Most immigrants to Peru have a work (44.5%), family (28.7%), or immigrant visa (9.1%). As of 2019, around 800,000 Venezuelan migrants and refugees were located in Peru, and more than 390,000 Venezuelans have been granted temporary residence permits there.