[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Hellenic Police

ice vehicles are being modified to be equipped with onboard surveillance cameras. A number of portable body-worn cameras will be used by the motorcycle police unit DIAS officers, motorcycle police unit DRASI officers, riot police (MAT) officers, Crime Prevention and Suppression Team (OPKE) officers.

Police equipment
Handguns: 
 Beretta M9 (ITA)
 Heckler & Koch USP (GER)
 Smith & Wesson Model 910 (US)
 Ruger GP100 (US)
Submachine guns:
 Heckler & Koch MP5 (GER) 
 Uzi (ISR)
 FN P90 (BEL)
Assault rifles:
 FN FAL (BEL)
 AK-47 (RUS)
 AK-74M (RUS)
 M4 carbine (US)
 Kefeus (GR)

Police Academy 
The Hellenic Police Academy was established in 1994 with the voting of law 2226/1994 through Parliament. It is situated in Athens and is under the jurisdiction of the chief of police. However the Chief of Police can make recommendations and act as an advisor to the Minister (i.e. the Minister of Citizen Protection) on improvements and other such issues (for example structural reform) pertaining to the Academy. The Minister and the Chief of Police make annual speeches at the Academy to prospective Police Officers. The school is made up of university professors, special scientists (for areas such as forensics) and high-ranking police officers who have specialist field experience. Entrance to the academy is based on Panhellenic Examinations (which are university level entrance examinations), passing specific athletic requirements and an interview, though it differs depending on which particular school of the academy the student wishes to join.  

The Police Academy includes:
 The School for Police Officers, for high school graduates who wish to become commissioned Police officers(2nd Police Lieutenants), which lasts four years    
 The School for Police Constables, for high school graduates who wish to become Police constables (with investigative duties) 
 The School for Postgraduate Education and lifelong learning.
 The National Security School, for high-ranking police personnel (also open to other categories of public servants such as Firemen).

Training
Hellenic Police has a basic requirement of knowledge which being applied for all positions within the agency. These are the protection of the Constitution, tackling of criminal activities and assisting in disaster situations. The emphasis during training on the support and protection of children is such, that a number of highly successful individuals that were raised as orphans, have stated that they couldn't say with certainty that they would make it all the way to the top, without the social service that the Hellenic Police provided to them during their childhood.  

The personnel who are hired as police special guards (and then they are promoted to police officers after some years) receive 3 months of training. They mainly have patrolling duties and they can also be part of riot police.

Report complaint 
Citizens can contact, either giving their name or anonymously, with the Internal Affairs Service Agency of Law Enforcement Bodies ( - ), which is under the authority of Ministry of Citizen Protection, in order to report complains, anti-social behavior,  offences, abuse of power on-duty or off-duty, violence, mistreatment, sexual abuse and various other illegal acts committing by Greek police personnel.

See also 
 Europol 
 Interpol  
 N.I.S. of Greece  
 Crime in Greece

Notes

External links 
  Hellenic Police official website  
  Hellenic Police official portal 

 

 

 
National Central Bureaus of Interpol
1984 establishments in Greece
Emergency services in Greece
Human rights abuses in Greece