[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gösgen Nuclear Power Plant

n about its shutdown or possible substitution has been made.

Near to its location it has been proposed to build the new Niederamt Nuclear Power Plant. Although this is sometimes referred to as Gösgen 2, it should consist in an independent facility.

Technical specifications

Reactor and generators 

The KKG possess a pressurized water reactor delivered by the German Kraftwerk Union AG, a then subsidiary of Siemens AG and now part of Areva NP. It contains 177 fuel assemblies, 48 of which are equipped with control elements. Each fuel assembly can hold up to 225 rods, but only 205 are occupied by the fuel. The remaining 20 positions are reserved to the control rods. The reactor in operation contains a total of around 76 t of uranium. It works at 324 °C and 153 bar. The thermal power output achieves 3002 MW.

Three steam generators transfer the heat to the secondary coolant loop at 65 bar and 280 °C. They are fed by three strands, with the addition of two other for start-up or emergency cases. The resulting steam is routed to the turbine, although around 1% is piped to an evaporator where is converted into pressurized process steam eventually delivered to a downstream cardboard facility. The turbine is composed of a high-pressure and three low-pressure units. It generates a net electric power of 970 MW that is delivered to the 400 kV power grid.

After having fed the turbine, the steam is condensed by the tertiary cooling loop, which water is at 22 °C. The output coolant achieves 36 °C and is therefore transferred to the 150 m tall natural draught wet-type cooling tower that returns it to the initial temperature. 0.4-0.7 out of 31.6 m3/s leave the tower creating the typical plume.

Safety measures 

The core is located inside an 11 m tall and 22 cm thick cylindric vessel with an internal diameter of 4.36 m. The reactor concrete building has a wall thickness in the cylindrical part of 1.6 m (1.2 m the dome and 2.8 m the base plate). Due to the massive structures it should be able to withstand an aircraft crash.

In case of small leakages in the reactor cooling loop, four high-pressure injection pumps (one for each cooling loop and a fourth as reserve) would replace the missing water. In case of fast loss of the coolant, six accumulator tanks with a total 3·100% redundancy would flood the reactor until the low-pressure injection pumps could start operation. These four pumps are subdivided in three loops, plus an additional loop in form of a crosstie in direction of the other three loops.

If the coolant is lost from the secondary loop the feeding of the three steam generators would be entrusted to the four strands of the emergency feedwater system (one each and a reserve) with a total redundancy of 2×2·100%. In case of extreme failures, for example a Station Blackout, the cooling would be assured by the two strands of the special emergency feedwater system.

The plant possesses an independent, bunkerised emergency building which purpose is, in extreme cases as plane crashes or explosions, to manage the reactor shutdown and the removal of the decay heat for at least ten hours. It contains the two strands of the special emergency feedwater system and two diesel generators. The plant possess four further emergency diesel generators in two separated building.

Waste management 

The spent fuel is cooled in special pools where the residual decay heat is removed. The rods are then transferred to the central interim storage facility ZWILAG where they are stored. In 2008 the second spent fuel pool started operation increasing the total capacity from 600 to 1600.

The low and medium radioactive operating waste is reconditioned and stored in apposite rooms on the plant site.

Kernkraftwerk Gösgen-Däniken AG 

The plant is operated by an ad hoc privately held company called Kernkraftwerk Gösgen-Däniken AG. At the moment it employs around 500 coworkers. The stocks are shared by the Alpiq Group (40%), the Axpo AG (25%), the city of Zurich (15%), the Centralschweizerischen Kraftwerke (12.5%), and the Energie Wasser Bern (7.5%). The plant management is entrusted to Alpiq.

Nuclear events 

As of February 2009 no operative nuclear event (INES level 2 or above) ever occurred. Since 1995 only one anomaly took place. The KKG is remarkable for the absence of any reactor scram in the last 19 years.

Level 1 events

2009 

 In March the KKG announced to the federal authorities an event that took place after the 2008 revision. Four of the redundant power lines supplying the emergency system failed during a test due to a faulty protective circuit. In case of a real emergency this could cause troubles only in case of malfunctioning of the other safety mechanisms, but since the same problem occurred to multiple strands, the event has been assessed as level 1.

See also
Nuclear power in Switzerland

References

External links