[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peter T. Washburn

tant General and Inspector General of the state militia with the rank of brigadier general.  During his tenure, he oversaw the raising, equipping and fielding of seven infantry regiments, one cavalry regiment, three batteries of light artillery, and two companies of sharpshooters for the Union Army.

Washburn also took charge of Vermont's response following the October 1864 St. Albans Raid by Confederate soldiers based in Canada.  The state responded by organizing the Frontier Cavalry and deploying it to patrol the Canadian border with Vermont and New York, and Vermont's contingent included two companies, one based in Burlington, and one in St. Albans.

Washburn issued a militia commission to Ann Eliza Smith, the wife of Governor J. Gregory Smith.  The Smiths were residents of St. Albans, and Smith had been in the state capital of Montpelier on the day of the raid.  His home was a target, and when Mrs. Smith appeared in the front doorway carrying an unloaded pistol (the only weapon she could find), the raiders decided to bypass the house.  Mrs. Smith then worked to organize the people of St. Albans to mount a pursuit of the raiders, which unsuccessfully attempted to prevent them from escaping to Canada.  Washburn recognized her heroism by appointing her as a brevet lieutenant colonel on the adjutant general's military staff.

Under Washburn's leadership, the adjutant general's office compiled 300 bound volumes of commander's reports, accounts and other records pertaining to service members from Vermont who took part in the war.  Of the more than 34,000 men Vermont provided to the Union, only 75 were unaccounted for after the war.

In 1866, Washburn declined reelection as adjutant general.  He was succeeded by William Wells.  Washburn was one of the organizers of the Reunion Society of Vermont Officers and delivered the keynote address at the society's 1868 annual meeting.

In addition to resuming his law practice, Washburn was an organizer of the Woodstock Railroad Company, of which he was elected president.  He also served on the board of directors for the Rutland and Woodstock Railroad.

Governor
In 1869, Washburn was a candidate for governor and won the Republican nomination at the party's state convention in June by defeating Dudley Chase Denison and Julius Converse.  He defeated Democrat Homer W. Heaton in the general election, and took office on October 15, 1869.  During his term, the state enacted a law changing the term for state offices including governor from one year to two.

Death and burial
Washburn died in Woodstock on February 7, 1870.  Doctors could not find a cause, and attributed his death to nervous exhaustion brought on by overwork.  He was interred at River Street Cemetery in Woodstock.

Family
In 1839, Washburn was married to Almira E. Ferris (1816-1848) of Swanton, Vermont.  In 1849, he married Almira P. Hopkins (1816-1910) of Glens Falls, New York.  With his first wife Washburn was the father of son Ferris (1842-1860), who died at age 18 while a student at Dartmouth College, and daughter Emily May ("Emma"), who died at age 6 (1846-1853).  With his second wife, Washburn was the father of four children, including Thacher (1859-1862), who died as an infant.  Daughter Elizabeth (1852-1938), the wife of Thomas Wilson Dorr Worthen survived him, as did daughter Mary (1854-1941), the wife of George B. Parkinson, and son Charles (1856-1904).

Washburn was a descendant of James Chilton through Chilton's daughter Mary.  As a result of this family connection, Washburn's surviving children became members of the Society of Mayflower Descendants when it was founded in the late 1800s.

References

Sources

Books

Internet

Magazines

Newspapers

Further reading
 Benedict, G. G., Vermont in the Civil War. A History of the part taken by the Vermont Soldiers And Sailors in the War For The Union, 1861-5. Burlington, VT.: The Free Press Association, 1888.
 Peck, Theodore S., compiler, Revised Roster of Vermont Volunteers and lists of Vermonters Who Served in the Army and Navy of the United States During the War of the Rebellion, 1861-66. Montpelier, VT.: Press of the Watchman Publishing Co., 1892, pp. 5–9, 744.
 Waite, Otis F. R., Vermont in the Great Rebellion: Containing historical and biographical Sketches, etc.,'' Claremont, NH: Tracy, Chase, 1869, pp. 256–8.

External links

Peter T. Washburn at Vermont in the Civil War
Peter T. Washburn at National Governors Association

Peter T. Washburn at The Political Graveyard

1814 births
1870 deaths
Dartmouth College alumni
Vermont lawyers
Vermont Whigs
Vermont Republicans
Governors of Vermont
Members of the Vermont House of Representatives
People of Vermont in the American Civil War
National Guard (United States) officers
People from Ludlow (town), Vermont
Burials in Vermont
Republican Party governors of Vermont
19th-century American politicians
19th-century American lawyers