[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Human rights in Nigeria

ered to be a conservative estimate as cited from a Human Rights Watch telephone interview with Derrick Marco, Nigeria country director in March 2007. These measures of violence and intimidation discouraged the general public from voting. Those who did come out were subject to attacks by hired gangs.

The current Fourth Republic of Nigeria has strengthened its laws against corruption. As part of its efforts, the government established the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in the early 2000s.  However, due to the previous institutionalization of corruption, the battle against corruption is ongoing.  These anti-corruption institutions have made attempts to combat the issue, but appear rather lenient  in terms of punishment of convicted offenders. Former Edo State governor Lucky Igbinedion pleaded guilty to embezzling 2.9 billion Naira (about $24.2 million). However, he had a plea bargain with the EFCC and was fined 3.5 million Naira ($29,167) and did not serve any jail time.  As of January 2015, many high-level politicians remain un-investigated and only lower-level officials are arrested.

In 2015, newly elected Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari began a major crackdown on corruption in Nigeria. Despite criticism, the Nigerian Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) announced in May 2018 that 603 Nigerian figures had been convicted on corruption charges since Buhari took office in 2015. The EFCC also announced that for the first time in Nigeria's history, judges and top military officers including retired service chiefs are being prosecuted for corruption. In January 2020, however, Transparency International's Corruption Perception Index (CPI) still gave Nigeria a low ranking spot of 146 out of 180 countries surveyed. By October 2020, however, even End SARS protestors alleged that Nigerian police officers, despite being known for having a long history of corruption, were by now not adequately paid and, despite protesting police brutality, called for an increase in police salaries so they could be "adequately compensated for protecting lives and property of citizens" as one of their five demands.

Forced evictions 
Forced evictions are an integral aspect of human rights violation. They comprise the forceful removal of persons without their assent and against their will on a temporary or permanent basis from their homeland, normal place of abode without clear preparations for adequate compensation and relocation. This increases the problems of displacement of individuals and homelessness in countries. Governments at different levels continue to forcefully evict people without adequate compensation in some African countries including Nigeria which is estimated to have the largest urban slum population in sub Saharan Africa in terms of size and percentage of the total population. Centre on Housing Rights and Evictions (COHRE) has labelled Nigeria as a consistent violator of housing rights.

The Nigerian government forcefully evicted over 2 million people between 2000 and 2009. In Lagos State alone, between 2003 and 2015, communities in Makoko Yaba, Ijora East, Ijora Badiya, PURA-NPA Bar Beach, Ikota Housing Estate, Ogudu Ori-Oke, Mosafejo in Oshodi, Agric-Owutu, Ageologo-Mile 12, and Mile 2 Okokomaiko have been forcefully evicted under the guise of development. Between July and September 2000, at least 50,000 people in Abuja were evicted without prior notices or adequate alternative accommodation. The evictions were done to move communities/settlements who government claimed had distorted the Abuja Development Master Plan.

In Lagos State, Nigeria, the forced evictions are done with the major purpose of reclaiming the land and building luxury apartments as the population of the country continue to soar creating housing deficits. However, this breeds discrimination and inequality as the new buildings do not fulfill any housing need for the general populace. In July 2016, the Lagos State Ministry of Waterfront Infrastructure Development after a notice of 72hrs forcefully evicted residents of Makoko, a waterfront community made up of six villages - Oko Agbon, Adogbo, Migbewhe, Yanshiwhe, Sogunro and Apollo without a court order. This rendered an estimated 30,000 people homeless. Makoko is one of the nine communities targeted in the $200 Million World Bank-funded Lagos Metropolitan Development and Governance Project (LMDGP) of the Lagos State government for urbanization, waste management, drainage and water supply. The community which has been in existent for more than 100yrs is said to have started as a settlement of fishermen from Togo and the Republic of Benin.