[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Critical reaction to 24

The Fox Network television series 24 has won numerous Emmy Awards for its technical and artistic merits, and become part of American popular culture. Jack Bauer and David Palmer are seen as iconic television characters. It has also been heavily criticized for justifying the misuse of government authority and the use of torture, and accused of being racially insensitive.

Critical reception

24s real time story-telling method and split-screen technique have also received widespread praise and critical acclaim. This aspect of the show also made it hard to produce from a creative point of view because there was no possibility to do time cuts; as a result, characters needed to be changing locations (e.g., driving or flying) for the same amount of time as it would take for the actual, fictional journey. This aspect of show design and production  led to an increasing expectation of suspension of disbelief by the viewer.

Season 1

The first season of 24 received universal critical acclaim, and was featured on the cover of TV Guide as the "best new show of the season". The premiere episode was cited by The New York Times as a "Critic's Pick" by Caryn James, who noted that it was "a drama sleek, suspenseful and absorbing enough to overcome its blatant gimmick". She added that of the 2001 fall season's new government series that "24 is the most daring and promising" and that "Mr. Sutherland is an unexpectedly sympathetic hero". Ain't It Cool News gave the premiere episode five stars, saying it features "Loads of edgy, complex, compelling characters. Intricate, unpredictable plotting. Lightning-like pacing. A stellar cast. A near-constant, electric undercurrent of sex. It keeps asking questions you'll be dying to see answered. And, perhaps best of all, it feels like no TV show you've ever seen."

Time magazine praised the series, saying "Forget sleeping through this one—you won't even want to blink. 24 is the most distinctive, addictive new TV series this season. As an old-fashioned thriller, it's relentless, tense and deliciously paranoiac, with more twists than a Twizzler. But it's also boldly different. Most notably, there's its clever visual signature: picture-in-picture screens that show two, three and even four different scenes simultaneously." Time also noted that "The show takes to the next level the trend of serial story "arcs," which began with '80s dramas like Hill Street Blues and Wiseguy and which continues on The West Wing and The Sopranos." Time also praised the performances of Kiefer Sutherland and Dennis Haysbert, saying that "It helps that there's a strong cast driving the train. Haysbert is commanding, if a tad underutilized in the pilot, as an idealist with a dangerous secret. And Sutherland plays the gravel-voiced Bauer with an assurance that belies his teen-movie-star past; his overstressed agent is stalwart but weary, a haunted spook."

TV Barn called the first episode "not to be missed", adding that "Although there really are only two main story lines, each episode has no fewer than six stories to keep track of, full of suspense and action-packed (without seeming like a big-bang action movie). There's a lot going on in 24, but you have to pay attention to truly appreciate it. I predict 24 will have a lot of viewers' undivided attention this fall."

While the first half of the season was highly praised, a major subplot in the second half of the season revolving around Teri Bauer becoming overcome with trauma and losing her memory was "savaged by TV critics". USA Today mentioned the plotline a full three years later during a story on a similar plotline in the first season of Lost, mentioning that "Fox's 24 took a beating by critics in the first season when Jack's wife, Teri Bauer, was stricken with amnesia. Later, producers said it seemed the only option for sustaining her character but not destroying other plotlines." In fact, the amnesia plotline was based on something that had actually happened to series director Stephen Hopkins.

The finale of Season One is seen by many critics as one of the best episodes of the series, featuring possibly the most defining moment of the entire series. One character's death at the end of the season was voted by TV Guide as the second most shocking death in television history, behind only Henry Blake from M*A*S*H. The season finale is frequently cited as one of the best television season finales of all-time.Kevin Fitzpatrick, "TV's Best Season Finales Ever" , UGO, May 27, 2011

Season 2