[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gunaa

o 600 deep [..] we tied ropes with pulleys and transferred all the production equipments in and out of the 500 feet cave". Shooting took place for 45 days at the caves. According to Santhana Bharathi, Haasan insisted to have a dummy used for climax portions similar to his face and physique.

Themes 

Gunaa has been compared to Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down! (1990) as both films involve the deranged protagonist abducting a woman he believes he is destined to marry, First Blood (1982) because of the protagonist's war against the police, and Rain Man (1988) because the protagonist is shown to have certain "extraordinary talents" despite being mentally ill. Haasan said the tracking shots in the early portions of the film were inspired from films directed by Max Ophüls. He also said that the scene where Gunaa fights with the police and his gun goes off was meant to be a tribute to his favourite actor Dilip Kumar's 1961 film Gunga Jumna. Haasan compared Gunaa to the poet Subramania Bharati, "who to his contemporaries was mad and to some a poet". Hari Narayan of The Hindu compared Gunaa to Moondram Pirai (1982), saying that in both films the protagonist's image of an ideal dreamgirl animate his antics. Srivatsan, writing for India Today, believes the death of Gunaa and Rohini on a full moon day "represents time and a metaphorical implication of immortality and eternity. [...] Gunaa, whose journey begins on a full-moon day, ends on the same day."

Soundtrack 
The music composed by Ilaiyaraaja, and the lyrics were written by Vaali. While releasing the audio cassette of Gunaa in 1991, Haasan included some audio recording sessions with Ilaiyaraaja. "Kanmani Anbodu Kadhalan" became a milestone in Tamil cinema for the way it mixed dialogue and lyrics. The song "Paartha Vizhi" is set in Pavani, a Carnatic raga.

Release 

Gunaa was released on 5 November 1991, that year's Diwali day, and faced heavy competition from another Diwali release, Thalapathi. Despite receiving critical acclaim, it was average at the box office due to its experimental nature.

Reception 
On 24 November 1991, Ananda Vikatan appreciated the film and mentioned that Haasan had expanded the boundaries of his acting and had achieved a landmark success in this film, concluding that only Haasan could play this role effortlessly. Sundarji of Kalki appreciated the film for its cinematography, music and the cast performances. The Indian Express wrote "Gunaa, while having as its central character a man who is a mystic of sorts, a dreamer who wants to rise about the mire that he finds himself in and those around him hopelessly lodged in, lets loose a trail of violence which I for one found difficult to stomach [...] One comes out with the impression that the [Kamal Haasan] of the film is such a curious blend of Raj Kapoor, Sylvester Stallone and Dustin Hoffman."

Accolades

Legacy 
Gunaa acquired cult status in Tamil cinema, and inspired similar films about mentally obsessed lovers such as Kaadhal Kondein (2003), Chinna (2005), and Kadhalil Vizhunthen (2008). Santhana Bharathi listed it as one of the favourite films he has directed. The Devil's Kitchen became a tourist spot after the film's release and it later became known as "Guna Caves".

In popular culture 
Gunaa was parodied many times in various films. In a comedy scene from Ullam Kollai Poguthae (2001), Arivu (Vivek) imitates Haasan's style of rounding from Gunaa revealing the difficulties he faced due to water, he utters "Sivagami" in the same way which Gunaa utters "Abhirami". In Arul (2004), the title character's friend (Vaiyapuri) sings "Kanmani Anbodu Kadhalan" which results in him getting whacked by Kanmani (Jyothika). In Adi Thadi (2004), Thiruppathi (Sathyaraj) narrates a letter to Priya (Rathi) with his assistant scribing it. When Thiruppathi asks the letter to be read, the assistant sings the opening address "Ammani anbodu kadhalan ayya ezhudhum kaduthasi" to the tune of "Kanmani Anbodu Kadhalan", to which Thiruppathi replies "Paatave paaditiya" in the same tone as Gunaa.