[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hogle Zoo

oin Husani, Jabari, and Georgia. Introductions began that summer and all five gorillas currently live together.

Bornean orangutans
Adjacent to the gorillas, are habitats for Bornean orangutans. The zoo is home to a breeding pair male Mia and female Kawan as well as orphaned siblings Acara and Tuah.

Acara was born on Mother's Day in 2005. Acara was larger than most orangutans at birth. Her mother, Eve, was in labor far longer than the four to five hours normal for an orangutan birth. Therefore, specialists from the University of Utah Hospital were brought in to perform a C-section. Acara was delivered after a two hour operation but was not breathing properly. She was taken to the University Hospital where she spent the night in an incubator. When Acara was taken back to the zoo and given back to her mom, Eve did not recognize her baby. Acara had to be hand-reared while introductions with her mother slowly took place. It took 20 staff members and 12 volunteers to raise Acara 24/7 for over nine months until she was put back with Eve full time.

Elija, affectionately known as Eli, came to Hogle Zoo in 2004 as a mate for Eve, a recommendation made by the Species Survival Plan. Eli was the father of Acara, but had not role in raising her as is typical with wild orangutans. Eli had become a social media star for accurately picking the winner of the Super Bowl for seven consecutive wins. His accomplishments garnered him recognition in Sports Illustrated magazine and on MSNBC. In 2011, Eli was diagnosed with breast cancer, a condition rarely seen in apes. He was only the third orangutan to be diagnosed with the cancer and the first male. A surgeon from Utah's Huntsman Cancer Institute performed one of two operations that removed the original mass. Despite veterinarian staff monitoring his condition closely, Eli ultimately lost his fight to breast cancer on September 6, 2014.

Eve was pregnant when her mate died. She gave birth to Tuah, a male, on November 4, 2014. Again Eve had complications at birth and needed a C-section. Like his sister, Tuah needed to be hand-raised. While Eve responded well to the surgery initially, her behavior quickly changed. Three and a half weeks later Eve had died. A necropsy found that Eve's death was not related to the childbirth, however, no cause of death was found. The necropsy did find several medical problems that were unaware of by zoo staff.

While Tuah was being hand-raised, keepers began training his older sister Acara to be his surrogate mother. While other adult female orangutans had successfully been surrogates to orphaned babies, an older sibling had never been recorded as being one. Through positive reinforcement, keepers trained Acara to hold a baby using a stuffed animal. Acara was still young and full of energy so it was important she learned how to be gentle. Tuah was introduced to his big sister when he was three months old. In March 2015, the two started living together full time. Tuah made his public debut on April 11, 2015 to the 9,000 guests in attendance who wore "I met Tuah" pins.

Acara and Tuah have lived together at Hogle Zoo ever since. Acara has proven as a successful surrogate in this first ever scenario. In fall of 2016, the siblings were introduced to adult male Mia who came to Hogle Zoo from the Greenville Zoo in South Carolina as a potential future mate for Acara when she is ultimately separated from Tuah. On June 8, 2021, the zoo received Kawan, a female from the Henry Vilas Zoo in Wisconsin. Her move was recommended by the Species Survival Plan as a mate for Mia. Currently the zoo holds Mia and Kawan separate from Acara and Tuah.

Primate Forest 
The A. LaMar Farnsworth Primate Forest opened to the public in June 1997. The exhibit was named after the former zoo director A. LaMar Farnsworth, who served as director for 33 out of his 45 years at the zoo. The exhibit, which cost $400,000 to construct, replaced the old concrete Monkey Island exhibit. Primate Forest offers lush, naturalistic landscapes for several species of primates including black howler monkey, eastern black-and-white colobus monkey, Colombian spider monkey and Nicaraguan spider monkey. The exhibits were specifically designed for each species. The large central exhibit for the colobus monkeys, which is 5,100 square feet and reaches a central height of 18 feet, offers trees where the primates can jump from. Each exhibit also has water features.

Elephant Encounter