[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jolyon Howorth

h’s Winter 1986–87 article: « In an extraordinary article, Howorth foresaw that the appearance of autonomous East-bloc peace movements and human rights organizations would gradually contribute to a transcontinental process whose aim w[ould] be to move cautiously towards […] a Europe free of blocs ».

Focusing in particular on French President François Mitterrand’s fourteen years in office (1981–1995), Howorth devoted around forty scientific papers to the analysis of the gradual embrace of fundamental Gaullist precepts by the man who had launched his presidential ambitions in 1965 by ridiculing France’s nuclear pretensions and by denouncing de Gaulle as the architect of a permanent coup d’état. This work, which combined research into French military strategy, institutional dynamics, defence economics and above all political culture, explained the progressive transformation of François Mitterrand into the ultimate protector and defender of France’s Gaullist legacy. It was for this sustained analysis that Howorth was honored, in 1994, by French prime minister Edouard Balladur with the award of Chevalier dans l’Ordre des Palmes Académiques.

The third strand of Howorth’s research began in the late-1980s as the imminent end of the Cold War induced an embryonic move, on the part of Europe’s nation states, to coordinate their foreign and defence policies. Using an essentially inductive methodology, based on hundreds of interviews, and in close cooperation with leading European think tanks – especially in Paris, where he has maintained a home for the past thirty years (L’Institut des Hautes Etudes de Défense Nationale; L’Institut Français des Relations Internationales ; L’Institut d’Etudes de Sécurité de l’Union Européenne ; l’Institut des Recherches Stratégiques de l’Ecole Militaire) – Howorth published five books and over one hundred and fifty journal articles or book chapters on the key aspects of what became known as the European Union’s Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP): the 2000s quest for an EU military capacity that would be “autonomous” from NATO. In addition, he delivered papers at over four hundred international conferences in thirty countries on four continents. His work has deployed a range of theoretical approaches, depending on the subject matter. He has been diversely categorised by other scholars as a realist, an institutionalist and a constructivist. Realist theory has informed his many publications on the absence of European strategic thinking, as well as those focusing on the EU’s attempts to generate civilian and military capacity for crisis management missions. In his many analyses of the decision-making procedures in CSDP, he has deployed both institutionalist and constructivist approaches. His substantial analyses of relations between CSDP, the US and NATO have been informed by a mix of realism and institutionalism; while his critical work on the EU as a “normative power” has been based both on constructivist and on realist theories.

The EU and NATO
In a number of publications in the 2010s, Howorth progressively advocated putting an end to the de facto division of labour between the EU and NATO whereby the latter remained responsible for collective defence in Europe, while the former sought to identify relatively minor tasks (peace-keeping, policing, military training, security sector reform) that differentiated it from NATO.  In his earlier work, he had analysed CSDP’s quest for “autonomy” as a necessary development that would allow the EU to grow into a consequential military actor. By 2013, he had become convinced that this development was not happening in large part because of CSDP’s limited ambition, but also because as long as the Americans seemed prepared to bail the Europeans out whenever a serious crisis emerged on the EU’s door-step (Bosnia, Kosovo, Arab Spring and Libya, Russian annexation of Crimea, and meddling in Ukraine, the rise of ISIS) many EU member states were happy to “free-ride” on American security guarantees. At the same time, an increasing number of US analysts and politicians were demanding that the EU take responsibility for the stabilization of its own neighbourhood. Howorth’s alternative proposal, notably sponsored by the European People’s Party (the grouping of all of the EU’s conservative parties) was for CSDP to merge with NATO and, with the active assistance of the Americans, to undergo an “apprenticeship in leadership” that would allow for a rebalancing of responsibilities within the Alliance, facilitating European maturity, gradual assumption of leadership and a US re-focusing on the areas of the world considered to be the most crucial for Washington. This, he argued, was the original purpose of NATO and, in his view, the only serious future for the EU as a military actor. This thesis proved very controversial and was roundly rejected in many countries of Central and Eastern Europe.