[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Institute for Justice & Democracy in Haiti

ts in Port-au-Prince's tent cities were more than 20 times as likely to report a sexual assault as other Haitians  and 14 percent of tent camp households reported at least one member having been sexually assaulted. In the first two years after the earthquake, convictions for sexual crimes were rare.

In response to the problem, IJDH, along with BAI and a coalition of Haitian grassroots women's rights groups, formed the Rape Accountability and Prevention Project in June 2010. The project sought to increase prosecution of rapes, and also to provide support, better services and medical care for survivors. In August 2011, BAI was pursuing 20 cases of sexual violence in the justice system. By July 2012, that number had grown to 60. In 2012, BAI brought seven cases to trial, all resulting in convictions.

In Haiti, rape has been considered a serious felony punishable by the courts only since 2005. Police can be slow to arrest perpetrators,  doctors are often unwilling to help provide the medical evidence necessary for prosecution, and the court system often works against victims, particularly those who are poor. "Most of the laws we have here have been made by men," BAI's managing attorney Mario Joseph said in 2014. "They look for a way to accuse the women:'Why did you wear that dress? Why were you there at this time? Why didn't you stay home?' Even when you start the process it's like you've lost the process."

Board members

Brian Concannon Jr. Esq., Director, Institute for Justice & Democracy in Haiti.
Dr Paul Farmer, M.D. Ph.D., Founder, Partners in Health and Professor, Harvard Medical School
Laura Flynn, MFA, Fellow, Human Rights Program at the University of Minnesota
Ira Kurzban, Esq.
Bryan Stevenson, Esq., founder and executive director of the Equal Justice Initiative of Alabama, professor of Clinical Law, NYU School of Law
Irwin Stotzky Esq., Professor of Law, University of Miami School of Law, Director, Center for the Study of Human Rights

Collaborators
The Center for Justice and Accountability
Harvard Law School: Human Rights Program
Seton Hall Law School: Immigration and Human Rights Clinic
TransAfrica Forum
University of California, Hastings Law School: Human Rights Project for Haiti
University of San Francisco: Center For Law & Global Justice
Northeastern University School of Law
Yale Law School: Lowenstein Human Rights Clinic

References

External links 
 IJDH Home Page

Law of Haiti
Human rights in Haiti
Political advocacy groups in the United States
Democracy activists
Human rights organizations based in the United States
Non-profit organizations based in Boston
Organizations established in 2004
2004 establishments in Massachusetts