[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joo Chiat Road

.

1967- 1975
As Singapore's population grew and people started to move out from the city centre, Joo Chiat's community increased. 4 more schools were built along with a community centre. Joo Chiat continued to be the entertainment hub with Galaxy theatre and the addition of 2 more shopping centres.

1976 – 1984
East Coast reclamation started in 1966 and lasted for two decades until 1985. Its reclamation changed the physical landscape of the area with the modification of the coastline, landscape and even the removal of Katong jetty. Coupled with new high rise housing estate in East Coast, Joo Chiat slowly lost its distinct identity amid this de-territorialisation process.

The late 70s and early 80s also saw more road changes where adjacent streets were linked up to ease commute. Taj Cinema, adjacent to the markets, was also renamed by Shaw to Singapura theatre. However, Singapura theatre lost its attractiveness with the rise of cinematography and eventually shut down in 1985.

1985 - 1995
As the Kampongs in Geylang made way for HDBs, a museum to showcase the life of Malays was proposed in the 70s. This museum, Geylang Serai Malay Village, was completed in 1989 and located at the start of Joo Chiat Road. The period also saw many more buildings for retail purposes such as Galaxy Complex, Katong Mall, Roxy Square and Paramount Shopping Centre.

1996 - 2007
Brothels in central region were removed by the government from 1959 onwards and these brothels have shifted to Geylang. The spread of sex industry from Geylang to the surrounding area created a profound effect on the type of business in Joo Chiat Rd in the 90s and early 2000s. The residents complained to the member of parliament and the police relentlessly raided all the hotels and KTVS and instituted neighborhood watch and whistle blowing systems with countless CCTV along the roads to monitor and arrest any future offenders. As a result, Joo Chiat Rd after 2008 rose up to become one of the safest road in Singapore, completely free of vice activities, and it has transformed to one of the hippiest and coolest towns in Singapore, with both rich and young professionals flocking to its savory cafes and restaurants. After 2008, it later became a popular tourist attraction and many tour groups from all over the world travel there to have their memorable photo shoot with the Peranakan conserved houses. It carries a rich historical Peranakan colonial architecture and is infused with rich Peranakan culture, as it has the most historical Peranakan buildings in the Katong district.

Present
In 2011, the vicinity surrounding Joo Chiat Road was declared Singapore's first Heritage Town. It is chosen, in part, because of strong efforts to promote its Peranakan culture. Currently, Joo Chiat has become one of the hippiest and coolest towns in Singapore, with both rich and young professionals flocking to its savory cafes and restaurants. Joo Chiat is also one of the Singapore food streets with UNESCO Status.

In 2014, Lucky Shophouse, formerly Lucky Bookstore, located at 125 Joo Chiat Road was awarded the Jury Commendation for Innovation at the 2014 UNESCO Asia Pacific Heritage Awards

Politics
The Joo Chiat Single Member Constituency is a ward in the Singapore Parliament. The Member of Parliament for Joo Chiat is Charles Chong after 2011 general elections when the then incumbent Chan Soo Sen retired from politics. However, Joo Chiat ward is now not consisting of Joo Chiat area but of Siglap. For the General Election 2015, Joo Chiat constituency ceased to exist and it has been absorbed by Marine Parade GRC.

Food
There are famous eateries which contribute to Joo Chiat's popularity as a dining spot. Since 2014, Joo Chiat begins to experience a significant shift in culture and immigration. Today, western cafe and high-class dinning are sprouting over Joo Chiat Road because a lot of Caucasians shifted in after discovering Joo Chiat has better historical culture than Holland Village, and it is very close to the seaside, and would fit in to their lifestyle preference. Thus, a lot of Chinese, Malaysians, and Vietnamese restaurants changed to western restaurants or cafe. Joo Chiat now becomes a multicultural food enclave, not just a Peranakan enclave. The restaurants and various eateries along the street are of varied cuisines from all over the world.

See also
 Katong

References

 National Heritage Board (2002), Singapore's 100 Historic Places, Archipelago Press,

External links
 Makansutra's Guide to Joo Chiat
 Philip Chew's Chew Joo Chiat Blog
 Joo Chiat PA Website
 Joo Chiat Community Website
 Joo Chiat PA Sport Club

Places in Singapore
Protected areas of Singapore
Geylang
Marine Parade
Hokkien place names