[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ordered Bell number

g on the remaining  items. As a base case for the recurrence,  (there is one weak ordering on zero items). Based on this recurrence, these numbers can be shown to obey certain periodic patterns in modular arithmetic: for sufficiently large ,

Several additional modular identities are given by  and .

Additional applications
As has already been mentioned, the ordered Bell numbers count weak orderings, permutohedron faces, Cayley trees, Cayley permutations, ordered multiplicative partitions of squarefree numbers, and equivalent formulae in Fubini's theorem. Weak orderings in turn have many other applications. For instance, in horse racing, photo finishes have eliminated most but not all ties, called in this context dead heats, and the outcome of a race that may contain ties (including all the horses, not just the first three finishers) may be described using a weak ordering. For this reason, the ordered Bell numbers count the possible number of outcomes of a horse race, or the possible outcomes of a multi-candidate election. In contrast, when items are ordered or ranked in a way that does not allow ties (such as occurs with the ordering of cards in a deck of cards, or batting orders among baseball players), the number of orderings for  items is a factorial number , which is significantly smaller than the corresponding ordered Bell number.

 uses the ordered Bell numbers to describe the "complexity" of an -ary relation, by  which he means the number of other relations one can form from it by permuting and repeating its arguments (lowering the arity with every repetition). In this application, for each derived relation, the arguments of the original relation are weakly ordered by the positions of the corresponding arguments of the derived relation.

 consider combination locks with a numeric keypad, in which several keys may be pressed simultaneously and a combination consists of a sequence of keypresses that includes each key exactly once. As they show, the number of different combinations in such a system is given by the ordered Bell numbers.

 point out an application of these numbers to optimality theory in linguistics. In this theory, grammars for natural languages are constructed by ranking certain constraints, and (in a phenomenon called factorial typology) the number of different grammars that can be formed in this way is limited to the number of permutations of the constraints. A paper reviewed by Ellison and Klein suggested an extension of this linguistic model in which ties between constraints are allowed, so that the ranking of constraints becomes a weak order rather than a total order. As they point out, the much larger magnitude of the ordered Bell numbers, relative to the corresponding factorials, allows this theory to generate a much richer set of grammars.

References

Integer sequences
Enumerative combinatorics