[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stuart Copeland

ribution changes the boundaries of a current State or Federal electorate, the sitting Member will be entitled to claim the electorate that contains 50.1% of the enrolments in the member’s old seat and contest it as the sole candidate of the Party for that seat at the next State or Federal election”.

The majority of the new Condamine's voters came from Darling Downs, held by fellow LNP member Ray Hopper, who like Copeland was from the National side of the merger. Under LNP rules, Hopper was automatically preselected for Condamine, and Copeland was effectively barred from standing for the LNP in any seat containing part of the now-abolished Cunningham.

It had been reported that Mike Horan, the member for Toowoomba South, had intended to retire and hand his seat to Copeland. Horan was also from the National side of the merger. However, this did not eventuate and Copeland was left without a seat.

Despite having previously been nominated by Lawrence Springborg as a potential leader,  Copeland announced he would be retiring and moved to the backbench.

2009 Queensland Election

At the beginning of the election campaign, Copeland resigned from the LNP and announced his intention to stand as an independent in Condamine. He pushed Labor into third place on the primary vote, but was soundly defeated by Hopper when all preferences were distributed.

Post Parliament

Following his departure from Parliament, Copeland was employed by the University of Southern Queensland as the Principal Manager, Government and Community in USQ's Office of External Relations.

In September 2009, the Bligh Government appointed Copeland to serve as a Director on the Board of Powerlink, a Government Owned Corporation.

In 2011, Copeland was appointed as State Director of The Nationals in Victoria.

Copeland is married to Rae McCaull, a former State Secretary of The Nationals in Queensland, and they have two children.

Official Biography
Re-Member Database - Queensland Parliament

Prior to parliament
 State President Queensland Young Nationals 1997/1998
 Vice President Federal Young Nationals 1997/1998
 Chief Executive Officer of the Royal Agricultural Society of Queensland
 Employed by Shell Company Of Australia

See also
 Members of the Queensland Legislative Assembly, 2004-2006
 Toowoomba (The seat of Cunningham lies in part in the city's southern suburbs.)

References

External links
 Official biography

                   

1968 births
Living people
National Party of Australia members of the Parliament of Queensland
Liberal National Party of Queensland politicians
Members of the Queensland Legislative Assembly
People from Toowoomba
21st-century Australian politicians