[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Andrew J. Duck

Andrew J. Duck (born October 31, 1962) is an American politician and a perennial candidate. He was most recently the Democratic candidate for the United States House of Representatives for Maryland's 6th congressional district in the 2018 general election. He was a candidate for the same seat in 2006, 2008, and 2010, winning the Democratic nomination in 2006 but losing in the 2008 Democratic primary to Jennifer Dougherty. On June 1, 2009, he announced his intention to run for the seat again in 2010.  Duck defeated Casey Clark in the Democratic primary but lost the general election to incumbent Roscoe Bartlett.

Biography

Duck is the 15th of 17 children. He is a graduate of Middletown High School in Middletown, Maryland, in 1979 and earned a bachelor's degree in public administration from Southwest Texas State University. He married Whitney Duck in 1981, and the couple has three children.

Military career
Duck became a member of the U.S. Army, beginning as a private first class, working as a company clerk. He worked his way up to administrative non-commissioned officer, was trained as a Korean linguist, and was commissioned as a Military Intelligence officer.

Duck's military assignments include commander of D Company in the 103rd Military Intelligence Battalion, leading the Joint STARS Platoon and working with the 103rd Military Intelligence Battalion in Bosnia. He was also an intelligence liaison officer to the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force in Iraq, and an intelligence staff officer with the Coalition Forces Land Component Command in Kuwait.

Private career
Duck has also worked as a stockbroker for Merrill Lynch in Frederick, Maryland. He is currently the Director of Operations at Avertica. He is now retired from Northrop Grumman where he served as an advisor to The Pentagon on Army Intelligence issues.

Political career
Duck was a staff member on the 1980 Carter/Mondale Presidential Committee. Most recently, he has become a member of Citizens for Responsible Growth in New Market, Maryland, and co-founder of Frederick for Kerry in 2004, which promoted the presidential campaign of John Kerry in Frederick, Maryland.

2006 campaign
In his 2006 campaign against long-serving Republican Representative Roscoe Bartlett, Duck was widely perceived as a longshot. He enjoyed some partisan support as evidenced by the endorsements by several statewide and regional Democrats, including Senator Barbara Mikulski, Congressman Chris Van Hollen, and two former mayors of Frederick, Ron Young and Jennifer Dougherty. He also received support from several organized labor groups, including the Maryland-D.C. AFL-CIO, the Maryland State Teacher's Association and the National Education Association.

Duck claimed to support "restoring fiscal responsibility to Washington" by eliminating "the culture of corruption and fraud, (reexamining) current spending to match current priorities, and (rolling) back the tax cut for the top two percent of Americans". His infrastructure platform called for ensuring that Maryland can "support water, sewer, transportation and education" while preserving "open spaces... rural heritage (and) affordable housing". On education, he supports increased funding and claims that the No Child Left Behind Act has been a failure due to underfunding and a lack of flexibility. He was an advocate of gun ownership restrictions and sought to reduce gun violence by closing the gun show loophole, providing universal health care, including mental health care, and promoting the registration of weapons and a law enforcement focus on violent criminals and anti-gang initiatives. He supported energy independence, believing it can be achieved in 10 years; his proposals included "re-engineering federal buildings to reduce government energy consumption", raising Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, increasing funding for mass transit, requiring disclosure of home energy costs and offering tax "incentives for energy conservation and (the) use of mass transit." He opposed partially privatizing Social Security. He also advocated federal legislation to change bankruptcy protection so that individuals' retirement is "safe and secure". He supported universal health care and environmental protection, which he claimed was rolled back by the George W. Bush Administration. Specifically, on the environment, he supported the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act and opposed drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; he believed that the Healthy Forests Initiative and the Clear Skies Act have a negative impact on the environment. Though his website does not cover the issue, Duck has been described as supporting civil unions as the first step towards marriages equality, and supports equal rights for the LGBTQ community.