[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 41]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

in thy name!"

"That cannot be a crime which benefits mankind," argued Miss Du Prel.

"It is very certain that it cannot eventually benefit mankind, if it
_be_ a crime," he retorted.

"This sequence of ideas makes one dizzy!" exclaimed Hadria.

The Professor smiled. "Moreover," he added, "we know that society has
formed the conditions of existence for each of her members; the whole
material of his misfortune, if he be ill-born and ill-conditioned. Is
society then to turn and rend her unlucky child whose misery was her
own birthday gift? Shall we, who are only too ready, as it is, to
trample upon others, in our haste and greed--shall we be encouraged in
this savage selfishness by what dares to call itself science, to play
one another false, instead of standing, with united front, to the powers
of darkness, and scorning to betray our fellows, human or animal, in the
contemptible hope of gaining by the treachery? Ah! you may quote
authorities, wise and good, till you are hoarse!" cried the Professor,
with a burst of energy; "but they will not convince me that black is
white. I care not who may uphold the doctrine of vicarious sacrifice; it
is monstrous, it is dastardly, it is _damnable!_"

There are some sentences and some incidents that fix themselves, once
for all, in the memory, often without apparent reason, to remain as an
influence throughout life. In this fashion, the afternoon's discussion
registered itself in the memory of the silent member of the trio.

In her dreams that night, those three concluding and energetic
adjectives played strange pranks, as, in dreams, words and phrases often
will. Her deep regret at Miss Du Prel's departure, her dread of her own
future, her growing sense of the torment, and horror, and sacrifice that
form so large a part of the order of the world, all appeared to be
united fantastically in malignant and threatening form, in the final
words of the Professor: "It is monstrous, it is dastardly, it is
damnable!" The agony of the whole earth seemed to hang over the sleeper,
hovering and black and intolerable, crushing her with a sense of
hopeless pity and fatigue.

And on waking, though the absurd masquerading of words and thoughts had
ceased, she was still weighed down with the horror of the dream, which
she knew had a corresponding reality still more awful. And there was no
adversary to all this anguish; everybody acquiesced, nay, everybody
threw on yet another log to the martyr's pile, and coolly watched the
hungry flames at their work, for "Nature," they all agreed, demanded
sacrifice.

It was in vain to turn for relief to the wise and good; the "wise"
insisted on keeping up the altar fires that they might appease the
blood-thirsty goddess by a continuous supply of victims (for the noble
purpose of saving the others); the "good" trusted to the decision of the
wise; they were humbly content to allow others to judge for them; for by
this means would they not secure some of the spoils?

No, no; there was no help anywhere on earth, no help, no help. So ran
Hadria's thoughts, in the moments of vivid sensation, between sleeping
and waking. "Suffering, sacrifice, oppression: there is nothing else
under the sun, under the sun."

Perhaps a brilliant beam that had found its way, like a message of
mercy, through the blind, and shone straight on to the pillow, had
suggested the form of the last thought.

Hadria moved her hand into the ray, that she might feel the warmth and
"the illusion of kindness."

There was one person, and at the moment, only one, whose existence was
comforting to remember. The hundreds of kind and good people, who were
merely kind and good where popular sentiment expected or commended such
conduct, gave no re-assurance; on the contrary, they proved the
desperation of our plight, since wisdom and goodness themselves were
busy at the savage work.

When the party met at breakfast, an hour later, the Professor caused
universal consternation, by announcing that he would be obliged to
return to London on that very day, having received a letter, by the
morning's post, which left him no choice. The very butler paused, for a
perceptible period, while handing ham and eggs to the guest. Forks and
knives were laid down; letters remained unopened.

"It's no use your attempting to go, my dear Chantrey," said Mr.
Fullerton, "we have grown accustomed to the luxury of your society, and
we can't get on without it."

But the Professor explained that his departure was inevitable, and that
he must go by the morning train.

He and Hadria had time for a short walk to the river, by the pathway of
the tunnels.

"What are your plans for the winter?" the Professor asked. "I hope that
you will find time to develop your musical gift. It ought to be used and
not wasted, or worse than wasted, as all forces are, unless they find
their legitimate outlet. Don't be persuaded to do fancy embroidery, as a