[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Temelín Nuclear Power Station

that they have in their bid failed to meet statutory requirements. Moreover, Areva has not fulfilled some other crucial criteria defined in the tender. Since the award procedure has been conducted in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, Areva's bid had to be excluded from further evaluation.

In March 2013, a Russian led consortium, comprising Atomstroyexport, Gidropress and Skoda, signed contracts with the three Czech companies ZAT, HOCHTIEF CZ and UJV Rez, for the construction of the two new nuclear reactor units for Temelín-3 and Temelín-4. The reactors proposed are the MIR-1200 (Modernised International Reactor).
ZAT would supply automated systems for the plant, HOCHTIEF CZ would be responsible for construction of the nuclear island, and UJV Rez would help compile project documentation for the nuclear and turbine islands, and also create working documentation for construction of the plant. A statement said the consortium is aiming for a "localisation level" of 75 percent.
The other running project for the contract was Westinghouse with its AP1000 reactor. The winner of the contract was scheduled to be announced at the end of 2013.

In April 2014, ČEZ cancelled the project after the Czech government stated it does not plan to provide guarantees or other mechanisms to support the construction of low-emission power plants following discussions in the EU. The ČEZ CEO stated:

In 2021, Westinghouse was contracted to upgrade the instrumentation and control (I&C) systems in a 9-year project.

See also

 Nuclear power in the Czech Republic
 Energy in the Czech Republic
 Dukovany Nuclear Power Station – another nuclear power plant in the Czech Republic

References

External links

 Official info on website of ČEZ
 360 Panorama of Temelin Nuclear Power Plant
 10 Years of Experience with Westinghouse Fuel at NPP Temelin

Nuclear power stations in the Czech Republic
České Budějovice District
Nuclear power stations using VVER reactors
Buildings and structures in the South Bohemian Region
Energy infrastructure completed in 2000
2000 establishments in the Czech Republic
21st-century architecture in the Czech Republic