[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Basel Convention

are now binding on 186 States. In addition to ensuring the trade in plastic waste is more transparent and better regulated, under the Basel Convention governments must take steps not only to ensure the environmentally sound management of plastic waste, but also to tackle plastic waste at its source.

Basel watchdog
The Basel Action Network (BAN) is a charitable civil society non-governmental organization that works as a consumer watchdog for implementation of the Basel Convention. BAN's principal aims is fighting exportation of toxic waste, including plastic waste, from industrialized societies to developing countries. BAN is based in Seattle, Washington, United States, with a partner office in the Philippines. BAN works to curb trans-border trade in hazardous electronic waste, land dumping, incineration, and the use of prison labor.

See also
 Asbestos and the law
 Bamako Convention
 Electronic waste by country
 Rotterdam Convention
 Stockholm Convention

References

Further reading
 Toxic Exports, Jennifer Clapp, Cornell University Press, 2001.
 Challenging the Chip: Labor Rights and Environmental Justice in the Global Electronics Industry, Ted Smith, David A. Sonnenfeld, and David Naguib Pellow, eds., Temple University Press link, .
 "Toxic Trade: International Knowledge Networks & the Development of the Basel Convention," Jason Lloyd, International Public Policy Review, UCL.

External links
 
 Text of the Convention
 "A Simplified Guide to the Basel Convention"
 Text of the regulation no.1013/2006 of the European Union on shipments of waste
 Flow of Waste among Basel Parties
 Introductory note to the Basel Convention by Dr. Katharina Kummer Peiry, Executive Secretary of the Basel Convention, UNEP on the website of the UN Audiovisual Library of International Law
Basel Convention, Treaty available in ECOLEX-the gateway to environmental law (English)
Organisations
 Basel Action Network
 Africa Institute for the Environmentally Sound Management of Hazardous and other Wastes a.k.a. Basel Convention Regional Centre Pretoria
 Page on the Basel Convention at Greenpeace
 Basel Convention Coordinating Centre for Asia and the Pacific

Pollution
Environmental treaties
Waste treaties
Chemical safety
Treaties concluded in 1989
Treaties entered into force in 1992
1992 in the environment
Hazardous waste