[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Averno (wrestler)

ion. Averno was one of 14 men putting their masks on the line in a Lucha de Apuestas steel cage match, the main event of the CMLL 77th Anniversary Show. Averno was the first man to leave the steel cage with all three members of Los Hijos del Averno quickly leaving the cage, keeping their masks safe.

In April 2011, Averno began feuding with La Máscara, building a storyline that led to a Mask vs. Mask Lucha de Apuesta on June 17. The match announcement came on the heels of a report that Averno had signed a contract with WWE, supposedly following long time in-ring rival Místico who had already signed with WWE. On June 17 at CMLL's Juicio Final ("Final Judgement") show, Averno was defeated by La Máscara two falls to one and thus was forced to unmask. Upon unmasking, Averno revealed that his real name was Renato Ruíz Cortes, that he was 34 years old originally from Mexico City and had been wrestling for 16 years. Afterward, Ruíz and La Máscara continued their rivalry, building up to another singles match on July 4, where Ruíz successfully defended the NWA World Historic Middleweight Championship. Despite rumors Averno never began working for WWE, opting at the time to stay with CMLL. On July 15, Los Hijos del Averno defeated La Generación Dorada (La Máscara, Máscara Dorada and La Sombra) to win the CMLL World Trios Championship. On September 9, 2011, Averno entered CMLL's annual tournament of champions, the Universal Championship tournament. After defeating CMLL World Super Lightweight Champion Virus and old rival, Mexican National Light Heavyweight Champion La Máscara, in his first two matches, Averno defeated CMLL World Tag Team Champion Último Guerrero in the semi-finals. On September 16, Averno was defeated in the Universal Championship finals by La Sombra. On November 22, Averno lost the NWA World Historic Middleweight Championship to La Máscara.

On February 19, 2012, Los Hijos del Averno lost the CMLL World Trios Championship to El Bufete del Amor ("The Law of Love"; Marco Corleone, Máximo, and Rush). Averno was forced to team up with constant rival La Mascara, for the 2013 Torneo Nacional de Parejas Increibles, just like he was for the 2012 tournament. The team worked together without too many problems in the first round as they defeated the team of El Hijo de Fantasma and El Felino, but stumbled in the second round as they lost to eventual tournament winners La Sombra and Volador Jr. On April 26, 2013, at the Arena Mexico 57th Anniversary Show Averno defeated Místico La Nueva Era to win the vacant Mexican National Welterweight Championship. On September 13 at CMLL's 80th Anniversary Show, Averno defeated Blue Panther in a submission only Lucha de Apuestas match, which forced Blue Panther to have all his hair shaved off as a result. On December 1, Averno lost the Mexican National Welterweight Championship to Titán. On April 28, 2014, CMLL announced that Averno had parted ways with the company.

Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (2008)
In 2008 Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) invited Averno, along with Volador Jr.,Último Guerrero and Rey Bucanero to compete in the 2008 TNA World X Cup Tournament, making them that year's "Team Mexico" entrants, with Guerrero serving as the team captain. Averno only wrestled one match in the tournament, participating in a twelve-man three tag team elimination match, at the Victory Road pay-per-view. Averno was the fourth man eliminated from the match at the hands of Team Japan's Masato Yoshino. Later during the same show Volador Jr. won an Ultimate X match, earning enough points for Team Mexico to win the entire tournament, becoming the 2008 World X Cup holders. Volador Jr. would work more matches for TNA, but Averno, Último Guerrero and Rey Bucanero did not.

Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide (2014–2021)