[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Latin American migration to the United Kingdom

ates
A number of other estimates of the population of Latin Americans in the UK are available. A detailed analysis was undertaken in May 2011 which estimated the population to be 186,500 in the UK, of which 113,500 were in London. This figure includes irregular and second generation Latin Americans.

Population distribution
According to a 2005 report by the Institute for Public Policy Research, based on data from the 2001 Census, the ten census tracts with the largest South American-born populations are all in London. Hyde Park had the highest number of South Americans, followed by Vauxhall North, Kensington, Chelsea, Vauxhall South, Regent's Park, Streatham North, Hammersmith, Streatham South, Hackney South, and Newham. Outside of London, the largest South American populations were to be found in Oxford, Cambridge, central Manchester, central Bristol, central Edinburgh and Milton Keynes. More recently, it has been suggested that Liverpool now has the UK's largest Latin American population outside London.

There are also areas such as the Latin Village in South Tottenham and Elephant and Castle that have a concentration of Latin American shops and clubs, although because of gentrification the community in Elephant and Castle has faced being priced out the area.

Latin Americans acquiring British citizenship
The table below shows the number of Latin Americans who acquired citizenship of the United Kingdom between 1997 and 2008; sorted alphabetically.

Cultural impact

Festivals 
A number of festivals celebrate Latin American culture in the UK:
 Brazilica Festival (Liverpool)
 Carnaval del Pueblo (London)
 Carnival de Cuba (London)
 El Sueño Existe (Machynlleth)

Newspapers
A newspaper, Noticias Latin America (NLA), was published in London from 1992 until about 2008, but the newspaper ceased publication, and the company was struck off and dissolved in 2010.

Crónica Latina was probably one of the first Latin American newspapers in London, founded in 1984 by Juan Salgado, first published as Notas de Colombia before adopting the name 'Cronica Latinas' in 1986. The newspaper is no longer in circulation.

Social and political issues

Assimilation into British culture
Latin Americans residing in the UK often call themselves the "Invisibles", as a reflection of the lack of representation they have in the communities and the fact that there is no formal ethnic minority status for Latin Americans.

Economics and employment
85% of the Latin American community are employed, many are often in jobs they are over-qualified for, and very few take state benefits. Some 70% of Latin Americans residing in the UK have some form of education beyond the secondary level, however, they are 10 times more likely to work for less than the minimum wage. Often, emigrants who come to the country as lawyers or other skilled professions end up having to work in low level positions due to lack of opportunities. 40% of Latin American workers have claimed to experience workplace abuse and exploitation and 11% report being paid less than the national minimum wage – a proportion 10 times higher than the average rate for the British population.

Asylum seekers and refugees
Many Latin Americans have fled their home countries in search of safety and political asylum in the United Kingdom due to conflicts and civil wars, such as the ongoing Colombian armed conflict that began in 1964.

Notable individuals

See also 
Latin Americans
Latin America–United Kingdom relations
Latin American diaspora
Foreign-born population of the United Kingdom
Migration from Latin America to Europe
Spaniards in the United Kingdom
Portuguese in the United Kingdom
British Latin American

References

External links

London Latin American Film Festival
Visit London - Latin American section
History of Latin Americans in the UK
Reassessing what we collect website – Central and South American London (History of Central and South American London with objects and images)