[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 63]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

pphira has----"

"Do try and cure yourself of the habit of calling the girl by that
absurd name, Hadria."

"Oh, yes; but the name is so descriptive. She has told you of Miss Du
Prel's arrival?"

"She has told me nothing of the sort."

Temperley did not look overjoyed. There had never been much cordiality
between him and Valeria since the afternoon when they had met at
Dunaghee, and found their sentiments in hopeless opposition.

Miss Du Prel took no interest in Hubert, though she admired his
character. She had every wish to make herself agreeable to him, but her
efforts in that direction were somewhat neutralized by an incurable
absence of mind. If she was not interested, as Hadria said, she was
seldom affable.

Possibly Hubert's request to her, years ago at Dunaghee, to "think for a
moment" had not been forgiven.

"Where is she? Oh!----"

The exclamation was in consequence of Miss Du Prel's appearing at the
door of the library, whence she surveyed the group with absent-minded
intentness.

Valeria woke up with a start, and responded to Hubert's greeting in an
erratic fashion, replying tragically, to a casual enquiry as to her
health, that she had been _frightfully_ ill.

"I thought I was dying. But one never dies," she added in a disgusted
tone, whereat Hadria heartlessly laughed, and hurried the visitor
upstairs to help her to unpack.

"Valeria," said Mrs. Temperley, while that lady was confusedly trying to
disentangle hat and hair, hat-pin and head, without involving the entire
system in a common ruin--"Valeria, we are not a remarkable people at
Craddock Dene. We may be worthy, we may have our good points, but we are
not brilliant (except the cook). Should Mr. Fleming fail to impress you
as a person of striking personality, I ask you, as a favour, _not_ to
emblazon that impression on every feature: should he address to you a
remark that you do not find interesting, and it is quite conceivable
that he may--do not glare at him scornfully for a moment, and----"

Hadria was not allowed to finish the sentence.

"As if I ever did any such thing--and people are so dull," said Miss Du
Prel.

A few "curried details," as the hostess dejectedly described the fare,
had been supplemented with vegetables, fruit, and impromptu preparations
of eggs, and the luncheon was pronounced excellent and ample.

Miss Du Prel said that she hoped the butcher would always forget to send
the meat. She liked these imaginative meals.

Temperley purposely misunderstood her to say "imaginary meals," and
hoped that next time she came, Hadria would not have an oratorio in
course of composition. Miss Du Prel expressed a fiery interest in the
oratorio.

"I judge the presence of oratorio by the absence of food," Temperley
explained suavely.

Hadria watched the encounter with a mingled sense of amusement and
discomfort.

Valeria was in no danger. To be morally crushed by an adversary, it is
necessary that one should be at least aware that the adversary is
engaged in crushing one: a consciousness that was plainly denied to Miss
Du Prel. Many a man far less able than Hubert had power to interest her,
while he could not even hold her attention. She used to complain to
Professor Fortescue that Temperley's ideas never seemed to have
originated in his own brain: they had been imported ready-made. Hubert
was among the many who shrink and harden into mental furrows as time
passes. What he had thought at twenty, at thirty-five had acquired
sanctity and certainty, from having been the opinion of Hubert Temperley
for all those favoured years. He had no suspicion that the views which
he cherished in so dainty and scholarly a fashion were simply an
_edition de luxe_ of the views of everybody else. But his wife had made
that discovery long ago. He smiled at the views of everybody else: his
own were put forth as something choice and superior. He had the happy
knack of being _bourgeois_ with the air of an artist. If one could
picture one's grocer weighing out sugar in a Spanish cloak and brigand's
hat, it would afford an excellent symbol of his spiritual estate. To be
perfectly commonplace in a brilliantly original way, is to be notable
after all.

Mr. Fleming seemed puzzled by Miss Du Prel, at whom he glanced uneasily
from time to time, wondering what she would say next. At Craddock Dene,
ladies usually listened with a more or less breathless deference when
Temperley spoke. This new-comer seemed recklessly independent.

Mrs. Temperley endeavoured to lead the conversation in ways of peace,
but Valeria was evidently on the war-path. Temperley was polite and
ironical, with under-meanings for Hadria's benefit.

"If one asks impossible things of life, one is apt to be disappointed, I
fear," he said serenely. "Ask for the possible and natural harvest of a
woman's career, and see if you don't get it."

"Let a canary plead for its cage, in short, and its commendabl