[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Clinch River Breeder Reactor Project

ial breeder reactor program, because this technology produces plutonium that potentially could be used to make nuclear weapons. Because of international concern about proliferation, in April 1977 President Jimmy Carter called for an indefinite deferral of construction of commercial breeder reactors.

President Carter was a consistent opponent of the Clinch River project. In November 1977, in a statement explaining his veto of a bill to authorize funding for continuation of the project, Carter said it would be "large and unnecessarily expensive" and "when completed, would be technically obsolete and economically unsound." Furthermore, he said the project would have little value for determining the commercial viability of breeder technology in the United States.

Congress persisted in keeping the Clinch River project alive over the President's objections, and Carter repeatedly chastised Congress for its actions. In a speech in 1979, after the House Science and Technology Committee had voted to proceed with the project over his opposition, he said "The Clinch River breeder reactor is a technological dinosaur. It's a waste of more than $1-1/2 billion of taxpayers' money. It's an assault on our attempts to control the spread of dangerous nuclear materials. It marches our nuclear policy in exactly the wrong direction. ... This is no time to change America into a plutonium society." Instead of investing public resources in the breeder demonstration project, he urged attention to improving the safety of existing nuclear technology.

Cancellation of the project
The Clinch River Breeder Reactor Project was revived after President Ronald Reagan took office in 1981. In spite of growing opposition from Congress and analysts inside and outside the government, ground was broken and construction began. The project was finally terminated when, on October 26, 1983, the U.S. Senate voted 56-40 to deny any further financing for the project.

External links 
 Clinch River Breeder Reactor Project Preliminary Safety Analysis Report, Volumes 1 - 27.
 Breeder Basics. The Clinch River Breeder Reactor Plant Project.
 Clinch River Breeder Reactor Plant. Final technical report. Volume 1
 Clinch River Breeder Reactor Plant: final technical report. Volume 2

References

Oak Ridge, Tennessee
Buildings and structures in Roane County, Tennessee
United States Department of Energy
Unfinished nuclear reactors
Fast-neutron reactors
Cancelled nuclear power stations in the United States