[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1st United States Sharpshooters

The 1st United States Sharpshooters were an infantry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. During battle, the mission of the sharpshooter was to kill enemy targets of importance (i.e., officers, NCOs, and artillery crews) from long range.

The first regiment of volunteers began service in late November 1861. During their service, they fought in every Eastern battle up until autumn of 1864. During their tour, the Sharpshooters were noted for efficient service in the battles of Yorktown, Gettysburg, Vicksburg, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Spotsylvania and Petersburg. 

The 1st and 2nd U.S. Sharpshooters were consolidated on December 31, 1864.

Founder
Hiram C. Berdan was the founder of the Sharpshooters. Berdan was born in the town of Phelps, New York, on September 6, 1824. Not only was Berdan a military officer in the Civil War and creator of the Sharpshooters regiment, he was also an American mechanical engineer and creative inventor. Some of Berdan's inventions included the Berdan rifle (a repeating rifle) and the Berdan center fire primer, a range finder torpedo boat for evading torpedo nets during and after the Civil War. Berdan also developed the first commercial gold amalgamation machine to separate gold from ore. Berdan was also known for being an amateur champion marksman in the United States. Berdan's interest in rifles and shooting led him to the idea of creating a regiment full of men who all had notable shooting skills: the Sharpshooters. On November 30, 1861, Berdan was named colonel of both the first and second Sharpshooter regiments. After serving for three years, Berdan resigned his position as colonel on November 30, 1864, in order to return to his life as a mechanical engineer and inventor. Berdan died on March 31, 1893, and was buried in the Arlington National Cemetery.

Raising the regiment 
During the Civil War, regiments were usually composed of companies all from the same state. On the other hand, due to the strict qualifications and special skills in order to become a member of the Sharpshooters, each regiment was assembled of companies from various different Union states. Below is a list of each company in the first regiment, their origin and date of establishment.

Companies "A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K"
Companies "A", "D" and "H" were organized at New York City, New York in September 1861.
Company "B" was organized at Albany, New York  in September 1861.
Company "C" in Michigan on  August 21, 1861. 
Company "E" in New Hampshire on September 9, 1861.
Company "F" in Vermont on September 13, 1861
Company "G" in Wisconsin on September 23, 1861.
Company "I" in Michigan on March 4, 1862.
Company "K" in Michigan on March 30, 1862.

Company commanders
The first United States Sharpshooter regiment consisted of the following commanding officers (listed by company):

Company A- Captain Casper Trepp, New York
Company B- Captain Stephen Martin, New York
Company C- Captain Benjamin Duesler, Michigan
Company D- Captain George S. Tuckerman, New York
Company E- Captain Amos B. Jones, New Hampshire
Company F- Captain Edmund Weston, Vermont
Company G- Captain Edward Drew, Wisconsin
Company H- Captain George G. Hastings, New York
Company I- Captain A. M. Willet, Michigan
Company K- Captain S. J. Mather, Michigan

Selection of recruits
Hiram C. Berdan began recruiting men for the first Sharpshooter regiment in 1861. He recruited men from New York City and Albany and from the states of New Hampshire, Vermont, Michigan and Wisconsin. 

The volunteer recruits had to pass a marksmanship test in order to qualify to be a member of the Sharpshooters; each man had to be able to place ten shots in a circle of  in diameter from  away. The shots were to be accurate enough so that the average distance of them all would be 5 inches (127 mm) or less from the center of the target. They used a piece of string to measure from the center point to each bullet hole. The accumulated distance for all the shots on this string could measure no more than 50 inches (127 cm) long. They were allowed to choose a rifle and position of their preference for the test. A man eligible to be a Sharpshooter had to possess a keen eye, steady hands and a great deal of training and skill with a rifle. In addition to that, for a man to be a Sharpshooter, it took cool nerves in order to be able to estimate their target carefully, determine the high trajectory needed and to take in consideration the effect that any current wind may have.