[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Media of Libya

The media of Libya consists of a broad range of newspapers, TV channels, radio stations, and websites mostly set up during or after the Libyan Civil War, which removed previously tight restrictions on freedom of the press and freedom of speech. By the summer of 2012, there were over 200 registered newspapers, over 20 TV channels, and 200 radio stations.

The media landscape in Libya is fluid - many Libyans are taking advantage of the unprecedented freedoms newly available to them. Of the hundreds of newspapers that appeared during and in the immediate aftermath of the 2011 revolution, few are still published with any regularity. But new newspapers keep being launched. Radio stations - especially local ones - are thriving with each city and town catering to their local audience's need to express their voice. The number of TV stations is similarly growing. The private media sector is steadily expanding despite concerns regarding its financial sustainability.

News agencies and websites 

 Libyan News Agency وكالة الانباء الليبيه - state-run "Lana" - formerly Jamahiriya News Agency "Jana" 
 Iwan Libya ايوان ليبيا 
 Ean Libya عين ليبيا 
 Akhbar Libya اخبار ليبيا 
 Almarsad صحيفة المرصد
 AfrigateNews بوابة افريقيا 
 Libya Al-Mostakbal ليبيا المستقبل 
 Bawwabat Al-Wasat بوابة الوسط
 Al-Tadamun News Agency - originally started in Switzerland in February 2011, later moved to Benghazi, Libya
 Mathaba News Agency - independent pro-Gaddafi news site that continued after the 2011 Libyan Revolution
 Tawasul News Agency (TNA) - private news agency, via social media
 Akhbar Libya 24 (AL24) - independent news website, based in Benghazi, publishing in-depth news and reports.

Print media

State-owned daily newspapers 
 Febrayer - February Newspaper

Private newspapers 
 Al-Bilad - daily
 Brnieq
 Tripoli Post - English-language weekly and online 
 New Quryna  (formerly Yosberides, Quryna) - daily
 Libya Herald - online English-language daily

Television 

Libya Radio and Television Corporation (LRTC) is the successor to the Gaddafi-era state broadcaster. More than 20 TV stations, many privately owned, broadcast from Libyan cities and from Middle East media hubs.

State owned TV stations 
 Libya Radio and Television Corporation (LRTC)
 Libya Al-Wataniyah TV
 Libya Al-Rasmiyah TV

Private TV stations 
 Al-Asimah TV
 Allibya TV
 Libya Alhurra TV
 Libya TV -  aka Libya al-Ahrar; Qatar-based satellite station, launched in April 2011.

Radio

State owned radio stations 
Libya Radio and Television Corporation (LRTC) is the successor to the Gaddafi-era state broadcaster. Operates Radio Libya, Al-Shababiyah, Al-Itha'ah al-Wataniya.

Private radio stations 
Dozens of radio outlets, many privately owned, broadcast from Libyan cities and from Middle East media hubs. The BBC World Service Arabic broadcasts on 91.5 FM in Tripoli, Benghazi, and Misrata.
Al Aan FM: Broadcasts on 105.3 MHz, covering Al Bayda, Al Marj, Benghazi, Misrata, Labraq, Nalut, Sabha,Sirte, Susah,Tobruk and Tripoli.
 Allibya FM
 Libya FM - Egypt-based
 Tribute FM: An English-language internet station broadcasting from Benghazi. Website
 Voice of Africa
 Voice of Free Libya - Benghazi-based, Al-Bayda, Misrata

Government regulation 

A new constitution has yet to be written and approved, but Article 14 of the Interim Constitutional Declaration adopted on 3 August 2011 guarantees freedom of expression and freedom of the press:

“Freedom of opinion for individuals and groups, freedom of scientific research, freedom of communication, liberty of the press, printing, publication and mass media, freedom of movement, freedom of assembly, freedom of demonstration and freedom of peaceful strike shall be guaranteed by the State in accordance with the law.”  

A framework for media policy and regulation has yet to be developed, but authorities during and after the 2011 revolution have made several attempts to bring the sector under official oversight and regulation. Experienced media professionals and newcomers are skeptical about these efforts and have resisted efforts to bring their industry under the control of transitional authorities.