[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Goodna, Queensland

Goodna is a suburb on the eastern edge of the City of Ipswich in Queensland, Australia. In the , Goodna had a population of 10,461 people.

Geography

Goodna is  from the Brisbane central business district, being just outside the Brisbane City Council area. Located as a centre point between Brisbane and Ipswich, it was designated by the Queensland Government in the SEQ Plan as a major activity centre, a transport oriented development centre and as an economic activity centre.

The Brisbane River runs to the north of Goodna. Goodna Boat Ramp is one of the only boat ramps on the Brisbane River and is part of the Brisbane River Canoe Trail. There are extensive old Jacaranda, Poinciana, Hoop Pine and Mango trees throughout the area. Parks are widespread with over 14 individual parks to be found and free electric barbecue facilities at the major ones. Names of some of the major parks include: Evan Marginson Sportsground, Richardson Park, Leslie Park, Kippen Park, Norma Mulvihill Park, Baines Meaney and Seymour Park.  Fifty percent of The Pan Pacific Peace Gardens is also situated within Goodna.  Wildlife is restricted with ongoing development, however possums and on a rare occasion koalas have also been spotted and kangaroos are numerous, especially near the golf courses.

Goodna Shopping Centre (also known as St Ives) is a major shopping centre, an easy walk to the Goodna train station ( direct distance).

Many of the original central street names in Goodna originated from English kings, princes, and queens such as William, Albert, James and George.

History
Goodna is situated in the Ugarapul traditional Aboriginal country. The Ugarapul people, custodians within the traditional Ugarapul country, spoke a dialect of the Ugarapul language group that continues their culture today.

In 1823 John Oxley led an exploration party who were the first Europeans to visit the area. The area had extensive beds of sandstone. In 1826 Patrick Logan established the Woogaroo Quarry to provide building materials for the Moreton Bay penal colony.

The district was known as Woogaroo, derived from Woogaroo Creek, which in turn appears on the 1840 map of Moreton Bay District prepared by surveyor Robert Dixon. The name Woogaroo is derived from Yuggera language, Ugarapul dialect, indicating shady or cool. The name Goodna superseded the original name, Woogaroo, in 1865.

As early as 1841 there was a sheep run called Woogaroo Station belonging to H.S.Russell and Dr. Stephen Simpson.  Simpson was the lands commissioner and magistrate for the Moreton Bay district, and lived in a slab hut while he farmed on the riverbank near the mouth of Woogaroo Creek. As the main road intersected with the track from Coopers Plains and the river, it was a strategic location for Simpson.

The Grenier family of South Brisbane came from New Zealand to Brisbane in 1845 and, while operating the Grenier Inn at South Brisbane, also farmed land known as "The Willows" where Archerfield Airport stands today. 

In 1851–1852 Simpson purchased  of land, including  on Wolston Creek. Other well known pioneers settled or purchased land in the Goodna area: James Holmes arrived in 1851 and established himself as a grazier; Charles Pitt married Thomas Grenier's daughter Mary in 1855 and grew cotton and maize at Redbank Plains. According to "Aldines History of Queensland" Pitt was the second to grow cotton in that area and received £400 from the New South Wales Government (the establishment of Queensland did not occur until 1859). Pitt was also a JP and later on the Purga Divisional Board and involved in the beginnings of the Redbank School.

Historically Goodna was a farming community, primarily in sugar, cotton, livestock (sheep and cattle), and also had a large local timber industry. Large amounts of timber were taken by bullock teams to the Goodna wharf and shipped to Ipswich and Brisbane.

Further settlement took place after Goodna was proclaimed a village in 1856. In the following year Joseph and Ellen (née Thompson) Broad built a store on the site, and sold the store later to Edwin Pitt, son of Charles and Mary Pitt. Edwin and his wife Cecilia (née Thompson sister of Ellen Broad) ran the store as a mixed business and Cecilia was the postmistress (see Aldines). They survived the 1893 Brisbane flood but a little later built Pitt's Hotel Cecil on the store site. It was later burnt down and the RSL is now on that site. Edwin and Cecilia's daughter Zora Brenda Pitt grew up and learnt to ride in Goodna and she became Royal National Show champion woman rider in the early 1900s.

The cemetery opened in 1859.