[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert Milsom

on 17 August 2013. He then scored his first goal for the club in a 3–1 win over Sheffield United on 7 September 2013, where he "controlled smartly before firing a low drive from the edge of the box which beat the outstretched hand of Howard before smacking the inside of the post enroute to the net."

Having broken into the first team and receiving good reviews from pundits, Manager Steve Evans was keen for Milsom to stay at the club. Milsom explained his good performance because of his repayment to Evans for signing him. On 31 October 2013, Milsom signed an 18-month contract at the club, which will keep him until the summer of 2015. At Rotherham United, Milsom was more used in the first team as a defender in the left back and was often injured including a thigh strain. Milsom returned to the first team following a fitness boost. He made 27 appearances in the 2013–14 campaign, helping the club to reach the League One play-off final. He was on the substitute and came on for Joe Skarz in the 77th minutes at Wembley Stadium as Rotherham secured promotion with a penalty shoot-out victory against Leyton Orient.

Ahead of 2014–15 season, Milsom retained his squad number at number fifteen. However, Milsom sustained an injury and made his return from injury two months later. Milsom made his first appearance for the club in the Championship, where he came on as substitute in the second half, in a 3–0 loss against Reading.

On 26 November 2014, Milsom joined Bury on loan until the New Year along with Bristol City defender Adam El-Abd. Two days later, he made his Bury debut in a 2–0 loss against Dagenham & Redbridge, and played once more before returning to his parent club. After making seven more appearances for Rotherham, Milsom was one of five players released at the end of the season.

Notts County

On 16 June 2015, Milsom joined Notts County on a free transfer. He signed a two-year contract with the League Two side.

He was released by Notts County at the end of the 2017–18 season.

Crawley Town
On 13 August 2018, following a successful trial period, Milsom joined fellow League Two side, Crawley Town on a short-term deal.

Notts County
On 31 August 2018, following the departure of first-team manager, Harry Kewell, Milsom followed the Australian to Notts County on a five-month loan deal with a permanent agreement in place for the following January, just three months after leaving the Magpies. He made his first appearance against Forest Green on 1 September 2018 and scored his first goal since returning against Crewe a few weeks later. Milsom went on to make a total of 24 appearances whilst on loan.

On 14 January 2019, Milsom signed on a permanent basis.

He was released by Notts County at the end of the 2018–19 season.

Sutton United 
On 1 August 2019, Milsom signed a permanent contract with National League club Sutton United.

Career statistics

Honours 
Rotherham United
 Football League One play-offs: 2014

Sutton United
 National League: 2020–21
EFL Trophy runner-up: 2021–22

References

External links

Robert Milsom at suttonunited.net

1987 births
Living people
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Fulham F.C. players
Brentford F.C. players
Aberdeen F.C. players
Southend United F.C. players
English Football League players
Premier League players
Scottish Premier League players
People from Redhill, Surrey
Turun Palloseura footballers
Veikkausliiga players
Rotherham United F.C. players
Bury F.C. players
Notts County F.C. players
Crawley Town F.C. players
National League (English football) players
Sutton United F.C. players
English expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Finland
Footballers from Surrey