[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Utah State Legislature

h Territorial Senate was Willard Richards and the first Territorial Speaker of the House was William Wines Phelps. In 1870, the length of a Representative's term was extended to two years, and in 1896 the Utah Territorial Council became the Utah Senate with a four-year term.

Petitions for statehood

Utah first petitioned for statehood starting in 1849, and a constitutional convention was called to draft a State Constitution for a proposed State of Deseret on March 8, 1849 to be held in Salt Lake City. The U.S. House of Representatives and Senate rejected the proposed state and followed up the rejection by creating the Territory of Utah. It wasn't for another six years before the Fifth Territorial Legislature passed an act on December 10, 1855 establishing a constitutional convention to make a second attempt at Statehood. This second constitutional convention was held on March 17, 1856 in Salt Lake City and a proposed constitution was created which was subsequently rejected by the U.S. Congress.

A third constitutional convention was held on January 20, 1862 in Salt Lake City and a proposed constitution was drafted and subsequently submitted to the U.S. Congress which rejected the petition for statehood. The Twentieth Territorial Legislature on January 31, 1872 would call for a fourth constitutional convention and again petitioned Congress for statehood yet this effort also failed and it was not until April and May 1882 that a fifth and final attempt at statehood was made prior to Congress passing the Utah Enabling Act in 1894.

The Utah Territory proceeded to hold a constitutional convention on March 4, 1895 which ended on March 6, 1895 and the proposed Constitution was ratified by the voters Tuesday, November 5, 1895. The first election was also held on this day and state officials were elected. The First Utah State Legislature convened on January 13, 1896 and proceeded to conduct the business of organizing the state.

Composition of Senate

The current party composition of the Utah Senate is:

Composition of House of Representatives

The current party composition of the Utah House is:

Structure and organization

The Utah Legislature is a bicameral, partisan body composed of a lower chamber which is the Utah House of Representatives with 75 members, and upper chamber which is the Utah Senate, with 29 members. State senators serve four-year terms with half the seats in the Utah Senate being up for election every two years and state representatives serve two-year terms with all the seats in the Utah House being up for election every two years. Each body elects its own leadership and is responsible for determining its own rules of procedures.

The members of both houses of the Utah Legislature are elected on a partisan basis, and they conduct their proceedings including the elections of leadership according to membership in a party caucus. Currently, the state of Nebraska is the only state in the United States that is elected and conducted in a nonpartisan manner.

As of 2016, 88 percent of members of the Utah legislature were affiliated with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

Committees and leadership

The Utah Senate elects a President of the Senate and the Utah House elects a Speaker, and each political party caucus in both houses elects party leadership including a majority leader, majority whip and assistant majority whip by the caucus with the most members in that house. The minority party caucus elects a minority leader, minority whip, assistant minority whip and includes one additional leadership position of minority caucus manager to offset the Speaker of the House and President of the Senate who are traditionally members of the majority caucus yet are elected by the entire membership of their respective bodies.

Legislative committees serve an important function in the legislative process, as the majority of the debate and discussion of a bill is done in committee and public comment is generally accepted at this point in the bill process. Amendments can be made to the bill and be given more consideration than they would on the floor of either legislative chamber. Utah has three types of legislative committees, these are: appropriations subcommittees, standing committees and interim committees.

Appropriations subcommittees 
There are eight appropriations subcommittees made up of members of both the Utah House of Representatives and Utah Senate. These subcommittees are responsible for reviewing a section of the budget and requests for appropriations. At the end of this review, the subcommittees submit its portion of the budget and a recommended list of prioritized appropriations on to the Executive Appropriations Committee, which is composed of party leadership from both chambers. All alterations to the budget, including all appropriations, are approved by this committee, which are then turned into the so-called "Bill of Bills" at the end of the session.

Standing committees