[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# James Douglas (businessman)

e wrote in 1885 on "Historical and Geographical Features of the Rocky Mountain  Railroads" which detailed the  geological features of the land near the Union Pacific, Central Pacific, Denver and Rio Grand, Southern Pacific,  Atlantic and Pacific, Northern Pacific, and the Canadian Pacific railroads.

Douglas, Arizona and the Phelps Dodge Corporation
In the late 1880s early 90s, with the success of the Copper Queen and backing of Phelps Dodge partners, Dr Douglas acquired for them additional property and built up other spectacular copper mines, including the Detroit Copper Company at Morenci Arizona, the Moctezuma Copper Company at Nacozari, Sonora Mexico, and the United Globe–Old Dominion mines at Globe Arizona.  In 1905, the partnership purchased the vast coal lands of Dawson, New Mexico and organized the Stag Canyon Fuel Co.  He was made president of each of the operating companies by the Phelps Dodge partners. Importantly, he recruited talented young engineers, including his sons James and Walter, Dr. L. D. Ricketts, and Charles E. Mills, to manage the expanding business. When the Copper Queen company built a new smelter in the flats east of Bisbee, the founders of the adjacent Mexican border town named Douglas, Arizona for him.

On a quest for ever cheaper freight rates for materials, along with outgoing copper and upset with those offered by the two present railroads (AT&SF and Southern Pacific), Douglas led in the construction of mine railroad branches from 1888. Originally the Arizona and South Eastern Railroad, the line went first to Fairbank and a connection with the AT&SF. Unsatisfied with their service, the road pushed onward to a link with the SP at Benson. In 1900 Phelps Dodge commissioned a smelter at the new town of Douglas, and the rails were extended to that property, as well from their south of the border properties at Nacozari in 1902. Again unsatisfied with freight rates offered by the big railroads, a line extension was pushed to El Paso, TX by 1904. In 1901 the line incorporated as the El Paso and Southwestern Railroad and added the El Paso and Northeastern Railroad in 1905, establishing a 750-mile rail link between the Rock Island at Tucumcari New Mexico and Southern Pacific Lines at Tucson Arizona, via El Paso and Douglas.

With the passing of the senior members of the Phelps Dodge partnership, the firm was dissolved and replaced in 1908 with Phelps Dodge & Company, a holding company of all the subsidiary properties. Douglas became the first president. This was reorganized in 1917 as the Phelps Dodge Corporation, with each of the subsidiary companies becoming operating divisions. Douglas became CEO with son Walter as president, and helped transform the corporation into a Fortune 500 company. He began reducing his business commitments and delved into philanthropy more until his death in 1918, at his home in Spuyten Durvil, New York.

James Douglas was always known as Dr. Douglas or Prof. Douglas. His son, James S. Douglas Jr., or "Rawhide Jimmy" (1867–1949), managed the Phelps Dodge works at Nacazori before heading off on his own and building a major fortune with the United Verde Extension mine in Jerome, Arizona. His Jerome mansion is open to the public as the Jerome State Historic Park.  Walter Douglas followed in his father's footsteps as manager of the Copper Queen, then president and finally CEO of Phelps Dodge.  James S. Douglas Jr.'s son (Dr. Douglas' grandson) Lewis Douglas was elected U.S. Congressman representing Arizona, served within President Roosevelt's administration, and later was appointed Ambassador to Great Britain.

Publications and philanthropy
Throughout this time, Douglas maintained an interest in Canadian history and heritage. He wrote several books on the subject in his lifetime, namely Canadian Independence, Old France in the New World, and New England and New France—Contrasts and Parallels in Colonial History. In addition to bailing Queen's University out of a financial crisis with approximately a million dollars from his own pocket, Douglas also established the first chair in Canadian and Colonial History there in 1910. He also financed many libraries, such as the library of the Literary and Historical Society of Quebec, where interest from his donations is still used to purchase books. He had built and supported libraries in each of the Phelps Dodge major mining camps and smelter towns.

Medical philanthropy
Douglas was dedicated to investigating the effects of radiation on cancer following the treatment of his daughter in England. In 1911, to devise a method to more cheaply produce radium, he directed the Phelps Dodge research lab under chemist George Van Arsdale to experiment with various processes to extract radium from carnotite. Douglas and Dr. Howard Kelly, a Baltimore, Maryland gynecologist and philanthropist, joined forces to supply radium in the US. In partnership with the U.S. Bureau of Mines, they formed the National Radium Institute.