[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mahmoud Mohieldin

the adoption of an MDG acceleration framework by the UN Chief Executives Board (CEB), which was rooted in enhanced collaboration between all agencies to address key bottlenecks in selected countries. His work also entailed strengthening the relationship between the World Bank and the United Nations.

In April 2014, in addition to his responsibilities as the president's special envoy, he was appointed as corporate secretary and executive secretary to the development committee of the World Bank Group's board of governors. As corporate secretary, Mohieldin's role was to act as the key interlocutor between the management of the World Bank and the board of executive directors. During his tenure, he managed and ensured the success of several important decisions, including the 2015 shareholding review, the fast-track approval of loans related to Ebola, as well as the implementation of reforms.

In January 2016, he took on his current role of senior vice president for the 2030 development agenda, UN Relations and Partnerships. This includes overseeing the World Bank offices in New York and Geneva. His unit is responsible for representing the World Bank in discussions related to the Sustainable Development Goals and 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. It is also responsible for representing the World Bank at the United Nations. An important work stream is to ensure the effective alignment of the SDGs to the work of the World Bank. Mohieldin has also played a key role in strengthening the relationship between the UN system and the World Bank.

International recognition 

For the fourth time in five years, Egypt was named one of the top 10 global reformers, and the top regional reformer in the annual “Doing Business” report of 2010 that is prepared by the World Bank  and International Finance Corporation (IFC). Egypt was the first Arab and African country to join the investment committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) as a participant, the lead FDI recipient country in Africa, and second among the Arab countries in United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) 2007 'World Investment Report.'

Affiliation and membership of professional and academic societies 

Mohieldin has held numerous leading positions in think tanks, research centres and academic institutions all over the world.  Among these positions has been serving as a member of the Commission on Growth and Development since 2005, alongside several high-profile figures including the likes of Nobel laureates in Economics Michael Spence and Robert Solow.  In 2008, Mohieldin became the chair of the advisory board for the Global Emerging Markets Local Currency Bonds Program (GEMLOC).  He has been a senior research associate of the Economic Research Forum of the Arab Countries, including Iran and Turkey]; and a member of the Middle East Studies Association of North America.  Mohieldin is a Fellow of the British Society for Middle Eastern Studies in the United Kingdom; and a member of the Egyptian Society for Political Economy in Cairo. He has been an active board member at Benha University, Egypt; the Arab Society for Economic Research; the Centre of European Studies; and the Centre for Economic and Financial Research and Studies at the Faculty of Economics and Political Science of Cairo University, Egypt.

Previous appointments 

Mohieldin also served as a member of the board of directors of the Central Bank of Egypt; a member of the board of directors of HSBC-Egypt; a member of the board of directors of Telecom Egypt; and a member of the board of directors of the Egyptian Diplomatic Institute at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Egypt.  Mohieldin was also an advisor to the Egyptian Centre for Economic Studies and the director of Cairo Economics and Finance. In 1999 Mohieldin represented the Egyptian Government in the G33  Meetings.  Other memberships and appointments he held included: a member of the executive committee of the Cairo Centre for Economic Information; member of the Appeal Committee of the Capital Market Authority; economic advisor for the Egyptian Arab African Bank; member of the Appeal Committee of the Capital Market Authority; economic consultant to the Periodic Magazine Al-Benouk; published by the League of Egyptian Banks; and chairman of the Cultural Committee of the General Association of Egyptian Students in the United Kingdom.

Academic awards 

Mohieldin received the Certificate of Merit, Leadership Seminar at Georgetown University, in the United States in 2003.  In the same year he received the Certificate in Capital Flows, Monetary Policy and International Financial System, World Bank Institute and Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.  In 2000, he received the Certificate in Housing Finance from Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania in the United States.

References