[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lord's Resistance Army insurgency (1994–2002)

ees. Approximately 100 refugees were killed.  In the Lokung/Palabek massacre from January 7 to January 12, 1997, up to 412 civilians were killed in and around the subcounties of Lokung and Palabek in northwest Kitgum. There were no opposing forces and most victims were bludgeoned or hacked to death.

The most famous attack of this period were the St. Mary's College/Aboke abductions on October 10, 1996.  At about 2 a.m. about 200 armed rebels broke into St. Mary's College in Aboke, northern Apac District, and abducted 139 secondary school girls between 13 and 16 years of age before leaving at about 5 a.m. At 7 a.m., the deputy head mistress of the college, Sister Rachele Fassera, pursued the rebels and negotiated the release of 109 of the girls. Five of the thirty remaining girls died in captivity; all but two eventually made their escape, as of 2006. 

Government forces have also been the focus of controversy.  On August 31, 1995, thirteen civilians, some with their hands tied behind their backs, were killed in a government gunship attack on an LRA column near Lokung, northwest Kitgum. Sixteen LRA combatants were also killed. Critics charged reckless disregard for abductee lives; the government claimed the killings were accidental and unintentional.

The military contributed to mob killings in Gulu Town on August 16, 1996.  Four LRA suspects were turned over to an Acholi mob that beat them to death. The suspects were under government custody and are reported to have been turned over to the mob in the presence of senior Uganda Fourth Division officers.

The deaths of two Acholi elders on 8 June 1996 remains a mystery.  Mr. Okot Ogony of Cwero, eastern Gulu, Chairman of the Peace Commission of the Council of Acholi Chiefs, and Mr. Olanya Lacony, a respected elder from Kac-Goma, southwestern Gulu, were found murdered near Cwero in still unexplained circumstances. They were the leaders of a local initiative to restart the peace talks that had collapsed in February 1994 and had the approval of the President of Uganda and an invitation from the LRA. Some blame the LRA, while others point to corrupt National Resistance Army officers.

"Protected villages" created in 1996
The creation of government "protected villages" beginning in 1996 further deepened the antagonistic attitude that many Acholi have toward the government.  While many Acholi were already displaced by the conflict, they resented being ordered into camps.  A strategy of resettlement, or "villagization", is a common anti-insurgent technique, used extensively for example by the United States throughout the Indian Wars to isolate Native Americans in reservations.   It is intended to free up troops that would otherwise be attempting to defend innumerable small communities and to deny the rebels access to resources.   Nevertheless, the population continues to be attacked by the LRA even within the "protected camps."  The camps are also crowded, unsanitary, and miserable places to live.

A culture of peace and a gradual subsiding
The bloodshed in 1995 to 1996 appears to have convinced the population that a negotiated solution was the only acceptable option.  This is what one writer calls the emergence of "a culture of peace."  As most of the LRA combatants are abducted children, a military solution is widely seen by the Acholi as a massacre of victims.  Government attempts to destroy the rebels are thus viewed as another cause for grievance by the Acholi. The moral ambiguity of this situation, in which abducted young rebels are both the victims and perpetrators of brutal acts, is vital in understanding the current conflict.