[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Hufnagel

andon Jacobs was removed from the game inside the five yard-line in two games, thus making the offense more predictable to opposing defenses.

Following a 30–7 defeat by the New Orleans Saints, Hufnagel was stripped of his duties as offensive coordinator.  A week later, it was revealed he was fired.

Return to the CFL 
On December 3, 2007, Hufnagel was hired as the head coach and general manager of the Calgary Stampeders. In his first season, he led the Stampeders to the Grey Cup title with a 22–14 victory over the Montreal Alouettes on November 23. For his performance in the 2008 CFL season, he was awarded the Annis Stukus Trophy as the CFL's coach of the year. Hufnagel got the Stamps back to the Grey Cup game to conclude the 2012 CFL season. The Stampeders lost the 100th Grey Cup game to the Toronto Argonauts 35-22. In the 2013 CFL season, Hufnagel and the Stampeders finished the season in 1st place with a 14-4 record. They lost the Western Final to Saskatchewan.

The following season, Hufnagel led the Stampeders to a 15-3 record, finishing first in the Western division and in the league. In the playoffs, the Calgary Stampeders faced the Edmonton Eskimos (who previously eliminated Saskatchewan) and defeated them 43-18, leading them to Calgary's second Grey Cup in three years. They would face the Hamilton Tiger-Cats in the 102nd Grey Cup and win the game 20-16 for Calgary's seventh Grey Cup championship.

Following the Stampeder's championship season of 2014, Hufnagel was awarded the Annis Stukus Trophy as the CFL coach of the year for the second time in his career. Later, Hufnagel announced he would step down as head coach after the following season to concentrate on his general manager duties, and named offensive coordinator and former Stamps quarterback Dave Dickenson as his successor. He is the second-winningest coach in Stampeders history, trailing only Wally Buono. He is also the ninth-winningest coach in CFL history, and has the most wins of any coach who spent his entire career with just one team. He was inducted into the Canadian Football Hall of Fame as a builder in 2020. He stepped down as general manager after the 2022 season but retained his position as team president.

CFL coaching record

Personal life
Hufnagel earned a Bachelor of Science degree in marketing from Penn State University in 1973. Hufnagel and his wife, Sherry, live in Cochrane, Alberta. He has two daughters, Neely and Lindsey, and a son, Cole. He graduated from Montour High School in McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania, a suburb southwest of Pittsburgh.

See also
 List of NCAA major college football yearly passing leaders

References

External links
John Hufnagel's bio, www.giants.com

1951 births
Living people
American football quarterbacks
Penn State Nittany Lions football players
Denver Broncos players
American players of Canadian football
Canadian football quarterbacks
Calgary Stampeders general managers
Calgary Stampeders players
Saskatchewan Roughriders players
Winnipeg Blue Bombers players
Saskatchewan Roughriders coaches
Calgary Stampeders coaches
Cleveland Gladiators coaches
Cleveland Browns coaches
Indianapolis Colts coaches
Jacksonville Jaguars coaches
New England Patriots coaches
New York Giants coaches
People from Coraopolis, Pennsylvania
Players of American football from Allegheny County, Pennsylvania
Canadian Football Hall of Fame inductees