[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tomas Osmeña

by publicly calling Osmeña "stupid". When Garcia declared his candidacy for a third term in 2001, Osmeña decided to challenge his former vice mayor in the 2001 Cebu City local elections. Osmeña won by a slim margin of 3,060 votes.

During his second stint as mayor, he was faced with several issues:

Vigilante killings
The series of vigilante-style killings in Cebu City started in December 2004 and the victims are mainly those people who have criminal records. Between 2004 and 2006 in Cebu City, 168 people with criminal records were killed.

Osmeña said of a series of killings of suspected criminals, "I’m not behind it. I will say I inspired it. I don’t deny that." It was suspected that the vigilante group involved is the so-called "Hunters' Team" which Osmeña formed to go after criminals.

South Reclamation Project

He called then Talisay City Mayor Eduardo Gullas a landgrabber for staking a claim over 1.44 hectares of the South Reclamation Project (SRP). Then Talisay City Attorney Aurora Econg vowed to question any special patents or title that will be issued to Cebu City.

SRP Manager Nigel Paul Villarete dismissed Econg's claims that Talisay City was not claiming ownership, only jurisdiction.

Osmeña insisted that they were indeed after the ownership of the 1.44 hectare portion of the SRP.

The Cebu City Government was expected to pay PHP 1.528 Billion, a portion of the interest, to the Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP), conduit for the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC). Cebu City officials then blamed difficulties in getting titles and delays in marketing the 295 hectare SRP on the Talisay City Government, which was disputing Cebu City's application for the titling of the said reclaimed land.

The Cebu City Government entered into a joint venture with Filinvest in 2009. The Cebu City Government was expected to receive 10% of the gross income from the joint venture net of the 7% marketing fees.

Talisay cityhood
In August 2004, the Cebu City Government, under the administration of Osmeña, filed a case against Talisay City for alleged irregularities in its becoming a chartered city. The municipality first applied for cityhood in 1998 and was granted a charter in 2001. Talisay City counsel Aurora Econg testified possessing supporting documents showing that Talisay's cityhood is legal and official. Jurisdiction issues were raised by Cebu City when Talisay City claimed a 53.44-hectare portion of the project, claiming that it had encroached on the reclaimed land.

Talisay City, however, made the claim after the SRP was completed and ready for sale to investors. Osmeña then severed sister-city ties with Talisay City to keep the entire SRP intact.

The Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), which conducted the survey, said the municipal boundary monument MBM 30 is located before km. 10 of the SRP just after the second bridge as one approaches Cebu City from Talisay.

On May 10, 2006, the Court of Appeals dismissed Osmeña's petition to nullify the cityhood of Talisay. The court pointed out that the "belated action" raises questions as to its motive. The 17-page decision penned by Associate Justice Apolinario D. Bruselas Jr. of the court's 18th Division, declared that Republic Act 8979, the law converting Talisay into a component city, "does not suffer from any constitutional or statutory infirmities".

Health
In March 2002, Osmeña collapsed due to hypertension which required him for a surgery and 2 months of rest. He was later treated for aneurysm at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. In May 2007, he underwent a minor operation due to swollen thigh because of punctures from an angiogram.

House of Representatives (2010–2013)
After serving for three terms as Mayor of Cebu City, Osmeña ran for Congressman representing the second district of Cebu City in the 2010 elections with vice mayor Michael Rama as candidate for Mayor, former councilor Joy Augustus Young for Vice Mayor and Rachel Marguerite del Mar as Congressman for the first district of Cebu City. He won by 57,923 votes against Jonathan Guardo of KUSUG. Osmeña was sworn in as the 3rd Congressman representing the second district of Cebu City on noon of June 30, 2010.