[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Medical Assistant (Royal Navy)

phase with march routes across the Brecon Beacons similar to those done for UKSF selection. Candidates will be expected to carry out simulated medical treatments during these marches. The goal of such exercises is to test a medic's ability to successfully perform while under pressure and exhausted.

Submariner Medical Assistant 
Those who volunteer for Service in the Submarine Service are responsible for the monitoring of air and water supplies and carrying out vital health and environmental safety checks. The training is undertaken at  in Gosport and at the Institute of Naval Medicine in Alverstoke. On completion of this training, Medical Assistant Submariners, MA(SM)'s are awarded a City and Guilds Certificate in Radiation Protection and optional membership of the Guild of Radiation Workers.

Additional qualifications 
Other additional specialisations open to the MA Cadre are the newly formed Paramedic Sub Cadre. Others may transfer to beocome a Pharmacy Technician and Operating Department Practitioner. These were previously additional qualifications which are civilian accredited and have become Medical Technician branches.

Insignia/badge 
The insignia of the Medical Assistant badge is the Red Cross of Geneva on a white background with gold circling. A Royal Crown above the insignia denotes that the rating is qualified at the senior rate level (PO).

Rating structure 
The branch structure of the Medical Assistant follows the same as structures of the other branches of the Royal Navy.

 Medical Assistant 2 (under training)  (MA 2)
 Medical Assistant                     (MA)
 Leading Medical Assistant             (LMA)
 Petty Officer Medical Assistant       (POMA)
 Chief Petty Officer Medical Assistant (CPOMA)
 Warrant Officer Medical Assistant Class 2 (WO2MA)
 Warrant Officer Medical Assistant Class 1 (WO1MA)

Medical Services Officer 
Those who are at PO level who are qualified, recommended and selected, can go on to become Medical Services Officers (MSO). They undertake their initial training at Britannia Royal Naval College (BRNC) Dartmouth. The MSO are commissioned officers who provide policy, guidance and other managerial, administrative and staff skills to the Medical Branches of the Royal Navy and Tri-service environment. The highest level they can reach is that of Captain, although there has been one instance of a Commodore. The MSOs were also previously called ward masters.

See also
Combat Medical Technician
Hospital corpsman
Kate Nesbitt
Medical assistant
Royal Navy Medical Service

References

External links 
 Medical Assistant (General Service), RN Careers
Virtual Naval Hospital – a digital library of military medicine and humanitarian medicine
Medical Assistant Liam O'Grady MC
Combat Medics Falklands conflict

Military medicine in the United Kingdom
Royal Navy Medical Service
Royal Navy specialisms