[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Purulia arms drop case

shire Police Special Branch about the planned delivery of weapons to India in August 1995 as soon as he discovered it was illegal. He claimed that he continued to arrange to buy a plane from the Latvian state airline with police approval. However, North Yorkshire Police's Special Branch denied this.

Peter Bleach and the Latvian crew were arrested and sentenced to life imprisonment while alleged organiser Niels Christian Nielsen (aka Kim Peter Davy), a Danish citizen and member of the Ananda Marga group, escaped.  Later, an Interpol red notice was issued against him. Following the intervention of Russian authorities, the Latvian crew (who gained Russian citizenship while in Indian custody) were later pardoned and released in July 2000. An appeal has been submitted by the pilots lawyer before the Calcutta High Court in March 2000 challenging the trial results and the judgement but it is still pending. Peter Bleach, too, was released on 4 February 2004, via a presidential pardon, allegedly due to persistent British Government pressure.

In 2007 Kim Davy was traced by Denmark authorities and on 9 April 2010 Danish government decided to extradite Kim Davy to India but Danish authorities failed to successfully defend their decision in the Danish high court. The court, therefore, refused extradition of Kim Davy to India. Further, Danish authorities decided not to appeal the high court judgement to the Supreme Court.

Recent development
On 8 October 2008, the extradition of the key accused, Kim Davy, real name Niels Holck, was close to being finalized as the government had, in principle, agreed on giving "sovereign assurance" to the Danish authorities on their conditions, as well as bringing about some changes in the existing extradition law. One of the conditions Denmark had set included the waiving of the death penalty if Davy was convicted by a court for his involvement in the dropping of a huge cache of arms and ammunition from an aircraft in West Bengal in 1995.

On 28 April 2011, Kim Davy came forward to allege that both the Indian government (Congress party) as well as its intelligence agency R&AW were aware of the precise details of the arms drop well in advance, and that the whole operation was conducted with the implicit agreement of the Indian authorities. Both Peter Bleach and Kim Davy claimed that the aim of the arms drop was to help anti Left government dissidents and to create a pretext to impose President's Rule in West Bengal.

On 29 April 2011, Central Bureau of Investigation denied all allegations of involvement or collusion in the arms drop. Questions have been raised if Kim Davy's 'sensational revelation' was aimed to stall the extradition efforts of India. Some political analysts have also questioned the 'timing of the revelation' which may help the Left parties in the ongoing state government assembly elections.

On 30 June 2011, Central Bureau of Investigation has been denied to extradite Kim Davy  Niels Holck to India for further proceedings in India. The Danish High Court, after hearing evidence from Peter Bleach who described his personal experiences in prison in Kolkata, dismissed the plea on the grounds of "torture or other inhuman treatment".

The Bangladeshi MP and retired Major-General Mohammed Shubid Ali Bhuiyan had been accused of involvement in the case. The CBI had submitted to the Calcutta High Court two end-user certificates, required for international arms deals, allegedly signed by Bhuiyan in his capacity as the PSO of the Armed Forces Division of the office of the then prime minister of Bangladesh, Begum Khaleda Zia. The certificates had been recovered by the British police, who assisted the CBI in the probe, in raids on Bleach's estate. One of the certificates – issued on 25 November 1995 – authorized Bleach's front company, Border Technology and Innovations Ltd, to conclude the contract with the Bulgarian suppliers stating that the arms will be used by the Bangladesh Army and will not be exported to any other country. The boxes containing the weapons, found in Purulia, had been marked for Rajendrapur Cantonment in Bangladesh. However, the Government of Bangladesh as well as Bhuiyan has denied the allegations and maintain that the certificates were forged by Bleach's contacts in Bangladesh.

In June 2014, Purulia arms drop case resurfaced with new revelations after the release of a Danish documentary The Arms Drop.

In March 2015, a book titled The Night it Rained Guns: Unravelling the Purulia Arms Drop Conspiracy was released.

In popular media
 The story of the 2017 film Jagga Jasoos, starring Ranbir Kapoor, Katrina Kaif and Saswata Chattopadhyay, revolves around the infamous high-profile case of Purulia arms drop.
 Arms Drop – a 2016 Danish documentary about this case. Retrieved September 2020
 Peter Bleach gave his account of the operation and his incarceration in Season 10 Episode 4 of the American television series Locked Up Abroad.

References