[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Parlement Jeunesse du Québec

n French during the debates. However, following the same rule that applies at the National Assembly of Quebec, all participants are free to express their point of view in the idiom of their choice, even though no translation services are provided.

History

The 1950s 
Religion at the core of debates

The QYP held its first session in 1949, under the name “Older Boys’ Parliament of Quebec” (“OBPQ”). It was founded through the assistance of the Rev. Normand Hellier of the United Church. The OBPQ was originally sponsored by the Boys’ Work Board of the Council of Christian Education. The members of the OBPQ were almost all members of Protestant churches – Anglican, Baptist, and Presbyterian. The goal of the simulation was “to captivate the interests of young men and to lead them towards a more profound and sane relation with their Church” (according to a founding document of 1953). Topics where chosen in advance with a religious connotation as in 1954 when the organization of the simulation stated that “Programs should be based on the four-fold theme expressed in Luke 2:52: “And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man”.
Establishing the legitimacy of the institution
The main goal of the first legislatures is principally for the PJQ to assert itself as a legitimate institution. Consequently, the debates are oriented towards:
Proper apportionment for electoral ridings
The election and the repartition of representatives for the diverse confessions
The importance of non-partisanship
The budget for the simulation
The proper means of founding
Furthermore, the OBPQ was an Anglophone organization, conducting its debates and business in English.

The 1960s 
Debates with a social touch

Through the 1960s, the simulation progressively moved away from its origins as church-sponsored boys’ organization and discussed various topics like the following:
the acknowledgement of birth control as a moral intervention (1954)
The establishment of stringent security norms for car manufacturers (1965)
The responsibility of society with regards to people suffering of drug abuses (1967)

The Quiet Revolution perceptibly marked the debates throughout the decade. Here are some examples:
A bill for the renewing and consolidation of the national identity (1967)
 The restriction of access to English schools (1969)
There is also a liberalization of customs, as can be demonstrated with legislative proposals of 1969:
A bill aiming at the recognition of the positive effects of sexual relations before marriage and aiming at the legalization of abortion
A bill aiming at legalizing prostitution

Taking sides

At the same time, the participants demonstrate their awareness to the international crises and conflicts while their debates often denounce particular situations:
A bill denouncing the Apartheid in South Africa (1965)
A bill urging the end of the Vietnam War (1965)
A bill on the rightness and usefulness of furnishing weapons during the Nigerian Civil War (1969)

The advent of women participation

In 1969, the Quebec Older Boys’ Parliament evolve by announcing an important change. By means of resolution, the participants decide that it is about time to include women in their debates. The bill allowing their presence states that “half of the youth of Quebec is not represented at this assembly… and considering that the women have the same rights of men”. It is thereby resolved to change the name of the institution for "Quebec Youth Parliament".

The 1970s 
Following the rhythm of changes

The vibrating aspect of the decade, both in terms of social, economical and political changes, is reflected in the content of the debates. Things change even more in the organization as the “share-selling” financing system principle is eventually abandoned and as a woman is elected as Premier for the first time.

Distancing itself from religion

Still profoundly religious at the beginning of the 1970s, the Quebec Youth Parliament demonstrates, beginning in 1975, increasing autonomy toward the church. A modification to the rules of the institution replaces the term “Christian” with “moral” and the door is opened to other religions while the religious characteristics are retrieved from the proclamations at the end of the decade.
The Quebec Youth Parliament even presents a bill that questions the role of the Church in a modern society going as far as to propose that “the church should not try to involve itself with world or community problems and should then direct itself solely towards the spiritual development of man”.

Legislative proposals and front-line debates