[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Artemisia californica

ce of bitter aromatic terpenes, but it does provide good cover for smaller birds and other animals that can fit between its stems. It is an important habitat plant for the endangered California gnatcatcher.

Uses 
A. californica is a sagebrush, not a true sage, making it of little culinary interest.

Medicinal
The Cahuilla natives employed the plant as a treatment to fight coughs and colds. They chewed the leaves, either dried or fresh. It was used by women of the Cahuilla and Tongva to alleviate menstrual cramps and to ease labor. The plant stimulates the uterine mucosa, which quickened childbirth. It was also made into a decoction, and if taken regularly prior to menstruation, it relieved menstrual cramps and menopause. The Ohlone used it as a pain remover by applying the leaves to wounds or teeth. It was also made into a tea bath to cure colds, coughs, and rheumatism. It was used as a poultice for asthma as well. Its aromatic qualities also made it valuable for incense and perfumes. Today, it continues to be used in native landscaping, providing not only aesthetic appeal but also a link to indigenous traditions.

A. californica is used to make a liniment that is a powerful pain reliever. The monoterpenoids in the plant interact with transient receptor potential cation channels to relieve pain. The plant also contains sesquiterpenes that may be involved in pain relief. The liniment is more powerful than opioid drugs and is much safer. A small amount of the liniment is applied where it is needed. Within 20 minutes, the pain subsides, even pain from broken bones, arthritis, sprains and strains.

Conservation Issues & Efforts 
There are various conservation issues with California sagebrush. Threats to its natural habitat include exotic species, habitat fragmentation, and urban development. In recognition of the significance of Artemisia californica in preserving biodiversity, efforts are being made to conserve and restore the coastal sage scrub environment.

Numerous conservation initiatives have been started as a result of the California sagebrush's significance in coastal habitats. Projects aiming at preserving habitat and restoring the coastal sage scrub ecosystem are among them. These conservation activities must include invasive species management tactics, awareness-raising campaigns, and community involvement.

See also
List of California native plants

References

External links

Calflora Database: Artemisia californica  (California sagebrush,  Coast sagebrush)
Jepson Manual eFlora (TJM2) treatment of Artemisia californica
USDA Plants Profile for Artemisia californica (coastal sagebrush)
UC Photos gallery: Artemisia californica

californica
Flora of California
Flora of Baja California
Flora of Mexican Pacific Islands
Natural history of the California chaparral and woodlands
Natural history of the California Coast Ranges
Natural history of the Channel Islands of California
Natural history of the San Francisco Bay Area
Natural history of the Santa Monica Mountains
Natural history of the Peninsular Ranges
Natural history of the Transverse Ranges
Plants described in 1831
Plants used in traditional Native American medicine
Garden plants of North America
Drought-tolerant plants
Flora without expected TNC conservation status