[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Podemos (Brazil)

enator. Dias endorsed Bolsonaro in the second round.

On 21 December 2018 the Humanist Party of Solidarity merged into Podemos, increasing its parliamentary representation to 17 deputies and 7 senators and turning Podemos into the third group in the Senate. Podemos later joined Bolsonaro's majority.

Ideology 
According to the party's president Renata Abreu, Podemos is not about left and right, but forward, with more democracy to together decide the future of the country. In the classical analysis of the political sciences, Podemos is defined as the center, with liberal proposals in the economy as well as distribution and income, when it comes to social development. This ideology, which is based on defending causes, results in three principles, namely transparency, popular participation and direct democracy, to jointly decide the future of Brazil. In this line, Podemos intends to give voice to people who do not feel represented by the current Brazilian political parties.

Podemos believes that the Brazilian people need to know well who they voted for, what they stand for and their decisions. For Podemos, transparency means the right of the population to know what happens in the country and thus avoid corruption. Podemos believes that Brazil needs more popular participation in politics, such as people being part of the governments, in the decisions of their neighborhoods, consultations to help the mayor, suggestions for their cities or collaborating to improve their states and country. The party is known for making online consultations on topics under discussion in the Congress and for committing to present projects that have the signature of at least 20,000 voters. For Podemos, a country is made with the participation of the people, day by day, every day. Among the projects and proposals defended in the agenda, the party presented through its president PEC 185-2015, authored by Renata Abreu, which turns to law the right of access to the internet for each Brazilian citizen, guaranteeing access to information and the possibility of participating in decisions. Podemos also believes that the true definition of the word democracy is to gradually share decision making with the people. The party defends more mechanisms of direct democracy in Brazil, either through plebiscites, referendums like the PEC 330/2017 authored by Renata Abreu who proposes that in each election the people can vote in more than candidates, but also in important subjects of interest of most people, popular referendums as advocated by PEC 331/2017, also by congresswoman Renata Abreu, to include in the constitution the right of the people to veto laws that have already been approved, or recall as proposed by the projects of candidate for the presidency Alvaro Dias (PEC 37/2016) and Renata Abreu (PEC 332/2017), so that the citizen can participate in the decision making, asserting his right to participate directly in the whole democratic process.

After pastor Marco Feliciano and pastor Cabo Daciolo (the latter of whom advocated the transformation of Brazil into a theocracy) entered PODE in 2018, the party shifted toward a more social conservative direction, although both would leave a few years later to join other parties.

Policies 
 End of legal Immunity and other privileges: end to privileges and corruption, reinforced by the bill PEC 333/2017 by Senator Alvaro Dias which aims to end the legal immunity.
 Ensure imprisonment after second instance: against impunity in the country, legitimize the imprisonment in second instance as in the bill filed by Senator Alvaro Dias.
 Transparency in all the public accounts: disclose all government accounts in a transparency portal, including your spending, contracts and budgets, so anyone can see.
 End to compulsory voting: adopt the optional vote in Brazil as proposed by the bill PEC 11/2015, authored by Senator Alvaro Dias.
 Recall Elections: adopt the recall system to revoke the mandate of bad rulers as proposed by Renata Abreu and Alvaro Dias in PEC 37/2016.
 Open a public debt audit of the country: open an application for a public debt audit in Brazil to know the exact financial situation of the country.
 Population guide the vote of its parliament members: create a law so that the voters can decide the votes of the parliamentarians on more important projects.
 Include plebiscites and referendums to each election: at each election include to vote plebiscites or referendums on important issues as proposed by Alvaro Dias on the reduction of the criminal majority.
 Internet access as a right to all the Brazilians: make the internet a right for every Brazilian citizen as proposed by the bill PEC 185-2015, authored by Renata Abreu.
 Defend the population's interest in causes: open to vote the most important causes for the population, so that they can define the priorities of the government.