[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

ough we are also not antisemitic. [...] We fight against the Jewish Party and against the Union of Native Jews [...] for they stand as separate coalitions within our country, and are at risk of colliding with each other. We want instead a unitary coalition, to restore the people as a working force."

On January 26, 1936, the PER agreed to sign a pact of collaboration with the UER, together forming the Central Council of Romanian Jews (Consiliul Central al Evreilor din România, CCER), which fought in defense of Jewish rights and against antisemitic actions. On February 15, Mendelsohn and Isac Popper were elected as leaders of the Jewish Community in Iași, with backing from both the UER and the PER. Also elected as general secretary, Kelpner argued that the election meant a "union between the UER and the Jewish Party of Iași." However, the CCER did not represent "a third organization—added to or supplanting [the PER and UER]—nor a single body resulting from their fusion", and declared itself apolitical, committed to the defense Jews "within the framework of organic laws". In its appeal to the Romanian nation, the CCER excoriated the tenets of economic antisemitism, citing data which showed that Jews were a minority in enviable professions, and that, statistically, they were similarly exposed to the problems of the Great Depression in Romania, including homelessness and malnutrition. The CCER also defended itself against claims that it was stoking antisemitism, dismissing them as "cynical, with the purpose of making victims into culprits."

In February 1936, Ebner lamented the Romanian anti-immigration policy, which, he argued, was directly harmful for Jewish refugees from Nazism; he demanded that the League of Nations be mandated and armed to secure their relocation. Replying the PNȚ's Dreptatea, Ilariu Dobridor expressed his indignation, proposing that Ebner was purposefully conflating humanitarianism and free migration. Universul argued that this Ebner's was an especially irresponsible position, directly against "the imperatives of our national policy", and that its adoption would have resulted in 500,000 Jews potentially relocating to Romania. Ebner then found himself indicted for "insulting the country" by a military tribunal in Bukovina. Ion Dumitrescu of Curentul joked that he could now expect to be defended by communists and "delinquents" as one of the "democratic martyrs in reactionary Romania", on par with Sacco and Vanzetti. Ebner's claim earned attention from jurist Istrate Micescu, who was theorizing "national sovereignty" and wanted to make antisemitic discrimination official. As he put it: "[Ebner] has abused the right as a guest, and behaved in such a way that he had to be declared an enemy." Physical attacks on Jewish activists and lawyers were renewed over the following months. In June, both Filderman and Sami Singer were injured by Traian Cotigă and other members of the Christian Bar Association.

1937 debacle

In the local elections of mid 1937, Rohlich appeared as a PNL candidate for the municipal council of Botoșani. The PER also had a pact with the PNL and Iunian's party in Bălți, but their alliance was narrowly defeated by the PNȚ. The latter's new leader, Ion Mihalache, was at the time agreeing with the LANC that "we do have something of a Jewish Question in Romania", proposing to tackle it by promoting economic nationalism: "cooperatives, instilling virtues in the youth, [and] State support for the Romanian element, allowing it to recover from a history of social, national and economic injustice." Mihalache noted that he endorsed a British proposal for the partition of Palestine, which would have resulted in a separate homeland for the Jewish people, to accommodate as many emigrants as possible. Also in 1937, the new World Jewish Congress (WJC) obtained the PER's affiliation, and, as noted by Benvenisti and Cohen, also organized its politicians into a network of informants. Sami Singer led this "spy ring" until September 1940, when he left Romania; Tivadar Fischer, Cohen, Mizrachi, Iosif Ebercohn and himself were active in that context. Weissman himself briefly left the PER, heading the Revisionist list in elections for representatives to the Twentieth Zionist Congress. On August 15, Tsirelson spoke at the World Agudath Israel congress in Karlovy Vary, where he pleaded for an Orthodox–Revisionist alliance: "I decree that all pious Jews must support the Jewish state. The main thing is to ensure the rule of the Torah."