[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Poncke Princen

Indonesia. Asked why he had changed his religion, he later explained to a visitor: "I wanted to feel a part of what everyone else was doing". In later life, his name was on some formal occasions preceded by the Muslim honorific Hajji, usually bestowed upon those who had gone on pilgrimage to Mecca.

Between 1950 and 1953 Princen was an official at the Indonesian Immigration Office. In 1956 he became a Member of the Indonesian Parliament on behalf of the  (IPKI), and was considered a representative of the foreign minority in Indonesia. As a parliamentarian he repeatedly posed questions to the Sukarno Government, on such issues as the unequal division of national resources and income between the central island of Java and the outlying islands. He was apparently one of the "obstructing parliamentarians" whom Sukarno found annoying and whose activity was among the factors which led the President to replace the Western-type parliamentary system with "guided democracy" in 1959.

Princen's outspoken criticism caused him to be arrested and imprisoned in 1957–58. He spent Sukarno's final years, characterized by increasingly violent power struggles in Indonesia, again serving a prison term 1962–66.

Human rights activism
Having come to strongly oppose Sukarno, Princen initially placed some hopes in Suharto, who overthrew him in the Transition to the New Order following the 1965 attempted coup d'état of the 30 September Movement and whose coming to power had the incidental effect of getting Princen released from prison after four years. The Suharto regime proved both extremely brutal and highly corrupt: "My opinion of Mr. Suharto changed at the moment he started gathering as much money as he could for himself."

In the late 1960s, Princen was a correspondent for Netherlands Radio and several Dutch newspapers. This was directly connected with his work as a human rights activist, in which he was to spend most of his time and energy for the remainder of his life. In 1966 Princen founded and headed Lembaga Pembela Hak-Hak Azasi Manusia (Indonesian Institute for the Defense of Human Rights). It was the first human rights organization in Indonesia, and which handled many high-profile cases during the years of the Suharto dictatorship and provide a reliable alternate source of news to Western journalists in Jakarta. Among the earlier campaigns which Princen conducted was on behalf of the left-wing writer Pramoedya Ananta Toer, imprisoned and tortured by the Suharto regime. At the end of 1969 he published, jointly with the journalist Jopie Lasut, an extensive report on the mass murder of Communist sympathizers at Purwodadi in Middle Java – for which Princen and Lasut were arrested and interrogated.

This was followed in the early 1970s by Princen's prominent role in creating a larger organization, the Indonesian Legal Aid Institute (LBHI), where he met with many other human rights figures including Adnan Buyung Nasution, Frans Winarta, Besar Mertokusumo, Yap Thiam Hien, Victor D. Sibarani, Mochtar Lubis, Albert Hasibuan and members of the younger generation of activists.

The eulogy published after his death by the Indonesian oppositional news and commentary website Laksamana.Net noted that

Prisoner again, labor advocate, political reformer 
As under Sukarno, Princen was jailed several times under Suharto – mainly on charges of organizing illegal political protests. In January 1974, the visit of the Japanese Prime Minister Tanaka Kakuei led to riots in Jakarta. Ostensibly fuelled by resentment of Japanese exploitation of Indonesia's economy, and to start with possibly encouraged tacitly by some Army commanders, this so-called "Malari Affair" escalated and came to express repressed resentment about the growing gap between rich and poor in Indonesian society and the bureaucratic capitalists connected with the regime. Involved as an outspoken human rights activist, Princen was imprisoned, where he spent the next two years (1974–1976).

In early 1990 Princen had a major role in founding the Merdeka Labor Union (Serikat Buruh Merdeka – "Merdeka" means "Independence") – together with Dita Indah Sari, an Indonesian labor activist and Amnesty International Prisoner of Conscience. He conducted extensive correspondence with the International Labour Organization (ILO) regarding the conditions of Indonesian workers. Max White, Princen's friend and coworker, stated that "Poncke believed that 'Labor rights are human rights', he saw no distinction". In the early 1990s, he was a founding member of the Petition of Fifty, a movement for democratic reform which included conservative military figures who had fallen out with Suharto and which for the first time in decades raised a real challenge to his rule. Along with other members of the group including Ali Sadikin and Hoegeng, Princen again found himself persona non-grata with the regime, although he joked to his visitors that by that time he was "too old to put in jail again".