[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Saad el-Shazly

es' actions and lessons learned immediately after the event, and it will be distributed to members of the armed forces to benefit from them in any future similar operations, for example, guidance for securing radars in isolated areas after they raid Israeli on one of the isolated radars in Zafarana,

and began to issue that directive when the Al-Shazly team was reviewing the offensive operation plan to storm the Suez Canal and destroy the Bar Lev Line, and it was found that there are many problems that hinder and affect the planning of the offensive operation. He ordered his formation of a special committee to prepare this directive as a method for the war plan. After completing this directive, it became the detailed plan for crossing the Suez Canal and storming the Barlev line of the armed forces entirely.

In mid-1973, a few months before the war, Al-Shazly team visited the College of Leaders and Staff and began discussion with students from eight in the morning until seven in the evening. The discussion was completed in two days. This guidance included a detailed plan for the transit of forces; Starting with the number of soldiers in each boat and the arming of each soldier and the size of the ammunition he carries either for himself or for the supporting forces, and the matter reached the timing of the entry of transit equipment to the canal area from rubber boats to bridges equipment and method of protection and locations of smoke generators and air defense etc. The guidance focused on every subtle detail and left leaders with only careful execution.

Yom Kippur War (1973) 

The Israeli army previously made a defensive line called Bar Lev Line that was strengthened with several fortresses at the eastern bank of the Suez canal that is separating the Israeli army from the Egyptian one. It also built a sand barrier 17 meters high at the canal shores to refrain any attempt to cross the canal by the Egyptian army.

At 2 pm 6 October 1973, under General Shazly's command, 200 Egyptian aircraft skimmed low over the canal, headed deep into Sinai and struck the Israeli key forces, while 2000 artillery pieces opened heavy bombardment on the Bar-Lev forts and minefields, under which cover engineer reconnaissance teams paddled over to check the outlets for the Israeli inflammable liquid that had been blocked from the night before. The first assault wave of 4000 men crossed the Suez Canal and opened 70 passages through the sand barrier using high pressure water pumps. Waves of infantry followed crossing the Canal and captured most of the strong points and forts of the Ber lev line. On the next day, 7 October, 5 bridges were assembled over the canal, and the armored divisions began to cross the canal into Sinai. On 8 October, the Israeli counter-attack failed to push the Egyptians back, Israel tried again on 9 October but also suffered heavy losses. Israel lost more than 260 tanks in two days.

After that initial victory, Shazly clashed with president Sadat over Sadat's decision to launch a new offensive to advance towards Sinai Passages. General Shazly strongly opposed any eastward advance that would leave Egyptian forces exposed to IAF without adequate air cover. Sadat insisted and ordered the generals to execute the order which aimed at helping the Syrians. On October 14, the offensive was launched but failed with heavy Egyptian losses. This may have contributed to the success of a daring Israeli operation which pushed its way west in between Egypt's second and third armies and crossed from Sinai into mainland Egypt through the Bitter Lakes. Once again president Sadat refused General Shazly's plan to move some of the Egyptian's armored brigades to fight the Israeli troops.

Legacy
After leaving the army, Shazly wrote his account of the 1973 war.

After the 25 of January revolution in 2011 and removal of Mubarak from the Egyptian government, Shazly was honored by putting his name on the Egyptian Military Academy graduates of the year 2013.

He was awarded the Order of the Nile, Egypt's highest award, in October 2012 by President Mohammed Morsi for his conduct during the 1973 war with Israel.

He was also honored by naming a new highway connecting the Cairo ring road to Ismailia desert road that is being built by the armed forces engineers. Aljazeera documentary channel produced a film about his life in 2012–2013.

Notes

Bibliography

 Shazly, Saad. The Arab Military Option, American Mideast Research (1986).
 Shazly, Saad. The Crossing of the Suez, American Mideast Research (1980: .), (2003: Revised ed., ).
 Shazly, Saad. October War (Arabic ed.), American Mideast Research (2004).
 Shazly, Saad. Our Religious Creed Is Our Way to Victory [Aqidatuna ad-Deeniya Tariquna li'l-Nasr], Cairo: Ministry of Defense (1972).

External links
 http://www.El Shazly.com/