[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dublin University (constituency)

ions are by electors in their personal capacity; unlike Dáil elections, there is no provision for nomination by parties. Most of the senators for the constituency have campaigned as Independents, though Mary Robinson and Ivana Bacik took the Labour Party whip for periods of their time in the Seanad.

A number of the senators have a reputation of being quite socially liberal, including Owen Sheehy-Skeffington, Noël Browne, and Catherine McGuinness. Three Senators were later appointed to the Supreme Court: T. C. Kingsmill Moore, Gardner Budd and Catherine McGuinness. Mary Robinson, first elected in 1969, was later elected as President of Ireland in 1990. In 1987, David Norris became the first openly gay member of either house of the Oireachtas. The senators have often included current or recent academics within Trinity College, such as professor of Latin and provost Ernest Alton, professor of Greek William Bedell Stanford, professor of mathematics Trevor West, professor of medicine Mary Henry, Ivana Bacik in law, and David Norris in English.

Elections
From 1832 (when registers of electors were first prepared) a turnout figure is given, for the percentage of the registered electors who voted. If the number of registered electors eligible to take part in a contested election is unknown, then the last known electorate figure is used to calculate an estimated turnout. If the numbers of registered electors and electors taking part in the poll are known, an exact turnout figure is calculated. In two member bloc vote elections (in which an elector could cast one or two votes as he chose), where the exact number of electors participating is unknown, an estimated turnout figure is given. This is calculated by dividing the total number of votes cast by two. To the extent that electors used only one of their votes the estimated turnout figure is an underestimate.

Elections in the 2020s

Elections in the 2010s

In 2011 Karin Dubsky, who was listed on the printed ballot papers, discovered after their distribution that she was not an Irish citizen and thus ineligible, and advised electors not to vote for her. The returning officer ruled that ballots giving her a first preference would be excluded, but ballots giving her a lower preference would be transferred to the next lower preference when relevant.

Elections in the 2000s

Elections in the 1990s

Elections in the 1980s

Elections in the 1970s
Following the resignation of Conor Cruise O'Brien on 13 June 1979.

Elections in the 1960s
Following the death of William Fearon on 27 December 1959.

Elections in the 1940s

Elections in the 1930s

Held on 13 October 1933, following the death of independent TD Sir James Craig.

Elections in the 1920s

|}

Elections in the 1910s

Caused by Samuels' appointment to the High Court of Justice in Ireland.

This was the last UK Parliament election held in the 26 counties which became the Irish Free State.

 Note: The Times edition of 23 December 1918 reported that the Provost of the University, as returning officer, did not announce the figures. It was ascertained that Woods had 1,094 votes when elected. The above is the best reconstruction of the later counts which is possible with the available information.

Caused by Samuels' appointment as Solicitor-General for Ireland.

Caused by Campbell's appointment as Lord Chief Justice of Ireland.

Caused by Campbell's appointment as Attorney-General for Ireland.

Elections in the 1900s

Caused by Lecky's resignation.

Caused by Carson's appointment as Solicitor General for England and Wales.

Elections in the 1890s

Caused by Plunket's succession to the peerage, becoming Baron Rathmore.

Elections in the 1880s

Caused by Madden's appointment as Solicitor-General for Ireland.

Caused by Holmes' appointment as a judge.

Caused by Plunket's appointment as First Commissioner of Works, and Holmes' appointment as Attorney-General for Ireland.

 

Caused by Plunket's appointment as First Commissioner of Works, and Gibson's appointment as Lord Chancellor of Ireland, becoming Baron Ashbourne.

Elections in the 1870s

Caused by Gibson's appointment as Solicitor-General for Ireland.

Caused by Plunket's appointment as Solicitor-General for Ireland.

 
Caused by Ball's appointment as Lord Chancellor of Ireland.

Caused by Ball's appointment as Solicitor-General for Ireland.

Caused by Lefroy's resignation.

Elections in the 1860s

 

Caused by Chatterton's appointment as Vice-Chancellor of Ireland.

Caused by Chatterton's appointment as Attorney-General for Ireland.

Caused by Walsh's appointment as Master of the Rolls in Ireland

Caused by Whiteside's appointment as Lord Chief Justice of Ireland

Elections in the 1850s

Caused by Hamilton's resignation.

Caused by Napier's appointment as Lord Chancellor of Ireland.

 

Caused by Napier's appointment as Attorney-General for Ireland.

Elections in the 1840s

Caused by Shaw's resignation.