[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Toposa people

be readily obtained to carry ivory.
Another route ran from Maji by way of Obawok, North Lafit, Lafon and the Badigeru swamp to the Nile.
The ivory trade brought arms and ammunition from Ethiopia into Toposa territory, and these were used in joint cattle raids with the Swahili on neighbouring people.

The government of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan "pacified" the Toposa territory in 1926/1927. Around the same time, the British East African government established posts in northern Turkanaland to the south. 
With steadily tightening restrictions, by the early 1930s the Toposa were the main remaining traders in ivory in the southern Sudanese lowlands.
The Toposa country remained part of Sudan when that country became independent in 1956.
The First Sudanese Civil War, which lasted from 1955 until 1972, had some impact on the Toposa.
The Second Sudanese Civil War, breaking out in 1983, had a massive impact.

Civil war

During the Second Sudanese Civil War (1983–2005) the Toposa helped the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) at times, and at other times helped the Government of Sudan.
The Toposa took a pragmatic approach, ostensibly siding with whoever gave them the most food and weapons.
The SPLA alternated between violence and a more conciliatory approach to the Toposa. In 1985–1986 the SPLA attacked the civilian population of the Toposa, which it deemed "hostile". From 1987 the SPLA began an attempt to improve relations with the civilians. By 1988 some of the SPLA fighters were Toposa.

The Sudan Armed Forces sought to exploit traditional tensions between the Toposa and the Dinka people, to whom many of the SPLA leaders belonged, by supplying arms and ammunition to the Toposa.
The firearms were used both to protect and increase wealth in animals, and became a symbol of wealth in themselves. During the 1990s the government of Sudan issued at least 50,000 small arms to the Toposa.
In 1992 an AK-47 supplied by the government could be traded for ten cows, or the SPLA would provide G3 rifles in exchange for the AK-47s.
Raids by the now well-armed Toposa on their neighbors, such as the Suri people of Ethiopia, increased drastically.
Internally Displaced People (IDPs) moving through Toposa territory were subject to harassment by Toposa militia or bandits.

Kapoeta, a town in Toposa country, had been captured by the SPLA on 25 February 1988.
The government armed the Toposa so they could fight the SPLA and also fight their traditional rivals the Lotuko people.
In March 1992, Toposa militia staged attacks on relief columns attempting to bring supplies into Kapoeta.
Refugees escaping from Pochalla, which had fallen to the Sudanese government, were attacked by Toposa militia as they made their way to Kapoeta.
On 28 May 1992, the government regained Kapoeta in a surprise attack. The Toposa militia, with their knowledge of the terrain, played a central role.
The evacuated civilians from Kapeota moved south to Narus, and from there over 20,000 went on to Lokichokio in Kenya, including 12,500 unaccompanied minors.

According to Amnesty International, the SPLA started a policy of "deliberate and arbitrary killing of civilians of Toposa ethnicity around Kapoeta ... in retaliation for the involvement of Toposa pro-government militia in the capture of Kapoeta and subsequent attacks on refugees fleeing the town".
By the late 1990s, serious efforts were being made to reduce ethnic tensions.
The Inter-African Bureau for Animal Resources sponsored harmonization workshops and meetings to resolve and prevent conflicts among pastoralist communities such as the Toposa and their neighbors.
The participants in a Didinga-Turkana-Toposa-Nyangatom women's workshop in February 2000 undertook responsibility for discouraging further livestock rustling and raiding between the communities.
The role of women, willing to cross the boundaries and unilaterally initiate peace talks, is without precedent and has been crucial. 
The Catholic Diocese of Torit was active in resolving conflicts among the Toposa, and conflicts between the Toposa, Didinga and Buya, and the Toposa Development Association had been established to promote development and peacebuilding among the Toposa.

Recent events