[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sole (foot)

The sole is the bottom of the foot.

In humans the sole of the foot is anatomically referred to as the plantar aspect.

Structure 

The glabrous skin on the sole of the foot lacks the hair and pigmentation found elsewhere on the body, and it has a high concentration of sweat pores.  The sole contains the thickest layers of skin on the body due to the weight that is continually placed on it. It is crossed by a set of creases that form during the early stages of embryonic development. Like those of the palm, the sweat pores of the sole lack sebaceous glands.

The sole is a sensory organ by which we can perceive the ground while standing and walking.  The subcutaneous tissue in the sole has adapted to deal with the high local compressive forces on the heel and the ball (between the toes and the arch) by developing a system of "pressure chambers."  Each chamber is composed of internal fibrofatty tissue covered by external collagen connective tissue.  The septa (internal walls) of these chambers are permeated by numerous blood vessels, making the sole one of the most vascularized, or blood-enriched, regions in the human body.

The sole and the longitudinal arch of the foot are supported by a thick connective tissue, the plantar fascia. The central component of this tissue extends to the supporting bones and gives two divisions–the medial component and lateral component; thus they define the boundaries of the three muscle compartments of the sole (see below).

The bones underlying the sole form the arch of the foot. The arches might collapse later in life, resulting in flat feet.

Muscles

Intrinsic 

The intrinsic muscles in the sole are grouped in four layers:

In the first layer, the flexor digitorum brevis is the large central muscle located immediately above the plantar aponeurosis.  It flexes the second to fifth toes and is flanked by abductor hallucis and abductor digiti minimi.

In the second layer, the quadratus plantae, located below flexor digitorum brevis, inserts into the tendon of flexor digitorum longus on which the lumbricals originate.

In the third layer, the oblique head of adductor hallucis joins the muscle's transversal head on the lateral side of the big toe.  Medially to adductor hallucis are the two heads of flexor hallucis brevis, deep to the tendon of flexor hallucis longus.  The considerably smaller flexor digiti minimi brevis on the lateral side can be mistaken for one of the interossei.

In the fourth layer. the dorsal and plantar interossei are located between and below the metatarsal bones and act as antagonists.

The central compartment is shared by the lumbricals, quadratus plantae, flexor digitorum brevis, and adductor hallucis; the medial compartment by abductor hallucis, flexor hallucis brevis, abductor digiti minimi, flexor digiti minimi brevis, and opponens digiti minimi (often considered part of the former muscle); whilst the lateral compartment is occupied by extensor digitorum brevis and extensor hallucis brevis.

Extrinsic 
The tendons of several extrinsic foot muscle reach the sole:
 The tendons of the deep foot flexors in the posterior compartment of the leg, tibialis posterior, flexor digitorum longus, and flexor hallucis longus, passes behind the medial malleolus into the sole.
 The tendon of fibularis longus similarly passes behind the lateral malleolus into the sole.

Nerve supply

The soles of the feet are extremely sensitive to touch due to a high concentration of nerve endings, with as many as 200,000 per sole.  This makes them sensitive to surfaces that are walked on, ticklish and some people find them to be erogenous zones.

Medically, the soles are the site of the plantar reflex, the testing of which can be painful due to the sole's sensitivity.

The deep fibular nerve from the common fibular nerve provides the sensory innervation of the skin between the first and second toes and the motor innervation of the muscles of the anterior compartment of the leg and dorsal foot.  Damage to the deep fibular nerve can result in foot drop.

The plantar digital nerves from the medial plantar nerve provide sensory innervation to the skin of the plantar aspect of the toes, except for the medial part of the big toe and the lateral part of the little toe and the motor innervation of the first lumbrical.

The proper plantar nerve from the common plantar digital nerve provides sensory innervation to the plantar surface of the toes as well as the dorsal aspect of the distal interphalangeal phalanges.  It also provides motor innervation to flexor hallucis brevis.