[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# John T. Monroe

ly ill. Mrs. Monroe applied to Butler for the release of her husband, in order that he could be at the bedside of his dying child. Butler sent word that if Monroe would take the oath of allegiance he might come to the city and see his child, but the offer was declined and the child died without him.

The following year, Monroe was released. He went to Mobile and then to Richmond, where he was received by President Davis. Later he fixed his residence in Mobile, where he was taken prisoner by General Edward Canby. After the close of the war Monroe was arrested a third time, with no reason given by the Provost Marshal for his extraordinary proceeding and kept under surveillance for several months.

Second term

After the reorganization of Louisiana, Monroe was reelected Mayor of New Orleans. He took office in March 1866. In March 1867, he was deposed by General Philip Sheridan under the Reconstruction Act of Congress, under the accusation that he had aided in the New Orleans massacre of 1866. In April Monroe visited Washington and was sympathetically received by President Andrew Johnson and Attorney-General Henry Stanbery, who promised his restoration to office and the removal of Sheridan. However, this promise was thwarted by later and more vigorous Reconstruction efforts.

Retirement
Monroe moved to Savannah, where he died on February 24, 1871, at the age of 48. He had been a 33rd degree Mason, and was buried in Savannah with Masonic honors. In 1872 his remains were brought to New Orleans, where they were placed in the family tomb in the Cypress Grove Cemetery, beside the body of his favorite son.

Personal life
Monroe was married to Rebecca Isadora Shepard (born 1826 in New Orleans); they had 9 children.

References

1822 births
1871 deaths
19th-century American politicians
American prisoners and detainees
Mayors of New Orleans
People from Howard County, Missouri
Prisoners and detainees of the United States military