[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Hogle Zoo

s to be comfortable outside during Utah's cold winters. The naturalistic exhibit overlooks the adjacent Grasslands habitat, giving the lions ample enrichment opportunities. The habitat also features a training wall, allowing guests to view daily training demonstrations between keepers and the lions.

Lion Hill debuted with four residents: Vulcan and Baron, brothers from the Montgomery Zoo, and sisters Seyla and Nobu from the Woodland Park Zoo. The four lions were slowly introduced to form what is now Hogle Zoo's current pride. These lions were brought together upon a recommendation by the African Lion Species Survival Plan, a program that works to ensure genetic diversity among North America's lion population within the Association of Zoos and Aquariums. In 2016, the pride became bigger when Nobu gave birth to males Brutus, Titus, and female Calliope on February 24. This litter was only the third time lion cubs had been born in the zoo's history. On May 16, 2016, the cubs made their public debut with their mother alongside their father Baron and fellow pride members Vulcan and Seyla. Brutus and Titus were moved to the Brookfield Zoo on March 17, 2020, as it is typical for male cubs to leave the pride after two years.

The Grasslands
The Grasslands makes up the major footprint of the African Savanna consisting of three yards for hoof stock, and buildings for the animal's overnight housing. When the exhibit opened in 2014, a diversity of birds and ungulates from and eastern and southern Africa roamed together in the habitat. These species included giraffe, Hartmann's mountain zebra, lowland nyala, common ostrich, Egyptian goose, and helmeted guineafowl.

Three two-year-old male lowland nyala arrived at Hogle Zoo in April 2014 prior to the exhibit's opening. Unfortunately, one of them died less than a month after its arrival on May 13, 2014, possibly due to stress. The other two struggled to acclimate to the exhibit. This may possibly be due to the skittish and timid nature of the species. Hoping that adding another male would help the others feel comfortable, another nyala arrived in September 2014. However, the nyala never acclimated and in September 2015 the three males were sent to other zoos. The zoo's two elderly Egyptian geese died not too long after the exhibit's opening. The zoo has never replaced these two species. Common warthogs were added to the Grasslands habitat with the addition of Meerkat Manor in 2019.

The zoo's giraffe herd was moved from their former giraffe yards at the west end of the zoo to the more spacious and naturalistic Grasslands habitat. In the winter, they enjoy a heated paddock near the train station. This allows guests to still view the African-dwelling species during the colder months. Since the opening of the African Savanna, three female giraffe calves have been born including most recently Reyna who was born on September 24, 2022. The zoo's current herd includes females Stephanie, Minka, Reyna, and male Ja-Raffe.

Hogle Zoo has seen great success with its herd of Hartmann's mountain zebra. The species is found in the mountainous steppe region of southwestern Africa. The herd has acclimated well to Utah's climate and can often been seen running through the snow during the winter. Since the exhibit's opening, a total of seven calves have been born at the zoo through the Hartmann's Mountain Zebra Species Survival Plan. These births are significant as the species is listed as vulnerable by the IUCN.

Night quarters for the Grassland's guinea fowl and warthogs reside underneath Twigga Terrace.

Meerkat Manor
This exhibit was added to the east end of the Grasslands habitat in 2019. It just so happened that the additions of meerkats and warthogs to the savanna coincided with Disney's 2019 remake of The Lion King. The exhibit was sponsored by and named after James E. Hogle Jr., a member of the zoo's board of directors for over forty years and part of the family who donated the land of which the zoo still stands on. Sadly, Hogle Jr. died in October 2020. Meerkats were his favorite animals saying at the opening of the exhibit, "They're terrific. They are like little people, they have their own little colonies and families, they are just fun to be around."

Meerkat Manor provided new outdoor and indoor spaces equipped with termite mounds for the zoo's meerkats who moved from the Small Animal Building. They share their space with two crested porcupines.