[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# HMS Torbay (N79)

German vessel opened fire and forced her to break off the action. GA 45 did not drop any further depth charges (perhaps having run out). Torbay managed to escape damage during this encounter.

As the war in the Mediterranean quietened, Torbay was again reassigned, this time to the Pacific Far East.

Far East
Arriving in May 1945, and under the command of Lt. C.P. Norman, Torbay continued to cause losses amongst enemy shipping. She sank two Japanese sailing vessels and a coaster, and damaged a second coaster, before the end of the war.

Post war
Having survived the war, Torbay was sold on 19 December 1945 and scrapped at Briton Ferry, Wales in March 1947.

Raiding career

Torbay attacked and sank the following ships:-
 Twelve Greek sailing vessels, including Sofia and P III
 The Italian sailing vessels Gesu E Maria, Pozzalo, Columbo, Gesu Giuseppe E Maria and Gesu Crocifisso
 The Italian merchants Citta di Tripoli, Ischia, Maddalena G. and Lido
 Seven German sailing vessels, including L XIV, L I, L XII, L V and L VI
 The 
 The sailing vessel Evangelista
 The German army cargo ship Bellona
 The Italian auxiliary patrol vessels R 113 / Avanguardista, V 90/San Girolamo and V 276 / Baicin
 The German auxiliary submarine chaser 13 V 2 / Delpa II
 The Danish merchant Grete
 The French merchant Lillios
 The Italian fishing vessel Madonna di Porto Salvo
 Two unknown sailing vessels
 The small Italian merchants Versilia and Tarquinia
 A Greek fishing vessel
 The German troopship Kari (the former French Ste. Colette, in turn the former Norwegian Kari)
 A German floating dock
 The German troop transport Palma (the former Italian Polcevera)
 The Spanish merchant Juan de Astigarraga and the French merchant Oasis (Both ships were under German control)
 The Italian ship Aderno (the former British Ardeola)

Torbay also damaged the following ships:-
 The Vichy French tanker Alberta
 The Italian oiler Strombo
 The German merchant Norburg. The damaged ship settled on the bottom of Iraklion harbour but was later salvaged.
 The Italian destroyer . Aviere was already grounded after being damaged on 19 November 1941 by the Polish submarine .
 The Italian auxiliary minesweeper Monte Argentario
 The Italian merchant (in German service) Sebastiano Veniero.
 The Italian merchant (in German service) Trapani. Trapani was further damaged that night by the British escort destroyer  and the Greek escort destroyer . The wreck of Trapani was finally destroyed off Kalymnos, Greece the following night by the British destroyers  and .
 An unknown sailing vessel

See also
 and  for other submarines alleged to be involved in war crimes.

Citations

References

External links

 HMS Torbay, Uboat.net

 

1940 ships
British T-class submarines of the Royal Navy
Ships built in Chatham
World War II submarines of the United Kingdom