[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Pablo Kleinman

Pablo Kleinman (born 1971) is an Argentine-born American entrepreneur and talk show host who was one of the initiators of the development of online services in Latin America. Until January 6, 2021, he was the host of Radio California Libre (Radio Free California), produced by Univision's Los Angeles flagship talk radio KTNQ. He is Chief Operating Officer at Voz Media, a Dallas-based U.S. Hispanic media company.

He graduated from the USC School of International Relations (USC, Los Angeles) and went on to study at the London Business School and at the HEC School of Management in Paris, where he obtained an MBA. He was a Republican Party official in California and ran for in Congress in 2014 in the old 30th congressional district, which then encompassed a majority of the San Fernando Valley.

Early life 
Kleinman was born in Argentina into a family of Polish-Jewish origin. He attended elementary school in Buenos Aires and finished the first year at the Colegio Nacional de Buenos Aires before he immigrated to the United States at age 13, settling in Los Angeles with his parents and siblings. Previously his great-grandmother had arrived in the United States via Ellis Island in the 1930s, and his extended family has kept a permanent presence in Southern California since the 1940s. Since 2017 he has resided in Miami with his wife and children.

Technology 

In 1986, at age 15, Kleinman set up an electronic bulletin board system (BBS) in Buenos Aires called "TCC: The Computer Connection" which was one of the first in the region and the first to run under a Microsoft-designed platform. A year later, TCC became FidoCenter, the first node of the worldwide FidoNet network in Latin America. Kleinman was the coordinator of FidoNet for the whole of Latin America (FidoNet's Zone 4) between 1987 and 1991. During that period, FidoNet became the largest public-access computer network in the region. It grew throughout the different countries in the region and reached several hundreds of access points in dozens of Latin American cities. He was also the author of WorldPol, a policy proposal that was published originally in 1991 and constituted the first democratic organization proposal in cyberspace.

Many of the original participants of FidoNet in Latin America became the pioneers of the Internet in the following years. Kleinman was an active participant of the first Spanish-language newsgroups and was one of the founders of several of the Usenet groups dedicated to Latin American countries. Shortly after and during the following ten years, he participated in the founding of several online services companies, among them, Urbita Network, a series of travel and local-information online websites and apps with several million active users.

Journalism and media 
Kleinman began working as a journalist in 1989 as Latin American correspondent for Billboard magazine, its first to cover the region.

In 2004, he founded and became editor-in-chief of Diario de América, the oldest political-opinion journal edited in Spanish in the United States. Around the same time, he became a syndicated writer, with columns regularly published in newspapers throughout Latin America and Spain, such as Chile's El Mercurio and La Nación, Panama's Panamá América and La Prensa, Nicaragua's La Prensa, Peru's El Comercio, Paraguay's Diario ABC Color, Venezuela's Diario 2001, Uruguay's El País, Costa Rica's La Nación, among others, as well as in the United States and the Middle East. Kleinman is also a frequent commentator on a few Spanish-language current affairs television programs, including the nighttime news on the Telemundo Network's Los Angeles station. He has also been featured on English-language television newscasts in the U.S. and Canada, usually talking about Latin American issues.

In April 2013, Kleinman became publisher of El Medio, the first Spanish-language political opinion journal about the Middle East. The magazine became known for espousing a pro-Western editorial line, something uncommon among most Spanish-language publications. It features points of view generally favorable to the United States, to Israel, and to supporters of liberal democracy throughout the Middle East.

Kleinman regularly guest hosted the daily current affairs show, initially just on Los Angeles's KTNQ and later also on Univision's nationwide talk radio network, Univision America, between 2009 and 2014. He later hosted the conservative Radio California Libre (Radio Free California) program on KTNQ from late 2019 until it was cancelled in January 2021 shortly after the 2021 United States Capitol attack.

Political career