[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China

. However, the Ministry was increasingly factionalized, especially between the "Lord Qiao", associates of Qiao Guanhua, and "young girl", referring to Mao's close associates Wang Hairong and Tang Wensheng, factions. Chen Yi died on 6 January 1972, and was succeeded by Ji Pengfei as foreign minister.

Deng era 
After Mao's death and the fall of the Gang of Four in 1976, Qiao was purged and succeeded by Huang Hua. After Deng Xiaoping's rise to power, diplomatic missions abroad were instructed to focus on Four Modernizations campaign.

In 1982, Hu Yaobang, then leader of the CCP, called a meeting with senior diplomats to demand the "rectification" of the Ministry, focusing on making it less ideological. The Ministry was also reformed to improve professionalism and efficiency; the number of vice ministers was reduced from ten to six in 1982, and diplomats below the rank of vice minister were automatically retired after they older than the age of sixty since 1983. Professional diplomats were preferred over and increasingly replaced the old military veterans. Wages were also reformed, rewarding those with higher ranks and boosting incomes of diplomats abroad. Wage and bureaucratic reforms continued during the 1990s, with many diplomatic missions cutting staff and starting to employ locals. Job descriptions were also clarified, and the promotion system standardized.

21st century 
As China's engagement with the world increased, the ministry established the Department of External Security Affairs in 2004, with its function being protecting citizens abroad. It furthermore established the Center for Consular Protection in 2007. China's rising stature also meant that the ministry worked together and sometimes competed with other institutions while conducting diplomacy, including the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Public Security, and various state-owned enterprises.

In October 2022, it was reported that the MFA asked consular missions in Hong Kong about their floor plans, lease details, and staff residences, and also asked to inspect new premises before staff enter them.

In September 2023, the United States Department of State accused the MFA of information laundering by using a fictitious opinion columnist named "Yi Fan" to present state narratives as "organic sentiment."

Organization 
The ministry is headed by the minister of foreign affairs, who is appointed by the National People's Congress or its Standing Committee after a nomination by the premier. The ministry leads the work of diplomatic missions of China abroad, the largest in the world  with 275 diplomatic posts. More specifically, it includes 171 embassies, 94 consulates, 8 permanent missions and 2 other representations.

Departments 
The ministry consists of 29 individual offices, including departments responsible for specific regions, policy areas, as well as administration of the Ministry itself. Each office is headed by a director-general with at least two deputy directors-general. The offices are: