[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Theodore K. Lawless

stor and businessman, he became a multi-millionaire, and had a remarkable business career. Lawless was director of both the Supreme Life Insurance Company and Marina City Bank. He was also a charter member, associate founder, and  President of Service Federal Savings and Loan Association in Chicago.

Philanthropy
Most of his philanthropy involved starting a number of dermatology programs in Israel. Lawless donated $160,000 ($ in current dollar terms) in 1957 to, spearheaded a Chicago fundraising drive for, and established the 35-bed Lawless Department of Dermatology in Beilinson Hospital (later known as the Rabin Medical Center), near Tel Aviv, Israel. He also created the T. K. Lawless Student Summer Camp Program for Talented Children for the scientific training for Israeli children at the Weizmann Institute of Science, in Rehovot, Israel; the Lawless Clinical and Research Laboratory in Dermatology of the Hebrew Medical School in Jerusalem, Israel. He became well acquainted with Chaim Weizmann, Israel's first president. He thus repaid support received from Jewish doctors in obtaining his appointment to his position at the University of Paris.  In 1969 he said: "I'm simply trying to repay a debt of gratitude." He explained his philanthropy for Israel and Jewish causes by pointing out that when he was a child in New Orleans, a Jewish peddler there was always kind to his family, a Jewish professor (Maurice Lenz) had helped him at Columbia University, and he also recalled another Jewish friend. In the 1960s, he worked for the Israel Bonds drive and purchased a large number of the bonds. In December 1967, on his fifth trip to Israel he made a donation establishing a fund to repair and restore ancient Biblical archeological discoveries at the Israel Museum in Jerusalem, his fifth project in Israel.

Lawless also supported Roosevelt University's Chemical Laboratory and Lecture Auditorium, in Chicago, and Lawless Memorial Chapel at Dillard University, in New Orleans. In 1959, he was elected president of the Dillard University Board of Trustees.  In 1967, ground was first broken for the Theodore K. Lawless Gardens, in his honor and of which he was a principal, a 13-acre 514-unit middle-income housing project at 35th and Rhodes Avenue on Chicago's South Side. He also served as chairman of the board of trustees of Talladega College, chairman of the American Missionary Association and Division of Higher Education of the Congregational and Christian Church, and director of Youth Services of the B'nai B'rith Foundation.

He died in Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago at age 78 on May 1, 1971. Lawless left $150,000 ($ in current dollar terms) of his $1.25 million ($ in current dollar terms) estate to the American Committee of the Weizmann Institute, a New York research institution.

Honors
Lawless won the Harmon Award in Science for outstanding work in medicine in 1929.

In 1954, Lawless won and became the 39th recipient of the NAACP Spingarn Medal, presented annually to a Black American of distinguished achievement, for his contributions as a "physician, educator and philanthropist". In 1963 he received Roosevelt University's second annual Daniel H. Burnham Award.  Phi Beta Kappa honored him with its Distinguished Service Award in 1966 for "acts of charity and medical service". In 1967 he received University of Kansas Distinguished Service Citation, and the City of Hope Golden Torch Award.  In 1970 he received the Beatrice Caffrey Youth Service Merit Award.

He also received the Citation of the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel, and the Greater Chicago Churchman Layman-of-the-Year Citation.

Lawless received honorary degrees from Talldega (D.Sc.), Howard University (D.Sc.), Bethune-Cookman College (LL.D.), the University of Illinois (LL.D.), and Virginia State University (LL.D.).

He was also honored by having a county park in Cass County near Vandalia, Michigan named after him (Dr. T.K. Lawless Park).  The park features a range of outdoor activities, including a 10-mile mountain bike trail, shelters, softball fields, and soccer fields.

A portrait of Lawless painted by Betsy Graves Reyneau is in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution at the National Portrait Gallery. It was originally collected by the Harmon Foundation as part of a project to document noteworthy African Americans.

References
Smith, Jessie Carney (Editor). Notable Black American Men. pp 700 –702. Gale Research Incorporated. Detroit, Michigan. 1999.

External links
"Hemangiosarcoma of the Skin", Archives of Dermatology and Syphilology, American Medical Association, Arthur M. Greenwood and Theodore K. Lawless, 1922