[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of coups and coup attempts

te the heir apparent and Crown Prince Tafari Makonnen; the coup d'état ended in failure.

1929
1929 Tuvan coup d'état in the Tuvan People's Republic: Five Tuvan youths supported by the Soviet Union successfully overthrew the government, and one of them, Salchak Toka, became supreme ruler.

1930–1939

1930
Gugsa Wale's rebellion in Ethiopia: An uprising by Ras Gugsa Wale against King Tafari Makonnen (later Emperor Haile Selassie I) was put down decisively at the Battle of Anchem by the Minister of War, Ras Mulugeta Yeggazu.
Bolivia: General Carlos Blanco Galindo overthrew the ministerial cabinet, which had been operating as the Bolivian executive power since the resignation of Hernando Siles Reyes the month prior.
Dominican Republic: Rafael Leónidas Trujillo declared martial law, deposing Horacio Vásquez after a devastating hurricane.
1930 Argentine coup d'état: General José Félix Uriburu overthrew President Hipólito Yrigoyen.
Brazilian Revolution of 1930: An armed revolution culminated in a coup d'état which ousted President Washington Luís and established the Brazilian military junta of 1930.
Peru: Luis Miguel Sánchez Cerro overthrew Augusto B. Leguía y Salcedo.

1931
March Incident in Japan: The radical, ultranationalist Sakurakai secret society attempted to start large-scale riots in Tokyo, which instigators hoped would lead to martial law and then a coup d'état by the Imperial Japanese Army. Two attempts to start riots failed, and the leaders of the plot were arrested.
October incident in Japan: The Sakurakai again plotted a coup, this time to be instigated by assassinations of key statesmen and officials. The plot was foiled by some of the plotters abandoning the effort, and leaks that reached the War Minister of Japan.
1931 Salvadoran coup d'état: On 2 December, Arturo Araujo was overthrown by Maximiliano Hernández Martínez.

1932

Preußenschlag in the Free State of Prussia in the Weimar Republic: Chancellor Franz von Papen successfully took over the Free State of Prussia, the largest constituent state of the Weimar Republic, by using an emergency decree issued by President Paul von Hindenburg.
Mäntsälä Rebellion in Finland: An attempted coup by the Lapua Movement failed. According to some contemporaries, if the coup had been successful, then Vihtori Kosola, the leader of the movement, would have become a fascist dictator of Finland.
15 May Incident in Japan: Reactionary elements of the Imperial Japanese Navy successfully assassinated Prime Minister Inukai Tsuyoshi, but the coup was otherwise unsuccessful.
Siamese coup d'état of 1932: A bloodless transition occurred, marking the change from the absolute monarchy of Siam to a constitutional monarchy, the introduction of democracy and the first constitution of Thailand, and the creation of the National Assembly of Thailand.
Chile: A coup headed by the Chilean military deposed President Juan Esteban Montero and created the Socialist Republic of Chile. After twelve days, other army officers headed a counter-coup and ended the Socialist Republic, and the new provisional president, Abraham Oyanedel, restored democracy.
Spain: José Sanjurjo failed to overthrow Manuel Azaña.
 1932 Colonial Building riot in St. John's, Newfoundland: On 5 April 1932, prompted by the Great Depression and corruption in the Squires administration, a peaceful protest degenerated into riots and violence. The riots led to the fall of the Squires government and the defeat of Squires's Liberal Party.

1933
Uruguay: The president of Uruguay, Gabriel Terra, dissolved Parliament and headed a coup.
Sergeants' Revolt in Cuba: Fulgencio Batista ousted Carlos Manuel de Céspedes y Quesada.
Business Plot (also called the Wall Street Putsch or the White House Putsch) in the United States: Retired Marine Corps Major General Smedley Butler asserted that wealthy businessmen were plotting to create a fascist veterans' organization with Butler as its leader and use it in a coup d'état to overthrow Roosevelt. While historians have questioned whether or not a coup was actually close to execution, most agree that some sort of "wild scheme" was contemplated and discussed.
1933 Siamese coup d'état: Colonel Phraya Phahol Pholphayuhasena led a peaceful coup against Premier Phraya Manopakorn Nititada