[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hello Kitty murder case

candle wax and hot plastic so that she was unable to walk, she was forced to consume human feces and urine, and she was forced to smile and say she enjoyed the beatings; if she refused, they subjected her to even harsher torture. This treatment eventually led to traumatic shock and ultimately death.

Fan succumbed to her wounds between April 14 or April 15, 1999. Some sources claim that she died while her captors were out, while others say she died overnight. Upon discovery of Fan's body, her captors dismembered and boiled the remains; her skull was sewed inside of a Hello Kitty doll filled with dead insects while the rest of the body was discarded. Only her skull, one tooth, and some internal organs were recovered in a plastic bag, after Lau led the Yau Ma Tei police to the scene on May 24. Three police officers, Chiu Ka-hsue, Sin Tim-wah and Andrew Yip Yan-ling, all from the Yau Ma Tei Police Division No. 539, were the first officers who arrived at the scene. Other parts were recovered from trash dumps in Sham Shui Po, Wan Chai and Tai Kok Tsui. At the time of the arrest, Chan was living with his wife Ah Pui (real name Tse Pui-ling, ) and his newborn baby at an apartment in the Shek Ning section of Shek Lei Estate. The apartment was raided by SWAT officers on the early morning hours of May 28. Tse was first suspected to be involved in the murder, but was quickly released after no evidence was found. After finding out the murder made it to the media via a Macau-based local newspaper, Leung Wai-lun fled to mainland China (Guangxi) before getting caught by the police on February 14, 2000, after irregularities were found in his passport. Prior to the arrest, Leung was put on Interpol's most wanted list. He was sent back to Hong Kong on February 17 for trial.

Fan's skull was identified on June 3, after a "photo overlapping method" at Lockhart Mortuary, and the skull was moved to Kowloon Public Mortuary after the trial.

Trial
On December 7, 2000, after a trial which started on October 20, the three men were convicted of manslaughter with a vote of 6:3, as the eight-man and one-woman jury ruled the remains were not sufficient to show whether Fan was murdered or died from a drug overdose. While the jury could not rule that the men intended to kill Fan, they did determine that she had died as a result of their abuse. Lau testified at the trial in exchange for immunity. During the trial, Chan and Leung Shing-cho denied killing Fan, although they did not deny dismembering her body. Chan's wife Tse Pui-ling, Fan's husband Ng Chi-yuen and Fan's aunt also testified in court. After the guilty verdict, Leung Wai-lun's sister reportedly experienced a mental breakdown, while Leung's brother slammed and broke the court door, causing damage.

Justice Peter Nguyen, who sentenced the trio to
life in prison with the possibility of parole, stated, "Never in Hong Kong in recent years has a court heard of such cruelty, depravity, callousness, brutality, violence, and viciousness." Psychiatric reports of Castle Peak Hospital and Siu Lam Hospital described the three as "remorseless". There would be no review for parole for twenty years, i.e. until 2020. Chan Man-lok and Leung Wai-lun are currently serving their life sentences in Stanley Prison.

Former TVB reporters Carmen Luk and Mimi Yeung attended the trial, with Luk describing the court scene as "crazy and scary".

Chan lost his appeal on 13 August 2007, by the request of the court.

Aftermath
Fan's skull was the only exhibit in the case. After the trial, it was kept by the forensic pathologist in the Kowloon Public Mortuary until the appeal process of the prisoners was completed, and her birth family was notified in March 2004 that the skull would be returned and cremated on March 26. 

The apartment building in which the crime took place was demolished in September 2012 and has been rebuilt as a hotel named Soravit in 2016. Three buddha portraits were placed in the hotel as a memorial.

A necklace that belonged to Fan was handed over to Fan's son after it was discovered in the refrigerator during the investigation. It is rumored that Fan's son and husband now reside in Singapore.

The publicity around the case resulted in the production and release of films that told the story. Both Human Pork Chop (烹屍之喪盡天良) and There is a Secret in my Soup were released in 2001.

Leung Shing-cho, who managed to reduce his sentence from life to eighteen years on appeal in March 2004, was released in April 2014. Eight years later, Leung was arrested and sentenced to jail once again for twelve months in August 2022 for sexually assaulting a ten-year-old girl.

See also
Eight Immortals Restaurant murders
Murder of Junko Furuta 
Murder of Abby Choi

References

Notes

External links

 Trio sentenced to life in jail for gruesome killing in H.K – Asian Economic News, 11 December 2000