[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 102]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

is rank or importance, he will plainly prove,
by the courtesy and benevolence of his manners, that he laments the
necessity of his own elevation, and, instead of wishing to mount still
higher, would willingly descend nearer to an equality with his
fellow-creatures.

Tommy was very much diverted with the ceremonies of this festal day. He
had lost a great part of his West Indian pride during his residence with
Mr Barlow, and had contracted many acquaintances among the families of
the poor. After the example of Mr Barlow, he condescended to go about
from one to the other, and make inquiries about their families; nor was
he a little gratified with the extreme respect with which he found
himself treated, both on the account of Mr Barlow and the reputation of
his own liberality.

Thus did the morning pass away in the most agreeable and auspicious
manner; but after dinner an unexpected incident occurred, which clouded
all the merriment of the unfortunate Tommy Merton.

Mr Barlow happened to have a large Newfoundland dog, equally famous for
his good-nature and his love of the water. With this dog Tommy had been
long forming an acquaintance, and he used to divert himself with
throwing sticks into the water, which Cæsar would instantly bring out in
his mouth, however great might be the distance. Tommy had been fired
with the description of the Kamtschatkan dogs, and their method of
drawing sledges, and meditated an enterprise of this nature on Cæsar.
This very day, finding himself unusually at leisure, he chose for the
execution of his project. He therefore furnished himself with some rope
and a kitchen chair, which he destined for his vehicle instead of a
sledge. He then inveigled Cæsar into a large yard behind the house, and,
extending the chair flat upon the ground, fastened him to it with great
care and ingenuity. Cæsar, who did not understand the new purpose to
which he was going to be applied, suffered himself to be harnessed
without opposition, and Tommy mounted triumphantly his seat, with a whip
in his hand, and began his operations. A crowd of little boys, the sons
of the labourers within, now gathered round the young gentleman, and by
their admiration very much increased his ardour to distinguish himself.
Tommy began to use the common expressions which he had heard coachmen
practise to their horses, and smacked his whip with all the confidence
of an experienced charioteer. Cæsar, meanwhile, who did not comprehend
this language, began to be a little impatient, and expressed his
uneasiness by making several bounds and rearing up like a restive horse.
This added very much to the diversion of the spectators, and Tommy, who
considered his honour as materially concerned in achieving the
adventure, began to be a little more warm; and proceeding from one
experiment to another, at length applied a pretty severe lash to the
hinderpart of his steed. This Cæsar resented so much that he instantly
set off at three-quarters speed, and dragged the chair with the driver
upon it at a prodigious rate. Tommy now looked round with an infinite
air of triumph, and kept his seat with surprising address and firmness.

Unfortunately there happened to be, at no great distance, a large
horse-pond, which went shelving down to the depth of three or four feet.
Hither, by a kind of natural instinct, the affrighted Cæsar ran, when he
found he could not disengage himself from his tormentor; while Tommy,
who now began to repent of his success, endeavoured to pacify and
restrain him. But all his expostulations were vain, for Cæsar
precipitately rushed into the pond, and in an instant plunged into the
middle with his charioteer behind him. The crowd of spectators had now a
fresh subject of diversion, and all their respect for Master Tommy could
not hinder them from bursting into shouts of derision. The unfortunate
hero was equally discomposed at the unmannerly exultation of his
attendants, and at his own ticklish situation. But he did not long wait
for the catastrophe of his adventure; for, after a little floundering in
the pond, Cæsar, by a vigorous exertion, overturned the chair, and Tommy
came roughly into the water. To add to his misfortune, the pond was at
that time neither ice nor water; for a sudden thaw had commenced the day
before, accompanied by a copious fall of snow. Tommy, therefore, as soon
as he had recovered his footing, floundered on through mud and water and
pieces of floating ice, like some amphibious animal to the shore;
sometimes his feet slipped, and down he tumbled, and then he struggled
up again, shaking the water from his hair and clothes. Now his feet
stuck fast in the mud, and now, by a desperate effort, he disengaged
himself with the loss of both his shoes; thus labouring on, with
infinite pain and difficulty he reached the land. The whole troop of
spectators were now incapable of stifling their laughter, which broke
forth in such redoubled