[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Point Pleasant High School (West Virginia)

School is closely linked with the life of the city and county.  This s shown in a number of ways – perhaps most through the giving of prizes.  The Joseph Friedman Memorial prize of $50, the Kiwanis prize of $25 and the alumni prize of $25 are given outstanding students in the high school each year.

The list of principals and superintendents of Point Pleasant High School shows that a very fine group of men and women have headed the school system.  There have been many excellent Boards of Education and fine teachers who are training have shaped the lives of Mason County for generations.  Two of the people who have been outstanding in shaping the policy of the school are Miss Mary McCulloch and Mr. Peter H. Steenbergen. Miss McCulloch has been head of the English department for 30 years and Mr. Steenbergen has served the school for 25 years – 12 of which he served as President of the Board of Education, 5 years of superintendent, 6 years as principal of the high school and 2 years as a teacher.

July 1, 1933 the Independent District of Point Pleasant was abolished along with all other independent districts in the state.  The Independent District had been in existence from 1887 to July 1, 1933 – a period of 46 years.  The county became the unit of school administration.  A county Board of Education, which selects a county superintendent and teachers, is elected by the people.  The first Board under the new system was selected by the State Superintendent of Schools.  Under the wise guidance of the first county Board of Education, L.C. Somerville, President, Fred C. Lewis, Emory Fry, Dr. C.V. Petty, and J. Fremont Miller (Mr. J.H. Caudill filled the vacancy caused by the death of Mr. Lewis) Point Pleasant High School seems to be firmly launched on a great period of growth.  During the school year of 1934-35 three hundred eighty-two students were enrolled in the high school.  There were thirteen teachers in the faculty, with Mr. Peter H. Steenbergen serving as a most efficient principal.  Five buses came in from the country bringing many rural students who would not, otherwise, be able to secure a high school education.  Ten teachers have AB or BS degrees and three teachers have AM degrees.  Students secure admission to West Point and the leading universities of the country without further examination.  Point Pleasant has had membership in the North Central Association of high schools and colleges since 1926.

When the present high school building was first occupied in 1916 the total enrollment was 75 students.  The enrollment for 1934-35 was 382 students, an increase of 41%.  The enrollment for 1935-36 promises to be much larger.  The crowded conditions make it absolutely necessary to have more room if the high school continues to grow in size and efficiency.

Bibliography   
Charles Henry Ambler—A History of West Virginia

J.C. Clarborne—Point Pleasant and Mason County

Phil Conley—West Virginia Yesterday and Today

H.H. Hardesty—History of Mason County

John P. Hale—Trans-Allegheny  Pioneers

Virgil A. Lewis—History and Government of West Virginia

Peter H. Steenbergen—Point Pleasant Independent School District (1887–1933)

Bertha Steinbach and Mary McCulloch—History of Point Pleasant High School, 1907

Work of 1935 Senior Class, under the direction of Miss Leta Ball, head of the History Department.

Administration and Faculty

The principal of Point Pleasant High School is William Cottrill.  The assistant principals are Kent Price, James Higginbotham, Chris O'Dell and Rachel Law.  The guidance counselors are Charla Martin, Tiffany Hersman and Diane Foreman. The following table lists the faculty at Point Pleasant High School

Athletics 

Point Pleasant High School offers many different types of athletics such as baseball, boys and girls basketball, football, golf, boys and girls soccer, softball, boys and girls tennis, boys and girls track and field, and wrestling. Point Pleasant is the smallest Class AAA school in the state of West Virginia.  The school's athletes are formally known as the Black Knights (members of the girls' teams are called the Lady Knights), but they are better known by their nickname, the Big Blacks.

Baseball

In 1972, the Point Pleasant High School baseball team made it to the state tournament, losing in the first round to Parkersburg High by a score of 4-0.  The Big Blacks waited 35 seasons before making it back to the state tourney, finally doing so in 2007 under the guidance of head coach James Higginbotham.  They also lost in the first round that year to Grafton High School by a score of 4-3.  In the 2008 season, despite a mediocre overall record of 19-16, the Big Blacks fought their way all the way to the state championship game against Logan High School.  However, they would lose the game, 13-3.

Basketball