[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chen Ding-nan

mayor of Tainan, Lai noted that he saw Chen as the embodiment of integer and diligent government. The media noted that Lai has often said that his political career is greatly influenced by Chen and that he has literally pledged to carry on 'the spirit of Chen Ding-nan' in his own governance.

Death

After the race for the 2005 Yilan County magistrate elections, Chen's health quickly worsened, suffering a constant fever. In April 2006 he was diagnosed with late stage lung adenocarcinoma, a type of lung cancer, after which he was hospitalized multiple times. After two treatments of chemotherapy, doctors stopped the treatment, resorting to an organic diet and Qigong. On 19 October 2006 he was admitted to the hospital with fluid in his lungs and on 6 November 2006, aged 63, he died due to cancer-related causes in the National Taiwan University Hospital.

Chen left instructions asking for no shrine with his portrait to be arranged and no wake to be held for him. Also, he left instructions that his body must be cremated within 72 hours (3 days), and to sprinkle part of his ashes into the Yilan lands and some placed beside his family graveyard. Eventually, due to legal restrictions and the offer from Yilan County Government on making a special project for tree burial that did not match Chen's personality, his ashes were fully buried in his family graveyard in Yilan.

Commemoration

After Chen's death, the 'Chen Ding-nan Educational Foundation' () was established and an attempt was made to establish funds for the construction of a memorial park near his former residence in Sanxing Township. On Saturday 5 November 2011, marking five years since Chen's death, such a park opened under attendance of Taiwan Solidarity Union Chairman Huang Kun-huei, amongst others, receiving the name of 'Chen Ding-nan Memorial Hall' ().

The memorial, to which the admission is free of charge, preserved the house of his birth and new structures were added by architect Huang Chien-hsing (), while the landscape was designed by Toshiya Ishimura. Its exhibition hall documents Chen's life and features an artwork depicting Chen's portrait by artist Wang Chun-lung ().

References

External links 

 Chen Ding-nan Educational Foundation (陳定南教育基金會)
 
 
 {in Taiwanese Hokkien and Taiwanese Mandarin} with optional subtitles in English or in traditional Chinese characters
 Chen Ding-nan (清廉耿介．陳定南)  at China Times. 
  

|-

1943 births
2006 deaths
Deaths from lung cancer in Taiwan
Members of the 1st Legislative Yuan in Taiwan
Democratic Progressive Party Members of the Legislative Yuan
National Taiwan University alumni
Members of the 2nd Legislative Yuan
Members of the 3rd Legislative Yuan
Members of the 4th Legislative Yuan
Members of the 5th Legislative Yuan
Yilan County Members of the Legislative Yuan
Taiwanese Ministers of Justice
Magistrates of Yilan County, Taiwan
Taiwanese anti–nuclear power activists