[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rugby union in Romania

f national achievement and therefore the subject of careful nurturing. Yet, is the risk of the double standard, so evident in the athletic arena, permeating the East Europeans' approach to rugby so great as to justify the exclusion of the Communist world indefinitely from regular rugby competition?"

"Much to everyone's surprise, Eastern Bloc countries are among the game's vigorous participants, seemingly oblivious to rugby's capitalist class-ridden origins. Russia emerged from behind the Iron Curtain and came under international scrutiny when they played France in Toulouse in November 1978. Romania, Poland and Czechoslovakia are members of the Federation Internationale de Rugby Amateur, the governing body for those countries not in the IB."

Post-Communism
After the fall of Communism in 1989, Romanian rugby union suffered a dramatic financial shortfall.  In 1995 the first ever Heineken Cup match took place in Romania with Toulouse taking on Farul Constanţa.

Romania first got regular international competition when they joined the newly formed European Nations Cup in 2000. As an indication of the decline in standard of the sport in Romania, the national team was defeated 134-0 by England in 2001 and Dinamo Bucharest lost 151-0 to Saracens in the European Rugby Shield.

București Rugby was formed to represent Romania in European club competitions in 2004. In recent years they have achieved respectable results, including a win in 2010 against an Italian super 10 side.

Governing body
Rugby union in Romania is administered by the Romanian Rugby Federation (FRR), which was founded on 1st December 1912 as Federațiunea Societăților de Sport din România (FSSR).

National team

The Romania national rugby union team, nicknamed The Oaks, has long been considered one of the stronger European teams outside the Six Nations tournament. It often takes part the Rugby World Cup, which is hosted every four years.

Romania plays every year in the Rugby Europe Championship, a competition for second and third-tier European nations and have won the competition on three occasions (under the current format) in the 2000, 2001–2002 and 2005–2006 seasons.

The Antim Cup is contested between Romania and Georgia. The cup is contested each time Georgia and Romania meet in a senior international match other than World Cup matches. Romania has won the cup on six occasions in 2002, 2003, 2004, 2006, 2010 and in 2017.

Romania has played at every World Cup so far, except for the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan as it was disqualified and won at least one game at each World Cup, except for the 1995 and 2011 world cups where they lost all of its games.

Domestic championship

The CEC Bank SuperLiga, which has been contested since 2010 in its current format, is the main domestic championship of Romania which has actually been contested by many teams across Romania since 1914. During the communism-period in Romania, the Romanian Rugby Championship had been dominated by Steaua București and Dinamo București, although in recent years, the Championship has actually been dominated by Știința Baia Mare and Rugby Timișoara.

Domestic cup

The Cupa României, which has been contested since 1914, is the main domestic cup in Romania that has also been contested by many teams across Romania along with the Romanian Rugby Championship. Like the Romanian championship, the Romanian cup had been dominated by Steaua București and Dinamo București, however recently, the Cup has been dominated by Știința Baia Mare and Rugby Timișoara. In the present, only teams in the CEC Bank SuperLiga can compete in the Romanian Cup since the gap between those teams and the ones in the Divizia Națională de Seniori, Romania`s second-tier domestic championship, is ever-increasing.

European club tournaments
In 1995, the first ever Heineken Cup match took place in Romania when Toulouse took on RCJ Farul Constanța. Since the inaugural season, Romanian teams have not taken part in the Heineken Cup.

Instead of playing in the Heineken Cup, Romanian teams had qualified and took part in the European Challenge Cup nearly every single season since its inception apart from the 2000−01, 2003−04 seasons and 2004−05 seasons. where București Wolves took part in the competition, as an alternative to the team that would win the Romanian Rugby Championship.

București Wolves was a team that was formed by the FRR as an alternative to the team that would win the Romanian Rugby Championship to play in European competitions, due to the decreasing levels of competitiveness from the Romanian teams in the Challenge Cup, and would consist of rugby union players playing in the domestic Romanian championship. They played in the European Shield in 2004−05, and have played in every single Challenge Cup between 2005 and 2014, when the team was ultimately dissolved in favour for the champions of Romania to represent Romania in European competitions instead.