[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Faso

was challenged by Democrat Antonio Delgado. According to the Poughkeepsie Journal, the race was  "considered one of the more closely watched in the nation as Faso seeks a second term in a moderate Hudson Valley district that stretches from Dutchess County and into the Albany area and Southern Tier."

During the campaign, the National Republican Congressional Committee ran an advertisement criticizing Delgado for his previous career as a rapper. Faso called some of Delgado's rap lyrics "very troubling and offensive", saying they "paint an ugly and false picture of America." The then-candidate, who was seeking to become the first nonwhite person to represent New York's 19th district, has said the criticism of his rap lyrics is an attempt to "otherize" him. The ad against Delgado stirred controversy, with The New York Times editorial board criticizing Faso for what they termed a "cynical campaign of race-baiting".

On November 6, 2018, Delgado defeated Faso 147,873 votes to 132,873.

Political positions 

As of August 2018, Faso had voted with his party in 87.7% of votes in the 115th United States Congress and voted in line with President Trump's position in 90% of votes.

Faso was a member of the moderate Republican Main Street Partnership and the Climate Solutions Caucus. In the 115th United States Congress, Faso was ranked the 18th most bipartisan Representative in the House by the Bipartisan Index, a metric created by The Lugar Center and Georgetown's McCourt School of Public Policy to assess congressional bipartisanship.

Drugs 
On April 26, 2018, Faso announced that he had joined the bipartisan Heroin Task Force, which works on issues related to heroin and opioid abuse. Faso has "co-sponsored alongside more than 100 lawmakers" the Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevention (STOP) Act, which aims to crack down on the shipment of synthetic drugs, such as fentanyl, to the United States.

Economy 
Faso voted against the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. "From the beginning, I wanted to support a tax reform plan that would increase economic growth, increase worker paychecks, incentivize small business investment and ensure New York families are better off," he stated after voting against the bill. Faso argued that the $10,000 state and local tax deduction would also deeply impact New York residents of all wealth levels.

In November 2017, Faso said he would vote against the Republican tax overhaul bill, citing the removal of state tax deductions as his reason.

Environment 
In February 2018, Faso and Dan Lipinski (IL-3) introduced the bipartisan Challenges and Prizes for Climate Act of 2018 to encourage innovation in combating climate change.

Health care 
In January 2017, The Washington Post reported on a closed-door meeting in which Faso said that he had "no problem" with defunding Planned Parenthood, but urged his fellow Republicans not to do so as part of the proposed repeal of the ACA (Obamacare); Faso added that using Obamacare repeal legislation to defund Planned Parenthood would be "a gigantic political trap," "a political minefield," and a "grave mistake." In a later interview, Faso clarified that he "does not favor defunding Planned Parenthood" and that "if a separate up-or-down vote on Planned Parenthood funding came up in the House, he would vote for the status quo, effectively keeping the organization funded." In February 2017, Faso voted against a resolution that "reverse[d] an Obama Administration rule barring states from defunding Planned Parenthood." In March 2017, Faso voted to amend an Obamacare repeal bill to remove language that would have defunded Planned Parenthood for one year.

On May 4, 2017, Faso voted in favor of the American Health Care Act, the House Republican bill to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Obamacare). He faced protests in his congressional district over his position on the AHCA. During his 2018 re-election campaign, Faso said that he supported protections for individuals with preexisting conditions. Faso said that the AHCA bill that he voted for would have protected people with preexisting conditions; however The New York Times noted that the bill would have allowed states to drop protections for individuals with preexisting conditions.

Immigration 
On June 20, 2018, after attending a meeting on immigration with President Trump and other GOP House members, Faso said that Trump should halt the “zero tolerance” immigration policy under which children were removed from their parents at the Mexican border. On June 24, 2018, Faso told NPR that he supported a Republican compromise bill that would provide legal status for undocumented immigrants that were illegally brought to the U.S. as children.