[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Nuclear mitochondrial DNA segment

n, duplication after insertion contributes to NUMT diversity. NUMTs have no self-replicating mechanism or transposition mechanism; therefore, NUMT duplication is expected to occur in tandem or to involve larger segmental duplication at rates representative of the rest of the genome.  Evidence for NUMT duplications that are not in proximity to other NUMTs is present in many genomes and probably happens as part of segmental duplication. However, duplications of recent human-specific NUMTs as part of segmental duplication seem to be rare; in humans, only a few NUMTs are found to have overlap with segmental duplication, and those NUMTs were found in only one of the copies while missing from the others, clearly demonstrating that the NUMTs were inserted subsequent to the duplication events. Deletion is another NUMT post-insertional modification method that has not yet been studied in the same amount of detail as an insertion. Constant erosion of phylogenic signals and high mutation rate in animal mtDNA make recognition of such modification, especially deletion, difficult. Studying the cases in which the presence–absence pattern of NUMTs does not agree with the phylogenetic tree, should make detection of recent NUMT losses possible by the means of using multiple genome alignments with the presence of an outgroup. Bensasson and his team members used this method to estimate the oldest inserted NUMT in humans, which dated around 58 million years ago.

General characteristics of NUMT

As the number of mitochondria and their functional level differs across eukaryotic organisms, the length, structure, and sequence of NUMTs vary dramatically. Researchers have found that the recent NUMT insertions are derived from different segments of the mitochondrial genome, including the D-loop and, in some extreme cases, a number of, nearly, the full-length mitochondrial genome.  The sequence, frequency, size distribution, and even the difficulties of finding these sequences in the genome vary substantially among species. The majority of DNA fragments transferred from mitochondria and plastids into the nuclear genome are less than 1 kb in size. Yet, extremely large fragments of organelle DNA are found in some the plant genomes.

As the genome evolves and alters over time by mutation, the number of NUMT in the genome differs over the course of evolution. NUMT enters the nucleus and inserts in the nDNA at different stages of the time. Due to constant mutation and instability of NUMT, the resemblance of this genome stretch to the mtDNA varies widely across the kingdom Animalia and even within the certain genome. For instance, the latest number of NUMT recorded in the human genome is 755 fragments which range from 39 bp to almost the entire mitochondrial sequence in size. There are 33 paralogous sequences with over 80% sequence similarity and of a greater length than 500 bp. Moreover, not all the NUMT fragments in the genome are the result of mtDNA migration; some are the outcome of amplification after insertion. Old NUMTs are found to be more abundant in the human genome than the recent integrants, indicating that mtDNA can be amplified once inserted. Dayama et al. developed a high-yield new technique for the exact detection of the number of NUMT in the human genome called dinumt. This method enables her and her team members to identify NUMT insertions, of all sizes, in the whole genomes sequenced using paired-end sequencing technology with a greater sensitivity. They applied dinumt to 999 individuals from the 1000 Genomes Project and Human Genome Diversity Project (HGDP) and conducted an updated enrichment analysis in humans using these polymorphic insertions. Further investigation and genotyping of the discovered NUMT also analyses age of insertion, origin, and sequence characteristics. Finally, they assessed their potential impact on ongoing studies of mitochondrial heteroplasmy.