[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Matt Leto

ame of the  World Cyber Games' United States Finals. Leto attributed his loss to his weakness in two-on-two play and stated his desire to continue playing one on one. In October 2005, Zyos competed and won the DigitalLife Tournament Series Halo 2 tournament, defeating "PdgfProxa" in the final match.

2006
Leto competed professionally in Halo 2 and Project Gotham Racing 3 at the World Series of Video Games in July 2006 at the Gaylord Texan Resort & Convention Center. He was also invited to attend the Championship Gaming Series that year. Following his defeat, he considered playing another first-person shooter or a future Halo game. In September of that year he visited the Cyber World Games and attendees had the opportunity to be taught how to play Halo 2.  He was a part of team XiT Woundz, thought to be one of the top four Major League Gaming teams in 2006. The team was defeated by teams "eX" and MoBDeep, and ultimately placed seventh. Following the defeats, Zyos exited his hotel where he was staying for the tournament and has not returned to professional gaming. His retirement was called the ninth most important event in professional gaming that year by Major League Gaming.

Technique
Zyos studied his opponent's style of play in order to find weaknesses. He also practiced four to five hours to day, and the week before a tournament for ten. He stated that most of the stress of competing is mental, though physical fitness helps in tournaments that can last 16 hours per day. Talents he has suggested players need include quick reflexes, concentration, and the ability to play under pressure. The transition from Halo to Halo 2 was a mixed bag for Zyos, since he called it an "easier game", but tournaments started being more focused on two-on-two. Once Halo 2 was released, Leto began to focus almost exclusively on it and did not play the original at all.

While on Team Str8 Rippin in 2005, Leto stated that their style was unique, since any team member might take on any role in their attack formation. They were also patient, content to wait for their enemies out and force the opposing team to attack when Str8 Rippin is ahead. Zyos insisted upon his teammates being silent and not trash-talking during matches in order to maintain focus.

Tournament results
 1st - 2003 World Cyber Games
 1st - 2004 World Cyber Games

References

American esports players
Living people
Halo (franchise) players
American real estate brokers
American people of Italian descent
Str8 Rippin players
1980s births