[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Debatik Curri

artnership with Lorik Cana mostly and a few times with his teammate at Vorskla Poltava, Armend Dallku and once with Elvin Beqiri.
Albania was ranked in the 5th place behind of Denmark, Portugal, Sweden, Hungary and only above Malta, by where collected 1 win, 4 draws and 6 goals for, 13 goal against.

In the UEFA Euro 2012 qualifying Curri played just four out of ten matches, all as a starter, in which he was substituted off just once. He mostly wasn't available for selection by the coach Josip Kuže due to injuries. For the 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification Curri was called up to participate in five of the eight matches, in which he had game time just twice, as this time the new Albania coach Gianni De Biasi had created a strongly duo-partnership in defense with Captain of the national team Lorik Cana and Mërgim Mavraj.

Curri was an unused substitute in the opening match of the UEFA Euro 2016 qualifying against Portugal on 7 September 2014. He played as a substitute in the 2nd Group I match against Denmark on 11 October 2014. Curri officially announced his retirement from Albania against Kosovo.

Kosovo
On 21 May 2014, Curri played for his original country's birthplace, Kosovo, a full 90-minutes match against Turkey finished in the 1–6 home loss at the Adem Jashari Olympic Stadium, Mitrovica, Kosovo.

Style of play
Curri is considered a defensive all-rounder, as he can be deployed in any defensive position. Curri's main playing position is as a centre back, but he can also be deployed as right or left-sided full-back and also as a defensive midfielder. He played in that position in his early days with Albania national team before converting into a centre back, forming a partnership with Lorik Cana.

Career statistics

Club

International

Scores and results list Albania's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Curri goal.

Honours
Vorskla Poltava
 Ukrainian Cup: 2008–09
 Ukrainian Super Cup Runner-up: 2009

Prishtina
Kosovar Supercup: 2016

References

External links

1983 births
Living people
Footballers from Pristina
Kosovo Albanians
Men's association football defenders
Men's association football midfielders
Kosovan men's footballers
Albanian men's footballers
Albania men's international footballers
Kosovo men's international footballers
Dual men's international footballers
FC Prishtina players
FC Vorskla Poltava players
Gençlerbirliği S.K. footballers
FC Hoverla Uzhhorod players
FC Sevastopol players
KF Tirana players
Flamurtari FC players
Football Superleague of Kosovo players
Kategoria Superiore players
Ukrainian Premier League players
Süper Lig players
Albanian expatriate men's footballers
Kosovan expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Ukraine
Expatriate men's footballers in Turkey
Albanian expatriate sportspeople in Turkey
Albanian expatriate sportspeople in Ukraine
Kosovan expatriate sportspeople in Turkey
Kosovan expatriate sportspeople in Ukraine