[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mitchells Plain

Mitchells Plain is a large township located within the City of Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa and situated about  from the Cape Town city centre. It is one of South Africa's largest residential areas and contains multiple smaller suburbs. It is located on the Cape Flats on the False Bay coast between Muizenberg and Khayelitsha. Conceived of as a "model suburb" by the apartheid government, it was built during the 1970s to provide housing for Coloured victims of forced removal due to the implementation of the Group Areas Act.

At an estimated population of 290,000–305,000 people, it comprises a number of sub-sections which reflect the diverse class backgrounds of the population. It was once a major stronghold of the United Democratic Front, the broad-based ANC-sponsored anti-apartheid body. It also has one of greater Cape Town's biggest shopping centres, known as the Liberty Promenade.

History

Mitchells Plain was created by the apartheid government in the early 1970s as a Coloured township for middle-income families and coloured people who were forecfully removed from their homes. The township was laid out in terms of the neighbourhood unit concept with large open spaces, localised public facilities and wide arterial routes. Various forms of housing were provided including, freestanding, semi-detached and duplex housing. However, by the late 80s and 90s, major areas of Mitchells Plain (mostly in the suburb's eastern half) deteriorated into urban ghettos. Gangsterism and drug abuse has increased and a number of informal settlements has sprung up in several areas, most notably in Eastridge and Taflesig.

Etymology 
The residential area was reportedly named after Mitchell Baker but this is unconfirmed, and is one of a number of possible explanations. Another theory is that the area was named after Major Charles Cornwallis Michell, the Cape's first surveyor-general. Yet another theory is that the area was named after a farmer that previous owned a farm that the neighborhood was built on.

Demographics

According to 2011 census data compiled by Statistics South Africa, Mitchells Plain comprises the following in terms of demographics:

Mitchells Plain today

Today Mitchells Plain is one of Cape Town's and South Africa's largest townships with a population of about 310,000 people in 2011.

In terms of economic activity, investment is primarily in retail development with Mitchell's Plain being considered as having the strongest level of investment on the Cape Flats. It has a central business district (CBD), locally called the "Town Centre" and three large shopping centres; Promenade Shopping Centre on AZ Berman Drive, Westgate Mall on the corner of Morgenster and Vanguard Drive and Watergate Shopping Centre, completed in 2017, on the corner of the Cape Flats Freeway (R300) and AZ Berman Drive. The Promenade Shopping Centre is the largest with more than 120 stores comprising major clothing, furniture, banks and restaurant chains. Informal economic activity is a significant part of the local economy. Such activity reflects a dominance of retail functions with informal trading responding to market and thus concentrated around the main public transport interchanges and along heavily utilised pedestrian routes. 

The area has or is boardered by a number of notable parks and nature reserves.  The Mnandi Beach is a blue flag rated beach located to the south of the area. The Westridge Gardens are located in the community of Westridge features many Cape Flats Sand Fynbos species in an urban garden setting. Two nature reserves boarder Mitchells Plain that are also notable for their Cape Flats Sand Fynbos ecosystems are the Wolfgat Nature Reserve and the Vesuvius Way Conservation Area.

Public transport

Mitchells Plain is reasonably well served by public transport services comprising commuter rail, bus and mini-bus taxi services. There are three Cape Metrorail commuter rail stations within the area at Kapteinsklip, Mitchell's Plain and Lentegeur. The rail line extends northwards towards Philippi, Cape Town's CBD and the industrial areas at Epping. The commuter rail service is commonly characterised by overcrowding during morning and afternoon peak periods as well as being unsafe during off-peak periods.

The Mitchell's Plain Public Transport Interchange at the Mitchell's Plain Station includes a major bus terminus and taxi rank which provide public transport services to every major employment area within the City of Cape Town during the morning peak period. There is regular scheduled bus and unscheduled mini-bus taxi services to Cape Town CBD, Claremont, Bellville, Wynberg, and other areas. At more than 30,000 passenger trips per weekday and more than 90,000 passengers daily, it is one of the busiest transport interchanges in the city. Recent years have seen significant investment by the local authority in improving and upgrading public transport infrastructure and facilities at the Mitchell's Plain Interchange.