[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Origin of the Rashtrakuta dynasty

on of 860 clearly states that King Dantidurga was born to the Yadava Satyaki, 1800 coins of King Krishna I (772). An inscription of King Govinda III (808) mentions "by the birth of this virtuous king, the Rashtrakuta dynasty became invincible just as the Yadava dynasty by the birth of Lord Krishna".

Language
While the linguistic leanings of the early Rashtrakutas (pre-8th century) has caused considerable debate, the history and language of the imperial Rashtrakutas of Manyakheta has been free of such confusion. It is clear from inscriptions, coinage and prolific contemporaneous literature that the court of these Rashtrakutas was multi-lingual, and used Sanskrit and Kannada as their administrative languages and encouraged literature in Sanskrit and Kannada. Rashtrakuta inscriptions outside Karnataka are mostly in Sanskrit However this period was the very end of the classical era of literary Sanskrit and Prakrit. As such, from the Kavirajamarga of the 9th century, it is known that Kannada was popular from Kaveri river up to the Godavari river, an area covering large territory in modern Maharashtra.

The Rashtrakuta inscriptions call them the vanquishers of the Karnatabala, a sobriquet used to refer to the near invincibility of the Chalukyas of Badami.  This however it is claimed should not be construed to mean that the Rashtrakutas themselves were not Kannadigas. Their patronage and love of the Kannada language is apparent in that most of their inscriptions within modern Karnataka are in Kannada, while their inscriptions outside of modern Karnataka tended to be in Sanskrit. An inscription in classical Kannada of King Krishna III has also been found as far away as Jabalpur in modern Madhya Pradesh which further supports the view of their affinity to the language.

Adikavi Pampa, Sri Ponna, Shivakotiacharya and King Amoghavarsha I were among the noteworthy scholars in Kannada, the Apabhramsha poet Pushpadanta wrote several works and famous Sanskrit scholars such as Jinasena and Virasena (both of whom were theologians), mathematician Mahaviracharya and poets such as Trivikrama and Gunabhadra adorned their courts. The earliest extant Kannada literature belongs to this time. These Rashtrakuta kings married princess from Northern and Southern India and several Rashtrakuta branches emerged in Northern India during their imperialistic expansion in the 9th century.

The argument that the Rashtrakutas were either Marathi speaking Marathas or Telugu speaking Reddies in origin has been rejected. Reddys in that time period had not come into martial prominence even in the Telugu speaking regions of Andhra, being largely an agrarian society of cultivators who only much later (in the 14th century - 15th century) came to control regions in the Krishna - Rajamundry districts. It is also not possible to change ‘Rashtra’ into ‘Ratta’ or ‘Reddy’ in Telugu. The Rashtrakuta period did not produce any Marathi inscriptions or literature. In addition very few literary works in Prakrit language are available from this period. Hence Marathi as the language of the Rashtrakutas, it is claimed, is not an acceptable argument.

See also 
Carnatic expansion

Notes

References

 

Rashtrakuta dynasty
Rashtrakuta