[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stuart Couch

made the decision to refuse to prosecute. In 2004, Couch withdrew from Slahi's prosecution team because he believed he was asked to use evidence obtained through means of coercive interrogation that violated the Uniform Code of Military Justice, U.S. laws, and the United States' treaty obligations.

After Wall Street Journal reporter Jess Bravin's article "The Conscience of the Colonel" was published on March 31, 2007, Couch received widespread recognition and international media coverage for his refusal to prosecute Slahi. He was presented the American Bar Association's Maleng "Minister of Justice" award in 2007 as well as the German Bar Association Criminal Law Section's "Pro Reo" Award in 2009. In 2021, a feature film based on Slahi's detention The Mauritanian included the role of Lieutenant Colonel Couch as portrayed by the actor Benedict Cumberbatch.

Congressional testimony
Couch was scheduled to testify before the House Judiciary Committee on
November 8, 2007.
An e-mail from the Department of Defense's General Counsel, William J. Haynes, II, informed him on November 7, 2007: "... as a sitting judge and former prosecutor, it is improper for you to testify about matters still pending in the military court system, and you are not to appear before the committee to testify tomorrow."

Congressional Representative Jerrold Nadler criticized the Bush administration for stonewalling by withholding Couch's testimony.

Case of Salim Hamdan—Hamdan v. Rumsfeld

From January 2005 until July 2006 Couch was the lead prosecutor for Salim Hamdan, a senior bodyguard and personal driver of Osama bin Laden.  In that role he served as liaison to Solicitor General Paul Clement who argued before the U.S. Supreme Court in the case Hamdan v. Rumsfeld (2006), related to the constitutionality of President Bush's authority to order prosecutions before military commissions at Guantánamo and applicability of Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions.  The Bush administration eventually lost the case, and with that their ability to set up war crimes tribunals.  The New York Times wrote that the Supreme Court ruled "broadly that the commissions were unauthorized by federal statute and violated international law."

Case of Mamdouh Habib

From December 2003 through January 2005, Couch was assigned as a prosecutor for the case of Mamdouh Habib, an Australian national born in Egypt.  Jess Bravin, the author of "The Terror Courts", describes how Couch and the military commissions appointing authority John Altenburg scuttled a Bush administration demand that charges be filed against Habib. After reviewing the evidence made available to him, Couch was convinced there was insufficient evidence to charge Habib with anything.  In addition, Habib was a victim of a US government extraordinary rendition and appeared to have been subject to torture while held in an Egyptian prison.

Career as judge

Couch left the Office of Military Commissions in 2006 and served on the U.S. Navy-Marine Corps Court of Criminal Appeals as a Senior Appellate Judge until his retirement in 2009.  In October 2010 he was appointed to be an immigration judge by Attorney General Eric Holder. He was appointed by Attorney General William Barr to the Board of Immigration Appeals in August 2019.

See also
Robert Preston (military lawyer)
Carrie Wolf
John Carr (military lawyer)
Stephen Abraham

References

External links
 
 
  Widerstand gegen Folter Berliner Zeitung, 16. November 2009

Living people
Guantanamo Military Commission Prosecutors
American lawyers
Campbell University alumni
United States Marine Corps officers
1965 births