[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Christos Gage

Christos N. Gage is an American screenwriter and comic book writer. He is known for his work on the TV series Daredevil, Hawaii Five-0, Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, Numbers and the films The Breed and Teenage Caveman. In the comics industry, he has done considerable work on the titles Angel & Faith, Avengers Academy, The Amazing Spider-Man and The Superior Spider-Man, Spider-Geddon and has written tie-in books for the "Civil War" and "World War Hulk" storylines.

Early life
Christos N. Gage is the son of Greek-born author and New York Times investigative journalist Nicholas Gage. His original family name is Gatzoyiannis. He was born in New York City, and grew up in Athens, Greece, and then North Grafton, Massachusetts. He attended Brown University, where he majored in American civilization. He received his MFA in Screenwriting from the AFI Conservatory.

Career

Film and television
Gage, with Ruth Fletcher Gage, adapted the Arthur C. Clarke novel Rendezvous With Rama for Morgan Freeman's Revelations Entertainment. They co-wrote the 2001 film The Breed, starring Adrian Paul, Bai Ling and Bokeem Woodbine, for Sony/Screen Gems and Starz. He wrote and served as associate producer on the film Teenage Caveman for HBO; independent filmmaker Larry Clark directed and Stan Winston produced. In 2010, the Gages wrote the film Paradox, starring Kevin Sorbo, for SyFy UK.

The Gages co-wrote episodes of the TV shows Law & Order: Special Victims Unit and Numbers. SVU creator Dick Wolf cites one of their episodes from the series' fourth season, "Mercy", as "a high water mark" of the show's 400-episode run, saying "I tell writers that if you're going to look at one episode after the pilot, it's that one." The episode was nominated for a SHINE Award. In 2014 the Gages joined the writing staff of the first season of the Netflix/Marvel TV show Daredevil which was nominated for three Emmy Awards  and won the Saturn Award for Best New Media TV Series. They were on the writing staff of Hawaii Five-0 for the show's ninth (2018-2019) season.

Comics
Gage broke into the comic book industry in December 2004 with the DC Comics miniseries Deadshot. One of his earliest Marvel Comics works was a Union Jack mini-series with Mike Perkins.

For Wildstorm Productions Gage wrote The Authority: Prime with Darick Robertson. His subsequent Wildstorm work included Wildstorm: Armageddon, Wildstorm: Revelations and Wildcats: Worlds End which was part of a relaunch of a number of titles.

During Marvel's "Civil War" storyline, he wrote the best-selling tie-in book Iron Man/Captain America: Casualties Of War. 
He also wrote the miniseries World War Hulk: X-Men whose first issue sold in excess of 85,000 copies. Gage wrote the tie-in book Avengers: The Initiative, co-writing with Dan Slott beginning with issue #8, and eventually becoming the sole writer for the series with #20. He continued on through the conclusion of the run with #35. Spinning out of that series' storylines was Avengers Academy, which Gage launched with artist Mike McKone. That series introduced several new teen characters to the Marvel Universe and ran for forty issues.

In March 2008 Gage wrote the four-issue miniseries G.I. Joe: Cobra for IDW Publishing. That same year he wrote the first seven issues of The Man with No Name for Dynamite Entertainment, which stars the iconic Western character portrayed by Clint Eastwood. The storyline is set after the events of the sequel The Good, The Bad and The Ugly. Later that year he wrote the creator-owned series Absolution for Avatar Press, which focuses on a superhero actions after he develops post-traumatic stress disorder and thus resorts to murdering supervillains.

In 2010 Gage wrote the original graphic novel Area 10, a crime thriller about an emotionally disturbed New York police detective who, while on the case of a bizarre serial killer, begins to exhibit psychic abilities after his head is impaled by a screwdriver.

In 2011 Gage was approached to write Angel & Faith, the canonical continuation of the adventures of Joss Whedon's Buffyverse characters, as part of Buffy The Vampire Slayer Season Nine. The title was nominated for a Harvey Award for Best New Series.

In July 2012 Gage published the original graphic novel Sunset, through Top Cow/Minotaur Press, a noir tale of an aged mob enforcer facing the demons of his violent past. As of 2012 Gage and his wife Ruth were working on the historical epic The Lion Of Rora for Oni Press.

From 2011 to 2013 Gage and Dan Slott co-wrote issues 661 - 662, 664 and 695 - 697 of The Amazing Spider-Man. After that series ended with the death of Peter Parker, a new series, Superior Spider-Man was launched in 2013. Gage co-wrote 10 sporadic issues with Dan Slott. He also wrote the "Inhumanity" tie-in, Inhumanity: Superior Spider-Man.

From 2013 to 2014, Gage co-wrote issues 14 - 23 of Bloodshot and H.A.R.D. Corps for Valiant Entertainment.