[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 118]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

rton felt, he did not say a great deal; he, however,
endeavoured to pacify the enraged combatants, and ordered assistance to
Harry to bind up the wound, and clean him from the blood which had now
disfigured him from head to foot.

Mrs Merton, in the mean time, who was sitting at the upper end of the
room amidst the other ladies, had seen the fray, and been informed that
it was owing to Harry's throwing a glass of lemonade in Master Mash's
face. This gave Mrs Compton an opportunity of indulging herself again in
long invectives against Harry, his breeding, family, and manners. "She
never," she said, "had liked the boy, and now he had justified all her
forebodings upon the subject. Such a little vulgar wretch could never
have been witness to anything but scenes of riot and ill-manners; and
now he was brawling and fighting in a gentleman's house, just as he
would do at one of the public houses to which he was used to go with his
father."

While she was in the midst of this eloquent harangue Mr Merton came up,
and gave a more unprejudiced narrative of the affair. He acquitted Harry
of all blame, and said that it was impossible, even for the mildest
temper in the world, to act otherwise upon such unmerited provocation.
This account seemed wonderfully to turn the scale in Harry's favour;
though Miss Simmons was no great favourite with the young ladies, yet
the spirit and gallantry which he had discovered in her cause began to
act very forcibly on their minds. One of the young ladies observed,
"that if Master Harry was better dressed he would certainly be a very
pretty boy;" another said, "she had always thought he had a look above
his station;" and a third remarked "that, considering he had never
learned to dance, he had by no means a vulgar look."

This untoward accident having thus been amicably settled, the
diversions of the evening went forward. But Harry, who had now lost all
taste for genteel company, took the first opportunity of retiring to
bed, where he soon fell asleep, and forgot both the mortification and
bruises he had received. In the mean time the little company below found
means to entertain themselves till past midnight, and then retired to
their chambers.

The next morning they rose later than usual; and, as several of the
young gentlemen, who had been invited to the preceding evening's
diversion, were not to return till after dinner, they agreed to take a
walk into the country. Harry went with them as usual, though Master
Mash, by his misrepresentations, had prejudiced Tommy and all the rest
against him. But Harry, who was conscious of his own innocence, and
began to feel the pride of injured friendship, disdained to give an
explanation of his behaviour, since his friend was not sufficiently
interested about the matter to demand one.

While they were walking slowly along the common they discovered at a
distance a prodigious crowd of people, all moving forward in the same
direction. This attracted the curiosity of the little troop, and on
inquiry they found there was going to be a bull-baiting. Instantly an
eager desire seized upon all the little gentry to see the diversion. One
obstacle alone presented itself, which was, that their parents, and
particularly Mrs Merton, had made them promise that they would avoid
every species of danger. This objection was, however, removed by Master
Billy Lyddall, who remarked, "that there could be no danger in the
sight, as the bull was to be tied fast, and could therefore do them no
harm; besides," added he, smiling, "what occasion have they to know that
we have been at all? I hope we are not such simpletons as to accuse
ourselves, or such telltales as to inform against one another?" "No! no!
no!" was the universal exclamation from all but Harry, who had remained
profoundly silent on the occasion. "Master Harry has not said a word,"
said one of the little folks; "sure he will not tell of us." "Indeed,"
said Harry, "I don't wish to tell of you; but if I am asked where we
have been, how can I help telling?" "What!" answered Master Lyddall,
"can't you say that we have been walking along the road, or across the
common, without mentioning anything further?" "No," said Harry, "that
would not be speaking truth; besides, bull-baiting is a very cruel and
dangerous diversion, and therefore none of us should go to see it,
particularly Master Merton, whose mother loves him so much, and is so
careful about him."

This speech was not received with much approbation by those to whom it
was addressed. "A pretty fellow," said one, "to give himself these airs,
and pretend to be wiser than every one else!"

"What!" said Master Compton, "does this beggar's brat think that he is
to govern gentlemen's sons, because Master Merton is so good as to keep
company with him?" "If I were Master Merton," said a third, "I'd soon
send the little impertinent jackanapes home to his own blackguard
family." And Master