[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Wildcat Mountain (New Hampshire)

Wildcat Mountain is a mountain located in Coos County, northern New Hampshire, United States. The mountain is part of the Carter-Moriah Range of the White Mountains, on the east side of Pinkham Notch.  Wildcat Mountain faces Carter Dome across Carter Notch to the northeast, and Mount Washington across Pinkham Notch to the west.

Wildcat Mountain has five summits — A, B, C, D, and E — along Wildcat Ridge, which curves two miles (3 km) to the south and west. Both A, at , and D, at , are considered "four-thousand footers". B, with an elevation of , and C, at , lack the topographic prominence to be considered more than subpeaks of Wildcat A. Likewise, the E peak, at , is considered to be a subpeak of the higher D peak (the E peak was formerly believed to be the higher of the two, and used to appear on the official list of four-thousand footers, but current topographic maps reveal the D peak to be the higher summit).

The Appalachian Trail, which extends over  from Georgia to Maine, climbs up from the Appalachian Mountain Club's Joe Dodge Lodge in Pinkham Notch and traverses the summits of the Wildcat Ridge, continuing on to Carter Dome.

The Wildcat Mountain Ski Area is one of the best-known alpine skiing resorts in New England, with lifts from the base on NH Route 16 in Pinkham Notch  up to the D summit. The area has 49 trails on , including Polecat Trail—the longest ski trail in New Hampshire. The Wildcat Valley Trail, an ungroomed cross-country ski trail, leads from the summit down to Jackson, New Hampshire, dropping  in . Cut in 1972, it is one of the best-known routes in the extensive trail system maintained by the Jackson Ski Touring Foundation.

Climate

See also

 List of mountains in New Hampshire
 Four-thousand footers
 White Mountain National Forest

References

External links
 
 Peakbagger.com: Wildcat Mountain
 Peakbagger.com: Wildcat “D”
 Summitpost.org: Wildcat Mountain
 AMC: Hiking Wildcat Mountain
 hikethewhites.com: Wildcat Mountain
 Wildcat Mountain Ski Area
 TrailBlazersNE Wildcat Mountain Trail Profile
 Jackson Ski Touring Foundation: Wildcat Valley Trail
  Wildcat Mountain - New England's Alpine CCC Ski Trails

Wildcat Mountain
Wildcat Mountain
New England Four-thousand footers
Mountains on the Appalachian Trail