[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists

The International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists (IJL) strives to advance human rights everywhere, including the prevention of war crimes, the punishment of war criminals, the prohibition of weapons of mass destruction, and international co-operation based on the rule of law and the fair implementation of international covenants and conventions.

The association is especially committed to issues that are on the agenda of the Jewish people, and works to combat racism, xenophobia, antisemitism, Holocaust denial and negation of the State of Israel.
IJL was founded in 1969. Among its founders were Haim Cohn, Attorney General of Israel, Arthur Goldberg, associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, and Nobel Peace Prize laureate René Cassin of France. Membership comprises lawyers, judges, judicial officers and academic jurists who are active locally and internationally as the need arises. Membership is open to lawyers and jurists of all creeds who share the organization's aims.

The IJL has an ECOSOC Special Consultative status as a non-governmental organization (NGO) at the United Nations, enabling it to participate in the deliberations of various UN bodies. In this capacity, the representatives of the IJL have been especially involved in the work of the United Nations Human Rights Committee in Geneva and of related bodies.

The Association also publishes Justice Magazine which examines a variety of relevant issues and current topics and is mailed to thousands of lawyers and jurists throughout the world.

Members of the Executive Committee, the Board and the President of the IJL serve on a  voluntary basis.

The current president is Adv. Meir Linzen.

The Legal Center for Combating Antisemitism 
Headed by Adv. Avraham (Avrumi) Yishai, The Legal Center for Combating Antisemitism was established in 2019, in response to the rise of antisemitism worldwide and the need to take drastic measures against this development.

The center's main goal, as identified by Adv. Meir Linzen, the president of IJL, is "To be the legal arm of the Jewish people" and to bring to justice anyone who dares to spread hatred in any form against Jews.

Part of the center's purpose is to foster the growth of a vibrant community from all over the world by joining forces in reporting and fighting hostility against Jews no matter where they are located.

United Nations 
The IJL has an ECOSOC Special Consultative status as a non-governmental organization (NGO) at the United Nations, enabling it to participate in the deliberations of various UN bodies. In this capacity, the representatives of the IJL have been especially involved in the work of the Human Rights Committee in Geneva and of related bodies.

Presidents of IJL (1969–present) 
Hadassa Ben-Itto (1926-2018)

Judge Hadassa Ben-Itto served as Deputy Chief Judge on the District Court of Tel Aviv-Yafo, and she sat for a period on the Israel Supreme court. Ben-Itto decided to retire from the bench a few years prior to the official retirement age in order to conduct comprehensive research and write a book outlining the story of the infamous forgery "The Protocols of the Elders of Zion"—a fabricated antisemitic text purporting to describe a Jewish plan for global domination. Judge Ben-Itto's book has been translated into ten languages, and it is sold worldwide.

Ben-Itto served as the President of IJL from 1988 to 2004. In this position, Ben-Itto took an activist line, exposing and condemning manifestations of antisemitism, and undertaking legal battles against Holocaust deniers. It was her view that limitations need to be imposed on freedom of expression in cases of blatant racial incitement. She fulfilled this responsibility with much devotion and great dedication.

In recognition of her activity, Ben-Itto was awarded an honorary doctorate by Bar Ilan University, as well as the Chaim Herzog Prize, the Zeltner Prize, the Tel Aviv Worthy Citizen Award, and other accolades. In 2004 she was elected IJL's Honorary President.

Adv. Alex Hertman

Adv. Alex Hertman served as President of IJL from 2004 to 2011. During his presidency, IJL took part in legal actions against bodies that funded and supported terrorist groups. Under Hertman's leadership, IJL was involved in lawsuits against Iran and its president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who called for Israel's destruction. Also, IJL was then involved in advocating for Israel in international and national forums and in preventing and countering arrests and legal proceedings against Israeli officials in Spain and the UK. Hertman promoted the establishment of IJL's branch in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and together with members from the IJL's office in Buenos Aires, worked to bring to justice Iranian officials who had planned the terrorist attacks on the Israeli embassy in 1992 and the Jewish community building (AMIA) in 1994, in Buenos Aires.