[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Special Interrogation Group

des information on SIG unit formation and operations. After the SIG was disbanded, Tiefenbrunner was caught by the Italians and sent to a POW camp in Italy. He was moved to a POW camp in Nazi German territory, where he met Vic Crockford. They were released in early 1945.

Partial list of SIG members

 Capt. Herbert Cecil Buck, MC, 3/1 Punjabis [service no.: IA. 1117]. Killed in an aircraft crash just after the war: 22 November 1945, aged 28
 Maurice "Tiffen" (Monju) Tiefenbrunner (a veteran of No. 51 (Palestine) Commando and later a member of the SAS) - MiD
 Ariyeh Shai
 Dov Cohen, a veteran of No. 51 Commando and, after the war, a member of the Jewish Irgun organisation, also known - from its initials - as (EtZeL), where he was known as 'Shimshon'. Killed at the age of 32 in the aftermath of the Acre Prison Break in 1947
 Bernard Lowenthal
 Lt.Herbert Delmonte-Nietto-Hollander, attached from the largely Jewish Tower Hamlets Rifles, part of the London Regiment; British born of German father. Attended St.Pauls School, London. Army officers Welterweight Boxing champion 1937/8. Later Staff officer at Ranby P.O.W camp Notts and subsequently interrogator at Belsen Concentration camp of Joseph Kramer.
 Israel Carmi later, a Captain in the Jewish Brigade and an officer of the Israeli Tzahal
 Karl Kahane served in the regular German army for 20 years, had an Iron Cross from World War I, a Town Clerk in Austria until forced to flee after the Anschluss
 Dolph Zentner a veteran of No. 51 (Palestine) Commando
 Philip [Shraga-Iser] Kogel a veteran of No. 51 (Palestine) Commando
 Walter Essner German POW - non-Jewish traitor
 Herbert Brueckner German POW - as above
 Charlie 'Chunky' Hillman/aka Steiner (Austrian Nazi Baiter) - MC and Bar

Gottlieb - believed kia

Haas, Peter - believed kia

Rosenzweig

Weizmann/Opprower

Goldstein/Wilenski

Berg/Rohr

Popular culture
The 1967 film Tobruk was about a raid of the SIG and the Long Range Desert Group (LRDG) on a German Afrika Korps fuel depot in Tobruk, starring Rock Hudson and George Peppard. The film depicting elements of Operation Agreement shows the raid to be successful. In the 2022 BBC TV series SAS: Rogue Heroes, the failure of the Derna raid and its betrayal by Brueckner are depicted in one of the episodes.

See also
 Jewish Brigade
 Jewish partisans
 Jewish resistance under Nazi rule

Notes

References

Bibliography

 Silvio Tasselli, Special Interrogation Group "S.I.G." in Nord Africa, "Storia & Battaglie", N.5, Novembre 2000

Further reading
 Martin Gilbert, The Jews in the Twentieth Century. An Illustrated History (Schocken Books, 2001)  pp. 218–220
 Damien Lewis, SAS Ghost Patrol: The Ultra-Secret Unit That Posed As Nazi Stormtroopers, (Hachette UK, 2017) 
 James Owen, Commando (Little, Brown, 2012) .
 John Sadler, Operation Agreement: Jewish Commandos and the Raid on Tobruk (Osprey Publishing, 2016) 
 Martin Sugarman, 'The SIG: behind enemy lines with Jewish Commandos' in Jewish Historical Studies Vol. 35 (1996–1998) pp. 287–307. Also chapter in 'Fighting Back' by Martin Sugarman , Valentine Mitchell, 2017

External links
 Combat and Resistance: Jewish Soldiers in the Allied Armies on the Yad Vashem website
  silviotasselli.com

Special forces of the United Kingdom
Jewish resistance during the Holocaust
Jewish military units and formations
Commandos (United Kingdom)
Military units and formations of Mandatory Palestine in World War II