[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Local service district (New Brunswick)

Force, 2010) to describe an "unbalanced local government", as in: many residents without representation at a local level (35% of population and 90% of the provincial territory) and limited competition for elected offices (1/3 of municipal councils with less than 2000 pop acclaimed)

Boundary issues 

The boundary descriptions of LSDs have sometimes suffered from ambiguous language or lack of update of existing LSD boundaries when a new entity was created. Originally most LSDs were defined by parish boundaries or grant lines; in the 1980s provincial property identity numbers began replacing grant lines; since the mid-2000s maps showing property lines have been the norm. All methods have led to problems:
Some original LSDs referenced school district boundaries, especially in Restigouche County, as did the later Black River-Hardwicke. There is no consolidated record of former school district boundaries in New Brunswick; the surviving records are scattered among various record series or documents and it is likely some records were destroyed.
Grant-based descriptions often refer to groups of grants without reference to smaller grants or ungranted land within large tiers of grants.
Expropriated land can create ambiguity when using grant lines. Dugas does not explicitly mention that the southern boundary of grants was after land was expropriated for the Village historique acadien.
References to direction, e.g. "northern corner" are sometimes based on map orientation rather than geographic coordinates.
Boundaries can overlap, usually due to a description of an older LSD not being updated when a new one was created. The Paroisse Notre-Dame-des-Érables overlaps with New Bandon-Salmon Beach where the actual grant lines are used by one and a prolongation of a grant line is used by the other
Poirier, which was established after the village of Maisonnette was incorporated, explicitly includes one land grant that is within the village.
Descriptions based on provincial property IDs suffer from properties being subdivided or consolidated. The province does not maintain a consolidated list of changes in property identity numbers.
Descriptions based on property lines that reference parish lines will sometimes include properties that are wholly within other parishes.
The use of property maps when updating boundary descriptions sometimes confuse taxation authority boundaries for those of LSDs. The most recent update of the boundaries of Tabusintac removed one property on the boundary of Neguac while removing part of a property crossed by a stream formerly used to define the boundary with Fair Isle. The update of the parish of Woodstock following an expansion of the town of Woodstock extended the LSD's boundaries into Richmond Parish.

See also
List of local service districts in New Brunswick
List of Rural Communities in New Brunswick

Notes

References

External links
 Burton-Greater Geary Local Service District
 LSD of Dennis Weston
 Douglas LSD
 District de services locaux de Grande-Digue
 Kingsclear Local Service District
 Lepreau LSD
 Lincoln Local Service District
 Petersville Local Service District-LSD
 Rusagonis-Waasis LSD Information Page
 Saint-Paul LSD
 Tabusintac Local Service District
 Barryville-New Jersey
 Weldford Local Service District Advisory Committee
 Western Charlotte Local Service District
 Westfield West and East Local Service District - LSD

Types of administrative division
Local government in New Brunswick