[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Non-intervention in the Spanish Civil War

of government was possible in Spain because of the present situation.

Non-Intervention Committee

The ostensible purpose of the Non-Intervention Committee (1936–1939) was to prevent personnel and matériel reaching the warring parties of the Spanish Civil War, as with the Non-Intervention Agreement.

The Committee first met in London on 9 September 1936 and was attended by representatives of solely European countries and did not include Switzerland, whose policy of neutrality prohibited even intergovernmental action. It was chaired by William Morrison, Britain's Financial Secretary to the Treasury. The meeting was concerned mostly with procedure. Charles Corbin represented the French, Dino Grandi represented the Italians and Ivan Maisky represented the Soviets. Germany was represented by Ribbentrop (with Otto Christian Archibald von Bismarck as deputy) but left the running to Grandi although they found working with him difficult. Portugal, whose presence had been a Soviet requirement, was not represented. There was little hope in the Committee since the British and French would have been aware of the continued shipment of arms to the Nationalists from Italy and Germany. Britain protested twice to the Italians, once in response to Italian aircraft landing in Majorca, the other pre-emptively over any significant change in the Mediterranean. Stanley Baldwin, the British prime minister, and Blum both attempted to halt global exports to Spain and believed it in Europe's best interests. Soviet aid to the Republic was threatened in the committee. It began once it was clear the Non-Intervention Agreement was not preventing Italian and German aid to the Nationalists.

The second meeting took place on 14 September 1936. It established a subcommittee to be attended by representatives of Belgium, Britain, Czechoslovakia, France, Germany, Italy, the Soviet Union and Sweden to deal with the day-to-day running of non-intervention. Among them, however, the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Italy dominated, perhaps worryingly so. Soviet non-military aid was revived but not military aid. Meanwhile, the 1936 meeting of the League of Nations began, beset with not only the Spanish problem but also the review of the Abyssinia Crisis. It was much weakened but still spoke out in favour of worldwide peace. There, Anthony Eden convinced Monteiro to have Portugal join the Non-Intervention Committee. Álvarez del Vayo spoke out against the Non-Intervention Agreement and claimed that it put the rebel Nationalists on the same footing as the Republican government and that as the official government, the Republic had the right to buy arms. On 28 September, Portugal was represented on the committee for the first time, and the Earl of Plymouth replaced Morrison as British representative. A member of the Conservative Party, he often adjourned meetings to the benefit of the Italians and Germans, and the committee was accused of an anti-Soviet bias. In Geneva, Maxim Litvinov once again confirmed Soviet support, based on the suggestion it would avoid war. However, the Soviet government remained hostile to the idea and supported Álvarez's view that non-intervention was illegal.

On 12 November 1936, significant changes were put in place to the functioning of the committee with the ratification of plans to post observers to Spanish frontiers and ports to prevent breaches of the agreement. That had been delayed by Italian and German demands for air transport to be included, which was perhaps a delaying tactic because of the impossibility to doing so effectively. Russian military aid now being transported to Spain were noticed. France and Britain split on whether to recognise Franco's forces as a belligerent, as the British wanted, or to fail to do, as the French wanted. On 18 November, that was subsumed by the news that the Italian and the German governments had recognised the Nationalists as the true government of Spain. A British bill preventing exports of arms to Spain by British ships from anywhere was signed. Yvon Delbos requested mediation; at the same time, the Republic appealed to the Council of the League of Nations for assistance. US President Franklin Roosevelt, who was also approached, ruled out US interference with the words '[there should be] no expectation that the United States would ever again send troops or warships or floods of munitions and money to Europe'. On 4 December, France and Britain approached Italy, Germany, Russia and Portugal to request mediation. An armistice would be called, a commission sent to Spain and, after a plebiscite, a government featuring those uninvolved in the war (such as Salvador de Madariaga) would be established. The considerable number of German soldiers in Spain, at least 5,000, was now clear, but Italy and Germany were opposed to isolated discussion of the matter.