[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# YMCA Youth Parliament

The YMCA Youth Parliament is a YMCA run youth model parliament program. There is a YMCA youth parliament in every Australian State and Territory.

Participants spend time in committees developing bills, and then attend a week-long camp during which the legislation and other motions are debated in the state parliament. Successfully passed bills are handed to the state government and opposition for consideration.

History 
It is a YMCA sponsored youth model parliament programme. There is a YMCA youth parliament in every Australian state and territory. The first Australian Youth Parliament was held in Brisbane in 1963, based on the American "YMCA Youth and Government" concept.

Overview 
The age ranges vary by state. For example, in Queensland, Youth Members are 15 to 25 years of age, while in South Australia, the ages range from 16-25.  Participants generally represent their local member of Parliament or Member of the Legislative Council and meet during a weekend long training camp where they learn the workings of the bearpit, how to create a bill, conduct debates in Legislative Assembly or the Legislative Council, and amend and vote on bills and general motions. Students visit the Legislative Assembly and the Government House.

State programs

New South Wales 

The YMCA NSW Youth Parliament is open to young people aged 15 to 18 who represent their local electorate in the Legislative Assembly or NSW in the Legislative Council.

The YMCA NSW Youth Parliament program was launched in 2002, attracting 32 participants representing regional teams. As the program progressed, parliamentary committees were established. Among bills, the Youth Parliament also advocates for change with motions. The YMCA NSW Youth Parliament passed the Same-Sex Marriage Matter of Public Importance (MPI) in 2012 with 70 ayes to 11 noes, which made them "among the largest groups in favour of legalising for marriage equality."

A Bill for Marriage Equality was passed in the Legislative Assembly the following year 72 ayes to 0 noes, making this the first unanimous vote for marriage equality. The bill further passed the Legislative Council 40 ayes to 4 noes.

2013 saw the introduction of the Legislative Council and the creation of the YMCA Youth & Government suite of programs, making it the only YMCA Youth Parliament in Australia to run a bicameral Parliament and programs other than that of the initial Youth Parliament.

Queensland 

YMCA Queensland Youth Parliament (abbreviated as QYP) is a non-partisan political program providing a platform for young people aged 15 – 25 to have their say on important issues, build skills and parliamentary understanding, while simulating the Queensland Legislative Assembly. The program selects one individual, aged 15 to 25 years old, to represent each electorate in the state, for a total of 93 participants (known as Youth Members).

In the program, Youth Members attend a 3-day Launch Weekend during April in Brisbane and meet the other Youth Members and discuss ideas. They then spend the rest of the program researching and drafting Youth Bills and policy proposals, while also advocating for their communities. The program culminates with Residential Sitting Week in September where Youth Members debate their Youth Bills and other measures in Queensland Parliament House.

Youth Members are organised into portfolios based on their areas of interest.

In 2021, the youth portfolios are:
 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Partnerships portfolio (ATSIP);
 Agricultural Industries, Resources & Rural Development portfolio (AIRD);
 Education, Industrial Relations, Employment and Training portfolio (EEIRT);
 Health, Emergency Services, Disability and Seniors portfolio (HEDS);
 Environment, Renewables, Energy and Tourism portfolio (ERET);
 Domestic & Family Violence, Housing and Infrastructure portfolio (VHIT);
 Science, Technology and Digital Economies portfolio (STDE); and
 Justice, Legal Affairs and Corrections portfolio (JLAC).

Queensland Youth Parliament's Executive also run the Your Voice Heard Blog featuring blog posts from Youth Members and other young Queenslanders.

In 2021, the program ran its first ever Regional Tour, aimed at promoting young engagement in rural areas.

Currently the program is in its 26th year, running since 1992 with more than 1500 young people participating. Some of these people have become lawyers, members of parliament, doctors, army staff and miners.
The Youth Governor of the 26th YMCA Queensland Youth Parliament is Benjamin Crowley.

Alumni of the program include Kate Jones, former Queensland MP and Minister who was a Youth Premier when she completed the program.

Many Youth Acts of the Queensland Youth Parliament were then passed by their senior counterparts and made into fully fledged laws of Queensland, including the criminalisation of revenge pornography, and changes to learner driver log books.