[Source: PubMed]

56. Lancet Healthy Longev. 2025 Jan;6(1):100663. doi:
10.1016/j.lanhl.2024.100663.  Epub 2024 Dec 30.

Health needs of older people and age-inclusive health care in humanitarian 
emergencies in low-income and middle-income countries: a systematic review.

van Boetzelaer E(1), Rathod L(2), Keating P(3), Pellecchia U(2), Sharma S(4), 
Nickerson J(5), van de Kamp J(6), Franco OH(6), Smith J(7), Escobio F(8), Browne 
JL(6).

Author information:
(1)Médecins sans Frontières, Operational Centre Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands; Global Public Health & Bioethics, Julius Centre for Health Sciences 
and Primary Care, University Medical Centre Utrecht, Utrecht University, 
Utrecht, Netherlands. Electronic address: elburg.vanboetzelaer@london.msf.org.
(2)Médecins sans Frontières, Operational Centre Brussels, Brussels, Belgium; 
Médecins sans Frontières, Luxembourg Operational Research Unit, Luxembourg, 
Luxembourg.
(3)Médecins sans Frontières, Operational Centre Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.
(4)HelpAge International, Lviv, Ukraine.
(5)Médecins sans Frontières, Toronto, ON, Canada; Bruyère Research Institute, 
Ottawa, ON, Canada; Centre for Health Law, Policy and Ethics, Faculty of Law, 
University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada.
(6)Global Public Health & Bioethics, Julius Centre for Health Sciences and 
Primary Care, University Medical Centre Utrecht, Utrecht University, Utrecht, 
Netherlands.
(7)Institute of Epidemiology and Healthcare, University College London, London, 
UK.
(8)HelpAge International, London, UK.

Health needs of older people in humanitarian settings are poorly documented, 
negatively affecting the appropriateness of health services they receive. This 
Review identified the major health needs of older people across humanitarian 
contexts, including non-communicable diseases and mental health conditions (eg, 
psychological distress and depression). Barriers to health care of older people 
included inaccessibility of health-care services; shortage of appropriate health 
care; insufficient availability of medications and medical equipment; poor 
geriatric expertise of health-care staff, health policy makers, and health 
authorities; and age discrimination by health-care personnel. Individual factors 
included low mobility, poor health literacy, dependence on others for access to 
care, and self-directed ageism. The participation of older people in shaping 
health-care services was highlighted as a facilitator of age-inclusive care. 
Several understudied areas related to the health needs of older people in 
humanitarian emergencies in low-income and middle-income countries were exposed. 
We urge governments, academic institutions, humanitarian organisations, and 
other health-care providers to focus their response and research efforts on the 
health needs of older people in conflict settings; the health needs of older 
people in humanitarian emergencies in understudied regions; and on neglected 
issues such as communicable diseases, cancer, neurocognitive disorders, sexual 
and reproductive health, genitourinary conditions, and nutrition. The 
participation of older people in the design, implementation, and evaluation of 
health-care services is essential to ensure accessibility, appropriateness, and 
acceptability of care.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lanhl.2024.100663
PMID: 39746372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.