[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Undesirable Publications Act

The Undesirable Publications Act 1967 (UPA) is a Singapore statute which, according to its long title, prevents the importation, distribution, or reproduction of undesirable publications and for purposes associated in doing so. The Act, which was passed in 1967 empowers the Government of Singapore in incriminating and punishing both individuals and corporates that are involved in the sale, supply, exhibition, or distribution of obscene and objectionable publications.

Overview
The UPA looks after matters relating to the importation, distribution or reproduction of undesirable publications. Together with the Penal Code, Films Act and the Children and Young Persons Act, the UPA law also seeks to protect all persons, including children, from being exploited for pornography especially child pornography. Under the UPA, it may be a punishable offence to make, sell or distribute objectionable publications, including calendars.

Other than pornography, objectionable publication that may also fall under the jurisdiction of the UPA include those that offend racial and religious harmony on the island, e.g. hate speech. If a work concerns any race or religion in a certain manner such that feelings of enmity, hatred, or hostility were to be aroused, this very publication may be deemed objectionable as well.

Anti-colonial and Communist material were once banned by the UPA, but the ban has since been lifted after a review by the Media Development Authority (MDA). Review of gazetted publications are conducted in consultation with the Publications Consultative Panel, whereas 17 publications, mostly pornographic that still remain officially prohibited in Singapore may include:

 All publications by Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society 
 All publications by International Bible Students Association 
 Playboy
 Swank
 Girls of Penthouse
 Gallery
 Elite
 Penthouse
 Men Only
 Genesis
 Playgirl
 Velvet
 Mayfair
 Fiesta
 Hustler
 Knave
 Cheri

A grey area of this law may be that of taking and keeping photos of oneself having sex. Taking photographs or videos of oneself having sex or of others without taking payment is not against the law, however, dissemination of such materials is an infringement of the UPA.

Uses of the Act

Janet Jackson's 2001 album All for You was banned under the UPA over sexually explicit lyrics in one of the songs "Would You Mind".

In 2004, Steve Chia of the National Solidarity Party was let off with a warning after being found in possession of an obscene film.

In 2008, Ong Kian Cheong and Dorothy Chan Hien Leng were charged under both the Sedition Act and Undesirable Publications Act for allegedly distributing evangelistic publication titled The Little Bride that cast Prophet Muhammad in negative light.

In 2015, the government lifted the ban of 240 publications, including the erotic novel Fanny Hill or anti-colonial books.

Taking part in an outdoor nude photo shoot may trigger the Miscellaneous Offences (Public Order and Nuisance) Act instead of the UPA, as in the case of two tourists taking nude photographs at Sentosa in 2016.

In 2017, Singapore banned nine books from a Singaporean preacher.

In 2021, Cherian George's book, Red Lines: Political Cartoons and the Struggle against Censorship, was banned for reproducing materials that are offensive to religious feelings.

External links

References

1967 in law
1967 in Singapore
Singaporean legislation