[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2003 BDO World Darts Championship

the two-time women's world darts champion Trina Gulliver at Bridlington Spa on 3 November 2002. It was televised live on the BBC sport programme Sunday Grandstand. The first round of the competition, in which 32 players participated, took place from 4 to 6 January and was held as best-of-five sets.

In this round Vincent van der Voort defeated Jarkko Komula 3–1. Komula moved 2–0 ahead in the first set until Van Der Voort produced an 11-dart finish to win set one. Van Der Voort won the game with a 117 checkout. David, who has the blood-clotting disorder haemophilia, lost the first set in his match against Sorensen due to several darts landing outside the board's targets before taking three sets in a row in a 3–1 victory. Against Phillips, Walton claimed set one before Phillips took six successive legs to lead 2–1. Two double one ring finishes gave Walton the fourth set and took the fifth to win 3–2. Walton said he had received treatment for a trapped nerve in his neck before the match. Ritchie Davies, in his seventh consecutive BDO World Championship appearance, defeated Albertino Essers 3–1, a match which saw Davies claim the opening set unchallenged. Gary Anderson defeated Peter Johnstone 3–2 after he converted a 2–0 deficit to win the first set 3–2. Both players twice equalled the game before Anderson took three legs in a row to win. Four-time semi-finalist Andy Fordham compiled high scores and struck the double rings to whitewash Stefan Nagy 3–0.

Bob Taylor progressed past the first round for the second year in a row with a 3–0 whitewash of Peter Hunt from set victories of 3–2 and 3–1×2. In their maiden television appearances, Darryl Fitton defeated Burton 3–1 with set victories of 3–0, 3–2 and 3–1. Martin Adams, the number four seed and England captain, claimed the opening set against Co Stompé. He beat Stompé in the second set and won 3–1 with a 138 checkout. Wagner won the opening set against Gary Robson 3–2. Robson took set two after Wagner missed multiple chances to hit the double ten ring. Wagner took two more sets from six consecutive legs for a 3–1 victory. In the match between Van Barneveld and Matt Clark, the latter began with a maximum before the former took the first set. He then claimed six legs in a row to win 3–1. Erik Clarys defeated the seventh seed Tony Eccles 3–1 after a minor challenge from Eccles in set three. Sub-par play from Shaun Greatbatch saw him whitewashed 3–0 by Colin Monk; Greatbatch was able to force the second set to conclude with a final leg decider before he missed the double rings in the following set.

Sixth seed Tony O'Shea beat Ted Hankey, the 2000 champion, 3–2 in a closely contested match. Hankey won the first set unchallenged before a 118 checkout gave O'Shea the next set. The score was level until O'Shea defeated Hankey on the double 16 ring. Harbour defeated teenager James Wade 3–2. Coming from 2–1 behind Harbour produced checkouts of 145, 115 and 60 in the fifth set to go through to the next round after Wade was unable to convert ten opportunities to win the match. The final first round match was played between the number three seed Mervyn King and Steve Coote. After King compiled a 138 checkout, Coote won the first set 3–2 on a 101 checkout. King moved ahead by winning sets two and three 3–1, and a 116 checkout gave him a 3–1 win.

Second round
The second round was held from 7 to 8 January. The first second round match, which was played between Adams and Taylor, began with Adams winning the first set on the double 20 ring and led by two legs in set two. A 116 checkout allowed Taylor to tie and then won the third set 3–1. After Adams failed to hit the bullseye ring Taylor won by 3–1. David came from one set behind Van Der Voort early on to win 3–1 with a 114 checkout and a finish of 99 points. He said afterwards: "I was a bit slow coming out in the first set but I picked it up and I'm very happy with how I played." Davies whitewashed Walton 3–0 with two 12-dart finishes and ended on the double 20 ring; Walton missed multiple opportunities to strike a double ring. In the match between Anderson and Fordham, Anderson won the first set on the bullseye ring and Fordham won three legs in a row without reply to level the score. Anderson then claimed the next two sets and finished on the double six ring to win the match 3–1.