[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lock keeper

of coal. Richard A. Moore, the owner of the boat, collected over $1,300 in damages, and the lock keeper was fired.

In England, there has been recent controversy over the Environment Agency's attempt to remove resident lock keepers on the River Thames. This has been met with widespread disapproval.

Promotions
Many people who began as lock keepers were later promoted in the company. Many district superintendents of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal began as lock keepers, but because of their good reputation, were promoted. These included Elgin and John Y. Young in the 1830s and 1840s, John Lambie in the 1840s. A. K. Stake began at locks 41–41 from 1847 to 1848, Lewis G. Stanhop at locks 41–42 also in 1848, and Overton G. Lowe at Lock 56 when the canal opened to Cumberland — these three individuals were later promoted and continued working for the Canal company well into the 1870s.

Modern locks
Locks on commercial canals are usually power operated. The lock keeper, who no longer lives on site, controls the whole process from a control room overlooking the lock. In the modern age the control of traffic and locks on canals is being centralised. A single control centre can remotely operate several locks and moveable bridges in a wide area, overseeing the process using CCTV. For example, the Tilburg control centre in the Netherlands will remotely control 18 locks and 28 moveable bridges from 2015 on.
This allows for a reduction in manpower while still providing round-the-clock service to water traffic. As the controller now has overview over the traffic moving through one lock after another, he can anticipate the arrival of boats by turning the lock in advance, having boats wait for another coming from behind to handle them simultaneously, or decide whether to turn a lock empty for a boat going in one direction or to wait for one going in the other direction.

On the River Thames, the traditional locks have been retained, though the majority are now motorised, using a hydraulic system to operate the gates; however, when unpowered, the gates and sluices can still be operated by use of the pedestal cranks at either end of the lock chamber.

Quotations
The floral tastes of the lock-keeper generally make Sonning Lock very bright and gay.
 — Charles Dickens (1812–1870)

Is there a spot more lovely than the rest,
By art improved, by nature truly blest?
A noble river at its base running,
It is a little village known as Sonning.
 — James Sadler, Sonning lock keeper (1845–1885).

See also

 Bridge tender
 Lock-keeper's house
 The Kentucky River Museum is located in a former lock operator's dwelling.

References

External links
 Lock Keepers at Gloucester
 Lock-keeper's house, Newforge from the BBC
 The Queen and the lock keeper, Coventry Canal, 23 August 2005

Marine occupations
Locks (water navigation)