[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# International Criminal Court investigations

ed Kingdom officials between 2003 and 2008.

Other complaints received

As of end September 2010, the Office of the Prosecutor had received 8874 communications about alleged crimes. After initial review, 4002 of the communications were dismissed as "manifestly outside the jurisdiction of the Court".

National proceedings under complementarity
The Court is designed to complement existing national judicial systems. It can exercise its jurisdiction only if national courts are unwilling or unable to investigate or prosecute. State parties are expected to implement national legislation to provide for the investigation and prosecution of crimes that fall under the jurisdiction of the Court.

Democratic Republic of the Congo
In February 2008, a military tribunal in Mbandaka sentenced Botuli Itofo, a policeman, to twenty years' imprisonment after his conviction under ICC implementing legislation for the crime against humanity of mass rape and other "serious human rights violations". Over 50 women and girls had expressed that they had been raped as a part of a "punitive operation" by police sent to the area to restore order in March 2006.

Germany
Under the German complementary law, crimes against humanity as defined in the Rome Statute can be prosecuted by German courts even if they are outside the jurisdiction of the court because they occur in a country that has not ratified the statute. That is under the principle of universal jurisdiction.

In December 2005, activists from Uzbekistan submitted a complaint against Uzbek Interior Minister Zokirjon Almatov in connection with the Andijan massacre. Almatov was visiting Germany at the time for hospital treatment. The prosecutor declined to act by saying chances of a successful prosecution were "non-existent" as the government of Uzbekistan would not co-operate in the gathering of evidence.

In May 2011, a trial against two alleged members of the FDLR began in Stuttgart, Germany. Ignace Murwanashyaka and Straton Musoni, both Rwandan citizens, are accused of 26 counts of crimes against humanity and 39 counts of war crimes, allegedly committed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is the first trial in Germany under the Völkerstrafgesetzbuch in force since 2002.

References

External links
 United Nations International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda
 Public Forum to discuss the International Criminal Court
 

 
International Criminal Court
Lord's Resistance Army
War in Darfur