[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2002 in New Zealand

Gospel Album: The Lads – Marvel
Felt – Colour of the Sky
Parachute Band – Amazing
 Best Children's Album: Fatcat & Fishface – Dog Breath
Kids Music Company Singers – On A High Note II
Michelle Scullion – Peaks To Plains
 Best Classical Album: Jack Body – Pulse
New Zealand Symphony Orchestra – Landscapes
Gareth Farr – Warriors From Pluto
 Best Songwriter: Anika Moa – Youthful
Che Fu – Fade Away
James Reid and Donald Reid – Communicate (The Feelers)
 Best Cover Design: Kelvin Soh – Good (Goodshirt)
Che Fu and Kelvin Soh – Navigator (Che Fu)
Shayne Carter and Andrew B White – I Believe You Are A Star (Dimmer)
 New Zealand Radio Programmer Award: Brad King – The Rock Network
Dallas Gurney – ZM Network
David Ridler – Channel Z
Marty Lindsay – Star FM Wanganui

See: 2002 in music

Performing arts

 Benny Award presented by the Variety Artists Club of New Zealand to Tom Sharplin.

Dance
 7–24 January: Inaugural Footnote Choreolab runs in Wellington under the direction of Deirdre Tarrant and guest choreographer Justin Rutzou (Australia) with New Zealand choreographers Kristian Larsen and Jacob Sullivan and 22 dancers from throughout New Zealand. 
 30 January – 3 February, Jan Bolwell premieres her theatre work Standing On My Hands at BATS Theatre, Wellington, subsequently touring it throughout New Zealand over the course of the year.
 20–21 February, Footnote Dance Company premieres Banding Together 2002, a programme of short works by choreographers Michael Parmenter, Merenia Gray, Raewyn Hill, subsequently touring this programme throughout New Zealand. The dancers are: Annabel Reader, Tane Duncan, Melissa Tate, Georgina White, Tim Fletcher and Paora Taurima.
 15–17 March, Inland by Douglas Wright Dance Company, premieres at the NZ International Festival of the Arts who commissioned the work. Subsequently, the work tours to Dunedin, Christchurch and Auckland to considerable acclaim.
 19 April to 5 May, the Auckland Dance Festival (later rebranded as Tempo Dance Festival) runs throughout the month at a number of Auckland venues, presenting professional and community performances, classes, workshops, and public participatory events. Events include: Shake a Leg Youth Dance performances at ASB Theatre; Platform 2002 choreographic development project at UNITEC; Dancing City to City, ESCAPE by Black Grace Urban Youth Movement, Polished Up at St Kevins Arcade, Prayers in the Forest of Mirrors by Edna Katz-Levy at the Maidment Studio, Scratch 'n Sniff Dance Shorts, a mixed bill of dance films, short works and improvisational performances curated by Wilhimeena Gordon at Woonton's Lane in Titirangi, Sub-urban Legends by Atamira Dance Collective at UNITEC Studios, Living Room (short works by Melanie Turner, Becca Wood, Karen Barbour, Katie Burton, and film by Alyx Duncan) at UNITEC Studios, and Still Life 2002, a triple bill by Sean Curham (Speedy Horse and Royal Crown plus excerpts from the Perfect Lie) at the Dorothy Winston Centre. 
 19–22 April, MEDANZ Festival in Christchurch 
 On 3 May, Creative New Zealand launches {https://web.archive.org/web/20140726175934/http://www.creativenz.govt.nz/en/news/creative-new-zealand-launches-contemporary-dance-strategy Moving to the Future: Ngä Whakanekeneke atu ki te Ao o Apöpö], a strategy for professional contemporary dance with specific funding support for emerging artists.    
 On 16 June, the Mandelbrot Set presents another in their bi-monthly series of improvisational performances at The Space in Newtown, in Wellington – dancers are Lyne Pringle, Kristian Larsen and Emily Kerr with local musicians.
 The rising of Matariki is formally marked with performance installations in Auckland under the title Cluster. Soundscore and imagery by Karl Chitham, performance devised and facilitated by Louise Potiki Bryant and by Light/off-site Productions with performers Corinna Hunziker, Dolina Wehipeihana, Maaka Pepene, Justine Hohaia, Karl Chitham, and Cathy Livermore (from Atamira Dance Collective).
 28–29 June in Hamilton and 10–13 July in Auckland, the double bill Fracture: Reality is Fragile choreographed by Guy Ryan, and Weather Vain People choreographed by Malia Johnston is presented. Dancers were Natasha Alpe, Kerryn McMurdo, Alexa Wilson, Jenny Nichols, Geoff Gilson, Guy Ryan, Stu Armstrong.
 During July, the NZ International Film Festival features a programme of NZ dance films with premieres of Fly by Shona McCullagh, Canopy by Mary Jane O'Reilly, Asylum by Wilhimeena Gordon, Wireless by Daniel Belton, and Rover by Morag Brownlie. Fly subsequently wins Official Selection for Clermond-Ferrand 2002, Winner of both the Reeldance Award and People's Choice Awards, Australia 2002
 NZ School of Dance turns 35 and marks the occasion with a weekend of open performances; Student choreography season Finding Jimmy is presented at Te Whaea.
 Premiere season of WHITE by Raewyn Hill (with dancers Sarah-Jayne Howard and Sarah Sproull and dramaturg Duncan Sarkies) running from 24 July – 4 August at B