[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fusionism

to see the unpopularity of George W. Bush's "compassionate conservatism," such as in his new entitlement prescription drug program, and his party's following defeat by President Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012, as reasons requiring a fusionist renewal if conservatism was ever to regain the presidency.

Criticism
In a polemic, the traditional conservative philosopher Russell Kirk, quoting T. S. Eliot's expression, called libertarians "chirping sectaries".  He added that although conservatives and libertarians share opposition to collectivism, the totalist state and bureaucracy, they have otherwise nothing in common. He called the libertarian movement "an ideological clique forever splitting into sects still smaller and odder, but rarely conjugating". Asserting a division between believers in "some sort of transcendent moral order" and "utilitarians admitting no transcendent sanctions for conduct", he included libertarians in the latter category. Kirk had questioned fusionism between libertarians and traditional conservatives that marked much of post-World War II conservatism in the United States.

Kirk also berated libertarians for holding up capitalism as an absolute good, arguing that economic self-interest was inadequate to hold an economic system together, and even less adequate to preserve order. He said that by glorifying the individual, the free market, and the dog-eat-dog struggle for material success, libertarianism weakened community, promoted materialism, and undermined appreciation of tradition, love, learning, and aesthetics, all of which he believed were essential components of true community.

Author Carl Bogus stated that there were fundamental differences between libertarians and traditional conservatives: Libertarians wanted the market to be unregulated as possible while traditional conservatives believed that big business, if unconstrained, could impoverish national life and threaten freedom. He said libertarians also believed that a strong state would threaten freedom, while traditional conservatives believed that a strong state, properly constructed to ensure that not too much power accumulated in any one branch, was necessary to ensure freedom.

Fusionism has come under significant attack since 2014, especially by Catholic integralists. In 2018, these critiques have also been taken up by mainstream conservative commentators.

List of critics

 L. Brent Bozell Jr. – traditionalist Catholic political author; Young Americans for Freedom (YAF) alum
 Ayn Rand – novelist and founder of Objectivism, who clashed with traditional conservatives and with libertarians
 Murray Rothbard – libertarian author and economist; YAF alum
 Patrick Buchanan – political commentator and prominent paleoconservative; YAF alum
 Sohrab Ahmari – opinion editor of The New York Post

See also

 Big tent
 Fusion Party
 Libertarian conservatism
 Neoconservatism and paleoconservatism
 Neo-libertarianism
 Outline of libertarianism

Notes

References
 
 
 Feser, Edward. "Hayek and Fusionism"
 Kling, Arnold.  "Why Be a Conservative Libertarian?"
 Lindsey, Brink. "Liberaltarians"
 Sager, Ryan (2006). The Elephant in the Room: Evangelicals, Libertarians and the Battle to Control the Republican Party, Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley,  ,

External links
 Jonah Goldberg (November 5, 2015), "Fusionism, 60 Years Later" – National Review

American political philosophy
Economic ideologies
Libertarian terms
Libertarianism in the United States
Paleolibertarianism
Political theories
Right-wing politics
Right-libertarianism