[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# AN/SPS-48

targets. These blips and clutter changes that may be possible targets were sent to the NTDS, which did further comparisons to determine which ones had motions characteristic of a ship or airplane. This system would go to sea for operational evaluation in 1967 and be incorporated into the s by 1975.

The AN/SPS-48E was first introduced 1987. The component count was reduced compared to the -48C (126,000 versus 280,000) and Built-In Test (BIT) capabilities were added, reducing the MTBF and manpower requirements. Performance improvements included improved resistance to jamming and ECM, better detection of smaller targets and targets on the horizon, high-angle tracking, and the ability to accept and execute commands from external air defense or shipboard combat systems. It was included as part of the New Threat Upgrade.

The AN/SPS-48G program addresses problems of long-term obsolescence through a system redesign that improves the radar's reliability, maintainability, and supportability through technology improvements, open architecture (OA) design, and improved logistics processes while reducing lifecycle cost.  It only affects the layout of the below-deck units. The plan is to back-fit the existing AN/SPS-48E population from 2011 through 2020, with the SPS-48G units. They will support fleet 3D air search requirements through 2050 and beyond for the ship classes that have SPS-48G. The earlier 1st and 2nd stage RF amplifiers are replaced with a solid state transmitter and the receiver, processor, and Auxiliary Detection Processor, formerly housed in individual equipment cabinets, are combined into a single cabinet. The number of Lowest Replaceable Units is reduced by 87%, and mean time between critical failure is improved over the AN/SPS-48E(V) by 104%. The new commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) radar processor's computing capabilities will be sustained through a planned tech-refresh program. More intuitive and interactive built-in-test and embedded maintenance and operator training makes available all radar technical, engineering, and logistics data and allows remote monitoring and distance support, while ensuring accurate and timely configuration management.

Uses
With the air targets exact 3D location it is available for interception/removal via either the ship's weapon system or through linked weapons platforms located elsewhere. It is the predecessor of the AEGIS system currently in use on s and s. The AEGIS AN/SPY-1B/D radars are electronically scanned phased arrays, while the SPS-48E is frequency scanned in elevation, and mounted on a rotating joint that spins the radar in azimuth. The AN/SPS-48 is carried by US Navy ships such as s, s, s and s.

Variants

AN/SPS-48A - Addition of Moving Target Indicator (MTI) to SPS-48
AN/SPS-48B - Unknown, possible non-existent or prototype for -48C
AN/SPS-48C - -48A with Automatic detection and tracking capability as well as Moving target indicator (MTI) capability.
AN/SPS-48D - Prototype version of -48E, tested on .
AN/SPS-48E - Compared to the C variant, the SPS-48E has twice the radiated power, increased receiver sensitivity, four stage solid-state transmitter, half the components of a -48C and built-in testing for easier diagnostics.  Originally developed as part of the New Threat Upgrade (NTU) Program to support the SM-2 Launch On Search (LOS) capability.
AN/SPS-48E LBR Land based radar version.
AN/SPS-48G - some new-build, others upgraded AN/SPS-48E under the Radar Obsolescence, Availability Recovery (ROAR) program. 29 radars are being modernized at a cost of $169.3 million under contract N00024-09-C-5395. Replacing below-decks units with modern electronics based on open architecture will reduce training demands and improve reliability.

See also
List of radars
Diffraction grating
Selex RAN-40L Radar of similar function used in some aircraft carriers.

References

External links
NAVAIR Warfighter encyclopedia
Manufacturer's website
FAS AN/SPS-48C
Fire Controlman Volume 02-Fire Control Radar Fundamentals (Revised)

Sea radars
Military electronics of the United States
Military equipment introduced in the 1960s