[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sarek (novel)

l solution to the scenario, Peter decides to leave Starfleet for the diplomatic corps instead.

Background 

The novel explores the history of Sarek's relationship with Amanda through the device of select entries in Amanda's journal, which prompt flashbacks in the mind of the character reading them.

When Sarek tells Spock about his one face-to-face encounter with a Freelan, he mentions that the face he saw greatly resembled his own.  Spock then describes his own first glimpse of a Romulan, which took place during the episode "Balance of Terror."  He mentions that the Romulan Commander encountered by the Enterprise also strongly resembled Sarek.  This is something of an inside joke, referring to the fact that the role of the Romulan Commander in "Balance of Terror" and the role of Sarek were both played by the actor Mark Lenard.

Peter Kirk, who first appeared as a child in the episode "Operation -- Annihilate!", is fully developed as an adult character in this novel.

The deadly weapon "senapa" was invented by the author.

Early in the novel, the author describes the interior of Sarek and Amanda's home.  One of the paintings on the wall is of an icy world with a large, red sun.  This seems to be an intentional reference to a painting described in Crispin's first novel, Yesterday's Son.

Parts of the novel's plot provide a setup for events that occur in Star Trek: The Next Generation.

Crispin was inspired by Star Trek: The Next Generation and decided to do something she had never done before, and submitted a treatment for a teleplay, after the editors at Pocket Books had requested all writers to write stories set in that era. The story was about an ancient artifact that was causing a certain area of space to become a sort of outer-space Sargasso Sea where ships would become mired and unable to escape. Having written the teleplay treatment Crispin decided to convert it into a full novel. Crispin had met actor Mark Lenard many times at Star Trek conventions, and while discussing his character Sarek he suggested "Why don't you write a novel that tells Sarek's story?" which also served as further inspiration to write the novel and pitch it to her editor. Lenard later told her he had read and liked the book.

Reception 
In their review, Publishers Weekly said that Crispin "packed everything a diehard Trekkie could want" into the book.

Ellen Cheeseman-Meyer of Tor.com compared the book to a glass of wine: "Sarek is the Star Trek novel equivalent of a glass of Riesling—sweet and light, but indisputably grown up." She praised Crispin and said "her contributions to the Star Trek universe are legion. Sarek was one of her more significant works. I highly recommend it."

References

External links 
 Sarek (novel) at Memory Alpha, the Star Trek wiki

1995 American novels
Novels by Ann C. Crispin
Novels based on Star Trek: The Original Series