[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# BeTipul

BeTipul (; lit. In Therapy) is an Israeli television drama revolving around the personal and professional life of an Israeli psychologist, Reuven Dagan, played by Assi Dayan. The series portrays a psychologist who treats patients at his clinic five days a week and then seeks psychological treatment for himself. Filmmaker Ori Sivan served as the head writer of the series.

Overview
As of 2009, two seasons have been produced, with co-creators Hagai Levi, Ori Sivan, and Nir Bergman working on a spin-off program in a format similar to the Up series. The program has been adapted for audiences in the United States, Argentina, North Macedonia, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Portugal, Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Moldova, Netherlands, Japan, Canada, Russia, Italy, Brazil and France.

In the first season, the cast included Assi Dayan as Dagan, Gila Almagor as Dagan's own therapist and mentor, Meirav Gruber as his wife, and Ayelet Zurer, Lior Ashkenazi, Maya Maron, Alma Zack and Rami Heuberger as his patients. The first season was directed by Nir Bergman, Hagai Levi, Ori Sivan, and Uzi Weill. Scriptwriters were Ari Folman, and .

In the second season, which began in January 2008, a female therapist was considered for the leading role, but the idea was dropped. Dagan remained the main character.  Zack, Heuberger and Almagor continued in their roles from the previous season. Other actors joining the cast were Moni Moshonov, Asi Levi, Niv Zilberberg, and Tali Sharon.

Awards and nominations
BeTipul in its first season won all the Israeli Academy Awards for a drama series, including Best Drama Series, Best Actor, and Best Actress given to Dayan and Zurer, Best Script, and Best Directing. Maron and Zack were also nominated for Best Actress. In its second season, it was nominated for Best Drama, along with 7 other nominations. Dayan won again the Best Actor award, and Levi and Zack both won the Best Actress award. Season 2 also won the Best Script award.

Adaptations

North America

United States

An American adaptation entitled In Treatment premiered January 28, 2008 on the American cable network HBO to critical and audience acclaim. Seasons 1-3 of the show star Gabriel Byrne as Dr. Paul Weston, the equivalent character to Reuven Dagan and Dianne Wiest as Gina, Paul's own therapist. After an 11-year hiatus, the show returned for season 4, starring Uzo Aduba as Dr. Brooke Taylor. Hagai Levi, co-creator of the original show, is one of the executive producers on the American version.

Canada
The U.S. version was shown in Canada from 5 April 2009.

A French Canadian adaptation, titled En thérapie, aired on TV5 Québec Canada in 2012. The series starred François Papineau in the role of psychologist Philippe Jacob. A second season aired in 2014.

South America

Argentina

In May 2012, Argentina's public television network, TV Pública, started airing the local adaptation of the show. Titled En terapia (literally "In therapy"), it's starred by local renowned actor (and a former psychiatrist himself) Diego Peretti as Guillermo Montes, the equivalent character to Reuven Dagan, and Norma Aleandro (Season 1 and 2) as Lucía Aranda, Guillermo's own therapist. It aired Mondays to Thursdays around 10:30 p.m. The third and last season was released in 2014.

Brazil
The Brazilian adaptation of BeTipul premiered on October 1, 2012, on GNT, under the title Sessão de Terapia ("Therapy Session"). Actor  is cast in the role of Theo Ceccato, the protagonist, and Maria Luísa Mendonça playing Theo's wife Clarice. Veteran actress  stars as Dora Aguiar, Theo's mentor. Patients are played by Maria Fernanda Cândido, Sérgio Guizé, Bianca Muller, Mariana Lima, and André Frateschi. The series is directed by the Brazilian TV actor Selton Mello.

Europe

Central Europe
In April 2009, HBO's Central Europe division acquired format rights for BeTipul from Dori Media Group. It was announced that HBO would produce local versions of the series in Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania and Moldova, for transmission on its channels throughout the region, and that Hagai Levi would serve as its executive producer.

The Romanian version was the first to be produced. With Marcel Iureş in the title role and under the name of În derivă ("Adrift"), it premiered on December 6, 2009, on HBO.
The Czech version aired on Czech HBO in 2011 under the name Terapie ("Therapy"), starring Karel Roden as therapist Marek Pošta in the main role.
The Polish version premiered on October 17, 2011, on HBO under the title Bez tajemnic ("Without Secrets"), starring Jerzy Radziwiłowicz in the main role and with three seasons having aired as of 2013.
The Hungarian version, titled Terápia ("Therapy"), starring Pál Mácsai, Erika Marozsán premiered on October 22, 2012.