[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abbot Kinney

eign exhibits, amusements, and freak shows. Trolley service was available from Downtown Los Angeles and nearby Santa Monica. Around the entire park, a miniature steam railroad ran on a  track. The park included a system of canals complete with gondolas and gondoliers brought in from Venice, Italy.  

There were ornate Venetian-style businesses and a full-sized amusement pier with an ocean aquarium featuring a seal and marine life. Kinney and some of the nearby residents were aghast at some of the low-class shows that Venice began to offer, but it was considered the best collection of amusement devices on the Pacific Coast, and made a significant profit.

Eventually, Kinney gained control of city politics and had the name changed from "Ocean Park" to "Venice" in 1911. Kinney was also allowed to build a  long breakwater to protect his facilities from storm tides.

Kinney Heights
Around 1900 Kinney developed a suburban tract at what was then the western edge of the city of Los Angeles. Named Kinney Heights, the development attracted mostly upper-middle-class families who built large Craftsman homes, many of which still stand. The area is now part of the West Adams Terrace Historic Preservation Overlay Zone (HPOZ).

Published works
1890: Australian Ballot System, Evening Express Co., 31 pages
1893: The Conquest of Death, 259 pages
1893: Task By Twilight, B.R. Baumgardt & Co, 211 pages
1895: Eucalyptus, B.R. Baumgardt & Co., (Read Books, ,  334 pages, 2008)
1900: Forest and Water, The Post Pub. Co.

Family life
In his travels to the California State Legislature in Sacramento, Kinney met Margaret Thornton, daughter of Associate California Supreme Court Justice James D. Thornton. They were married in November 1884 and had seven children, three of whom died during childhood. After Margaret died in June 1911, Kinney married Winifred Harwell in 1914, formally adopting her two children by him.

Kinney died suddenly in November 1920.

Legacy
The Venice Pier business was carried on by Kinney's oldest son Thornton. In December 1920, however, the amusement pier was completely destroyed by fire, except for the new roller coaster and the bandstand tower. The operation was rebuilt and reopened in six months. The miniature railroad ran until 1924.

Venice became part of the city of Los Angeles in October 1925. The Venice of America canals came under sharp scrutiny by the health department. The lack of water circulation through the system left the waters turbid and malodorous. The bulk of the canals were paved over in 1929 after a protracted three-year court battle. The remaining canal district stayed in poor condition until extensively renovated in 1992. The canals have since become an expensive residential section and many large, modern houses have been built. The Venice Canal Historic District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982, and as a Los Angeles Historic-Cultural Monument.

The Venice Pier's demise came in 1946 when the city did not renew the lease on the tidelands.

Abbot's adopted son, Thornton Parillo, left a government position and moved to New Brunswick, New Jersey, where he wrote stories and books on his father's experience in Southern California. Kinney's creative spirit continued on to his children and the next generation. Though most of Abbot Kinney's work has been demolished, some of his buildings and Venetian-style arches remain, along with his breakwater.

In fiction

In the urban fantasy / alternate history novel, California Bones (Tor Books, June 2014), by Greg van Eekhout, Abbot Kinney's Venetian experiment grew to encompass all of Los Angeles, taking the place of what might otherwise have become L.A.'s metropolitan roads, becoming part of a hydraulic empire overseen by an immortal William Mulholland.

References

External links

 
 KCET Departures: "Venice of America"  
 Abbot Kinney Festival

American real estate businesspeople
American conservationists
Land owners from California
American tobacco industry executives
Venice, Los Angeles
1850 births
1920 deaths
Businesspeople from Los Angeles
People from Los Angeles
People from New Brunswick, New Jersey
Businesspeople from Santa Monica, California
People from the San Gabriel Valley
Burials at Woodlawn Memorial Cemetery, Santa Monica
19th century in Los Angeles
20th century in Los Angeles
Activists from California