[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# A. P. Hill's Light Division

rd
The Light Division saw its first action as a unit in the Seven Days Battles as part of James Longstreet's wing of the Army. Some of the regiments had seen action earlier in the campaign on May 27, 1862. The division was heavily engaged at the Battles of Mechanicsville, Gaines' Mill, and Glendale.

After A.P. Hill feuded with Longstreet in a newspaper, the Light Division was transferred to Stonewall Jackson's wing of the Army. With Jackson, the division again was heavily engaged at the Battle of Cedar Mountain. The division then took a conspicuous role on the defense of the Confederate line against repeated Union assaults at the Second Battle of Bull Run.

The Light Division had a prominent role in Lee's Maryland Campaign. Left behind to parole captured Union troops at Harpers Ferry, Hill and his men were not on the battlefield at the start of the Battle of Antietam. Leaving Harpers Ferry early on the morning of September 17, 1862, Hill's men completed the  march in time to arrive and save Lee's Army, which was at that moment facing destruction from the advancing Union Army of the Potomac. In the battle, Brigadier General Branch was killed.

The division took part in the Battle of Fredericksburg on December 13, 1862, but the division's alignment was not well-positioned, with a dangerous gap in the middle of the line. Gregg's brigade was posted behind the gap and in dense woods where they had little ability to see the battlefield. Brigadier General Maxcy Gregg was mortally wounded in the subsequent fighting. Colonel Daniel H. Hamilton took temporary command of the brigade.

The division last served together as a unit of six brigades at the Battle of Chancellorsville where soldiers of the 18th North Carolina Infantry of Lane's Brigade had the misfortune of mortally wounding Stonewall Jackson. In the same rash of firing, A.P. Hill also was wounded, though his wound proved to be minor.

Reorganization
After Stonewall Jackson's death, Lee reorganized his Army. A.P. Hill was promoted to lieutenant general and given command of the Third Corps. The composition of the Light Division was changed. Two of the brigades —- the Virginia Brigade and Archer's Brigade -— were placed in a new division under Major General Henry Heth. The remaining brigades stayed together under Major General Dorsey Pender. Heth was actually the division's senior brigade commander, but Hill preferred Pender to have command of his old division, writing "Gen. Pender has fought with the Division in every battle, has been four times wounded and never left the field, has risen by death and wounds from fifth brigadier to be its senior, has the best drilled and disciplined Brigade in the Division, and more than all, possesses the unbounded confidence of the Division."

Parts of the division were engaged on July 1 and July 3, 1863, at the Battle of Gettysburg. Here, Major General Pender was mortally wounded on July 2 as he moved to engage his men. The division fought under Major General Isaac R. Trimble in Pickett's Charge on July 3, 1863. After Pender's death, the division continued under the command of Major General Cadmus Wilcox and fought in the Battle of the Wilderness, Battle of Spotsylvania Court House, Battle of Cold Harbor and Siege of Petersburg.

Name
The first official reference to the "Light Division" was in a routine communique from Hill's headquarters on June 1, 1862, soon after he took command of the division. The division's name may have been a reference to the famous British Light Division. It may have been meant as ironic given that the division was the largest in the Army of Northern Virginia when it was formed. It may also be the case that Hill simply named the division the "Light Division" to instill a sense of speed, esprit de corps, and because he envisioned great things for it. The reasons for this name are ultimately unclear.

Notes