[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Czech and Slovak Legion

tually interned by the invading Soviets on 19 September. Others, particularly Gen. Prchala and his suite, managed to cross the Polish-Romanian border and were interned in Romania, as did also the Czechoslovak airmen who were ordered to withdraw with the remaining aircraft to Romania on 22 September.

Aftermath and significance 
Although Poland did not become a theater of a successful fight for the restoration of Czechoslovakia and the official existence of the Czechoslovak Legion was only short-lived, its impact on the morale of the emerging Czechoslovak resistance in exile and its international recognition was huge. The recognition from the French government came shortly thereafter and the Czechoslovak Army in France was officially created on 2 October 1939, though the Western front saw no action for months. The core of the army in France consisted mainly of the exiled soldiers who passed the refugees centre in Kraków or the camp in Bronowice.

After the Czechoslovak leaders in exile reached an agreement with the Soviet government in January 1941, most of the Czechoslovak soldiers were released from Soviet internment and joined the Czechoslovak units in Middle East and Africa. Their commander Lt Col. Ludvík Svoboda became member of the Czechoslovak Military Mission in USSR and after the German invasion he was commander of the 1st Czechoslovak Independent Field Battalion in USSR and later on the commander of the Czechoslovak Army Corps. On the other side, general Lev Prchala, who shortly became commander of Czechoslovak forces in Poland and successfully escaped to France via Romania, was blamed by fellow officers for abandoning his troops, got isolated, and later he became a leader of the opposition against Czechoslovak government-in-exile led by Eduard Beneš. Other notable members of the Legion include Richard Tesařík and Otakar Jaroš who later received the highest Soviet decoration (Hero of the Soviet Union), or the aces of the Battle of Britain such as Josef František.

Citations

Notes

References

Further reading 

 Legion czechosłowacki w Polsce, Śląski Instytut Naukowy, Katowice 1989

External links 
 1939 - Legion Czechosłowacki (mirror)

Expatriate units and formations of Czechoslovakia
1939
Military units and formations of Poland in World War II
Military units and formations of Czechoslovakia in World War II
Invasion of Poland
Military units and formations established in 1939
Czechoslovakia–Poland relations