[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# James H. Binger

vestment, and transfer of these assets to surviving family members.

Trivia
 Binger was part of a consortium that took control of the Minnesota Vikings American football team in 1991. In 1998, the NFL approved Red McCombs's bid to become the team's sole owner.
 Binger supported the Republican Party.

Quotations
 "I wanted to develop my own set of problems to solve" – Binger, on why he went into manufacturing and joined Honeywell 
 "Jim Binger brought the modern numbers-oriented analytical world to Honeywell, which basically had been a family-run company" – Edson Spencer, who later became chief executive of Honeywell
 "My initial purpose really was to take a headache off his shoulders, and see if I could get the theatres to a point where they could be sold for a reasonable sum. But in the meantime I found it was a fascinating business and money could be made at it. One of the big differences between running Honeywell and Jujamcyn was that theatrical decisions, such as closing a play, could be made much more quickly than major corporate moves" – Binger in a 1987 interview with The Associated Press
 "Binger created the market for Broadway here in Minneapolis. These theatres and this theater district would not be around but for Jim Binger" – Fred Krohn, who presented Binger-backed productions in Minneapolis
 "Jim was a risk-taker. There’s nothing more risky than owning racehorses and owning Broadway theatres, so he was always challenged. … He took both victory and defeat with grace" – friend, thoroughbred owner, co-investor in the Vikings and fellow Minnesotan Wheelock Whitney to the Minneapolis Star-Tribune about Binger on the announcement of his death

References

External links
 McKnight Foundation

American chief executives of Fortune 500 companies
American polo players
American racehorse owners and breeders
American theatre managers and producers
Minnesota lawyers
Businesspeople from Saint Paul, Minnesota
People from Wayzata, Minnesota
Yale College alumni
University of Minnesota Law School alumni
1916 births
2004 deaths
Deaths from colorectal cancer
Deaths from cancer in Minnesota
People from Ardmore, Pennsylvania
Honeywell people
Philanthropists from Minnesota
20th-century American philanthropists
20th-century American businesspeople
20th-century American lawyers
Minnesota Vikings owners