[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brandy v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission

enforceable. This was thought by the court to be an exercise of judicial power by a body which could not be vested with such power. This is because the HREOC was not a court in accordance with sections 71 and 72 of the Constitution and thus not a Chapter III court able of exercising judicial power.

The case of Brandy is constitutionally significant firstly because its decision re-emphasises the limited number of bodies which are permitted to exercise judicial power. The decision of Brandy emphasised the fact that non-judicial tribunals and other administrative bodies which did not constitute a Chapter III court of the constitution could not exercise judicial power. This had a twofold effect in that it halted the creation of a number of non-judicial bodies which were to be empowered with such responsibilities, as well as pre-empting the creation of another Chapter III court to manage claims of this nature, which is today known as the Federal Circuit and Family Court of Australia. The decision did have drawbacks, as the problem of inefficiency and high costs, which prompted the creation of the amendment legislation for the RDA in the first place, is still apparent. However, it seems justified as reallocating the courts power to determine such disputes and vesting it in a tribunal raises questions of fairness.

The final point of constitutional significance arising from the case of Brandy is the formulation of four guidelines in the Deane, Dawson, Gaudron and McHugh JJ judgment which allow a court to determine whether or not judicial power is being exercised. The four points are:
The determination of a controversy between parties
Which is based upon existing facts and the application of law
Resulting in the awarding of remedies
Which constitute a binding and enforceable decision

These reiterate what are considered to be key characteristics (or indicia) of judicial power. However, these are not necessarily exhaustive, but are definitely a good indicator of judicial power being exercised.

References 

High Court of Australia cases
Australian constitutional law
Separation of Powers in the Australian Constitution cases
Indigenous Australian case law
1995 in case law
1995 in Australian law