[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Return of the Living Dead: Necropolis

essfully dispatch the remaining zombies in their way. However, when the three are running for the elevator, Carlos takes too long dispatching his zombie. Another one pops out before he can get into the elevator, and Julian and Cody watch in horror as his head is eaten while the elevator doors close.

Meanwhile, Zeke, Becky, and Pyro manage to make it to the parking lot and are able to find keys to a jeep. Zeke empties his rifle before joining them in the jeep, and Becky takes out a zombie that had grabbed Jake by shocking them both with a stun gun she had brought. During all of this, Zeke is in the process of turning.

As they are driving down the road to escape, Zeke completes his transformation into a zombie and tries to eat them, causing them to crash; he retains his mind, but is driven by zombie instincts, the craving for brains.

Julian and Cody, meanwhile, go through the hallways of the facility until they find the lab where Julian's parents are kept. They find Julian's parents turned into zombies in holding tanks, and sees they have been suited up, Julian's mom with circular saws and Julian's dad with wrist-mounted mini-guns to become "uber-soldiers." At Cody's insistence, Julian reluctantly agrees to leave the room, and they get chased by zombies up to the roof. A few minutes later, Charles appears in the room with Julian’s parents and releases them from their tanks.

Julian and Cody manage to rappel down the building where, at the bottom, they encounter the zombified Mimi and Hector. Julian picks up a dead security guard's gun and tries to shoot them, but the gun turns out to be empty. Luckily for them, Katie appears in a new truck and runs the zombies over. Julian and Cody then get in the truck and they go off to find the others.

Meanwhile, Jack and Becky have gotten out of the jeep and are fending off zombies; Jake with a homemade flamethrower, and Becky with a handgun. Zeke runs towards Becky, but Jake pushes her out of the way, and has the back of his head eaten instead.

Becky punches Zeke in the face then sets him on fire with Jake's flamethrower, scaring him away. She holds off zombies with the flamethrower just before Katie arrives in the truck. They pick up Becky, and Julian reluctantly leaves behind his dead brother as they try to escape the zombies.

As they drive down the road, Julian’s dad appears and shoots the truck with the mini-gun, taking it out. After he has finished shooting, Becky gets out of the truck and throws a grenade at him, nearly destroying him. They all get out of the truck and start running, not noticing the mini-guns were still active.

They make it down the road, but encounter Zeke, who accuses Julian of making out with Katie. He then shows that Julian’s mom was there to help him take them out. Zeke starts a fistfight with Julian, while Cody and Becky dodge Julian's mom's attacks. Becky leads Julian's mom towards a power cable, where she drives the saw into the cable, electrocuting her to death. Julian, meanwhile, was losing the fistfight against Zeke who cannot feel pain, who then threw him onto the ground. Julian then revealed that he had pulled the pin to the grenade in Zeke's pocket, which blows Zeke up. Katie comforts Julian on the ground as, down the road, the remaining zombies exit the front doors of the facility.

The SWAT team arrives and shoots down the remaining horde, while also rescuing the four survivors of the group. Unfortunately, Julian’s dad reveals that he's still alive by shooting towards them with his remaining mini-gun. The SWAT team blows up Julian's dad with a tank, but it is then revealed that the zombie had hit Katie with its shots. Cody and Becky are escorted into cars while Katie dies in Julian's arms, and the full weight of everything that just happened crashes onto him, causing him to start crying.

The movie ends with the SWAT team disposing of the bodies, and Charles escaping with the barrels of Trioxin. The closing scene of the movie shows a newscaster reporting about a supposed zombie outbreak, which Hybra Tech denies. In the end, the newscaster is attacked by a zombie as the screen goes black.

Cast
 Aimee-Lynn Chadwick as Becky Carlton
 Cory Hardrict as Cody
 John Keefe as Julian Garrison
 Jana Kramer as Katie Williams
 Peter Coyote as Uncle Charles
 Elvin Dandel as Zeke Borden
 Alexandru Geoana as Jake Garrison
 Toma Danila as Carlos
 Diana Munteanu as Mimi Romero
 Serban Georgevici as Hector
 Gelu Nitu as Boris
 Claudiu Trandafir as Nicholai
 Boris Petroff as "Crusty"
 Constantin Barbulescu as Joey
 Răzvan Oprea as Darren
 Dan Astileanu as Garcia
 Lorena Lupu as Genie
 Esther Nathalie as Ms. Rayburn