[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Venues of the 2000 Summer Olympics

truction of vehicular parking sites.

Fifteen new venues were under construction by 1995, with all of them being completed in 1999. Temporary venues were added for beach volleyball and women's water polo in 2000, prior to the Olympics. 40,000 people were involved in venue construction for the Games.

The Olympic Stadium was constructed on the site of a cattle stockyard before they were sent to the slaughterhouse. Construction was delayed twice before commencing in earnest in September 1996. The stadium was completed in March 1999, and officially opened to the public three months later. The new Sydney Showground was built to replace the old Sydney Showground at Moore Park. The old Sydney Showground was first used in 1882 as part of the Sydney Royal Easter Show, but was starting to show its age by the 1970s. Construction of the new Showground at Homebush Bay began in October 1997, and was completed for the 1998 Royal Easter Show. The NSW Tennis Centre was constructed on a former home of the Australian Jockey Club from 1841 to 1869. The Sydney International Regatta Centre was constructed near a quarry in Penrith, a suburb of Sydney. It opened in July 1995, with competition starting eight months later. Penrith Whitewater Stadium was constructed following pleas to the IOC from the International Canoe Federation and French President Jacques Chirac after the sport was nearly excluded from the games. Pumps totalling  per second delivered the amount of whitewater needed for the slalom canoeing events at Penrith. Holsworthy Barracks was the original site for the Sydney International Shooting Centre, but that was changed due to the site not being available. This resulted in the organisers renovating an existing shooting range to meet International Shooting Sport Federation standards, a renovation that took eighteen months to complete. Bondi Beach was constructed as a temporary venue between March and November 2000, and took up less than twenty percent of the beach area used.

Test events at the venues ran from September 1998 to August 2000.

During the Olympics

Before the start of the women's marathon, street personnel in Sydney had to tow 137 cars that were parked along the course. Japan's Naoko Takahashi won the event.

Canoe sprint events on the last day of the Games at the Regatta Centre were delayed for six hours by up to  wind gusts. The Regatta Center also had lane markers that were damaged and an official's aluminum dinghy sinking. Eight days earlier in the men's rowing coxless four final, Great Britain's Steve Redgrave won the gold medal in his fifth straight Olympics.

The endurance course of the equestrian eventing competition led to the hospitalization of two riders and four horses being injured, including one that was subsequently put to sleep. Meanwhile, the individual jumping final was held in the midst of high winds that forced volunteers to hold down some of the top rails until a rider approached.

After the Olympics
The Olympic Stadium, now Stadium Australia, continues to be used as of 2023, though with a reduced capacity of 83,500. The stadium was reconfigured after the games, making it suitable for rectangular pitch and oval ground sports with the removal of the athletics track and the use of retractable seating. For sport, the stadium is used for regular season National Rugby League (NRL) games and the NRL Grand Final. It also hosts State of Origin home games for the NSW Blues, and Rugby Union test matches involving the Wallabies. In a deal that ran from 2009 until 2015, the stadium was also host to all home finals for the NSW Waratahs in the Super Rugby competition (the Waratah's normally play at the Sydney Football Stadium). It was also used for the Big Bash League Twenty20 cricket games, as well as some games for the Sydney Swans and Greater Western Sydney Giants of the Australian Football League (AFL) until 2015. Stadium Australia also plays host to various concerts.

The Super Dome, now known as Qudos Bank Arena, continues to play host to numerous concerts, award nights and sporting events as of 2017. It currently hosts Sydney Kings National Basketball League games, having previously done so from 1999 to 2002. It is also the alternate home of the New South Wales Swifts, who play in the Suncorp Super Netball competition, as well as hosting international netball games involving the Australia Netball Diamonds. The venue hosted the 2015 Netball World Cup, with the final attracting a world netball record attendance of 16,752. In 2001, the arena played host to the Tennis Masters Cup. The arena also plays host to world championship boxing and mixed martial arts (used as a venue by the UFC), and is the Sydney venue used on tours of Australia by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE).