[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 69]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

el of miserable wretches comfortably at dinner.
That great and worthy man is the father of all about him; he knows that
most of the diseases of the poor, originate in their want of food and
necessaries, and therefore benevolently assists them with better diet
and clothing. The rich, on the contrary, are generally the victims of
their own sloth and intemperance, and, therefore, he finds it necessary
to use a contrary method of cure--exercise, abstinence, and
mortification. You, sir, have indeed been treated like a child, but it
has been for your own advantage. Neither your bed, nor meat, nor drink,
has ever been medicated; all the wonderful change that has been produced
has been by giving you better habits, and rousing the slumbering powers
of your own constitution. As to deception, you have none to complain of,
except what proceeded from your own foolish imagination, which persuaded
you that a physician was to regulate his conduct by the folly and
intemperance of his patient. As to all the rest, he only promised to
exert all the secrets of his art for your cure; and this, I am witness
he has done so effectually, that, were you to reward him with half your
fortune, it would hardly be too much for his deserts.'

"The gentleman, who did not want either sense or generosity, could not
help feeling the force of what was said. He therefore made a handsome
apology for his behaviour, and instantly despatched a servant to Dr
Ramozini, with a handsome present, and a letter expressing the highest
gratitude; and so much satisfaction did he find in the amendment of his
health and spirits, that he never again relapsed into his former habits
of intemperance, but, by constant exercise and uniform moderation,
continued free from any considerable disease to a very comfortable old
age."

"Indeed," said Tommy, "this is a very diverting, comical story; and I
should like very much to tell it to the gouty gentlemen that come to our
house." "That," answered Mr Barlow, "would be highly improper, unless
you were particularly desired. Those gentlemen cannot be ignorant that
such unbounded indulgence of their appetites can only tend to increase
the disease; and therefore you could teach them nothing new on the
subject. But it would appear highly improper for such a little boy as
you to take upon him to instruct others, while he all the time wants so
much instruction himself." "Thus," continued Mr Barlow, "you see by this
story (which is applicable to half the rich in most countries), that
intemperance and excess are fully as dangerous as want and hardships. As
to the Laplanders, whom you were in so much pain about, they are some
of the healthiest people whom the world produces. They generally live to
an extremely old age, free from all the common diseases which we are
acquainted with, and subject to no other inconveniency than blindness,
which is supposed to arise from the continual prospect of snow, and the
constant smoke with which they are surrounded in their huts."




CHAPTER V.

     Lost in the Snow--Jack Smithers' Home--Talk about the
     Stars--Harry's pursuit of The Will-o'-the-Wisp--Story of the
     Avalanche--Town and Country compared--The Power of the Lever--The
     Balance--The Wheel and Axle--Arithmetic--Buying a Horse--History of
     Agesilaus--History of Leonidas.


Some few days after this conversation, when the snow had nearly
disappeared, though the frost and cold continued, the two little boys
went out to take a walk. Insensibly they wandered so far that they
scarcely knew their way, and therefore resolved to return as speedily as
possible; but unfortunately, in passing through a wood, they entirely
missed the track, and lost themselves. To add to their distress, the
wind began to blow most bitterly from the north, and a violent shower of
snow coming on, obliged them to seek the thickest shelter they could
find. They happened fortunately to be near an aged oak, the inside of
which gradually decaying, was worn away by time, and afforded an ample
opening to shelter them from the storm. Into this the two little boys
crept safe, and endeavoured to keep each other warm, while a violent
shower of snow and sleet fell all around, and gradually covered the
earth. Tommy, who had been little used to hardships, bore it for some
time with fortitude, and without uttering a complaint. At length hunger
and fear took entire possession of his soul, and turning to Harry, with
watery eyes and a mournful voice, he asked him what they should do?
"Do?" said Harry, "we must wait here, I think, till the weather clears
up a little, and then we will endeavour to find the way home."

_Tommy._--But what if the weather should not clear up at all?

_Harry._--In that case we must either endeavour to find our way through
the snow, or stay here, where we are so conveniently sheltered.

_Tommy._--But oh! what a dreadful thing it is to be here all alone in
this d