[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dalea searlsiae

ions with nitrogen-fixing Rhizobia bacteria. This symbiosis improves soil nitrogen content and adds to the nutritional forage quality for herbivorous animals. Commercial inoculant is available for D. searlsiae, but little research has been done to study the rhizobial-legume symbiosis of the species.

Pollination 
While the species is capable of self-pollinating in the absence of pollinators, it prefers to cross-pollinate when possible. Pollination studies have shown self-pollination leads to a significantly reduced seed count with most seeds being inviable. Presence of Searls' prairie clover leads to a diverse pollinator community in the ecosystem.

Bee species are the primary pollinator of D. searlsiae. Twenty-two species of native bees have been identified as main pollinators of Searls' prairie clover. These include species of potter bees (Anthidium spp.), bumblebees (Bombus spp.), plaster bees (Colletes spp.), and long-horned bees (Eucera and Melissodes spp.). In addition, various species of wasps, flies, and butterflies are also important non-bee pollinators.

Herbivory 
Compared to other legumes, Searls’ prairie clover is a suitable herbivore food source as it lacks toxic compounds. Domestic sheep have shown a preference for the species. Consumption of Searls’ prairie clover has been shown to be an excellent nutrient source, consisting of 17-20% crude protein, and is hypothesized to prevent bloating. As a result, overgrazing has led to a reduction in the range and distribution of Searls’ prairie clover.

Fire tolerance 
Given its habitat, it is likely Searls’ prairie clover has evolved mechanisms to survive fire stress. Plants with destroyed or damaged stems often regenerate stems that are capable of flowering later in the growing season. Furthermore, the species has been found to occur following controlled burnings indicating tolerance to fire.

Similar species 
A newly identified species, Dalea janosensis collected from Chihuahua, Mexico is morphologically similar to D. searlsiae. Both species have rose-purple coloured flowers which can cause confusion. However, D. janosensis is significantly smaller than D. searlsiae with smaller leaves and non-deciduous bracts.

When not flowering, D. searlsiae can be confused with D. cylindriceps, D. ornata, and D. flavescens. However, flower colour can easily distinguish these species. Other morphological characteristics are often unreliable if used to distinguish these species due to phenotypic plasticity.

Rangeland restoration and revegetation 
Legume species are in high demand for land revegetation and restoration efforts due to their symbiosis with nitrogen-fixing Rhizobia bacteria. The presence of legumes alongside their rhizobial symbionts is desired in restoration, revegetation, and reclamation efforts to improve soil nutrient characteristics. However, the availability of these crops for these projects are limited due to the lack of cultivation. In 2011, Bhattarai and Bushman proposed the use of Searls' prairie clover in rangeland reclamation in the southwestern USA.

Searls’ prairie clover is recommended for restoration and revegetation in regions attaining 152-356mm in annual precipitation. The rationale for using D. searlsiae in restoration projects is attributed to its rehabilitation of soil nutrient conditions and attraction of pollinators.

Cultivation and establishment of seeds 
Three phenotypic/genetic germplasms identified by Bhattarai et al. (2011) are used in land revegetation and restoration efforts. The ‘Fanny’ germplasm originates from seeds found at Patterson Pass in east-central Nevada and is recommended for USDA plant hardiness zone 5b. The ‘Carmel’ germplasm originates from the Colorado Plateau of south-central Utah and is recommended for USDA plant hardiness zone 7a. The Bonneville germplasm was sourced from NW Utah near the Nevada border in USDA plant hardiness zone 6b. However, the Bonneville germplasm was found to be a genetically distinct population and is recommended for use in northwestern Utah. Local germplasms are recommended to prevent outbreeding depression.

The three germplasms were made available by the USDA’s Agricultural Research Service for revegetation and restoration efforts. In 2015, researchers collected seeds from the regions identified by Bhattarai et al. (2011), created germplasms for future cultivation, and verified the genotype of each germplasm through genetic testing.

Planting seeds for these efforts requires pre-treatments. Allowing seeds to overwinter after planting in fall is an effective method. However, many projects use a 5-minute treatment with 98% sulfuric acid to increase germination success.

The species can grow well without irrigation. However, in drier years, irrigation of 100-200mm can be beneficial to increase yield.