[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 24]
# List of Shaman King characters

to unlimited Furyoku, but he does not have very much Furyoku though he recovers it quickly. He is one of Anatel's childhood friends and the former president of a travel agency. His spirit is a scarab beetle, who provides Nakht with exceptional defense. Nakht is named for Nakht and Nabisco's Picola.

Team Icemen
 is a squadron of shamans from the northern parts of Europe. Training and hardening their pride and duty through the cold, these shamans are notable for their teamwork, using each other's abilities to complement one another and defeat their opponents. They are Team Funbari Onsen's first opponent in the Shaman Tournament and their considerable pride is wounded when Yoh approaches them with complete confidence in his own team's abilities. Driven by the desire to prove their own worth, the revealed combined power of Yoh, Faust, and Ryu makes the Icemen realize who they were dealing with and leaving them humbler upon defeat. Because of their ice abilities, they easily befriend Horohoro, who later aids them when the Icemen are attacked by Hao's followers after their official defeat.

 
 Adult Pino Graham 
 Young Pino Graham 
 The leader of the Icemen, a druid from Ireland versed in the ancient Celtic techniques of the goddess Danu since childhood. His Guardian Ghost is , an Irish raven goddess that allows him to freeze anything. He is named for Morinaga's Eskimo Pino ice cream.

 
 
 A Russian female shaman with no real name (and appears to be named after a Russian goddess), her abilities were awakened by psychic experimentation prior to the fall of the Soviet Union. Her Guardian Ghost is , which allows her to release water against a target, usually to be frozen by Pino. Zria is named for the Zorya of Slavic mythology, as well as Gari Gari Kun ice pop's and Yuri Gagarin.

 
 
 A powerful shaman from Iceland and a descendant of Vikings. His Guardian Ghost is a Viking warrior named , which is used as the main physical muscle of the team as well as transforms into a massive ship for transport and combat. He is named for Papico ice cream products.

Team Kabbalahers
Team Kabbalahers is a team made up of the two Munzer children watched over by Mikihisa Asakura, Yoh's father, out of respect for their father Camel. A researcher working on a means to use spiritual power within a massive Golem he constructed, Camel was the last man murdered by Joco McDonnell (prior to meeting Orona and reforming into a comedian) and left the children with the Golem. Their desires are not just winning the Shaman Fight but revenge against the shaman who killed their father.