[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Radislav Krstić

rised Regiment, as well as that of the 1st and 2nd Podrinje Light Infantry Brigades. A sudden flare-up of fierce resistance by the BiH Army against all VRS axes delayed the commencement of the operation by several days, and resources were concentrated on re-acquiring territory lost in these attacks.

Srebrenica 
On 9 July, around 1700 hours, General Ratko Mladić, commander of the VRS main staff, arrived without advance notice at the forward command post in Pribicevac along with other senior VRS Generals to monitor combat operations. Once commanders radioed from the battle theater that they had accomplished their given tasks, Mladić radioed back, "[t]his is Panorama 01. You haven't accomplished your task.  Continue the attack. Enter Srebrenica. I am now in command of the forces engaged in this operation." Resistance by the Eastern Bosnia Corps' 28th Division was finally beginning to wane, and Mladić had just effectively relegated Krstić to the role of an observer. Throughout the night and the next day, the VRS pressed forward, making gains in enough key areas to control all of the needed strategic positions to take Srebrenica. It was at this point that NATO fighter pilots in F-16s began flying over the combat operations.

On 11 July 1995 the Bratunac Light Infantry Brigade, reinforced by a unit from the Vlasenica Light Infantry Brigade, began a final push into Srebrenica from the Southeast. At 1430 the two F-16s conducted air strikes against VRS tanks, inflicting some damage during the thirty-minute attack, to which Mladić responded by ordering ground troops to take air attack defense measures, such as the burning of haystacks to create smokescreens.

The Drina Wolves from the 1st Battalion of the Zvornik Brigade were the first VRS soldiers to enter the town of Srebrenica around 1600 that day.  After the area was cleared and more forces arrived, Krstić and the other Generals departed the forward command post and reassembled in Srebrenica. Mladić immediately ordered the brigade commanders to press the attack onward to Potočari and Bratunac, but after logistical and other considerations raised by Krstić and Živanović, Mladić ordered troops to hold and stabilize their present lines. That night at a meeting with Mladić, Krstić was placed in charge of infantry forces that would be conducting an overnight march toward Žepa in preparation for combat operations there. At this meeting it was also decided that Živanović would oversee the procurement of buses to remove civilians from Srebrenica to Kladanj.

Krstić visited Potočari at least once, giving a television interview. The extent of his involvement in the ensuing Srebrenica Massacre is not known. The VRS separated the adult male refugees in Potočari from the others, and the latter were loaded to buses and transported to Kladanj. The former were taken in groups to isolated locations such as Čerska Valley, Kravica warehouse, Orahovac, Branjevo Farm, Petkovci Dam and Kozluk, where they were blindfolded, and executed. According to current data, more than 3,000 were killed, with over two thousand people missing.

Seized VRS documents indicated that there were major logistical considerations provided for with regard to the fueling of transport trucks, transporting prisoners, provision of equipment to move earth for digging mass graves, as well as the assignment and provisioning of ammunition for the executions.  The following coded communication was intercepted over unsecured lines between VRS Main Staff Security Chief Ljubiša Beara and Krstić, in which Beara was requesting assistance with the disposing of prisoners:

RK: I will see what I can do, but it will disturb a lot.  Please, you have some men down there at Nastić's and Blagojević's.
LB: But I don't have any, and if I did—or if I did, I wouldn't still be asking for the third day.
RK: Check with Blagojevic, take his Red Berets.
LB: They're not there. Only four of them are still there. They took off, fuckers.  They're not there anymore.
RK: I'll see what I can do.
LB: Check it out and have them go to Drago's.  Krle, I don't know what to do anymore.
RK: Ljubo, take those MUP guys from up there.
LB: No, they won't do anything. I talked to them.  There is no other solution but those 15 to 30 men with Indjić.
RK: Ljubo, you have to understand me, too. You guys have fucked me up so much.
LB: I understand, but you have to understand me, too. Had this been done then, we wouldn't be arguing over it now.
RK: Oh, now I'll be the one to blame.
LB: I don't know what to do. I mean it, Krle, there are still 3,500 parcels that I have to distribute and I have no solution.
RK: I'll see what I can do.

Krstić then allegedly undertook to arrange that men from the Bratunac Brigade assist with the Branjevo Farm and the Pilica Dom executions.