[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National emblem of East Timor

on, Progress"), states the basic values of politics and ethics that govern the life of the nation and the people.

Previous emblems

Under Majapahit Empire (1293–1527) 
During The Time Timor was a Majapahit Tributary, the Surya Majapahit was officially assigned.

Portuguese colonial era (1935–1975) 

In 1935, the Portuguese colonies were officially assigned coats of arms that followed a standard design pattern. The three-part shield shows in the first field on silver five blue shields, each with five silver coins (quinas) forming a cross; the central element from the coat of arms of Portugal.  The arms of Portuguese Timor followed the same format of other Portuguese colonies (later overseas provinces) with the territory being represented by the black and white Dominican cross in recognition of the role played by the Dominican Order in converting the East Timorese to Roman Catholicism. The field was silver/black eightfold confessed with a silver/black fleur-de-lys cross, additionally there was a quina in the centre of the cross. In the third field there are green waves on silver.

Japanese occupation (1942–1945) 
The imperial seal of Japan was used in the territory during the Japanese occupation of Timor.

Unilateral declaration of independence (1975) 
After East Timor unilaterally declared independence on 28 November 1975, the Democratic Republic of East Timor used a national emblem similar to the current emblem that was adopted in 2007.

Indonesian occupation (1975–1999) 
Indonesia invaded East Timor on 7 December 1975, established a Provisional Government of East Timor and annexed it the following year as its 27th province of Timor Timur.

The province of Timor Timur had its own emblem which remained in use until Indonesia rescinded its annexation in 1999. The emblem, in the Indonesian heraldic style, consisted of a golden shield containing wreaths of wheat and cotton enclosing a blue roundel containing a stylised traditional Timorese holy house (uma lulik). This was surmounted by a blue shield depicting a gold star representing the faith in one God. Below the blue shield followed a red banner with the motto "Houri Otas, Houri Wain, Oan Timor Asswa'in" in Tetum translated as "From the ages past, from today, we are Timorese warriors". Below the roundel appeared a golden traditional Timorese headdress (Kaibauk) bearing the inscription "Timor Timur".

United Nations Administered East Timor (1999–2002)
United Nations Administered East Timor used the emblem of the United Nations with the legend UNTAET below for official purposes. The initial transitional administration formed in July 2000 used a logo depicting a map of Timor Island with East Timor highlighted with the words East Timor superimposed above and the legend East Timor Transitional Administration below. Following elections held August 2001, the newly established transitional government used a seal depicting an outline of the island of Timor, a crocodile, traditional head-dress and tais patterns. The seal included the words Timor Lorosa’e and Governu in Tetum or Timor Leste and Governo in Portuguese.

First post-independence emblem (2002–2007) 

The first emblem of post-independence East Timor contained the shield of the Conselho Nacional de Resistência Timorense (National Council of Timorese Resistance). The shield originated from the military arm of the Timorese resistance group, Falintil, in 1987. The main elements were two crossed Suriks (traditional Timorese swords), together with a spear, a star, and two arrows. The inner red shield takes the form of a quay buoy on the upper side. The country's title, in Portuguese, is on a blue ring around the shield and a sun with 14 rays. The motto in the banner translated as: "Honour, Homeland, and People".

Subnational emblems 
Some of the Municipalities of East Timor have adopted their own emblems.

See also
Flag of East Timor

Sources 
Law 02/2007, National symbols of Timor-Leste

References 

National symbols of East Timor
East Timor
East Timor
East Timor
East Timor
East Timor
East Timor
East Timor
East Timor