[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Giambattista Marino

a La catena d'Adone ("The Chain of Adonis"). Filippo Bonaffino also set some of his work to music in the book of Madrigals.

Later literature
Marino is the subject of the short prose fiction "Una rosa amarilla" ("A Yellow Rose") by Jorge Luis Borges. It appeared in the collection El hacedor in 1960.

Criticism
For a long time, critics, who had a negative assessment of Marino's work from the end of the 17th to the last decades of the 20th century, maintained that the poet's intention was to astound his readers through the elegance of the poem's details and his descriptions. But Adone, along with a great deal of Baroque literature, has been reevaluated, starting in the 1960s with Giovanni Getto, who was followed by the critic Marzio Pieri in 1975 and by Giovanni Pozzi in 1988, who, while denying the presence of a structure, recognised a highly refined form in the poem which he defined as "bilocal and elliptical", reflecting the "hesitation of 17th-century man between two contradictory models of the universe, the Ptolemaic and the Copernican". More recently, in 2002 Marie-France Tristan's essay La Scène de l'écriture appeared in France, stressing the philosophical element of Marino's poetry.

Bibliography
The complete works of Marino, under the title "Marino Edition" and under the editorship of Marzio Pieri and Marco Albertazzi, with the aid of Luana Salvarani, Alessandra Ruffino and Diego Varini are currently being published by "La Finestra". Volumes which have appeared so far include:

 I. Adone, ed. M. Pieri, I-III
 II. La Galeria, ed. M. Pieri and A. Ruffino.
 IV. La Sampogna con le egloghe boscarecce, ed. M. Pieri, A. Ruffino and L. Salvarani.

Notes

References
 

 
 

 External links 

Letters of Marino
Works by Marino, including the full text of L'Adone, at Italian Wikisource This article contains material translated from the equivalent article in the Italian Wikipedia''

1569 births
1625 deaths
16th-century Neapolitan people
Italian poets
Italian male poets
Marinism
Italian Baroque people
17th-century Neapolitan people
Baroque writers
17th-century Italian poets