[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Timeline of the 2008 United States presidential election

m Gilmore formally announces his candidacy for the Republican nomination. The South Carolina Democratic Party hosts a presidential debate at South Carolina State University in Orangeburg County.
April 28 – The California State Democratic Convention is attended by seven of the eight major candidates.

May 2007
May 3 – MSNBC and The Politico air a Republican presidential debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, California.
May 12 – The Wispolitics.com Republican convention straw poll is won by Senator Fred Thompson, with 31 percent of the vote. 306 votes are cast. Michael Chertoff, the Secretary of Homeland Security, announces that the United States Secret Service will provide protection for Democratic candidate Barack Obama, the earliest date at which the Secret Service has ever done so.
May 14 – Former Republican Speaker of the House of Representatives Newt Gingrich proclaims that there is a 'great possibility' that he will run for president.
May 15 – The South Carolina Republican Party hosts a presidential debate at the University of South Carolina's Koger Center for the Arts in Columbia, South Carolina.
May 20 – The Georgia Republican Convention straw poll is won by former senator Fred Thompson, with 44 percent of the vote. 429 delegates participate.
May 21 – Democratic Governor Bill Richardson of New Mexico formally and officially enters the race.

June 2007
June 3 – CNN hosts a Democratic debate in New Hampshire.
June 4 – A presidential forum hosted by Sojourners Magazine featuring Senators Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, and former senator John Edwards is broadcast on CNN.
June 5 – CNN hosts a Republican debate in New Hampshire.
June 6 – Republican candidates Senator John McCain and former Mayor Rudy Giuliani announce they will not contest the Ames Straw Poll.
June 28 – The Public Broadcasting Service host a Democratic debate at Howard University in Washington, D.C.

July 2007
July 1 – A Republican forum is held in Des Moines, Iowa, co-sponsored by the Iowa Christian Alliance and Iowans for Tax Relief.
July 2 – Facing severe financial problems, Republican candidate John McCain fires over a hundred campaign staffers and publicly considers accepting matching funds.
July 10 – John Weaver and Terry Nelson, respectively John McCain's chief strategist and campaign manager, resign.
July 12 – A Republican debate is held in Detroit, Michigan. Only Tom Tancredo attends. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People hosts a presidential forum.
July 14 – Republican candidate Jim Gilmore of Virginia announces that he is dropping out of the race for the Republican nomination.
July 23 – A Democratic debate is hosted by YouTube and CNN in Charleston, South Carolina.

August 2007

August 4 – YearlyKos holds its Presidential Leadership Forum, which is attended by seven of the eight Democratic candidates.
August 5 – A Republican debate is hosted by ABC News in Des Moines, Iowa.
August 7 – MSNBC and the AFL–CIO host a Democratic debate over labor issues in Chicago, Illinois.
August 9 – The Human Rights Campaign sponsors a Democratic forum on LGBT issues in Los Angeles.
August 11 – The Ames Straw Poll is won by Mitt Romney, with 31.5 percent of the vote. 14,302 ballots are cast.
August 12 – Tommy Thompson announces that he is dropping out of the race for the Republican nomination due to a poor showing in the Ames Straw Poll.
August 16 – Mitt Romney wins the Illinois State Fair's Republican straw poll, with 40.5 percent of the vote. 922 votes are cast.
August 19 – A Democratic debate is hosted by ABC in Des Moines, Iowa.

September 2007