[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Pascua Yaqui Tribe

dividuals is available through the Public Defender's Office. The Tribe is represented by the Attorney General's Office. All of these functions and a tribal police department are located in a modern Multi-Purpose Justice Center, which was opened in 2012.

2013 Violence Against Women Act Pilot Project

Since the Supreme Court's majority opinion in Oliphant v. Suquamish Indian Tribe, the tribal courts were forbidden to try a non-Indian, unless specifically authorized by the Congress. The passage of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (VAWA 2013) signed into law on March 7, 2013 by President Barack Obama authorized the tribal courts to try a non-Indian who is charged with domestic violence towards a Native American. This was motivated by the high percentage of Native American women being assaulted by non-Indian men, feeling immune by the lack of jurisdiction of Tribal Courts upon them. This new law generally takes effect on March 7, 2015, but also authorizes a voluntary "Pilot Project" to allow certain tribes to begin exercising special jurisdiction sooner. On February 6, 2014, three tribes were selected for this Pilot Project: the Pascua Yaqui Tribe (Arizona), the Tulalip Tribes of Washington, and the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation (Oregon).

Education
Elementary education west of the longitude 111° 5'18.74"W is served by Vesey Elementary School with the rest of the reservation served by Harriet Johnson Primary School and Anna E. Lawrence Intermediate School.  The entire reservation is served by Valencia Middle School and Cholla High School for middle and secondary education, respectively.  All schools are part of the Tucson Unified School District.

Notable tribal members
 Loretta Alvarez, midwife
 Mario Martinez, painter living in New York
 Marcos A. Moreno, physician of Psychiatry & Neurology, public health advocate, medical research scholar, first tribal member from the Pascua Yaqui Reservation to graduate from an Ivy League University, and the first Doctor of Medicine from the Yaqui's reservation community. Recipient of the national Morris K. and Stewart L. Udall Foundation award for research in medicine and public health work with under-served communities.
 Pilar Thomas, lawyer and former government official.
Brian Garcia, Tempe Union Governing Board President (former Vice-President).
Herminia Frias, youngest person and first female tribal member to become Chair of the Pascua Yaqui Indian Tribe.
Carlos Gonzales (MD, FAAFP), physician of Family Medicine, 5th generation Arizonan and beloved student mentor at the University of Arizona College of Medicine. Assistant Dean of Curricular Affairs, Associate Professor of Family and Community Medicine (Clinical Scholar Track), Director of Rural Health Professions Program. He is the Director/Creator of the Commitment to Underserved People Program (1996), a medical student-run clinic at UACOM-Tucson which helps address clinical needs to local underserved and resource-poor populations.  He also founded the annual Native American blessing tradition at UACOM-Tucson, a ceremony in which he performs a prayer to the "Seven Sacred Directions" to cleanse and honor medical students as well as the individuals who donated their bodies for the students' education.

References 

Pascua Yaqui Reservation, Arizona United States Census Bureau

External links 
Pascua Yaqui Tribal Government 
Yaqui tribal literature
Casino Del Sol and Casino of the Sun Tribal Casinos
Pascua Yaqui Tribe Trust Land Act: Report (to accompany H.R. 507)

Native American tribes in Arizona
 
Federally recognized tribes in the United States