[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# El pecado de Oyuki (TV series)

y. Studio finally managed to recreate on 20 hectares of land, several elegant quarters of Tokyo and a large temple. Complete streets were created, with lampposts, signs, pavement and a simulation of the Bullet Train of Tokyo. Cars with the steering wheel on the right side were imported from Europe..

The temple was the tallest building with 40 meters high; It was dismantled at the end of the recordings. The exteriors were filmed in Japan at the end of the recording in Mexico and then joined the scenes in the editing process. Orozco hired scenographers Cristina Martinez de Velasco and Teresa Pecannins, who managed to play all the hundreds of sets conceived on the comic book.

Also in Cuernavaca it was recorded a large percentage of the telenovela, in the scandalous and eccentric mansion of the American socialite Barbara Hutton, with materials from Thailand. Currently the house is occupied by the Hotel Sumiya.

An extraordinarily high budget was allocated for makeup and costumes, the Japanese makeup artist Takeshi Hazama was brought especially from Japan for the telenovela. Takeshi took approximately 2 hours to make up to Ana Martin.

In Tokyo several wigs for the protagonist were created, each with an approximate cost of $7,000. Twenty kimono they were made in Japan for the extras and the rest of the cast.

Busting the recordings of the telenovela Ana Martin was invited to Japan, because the Japanese Emperor wanted to personally congratulate by having played brilliantly a geisha.

Later, Martin was placed in the hands of a famous surgeon in Los Angeles, because of the damage that had her eyelids and other parts close to his eyes because of constant stretch to simulate oriental eyes.

Awards

Trivia
This was the only Mexican Telenovela dubbed in Cebuano and Hiligaynon in the Philippines from the regionals in Visayas and Mindanao, played by GMA Iloilo, Cebu and Davao.

References

External links

El pecado de Oyuki, Alma Latina, Alma Latina: Mexican Telenovela Database

1988 telenovelas
1988 Mexican television series debuts
1988 Mexican television series endings
Spanish-language telenovelas
Television shows set in Mexico City
Television shows set in Tokyo
Television shows set in Kyoto
Televisa telenovelas
Television shows based on comics