[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kenney Dam

issed in Alcan's favour with no further legal actions in effect.

On January 30, 2012, Rio Tinto Alcan finalized the transfer of approximately 11,000 acres of land to the Cheslatta Carrier Nation. The Cheslatta received the land as a form of freehold ownership with an estimated value of $1.2 million

Environmental impacts 
Construction of the dam involved flooding 32,000 acres of land in order to create the Nechako Reservoir.  This flooding impacted surrounding agricultural land and caused the loss of 8.7 million cubic meters of timber.  The reservoir also disrupted existing ecosystems, and impacted animals such as beavers, Canada geese, ducks, moose, and about 100 trumpeter swans, equivalent to one eighth of Canada's swan population. The Nechako Reservoir took four years to fill, during these four year there was no flow running from the Nechako Reservoir for 50 miles between the dam and the Nautley River. The fish left in this section of the river remained trapped and died. Local animals that relied on that section of the river were also forced to migrate. In the first two years of operation, smelter emissions from the new Aluminum plant in Kitimat were believed to have caused further forest depletion, health problems for local workers, and  harm on aquatic ecosystems.

Impacts on fisheries 
Although there was a general public acceptance of the proposed hydroelectric dam and smelter plant in the Fraser River region, the fisheries sector was outspoken about the dam's potential effects on salmon reproductive patterns. Hydroelectric development in the region was seen in the media as being disruptive to important Fraser salmon spawning areas. There were limitations to long-term streamflow and ecosystems data in the Fraser River and its tributaries, which has made specific impacts of river diversion hard to evaluate.

The staff at the IPSFC and the DFO surveyed the Nechako River and discovered that the loss of salmon spawning grounds would not be the main threat to sockeye populations in dam construction. Rather, it was the diversion of the river's natural flow that would cause the most impact to the sockeye population.  Research showed that because of the massive amount of water to be transmitted to the coast, there would be a loss of water during the spring and summer months, causing reduced flow.  Close to 100 percent of the river's estimated mean annual flow was diverted into the reservoir during the four-year period.  627 million cubic feet of water were withdrawn from the river daily. Therefore, the Nechako riverbed would be affected, as well as causing a rise in water temperatures, which would make summer migration for salmon more difficult.  In the process of dam development, water temperatures exceeded 20 degrees Celsius, and the safest levels for sockeye salmon is 14 degrees Celsius.  Although the Nechako River temperatures became too high, the dam reservoir water temperatures were too low, and contained too high of levels of nitrogen and not enough oxygen for salmon.

Due to these concerns, the  DFO asked Alcan to assist the river's flow during the summer months. Eventually both parties agreed to an extra spillway on Cheslatta Lake that would promote the natural flow of the river during these dry periods. The Cheslatta, a tributary of the Nechako, would hold a spillway and reservoir to supply the water needed in sockeye migration during the summer months.   The river regained between 60 and 70 percent of flow, three years after the spillway was implemented.

Economic impact

Energy export
Starting in the 1960s, Alcan was no longer producing energy solely for Kitimat's aluminum smelter. The company had begun selling the extra energy produced by the Kenney Dam to BC Hydro, a publicly owned company. By 1968, Alcan was producing enough energy to allow BC Hydro to delay their proposed $100 million project by 10 years. BC Hydro's proposed project would improve the power transmission system from Prince George and Smithers and it would extend the transmission system further to Terrace. In 1978, when the project went forward, Alcan was able to run energy directly into the province's power grid. Because the BC Hydro grid is linked to the North American grid, Alcan began selling energy to Alberta and the United States. In order to meet the energy demands in its new market, Alcan began diverting more water into its reservoir, resulting in lower water levels in the Nechako River. The decrease in water levels provided an increase the water temperatures. By 1980 water temperatures in the Nechako River had risen above what Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO) consider to be safe for migrating and spawning salmon. In response to the DFO studies, the federal government asked Alcan to increase water flow from the Nechako Reservoir into the river, but Alcan declined. This led to the "constitutional battle" over who controls the flow of water in the Nechako River.