[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Female slavery in the United States

cipation freed black women from slavery, it also heightened the inequality between black women and black men. No longer servants to slave owners, black women were contractual servants to their husbands due to the patriarchal principles governing the role of women in marriage.

Notable enslaved women

 Ellen Craft (1826–1897) was a slave from Macon, Georgia who posed as a white male planter to escape from slavery. She escaped to the North in December 1848 by traveling openly by train and steamboat with her husband, who acted as her slave servant; they reached Philadelphia and freedom on Christmas Day.
 Harriet Jacobs (1813 or 1815 – March 7, 1897), author of Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl, now considered an "American classic".
 Harriet Tubman (born Araminta Harriet Ross; 1820 – March 10, 1913) was an African-American abolitionist, humanitarian, and Union spy during the American Civil War. Born into slavery, Tubman escaped and subsequently made more than thirteen missions to rescue more than 70 slaves; she guided refugees along the network of antislavery activists and safe houses known as the Underground Railroad. She later helped John Brown recruit men for his raid on Harpers Ferry, and in the post-war era struggled for women's suffrage.
 Lucy Terry (c. 1730–1821) is the author of the oldest known work of literature by an African American.
 Margaret Garner (called Peggy) (c. 1833/1834–c.1858) was an enslaved African American woman in pre-Civil War United States who was notorious—or celebrated—for killing her own daughter after being captured following her escape, rather than allowing the child to be returned to slavery.
 Phillis Wheatley (May 8, 1753 – December 5, 1784) was the first African-American poet and the first African-American woman to publish a book.
 Sojourner Truth (c. 1797 – November 26, 1883) was the self-given name, from 1843 onward, of Isabella Baumfree, an African-American abolitionist and women's rights activist. Truth was born into slavery in Swartekill, Ulster County, New York. In 1826, she escaped with her infant daughter to freedom. After going to court to recover her son, she became the first black woman to win such a case against a white man. Her best-known extemporaneous speech on gender inequalities, "Ain't I a Woman?", was delivered in 1851 at the Ohio Women's Rights Convention in Akron, Ohio. During the Civil War, Truth helped recruit black troops for the Union Army; after the war, she tried unsuccessfully to secure land grants from the federal government for former slaves.

See also

 History
 Slavery among Native Americans
 Slavery in the colonial history of the United States
 Colonial American bastardy laws
 History of sexual slavery in the United States
 Enslaved women's resistance in the United States and Caribbean 
 Human trafficking in the United States
 Marriage and procreation
 History of sexual slavery in the United States
 Marriage of enslaved people (United States)
 Slave breeding in the United States
 Partus sequitur ventrem
 Children of the plantation
Other
 The Bondwoman's Narrative
 Industrial slave
 Slave insurance in the United States
 African-American Women Work Songs

References

Further reading