[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# La Matanza

resignation in 1944. In 1980, various left-wing militia groups of the Salvadoran Civil War joined forces and formed the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front (FMLN), named after Martí. The FMLN continues to exist as one of El Salvador's major political parties.

Effect on indigenous communities 

Some scholars label the mass killings of Pipil as an ethnocide, since the army used indigenous appearance, dress, and language to help designate who should be targeted. As a result, in the decades that followed, Salvadoran indigenous peoples increasingly abandoned their native dress and traditional languages for fear of further reprisals. The events brought about the extermination of the majority of the Pipil-speaking population, which led to a near total loss of the spoken language in El Salvador. Many of the indigenous people who did not participate in the uprising stated that they did not understand the motivation of the government's persecution.

Over the years since La Matanza, the recorded population willing to self-identify as indigenous has fallen to about 10 percent in the 21st century. In the decade following the uprising, military presence in the area was persistent with the objective of keeping the peasants under control so that the events did not recur. After the dictatorship of Hernández Martínez, the method of preventing peasant discontent changed from repression to social reforms which benefitted them.

Commemoration 

In the town of Izalco, the uprising is commemorated annually on 22 January. Media coverage is moderate, but the commemoration is supported by municipal authorities who pay tribute to all who were killed during the event. Speakers include people who lived through the event, and relatives of Ama.

In 2010, President Mauricio Funes apologized to the indigenous communities of El Salvador for the brutal acts of persecution and extermination carried out by previous governments. In a statement made during the inauguration of the First Congress of Indigenous Peoples, he stated, "In this context and this spirit, my government wishes to be the first government to, on behalf of the State of El Salvador, of the people of El Salvador, and of the families of El Salvador, make an act of contrition and apologize to the indigenous communities for the persecution and extermination of which they were victims during so many years".

The Jeffrey Gould directed 2002 film 1932: Scars of Memory describes the events of the uprising and subsequent massacre.

See also 

 Anti-communist mass killings
 Guatemalan genocide
 History of El Salvador
 List of massacres in El Salvador
 List of peasant revolts

Notes

References

Citations

Bibliography

Books

Journals

Web sources

Further reading

External links 

 

1932 in El Salvador
Conflicts in 1932
Mass murder in 1932
January 1932 events
20th-century rebellions
Communist rebellions
Peasant revolts
Wars involving El Salvador
Pipil
Anti-indigenous racism in North America
Genocide of indigenous peoples of North America
Racism in North America
Political history of El Salvador
Human rights abuses in El Salvador
Massacres in El Salvador
Anti-communist terrorism
Ahuachapán Department
La Libertad Department (El Salvador)
Santa Ana Department
Sonsonate Department