[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sandia Crest

f the resort to Sandia Peak Ski Area, the first recorded use of "Sandia Peak".

In 1930, the Kiwanis Group of the Civilian Conservation Corps built a stone cabin on the crest in pueblo-style architecture, overlooking the Rio Grande Valley. The ruins of the cabin are today a popular site with hikers.

in 1962, regional forester Fred H. Kennedy drafted a recreational use plan that would have dramatically developed the Sandia Mountain Wilderness for primarily recreational use. Included with the plan was Skyline Drive, a scenic highway that would have run for about  from La Madera Ski Area in the south, along the crest line to U.S. Route 85 west of Placitas, a stretch now served by New Mexico State Road 165 via Capulin Canyon. The Albuquerque Wildlife and Conservation Association, the New Mexico Department of Game and Fish, and the New Mexico Mountain Club had all registered their opposition by to the plan in 1965.  Also included with the plan were roadside recreation areas and three aerial tramways. The routing for Skyline Drive was adjusted twice at an August 8, 1966 public meeting, and by autumn of 1969,  of forest along the crest was cleared for the new road. Alarmed locals started a campaign which included postcards and petitions, and successfully halted construction. Author James A. Morris wrote of the construction of the road: 
The scar from the road clearing is still visible on the ground and in satellite images as of 2021.

In 1964, Nordhaus was inspired to build an aerial tramway from Albuquerque to the Crest after seeing other trams during a trip to Europe. Bell Engineering of Lucerne, Switzerland, was contracted to design and construct the tramway. Construction lasted two years, and was aided by over 5,000 helicopter trips. Testing took an additional 60 days. It entered service on May 7, 1966.

In 2006, the city of Albuquerque celebrated its tricentennial, and installed a display of 300 high-power LED lamps atop the Crest. The display remained on the Crest for 18 months, from April 23, 2005 to October 6, 2006.

In 2017, the US Forest Service adopted plans outlined in the Sandia Peak Ski Co.'s 2016 master plan for a "Four Seasons Activity Area" at the Crest, including a food service yurt, two ziplines, and a mountain coaster (a type of tracked sled ride), to be built in the summer of 2022. When finished, it will provide additional year-around recreation at the ski resort. The coaster would have had a station near the tramway terminal on the Crest. It would have been the first mountain coaster in New Mexico and the southernmost in the US at the time. As of August 2022, reception to the idea of a mountain coaster was mixed, in addition to high costs expected for evaluating the environmental impact on the mountain and the project was currently being shelved.

Geology

The Sandia Mountains are a fault block range, on the eastern edge of the Rio Grande rift Valley. The Sandias were uplifted in the last ten million years as part of the formation of the Rio Grande rift. They form the eastern boundary of the Albuquerque Basin. The tilting of the block is most obvious from the Crest since it slopes down gently to the east and drops of dramatically to the west. The Crest consists mainly of an outcrop of limestone overlaying the Sandia granite, with a radiometric age of 300±12 Ma.

Ecology
Sandia Crest is located in the Cibola National Forest's Sandia Ranger District. Hudsonian Life Zone coniferous forest dominates the flora present at the Crest. Tree species present on the crest include Engelmann spruce, white fir, and ponderosa pine.

Fauna that frequent the crest include elk, mule deer, New Mexico black bears, raccoons, ring-tailed cats, bobcats, and various species of squirrel. Birds present include bald eagles, Steller's jays, pinyon jays, various finches, and canyon wrens

Climate

Climbing

Sandia Crest is a popular rock climbing destination. Named climbing structures include the Shield, the Needle, and the Thumb.

See also

 List of mountain peaks of New Mexico
 Sandia Mountains
 Manzano Mountains

References

External links

Landforms of Bernalillo County, New Mexico
Mountains of New Mexico
Religious places of the indigenous peoples of North America
Landforms of Sandoval County, New Mexico
Hiking trails in New Mexico
Mountains of Bernalillo County, New Mexico
Mountains of Cibola County, New Mexico