[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jason Altmire

ie H. Sabo Jr. a former resident of Altmire's district who was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor by President Obama. Over the course of his six years in office, Altmire returned more than $1 million in unspent office funds, citing a desire to lead by example and be a steward of taxpayer money.

Altmire successfully fought to guarantee the enlistment bonuses of combat-wounded veterans, and he forced a 2007 policy change allowing Vietnam-era Gold Star families access to White House tours after a constituent was denied. He made several trips to the Middle East during his time in office, visiting U.S. troops and meeting with foreign leaders in Yemen, Iraq, and Israel, among other countries.

Altmire opposed the use of Chinese-made steel in the construction of the U.S.- Mexico border fence. Following the devastating 2010 earthquake in Haiti, Altmire helped in the rescue of two constituents and the 54 orphans under their care. He also authored the legislation that ended the late enrollment penalty for low-income seniors participating in the Medicare Part D program.

During the 2008 presidential primary election, Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton sought Altmire's support as a superdelegate. Altmire did not endorse a candidate in the race and remained neutral throughout the primary. According to the book HRC: State Secrets by Jonathan Allen and Amie Parnes, this could be a reason why Bill Clinton campaigned against Altmire four years later, when the congressman was involved in a contested primary election of his own.

Altmire voted against the Affordable Care Act on March 21, 2010; he had also voted against earlier versions of the bill. His vote on final passage of the bill was highly sought after by President Obama and Democratic congressional leaders. According to Washington Post health care policy writer CeCi Connolly, "Altmire, more than most in Congress, understood the intricacies of health-care policy. As a congressional aide in the 1990s, he had worked on Clinton's failed effort and later became a hospital executive." Days before the vote on final passage of the bill, President Obama had personally tried to persuade Altmire, telling him "I want to give you something to think about before the vote. Picture yourself on Monday morning. You wake up and look at the paper. It's the greatest thing Congress has done in 50 years. And you were on the wrong team." After leaving Congress in 2013, Altmire became the executive of a Florida health insurance company and expressed support for the Affordable Care Act.

From 2007 to 2010, he served as chairman of the House Small Business Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation, during which time he took the lead in passing through the House his legislation to help small businesses acquire private capital investment. As chairman, he introduced legislation to assist small businesses affected by deployments of employees serving in the United States National Guard. The bill garnered widespread bipartisan support and was signed into law by President George W. Bush in 2008.

Committee assignments
Committee on Education and the Workforce
Subcommittee on Higher Education and Workforce Training
Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions Subcommittee
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure
Subcommittee on Highways and Transit
Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials
Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment
Committee on Small Business
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, Chairman 2007-2010

Later career
In January 2013, Altmire began work as a lobbyist and public relations executive for the health insurance company Florida Blue. During his time there, he worked to implement of the Affordable Care Act in Florida. In 2015, he was appointed chairman of the Florida Blue Foundation, the philanthropy associated with Florida's Blue Cross Blue Shield Company. In August 2017, he left the company in order to promote his book, Dead Center: How Political Polarization Divided America And What We Can Do About It. In February 2019, Altmire was named a senior advisor to the health care consulting firm Avalere Health.

Since leaving office, Altmire has remained active in civic and national affairs, serving on several boards, including the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition, college football's Outback Bowl, and the board of trustees at Jacksonville University. In 2014, he was appointed by Florida Governor Rick Scott to serve on the state's business and economic development board.

In 2019, he helped to author a report published by the Center for the Study of the Presidency and Congress, recommending reforms to the American political system. He also co-chairs the Advisory Board for the political reform group Unite America, and is a member of the Issue One ReFormers Caucus, a group of former members of Congress dedicated to civility in politics.