[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Economic diplomacy

ican brands, actually made more money selling pizza and fried chicken in China than in the United States. But this creates jobs at headquarters in Louisville and it creates jobs as well in China. When Tom Friedman warns that the Chinese will “eat our lunch,” I'm not sure that's what he had in mind."

On the Middle East: "Consider the transitions underway in Egypt, Tunisia, and Libya. If we want to see democracy take root, which we do, we have to bring advanced tools to bear to help countries reform economic systems designed to keep autocrats and elites in power. And we know that aid alone, no matter how generous, is not enough. We need a sophisticated effort to integrate the region’s economies, to promote investment, and to assist in economic modernization. This is the logic behind the Middle East proposals that the President laid out in May, which I have been urging Congress to support. To succeed, the Arab political awakening must also be an economic awakening."

On Latin America: "we are also making it a priority to engage with the Latin American jaguars, if you can call them that, which grew by more than six percent last year. Our free trade agreements with Panama and Colombia move us closer to our ultimate goal of a hemispheric trade partnership reaching from the Arctic to the tip of Argentina."

On the Pacific Basin: "...we will continue to use the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum, which President Obama will host next month in Hawaii, to push the envelope on open, free, transparent, and fair trade across the Pacific basin."

Trump administration strategies 
The Trump administration believed that previous bilateral relationships between the US and China did not benefit the US enough, so it decided to pursue a mostly unilateral attitude towards interacting with China. This new perspective became official on Oct. 4, 2018, when Vice President Pence spoke out about how China would be pressured by the United States to change its stance on a variety of issues, including discriminatory trade barriers, forced technology transfer between US and Chinese companies, and militarization of outposts in the South China Sea. According to Brookings, the Trump administration seems to have an inconsistent high-level strategy, which resulted in US government agencies creating their own strategies for interacting with China.

In particular, the Trump administration has targeted asserted unfair treatment in trade and investment policies. For instance, China requires foreign firms to make investments through creating joint ventures with Chinese companies—especially within the telecom, finance and auto industries—and subsequent transfer of technology to the domestic companies. This can undermine the intellectual property rights of these foreign firms. Furthermore, an estimated one-third of the Chinese economy consists of state-owned enterprises that can be given preferential treatment by Chinese banks and government. Some of these institutions seem to be pursuing strategic investments globally, including in free-market nations such as the US. Thus, America and other nations are urging China to eliminate favoritism for their local companies within its domestic market.

Since 2016, the US has executed multiple actions towards China in response to the above issues. First, the government has implemented tariffs on a variety of imports, such as photographic films. Also, it has heavily scrutinized Chinese-based companies that have committed economic offenses against US interests. For example, the US Department of Commerce almost fined the Chinese telecom company ZTE for violating US-Iranian sanctions. However, Trump blocked this decision because he thought too many Chinese jobs would be lost, excessively impacting US-China relations.  While this displays the administration's ability to tackle any economic issues arising with China, it also exemplifies how inconsistent such reactions might be. The US also withdrew from some agreements intended to contain Chinese economic expansion, such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

While some believe that the Trump administration's tariffs on China may help defend American economic interests, others argue that it would escalate trade barriers between these nations and cause negative effects within the US. According to Forbes, US tariffs might be raised to impact over $200 billion worth of imports, including consumer goods and smart products (LEDs, thermometers etc).

India
India has engaged in economic diplomacy primarily through the use of trade and aid. For example, in order to build a stronger, more stable relationship with Bangladesh, India granted it an $800 million soft loan, and provided $200 million in aid.