[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Morgan Iron Works

ding monopoly in New York. He subsequently closed his Etna Iron Works, transferring the best personnel and equipment from Etna and his former competitors' premises to his newly acquired East River property, and thus turned the Morgan Works into America's premier manufacturer of marine steam engines.

In 1871, Roach bought the failed shipyard of Reaney, Son & Archbold in Chester, Pennsylvania, thoroughly modernized it, renamed it the Delaware River Iron Ship Building and Engine Works, and turned it into America's largest and most prolific shipyard, a position it maintained until the mid-1880s. In spite of the fact that the Chester shipyard had its own engine building plant, Roach retained ownership of the Morgan Iron Works, using it to build engines both for his own ships and for third party contracts, and also for ship repairs and outfitting of new vessels. Roach in fact expanded the Works for its new role, adding upholsterers for the production of ship's furniture and expanding the plumbing department. Additionally, he was able to use the Morgan Works to keep his business running during industrial action, when he would simply transfer his operations from one yard to the other.  He retained the name of the Morgan Iron Works, but made it a subsidiary of a new management company, John Roach & Son (later John Roach & Sons).

After a costly political battle over a naval contract for the  in 1885, Roach, by now a terminally ill old man, retired and placed his business empire into receivership. Following the settlement of all his debts however, his family found themselves still in possession of both the Chester shipyard and the Morgan Iron Works. Roach's oldest surviving son, John Baker Roach, took over running of the business as a whole, while his younger son Stephen became treasurer of the Morgan Works.

The brothers continued to run the business much as their father had done, although it lost the pre-eminent position it had previously enjoyed. With the death of John Baker Roach in 1908, the Roach family decided to end its association with shipbuilding, and both the Morgan Iron Works and the Chester shipyard were closed. The Morgan Works was converted into tenements, and in 1949, the locality where the Works had once stood was redeveloped into a low-rental housing project, the Jacob Riis Houses, which still exists today.

Production tables 

The following tables list marine engines built by T. F. Secor & Co. and the Morgan Iron Works to 1867. Few engines built under Roach management are listed as Roach had a second marine engine facility at Chester, Pennsylvania and available records generally do not distinguish between the output of the two plants.

Where a ship had more than one name, the names are listed chronologically in descending order, with two digits representing the last two digits of the year the rename took place (where known). Ship names in small type preceded or followed by an arrow (← →) indicate that the engine for this vessel was used in another ship.

Merchant steamship and steamboat engines

Warship engines

Footnotes

References

Bibliography

Books

Periodicals 
  
  
 
  
 The New York Times

Websites 
 Naval History and Heritage Command. United States Navy.

History of New York City
American companies established in 1838
Manufacturing companies established in 1838
John Roach & Sons
Defunct marine engineering companies of New York City
Defunct shipbuilding companies of the United States
Manufacturing companies based in New York City
1838 establishments in New York (state)