[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Kurdish nationalism

tion

The Iranian government has been facing a low-level guerrilla warfare against the ethnic secessionist Kurdish guerrilla group Party for a Free Life in Kurdistan (PJAK) since 2004. PJAK is closely affiliated with the Kurdish militant group Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) operating against Turkey.

Women and nationalism 
Kurdish women have been at the forefront of resistance, participating in armed struggles, grassroots organizing, and civil society initiatives. Their contributions have been instrumental in building a cohesive and inclusive nationalist movement that acknowledges the intersectionality of struggles and recognizes the need for an equitable society. Women have actively engaged in the nationalist struggle, demanding not only Kurdish rights but also challenging the patriarchal structures within their own communities. Kurdish women have consistently advocated for gender equality, emphasizing the need to address both national and gender-based oppressions simultaneously. Their activism has reshaped the understanding of nationalism, intertwining it with feminist perspectives and emphasizing the importance of inclusivity and empowerment for all.

Historical background 
It has been documented by Western travellers and historians that Kurdish women historically have experienced greater freedoms than other women in the Middle East. Kurdish women would ride on horseback, wield swords, wear colorful clothes, have their hair uncovered, and dance hand in hand with men. Kurdish society was mostly patriarchal before the late 20th century, however many cases of women rising to prominence, and power which has been attributed to their relative freedom and respectability in society.

Some examples of women in positions of power include Asenath Barzani, Khanzade Sultan, Black Lady Fatima, Perikhan Khatun, and Adela Khanim amongst others. Asenath Barzani was the first female rabbi in pre-modern Jewish history who became the first female head of Yeshiva. Khanzade Sultan commanded an army of forty to fifty thousand in the 17th century. Black Lady Fatima, as the chief of her tribe, commanded her four thousand horsemen into war on her Arabian thoroughbred in the 1850s. Perikhan Khatun was the renowned chieftain of the Raman tribe, whose son Émin, who was also a chieftain, was known by his mother’s name as Émin ê Perikhan (Émin of Perikhan), rather than his father’s name. Adela Khanum was the ruler of Halabja, and the chieftain of the Jaff tribe, one of the most powerful Kurdish tribes at the beginning of the 20th century. Even Osman Pasha Jaff was referred to as Adela Khanim’s husband. She has many contributions to Halabja, but also to foreign diplomacy that she is remembered by. Not only did she revitalize Halabja economically and established law and order, but she is also known as the “Princess of the Brave” by the British for accepting British captives as refugees within her house. Adela Khanim was unchallenged until her death. In some districts of Kurdistan, it was fairly common for women to rule, to the point where it was explicitly referred to in the records of Ottoman customary law.The historical openness to female leaders in Kurdish societies has been attributed as a catalyser for the contemporary standing of Kurdish women as equals in society and their feminist revolution.

20th century 
Throughout the 20th century, Kurdish women actively participated in nationalist movements, advocating for the rights and recognition of the Kurdish people. They played vital roles in various aspects against state oppression, including military and guerrilla movements, cultural preservation, social mobilization and political activism.

During the 20th century, Kurdish women actively participated in cultural and social organizations that aimed to promote Kurdish identity and nationalism. Examples are the "Society for the Advancement of Kurdish Women, that was formed in 1919 in Istanbul, and was the first organization formed by Kurdish women. Or in the context of the Republic of Mahabad, a short-lived Kurdish state established in Iran in 1946, where women were encouraged to participate in public life. The Republic promoted women's active involvement in political activities and education, fostering greater gender equality within the Kurdish nationalist movement.

Present day