[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cassington

four public houses: the Bell, Chequers, Mason's Arms and Red Lion. Worton also had a public house, the Crown. The Mason's Arms closed in 1775 and the Crown closed in 1796. The Bell was in Lower Cassington and was built in 1688. It closed in 1976 and the building in Bell Lane is now a private house.

In 1724 Henry Allnut, a lawyer of the Middle Temple in London who had owned one of the manors at Cassington and had an estate at Goring Heath in South Oxfordshire, left a continuing income from his estate to teach, clothe and apprentice boys from five parishes including Cassington. Allnut also founded a set of almshouses at Goring Heath. Allnut's charity maintained a small school for boys at Cassington throughout the 18th century. By 1831 the Vicar of St Peter's had established a day school that incorporated Allnut's charity, and in 1853 the building of a new schoolhouse beside upper Cassington green was funded jointly by the parish, Christ Church and the Allnut charity. The new school was a National School by 1866 and was enlarged in 1876. In 1926 it was reorganised as a junior school, with older children going to Gosford Hill School. In 1973 the school moved to new buildings adjacent to the old one, which became a private house. It is now St Peter's Church of England primary school and occupies an adjacent modern school building

Between 1800 and 1802 the 4th Duke of Marlborough, who was a shareholder in the Oxford Canal, built the Cassington Cut, a "broad" canal about  long linking the Thames with a wharf about  southwest of the village. The wharf had its own public house, The Barge, which was open between 1804 and 1872.  In 1861 the Witney Railway was built past Cassington, linking  with the Oxford, Worcester and Wolverhampton Railway at nearby . This may have contributed to the decline of the Cut, which seems to have become disused by about 1870. The Barge public house closed at the same time or shortly afterwards.  In 1935 the stretch of the A40 road between Wolvercote and Eynsham was built through the parish past Cassington village. In 1936 the Great Western Railway opened  just southeast of the village. It served the village until British Railways withdrew passenger trains from the Witney Railway in 1962.

Reopening the railway
In February 2015, the Witney Oxford Transport Group proposed the reopening of the station as an alternative to improvements to the A40 road proposed by Oxfordshire County Council.  There is a strong case to reopen the railway given the severe traffic congestion on the roads to and from Oxford.

Amenities

Cassington's two remaining public houses are the Chequers and the Red Lion, on opposite sides of Upper Cassington green. In the early 2000s the Chequers was demolished and rebuilt by a redevelopment team led by Stephen Ibbitson, alongside a row of new houses and a village hall. It is owned independently, previously controlled by the Young's pub company. The Red Lion remains in its original building, complete with a stone-lined well visible inside the building.  There is a small newsagent in the village but there are no other shops - the part-time Post Office has also closed.

Cassington Football Club played in the Witney and District Football Association  Premier League but the club was dissolved in 2009. The Elms Road sports field is still used for football and cricket. Oxford Rescue and Cassington Cricket Club belonged to the Oxfordshire Cricket Association, but in May 2014 due to a shortage of players the club withdrew from the OCA and dissolved itself.  Cassington has a Women's Institute.

Cassington Bike Night

The British Motorcycle Riders' Club (Oxford) meets at the Red Lion. On the last Monday of June the village holds its annual Bike Night on Upper Cassington village green. Several thousand motorcyclists fill the village to see a static display of hundreds of historic British motorcycles. St Peter's School, the Women's institute, the village's pre-school playgroup and a Scout troop from nearby Eynsham all raise funds from the event.

References

Sources and further reading

External links

 Cassington Parish Council
 

Civil parishes in Oxfordshire
Villages in Oxfordshire
West Oxfordshire District