[Source: PubMed]

95. Health Secur. 2020 Jan;18(S1):S34-S42. doi: 10.1089/hs.2019.0089.

Leveraging Partnerships to Maximize Global Health Security Improvements in 
Guinea, 2015-2019.

Standley CJ(1), MacDonald PDM(1), Attal-Juncqua A(1), Barry AM(1), Bile EC(1), 
Collins DL(1), Corvil S(1), Ibrahima DB(1), Hemingway-Foday JJ(1), Katz R(1), 
Middleton KJ(1), Reynolds EM(1), Sorrell EM(1), Lamine SM(1), Wone A(1), Martel 
LD(1).

Author information:
(1)Claire J. Standley, PhD, is Assistant Research Professor; Aurelia 
Attal-Juncqua, MSc, is Senior Research Associate; Rebecca Katz, PhD, is 
Professor and Director; and Erin M. Sorrell, PhD, is Assistant Research 
Professor; all at the Center for Global Health Science and Security, Georgetown 
University, Washington, DC. Pia D. M. MacDonald, PhD, is Senior Director; 
Jennifer J. Hemingway-Foday, MPH, is a Research Epidemiologist; and Eileen M. 
Reynolds, MA, is Senior IT Project Manager; all at RTI International, Research 
Triangle Park, NC. Alpha Mahmoud Barry, DrPH, is Professor and Executive 
Director, University of Conakry and Santé Plus Organization, Conakry, Guinea. 
Ebi Celestin Bile, MSc, is Team Lead, IDDS Project, IDDS West Africa-Guinea, 
FHI360, Conakry, Guinea. Doreen L. Collins, MPH, is Director, Global Project 
Management, FHI Clinical, Durham, NC. Salomon Corvil, MD, is FETP-Guinea 
Resident Advisor, AFENET, Conakry, Guinea. Diallo Boubabar Ibrahima, MPH, is 
Chief of Party, RTI International, Conakry, Guinea. Kathy J. Middleton, MPH, is 
a Public Health Advisor, and Lise D. Martel, PhD, is Guinea Country Director; 
both with the Division of Global Health Protection, Center for Global Health, 
the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA. Soumah Mohamed 
Lamine, MD, is an Emergency Management Technical Assistant, and Abdoulaye Wone, 
MD, is Public Health Coordinator; both with the International Organization for 
Migration, Conakry, Guinea. The findings and conclusions in this report are 
those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official position of 
the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

In response to the 2014-2016 West Africa Ebola virus disease (EVD) outbreak, a 
US congressional appropriation provided funds to the US Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC) to support global health security capacity building 
in 17 partner countries, including Guinea. The 2014 funding enabled CDC to 
provide more than 300 deployments of personnel to Guinea during the Ebola 
response, establish a country office, and fund 11 implementing partners through 
cooperative agreements to support global health security engagement efforts in 4 
core technical areas: workforce development, surveillance systems, laboratory 
systems, and emergency management. This article reflects on almost 4 years of 
collaboration between CDC and its implementing partners in Guinea during the 
Ebola outbreak response and the recovery period. We highlight examples of 
collaborative synergies between cooperative agreement partners and local Guinean 
partners and discuss the impact of these collaborations in strengthening the 
above 4 core capacities. Finally, we identify the key elements of the successful 
collaborations, including communication and information sharing as a core 
cooperative agreement activity, a flexible funding mechanism, and willingness to 
adapt to local needs. We hope these observations can serve as guidance for 
future endeavors seeking to establish strong and effective partnerships between 
government and nongovernment organizations providing technical and operational 
assistance.

DOI: 10.1089/hs.2019.0089
PMCID: PMC11323542
PMID: 32004131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]