[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# W50 (nuclear warhead)

The W50 (also known as the Mark 50) was an American thermonuclear warhead deployed on the MGM-31 Pershing theater ballistic missile. Initially developed for the LIM-49 Nike Zeus anti-ballistic missile, this application was cancelled before deployment. The W50 was developed by Los Alamos National Laboratory. The W50 was manufactured from 1963 through 1965, with a total of 280 being produced. They were retired from service starting in 1973 with the last units retired in 1991.

There were two major variants produced: the Mod 0 for Nike Zeus and the Mod 1 for Pershing. Three yield options were available: the Y1 with , Y2 with , and Y3 with . All variants were  in diameter at the attachment flange and  long, weighing .

History
The W50 warhead traces its origins to a 1955 proposal that became the Nike Zeus missile. Bell Telephone Laboratories were tasked with evaluating future air defense problems in the 1960 to 1970 time frame, which led to the Nike Zeus proposal. This study showed that a nuclear warhead was mandatory to defeat threats such as Intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) moving at , and that even with a  warhead, the maximum possible kill distance to a target was still quite low.

The assistant secretary of defense was anxious to establish an early anti-ballistic missile capability and requested that the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC - now the Department of Energy) work with the army on a feasibility study of suitable nuclear warheads for Nike Zeus. This group first met in June 1957. The missile was expected to be able to carry a warhead of about  weight.

Due to the complexity of the task, the study group split the work into two phases. In the first phase, mechanisms which would kill enemy warheads were examined, as would the lethal radii for those mechanisms for various yields. It was believed that these values could not be adequately defined for another two years as tests of target vulnerability and the practical limits of warhead hardening needed to be performed. This included the requirement to perform many flight tests to establish reentry vehicle (RV) vulnerability. The earliest operational availability date was expected to be 1962.

In the second phase, a warhead designed to meet the requirements determined in phase one would be developed. It was believed that specific warhead requirements should not be tied down as advantage should be taken of design improvements made over the following two years. The proposal to delay detailed warhead design until 1959 was accepted in late June 1957.

Concurrently, interest in the proposed Pershing missile had increased and in January 1958, a meeting was held to discuss a nuclear warhead for the system. Operational availability was planned for July 1962 with flight tests starting in August 1960. Both Los Alamos and Lawrence Radiation Laboratory (now Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory) stated that warheads in the weight and yield requirements were possible on the given timescales. A feasibility study of the Pershing warhead was released in February 1958.

The division of military application (DMA) expressed concern in February 1958 about the number of weapons programs that Livermore were working on with planned operational availabilities in the 1960 to 1962 time frame. They were concerned about Livermore's workload, specifically with planned acceleration and increased prioritization of the W47 warhead for Polaris, and therefore believed that the Nike Zeus warhead should be assigned to Los Alamos. Formal authorization to develop a warhead for Nike Zeus was received on 3 March 1958.

In March 1958, another application for the warhead was proposed on the Minuteman missile. Warheads of  and  were planned, and expected operational availability was mid-1962. In May 1958 a Minuteman warhead study was completed with use of the same warhead as Nike Zeus suggested. Meanwhile for Pershing, two warheads of  and  were considered. For the  design, a diameter of  and a length of  was proposed and for the heavier warhead design, a diameter of  and a length of  was proposed.

In June 1958, the DMA then suggested that a single warhead be developed for Nike Zeus, Minuteman, Pershing and Hopi (a short lived air-to-surface missile proposal). This suggestion was accepted. The proposed specifications for this "universal warhead" were a diameter of , a length of  and a weight of .

During 1958, candidate nuclear warhead designs were tested by Los Alamos during Operation Hardtack I. These included the shots Tobacco (30 May 1958, ), Sequoia (1 July 1958, ) and Pisonia (17 July 1958, ). Tests of missile components against the effects of nuclear explosions were conducted in the shot Cactus (5 May 1958, ). As devices directly applicable to Pershing were being tested in Hardtack, it was decided that release of a study of two warheads being considered would be deferred until after the tests.