[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Joe Arpaio

d that they would press criminal contempt of court charges against Arpaio. On October 25, 2016, such charges were officially filed, though Arpaio would not be arrested and no mugshot would be taken. The charges were filed just two weeks before an election in which Arpaio was running for re-election.

On July 31, 2017, Arpaio was found guilty of criminal contempt of court. U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton wrote that Arpaio had "willfully violated an order of the court" by failing "to ensure his subordinates' compliance and by directing them to continue to detain persons for whom no criminal charges could be filed." Arpaio was scheduled to be sentenced in October 2017.

Presidential pardon 

On August 25, 2017, President Donald Trump pardoned Arpaio for his conviction for criminal contempt of court, a decision that provoked considerable controversy. The pardon covers Arpaio's conviction and "any other offenses under Chapter 21 of Title 18, United States Code that might arise, or be charged, in connection with Melendres v. Arpaio."

Trump also announced his decision on Twitter, declaring that Arpaio is an "American patriot" who had "kept Arizona safe." Arpaio expressed his thanks to the President in a series of tweets and to his "loyal supporters."  Arpaio also declared that his conviction was "a political witch hunt by holdovers in the Obama justice department!" The Washington Post fact-checker gave the claim "Four Pinocchios" (its worst rating), noting that Arpaio was convicted by two federal judges: a Bush-appointed federal judge, and a federal judge respected by both Republicans and Democrats. Attorneys for Arpaio have stated that they are moving for his case to be dismissed in light of the pardon.

Reactions to pardon 
Arizona Governor Doug Ducey was among the politicians praising the pardon, crediting Arpaio with helping to reduce crime over a long career, and Ducey also welcomed the finality that the pardon gave to the whole matter.  The pardon was strongly criticized by Arizona Senator John McCain as Arpaio had expressed no remorse for his actions. Arizona Senator Jeff Flake and House Speaker Paul Ryan signaled their opposition to the pardon.

A number of law professors and political scientists described the pardon as troubling and unusual. Several experts on authoritarianism described the pardon as illiberal and said that it undermined the rule of law.

Subsequent proceedings 
After the pardon, Arpaio filed a motion to vacate his conviction for criminal contempt. District judge Susan R. Bolton denied the motion.  She held that Trump's pardon "undoubtedly spared Defendant from any punishment that might otherwise have been imposed. It did not, however, 'revise the historical facts' of this case."  Arpaio's attorneys said that he would probably appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.  One of the American Civil Liberties Union attorneys who had represented the plaintiffs in the underlying racial-profiling case agreed with the denial of Arpaio's motion, stating, "The court made detailed findings after a bench trial about Joe Arpaio's criminal conduct. The court's findings and documents in the record of the case should stand and now will stand."

The legal status of the pardon continued to be challenged. Although the federal prosecutors did not contest its validity, some legal groups challenged the pardon as unconstitutional.

In 2018, Arpaio sued The New York Times, the HuffPost, Rolling Stone, and CNN, alleging that their analyses of Arpaio's proceedings had defamed him. These suits were dismissed by a federal judge, who ruled that Arpaio failed to prove actual malice.

Election results

2000

2004

2008

2012

2016

Failed recall petitions, 2007 and 2013
In November 2007, a group calling itself Arizonans for the U.S. Constitution and Recall of Joe Arpaio filed the paperwork to begin an effort to recall Arpaio and County Prosecutor Thomas from office for allegedly disobeying and violating the United States Constitution and abuse of power. Their petition to get a recall question for the two officials onto the next general election ballot failed when the group was unable to collect the more than 200,000 registered voter signatures required. In a survey taken by the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication, while the petition was in circulation, nearly three out of four respondents opposed the recall, and 65 percent of the respondents held a positive opinion of Arpaio.

On May 30, 2013, a recall attempt on Arpaio again failed only a week after a federal judge ruled that the sheriff's office had engaged in systematic discrimination against Latinos in violation of their constitutional rights. Members of Respect Arizona and Citizens for a Better Arizona started the recall effort, but were unable to get the required 335,000 valid voter signatures by the 5 p.m. deadline.

Campaigns for other public offices