[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Koreans in China

Koreans in China () includes non-Chinese nationalities such as South Korean and North Korean people living in Mainland China to study abroad or business, such as Thae Yong-ho. According to the Korean government, pouplation of Korean with Chinese nationality, South Korean, North Korean in China is 2,109,727 in 2023. For this reason, ethnic Koreans with Chinese nationality or citizenship are termed Korean Chinese (), Joseonjok, Chosŏnjok (), and their official name in China is Chaoxianzu (). They are the 13th largest officially-recognized ethnic minority group in China. 
Most of Korean Chinese live in Yanbian and Changbai within Jilin province. Significant populations can also be found in Heilongjiang, Liaoning, and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, with a sizable expat community in Shanghai.

Their total population of Chaoxianzu is 1,702,479 according to the 2021 Chinese government census. High levels of emigration to the Republic of Korea for better economic and financial opportunities have contributed to a decrease in their numbers in China. Conversely, it is estimated that 42% (Approximately 708,000) of this Korean Chinese population now resides in Korea, maintaining their Chinese nationality. They are called Jaehan Joseonjok () or Zaihan Chaoxianzu ().

Koreans in China is the second largest ethnic Korean population living outside the Korean Peninsula, after Korean Americans.

Terminology
In South Korea, the terminology describing this demographic has evolved in recent years to adopt a more inclusive tone. Government regulations from 2004 prescribe the use of the terms "jaeoe dongpo" (Korean: 재외동포; Hanja: 在外同胞; lit. "compatriots residing abroad") and "jungguk dongpo" (Korean: 중국동포; Hanja: 中國同胞; lit. "compatriots in China"). The term "Jaejung Hanin" (Korean: 재중한인; Hanja: 在中韓人; lit. "Koreans in China") is considered the most appropriate descriptor for Koreans in China without taking nationality into account.

Additionally, the term "joseon-jok" (Korean: 조선족; Hanja: 朝鮮族; lit. "Joseon ethnicity") is often used to refer to Koreans in China who have Chinese nationality. This terminology parallels "Chaoxianzu," which is predominantly utilized in mainland China and stands as the official designation for this ethnic minority, as stipulated by the Chinese government.

History
Due to the geographic proximity between China and the Korean Peninsula, population migration of some kind has often occurred throughout history. However, most early ethnic Koreans in China had been assimilated by the Han Chinese, Manchus and Mongols. Thus, the overwhelming majority of today's ethnic Korean population in China are descendants of recent Korean arrivals.

Early history 
After the conclusion of the Goguryeo–Tang War CE 645 - 668, over 200,000 Korean prisoners from Goguryeo were transported by the victorious Tang forces to the Chinese capital Chang'an.

During the 8th and 9th centuries since Silla, large Korean communities in China settled on the Shandong Peninsula and at the mouth of the Yangtze River.

Liao to early Qing era 
According to records of History of Liao (), Khitans set up a Samhan county, in Zhongjing Circuit (中京道), one of the Liao's 5 "circuits", after Goryeo–Khitan War to settle prisoners of wars. In the Yuan dynasty, Koreans were included along with Northern Chinese, Khitan and Jurchen in the third class, as "Han people". Korean settlements in the Yuan Dynasty were mostly war-related. In 1233, former Goryeo commander Hong Bok-won and his followers moved to the current-day Liaoyang and Shenyang areas of Liaoning Province in Northeast China after his surrender to the Mongols during the Mongol invasions of Korea, and was offered an administrator position to take charge of Korean population there. In the next years, another ten thousand Goryeo households were brought under his administration. In 1266, Wang Jun (), a member of the Goryeo royal family, was sent to the Mongol Empire as a hostage. There were 2,000 Goryeo households accompanying him and settling down in the current-day Shenyang city.

The Korean population in China surged during the Ming dynasty. According to Chronicles of Liaodong (), Koreans and Manchus accounted for 30% of the total local population in Northeast China. In 1386, the Ming government set up the Dongningwei () and Guangningwei () to settle the increasing Korean population. Between the mid-15th century and the early 16th century, the Liaodong Peninsula experienced a peaceful and prosperous era. Favorable policies were carried out towards ethnic minorities in areas like Dongningwei (). Many Koreans moved from the Korean Peninsula to Northeast China to enjoy such favorable policies. However, as the rising power of Jianzhou Jurchens grew stronger and stronger, Koreans began to move out of Dongningwei (). In 1537, the Korean population in Dongningwei () had decreased by 60%.