[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Child soldiers in Sri Lanka

e war neared its end recruiting children as young as 11 and threatening to shoot children that retreated. However many managed to run away under fire from the LTTE and according to the UNICEF  a total of 594 children aged between 12 and 18 years surrendered to armed forces during the end of the war.

TMVP Paramilitary Recruitment and State Involvement
Since the defection of the LTTE Eastern Commander Colonel Karuna to the Government of Sri Lanka in 2004, the TMVP known as the Karuna Group (A Tamil paramilitary group which supports the Sri Lankan government), has been held responsible for the abduction of children according to UNICEF and Human Rights Watch. Allan Rock, who is a special advisor to the UN Special Rapporteur for Children and Armed Conflict Dr. Radhika Coomaraswamy, alleged that government forces had forcibly rounded up young Tamil children to fight with Col Karuna's group. Colonel Karuna, while categorically denying any involvement in abducting children, questioned Rock's impartiality, stating that Allan Rock is a former politician with links to the LTTE who had previously helped the LTTE in Canada. Civilians have also complained that the TMVP is continuing to abduct children, including some in their early teens, for use as soldiers. Allan Rock vowed that he had "credible evidence" for the accusations. The government of Sri Lanka and the Government newspaper Daily News asked Mr. Rock to produce substantive proof that Sri Lankan soldiers collaborated in child soldier recruitment. 2008 report by the United Nations stated that TMVP continued to recruit children. The UN further noted that children have been abducted in places like Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps in Sri Lanka.

See also
Military use of children
Government of Sri Lanka
LTTE
Colonel Karuna

References

Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam
Human rights abuses in Sri Lanka
Military sociology
Child labour
Sri Lanka
Human rights abuses