[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Definitions of fascism

ing them within special sections of the party and/or within a corporate system. Access to these organizations and to the benefits they confer upon members depends on the individual's national, political, and/or racial characteristics. All aspects of fascist policy are suffused with ultranationalism.

Robert Paxton 
Robert Paxton, a professor emeritus at Columbia University, defines fascism in his 2004 book The Anatomy of Fascism as:
A form of political behavior marked by obsessive preoccupation with community decline, humiliation or victimhood and by compensatory cults of unity, energy and purity, in which a mass-based party of committed nationalist militants, working in uneasy but effective collaboration with traditional elites, abandons democratic liberties and pursues with redemptive violence and without ethical or legal restraints goals of internal cleansing and external expansion.

In the same book, Paxton also argues that fascism's foundations lie in a set of "mobilizing passions" rather than an elaborated doctrine. He argues these passions can explain much of the behaviour of fascists:
 a sense of overwhelming crisis beyond the reach of any traditional solutions;
 the primacy of the group, toward which one has duties superior to every right, whether individual or universal, and the subordination of the individual to it;
 the belief that one’s group is a victim, a sentiment that justifies any action, without legal or moral limits, against its enemies, both internal and external;
 dread of the group’s decline under the corrosive effects of individualistic liberalism, class conflict, and alien influences;
 the need for closer integration of a purer community, by consent if possible, or by exclusionary violence if necessary;
 the need for authority by natural chiefs (always male), culminating in a national chieftain who alone is capable of incarnating the group’s historical destiny;
 the superiority of the leader’s instincts over abstract and universal reason;
 the beauty of violence and the efficacy of will, when they are devoted to the group’s success;
 the right of the chosen people to dominate others without restraint from any kind of human or divine law, right being decided by the sole criterion of the group’s prowess within a Darwinian struggle.

Stanley G. Payne 
Historian of fascism Stanley G. Payne created a lengthy list of characteristics to identify fascism in 1995: in summary form, there are three main strands. First, Payne's "fascist negations" refers to such typical policies as anti-communism and anti-liberalism. Second, "fascist goals" include a nationalist dictatorship and an expanded empire. Third, "fascist style", is seen in its emphasis on violence and authoritarianism, and its exultation of men above women, and young above old.

 A. Ideology and Goals:
 Espousal of an idealist, vitalist, and voluntaristic philosophy, normally involving the attempt to realize a new modern, self-determined, and secular culture
 Creation of a new nationalist authoritarian state not based on traditional principles or models
 Organization of a new highly regulated, multiclass, integrated national economic structure, whether called national corporatist, national socialist, or national syndicalist
 Positive evaluation and use of, or willingness to use, violence and war
 The goal of empire, expansion, or a radical change in the nation's relationship with other powers
 B. The Fascist Negations:
 Antiliberalism
 Anticommunism
 Anticonservatism (though with the understanding that fascist groups were willing to undertake temporary alliances with other sectors, more commonly with the right)
 C. Style and Organization:
 Attempted mass mobilization with militarization of political relationships and style and with the goal of a mass single party militia
 Emphasis on aesthetic structure of meetings, symbols, and political liturgy, stressing emotional and mystical aspects
 Extreme stress on the masculine principle and male dominance, while espousing a strongly organic view of society
 Exaltation of youth above other phases of life, emphasizing the conflict of the generations, at least in effecting the initial political transformation
 Specific tendency toward an authoritarian, charismatic, personal style of command, whether or not the command is to some degree initially elective

Jason Stanley 
In 2020, National Public Radio interviewed Jason Stanley, a professor of philosophy at Yale University, regarding his book How Fascism Works: The Politics of Us and Them. Stanley defined fascism as "a cult of the leader who promises national restoration in the face of humiliation brought on by supposed communists, Marxists and minorities and immigrants who are supposedly posing a threat to the character and the history of a nation" and further observed that "The leader proposes that only he can solve it and all of his political opponents are enemies or traitors."