[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# T.I. vs. T.I.P.

e act a certain way one time and another way one another time. They might not believe the same cat you see dressed so sharp and winning awards and speaking eloquently is the same cat you see fist-fighting with hoodlums outside a nightclub. This album will be an explanation of all of this" he states.

On April 12, 2007 T.I. stated that he was just about done with his T.I. vs. T.I.P. album. He's stated already that he recorded with Eminem, Nelly and Ciara among other guest stars, and the first single is ready to hit radio, officially debuting April 17, 2007 the song is another collaboration for the King of the South and Mannie Fresh and was called "Big Things Poppin' " — the clean version of the record, anyway. T.I. stated "Big Shit Poppin' is really just him talking to these people who say things and can't back it up," T.I. said, referring to the song's title as it will probably appear on the album. Mannie Fresh stated that he and T.I. clique up and the songs are magic, who's was in Atlanta working on a bunch of LPs that T.I. was overseeing, like B.G.'s new album. T.I.P. even has co-production credit on "Big Things Poppin'". The songs we're doing for his album are definitely right, yes indeed Mannie Fresh added. The beat Mannie Fresh and his accomplice came up with is another energetic brouhaha in step with some of their proven street ditties such as "Top Back". One of the more recent sessions he held for the album was with Eminem, someone who has his own dual-identity issues. T.I. stated that it was an experience, about working with Eminem. T.I. also stated that Eminem is probably one of the most lyrical cats in the game right now. T.I. stated being known as one of the most lyrical cats in the game, he stated that he had to get himself up. also stating He lived up to all his expectations. He's a rappin' fool. T.I. stated that Eminem made him step his game up. T.I. stated that he did three records with Eminem. T.I. said that he did one for him. You know how Marshall Mathers and Slim Shady have their beefs? Well on that song, T.I. is trying to tell Marshall how to deal with Slim based on how he deals with Tip. Then Tip butts in, like, 'You can't tell nobody nothing.' Then Em comes in and tells me, 'Who are you to tell me anything?' I was like, 'I'm just trying to help, homie, T.I. added. Their other two collaborations could end up on T.I. vs. T.I.P., including a song called "Touchdown".

T.I. also stated it's out of Eminem's norm, if Eminem has a norm," T.I. said of the track. T.I. stated it's a record you wouldn't expect to hear him on, kinda like how you heard him on 'Smack That' for Akon or [Em's] 'Shake That' with Nate Dogg. You'll be like, 'OK, he's switching it up.' ['Touchdown' is] basically [him] talking about when you touch down in everybody's city, what you do. Hit the mall, buy a car or leave the club with all the girls. We have yet to finish that one. T.I. stated the one we finished is 'Whatever You Want It to Be,' " he added. "It's saying, 'I'm a man, if I ain't nothing else. Before I'm a rapper, before I'm anything else, I'm a man. If you don't respect that, it can be whatever you want it to be.' The producer Tip went the most in-depth with for this project, however, was — of all people — Wyclef Jean. It has yet to be determined if all their records will make the cut, but two front-runners are "Swagger" and "U Know What It Is". T.I. stated that you can quote me," Tip burst out with a grin. " 'U Know What It Is' will tear the clubs up this summer." T.I. stated that he and Wyclef got together over a weekend, he explained about the collaborations. "We wasn't on each other's itinerary to work with each other. He hit me one day when I was in L.A. and was like, 'I gotta come to Atlanta. You got anywhere I can record?, T.I. graciously turned over the main room in his studio and it was on from there. T.I. came home about a day into Wyclef's sessions and immediately started snatching up tracks for himself. T.I. stated he started pulling up beats and he was like, 'Who is that for?' He said, 'You, if you want it.' We wound up knocking seven songs from Friday to Monday. It's just us having a good time. We just bonded, T.I. added.

Show It 2 Me," which features Nelly, sounds like it could easily be a sequel to their previous teaming on Urban Legend's "Get Loose." The two go back and forth at points and Nelly uses an old-school flow like UTFO on "Roxanne Roxanne." Lil Wayne appears on "Yeah" and drops lines such as, "I'm flyer than a vampire. T.I. also stated Andre 3000 could also possibly check in, on a song called "Life of the Party." On that track, Tip talks about maturity, why he's now "too grown to be the life of the party," and how he has no time to argue with bouncers, overzealous fans or pestering playa haters. On May 16, 2007 T.I. stated that he was putting the final touches on his forthcoming personality-splitting project, T.I. vs. T.I.P.

Music