[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Burn Cycle

Burn Cycle (stylized as Burn:Cycle) is a 1994 point-and-click adventure video game for the CD-i that incorporates full motion video and is set in a surrealist  cyberpunk world. The game follows Sol Cutter, a computer hacker and data thief, whose latest theft causes a virus named Burn Cycle to be implanted in his head. The game features a two-hour countdown timer to defuse the virus, with the player jumping back and forth between a fictional ingame virtual reality world known as the Televerse in order to destroy the Burn Cycle virus and solve the mystery of its creation.

The game was re-released for personal computers in 1995. In 1996 Philips Interactive Media announced that all of their CD-i games would be ported to the Sega Saturn and Sony PlayStation during the third quarter of 1996, starting with Burn Cycle. However, these ports were never released.

Gameplay
The game is generally played in a first-person point and click style, similar to games like Myst and The 7th Guest. This is interspersed with various minigames, puzzles, and skill sequences, which the player must complete to progress. Failing certain minigames or puzzles, like the opening escape from the Softech building, will cause a game over.

At any point, the player can bring up a menu showing the remaining time before the Burn Cycle virus wipes Cutter's mind, which decreases in realtime during gameplay. From this screen, the player can save the game anywhere, and Cutter gives hints and additional information in monologue as to where to go next. When the timer reaches zero, the virus will activate, killing Sol Cutter.

The amount of time on this clock can be extended by trading for treatment drugs with Zip, an underground cybertechnology dealer at the Zero Sum Bar. Various electronic tools and keys can be collected throughout the game's world, which can either be traded or used to progress the story. The goal of the game is to fully cure Cutter of the Burn Cycle virus, and figure out why he was infected with it in the first place.

Story 
Sol Cutter is a former corporate operative and current small-time data thief in an unnamed metropolis who acts as a courier for stolen data using a hard drive surgically implanted in his brain. As the game opens, Cutter is on a job; breaking and entering into the corporate offices of SoftTech, his former employers, when a shock blasts him across the room. Cutter realizes his mind has been infected with a virus called Burn Cycle which will kill him in two hours. With the help of his girlfriend Kris, who is guiding him from outside the complex, Cutter barely escapes, but Kris is shot in the back and killed.

Cutter makes his way to into the city and withdraws funds from a virtual bank (which doubles as a new age style church). Realizing that his hotel room is being watched, Cutter instead makes his way to the Zero Sum Bar to deal with Zip, his friend and colleague who is strung out on "Rushing", or experiencing digitally augmented highs and adrenaline rushes. Cutter recruits Gala, a former acquaintance who Cutter recognizes from his time infiltrating a revolutionary movement where she was a member. Gala doesn't recognize him as he was undercover and his face had been surgically altered. With her help, Cutter is able to get into his hotel room and get his belongings and other tools, along with a mysterious object called a holo-sphere. With few options left and the Burn Cycle clock continuing to count down, Cutter makes his way to Doc, an underground brain surgeon for help. Gala tags along, hoping to recruit Doc to her cause.

Once at Doc's place, Cutter is examined. While Doc goes over the data, Cutter places the holo-sphere into a scanner and unlocks a symbol of a dragon tattoo which sparks a flashback of Cutter's time as an operative. Cutter witnessed innocents being executed by his partner, the sadistic Deally, and this is revealed to be the reason why he left the company and became a thief, after realizing his bosses ordered the murder. Doc explains Cutter that his memories are being deleted due to the biochemical digital virus inhabiting his brain and if the clock runs out he will be effectively braindead. The only hope he has to live is to download his consciousness completely into the Televerse, the virtual world in which most of the planet does business. Once inside Cutter must seek Vielli, the CEO of Cortex, a rival multinational to SoftTech, who might have the cure. Cutter's mind is downloaded, but his code is fractured in the process.