[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cedars of God

tourist, who has been at infinite pains to cut his name on every available trunk. One tree, rather a large one, has a hole in it where a branch had broken away, and this has been enlarged into a chamber. They are scrubby scanty specimens, and not half so fine as may be seen in many an English park.

Concern for the protection of the biblical "cedars of God" goes back to 1876, when the  grove was surrounded by a high stone wall, paid for by Augusta Victoria of Schleswig-Holstein (often erroneously attributed to Queen Victoria of Great Britain, as Augusta Victoria was Queen of Prussia and hence ‘Queen Victoria’) to protect saplings from browsing by goats. Nevertheless, during World War I, British troops used cedar to build railroads.

Henry Bordeaux came in 1922 and wrote, Yamilé, a story about the place.

Recent history
Time, along with the exploitation of the Cedars’ wood and the effects of climate change, has led to a decrease in the number of cedar trees in Lebanon. However, Lebanon is still widely known for its cedar tree history, as they are the emblem of the country and the symbol of the Lebanese flag. The remaining trees survive in mountainous areas, where they are the dominant tree species. This is the case on the slopes of Mount Makmel that tower over the Kadisha Valley, where the Cedars of God are found at an altitude of more than . Four trees have reached a height of , with their trunks reaching .

World Heritage Site
In 1998, the Cedars of God were added to the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites.

Current status
The forest is rigorously protected. It is possible to tour if escorted by an authorized guide. After a preliminary phase in which the land was cleared of detritus, the sick plants treated, and the ground fertilized, the "Committee of the Friends of the Cedar Forest" initiated a reforestation program in 1985. These efforts will only be appreciable in a few decades due to the slow growth of cedars. In these areas the winter offers incredible scenery, and the trees are covered with a blanket of snow.

Biblical and other ancient references
The Cedar Forest of ancient Mesopotamian religion appears in several sections of the Epic of Gilgamesh. 

The Lebanon Cedar is mentioned 103 times in the Bible. In the Hebrew text it is named  and in the Greek text (LXX) it is named . Example verses include:
 "Open thy doors, O Lebanon, that the fire may devour thy cedars. Howl, fir tree; for the cedar is fallen; because the mighty are spoiled: howl, O ye oaks of Bashan; for the forest of the vintage is come down." (Zechariah 11:1, 2)
 "He moves his tail like a cedar; The sinews of his thighs are tightly knit." (Job 40:17)
 "The priest shall take cedarwood and hyssop and scarlet stuff, and cast them into the midst of the burning of the heifer" (Numbers 19:6)
 "The voice of the Lord breaks the cedars; the Lord breaks in pieces the cedars of Lebanon" (Psalm 29:5)
 "The righteous flourish like the palm tree and grow like the cedar in Lebanon" (Psalm 92:12)
 "I will put in the wilderness the cedar, the acacia, the myrtle, and the olive" (Isaiah 41: 19)
 "Behold, I will liken you to a cedar in Lebanon, with fair branches and forest shade" (Ezekiel 31:3)
 "I destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars" (Amos 2:9)
"The trees of the Lord are watered abundantly, the cedars of Lebanon that he planted." (Psalm 104:16 NRSV)
[King Solomon made] cedar as plentiful as the sycamore-fig trees in the foothills. (1 Kings 10:27, NIV, excerpt)

Gallery

See also

 Garden of the Gods
 Al Shouf Cedar Nature Reserve
 List of individual trees

References

Bibliography
 
 Aiello, Anthony S., and Michael S. Dosmann. "The quest for the Hardy Cedar-of-lebanon." Arnoldia: The magazine of the Arnold Arboretum 65.1 (2007): 26–35.
 Anderson, Mary Perle. “The Cedar of Lebanon.” Torreya, vol. 8, no. 12, 1908, pp. 287–292. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/40594656.

External links
 Lebanon eco-tourism: Cedars of God

Cedrus
Old-growth forests
Forests of Lebanon
Sacred groves
Environment of Lebanon
World Heritage Sites in Lebanon
Epic of Gilgamesh
Tourist attractions in Lebanon
Tourism in Lebanon
Oldest trees