[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# K2 (film)

owever, he wrote, “some of it sounds like padding and much of it is pretentious.” Indeed, Rich wrote, much of verbiage “sounds like warmed-over David Mamet"; he added that when they “are not force-feeding us their biographies or arguing like television debaters, the climbers can be saltily amusing.”

Reception
K2 received negative reviews from critics. Kenneth Turan reviewed it favorably for the Los Angeles Times, remarking that "in truth, “K2" is something of a throwback, but a very sure-handed one. Once a cerebral two-character theater piece by Patrick Meyers, it has been adroitly turned inside out and transformed into an adventure film whose main asset is thrills and (quite literally) chills. Man-against-nature epics are hardly fashionable anymore, but director Franc Roddam shows how much life there is in the old dog yet." Vincent Canby's review in The New York Times was more mixed, writing that "the film's concerns and quality of imagination have very little to do with [Meyers'] play", that "the movie doesn't even make much of the cliches it introduces", that it "has some stunning if isolated sequences of physical daring", and that "both Mr. Biehn and Mr. Craven work hard but without success to bring life to their watered-down roles." It currently holds a 29% rating on Rotten Tomatoes from 17 reviews.

Box office
The film was not a box office hit.

References

External links

1991 films
1990s sports drama films
American sports drama films
American survival films
British sports drama films
British survival films
Canadian sports drama films
Drama films based on actual events
Films about death
Films about friendship
Films directed by Franc Roddam
Films scored by Hans Zimmer
Films set in Pakistan
Films shot in Gilgit-Baltistan
Films shot in Utah
Japanese sports drama films
K2
Miramax films
Mountaineering films
Paramount Pictures films
Sports films based on actual events
1991 drama films
1990s English-language films
1990s American films
1990s Canadian films
1990s British films
Canadian survival films