[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Holly Gagnier

Holly Gagnier is an American actress.

Early life
Gagnier was born in Los Angeles, California. Her parents were Hugh Gagnier, a cinematographer and Eleanor Gagnier, a stenographer for the United Nations.
Eleanor served as a stenographer on the Nuremberg trials. Gagnier is one of five siblings.

Career
A former actress, Gagnier's notable roles include long running stints on daytime's One Life to Live, Days of Our Lives in the role of young teen mother Ivy Jannings, and on General Hospital as the insane Jennifer Smith. While on One Life to Live, she appeared on the Oprah Winfrey Show as one of daytime's most popular characters. She was a series regular on Baywatch, and had recurring roles on television series Pacific Blue, Middle Ages, and as a young teen on House Calls opposite Lynn Redgrave. She had roles on Scandal, Private Practice, House, Perception, Friends (as one of Joey's sisters), ER, Dream On, and Ringer. She performed in theater productions both in New York City and Los Angeles, including in "God of Carnage" and "Yellow Face," as well as Christopher Durang's "Beyond Therapy". Gagnier completed the Hallmark movie Kiss on Candy Cane Lane and The Stalker Club for Lifetime with fellow soap vet Maeve Quinlan. On the big screen, she made her debut in New World Pictures'cult classic  Girls Just Want to Have Fun, Gun, Son of an Afghan Farmer, the cult film Free Enterprise, The Undertaker's Wedding, and Breakout. She appears in Reckless Juliets" on Amazon. 

Gagnier finished the pilot "A Family Affair" opposite Pete Gardner, as well as on Brat's YouTube show Chicken Girls and Baby Doll Records'' as the evil Robin Robbins, where she completed Season 3.

Filmography

Video Game

Film

Television

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 

Living people
20th-century American actresses
21st-century American actresses
Actresses from Los Angeles
American film actresses
American soap opera actresses
American television actresses
Year of birth missing (living people)