[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jack Lowe Sr.

oved Lowe Sr. and Fuelber frequently, and Lowe and Fuelber were transferred to Dallas, where Lowe took on the job of finding more GE customers in North Texas. A year later, their second child, Ann, was born, and Lowe became district manager over air conditioning, just before the country went to war.

The War years
When the country went to war, GE promptly declared Lowe vital to the war effort and arranged a deferment which he just as promptly refused to accept. He did not think he deserved it, and within months of the bombing of Pearl Harbor, Jack enlisted in the Army. When the Navy rejected him because of poor eyesight, he memorized the eye chart and passed the Army physical. He refused an officer's commission and entered the Army as an enlisted man. He was assigned to Signal Corps projects stateside for the duration of the war, and eventually discharged in San Antonio shortly after the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

GE was never extremely pleased that Lowe had quit them when the war began, and the position they offered him when he returned was not the position he thought he deserved. He was tired of traveling, and of being away from his family so much, and at GE he had begun to feel like an increasingly insignificant part of an increasingly large company. Jack was thirty-two years old when he came out of the Army, and within a few months he had founded a company he called Texas Distributors, Inc.

Texas Distributors, Inc.
As the founder of Texas Distributors, Inc., Lowe served as the technical father, but he carried that title to a personal level too. Texas Distributors was not only a wholesaler and an air conditioning contractor that provided a service to its customers and, hopefully, made a profit—it provided a steady employment and financial security for those who chose to work there. The profit-sharing plans were designed to limit cash outflow, and that helped employees by helping the company, but they also offered employees the opportunity to establish financial resources beyond their biweekly paychecks.

One morning late in 1954, Lowe organised a rare closed-door discussion with his vice presidents in his office. Lowe announced in a quiet voice that he had contracted tuberculosis. He withdrew from the operation of the company with immediate effect in order to undergo treatment. Surviving from tuberculosis depended on early detection, regular medication, at least nine months of nearly absolute inactivity, and in extreme cases, surgery.

Lowe had surgery to remove the affected lung tissue and underwent another six months of recuperation. Eighteen months passed before he was able start work again. Lowe began to look at Texas Distributors as less as an instrument for the production of wealth than as a device that could create well-being for the growing number of people who were a part of it.

In the early 1970s, the company was not exceptionally productive, and while sales were up, income was not. Morale was low in some areas, and lowe came up with the idea of meeting with small groups of employees at his home. Before each meeting, participants received the usual packet of information about the company, but they also got a copy of “Robert K. Greenleaf's booklet, “The Servant as Leader.” The result of the employee meetings was The People Objective which stated how employees thought Texas Distributors employees should operate.

From the beginning, Lowe believed that in order to keep control of his company, he had to always own a majority of its stock, but from nearly the beginning, he began offering shares of voting stock to his officers. Later, when the first major cash crisis moved him to approach his employees with the problem, and to offer them a chance to invest in the company, the stock they received had no voting rights connected to it. In the early 1960s, Lowe began to offer more and more voting stock to his officers and to depend on their participation in major decisions. In 1964, as Jack Lowe Jr. entered the company, Lowe Sr. gave up his controlling ownership position. Still, he remained the dominant force in the company. In 1978, the decision was made to extend voting rights to all company stock on a one-share, one-vote basis. Texas Distributor's stock plan was designed so that it benefitted most those who had been with the company the longest and who held the greatest responsibility.

The church
Lowe joined the Highland Park United Methodist Church because of his admiration for its pastor, the Rev. William H. Dickinson. Located in one of Dallas' wealthiest areas, the church had some of the most influential people in the city as its members . Lowe and Dickinson worked on ideas that would improve the church, and encouraged the congregation to confront social and economic problems in the community.