[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 6th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

The 6th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment was an infantry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. It spent most of the war as a part of the famous  Iron Brigade in the Army of the Potomac.

Service
The 6th Wisconsin was raised at Mauston, Wisconsin, and mustered into Federal service July 16, 1861, for a term of three years. It saw severe fighting in the 1862 Northern Virginia Campaign, fighting at Brawner's Farm in the waning hours of August 28, 1862, where they would receive their baptism of fire, losing 72 men killed or wounded. After the devastating defeat at Second Bull Run, the third corp was transferred back into the Army Of The Potomac. In the subsequent Maryland Campaign of 1862 the 6th would assault Turners Gap at South Mountain, losing 90 men, then would once again be heavily engaged at The Battle Of Antietam, losing an extra 152 casualties, and resulting in the wounding of Colonel Edward Bragg. The 6th would not see any major action at The Battle Of Fredricksburg, but would partake in the assault at Fitzhugh's Crossing, April 29, 1863. Colonel Bragg would once again suffer wounds at The Battle Of Chancellorsville, leaving command of the regiment to Lieutenant Colonel Rufus Dawes. 

The 6th's next major engagement would be at the crossroads town of Gettysburg, July 1, 1863. However, the 6th would be held in reserve on Seminary Ridge, while the rest of the Iron Brigade advanced to Herbst's Woods, being led by General John Reynolds himself. The 6th would finally get their turn to bring glory to Wisconsin when they are ordered to attack an exposed Confederate Brigade under the command of Joseph R. Davis. The 6th would form up on the Chambersburg Pike behind a fence, and aided by the 14th Brooklyn and the 95th New York, they would assault the Confederates, who had entrenched themselves in an unfinished railroad cut. The Badgers would suffer heavily in the charge, losing one man for every yard they advanced. The following is quoted from Rufus Dawes. "I first mistook the strange maneuver for a retreat, but was undeceived by the deadly fire, which they at once began to pour from their cover in the cut."  Dawes loses ten men carrying the colors, and nearly half of all available officers. "Men were dying in the twenties and thirties, but still, the boys crowded around the colors, and went forward." Finally, after withstanding the flame of death that was being directed at the Badgers, the rebel flag was within reach, and a horrific melee ensued in the cut. "Corporal Egelston seized the rebel battle flag, but was struck, and fell, mortally wounded. Private Anderson, furious at the shooting of his comrade, with a terrific blow split the skull of the rebel who had shot young Egelston." After several minutes of deadly melee, Corporal Francis A. Waller seized the colors of the 2nd Mississippi, and held it aloft, compelling most of the rebels to surrender, and cease their fighting. The Wisconsinites would hold their position in the  railroad cut, until ordered to retreat with the rest of the 1st Corp and the Iron Brigade.

The 6th would take positions on Culps Hill with the rest of the Brigade, and would partake in a nighttime attack to retake some earthworks previously occupied by Federals.

168 Badgers would lose their lives at the Battle of Gettysburg, with most of all available officers put out of duty. After Gettysburg, the Brigade would be briefly joined by the 167th Pennsylvania, who, convinced that their enlistments had expired, refused to march. As a result, the Brigade was ordered to shoot the unruly Pennsylvanians, who quickly went into line, with little to no doubt in their mind that the hardened veterans of the Iron Brigade would not hesitate to shoot them, the 6th was ordered to march behind the 167th at bayonet point, with orders to shoot anyone who fell out of line.  

The Iron Brigade would see service in the Overland Campaign of 64', fighting in the Battle Of The Wilderness the 6th, along with the rest of the Brigade, would assault Confederate lines on May 5. The Brigade would gain initial success, however, they would advance unsupported, and as a result their lines would be flanked. As a result of heavy pressure the Brigade would retreat in disorder, unexpected for a veteran Brigade of their status.  During the subsequent Battle of Spotyslvania Court House, the 6th would once again assault Rebel earthworks at Laurel Hill, and then again at the Cold Harbor. Total losses for the Badgers during the Overland Campaign would add up to 140. The 6th Wisconsin and the rest of the Iron Brigade would see service during the siege of Petersburg and at the battle of Weldon Railroad (or Globe Tavern). The regiment would see considerable service till the end of the war.           

The regiment participated in the Grand Review of the Armies on May 23, 1865, and then mustered out at Louisville, Kentucky, on July 2, 1865.