[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Demographics of Houston

most Iranians/Persians in Houston are not religious.

As of 2000, Iranians were one of the two main Zoroastrian groups in Houston. As of that year the total number of Iranians in Houston of all religions is larger than the total Parsi (generally immigrants from India) population by a 10 to 1 ratio.

Rustomji wrote that as of 2000, because of the historic tensions between the Parsi and Iranian groups, the Iranians in Houston did not become full members of the Zoroastrian Association of Houston (ZAH), which was majority Parsi. Rustomji stated that Iranian Zoroastrians "attend religious functions sporadically and remain tentative about their ability to fully integrate, culturally and religiously, with Parsis." In 1996 the Iranian population had its largest attendance at a ZAH event when it attended Jashne-e-Sade, an event the community created for ZAH. By 2000 some Muslim Iranians who were opposed to fundamentalism in the mosques, began attending Zoroastrian events. Rustomji wrote in 2000 that from 2000 to 2005, Iranians were expected to make up a greater proportion of ZAH.

As of 2006, most member of the Houston Haziratu'l-Quds (a Baháʼí Faith center) were Persians. As of 2010 many Houston Baháʼí are refugees from Iran. In Iran many of their relatives and parents suffered state sanctioned persecution of Baháʼís, being arrested and/or executed.

After Iranian student and activist Gelareh Bagherzadeh was murdered in Houston in 2012, Lomi Kriel of the Houston Chronicle stated that "The case has been complicated by the possible Iranian link and the close-knit nature of Houston's Iranian community. Many have been either afraid to talk or reluctant to disclose details they consider private or disrespectful." The perpetrator, Ali Irsan, was later convicted and sentenced to death for the crime, an honor killing in retaliation against Bagherzadeh's encouragement of Irsan's daughter to leave Islam and marry a Christian man.

Arabs and other Middle Easterners 
 multiple Houston-area restaurants selling Levantine cuisine also served sandwiches. This trend started with Lebanese American Jalal Antone, who opened Antone's Import Company. He advised Levantine businesspeople that American people at the time would consider Levantine cuisine to be too foreign, so it would make more business sense to open a sandwich shop that also sells Levantine dishes on its menu.

Badr stated that as of 2000, about 10% of the Islamic Society of Greater Houston (ISGH) consists of ethnic Arabs, from a variety of Middle East nations. She added that the percentage of Arabs among Houston's Muslim population is estimated by some to be "as high as 30%." According to Badr, from 1990 to 2000 many Arabs began to found their own mosques and Islamic schools separate from the ISGH. They disagreed about various issues with other members of the Society, including the language of the Friday sermons in the mosques, the operations of Sunday schools and full-time schools, and monetary collection and distribution within the community.

As of 2014 U.S. census estimates, 23,300 people in the Houston area spoke Arabic; this was a one-third increase in the number of Arabic speakers compared to 2009.

Refugee populations
Since the 1970s—when Houston began absorbing Vietnamese refugees after the Fall of Saigon—Houston has become a destination for refugee resettlement. About 1,600 refugees arrive at George Bush Intercontinental Airport per year. Refugees from Afghanistan, Bhutan, El Salvador, Cuba, Iraq, Myanmar, and Somalia have settled in Houston; Burundians from Rwanda have also settled in Houston. Over the three years leading to 2009, Houston took about 2,200 Burmese. The number of people born outside of the United States in the Houston area increased by 400,000 between 2000 and 2010. In 2014 a total of 4,818 refugees from 40 countries settled in Harris County. That year, of all counties in Texas, Harris County had the largest number of refugee settlements. In 2015 there were about 1 million people born outside of the United States in the Greater Houston metropolitan area, which would be below 25% of the total population. , if the Houston area was its own country, it would rank among the top five countries in the world for refugee resettlement.

The South Texas Office of Refugees stated that from 2009 to 2021 11,790 people came from Afghanistan to the Houston area, with 90% of them having Special Immigrant Visas which belonged to Afghans who interpreted for the U.S. military. From 2015 to 2021 1,700 people from Afghanistan who interpreted for U.S. military forces and/or are family members of these interpreters moved to the Houston area. According to the Refugee Resettlement Data 1975–2018 dataset by the University of Gottingen and the University of Western Australia, 885 refugees from Afghanistan moved to Harris County between 1975 and 2018; according to the data, Afghans made up the 16th largest such group in the county.