[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 168]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

f life had mirrored itself
in the memory, once and for all. The South lured her with its languor,
its colour, its hot sun, and its splendid memories. It was exquisite
pleasure and exquisite pain to listen to the anticipations of these two,
who were able to wander as they would.

"Siena?" said Valeria with a sigh, "I used to know Siena when I was
young and happy. That was where I made the fatal mistake in my life. It
is all a thing of the past now. I might have married a good and
brilliantly intellectual man, whom I could respect and warmly admire;
for whom I had every feeling but the one that we romantic women think so
essential, and that people assure us is the first to depart."

"You regret that you held fast to your own standard?" said Hadria.

"I regret that I could not see the wisdom of taking the good that was
offered to me, since I could not have that which I wished. Now I have
neither."

"How do you know you would have found the other good really
satisfactory!"

"I believe in the normal," said Valeria, "having devoted my existence to
an experiment of the abnormal."

"I don't think what we call the normal is, by any means, so safe as it
sounds, for civilized women at any rate," observed the Professor.

Valeria shook her head, and remained silent. But her face expressed the
sad thoughts left unsaid. In youth, it was all very well. One had the
whole world before one, life to explore, one's powers to test. But later
on, when all that seemed to promise fades away, when the dreams drift
out of sight, and strenuous efforts repeated and repeated, are beaten
down by the eternal obstacles; when the heart is wearied by delay,
disappointment, infruition, vain toil, then this once intoxicating world
becomes a place of desolation to the woman who has rebelled against the
common lot. And all the old instincts awake, to haunt and torment; to
demand that which reason has learnt to deny or to scorn; to burden their
victims with the cruel heritage of the past; to whisper regrets and
longings, and sometimes to stir to a conflict and desperation that end
in madness.

"I believe I should have been happier, if I had married some commonplace
worthy in early life, and been the mother of ten children," Valeria
observed, aloud.

Hadria laughed. "By this time, you or the ten children would have come
to some tragic end. I don't know which I would pity most."

"I don't see why I shouldn't be able to do what other women have done,"
cried Valeria.

"A good deal more. But think, Valeria, of ten particular constitutions
to grapple with, ten sets of garments to provide, ten series of ailments
to combat, ten--no, let me see, two hundred and forty teeth to take to
the dentist, not to mention characters and consciences in all their
developments and phases, rising, on this appalling decimal system of
yours, to regions of arithmetic far beyond my range."

"You exaggerate preposterously!" cried Valeria, half annoyed, although
she laughed. She had the instinctive human desire to assert her ability
in the direction where of all others it was lacking.

"And think of the uprush of impulse, good and evil; the stirring of the
thought, the movements of longing and wonder, and then all the greedy
selfishness of youth, with its untamed vigours and its superb hopes.
What help does a child get from its parents, in the midst of this
tumult, out of which silently, the future man or woman emerges--and
grows, remember, according to the manner in which the world meets these
generous or these baser movements of the soul?"

"You would frighten anyone from parenthood!" cried Valeria,
discontentedly.

"Admit at least, that eight, or even seven, would have satisfied you."

"Well, I don't mind foregoing the last three or four," said Valeria.
"But seriously, I think that a home and so forth, is the best that life
has to offer to us women. It is, perhaps, not asking much, but I believe
if one goes further, one fares worse."

"We all think the toothache would be so much more bearable, if it were
only in the other tooth," said the Professor.

A silence fell upon the three. Their thoughts were evidently busy.

"I feel sorry," the Professor said at last, "that this should be your
testimony. It has always seemed to me ridiculous that a woman could not
gratify her domestic sentiments, without being claimed by them, body and
soul. But I hoped that our more developed women would show us that they
could make a full and useful and interesting life for themselves, even
if that particular side of existence were denied them. I thought they
might forego it for the sake of other things."

"Not without regretting it."

"Yet I have met women who held different opinions."

"Probably rather inexperienced women," said Valeria.

"Young women, but----"

"Ah, young women. What do _they_ know? The element of real horror in a
woman's life does not betray itself, until the moment when th