[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vuyisile Mini

k was officially opened by Deputy President Thabo Mbeki and the Mayor of Port Elizabeth, Nceba Faku.

On 6 November 2010, Port Elizabeth's Market Square was renamed Vuyisile Mini Square.

The ANC Mission Office in Tanzania opened a Furniture factory that was known as the Vuyisile Mini Factory (VMF).

At the time of his death, Mini was married, and had six children. One of his children, Nomkhosi Mini became a member of MK and survived a March 1979 South African Defence Force attack on the Novo Catengue camp in Angola. She was shot dead by members of the notorious Vlakplaas hit squad when they raided two houses in Maseru, Lesotho on 19 December 1985. Seven members of the Security branch, including its then deputy chief were refused amnesty for this killing.

Private life 
Mini was a gifted actor, dancer, poet and singer (he was a member of various groups and a prominent member of the P.E. Male Voice Choir). He is remembered for the songs he composed as well as their delivery in his powerful bass voice, sometimes militant, and at other times nostalgic. His words composed during the Treason Trial, Thath' unthwalo Buti sigoduke balindile umama no bab' ekhaya (Take up your things Brother and let's go, they are waiting, our mothers and fathers, at home), came to take on new associations as the forced relocation scheme of apartheid made Black people refugees in the land of their birth. He is remembered for composing one of the most popular liberation songs of the 1950s, Pasopa nantsi 'ndondemnyama we Verwoerd, (Look out, Verwoerd, here are the Black people).

See also 
 Amandla!: A Revolution in Four-Part Harmony

Notes

References 

 
 
 Ngqungwana, R.M.T. [DISA document of an adaptation of a radio script by the author]. Accessed on the Internet 21 September 2004: http://disa.nu.ac.za/articledisplaypage.asp?articletitle=Vuyisile+Mini&filename=DaSI86
 Reddy, E. S. (1974). 'Vuyisile Mini' in Notes and Documents, No. 31/74, November. Accessed from Internet 21 September 2004: http://www.anc.org.za/ancdocs/history/misc/mini.html
 Truth & Reconciliation Commission, (2002). Truth & Reconciliation Commission of South Africa Report, Vol. 7, Cape Town: Juta, p. 428.

External links 
  www.dispatch.co.za/1998/04/08/southafrica/MK.HTM
 www.sacp.org.za/biographies/vmini.html
 South Africa Bulletin, February 1965, reports on the execution of Vuysile Mini, Zinakele Nkaba, and Wilson Knayinga,
 The African Activist Archive Project website has documents on Vuyisile Mini, including:
 MEMORANDUM ON POLITICAL PRISONERS AND TRIALS IN SOUTH AFRICA by the American Committee on Africa (about April of May 1964),
 South Africa Bulletin (February 1965) by the American Committee on Africa, and
 UNITED NATIONS AND THE AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS Partners in the Struggle against Apartheid by E.S. Reddy (October 2012)

1920 births
1964 deaths
20th-century executions by South Africa
Anti-apartheid activists
20th-century South African male singers
South African trade unionists
Executed South African people
People executed by South Africa by hanging
People acquitted of treason
Executed activists
Music in the movement against apartheid
UMkhonto we Sizwe personnel
Executed trade unionists