[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Leon Eisenberg

ngly countless academic and other committees at Johns Hopkins, Harvard, Massachusetts General Hospital, and Children's Hospital Boston.  He was typically among the first thought and invited to such committees because of his breadth.

Attempts to identify a full set of such committees are proceeding.

Themes of most recent writing
Leon Eisenberg is credited by numerous colleagues with "simple and direct" prose (Arthur Kleinman, Norma Ware, etc.). He will be remembered most for his writings in these areas, though his encyclopedic comprehension reached much more broadly:
 Evidence-based medicine
 Capacity of academics to accept ideas that are absurd and later rejected
 Why and how did psychoanalysis come to be so dominant for so long (the triumph of psychopharmacology over psychotherapy and changes in the way care was financed) has been explored repeatedly, but outlined here in two papers for different Josiah Macy Conferences:
 "Modern Psychiatry: Challenges in Educating Health Professionals to Meet New Needs"
 "The Challenge of Neuroscience: Behavioral Science, Neurology, and Psychiatry"
 Diagnostic classifications (see below) – a theme continued from the very beginning of his career
 Human rights of patients
 Conflict of Interest (COI) in the Practice of Psychiatry and Medicine
 Issues in rewriting the entire psychiatric taxonomy at one time (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders = DSM): COI, empirical evidence to support DSM changes, timing of revisions
 Complicity of the medical and psychiatric professionals in torture.
 Criticizing the replacement of patient interests with the profit motive in healthcare.
 The relationship between the pharmaceutical industry and medical education through sponsorship and educational programs.
 Integration of genetics in health professional education
 Resolving the conflict between integrative medicine and evidence-based biomedicine

Later autobiographical reflections: "Were We Asleep at the Switch?"
Leon Eisenberg had written from his home a 'mini-autobiography' which he named 
"Were We Asleep at the Switch?". Eisenberg suggested that a switch from 'mind' to 'body' has taken place in psychiatry as a discipline, which led to overuse of medication. He also argued that, while medical scientists were worrying about the tedious science at the base of medical practice and healthcare decisions for the general public, "money" and monied interests had been making de facto decisions for the populace about how things that affected them deeply were going to be done.  In this view, the overwhelming impact of economic considerations over emerging bodies of expert knowledge may have rendered and might continue to render futile the professional contributions of many brilliant, timely, and concerned working scientists.

A 2012 article in the German weekly publication Der Spiegel gives an account of an interview Eisenberg gave in 2009, seven months before his death. It quotes him as saying, "ADHD is a prime example of a fabricated disease... The genetic predisposition to ADHD is completely overrated." Instead of prescribing a 'pill', Eisenberg said, psychiatrists should determine whether there are psychosocial reasons that could lead to behavioral problems.