[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sandokan

t Sandokan films were made in 1941 in Italy with Luigi Pavese as Sandokan.

 Pirates of Malaya (I pirati della Malesia) (dir. Enrico Guazzoni)
 The Two Tigers (Le due tigri) (dir. Giorgio Simonelli)

A series of Italian-made films with American leads were filmed in 1964 and released internationally.

 Sandokan the Great (Sandokan, la tigre di Mompracem) (1964),  starring Steve Reeves (dir. Umberto Lenzi)
 Sandokan - The Pirate of Malaysia (I pirati della Malesia) (1964)  Pirates of the Seven Seas, starring Steve Reeves (dir. Umberto Lenzi)
 Sandokan to the Rescue (Sandokan alla riscossa) (1964)  Sandokan Fights Back, starring Ray Danton (dir. Luigi Capuano)
 Sandokan Against the Leopard of Sarawak (Sandokan contro il leopardo di Sarawak) (1964)  Return of Sandokan , starring Ray Danton (dir. Luigi Capuano)

A pair of Italian films featuring a character named "Sandok" were filmed based on the character by Salgari.

 Temple of the White Elephant ( Sandok, il Maciste della giungla) with Mimmo Palmara as Sandok (1964, dir. Umberto Lenzi)
 The Mountain of Light,  Jungle Adventurer, with Richard Harrison (1965, dir. Umberto Lenzi)

A 1970 Italian-Spanish film The Tigers of Mompracem was made with Ivan Rassimov as Sandokan

TV miniseries

In 1976, Indian actor Kabir Bedi played the lead in Sandokan, a six-part miniseries for European television directed by Sergio Sollima. Carole André was cast as Lady Marianna Guillonk, Philippe Leroy played Sandokan's trusted friend and lieutenant Yanez De Gomera. The role of the main antagonist James Brooke was performed by Adolfo Celi.

In 1977, Kabir Bedi reprised his role in the film La tigre è ancora viva: Sandokan alla riscossa! (The Tiger Lives Again: Sandokan To The Rescue!). The TV series theme song, "Sandokan", was composed by Oliver Onions (a pseudonym of the De Angelis brothers), and made the top 10 in many European countries, albeit mostly in the translated English version.

A 2004 documentary, Sandokan's Adventure, detailed the making of the series.

Two further television series were made The Return of Sandokan in 1996 and The Son of Sandokan in 1998, with Kabir Bedi again reprising his role.

Animated series

Sandokan the animated series was released in 1992 by Spanish animation studio BRB International, and broadcast in the United Kingdom on Channel 4 and Republic of Ireland on RTE Two. It was later repeated in the UK on certain ITV regions in 1996. This children's animated show, written by Doug Stone and Dave Mallow, is loosely based on Salgari's novels. In the show, Sandokan (here an anthropomorphized tiger) is an usurped prince who travels the seas as a pirate seeking to reclaim his rightful throne from the Rajah of Sarawak. The first nine episodes of the series are available in three DVD volumes in the United Kingdom. A condensed version of the series was released as an animated movie, The Princess and the Pirate, in 1995.

Another animated series was released in 1998 from a coproduction among RAI on 1993-94, SEK Studio, and Mondo TV and broadcast in Italy on Rai 1. This series was composed into three parts:  (Sandokan, the Tiger of Malaysia, produced in 1998);   (Sandokan, the Tiger roars again, 2000); and   (Sandokan, The Two Tigers, 2004).
The adventures of this 26-episode cartoon series are based on the stories of  Emilio Salgari. The story takes place in the second half of the 19th century, and is situated in the Malaysian archipelago, Borneo, and India. Co-produced with RAI Italy and TF1 France, the series achieved a big success such that it a second series was decided to be produced on this character. An interactive computer game, a video special, a sticker album, along with other merchandising articles such as books, toys, shirts, bags, etc. based on the series are now available.

References

External links

Watch some episodes of the Sandokan animated series on Roh Press
Read a review of the 1960s Sandokan films
Read the first three chapters of Sandokan: The Tigers of Mompracem
The Tiger of Malaysia, Barga News
Read a review of Sandokan: The Tigers of Mompracem at SBTB.com.
Read a review at Pirates and Privateers 
Sandokan, the Tiger of Mompracem. Article by Alessandra Madella

Literary characters introduced in 1883
Novels by Emilio Salgari
Italian novels adapted into television shows
Television shows based on Italian novels
Fictional pirates
Adventure film characters
Italian children's animated television series
Spanish children's animated television series
Fictional tigers
Fictional princes
Fictional Malaysian people
Channel 4 original programming
Italian adventure novels
Malaysia in fiction
Characters in Italian novels