[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Para (Special Forces)

ported) on the attackers behind the ambush of the Army on 4 June, which claimed the lives of 18 Army jawans (soldiers) of 6 Dogra Regiment from the Chandel district of Manipur. This has been noted as the largest attack on the Indian Army after the Kargil war of 1999.

Cross-LoC surgical strikes 2016

Intelligence gathering had started a few weeks prior, through drones, satellites and various other Indian assets, on 26 September 2016, small recon teams were given the task to infiltrate across the LoC, to carry out a 24 hour surveillance of the targets and to put together the best possible infiltration and exfiltration routes through the heavily mined and manned border in the world, the LoC. The intelligence was so strong that it's reported that the hit squads knew the names of the fidayeens at the launch pads. On return of the recon team, plans were laid down for the assault, and on 29 September 2016, India attacked the strike targeted areas across the Line of Control (LoC), where militants congregate for their final briefings before sneaking across into India. An Indian security source said the operation began with Indian forces firing artillery across the frontier to provide cover for three to four teams of 70–80 para SF commandos from 4 and 9 Para (Special Forces) to cross the LoC at several points shortly after midnight IST on 29 September (18:30 hours UTC, 28 Sept.). Teams from 4 Para SF crossed the LoC in the Nowgam sector of Kupwara district, with teams from 9 Para SF simultaneously crossing the LoC in Poonch district.[2] [16] By 2 a.m. IST, according to army sources, the special forces teams had travelled  –  on foot, the teams began the assault, with hand-held grenades and 84 mm rocket launchers destroying the ammo and the fuel dumps at the launch pads. Simultaneously, the sniping and assault teams opened fire, killing the terrorists at sight and those who tried to make a run. At first light, the teams swiftly returned to the Indian side of the LoC, suffering only one injury, a soldier wounded after tripping a land mine.[2]

The Indian army said the strike was a pre-emptive attack on the militants' bases, claiming that it had received intelligence that the militants were planning "terrorist strikes" against India.[36] [37] India said that, in destroying "terrorist infrastructure" it also attacked "those who are trying to support them," indicating it also attacked Pakistani soldiers.[48] India later briefed opposition parties and foreign envoys, but did not disclose operational details.[16] The footage from the strike captured by overhead drones and thermal imaging was released to the media afterwards. It was also informed that around 40-50 militants were killed and many more injured in one of the surgical strikes.
However, the Pakistan army dismissed India's claim, and instead claimed that Indian troops had not crossed the LoC but had only skirmished with Pakistani troops at the border, resulting in the deaths of two Pakistani soldiers and the wounding of nine.

2020 India-China border tensions 
The Para SF reportedly conducted reconnaissance against Chinese military posts near the Pangong Tso during the 2020 China–India skirmishes. They participated alongside the Special Frontier Force in occupying dominating positions of 'Black top', 'Gurung hill' ,'Helmet' and various other peaks and ridges on the southern bank of Pangong Tso, west of the Kailash Range in August 2020.

Organization

The Parachute Regiment presently has fifteen Special Forces, two Territorial Army, and one Counter-Insurgency (Rashtriya Rifles) battalion in its fold. Due to the absence of centralized command and lack of a centralized and standardized procedure for selection, even among the Para (SF) battalions, selection procedures vary. Meaning there is a different standard to get into different Para (SF) battalions.

In the mid-1980s, there were plans to take the three para commando battalions from the Parachute Regiment and bring them together under an individual special organization, the Special Forces Regiment. However, after several logistic and administrative obstacles, these plans were abandoned, and they continue to be trained and recruited by the Parachute Regiment.

Para (SF) operates in assault teams, which work individually behind enemy lines. The total strength of the Parachute Regiment stands at about 8,000-10,000 this includes one Rashtriya Rifles and two Territorial Army battalions, while the Para (SF) includes between 5,000-6,000 personnel or maybe more currently. They have to hide their identity from the general public.