[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Samian War

triremes and 20 transports.  In a battle off the island of Tragia, the Athenians were victorious, and the Samians soon found themselves blockaded by land and sea.  The Athenians constructed walls around the city of Samos, and meanwhile were reinforced by 65 more ships from Athens, Chios, and Lesbos.

At this point, with the rebellion seemingly well in hand, Pericles received word that the Persian fleet was on its way to attack him, and, taking 60 ships with him, he sailed off to Caria to meet it.  In his absence the Samians made a sally and drove the Athenians off.  For 14 days they ruled the sea and brought in supplies, but at the end of that period Pericles returned and reestablished the blockade.  The siege lasted 9 months, at the end of which the Samians surrendered, tore down their walls, converted their government to a democracy, gave up their fleet, and agreed to pay Athens a war indemnity of 1,300 talents over a period of 26 years. The end of the revolts elsewhere in the empire followed rapidly on this success.

Sparta
Although Athens did succeed in restoring order to the empire, the situation in 440 BC was very severe, particularly because of the threat of Spartan intervention.  Thucydides reports that in 433 BC, when Corinthian and Corcyraean ambassadors were making their cases at Athens regarding Corcyra's request for assistance against Corinth, the Corinthians stated that in 440, "when the rest of the Peloponnesian powers were equally divided on the question whether they should assist [the Samians],...we told them to their face that every power has a right to punish its own allies."  Modern scholars have generally regarded this as an accurate report, and have taken it to mean that Sparta was willing to go to war against Athens, but that the Corinthians, whose powerful navy would have been necessary for the Peloponnesians to participate effectively in such a war, derailed the plan with their opposition.

Notes

References
de Ste. Croix, G.E.M., The Origins of the Peloponnesian War, (Duckworth and Co., 1972) 
Diodorus Siculus, Library
Kagan, Donald. The Outbreak of the Peloponnesian War (Cornell, 1969). 
Meiggs, Russell. Athenian Empire (Oxford University Press, 1972) 

demo.fragmentarytexts.org – The Revolt of Samos

440s BC conflicts
430s BC conflicts
Wars involving Athens
440 BC
439 BC
Ancient Samos
Delian League