[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Zanzhi

The zanzhi (拶指) finger crusher was a Chinese instrument of torture consisting of small sticks strung together with cords, which when placed around the fingers and gradually pulled, caused agonizing pain in order to force a confession. Under traditional Chinese law, a person could not be convicted of a crime unless they confessed. The zanzhi was a legal and non-lethal torture method for forcing women to confess, and for men there was the similar and more painful jiagun (夾棍) ankle crusher with three wooden planks that slowly compressed the feet.

Names and pronunciations
The word zǎnzhǐ is written with two Chinese characters. The first (拶) has alternate readings of zā meaning "to force; to compel; to press" or zǎn "to squeeze the fingers (an ancient form of torture); the instrument used in the torture" (Wenlin 2016). The second character zhǐ (指) represents the common term for "finger".

In terms of Chinese character classification, both these logographs are phono-semantic characters; with the semantically-significant radical of "hand" (扌) the tortured body part and phonetic elements of yì (𡿩 "flow") and of zhǐ (旨 "intention"). Instead of the "hand" radical, zan (拶) had a variant form (桚) with the "wood" radical (木), signifying the material used to make a finger press.

Besides zǎnzhǐ two other names for the finger crusher are zǎnzi (拶子) with the common Chinese nominalizing affix zi (子) for the torture device, and zǎnxíng (拶刑) with "torture; corporal punishment" for the category.

Tean zu  is a common misspelling of zanzhi (拶指) or zanzi (拶子) that was repeatedly copied in English-language sources from the mid-17th century to the present day. For example, the 2006 first draft of the present Wikipedia article was titled "Tean zu". In linguistic and lexicographic terminology, tean zu is a ghost word: "A word that has come into a dictionary, grammar, or other scholarly work as a result of a misreading or misinterpretation, as by mistaking a typographical error for an actual word" (The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language 2022, 5th edition). For instance, the English ghost word abacot originated with a misprint of bycoket "a kind of cap or head-dress (peaked before and behind)". When the lexicographer James Murray began editing the first volume of the Oxford English Dictionary, he discovered that "there is not, there never was, such a word" as abacot. His article on this ghost word documents a "remarkable series of blunders and ignorant reproductions of error" from "a bicocket" (in the 1587 second edition of Holinshed's Chronicles) to "abococket" to "abocoket" to "abococke" to, at last, "abacot", which was copied into English publications for centuries (Murray 1882, 157).

The tean zu error first appeared in an early Western-language description of China. Álvaro Semedo (1585-1658), the Portuguese Jesuit priest and missionary in China, wrote a classic 1642 Spanish-language account of China that was translated into several European languages, including the 1643 Italian-language version that first mentions the Chinese tean zu instrument of legal torture. The original 1642 Spanish publication, Imperio de la China ... mentions two torture devices for the hands and feet, yet only describes the jiagun called Kiaquen without mentioning the zanzhi (Semedo 1642, 187). The front cover identifies the Portuguese historian Manuel de Faria e Sousa (1590-1649) as the publisher, but Faria e Sousa later claimed authorship (Pina 2018, 36-37). Semedo had personal knowledge of the Chinese judicial system, he was "imprisoned for a year during the 1616 anti-Christian campaign and spent thirty days in a cage while being transported from Nanjing to Canton" (Brook 2008, 157).

The 1643 Italian translation by Giovanni Battista Giattini (1601-1672) gives Kia quen and adds the mistaken Chinese name Tean zu (Semedo 1643, 181). Written and published in only one year, this text was flawed by typographical and printing errors, "some of which were quite significant" (Pina 2018, 38). Thomas Henshaw's 1655 English translation of Semedo capitalizes the second syllables as Kia Quen and Tean Zu (Semedo 1655, 143). The 1667 French translation by Louis Coulon hyphenates Kia-quen and Tean-zu (Semedo 1667, 209).