[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mamoru Shinozaki

Shinozaki for his opinion, which was based on Melayu Raya's attempt to disturb the unity of Malayan society. Shinozaki angrily requested Gaus to cooperate to maintain the unity of Malayan society because the "Holy War" was ongoing. Gaus wrote that he was confused by Shinozaki's groundless criticism.

"Evacuation" 
In September 1943, due to Operation Jaywick, the Southern Expeditionary Army Group became anxious about the recapture operation of the Allied army and the residents of Singapore, especially the Chinese and Eurasian residents. The Kempeitai started the Double Tenth incident and S.E.A.G. directed to Syonan municipal the "evacuation" of civilians. 
Shinozaki wrote that , the then Mayor of Syonan, told Shinozaki to carry out that mission and said that "I've heard the rumor that in Hong Kong they throw the civilians into the sea, but I don't want to do that. Please take measures which wouldn't let the civilians feel uneasy and forced."

Shinozaki suggested to the OCA and the EWA the "settlement" plan, on the surface was for the purpose of filling up the shortage of food.
Shinozaki also wrote that he was reluctant to let the Eurasians move to Bahau, but Bishop Adrian Devals of the Catholic Church was eager to go there. 
Shinozaki told them to look for participants, advertising that the "settlement" was free from Kempeitai monitoring and was abundant with soil and crops, that it was utopia. Then, they sent the Chinese and Eurasian residents that applied for the plan, who were seen as "hostile" to the JMA, to Endau ("New Syonan"), where sufficient irrigation facilities was lacking until re-development by Japanese POWs in 1946, and Bahau("Fuji-go"), where Malayan policemen were always monitoring the "settlers" and many died from malaria.

Bishop Devals got sick and died from overwork in January 1945 at a hospital of Seremban.

Shinozaki wrote (and it was believed by some) that he sent foods to the "settlers" and retained a lifeline of them.
His "humanitarian acts" have been recorded by Yap Pheng Geck, his contact with Shinozaki came in connection with the Endau Scheme. Yap found him to be sincere in wanting to promote the local people's welfare and even risked his neck sometimes with the Japanese military police, interceding for the Chinese people and also rendering the same services to Eurasians.
Eurasian doctor John Bertram van Cuylenburg, his contact with Shinozaki came in connection with the Bahau, marveled that a man like Shinozaki, who had spied for his country and been sentenced and jailed by the British, would want to do his best to lessen the sufferings of the Singapore people.
But  had claimed that Shinozaki wrote of himself like the man behind the "evacuation" plan. Yamada was the then chief of Headquarter of Syonan Evacuation Plan, and he wrote that "Shinozaki wrote that we did a good thing, "evacuation" of Singapore residents. I don't know Shinozaki might be responsible for the plan originally, but I know that the one actually involved was me, and not him. Shinozaki touched nothing. So he doesn't know the detail of things, though I know them."

Though JMA advertised that the "settlement" might resolve the food shortage, the "settling" population was limited to 1,200-1,500 through the Japanese Occupation period, so "settlement" was not effective in this point of view. In 1944, as the reality of the "settlement" (few actual benefits, need to wait for food from Syonan, and rampant malaria) was orally spread to Singapore, people applying to be "settlers" declined sharply. Shinozaki, in his autobiography, didn't refer to such situations and blamed the MPAJA saying that they disturbed Endau and Eurasians by being lazy in Bahau. But despite the terrible situations of "settlement", especially in Bahau, Syonan municipal didn't desert the "settlement" and return the "settlers" back to Singapore, because the true purpose was to "evacuate" the residents.

In July 1945, Shinozaki urged Singaporeans to "evacuate" immediately.

Sub Chief of Auxiliary Police 
On 26 July 1945, Shinozaki was appointed to Sub Chief of Auxiliary Police Force.

Post-war years

The Witness of Sook Ching Massacre 

After the Japanese surrender, Shinozaki was captured from the Japanese internment camp in Jurong but he was soon released and began to help the British Field Security Force during the War Crimes Trials as an interpreter and prosecution witness. According to his autobiography, it was because so many survivors in Singapore vouched for his exemplary behavior.

However, according to some newspaper articles at that time, Shinozaki was one of a hundred Japanese residents of pre-war Malaya who had applied to remain in Singapore. Because he was ruled guilty as a spy in 1940, there was little hope of approval, so he cooperated with the British Field Security Force by prosecuting his colleague, a member of the Kempeitai as a war criminal, to obtain forgiveness for himself.