[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Electricity Trust of South Australia

re that the public interest was protected and that safety standards are maintained.

The purchaser of the distribution business took the name "ETSA Utilities" (later renamed "SA Power Networks"), while the acquirers of the other parts of the business adopted distinct identities for their businesses.

With privatisation came the establishment of a competitive retail market for electricity. The retailing component of ETSA was acquired by AGL. With the advent of competition, other electricity retailers entered the marketplace, offering consumers choice- competition focussing on tariffs and discounts for "bundling" of gas and electricity supply from one retailer.

Although the state's fiscal situation was substantially improved with funds derived from the sell-off, debate continued as to whether ETSA's privatisation has been to the benefit of the South Australian community. It was estimated that with higher electricity prices, the net loss from ETSA would total between $2 and 3 billion over a ten-year period.

Contribution to South Australia's post-war growth
ETSA participated in the post-war growth and industrialisation of the South Australian economy, including providing modern and reliable power for regional areas. As a vertically-integrated generator, distributor and retailer of electricity, ETSA was responsible for the development of new energy sources. Coal was mined at Telford Cut near Leigh Creek.

ETSA expanded the electricity distribution network to areas where there was previously no supply, or only low voltage (32 volt) supply generated locally. By the end of the Playford era, South Australia had one of the cheapest and most efficient electricity networks in the world. The same low price for electricity was charged in Mount Gambier as it was at the point of production at Torrens Island.

Following the deregulation of the state's electricity market from 1 January 2003, AGL's electricity prices increased by an average 23.7%. This continued as a political sore point for both the Labor and Liberal Parties in South Australia: with the Liberals having enacted privatisation, then the Rann government approving the price increases. Further price increases followed, and by 1 July 2017 led to South Australia having the highest electricity prices in the world. With the closure of South Australia’s coal plants there was a rapid increase in solar and wind energy, backed by large-scale batteries. As this penetration of renewables has started to flow through to generation prices, South Australia now has more competitive retail pricing.

Headquarters

ETSA headquarters were for years in a building called Kelvin House at 233 North Terrace. Designed by Eric McMichael (architect of the Odeon Star cinema at Semaphore) in Art Deco style in 1925–6, the building was later heritage-listed and renamed Security House In April/May 2023 the entire second floor of the building will be occupied by the History Trust of South Australia.

See also
 Electricity Supply Industry Planning Council
 Essential Services Commission of South Australia
 SA Power Networks

References

Further reading

Companies based in Adelaide
Defunct utility companies of South Australia
Former government agencies of South Australia
History of South Australia
Electric power companies of Australia
Energy in South Australia
Energy companies established in 1946
Energy companies disestablished in 1999
1946 establishments in Australia
1999 disestablishments in Australia
Government-owned energy companies