[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ivan Fedyuninsky

e enemy, while the main blow by concentrated forces in mid-January was inflicted on the main direction from Ropsha, which led to a connection with troops of 42 A and the defeat of the German units in the area. Thus, a decisive contribution was made to the operation to lift the blockade of Leningrad.

Later, in the first half of February 1944, the 2nd Shock Army fought heavy battles for Narva, in which they failed to occupy the city. Narva was liberated on July 26, 1944, during the Narva Offensive. The offensive was carried out from the bridgehead, which later received the name "Fedyuninsky bridgehead". At the end of the Tallinn offensive, his unit took part in battles with Army Group North locked in the Courland Pocket and in the East Prussian Operation. He later led his unit during the Battle of Berlin in 1945. For their successful operations, the troops led by him were noted 25 times in the orders of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief.

Fedyuninsky was promoted to lieutenant general on 11 July 1945 and he took part in the Victory Parade on Red Square, in Moscow. From 1946 to 1951 he commanded 7th Guards Army.

Later career
After the war Fedyuninsky was deputy commander of the Group of Soviet Forces in Germany (1951–54), commander the Transcaucasian (1954–57) and Turkestan (1957–65) Military Districts. He was promoted to the rank of General of the Army in 1955 and was an inspector and advisor to the Soviet Ministry of Defence from 1965 until his death. He was also a deputy in the Supreme Soviet.

He died in Moscow on October 17, 1977, and was buried with full honors at the Novodevichy Cemetery.

Honours and awards
Fedyuninsky was awarded four Orders of Lenin, five Orders of the Red Banner, two Orders of Suvorov (1st and 2nd Class), two Orders of Kutuzov, Order of the Red Star, Order for Service to the Homeland in the Armed Forces of the USSR (3rd Class), numerous medals, and a few foreign orders and medals.

Soviet

Foreign

Other awards
He is an honorary citizen of the cities of: Volkhov, Kingisepp, Tallinn, Bryansk, Karachev, Gomel, Choibalsan (Mongolia), Flomberha (Poland).

Sources and references
John Erickson (historian), The Road to Stalingrad (1975), & The Road to Berlin (1982).
page in Russian from warheroes.ru

References

1900 births
1977 deaths
People from Sverdlovsk Oblast
People from Tyumensky Uyezd
Army generals (Soviet Union)
Soviet military personnel of World War II
Heroes of the Soviet Union
Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner
Recipients of the Order of Suvorov, 1st class
Recipients of the Order of Kutuzov, 1st class
Recipients of the Medal "For Distinction in Guarding the State Border of the USSR"
Recipients of the Order of Lenin
Recipients of the Gold Cross of the Virtuti Militari
Recipients of the Order of the Cross of Grunwald, 2nd class
Recipients of the Patriotic Order of Merit
Knights of the Order of Polonia Restituta