[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Operation Opera

France–Iraq relations
 French support for Iraq during the Iran–Iraq war
 Iraq–Israel relations
 Nuclear weapons and Israel
 Operation Orchard – an Israeli airstrike on a purported Syrian nuclear target
 Operation Wooden Leg – the Israeli Air Force's raid on Tunisia
 Stuxnet

References

Bibliography

 Amos Perlmutter, Michael I. Handel, Uri Bar-Joseph, Two Minutes Over Baghdad, 
 Geoff Simons, Iraq: From Sumer to Saddam, 
 Gary D. Solis, The Law of Armed Conflict: International Humanitarian Law in War, 
 United Nations Staff, Yearbook of the United Nations 1981, 
 The 1982 World Book Year Book, 
 Anthony Cordesman, Iraq and the War of Sanctions: Conventional Threats and Weapons of Mass Destruction, 
 Bennett Ramberg, Nuclear Power Plants as Weapons for the Enemy: An Unrecognized Military Peril, 
 Sasha Polakow-Suransky, The Unspoken Alliance: Israel's Secret Relationship with Apartheid South Africa, 
 Trita Parsi, Treacherous Alliance: The Secret Dealings of Israel, Iran, and the United States, 
 Israel Stockman-Shomron, Israel, the Middle East and the Great Powers, 
 Henry Shue, David Rhodin, Preemption: Military Action and Moral Justification, 
 Elaine Sciolino, The Outlaw State: Saddam Hussein's Quest for Power and the War in the Gulf, 
 Shirley V. Scott, Anthony Billingsley, Christopher Michaelsen, International Law and the Use of Force: A Documentary and Reference Guide, 
 Dan Perry, Israel and the Quest for Permanence, 
 Shlomo Aloni, Israeli F-15 Eagle Units in Combat, 
 Fred Holroyd, Thinking about nuclear weapons: analyses and prescriptions, 
 Richard C. Ragaini, International Seminar on Nuclear War and Planetary Emergencies: 29th session, 
 David Styan, France and Iraq: Oil, Arms and French Policy Making in the Middle East, 
 Leonard Spector, Proliferation Today, 
 Dan McKinnon, Bullseye Iraq, 
 Patrick Seale, Asad: The Struggle for the Middle East, 
 Allan D. Abbey, Journey of Hope: The Story of Ilan Ramon, Israel's First Astronaut, 
 Trevor Dupuy, Paul Martell, Flawed Victory: Arab-Israeli Conflict and the 1982 War in Lebanon, 
 Ofira Seliktar, Divided We Stand: American Jews, Israel, and the Peace Process, 
 Peter A. Clausen, Nonproliferation and the National Interest: America's Response to the Spread of Nuclear Weapons, 
 David Krieger, The challenge of abolishing nuclear weapons, 
 Seymour Hersh, The Samson Option: Israel's Nuclear Arsenal and American Foreign Policy, 
 Jackson Nyamuya Maogoto, Battling Terrorism: Legal Perspectives on the Use of Force and the War on Terror, 
 H. H. A. Cooper, Terrorism and espionage in the Middle East: deception, displacement and denial, 
 Barry Leonard, Technology Transfer to the Middle East,
 Sharad S. Chauhan, War on Iraq, 
 Bob Woodward, State of Denial: Bush at War, Part III, 
 Imad Khadduri, Iraq's Nuclear Mirage, Memoirs and Delusions, 
 Karl P. Mueller, Striking First: Preemptive and Preventive Attack in U.S. National Security Policy, 
 Shai Feldman, Nuclear Weapons and Arms Control in the Middle East,

Further reading 
 
 Rodger Claire, Raid on the Sun: Inside Israel's Secret Campaign that Denied Saddam the Bomb, 
 Steven E. Lobell (2020) "Why Israel launched a preventive military strike on Iraq’s nuclear weapons program (1981): The fungibility of power resources". Journal of Strategic Studies
 Timothy L. H. McCormack, Self-Defense in International Law: The Israeli Raid on the Iraqi Nuclear Reactor, 
 Dan McKinnon (1987), Bullseye One Reactor, 
 Dan McKinnon (1987), Bullseye Iraq

External links

 
 Attack on Iraq’s Nuke Plant, American Heritage
 Osiraq / Tammuz I, Federation of American Scientists
 Israel's Air Strike Against The Osiraq Reactor: A Retrospective, Temple International and Comparative Law Journal
 Osirak: Over the reactor, BBC News, 5 June 2006 (interview with pilots involved)
 Factfile: How Osirak was bombed, BBC News
 Operation Opera: the destruction of the Iraqi nuclear Reactor () – Exhibition in the IDF & Defense establishment archives
 Operation Opera: An Ambiguous Success, Journal of Strategic Studies
 The Israeli aggression against the peaceful nuclear installations in Iraq : statement made by Dr. Sa'adoun Hammadi, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Iraq, before the Security Council, 12 June 1981

1981 in international relations
1981 in aviation
1981 in Iraq
1981 in Israel
Conflicts in 1981
Attacks on buildings and structures in 1981
Airstrikes conducted by Israel
Airstrikes in Iraq
Arab–Israeli conflict
Battles involving Israel
Cross-border operations into Iraq
Mossad operations
History of Diyala Governorate
Iraq–Israel relations
France–Iraq relations
France–Israel relations