[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charity Ngilu

ting her over the charcoal row. Implementation of the charcoal transportation ban was problematic with allegations that Kitui County government officials were colluding with charcoal transporters to undermine Ngilu's directive. The problem also attracted public opinion on how best to effect the ban.

Relationship with County Assembly 
In the first two years of her tenure as Governor, Charity had a strained relationship with members of the Kitui County Assembly. In December 2018, Charity was accused of delaying the release of salaries to members of the County Assembly. Charity and members of the assembly were reported to develop an improving working relationship in 2019. Charity accused the assembly of unduly delaying the passing of a supplementary budget until May 2020 with one month remaining to the end of the financial year.

Troubled County Public Service Board Appointments
In the first half of 2020, her nominees to the County Public Service Board (CPSB) were rejected by the County Assembly. The term of the county's first Public Service Board had expired in 2019. The rejection arose after what Charity Ngilu considered an unjustified delay that she blamed on the Assembly Speaker Mr. George Ndoto. Charity went on to blame the rejection of her nominees on what she considered interference in local politics by Kalonzo Musyoka, the Wiper Democratic Party leader.

The delayed appointment of members of the County Public Service Board was reported to hinder the hiring of extra healthcare workers to enhance the county's fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.

2022 General Elections 
In the 2022 elections, Ngilu supported Raila Odinga's bid for presidency. Though she had been cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) to defend her seat as governor of Kitui County, she would later withdraw her candidature in favor of Julius Malombe of Wiper Party. She was allegedly angling for a higher position in Raila Odinga's led Azimio la Umoja – One Kenya coalition government if the coalition would win the August polls.

Law Society of Kenya Blacklist
On 16 January 2012 the Law Society of Kenya identified Ngilu as one of the public officials have been mentioned adversely in various reports on issues ranging from corruption to economic crimes. The society advised voters not to vote those mentioned in the report as they had previously compromised.

Censure motion 2013
In November 2013, the 11th Kenyan parliament debated about her conduct as the cabinet secretary for Land, Housing and Urban Development. The parliament was acting on recommendations by a special committee whose mandate was to investigate how she appointed a new director-general at her ministry without involving the parliament as provided for in the constitution of Kenya.

Personal life
Her husband, Michael Mwendwa Ngilu, died on 1 July 2006 in South Africa. Charity Ngilu has three children.

References

External links
 http://www.worldpress.org/Africa/1125.cfm

1952 births
Living people
Democratic Party (Kenya) politicians
National Party of Kenya politicians
Orange Democratic Movement politicians
Members of the National Assembly (Kenya)
Health ministers of Kenya
Water ministers of Kenya
Alumni of Alliance Girls High School
Women government ministers of Kenya
People from Makueni County
21st-century Kenyan women politicians
21st-century Kenyan politicians
20th-century Kenyan women politicians
20th-century Kenyan politicians
People from Kitui County
National Rainbow Coalition politicians
National Rainbow Coalition – Kenya politicians
County Governors of Kenya
Candidates for President of Kenya