[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Hubert Pierlot

and, shortly after the 1946 election, was awarded the title of Count. Because he was considered an anti-Leopoldist during the crisis surrounding the Royal Question, he was ostracised by the pro-Leopoldist successor to the Catholic Party, the Christian Social Party (Parti social-chrétien or PSC-CVP).

Retiring from politics, Pierlot returned to practicing law in Brussels. In 1946, a book entitled the Livre Blanc (White Book) was published at the request of Leopold, defending the King and attacking the exile government's record. Responding to the criticism, Pierlot published a widely distributed series of articles in the newspaper Le Soir. He remained a controversial figure. King Baudouin, replacing his father as King in 1950, also refused to receive Pierlot at the palace. After 1947, he refused to return to politics or to respond publicly to criticism from his political enemies.

Pierlot died in Uccle, a wealthy suburb of Brussels, on 13 December 1963, ten days before his 80th birthday. He is buried in Cugnon. A charitable organisation, the Fondation Hubert Pierlot (Hubert Pierlot Foundation), was established by friends of Pierlot in 1966.

Posthumous rehabilitation
After his death, Pierlot's political reputation was reappraised by historians who reconsidered the decisions he took during his wartime government. He was notably praised by his colleague, Paul-Henri Spaak who later became first President of the United Nations General Assembly, Secretary General of NATO, and one of the founding fathers of the European Union. In his 1969 memoires, Spaak praised Pierlot as "serious to the point of severity, honest to the point of scrupulosity, a tireless worker, a devout Christian, a patriot, a model of civic, professional, and family virtues, he was an exceptional man."

References

Bibliography

External links

Hubert Pierlot at the official website of the Belgian Prime Minister
Hubert Pierlot, du devoir au sacrifice at La Libre Belgique
Hubert Pierlot, Premier ministre oublié at L'Avenir
 
 Hubert Pierlot in ODIS - Online Database for Intermediary Structures

1883 births
1963 deaths
People from Bertrix
Catholic University of Leuven (1834–1968) alumni
Belgian military personnel of World War I
20th-century Belgian lawyers
Catholic Party (Belgium) politicians
Prime Ministers of Belgium
Belgian Ministers of State
Members of the Belgian government in exile
World War II political leaders

Counts of Belgium