[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hoang Van Chi

the best results and benefit the people and the country, as well as taking their culture to another level of power. Hoàng believed that this preservation of humanity and heritage in a free and democratic society was the way to counteract what he saw as the destruction caused by communism in Vietnam.

Preserving a traditional Vietnamese lifestyle
While he spent most of his time devoting to writing, researching, and teaching, Hoàng and his wife maintained a simple traditional Vietnamese lifestyle. In the early 1970s, he built a greenhouse where he grew Vietnamese herbs and vegetables. Most remembered by his community are the white eggplants, a part of the traditional North Vietnamese daily meal. In 1979, Hoàng and his wife founded the Vietnam Food and Drink Company in Bowie, Maryland, in order to promote Vietnamese food and drink. The first successful product was “Tương Cự Đà”, a sauce made by a fermentation process using soybeans and sweet rice. The second product was “Thính Quê Hương”, a Vietnamese spice made from roasted rice powder, used in Vietnamese cooking to add flavor to roast beef (bò tái) and shredded pork (bì). These two products enjoyed international sales at a time when Vietnam was still closed to the outside world. The Vietnam Food and Drink Company delivered products to Asian and Vietnamese supermarkets in the United States and worldwide, as well as by mail order.

Publications

From Colonialism to Communism
From Colonialism to Communism: A Case Study of North Vietnam describes North Vietnam from 1940 to 1955, during the transition from the French colonial rule to communism. It also documents the land reform in Vietnam in 1954. The book was written in exile in India and France, between 1960 and 1962. The first edition was published in 1962, in New York, London, and New Delhi. Between 1962 and 1964, foreign language editions were published in Japanese, Urdu, Spanish, Arabic and Vietnamese.

Select bibliography
1956 - Phật Rơi Lệ (“Buddha Cries”)
1959 - Trăm Hoa Đua Nở Trên Đất Bắc (“A Hundred Flowers Bloom in the North”)
1959 - The New Class in North Vietnam
1959 - The Nhân Văn Affair
1964 - From Colonialism to Communism
1990 - Duy Văn Sử Quan (“Humanism”), published posthumously by his son, Dr.Hoàng Việt Dũng, in association with Cành Nam Publishers

References

Further reading
 Hoang van Chi ed. and transl. The New Class in North Vietnam. Saigon Cong Dan 1958.
 San Antoli, Al; Hamilton-Merritt, Jane. To Bear Any Burden: The Vietnam War and Its Aftermath in the Words of Americans and Southeast Asians. Indiana: Indiana Univ Pr,1999.

External links
Hoàng Văn Chí - Trăm Hoa Đua Nở Trên Đất Bắc
Hoàng Văn Chí - Từ Thực Dân Đến Cộng Sản
Hoàng Văn Chí - Duy Văn Sử Quan
Vietnam Food and Drink website

Vietnamese journalists
Vietnamese non-fiction writers
Vietnamese revolutionaries
1913 births
1988 deaths
Vietnamese anti-communists
Vietnamese nationalists
Vietnamese politicians
Vietnamese expatriates in the United States
Vietnamese writers
French Section of the Workers' International politicians
Vietnamese male writers
20th-century male writers
20th-century Vietnamese writers
People educated at Lycee Albert Sarraut
20th-century journalists
Male non-fiction writers
Vietnamese dissidents