[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Macedonian Australians

edonians from the People's Republic of Macedonia began to immigrate to Perth. In 1966 the foundation stone to the "Macedonian Community Centre" was laid and the building was completed in 1968.  It include a chapel dedicated to Saint Nicholas. In 1969 a second level was added to the Community Centre.

In 1968 the "Vardar Club" (East Perth) soccer club was founded. In 1969 the "Olympic" soccer team broke with the Macedonian community and established its club-rooms and grounds in Kingsway. Another Macedonian soccer club "Macedonia United" (West Perth) was founded in 1970 under the auspices of the "Macedonian Community of Western Australia", which was the first United Macedonian club in Western Australia. The Community also went on to found a Basketball club and cricket club. In 1969 the first Macedonian Church in Western Australia was founded. The Macedonian Orthodox Church Свети Никола/Saint Nicholas was consecrated on 6 April 1969. In 1969 the "Macedonian Community of Western Australia" founded the "Goce Delčev Macedonian Choir" and the KUD-Goce Delčev. The Vestnik/Newspaper was founded in 1971. It began as Mesečni Novini/Monthly News and then became "Newsletter of the Macedonian Communities in Australia". It printed mainly news from Western Australia in English and Macedonian.

In 1976 "The Macedonian Club" was founded on the site of the Macedonian Community Centre. Ever since its foundation it has been the centre of the Macedonian community in Perth. During 1977 a split within the Saint Nicholas church community led some parishioners to leave the original church and purchase another church just 500 metres from the original "Saint Nicholas" church. This new church was also named the Macedonian Orthodox Church of Свети Никола/Saint Nicholas. This church founded the KUD-Ilinden and other social groups. By 1983 the Vardar Club had acquired premises in North Perth. From here they are able organise socials, dances and picnics. They also founded the KUD-Vardar group along with other social events such as "Miss Macedonia (W.A)". In 1985 the "Macedonian Community of Western Australia" acquired 10 hectares of land in Balcatta. The development known as "Macedonia Park" was to include a nursing home, C grade hospital, a chapel, rectory, halls, bars and a wide range of sporting amenities. On 22 May 1986 the sporting complex was officially opened by West Australian premier, Brian Burke. In 1985 the community had over 2,000 full or social members. Perth now has over 5 Macedonian clubs. Another social club the "Ilinden Club" was also founded the group went on to build a hall in North Perth.

During the early 1990s many Macedonians immigrated to Perth from the newly independent Republic of Macedonia. The "Macedonian United Organisation of Perth and WA Inc." was founded as a uniting organisation within Western Australia, the group has members from the "Macedonian Community of Western Australia", "Vardar Club", both Churches, the Romany Community and the Ilinden Club. The Church street was renamed "Macedonia Place" in recognition of the great contribution that Macedonians had given to Perth. The "Macedonia Park" in Balcatta was expanded and a number of ethnic schools founded throughout Perth. Radio programs and KUD's were all expanded. By 1976 there were 3471 Macedonian speakers in Perth by 2001 this had risen to 5,772. 7,435 people claimed Macedonian ancestry in the 2006 census although community spokespersons put the number of Macedonians at over 12,000.

Macedonians in Perth Today

Today the Macedonian community in Perth is one of the most influential in Australia and the Diaspora. The Macedonian community in Perth is represented by a number of organisations and Churches including: The Macedonian Australian Community Organisation "Vardar" [in Macedonian: Македонска Народна Општина - Вардар] which has a community center in Malaga, Perth, The Macedonian Community of Western Australia [in Macedonian: Македонска Општина на Западна Австралија] which has a community center in North Perth, Perth and also a sports stadium (Macedonia Park) in Balcatta, The Macedonian Cultural Center "Ilinden" [in Macedonian: Македонски Културен Центар - Илинден] located in Balcatta, Perth, which also has a community center located there, and finally, The Macedonian Orthodox Church of "Saint Nikola" (Angove Street, North Perth) and the Macedonian Orthodox Church of "Saint Nikola" (Macedonia Place, North Perth).