[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Leitkultur

establish a collective identity, it must develop a political core ideal, a set of foundational values and convictions. Such a European core ideal must necessarily be based on the common cultural roots of Europe, on its shared history, and on shared religious tradition," (Die Welt, 13 December 2005).

In early 2006, the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy led to violent protests in Islamic countries, against depictions of Muhammad in a Danish newspaper. Lammert now restated his demand for a re-opening of the Leitkultur debate. The cartoon protests, he said, show that German society must reach a consensus on its "foundational values and a minimal standard of value orientation". The 'constitutional patriotism' (proposed by the philosopher Jürgen Habermas) would not suffice, since all constitutions are based on non-random cultural assumptions. Fundamental rights, such as freedom of the press and freedom of expression, must be fully supported by a social consensus. Given the background of a multicultural society in Germany, according to Lammert, rights must be linked to certain cultural values, and a nationwide debate on this issue was necessary, to re-establish such a link. The idea of multiculturalism was "perhaps originally well-intentioned", but had reached the end of its useful life. Multiculturalism could not be allowed to create a society where all values were equal – and therefore in practice had no values. In conflicts of values, society had to decide which values were valid, and which were not. Lammert insisted that he had never spoken of a German Leitkultur. The essential elements of the German culture were not specifically German, he said, and it would be better to speak of a European Leitkultur. (Deutschlandfunk interview with Lammert, reported in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung of 8 February 2006).

Jörg Schönbohm also remains a vigorous advocate of a German core culture: in 2006 he suggested changing the name of the Berlin radio station radiomultikulti into 'Radio Schwarz-Rot-Gold' (black-red-gold, the colours of the flag of Germany).

Immigrant tests

The concept of Leitkultur figured prominently in the national debate about a test for immigrants to Germany. These tests are known in English as 'citizenship tests' (see for example the Life in the United Kingdom test) but they often apply to all immigrants, not just those seeking naturalisation. In Germany, the federal parliament (Bundestag) ultimately decided against a national immigrant test, but the 16 states can set their own tests, which can be based on an officially defined German culture and values.

See also
 Cultural selection theory
 Ethnocentrism
 Immigration
 Jürgen Habermas
 Modernity
 Multiculturalism
 Nation-state
 Values

References

Further reading
 Bassam Tibi, Europa ohne Identität, Die Krise der multikulturellen Gesellschaft, 1998.
 Bassam Tibi, Multikultureller Werte-Relativismus und Werte-Verlust, In: Aus Politik und Zeitgeschehen (Das Parlament), B 52–53/96, p. 27–36
 Bassam Tibi, Leitkultur als Wertekonsens - Bilanz einer missglückten deutschen Debatte, In: Aus Politik und Zeitgeschehen (Das Parlament), B 1–2/2001, p. 23–26
 Theo Sommer, Der Kopf zählt, nicht das Tuch - Ausländer in Deutschland: Integration kann keine Einbahnstraße sein, ZEIT 30/1998
 Theo Sommer, Einwanderung ja, Ghettos nein - Warum Friedrich Merz sich zu Unrecht auf mich beruft, ZEIT 47/2000
 Interview: »Das Parlament hat kein Diskussionsmonopol« Der neue Bundestagspräsident Norbert Lammert über die Konkurrenz durch Talkshows und den Ansehensverlust der Politik, ZEIT 43/2005
 Auch die EU braucht ein ideelles Fundament, Gastkommentar: Leitkultur von Norbert Lammert, Die Welt, December 13, 2005
 Interview mit Norbert Lammert: "Lammert plädiert für neue Leitkultur-Debatte. Bundestagspräsident fordert breite öffentliche Diskussion", Deutschlandfunk (Kultur heute), 20.10.2005.
 Lammerts Wiedervorlage, FAZ., February 8, 2006.
 Pautz, Hartwig: Die deutsche Leitkultur. Eine Identitätsdebatte: Neue Rechte, Neorassismus und Normalisierungsbemühungen. Stuttgart 2005
 
 Jörg Schönbohm. "Multikulti ist am Ende". 7 July 2006. NZ Netzeitung.

External links
Andrea Mrozek. "Heavy on the Leitkultur". December 2000. Central Europe Review.
Hans Ulrich Gumbrecht.  "Taking the immigrant test". signandsight.
Charles Hawley. "What's a German? The Search for Identity Continues". Der Spiegel International.
 Deutsche Welle: "German issues in a nutshell: 'Leitkultur' - acceptance vs. assimilation"

1990s neologisms
German nationalism
German words and phrases
Multiculturalism in Europe
Cultural assimilation
Culture of Germany