[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hamilton P. Bee

laced him in command. Later, despite intense criticism of his handling of his troops, Bee was given command of Thomas Green's division in Major General John A. Wharton's cavalry corps in February 1865. After that time, he commanded an infantry brigade in Brigadier General Samuel B. Maxey's division.

Postbellum
After the war in 1869 during the Reconstruction era, Bee moved his family to Saltillo, Mexico. They lived in a self-imposed exile in Mexico until 1876. By then Democrats were regaining control of the Texas state legislature. He became a steward and superintendent of the farm at the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, now known as Texas A&M University. They returned to live in San Antonio, where Bee practiced law. He was appointed the Texas Commissioner of the Office of Insurance, Statistics, and History (now the Texas Department of Insurance) for the 1885-1886 legislative term.

After Bee died on October 3, 1897, he was buried in the Confederate Cemetery in San Antonio.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

Notes

References
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Sifakis, Stewart. Who Was Who in the Civil War. New York: Facts On File, 1988. .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .
 Winters, John D. The Civil War in Louisiana. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1963. .

Further reading
 
 Hamilton P Bee Texas Biography, Tarver Genealogy
 Hamilton P Bee Confederate General

External links
 

1822 births
1897 deaths
Speakers of the Texas House of Representatives
Democratic Party members of the Texas House of Representatives
Bee family
Politicians from Charleston, South Carolina
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
People of Texas in the American Civil War
People from Laredo, Texas
19th-century American politicians