[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Husain Haqqani

"pro-American ambassador in Washington," Haqqani provided visas for a large number of US operatives to enter Pakistan, under instructions from Islamabad, in the lead up to the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. He resigned in 2011 due to the memogate controversy.

Alleged secret memo and resignation

Roughly a week after the raid on Bin Laden, Haqqani reportedly asked a Pakistani American businessman Mansoor Ijaz to pass a message to the Americans, at the request of President Zardari, that the Pakistani military was planning to intervene.  Ijaz revealed this in an opinion column in the Financial Times in October 2011, and mentioned that the message was communicated in an undated and unsigned memo sent to Admiral Michael Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the US military. Later released to the press, the memo also spoke of a "unique window of opportunity" for the civilian government to gain the upper hand due to the military's complicity in the Bin Laden affair. According to Ijaz, the military intended to stage a coup to wash off the embarrassment issuing from the raid on Bin Laden, and he drafted the memo in consultation with Haqqani.

Haqqani resigned but denied writing the memo. He was recalled to Pakistan and accused of high treason.  On the basis of a petition filed by the PML-N, the Supreme Court of Pakistan launched an investigation overriding the government, which had also started a parliamentary investigation.

While a judicial commission appointed by the Supreme Court of Pakistan investigated, Haqqani was not allowed to leave the country. He sought refuge in the presidential palace and later the Prime Minister's residence, citing threats to his life by extremist groups that accused him of treason.

In January 2012, Pakistan's Supreme Court allowed Haqqani to leave the country. The Judicial Commission completed its investigation apparently without hearing from Haqqani, and submitted its report in June 2012 in sealed envelopes. It asserted that Haqqani had indeed authored the memo, whose purpose was taken to be assuring the United States that the civilian government was its ally. It also declared that Haqqani had undermined the country's security and he had misled Ijaz to believe the memorandum had the Pakistani president's approval. The commission's report further stated that "Husain Haqqani was not loyal to Pakistan" in drafting that memo.

Pakistan's Supreme Court noted that the commission was only expressing its opinion.

Haqqani said the Commission's report was one-sided and defended his patriotism and his innocence. Haqqani has not returned to Pakistan, citing threats on his life. In 2018, former Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said it was a mistake to take up the case with the Supreme Court, suggesting the government had been acting under external pressure. In 2019, Pakistan's Supreme Court wrapped up the case saying that "the Supreme Court has nothing to do with this matter."

Relationship with Pakistan's military
Husain Haqqani has long had a difficult relationship with Pakistan's military. Haqqani had made enemies among some in Pakistan's military due to his criticism of the Army. In 1999, he was kidnapped by Pakistani intelligence agents who roughed him up and held him for two months until a court ordered his release. The powerful Inter-Services Intelligence Agency (ISI) tried to stop Haqqani from being appointed Ambassador to the United States and kept him under regular surveillance during his tenure due to his criticism of the military.

There are, however, indications that Haqqani's relationship with the Pakistani military has improved. In December 2022, the Pakistani daily Dawn reported that Haqqani was subcontracted by former CIA Islamabad station chief Robert Grenier to conduct "research" on Pakistan. Grenier was acting as a registered lobbyist for the Pakistani government. The Dawn report cited a public disclosure filed by Grenier in November 2022 as required by the Foreign Agents Registration Act.

Officials with ex-cricketer Imran Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e Insaf (PTI) party allege that Haqqani was acting on behalf of a "senior figure in the [Pakistani] military establishment." Haqqani has denied these charges, but has not explained the nature of his work for a Pakistani government lobbyist. Since receiving payments from Grenier in September and October 2021, Haqqani has called for the U.S. and Pakistan to reengage. He has also praised the now-former army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa. In October 2022, a "study group" led by Haqqani released a report during Bajwa's visit to Washington calling for both countries to "find a way to work on areas of mutual concern."

As per Ex-Prime Minister Imran Khan, Haqqani was hired to lobby against his government in the US. Since the allegations of his alleged role in the regime change operation, a cypher leak expose has been published by The Intercept which gives further credence.