[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Afro-Arabs

dants of people from the Swahili Coast perform traditional Liwa and Fann at-Tanbura music and dance, and the mizmar is also played by Afro-Arabs in the Tihamah and Hejaz. . Today, they are fully recognised citizens of the Persian Gulf states, despite the fact that they do not have any Arab ancestry.

In addition, Stambali of Tunisia 
and Gnawa music of Morocco are both ritual music and dances that in part trace their origins to West African musical styles. Afro-Saudis make up 10% or approximately 1,880,000 of Saudi Arabia’s 18,880,000 native population.

Notable Afro-Arabs

 Etab, Saudi Arabian singer
 Anwar Sadat, Egyptian politician
 Ali Al-Habsi, Omani footballer
 Mohamed Al-Deayea, Saudi footballer
 Shikabala, Egyptian footballer
 Mohammed Hussein Al-Amoudi, Saudi Arabian billionaire of Ethiopian and Yemeni descent
 Khalid Eisa, Emirati footballer
 Tippu-Tip, Afro-Omani trader and explorer
 Chahine van Bohemen, Dutch-Moroccan footballer
 Zinedine Zidane, French professional football manager

See also

 Al-Akhdam
 Afro-Iranians
 Afro-Turks
 Arab slave trade
 Black Guard
 Gnawa
 Haratin
 Shirazi people
 Swahili people
 Zanj

Citations

Bibliography

External links
 Arab Slave Trade Afo-Arab relations and the Arab Slave Trade
 "Black Africans in (Arab) West Asia" - a cited ColorQ.org essay
 Prof. Helmi Sharawy, Arab Culture and African Culture: ambiguous relations , paper extracted from the book The Dialogue between the Arab culture and other cultures', Arab League, Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organisation (ALECSO), Tunis, 1999.
 Resolution on Afro-arab Co-operation of The Council of Ministers of the Organization of African Unity, 23, February 23–28, 1987.
 African Union/league of Arab States Inter-secretariat Consultative Meeting On Afro-arab Cooperation, Addis Ababa: 10–12 May 2005.
 Maho M. Sebiane, « Le statut socio-économique de la pratique musicale aux Émirats arabes unis : la tradition du leiwah à Dubai », Chroniques yéménites, 14, 2007..
 Afro-Arabian origins of the Early Yemenites and their Conquest and Settlement of Spain

 
Arab groups
Multiracial affairs
Arab world-related lists
Ethnic groups in the Middle East