[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Malaysian passport

hest-ranked passport in the developing world and among Muslim-majority countries. Additionally, Arton Capital's  Passport Index ranked the Malaysian passport 9th in the world in terms of travel freedom, with a visa-free score of 167 countries & territories as of January 2023.

Restrictions on travel

Israel
As Malaysia does not recognise nor have diplomatic relations with the state of Israel, Malaysian passports bear the inscription: "This passport is valid for all countries except Israel". Israeli passport holders are not permitted to enter Malaysia without written permission from the Malaysian Ministry of Home Affairs.

Officially, the Malaysian government allows Christians to visit Israel for religious purposes. In 2009, the government imposed a ban on visits to Israel, ostensibly due to heightened security risks posed by the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. The ban was lifted in 2011, albeit with restrictions such as a quota of 700 pilgrims per year with not more than 40 pilgrims per church group, and pilgrims must be at least 18 years old and not visiting Israel more than once every three years with each stay a maximum of 10 days. On 20 December 2013, the government announced a relaxation of the ban, which lifted most of the restrictions while increasing the maximum duration of stay to 21 days, subject to the security situation in Israel.

However, the restrictions imposed by the Malaysian government do not prevent Israel from issuing visa on a separate sheet of paper to Malaysian citizens for entering Israel, and Malaysians are known to have visited Israel with or without permission from the Malaysian government.

North Korea
In September 2017,  Malaysia announced a ban on all Malaysian citizens from travelling to North Korea, in the wake of strained Malaysia–North Korea relations following the assassination of Kim Jong-nam at Kuala Lumpur International Airport.

Former restrictions
Previously, Malaysian passports were not valid for travel to various communist countries, and South Africa due to its apartheid system. Following the fall of communism in Eastern Europe and improving ties with the remaining communist countries, as well as the end of apartheid in 1994, the countries were removed from the list.

See also
 Visa requirements for Malaysian citizens

References

External links
 Immigration Department of Malaysia: Malaysian Passports (in English)
 Malaysian Passport Processing Office Overseas
 Security Document World: Technical specifications for the Malaysian biometric passport
 Wikivisa: Malaysia
 Images of a 1963 Federation of Malaya passport from www.passportland.com
 Passport from Federation of Malaya (1962) from www.PaperToTravel.com
 Passport from Federation of Malaya (1965) from www.PaperToTravel.com
 Passport from Malaysia - Series III (1984-1989-1993) from www.PaperToTravel.com
 Passport from Malaysia - Non-ICAO Biometric Passport, First Generation (2009-2014) from www.PaperToTravel.com
 Passport from Malaysia - Non-ICAO Biometric Official Passport (2007) from www.PaperToTravel.com
 Passport from Malaysia - Biometric ICAO ePassport (2013-2015) 2-Year Validity from www.PaperToTravel.com
 Passport from Malaysia - Biometric ICAO ePassport (2018) New Design from www.PaperToTravel.com

Passports by country
Passport
Malaysian nationality law
Foreign relations of Malaysia