[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brunswick News

y buying weekly and  community newspapers in both French and English. By 2004 it owned 12 weeklies, 6 English and 6 French, and had purchased an  alternative weekly distributed in Moncton, Fredericton, and Saint John. Meanwhile, the Saint John evening paper, the Times-Globe, had been closed in 2001.

The company was restructured in 2005 with the transfer of Acadia Broadcasting from BNI to Jack Irving and the departure of Jack's son John, who had been BNI's president. He became head of Acadia Broadcasting. Also in 2005, Otter Brook Holdings, BNI's parent company, removed two of the Irving brothers, Jack and Arthur, and their sons, from its list of directors, leaving only James K. and his two sons Jim and Robert as owners of Brunswick News.  

Jamie Irving, the son of Jim and grandson of James K., had worked at the Telegraph Journal as a summer student while in university, and studied journalism at Carleton University and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. In 2002 Jamie Irving became publisher of the Kings County Record, a weekly newspaper in which BNI had acquired a minority stake. He was later made responsible for all the weeklies. In November 2004 he was named publisher of the Telegraph Journal. In 2009 he became vice-president of Brunswick News.

In 2017 BNI began delivering packages for  Amazon in an expansion of its existing newspaper and flyer delivery network.

Sale to Postmedia

On 17 February 2022  Postmedia announced that it was buying BNI. A definitive agreement between the parties set the sale price at "$7.5M in cash and $8.6M in variable voting shares of Postmedia at an implied price of $2.10 per variable voting share (subject to working capital adjustment)". BNI's co-CEO Jim Irving stated  that the sale marked J. D. Irving's "exit from the media business".

Newspapers

Brunswick News employs more than 600 people and operates nearly all of the major print publications in New Brunswick, including three daily newspapers and several French and English language weeklies throughout the province.

Brunswick News operates the following newspapers:

Daily

On 7 February 2023 Brunswick News announced that print editions of its three daily newspapers would be reduced to three days a week as of 7 March 2023. 

 Telegraph-Journal (Saint John; distributed throughout the province)
 Times & Transcript (Moncton)
 The Daily Gleaner (Fredericton)

Weekly
Brunswick News owns 14 English-language weeklies (6 paid subscription, 5 free) and 7 French-language weeklies (4 paid subscription, 3 free).

 The Tribune (English language) (Campbellton and Restigouche County)
 La Voix du Restigouche (French Language) (Campbellton and Restigouche County)
 The Bugle-Observer (Woodstock)
 Le Journal Madawaska (French Language) (Edmundston)
 L'Étoile (French Language)
 Édition provinciale
 Édition La Cataracte (Grand Falls)
 Édition Chaleur (Chaleur region)
 Édition Dieppe (Dieppe)
 Édition Kent (Kent)
 Édition Péninsule (Acadian Peninsula area)
 Édition République (Edmundston)
 Édition Restigouche (Restigouche)
 Édition Shédiac (Shediac) 
 Kings County Record (English language) (Sussex, Kings County area)
 Miramichi Leader (English language) (Miramichi) (Three times a week)
 The Northern Light (English language) (Bathurst)
 Here (English language urban alternative weekly distributed to Saint John, Moncton and Fredericton)
 KV Style (Kennebecasis Valley)

Criticism
Brunswick News has faced scrutiny due to its concentration of the print media market in New Brunswick. As part of the Irving Group of Companies, Brunswick News faced accusations that its papers were reluctant to publish stories critical of the Irving Group. 

The Irving media concentration in New Brunswick was investigated by the 1969 Special Senate Committee on the Mass Media (the Davey Commission) and the Kent commission (1981) during an era before extensive media concentration took place across Canada in the 1990s; at that time, the Irving concentration in New Brunswick was considered unique in the country's media landscape. The Kent Commission recommended (in section 2.a) the creation of new legislation that would "require the break-up of regional monopolies, such as that of the Irving family in New Brunswick, by prohibiting the ownership of two or more newspapers having 75% or more of the circulation, in one language, in a defined geographical area".