[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Raphael Evers

Raphael Evers (born May 8, 1954) is a Dutch-Israeli Orthodox rabbi. He was a rabbi in the Netherlands and Germany. On August 1, 2021, he made aliyah to Israel.

Family
Evers was born in Amsterdam, and grew up in Amsterdam-West. He is the son of Dutch-Jewish parents, Hans Evers and Bloeme Evers-Emden (1926-2016). His mother was deported from Westerbork to Auschwitz in September 1944 on the same train as Anne Frank, whom she had known in Amsterdam. Evers-Emden survived the war, and later published four books detailing her research on Dutch Jewish children hidden during the war.

Rabbinic ordinations (Semikhah) 

Evers received Semkihah for Dayanut from the following Rabbi's: Rabbi Jonathan Sacks, Dayan Chanoch Ehrentreu, Rabbi Meir Just, Rabbi Zalman Nechemia Goldberg, Rabbi Moshe Halberstam and Rabbi Aryeh Ralbag. 

In addition, Evers received regular Semikhot from a variety of Rabbi's from different streams within Orthodox Judaism.

Evers received Rabbinic ordination from:

 the Chief Rabbi's of Israel Rabbi Avraham Shapira and Rabbi Mordechai Eliyahu 
 Rabbi Meir Just (the Netherlands) 
 Rabbi Zalman Nechemia Goldberg (Jerusalem)
 Rabbi Moshe Halberstam (Sanz - Jerusalem) 
 Rabbi Moshe Halberstam (Bobov - Antwerp) 
 Rabbi Yacov Chaim Sarna (Jerusalem) 
 Rabbi Dov Lior (Kiryat Arba)
 Rabbi Avraham Kopschitz (Jerusalem) 
 Rabbi Avraham David Rosenthal (Jerusalem) and 
 Rabbi Elchonon Halpern (London).

Evers is one of the very few post-Holocaust recipients of the highest Dutch Semikhah, the so-called Moreh degree.

Rabbinate
In addition to his position of Chief Rabbi of Dusseldorf, he also served as a Dayan in the Beth Din of the ORD (Germany) and the European Beth Din.

Since 1990 and until his departure in 2016 to Germany, Evers served as the rabbi of the Nederlands Israëlitisch Kerkgenootschap (Dutch Israelite Religious Community). He also served 26 years as the dean of the Nederlands Israëlitisch Seminarium (Dutch Israelite Seminary), where Dutch rabbis and Jewish teachers are trained. Among other positions, he served as the Rabbi of Rotterdam from 1992 until 2010 and as the Rabbi of the Kehillas Ja'akow synagogue in Amsterdam. 

Evers finished two Master degrees in Clinical Psychology and Conflictuology (1981) and in Tax Law (1985), both at the University of Amsterdam. He is known for his encyclopedic knowledge on almost all facets of Judaism.

Additional functions and activities
Evers is an honorary member  of the Conference of European Rabbis (CER). 

During his position at the NIK, Evers appeared frequently in Dutch and international press (Radio, Newspapers and TV) to advocate and explain about Judaism, Israel and issues related to the Jewish community.

As a result of his work for promoting cultural understanding between the Dutch Jewish and the Muslim Moroccan community in the Netherlands, he was awarded a place in the Golden Book of Moroccan Judaism and later received an official award of Gratitude from King Mohammad VI of Morocco.  

Evers served in a large number of voluntary board positions throughout his career, including the boards of Jewish youth organizations, schools, museums and general professional NGO's. He also participated in many national and international inter-faith panels and initiatives like the Forum A to Z, encouraging the Dutch government to fight low literacy.

Antisemitism
After the murder of Theo van Gogh on November 2, 2004, Evers presented, alongside representatives of Christian and Muslim communities, a Samenlevingscontract (Cohabitation Agreement) to the President of the Dutch House of Representatives.He has also spoken out on the increasing anti-Semitism displayed by Dutch Muslim residents of Moroccan and Turkish descent, allowing himself and his mother to be filmed on the subject by French television. In 2010, his son Bentzion Evers told the press that he was planning to move to Israel because of anti-Semitism, and that his father was also planning to leave the Netherlands after his retirement. Six of Evers' children already left the country,  before Raphael Evers and his wife Channa eventually moved to Israel.

Publications
Evers published 8 Hebrew-language volumes of his Responsa "Weshav Werafa" documenting Halakhic questions he was asked to rule on as Posek and Dayan