[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# 2007 New Year Honours

signer and Conservator. For services to Bookbinding.
Robert Coles, Chair, Little Harrowden Parish Council. For services to the community in Northamptonshire. 
Michael Collier, Fishing Vessel Surveyor, Maritime and Coastguard Agency, Department for Transport.
Ms Shirley Collins, Folk Singer and Writer. For services to Music.
Pamela Mary, Mrs. Comber. For services to Mental Health in Folkestone, Kent.
Andrew Bruce Compton. For services to the community in Stafford.
George Patrick Constable, lately Grade C1, Ministry of Defence.
Anthea, Mrs. Cooper, Teacher, Collis Primary School, Teddington, Middlesex. For services to Education.
Charles Geoffrey Corkish. For services to the community in the Isle of Man.
Anthony Cosgrove, Grade D, Ministry of Defence.
Ms Julia Couchman, Grade E1, Ministry of Defence.
Philip James Couchman, lately Manager, Chichester Harbour Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. For services to Conservation.
Robert David Cranna. For services to Norfolk Probation Service.
Gerda Anneliese, Mrs. Craven. For services to the community in Chorleywood, Hertfordshire.
John Crosby, Foster Carer. For services to Children and Families in Rhondda Cynon Taf.
Joy, Mrs. Crosby, Foster Carer. For services to Children and Families in Rhondda Cynon Taf.
John Clifford Culine. For services to the Showmen's Guild of Great Britain and to the community in Spennymoor, County Durham.
Ms Cheryl Helen Maureen Cunningham, Secretary, University of Ulster, Coleraine. For services to Higher Education in Northern Ireland.
Deirdre Aline Michelle, Mrs. Curtis. For services to the community in Toddington, Bedfordshire.
Raymond Henry Daniel Curtis, Foundation Governor, Ampney Crucis Primary School, Gloucestershire. For services to Education.
Joyce, Mrs. Dakin. For services to Victim Support, Leicestershire.
David Godfrey Dallimore, Senior Messenger, Estates Management Group, Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency, Department for Transport.
Professor Amirtham Jebamoney David, Director of Nursing and Professional Development, West Kent Primary Care Trust. For services to the NHS.
Violet, Mrs. Davidson, Administrative Officer, Department of Education, Northern Ireland Executive. 
Dr. David Hedydd Davies. For services to Welsh Athletics, in particular Carmarthen Harriers Athletics Club.
Dr. Ivor Davies. For services to the Visual Arts. 
Pauleen, Mrs. Davies, J.P., President, Radford Care Group. For services to Older People in Nottingham. 
Peter Walters Davies. For services to Red Kite Conservation in Wales.
Robert Hugh Thomas Davies, Solicitor. For services to the Legal Profession and to the community in South East Wales.
Miss Pauline Davis, lately Switchboard Manager, National Assembly for Wales.
Peter Edward Davis. For services to Red Kite Conservation in Wales.
Rheta, Mrs. Davison, Chair, Cutsyke Community Group. For services to Young People in Castleford, West Yorkshire.
Dr. William Donald Davison. For services to Music in Northern Ireland. 
Roger Davy, J.P. For services to the community in West Yorkshire.
Wendy May, Mrs. Deakin, Bursar, Cledford Junior School, Middlewich, Cheshire. For services to Education.
Alistair James Dent. For services to the community in Hilgay, Norfolk.
Ms Morag Deyes, Artistic Director, Dance Base. For services to Dance in Scotland.
Gurdarshan, Mrs. Dhanjal. For services to Community Relations in Bristol, in particular to South Asian families with disabled children.
Professor Soraya Dhillon, Chair, Luton and Dunstable Hospital NHS Trust. For services to Healthcare.
Jean Smith, Mrs. Dixon. For services to disabled people in Easington, County Durham.
Sonia, Mrs. Dixon, African and Caribbean Services Manager, Walsall Libraries. For services to Local Government in the West Midlands.
Norah Alice, Mrs. Dobinson, lately Trainbearer to the Lord Chancellor, Department for Constitutional Affairs.
Brian Dougherty, Co-ordinator, Tullyally and District Development Group. For services to the community in Northern Ireland.
Jessie, Mrs. Doull. For services to the community in Wick, Caithness.
William Hugh Alexander Duncan, J.P., College Secretary and Clerk to the Board of Management, Moray College. For services to Further Education in the Highlands.
Susan Elizabeth, Mrs. Dungey. For services to the Chaplaincy Team, Lister Hospital, Hertfordshire.
Dr. Euan Kennedy Dunn. For services to Marine Conservation.
Peter George Dunstan. For services to the Far Eastern Prisoners of War Association and Far East War Grave Archives.
Ruth Durrell, Administrator, Research Methods Programme, Economic and Social Research Council. For services to Social Science.
Cynthia, Mrs. Dyke. For services to Community Safety in Taffs Well, Rhondda Cynon Taf.
Carl Robert Eddy, Administrative Assistant, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
Ms Diana Edmonds, Head, Haringey Libraries, Archives and Museum Service. For services to Local Government in North London.
George Tait Edwards, lately Senior Regional Property Adviser, Learning and Skills Council. For services to