[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Axis leaders of World War II

ublic (1939–1945)

Jozef Tiso, President of the Slovak Republic.
Vojtech Tuka, prime minister.
Ferdinand Čatloš was commander of the Field Army Bernolák during the Invasion of Poland.
Rudolf Pilfousek was commander of the SS-Heimatschutz Slowakei.
Augustín Malár
Ján Golian

French State (1940–1944) 

Philippe Pétain was an Army Marshal and Chief of State of Vichy France from its establishment in 1940 until the invasion of Normandy in 1944. The Pétain government collaborated with the Nazis, and organized raids to capture French Jews. The Pétain government was opposed by General de Gaulle's Free French Forces, and eventually fell to them. After the war, Pétain was tried for treason and sentenced to life in prison.
Pierre Laval was Pétain's head of government in 1940, and from 1942 to 1944. Under his second government, collaboration with Nazi Germany intensified. In 1945, Laval was tried for treason, sentenced to death and executed.
René Bousquet was the deputy head of the Vichy police force.
Joseph Darnand was the commander of the paramilitary French Militia. A pro-Nazi leader, he was a strong supporter of the Hitler and Pétain governments. He established the Milice to round-up Jews and fight the French Resistance. He was tried for treason and executed after the war.
Jean Decoux was the Governor-General of French Indochina representing the Vichy government. Decoux's task in Indochina was to reverse the policy of appeasement towards the Japanese led by his predecessor General Georges Catroux, but political realities soon forced him to continue down the same road. Arrested and tried after the war, Decoux was not convicted.

Independent State of Croatia (1941–1945)

Ante Pavelić, Headman (Poglavnik) of the Independent State of Croatia (NDH) from 1941 to 1945.
Tomislav II, the Italian-born King of Croatia.Nikola Mandić, prime minister under Pavelić from 1943 to 1945.Mladen Lorković, the Foreign Minister and Minister of the Interior of the Independent State of Croatia (NDH)Slavko Kvaternik, Minister of Defense.Vladimir Laxa, Army Chief of Staff.Vladimir Kren, was the commander of the Air Force of the Independent State of Croatia.Edgar Angeli, was the commander of the Navy of the Independent State of Croatia.Vjekoslav Luburić, was the commander of the Croatian Armed Forces.Jure Francetić, was the commander of the Black Legion.Marko Mesić, was the commander of the Croatian Legion.Andro Vrkljan, was the commander of the Croatian Naval Legion.

Puppet states of Nazi Germany

Protectorate of Denmark (1940–1945)
Leonhard Kaupisch, Military commander of Denmark.
Werner Best, served as a civilian administrator in Denmark.
Erik Scavenius, Prime minister of Denmark from 1942 to 1943. He pursued a collaborative policy with the German occupation force until he dissolved the Danish government in 1943, and was replaced by German martial law.
Frits Clausen, National Socialist Workers' Party of Denmark
Christian Peder Kryssing, was commander of the Free Corps Denmark.
Christian Frederik von Schalburg, was commander of the Free Corps Denmark.
Knud Børge Martinsen, was commander of the Schalburg Corps.

Province of Ljubljana (1943–1945) 
Leon Rupnik, was the President of the provincial government.
Gregorij Rožman,
Ernest Peterlin, Battle of Turjak Castle

Norwegian National government (1940–1945)
Vidkun Quisling, Minister-President of the Norwegian national government from 1942 to 1945.
Kjeld Stub Irgens
Ragnar Skancke
Sverre Riisnæs
Jonas Lie, Minister of Police and SS-Standartenführer of the Germanic-SS Norway.
Karl Marthinsen, General of Police, head of Norwegian STAPO (Statspolitiet) and SIPO (Sikkerhetspolitiet). He was assassinated by the resistance in 1945 due to increasing power and influence over the Norwegian military.
Sophus Kahrs, was commander of the SS Ski Jäger Battalion "Norwegen".
Arthur Qvist, was commander of the Norwegian Legion.

 Government of National Salvation, Serbia (1941–1944) 
Milan Nedić, general and Prime Minister of the Government of National Salvation.
Milan Aćimović, minister of Internal Affairs of the Government of National Salvation
Dimitrije Ljotić, president and leader of Zbor and ideological leader of Serbian Volunteer Corps.
Dragomir Jovanović, was commander of the Serbian State Guard.
Kosta Mušicki, was commander of the Serbian Volunteer Corps.
Kosta Pećanac, was commander of the Pećanac Chetniks.
Strahinja Janjić, was commander of the 1st Belgrade Special Combat detachment.

Puppet states of the Kingdom of Italy

Albanian Kingdom (1940–1943)
 Shefqet Vërlaci, Prime Minister of the Albanian Kingdom.
 Tefik Mborja, Albanian Fascist Party