[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Randall Auxier

features immanent in the quantum. The ability to identify and describe a quantum for these purposes is a kind of talent that some people possess as a refinement of their aesthetic reflective intuition. Thus, scientific genius is no less aesthetic in character than artistic genius, in Auxier's view.

Theology and philosophy of religion 
Auxier holds that theology must be done in accordance with the methods and norms of philosophy and that even when theology is the source of new methods and forms of analysis (for example, Duns Scotus's theory of transcendentals or Friedrich Scheiermacher's hermeneutics), these methods and forms must be judged according to philosophical rather than theological norms. Thus, while religious practice in no ways depends upon theology, theology is completely dependent at the level of norms and methods (not content) on philosophy. Good theology must therefore be first and foremost philosophically sound. Theology takes on at the level of faith the assumption of the existence of divinity, of revelation, and of the reality of the good. Upon these three suppositions, theology may proceed along paths that philosophy does not travel. With Royce Auxier holds that doing philosophy does depend upon an act of philosophical faith in the intelligibility to us of the universe, but this requires no idea of divinity, revelation, or the good; it requires only an idea of the whole, of insight into that whole, and of the better and worse, not of good or evil.
Auxier defends a pluralistic and culturally embedded ideal of human religious life, holding that ritual, which is found in the animal world in full continuity with the human world, viewed as a version of animality. Auxier argues that myth is superadded to ritual as an independent companion to it, making a second aesthetic level tinged with reflection available to humans who enact rituals. He rejects the claim that myth developed to explain ritual as an overly reductive and unknowable hypothesis. Auxier argues that the experience we call “religious” in the higher phases of experience is not reducible either to aesthetic or to cognitive experience and is a distinctive and nearly universal characteristic of human life.
Auxier holds that religious experience can be engendered both through the repetition of rituals and through the experience of novelty (in nature or other cultures), but the novelty must be integrated into the familiar patterns in order for the feeling of value it carries to be retained. Thus Auxier believes that the religious community in which a human being is raised becomes the basis for the integration of future religious experiences that are not explicit in the experience of that community. His theology would generally be identified as liberal and Protestant, but along the Arminian and Wesleyan lines of Protestantism. Auxier commonly criticizes Calvinist views in his writings, sometimes quite harshly.

Politics and activism 
Beginning with his musical explorations during his residence in Atlanta, Auxier became active in environmental causes and simultaneously in politics. These activities included protesting the First Gulf War, and every subsequent war the US has prosecuted, as well as various other forms of social injustice and oppression. His commitment to nonviolence, environmental conservation, and community localism has led him to participate, organize, speak, and perform music at hundreds of events and for many causes. He visited the imprisoned to spread music in Oklahoma and Illinois, as well as visiting nursing homes and homes for the developmentally disabled, most often as a musician.
Auxier joined the Illinois Education Association in 2000 and was elected to the Departmental Representatives Council, supporting the SIU Faculty Association during collective bargaining cycles of 2001 and 2003. In 2006 Auxier was drafted to join the bargaining team for the SIUC FA and served in that role through the completion of the 2006-2010 agreement. Resuming this role for the 2010-2014 contract, Auxier was among the leaders of the SIUCFA that went on strike, November 3–9, 2011. The strike successfully produced a new agreement. the Illinois Educational Labor Relations Board later adjudicated the administration and Board of Trustees of SIUC of bargaining in bad faith, bringing about the strike, and required them to pay a 1.7 million dollar settlement. Auxier testified at these proceedings and assisted the claimant's legal team, the Illinois Education Association. Auxier remains as an active member of the IEA.