[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 1st Arkansas Infantry Regiment (Union)

nt, made this task more difficult, though his mountain feds were able to successfully fend off multiple confederate attacks. In August, Heffington was killed while attempting to reach Cassville to organize a force to relieve the unionists, though much of the circumstances of his death are a mystery.

In September, news of a large body of unionists near Mount Magazine reached the Union army. In response detachments of Companies H and I were sent to deliver ammunition and other supplies to the mountain feds. Led by Captain Parker, with about 50-60 soldiers, they marched east towards Dardanelle and successfully completed their mission without any major difficulties. On his return, Parker decided to make camp at Haguewood Prairie, an area that would allow his men to visit their families in the area. On September 27 the companies were encountered by elements of confederate cavalry known as “Shelby's Iron Brigade“, led by Captain Thorpe, who was heading north to raid Missouri. Not only was the encounter a surprise to both sides, but some of the 1st Arkansas also had their families present when the attack began. Quickly gaining the advantage, the confederates surrounded Parker on three sides before firing and requesting Parker to surrender. According to the Fort Smith New Era, Thorpe's request was “quickly answered by a volley from our muskets that sent consternation into the rebel lines.” Realizing the danger Thorpe's cavalry presented to his small force, Parker moved his men into the woods forcing the confederates to dismount. For 2 hours the two sides skirmished until a charge on both of Parker's flanks forced him to retreat. The confederates killed 2 soldiers and captured another 28, as well as 2 wagons. One of those killed was private Benjamin Wilkins who “fell pierced with several bullets, bravely discharging his six-shooter and killing one of his assailants.” The 1st Arkansas likewise killed 10 men and wounded 8 others. Parker and around half of his force managed to escape and on his return informed Col. Johnson of the attack, hoping to disrupt Shelby's future movements. Of the 28 captured all but one would be released, as Private Little was shot for being a confederate deserter. Following the battle of Haguewood Prairie, the first Arkansas was presented with a flag made by the ladies of Van Buren, a town the regiment would occasionally be posted at. According to the newspaper Fort Smith New Era, "The ladies of that place made and presented to the 1st Reg't Ark. Infantry, a large Federal flag". They also reported the flag was raised above the Crawford County courthouse with speeches being made by Col Johnson, Lt. Col Searle, and other commanders which were "loudly applauded, and were well calculated to encourage the patriotic aspirations of the numerous assemblage of citizens and soldiers.” This event is in direct contrast with the mood in Van Buren at the beginning of the war, as in May 1861 the women of the town had also made a flag for the confederate volunteer company “Pope Walker Guard”, which later made up company B of the First Cavalry Regiment, Arkansas State Troops.

In the months following their capture at Fort Smith, the 1st Arkansas ranks had increased to what would be their highest amount during the war, numbering 979 men in total in November. The same month the regiment would see these numbers drop as, during a smallpox vaccination clinic, about 300 men had received a “spurious” or defective vaccine. While vaccines were nothing new, the process of distributing large quantities of them across the union was and as such inadequate vaccines were sometimes issued. Of the 300 men who received the spurious vaccines, some became so sick they were required to be discharged for disability.

Election of Col. Johnson 
By the fall of 1863, steps were taken in both Fort Smith and Little Rock to begin the process of establishing a pro-union government to be recognized in Washington. One of these steps involved holding a mass meeting in Fort Smith with attendees from across the northwestern counties. Held on October 30, the meeting passed several resolutions affirming their commitment to the union cause, including the abolition of slavery. Also decided upon was to send an elected delegate to Congress to represent northwest Arkansas. The recently appointed Captain of Company I, John Whiteford, nominated Col. Johnson which was unanimously agreed upon. On November 23 the election, in which the citizens voted, was held and Johnson won. In December Johnson was granted a leave of absence from the army and departed to Washington, D.C., where he would remain away from his regiment for nearly a year.