[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pavle Savić

tant delegates to the AVNOJ. While Savić's contributions to the war effort weren't quite in his area of expertise, he was trusted by the Partisan leadership, and was put in charge of all matters of education, which he used to promote school participation in the liberated areas of the Bihać Republic.

As the Germans engaged in Operation Case White, Savić maintained his position with the Partisan Supreme Command, but fell out of favor in July 1943, and was demoted for reasons that are unclear. He nevertheless participated in the second convention of AVNOJ in November the same year, and in April 1944 was again promoted in the military, and sent on a mission to the Soviet Union. He arrived in Moscow where he also immediately engaged in scientific work with Pyotr Kapitsa and others, on the topic of liquid helium on extremely low temperatures. He returned home in October 1944 to liberated Belgrade, where he continued his socio-political activities as well as work on the restoration of the University. After the war had ended, he had another short stint in Moscow, but returned home to work on founding of an Institute of Physics, and was also promoted to a member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 1946 and 1948.

After the war he was one of the primary promoters of the idea of constructing the Vinča Nuclear Institute, as in 1948 Savić became the director of the then-Institute of Physics, the research center for the Yugoslav nuclear programme. As the political situation changed with the beginning of the Informbiro period the same year, he was forced to become independent of any help from the Soviet Union. Later, in 1958, he became a member of the Academy of Sciences of the Soviet Union.

In 1966, he assumed an academic post at his alma mater, the University of Belgrade, as a professor at the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Department of Physical Chemistry and Department of Physics, now Faculty of Physics. In 1981, he took his retirement.

He was also the president of Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts from 1971 to 1981, the year he retired.

He became a member of the New York Academy of Sciences in 1960, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in 1970 and the Academy of Athens in 1975.

In 1987, he was mentioned in the so-called Vojko i Savle affair.

He published his last scientific paper a few months before his death, at the age of 85, in Belgrade.

See also
 Radivoj Kašanin

References

Sources

Further reading
 

1909 births
1994 deaths
Serbian physicists
Serbian scientists
Yugoslav Partisans members
Academic staff of the University of Belgrade
University of Belgrade Faculty of Physics alumni
Members of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts
Members of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts
Yugoslav scientists
Recipients of the Order of the Hero of Socialist Labour