[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# List of Asian Americans

the Westminster, California city council in 1992.
Susan C. Lee, first Asian American elected to Maryland State Senate.
Ted Lieu, member of the United States House of Representatives (D-CA)
Gary Locke, elected the first Asian American governor in the mainland United States in November 1996 and became Governor of Washington in January 1997.
John Liu, became the first Asian American elected to the New York City Council (representing Flushing, Queens) in 2001.
Kinjiro Matsudaira, mayor of Edmonston, Maryland in 1927 and 1943
Bob Matsui, Representative from California
Doris Matsui, Congresswoman from California
Jimmy Meng, became the first Asian American elected to the New York State Legislature in 2004.
Aruna Miller, first Indian American woman elected to the Maryland House of Delegates in 2010.
Norman Mineta, became the first Asian American in the U.S. Cabinet when Bill Clinton appointed him Secretary of Commerce in 2000, serving in that post until 2001, when George W. Bush appointed him Secretary of Transportation, serving until 2006. Also mayor of San Jose, California from 1971 to 1975.
Patsy Takemoto Mink became the first Asian American woman to serve in Congress, as a representative of Hawaii in 1964; she ended up serving 12 terms.
Mee Moua, became the first Hmong American elected to any state legislature. A Democrat representing St. Paul's East Side, she is the highest ranking Hmong American elected official in the United States in 2002.
Aftab Pureval, Mayor of Cincinnati
Sean Reyes, current U.S. attorney general of Utah
Eunice Sato, became the first Asian-American female mayor of a major American city (Long Beach, California) in 1980
Dalip Singh Saund, became the first Asian immigrant elected to the U.S. Congress upon his election to the House of Representatives in 1956.
Sichan Siv, former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Economic and Social Council and the author of Golden Bones.
Michelle Steel, member of the United States House of Representatives (R-CA)
Marilyn Strickland, member of the United States House of Representatives (D-WA)
Saghir Tahir, served as a New Hampshire State Representative. Only elected Muslim in the Republican Party.
Mark Takano, U.S. congressman.
Sheng Thao, mayor of Oakland, California, first Hmong-American mayor of a major U.S. city
Jill Tokuda, U.S. Representative from Hawaii
William Tong, Connecticut Attorney General.
Van Tran, elected a Republican member of the California State Assembly and is the first Vietnamese American to serve in any state legislature in 2004.
Hubert Vo, Vietnamese immigrant, became the first Vietnamese American elected to the Texas Legislature in 2004.
Shien Biau Woo became the first Asian American statewide officer in the Northeast, when he was elected Lieutenant Governor of Delaware in 1984.
Leana Wen, prominent Asian American and public health leader, currently Commissioner of Health in Baltimore.
David Wu, first Taiwanese American U.S. Representative (D-OR)
Michelle Wu first female Asian American Boston City Councilor, first Boston City Councilor of Chinese descent, and first Asian American to be Mayor of Boston.
Andrew Yang first Asian-American man to run for President of the United States as a Democrat for (2020 United States presidential election) 
Kimberly Yee, became Arizona's first Asian American woman to serve as a member of the Arizona State Legislature.

Religion