[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Oklahoma Legislature

ion specifies that a majority of members constitutes a quorum to do business in each house. The rules of each house provide that a quorum is assumed to be present unless a quorum call demonstrates the contrary. Thus, if no quorum call is requested, debates continue even if a majority is not present.

Both houses use voice voting to decide most matters; members shout out "aye" or "no", and the presiding officer announces the result. The Oklahoma Constitution, however, requires a recorded vote on the demand of one-fifth of the members present. If the result of the voice vote is unclear, or if the matter is controversial, a recorded vote usually ensues. The Senate uses roll call votes; a clerk calls out the names of all the senators, each senator stating "aye" or "no" when his name is announced. The House reserves roll call votes for the most formal matters; normally, members vote by electronic device. In the case of a tie, the motion in question fails. In the Oklahoma Senate, the lieutenant governor may cast the tiebreaking vote.

Privileges
State legislators enjoy the privilege of being free from arrest for criminal charges, except for treason, felony, and breach of the peace. This immunity applies to members "during their Attendance at the Session of their respective Houses, and in going to and returning from the same." The term "arrest" has been interpreted broadly, and includes any detention or delay in the course of law enforcement, including court summons and subpoenas. The rules of the House very strictly guard this privilege; a member may not waive the privilege on his own, but must seek the permission of the whole house to do so. Senate rules, on the other hand, are less strict, and permit individual senators to waive the privilege as they see fit.

As of 2006 rank and file state legislators received a salary of $38,400. The President Pro Tempore of the State Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives are paid an additional $17,932 annually. The appropriations committee chairmen, majority floor leaders and the minority floor leaders of each house are paid an additional $12,364 per year.

Board of Legislative Compensation
The Board of Legislative Compensation decides the amount of compensation paid to state legislators. The board is composed of five members appointed by the Governor of Oklahoma, two members appointed by the President pro tempore of the Oklahoma Senate, and two members appointed by the Speaker of the Oklahoma House of Representatives. The members appointed by the governor must be from religious organizations, communications media, nonstate-supported educational institutions, labor organizations, and retail business. The members appointed by the president pro tempore must be from agricultural and civic organization backgrounds and the members appointed by the speaker must have manufacturing or professional backgrounds.

State legislators are prohibited from serving on the board. In addition to the nine voting members, the chair of the Oklahoma Tax Commission and the director of the Oklahoma Office of State Finance serve as ex officio nonvoting members of the board. The chair of the board is designated by the governor. The members of the board serve without compensation, but do receive travel and subsistence expense reimbursements.

Every two years, the board reviews the compensation paid to state legislators and is empowered to change the compensation. Such a change becomes effective on the fifteenth day following the succeeding general election.

Notable past members
 Mary Fallin, 27th Governor of Oklahoma, former U.S. Congresswoman
 Ken A. Miller, former Oklahoma treasurer
 Glen D. Johnson Jr., current Chancellor of Higher Education
 Brad Henry, 26th Governor of Oklahoma
 Frank Keating, 25th governor of Oklahoma
 Henry Bellmon, 18th and 23rd governor of Oklahoma
 George Nigh, 17th and 22nd governor of Oklahoma
 David L. Boren, 21st governor of Oklahoma and former U.S. senator
 Dan Boren, former U.S. Congressman
 Ernest Istook, former U.S. Congressman
 Jari Askins, 15th Oklahoma lieutenant governor
 John Jarman, former Congressman
 Clem McSpadden, former Congressman
 James C. Nance, Oklahoma community newspaper chain publisher and former Speaker of the Oklahoma House of Representatives, President pro tempore of the Oklahoma Senate and member Uniform Law Commission
 Raymond D. Gary, 15th Governor of Oklahoma
 Leon C. Phillips, 11th governor of Oklahoma
 William H. Murray, 9th governor of Oklahoma
 William J. Holloway, 8th Governor of Oklahoma
 Henry S. Johnston, 7th Governor of Oklahoma
 John Newbold Camp, former U.S. Congressman
 Victor Wickersham, former U.S. Congressman
 Glen D. Johnson, former U.S. Congressman
 A. C. Hamlin, first African-American in Oklahoma Legislature

References

External links
Oklahoma Legislature
Oklahoma House of Representatives
Oklahoma Senate

 
Government of Oklahoma
Bicameral legislatures