[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Global Human Rights Defence

delivered a speech on the case of Nirmala, a 13-year-old girl who was raped and murdered. She used this case to spread a message that highlighted the prevalence of gender and religion based violence. In total 8 speeches were delivered and a panel of notables and 80 guests were present at the event.

Protest: Religious Minorities in Pakistan (2018) 
GHRD organized a protest on 22 September 2018 before the United Nations in Geneva to focus international attention on the persecution of religious minorities in Pakistan.

A group of over 100 protesters participated in a march through the center of Geneva city. The protesters assembled in the city center, wearing black shirts which proclaimed “Protect Pakistani Christians”. The march began in the city center, moved past the train station and through the central business district of Geneva. The protesters then briefly halted by Lake Geneva.

The protesters helped raise awareness about the plight of Christians in Pakistan. Curious onlookers and citizens were informed about the serious violations against religious minorities in Pakistan. Specific references were made to the unjust Blasphemy laws and the Asia Bibi case. Individuals were educated about the gross violations of freedom of religion and belief, and the need for the international community to take action.

The gathering was joined by the dignitaries, Dr. Mario Silva, executive chairman of IFRAS, Mr. Henri Malosse, former president of the European Economic and Social Committee, Mr. Tomas Zdechovsky, Member of European parliament, Mr. Benjamin Blanchar, Director of SOS Chrétiens d’Orient and Mr. Gyorgy Holvenyi, Member of European Parliament.

Press Release: International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women (2018) 
On 24 November 2018, Human Rights Focus Pakistan (HRFP) in collaboration with Global Human Rights Defense (GHRD) organized an event on International Women's Day 2018 for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. The representatives of civil society organizations, women activists, political workers, social activists, HRD's, lawyers, teachers, youth and students participated to end violations against women.

The screening of the Video Documentary, “The Trapping Faiths” was also arranged during event and the all participants endorsed the recommendations jointly including to end-up the abductions, forced conversions and forced marriages of minority girls which was raised in video documentary through 4 case studies of Hindu and Christian girls, as the numbering are growing day by day. The speakers urged that state must ensure victims and their families are kept safe and all violence against women is eliminated.

Campaigns and Involvement

Stop the Gang Rapes Campaign (2007) 
In 2007 GHRD started its first campaign. The initiative focused on the gang rapes that victimised Bangladeshi women and young girls. The main objective of the campaign was to raise awareness to the issue. The campaign was based in the Netherlands and it spread naturally via the internet to other European countries and even reached the United States. The campaigners used social utilities such as MySpace and Facebookto promote the message.

The campaign was also promoted via its ambassadors: Scottish band Brand New Deja Vu, DJ Paul Jay and Bangladeshi writer Taslima Nasrin. 
GHRD made available petitions in several languages asking the Bangladeshi government to take necessary actions.  
The campaign was launched on 16 June 2007 with a Beach Benefit Concert at Scheveningen (Netherlands). Performances were made by Brand New Deja Vu, DJ Paul Jay, Valerius and Little Things That Kill.

Fight Modern Slavery (2011) 
In 2011, GHRD campaigned against modern slavery—existing today in forms from trafficking for the sex trade, to bonded labour, child labour, caste discrimination, and sexual exploitation. A series of activism events included: rallies, door to door campaigns, information sessions, street dramas, and screenings of the GHRD documentary. The documentary focuses specially on trafficking of girls from Nepal.

References

http://www.minbuza.nl/nl/actueel/speeches,2006/12/Global-Human-Rights-Defence-Congress.html
The Tribune, Chandigarh, India, Wednesday, 28 March 2007,  Hindu groups launch ‘save Ram Sethu’ campaign

International human rights organizations
Organisations based in The Hague
Organizations established in 2003