[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Julien Faubert

Julien Alex Thomas Faubert (born 1 August 1983) is a former professional footballer who played as a right winger or midfielder. Born in France, he played in one match for the France national team before playing for the Martinique national team in 2014.

Faubert started his footballing career in France with Cannes before moving to Bordeaux. In 2007, he moved to England to play for West Ham. In 2009, he spent a short period on loan with Real Madrid before returning to West Ham for the beginning of the 2009–10 season. He has represented both France U21 and France, the latter on only one occasion, scoring one goal. In 2014, he made his international debut for Martinique. He is nicknamed " Le TGV " or "The Express Train" from his time in French football.

Club career

Cannes and Bordeaux
Born in Le Havre, Faubert enrolled in the Cannes academy in 1998 and began his career as a right back, but with his crossing ability quickly became a right winger as well as playing in a midfield role. He made his Cannes first team debut in the 2002–03 season. He steadily earned notoriety as an important member of the squad and eventually caught the eye of several Ligue 1 sides. Bordeaux signed him in 2004, with whom he played in 96 league matches, as well as in the UEFA Champions League.

West Ham United

On 23 June 2007, it was reported in French sports newspaper L'Équipe that Faubert was on the verge of a €6.5 million (£4.3 million) transfer to Rangers. On 1 July, however, he was signed by West Ham United for £6.1 million on a five-year contract. He suffered a ruptured achilles tendon during a pre-season friendly on 17 July against Czech side Sigma Olomouc, which was expected to take six months to heal. As part of his comeback, Faubert turned out for the reserves against Aston Villa's reserve team in January 2008. He finally made his first team debut for the Hammers as a late substitute against Fulham at Boleyn Ground on 12 January 2008. His first season in English football was marked by continuing injury and he made only eight appearances in the league and FA Cup.

On loan to Real Madrid
Faubert was given permission to speak to Real Madrid on 30 January 2009, with the move being completed on 31 January when he signed on loan until the end of the 2008–09 season for a reported fee of £1.5 million with an option for Real to purchase him on a three-year contract for an undisclosed fee. Faubert made his Real Madrid debut on 7 February 2009 in a 1–0 win against Racing de Santander. During his loan with Real Madrid, he missed training when he mistakenly thought he had the day off. His loan spell finished with only two appearances.

Return to West Ham

Faubert enjoyed a fine start to the 2009–10 season, helping the Hammers to victories over Wolverhampton Wanderers and Millwall and an impressive goalless draw at Blackburn Rovers. The 2009–10 season saw a change in fortunes for the Frenchman. He turned in several impressive performances, particularly in the second half of the season. He set up Carlton Cole with a measured cross for the second goal in a 2–0 win against Birmingham City. Faubert scored his first goal for the club on his 50th league game for the claret and blue against Hull City on 20 February 2010. He also added an assist in that game, producing a through ball, which Carlton Cole latched on to and dispatched accordingly. His sublime cross set up Ilan for an equalising goal against Everton on 4 April 2010. The Hammers were experiencing a poor run of form at the time. Faubert capped an accomplished season by winning the best 'Performance Of The Season' for his match-winning display against Hull. He was also awarded the SBOBET Player of the Month for August.

The 2010–11 season proved less successful for Faubert. He started the season playing on the right wing, reverting to right-back. On the last day of the summer 2011 transfer window, the Hammers recruited Blackburn Rovers full-back Lars Jacobsen who was preferred throughout the majority of the season. After the turn of the year, Faubert was in and out of the side. He did not help his chances of being selected when he left the stadium after learning he was not in the squad to face Birmingham City.

At the start of the 2011–12 season, Faubert was expected to leave the club after their relegation to the Championship. A tight hamstring ruled him out of the opening two games of the season but he made his first appearance on 16 August in an away match against Watford. Faubert came on as a 72-minute substitute, providing the assist for Scott Parker's goal to make it 4–0. During the rest of the season, he was West Ham's first choice right back and played a full part in West Ham's subsequent promotion. In May 2012, Faubert was released by West Ham due to the expiry of his contract. He played 121 games in all competitions for West Ham, scoring twice.

Elazığspor
On 27 June 2012, Faubert was officially signed by Elazığspor of the Turkish Süper Lig on a three-year contract.