[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 400 (card game)

cks equalling to 10 points, but all other players must make minimum bid of 2 tricks. This variation is commonly referred to as 'five to run'. It is a popular variation because it speeds up the flow of the game.

Note: Missing a bid of 5 tricks will result in losing 10 points, as per the table below.

Game play
The game is played by hands. Each hand consists of a number of tricks (all hands contain 13 tricks i.e. 13x4=52). The player on the dealer's right makes the opening lead, and players must follow suit, if possible. If a player cannot follow suit, they may play any card. The trick is won by the player who plays the highest trump, or, if no trump was played, by the player who played the highest card in the suit led. The player that wins the trick gathers the cards up into their pile and leads next. Play continues until none of the players have any cards left. It is generally accepted that if one player has in their hand cards remaining such that they will take all of the remaining tricks (i.e. the A K Q of hearts when there are three cards left in their hand) then that player may simply lay down their hand and claim the remaining tricks, allowing the game to progress more quickly. If there is any type of communication with a partner before the hand has been given out, the other team may declare a reshuffle. If any communication is performed during the games, the team that communicated with each other will receive an automatic break for both partners and the receiving team will be allocated the points they initially called for, even if they were going to break. If a team shows three signs of communication, it is an automatic forfeit. The illegal communication includes talking about previous past or future plays. Whispering or showing slight mouth movements. Telling a player to hurry up, is not illegal communication. All hands must be played within a 10-second period, if a player has not played their hand within 10–20 seconds, they will automatically lose the hand, thus the winning hand will go to the second highest bidder.

Scoring
For making the contract (the number of tricks bid), the player scores 1 point for each trick bid. Missing a contract results in losing 1 point for each trick bid. In addition, bidding for a higher number of tricks results in a higher value of points, as follows:

Scoring variation

One of the players is the scorer and writes the bids down, so that during the play and for the scoring afterward, this information will be available to all the players. When a hand is over, the scores should be recorded next to the bids, and a running score should be kept so that players can readily see each other's total points. If there is a tie, then all players participate in (at least) one more round of play. Once a member of the team reaches or exceeds 41 points, the game is over, provided his/her partner's points are positive. If a player is negative, play must continue until the player is positive, or if the other team reaches 41 before the former (of course, the other team must also be positive -one of them having at least 41- in order to win).

Once a player reaches 30 points or more, 5 tricks are counted as 5 (some will still consider 5 tricks to equal 10 in order to make the game go faster. If both parties agree to it before the beginning of the game), 6 tricks as six, however 7 tricks are still considered 14.

the game usually ends when one player reaches 41 points but there is some exception

1.) if the player partner is in a negative score he should continue until his partner is above zero (all bids according to roles mentioned before 40 ~ 4 50 ~ 5 etc. )

2.) if two opponents reach or surpass the score of 41 at the same time, then the game should continue to a score of 51 or until one of them drops below 41 (all bids according to roles mentioned before 40 ~ 4 50 ~ 5 etc. )

See also
 Tarneeb
 Trump cards

References

Auction Whist group
Year of introduction missing
Lebanese card games