[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

t his capabilities are quite extraordinary for him to be able to actively pilot the Gadelaza whilst utilizing that many remote weapons. Similar to Setsuna F. Seiei, Descartes' Innovator abilities have yet to be fully defined, and most of his abilities are merely based on observation and speculation.

Despite being officially acknowledged by the Earth Sphere Federation, Descartes is being used to find other people with similar abilities. In the Gundam 00 movie, once the activities of the ELS are realized, Descartes begins developing headaches; the ESF soon notice an entire ELS armada emerging from Jupiter's red spot and set to arrive at Earth within 95 days.  Descartes sorties against the enemy in an attempt to figure out their intentions and attempt to lure them away from Earth with his QBWs.  However, when he deploys his fangs, some are assimilated, and feels the same mental assault suffered by Setsuna. His Gadelaza is assimilated by a gigantic ELS, and Descartes is killed in the process. 

 
 An astrophysicist who works for the ESF, Mina Carmine helps to solve the mysteries and investigate the ELS. It is also hinted that she has a relationship with Billy Katagiri. At one point in time, an ancestor of Mina donated a DNA sample to the Corner family, which was later used by Alejandro to create the Trinity Siblings. While the Trinity siblings are a result of a combination of this DNA sample and genetic material from Ribbons, Mina herself is a natural born human. Having proven herself to be highly intelligent, Mina's similar appearance, as well as her impulsive and playful personality, to Nena Trinity are coincidental developments. While she does indeed show a jealous streak, it is never shown if she is capable of such callous acts that the Gundam Meister was. 

 ELS
 An unknown alien race, the ELS (Extraterrestrial Living-metal Shape-shifter) is a race of techno-organic sentient aliens that have the unique abilities to infect and assimilate nearly all life and technology. It is revealed their homeworld was destroyed by the Red Dwarf Star and set off to find another world to live.  The ELS appear as silver metallic organisms that can take solid or liquid-like forms. The ELS has no true form as they are capable of taking any shape or size relative to their mass; they can combine or separate from one another to increase or decrease its mass as needed. While not an aggressive race, their ways of learning and understanding their environment is based on assimilation of all things — being one with what they don't know allows them to understand. When faced with an opponent or something they cannot comprehend, assimilation occurs to convert the target of interest into an ELS.

When confronted with unknown organic lifeforms and/or technologies, the ELS assimilates the target like an aggressive virus. Its rapid adaptability and versatility allow it to take hold of technology in a matter of seconds and organic matter in a matter of minutes. However, for organics, it can have detrimental effects to those not completely assimilated, such as causing brain damage and various biological instabilities due to their invasive nature to their condition. While their complete nature is not understood, they can generate a noise signal for communication, initially their basic original physical form before assimilation is in a missile like shape, utilize quantum brainwave frequencies, make copies of what they have assimilated, and have their own GN-Tech and unique GN Particles, which are purple in colour.  However, it is not clear whether it due to their own development and evolution or from copying Celestial Being's technology.  In the epilogue, the ELS coexist with humanity.

Other media

Mobile Suit Gundam 00P 

 
 Ruido Resonance is one of the four Gundam Meisters employed by Celestial Being in the period in which 00P is set. Designated pilot of the Gundam Astraea at Krung Thep. A skilled mechanic, and a senior member to Chall Acustica as of her inception as Meister. He later married Marlene Vlady and is the father of Feldt Grace. He and Marlene were killed in an accident involving Gundam Plutone, an incident which also caused Chall to be permanently scarred.

 
 Marlene Vlady is one of the four Gundam Meisters employed by Celestial Being in the period in which 00P is set. A criminal forced by Celestial Being to serve as a Meister of a prototype Gundam unit at Krung Thep. As she does not support the organization's ideology, a remotely detonable explosive has been strapped around her neck to keep her under control. Extremely skilled at piloting. Partner to Chall Acustica as of her inception as Meister. She is the mother of Feldt Grace.