[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Proposals for a Jewish state

ges to 19th century
 Council of Four Lands – the central body of Jewish authority in Poland from 1580 to 1764. Seventy delegates from local kehillot met to discuss taxation and other issues important to the Jewish community. The "four lands" were Greater Poland, Little Poland, Ruthenia and Volhynia.

Modern times
 In 1902, Zionist Max Bodenheimer proposed the idea of the League of East European States, which would entail the establishment of a buffer state (Pufferstaat) within the Jewish Pale of Settlement of Russia, composed of the former Polish provinces annexed by Russia.Blobaum, Robert (2005). Anti-Semitism and Its Opponents in Modern Poland, p. 61. Cornell University Press. .
 In the early 20th century Cyprus and El Arish on the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt and its environs were proposed as a site for Jewish settlement by Herzl.
 Several proposals for a Jewish "republic" under Arab or Transjordanian suzerainty were put forward by the Hashemite kings of Hejaz and emirs of Transjordan; the closest these proposals came to fruition was the Faisal–Weizmann Agreement, which proved to be impossible to implement subsequent to the division of the Levant into League of Nations Mandates.
 Jewish autonomy in Crimea – a Soviet proposal to create an autonomous region for Jews in Crimea.
 The Kimberley Plan was a failed plan by the Freeland League, led by Isaac Nachman Steinberg, to resettle Jewish refugees from Europe in the Kimberley region in Australia before and during the Holocaust.
 Port Davey, Tasmania, Australia – With the support of the then Premier of Tasmania, Robert Cosgrove (in office from 1939), Critchley Parker proposed a Jewish settlement at Port Davey, in south west Tasmania. Parker surveyed the area, but his death in 1942 put an end to the idea.
 British Guiana – in March 1940, British Guiana (now Guyana) was proposed as a Jewish homeland. However, the British Government decided that "the problem is at present too problematical to admit of the adoption of a definite policy and must be left for the decision of some future Government in years to come".
 Sitka, Alaska – a plan for Jews to settle the Sitka area in Alaska, the Slattery Report, was proposed by U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt's Secretary of the Interior Harold L. Ickes in 1939 but turned down. An alternate history of the proposal where Jews do settle in Sitka is the subject of author Michael Chabon's novel The Yiddish Policemen's Union''.

Contemporary proposals for a second Jewish state
Following the creation of the State of Israel, the goal of establishing a Jewish state was achieved. However, since then, there have been some proposals for a second Jewish state, in addition to Israel:
 State of Judea – many Israeli settlers in the West Bank have mulled declaring independence as the State of Judea should Israel ever withdraw from the West Bank. In January 1989, several hundred activists met and announced their intention to create such a state in the event of Israeli withdrawal.

See also
 Halachic state
Jewish homeland
 Jewish settlement in the Japanese Empire
 List of Jewish states and dynasties
 Proposals for a Palestinian state
 Territorialism

Notes

References

External links
 Albert Einstein on the Proposal to Create a Jewish Homeland in Peru, 1930 Shapell Manuscript Foundation

Zionism
Anti-Zionism
Settlement schemes
Jewish nationalism
Jewish
Lists of proposals