[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# United Nations Conference on the Human Environment

The United Nations Conference on the Human Environment was held in Stockholm, Sweden, during June 5–16, 1972.

When the United Nations General Assembly decided to convene the 1972 Stockholm Conference, taking up the offer of the Government of Sweden to host it, UN Secretary-General U Thant invited Maurice Strong to lead it as Secretary-General of the Conference, as the Canadian diplomat (under Pierre Trudeau) had initiated and already worked for over two years on the project.

The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) was created as a result of this conference.

Introduction
Sweden first suggested to the United Nations Economic and Social Council ECOSOC in 1968 the idea of having a UN conference to focus on human interactions with the environment. ECOSOC passed resolution 1346 supporting the idea. General Assembly Resolution 2398 in 1969 decided to convene a conference in 1972 and mandated a set of reports from the UN secretary-general suggesting that the conference focus on "stimulating and providing guidelines for action by national government and international organizations" facing environmental issues. Preparations for the conference were extensive, lasting four years, including 114 governments, and costing over $30,000,000.

Issues at the Conference 
The Soviet Union and other Warsaw Pact nations boycotted the conference due to the lack of inclusion of East Germany, which was not allowed to participate. Neither East or West Germany were members of the UN at that time, as they had not yet accepted each other as states (which they agreed upon later by signing the Basic Treaty in December 1972).

The conference was not welcomed by countries like Britain, the US, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands and France, which formed the so-called Brussels Group and attempted to stifle the impact of the conference.

At the conference itself, divisions between developed and developing countries began to emerge. The Chinese delegation issued a 17-point memorandum condemning United States policies in Indochina, as well as around the world. This stance emboldened other developing countries, which made up 70 of the 122 countries attending. Multiple countries including Pakistan, Peru, and Chile issued statements that were anti-colonial in nature, further worrying the United States delegation. So harsh was the criticism that Rogers Morton, at that time secretary of the interior, remarked  "I wish the Russians were here", to divert the attention of the Chinese criticisms. China being a new member of the United Nations did not take part in the preparational talks. To include their views they reopened at the conference the declaration, which was negotiated at the preparational talks, introducing text to counter language of the declaration regarding population as a threat to the environment and cause of its degradation.

In 1972, environmental governance was not seen as an international priority, particularly for the Global South. Developing nations supported the creation of the UNEP, not because they supported environmental governance, but because of its headquarters' location in Nairobi, Kenya, as the UNEP would be the first UN agency to be based in a developing country.

Stockholm Declaration
The meeting agreed upon a Declaration containing 26 principles concerning the environment and development, an Action Plan with 109 recommendations, and a Resolution.

Principles of the Stockholm Declaration:
 Human rights must be asserted, apartheid and colonialism condemned
 Natural resources must be safeguarded
 The Earth's capacity to produce renewable resources must be maintained
 Wildlife must be safeguarded
 Non-renewable resources must be shared and not exhausted
 Pollution must not exceed the environment's capacity to clean itself
 Damaging oceanic pollution must be prevented
 Development is needed to improve the environment
 Developing countries therefore need assistance
 Developing countries need reasonable prices for exports to carry out environmental management
 Environment policy must not hamper development
 Developing countries need money to develop environmental safeguards
 Integrated development planning is needed
 Rational planning should resolve conflicts between environment and development
 Human settlements must be planned to eliminate environmental problems
 Governments should plan their own appropriate population policies
 National institutions must plan development of states' natural resources
 Science and technology must be used to improve the environment
 Environmental education is essential
 Environmental research must be promoted, particularly in developing countries
 States may exploit their resources as they wish but must not endanger others
 Compensation is due to states thus endangered
 Each nation must establish its own standards
 There must be cooperation on international issues
 International organizations should help to improve the environment
 Weapons of mass destruction must be eliminated