[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lifta

aining Arab village that was depopulated to have not been either completely destroyed or re-inhabited.  In 2012, the  plans to rebuild the village as an upscale neighborhood were rejected by the Jerusalem District Court.

By 2011, three books about the Palestinian village history had been published.

In June 2017 the last Jewish residents left the village following a settlement with the government who acknowledged they were not squatters but rather resettled in Lifta by the appropriate authorities.
In July 2017 Mei Neftoach was declared a national nature reserve. 55 out of 450 pre-1948 stone houses are still standing.

In 2021, the Israel Land Administration, without informing beforehand the Jerusalem Municipality authorities,  announced on Jerusalem Day that it was reported to be preparing a tender for the  construction of a luxury neighborhood on the village's ruins, projected to consist of  259 villas, a hotel, and a mall. On 11 August 2022, the plan to demolish Lifta and build luxury housing was shelved, with new Jerusalem mayor Moshe Lion seeking to preserve the village of Lifta and transform it into a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The previous Mayor of Jerusalem, Israeli businessman and politician Nir Barkat, had initially approved the plan for Lifta's demolition before changing his mind, opposing the development plans after visiting the site. Currently, Lifta is still on the list of UNESCO's tentative World Heritage Sites.

Archaeology
In 2010, an archaeological survey was conducted at Lifta by Mordechai Heiman on behalf of the Israel Antiquities Authority (IAA).

Arab traditional dress

Lifta was among the wealthiest communities in the Jerusalem area, and the women were known for their fine embroidery Thob Ghabani bridal dresses were sewn in Lifta. They were made of ghabani, a natural cotton covered with gold color silk floral embroidery produced in Aleppo, and were narrower than other dresses. The sleeves were also more tapered. The sides, sleeves and chest panel of the dress were adorned with silk insets. The dresses were ordered by brides in Bethlehem. The married women of Lifta wore a distinctive conical shaṭweh head-dress, that was also worn in Bethlehem, Ayn Karim, Beit Jala and Beit Sahour.

Notable people
 Rasmea Odeh
 Yahya Hammuda

See also
 Ali Abunimah
 List of modern names for biblical place names
 Palestinian costumes
 Zochrot

References

Bibliography

 
  (p. 544)
 
 (no. 293, pp. 436−437)
 (plate LVIII)
 
 
  (p. 900)
 Gilbert, Major Vivian (1936): The Romance of the last Crusade, London, UK 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
  (A catalog of the MOIFA (Museum of International Folk Art at Santa Fe's) collection of Palestinian clothing and jewellery.)
  (pp. 758-60; cited in Pringle, 1997, p. 66)

External links

 Welcome to Lifta, palestineremembered.com; accessed 2 September 2015.
 Lifta, Zochrot
 , The Ruins of Lifta (2016) 
 Israel Antiquities Authority, Jerusalem, Lifta, Survey (2010)
 Survey of Western Palestine, Map 17: IAA, Wikimedia commons
 Lifta in Antiquity Archaeological Survey of Israel
 F.A.S.T.-Lifta Preservation Joint project on the reconstruction of memory and the preservation of Lifta, archive.org, 14 May 2006.
 Lifta photos by Dr Moslih Kanaaneh, jalili48.com; accessed 2 September 2015.
 Lifta, by Rami Nashashibi (1996), Center for Research and Documentation of Palestinian Society.
 Lifta, zochrot.org
 Return to Lifta, 13 May 2006, zochrot.org
 Lifta Society website, liftasociety.org
 Lifta website, schulen.eduhi.at
 3D models of different houses in Lifta, sketchfab.com; accessed 2 September 2015.

Arab villages depopulated prior to the 1948 Arab–Israeli War
Hebrew Bible places
Neighbourhoods of Jerusalem
Ghost towns in Asia