[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

med East Central Street, the primary road connecting I-290 to the central business district, "MLK Jr. Boulevard". The highway signs for what had been the E. Central Street exit were replaced with MLK Jr. Boulevard signs on January 19, 2009, which was that year's observance of Martin Luther King Day.

Michigan
 Benton Harbor: Northbound M-139 south of Main Street is designated Martin Luther King Drive.
 Detroit: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard (formerly Myrtle Street) travels approximately  northeast to southwest from the M-10/John C. Lodge Freeway to West Grand Boulevard on the west side of Detroit.
 Flint: Martin Luther King Avenue in Flint begins in the downtown area (at 1st and Saginaw Streets) and travels north as a city street, then a four-lane thoroughfare to Carpenter Road, where it becomes Detroit Street.
 Grand Rapids: The former Franklin Street, a residential thoroughfare across most of the city's south side, was renamed Martin Luther King Jr Street in 2022.
 Lansing: The state capital of Michigan and also the childhood home of Malcolm X. A portion of the road is designated as M-99 or the Capitol Loop. Formerly called Logan Street (until 1994), Martin Luther King Boulevard travels north–south along the western side of Lansing.
 Pontiac: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard begins at Woodward Avenue (M-1) south of Pontiac, and runs around the city's east side, terminating northeast of the center of town, at Perry Street.  It is divided into "north" and "south" sections, the dividing point being the intersection with Pike Street.
 Portage: Martin Luther King Drive in Portage is a three-block street connecting Constitution Boulevard with the Crossroads shopping mall.

Minnesota
 Saint Paul: Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard travels in front of the Minnesota State Capitol.
 Morris: Martin Luther King Jr Dr on the campus of University of Minnesota Morris

Mississippi
 Amory: Amory's Martin Luther King Drive is a north–south street running alongside a residential area.  It forms a northern extension of Gregory Road.
 Clarksdale: Martin Luther King Boulevard is a two-lane road extending from State Street on the east side of town westward through Clarksdale to Riverside Avenue, on the west bank of  the Big Sunflower River.
 Cleveland: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive is a four-lane thoroughfare that runs north–south east of and parallel to US 278.  South of White Street it is also known as Pearman Road.
 Columbus: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive is a north–south street running between 14th Avenue N and Military Road.
 Gulfport: Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd runs East to West, running through US 49. Approximately 2.5 miles from the beach.
 Greenville: Mississippi Highway 1 in Greenville is named Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
 Indianola: US 49W through Indianola is named North Martin Luther King Drive.
 Jackson: Whitfield Mills Street, located in a predominantly African-American neighborhood, was changed to M.L.K. Jr Drive in the 1980s. This street, which intersects with Medgar Evers Boulevard at a Jackson landmark called Freedom Corner, is the site of one of the largest Martin Luther King Day parades in the nation.
 Lexington: A one-block portion of Cedar Street in Lexington has been renamed Martin Luther King Street.
 Moss Point: MLK JR. Blvd runs East to West, connecting Kreole ave and Magnolia Street, running through Mississippi Highway 63 and Mississippi Highway 613. It is also well known for gang activity and drug transactions.
 Oxford: Martin Luther King Blvd runs south to north, in the heart of town, connecting Jackson Ave. to Molly Barr Road. 
 Rolling Fork: Mississippi Highway 16 in Rolling Fork is named Dr. Martin Luther King Street.
 Starkville: Mississippi Highway 182 through Starkville is named Dr. Martin Luther King Drive.
 State Line: Middle Road, running southwest out of State Line, is also known as Martin Luther King Drive.
 Tchula: US 49A through Tchula is designated as Martin Luther King Drive.
 Tupelo: The US 45 freeway bypass of Tupelo is named Martin Luther King Drive.
 Vicksburg: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard is a two-lane road circling the northern edge of Vicksburg, and ending on Confederate Avenue.
 Wiggins: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue in Wiggins is a four-and-a-half-block long residential street running east–west, just south of the center of town.
 Yazoo City: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive is a thoroughfare forming a northern extension of Main Street.  As such it runs north from 1st Street out into the adjoining rural area, passing Yazoo City High School and ending at Gordon Avenue.