[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Julii Caesares

mply as Gaius or Caligula, in AD 41; after this, the imperial authority passed to Gaius' uncle, Tiberius Claudius Nero Germanicus, and out of the Julian line.

Genealogical tables

The table below reflects known and probable relationships, with speculative descent indicated by a question mark "(?)".

Lucius Julius (Libo?)
 Sextus Julius Caesar, praetor in 208 BC.
 Lucius Julius Caesar, praetor in 183 BC.
 Lucius Julius Caesar, praetor in 166 BC.
 Sextus Julius Caesar, consul in 157 BC.
 Sextus Julius Caesar, praetor in 123 BC.
 Lucius Julius Caesar, married Poppilia.
 Lucius Julius Caesar, married Fulvia.  Consul in 90 BC, he was put to death by Fimbria in 87.
 Lucius Julius Caesar, consul in 64 BC.
 Lucius Julius Caesar filius, a partisan of Pompeius during the Civil War.
 Julia, wife of (1) Marcus Antonius Creticus and (2) Publius Cornelius Lentulus Sura; mother of Marcus Antonius, the triumvir.
 Gaius Julius Caesar Strabo, the orator, put to death by Fimbria in 87.
 (?) Julia, wife of Lucius Cornelius Sulla Felix.
 (?) Gaius Julius Caesar, a senator, said to have written a Roman history in Greek.
 (?) Gaius Julius Caesar, grandfather of the dictator, married Marcia.
 Gaius Julius Caesar, married Aurelia.  Praetor in an uncertain year, he died suddenly in BC 84.
 Julia Major, wife of (1) Lucius Pinarius and (2) Quintus Pedius; grandmother of Lucius Pinarius and Quintus Pedius.
 Julia Minor, wife of Marcus Atius Balbus; grandmother of Octavia the Younger and Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus
 Gaius Julius Caesar, the dictator, married (1) Cornelia, (2) Pompeia, (3) Calpurnia.
 Julia, wife of Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus.
 Ptolemaeus Caesar (Caesarion), son by Cleopatra.
 (by adoption) Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus, grandnephew (through Caesar's sister Julia Minor), born Gaius Octavius; subsequently known as the emperor Augustus, married (1) Claudia, (2) Scribonia, (3) Livia.
 Julia the Elder, wife of (1) Marcus Claudius Marcellus, (2) Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa, (3) Tiberius Claudius Nero
 (by adoption) Gaius (Julius) Caesar, grandson, born Gaius Vipsanius Agrippa, married Claudia Livia Julia.
 (by adoption) Lucius (Julius) Caesar, grandson, born Lucius Vipsanius Agrippa.
 (by adoption) Tiberius (Julius) Caesar, stepson, son-in-law and successor, born Tiberius Claudius Nero; married (1) Vipsania Agrippina, (2) Julia the Elder.
 Tiberius Claudius Nero (Tiberillus), died in infancy, 11 BC.
 Drusus Julius Caesar the Younger, born Nero Claudius Drusus, married Claudia Livia Julia.
 Julia Livia, wife of (1) Nero Julius Caesar Germanicus, (2) Gaius Rubellius Blandus.
 Tiberius Julius Caesar Nero Gemellus, put to death by Caligula, circa AD 38.
 Tiberius Claudius Caesar Germanicus Gemellus, died AD 23.
  (by adoption) Germanicus Julius Caesar, nephew, born Tiberius Claudius Nero; married Vipsania Agrippina.
 Nero Julius Caesar, accused of treason, he died in AD 31. Married Julia Livia. 
 Drusus (Julius) Caesar, accused of treason, he died in AD 33. Married Aemilia Lepida.
 Gaius (Julius) Caesar Germanicus, better known as the emperor Caligula, married (1) Junia Claudilla, (2) Livia Orestilla, (3) Lollia Paulina, (4) Milonia Caesonia.
 Julia Drusilla.
 Julia Agrippina, better known as Agrippina the Younger, wife of (1) Gnaeus Domitius Ahenobarbus, (2) Gaius Sallustius Crispus, (3) Tiberius Claudius Drusus, the emperor Claudius; mother of Emperor Nero.
 Julia Drusilla, wife of (1) Lucius Cassius Longinus, (2) Marcus Aemilius Lepidus.
 Julia Livilla, wife of Marcus Vinicius.
 (by adoption) Agrippa Julius Caesar, grandson, born Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa Postumus.
 Julia, wife of Gaius Marius.
 Sextus Julius Caesar, consul in BC 91.
 Sextus Julius Caesar, Flamen Quirinalis.
 Sextus Julius Caesar, governor of Syria, killed in a revolt, BC 46.

Male lineage
The male line of the family, showing both natural and adoptive lineage through the Julio-Claudian emperors.

{{chart | | | | | | | | |L IV | | | | | |CAESAR| | | | |SEX V|boxstyle_L IV=background-color:#BCF5A9;|L IV=L. Julius Caesarcos. 64 BC|SEX V=Sex. Julius CaesarFlamen Quirinalis|CAESAR=C. Julius Caesard. 44 BC'|boxstyle_CAESAR=background-color:#F2F5A9;}}

See also
Julia gens

Footnotes

References

Bibliography
 Wilhelm Drumann, Geschichte Roms in seinem Übergang von der republikanischen zur monarchischen Verfassung, oder: Pompeius, Caesar, Cicero und ihre Zeitgenossen, Königsberg (1834–1844).
 "Caesar", in Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology, William Smith, ed., Little, Brown and Company, Boston (1849).
 T. Robert S. Broughton, The Magistrates of the Roman Republic, American Philological Association (1952).
 Miriam Griffin, A Companion to Julius Caesar John Wiley & Sons (2009), , .
 Suetonius, The Twelve Caesars''.

Ancient Roman prosopographical lists
 

Roman stirpes