[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Monarchy in Ontario

he way, he met with Loyalists and various First Nations delegations, helping to foster a British identity for Upper Canada. Along with Simcoe, the Prince Edward made a point of visiting Forts Niagara and Scholsser, getting himself involved in a boundary dispute with the United States in the process.

The United States endeavoured to conquer the Canadas in the War of 1812; all the American parties involved assumed their troops would be greeted as liberators. When the US Army first invaded, crossing the Detroit River and landing at Sandwich (today Windsor) on 12 July, the commander, William Hull ordered all subjects of the King to surrender, telling them he desired to free them from the "tyranny" of Britain and give them liberty, security, and wealth, unless they preferred "war, slavery, and destruction." The loyal among the Upper Canadians chose the King and war to defend him, whereas American immigrants who'd settled in Upper Canada merely for the free land chose neutrality, stating they would neither obey British orders to march against Hull, nor  "a man would join Hull to fight against the King." Hull retreated across the river on 7 August, but, the US made repeated incursions into Upper Canada through to 1814 and the British regulars, warriors of the Six Nations and Seven Nations, and free-African- and European-Canadians (the volunteers who were colloquially said to be "taking the King's shilling") reisited them at every try. By the time the Treaty of Ghent was signed on 24 December 1814, ending the war, the United States made no gains into the Canadas.

Rebellion

The republican agitations of Louis-Joseph Papineau in Lower Canada in the late 1830s spread quickly to Upper Canada. These met with agreeable circumstances in western colony, including a politically active lieutenant governor, Francis Bond Head, who had, since 1834, thwarted the efforts of the Reform party-dominated Legislative Assembly, to the point the Executive Council resigned and Head actively campaigned for the Tories in the subsequent election, equatng voting for that party with showing loyalty to the Crown. The Reformers' leader, William Lyon Mackenzie, attempted to petition the King to have the election declared invalid, but, was dismissed by the Colonial Office in London. Meanwhile, the now Tory majority in the Upper Canada parliament passed laws that were self-serving to Tory parliamentarians and burdensome on farmers, increased the colony's debt, and continued the legislative session even after the death of William IV in 1837.

On 9 October of that year, Mackenzie received a message from Papineau's Patriotes in Lower Canada, informing him that the rebellion there was about to begin. A month later, Mackenzie published a satirical piece in his magazine, the Constitution, that included a draft republican constitution for the "State of Upper Canada" and he printed handbills declaring independence, which were distributed to citizens north of Toronto. Actual armed rebellion broke out in Upper Canada on 5 December. Of it, the new Queen, Victoria, wrote in her diary, "the news are, I grieve to say, very bad from Canada; that is to say, rumours and reports by the papers; though, we have no official reports. But [Prime Minister] Lord Melbourne hopes it may not be so bad as it is rumoured. There certainly is open rebellion."

The Queen need not have worried about Upper Canada, however, as the uprising was put down within a matter of days. Mackenzie and 200 supporters fled to Navy Island in the Niagara River and declared it the Republic of Canada on 13 December. That sustained until 13 January 1838, when, under attack by British armaments, the rebels fled, with Mackenzie running to the United States mainland, where he was arrested for violating the Neutrality Act. In the wake of the disturbances, the Queen called on her people in Upper Canada to eschew vengeance on the perpetrators in favour of justice and, as a mark of goodwill with which to begin her reign and to commemorate her coronation, the Victoria used her royal prerogative to pardon many of the rebels, continuing to do so through the 1840s.

Responsible government
The Queen's representative in British North America, the Earl of Durham, penned a report containing recommendations for change following the Lower and Upper Canada Rebellions. Based on that document, the Act of Union 1840 was passed by the parliament at Westminster and proclaimed in effect by Queen Victoria on 10 February 1841, thus renaming Upper and Lower Canada as Canada West (today Ontario) and Canada East (today Quebec), respectively, and merging them to form the Province of Canada, with a governor general to represent the monarch and housed at Monklands, in Montreal. Five years later, the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada made Victoria's birthday, 24 May, a public holiday called Victoria Day.