[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Confidence Man (Lost)

. He tells Kate that his real name isn't Sawyer and that the letter was written to the real Sawyer, a con man, who ruined his family. He ended up becoming a con man himself, so he took the name Sawyer as an alias. He snatches the letter from Kate and tells her not to feel sorry for him and to leave.

Despite pleas from Kate, Sayid sets off to explore the island's shoreline in self-imposed isolation, needing time to come to terms with his actions in torturing Sawyer, while Sun-Hwa Kwon (Yunjin Kim) helps Shannon by making a eucalyptus salve to clear her bronchial passages. Charlie Pace (Dominic Monaghan) convinces Claire Littleton (Emilie de Ravin) to move to the caves, because they made a deal that if Charlie found peanut butter, she would move; Charlie shares an imaginary jar of peanut butter with her. Sawyer attempts to burn the letter he wrote, but he finds himself unable to go through with it.

Production

The episode was written to humanize Sawyer and set up the love triangle between him, Kate and Jack. Kate was meant to look at Sawyer in a new way, and, according to Lindelof, think, "wow, this guy is not just a belligerent." The episode also shows the moral ambiguity of some characters by revealing more of their personalities, with the ones introduced as protagonists doing things that are generally not viewed as protagonist-like– an example being Jack beating Sawyer and eventually asking Sayid to torture him; and an antagonistic character, Sawyer, proving not to be solely antagonist-like– an example being his backstory and flashback, which show that he is not exclusively evil. Lindelof explained that he wanted Sawyer to "come out of his shell a little, and say to the audience, 'you're supposed to like this guy'", further explaining, "the root of him being an asshole is that these horrible things happened to him when he was a little kid, and he's really really angry."

Sawyer and Jin-Soo Kwon (Daniel Dae Kim) were the least-liked characters by viewers during the first few episodes, because, according to Lindelof, "they were just really obnoxious, bad guys". In later episodes, however, Sawyer and Jin changed to be more likable. Towards the beginning of "Confidence Man", Sawyer is seen reading the novel Watership Down by Richard Adams (this is the book that caused Boone to think that Sawyer took Shannon's inhaler). The novel has numerous similarities to Lost, including "letting go", and building a society. Furthermore, the protagonists of Watership Down are rabbits – a recurring motif in Lost. The episode ends with a montage of various characters performing different activities, featuring the song "I Shall Not Walk Alone", written by Ben Harper and performed by The Blind Boys of Alabama. One lyric from the song is, "I just reach for mother Mary"; Sawyer's mother's name is Mary, and, according to reviewer Therese Odell from the Houston Chronicle, the lyric may be alluding to this. Also, percussionist Ryan McKinnie of The Blind Boys of Alabama said of many members of the group's blindness, "Our disability doesn’t have to be a handicap. It's not about what you can't do. It's about what you do. And what we do is sing good gospel music." This quotation is very similar to the oft-repeated quotation by many characters (especially Locke), "Don't tell me what I can't do."

Reception
"Confidence Man" first aired in the United States on November 10, 2004. 18.44 million people in America watched the episode live, a slight decrease from the previous episode, "The Moth", which garnered 18.73 million viewers. The episode received mixed-to-positive reviews. Chris Carabott of IGN gave the episode an 8.4/10 and called it "a well-written, fascinating character piece that does an excellent job of bringing Sawyer into the spotlight", later praising Josh Holloway's performance, writing that "The success of this episode begins and ends with Josh Holloway. So far, we know that he's good at playing Sawyer: The Tough Guy, but now he has to sell a multilayered fragment of a human being who hates himself for becoming the man who destroyed his family. Holloway succeeds in creating a character that quickly unravels throughout the episode as his terrible secret is revealed." The website later ranked "Confidence Man" the 47th best episode of Lost, praising how it "change[d] your entire perspective of a character" in revealing how Sawyer came to be, which made a starting point for "one of the greatest character arcs not only in Lost, but in all of modern television."