[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ales Adamovich

the cause of death was a heart attack. Adamovich was remembered by Russian government news agency TASS as a "prominent public activist who devoted much of his strength and energy to the strengthening of democracy in Russia". In accordance with his will, he was buried in Glusha, next to his parents.

Adamovich has been posthumously regarded as among Belarus's greatest writers, and his works have received translation into over 20 languages. Svetlana Alexievich, the Belarusian winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature 2015, names Adamovich as her "main teacher, who helped her to find a path of her own".

Honours and awards
 Order of the Patriotic War 2nd class
 Order of the Red Banner of Labour
 Order of the Badge of Honour
 Medal "To a Partisan of the Patriotic War" 2nd class
 Medal "For the Victory over Germany in the Great Patriotic War 1941–1945"
In 1997 Ales Adamovich was recognized (posthumously) with the "Honor and Dignity of Talent" award (“За честь и достоинство таланта”). Recipients of this noble award include Dmitry Likhachov, Viktor Astafyev, Chinghiz Aitmatov, Vasil Bykaŭ, Fazil Iskander, Boris Slutsky, Bulat Okudzhava.

Selected works 
Novels and stories
 Partisans (in Russian, "Партизаны"), a novel (1960–63) and a film under same name.
 Khatyn, in Russian, "Хатынская повесть", published in 1972, in Belarusian, "Хатынская аповесць", published in 1976; English translation Khatyn published by Glagoslav, 2012; originally written in Belarusian.
 I am from the Fiery Village ("Я з вогненнай вёскі"), Adamovich, Ales, and Yanka Bryl and Uladzimir Kalesnik, 1977; English translation, Progress Publishers, Moscow, 1980.
 Chasteners ("Каратели"), 1980.
 The Blockade Book ("Блокадная книга"), in collaboration with Daniil Granin, 1977–81, written in Russian and later translated into Belarusian; in English translation: Peak Independent Publishers, Moscow, 2003.

Criticism
 Problems with the New Way of Thinking, Ales Adamovich' "sometimes controversial writing has been at the cutting edge of new thinking in the Soviet Union."

Screenplay
 Voyna pod kryshami, 1967
 Come and See, in collaboration with Elem Klimov (Иди и смотри, 1985).
 Franz + Polina, 2006
 Chitaem 'Blokadnuyu knigu', 2009

References

External links
 Ales Adamovich biography 
  Selected Literatures and Authors Page - Belarusian Literature, page for Ales Adamovich
 The Ales Adamovich Literary Prize, Belarusian PEN-center
 Ales Mikhailovich Adamovich, bio- and bibliography 
 The 2004 Lettre Ulysses Award for the Art of Reportage nomination for "The Blockade Book"

1927 births
1994 deaths
20th-century Belarusian writers
20th-century male writers
Belarusian male writers
Belarusian partisans
Belarusian screenwriters
Belarusian State University alumni
BPF Party politicians
Child soldiers in World War II
High Courses for Scriptwriters and Film Directors alumni
Members of the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union
Moscow State University alumni
People from Kapyl District
Recipients of the Byelorussian SSR State Prize
Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner of Labour
Soviet literary historians
Soviet male writers
Soviet partisans
Soviet screenwriters