[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Refugees in New Zealand

ring denying the possibility of the boat arriving.

The Green Party raised the possibility that the New Zealand intelligence agencies had been involved in tracking the boat and if so were "complicit in violating international law, the Refugee Convention and ignoring the UN’s criticism of Australia".

Newspaper editorials strongly criticised the operation and called on PM John Key to distance the government from likely payments made by Australia to the ship to the ships crew to be turned around. This was also raised by Michael Timmins Former Green MP Keith Locke said the incident "raises the question of whether the Australian navy is under instructions from the New Zealand government to intercept any such boat and send it back to Indonesia."

Ahead of the 2017 general election a number of MPs and activists signed an open-letter calling on the government to bring the passengers of the Andika to New Zealand to have their asylum claims assessed in New Zealand

Detention of asylum seekers 
Concern has been raised about the arbitrary detention of asylum seekers in prisons.

Australia-New Zealand relations on refugees
Since Helen Clark welcomed refugees from the Tampa, New Zealand has been seen as a place where Australia might resettle asylum seekers who arrive by boat. This approach was formalised in an agreement between Julia Gillard and John Key in 2013 to allow up to 150 refugees from the Nauru and Manus detention centres to be relocated to New Zealand every year. With the 2013 Australian election of Tony Abbott the deal has remained on the table but has never been taken up by the Australian Liberal Party. While many Australian refugee advocates have argued for New Zealand to bypass the Australian government and offer the deal directly to refugees in detention, the New Zealand government has made it clear that they are only interested in the deal as sanctioned by the Australian government.

Community sponsorship
In August 2017, the Fifth National Government approved a pilot "Community Organisation Refugee Sponsorship Category (CORS) Category" scheme, that was launched in 2018 in response to the 2015 European migrant crisis. This scheme allowed 24 refugees to settle in New Zealand with the support of four community organisations. The CORS scheme is separate to New Zealand's annual refugee quota of 1,500. Refugees participated in the CORS programmed must meet the United Nations' refugee criteria, "which means they have been displaced from their own country because of persecution, conflict, violence or "seriously disturbed public order", and require international protection."

By November 2018, Amnesty International New Zealand confirmed that 23 people had been resettled in New Zealand under the Community Organisation Refugee Sponsorship programme. That same year, Amnesty International submitted a petition with 10,276 signatures to Immigration Minister Iain Lees-Galloway calling for the CORS scheme to be made permanent. The petition received the support of Green Party co-leader Marama Davidson, Green MP Golriz Ghahraman, Labour MP Michael Wood and Mayor of Wellington Justin Lester. Prominent journalist and media commentator Alison Mau described the extension of the pilot as, politically "2019's most obvious no-brainer." In the 2020 budget, the trial was extended for three years with 50 places available per year and a co-design process set to be launched.

As part of the 2020 budget, the Sixth Labour Government extended the CORS scheme from 1 July 2021 to 30 June 2024, allowing 50 community sponsored refugees a year for each financial year to be settled in New Zealand; amounting to a total of 150 people over a period of three years. In addition, a co-design process set was launched.

In September 2021, Radio New Zealand reported that applications for refugee sponsors would open in October 2021. Immigration New Zealand's manager for refugee and migrant support Sarah Ward confirmed that community groups could nominate someone to sponsor or be matched with a person in need. Refugees participating in the Community Organisation Refugee Sponsorship programme need to have a basic level of English and either three years of work experience or two years of tertiary study. By December 2021, an umbrella organisation called HOST Aotearoa had been set up to aid refugees' integration into New Zealand and to provide training and support for community organisations including accessing support by government agencies.

Notable refugees in New Zealand