[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Roseville College

Roseville College is an independent Anglican day school for girls, located in the suburb of Roseville, on the North Shore of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

The college was established in 1908 by Miss Isobel Davies and has been a member school of The Anglican Schools Corporation since 1967. Roseville has a non-selective enrolment policy and currently caters for approximately 980 students from Kindergarten to Year 12.

The College is affiliated with the Association of Heads of Independent Schools of Australia (AHISA), the Junior School Heads Association of Australia (JSHAA), the Alliance of Girls' Schools Australasia (AGSA), and is a member of the Association of Heads of Independent Girls' Schools (AHIGS).

History 
Roseville College was founded in 1908 on its current site in Roseville by Isobel Davies, the daughter of a retired Welsh clergyman. The school started with just seven pupils in a cottage known as "Hinemoea", adjacent to a small playing field.

Principals

Academic 
HSC

The college consistently performs well in the Higher School Certificate (HSC) at a state level.

2021 | 57% of students achieved an ATAR of 90.00 or above, including first in state for food technology and three fourth in State in Japanese Continuers, Japanese Extension and English Advanced. Six Premier's Awards were awarded and, in ten courses, 100% of HSC candidates achieved Bands 5 - 6.

2020 | 63% of students achieved an ATAR of 90.00 or above, with a success rate of 95% for university early admission offers from five leading universities, including 61% in STEM-related fields. The Class of 2020 included first and second in State for Food Technology. In 17 courses, the Class achieved upwards of 30% more Bands 5-6 than the state average*.

2019 | 78% of the college's graduating class were offered a place at the university before completing the HSC, and 58% of students achieved an ATAR of 90.00 or above. Overall, 58% of the Class of 2019 achieved an ATAR or 90.00 or above, with more than a third scoring an ATAR of 95.00 and above, and five students awarded Premier's Awards*.

2018 | 56% of the Year 12 cohort achieved an ATAR of 90.00 or above, with five Premier's Award recipients and two First In State places. More than 80% of total applications to Early Entry university Leadership Programs were successful, with 97% offered - and accepting a place; more than half the cohort pursued STEAM-related disciplines*.

2017 | Roseville College was ranked 36th in the State in the merit list of top schools, 56% of students achieved an Australian Tertiary Admission Rank (ATAR) of 90 or above, 28% received an ATAR of 95 or above, and 68% of the cohort were offered a place at university prior to completing the HSC*.

* Results as available as at time of publishing the college's annual HSC Outcomes document.

Cambridge International Courses

Roseville College is the only school on Sydney's North Shore offering the globally recognised Cambridge International qualifications. The Cambridge International Courses in Physical Science, Global Perspectives and Sociology are offered to Years 9 and 10 students as part of Roseville College's Senior curriculum. Consistently, more than 50% of candidates achieved an A or A+ result in the final examinations, ranking Roseville College candidates strongly against others from around the world, who all studied the same curriculum synonymously.

International Baccalaureate (IB) Primary Years Program

Girls in Kindergarten to Year 6 participate in the International Baccalaureate (IB) Primary Years Program, establishing global learning and innovation through six transdisciplinary units of enquiry.

Scholarships

A range of scholarships are offered for Senior girls in the areas of academics, music and all-round achievement.

Academic Leadership

Each student is given an opportunity to stretch and test herself in both new and familiar areas of learning. The college's personalised learning approach ensures each girl is supported and challenged in her capacity and to her potential. The college's After School Academic Program (ASAP) provides additional dedicated, weekly or fortnightly sessions for students in subjects including English, Mathematics, German, Japanese, Science, Commerce, Business, Economics, History, Senior (HSC) Art, Geography, Legal Studies and French.

Co-curricular opportunities 
Participation through Diversity

Co-curricular activities are varied and include: academic competitions and extra-curricular leadership programs; debating and public speaking groups; community service initiatives; musical tuition, ensembles, bands and orchestras; drama, musical productions and performance groups; photography groups; established programs and international service learning trips, STEAM (robotics, coding and STEM Club), Mock Trial, Duke of Edinburgh's International Award Scheme and Crusaders, and sporting teams.