[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jericho (2006 TV series)

Jericho is  an American post-apocalyptic action drama television series, which centers on the residents of the fictional city of Jericho, Kansas, in the aftermath of a nuclear attack on 23 major cities in the contiguous United States. It was produced by CBS Paramount Network Television and Junction Entertainment, with executive producers Jon Turteltaub, Stephen Chbosky, and Carol Barbee. It was shown in more than 30 countries.

Jericho ran from September 20, 2006, to March 25, 2008, on CBS. It was cancelled after its first full season because of low ratings. A fan campaign persuaded the network to bring the show back for another season, of seven episodes, after which it was cancelled again. In November 2008, TV Guide reported that The CW would air repeats of Jericho to replace the canceled series Valentine. In 2007, Jericho was ranked number 11 on TV Guide'''s Top Cult Shows Ever. In 2009, plans were announced for a feature film based on the series, that was later cancelled, and a continuation of the Jericho storylines in a comic-book series. IDW Publishing released a new comic-book series for Season 3 (in 2009) and Season 4 in August 2012.

Synopsis
First season
The storyline centers on the residents of Jericho, a small northwest Kansas town, in the aftermath of a nuclear attack on 23 major cities in the contiguous United States. The series begins with the sighting of a mushroom cloud of unknown origin over Denver, Colorado.  Initially it is assumed to be an accident, until a teenager reveals a recording of a phone call from his mother in Atlanta, Georgia, which is cut off by the sound of an explosion – demonstrating that the Denver disaster was not alone, and thus unlikely to be accidental.

Problems are compounded by loss of power and modern communications, effectively isolating Jericho. Later, power is restored to Jericho by what is alluded to as the efforts of the U.S. government but an electromagnetic pulse (EMP) from an unknown source disables all electronics.

While the first few episodes are about restoring life after the attacks, about halfway through the season some of the citizens meet with citizens of a nearby town, New Bern. At first, relations are established, resulting in a trade of windmills (for power), built in New Bern's factory, for supplies for food from Jericho's farms and salt from its mine (neither of which New Bern could supply on its own). Relations sour as New Bern scapegoats Jericho for its problems and the New Bern sheriff eventually declares war, leading to the season's climax.

Themes regularly addressed in the show include the gathering of information, community identity, public order, limited resources, the value of family, hardships of fatherhood and internal and external threats. The show also features several mysteries involving the backgrounds of major characters, the perpetrators of the attack and the extent of damage to the United States and its government.

The pivotal character in this story is Jake Green, the 32-year-old son of Mayor Johnston Green. Jake had fled the town of Jericho five years earlier, when he became mixed up with the wrong people and was involved in questionable activity. He briefly returns home to claim his inheritance, before being stranded by the catastrophe. After a somewhat awkward return home and a tense reunion with his father, Jake steps up to become a leader in Jericho, fighting to protect the town and its citizens. As the people of Jericho struggle to survive in a changed world, most remain unaware that one of the newest residents, Robert Hawkins, knows a lot more about the attacks than he is letting on. It is later revealed that he is in possession of an unexploded nuclear bomb, intended for the attack, but how he obtained it and what side he is on remain anything but clear.

Gray Anderson encounters a Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) camp outside of Topeka, where he learns that the attack on New York City was foiled by alert New York City Police who shot the bomber before he could detonate the nuclear bomb that he had in the back of a van. Mayor Green reports that the NYPD captured the van in New York with a 20-kiloton nuclear bomb on board but Washington, D.C. has been bombed. On the way back from the FEMA camp, Anderson's car is stolen by 12 looters and he is forced to walk home to Jericho. Anderson also reports that Lawrence, Kansas, has been attacked. Robert Hawkins receives a Morse code message on a ham radio stating that Denver, Atlanta, Chicago, Philadelphia, Kansas City, San Diego and several more cities (not shown) have been attacked. A black box flight data recorder that Jake recovers from a crashed airliner indicates that air traffic control is non-existent, a mushroom cloud is rising  into the atmosphere and that flashes have also been seen towards Texas.