[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Archaeological looting in Iraq

cation and expansion of illegal digging. Are you at least doing that much?"

The looting of artefacts in Iraq had been on the rise during the COVID-19 pandemic. Due to the pandemic, few tourists or foreign archaeologists visited historical sites. As a result, many of these areas were left unguarded.

Following the United States’ invasion of Iraq in 2003, large numbers of antiquities including the Gilgamesh Dream Tablet were stolen, both from museums, such as the Iraq National Museum, but also because of illegal excavations at archeological sites throughout the country. Many of them were smuggled into the United States through the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Israel, contrary to federal law. Donald Rumsfeld rejected the claim that they were removed by US military personnel. Some sites and objects were also destroyed or defaced later during the occupation, when U.S. and allies were unable to control ISIL and ISIS in the region. In the 2020s, about 17,000 artifacts were returned to Iraq from the U.S. and Middle Eastern countries. But according to an Iraqi archeology professor at the University of Baghdad, the repatriation of these items was only a partial success; the Baghdad office of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) continues to search for the loot worldwide. Many Iraqis blame the United States for the loss of so many pieces of their country's history.

Known recoveries

It is impossible to discover exactly how much destruction to archeological sites has happened since 2003. Archeologist Elizabeth Stone purchased satellite images of the seven thousand square kilometers in Iraq that contain many known sites. She counted 1,837 new holes by comparing 2001–2002 with 2003 images. Looters concentrated on sites that had the most marketable artifacts. Estimates of the number of looted artifacts from 2003 to 2005 are from 400,000 to 600,000 items. This number is 30–40 times greater than the number of artifacts stolen from the museum. Britain alone between 2004 and 2006 seized 3–4 tons of plundered artifacts.

Some artifacts have been recovered by accident. An archeologist was watching a home decorating show when he saw a 2nd-century stone head from Hatra sitting on the decorator's mantle. The illegal black market for goods became so saturated that prices in the market were  going down after 2003 according to an antiquities researcher specializing in illicit dealings.

Revenue from looted antiquities is estimated by the Archaeological Institute of America to amount to between $10 and $20 million annually. Terrorist and rebel groups have a long history of using stolen artifacts to finance their operations.

By the end of 2003, 1,900 Iraqi antiquities had been confiscated from bordering countries: 1,450 in Jordan, 36 in Syria, 38 in Kuwait and 18 in Saudi Arabia.

U.S. Marine Corps reservist Matthew Boulay witnessed illicit trading even on military bases Flea markets authorized by the camp commanders included a booth with antiquities for $20, $40 or $100 each. Boulay asked Gibson and was told that these artifacts were real. Gibson asked Boulay to ask the base commander to stop these sales. When Boulay informed his platoon commander he got a "cease and desist" order forbidding any more emails about the issue to anyone.

Other institutes from America and around the world have contributed to protect sites in Iraq. The US started teaching military personnel headed for Iraq the importance of cultural heritage and site preservation. Donny George who was an employee at the Iraq National Museum was appointed to Director of Museums in 2004, and by summer 2006, a force of 1,400 guards were situated at sites around the country.

In 2016, the U.S. Government Accountability Office issued a report describing some of the United States’ cultural property protection efforts in Iraq and Syria.

Sites affected