[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# List of Battle Angel Alita characters

f Geriperi, an old eccentric. These two Dens duel each other at the Barjack revival meeting, in which the second Den (operated by Geriperi) triumphs and leaves after ordering the remaining Barjack to assist in the construction of the Tower of Tiphares.

Ground Investigation Bureau (GIB)

Lou Collins

Lou Collins, known in Japan as , is Alita's operator who is brought in after Alita and Figure part ways.  She is a bit clumsy and often gets overwhelmed by work. On her first day, she makes a bad first impression on Chief Bigott by pulling a gun on him in self-defense because she thought he planned to sexually assault her by leading her down an obscure back stairway to the GIB, and is thoroughly embarrassed when Bigott reveals that he is gay.  Unbeknownst to Lou, she along with Dr. Russell was brought in by Bigott in an attempt to curb Alita's intransigence.  Somewhat ditzy, Lou nevertheless has a good heart.  She is new at her job, having placed first in her class in simulations, and tries to get along with Alita. Lou provides Alita with intelligence, logistical, technical and combat support.  She can also remote control the "mobile unit", a single-wheeled drone motorcycle that is issued to Alita as personal transport, as well as broadcast her voice from it.  Through Alita's experiences, Lou eventually becomes her friend, and starts to develop a more sympathetic view of the world below Tiphares.  She gives Kaos plans for the "Tower of Tiphares", a  tower connecting Tiphares to the Scrapyard that can be constructed with the existing scrap on the surface.  She also agrees to help Alita by deleting the information regarding Den and Kaos from the GIB's systems.

Lou has saved Alita's life on two occasions.  The first occurred while Alita was dueling Den and was almost impaled by his yari, Lou grabbed Alita out of harm's way with her remotely controlled drone motor unicycle.  The second time occurred when Alita was fighting the replica android AR-2, and as Alita was about to lose the fight and be finished off, Lou threatened AR-2's operator with her pistol and shot and destroyed AR-2's control terminal, freezing AR-2 and allowing Alita to decapitate the android.  Lou is consequently dismissed from the GIB and sent to the Medical Inspection Bureau (MIB) to be "treated".  The knowledge of Lou's sacrifice and Bigott's promise to let her go free after apprehending Desty Nova motivate Alita to complete her original mission.  When she is brought to Tiphares by Nova in her new Imaginos Body, she finds out that Lou is to be cast down from Tiphares' garbage chute for forming a friendship with a surface dweller, and manages to save her just in time.  Due to her naivety, Lou is the least emotionally traumatized when the secret of Tiphares is unveiled to her, the only side effect she suffers being the cessation of her hiccups (much to her joy).  She accompanies Alita and Nova to confront Melchizedek and witnesses the result of Alita's injecting her Imaginos Body with a trigger serum given by Nova, enabling her to go through a transmutation and create the Life-Tree that prevented Tiphares from crashing into the Scrapyard.  Subsequently, Lou eventually marries Kaos, who she had a crush on while monitoring Alita's Badlands mission against the Barjacks.

Bigott Eizenburg

The stern, no-nonsense chief of the GIB,  intervenes just before Alita's brain is destroyed for committing a Class A offense to recruit her for the TUNED project.  Although the GIB has a team of operators who provide logistical, intelligence, and technical support, he personally monitors and oversees Alita's operations and actions.  Alita's independent attitude and willingness to disobey orders frustrate Bigott.  In order to reduce her rebelliousness, he brings in Dr. Russell and Lou Collins as people whom she can warm up to.  While escorting Lou to the GIB on her first day through a back stairwell, she pulls a gun on him as she thinks that he plans to force himself on her, but Bigott reveals that he is homosexual and has no interest in her.