[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2010 New York gubernatorial election

e planned to move forward with Lazio; however, on September 27, 2010, Lazio confirmed that he would drop his bid for governor by accepting a nomination for a judicial position in the Bronx. The Conservative Party then nominated Paladino as its candidate for governor.

Results 

Nominee
Carl Paladino

Candidates
Rick Lazio, Republican nominee, won the primary but withdrew.
Ralph Lorigo, chairman of the Erie County Conservative Party.

Independence Party
The Independence Party of New York publicly endorsed presumptive Democratic nominee Andrew Cuomo prior to the party convention.

Nominee
Andrew Cuomo

Working Families Party
The Working Families Party was said to heavily favor Cuomo, but was reportedly concerned that the  party's damaged reputation may cause Cuomo to decline any nomination from them. In somewhat of a surprise move, the party nominated its own members for all but one statewide elected office, and did not cross-endorse Democrats as usual. The party nominated United Auto Workers lawyer Kenneth Schaffer as its nominee for governor in June 2010. After the federal investigation against the party was closed with no charges, speculation has run rampant that the party will vacate the line in favor of Cuomo by nominating Schaeffer for a judicial position and offering Cuomo a Wilson Pakula, which the party did unanimously in September 2010.

Nominee
Andrew Cuomo

Libertarian Party
The  Libertarian Party of New York chose Warren Redlich as its nominee at the state party convention on April 24, 2010.

Nominee
Warren Redlich, Guilderland Town Board member and criminal defense attorney.

Lost nomination
Kristin Davis, madam of the prostitution ring of which Eliot Spitzer was a client Davis refused to show up at the convention and as a result did not appear on the ballot.
Sam Sloan, author and board game expert.

Green Party
The Green Party of New York nominated national party co-founder Howie Hawkins, who had been a perennial candidate in state and federal elections since 2006, as its candidate at the party convention on May 15, 2010.

Nominee
Howie Hawkins

Rent Is Too Damn High Party

The Rent Is Too Damn High Party, whose perennial New York City mayoral candidate is Jimmy McMillan, fielded him in the New York gubernatorial election in 2010.

Campaign signatures
The Paladino campaign submitted 30,000 signatures for its Taxpayers Party. Charles Barron submitted 43,500 signatures for the Freedom Party, though a fellow New York City councilman, Lewis Fidler, has already announced his intention to challenge Barron's signatures. The Davis campaign submitted 22,000 signatures, the Hawkins campaign filed 27,000, and the Libertarian Party claimed to have submitted over 34,000.

General election

Predictions

Polling

with Collins

with Lazio

with Lazio and Paladino

with Levy

Collins v. Patterson

Giuliani vs. Paterson

Lazio vs. Paterson

Results

Counties that flipped from Democratic to Republican
 Cattaraugus (largest municipality: Olean)
 Chautauqua (largest municipality: Jamestown)
 Erie (largest municipality: Buffalo)
 Fulton (largest municipality: Gloversville)
 Genesee (largest municipality: Batavia)
 Niagara (largest municipality: Niagara Falls)
 Steuben (largest municipality: Corning)
 Schoharie (largest municipality: Cobleskill)
 Tioga (largest municipality: Waverly)

See also
Paterson, David "Black, Blind, & In Charge: A Story of Visionary Leadership and Overcoming Adversity." New York, New York, 2020

Notes

References

External links
New York State Board of Elections
Official candidate list

Campaign contributions for 2010 New York Governor from Follow the Money
New York Governor 2010 from OurCampaigns.com
2010 New York Governor Election graph of multiple polls from Pollster.com
Election 2010: New York Governor from Rasmussen Reports
New York Governor - Lazio vs. Cuomo from Real Clear Politics
2010 New York Governor's Race from CQ Politics
Race Profile in The New York Times
Official campaign websites (Archived)
Andrew Cuomo for Governor
Rick Lazio for Governor
Steve Levy for Governor
Carl Paladino for Governor
Warren Redlich for Governor
Online Guide to New York Politics, politics1.com
 Gormley, Michael (4/1/10). Who would want to be Governor? Associated Press. (A primer on the proposals of most of the candidates)

Gubernatorial
2010
New York
Andrew Cuomo
Howie Hawkins