[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fort Drum (Philippines)

t Fort Hughes on Caballo Island. Rather than attempting to break into the battery, they had used white phosphorus mortar rounds to ignite a  mixture of two parts diesel fuel and one part gasoline that had been pumped into the battery through a vent. This method was repeated twice on subsequent days.

At Fort Drum, the combat engineers modified the technique they had used at Fort Hughes. After the gasoline mixture had been pumped in through air vents on the top deck, a timed fuse of TNT was used to detonate incendiary grenades. Several U.S. Army film crews filmed the entire operation from around Manila Bay. The explosion ejected a 1-ton hatch  into the air and blew out parts of the fort's reinforced concrete walls. U.S. troops had to wait five days before the fortress could be examined because of the heat and internal fire that raged for several days; all 68 Japanese soldiers were killed (six were found to have suffocated in the upper floors of the fort, while the charred remains of the remaining 62 were found in the fort's boiler room). With the capture of Fort Drum and the other Manila Bay forts, Japanese resistance in the Bay area ended.

Present status
The ruins of Fort Drum, including its disabled turrets and  guns, remain at the mouth of Manila Bay, abandoned since the end of World War II. In the 1970s, looters started removing scrap metal inside the fort for resale. This activity was ongoing according to a report in 2009.

An automated light, approximately 6 m (20 ft) on a hexagonal white concrete post with gallery was installed in 2001 by the Philippine Coast Guard on the top deck for guiding ships entering the South Channel of Manila Bay.

See also

 Harbor Defenses of Manila and Subic Bays
 Seacoast defense in the United States
 United States Army Coast Artillery Corps
 Stone frigate
 Diamond Rock
 List of islands in the Greater Manila Area
 List of islands of the Philippines
 Manila Bay
 Hashima Island

References

Sources

Further reading

External links

 Harbor Defenses of Manila and Subic Bays at the Coast Defense Study Group
 Forts in the Philippines at American Forts Network
 Wainwright Report – Capt. Ben King's Report Post War
 Fort Drum: Concrete Battleship of the Philippines
 Fort Drum: Unsinkable Battleship in the Manila Bay, 1. part – Czech only
 Fort Drum and the Battle of Philippines, 2. part – Czech only

Drum
Drum
Drum
Closed installations of the United States Army
World War II operations and battles of the Pacific theatre
Military history of the Philippines during World War II
El Fraile
Islands of Cavite
Islands of Manila Bay
Sea forts