[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# A3 (Croatia)

rying the motorway over the Zagreb–Sisak–Vinkovci railroad and a local road near Novska. Besides the overall lack of maintenance during the period, the pavement and a number of flyovers were damaged by artillery bombardments, and the flyover approach embankments were damaged where trenches were dug.

Postwar reconstruction and completion
After the war, construction and reconstruction work resumed on the A3 motorway. The battle damage was the first to be addressed, along with removal of the trenches excavated in the flyover embankments. Similarly, unexploded ordnance and minefields left around the motorway had to be removed by minesweepers. The motorway pavement was seriously deteriorated, as evidenced by extensive ruts and cracks incurred during the four-year wartime period. Unlike repairs made to the viaducts and flyovers, mine clearance and pavement reconstruction took considerably more time to perform.

In 1996, the motorway was extended for the first time after the war. This  extension reached to Oprisavci, west of the present-day Sredanci interchange. In 1999, another  section was completed, stretching to Velika Kopanica. The single westward extension of the motorway came about in 2002 as the A3 motorway was extended  from Jankomir westward to the Bregana border crossing into Slovenia. The eastward advance of the A3 motorway continued in 2002, as it was extended by  to Županja, while the easternmost  section between Županja and the Bajakovo border crossing into Serbia was opened in 2006, thus completing the six-lane A3 motorway.  The D4 state road was thus entirely replaced by the A3 motorway. The total investment value of the A3 motorway construction is estimated at 7 billion Croatian kuna (approximately 958.9 million euro), making the A3 the least expensive motorway in Croatia.

Further construction 

Since the A3 motorway was completed in 2006, further construction on the A3 only consists of the addition of interchanges and rest areas.

The Kosnica interchange, itself completed in May 2007, lacked access ramps to the south, to the D31 state road, which were in turn completed in November 2013.

The latest new A3 interchange, the Jakuševec interchange on the Zagreb bypass, is a cloverleaf interchange connecting the A3 to the A11 motorway and in the future the city of Zagreb via Sarajevska road. The interchange itself and the access ramps to the A11 were completed in November 2015. Further construction towards Sarajevska road is planned.

, two additional A3 interchanges are in various stages of construction or planning: Sveta Klara and Ivanić Grad. The Sveta Klara interchange is planned to provide another connection to the city of Zagreb (via Većeslava Holjevca Avenue). The interchange is designed as a trumpet. When both the Jakuševec and Sveta Klara interchanges are completed, the Buzin interchange was scheduled to be removed.

The present Ivanić Grad interchange connects the D43 state road to the A3 motorway near the city of Ivanić Grad, however, the interchange was scheduled to be reconstructed to accommodate a new motorway planned as an outer, tolled Zagreb bypass. The reconstruction is currently in the planning stages. Two further interchanges are planned: (1) Godinjak, to be located between the existing Nova Gradiška and Lužani interchanges, connecting to Požega; and (2) Lipovljani, located between the existing Kutina and Novska interchanges. These are included in applicable spatial planning documents and their designs are in development, however funding is yet to be secured. Finally, the Andautonija rest area is planned for the A3 section of the Zagreb bypass between the Jakuševec and Kosnica interchanges. It is planned to be an "A-type" rest area, which normally comprises a filling station, a restaurant and a motel.

Traffic volume